DO YOU INHALE?
Then you're better off smoking PHILIP MORRIS
...because PHILIP MORRIS is definitely .	less irritating, definitely milder than
any other leading brand!
ap-

prove IT YOURSELF
Take the PHILIP MORRIS NOSE TEST ... start enjoying PHILIP MORRIS today!
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
s PHIUP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
I I

W

Which dance do you want to learn quickly?
Copr. 1948 — Arthur Murray (nc.
Double your money back if you can't Fox Trot after one hour at Arthur Murray's!
Enroll today-dance tonight!
Even if you’ve never danced before you can go dancing tonight after one hour at Arthur Murray’s! The whole secret’s in Arthur Murray’s amazing, new discovery—"The First Step To Popularity.” Here is the key to all dance steps. It makes any modern dance a snap to learn. And, best of all, you can learn this shortcut to popularity... this basic step, in just one lesson. That’s why
Arthur Murray makes this challenging offer. If you do not Fox Trot after one lesson he will give you double your money back. So put yourself in the hands of an Arthur Murray expert. Phone South Bend or come in to the studio now.
To prove how easy it is to become a really good dancer Arthur Murray offers you his new dance book—"Murray-Go-Round.” It’s a 44-page magazine of dance news, pictures and instructions. Send 25(f for your copy today.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St.	Ph. 2-3339
FREE PARTY DANCES EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT
LETTERS
First Issue
Editor:
Congratulations to the staff of your fine magazine on the great job they did on the orientation issue of the 10th. I too am a “sage old senior” and have thus seen other similar issues of the Scholastic put out in other years, but this beats them all.
Mike Whelan
Alumni Hall
Editor:
... I found the columns different this year; they were interesting.
Roger Vorce Alumni Hall
Editor:
What happened to> the rest of the story on faculty changes? Is it usual Scholastic policy to cut a story in the middle of a sentence?
Jack Lambert
Sorin Hall
Editor:
As a Freshman I want to thank you for the orientation issue. I found it of enormous value in performing the seemingly thousand little chores and details which are incurred by a registering Freshman.
I think I can truthfully say that I am now accustomed to Notre Dame and am ready to take my place among the rest of you and shoulder some of the responsibility. Your first issue of the Scholastic was of no little help to me in attaining my place among you. Thanks a lot.
Freshman
Editor:
I think you would have a difficult time convincing the seven other clubs in the American League that the Red Sox actually play in a girls’ softball league. Or was that a misprint?
Pat Dee
Dillon Hall
Editor:
I attended the Freshman Mixer last night and found your booth to be of invaluable assistance, but what happened to the end of your story “Frosh —Please Note”? I trust you gave it a decent burial?
Worried
Food Survey
Editor:
Last spring if my memory serves me correctly, a great many of us took time out from our petty day to day pace to fill out a very complete survey on what (Continued, on page 31)
Sept. 21, 1951
3
<<■I Id PARADE
In the Navy—My height.
In the Air Force—Bad sight.
In the Marines—Too slight.
In the Draft—All right.
“Young man, does youi’ mother know you’re smoking?”
“Lady, does your husband know you speak to strange men on the street?”
Alumnus: “How about the team? Are they good losers?”
Coach: “Good! They’re perfect.”
“Mommy, Mommy,” bawled the little girl. “Daddy just poisoned my kitty.”
“Don’t cry dear,” replied the mother sympathetically. “Maybe he had to.”
“No he didn’t,” screamed the heartbroken child. “He promised me I could.”
Pink elephant . . . beast of bourbon.
They had been sitting on the swing in the moonlight alone. No word broke the stillness for half an hour. Then— “suppose you had money,” she said, “what would you do?”
He threw out his chest in all the glory of young manhood and proclaimed, “I’d travel.”
He felt her young, warm hand slip into his. When he looked up she was gone. ... In his hand was a nickel.
Grandpappy Morgan, a hillbilly from the Ozarks, had wandered off into the woods and failed to return to supper, so young Tolliver was sent to look for him. He found him standing in some bushes.
“Getting dark,” the tot ventured.
“Yep.”
“Suppertime, Grandpap.” '
“Yep.”
“Ain’t ye hungry?”
“Yep.”
“Well, air ye cornin’ home?”
“Nope.”
“Why ain’t ye?”
“Standin’ in a b’ar trap.”
Mamie had been looking all night long—from bar to bar—for her wandering husband, Oglethorpe. At two in the morning she finally found him seated in front of a tall glass in a tavern. She sneaked up and sampled his drink.
“Brr!” she spat, dropping it very quickly. “That stuff is awful.”
Oglethorpe eyed her sadly. “See that? and you thought I was out having a good time!”
An epitaph on a New England gravestone reads: “Here lies an atheist, all dressed up and no place to go.”
The height of frustration: lockjaw and seasickness.
A flea and a fly in the flue
Were imprisoned, but what could they do?
Let’s flee said the fly,*
Let’s fly said the flea,
So they flew through a flaw in the flue.
“I don’t know who I am. I was left -on a doorstep.”
“Maybe you’re a milkbottle.”
He: “They had to shoot poor old Fido today.”
Housemother: “Was he mad?” He: “He wasn’t any too pleased.”
I think that I shall never see
A poem as lousy as a ski.
A ski that often has me pressed Against the earth’s cold, snowy breast; A ski that goes on its own sweet way And teaches me to cuss and pray;
A ski that may in winter wear
My seat until beyond repair;
Upon whose hard ribs I have lain, And intimately lived with pain.
Poems are ruined by fools like me, But not as I’ve been by a ski.
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION

Australian UND
Plans for the establishment of an Australian University to be run by the Holy Cross Fathers have been sidetracked by the state Parliament of New South Wales despite earlier assurances of approval by Premier McGirr.
The proposed school, a tentative model of Notre Dame, may be on the way to a detour since hostility in that vicinity has increased in recent weeks in the ranks of the Parliamentary Labor Party, which forms at present the government of New South Wales.
The position now looks worse due to the fact that the government has a lean working majority in the parliament and obviously fears the risk of embarrassment in the House.
Prof Gets Scholarship
Dr. John J. Glanville, University of Notre Dame philosophy professor, has been named the recipient of a one-year fellowship award by the Ford Foundation Fund for the Advancement of Education.
At Freibourg, Switzerland, he will study “symbolic logic” and at Paris he will study “theory of abstraction.”
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
The Scholastic
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bld?.
Top of the Week
The fetching robin’s-egg-blue decor in the dining halls . . .
Home Again
The first week back on the ND campus is always a madcap one and this year’s reunion was no exception. What with handshakers and backslappers greeting you at every turn with the perennial “Whaddyasay! Have a good summer?” and then trying to recall the guy’s name so you can return the greeting, plus searching for your trunk in the fieldhouse depot, juggling classes, sizing up profs and digging out old phone numbers, why a body gets plumb tuckered out.
The return to normalcy (or abnor-malcy as the case may be) always has its poignant side, too. Particularly heart-rending is the case of young Raymond Earls, the unofficial mayor of Walsh Hall, whose expensive broadloom was found missing from its summer storage place. But instead of cracking under the loss as a lesser man might, he instigated an intensive search which has turned the campus and several local pawnshops into a state of up-side-to.
There is one thing we have to admire about Earls. He is a quiet, plodding chap, but in times of emergency he becomes a tower of strength.
Back in Swing
The campus organizers are, of course, all back in force. Sectional and what-have-you club prexies are busy gearing their groups for the new season with meetings being called like crazy. And the Blue Circle promoters, who did such an admirable job in acquainting the incoming freshmen with ND life and customs, are, so we are told, looking forward to another banner year. All together now. Let’s Organize!
WND has been organizing, too. The studios high atop the Notre Dame fieldhouse (with all due apologies to Harry Wismer) have been abuzz with activity since the first day of registration. The station junior executives, and we use the term loosely, have had their swivel chairs together for a week now outlining another gala year over the 1230
By Jack Hynes
spot on the ■ dial. Preliminary plans are being mulled over for an extension of the listening audience to include the belles across the highway.
This proposed expansion of “the student voice” could precipitate a complete switcheroo in programming which might mean that we’ll be tuning in on such airwave niceties as a home and food hour, femme disk jockeys, what’s happening in the world of Paris fashions, and maybe even commercials for Toni home permanents and Lux flakes. If Louella Parsons should put in a bid for a who-was-seen-with-who-at-Rosie’s program, then you’re done, Dad, you’re done.
Detroit Ho!
Special kudos and a grand salaam are herewith extended to the on-the-ball senior class officers for their efforts in making possible a football trip to Detroit on October fifth. This little junket will carry on for two days and Motor City folk should long remember this one.
Hearts and Flowers
Last Sunday’s inaugural clambake at St. Mary’s played to its usual record house. Apart from the continually milling throng, eager hostesses and still more eager freshmen, we noted that one major innovation has been made, the “rec” room was opened for general patronage. News of this startling move has swept the ND campus and many who have always shied away from the Sunday afternoon roundups plan to be on hand at next week’s melee if only to view the former verboten land. Ping-pong anyone?
Overheard in the staffline:
First Frosh—They cut' in on you too soon.
Second Frosh—And you can’t hear the music.
First Frosh—Let’s go back to campus.
Hostess—I’ve got two lovely girls I want you boys to dance with.
First Frosh—Oh, well.
Second Frosh—Oh, well.
Message from Roger
Freshman Roger O’Keefe of Breen-Phillips Hall wrote home for the first
time this week. Here’s what he had to say:
Dear Mama and Papa:
Already I’ve been here over a week and I have looked and looked and looked but I haven’t seen any football players. But I’ve met lots of people; there’s Brother Bookstore and Joe Buslines and lots of people keep coming in the room like the South Bend Tribune and stuff like that. I have to close now because I have a long way to go for my next class over in the Social Science building but it isn’t so bad because I can stop to eat on the. way.
Your loving son,
Roggie
P.S.: Please send me my periscope.
Bottom of the Week
. . . But the food is still the same.
Short (?) Book Lines
Aid Eager (?) Students
In the not-too-far-distant past a Freshman was reported to have left Notre Dame after only one week with the valedictory, “Notre Dame is just one big long line followed by other lines increasing by geometric progression, approaching infinity.”
One of those closer to infinity must have been the bookstore line, butthanks to a revamped system, said linear expanse of students was greatly shortened this year, and there was net one case reported of a Freshman dying of thirst in Badin bog for want of the “Odyssey.”
The main feature of the new organization was a piece of paper. Published in the Book Annex a few days before classes started, this paper listed the books required in all the basic courses, enabling Freshmen, Sophomores, and some upperclassmen to do their September shopping early.
Other improvements made by the literature dispensers, not all new this year but begun since the one-week Freshman left, included a single ticket for all purchases. Thus the cashiers, in themselves a comparatively recent innovation, simply keyed their adding machines and took money. Books were grouped more clearly by colleges and departments, and clerks were grouped more clearly by these books.
Sept. 21, 1951
5
Calendar
SEPTEMBER 21
GRANADA—Last chance to see Academy award winning Cyrano de Bergerac (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) starring Jose Ferrer and newcomer Mala Powers. One of the truly great films of recent years, it’s worth the extra effort to catch it tonight if you haven’t already seen it. Especially recommended for all members of the fencing team.
SEPTEMBER 22
PALAIS ROYALE—The Student Council kicks the lid off their series of Saturday night dances with Ted Gallaghan and his orchestra providing the music. First number gets underway at 8:30 in the redecorated Palais. Entry fee is $1.50 per pair.
PALACE (through Sept. 28)—Spencer Tracy plays an alcoholic criminal lawyer hitting the comeback trail in People Against O'Hara. After giving up practice because of nervousness and alcoholism, Tracy is persuaded to defend John O’Hara against a murder charge. Tracy loses the case in the courtroom, partly because he falls off the wagon, but turns detective to find the real killer. It’s Tracy’s show all the way with able assistance from Pat O’Brien and John Hodiak. Co-feature Five (A-2) has William Phipps and Susan Douglas in the leading roles.
WASHINGTON HALL—June Allyson and Dick Powell get together in Right Cross.
GRANADA—Charles Boyer drops his conventional role to play an elderly physician in. Thirteenth Letter (B), a film which shows the effects of a series of poison pen letters on the inhabitants of a small Canadian community. The picture is fast moving and authentic, with French Canadian towns as the background. Linda Darnell plays Boyer’s young and beautiful wife. The companion feature I Was an American Spy (A-2) is the typical “other” film usually paired with a good feature.
SEPTEMBER 25
GRANADA (through Sept. 28)—Orson Welles and Macbeth come to town for a four-day run. Run, do not walk, past the Granada during those four days.
SEPTEMBER 26
COLFAX (through Oct 1)—Twentieth Century-Fox’s entry in the Biblical theme derby, David and Bathsheba (B), is almost as good as the advance publicity would have you believe. Photographed in technicolor and starring Gregory Peck and Susan Hayward, it purports to tell the Old Testament story of David’s sin and re-pentence, and his eventual forgiveness by God. Supporting actor Raymond Massey matches Peck’s fine performance as King David.
Others Say:
IT CAN’T BE DONE!
Others Say:
$5.95 — IMPOSSIBLE!
BUT
It is being done right now— today at Adaire’s.
THE
SPECIAL "SPEED COURSE"
only $5-95
The secret lies in low overhead and volume. Take advantage of this amazing offer now. Offer expires Sept. 30th.
LEARN TO DANCE
You’ll have more fun.
You’ll be more fun.
ADAIRE
SCHOOL OF DANCING 216 S. Lafayette	2-0166
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
★
Our Specialty
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.05
★
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT
“Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main	Open Sunday
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Vol. 93 September 10, 1951 No. 1
toricds^
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.	'
Editor JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO...........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY...........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO......Assistant Sports
WILLIAM H. FRASER..........Photography
LEON GARDNER.................Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER.............Advertising
C. T. HULL.................Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN...........  Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
Educating the Whole Man
One tradition here at Notre Dame that we hope lasts as long as the University is this business of starting the year off with a Mission. It’s one of those factors that sets Notre Dame apart from other institutions of higher learning. It’s one of the more intangible benefits a man derives from coming here. It isn’t hard to see why, either.
A college education in our generation seems to mean professional training almost exclusively. You go to college and get a degree and hard upon this is supposed to follow a good job and a certain amount of prestige. If you succeed in making good connections and join a strong alumni club, you are supposed to consider your college career a successful one. This, of course, is all very fine. There is certainly no sin in success. But this attitude does ignore the spiritual training that ought to be a part of every man’s education.
To give a man the best professional training available isn’t half enough. To be a real leader—in his family, his community and his country—he must have much more. To set the right example and make the right decisions, a leader has to have moral and spiritual ideals that care above reproach.
When a school or college does make an attempt to educate its students spiritually, then, it’s doing a better job of training leaders. We think Notre Dame, in this respect, surpasses anyplace. Because here a man leceives every encouragement to make religion an integral part of his life. Because here spiritual values arc accentuated. Starting the semester with a Mission is a good example.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
COVER: The scene on this week’s cover might be taken from a new angle, but ND men shouldn’t have any trouble identifying the subj'ect. It’s Bendix and Drewry’s. For generations, South Bend, Ind., home of Studebaker, students have observed the time-honored practice of emphasizing the City’s more conspicuous failings. Calling it “The Athens of the West” and the “home of the world’s finest weather” are examples. This is all very natural and often very funny. But South Bend ' is far from being a whistle stop. It’s a contributes much to the nation’s econ-wealthy, busy industrial center that omy. For more about South Bend see the feature story “Test Town, U.S.A.” on page 18 of this issue.
—Photo by Stouffer Graphic Arts
Action — For Once!
These things have been planned every year, but it has been a long time since such a “side” football trip has been made. We’re speaking of the Senior class trip to the Detroit game in that city, Oct. 3. The ticket salesmen in the Dining Hall lobby, the release of a well-planned entertainment program for the entire weekend, and the establishment of a date bureau for a Saturday night dance are convincing evidence that this vear thev aren’t fooling.
We’ve all heard great plans along this line before—practically every year. But the proverbial monkey-wrench has always appeared, and not since the war has a comparable complement to the regular, king-size student trip been carried out.
One of the principal complaints around this campus in the fall is that, with the greatest team in college football almost every year, we only get to see it perform four times. The regular student trip adds another for some, the richer and more ambitious, and others thumb or ride busses to see the closer games. These individual excursions, at best, don’t approach an organized trip, with special rates on transportation, accommodations, food, and a planned entertainment schedule.
And, if it can be done once, it can be done again. It’s too late to think about another this year, but why not one or two small, short trips every year on the same order as the coming Detroit journey? Every year there are a couple of games, Michigan State, Purdue, or Indiana, for example, that are “away” games and within striking distance of an organized group of Irish rooters. They are usually good games, the trip can be made with a minimum of cuts and wear and tear on the travelers, and there are more than enough students who would rather watch these contests than sit by their radio on Saturday afternoons, if a way to the game were provided and a good weekend thrown in.
Class and club officers, read the entertainment schedule released by the Seniors in this magazine, and see if it isn’t worth repeating.
Sept. 21, 1951
7
i
Reverend John A. O’Brien, Author of “Reading: It’s Psychology and Pedagogy” says:
“ADMIRABLY EQUIPPED”
‘‘The Foundation For Better Reading in South Bend is admirably equipped to assist people in doubling and even tripling their speed of reading . . . enabling them to read a great deal more literature than they now find possible . . . and thus increasing their efficiency, culture, and pleasure.31
Tune in WHOT (1490 on the dial)
EVERY NIGHT AT 10:30 For The
Foundation For Better Reading CONCERT HOUR
Starts Sunday, Sept. 30th
Improve Your Reading Skills
Speed up your reading comprehension I Develop the price- ■ less ability and a lifetime habit of reading for meaning— speedily—easily—accurately. You can read more in less time—save hundreds of hours for other activities, and earn even better grades.
Improvement Potentials are Great
Most people read less than 250 words a minute and use only about 20% of their capacities as readers. Foundation’s training develops this latent or unused potential. Even fast, skilled readers can cut reading time in half and improve comprehension with this new, scientific training method.
>
Training is easy, convenient
Your 26 hour program of analysis, consultation and instruction is personalized and private, not class work. No advance / preparation or homework. You read books of your own choice during training. Set your own hours, day or evening.
Call today for an appointment to start.	t
GET THIS NEW HELPFUL 16 PAGE BOOKLET FREE!
Call, write, or stop in today!
----CLIP AND MAIL NOW
Mr. Stanley M. Gould, Director
South Bend Center
114 E. LaSalle, South Bend
Send me a free copy of “How You Can Read Better — Faster”
Name......................................................
{Please Print)
Address..............................................
It tells how you can boost your academic standing and have more time for other activities.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 E. LaSalle	3-0077
Major................................... Year____________(B)
(OPEN EVENINGS UNTIL 9)
The Scholastic
( .
Notre Dame
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 2
SEPTEMBER 21, 1951
1
Orientation Acquaints Freshmen With ND Life
’	Blue Circle Program
♦
a	Tackles All Problems
Still to be carried out are two parts of the Blue Circle’s Freshman Orientation Program, the annual open Varsity Football Scrimmage and a series of seminar type academic discussions. The aim of these discussions, organized under the " direction of the Office of Academic Affairs and supervised by Fred Hartmann and Tom Morsch, will be to better acquaint the Freshmen with good study habits and academic regulations.
With the aid of the YCS, the Blue Circle has been couducting the traditional fall orientation program for the last two weeks. Vic Kroeger coordinated the program as chairman of the Orientation Committee.
In addition to the usual events on the program were several new features, introduced this year to give the incoming Freshmen a better opportunity to become . acquainted with Notre Dame’s academic and athletic programs and traditions.
Chief among the new features was the creation of a letter of welcome, from the Blue Circle on behalf of the University, which was mailed to the new first-year men several weeks before school began, that they might be better prepared to face the hectic and confusing registration week. Included was such pertinent information as the week’s program and a list of some of the more often overlooked items necessary for school.
Frosh Welcome
Last Sunday evening, about a thousand of the Freshmen were given a lavish student welcome in the Fieldhouse. Included on the program under the supervision of Hugh Braun was a short talk by Mr. Ed “Moose” Krause and the introduction of team captains.
Jim Garvin, president of the Student Council, explained the workings of the council and of some of the other larger and more important student organizations. In adition to this there were tables
set up for the various student organizations, at which the Freshman could seek information concerning the various activities.
Following the speeches refreshments were served, while Gene Hull and some of his band provided background music comprised of both school and popular songs. Areas were also set aside for the various state and regional clubs, that the new men might have the opportunity to become acquainted with other men from their sections.
Other features of the Orientation Program already completed were the initial welcome staged under the supervision of Al DeCrane on Monday, Sept 10, and the official University welcome supervised by Ed Noonan on Tuesday evening, Sept. 11.
In addition to the information booths and campus tours conducted on Monday, a short address was delivered by Coach Frank Leahy, preceding the showing of the film “Knute Rockne, All-American,” in Washington Hall. Earlier, in the afternoon, Rev. John J? Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and other University officials greeted the incoming Freshmen and their parents in the Faculty Lounge.
Aim Is Orientation
Tuesday evening’s program was designed to orient the new students to the policies of the administration regarding scholastic standards, student affairs, religious exercises, and discipline. Heads of the various administration offices were heard.
Vic Kroeger, chairman of the program, expressed his general satisfaction with this year’s orientation setup, adding that he felt the program would be improved with time and experience.
Others who took part in the Orientation Program are Dave Burnell of the YCS and Blue Circle members Bernie Baute, Rod Belcher, Jack Bradshaw, Ernie Buckley, Lou Cavanaugh, Jay Conlon, Dick Cotter, Joe Giovanini, Tom Hassenger and Ed Howley.
Also helping out were: Art Lewis, Bill Lewis, Joe Madigan, Al McGinnis, Jack McGlinn, Roy Moran, Dick Murphy, Pat O’Malley, Wally Purcell, George Remus, Neil Scarlett, Dick Stubbing, Bill Toohey, and Dick Wolfgram.
Near-Record Attendance Set In Student Mission Services
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., conducted the mission for the Freshmen held in Sacred Heart Church September 12, 13 and 14. Evening sessions began at 6:45 and consisted of a short sermon and Benediction. Thursday, Friday and Saturday morning mass was said in Sacred Heart Church where the number* of those who received Communion on each of those three mornings was about 96 percent of the Freshman class living on campus.
Chaplain (Major) Francis L. Sampson, U.S.A., Class of ’37, conducted a mission- for upperclassmen last Sunday, Monday and Tuesday with closing services on Wednesday morning. Following, the pattern of the first retreat mass was at 6:20 a.m. and sermon and Benediction were at 6:45 p.m. The older students also, filled the church for every service.	•
Father Sampson, the “Paratrooper Padre,” has been with the airborne since 1942.
WND Auditions
WND will hold a general meeting at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 25, in room 101 Law Building. Both the present staff and any new men, freshmen included, who are interested in working with the station are asked to attend. Auditions will be held at the meeting for all new prospects' for the staff. The station management plans to have a guest speaker from one of the South Bend stations address the group.
Sept. 21, 1951
9
Fr. Sampson. Colorful 'Paratrooper Padre.
i Returns to Notre Dame for Year's Research
1
|	By BILL KILMINSTER and TOM GRIFFIN
s Critics hailed the motion picture |	Battleground, which was aimed at de;	picting the exploits of the famed
J 101st Airborne Division, as being one of the greatest war movies ever filmed.
? However, that picture didn’t quite de-j	scribe the entire history of this outfit.
1	How could any such story be consid-
j	ered complete without including in its
•	cast a man who won the Distinguished
•	Service Cross, the Bronze Star, the
|	French Croix-de Guerre, two Purple
J	Hearts, a Presidential Unit Citation
1	with Cluster, several other Dutch,
t	French and Belgian decorations, and
•	who was, in the words of one of his
fellow men, “the best liked officer in
j his regiment.”
J
’ The men of Howard Hall need no | introduction to their new second-floor |	prefect, Father Francis L. Sampson,
better known as the “Paratrooper
*	Padre.” Father Sampson, chaplain
§ with the 101st during World Wai- II ; and a Notre Dame graduate of 1937, J	is back at his Alma Mater on special.
|	Army research. He will take several
t courses in Educational Psychology as | a preliminary to the writing of a I paper for the government on various | aspects of Universal Military Training.
s Father Sampson was born Feb. 29, J 1912, in Cherokee, Iowa. He studied | at Indiana University, Catholic UniverI	sity of America, Notre Dame, and the
I	St. Paul Seminary. In 1941 he was
1 ordained a priest of the diocese of Des J Moines, Iowa.
As it did for many other young men, the war changed Father Sampson’s plans. Only a year after his ordination he entered the Army as a chaplain, and was sent to the Chaplain ;	School at Harvard University. There
।	he volunteered for the paratroops and
i was shipped to Fort Benning for basic. ' After a rigorous training period, he went overseas with the 501st Parachute Regiment.
During the Normandy campaign, Father Sampson voluntarily remained behind with a group of wounded when American troops were forced to evacuate their make-shift hospital in the face of a German counter-attack. He was captured on D-Day by the Germans, narrowly escaped summary execution, and was freed by the advanc-
ing Americans. For this act of heroism he was awarded the Disinguished Service Cross.
Father Sampson was again captured by the Germans at Bastogne in the “Battle of the Bulge.” He was sent to a German prison camp, from which he was liberated a few days before the end of the war in Europe.
It was during his six months imprisonment at this camp that Father Sampson experienced one of the greatest thrills of his service in Europe. The occasion was an outdoor Solemn High Mass held on Easter. A French priest acted as celebrant, Father Sampson as deacon, a Dutch priest as subdeacon, an Italian priest as master of ceremonies, and a Polish priest as assistant master of ceremonies. A Serb, a Scotsman, an American, and a Russian served as acolytes. The number of those attending was in the thousands. The Germans, many of whom participated in the worship, made no protest, as war was so close to being over that they were very anxious to be friendly.
Father Sampson was separated from the service on Oct. 1, 1945, but rejoined only nine months later, in July, 1946, and was stationed with occupational forces in Japan.
In Korea, * where he was wounded for the second time, Father Sampson served with the 11th Airborne and
SCHOLASTIC APPLICANTS
Freshmen or upperclassmen interested in writing for the SCHOLASTIC are invited to attend the regular news meetings which are held each Wednesday evening at 6:30. Applicants are asked to report to the editors in any of the respective departments in the SCHOLASTIC office, basement, Farley Hall.
saw action with the 187th Regimental <4 Combat team.
Today, many people don’t seem to realize just how many “Father Sampsons” there are in the chaplain serv- ■ ice. These men have and always will voluntarily place themselves in the “Battleground” of war as long as the need is there. We wouldn’t be a bit surprised if future Notre Dame men who are entering the service show a decided preference for the Airborne Divisions. Just remember, we told you so.	-J
Glee Club Elects Officerst Schedules Year's Concerts
Father Sampson
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. D. H. Pedtke, has a practicing group of approximately 100 this year, and a traveling group of about 40 members.
The traditional Christmas and graduation concerts will be given this year, ( in addition to a return engagement to . the Ed Sullivan TV show during Easter week. Other concerts are scheduled to be given in Oak Park, Ill., Chi- ' cago, New York City, Detroit, and possibly Philadelphia.
Rehearsal hours for the Glee Club have been changed to 5 p.m. on Monday, I' Wednesday, and Friday, and will last about one hour. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, a 45-minute rehearsal will be held at noon.	,
The new officers for the organization have been officially announced. They are president Bill Toomey, vice-president Dick Basgall, secretary Tom ■ Walsh, and treasurer Jim Etling. The . business end will be handled by Frank Myers, newly elected business manager, * his assistant Gene Fanning, publications manager Tom Murphy, and assistant publications managei- Al Pando.
Two tentative programs are scheduled for the Glee Club this year. The first ‘ is an air trip to Los Angeles and Sacramento, Calif., for concert pui’poses. The second is a tentative film short to be made at Warner Brothers Studios featuring the Notre Dame Glee Club.
10
The Scholastic
Campus Divided Into Three New Sections To Facilitate Work of Prefects of Religion
Reardon Reigns Over 117 Vetville Families
Notre Dame has returned to its pre-war set-up of dividing the campus into three sections, East, West, and South, for religious purposes. The facilities of the Cavanaugh Hall chapel are designed to serve St. Edward’s, Zahm, Farley, Breen-Philips, and Cavanaugh halls. Howard Hall chapel will serve Badin, Morrissey, Lyons, and Howard halls. Dillon Hall chapel is for the use of Alumni, Walsh, Sorin, Dillon, and off-campus students. Dillon seems to be considered the parish chapel of Notre Dame according to the prefect of religion.
The .reason for the switch from the previous arrangement was to provide every convenient facility for the reception of the sacraments and for presenting all students with spiritual counsel and guidance. Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., 107 Cavanaugh, is the new student chaplain to fill out the new program.
Father Barry served with the armed forces in the Italian theater in the last war. In fact, Anzio became known as “Barry’s Beachhead.” Before the war Father Barry was a teacher here and the prefect of discipline. He was also a recruiter for vocations at the university.
Rev. Robert Fagan, c.s.c., has been shifted to room 107 Howard Hall. This is Father Fagan’s second year as assistant prefect of religion. Formerly his offices were in Cavanaugh Hall. Father Fagan, a Notre Dame graduate, did not enter the seminary until late in his college career. Since his appointment, to the Notre Dame faculty, he has taught Freshmen religion.
Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., prefect
Father Grimm
of religion, is the man who correlates the whole student chaplain service at Notre Dame. He was assistant prefect of religion in Howard Hall from 1937 until 1941. For the next eight and one-half years he was superior at Holy Cross Seminary. In the summer of 1949 he assumed his present office. Father Grimm led the 30-day Notre Dame pilgrimage to Rome last year. Father Fagan has taught religion since he left the seminary. Strangely enough, he has a degree in electrical engineering.
Father Fagan
The facilities offered in Cavanaugh and Howard Hall chapels include confessions and Communion from 6:30 a. m. to 9:30 a. m., confessions and consultations from 7 p. m. to 10 p. m., and late week-day Mass at 7:20 a. m.
In Dillon Hall chapel, confessions and Communion are from 6:30 a. m. to 12:00 a. m., confessions and consultations from 6 p. m. to 10 p. m. Late week-day Masses are at 7:20 and 8 a. m. Confessions are heard in the Basement Chapel of Sacred Heart Church from 6 p. m. to 7:15 p. m.
DOME’ WANTS FRESHMEN
DOME Editor Ray Earls reports that freshmen will soon be accepted by the Staff to put out this year’s DOME. Any freshman interested in working on the yearbook project should watch his bulletin board for notices concerning the first DOME staff organization meeting.
Vetville mayor Ed Reardon, a Law student, will conduct the affairs of his community with the aid of councilmen from each of the six wards comprising the village until the next election, to be held in January. The councilmen are Jim Clarke, Art Las-suy, Dick McBride, Ted Sobieralski, Jr., John Riner, and Maynard Bis-sonette.
The town this year has 117 families in residence, the majority of which are veterans’ families. Forty-four new families took up residence between June and August, establishing a record for the largest turnover in families since the founding of Vetville.
A new policy began this semester; whereas all applications for admission were formerly handled by Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.C., Maintenance Department head, they are now reviewed and selected by the mayor and councilmen, then referred to Father Furstoss for final approval. Married students may apply for admission to Charles Baier at his office in the Vetville Recreation Hall.
The children of kindergarten and school age are being transported along with children from Little Flower parish to St. Mary’s school for classes.
Several social functions have been planned, these being the Victory Dances in the Vetville Recreation Hall after home games and a potluck dinner near the end of October. More definite, arrangements will be made for the dinner.
Father Barry
Sept. 21, 1951
11
Father Cavanaugh Addresses Freshmen;
Urges Truth as Means of Keeping Freedom
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University of Notie Dame, advised members of the Freshman class to seek the truth as a means of maintaining the freedom of man.
Father Cavanaugh delivered the sermon at a solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church Sunday, marking the formal opening of the 1951-52 school year at Notre Dame.
The Notre Dame president told nearly 1,400 new freshmen that “knowledge of truth will never enslave you ... it will set you free.
“Often, in the process of learning, you will be brought face to face with truths of enormous consequences,” Father Cavanaugh told the freshmen. *T ask you not to be afraid of them, even when fears and weaknesses .incline you to recoil. - - . You will find frequently that ignorance or superficial understanding of certain truths has limited your mind, simply because you have not studied deeply enough the different sides of questions, or youi" mind has not been brought into communion with many sources of truth.”
Father Cavanaugh reminded the Notre Dame students that during the next four years “you will take important steps toward the improvement and maturity of your minds.
Daily Exercise of Mind
“Here you should become acquainted with the major issues that are largely to determine your lives,” he observed. “You should develop the habit’ of looking carefully at all sides of issues and, through daily exercise of your mind, to perfect the power of judging according io the evidence, to be critical of emotional influences that can blur the clarity of your- views. In moving against your indolence and prejudice and ignorance, you will grow nearer to possessing a free mind that will enable you to live as a free man.”
During his sermon, Father Cavanaugh touched on the subject of intellectual freedom at Notre Dame.
“From the livers of liberty in America we hear much of free thought, of free thinking, of institutions that foster free thought and of institutions that carry on as centers of indoctrination,” Father Cavanaugh explained. “For the sake of clarity about intellectual freedom at Notre Dame, I should like to set forth the following propositions.:
“(a) This University has complete freedom to explore the field of knowl
12
edge and to transmit to the students its findings, unrestricted by the Church.
“(b) This University has complete freedom in the realm of natural sciences and is limited in its conclusions solely by the rigorous logic of demonstrated facts. Science is not free here to make unwarranted excursions into the field of religion; no more than religion is free to make unwarranted excursions into the field of science. To permit such a procedure would be bad science and bad theology.
Stresses Literary Freedom
“(c) This University has complete freedom in the entire range of literary criticism and artistic culture, and is bound only by the norms and principles of sound reasoning and good taste. .
“(d) This University has the same opportunity and the same responsibility in the field of historical criticism as any other institution which examines the record of the past. It is bound to state the facts without prejudice or distortion and without any partisan interpretation. The great Pope Leo XIII threw wide the doors of the Vatican Library years ago and invited all historians to search its records in order to present unbiased the history of the Church.”
Father Cavanaugh explained that one of the reasons for setting forth these propositions is that “the head of an educational institution recently told me he didn’t think a Catholic scholar could take part in a serious discussion, as a free man, because the Catholic’s mind is subject to commitments, meaning, among other things, that the Catholic is committed to such truths as the existence of a personal God; to the truth that Christ, the Son of God, became man and established a Church to help save men’s souls; that this Church presents as certain the creed that must be believed and the code that must be followed if men are to reach heaven.
“This college president would not say that a commitment to a proposition that two plus two equals four, or that George Washington was the first president of the United States, disqualifies a mind from serious free discussion,” Father Cavanaugh declared. “Commitments to such truths as he thinks are known would not bother him; but commitments to knowledge of God, to the divinity of Christ, and to the unique authority of the Catholic Church in matters of faith and morals, because
such commitments could not be established for a free and thinking mind— these bother him. What he really wanted to question was the validity of the claims of the Catholic Church, and this large subject he felt unprepared to deal with.”	’
Father Cavanaugh told the freshmen that “you will find the campus hospitable to progress towards true freedom of the faculties of your soul, so long as opinion is not equated with truth nor theory substituted for fact.
“The transition, under Catholic aus-pices, from infancy to adulthood, from ignorance to knowledge, from a sensual to a rational life prepares for citizenship in this world and for lasting citizenship in the life to come,” Father Cavanaugh declared. “Those who are united with God through sanctifying grace, who study under the patronage of Our Lady, who strive for knowledge, and the subordination of passion’ to reason and reason to the will of God go about the process in the spirit of dedication.”
w 	A'
Zimmer to Head Riflemen; List Other New Instructors
Appointment of a Marine veteran to the NROTC staff heads the latest list of faculty assignments.
Maj. Andrew M. Zimmer, USMC, former Hoosier basketball star and a Ma-rine combat officer both in World War II and in the Korean conflict, has been named assistant professor of naval , science and coach of the NROTC rifle team at Notre Dame.
A native of Kentland, Ind., Major v Zimmer replaces Maj. John M. Daly, USMC, who was transferred recently to Camp Pendleton, Calif., after three years duty at the Universit, during which time he coached the Navy rifle team to ‘ t two national championships.
Mr. Roger Bernier, B.Soc.Sc., recently was assigned as an instructor in the Department of Philosophy, and Rev. John C. Blowenstein was given a like post in the Department of Economics.
Two members of the 1950 graduating class at Notre Dame, Mr. Lee Hagey and Mr. Clyde Hoffman, were assigned positions as instructors in electrical engineering. Both men hold the degree ' of B.S. in E.E.	,
Also added to the faculty are Mr. J. B. ’ Duroselle as a visiting professor in international relations and Mr George Parzen as an assistant professor in the Department of Physics.
Mr. Joseph Nagle, who received his 1 B.S. in M.E. at the University of Kansas	,
in 1950, is an instructor in mechanical	j
engineering.
The Scholastic
'Good Will' Keynotes First Council Meeting
The Student Council under President Jim Garvin set in motion all the varied wheels of University activity last Monday night at its first meeting of the school year. Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., new Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs, was on hand to give a welcoming address, particularly stressing closer student-administration relationships in the future.
Jim Garvin
Bob Cossabone, secretary of the Senior class, and Don McLaughlin, treasurer - of the Sophomore class, were appointed - , to places on the Council for the duration ' of the football season as substitutes for Jim Mutscheller and Frank Mangialardi, vice-presidents of the Senior* and Soph. omore classes, respectively. These men cannot attend the meeting due to meet* ings of the football team at the same - time.
The Student' Council president of each grid-rival school will be invited down for f the week-end as the guest of the Student Council and Notre Dame. He will live with the students, eat, sleep, and even sit with them during the game, and probably address them during the football rallies. This is in the interest of more friendly relations with these other ’ schools and in good sportsmanship as regards football.
Plans for the hall council elections are also getting underway.
The office hours for the student council office will be announced next week. As it is planned to redecorate the council’s offices in the Main building, a contest will be sponsored among the architects to determine the most practical and least expensive designs to accomplish , this. A cash award will be given. Full details will be announced later.
STUDENT COUNCIL MEETING
The student council heartily welcomes and encourages any and all interested students to attend meetings held every Monday night at 7:15 in room 100 of the law building. The main points of the agenda for the next meeting, Sept. 24, will be the student trip, decorations for homecoming weekend, a monster rally and elimination of chow line congestion before noon.
Council Plans More Dances But Raises Price of Ticket
It’s kick-off time again! No, not football, but the start of Notre Dame’s social season. It’s the Kick-Off Dance Saturday night at the Palais Royale.
This will be the first of a series of Saturday night dances sponsored by the Student Council. This year it is planned to hold a dance on every possible Saturday night during the school year, with the exception, of course, of Lent and Advent.
Because of the large attendance in previous years and the expected crowds of up to 1,000 couples at home games, the Student Council has provided that the dances for the four home games will be held in the Drill Hall. For the same reasons all dances are restricted to Notre Dame students and their dates only. The remainder of the dances will be held at the Palais Royale.
Revelling to custom, all dances during football season will be termed victory dances, and will be so in every sense of the word. Tickets, however, have been raised to §2.00 a couple. In all other respects the dances will remain the same as last year. They are strictly date affairs; no stags allowed. Ted Gallaghan and his orchestra will be on hand this Saturday to provide the music.
The hour’s are 8:30 to 11:30 with 12:30 permissions granted to the whole student body on those nights. Buses will be provided to and from St. Mary’s, the first one leaving there about 8:15.
Free Smokes for Clubs
Campus organizations may obtain guest packages of Philip Morris cigarettes for distribution at their club functions, it was announced by John Dwyer, ’52, newly appointed campus representative for the cigarette firm.
Secretaries of campus groups may contact Dwyer at 330 Dillon Hall.
239242 Seniors, 300 Strong, Set for Detroit Trip
Twenty-two dollars pays for a roundtrip bus fare, two nights at the Imperial Hotel in downtown Detroit, Friday night supper, bus service for the entire weekend, Saturday night dance, and a ticket to the University of Detroit-Notre Dame football game. This was the package deal, sponsored by the Senior Class, approved by the Student Council, and offered to the Seniors.
The details of the weekend’s program are as follows:
Leave South Bend: 2:30 pan., Friday, October 5th. Arrive Detroit: 7 p.m., Friday, October 5th.
Friday: Dinner: Imperial Hotel, 7 pan. Football: Brigg’s Stadium, 8:30 p.m. Party: Open house at the Fort Shelby Hotel, sponsored by the University of Detroit.
Saturday: 1 pan., Trip to Greenfield Village in Dearborn. 5 pan., Return to hotel. 8 pan., Dance at the Supper Club.
Sunday: Mass at St. Aloysius Church in Detroit.
Leave Detroit: 4 pan., Sunday, Oct. 7th. Arrive in South Bend: 8:30 pan., Sunday, October 7th.	’
All transportation involved in the activities wall be furnished by the chartered busses. Dates for the Saturday night dance will be arranged by the date bureau. The trip limit is 300. If the limit is not wholly subscribed to by Seniors, underclassmen may be permitted to buy tickets, and the time for purchasing may be extended.
Student Law Association
Holds Orientation Program
New students in the College of Law were formally introduced to the workings of the Law school at a Freshman Orientation meeting held recently. The program was conducted by the Student Law Association under the chairmanship of ’ the association’s president, Bob Murray.
The program consisted of the following topics: addresses of welcome by Dean Clarence E. Manion and Assistant Dean John J. Broderick, Jr.; the history of Notre Dame’s Moot Court by Prof. Edward P. Barrett; the Law Association by Prof. Robert E. Sullivan, executive secretary; Great Books Discussions by Prof. Thomas F. Broden.
Also on the same program, talks were given by Bob Stewart, editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, and Milt Farley, director of the Moot Court.
Sept. 21, 1951
13
From Furrows to Divots
Text by BILL STAPLETON, ’52
Photos by AL MUTH, ’52
It will probably not come as a surprise to anyone when he hears that there is a golf course on the Notre Dame campus. It is altogether too big to go unnoticed for any appreciable length of time. But from November to April there is merely an awareness of a golf course existing somewhere hereabouts, with little of what could be called a passionate interest. It’s just there—like Badin Hall. The occupants of southern exposure rooms in Dillon and Alumni glance out their windows at the spacious plot of land and occasionally an aesthete will remark on the beauty of the rolling hills capped with snow. But that is all. For five months it is as useless as the spire on top of the chow hall.
Gradually the bad weather lifts, hesitates, falls, and finally disappears. As the snow melts in the bright glow of sunlight, the golf course is re-discovered by a horde of golfers, pseudogolfers, frank neophytes, and a vast majority who are just kidding themselves. Suddenly it is mobbed. The true enthusiasts embark right afterbreakfast when the course is deserted and the grass still wet, followed by
Sand Traps and Scenes of Beauty
the rank and file around noon. By four o’clock balls are flying like a swarm of angry bees. , Only sunset can stop the mayhem.
Opened in 1929
This annual renaissance has been occurring ever since 1929, when the course was first opened. Its official name, the Burke Memorial Golf Course, is derived from a Mr. William J. Burke, of Portsmouth, Ohio. Mr. Burke, then president of the Vulcan Golf Company, offered to build a course for the University in 1927 if the necessary land could be provided. The present site, which had been used for farmland, was selected and work begun. Unfortunately, Mr. Burke died before the course was completed, resulting in a confusion of his finances. The school completed the course and it was opened in the Fall of 1929.
It is a rather long course, a 6666-yard tour around 18 holes. Length ranges all the way from a 575-yard sixteenth hole to 133 on the sixth. Although fairly flat and devoid of water holes, the course is no snap. It is dotted with an extremely ingenious
“Right After Breakfast"
array of those little scorebuilders— the lowly sand trap. They are situated in positions which would give a pro little trouble, about 180 yards out, but are a hairshirt to the beginner. It seems that wherever he drives he soon has sand fleas. Because of this and the fact that a large percentage of the users of the course are just beginning-, the average score is usually pretty high.
Of course there are always a few duffers on any course, but the expense of golf and the general inaccessibility of most courses acts as a deterrent to the urge of any non-golfer to come on out and see what it’s all about. These difficulties are not present to the Notre Dame man. The course is right in your back yard, the fee is only a quarter for 18 holes, and the guy next door always can oblige with a nice new set of sticks. So there's nothing in the way, and after all, it does look easy knocking that little pill around with a huge, four-foot club. It always turns out to be slightly more difficult than that, but there is something about the game that keeps you coming back no matter how badly you play.
A Tough Choice
This mysterious attraction becomes the next thing to a menace around exam time, when the golfer is torn between his two great pastimes, golfing and passing. With most other amusements the solution is simple. You just don’t go to the show, you study. You cut out the evenings at the local fruit bar and study. But you don’t, it seems, stop golfing. The sport is made
The Scholastic
14
No Books Today
for rationalizing. Businessmen shut up shop for the afternoon to make a tour around the links. Need the exercise, they say. Got to get out in that air and walk around to stay in shape. The student closes up the books and heads in the same general direction. Get all fogged up during exams. Little golf is just what you 'need to clear your head. The odd thing is, it does clear your head.
Some rather tight situations crop
In Their Back Yard
Notre Dame Awarded NFCCS Commission; Campus Proposed as Site of '52 Congress
Chairmanship of the National Catholic Action Study Commission has been granted to Notre Dame by the National Federation of Catholic College Students. Tom Field and Buck Hennigan will serve as co-chairmen, and Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C., as moderator, of the recharted commission.
The Council, meeting during the recent Eighth National Congress of the NFCCS, also decided to ask the University to be host to the 1952 Congress next summer. A Student Body Presidents’ Conference will precede the next Congress. The Council accepted a resolution to that effect suggested by ND
up on the golf course every now and then. A priest once told of his experience on the third hole. It seems that the student with whom he was playing got a terrific, 250-yard drive off the tee. He swaggered gleefully out to the ball, unsheathed his brassie for- the next shot, and swung. The fickle little ball dribbled ahead approximately four- feet. The priest smiled gravely as he told the story. “And do you know,” he said, “the silence that followed that shot was the most profane silence I’ve ever heard.”
Student Council President Jim Garvin and proposed by the Fort Wayne Region.
In addition to Father Haley and John O’Connell, president of the Fort Wayne Region, five men represented the Student Body as voting delegates to the Congress. They were Junior Delegates: Paul Zalecki, Don Carbone, Tom Godfrey, Hennigan, and Field. YCS President Hugh Braun and Jack Angus also attended part of the seven-day conference, held at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., Aug. 26 to Sept. 1.
One of the major issues at the Congress was the writing of a new NFCCS constitution. O’Connell and Carbone joined with other members of a special committee for that purpose in a two-day meeting just prior to the Congress. After considerable debate and some amendment, the resulting constitution was finally approved by the Congress with only four dissenting votes.
Another high spot in the convention was the election of officers. Ed Dietrich of St. Benedict’s College was chosen to lead the Federation during the 1951-52 year, with Joe McMahon (Manhattan College), Claude Dufault (Assumption College), Jean Lenz (St. Xavier’s), and George Devine (St. John’s University) as vice-presidents in charge of Student Affairs, Religious Affairs, Social Action, and International Affairs, respectively.
The closely-contested presidential election saw only 11 votes separating the three candidates on the first ballot and Dietrich nosing out McMahon by a scant nine votes in the run-off ballot.
Over 600 delegates and observers, representing more than 200,000 Catholic college students, were present at the Congress, which had as its special theme “The Catholic College Student and the Parish.”
Each of the 14 national commissions conducted panel sessions at the convention to draw up programs of activities for the year. The commissions include: Catholic Action Study, Mariology, Liturgy, Missions, Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, Family Life, Interracial Justice, Press, Radio, International Relations, and Student Government.
Others are the new Industrial Relations and Social Service Commissions and the Forensics Commission, just rechartered by the National Council.
The pui-pose of the Catholic Action Study Commission is to serve as a clearing-house for the assimilation, evaluation, and dissemination of ideas, concerning all phases of Catholic Ac
Sept. 21, 1951
15
tion, among the 200-plus colleges of the NFCCS.
The commission will receive assistance from the Catholic Action organizations at Notre Dame, and also the local Apostolic Chapter, in compiling study outlines and bibliographies. In return, the commission will be able to provide campus groups with valuable contacts among similar organizations throughout the United States.
Tradition Streamlined, LogChapel Revamped
Tradition is being revamped at Notre Dame.
The log chapel, cradle of religious devotion on campus, is being remodeled to maintain its position of importance in the modern parade of ball point pens and two-platoon football teams.
The wooden kneelers which had witnessed hundreds of weddings and had served thousands of campus tourists on football weekends have been replaced by fifteen regular church benches—thereby leaving more room in the center aisle and providing more comfortable accommodations for those attending services there. The benches were formerly used in the old chapel at St. Mary’s College.
The only bit of old furniture that remains is composed of Father Sorin’s chair and the kneeler which belonged to Father Badin, builder of the original chapel of which the present one is a replica.
Only one of the ten sanctuary lamps which formerly hung from the ceiling in front of the altar remains. Paint has been removed from the floors, and they have been sanded and varnished. The cardboard siding which had covered the walls for many years has been refinished.
A bare spot still remains on the wall where the mural of Father De Seille receiving the Last Sacraments is being cleaned. The painting was done by John Worden, former professor at Notre Dame. It is after an unfinished sketch by Paul Wood who died in 1892.
The altar has been completely refinished in a mahogany stain. It was brought from Bertrand, Michigan, where it was the first altar ever used by the Holy Cross Nuns in the United States. Modern tile flooring has been placed at the foot of the altar.
Brother Boniface, sacristan for Sacred Heart Church as well as the log chapel, has indicated that he plans to obtain a genuine Hudson Bay Indian blanket to drape behind the altar, to blend in with the rustic atmosphere of the shrine.
Rev. Theodore Badin built the original chapel in the winter of 1831. It fell into disuse in 1848 and was finally destroyed by fire in 1856. The present structure was constructed in 1906.
16
History 'Thing of Past' With Professor Nutting; Leads Tribe to Land of Milk and Honey
By Berry Reece, ’54
We do not usually associate cows and chickens and pigs with Ph. D’s. But there’s one man here on campus who does—Mr. Willis D. Nutting, professor of history and farmer. And very aptly, too.
For the past 13 years, Professor Nutting has enjoyably devoted most of his non-teaching hours to tilling the good earth and raising livestock on his two- ' acre farm just north of the University Road. “Just a little subsistence farming,” he calls it, since his products are only for the consumption of him and his.
Almost any afternoon the buoyant and amiable Mr. Nutting can be found attired in an old, throw-away hat and overalls tucked into rubber boots, industriously tampering either about his 50 by 75 foot garden plot or in his selfconstructed barn, .both of which lie behind the white, two-story, frame home-for-six. The barn, built last summer with the aid of his 11-year-old son, Charles, of surplus prefabricated material, at present houses nearly 20 White Rock chickens, three two-month-old puppies, a Guernsey cow, and her young calf. The blessed event, the professor disclosed, took place last Hallowe’en.
In the freshly-plowed garden to the right and rear of the barn are recently-sowed carrots, peas, parsnips, and potatoes. Later on, several kinds of beans, some sweet corn, tomatoes, and squash will be added for summer cultivation.
Once he allows himself to be seen by the two Hampshire pigs, penned in a far corner of .the fenced-in grazing area, Professor Nutting avows their eager “oink, oink” continues until they are satisfied with their feast of skimmilk and dinner-table scraps. The household previously required the pork of only two pigs a year. “But now the three kids have developed adult appetites,” he added, “and we’ll need two more [pigs] a year.”
Life on a farm’s not all honey, Doctor Nutting admitted, but at least 50 pounds have been this season, for his two beehives have already produced that much. The Sears-and Roebuck buzzers are capitalist Charles’ project, who sells the surplus honey to neighbors.
Ample storage is provided for all produce in the 16-cu. ft. deep freeze in the cellar of the Nutting home.
Adding to the rural atmosphere is a large, old black bell just outside the kitchen. This, stated the professor, is
used to round up scampering young Nuttings at mealtime. Besides his wife and himself; the children: Teresa, 13; Charles, 11, and Ted, 8, and Mrs. Barrow, Mrs. Nutting’s mother, who lives with them, joins in the various chores.
Doctor Nutting said he always had this yen for the soil. As a youngster he sought odd jobs on farms around Iowa City, where his father taught at Iowa U. Now he realizes how ideal such a set-up as his can be for the raising of a family.
A Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, where he studied for the Episcopalian ministry and received the British equivalent to an M. A., Professor Nutting previously graduated from Iowa U. There too, he later returned for a Ph.D.
A man of travels as well as of letters, he served for a short while as an Episcopalian missionary in the British West Indies, and spent the winter months of 1930-31 in Italy soon after his conversion to Catholicism. As part of his course at Oxford, he made a mountain trek in Greece, studying the rural Orthodox Church.
Before coming to the Notre Dame Department of History in 1936, he did a three-year professorial-stretch at St. Teresa’s College in Winona, Minn.
Even with his 12 hours of history classes here and his alter-ego existence in the farmyard, Doctor Nutting is comparatively fertile in the writing field. From time to time he publishes liturgical, educational, and agricultural articles in such magazines as Orate Fra-tres and Commonweal. He has written two books, How Firm a Foundation? and Reclamation of Independence, and collaborated on a third, Civilization in America, a probe into American family life. The story of his conversion is found in Rev. John A. O’Brien’s Road to Damacus.
This history prof-writer-farmer is decidedly a man of ztnusual combinations.
LOST AND FOUND
The Campus lost and found office is located in the Office of the Prefect of Discipline on the first floor of the Main Building (East wing). Students are asked to check with this office for any missing property. Students finding lost articles are requested to turn them in to this office.
The Scholastic
»
ScludoAtic ^-iciion . • •
The Fire on Perkins
BY CHARLES HANDS
M
Y NAME is Harold—Harold Len-
drum—:
and until just recently I
was making S30 a
week over at the
. I guess some people don’t wuua x ui very smart, but that’s because they don’t know how important the night
lace mill
think I’m
was
my job really was. I watchman and, believe me, it was a big responsibility. Why, if a fire ever broke out over there it was up to me to call the fire department and tell them about it before the whole place burned down. Of course, I’d been there for more than 20 years and a fire hadn’t never- happened yet, but I figured that didn’t mean it never would so I kept on my toes pretty well all the time.
I even held a
sort of a fire drill with
As I walked
myself - every night.
around the place I used to pretend I saw a fire all of a sudden, so I’d run to the nearest phone, dial “0,” and tell the operator to send the fire department out to the lace mill on Perkins Street. Naturally I didn’t pick up the receiver to talk because then the operator really would have sent the firemen over, but I did dial the phone and repeat the sentence to myself to make sure that I’d know just what to say in case something really did happen sometime. I’ll bet not many people take their job as serious as that!
Just to show you what I mean, some of the girls that work over there were I always leaving stuff laying around in ' the aisles. This worried me a lot be-cause I figured that if a blaze ever did start/ the firemen’d need a clear passageway so they could put it out in a hurry. But some people just didn’t have I enough brains to see it that way, and oftentimes I had to move a lot of junk around to keep the aisles open.
| I didn’t mind it too much once in a '	while, but whenever it got to be a
I	habit I’d stick around a couple hours so
I could read the old riot act to the workers when .they reported in the morning. Of course, I didn’t get paid I for the extra time I spent that way, j but I figured it was well worth while.
Some of the mechanics used to kid me about working those hours for free. They thought I hung around just so I could look at the women. That ain’t
true! I don’t want nothin’ to do with any woman. Not that I couldn’t get a date, you understand. Why, I could take out any one I wanted to. Just a short time ago, for example, one of the girls in the packing room took a liking to me and was really dying for me to ask her out. Her name was Irene something or other, and she fell head over heels for me. Even with all the other girls standing around she tried to kiss me on the cheek one day. I wouldn’t let her though, and all the others laughed at her until she was embarrassed. She tried to cover up by laughing along with them, but I knew she was really heart-broken when I was so rough with her.
It sure beats me how a girl right out of high school could fall in love with a guy that’s over sixty like I am, but like I said before, I could take out any one I wanted to. I just don’t want nothing to do with any women, that’s all. The only reason I hung around in the morning was to get the people to leave the aisles clear in case the firemen had to get to a blaze in a hurry sometime.
I used to get every Thursday night off to play darts in the church league. At one time my night off was Monday, but I explained to Mr. Hudak—he was my boss—that I liked darts an awful lot, so he switched my night off to Thursday for me. Mr. Hudak was nice that way. He was the only one besides myself who realized how important my job really was. He used to look at me and smile and ask me if there’d been any fires lately. Then when I’d tell him I hadn’t seen any, he’d pat me on the back and tell me what a fine job I was doing.
A couple of times he even offered to promote me to a job that didn’t have as much responsibility, but I told him that watching for fires had been my job for- over twenty years and that I just wouldn’t feel right letting someone else do it. After I said that he’d look sort of pleased and tell me that the job was mine for as long as I wanted it. Then he’d turn and walk away chuckling to himself as if someone had said something funny. Mr. Hudak was a swell guy!
ANYHOW, like I was saying, I used to play darts in the church league every Thursday night. On second thought I guess it wouldn’t be exactly honest to say I played every * Thursday night, because I was a sort of a substitute—I played whenever one of the other guys couldn’t come. I was pretty lucky to be even a substitute, though, because I ain’t too good even if I do like the game. One night when I was playing, for example, my team—we call ourselves the Giants— lost a real close one to the Pirates because I stunk all over the place. The rest of the Giants were really sore at me for that and they didn’t let me play again for quite a while. But I kept showing up every Thursday anyhow. I figured I owed it to the team.
After the game was over all us guys used to walk down to the comer for a couple of beers. Not that I drank, you understand, but I used to go along with them anyhow and sip a soda or two while we sat around shooting the breeze. I remember one night they put something in my coke when I wasn’t looking and I got real dizzy. Later on when I was walking home I got sick to my stomach, too, and I vomited all over - -myself. I didn’t feel right for the next couple of days, either, but I never let on to them. I figured they were a great bunch of guys, even though they did joke with me like that, and I didn’t want them to feel bad about me getting sick.
But even though Thursday was my night off I got into the habit of taking a walk up to the mill before I went to bed to make sure everything was going okay. I didn’t have to, you understand, but somehow I didn’t feel right until I made the rounds and saw there wasn’t any fire. Besides I wanted to keep practicing what to do in case I ever did see one. Of course, I was always careful to make sure Sam—he’s the other watchman—didn’t see me there on my night off because I knew I’d get an awful ribbing if anybody ever found out about it. But even though I was real careful, Sam caught me running to the phone and rehearsing my spiel one night about two months ago, and naturally he spread the word all around the mill.
(Continued on page 29)
17
Sept. 21, 1951
TEST TOWS, IL S. 1
South Bend . . . U.S.'s
"Most Typical City"	j
Hometown, U. S.A. Dad mowing the front lawn. Sis on the porch over at her next-door girl friend’s. Junior out on his bike waving as he goes by. And Mom in back, talking over the fence to Mrs. Green.
It’s a familiar picture, especially when you add the caption that always seems to go with it. “Hometown, U.S.A. . . Sometimes it’s “Anytown, U.S.A. . . .” Or “Your-town, U.S.A. . . .” You’ve seen it in a hundred ads, and under it some persuasive copy to the effect that “their product” is as home-grown as Plymouth Rock and the midnight snack.
18
Text by DICK CODY, ’52
Photographs Courtesy South Bend Association of Commerce
But chances are you thought there is no such place as Hometown, U.S.A., and that’s where you’re wrong.
For this country does have a most typical city. Want some facts? It’s 716.157 feet above sea level, has a longitude of 86 west and a latitude of 42 north. It has an area of 20.582 square miles, a population of 115,911,
an official flower (the Zinnia) and a motto (South Bend . . . world famed).
Yes, South Bend is America’s most typical city in America’s most typical county, St. Joseph. And this area has been chosen as the site for important tests by no less an authority than the government of these United States. “These two counties (St. Joseph and Marshall County, adjoining it on the south) were chosen because they comprised a representative urban ■ and rural area of the country, and because together	they presented a good	|
cross-section of	industry, agriculture,	g
trade and the	professions,” said the	g
The Scholastic	1

Secretary of Commerce in explainin
the selection of for government As a result
Census Bureau
South Bend as the site tests.
of this selection the of the Department of
Commerce tested and refined in
two counties the questions later used
throughout the country in the census. In 1942 South Bend was
selected for an important government test. This time the Health Department used the city to conduct its wartime nutrition studies, and facts established by these studies were used on a nationwide scale as a basis for government recommendations regarding wartime diets and food conservation. Furthermore, the Gallup Poll, National Opinion Research Center, and the Nielson Company use South Bend extensively in their surveys.
People Arc Typical
Just what does all this go to prove? It shows that the government and other private organizations consider South Bend’s people as typical, their homes, their living and buying habits, their hobbies, their likes and dislikes as typical of the nation’s people. For this reason hardheaded businessmen have come to believe that a product which can sell in South Bend can sell anywhere, and many new products are introduced in this city on a test run. This is the origin of the name, “Test Town, U.S.A.”
Perhaps the most desirable advan-
has for
$
picture was added in
1852, when
tage all this ‘‘typical business” the Notre Dame man is that find himself in surroundings radically different from what been used to in the past.
he not
he
He
soon become acclimated to the town, the people, and everything that makes up his life away from school. He will
fertile two
will too has will
settlers soon arrived to work the tile land. Another dimension to
Bendix and Studebaker:
The Industrial Hub
Sept. 21, 1951
nn
these
1940 again
on the St. Joe
Leeper Park
Si
also find himself in on the beginning of things as, for example, the new movies he’ll see here often before they open in larger cities like Chicago and New York.
What typical things, factory.
actually makes South Bend so is its balance between all especially the farm and the
One cause, the rich, black
soil of the Midwest, was here for centuries. It was here when Alexis Co-quillard, whose monument is in the cemetery just south of the golf course, founded South Bend as a trading pcsr in 1823. In those days the south bend of the St. Joseph River was primarily the centre of a thriving fur trade, but
brothers founded South industrial plant to gain fame—the Studebaker
Bend’s first international Corporation.
That same year marked the 10th birthday of a small Catholic school north of the city, which was just beginning to grow.

Land and Industry
Both land and industry contributed to the rise of South Bend, and today the city lies in the middle of a great ' farming and dairying area. It also has become the industrial hub for a large part of Northern Indiana, with 150 different industries. Largest of all is the mammoth Studebaker Corporation, manufacturing automobiles and trucks. From the Bendix Products Division of the Bendix Aviation corporation, whose
& 3
S
■flashing beacon is the first recognizable sight on the western approach to South Bend, come automobiles, aviation, and marine accessories, as well as household products. And the Singer Manufacturing Company, of course, makes sewing machines.
So that’s what kind of city South Bend is—typical, common, representative, ordinary—call it what you wall. You’ll see farmers and executives, model T’s and Cadillacs, estates and slums, men and women, boys and girls. Sometimes it’s hot, sometimes it’s cold, sometimes it rains, sometimes it shines, sometimes it’s good, sometimes it’s bad. People mow lawns, sit on porches, ride bikes, and talk over the fence. They also dig ditches and rob banks. Funny thing, it’s beginning to sound just like home, isn’t it?
No+re Dame Romps But Loses Anyway!
Notre Dame romped in full style with all the blinding fury of a two-year-old thoroughbred before the void groans and unbelieving eyes of some 7,500 partisans earlier this season.
It might be proven the only time in history that Notre Dame rooters have ever looked upon its powerful drive and run-at-will tactics with disdainful hysteria.
It was obviously a one-horse affair as trainers of the game "watched the object of their tedious Spring drilling stage a sparkling display of broken-field running among a ban-age of grappling arms and disheartened tacklers. However, high-flying Notre Dame failed to make a touchdown.
In this case Notre Dame really was
Father Hesburgh Preaches at Frosh Mission
a race horse. A two-year-old filly bearing the name of the most fabulous football outfit in the country today, broke loose prior to the fourth race at Fairgo Race Track in Cumberland, Md., late last July and thrilled the crowd with its long distance running.
The fireworks started when the bridle broke loose as Jockey Tony Russo was leading the horse to the post. Apparently nursing a bad case of pre-race jitters, the horse took advantage of the situation to “get away from it all” when Russo was thrown to the ground.
With a clear field ahead, Notre Dame ran for more than a mile before being stopped. Several times outriders tried to halt her but apparently forgot the name she was bearing—synonymous with charging, hard-to-stop backs.
The filly skillfully eluded their outstretched arms in true Notre Dame fashion and went her way. Finally, an arm came out of a dark corner and pulled her to a halt. One press box fixture commented that it might have been the ruling hand of Frank Leahy.
Despite her ill-founded intentions which provided the most spectacular-exhibition of the afternoon, Notre Dame was ordered out of the “game” by the stewards and the money placed on the horse was refunded.
JUGGLER MEETING
'he JUGGLER will hold its first meeting Monday, September 24 at 7 p.m., in the JUGGLER Office located in the basement of Farley Hall.
All past contributors are invited to attend as well as any student interested in submitting poetry, short stories, essays, book reviews, etc.
Fifty Years Ago
From the Sept. 21, Scholastic: Rev.
Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., president of ' the University, sent Mrs. William McKinley a personal note of condolence following the assassination of President McKinley in Buffalo. . . “Notre Dame now offers to her students every oppor- ; tunity for a thorough course in Classics, Letters, Economics and History, Journalism, Art, Science, Pharmacy, Law, Architecture, and Civil, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineering”. . . On the coming football season: “The real heavy work of the season has been started, and every afternoon two teams are lined up for practice. These scrimmages are not only intended to give the men a thorough knowledge of the game, but to allow the coach a chance to judge the ability of the candidates. For this reason it behooves each candidate to go into the scrimmages with all the dash and spirit he can muster” . . . The football schedule included Milwaukee Medics, Ohio State Medical, Northwestern U., Rush Medical, Beloit, Lake Forest, Purdue, Indiana, Physician’s and Surgeons, and South Bend.
Thirty Years Ago
From the Sept. 24, 1921, Scholastic: Degrees were awarded to 23 at the summer commencement. Eleven of these were master’s degrees. . . . Enrollment figures released showed 1200 students in the undergraduate and graduate schools. . . . Coach Knute Rockne set up an eleven game football schedule, including Iowa, Purdue, Nebraska, Indiana, Army, and Rutgers. The Rutgers game was scheduled for the Tuesday following the Saturday game with Army. . . . The line-up for the first game, a 56-0 win over Kalamazoo, was Captain Eddie Anderson and Rodger Kiley at ends, Buck Shaw and Art Garvey, tackles, Hunk Anderson and Les Degree at guards; Harry Mehre, center, Frank Thomas, quarterback; Johnny Mohardt and Danny Coughlin, halfbacks and Chet Wynne, fullback.
Ten Years Ago
From the Sept. 26, 1941, Scholastic: Notre Dame was one of eight schools in which N.R.O.T.C. units were established. The new unit numbered 165 midshipmen, mostly freshmen. . . . Dr. Clarence E. I Manion was named dean of the College j of Law. . . . Rev. Charles C. Carey, C.S.C., was appointed moderator of Scholastic.........The Catholic Action club carried out an extensive orientation program, the first of its kind, for in- | coming Freshmen....|
The Scholastic ®
20
Which Way College
BY BILL RILEY
Football?
Throughout the country, for the last six months, developments in and around the field of college athletics have raised i the hue and cry for their abolition.
As usual, the most vehement of the ' critics offered the least in the way of remedy. They saw the evil in college football but failed to see the good. Similarly, many of those who defended col' lege football took the foolish stand that all about it as it exists today could be defended. Rather than acknowledge the / evils and attempt to correct them, they I chose to defend the indefensible.
In the first place, most of the blasts that have been fired against college athletics have been fired with about the same regard for accuracy and solidity of charge as a farmer uses when he is ,*4 shooting rock-salt at a bum on the south forty. In other words, they have been meant well, but aimed badly.
As a result, the integrity of intercollegiate football has been riddled with the shot of wild charges; there has existed a need for someone to come out and honestly admit that there are many things wrong with college athletics, but * that the athletics per se are not evil.
Chief complaints against college athletics have been proselyting, and subsidizing.
They spring from over-emphasis.
Yesterday, Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, and one of the 1 greatest lovers of sports in America, came out with some proposals. Proposals that he hopes will save college football from what will be an inevitable collapse if the big-business practices which are now spiraling continue to tighten their strangle-hold on collegiate football. Final reactions to that column are not all in.
’ To refresh your memory, we may point 1 zout the following salient features to I Ward’s plan. 1) Rotation of coaches, this rotation to take place each year, and to be announced in mid-August. 2) There •) will be no spring practice. Why? ObI viously because no coach is going to try to prepare an opponent’s team to such a pitch of perfection as to vitiate his chances to win against that team in the succeeding year.
These are the main features of the - plan. Ward feels that this plan will practically wipe out subsidization, because, he says, subsidization can only operate successfully in combination with organized recruiting by coaches and assistant coaches. It will mean that a
coach will no longer send out an assistant to look over the crop of graduating high school players, nor bring them to his university for an early look-see so that he can apportion his “rides” to the most likely-looking candidates.
Ward’s plan has further advantages which he does not mention. It would cause athletes to go to those universities where they would be sure that they could become candidates for a degree. It would remove the temptation to attend an institution chiefly if not only because that institution was strong in football. It would loosen alumni control of football. An alumnus is not ordinarily a good judge of football talent. He must have the active help of the coach in order to pick out a really good prospect. Any college coach will tell you that hundreds of high school flashes turn into college duds, while many who have not performed to the head-lines in high school make All-Americans.
If Ward’s plan were put into action, the following alternatives would be presented to the educators and administrators. They could go along in good faith, leaving the choice of college to the student. Refusing to cooperate with alumni in active recruiting. Offering to the athlete nothing besides the educational advantages of their institution. Or they could break faith. Recruiting, although it would become much more difficult, could still be accomplished to some degree if college administrators acted in bad faith with the plan. We are inclined to believe that the great majority of college administrators are today worried about the problem of intercollegiate football. We believe that they would act in good faith to preserve the game.
The quality of intercollegiate football would go down. No argument to the contrary can convince those close to football that it would not. Nevertheless, the interest in collegiate football would remain high. Why? Because those who watch a college football game watch it because it is a game. Not primarily because it represents a group of highly trained young men engaged in proving which is superior at an arduously learned skill. Who are the most loyal rooters? For Midville high school or for the Chicago Cardinals? Don’t try and tell us it’s for the Cards because we’ve seen you shout yourself hoarse for the Midville boys. Again why? Because it’s a game. Right now college football is in great danger of moving entirely out of
the game class. It is becoming, indeed,, in some institutions, has become, a business, played by men who are not called professionals only because they never take a check.
Arch Ward has set up some sort of-solution. Arch Ward loves college sport. It is our belief that very few are those who have not thrilled to a great game, played well. Is it not worth a great deal of thought on the part of educators and administrators to preserve that game. To insure that the sport of college football .shall not go down in- a morass of hypocrisy, lies and sub rosa “deals.” Arch Ward has taken the first step. Maybe it needs a lot of modification. Maybe it is not in the right direction at all. At least it is an honest attempt. It presents more than words. It presents a plan of action. Can those who have the final say on college football let the good will of this man be filed with yesterday’s newspaper? We don’t think they can, and we don’t think they will. We think that it is the time for men of good will to come together. To save the sport. And we believe that there are enough men of good will who will think and act. And save the game.
’Dome' Far Advanced, Says Editor Ray Earls
Raymond T. Earls, Editor-in-Chief of the 1952 Dome, announces that work has begun already on the yearbook project.
Asked if this was something unusual, Earls said, “Definitely not! Putting out the Dome is a year-around job. In fact we had begun planning this issue before the 1951 Dome came off the press.” Earls also stated that the color art work which comprises the first 16 pages of the Dome is very near completion and is scheduled to be sent to the printer by the first of Oct’•her. “Mr. Alden Balmer, artist with the Indiana Engraving Company, and, Mr. Frank O’Malley, professor of English at Notre Dame, have taken a very personal interest in the formation of these pages and have contributed much time and effort in making wrhat I feel sure will be a tremendous success,” Earls said.
Without divulging much information concerning the theme of the Dome, Earls did say, however, that it was a rather large departure from the yearbooks of the past.	.
Sept. 21, 1951
21
Irish Band Features Eight-Foot Bagpipers
When the proper regalia for the Irish Piper Unit arrives, ND spectators will see a group of eight-foot giants on the gridiron.
The honor unit, which at the present consists of nine experienced pipers each six feet in height, has been working for a year on the University practice chanters. The instruments to be used at the games arrived last week and will be used officially when the costumes arrive from Canada. Pipers will wear 16-inch fur shakos with authentic gold plumes, and are the first of a project of 32, to be built over a period of three years.
Members of this honor unit are selected by Director H. Lee Hope and must breathe air at an altitude of no less than six feet to qualify for membership. The present group consists of Lee Tavis, Mark Tolle, John McKenzie, Fred lonata, Richard McConnell, John Roy, Leroy Bazany, Thomas Nourie, and Ed Cavanaugh.
The regular 110-member marching band will be on hand for the opening game with Indiana September 29. Jack Totty, president of the band, will replace Dave O’Leary, ’51, as drum major. They will feature an “Alice in Wonderland” theme with the white rabbit who was always late, the mad hatter and the Cheshire cat. The new formations have not been officially released
For ND, “Alice in Wonderland” and Eight-Foot Giants
yet on any of the games. It is only known that they will feature “a little bit of whimsy.”
Forty new members of the band are incoming Freshmen and will participate in all pep rallies and various other musical activities.
For the Southern Methodist game, Mr. Hope has announced that the theme will revolve around Father John Cavanaugh’s testimonial year.
As yet the only definite word on trips for the Band is for the Navy game at Baltimore.
During the last two weeks in August, Mr. Hope, also director of the Concert Band, made a booking trip of Wisconsin, Minnesota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Iowa and Illinois.
Three contracts for concerts were signed so far from Sioux Falls, S. D., Sioux City, la., and Racine, Wis. Other stops will include Milwaukee, Oshkosh, Eau Claire, and Green Bay, Wis., St. Paul, Minn., Omaha, Neb., and Des Moines, la.
Blue Circle Again Conducts Study Seminars for Frosh
Under the direction of Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., and in conjunction with the freshman orientation program, the Blue Circle educational committee will conduct a series of academic discussions in each of the Freshman halls to better acquaint the Freshman class with good study habits,
CLUB NEWS
Club presidents desiring publicity for their respective campus organizations are asked to submit such articles to the SCHOLASTIC office. The deadline is Sunday night previous to that issue in which articles are to appear.
University regulations, the Department of Guidance and Counseling, and the Notre Dame Library.
In each hall one night each will be devoted to Arts- and Letters students, Commerce students, and Science and Engineering students. The time and place for these discussions, which will be conducted by members of the Blue Circle, will be posted on hall bulletin boards.
These Freshman study seminars were successfully initiated by the Blue Circle last year.
Mrs. Fisher Donates Million Dollar Art Gift
A $1,200,000 collection of rare paintings and tapestries by the old masters has been given to the University of Notre Dame by Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, widow of the founder of the Fisher Body Company of Detroit, Mich., Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, announced recently.
This gift is the second large donation by Mrs. Fisher to Notre Dame in less than two years. In December 1949 she gave the University $1,000,000 for the erection of a new residence hall which is now under construction, and for the creation of a revolving student loan fund.
This prize collection will be placed in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery or, if possible, in the new Liberal Arts building. The collection consists of 17 paintings and three tapestries. The paintings range in price up to $150,000, while the tapestries are valued at $30,000.
Four of the old paintings have been valued by art critics at $100,000 or more each. The most highly-prized is “Portrait of a Woman” by Bart Van-eto. The other three most valuable paintings are another “Portrait of a Woman” by the Italian master Antonio Pollaiuolo; “Anne, Lady Townsend” by the English painter George Romney; and “Le Bouton de Rose” by Francois Boucher, self-taught French artist.
The remaining 13 paintings are mostly by French artists, while the tapestries deal with scenes from the lives of Antony and Cleopatra.
22
The Scholastic
Student Managers Lead Horatio Alger Life; Years of Hard Labor Pay Off for Best Men
By BILL RILEY, ’52.
Despite a rigid hierarchy and a chain Z" of command, prospects of standing long hours on freezing November afternoons with sleet and snow pelting across Cartier Field and perhaps the highest quota of difficult and often boresome jobs on campus, the student manager’s organization still manages to attract upwards of 50 candidates from each year’s freshman class.
The attraction is chiefly explained by two things: the glamour that surrounds athletics and athletes to the entering student; the fact that at the end of the trail if you are good enough, there is a position of senior manager.
Now a senior manager’s life is a good one. If he’s senior manager of football, he travels with the team, flying to the games, and takes care of almost all arrangements while the club is on the road. At home he is a sort of major domo for the gridders, supervising many of the details that go to make up successful administration of the modern collegiate football team. He is a most important man in the athletic picture. He also is rewarded with a partial scholarship and a membership in the monogram club.
What does an aspiring senior manager do to achieve that roseate goal? Well . . .
A manager’s life is a good deal like a reflection, in miniature, of what the average student experiences during his four years at Notre Dame.
In his freshman year, he is cold and tired, but never really discouraged. He guards the gates at Cartier field, picks up towels in the locker room, and generally makes himself useful in whatever capacity he can.
At the end of his freshman year, the group he entered with is cut to fifteen. He is now among the elect. The chances are, that, given the opportu-x nity, he will stick with the organization.
But he still has a hard year ahead of him. Though he takes command of the squad, he still has the juniors, equivalent to platoon leaders, and the seniors, who are roughly comparable to company commanders, to give him orders. Again at the end of his sophomore year there is a cut. This one is the last. The group is reduced to seven men. Each of these men is assured of a berth as a senior manager—which, as you have read above, is a rather pleasant assignment.
After he graduates, a manager may
do any of the things that his fellow graduates do. The chances are, though, that on the whole he will be more successful than his non-manager buddies. Whether it is the training provided in the job, or merely that the successful type gravitates to the managers is hard to say. Maybe it’s a combination of both. Whatever the reason, it is a proven fact that managers generally make good businessmen.
Sophs to Be Cotillion Hosts For Purdue Game Week End
Friday, October 26—the Sophomore's big night—has been announced by Cotillion chairmen Jerry Sheehan and Walt Vaughan. For their first formal dance that evening and for the Purdue football game the next afternoon, Sophomores will play host to their dates from all over the country. They will sit in a special section reserved for them at the game and have carpermissions for the weekend.
To make definite plans for this special weekend, the committee heads met last Monday night with the co-chairmen. Yesterday all committee members decided their work on the dance.
Already several band-booking agents have been contacted but as yet no band has been decided upon. One of the problems the chairmen face is that most of the better bands have not yet set their fall traveling schedules.
Also the reservations committee has contacted several hotels and private homes to procure rooms for the girls who might come from out of town.
Law School Admission Tests Prepared for Leading Colleges
The Law School Admission Test required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law schools, including Notre Dame, will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United Staates on the mornings of Nov. 17, 1951, Feb. 23, April 26, and Aug. 9, 1952. During 1950-1951 over 6,700 applicants took this test, and their scores were sent to 90 law schools.	.
At Notre Dame the Law School Admission Test will be administered only on Feb. 23 and April 26, Mr. Edward Quinn, Head of the Department of Testing and Guidance, announced this
week. A candidate must make separate application for admission to each school of his choice and should inquire of each school whether it wishes him to take the Law School Admission Test. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised to take either the November or the February test, if possible.
The Law School Admission Test, prepared and administered by Educational Testing Service, features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning ability rather than acquired information. According to ETS it cannot be “crammed” for. Sample questions and information regarding registration for and administration of the test are given in a Bulletin of Information.
Bulletins and applications for the test should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must be received at least ten days before the desired testing date in order to allow ETS time to complete the necessary i testing arrangements for each candi-	!
date.	|
Campus Radio Station WND	j
To Acquire Wire Service	!
Within the next five weeks, WND	।
hopes to have completed a hook-up with ; the United Press newswire service. As	i
soon as UP news is available, the station plans to broadcast a five-minute news program every hour that it is in ; operation.
A few changes have been made in the broadcasting schedule since last year. The afternoon program of classical music, formerly on the air from 5 to 6 p.m., has now been lengthened to a two-hour show starting at 4 p.m. Current policy is to make the entire afternoon of musical programs a bit more refined and toned down in order to prove more conducive to study.
WND is also operating on a somewhat different schedule this year. Weekdays find the station opening at 12:30 p.m. with the Twelve-Thirty Club —the frequency is also 1230 on the radio dial. Sign-off time is 10:15 pjn.
The request show starts at 9 p.m. On Sundays the station begins broadcasting at 9 a.m. and shuts down at the regular time.
Recent expansion of the station’s activities has crowded the small broadcasting rooms to the bursting point, but plans have been made to give WND more room, either in the old gym or in the basement of Farley Hall.
Sept. 21, 1951
23
NOW DAME SOKS
Hike Song
The march is on. no brain or brawn
Can stop the charge of fighting men.
Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh. it’s the hike. hike, hike of victory. The call, to rise and strike.
For Notre Dame men are winning
When Notre Dame hears hike,, hike. hike.
Hark to the cheering song rising high.
Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by: Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Bum high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame.
Victory March
Rally sons of Notre Dame;
Sing hci' glory and sound her fame, Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true: Rah, rah, for Notre Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game.
Strong of heart and true to her name o
We will ne’er forget her And we’ll cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame.
(chorus)
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame.
Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high. Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory.
When Irish Backs Go Marching By
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry, Gathering foemen fling to the sky.
Fight! Fight! Fight!
Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Notre Dame!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
(chorus)
And when tire Irish backs go marching by
The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game, Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes smashing through, They’ll sweep the foemen’s ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
Notre Dame, Our Mother
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the gold and blue. Glory’s mantle cloaks thee. Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame.
The Scholastic
lb1 Scholastic Sports
Varsity Shines Against Reserve Team
Feiler, Fekete, Alexander and Almaguer
Prospects Bright for Cross Country Season; Freshman Runners Push Veteran Harriers
The perennially strong Notre Dame cross-country squad faces the 1951 season with the brightest prospects for an all-victorious season in recent years. At present the squad is undergoing rigid calisthenics and long hours of road work in. preparation for the October opening date against Wheaton College ovex- the local course.
The chief burden will fall upon the strong time-tested legs of Bob Feiler and Ben Almaguer, a pair who have paced recent Irish squads; but it is the addition of two very promising freshmen that stirs the hopes of Coach Alex Wilson.
Last fall seventeen year old Gene Fekete was burning up the New Jersey countryside as he won the garden state’s cross country championship, and
then repeated with the mile championship last spring. The second of this speedy duo is Jack Alexander, who calls Montreal, Canada, home. A third freshman, who was also a state champion, is Joe Host who took Michigan’s laurels.
Thus Coach Wilson has in addition to the men who paced Notre Dame to fifth spot in the National Collegiates last fall, three young speedsters who are veterans in fighting for the top bracket. A lone note of disappointment was struck when veteran George Gross returned to school unable to compete due to a fall suffered this summer.
The athletic office has attempted wherever possible to schedule the meets to coincide with the coming grid sea-
(Continued on page 28)
Pe+i+bon and Mazur
Pace Irish Attack
By JACK VARLEY, ’52
The Notre Dame varsity football team sparked by the running of halfbacks John Petitbon -and John Lattner and the	passing of quarterbacks	John
Mazur	and Ralph	Guglielmi	over-
whelmed the Reserves to the tune of 47-0 in	a regulation	game last	Saturday in	the stadium.
Petitbon Scores Three Times
Petitbon scored his first of three markers early in the first period on an end sweep from 15 yards out that was proceeded by devastating blocking. Petitbon’s second 'score and the second score of the game came late in the first quarter as a result of a pass from Mazur. The' play covered 60 yards with Petitbon running and dodging the last 25 for the tally. Frosh fullback Bob Arrix was successful in his conversion attempt and the Varsity led, 13-0.
Capitalize on Fumble
A few minutes later the green-shirted Varsity recovered a Reserve fumble on the Reserve ten-yard line. Fullback Neil Worden and Petitbon combined to pick up five yards and then Mazur, on a quarterback sneak, went five yards for the score. Arrix made it 20-0.
After an exchange of punts the Varsity was again on the move. Taking the ball on their own 20 the green-shirts passed and ran to the reserve eight from where Petitbon smashed off tackle for the score. Arrix was again successful in his conversion attempt to give the Varsity a 27-0 lead at the half.
Early in the second half the Varsity again drove and passed deep into the Reserves’ territory. The drive, highlighted by the running of Lattner, ended with another Varsity marker when Worden smashed over from the eight-yard line.
Sept. 21, 1951
25

In the fourth quarter Mazur was replaced by Frosh quarterback Gugli-ehni who quickly directed the Varsity to their last two scores. After the green shirts had driven down to the Reserve 40, Guglielmi passed to Frosh end Steve Gomola who caugth the ball on the eight and ran to the four before he was forced out of bounds. Two plays later halfback Jack Bush scored. Arrix came in to attempt the extra point, but it was blocked by Bob Martin.
The last score came as a result of a 30-yard pass from Guglielmi to Gomola in the end zone. Arrix was successful in his conversion attempt to make his afternoon record five our of seven.
On offense the Varsity lineup was like this: ends, Jim Mutscheller and Joe Katchik; tackles, Bob Toneff and Virgil Bardash; guards, Tom Seaman and Chet Ostrowski; center, Art Hunter; quarterback, Mazur; halfbacks, Lattner and Petitbon; and fullback, Worden.
On defense: ends, Bob O’Neil and Frank Mangialardi; tackles, Bob Ready and Bob Kelly; guards, Sam Palumbo and Jack Alessandrini; center, Jack Lee; and backs, Dan Shannon, Gene Carrabine, Dave Flood and Guglielmi.
Regular guard Paul Burns did not participate in Saturday’s game because of an injury.
John Petitbon
Matey Stars as Irish Golfers Take Third In National Collegiate Tourney at Columbus
By FRANK RONNENBERG, ’52
This summer the University of Notre Dame sent a six-man team to represent the school at the 54th annual N.C.A.A. collegiate golf championships played over the Ohio State University golf course. The tournament ran from June 24 through June 30 and featured two days of medal
Tom Matey
play to determine the college team championship, then three days of match play to crown the individual national champion.
Third Out of 30 Schools
Thirty schools were represented at the tournament, 22 of which sent the full team complement of six men. The results of the medal play returned
CHESTERFIELD CONTEST
Chesterfield cigarettes arc awarding a carton of Chesterfield cigarettes each week for ten weeks as a prize for the winner of their pick the winner contest.
Each week’s winner must pick the game victor and have the closest score submitted. The results will he announced each week by the SCHOLASTIC.
The first contest closes at noon on the Indiana game day—Saturday, September 29. Submit your prediction with an empty Chesterfield tvrapper to room 227, Walsh Hall before the deadline each Saturday.
North Texas State College the team victor with a total score of 588. Ohio State finished second at 589, while Notre Dame came in third with a score of 604.
One hundred ninety-two golfers opened the first day’s qualifying round to decide the 64 men who would compete in the match play for the individual championship. Notre Dame placed four men, Tom Veech, Tom Matey, Warren Higgins and Joe Moresco among the 64 qualifiers.
Matey Paces Irish
Matey, a Junior, was the outstanding player among the Notre Dame contingent. Playing almost par golf, Matey drove to the semi-final round before he was defeated in a nip and tuck battle 2 and 1. Veech, captain of last year’s varsity golf team, went to the third round before he was toppled 3 and 2 by the eventual winner Tom Nieporte of Ohio State. Higgins was dropped by a 2 and 1 score in the second round while Moresco was beaten in the first round.
University golf coach, Rev. George Holderith, who went with the team to Ohio State, commented on the fine play he witnessed and said that the University Golf Championships, being held last weekend and this weekend, over the Burke Golf Course, should give him a good line on what to expect this coming spring.
Tom Veech
26
The Scholastic
Campus Tennis Tournament Winners to Bolster Team
Stiff competition and hotly contested matches are on the agenda as the ’ campus tennis tournament gets under way today on the University courts. Since Walter Langford, tennis coach, expects a hundred or more contestants, the tourney will probably last two or three weeks. Anyone is eligible unless he has already won a monogram playing tennis.
Among the promising prospects who undoubtedly will compete in the tournament are Jim Farrell and Wally , Clarke. Clarke, a San Francisco lad, advanced to the quarter round of the National Junior Championship this 7 summer. Other hopefuls include Sophomores Don Crowley and Dick Simmons and Freshman Bill Reale. These fellows along with the returning monogram winners, promise to build the hopes of Mr. Langford for the coming-tennis season.
During the summer Notre Dame sent four representatives, Ray Smith, Kenneth Angyal, Tom Overholser and Herb Hoene, to Northwestern University to participate in the NCAA tennis tournament held June 25 through 30.
In the opinion of Mr. Langford the showing was satisfactory in light of a disappointing season. The Irish finished with a 5-6 record, the worst in his 12 years of coaching.
Notre Dame faced most of the seeded players before they got a good start. Smith advanced to the third t round before losing to Earl Cochell, seeded No. 1. Angyal fell after-dropping his match with the No. 4 . player, and the No. 2 seeded doubles team defeated Overholser and Hoene in the first round.—Bob Frolicher, ’54.
1951 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE Sept. 29—Indiana at Notre Danie Oct.	5—Detroit at Detroit
(Night Game) Oct. 13—So. Methodist at N.D. Oct. 20—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 27—Purdue at Notre Dame Nov. 3—Navy at Baltimore Nov. 10—Mich. State at E. Lansing Nov. 17—No. Carolina at Chapel Hill
Nov. 24—Iowa at Notre Dame Dec.	1—Southern California at
Los Angeles
Splinters fromth^PressboX
Improvement Over Last Year
In last Saturday’s scrimmage Frank Leahy’s varsity looked very good. They outran, outpassed and just about outdid the Reserves in every department. Of course, this could mean one of two things. Either this varsity team really is terrific or on the other hand it could mean that the reserves thrown together to form the opposition for last Saturday’s tussle were very weak. Granted, the reserves aren’t as good as the majority of the opposition Leahy’s lads will face, but then they are by no means a poor bunch of players and against this bunch the green-clad varsity was able to score seven touchdowns. Anyway, the varsity squad that performed Saturday looked much better—very much better—than did the 1950 team at this time last year.
Tackle Bob Toneff
If there was any man on the field Saturday that acted as if he were about to make an earnest bid for All-American honors it was tackle Bob Toneff. On the kick-offs Toneff and his 235 pounds was always the first man down the field. His tackling and blocking were vicious.
Another encouraging note of last Saturday’s tussle was the sight of two Freshman quarterbacks who should give some depth behind John Mazur. One, Ralph Guglielmi from Columbus, Ohio, came in in the last quarter to give Mazur a well deserved rest and in just a matter of minutes had engineered two
By Jack Varley
scores—both as the result of long passes. He is a good passer—very accurate and cool. The other Frosh quarterback, Tom Carey, directed the blueclad reserves for the majority of the afternoon. Although quite small he is very capable. In his high school days he played at Chicago’s Mt. Carmel under 1948 Irish halfback Terry Brennan.
Barrett Punting
Billy Barrett, regular right halfback who has been sidelined with injuries, put on his own little show last Saturday with his punting. No statistics were available, but he must have had about a 40-yard average for the day. Another Frosh, Bob Arrix, performed the kick-off and extra point chores and looked very good in those roles. In seven PAT attempts he made five, had one blocked and missed one.
Television
Under the plan set up in coordination with the NCAA, Westinghouse and NBC, Frank Leahy’s warriors will be seen twice on television this season. Only eight other teams have this two-time distinction. Then the Notre Dame-SMU game is one of three to be handled on .the full NBC network. The second game, the Notre Dame-Michigan State tussle, will be handled on what is called an inter-regional basis. By this they mean that games played in the midwest can be seen only in the east and eastern games will be directed only to the west. Thus, you who aren’t planning to travel to East Lansing for the game will have to be content with just hearing it. This is all part of the “laboratory experiment” to see just how much damage TV has done to the box office. Wonder if the NCAA “scientists” ever took into consideration the fact that they really have no right to tell a person that he can’t see a big college play on TV, but must go and see a couple of small-time teams “play” if he wants his Saturday afternoon football.
Bernie Bierman
Distinguished visitor to the Notre Dame campus last week-end was famed Bernie Bierman, former Minnesota coach. Bierman, coach of four national championship elevens, is now-writing for the St. Paul Pioneer-Press.
Sept. 21, 1951
Dick Giedlin Signs With Detroit Tigers
By BILL LONDO, ’53
Professional baseball claimed another of Notre Dame’s diamond stars recently when hard-hitting Dick Giedlin signed with the Detroit Tigers. The 21-year-old first baseman received a reported $50,000 bonus for inking a Tiger contract. He will be sent to Detroit’s American Association farm club, the Toledo Mud Hens.
Giedlin becomes the third member of Coach Jake Kline’s 1951 squad to try his hand at pro ball, joining outfielder Jim Gillis and pitcher Bob Nemes who are both in the Philadelphia Phillies chain.
Was All-American
The Trenton, New Jersey, star has been sought by several major league teams since his sophomore year at Notre Dame when he led the Irish nine into the NCAA quarter-finals. Giedlin hit over .500 in tourney play and was named to the collegiate All-American squad. Only a dismal team record prevented Giedlin from repeating as an All-American in his junior year,
Dick Giedlin
•»
for he batted .316 and was considered as one of the finest defensive first basemen ever to cavort on Cartier Field.
Last year the left-handed slugger was counted upon to pace the Irish attack, but a freak accident put him out of the lineup. Against Ohio State in the opening game of the season, Giedlin stumbled while crossing the plate with the only run of an 11-inning marathon—the result a broken ankle and a tragic end of his ND playing days.
Sharpshooting Reservists Hold Rifle Team Tryouts
Both the army and navy reserve units of the University have scheduled tryout periods for the respective rifle teams.
Captain Bohn of the Military Science Unit (ROTC) has announced the Army tryouts are to be held the first week in October, while Navy sharpshooters may apply now at the Drill Hall for exhibition of their talents.
Major Andrew Zimmer, USMC, has been named new coach of the Navy riflemen, while also serving for the University rifle team.
The NROTC group was last year’s recipient of both the Secretary of the Navy’s Plaque for outstanding marksmanship, and second place honors in the Hearst publications’ national contest.
Prospects Bright
(Continued from page 25)
son. Thus the thinclads will journey to Pittsburgh and Michigan State along with the football squad, and will meet Purdue here on October 27 in another dual meet. Three multiple meets will attract the Irish to Bloomington for the State meet, to Kalamazoo for the Central Collegiate Conference finals, and finally to East Lansing for the N.C.A.A. championships on October 26. The season will be rugged, since traditional rivals supply the opposition in the dual meets, and the cream of the crop will battle the Irish in the multiple meets.
Coach Wilson feels that barring any injuries, the squad can achieve a very enviable record. As he puts his charges through' their daily practice sessions around the lakes, his eyes gleam brightly when he sees the newcomers pushing the veterans for starting berths, for he knows it is this type of competition which can begin Notre Dame’s comeback from the year of the great drought.
Sport Briefs
As a proof of the rather trite statement that “times change,” one may cite the situation in Notre Dame football. A year ago, only one member of the squad, Bill Flynn had ever played in a losing Notre Dame football game. This year, never mind losing, only one out of three members of the Fighting Irish squad have ever even played in a Notre Dame game.
If you want to be a tackle at Notre Dame, go out for end. Bob Kelly and Menil Mavraides, of the current 1951 squad, started out as ends. Kelly earned a monogram last year' as a sophomore and Mavraides played freshman ball at the wing position. Two years ago Jim Martin was shifted from end to tackle, and earned All-American honors, while last season Bill Flynn was shifted from end to strengthen the tackle spot.
Although Joe Caprara is freed from the difficulty of explaining to his Fighting Irish teammates that Turtle Creek, Pa., is located right outside Pittsburgh, because he followed famed Leon Hai't from Turtle Creek to Notre Dame, a similar problem has fallen on end Bob O’Neil, who hails from Bridgeville, also a suburb of Pittsburgh.
The Notre Dame coaching staff hails from seven different states. John Druze is from Newark, N. J., Joe McArdle from Lowell, Mass. Wally Ziemba, center coach, was bom in nearby Hammond, Ind., while Bill Earley comes from Parkersburg, W. Va. Bob McBride calls Logan, Ohio, his home. Bernie Crimmins comes from Louisville, Ky. Head Coach Frank Leahy is from Winner, S. D.
Among the 80 members of the 1951 Notre Dame football team are boys from 16 states and the territory of Hawaii. The neighboring state of Illinois leads the way in contributing players to the Irish grid squad with 17, closely followed by Ohio with 15. Pennsylvania furnishes ten. That players come to Notre Dame from all over the country is evidenced by the fact that among the states represented are Florida, Massachusetts and Minnesota. An interesting note on the side is that not only do the Notre Darners have a football player from the mid-Pacific; one of the three senior managers hails from Hawaii.
28
The Scholastic
The Fire on Perkins
(Continued from page 17)
WELL, believe me, I didn’t have hardly a minute’s rest for a long time after that. Everybody kept kidding me, asking me if I really wore track shoes on duty and how long did it take me to get from the boiler room to the telephone and did I really have a crush on the operator and stuff like that. I tried to kid them back and make believe I didn’t care, but I ain’t much good at making up wise-cracks so after awhile I just shut up and let them talk.
Besides, their jokes really bdgan getting under my skin and I was afraid I’d get mad and say something that’d hurt somebody’s feelings. I didn’t want to do that.. I figured they couldn’t help it if they didn’t know how important my job really was. So, anyhow, I just sort of avoided people for a while, and gradually they began to forget about it and stopped kidding me.
Everything would have been okay after that if it hadn’t been for the fire in one of those cans Mr. Hudak put out in the yard for the workers to throw their lunch bags in after they’d finished eating. I don’t know how it started or anything like that. All I know is that one night as I was making my rounds I saw the stuff in the can blazing away. Well, believe me, I was so excited for a few minutes that I hardly knew what to do. But then all my practicing came in handy, and without hardly stopping to think I automatically rushed to the phone and told the operator to send the fire department to the lace mill over on Perkins Street. r Only this time I actually picked up the phone when I talked and the firemen actually started on their way over.
I was real proud of myself as I stood around waiting for them to come. I thought about everything I’d done since the first moment I’d spotted the fire, and I knew that everything had gone just the way I’d always practiced it. There was nothing to do now but stick around and show the firemen where the fire was. I couldn’t help but notice how nice and clear the aisles were, too. I was especially proud of f that! I figured that now all the guys who used to kid me about working for ' nothing would see how smart I really was.
And not only that; but all the guys who kidded me about my fire drills > would have to come up and slap me on the back and say, ‘Harold, I’ve got to hand it to you. You knew what you was doing when you practiced that way. You were right and I was wrong. I’m sorry I kidded you the way I did.’
When I thought of things ^ike that, I was real proud of myself!
Pretty soon I heard the sirens coming from all directions, and I saw the stop light down at the corner flashing yellow as a warning to all the cars to pull over to the curb and let the engines through. From all the racket the sirens was making I figured that every fire truck in the city was on the way. A car slewed around the corner and I saw that even the chief had come to make sure his boys did a good job. He always rode in a big red Packard with a spot light on the side that blinked off and on, off and on, whenever he was on the way to a fire. I always wanted to ride in a car like that.
Even when I was a kid I used to dream about being a Fire Chief so I could drive through the streets blowing the siren and watching the people scramble out of my way. But I didn’t even get enough schooling to be a fireman let alone a chief, so I did the next best thing and got myself a job watching for fires. It didn’t take me long to find out my job was even more important than his. I figured it was me who actually ordered him to come to the mill, and that meant I had more responsibility than he did.
-,.7
n SMOOTH DANCING
. . . is the sure way to new friends . . . fun . . . popularity!
•FREE ANALYSIS
LESSON ... just DIAL 7-1517
Looking forward to a good time at school this year ... a chance to forget your studies a few hours each week while you relax and enjoy yourself? Then . . . right now is the time to start on your way to becoming a SMOOTH DANCER! Do as many students have done each year ... let an experienced George Davis instructor introduce you to the sure way to new friends and popularity. You can be a good dancer in no time at all!
Special Notre Dame Rates!

CORNER MICHIGAN AT MONROE
WELL, like I was saying, the car slewed around the comer and came roaring up the hill to where I was standing. Just as it got to me the driver jumped on the brake and, before the car even came to a full stop, the chief hopped out, looking around to see if he could see any smoke anyplace. I hardly even had time to tell him that the fire was out back and that I had acted so fast it hadn’t had a chance to really catch on yet before three of the trucks came grinding up the hill. They caused a lot of commotion. All kinds of dogs and kids were chasing after them, barking and yelling as loud as they could- All the neighbors came running out of their houses, too, to see what was the matter. Pretty soon there was so many people milling around that the firemen had a hard time stringing up their hoses to the fire plugs. Luckily a couple cops came hurrying up just then and they kept pushing the people back ’ and swearing at those who wouldn’t move and sweating and threatening to hit people with their billy-clubs. All the time more trucks kept coming with their sirens blowing away. Oh, there was an awful lot of excitement! I even saw Mr. Hudak (Continued on page 33)

DIAL 7-1517
29
Sept 21, 1951
The Third Degree
By ED MERTZ -
Having staggered through the summer season, we suddenly find ourselves face to face with another bleak September, when ye leaves are crisped and sere, ye days are short, and ye schoolboys creep unwillingly to school to renew their attack on the far frontiers of knowledge.
This particular blot on the literary landscape is a column specifically designed with a slant towards the graduate students, those weary, wan warwarriors, already veterans of the academic fray, and to you new grads we waft a special wave of greeting. May your registration exams be reasonable, your research rosy, and your—you should excuse the expression—draft boards lenient.
As to the future, in these deathless paragraphs you will find news of special interest to graduates, announcements and reports on grad social events, warnings of academic deadlines, due dates for theses, when caps and gowns are to be ordered, when leg-irons must be changed, etc. . . . Also, herein will appear occasional valuable bits of advice as to how to pass language exams in strange and divers tongues of which you are totally ignorant, and all sorts of similar goodies for the edification of the discriminating grad.
Fundamentally, this column is the voice of the Grad Student Association, the officially recognized spokesman for the graduate body, an organization founded several years ago with the blessing and active support of Father Moore. Dean of the Grad School. It has the avowed aim of integrating the advanced students of the various departments into a unified group, thereby overcoming the isolation produced by specialization.
This group has done a good job of representing the grads to the administration, establishing their special status on campus, and providing a recreational program to fit their needs and purses. If you give it your support, it will continue to do so, and I cannot urge you too strongly to come through with said solid support. It is to your own advantage. Whether your interest lies on the serious side, such as the nature and proper scope of graduate education, the place of the grad in the campus family, etc., or whether your thoughts lie no deeper than the foam on a glass of brew to be consumed in congenial company, come on out and take an active part in things.
You will -be given more dope on
30
the how, when and why at registration, or if by some chance you don’t get the word, then contact one of this year’s officers, to-wit Jack Reidy, Bio.; Charlie Mattingly, Philosophy; Carl Julien, Metallurgy; Bill Foley or Joe McGrath, Chem; and John Carpenter, Sociology. Don’t make the mistake of giving this the go-by. It is worth the time and trouble.
Meanwhile, we’ll look for you at the aspirin and benzedrine counter. Vale!
Field Shrunk, Halls Painted In Summer Maintenance Work
A maintenance department of nearly 90 men, undei- the supervision of Rev. B. J. Furstoss, C.S.C., has considerably changed the face of the Irish campus during the past summer.
The biggest job that has been undertaken is the replacing of six expansion joints in the main steam lines. Two joints have been completed so far, and work is progressing on the others.
The department’s paint crew has kept itself busy by completely repainting the interiors of Alumni, Morrissey, and Lyons Halls.
Heat and sewer lines have been laid to the Morris Inn, necessitating the tearing up of the ground and sidewalks between Alumni and Dillon Halls. Also, a new gutter has been put around the roof of Sorin Hall, and the front corners of Washington Hall have been tucked in to prevent the corner bricks from parting company with the rest of the building.
The maintenance crew has reduced the size of Cartier Field by moving the fence to the south side of the Drill Hall, thereby excluding that building from the field. In addition, the remaining old Navy type wooden bunks have been removed from all the halls and replaced with new metal bunks.
MASS CALENDAR
Sept. 24—Mon. Our Lady of Ransom.
25—Tues. Of Season.
26—Wed. St. Isaac Jogues, etc.
27—Thurs. SS. Cosmas and Damian.
28—Fri. St. Wenceslaus.
29—Sat. Dedication of St. Michael’s Basilica.
30—Sun. 20th Sun. after Pent., St Jerome.
BOOKS
NOTRE DAME, by Richard Sullivan;
Henry Holt and Company, New York, 1951.
Notre Dame, Richard Sullivan’s latest book, is an easy-going narrative which makes for pleasant, and potent reading.
Mr. Sullivan tells of the early days of the University, of Fathers Sorin and Badin, of Alexis Coquillard, fires and epidemics, and the nonchalant doings of himself and the students that followed and preceded him.
He brings back a little of Charlie Phillips, a deaf, sentimental, and beloved teacher of his time. Father Hugh (Pepper) O’Donnell is remembered in the book and others, professors, variously designated as Mr. X. Y, or Z in order to preserve all he may say from “the peep-hole manner, the gossipy air, the revelatory tone.”
He discusses the trials of the fledgling teacher who one day expresses his discouragement to the head of the department. The young instructor is told by this dignitary, of a wise man, Prof. M., who has said of himself: “All I can do is lead them into the jungle again and let them hack their way out.” Says Mr. Sullivan, the young instructor, “. . . so ever since I have been leading them into the jungle and letting them hack their way out, and I’m certainly not going to outline here the theory and practice of that sort of routine, however fascinating I annually find it.”	'
The bewilderment of the layman exposed to LOBUND, that collection of patient, antiseptic animals, is described, as is the insane confusion of the ticketmanager’s office on the morning of a football game.
Some insight is gained as to various methods of escaping the policeman at the circle when the wind-shield sticker is home in a cluttered pigeon-hole, and of the terrors of parking illegally behind the main building. Mr. Sullivan curries well the superficial hustle and bustle, the humorous doings of the students and professors, guinea-pigs and cops, who inhabit the university.
But more significantly, Mr. Sullivan has, for the first time, I believe, presented sanely and quietly the true meaning of that elusive something, so widely and hysterically hailed in song, fiction, and the motion pictures as “the spirit of Notre Dame.” The spirit of Notre Dame has for some years to many people meant merely cheering for the losing team, winning all the football games, or turning out madly in support of inferior athletic squads. To
The Scholastic
others it has meant wallowing in religious sentimentalism, a “sweet birds and gentle flow’rs” sort of way of referring to student devotions to Mary, attendance at Mass, communion, etc.
Mr. Sullivan tells us that the spirit of Notre Dame stems from the fact that the atmosphere in which we work and live is “richly, openly, and, of course, quite understandably, in terms of origin, Catholic.” We are taught and we learn on a common basis, that of a Christian tradition.
“An enormous complex thing, that Christian tradition. It is the cultural aspect of faith. At its simplest, it seems to consist of a double awareness: a realization of God, humanly incarnate; and a realization of man, unspeakably dignified at this divine sharing of his nature. ... It is supernatural . . . contains immense moral and spiritual implications; it has a power of penetrating, impregnating, energizing. It is intellectual, cultural, and religious. It furnishes at Notre Dame an atmosphere ... in which work is done.
. . . the characteristic spirit of this university at this time . . . seems to me one of considerable intellectual tension. I mean that the people here . . . strike me as exhibiting a remarkable concern—I should say a primary concern—for ideas, principles, theories, facts, and the terrific illumination generated by the friction and occasional collision of all these. . . . Clash of conviction is the honest noise made by intellects in action. And at Notre Dame there is perhaps an increased volume and a special clarity given to this noise by the fact that here, clashing, we still speak a common language and share a common faith and intention. ... I believe that this primacy which I have defined is generally accepted as being what we are all given over to, why we are collectively gathered, our common justification and reason for being.”
Notre Dame catches the university and a few of its more memorable citizens at their best. This includes Mr. Sullivan. The book contains as intimate a personal sketch of the author as he has given of the university.
Notre Dame is, as Mr. Sullivan quotes Ford Madox Ford, “. . . the rendering of an affair intended first of all to make you see the subject in his scenery.”—John Engels, ’52
Letters
(Continued from page 3) we thought about the food served in the chow halls.
At the time I was greatly pleased at the thought of reforms along the pepto-bismol circuit. At long last we sufferers of gastric disturbances could
air our views on just what meals we did and did not like. The Journalist printed a story on the incomplete returns sometime in April or May, but since then not a word has been heard from the lonely little survey.
The question then in a nutshell is “wha hoppened.” Could you 'do a little research for me and find out just what has been done as a result of the survey?
John Alfes Dillon Hall
Views on First Issue
Editor:
... I thought the schedule of activities, the list of telephone numbers, and the list of hours of facilities were very helpful.
Bob Sargeny Farley
Editor:
. . . Nice rundown of the football team and thanks for the football schedule.
Tom Schreitmueller
Farley
Editor:
... As the editorial said “beware of the campus cynic.” I think the Scholastic has a few of its own when taking into consideration the great number of digs at St. Mary’s College that were contained in the first issue of your magazine. These merely fell into line with the statements made over the past twenty or more years. How about having the columnists read the editorials. They can read, I trust.
B. Klein Off Campus
Short Story Contest
Editor:
With the opening of another literary year at Notre Dame, it becomes evident once more that there is an unfortunate lack of opportunity for truly creative writing in the University publications. The trouble, I believe, can be traced to the fact that the Juggler, a very excellent magazine designed for this very purpose, is published only
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE, OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED —SAVE MORE THAN HALF This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture
WILLIAMS PAINT COMPANY
(One block north of Gilbert's'/
Phone 6-7346	755 S. Michigan	FREE Delivery
three times a year. The SCHOLASTIC,, since it is a weekly publication, could remedy this lack of creative writing by sponsoring a short story contest continuing as long as material is submitted. The response, I feel, would be gratifying.
Jerry Costello
407 Walsh
Volunteers Sought to Teach Religion in So. Bend Schools
Volunteers are needed to teach religion to the Catholic students of the public high schools of South Bend, Bill Motzel, campus director of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, has announced. No formal training or experience is needed, and less than two hours of the student’s time will be taken up each week.
Indoctrination classes for volunteers will begin as soon as a sufficient number have signed up. Volunteers may enroll by seeing Motzel at 329 Dillon. Since they have not yet completed a year of college religion, freshmen may not apply.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING GUARANTEED *
Sept. 21, 1951
31
1951 Notre Dame Football Roster
This roster was compiled before registration. There will be revisions after Freshmen enroll in September inasmuch as they will be eligible this season.
NAME	POS.	AGE	HT.
Alessandrini, Jack F. 			 G	20	5-11
		HB-FB	19	6-1
Banicki, Frederick F			 G	21	5-10
Bardash, Virgil —	—	-		 T	20	6-0
**Barrett, William C	-	-	HB	22	3-8
•Bartlett, James J. 					 C	22	6-3
Bianco, Donald J. 			HB	19	5-11
Bvron B. 			C	21	6-0
Bubick, Raymond J			 -		 T	18	6-4
Buczkiewicz, Edward G	—*			 QB	20	6-0 ■
		 G	21	6-2
•Bush, Jack L. 					 HB	21	6-1
Bush, Joseph R. 			 T	19	6-3
Caprara, Joseph A				 FB	22	6-0
Darago, John L. 					 C	18	6-4
Doud, Charles O. 			 T	19	6-2
•Dunlay, James F	—		 T	19	6-2
			 HB	24	5-10
		 HB	20	5-10
	FB	21	6-1
		 QB	2C	6-1
		 HB	19	6-0
•Hamby, James H. —	-	-		 E	19	6-5
Wall William L.			—		 C	20	6-2
Heap, Joseph L. 					 HB	19	5-11
	._ . — HB	25	5-10
Hubbard, George H. 			 HB	19	6-0
Hunter, Arthur J. 			 C	18	6-3
Jacobitz, William G. 			 E	20	6-1
Joseph, Robert 			 HB	20	5-9
•Kapish, Robert J. 			 E	21	6-0
Katchik, Joseph 			 E	20	6-9
•Kelly, Robert J. 			 E	21	6-2
James F.	G	19	6-1
KT nhannwJrh Albert J.						 _.	E	21	6-1
Lattner, John J. 			 HB	18	6-1
r.pr. John P. 	 	 					  G	19	5-11
Mantjialardi, Frank F. 			 E	18	6-1
Martin, Robert L. 			 QB	20	6-2
Mavraides, Menil 					 E	19	6-1
**M»7tirj John E. ..		 QB	21	6-2
McHugh, Thomas L				 FB	19	6-1
Morrissey, Rockne 			HB	19	5-9
•Murphy, Thomas L				 T	20	6-1
Murphy, William 			 FB	18	6-0
••Mutsdieller, James L. (C) 			 E	21	6-1
Nowack. Arthur C	—-		. .. ...	G	21	6-1
O’Brien, Thomas F. 		T	20	6-4
O’Hara, Roger 			 HB	20	5-9
O’Malley, Jack 			 E	18	6-4
O’Neil, Robert 		E	20	6-2
**Ostrowski, Chester G					G	21	6-1
Palumbo, Samuel 		G	19	6-0
Pastercki, James				G	19	6-0
Pa terra, Francis F. 		_	QB-HB	19	5-11
Penra, Donald F.			E	19	6-1
••Petitbon, John E.	_ 				HB	20	6-0
Petranick, Albert G					 G	20	6-0
Poehler, Frederick C. 			 T	21	6-4
Ready, Robert 			 T	19	6-3
Kigali, Robert J. 		HB	19	5-8
Robst, Paul K.			 G	18	5-11
Sarna, Edward			HB	21	5-11
Seaman, Thomas J.			 G	21	5-11
Schrader, James L.			 C	19	6-2
Taylor, Robert H.	_ 	 _.	T	18	6-2
••Toneff, Robert	T	21	6-2
Trail, Carl F. _	_ _ _ .	T	19	6-3
Udovich, John P. 		E	20	6-2
Varrichione, Frank J.			 G	19	6-0
•Weithman, James C.				T	21	6-0
Whelan, Jack D.			HB	20	5-11
Wolniak, Leonard A.				HB	20	5-11
Worden, Neil J.			FB	20	5-11
•Zambroski, Anthony J.			 T	21	6-0
Zimmermann, Clarence J.			 QB	19	6-2
•Monogram
WT. HOME TOWN	HIGH SCHOOL	CLASS
198	Charleston, W. Va. ---------Catholic ..................... Jr.
180 Colorado Springs, Colo. —St. Mary’s .................._----------Soph.
190	Chicago, Ill. --------------Leo -----------------------------Sr.
210	Gary, Ind. Horace Mann ------------------------------------Jr.
180	River Forest, Hl. ----------Fenwick .........................Sr.
200	Cincinnati, Ohio -----------Elder ---------------------------Sr.
185	Great Neck, N. Y.-----------Xavier --------------------------Fr.
200	Chicago, Ill.---------------Austin --------------------------Sr.
222	South Bend, Ind_____________Riley —--------------------- Soph.
177	Chicago, Ill. --------------Weber ---------------------------Jr-
210	Athens, Pa.-----------------Athens --------------------------Sr.
190	Oak Park, Ill. _____________St. Ambrose	(Davenport, la.)-----Sr.
203	Oak Park, Ill. _____________St. Ambrose (Davenport, la.)... Soph.
195	Turtle Creek, Pa. ----------Turtle Creek	------------------Er.
205	Akron, Ohio-----------------St. Vincent ---------------- Soph.
198	Oxnard, Calif.--------------Villanova Prep ............... Jr.
209 Oakmont, Pa. -------------------Oakmont ----------------—........—.Jr.
185	Pittsburgh, Pa..............Langley --------------------- -Jr.
170	Watertown, N. Y. ___________Immaculate Heart ................Fr.
192	Chicago, Ill. ______________Mount Carmel ------------------Sr.
180	Baltimore, Md---------------Loyola --------------------- —.Jr.
175	Kenilworth, Ill. -----------New Trier -------------------- Jr.
203	Cincinnati, Ohio ___________Purcell ---------------------Soph.
200	Caruthersville, Mo._________Caruthersville ----------------Sr.
175	Covington, La. _____________Holy Cross ------------------- Fr.
170	Lake Placid, N. Y. _________Lake Placid ------------------ Sr.
180	Mt. Pulaski, III. __________Mt. Pulaski Twp. ----------------Soph.
213	Akron, Ohio St. Vincent ---------------------------------Soph.
190	Grand Rapids, Mich. ________Catholic Central ----------------Jr.
165	Martins Ferry, Ohio_________Martins Ferry ---------------- Soph.
187	Barberton, Ohio ____________Barberton -----------------------Sr.
255 Plymouth, Pa.Plymouth -------------------------------------------Soph.
203	Duluth, Minn. ______________Catholic ------------------------Jr.
198 Gary, Ind. _____________________4 Horace Mann ----------------Soph.
189	Hempstead, N. Y. ___________Hempstead ---------------------Jr.
188	Chicago, Ill________________Fenwcik- --------------------Soph.
190 Medford, Mass. _________________Malden Catholic ------------=----Fr.
194	Chicago, Ill. ______________St. Philip ------------------Soph.
185	Davenport,	Iowa __________St. Ambrose -----------------Soph.
202	Lowell, Mass. ______________Lowell .:------------------  Soph.
197 Plymouth, Pa. ___________.'.____Plymouth ------------------------Si.
195	Toledo, Ohio _______________Central Catholic ------------SopL.
165	Cincinnati,	Ohio __________Purcell ---------------------Soph.
207	Chicago, Ill. ______________St. George --------------------Jr.
190	St. Louis,	Mo. ___________St- Louis	Univ- HS -----------Soph.
198	Beaver Falls, Pa. __________Beaver Falls ------------------Sr.
205	Rochester, N. Y. ___________Aquinas -------------------  Soph.
213	Danielson,	Conn. _________Killingly -------------------Soph.
180	Lewiston, N. Y..............St- ^arys ~--------------------Sr.
212	Youngstown, Ohio ___________Ursuline---------------------Soph.
195 Bridgeville, Pa. _______________Lincoln ----------------£--------Jr.
197	Chicago, HI.________________Weber -------------------------Sr.
195	Cleveland, Ohio ____________Collinwood --------------------Fr.
205	Milwaukee, Wis. ____________Pulaski------------------------Fr.
180	McKeesport, Pa. ____________Tech ---------------------   Soph.
200	Kenosha, Wis.___________ Bt. Catherine (Racine) _____....Soph.
185	New Orleans, La.	Jesuit ------------------------Sr.
210	Johnson City, N. Y._________Johnson City ----------------Soph.
210	Jackson, Mich. _________ Jackson-------------------------Soph.
204 Lowell, Mass.____________ ~ Lowell-------------------------------.Fr.
172	Oak Park, HI._______________Fenwick ---------------------Soph.
195	Chicago, Ill. ______________St- George ------------------Soph.
175	South River, N. J. _________S?uth R!ver -----------------Soph.
198	Canton, Ohio________________Lincoln -----------------------Jr.
208	Carnegie, Pa._______________Scott Twp. -------------------Soph
200	Pekin; III._____________Pck“> -----------------------------Fr.
235	Barberton, Ohio_________Barberton---------:----------------§r.
215	Pittsburgh, Pa._____________2^°- Catholic ----------------Soph_
193	Chester, Pa.________________St- J3*1165 _________________   Fr
210	Natick, Mass. ______________~Natick--------------------------Fr.
190	Bucyrus, Ohio ______________Bucyrus_________________________jr
180	Miami, Fla. ________________Miami ------------------------------
175	Chicago, Hl.	Morgan Park __________________ jr'
187	Milwaukee, Wis. ____________Pulaski ---------------------Soph.
200	Erie, Pa.	Cathedral Prep ____	gr
180 New Orleans, La.  Holy Cross --------------------------------- ■
32
The Scholastic
The Fire on Perkins
(Continued from page 29) struggling to get through the crowd.
Anyhow, in hardly no time at all everything was all set up . and ready to go, so I went running down my nice clear aisles to where the fire was. The chief and his boys followed me, but he was sort of old and fat, and they was carrying extinguishers and dragging hoses, so in no time at all I was way ahead of them. No one was going to be able to say that I was afraid* to lead the way!
Then the funniest thing happened. I rounded the corner of the mill where I’d seen the fire, and there was Sam standing there with an empty water bucket in his hand staring down into the can where the fire had been. And the fire was out! Honest—it was out! Sam turned around as I came running up and said something about some kid-' setting the paper on fire, but his voice didn’t reach me so clear. All I could think of was that the fire in the barrel was out. I kept telling myself it couldn’t be out; the fire engines and cops and people and Mr. Hudak were all here, and the fire just couldn’t be out. It couldn’t be! But it was. Sam had put it out.
SAM was still talking away, saying something about there being a lot of noise out front and wondering what was going on. I didn’t pay no attention to him. I just stood there staring into the can. There was nothing to stare at but a soggy bunch of black, burned-out paper bags, but I kept staring anyhow. I kept staring and hoping that someway, somehow, the whole thing’d suddenly flare up again and burn and burn and burn. But it didn’t. And as I stared the chief and the men with the extinguishers and hoses came puffing up and gathered around the barrel and looked into it with me. '
It was real quiet. Then Sam started to laugh. It wasn’t much of a laugh at first—just a sort of an embarrassed giggle as though he wasn’t quite sure about what he was laughing at—but it grew and got louder and louder1 until his face was distorted all out of shape and his lips curled back over his crooked yellow teeth and a tear that had been rolling down his nose got sucked into his mouth when he breathed in so he could laugh some more.
And he was laughing at me!
Then the chief started to roar too, but he wasn’t laughing. He was mad. He shoved his red face right against mine and screamed curse words at me
Sept. 21, 1951
as fast as he could think them up. One of the firemen put his hand against my chest and shoved me across the yard until my back was against the wire fence. He swore at me too, and called me stupid. I tried to explain that I wasn’t really stupid, that I’d been practicing what to do for so long that I’d just automatically done it when I saw the fire, but nobody’d listen to me. Even Mr. Hudak wouldn’t listen to me. He fired me instead. And all the time Sam kept laughing and laughing.
Well, I haven’t been doing much of anything since that night—just sort of sitting around and thinking and taking it easy. And, you know, the more I think about it, the surer I am that the whole thing wasn’t really my fault at all. I figure that Mr. Hudak and the rest of them were just jealous because I done my job so good. Anyhow, I wouldn’t go back to work there if they begged me to ’cause I’m starting a new job tomorrow. I’m going to help feed the chickens at the big poultry market
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil and Made Biff Saving on 2-in-l Sale
Ct	“
SHEEPY-er-Sheedy,wasin ba-a-ad shape—everybody lamb-basted him about his messy hair! "You’ll get no sheepskin,” the Dean said. "Somebody’s pulled the wool over your eyes. Better comb it ba-a-ack with Wildroot Cream-Oil!” Then Paul herd about a special Wildroot 2-in-l bargain: 2 regular 29$ bottles, a 58/ value, for only 39/—the sheepest price ever!
(Non-alcoholic Wildroot contains Lanolin. Relieves dryness. Removes loose dandruff. Helps you pass the finger-nail test.) Now Sheedy has more girls than the Sheep of Araby! Get this ba-a-argain at any drug or toilet goods counter today! You won’t get fleeced.
jjc of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. K	•
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
^^23WILDROOT -r Cream-oil cream-oil ;
HAIR TOMIC HAIR TOMIC '
right outside town. Now there’s a job with real responsibility! Just think, if I don’t feed them chickens right the stock market might crash and people starve and everything. Now that’s what I call a real job!
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry...
We maintain a complete	-
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
111 South Michigan Street
33
Ihe l$ack Varfe
_____________________By Bill Riley
A very important question to the thinking Catholic is that of the position of the Catholic press in America today. Hardly a week passes that one periodical or another, or at least a weekly diocesan paper is not conducting a subscription drive. Yet the Catholic press continues to languish.
Why? Chiefly because, on the whole, the Catholic press fails to attract the attention of those who, in search of reading matter, send the circulation of Time, Life, Newsiceek and you can name ten others, into figures that cause the tender little hearts of the circulation managers of those magazines to palpitate with delight.
Again, why? Could it perhaps be because, in general, the Catholic paper is about as interesting as a bone from a trichonosaur is to a meat-hungry dog? Most diocesan papers are catalogues of births, deaths, marriages and ordinations, and little else. While there are those who read a paper mainly for these rather dull,'if vital, statistics, it would not seem that^that is the audience whom editors are interested hi attracting.
Except for a few periodicals and newspapers, whose number could be tabulated on the fingers of one hand, with a couple left over for flipping through your favorite newsweekly, it may be said without serious fear of contradiction that as a segment, the Catholic press is the least interesting in America.
Why?
And if I may be pardoned excessive reiteration, I will again ask why. The answer given is that it takes money to hire good writers, and how can we get money. It might not be completely impertinent to the subject to point out that two conspicuous examples of really plushy and comfortable financial security, with the credit standing of the East Wing of the Chase National—Time and the New Yorker, not too long ago, say twenty-five years, were in truth little more than ideas just begun to come from potentiality into act. Yet they fulfilled a need, did it in a clever—some might quarrel with the word wise— way, and as a result, they lose an editor now and then in the carpet of the conference room.
This is not to say that the ideal of a
Catholic press is the existence of a universal aura of opulence surrounding the hard-working cerebums of the respective editors-in-chief. However, even the most ascetic of scriveners who labor foi- love would admit that it would be nice to be able to put a fresh ribbon in their circa 1925 Remington.
A Few Suggestions
We would therefore make the following general suggestions to those editors (this must include all of them) who want to increase the circulation of their particular mind-child. Knock off, or at least, relegate to its proper place—the front half of the last page—the weekly catalogue of the unvarying trivia. Replace it with some well-thought out articles. Make them clever; after all there’s nothing wrong with cleverness per se, and like it or not, it’s what your readers want.
Finally, stop being pietistic; there is little doubt that there is as much danger in avoiding piety as in becoming pietistic. But the Catholic press in general could ease off a long way without approaching that danger point. There is a need for what is generally known as a “hard intellectual core.”
Well—I hear murmurs in the background—this is all very fine, but just how do we go about it. It might be mentioned that Henry Luce still lives at Time. You could ask him.
Ticket Office Reports Six Sellouts; Few Tickets Left
Reports from Bob Cahill in the ticket office show that most games of the ND grid campaign are sellouts and that few tickets remain for the other games.
There were some SMU tickets available during registration due to that university over-estimating its needs. The extra tickets were returned and almost immediately sold, making that game a sellout. Other sellouts are the Detroit, Purdue, Navy, Michigan State, and North Carolina games.
Tickets were still available Monday for the Indiana, Pittsburgh, Iowa, and Southern California games.
Mr. Cahill advises students desiring tickets for the Indiana game at ND to buy them immediately, for there are few tickets left for that contest.
Design to Cultivate Interest In Religious Art Discussed
A prevailing lack of interest in vital and original art work for the Church was one of the pivotal problems discussed at the national convention of the Catholic Art Association in Spokane by a panel of professional artists headed by Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., Professor of Sculpture at the University of Notre Dame.
In addition to Father Lauck, who was appointed for the second consecutive year to lead the discussion panel, the group included such nationally-prominent Catholic artists as Ade de Bethune, Editor of “The Catholic Art Guide,” Ann Grill, known for her liturgical vestments and altar vesture, and Frank Kacmarcyk, cover designer for “Orate Fratres.”
Father Lauck said the panel plans to cultivate more interest in art of quality through local exhibitions and lectures in their own particular regions.
The Sisters of Holy Name College were hosts for the Catholic Art Association convention, which also featured an exhibition of paintings, sculptures and drawings by the faculty and students at Notre Dame.
LOOK AHEAD!
Prepare Now!
You’ll be more fun to be with if you are a good dancer. Why not be the dancer that girls really enjoy dancing with. You can be now, because it’s easy and inexpensive at the new Adaire studio,
-NOW-
FOR STUDENTS
(Sept. 20th to 30th only)
SPECIAL "SPEED COURSE"
Total Cost $5-95
Phone
2-0166
ADAIRE
SCHOOL OF DANCING
216 S. Lafayette Blvd.
34
The Scholastic
PARKI
oQ
Copr. 1951 by The Parker Pen Compare
New Parkette. Parker writing to fit any budget. Metal slip* on cap. Smooth, interchangeable point. 4 colors. Pen, $3.00 . •. with pencil, $3.00. No F.E. tax.
arker Review for Fall/
SEE THE COMPLETE ARRAY OF NEW PARKER PENS YOUR DEALER IS FEATURING NOW. AMERICA’S PREFERRED WRITING INSTRUMENTS, THEY BRING REAL PRIDE AND LASTING WRITING PLEASURE. YOU’LL FIND A PARKER AT ALMOST ANY PRICE YOU FAVOR.
New Parker ><	; This:; world’s; ; most-wanted;;
sp en < has the.; exclusive . Aero? metric. Ink; Systemf q tnake Tilling easier and writing; smoother;;: Pit-glass reservoir: gives bigger, visible .ink.: suppiyi w.Slim regular size or demi- size. . 7 cators; Gold -filled: caps {FJELta* incl-hsets; $29.75 up,:pens,:$19.75 tip; Lus-: tralay caps ino F.E.tax): set,; $19.75; pen, $13.50.;
New Parker "51
Special. Miracle Octanium point. Pli-glass reservoir (no rubber parts). Visible ink storage. Metered ink flew. 4 rich colors. Lustra^ loy cap. Pen, $*4^.00 . . . with pen^il^ $15.00. No F£.ta^
Busy days ahead . . time to replace that old pen that may cause trouble. The Parker Preview for Fall offers your all-time widest selection of New Parker Pens.
Parker precision and gliding ease will mean straight “A” writing for you from now on. Visit your dealer today. The ParkerPenCompany,Janesville,Wis.,U.S.A. ;Toronto,Can. P.S. “31" and “21" Pens “write dry" with Superchrome Ink. No blotter needed. Note; They can use any ink.
Sept. 21, 1951
35
PWS
IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
Always BiTCHESTERHELD
Copyright 1951, Liggett & Myras Tobacco Co
"ft***
-added to the world’s most famous ABCs-Always Milder Better Tasting pooler Smoking
Chesterfield’s Big Plus sold me" says

"CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all brands tested in which members of our taste panel found no unpleasant after-taste/'
Ertjm'''ths' yepori of a weff-'khowti fe.sparchU organization
UNJ VEHS’-?vIVlSIO,V
Whe L;*?W
MV
No Unpleasant After-taste
See JAN STERLING Co-Starring in "RHU8AR8 A Paramount Pictu
^Sr—cOco
