/o
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Di^cc quasi semper victurus: vive quasi eras moriturns.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 3, 1881.
Number 13.
Our Stall.
W. B. McGorrtsk.
G. E. Clarke.
W. H. Arnold.
T. F. Clarke.
J. P. O’Neill.
B. E. Fleming.
E. C. Orrick.
M. F. Healy.
Pedro de La Gasca.
BY EUGENE C. ORRICK.
This remarkable man was, unquestionably, the brightest character that history has spoken of in the conquest of Peru, and in the long and fearful train of civil dislurb-ances, which caused the death of so many noble, as well as base cavaliers, to the infinite delight of the poor natives, who now beheld their conquerors quarrelling among themselves, and fighting each other with a fury and hate that could be equalled in no other kind of war except, perhaps, one of religion.
In those stormy times, when such bitter jealousy existed between the rival leaders in Peru, little was thought of war, for it was the native element of those cavaliers, who, far from home and friends, had cast their lot for gold; and where gold is the sole object, man’s heart becomes so hardened that there is no crime too atrocious, no action too base, to secure his ends. The Pizarros, actuated by such a motive, had undertaken and achieved the conquest of Peru; the country was at that time probably the richest in gold and silver in the known world. After numerous and shameful oppressions of the natives, from which they obtained all the wealth that human heart could desire, they were no longer as of old; Francisco had been assassinated in his own house by a party of Alma-gro’s despised and broken followers; Hernando was imprisoned in the fortress of Medina del Campo, and Gonzalo, the remaining one of the three brothers so celebrated in the conquest, saw the power about to pass entirely out of the hands of the Pizarro family, by the appointment of Blasco Nunez Vela as viceroy. Deeming it but right that after his great labors and those of his brothers, he should occupy the viceroyal chair, he seized upon the actions of Nunez as a pretext for raising the standard of revolt. The peop^, being thoroughly tired of the viceroy, by reason of his undue severity in the administration of certain obnoxious laws, joined with Gonzalo, who, by his manner and bearing towards them, had, in a way, won their hearts. His march was like a triumphal procession. After the disastrous battle of Anaquito, in which the head of Blasco Nunez was struck from his body by the Licen
tiate Carbajal, Gonzalo Pizarro assumed the administration of the state. He had won the admiration, 'and, to a certain extent, the love of the people, and now began to build up the Government on a solid basis.
He kept up the state of a king, and was urged by many to declare himself such—having now, as they said, gone too far to hope for pardon from the crown, inasmuch as he had openly battled against its authority and slain its viceroy. Pizarro, however, was too cunning; he manifested outwardly a show of loyalty, while in his heart there was none, as was shown by his subsequent rebellion. True, there were some enemies who were yet on the lookout, but they were so insignificant that Gonzalo considered himself as firmly seated as though he were already acknowledged king. Such was the state of affairs in Peru when Pedro de la Gasca was appointed to go to that country and bring it to a state of submission, which difficult task, accomplished as it was by a simple priest, almost without attendants, forms one of fhe principal events in the history of the connection between Spain and the land of the Incas.
As nearly as can be ascertained from the very Imperfect evidence attainable, Gasca was born in the. year 1496, in Barco de Avila. His parents were of a noble and ancient family; it may well be called ancient if we believe, as many of his biographers contend, that he was descended from Casca, one of the conspirators who stabbed Csesar. His father died early, and he had the good fortune to be placed in the Seminary of Alcala de Henares, where he made very rapid progress, and in due time received the degree of Master of Theology. Far from being a scholar alcne, he showed decided military talent during the war of the communiades, which was raging while he was yet at college. Placing himself at the head of an armed body, he seized one of the gates of the city, and with the assistance of the royal troops took po'session of the place in the name of the king, thus his loyalty was early shown-Subsequently he was removed to Salamanca, where he distinguished himself greatly in scholastic disputation. After some time he was made a member of the Council of the Inquisition. As a member of this Council he was sent to Valencia to examine into some cases of alleged heresy, and in his judgments he manifested so much skill and penetration that he was appointed visitor of the kingdom, this appointment showing clearly the high appreciation of his merits and his fitness for the position—as it was a departure from the customs of the nation to confer the office on any but an Aragonese. While holding this position an invasion was threatened by the Turks and French: everybody was seized with consternation; there was a general panic;'Gasca alone was calm; he exhorted’ the soldiers, he addressed the people, and advised the
184
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Supreme Councils;.his meaoures were employed, ami the dreaded calamity was averted. At this time, the'news of the troubles in Peru came to the ears of the Spanish monarch, and Gasca was immediately selected as a most fitting person to calm the troubled waters in these regions. The Council endowed him with powers that were indeed extraordinary, but deemed by him by far too insufficient to successfully accomplish so difficult a mission; in short, he asserted that without powers equal to those of the monarch himself it would be almost impossible to succeed.
These demands were so unprecedented that the Council even feared to present them to the king, and they informed Gasca that he himself must see the monarch.
Charles, far less jealous of power than were his ministers, and seeing, with his accustomed penetration, that the case was really as the newly-appointed president had represented it, hesitated not to grant the requests of Gasca.
On the 26th of May, 1546, Pedro de la Gasca set sail from San Lucar for the New World. His companions were but few; conspicuous among them was Alonso de Aloar-ado, who long commanded under Francis Pizirro. It was only on landing, about the middle of July, that the president heard the alarming intelligence of the battle of An iquito, and only then was he apprized of the true state of affairs.	.
F >r a man of less strength of mmd and less determination of purpose, it is but reasonable tn conclude that the reduction of Peru to its state, would, at that time, have been a vain task; not so with Gasca, who immediately set to work. His first step w is to effect a landing in Pizarro’s territory; this he did at N ombre de Dios; it was easily accomplished on account of his unostentatious appearance, which excited no fears in the breast of Hernan Mexia, the commander of that place. But far as Mexia was from knowing the power of this simple priest, his first conver sation with him convinced him of his mistake in judging Ga^ca, who was so different from the preceding viceroys. After some thought and much conversation, in which it. was shown to him that the object of the rebellion being attained, it would be treason to stand armed against the deputy of the monarch, Hernan Mexia signifi‘d his readiness to obey the president and cordially co operate with him in all his measures.
On a ship about to sail, Gasca obtained the services of a Dominican friar to post, throughout Peru, proclamations containing amnesty; these had the desired effect. The next step of the president was to proceed to the post where lay the fleet of Gonzilo, under Hinojosa, a staunch and faithful partisan of Pizirro; trying in every way to gain him back to his loj'alty, Gasca only succeeded when Lorenzo de Aldana, who was sent by Pizarro to Spain with explanations of his conduct, made his submission to him.	.
This was a most powerful stroke towards accomplishing the will of the Emperor. The submission of Hinojosa, and the surrender of the fleet to the representation of the crown, were carried out in a very cere monious way. A free pardon was granted to all, and the commands were restored to those who held them previously. Meanwhile, however the proclamations had been industriously.circulated, and the defection of Pizarro’s followers became more and more ajp rent
Cuteno, who had been driven into caves on the Pacific coast by Carbajal, now having bided his time, raised the Castilian banner, and marched against Pizarro frem the
south. Gonzalo, however, seeing that Lis followers wer deserting him so rapidly, concluded to retreat into Chili, but as the passes were held by Cuteno, he had first to fight the bloody battle of Huarina. But now new thoughts were kindled in his breast; he even thought to defeat the president himself, so all idea of a retreat into Chili was forth-wi'h abandoned.
Gasca had now landed, and was marching into the interior; Pzirro was at Cuzco; as the royal armjz drew near, offers of pardon were sent to Gmzilo, who was advised by the fierce and bloody Carbajal to accept them; he would not, however, and concluded to risk a battle. The plains of Xaquixaguana were selected as the place about to witness the downfall of the Piz irros in Peru. Carbajal, who had been their partisan, had, if nothing else, the one redeeming virtue of fidelity to party, as was strikingly verified by the answer he returned to Gouzalo when that cavalier announced his intention .of not accepting his advice ; the reply he made was: “ I had no relish for rebellion, but I have as long a neck for a halter, I believe, as any of my companions. A« I can hardly expect to live much longer, at any rate, it is, after all of little moment to me.” He had the principal body of troops under his own command, and when defeated, knowing there was no mercy for him, he set spurs to his horse in order to escape, but being very weighty, his horse fell while ascending a hill and he was captured. '	‘
Pizarro, on the contrary, seeing himself lost, gave himself up to the first knight he met. Gasca ordered both Pizarro and Gorzdo to be nlaced in close confinement, while the royal audience tried their cases. They were sentenced to be beheaded, and after the execution the two heads were exposid in a cage, the quarters of Carbajal being chained up i>n the four roads leading to Cuzco.
Thus wesee that Gasca, landing in a simple wiy, almost without attendants, in the course of a few months quelled a formidable rebellion without much loss of blood; while he prevented further rising’ by the prompt execution of the leaders and conciliated the mass of the people by the way in which he administered the laws. The reason why he was enabled to cru=h the rebellion so easily is perfectly apparent: his humble bearing was the first and greatest, as it immediately won the hearts of the people; the next was that the partisans of Gonzilo Pizarro had supported him to rid them of an odious and oppressive tyrant; this being accomplished they did not feel safe in directly opposing the authority of the emperor; hence their submis--sion. The proclamations of amnesty, also had a great effect on those who had a’ready so well deseived punish. ment.
The main object of Gasca’s visit having been attained, he now set about establishing the Government on a firm basis; this he did, and then set sail for Spain, where he was received with unbounded enthu iasm. The emperor sent for him to hear from his own lips the story of his adventures, if they may be so termed.
G’sca was now advanced.to the vacant see of Palencia, for-which he was eminently fitted by his many good qualities. From this see he was promoted to that of Siguai zi in 1561. In this position he spent the remainder of his days, honored by his sovereign and enjojing the admiration and respect of his countrymen.
With the exception of a few troubles, caused by the distribution of rewards, profound peace reigned in Peru, and the consciousness of the beneficent results of his mission
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
185
shed many a ray of satisfaction, as well as glory, over tbo declining years of his life.
Pedro de la Gasca died in 1567, at the age of seventy-one years, after a long and useful career. His character was remarkable; he passessed numerous qualities which, when united in one person, generally neutraliz: each other, but in him they were united in such a way as to strengthen each other. He was at the same gentle and resolute; naturally intrepid, tie oftener relied on the softer arts of policy. To q rote an eminent historian, “ he was benevolent and placable, yet could deal sternly with the impenitent offender, lowly in his deportment, yet with a full measure of that self respect which springs from conscious rectitude of purpose; modest and unpretending, yet not shrinking from the most difficult enterprises, deferring greatly to others, yet in the last resort relying mainly on himself; moving with deliberation, patiently waiting his time but when the time came, bold, prompt and decisive.” Still the greatest evidence of his purity and magnanimity is the fact that among the many factions in Peru no impu:ation was ever cast upon the character of Pedro de la Gasca.

College Gossip.
—Diplomas at Princeton cost $1450
—Tne D irtmouth S niors attend only two recitations daily.
—President B irnard, of Columbia, favors co-education; the students oppose it.
—The report, of ^carlet fever at Williams proves to be a false alarm, caused by red n 'ck-ties —HFeios.
—A. poem of one liundread lines is required of each senior before commencement at Trinity.— Campus.
—A Htrvard Freshman s’ole a birber’s pole in Cam-bridj i a few nights since and was fined $10, with costs.
—D >nald G. Mitchell is nrrntioned as the possible oc-cupaut of the chair of English Literature in Columbia college.
—Car roll College. Wmkesha, W s, is trying to secure an endowment of $20 000, and half the amount has a’ready been prmni ed — Campus
—Rev. Dr. Magou.i, of Philadelphia, has given Hoches-ter University7 a set of eighty .architecnral engravings, procured in London, which are valued at $8 000.
—Tne statistician of the Yale class of ’81 stives the average expenses of its m^mhers f<>r the fnnr successive years as being: $9’3 $959 $952, 681; total, $3,825.—Brunonian
—Little rules of Latin,
Ninety lines of Greek, Pr >mpts the naughty freshman A trusty horse to seek.— Biunonian.
—Berkshire (Mass.) manufacturers are adding to the fund lor t’heGi fi -Id memorial professorship at Wi’liams College. El zur Smith ot Le-* given $2 000, and Well--ington and D- Wi't Smith, $1,000, and Ln utenant Governor Weston. $1,000.
—Fifei n Seniors of the Toronto University were before th" college council on the 23 1 inst. for hazing. They ducked the hi ads of four freshman in the river, near the college, on a cold night last week, and also bound and sagged others for refusing to sing a certain song at the c dlege concert. They are likely to be expelled.—Ex.
—Mr. Alcott to’d the Concrd Summer School of Philoso-pliers that Actuality is the Thingness of the JPre.” The information almost parahzed them. For years they had been laboring under the misapprehension that the Hereness of the A <-tu i ity is the Thing. But it is no such thing.—If-irristmon Herald.
Why, that is very much like the style of many of the writers for college papers! Perhans the.Courier is right; we, of the Sen lastio, are not progressive enough. In ouf
simplicity we did not know whose style those college writers were copying; we supposed it was a nonsensical notion of their own.	-
—The request to Col. Ingersoll to deliver a lecture before the students has received two-hundred and seventy signatures.— Campus.
It is a bad sign to see 270 college boys petitioning for a lecture from Col. Ingersoll. Voltaire p assessed very lar superior ability to Ingersoll, and Rev. F. Guenee. in his “Letters of Certain Jews to M. Voltaire,” knocked Voltaire’s arguments into a cocked hat. Further, Voltaire acknowledged his defeat. It is s tid that the great hit of the recent Congress of Free-Thinkers at Paris was the speech of an illustrious orator wh", having inserted his left hand into the breast of his coat, made a passionate gesture with the right, and bellowed: “ Gentlemen, I am an atheist— thank G >d! ” Col. Ingersoll gave away his atheistic doctrines in a similar manner when, overcome by the depth of his f-elings of affection at the death of his brother, he spoke of the reward of a future life. A'heism is specious and plausible, but there is no foundation for it in the human heart.
.	Scientific Notes.
—Paper can be made transparent by spreading over it» with a feather, a very thin layer of resin dissolved in alcohol, applied to both sides.
—The tallest trees in the world are in Australia. A fallen tree in Gippsland measured 435 feet from the root to the highest point of the branchi s. Another, standing in. the Dundenong district in Victoria is estimated to_be 450 feet from the ground to the top.	"■
—A number of secondary batteries have been arranged by M. Rousse. In one be has for a negative pole a palladium plate and for a positive pole a lead plate, using as a liquid asolution ofsulphuric acid. He obtained good results from another made of sheet iron, It ad, and a solution of ammonia, employing the lead either pure or covered with litharge, or pure oxide or sulphate, or all these mixed. A third form consisted of sheet-iron and ferro-manganese with sulphate of ammonia solution.
—Dr. Luton in the Bulletin Therapeutique claims that by frequent experiment he his demonstrated that strichnia is the best nhysiological antidote in cases of chronic alcoholism. He has u=ed hypodermic injections of the sulphate of strichnia in delirium tremens with markedly favorable results, relieving tetanic rigiditv and quieting delirium. The now celebrated remedy of Dr. D’Unger, of Chicago, is Cinchona Rubra in alcohol, taken in small doses every half hour fora few days at first, and then less frequently. It induces a loathing of drink and has effected thorough cures. A celebrated physician in Edinburgh, a professor in the college of physicians and surgeons, tried it in three cases with the most gratifying results,—the cures were perfect; the only question, he said, was as to their permanence.
—A new method of amalgamation of gold has lately been announced as the invention of a French chemist. It consists in the treatment of the auriferous matter, with a strong solution of corrosive sublimate in presence of metallic iron. It is well known that if a piece of gold is brought into contact with a piece of iron, even in an ex tremely attenuated solution of corrosive sublimate, the gold is instantly amalgamated, and this fact is the foundation of the proposed process. The method may be effective, but there are considerations which would seem to militate against it. Firstly, corrosive sublimate, which is bichloride of mercury, is expensive; secondly, iron alone reduces it to the metallic state, so that there can be no certainty that every particle of the gold will come in contact with the iron before the whole of the corrosive sublimate has been decomposed; thirdly, there seems to be some danger nf the formation of calomel, and consequent flouring of the mercury, notwithstanding the presence of iron.
—The oils employed in the south of Europe for the adulteration of olive'oil are Ihe oils of colza, sesame, cotton, and earth-nuts. When colza oil is present it may be de- ■ tected by the-sulphur it contains. A sample of about ten
186	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
grammes is saponified in a glass capsule with an alcoholic solution of caustic alkali free from sulphides. This mixture is stirred with a silver spoon, and if the spoon is blackened colza or some similar oil was used to sophisticate the olive oil. To detect the oil of sesame, add a little sugar to hydrochloric acid of 30 degrees, B., and with this mix an equal quantity of the suspected article; shake up the whole well, and any traces of sesame will be shown by a red coloration. For the detection of cotton-seed oil an.equal volume of nitric acid is added to the sample, and if the adulterant is present it will reveal itself by imparting a coffee color to the mixture when the latter is stirred. To detect oil of earth-nuts masquerading as the oil of the olive tree is a somewhat more difficult task. The sample is saponified with an alcoholic solution of potash, the soap separated as completely as possible, heated to expel all of the alcohol, and treated with as much hydrochloric acid as will neutralize the alkali. The fatty acid floating on the top is then collected and dissolved in boiling alcohol, from which it separates in a white form characteristic of earth-nut oil.
Exchanges.
—We are always glad to see The College Message, from St. Vincent’s College, Cape Girardeau, Mo., although the essays in this year’s numbers do not by any means approach in merit those of last year. The Exchange department is edited with signal ability and the other departments are creditably filled.
—The Catholic World for December has the following table of contents: I, The German Problem, by the Rev. I. T. Hecker; If. How Cornwallis Consolidated the British Empire, Margaret F. Sullivan; III. The Story of a Portionless Girl—(Continued)—Mary H. A. Allies; IV, Monastic Dublin. William Dennehy; V, Monte Vergine. M. P. Thompson; VI, Cardinal Wolsey and his Times, S. Hubert Burke; VII, Christian Jerusalem, Part VI, The Rev. A F. Hewit; VIII, A Jesuit in Disguise, II, John R G. Has-sard; IX, Impressions of Quebec, Anna T. Sadlier; X, Purgatorio, Canto XXI, translated by T. W. Parsons; XI, Was the Apostle St. Thomas in Mexico, Rev. James H. Defouri: XII, To the Blessed Giuseppe Labre. The Rev. Jed. D. Lynch; XIII, New Publications: The Beauties of the Catholic Church—Institutione Theologies) in Usum Scholarum—Leaves from the Annals of the Sisters of Mercy—The Poets and Poetry of Ireland—Maidens of Hallowed Names—The Life of Venerable Mother Mary of fhe Incarnation—Tutti-Frutti. The subscription price of The Catholic World is §4 a year. Address: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St., New York.
—We have received the first number of a neatly printed eight-page paper called The Clerk, published monthly at Philadelphia, Pa. Price of subscription, §1 a year. The matter in general is good—with the exception of a phonographic department which is given a very prominent place in the paper. The svstem used is an adaptation, and a very poor one, of Isaac Pitman’s alphabet, by which the editor, Mr. Curtis Haven, avers that “ a speed of one hundred words an hour more can be attained than by any other system.” We doubt that any such speed can be attained, but as only the alphabet and a few joined consonants are given by Mr. Haven we cannot pass a clear judgment on his pretensions. If his vowel scale be given entire it is sadly deficient; in fact there is but a ghost ot a vowel scale to be seen. We would advise those who wish to learn phonography to be cautious in taking up this so-called “system” ; it takes the same time to learn a good system that it does a poor one, and when a person takes up phonography he should H'lect the best. The standard systems are those of Isaac Pitman, the inventor of phonography, of Benn Pitman, his brother, and Munson’s, and Graham’s. Of these we prefer Isaac Pitman’s, but the other three have each an extensive following.
—We were particularly pleased with The Concordiensis for November. Although the literary department lacked original matter, it contained what, for the time being, was as good, or better, selections of no ordinary merit from the writings of our late lamented President, James A. Gar-
field, who in his college days, was a contributor at Williams, to the college Quarterly. Who that reads the poem “ Memory ” will not linger for a moment in painful thought over the couplet describing
“The enchanted, shadowy land where Memory dwells,” I as he recalls the fate of the writer, then in the hey-dey of a youth whose, highest ambitions were to be more than realized, but whose hand and voice, after service on the battle-field and in the Halls of Congress, are now stilled forever in the silence of the grave! We can almost imagine we hear the echo of that voice, which only.a short year ago thrilled the hearts of his hearers in the House of Representatives, describing the enchanted shadow land:
“ It has its valleys, cheerless, lone and drear, Dark shaded by the mournful cypress tree, And yet its sunlight mountain-tops are bathed In Heaven’s own'blue.”
“Sam,” one of the late President’s school-day poems, read by him at the Adelphic Union Exhibition, July 19, 1855, and published in the Williams' Quarterly the following September, shows the contempt in which Mr. Garfield held Know-Nothingism, justly characterizing it as the scheme of a few worn-out politicians. The selections from President Garfield’s writings—“Sam,” “Extract from’the Editors Table,” “Charge of the Light Brigade,” “Extracts from The Province of History,” and “ Memory,” a poem, are admirable, and reflect credit upon the judgment of the editors of Concordiensis.
—Bengough's Cosmopolitan Shorthand Writer (conducted by Tnos. Bengough, official reporter, Toronto, Canada), is a very neat specimen of typographic aft and a good oue of editorial ability. The illustrations, by J. W. Bengough, cartoonist of Grip, and others, are excellent. The Oc'ober number contains a portrait of Wm. H. Huston, A. B., winner of the Gilchrist Scholarship in the University of London, 1881, and now teacher of modern languages and phonography in Pickering College. Mr. Huston is a Canadian by birth, a native of Wnitby, Ont, and a member of the Society of Friends. The scholarship was contested by five candidates, three of whom were Canadians. Mr. Huston and two compatriots stood high also in the examinations; among 600 or 700 candidates, the two Canadians ranked the 21st and 49'h, respec'ively. Although Mr. Huston fairly won the Gilchrist Scholarship a technicality deprived him of the reward of his victory. Oue of the conditions is that the candidate must not be over 22 years old, but after Sir. H. had won the prize, it happened that he was just then three days too old. Mr. Huston is now a professor in Pickering College. “ He is an enthusiastic phonographer,” says Bengough, “ and has a class of twenty-five students who are now well through Pitman’s ‘Teacher.’” Besides the ske’ch of Prof. Huston’s career, the Shorthand Writer contains interesting matter on various subjects relating to education in general and to journalism and phonography in particular. An article on “The Origin of Modern Shorthand Signs ” is given in phonographic characters in the four leading “Systems ”—Isaac Pitman’s, Benn Pitman’s, Graham’s, and Munson’s—with only a few flues difference in space occupied, Isaac Pitman’s lacking 12 lines of two pages, Graham’s 17^ Benn Pitman’s 102£. Munson’s 7,—a difference not worth speaking of. Mr. Bengough, the editor is strictly neutral, although himself using Isaac Pi’-man’s system in preference to any other. The Shorthand Writer is published monthly at $1 a year; address 55 and 57 Adelaide street East, Toronto, Ont.
—The College Courier says that a certain (nr, perhaps, as college papers often are, uncertain) College Herald “speaks some kindly words of the Courier," adding “ we will not, after the manner of the Scholastic, quote these.” Modesty is a becoming trait, but mock or false modes’y is execrable. A propos, we recall to mind the fact that the College Rambler a few weeks ago made a nearly similar remark; and we will look it up. Here it is:
“ The Notre Dame Scholastic has been highly spoken of by other college journals. If you do not believe this, turn to its exchange columns and you will find the commendatories reproduced. It is to be supposed that we all love praise, but we seriously doubt the propriety of reviving in our own columns the favorable notices of others. Others have a right to act according to their choice ; but as for us we have been treasuring up the notices, favorable and unfavorable, received from the

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
187
college press and will perhaps devote an entire number to their reproduction.”
We believe it is conceded by all that commendatory notices are very agreeable to those who receive or are interested in them; the only thing on which there is any d ifference of opinion is as to whether they shall be republished or not, or whether they be given now and again or all together. As to the propriety of republishing them there can be little question; the best magazines, newspapers, etc., in this country and in Europe republish favorable notices, why should it be improper or indelicate for college papers to do so? And if they be republished, we think, also, that our method of giving them is far preferable to that of The Rambler. We may as well say here that of the favorable notices received by the Scholastic, from all quarters, but few, comparatively, have been republished in its columns, and these were given not for the gratification of the editors, but that of their friends and others interested in the welfare of the paper. College editors need not be told that college papers are, as a rule, very precarious things,—that their term of life is very uncertain —that they are kept up by extraordinary efforts on the part of their_editors, and that to-morrow’or the day after, for want of support or for other reason, they may be among the things of the past. The Scholastic is by no means an exception to the general rule, any more than was its predecessor, The Progress, of twenty-five years ago. It is moreover, not the work of an individual, but of a number of students, representing a still larger body of students, some 330 in number, who like to know what is though of it, and how it stands both at home and abroad. Are we to gratify their desire, or shall we keep such things out of the paper as may tend to gratify it? In this respect it may be remarked that while the tpresent editor has had charge of the exchange departmen he has not confined his attention to commendatory notices only, but has also given such as were unfavorable,— a thing that few other papers have done. Thus much said—not after the manner of an apology, however, for we see no reason for an apology—we would ask whether it be a sign of modesty on the part of editors of less fortunate papers to play the part of the pharisee, and to thank God in public that they are not like the rest of mankind, and do not recount the kind words that have been spoken of. their papers ? The best journals, magazines and other periodicals in this country and Europe do it, but the editors of the Courier and The Rambler wish their readers to believe that they are too modest to republish the words of praise and encouragement that have been vouchsafed them! Such excessive modesty seems to us very much like squeamishness.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—The Boston Museum of Fine Arts has an exihibition of wood engraving of native manufacture.
—A new edition of the Bible in the Sclavic language is being struck off at the printing-office of the Propaganda in Rome. -
—Maurice Egan, of the Freeman's Journal, is to be commiserated. Editor Tello, of the Cleveland Universe, directs all its poetical correspondents to send their effusions to him.— Unidentified Ex.
—Nugent Robinson’s new story, “Corrie Sheelah,” recently begun in The Ave Maria, shows this b'ight and graceful writer at his best. He is particularly at home in depicting delicate shades of Dublin life.—N. Y. Freeman's Journal.
—One of Sir Edwin Landseer’s pictures recentlv brought, at a London sale, the sum ot $14,750. The aut>o er related that while Sir Edwin was engaged upon t, Mr. Millais happened to call upon him, and the elder painter uid to the younger: “If I don’t live to finish this pictur-, you will do it for me.” Sir Edwin did die, leaving me work unfinished, and Mr. Millais completed it.
—Jules Ver ae is a writer whose popularity appears to increase with time. His story of “ Michael Strogoff, or A Courier of the Czar, ” first published some years ago, is now republished in a handsome volume at a reduced price. The story is merely a history of adven
ture ; but its narration involves the recital of innumerable geographical facts, and thus wisdom is made to walk hand in hand with fiction.
—Almost everybody is familiar with the ode known as the burial Sir John Moore, beginning :
“ Not a drum was heard nor a funeral note, As the corpse o’er the ramparts we hurried.” but it is not perhaps so universally known as it should be that it was written by a young clergyman, the Rev. Charles Wolfe. Medwin records a conversation between Byron and Shelley, when a question arose as to which was the finest ode in the English language. Shelley contended for Coleridge’s ode on Switzerland, beginning, “Ye clouds.” Moore’s melodies were quoted; some one then mentioned Campbell’s Hohenlinden, when Lord Byron started up and said, “ I will show you an ode you have never seen, which I consider equal to the best that the age has brought forth.” He left the table, and returning with a magazine, read the annoymous contribution on Sir John Moore. “ Perfect! ” said he, as he finished reading it. “ Perfect,” and he repeated again:
“ But he lay like a warrior taking his rest, y With his martial cloak around him.”
—We, says the Boston Daily Star, have never admired the personal character of Charles Dickens, and we confess to a malicious pleasure in reproducing this anecdote from the Washington Post :
Old Major Throckmorton, keeper of the Galt House in Louisville, is dead. He was a good old man, and Kentucky to the bone. When Dickens came to his house, in 1846, the major gracefully and hospitably addressed him thus, while the assembled crowd looked on and listened with admiration akin to enthusiasm: “ Mr Dickens, we are glad to welcome you. We know you and admire you, and will reckon it a privilege to be allowed to extend to you the hospitalities of the metropolis of Kentucky. As your especial host, I beg that you will command me for any service in my power to render.” Mr. Dickens received this with a frigid stare. “ When I need you, landlord,” he said, pointing to the door, “I will ring.” The next moment the distinguished author was half way out of the window, the Major’s boots under his coat tail, and numerous Kentuckians holding the Major’s coat tail, for the Major viewed insults from a strictly Kentucky point of view, and the only mention of this incident in the “American Notes” is that Dickens saw a pig rooting in the streets of Louisville, which proves that great novelists are more careful about their fiction than their facts.
—Early last month the following editorial note appeared in the N. Y. Sun:	•
“ We learn from the Chicago Tribune that Mr. Edmund Yates, the editor of a paper called’ the World, published in London, said recently, in speaking of a certain class of nuisances, that ‘they shou’d be avoided like Americans or Frankfort Jews? The Tribune thinks that Mr. Yates received great hospitality during his visit to this country several years ago, and that his spleen is inexplicable. This, no doubt, is true, in regard to entertaining him at dinner and treating him with politeness; but this is hot what Mr. Yates desired here. He knew that Mr. Thackeray and Mr. Dickens had found great success, and had made much mmey by lecturing and reading in this country; and his hope was that the Yankees would come in crowds to ' the lectures he wished to give them, and fill his pockets with their cash. In this, however, he was disappointed. The lectures were dull, and the Yankees avoided them; and Mr. Ya’es, in turn, thinks that the Yankees ousht to be avoided. By the way, did not Mr. Thackeray describe Mr. Yates himself as a sort of nuisance ? There is a tradition of that kind.”
Mr. Yates now writes to the Chicago Tribune that the offensive expression appeared in a portion of the World which gives an epitome of the gossip of the day, and is the production of many writers; that the words in question were written during his absence, and that if he had been there they would not have been permitted to pass. His claim that “ the line quoted reads offensively as it is . given, but not offensively when taken with the context,” is a very weak one. The context is to the effect that school-mistresses and their pupils on lour are disagreeable companions, and are to be “avoided like the plague, or the travelling curates, or the Americans, or the Frankfort Jews, or in fact, anybody travelling”!
188
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
|frW
Notre Dame, December 3, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.	•	’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.	.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	’
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,	.
Old Students should take it.
Terms, SI.50 jper Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.	’
—It is with sincere regret that we chronicle the death of Mrs. John Hogan, and her son, Dr. J. D. Hogan. Mrs. Hogan was a most estimable lady, and one of Notre Dame’s warmest friends. The many friends of the family throughout the country will be deeply grieved to learn the sorrowful news. We quote from the Times and Tribune, of Chicago, notices of the death of this most estimable mother and son:
“ Mrs. John Hogan, one of the oldest residents of Chicago, died at her residence, at No. 225 Randolph street, yesterday morning, under peculiarly distressing circumstances. Tuesday before she bad received the announcement of the death of her son, Dr. J. D. Hogan, at Jackson, ville, Fla. The young man was educated with much care in the German and French universities, and had just entered on what promised to be* a brilliant professional career. The mother took great pride in her son, and had high hopes for his future. That he should be cut off in the flower of his manhood was too much for the poor woman. She succumbed to the shock. The deceased lady was the sister of the late Aid. Dennis Coghlin, well known in in Chicago politics about twenty years ago. She has resided here for over forty years, and by energy and industry has accumulated quite a large fortune. Her only surviving son, Dennis J. Hogan, is a lawyer of this city, and will inherit her entire fortune.
The deceased lady was in her 66th year, having been born in Bruff, Limerick County Ireland, in 1815. She came here, like many other old citizens, in humble circum-Btapges, bqt acquired a handsome property as she and her
late worthy husband advanced in years. Her life was marked by many acts of humanity which endeared her name to those who well knew her. It was her special delight to educate worthy young men and women of her ac quaintance, and many of them now, scattered throughout the land, will learn with unfeigned regret the sad news of her death. The Sisters of Mercy were the special objects of her care, and for many years she went quietly about doing good. .
The Irish American club met in special session, on the death of Dr. Hogan. A committee, consisting of H. O’Rourke, J. Sullivan, M. O. Dowd, P. T. Barry, and and P. McHugh, proposed a series of appropriate resolutions, which were adopted. The following gentlemen were appointed to attend the funeral in behalf of the club : Dr. O’Cleary, J H. Daly, T. J. Darcy, William Fogarty, and John McKeough.
—In lieu of the regular editorial this week, we give our readers an extract from the address of George E Clarke before the St. Cecilia Society on its annual festival, as promised in our last issue:
Though change seems at all times to charateriz: ns, still, upon examination, we discover that to some influences we are ever the same. There are powers that ever hold us within their sway, at all times and in all places whether during the happy days of college life or when we have attained the meridian of our usefulness, or- in that more reverential stage, the “seer and yellow leaf.”
We are ever the submissive and fawning captives to eloquence “ which plucks allegiance from men’s hearts, loud shouts and salutations from their mouths,” and music that speaks where language fails.
Music and eloquence have long been blending in delightfuLunison, they pleased the earaud charmed the heart of nations now known to us, almost wholly,{through mythological fancy. A land whose bays and mountain peaks, whose groves and valleys, whose snow-clad Olympus with the sacred groves of Delphi, and the peaceful Arcadia, about which poets love to sing cradled “ eloquence” that blasted to cinders systems of oppression, and tyrant’s accursed thrones. The Pythian games reigmd with music and the laurel wreath crowned the victor’s brow. While the Graces joined in the Olympian dance, Apollo was environed with the sweetest strains. The poet sang of heroes and heroic deeds and their woids stirred warriors to actions great and noble. B irds in flowing gowns, have made hill and vale resound with the music of the harp, an emblem that to-day adorns a nation’s banner. Nor was the deity of music painted with grim visage, with snaky hair, and scorpions in hand but as an immortal youth of divine form, with golden locks, delighting in lyre and song. But the polished Greek and .stern Roman are no more, their system i of mythology have passed away; their pagan temples, their oracles, their polluted shrines and reeking altars are obliterated. Tne darkness is dissipated, the agonizing form on Calvary’s Cross with its gaping wounds has redeemed ihe world. The Word was made Flesh and dwelt amongst us. Christianity7, with its divine precepts and healing Sacraments, has liberated man, and to-day on our altars is offered a holocaust of infinite price. Creation now is as one vast choir, full of eloquence and full of harmony. The earth in its grand pageant, .its deep strata with their buried nion-
1 i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	189
sters, the imperious ocean, and the brilliant lamps of night- in their broad pathways proclaim His immensity, That spark of divine intelligence which we possess is unable to grasp the mijesty of the G-reat Ruler. Oh ye hills and vale?, ye y.iwning precipices and towering mountains, records of endksi convulsions, what do we know even of you! Au I ye glittering lights ab >ve, dis-‘ porting in endless space, you are witnesses of our ignorance and insignificance! What do we know of Him who governs you? We are lost! We are convinced that “ our intellect is weak and we are in need of many things.” Where will we find an infallible guide ? Catholicity alone can teach us to approximate to the greatness of her Founder. Through the lives of those who have followed His teachings we can view the perfection of His attributes. Though man has been commissioned to preach, Catholicity has as equally been advanced by the cause of woman. Profane history is replete with womanly acts and sacrifices, and the world joins in eulogies of praise. She who said: “My son, come back with thy shield or upon thy shield ” gave vent to sentiments of true Spartan bravery. When Cornelia pointed to her boys and said to her questioner “ these, are my jewels and iny ornaments,” she spoke words that only come from a fond m >ther’s heart. Of later days, Maria Theresa of Hungary, and that lovely Castilian Queen Isabella, to whom we are all indebted, inscribed their names in worthy deeds to be ever admired insucceeding ages. But profane history speaks only of queens and empresses, of heroines and women held up by the power of caste; where shall we learn of women in other spheres, for histories, says a leading mind, only treat of the in. trigues of Courts and the amours of Kings. The pagan creed with difficulty supported its institutions of priestesses and prophetic sibyls, for Roman women boasted of the number of their husbands. Where ther. can we find the purity of those days; was she who holds in her hand the world and its destiny only to be found at the public games and the gladatorial combats? No, there were others whose arms were not in golden bracelets but who glittered and shone the jewel of jewels—virtue; whose lives were vigils, retirement and prayer, and whose homes were the pathless forests and deep caverns of earth.
The painter grows eloquent when portraying woman in virgin veil, with the palm of martyrdom in band, and standing at the foot of the cross; and how much greater is his ardor when painting Cecilia, seated at the organ, with upturned face, sending forth words that pi. rce the clouds? •
“ Music the fl rcest grief can charm, . And fate's seveiest rage disarm ;
Music, cm soften pain to ease, And make despair and madness please ; Our joys below it can improve, And antedate the bliss above.	•
.	This, the divine Cecilia found, •
And to her Maker’s praise confined the sound. When the full organ join* the turn fnl choir, The im nortal powers Incline their -ar, Borne on the swelling notes, our sou's aspire, - While solemn airs improve the sacn d fire ;
And angels lean from heaven to hear. Of Orpheus, now no mon- let poets tell, To bright Cec lia greater p w-r is given: His numbers raised a shade from heli, Hers lift the soul to heaven.”
“ §t. Cecilia,” says Dorn Glueranger, “ reared in the midst
of martyrs, early imbibed the heroic spirit of the age. The Gospels were her daily study, active charity to Christ’s poor was her constant occupation, and her fervor was expressed in the secret vow by which she consecrated herself to her Maker. Her birth and wealth, her beauty and her rare virtues attracted many suitors for her band. From among them her parents chose a young pagan, Valerian.” H'm she soon cinverted and also his brother; and so zealous were they in their faith, that they soon won the crowns of martyrdom. Cecilia, too, was soon . sentenced to be executed; .stiff ication in a vapor bath proving ineffectual, she was ordered to be beheaded in the caldarium. Joyfully she heard the news. The executioner prepared himself for the deed. Cecilia, on bended knee, and with bowed head, presented her sno.w-white neck to the demon. Three times he raised his brutal arm, three times the steel gleamed through the air, three times it struck its noble victim, but the head remained unsevered. The demon, seized with terror, fled, leaving hie victim with her life’s blood gushing from the wounds as she struggled in the agonies of death. There lay one who .cared not for the evanescent crown of pleasure, but who yearned to grace a court of infinite splendor. Behold her, you worldly ! Behold her, you vain! You, who are the embodiments of fickleness and frailty; you, who abuse the slate to which you have been elevated; you, whose only recommendation is the gay bonnet or brilliant dress, who seem blind to the high dignity of womanhood, who prefer to be the toy or the fiend; who would be a-Helen, or like a Tullia, drive your chariot over the bleeding corpse of a murdired father, did wealth "or power but kneel at your gracious nod.	'
In three days, Cecilia was no more of earth; calmly she met the antagonist of life, and passed through the passage of-the tomb that leads to the paradise beyond. She donned the robe of immortality, and is enrolled among the elect. To-day her virtues are preached from every shrine, chanted by harmonious choirs, and she is pointed to as a fitting mode) for those budding into the flower of woman-hoed Her life is full of solemn lessons B >rn in an empire pregnant with dazzling enticements, with scenes of levity and licentn-usnt.-s, her examplary meekness and personal graces shine with a lustre exceeding the retinue of knight or noble. The lives of her contemporaries are cain’v ds of revelry and debauchery, hers is the enamelled vas ■ filled with fl.iwi rs that ever bloom. Their lives are pools of iniquity in barren soil, hers is the clear and rip-yling stream purling through meadows rich in verdure. The conversion of her spouse and his brother convinces us that were there more Cecilias there would be better men. She in leed is the muse, the true patroness of mu-ic and of elo-qne-w, for daily’ she spoke His praises an 1 sweetly sang the ; ff-ctions that she sealed with her virginal blood.
But she is only one o'.the millions of .her sex who have met death so bravely. Every age presents womm as powerful in their faith as o'hers of stronger and firmer build. Daughters of the. Cross h,.ve been found in every c'ime, women who snatched victory from the grave and asked ■ di, d:at,h where is thy sting! T >dav, to>, presents a countless number afire with the sam- flime and burning in'the sima good cause. Convents an I academies, hospitals a id asylums are living witnesses of their zeal. Neither the strides of sta'king pestilence nor. the smoke of battle where the shot fell fast and thick have unnerved them.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Unknown in life, unknown in death, Thus they live and die—
They need not the trumpet breath To waft their deeds on high.”
Nor is this woman’s only sphere. View her as the bright star in that firmament called home:. Not man’s servant, not his slave, but his equal, his companion, his helpmate. Guarded by a Sacrament, the nuptial tie can never be dissolved. From this rank, too, her glory emanates, for this union is typical of Christ’s union with His Church. From this height, too, she can look beyond, for in the dis tance she can see Cecilia, who to the crown of virgin added the dignity of married life.	.
Young gentlemen of the St. Cecilian Association, to-day you, in particular, join in special tribute. Your devotion to S'. Cecilia is characteristic of him who leads you. We commemorate with you your patroness and pride, and on this occasion we express our esteem for the faithful pilot of the St. Cecilian bark Young gentlemen,.Notre Dame still looks to you for leading lights, for chosen sons. Follow the dictates of your leader, imitate the virtues of your patroness, learn well the lessons taught you here, for he is most the man“ who thinks the most, feels the noblest, and acts the best.”
The Minim Question.
De Minimis non curat Lex.—Justinian, Imp. Kom.
The atrocious maxim which we have quoted above is a disgrace to Hunan Law. Justinian wis a poor stick of an emperor, anyhow, and he was notoriously a hea-pecked husband. How much more admirable is the divine science and art of music, which allots two crotchets to every minim, and three to a dotted one; morever, a minim, according to the irrefragable decrees of harmony, is a white note. Observe the discrimination exhibited by the he iven-taught science, as contrasted with the absurd shortsightedness of human law. Our modern minims feel this, and desire to have their claims recognized. Their numbers have wonderfully increased of late. Instead of 26, which used to be their average figure, they have reversed the digits and made it 62, which might suggest an example in algebra to the mathematically inclined. They are interested in every topic that agitates the literary world. They read the Sen 'ASTic, particularly the columns furnished by the young ladies of the Academy; for we overheard two of them yesterday discussing the question of similarity between Alice’s cat and the Black Oxen of Madagascar with dissentient results. A more learned one ctme up, however, and said it was chemistry; whereupon they decided to purloin the Infirmary cat and convey her into the Laboratory, there to await developments. Our readers will not be surprised to learn that we have received the following letter from these young gentlein»n:
’	Notre Dame, Nov. 29th, 1881.
Mr Editor.
Dear Sir:—Acquainted, as we are, with your inflexibility of character and benignity of mind, we do not hesitate to appear before you as applicants for a place in your columns. Being connected within the prohibited degrees of relationship with the hierarchy, the literary world, the military service and those gigantic railroad interests which have covered the length and breadth- of the land with a network, so to speak, of progress and material development, we feel competent to keep you posted on affairs of an ecclesiastical, rhetorical, strategetical or
transportations! character; also, which perhaps may prove an argumentum ad hominum, to furnish you with free passes to any place in general whither you may feel disposed to repair, in order to disport yourself and perform those delightful antics which render the season of vacation so eminently salubrious. In return for which favors all we ask is that you allot a certain and very moderate portion of the columns of your valuable paper to our behests. (N. B. We don’t quite know what behests means, but it seems to sound well in this connection.) And we shall ever remain, Mr. Editor, with kind regards to yourself and interesting family,
Very Respectfully, yours to command,
Tub Minims.
Thos. Norfolk. (Chicago Times} Illinois, Ryan Devereux, (U. P. R. R.) Missouri, Denis A O’Connor, Illinois, Willie T. Berthblet, Wisconsin, J. J. McGrath, Illinois, Joseph H. Dwenger, Indiana, Francis I. Otis, U. 8. A, Guy Gibson, Illinois.
Donn Piatt, (The Capital) D. C., Joseph A. Kelly, Pennsyivsn’a, William Welch, (State Leader) Iowa Paul P. Johnson, Illinois,
* Committee.
P. 8.—The Committee are all dotted Minims.
—A Celebration in honor of the 39th. Anniversary of Very Rev. Father General Sorin’s First Mass at Notre Dame was given by the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, in St. Edward’s Hall, on Wednesday, Nov. 30lh, at 4 o’clock, p. m. The progra nme was as follows:
“Do all your Acts with, Grace and Else."
PART FIRST.
“ Martha”.................................N.	D. U. Quartette
Address......................................Ryan	Devereux
(Assisted by)........... .Albert Otis and Cecil Quinlan
String Q artette..........'................................
Instrumental music.........................................
Prologue....................................D.	A. O’Connor
PART SECOND.
“THE NEW ARTS!”
A DRAMA IN THREE ACTS.
Written by Very Rev. Edward Sirin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, for the benefit of the Students of Notre Dame.
.	Dramatis Persona.
Master William (a smart, lively, and boyish youth)................................Ryan	Devereux
Mr. John Smyth (a Student ot the Graduating Class) ............................W.T.	Berthclet
Mr. Wright (Prof, of Philosophy, an •	.
acc implished scholar, and a gentleman)...................J.	J. McGrath
Mr. Fairbanks (a rich banker of the East..............................................T. Norfolk
Capt. Jones (a friend of Prof. Wright’s).....J. H. D wenger Master Richard (a bov full of fun)...........D.	A. O’Connor
Master Julius (an exceptionally polite boy)	Rdne Papin Master James, )	’ f.G. Gibson
_u Liwrence, I .	|......L P. Graham
„ Francis, }- None too polite -{..........Fiancis I Oris
a Philip,	|	|.........P. Campau
it Albert, |	|.........a. Roberts
„ Joseph, J	[.........W. Devine
Mr. Wright’s Colored Serv-
vants, Sam and Joe.......................J.	Kelly, C Metz
f.......................T.	Ellis
I .................... J. Chaves
Thomas & Co., Country Boys }-.....................Donn Piatt
honest, but no great speci-1 .1.................F. Nester
mens of r«.fiued habits, |......................p. Johnson
I...........’.........A. Kelly
During the Play there was a Duet—“Lilly Bells and Flowers,” and the “ Singer’s Welcome.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	191
PART THIRD. Address...................................J.	J. McGrath
(Assisted by).............H. Hynes and M. Masi
TABLEAU.
Characters in the “ New Arts.”........................
Closing Remarks.......................................
Music.......................................N.	D. U. Q.
Ushers.
E. Nash,	D. McCawley,
' W. Walsh,	W. Miller,
M. Devitt,	L. Young,
B. Powell,	P. Gibson.	.
Committee of Arrangements.
*	F. Scott,	G. Price,
	C. Brandon,	J. Beal,
	E Thomas,	F. Whitney,
	W. Prindlville,	F. Coad,
	H. Dirksmeyer,	J. Kelly,
	W. Welch, J. Nester.	C. McGordon,
The young gentlemen are certainly deserving of great praise for the excellent manner in which they filled their viarous roles. They exhibited a marked ability in memo-zing, and a talent for elocution and declamation, not at all expected or looked for in our young friends. Each one was perfectly at home in his part, and left in the minds of all the pleasing conviction that the future valedictorians of Notre Dame, coming from the present Minim department, will, in all likelihood, rank among the ablest speakers the University can boast of. Their instructor is indeed worthy of the highest commendation for the great care evidenced in the fulfilment of the different parts. So self-possessed, so manly, so thoroughly able and ear-nestjwas their effort that their rendition was the cause of general surprise, and many remarks of a fl titering nature were passed upon both instructor and pupils by those who had the good fortune to be present. Among the visitors we notic.’d Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General, C. S. C.; Very Rev. Fathers Granger and Reze; Rev. Fathers Walsh, Saulnier, Toohey, Zahm, Maher, Franciscus, Stoffel, and Fal-' lize; Bros. El ward, Leander, Francis Regis, Francis of Assisi, Philip Neri, Marcellinus, Basil, Leopold, Celestine, and Albert; Profs. Gregori, Edwards, Stace, and Paul; Mr. Howard, a former Professor, and one highly esteemed by the students; Mrs. Howard, Mrs. Ackerman, Mrs. Chir-hart, and other ladies whose names we have not yet learned.
Remarks of a congratulatory and instructive nature were made by Very Rev. Father General, Mr. Howard and Mr. George E. Clarke, of the Scholastic Staff. We trust that the young gentlemen will favor us soon again with a specimen of their ability. It would not be at all amiss to have the next txhibition of the kind either in the Rotunda or in Washington Hall. We believe, from what we have seen, that our young friends will open the eyesjtf their elder brothers, and wake them to the need of a little more life and earnestness in matters of this kind.
—Never desert a friend in the desolation of his own abandonment. Prove your devotion by clinging to him iu his defenceless woe; assuage liis grief, and imparting to him some of the buoyancy of your own < xultant spirits’ place him in the sunlight of faith and hope. The achiev-ment will be worthy of the object, and iu its accomplishment behold your reward I
Local Items. 9
’ —“ Lunch ” !
—“How many?”
—“Odd or even” ?
—“ May I borrow my duty, Bro ? ”
—Handball still flourishes in the Juniors.
—“ Who put that pin on “ Casty’s ” chair?” ’
—The Minims are to have d skating rink.
—The Minims have been practising jumping lately.
—When will the Junior skating rink be completed?
—“Ollie” enjoyed himself immensely, Thanksgiving day.
—The Juniors have over one hundred and forty members.
—The Junior play-hall was deserted last Sunday afternoon.
—Last week’s local on Del Saviers rather stirred up the Bears.
—Nearly seventy-five students attend the daily Mass in the College chapel.
—The retreat will begin next week, and all should try to make it well.
—The “ New Arts ” was played to perfection by the Sorins last Wednesday.
—Bro. Albert and six Juniors had the first skate of the season on Thanksgiving Day.
—The “ List of Excellence” for the Preparatory Course will be published next week.
—Two Noble Seniors had a picnic last Sunday morning near the Junior trunk-room. Rather suspicion0.
—Lost—A large door key has been lost. The finder will be suitably rewarded on.leaving the same at this office.
—The Junior study-ball- has been presented with a beau’iful transparent picture of the Sacred Heart, by Bro. Albert, C. S. C.
—The Entertainment on the 30’h. was in honor of the 39th anniversary of Very Rev. Father General’s first Mass at Notre Dame.	•
—“Paradise Lost”! muttered a certain Junior as his p’ece. of “ mince ” s’ipped between his fingers and kissed the floor. It was his last cent.
—Those who witnessed the performance of the “New Arts ” say the Drama i° a gem. It is just what we expect from the pen of Very Rev. Father Sorin.
—The Seniors have a Solon; a young man that wants to go West; a young man that Burns his fingers at every Thespian meeting; a young man whois always Boo-se; a young man who is always Lark-ing, and a youth who will ever B. Noble.
—Sr. Edward’s Hall was most gracefully decorated on the 30ih. Innumerable small lights, artistica'ly arranged, illumined the Hall, and gave it a perfe'tly enchanting appearance. We overheard nne of the Rev. Fathers as he passed, exclaim, “Quelle belle place!"
—Apothecaries weight:
1 Minim makes 16 Juniors,
16 Juniors make 24 Baby Seniors or I Great Senior.
150 Baby Seniors or 24 Great Seniors make 1 Professor, S Professors make one President.
—The volume of M->lfere, the return of which was requested in a late number of the Scholastic, not having been heard from, we are requested to say to the holder, that if he.will call or s-nd his address to SProf. J. A. Lyon , the other volume will be presented to him with an resth“tic address on “ B iok Farming.”
—The regular meeting of ’he Senior Archconfra’ernity was held Sunday evening, N >v. 27th, Rev. Father Walsh pre=i-i">g. Among the visitors were Rev. Fathers Stoffel and Toohey, and Bro. Paul. Bro. Bisil presided at the organ. Well-written papers were read by M. H> aly, J. Solon, and A. Zahm. Messrs. T F. Clarke, W. Cleary, and R. Fleming, were appointed for the next meeting.
V
192
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Phonography has become a popular study here of late. There are twenty-four students in the classes, and the boys seem to take quite an interest in the magic art of “hooks and crooks.’’ Although the classes ’in this branch took a late start, some of the students are nearly through Isaac Pitman’s “Phonographic Teacher,” which contains all the principles of the art, and introduces the manual and reporting signs.
—The Tableau at the close of the Play was quite a success. The bemtiful banner b aring the picture of Very Rev. Father General, under which was a tasteful scroll with the words, “New Arts,” was greeted by the audience, as it entered the Hall, with marked pleasure and applause. It was held in the midst of the characters in the “ New Arts ’’ and the group formed as handsome a tableau as we have seen for a long time.
—Tne eighth regular meeting of the Thespian Society was he d N >v. 23 h. J. N. Osher was unanimously lected to mem bet ship. The principal speakers at the exercise were W. B McGorrisk, G. E. Clarke, E. C. Orrick, D. Danahy, F Quinn, J E. Walsh. W. H. Arnold, M. Burns, G. Tracey, J. P. O’Neill, E. A. Olis, M. Healy, W McCarthy, J Solon, Selections from classical authors were given out, and subjects for speeches at the next meeting. Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M, was unanimously elected general critic,
—The 11th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus’ Phil-opatrian S >cie>v was held Nov. 221. J. L. Castillo, B. B Baca. M. J. Wilbur, and G. B. Buchanan were elected members. Declamations were given by Masters H. Metz, Fred Fishel, A Richmond, J. Flynn, A. Campau, G. Deschamp, and P. Yrisarri. Readings were giv-m by E. Fenion, P. Archer, A. Brewster, H. Foote, W. Muhlke, J. Powell, H. Devitt, and A. Richmmd Vocal selections were rendered by Masters J. Ga’lagher, G. Tourtillotte, M. Wilbur, H. Snee, J. Devine, P. Yrisarri, D. C. Smith and Bailey.	.
—The 6 h regular meeting of the Archconf rat er nity of the Immaculate Conception was held Sunday evening, Nov. 27'h At this meeting were present Very Rev. Father Granger, Rev. Fathers Stoffel and Zihm, Bros. Leander, Albeit and Basil. Bro. BasiLkindly acted as organist. The ten minutes’ instruction was bv Rev. F Z ihm. W. Kennan explained the Jubilee; Jas. C- urtney read au essay on the Angelical Salutation; A synopsis of each wire given by N. Ewing.and C. Murdock. The programme, for the Feast, of the Immaculate Conception, Dec. 8th, was read The following were appointed ’o take part in th<* n< xt regular meeting: G. Castanedo, N. Ewing and J. Heffernan.
. After a few retnuks from the President, the meeting adjourned.
—At a regular meeting of the Columbian Literary, and Debating Society, held in their HhiI, on Thursday evening, November 24,1881. Prof. J F. Edwards in the chair, and Mr. E. J. Taggart acting as secretary, the minu e ol the previous m eting were read and approvid. M ssrs. Pr> ctor, Vander Heyden, Cummeford, and White, were elected members. In the Debate: “Are the Corporations of the Country R-sponsible for the Corruption of our El c ions, Legislatures, and our Courts ’’ ? W. Johnson, II Morse, E. Eager, and M. Falvey, sustained the sffir-mative; F. E Kuhn, H. Steis, S. Pei ley, and A. J ms upheld the neg.tive. Decision of this Dibate to be rendered nex< meeting. A vote of thanks was voted to Air. G Hagan member of ‘80, for rememberh g his ‘ Society comrade--.”
—The 13 h regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place Nov. 21-t. L F. Flor man, and Del. Saviers wire elided members. Compositions wee read by G. Rhodius, C. Rose, J. Fi-ndriik, J. Ruppe, G. Cas anedo, and J. Guthrie. Master Ed Fishel presented a well wri t n essay on the State of Illinois and its first settlers. Readings and declamations were given bv A. Browi e. J. G.iver, T. Hurlev, J. Heff man, W. H J ihu-ston, J. Kelly, C. Ktl irs, W. Keenan, C.Muidnck, C Purler, S Murdock, W. J. McCarthy, C. C. Echlin, G Schaefer, W. P. Mahon, H. Sells W. Coghlin, and A.. Coghlin. Master A. Browne clos. d the exercise by reading a well-written criticism on the previous meeting. Public readers for this week are as follows: C. Rose, C. Murdock, Ed
Fishel, G. Schaefer, C. C. Echlin, J. Guthrie, C. Porter, J. Grever, T. Hurley, and G. J. Rhodius.
—Very Rev. Father General inaugurated the Minims’ new refectory last Wednesday, the 39th anniversary of his first arrival at Notre Dime, Ind., the day being purposeljr selected, and a grand dinner was prepared for the occasion, which satisfied every desire of his y >u g friends. Among the gues’s were Very R-v. Father General, Very Rev. Fa- । thers L’E'ourneau, Reze, and Grmger; R-v. President Walsh; Rev. Father T-ohey; B'->rher El ward and the Minims’ pet feet, Brother Francis Rigis. At the close of the dinner Faiber General made quite a hum°rnus "peech, which he concluded by telling the Minims-to adhere to ! the advice he had given at the beginning of the session— to do their duty faithfully at each of their five daily visits to the refectory—that he was certain they would always find on their tables an abundant supp’y, but'if they needed anything they must ask for it, and if it was not given, to let him know. He also told them that he was so well pleased with .their polite manners at tub e, that he would often come to di le with them; this last rema1 k was I received with deafening applause, on the sub"id<_-nce of which Rev. President Walsh arose and made one of his | well-timed speeches, congratulating Ver" Rev. Father Gen- j eral on the many motives he had for n joicing’on the mem- J orable anniversary which recalls so many pleasant mem- *■	:
ories.
Roll of Honor.
[The'names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has giver entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed iu alphabetical order.]	.
'	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. At^erson, W. Arnold, J. C. Armijo, F. M. Barron, W. IT. Bailey, W. J. Browne, F. Baker, W. B. Berry, J. M. Boose, F. M Bell, W. S. Bolton, R. M. Becerra, T. E Bourbonia, J. G. Birry, D. Corry, 8. G. Clements, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, C. Coughanowr, W. Cleary, 0. E. Cripe, G. Clarke, N. ■ Comm er lord, F. Dever, A. D. Dorsey, J Diury. J. P. Delaney, D Danahy, A. Dehner, B. Eaton, E. J. Eager, F. Ewing, R. E. Fleming, J. Farre'l, T. F. Flynn, J. Falvey. M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburne, A. Graves, W. E Grout. H. A. G-s milling. F. W. Gallagher, W. W. Gray, A. J. Golonski, F. Greier, T. D. Healev, M. F. Hea’ey, A. .Tones, A. T. Jackson, W. Johnson, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kindel, A. Kues’inann M. I/vingston, H. Letterhos, J. C. Larkin. G. E. McEr'am. F. X. Murphy. W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis C. J. McDermott. H. W. Morse, J. F. Mai tin, W. B. McG rrisk, E. McGorrisk, W. McEnirv, J. Nash, H. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly. J. P. O'Neill, W. J. O'Connor, T. O'Rourke, E. 0. Orrck, J. N. Osher, E. A. Olis, F. Paquette, 8. VV. Pillars, S. 8. Perley, L. W. Proctor. W. E. Rue er, A. P. Schindler, J. E; Schalk, W. FT. Seholield, B. M. Sch< held, J. So'on, W. E. Smith, E E. Sm.il h, P. Shiekey, H. Steis, C. A. Tin'ey, E. J. Taggart, G. S. Tracy, I. Treon, S. B. Te>ry.,C. B. Van Dozen, W. H. Vander Hayden. F. Wheatly, F. War’d, F. 8. Weber, yj. A. White, J. E. Wash, E. D. Yrisarri, J. B. Zeitler, A. F. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. A. Browne, W. Bacon, W. H. Barron, A Brewster, G. B. Buchanan, G. 3. Castenado, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, A. S. C<>lgar, A. M. Coghlin. W. L. CoL’lilin, J. L Camillo, A'. M. Chirhari, J. A. Devine. G L Deschamp, M. Dolan, C. D'-voto, J. E. Diendel, F. M. Danielson, W. Dare, C. C. Echlin, N. 11. Ewing, Ed Fischel, Fred Fischel, M E. Freyermuth. J. H. Fend'-’.ck, R. French, J. Friedman, L. F. Florman, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, L. G. Gibert, W. M. Graham, M. 8 G' oley, J. G. Grever, E B. Gerlach. T. W. Guthrie, A. A. GaB.*P. G. Hoffman, H. N Hess, H. D. Hibbier'T. F. Hurley, G J. Haslam, J. L. Heffer: an, J. Halligan, W. E Jeannot, J. P. Jones, W. H.-Johnston, B. B. 8aea. C C Kolais, O K mpf. J. F. Kahman, W. D. Keen-n, F. H Kengei, H. A. Kilz S. Kaiz. 8. Lipman, F. C, Lund, J. Livingston, J. S. McGrath, 'L E M« Gra h, F. X. McPtii lips. C. M. Murdock’S. Murd ck, J. T. Neeson, J. E. Orchard, F. Orsin^er. W. 0. Piiiks-aft‘ H. P. Porter, 0 F. Poiter, 8. Rosenheim, A. L. Richmond. C. F Ro-e, J C. Rur-p'-, W. J. Ruprecht, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud D C. 8mith,C. D. Saviers, G. H. Schaefer, H. G. Sells, E. G Schmitt, D. G Tavh r. G. J. Stuber, A. T. Taggart, D Thomas, A. J. Vernier, J E. Warner, W. Warren, J W.' Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, P. 'J. Yrisarri, J. E. Zaehnlc, C, Zeigler.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	193
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. T. Berthelot, D. A. Piatt, J. H. Dwenger, D. A O'Connor, J. F. Nester, F. P. Nester, W. Prind ville, D. Prirdiville, W. J. Miller. W. Welch. D. McCawley, C. H. McGordon, L. Young, C. Young, E. Nash, C. Metz. W. P. Devine, R. V. Papin, M. E. Devitt. B. Otis, F. I. Otis, B Powell, E. McGrath, J. McGrath, J. J. McGrath, J. Chaves, C. D. Braudom, ,1. Beal, H. J. Ackerman, J. Frain, G. Gibson, P. 8. Gibson, P. P. Johnson, T. Ellis, P. Campau, C. Campau, J. L. Rose, F. Coad, E. Chirhart, J. T. Kelly, A. J. Kelly, J. A. Kelly, A. Roberts, H. C. Dirksmeyer, H. Hynes. M. Byrne, L. Graham, C. Quinlan, J. Tong, O. P. Dillon, V. Rebori, F. Scott, T. Norf >lk, G. Kin-r,E. Adams, F. Whitney, W. Walsh, Ryan Devereux, T. Curran, E. Thomas, W. Masi, G. Price.
Class Honors.
[In the'following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.	-
Joseph Conrtney, P. Yrisarri. A. Browne, J. Neeson, W. Jeannot, Harry Snee, Ed. Fenlon, J. Kabmsnn H. Kibbler, S. Lippmann, F. Lund, J. Livingstone, M. Dolan, F. . Fischel C. Porter, H. Porter, Geo. Haslam, E. Orchard, A. Richmond. 8. Murdock, C. Murdock, E. Gerlach. Jos. Ruppe, F. Felix, C. Devoto. W. Ruprecht, Jos. Castillo, A. Gall, 8. Katz, J. Halligan, L. Florman, A. Drendel. L. Rivaud, R. Becerra, A. Golom-k’, W. Browne, J. Larkin, H. Morse, J. Schalk, C. Coughanowr. G. Ciements, A. Jackson,F. Murphy, W. John ■ son, F. Martin. E. Paquette. F. O’Rourke, H. Steis,W. McEn-iry, I. Treon, M. Foote, H. Foote, A. Brewster.
One 21 Ue West of Notre Dame University.
Card to Parents:—There is no vacation during the Cbristn^as holidays. If parents wish their daughters to go home at that time we earnestly request that our classes be not broken in upon by pupils leaving before the 21st of Dec., and that they return promptly to resume studies by the 3d of January.
Prefect of Studies.
—Dancing lessons were resumed on the 26th ult.
—On Thanksgiving Day the pupils enjoyed the traditional recreation and turkey dinner. In the evening the Juniors had their impromptu entertainment, which was a complete success.
—The Feast of St. Lucretia was piously celebrated by the Catholic pupils, all of whom went to Holy Communion. Manv beautiful floral offerings were presented to the altar, showing an affectionate devotion to that now popular saint.
—The impromptu entertainment given by the Senior pupils on Thanksgiving eve was a very spicy affdr, and pr< ved that, while they have a lively sense of the humorous and grotesque, they know wejl how to enjoy both within the limits ot a delicate propriety.
—The readings at the Sunday evening reunion were as foll ows: “May Days” [Alice Carey), read by Miss Sarah McKennon; “ La Rose et le Bruison ” (par une Soeur de St. J <seph), M:ss Jenny Barlow; “Der LOve in Florenz” (von Bernhaide), Miss Mary Dillon.
(Selections from “Kosa Mystica” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly papers, edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
The Bells of our Native Land. •
How sweet the sound when homeward bound We touch our native shore,
To hear again the sweet refrain .
Of bells we loved of yore.
Cathedral dome—Convent home,
Howe’er grand or lowly,
The place we dwell—our hearts will swell. With feeling tender, holy,
As on our ear the sound so dear
To memory comes chiming,
Like silver tones, from seraph zones With purest thoughts all rhyming.
In German land are chimes so grand, Their fame can never perish;
Her exiled ones—her Christian sons
Those holy chimes e’er cherish
As strains divine, that with the Rhine
Are linked with holiest feelings
They long once more to see that shore, And hear those sacred pealings.
From Irish hearts, in foreign parts, 8 id tears, sweet tears come swelling
As memory floats to where the notes
Of chapel bells are telling
The hour of prayer, surcease from care, Those bells that sound so grand on
The river Lee—where minstrelsy Immortalizes Shandon.
Their welcome chimes bring by-gone times As echoes sweet and holy
From bel'ry dome, and home, sweet home, E’er loved, though grand or lowly.
The grand romance of sunny France
Delights her sons and daughters, '
Who seek once more their native shore
As o’er the Seine’s bright waters
They p’ainly hear—rich and clear,
Sonorous grandly ringing,
Those bells of fame, Great Notre Dame • Their gushing welcome singing.
We too may claim'a’Notre Dame Whose air with music quivers, From sacred bells whose welcome swells
O’er our own lakes and rivers;
And when we roam from this dear home, Fond memory’s ever clinging
To the glorious sound, rich, profound, Our Lady’s Bells’ sweet ringing.
The Piivilege of a Christian Woman.
Much has been written and said on the subject of Woman’s Rights, and also of Woman’s Wrongs, so, by way of a change, we will say a few words on the Privileges of the Christian Woman.	*
How admirably is shown forth the economy of Divine Providence in the constitution of the social body! In the order of His Providence it is man’s privilege to astonish the world by the grandeur of his inventions, by the mag
194	THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nificence of his military exploits, and by his successes in the world of letters or of politics.
In the spiritual order, man is unquestionably the con spicuous head, for God Himself has given him this exalted position in His holy Church. But it is the Christian woman’s happy privilege to be, as it were, the hidden heart that furnishes the vivifying principle which nourishes all that is pure, noble and elevating, in the social scale. The brain, indeed, directs its exterior action, but the heart gives activity to the powers of genius, to the sublime and noble thoughts of the mind, and to all its grand schemes for promoting the welfare of mankind.
The Christian woman is not indeed the head but rather the heart,—the heart of society which sends forth through its myriad arteries those principles of peace and patience, of purity and humility, ever watchfully nourishing that spirit of self-sacrifice which is the special prerogative of the Christian woman.
May we not also claim that it is her holy privilege, like the gentle dew of heaven, to sustain the tender stem of the feeble sapling till it attains that strength and vigor which will enable it to stand like the majestic oak or the heaven-aspiring poplar, unharmed by the burning heat of the sun or by the wintry storm?
Yes, it is truly her special privilege to nourish unceasingly the tender plants of virtue whose fragrance fills the atmosphere of Jiome with a tich and delicate perfume; and how exquisitely touching is the sweet odor of their sympathy when the heart is bruised by sorrow or crushed by woe.
True it is that the enriching influence of the gentle dew does not always fall on good ground, but often on barren soil, and even on rugged rocks; but this does not militate against its power to enrich the genial soil and its privilege of blessing the drooping flowers with its cheering aid.
But when, and under what circumstances, did the privileges of the Christian woman begin ? At that sublime moment when the Woman by excellence, Mary Immaculate, was taken, as it were, into the Divine Councils, and responded to the angelic ambassador sent from the Court of Heaven, “May it be done unto me according to Thy word.”
It was the glorious privilege of this first Christian Woman to deliver her sex from the humiliation and abjection incurred by our too confiding Mother Eve, and to decide the destiny of the race of Adam.
From this sublime moment does woman date the possession of those most precious privileges from which, like pure and holy fountains, she draws all her peace, her joy and her dignity.
The economy of Divine Providence is indeed most consoling, for all are willing to accord to woman the privileges she so tenderly cherishes. Let the sterner sex n joice in great conquests, and court renown in every varying sphere where fame or duty calls them; let them seek edat through glorious v c ories and unnumbered slain; it is the Christian woman’s privilege to bind up the wounds, to watch, with gentle generous care, the flickering lamp.of life as the grim reaper stalks with his chilling breath through the serried ranks of the field, or, as with contagion’s dreaded wand he smites the peaceful hamlet or the crowded city. On the field of battle, in the dreary hosp-tals, in the houses of penal correction, it is woman’s spec. ial privilege to be the messenger of peace to the suffering, and of consolation to the heart broken.
Let the wily politician waste his time and exhaust his energies in carrying cut some pet scheme; it is the Chris" tian woman’s privilege to be spared this exciting turmoil, and in the midst of gentle and refining duties and influences to preserve the purity of her heart, and the peace and happiness of her home.
Willing, indeed, is she to waive all right to either political or military glory, for with such rights come harsh duties unsuited to her sex and unbecoming to the last degree in true, virtuous womanhood. It is the Christian woman’s privilege to deal with crime and misery not as the representative of Divine justice, but as the angel of Divine mercy.
Countless privileges could be named, but the one preeminently suggested by our theme as the most precious and sacred, is the privilege of planting and nourishing seeds of piety in the hearts of the young and of preserving in the home circle that piety and elevation of character peculiar to the Christian family.
Yes, it is the Christian woman's special privilege to mquld the hearts of the young, for when by death or misfortune the little one is deprived of a fond mother’s care, holy Church has provided in her female religious orders, tender guardians to train them up in virtue and religion, and the noblest of Christian men—the saintliest of priests—the holiest of bishops, when recalling their tender childhood, remember with grateful affection the Christian women to whose tender care and pious training they owe, under God, their nobility and sublime dignity.
Of this fact, the renowned St. Augustine, Alfred the Great, and St. L mis of France are a few of the many well-known historical examples.
Do the privileges of the Christian woman end with earth and time? Not so. Faith teaches us that in the heavenly court, above the patriarchs and prophets, the apostles and martyrs—nay, even above the Cherubim and Seraphim, at the right hand of the Divine Son, is enthroned His Immaculate Mother, the first Christian woman, to whom, by His sweet will and Providence, woman owes her most precious and glorious privileges.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses A. Cavenor, C. Claffey, E. Galen, S. Han -bury, L Pool, 8. Walsh, M. Clark, A Dillon, M. Feehan, L. Fox, C. Bland, M Beal, E. Call, E. Chrischellis, M. Campbell, C. Donnelly, R Fishburne, L. Fendrick, A. Glennon, J. Hene-berry, L. Lancaster. 8. McKenna, E. Na*h, A. Nash, A. Price, A. Rasche, M. A. Ryan, M. Simms, E. Slattery, E. Shickey, M. Tanner, E. Vander Hayden, H. Van Patten, L. Black, L. Coryell, E.Call, M. Call, M. Fishburne, H. Hackett, E McCoy, A. Mowry, C. Pease, J. Owens, Margaret Price, A. Rulison. J. Reilly, V. Reilly, G. Taylor, E. Tnompson, M. Wolfe, L. English, C. Fenlon, M. Flemming, K. Mulligan, M. Metzger,-M. Newton, M. H. Ryan, M Reullinger, L. Williams, L. Wagner, M. Behler, B. English, Eldridge, A. Gavan, M. Ives, M. Mulvey, H. Hicks, I. Smith, 2d Tablet—Misses J. Barliw, J. Butts, A. Castanedo, P. French, M. Green, B. Legnard, A Leydon, N. Keenan, C. Rosing, M. Garrity, N. Hicks, J. Pampell, M. Wiley, A. Waters, • A. McGordou, S. McGordon.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence— Misses C. Ginz, C. Lancaster, H. Ramsey, 8. Semmes, J. Bpangler, A. Clark, M. Chirhart, M. Coogan, M. Dillon, L. Heneberry, M. Morgan, W. Mosher, G. O'Neil, M. Paquette, C. Patterson, F. Robertson, J. Krick, V. Lewis, M. Chaves, C. Richmond, M. Smith, D. Best, Mary Otis. 2d Tablet—P. Ewing, M. Rodgers, M. Ducey, E. Mattis, A. Wright, A. Welch, A. Watrous, L. Robinson, M. Wilkins, M. Otero, M. Coyne, S. King.

THS: NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
195
=	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
' Masses M. Otis, M. Paul, E. Rigney, A. Sawyer, J. McKennon, ; E. Burtis, 8. Campan, H. Castanedo, M. Barry.
:	THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
i	SPECIAL COURSE.
; Misses E. Galen and A. Gordon.
■	1st Class—Miss Fendrick.
’	2d Division—Misses M. Campbell, M.Wiley.
2d Class—Miss H. Hackett.
.	2d Div.—Misses C. Bland, M. Beal, C. Donnelly, J. Reilly.
3d Class—Misses H.Coryell, J Henebeiry, Mande Price.
•I 2d Div.—Misses V. Barlow, Mande Casey, K. Fenlon, L. Fox I L. French, H. Keenan, A. Leydon, Mary Ryam
1 4m Clsss—Misses E. Chrischellis, C. Claffey, A. Dillon,M J Garrity, A. MeGordon, Ave Price, C. Rosing, E. Shicky. ' i	2d Div.—Misses M. Call, M. Casey, L. English, M. Fishburn,
.i M. Flemming, A. Gavan, M. Morgan, A. Rulison, M. Simms, E. I Todd, H. Van Patten.
1	5 th Class—Misses M. Behler, M. Ducey, M. Feehan, C. Ginz
i L. Lancaster, K. Lancaster, S. MeGordon, S. McKenna, A. < Nash, H. Ramsey, M. Rentlinger, M. H. Ryan, A. Rasche, F. •{ Robertson, E. Slattery, E. Thompson, E. Vander Hayden, A. i Waters, L. Wagner.
.	2d Div.—Misses M. Clark, A. Clark, E. Call, M. Chirhart, F.
I Castanedo, C. Ducey, M. Dillon, B. Legnard, M. Metzger, Margaret Price, C. Patterson, E. Papin, V. Reilly, G. Taylor.
,i 6th Class—Misses J. Butts, M. Coogan, B. English, A. Glen; non, I. Hackett, H. Hicks, E. McCoy, M. Newton, J. Owens, } J. Spangler, M. Tanner, M. Thomann, A. Watrous, L. Wil-i liams, A. Watson, M. Wilkins.
h	2d Div.—Misses H. Davenp >rt, M. Fisk, F. Hibbins, J. Krick,
: M. Mulvey, H. Nash, G. O'Neill, C. Pease, I. Smith, E. Wright, ' I. Wolfe, M. Wolfe,
1 7th Class—Misses L. Black, M. Chaves, R. Fishburne, C. 1 Gitchell, E Gitchell, M Green, S. Hanbury, K. Mulligan, A. ? Martin, E. Mattes, M. Otero, M. Paiker, M. Richardson, M. i Rodgers, A. Ri hardson, A. Richmond, A. Wright.
:	8th Class—Misses Barry, Brown, Coyne, Eager, King, Mary
| Otis, Schmidt, Sawyer.
)	9th Class—Misses Ives and Welch.
; 10th Class—Misses Best and Otis.
i
;	harp.
j 1st Class—Miss Galen.
j	4th Class, 2d Div.—Miss Garrity.
j 6th Class—Misses M. Dillon, L. French, E. Hicks, H.
i Keenan, M. Otero, M. Price.	-
'	VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
<	2d Class—Miss C. Hackett.
!■	3d Class—Miss French, Rentlinger, H. Hackett J. Reilly.
!	4th Class—Misses Vander Hayden, Rasche, Fenlon, Camp-
• bell.
J 5th Class—Misses C. Wall, Waters, McCoy, M. Casey, DilI Ion, Coryell, M. Ryan, Van Patten. Beal, M. Ryan, B. English, t Mary Casey, M. and K. Ducey, A. Gavan, Robertson, H. and.A. ; Nash, J. Spangler.
•	THEORETICAL CLASSES.	'
•	HARMONY.
Miss L. Fendrick.
WRITTEN EXERCISES.
Mieses Fox, Campbell, M. Ryan, J. Reilly, A. Dillon, Coryell Van Patten, Fenlon, Barlow, M. Price, Chrischellis. Keenan, Donnelly, Behler, Beal, Vander Hayden, A. Nash, K. Lancaster, Ramsey, M. Clark, Morgan, L. Lancaster.
I	distinguished in classes.
i	’
I Misses Rentlinger, A. Price, Newton, Casey, M. Fishburne* !• Levdon, Mulvey, McCoy, M. Cail, M. Dillon, Chirhart, A! Rasche, H. Hicks, Watrous, Smith, M. Wolfe, I. Wolfe, M> Thomann, Thompson, Rulison, R. Fishburne, Tanner, Rich's mond, Eager, M. Otis, Krick, Mulligan, Schmidt, Sawyer, I Otero’, Chaves, Hibbins.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, -Aisro JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
YOU SHOULD TAKE IT.
IT IS UNEQUALLED IN POINT OF EXCELLENCE.
The People’s Favorite Newspaper!!
The Detroit Free Press.
It should be the aim, as it Is the duty, of every man to mike his home as comfortable and attractive as possible. A good newspaper, pure in tone and elevating in its characteristics, is a most essential requisite to that end. Such a paper is THE DETROIT WEEKLY FREE PRESS. No home can be complete without it. The unlimited words of praise bestowed upon it, and the fact that it is universally quoted are the best evidences of its unbounded popularity and of its peculiar fitness for family reading.
No otherjournal contains so many attractive and original features. Readers of every class, the old and the young, will always find in its well filled columns something to entertain and instruct. It is unique among newspapers; there is no other like it.
With THE FREE PRESS each week Is sent its delightful little supplement,	.
THE HOUSEHOLD.
It is the especial property of the ladies, and is devoted to the discussion of social and domestic topics, fancy-work, toilet and cooking recipes, and household matters generally. Its lady contributors are numbered by the thousand. It cannot fail tn to be appreciated. Every subscriber or purchaser of THE WEEKLY FREE PRESS is entitled to receive a copy of THE HOUSEHOLD without extra charge.
The price of The Weekly Free Press and Household is §2.00 per year, Postage paid.
We offer to subscribers the following unparalleled inducement :
To every one who sends ns Two TJollars—the regular subscription price of the paper—we will send THE WEEKLY FREE PRESS and HOUSEHOLD FoR ONE YEAR, and in addition thereto—free of cost to the subscriber—one copy of
The American Popular
PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY.
Which contains every useful word to be found in the English Language, with its true meaning, derivation, spelling and pronunciation.
In addition the “Pronouncing Dictionary” contains many pages of information upon other subjects, making it an indispensable book of reference and a compendium of facts of a historical, political or business nature. In this respect it is a cyclopedia in miniature, covering a range too wide to dwell upon here. It is a perfect Library of Reference in One Handy Volume. It contains over 500 pages, is printed with clear type on good paper, and is strongly bound in cloth.
The best Two Dollars’ Worth ever offered to the Public.	•
Address
THE FREE PRESS CO.,
Detroit, Mich.
• . W. W. Kimball, MANUFACTURER OF Pianos and Organs.
OFFICE AND WAREROOMS: Cor. State and Adams Streets, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
Agent, S. D. ROBERSON, Old Post-Office Building', nov5’81-ly	South Bend, Indiana.
196	■	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Name in l^ for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
j. f. ebwaros.
Notre Dame, Indiana. '
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems, BY MAURICE F. EGAN. Published to Aid in the Rebuilding on Notre Dame University.
-	Brice, $1, postpaid.
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, .	Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
On and after Siptcmber 1,1881, trains mH have South Bend as folkvs:
GOING EAST.	.
2 32 a. m, Chicago and St. Louis Express, .over Alain Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. m.; Cleveland 2.25 p. tn. ;
Buffalo, 8 00 p. m."	•
11.23'a. m, Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p. m.; Cleveland, 10.12,p. m.; Buffalo, 9 55 a. m.
9 32 p. tn., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.45 a. m.; .Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m.
12 36 p. in., Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p. m., Cleveland, 10.10 p. tn. ;
Buffi lo, 4 am.	‘
6.21 p. m, Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.35 p. m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a. tn.
’	. -	’	GOING WEST.	.
2.32 a. m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3 25 a. m.; Chicago, 610 a. m.
448 a. in., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5 45 a. m.; Chicago, 8 20 a. m.	.
1.15 p. m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 215 p. m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p. m.; Chicago, 5.00 p. m.
4.26 p. m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 518 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p. m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.	‘	■
EASTWARD.	.	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Express.	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Chicago	Leave Grand Crossing	 “ Miller’s	 “ Chesterton	 “ Otis....Z	 “ Laporte	Arrive Laporte	Leave South Bend	 “ Mishawaka	 “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	 “ Cleveland	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	 “ Boston	 “	7 35 a.m. S 09 “ 9 10 “ 9 40 “ 10 00 “ 10 23 “ 10 2i5 “ 11 23 “ 11 30 “ 11 55 “ 5 35 p.m. 10 12 “ 10 Io a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. . 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ ‘ 11 52 a.m. ' 12 27 “ 12 52 “ . 1 17 “ 1 22 “ 2 32 “ 2 40 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 25 p.m. 8 15 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m.	3 30 p.m.
					
					
		11 15 “ * 11 35 “ 11 37 “ 12 36 p.m.	7 42 “ 8 05 “ 8 30 “ 9 12 “ 9 40 “ 10 00 “		
					5 50 “ 5 52 “ 6 37 “
		1 10 “			7 00 “
		10 10 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m. 9 45 “	7 05 a.m. .	1 25 p m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		1 45 a.m. 7 40 “ 10 10 p.m.
						
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend. .
.' J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l. Manager. ’ ‘ CHARLES'PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.