·--.. ....._;.:._.-:--;, 
--~ 



NEWS 04 
CLUBBING CONTROVERSY Annie Robinson 
Are local nightspots friendly to same-sex couples? 
THE FAITH FACTOR Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Scholastic: examines the role offaith on the Notre Dame campus,.. 

CAMPUS LIFE 16 

ELEVENTH-HOUR ALTERNATIVES Claire Sobczak 
Tight on time and money? Scholastic suggests some Spring Break road trips without rules. 

ENTERTAINMENT 26 

STAGING HATRED Katie Galeone 
"The Laramie Project" and the entire Spring ArtsFest focus on themes of tolerance and reconciliation. 

SPORTS 34 
.FOILING THE COMPETITION Mike Laskey . S~n.ior Alicja Kryczalo excels in fencing -as a three-time · NCAA champion-and.in her studies.· 





HUMOR 38 
LUMBERJACKIE Erik'Powers 
The author welcomes football Head Coach Charlie Weis back to life under the Dome. 

From the Editor . . . . . . .. 2 Cribs .......•......18 Senior Farewell . . . . . . .. 3 Snapshot . . • . . . . . . . . 20 Staff Editorial. . . . . . . . . . 4 Campus Watch. . . . . . . . 25 ND Notebook .........5\ Scholastic Interview . . . . ·. 40 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 
SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 

Losing my religion? 
It just doesn't make sense: How could students possibly leave Notre Dame 
feeling less spiritual than when they started? We decided to delve into how 
religious identity is formed among students at Notre Dame. 
Scholastic's Nick Kolman-Mandle looked into this paradox, surveying current Notre Dame students to see how faith fits into students' lives and examining the forces that shape the spiritual lives of students. Scholastic also conducted its own unscientific survey with a random selection of students in hopes to seeing if a student's commitment to his or her faith waned considerably or strengthened dramatically -or did something in between -during his or her four-year tenure at Notre Dame. Please see Page 11 for Kolman-Mandle's in-depth look at one of the most central topics at this Catholic university. 

We humbly present ... 
look for 
ISSUE II Juniors Mo Ertel and Jim Ryan as the new incoming co-editors in chief of 
on 
Scholastic. Both have worked for Scholastic since their freshman years. This past
MAR 17 
year, Ertel was Scholastic's copy chief and Ryan was assistant managing editor. 
And we bid you adieu. Thanks for the long, strange year. We're a tough act to follow, but we wish them well as they toil until the sun comes up. And re­member, when you see the Grab 'N' Go ladies start their days, you know your night is almost over. 



;fr/J,,!Jr 
Annie Robinson Mike Borgia Editor in Chief Editor in Chief 


2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
Vol. 146, No. 10 • FEB 24 2005 
SCHOLaSTIC 
Editors in Chief 
Mike Borgia 
Annie Robinson 
Managing Editor Jennifer Osterhage 
Executive Editor 
Meghan Gowan 
Executive Design Editor Nick Abrams 
General Manager Christopher Kelly 
News Emily Paladino, editor Alisa Finell!, assistant 
Campus Life 
Lauren Wilcox. editor 
Katie Solan, assistant 
Sports 
Christopher Meskill, editor 
Entertainment 
Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments 
Erik Powers 
Design Neil Ryan, assistant David Redenbaugh, assistant Amy Meyers Jana Stewart Julie Ruffin 
Illustration 
Christine Graham 
Photography 
Phil Hail, editor Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Copy 
Mo Ertel, chief Jennifer Wadkins, assistant Emma Grail Drew Dodge Doug Schlarman 
Distribution Bryan Lowery 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 

COVER DESIGN 
NICK ABRAMS 
COVER PHOTOGRAPY 
PHIL HALL 
Disce Quasi Semper Victunts Vive Quasi Ci-ns 1Worit11nts 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or: in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for u·nso­licited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. It is never OK to steal juice boxes from the homeless. All letters must Include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain Instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify vOlume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed In Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the 
student body. · 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 
2005-2006 EDITORS IN CHIEF ELECTED 
Scholastic welcomes current juniors Jim Ryan and Mo Ertel as the 2005-2006 editors in chief. Ryan, an American Studies major from Dallas, Texas, and Ertel, an English major from St. Charles, Ill., have spent the better part of their past three years in the palatial underbelly of South Dining Hall, toiling away at Scholastic. 
Ryan could not be reached for comment, as he is busy working as Scholastic's foreign correspon­dent in Toledo, Spain for the semester. When asked for comment about her impending initiation into the realm of the magazine editrix, Ertel asked, "Can't you just make something up?" 

THANKS & FAREWELL 

Annie Robinson, co-editor in chief, will be returning to the San Francisco Bay area to pursue a career in communications.· In a short time. she hopefully will overcome her debilitating inferiority complex to Christopher Kelly. One thing she won't miss about South Bend is her penchant for frequent ice slips. 
Mike Borgia, co-editor in chief, hopes to be working in the "real world" next year in journalism, PR or marketing. but would settle happily for breathing and eating. A seven-year trip to graduate school in English is also a possibility. If all else fails -or even if it doesn't, he hopes to found a cult around Bill Belichick. 


Meghan Gowan, executive editor, will be wed in our very own 
Basilica to an ND grad over the summer. She anticipates with great excitement marital bliss, as well as the $16 hand towels from her registry. In the fall, she will attend Georgetown Law and (hopefully) become the proud mommy of a puppy named Lucy. 
Jennifer Osterhage, managing editor, plans to return to the St. Louis area to pursue a career in PR or communications. In the meantime, she will continue to play the find-a-postion-when­it-becomes-available game. She will sorely miss late nights in the basement of SDH, when everything becomes funny at 3 a.m. 

Phil Hall, photography editor. plans on going back to New York City to attend the International Center in Photojournalism. From there, he hopes to work overseas as a conflict photographer, finally making learning Arabic worthwhile, but will probably end_ up taking photos of puppies and children at Sears. 
Jen Wadkins, copy editor, will graduate this year with a lengthy list of people she hates solely because of their writing abilities, a degree in two fairly useless majors, and no job. Her aspirations to be a trophy wife have been scrapped, so she will move to London, adopt a cat, and be a bum. 
Nick Abrams, executive design editor, is going to pursue a successful career in graphic design. With no specific job at press time, he promises not to return to South Bend and be one of those creepy older guys. He has plans to move back to his home town of San Diego, discovered by Germans in 1904 ... 
Nell Ryan, design, is futureless. She has plans to pick up several new hobbies with her free time after graduation. The list includes sleeping and making a list of potential new hobbies. 

Christopher Kelly, general manager, will be working in Manhattan with the consulting firm McKinsey & Company after graduation. His favorite Scholastic moment was when he realized laundering the magazine's money would be much easier in the 
''general manager'' position. 


Nick Kolman-Mandie, entertainment editor, has decided that if he ever plans on pursuing a career as a journalist, he'd better learn to live like one. He'll be spending next year doing service work, living with the poor and disadvantaged in Latin America, and developing much-needed character. 
Emily Paladino, news editor, plans to be swept off her foundational appendages by a mysterious man on a motorcycle sometime before graduation. She will travel across the country with him, and use her political science major to work for a magazine about vacuums. 


Beth Murphy, assistant entertainment editor, will be heading where he will start working at Deloitte & Touche in August as a Mike lselin, assistant sports editor, will be moving to Chicago 
to Africa for two months for service work. Barring the event that tax consultant. In the time between graduation and August, he 
she catches malaria or eats peanuts (her personal kryptonite), has plans for a cross-country camping trip and a cruise. 
she'll return to the U.S. before moving to France for a year to teach English ... but she has nothing against America, she swears. 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICFAREWELL 3 


;-... ..... ,,, ___ r-·;·-/,-··, f·: 
! i; ! . f ·, ( 

Improve communication about violence against women 
STEALING COLORS 
SCHOLASTICEXECUTIVE STAFF 
V-Day and the American Heart Association are good causes 
or many Notre Dame men, nothing arouses discontent quite like a woman say­
and all, but how are they raising 
F
ing "vagina." A number of Notre Dame men eagerly protested "The Vagina 
awareness by telling people to Monologues" because they deemed the language chosen by women to discuss 
wear red on Feb. 14? Isn't that female sexuality as derogatory towards women. Far fewer men vocally expressed sup­
the traditional color to wear on port with nearly as much fervor as that demonstrated by those who protested "The 
Valentine's Day? 
Vagina Monologues." This discrepancy in reactions reveals a tendency among many men, especially Catholic men, to resist discussing women's sexuality outside of the


OUR ELECTION 
context of the "procreative feminine ideal" -to think of women's sexuality as only

ENDORSEMENT 
reproduction-based. This concept avoids discussion ofviolent sexual behavior againstYou can't contradict Scholastic's women, which is often exacerbated by the excessive consumption ofalcohol on college power and influence. 
campuses. Date rape and other forms of sexual assault still seem to be taboo topics

LENTEN DIET 
despite V-Dayweek in February and Sexual Assault Awareness Weekin the fall. Thus, 

RESOLUTIONS 
earnest education is shortchanged in favor of superficial rhetoric. You know that giving up junk During the polemic-infused past weeks, few have recognized that both sides share a foods, sweets, etc. doesn't count common inspiration -the belief that violence against women (however one perceives it) as a religious sacrifice if your real needs to be addressed. "What do we mean by "addressing" the issue? Does it imply that motivation is to drop five pounds ifthe topic ofsexual assault is merely broached, we are therefore absolved of our duty to 
discuss it? 
by Easter. 
We, as a campus, have participated in dialogue, but failed to seek solutions beyond WVFI IN THE DINING winning the debate over the performance of Eve Ensler's play. Now that "The Vagina HALLS Monologues" is over, it is important to refocus the discussion on violence against women 
We like listening to music in so that we can seek ways to end the violence. Though rape is reported and talked about infrequently, many women testify that it occurs -both on campus and off. The pervasivethe dining halls, but we also like perception ofthe university community as protected from dangerous influences beyond to talk to our friends without the bubble often distracts us from discussing the violence that takes place within. 
screaming across the table. 
To resolve this problem, more men must be aware of the actions that constitute violence against women. It seems that some men -·as well as women -think ofviolence against 
SUDDEN INFLUX OF E­
women as beating or sexual abuse, but alcohol consumption frequently blurs the lines 

MAIL PORN 
between consensual sexual activity and rape. "No really means yes" is a common joke that Why the onslaught of further trivializes this serious issue. 
advertisements for older 
By instituting a more personal, comprehensive first-year program to educate freshmen women? Did OIT sell our afs about sexual violence -particularly date rape -the university can work toward forming ids? a community that is truly safe, not just one tliat gives the appearance as such. The current 
program requires freshmen to watch a video documentary in a large group. Having actual 

FLIP FLOPPERS IN 
rape victims -especially those from Notre Dame -speak in tl1e dorms will benefit WINTER students more; students will be able to hear personal testimony firsthand from a fellow Guys who wear sandals in 30-Notre Dame student. Bringing the issue to male students' residences in a very personal degree weather while it is snowing and proximate way will undoubtedly have a greater effect and will facilitate dialogue 
without the intimidation of a large group setting. We must break down the barriers of
or raining -and has been for 
discomfort ):hat prevent us from discussing such difficult topics. Only then will we be able months on end -are trying too to actively seek solutions. · hard. Is it supposed to be some Just like with eating disorders or diversity issues, we cannot afford to limit our attention sort of boastful display of their 
to violence against women to one week each February. 
fearless manhood? 
We all share a common goal of elevating the status ofwomen and are aware that violence against women is a problem. Let's collectively take steps to change that. . 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 24 FEBRUARY 2005 
Jl."@/,:(ojt{i.iij@NEW:SJ!---------------------~ 
1






A Roorn ¥1ith a Cross 
Who decides what dorms have m-room 
crucifixes? 
DAVEPOELL 
oe Schellinger prides himself on be­ing the man who !mows how to secure
J
crucifixes for anyone or any place on 
mpus. As the director ofAcademic Space 
Management, he is responsible for supply­
ing crucifixes to all academic and instruc­
tional spaces on campus and frequently 
is inundated with requests for crucifixes 
from staff and faculty members alike. If 
you need a crucifix, he's your man. 
Currently, the university policy re­
garding the installment of crucifixes in 
campus academic spaces stems from a 
long-standing tradition. Upon joining 
Academic Space Management, Schellinger 
discovered that the unofficial university 
policy came directly from the Office ofthe 
According to Jeffrey Schaub, the di­rector of the Office of Residence Life and Housing, the administration takes no responsibility for the installation of dorm room crucifixes. "We have never encouraged the practice nor have we ever discouraged the practice," Schaub says. The official university policy is that there is no university policy. Ultimately, the decision of whether or not to install crucifixes in each dorm room is left to the discretion ofeach dorm's rector or room's tenants, but Joe Schellinger will provide the crosses for all who want them. 
Schellinger enthusiastically has taken up the business of crucifixes. In the five years since he became the director of 
President. According to Schellinger and Academic Space Management, he has the Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S .C., the direc-A adhered strictly to an official rule of tor ofCampus Ministry, Notre ; conduct regarding the upkeep Dame does not have a written l¦=i1::; of crucifixes. For example, if a 
rule about crucifixes. "It's just  
one of:those things that people know we  -~,  
do around here," Rocca says.  ·  
The university policy regarding the  

placement of crucifixes in dorm rooms . also can be described as ambiguous. As in the academic settings, there is no writ­ten policy demanding the placement of crucifixes in dorms. However, unlike academic settings, the dorms currently do not carry any tradition that ensures the placement ofcrucifixes in rooms. Ac­cording to Rocca, the issue of refraining from placing crucifixes in dorm rooms is a matter of respect for holiness. "I would hesitate to put a crucifix in a dorm room because ofthe ways dorm rooms are deco­rated," he says. 
However, at least one dorm -Pan­gborn Hall -,-does have crucifixes in most of its rooms. According to Rector Heather Rakoczy (ND '93), the dorm's rooms have had 
crucifixes since the building was built in 1955, but their presence has not been controversial during the seven years she has served as rector. "When I ~ent here, [dorms] did have them," Rakoczyremem­bers from her years in Lyons Hall. 
crucifix is broken or damaged 
in anyway, a specific procedure must be 
followed out of respect for the blessed 
object. First, an attempt is made to repair 
the crucifix. In the cases where this can­
not be done, Schellinger prefers to hold 
onto the damaged crucifixes until the 
construction of a new building. When 
the ground has been laid for the new structure, he then buries the damaged crucifixes beneath the foundation. Two years ago, Schellinger replaced the stan­dard 12-inch wooden cross that hosted a gold corpus with a design that displays a flesh-colored Jesus so that the crucifixes would be more life-like. 
Crucifixes usually are ordered in quan­cities of 100 at a time to accommodate new campus structures and the inevitable faculty requests. If a faculty member wants a crucifix for an office, however, there is a $25 charge to cover the costs ofthe order. The responsibility oforder­ing these crucifixes usually falls to Rocca. "Whenever a new building goes up, I'm on the lookout for crosses," Rocca says. Once the crosses are blessed by a Holy Cross priest, they are ready for installa­tion. D 





TopS 
Ways to Survive Spring Break in South Bend 
5. 
Stock up on Grab and Go. 
Those extra apple juices will tide you over during the lonesome mornings, afternoons, evenings. 
4. 
Frequent Fun Tan so that you 
appear as tan as your friends 
when they return from break 
spent in a more tropical 
destination. 
3 Practice the art of feng-shui by 
• arranging your dorm room so as to keep depressive spirits away. 
2. 
Make a townie friend. Then, 
participate in regular bar­
hopping schedule. Club 23 
Monday night, Corby's Tuesday 
night, State Wednesday night, 
Thursday Heartl'.1nd, Friday and 
Saturday house party and new 
friend's friend's house. 
I. Learn to love yourself. 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 
.~GHIOIJ:AST!IG NEWs::·---------------------­

At a Catholic university like Notre Dame, being pro-life is not unusual. Notre Dame students consistently express concern over such traditional issues regarding life as abor­tion, the death penalty and euthanasia. Increasingly, however, some students are trying to redefine life issues in more non-traditional ways -ways that some say conflict with Catholic teaching. In mid-January, approximately 250 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students traveled to Washington, D.C. to partici­pate in the annual March for Life. Notre Dame students often garner criticism for their lack of political activism; however, the anti-abortion cause has received con­sistently strong support from students and faculty because of its foundation in Catholic doctrine. Senior Meg Hunter-Kilmer, who has been an active member of Right to Life since her freshman year, describes her commitment to the anti-abortion cause: "I march because my cousin was aborted. I march because my friend's older siblings were aborted ... One third ofmy genera­tion has been slaughtered." Hunter-Kilm­er says that her strong commitment to the cause is dependent on her prayer-life and rooted not in her Catholic faith, but in her understanding ofscience. "I'm not anti-abortion because I'm Catholic ... the science is what convicts me." 
Other student participants perceive the march as representative of the Catholic beliefs that shape the mission of the uni­versity. Sophomore Tommy Farr believes that his participation in the march is a visible message of support for pregnant women. "When people see that Notre Dame banner -and 200 kids marching behind it -it proclaims all the great things the university stands for," Farr says. 
Right to Life is not the only group taking a strong stance on issues of life. Recently, students participating in the national V-Day movement and the "The Vagina Monologues" have attempted to contextualize "right to life" in a new way -but not without controversy. 
"When you talk about violence against women, you're talking about a female's right to life," says junior Kaitlyn Redfield, who co-organized the Notre Dame V­Day campaign. "It's a life issue because it affects women not just physically, but emotionally, intellectually and spiritu­ally." 
Redfield says she believes abortion and violence against women are two different issues that have been wrongly linked in recent debates about "The Vagina Mono­logues." "These issues don't need to be issues in conflict. People associated with V-Day aren't necessarily for or against abortion, and they don't have to be on one side or the other. V-Dayis .al:>outend­
'ihg violence against women, which is a 
completely separate issue from abortion," 
Redfield says. · 
More traditional Right to Life advo­
cates disagree. "Abortion and violence 
against women are both symptoms of 
a deeper societal sickness that devalues 
life, and especially the lives of women," 
senior Lauren Galgano says. Galgano is 
co-president of the Notre Dame chap­
ter of Right to Life. "Abortion is one 
of the greatest violences committed 
against women," says Janel Daufenbach, 
who graduated in January and is the 
organization's other co-president, says. 
"'The Vagina Monologues' leave this 
out completely." 
Right to Life opposes the play, Galgano says, because it believes the play does not affirm life. "A person does not affirm his or her worth as a rational being by glo­rifying or 'reclaiming' genitalia, nor by devaluing others, as men are treated in the work," she says. . In addition, the club believes that the author of"The Vagina Monologues," Eve Ensler, the V-Day movement and the or­ganizations that received money from the production are anti-life. 
The YWCA -a shelter for female 
victims of domestic violence -is one of 
the organizations that received money 
from "The Vagina Monologues" and "is 
pro-choice on a national level," Daufen­
bauch says. 
Galgano described Sex Offense Ser­
vices (SOS) of South Bend -a rape cri­
sis center that also received money from 
the show -as "not exactly [a] pro-life 
organization." Right to Life claims that 
SOS offers victims of rape an emergency 
contraception in the form of a pill to pre­
vent conception. 
6 SCHOLASTICNEWS 24 FEBRAURY 2005 


dependency program that allows women to receive treatment and have their kids stay with them," she says. White also notes that SOS and the YWCA both have strong ties with the university. The Department of Political Science and the Gender Studies Program both have stu­dents who intern at the YWCA, and the university refers all rape victims to SOS. "The SOS is mentioned in duLac," White points out. 
"What does Right to Life see happen­ing_ positively for women as a result of preventing these organizations from re­ceiving money?" White asks. "Protesting against these organizations is a distrac­tion from real pro-women issues." 
Notre Dame senior Martha Patzer, who identifies herself as an anti-abortion femi­nist, agrees. "This kind of reactionary measure excludes pro-life students who are concerned that the current abortion debate has completely lost its mind," she 
r-:--:-:--­Right to Life also recently incited controversy among its own members by e-mailing members ofthe club to urge them to protest against a panel on the future of gay marriage that took place during the recent Queer Film Festival. In an e-mail sent out to Right to Life members, Galgano urged the members attend the panel in order to "have a noticeable presence of opposition." Some Right to Life members, like junior Andy Magee, thought that by sending an e-mail encouraging opposi­tion.to gay marriage, the Right to Life leaders made a mistake in equating an anti-abortion stance with an opposition to gay marriage. "I am for the right­to-life cause because I believe in the sanctity of life from conception until natural death,'' Magee says. "Being in Right to Life and being pro-life neither implies nor requires anything else." However, Galgano says she stands by her decision to send the e-mail, saying 
TAKING ON THE CAPITOL Notre Dame junior Johnny . Mospan braves the cold. 
group's leaders voiced their concern to 
Provost Nathan Hatch, who met with 
organizers of the "The Vagina Mono­
logues" and decided that Ensler would 
be allowed to speak only ifthe event was 
not a fundraiser. 
In a letter to the concerned Right to 
Life students, Hatch responded, "Ms. Ensler will not be involved in any fund­raising activities while on campus." How­ever, he also noted that the SOS "does notprovide any counseling for or against abortion," and said that, to his knowledge, ·· the money given to the local YWCA"has never been used for any purpose other than to provide basic and essential needs to shelter residents and their children." 
Hatch also said that many students see 
"The Vagina Monologues" as success­
fully raising concerns ofviolence against 
women on college campuses all over the 
country. "You should· also know that on 
campus, many female students identify these performances as a means ofcalling attention to the crime of'date rape,' which is a concern on virtually every college campus in the U.S.," he wrote. 
"Whatever one may think of "The Vagina Monologues," is this not precisely the kind ofdebate that should take place at a Catholic university in a time and culture that render our beliefs so resoundingly 
countercultural?" Hatch asked. 
it was "overwhelmingly justified." She 
arguedthat since she believes Catholics 
"have a certain understanding of the procreative aspect ofsex" and that ifthey are "concerned with a consistent ethic, then it is not a far reach to understand why we would oppose acts ofhomosexu­ality." 
"Societal problems such as acceptance of;i.bortion, euthanasia and gay marriage all stem from a deeper cultural sickness, or the 'culture of death,"' she says. 
Though Right to Life undoubtedly will continue to stake claim on the term "pro-life" in its most traditional context, the committed students of "The Vagina. Monologues" are serious about making violence againstwomen a more broadly­accepted life issue. "Violence against women is an important issue that's not talked about, even here on this campus,'' Redfield says. Until the stigma ofviolence against women ends, Redfield says she and other committed "Vagina Warriors" will continue to raise the issue -even if its controversy is inevitable. . 
Redfield, however, who is also an SOS advocate, says that Right to Life is in­correct in this perception of SOS. "SOS sends an advocate to the hospital when a victim ofrape is brought in. According to state-mandated procedures, and as a part of extensive rape response procedures, the hospital ·must· offer Ovral, an anti­conception drug," she says. "The hospital 
gives women the option to prevent conception of their rapist's baby according to Indiana state mandate. Thus, Right to Life has reasoned that SOS is pro-choice because they leave the decision to take this drug to the victim of rape. They make no intercession for either option," Redfield says. SOS does not, however, in any circumstance, administer Ovral to rape victims, she says. 
Redfield also says the YWCA supports reproductive rights at the national level, but that the local organization is not pro-choice and only serves victims of domestic violence. 
Sophie White, a professor in the Gender Studies Program, agrees with Redfield that Right to Life's oppo!>ition to the YWCA and SOS is misguided. She says that the YWCA is the only shelter in St. Joseph County accredited by the Indiana Family and Social Service 
Administration. "It's also one of the few shelters that has a chemical 
l,"@:(•1'4--jj@INEWS . 
says.· "How does resistance to rape crisis centers and women's shelters prevent 
abortions?" 
Because of their opposition to the YWCA and SOS, Right to Life mem­bers campaigned to have Ensler's sched­uled fundraiser luncheon cancelled when 
she came to campus last week for Notre Dame's performance of her play. The 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 7. 


0 n the heels ofNotre Dame's sec­ond annual Queer Film Festival and "The Vagina Monologues" came considerable -albeit predictable -backlash on campus, both in the form of protests and editorials in various stu­dent publications. Bishop John D'Arcy's letter to the South Bend Tribune stating that the event was "an abuse of academic freedom" took the controversy to the national level, garnering a mention in The New York Times. The rights of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered stu-
BARRED FROM ENTERING? The alley leading to Heartland, a crazy" Hoffman says. Hoffman club in downtown South Bend that is a popular ND student nightspot. d G 1' d h h d 
dents at Notre Dame -and the methods of educating the Notre Dame community about sexual orientation in general-con­sistently prove to be some ofthe most divi­sive issues on campus. But a recent isolated and unusual incident at a downtown South Bend nightclub extends the debate off of the Notre Dame campus, as it calls into question how GLBT students -espe­cially same-sex couples -are treated by club employees and patrons. 
On Thu,Jan. 27, a group offour friends arrived shortly before midnight at Heart­land, a nightclub off of S. Michigan Street in downtown South Bend. Andy Hoff­man, a 2002 Notre Dame graduate and current graduate accounting student, his roommate Regina Corpuz, a 2001 Notre Dame graduate and current employee in the Notre Dame Law School admis­sions department, Notre Dame senior Will Gartland -Hoffman's boyfriend -and Gartland's roommate Joanna Basile, a Notre Dame junior and co­chair of Outreach ND, all say they are not frequent Heartland patrons but have been there several times during the past academic year. A few hours after their arrival, the four would be asked to leave Heartland immediately. Both the group of friends and club management contest 
the reasoning behind the forced departure. 
According to Hoffman and Gartland, tension arose when a young male repeatedly ap­proached and verbally accosted the couple while they were dancing together. The couple claims that the male made several homophobic remarks and shouted that they needed to leave. Though frustrated by the confrontations, the couple refused to respond physically. "I'm not the one to start any fights -the guy struck me as kind of intoxicated or kind of 
an art an were t en approac e by Heartland bouncers and guided to the kitchen behind the stage. (Basile and Corpuz, trailing behind the couple, were not allowed to accompany them back­stage.) Both Hoffman and Gartland say they offered to leave, but say that about five bouncers insisted on talking to the couple backstage, allegedly telling them that club employees were concerned that their dancing was "causing a disruption" and was likely to incite an altercation. 
While they waited outside the stage doors, Basile· and Corpuz says she asked a nearby bouncer why they had not been brought backstage, since they were danc­ing together. According to Basile and Corpuz, he answered with discrimina­tory comments about gay men. After the couple reappeared from backstage, the four friends stopped briefly to settle their tab, and then were escorted by bouncers from the club. 
Hoffman does not think the ejection was warranted. "I just felt very violated -I was just dancing," he says. The four say they have not experienced an incident like this before at any local off-campus nightspot. 
Heartland management offered a dif­ferent explanation for the couple's ejection when speaking with Scholastic less than a week after the incident. Randy Bridges, the club manager for Heartland, who normally surveys the dance floor from a location near the main stage, says he was close enough to notice what he says was "inappropriate" dancing on the part of Hoffman and Gartland. "We are on residential property. We're not that kind of club," he says. "Some people were of­fended; they kept pushing the limits." 
When asked if the young man who verbally accosted Hoffman and Gartland also was asked to leave, Bridges says he could not confirm with total certainty, but believes the young man was asked to exit through a back door. 
Heartland is known for enforcing a strict dress code, as club-goers can be 
. asked to leave for wearing ripped jeans or hats backwards or to the side. Known by fewer patrons is that this incident was not the first time Heartland management 
· had asked patrons to leave due to what em­ployees characterize as sexually explicit behavior. In his seven months working as club manager, Bridges says he has asked one heterosexual couple to leave for in­appropriate dancing, as well as several couples in different instances for "doing things in dark corners [that] they shouldn't be." Hoffman and Gartland's actions were "above and beyond dancing," according to Bridges. "It's as much their fault for push­-ing the envelope. We're pretty tolerant. Kissing is one thing ... they were asked to leave because of what they were doing -not because ofwho they are." 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 24 FEBRUARY 2005 


Hoffman disagrees, believing itis a "ter­rible double standard" that a nightspot like Heartland allows females to dance with each other-but, in his eyes, reacts nega­tively to males dancing with each ot~er. To Hoffman, dancing with either males or females is simply part ofthe attraction 
.. of any nightlife scene. "When you're there, you're just doing what's natural, what feels good and makes you happy," he says. "What happened at Heartland is really disheartening." 
Bridges says the couple is welcome to return to Heartland to "look at video [in . order to confirm that] they were being 
· explicit." However, Hoffman, Gartland, Basile and Corpuz all dispute Heartland management's allegations that the couple was dancing inappropriately. "I'll be the first to admit if I've crossed the line," Hoffman says. 
As for the alleged discriminatory com­ments made by Heartland employees to the two couples, Bridges says: "The mistakes employees may make do not protected and that no one should suffer discrimination, for any reason. It has long been the City's policy that we are com­mitted to the fair and equal treatment of all persons. To this end, in 1956 the City established -and maintains today, the Human Rights Commission to ensure that no human being is mistreated based on status :--without making value or moral judgments." 
Management at several South Bend and Mishawaka nightclubs and bars say that employees do not discriminate against same-sex couples. In fact, most of the venues' policies fall in line with what Heartland claims is its staff policy, which is based on action, not orientation. Almost all ofthe bar owners or managers that Scholastic spoke to highlighted the difficulty of policing intoxicated stu­dents. However, asking couples to leave for sexually suggestive behavior at her bar/restaurant rarely occurs, "as long as they're not being offensive," says Carol Meehan, owner of Fiddler's Hearth in don't think that anyone has the power to tell my friends where to go or where we can feel comfortable. Homosexuals shouldn't be marginalized into pockets. We should be trying to change the culture." 
Representatives from both Alliance ND and Outreach ND say the Heartland in­cident is among the few -ifnot the first -they have heard ofalleged discrimina­tion atan off-campus nightspot. Outreach ND convened a meeting to specifically ad­dress the Heartland incident, according to co-chair Nick Lescanic. The senior says that he knows plenty ofsame-sex couples who have danced at Heartland before and never have encountered problems. Sister MaryLouise Gude, who chairs the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs at Notre Dame, also says that off-campus discrimination is not a frequent topic of the committee's meet­ings, pointing to relative lack of reported controversial off-campus incidences in­volving students. 
To Russell, lack ofsupport may hinder 
"Everywhere you go -it doesn't matter if you are going to a movie or walking down South Quad -the world is a straight world." -Mac Russell, Alliance ND co-coordinator 
necessarily reflect the opinions of Heart­land staff." He added: "I thinkthat people are blowing this way out of proportion." Bridges would not comment specifically about measures he would take to deter­mine if discriminatory comments were, in fact, made by Heartland staff members, nor would he address any possible reper­cussions that employees might face, other than to say they would be "punished or terminated." 
Disputed incidences like these po­tentially can pose a unique challenge for local business owners in a state like Indiana -a state that has no laws bar­ring discrimination on the basis ofsexual orientation in private establishments. The 2001 Employment Policy, signed into ef-:­fect by then-Gov. Frank O'Bannon, only prohibits sexual orientation discrimina­tion in public employment. 
When asked to comment about the al­legations against Heartland and ab?ut the · treatment of same-sex couples in South Bend establishments, the South Bend mayor's office offered Scholastic the follow­ing statement: "The City of South Bend believes that all people's rights should be South Bend. "It would be the same thing with a heterosexual couple," she adds. Kevin Parsons, manager of Bookmak~r's Pub in Mishawaka, says his bar oper­ates under a similar informal policy that focuses on behavior, not gender. When asked where his staff draws the line be­tween what constitutes offensive behavior, he says: "I would consider it a common­sense rule." 
Nevertheless, some wonder ifsame-sex couples should take the risk at all. "Iknow very, very few people that will go out as a gay couple to a straight bar. We live in a heterosexist world," says Mac Russell, a Notre Dame sophomore and Alliance ND co-coordinator. "Everywhere you go -it doesn't matter ifyou are going to a movie orwalking down South Quad-theworld is a straight world." (Russell says both the Sea Horse Cabaret and Truman's Enter­tainment Complex in Mishawaka are hospitable alternatives for Notre Dame GLBT students.) 
However, Regina Corpuz, one of the four involved in the disputed Heartland incident, hopes that gay students will not frequent only designated "gay" bars. "I any further discussion of off-campus discrimination. "We need more people to come forward and we need more man­power," he says. "We [still] have a lot of discrimination here on campus to work with." 
Both Joanna Basile and Corpuz have spoken up, alerting student and local me­dia outlets about the incident. Corpuz has alerted both Notre Dame's student gov­ernment and the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs and says she is working on spreading word of the incident to the graduate student body. While working in the admissions department at Notre Dame Law School, Corpuz has helped advise local residents who claim to have been victims of discrimination based on their sexual orientation. To Corpuz,"It's clear that South Bend has a problem." 
Others see one isolated incident that is notemblematic ofan epidemic. Neverthe­less, Russell still believes that off-campus discrimination against GLBT Notre Dame students needs to addressed. "Ob­viously we will not stand for it," he says. "It's too important for us in today's society to stand by and be silent." . 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 




ANSWER~ 
THE CALL'-<!:,/ 


NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE. 
·T·he lights go out in the Coleman­
•·• Morse Center lounge at 10 o'clock 
. 
· · everyWednesdaynight. The doors are closed, and candles are lit and placed around the room. Ahandful of students -'-about 20 altogether-mingle and chat with the campus ministers. before the event begins with a prayer. The group is called Four:7, a name derived from the passage in 2 Timothy 4:7: "I have fought the good fight, I have finished the course, I have kept the faith." Their purpose is simple: sing, pray and praise God as a community. 
Amidst the :flickering glow of the can­dles, the group sits on the floor, listening to a talk given by one of the members. Meanwhile, students walking through the well-lit hallway pass by the closed­off lounge'. Ten at night is prime study time, and CoMo is a favorite study spot. Seeing the room occupied and glancing at the sign outside the door, some students dori'tbreak stride. Others raise their eye­brows slightly in curiosity and peer into the dark room before continuing on their way. A few cast deprecating frowns at the sign and closed doors, visibly irritated at the unavailability of study space. 
And in this short span oftime, students' reactions reflect the microcosm thatis the u~iquely religious atmosphere of Notre Dame. The extent of students' religios­ity is principally a personal matter, . but Scholastic set out to examine how (and how 
•well) the university's attempts to cultivate faith affect the social and academic lives of Notre Dame's 8,000 undergraduates. 
Ministering to the lvlasses 
The devout. The nonreligious. The lukewarm. The disdainful. To break 
•·. Notre Danie's students down into such superficial groups is notfair. Neither is it accurate: Another person might divide up those categories orcreate whole n~w ones. That's why the Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C, director of Campus Ministry, prefers to think .of the student body as a mass of interlocking circles~ There is a large center circle representing the · student body, he suggests, with a good . amount of overlap from other circles. ·Those ancillary circles might represent dorm activities, campus organizations or faith-based groups.·Students can belong to some, all or none of them.· Warner is· proud to claim Campus Ministry as a, . 
· particularly large circle of involvement ' for many .students. 
According to Warner, approximately 3,400 students attend Campus Ministry retreats yearly, and large numbers of students are members of at least one of the university's eight choirs and assist in the daily upkeep and functions ofthe Ba­silica of the Sacred Heart. None of these opportunities for religious involvement would be available without the presence of Campus Ministry. "Campus Ministry is the congregation's outreach," which seeks to "encourage and assist students in the development of their own spirituality," Warner says. 
Warner enthusiastically cites a George­town University study of 24 U.S. Catholic colleges and universities. In the study, alumni from each students on campus. "The majority of Protestants that I work with are very involved on campus, and they deepen their faith greatly while they're here," he says. 
It is a deepening of faith for which many students at Notre Dame strive, Perkins says. But, despite the religious nature of the uniyersity, some feel that the resources to do so are somewhat lacking. Senior Christina Dehan wishes there were more opportunities for her to delve into a deeper examination of her Catholic faith. Further, Dehan would like to see Campus Ministry strike a balance charistic Adoration on campus, another activity she thinks has gotten a bad rap as something in which only intensely serious Catholics participate. "I don't want [adoration] to be a club," she says. "I want it to be something that everyone feels welcome to." Dehan believes that Notre Dame's faith society should be egalitarian, not intimidating. She says that not everyone "has it together" as some would suppose. 
Questioning the Faith 
More often than not, it appears that Notre Dame students are far from having it together. Studies have been conducted that reveal an inconsistency with the afore­m enti one d Georgetown 
percent of surveyed Notre Dame alumni reported themselves as practicing Catholics who regu­larly attend weekly mass. The average among all of the schools was 24 percent. 
The results for Notre Dame alums stand out from the rest, indicating the rather high level of success Campus Min­istry has had in its attempts to provide all interested students with outlets for developing their faith. 
But don't be fooled by Notre Dame's rumored religious fervor into thinking that the job of Campus Ministry is an easy one. It is a continual challenge to meet the spiritual demands of so many different levels of students, says Brett Perkins, director of Protestant student resources and peer ministry in the Of­fice of Campus Ministry. "We want to reach the people we know are going to be at our door. They're our bread and butter." But at the same time, Campus · Ministry works to reach the marginalized students who feel only "lukewarm" about their faith. Perkins works with both Catho­lic and Protestant 
college were surveyed 10 years af­"FAITH DEVELOPMENT ON CAMPUS IS survey. In 2003, a survey of ter graduation. Approximately 77 graduating seniors conducted 
AN ABSOLUTELY CRITICAL DIMENSION 
by the Office of Institutional TO WHAT STUDENT LIFE IS." Research yielded some inter­-The Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. esting figures. When asked to 
between the retreats they sponsor, which can be either too intense or not probing enough. Junior Chris Scaperlanda, who describes himself as one of the "overin­volved" students in Campus Ministry, agrees. Although, as he says, "Notre Dame does a pretty admirable job mak­ing sure people who are ready [to pursue an understanding of their faith] are chal­lenged and those who aren't ready aren't forced," Scaperlanda feels there is not much of a push to get students to take their faith a step further. 
For example, Dehan "didn't get much" out of the Notre Dame Encounter (NDE) retreats, a must-do for many before graduation. She looks-to other activities to deepen her faith instead. However, • she believes that one of her preferred ac­tivities, silent retreats, receives a sullied label, whereas NDE does not. "There's this stigma that Campus Ministry is only for hardcore Catholics," Dehan says. "I really hate the labels that go along with things that Campus Ministry does." Dehan also is a coordinator of Eu-
rate their change in spiritual­ity from first to senior year, only 15 percent of students reported a "slight upward" change. One percent said their faith had undergone "much upward change." The majority of stu­dents, 46 percent, responded that there had been no change in their spirituality in their four years at Notre Dame, and 29 percent reported a "slight downward" change. Eight percent of students sur­veyed said that their level of spirituality had gone "much downward." The statis­tics from the 2003 survey closely match those from the same survey conducted in 2001. The Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C, vice president for Student Affairs, is not surprised by the results of the survey. "[College], developmentally, is a time of great questioning," Poorman says. Poorman believes that "faith develop­ment on campus is ari absolutely critical dimension to what student life is," and he finds encouragement in the results of the Georgetown survey. For him, that survey is more. significant; he feels that it speaks of the enduring effect of faith formation at Notre Dame. While the 2003 survey num­bers don't lie, the fact remains that some students question their faith while at Notre Dame. Senior Karen Lawler describes herself as a question­ing student. "People would ask me what religion I am," Lawler says; That question _made her uncomfortable, as Lawler does not believe she can know whether or not 
there is a God, though she leans more toward "there being something." Her ag­nostic beliefs caused her to feel isolated on Notre Dame's predominantly Catholic campus. "I find it interesting that people at Notre Dame are less likely than others to understand or accept my beliefs about religion," she says. 
Lawler never felt like she could partici­pate in the religious realm ofstudent life because it highlights her difference from the majority of students, but she has ap­preciated the opportunities Notre Dame offers her to reflect on her convictions. While difficult at times, Lawler says Notre Dame's religious atmosphere has been both "challenging and expanding," and she believes that, had she attended a state school, faith would not have to cross her mind. 
Another agnostic senior, Brian Agga­nis, can empathize with Lawler. "It's not easy to be agnostic when you're presented with a Catholic world," he says. Agganis is critical of many university policies, and he believes Notre Dame has closed its mind around a set of beliefs, which is "detrimental, especially in college. Beliefs should be vulnerable," he says. Agganis isn't surprised at the results of the 2003 senior survey. "That's the im­pression that I've gotten from the student body." He concurs with Poorman's belief that college is a time for questioning, and also notes that "after four years at ND, if you're still agnostic, you're probably go­ing to be like that for a long time." 
Decisions, decisions? 
Some worry that faith at Notre Dame has become a mandate 
"NOTRE DAME DOES NOT PREPARE
rather than a personal journey. Sister Mary Ann Mueninghoff, YOU FOR THE REAL WORLD AND ITS rector of Pasquerilla East, echoes 
CHALLENGES. THERE'S NO TEMPTATION
this concern. She stresses the overwhelmingly good job the administration does in fulfilling its mission to cultivate faith in its students, saying many are enriched by the Catholic approach to life. Notre Dame, Mueninghoff says, "is set up with a [Catholic] mission in mind un­dergirding everything else [ ... ] I think the basic message of the Gospel is 'good news,' and the place bubbles over with a lot of that," she says. However, she is concerned that students do not actively question their faith. "I want students to look at their religious faith and practices critically in college," she says. "I want stu­dents to ask, 'What is it that roots me?' I worry sometimes that perhaps there aren't enough challenges." 
Variations ofMueninghoff's sentiments run throughout the student body. Many students feel that Catholic beliefs are forced upon them, citing parietals and the lack of meat in the dining halls on Fridays during Lent as evidence. "One thing that ND is good at is taking away 

decisions," Agganis says. "Notre Dame doesn't prepare you for the real world and its challenges. There's no temptation or work involved." 
The so-called "No Sex" rule, which is found in section seven of dttLac under Student Life Policies, is a. pet peeve of 
OR WORK INVOLVED." 
-Senior Brian Agganis 
some students. "Because a genuine and complete expression of love through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage," it reads, "the university believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage. Students found in violation of this policy shall be subject to disciplinary suspension or permanent dismissal." 
Students in opposition to this policy have come to the conclusion that Catha-lie doctrine's prohibition of premarital sex underlies the university's adamancy about single-sex dorms and parietals. But those involved in student affairs ar­gue differently." "For me, it's not about sex," Mueninghoff says. "It may be what an undergraduate perceives, but most of the administration see residence halls as homes, not dorms." Both Mueninghoff and Poorman assert that the primary role of parietals is to quiet down the dorms at night. Parietals give the community a chance to reconstitute itself, Poor­man says, and to set a norm of rest and relaxation. 
Additionally, the idea of community is central to living the Catholic faith, and residence halls strive for strong communal bonds. "Our mission in the residential system is to give students a really strong foundation of faith," Poor­man says. Living in dorms is a challenge, he says, in the sense that students must be responsible for themselves and other people. The fact that students are held accountable for their actions in the dorms is "an enormous favor. I think we assist them in very important ways." This, he says, is "utterly like the real world." 
"The Spirit ofInclusion"? 
In an open letter to the Notre Dame community, the administration states that "[it prizes] the uniqueness ofall persons as God's creatures. We welcome all people, regardless of[... ] sexual orientation [ ... ] We value gay and lesbian members of this community as we value all members 
of this community." Despite these statements, however, some homosexual students find Notre Dame's religious atmosphere to be only mildly inclusionary. 
Alex Chapeaux, a graduate student studying chemical engineering, came out as gay while he was in college, and now serves on Notre Dame's Standing Committee for Gay 
and Lesbian Student Needs. Chapeaux has made it a priority to keep his Catho­lic faith a major part of his identity, and he largely has been successful. However, he takes issue with some aspects ofNotre Dame's religious character. 
Chapeaux says that Campus Ministry does not treat gay, lesbian, bisexual and. transgender (GLBT) students differently from any others on campus, which is a good thing. Campus Ministry even runs a retreat for GLBT students and their friends, an event which Chapeaux calls "an incredible experience." The Notre Dame gay community is a "diverse group. Some of us are more mindful ofour faith because we've had to reconcile our faith with our sexual orientation," he says. The problem arises from the fact that there is nothing but a retreat for those students. The main source of support for GLBT students is faith-based, Chapeaux says, and "in that regard, GLBT students who are not Catholic tend to be left out because they don't fall on the radar." 
Agganis also makes reference to the mix of religion and homosexuality. It was a shock for him to come to a place with plenty of retreats and religion but no recognized homosexual group. In his public high school, it was just the oppo­site, with a Gay Alliance but no mention of religion. 
The Pursuit ofTruth 
The controversy surrounding the lack ofofficial university recognition ofa non­faith-based GLBT group resonates ,with a difficult, yet common, question: Can Notre Dame challenge its students spiri­tually and intellectually while preserving its Catholic identity? 
Mark Roche, the I.A. O'Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts & Letters, thinks so. Roche believes Notre Dame does. quite well in balancing faith with progressive academic pursuits: However, universities like Notre Dame that strive to be both academically superlative and Catholic are delving into "uncharted ter­ritory" these days. 
Notre Dame, Roche says, has a complex identity, with three basic, intertwining attributes: an undergraduate program focusing on the liberal arts, dynamic research and a world-renowned Catholic identity. "I think we do a good job of mediating," Roche says. He commends the university's success, especially in the disciplines of literature, economics and psychology. 
Despite its many academic achieve­ments, Roche acknowledges that many secular schools might cast a skeptical eye onto Notre Dame. Many professionals at other schools are· led to believe that Notre Dame's faith leads the university to close itself to certain ideas and restrict academic freedom, and while that senti­ment may sometimes be echoed on cam­pus, Roche contests the notion. Only half of Notre Dame's faculty is Catholic, and after being hired, a faculty member has complete freedom in terms of the research they choose to do. It is hoped, though, that all members of the faculty will at least have respect for the university's Catholic identity. 
Philosophy professor Bill Ramsey is an atheist -the university's "token atheist," as he jokingly refers to himself. "I applaud the fact that ND is a religious university which retains academic ideals," he says. "I think we should be the best in the world." Ramsey also asserts that, although the majority of Notre Dame students are Catholic, most students are polite and extremely interested in his be­
liefs. "They're fascinated by someone who 
doesn't believe in God." At the conclusion ofevery semester, Ramsey will take ques­tions from students about his own beliefs, but he leaves them at the door until then. "I have no interest in getting students to adopt my religious views. The idea is to 
, prepare them with a wealth of perspec­tives and arguments." Ramsey does not proselytize, but believes that undergradu­ates exposed to a more diverse range of viewpoints will have a more intellectually sophisticated kind offaith than others with no alternate viewpoints; English professor Kevin Hart agrees with Ramsey on that point. "In my view, a first-class Catholic university should be capable of hosting many conversations: between Catholics and Protestants, Christians and representatives of other religions, people offaith and people ofno faith.," Hart says in an e-mail interview. "Yet people who are not Catholic should recognize that Catholicism is their host and should respectthat," he adds. Hart also draws a.distinction between "baptized" Catholics and "practicing" Catholics, and believes that the latter make up far less than 50 percent of the faculty. Additionally, he thinks that the . university-should be more aggressive in hiring. a faculty that represents· the en­tire spectrum of the Catholic faith. "We should be on the lookout for outstanding . scholars, needless to say, and we should be especially vigilant in looking, for out­standing Catholic scholars. I don't see [the university doing] that at the moment." · Hart adds that some ofthe facultywho are. most supportive of the university's Catholic mission are neither Catholic nor: Christian. The Bottom Line By and large, most students, staff and faculty seem pleased with Notre Dame's religious character and the resources . available to help the campus community 
grow in faith. At the same time, a sizeable . percentag~ of th~ community expresses . 
concern over the university's apparent· 
lack of diverse religious opinions and • 
sparse challenges to Catholicity. 
Notre Dame is lauded and criticized for its identity, but it. is quite apparent that that identity is here to stay, despite the good or bad effects-that may come from it. Maybe the mostimportant thing · members ofthe social and academic com-· munity ought to remember is, as Deha.n puts it, "Faith should not impede reason;. 

. ' ." ··:
.. c: ·. ·~..._: ·:}•..·,·o·-.·-u··' : -·. . .. .-·· 
. -. .
C/4/\ 
11i-,......,...,,i.....,..,.,.,,,,::;:.,·. ···• ..--;U·.·..-.. . ..· . . -,:,·,,~ .··· . . .. 
DomeLights 
COMPILED BY ERIK POWERS 
$40 for adozen long-stem 
Love's Lamentations 
red roses in a white box with a
Is your relationship still suffering disastrous repercussions 
big red bow
from an unromantic Valentine's Day? If Notre Dame permitted post-parietal cohabitation, would your significant 
$25 for a dozen oversized cookies 
other exile you to the couch? Don't worry. There are plenty of economical options on campus and off the tollway to $24 for a colorful arrangement of festive balloons help get you and that special someone back to sharing walks 
$ I 2 for a Notre Dame velvet bear 
. around the lakes and the same side of a private dining hall 
$9.98 for two hearty scramble breakfasts at Denny's
table. If you sell back that $120 chemistry book, you might $0 for an apology

have just enough to pay for one of the following: 
Q&A 
With the author of "TheVagina Monologues" 
Eve 
Ensler 
Eve Ens/er, a1lthor of"The Vagina Monologues" andfounder ofV-Day, recently made
L==-:==-==,_== 
a first-ever appearance at Notre Dame on her "V-Tourfo1· V-Day 2005." Cont1·oversy has swirled around the ploy'sfour-year run on campus, with opponents citing the play's allegedly anti-Catholic messages and graphic conten{Ensler came 'tO campus in an effort to show supportfor herfellow "Vagina T#in-iors" at Notre Dame. Scholastic caught up with the playwright before the show's opening­night peiformance. Note: The following are excerptsfrom a transcript ofa press conference with Ens/er. Questions were asked by a variety ofmedia groups, including Scholastic. The play has since been cancelled in Uganda d11e to government opposition. 
Why did you decide to come to Notre 
Dame? 
I've become aware of the Cardinal Newman 
Society, which is promoting a movement 
to ban performances of"The Vagina 
Monologues" ... I know that, while being 
Vagina Warriors, women have found 
opposition. I've been monitoring .it for some time specifically at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. These are places that need support ... I think we can break through the misunderstandings and misconceptions about the play. I wanted to show solidarity for the women who are showing this play. 
"TheVagina Monologues" was recently scheduled to be performed in Uganda. 
That's a great accomplishment. 
First ofall, I want to point out one thing. The Ugandan women brought it there, just like the organizers here, Kaitlyn [Redfield] and Carole [Kennelly], brought the play here. The women .of Uganda were responsible for bringing it there, and translating it into th~ir own language. 
The Ugandan government spoke out against the play ... Right. They said, ''what?" Something like, "I worship. vaginas?" That was accurate. 
They also said that it is part of"an international effort to corrupt the moral fabric of Ugandans.'' 
It's like, this is the uniting principle of the world -people oppose [the play] for the same reasons. And I would bet -I would 
bet my life -that they haven't read the text. They're just against vaginas. 
What do you think ofthe controversy over the play at Notre Dame? 
I think it's fantastic. I believe in controversy. 
It means an exchange ofideas and critical 
thinking is going on. · 
What is your end goal for theV-Day 
movement? 
Until the violence stops. To know that, as a woman, you can wake up one day and walk outside and no one will make you feel objectified, feel dirty, vulgar or sexualized. You can wear whatever you want or wear nothing and you won't be violated. You can travel alone, [you can] travel with men, and no one will ever take your dignity or space away from you. 
What do you consider your greatest accomplishment so far with theV-Day movement? 
That's hard to say. But I've been moved 
· by many things. I've been moved by just being on this V-Day tour. I've been to Rhode Island, Yale, South Chicago, here. I'm going to L.A., Dublin, Brussels and Korea. These are women around the planet that felt compelled to do V-Day-that gives me hope. People across the planet are performing this play. It shows that another paradigm is being born, and it's going to triumph in the end. 
Go to http://www.vday.org.for more information on the V-Day 'llzovement. To learn 11lOre aboi,t the Cardinal Newman Society, visit 
http://www.cardinalnewmansociety.org. 
-Compiled by Katie Solan 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE . 24 FEBRUARY 2005 

BUDDLEMart 

HUDDLE 

FOOD COURT 


NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICE! 


IO I I Madison Street is anything but uptight 
SARAHBARRETT 
I. n this edition of"Cribs," Scholastic takes a trip over to 1011 Madison Street, an · address infamous for its huge parties, cute lacrosse players and handy stage. According to its residents, this house -complete with a turnstile, killer sound system, four stories and front and back porches -has hosted about 29,000 total party attendees since its first get-together last September, according to its residents. If you don't believe this figure given by the seven seniors who share this house, one look at the house's six plywood-cov­ered living room windows make it clear that this house has enjoyed some great 
parties. 
But this house is for more than just 
partying. The spacious house, with eight 
bedrooms and two and a halfbathrooms, 
boasts versatility; it transforms easily from 
a wild college party, where you can barely 
move, to a very relaxing environment, 
where the roommates can partake in their 
favorite pastime of"watching channel 595 
and eating McDonald's together" (with a 
Sunday morning hangover). This house 
also screams tradition; it was passed down 
to the current residents -'four ofwhom 
are members of the lacrosse team -by 
· lacrosse seniors who graduated in 2004. 
Seniors Tyler Krummenacher, Brian Giordano, Matt Malakoff and Taylor Matthews -members of the lacrosse team -and Chris Therasse, Dan Straka and Mike Kirsh have 
"Our favorite meal is Tuna Helper and garlic bread," Krummenacher says while checking on the Valentine's Day cookies in the oven. "We also 
grill out a lot-two to decorated their dining room/ three times a week." bar and living room with The kitchen features two signs that read, "Happy many top-of-the-line Hour; Tues., Wed., Thurs., appliances, including Fri.; 4-6 p.m." and, "Pride of the dishwasher, which the Irish Pub," respectively. is on wheels and -as The house also contains a they demonstrated Coors Light banner, Christ­-must be hooked up mas lights, a fog machine and to the faucet to wash the roommates' two favorite their dirty dishes. aspects of the house: a stage Their pet, a black and a bar made by Giordano's and yellow Ball Python father. named Abe, lives on the 
There are two large second floor amidst the couches, two recliners (which clutter of lacrosse gear aren't in the greatest shape, and textbooks. after being torn apart during According to Kirsh, a party), a fire place, a large the best memories television and a dining room they've had since mov­table. There is also a dancing ing into the house in­pole on the stage, which the clude "waking up to my residents allegedly use daily. car stolen. It was later 
The kitchen has two en­found on cinder blocks tries, making it easily accessible -which behind a local restaurant with nothing left is good, because these boys love to cook. in it but seatbelts," and "cleaning the inevi­

18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 
t 
1
! » DANCING KINGS From left to right: Dan Straka, ----?\. : , Tyler Krummenacher, Matt Malakoff and Chris Therasse : '\_ ') demonstrate the use of their dancing pole. · 1 
: » FRIEND OR FOWL? This stuffed duck keeps company with a flock of other birds -that is, the other stuffed birds in the residents' collection, 
<< COUNT ME IN Tyler Krunimenacher p~ses through his own turnstile. 
-·-.. ---·' , --. -­
tably clogged toilets after parties." 
Krummenacher, who lives in the basement, recalled the morning he woke up to his "room flooded with four inches of standing water: "For the first six weeks of school I had to sleep on the couch in the living room. It was incredible." 
Despite the occasionally hectic schedules of the lacrosse players, all of this house's residents find the time to have a little fun. The legacy ofthe parties theyhave hosted will stay in the house long after the last bill to steam clean the carpets is paid. D 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 19 




-· 
' 
. . 
' . . 
CLAIRESOBCZAK 
pring Break is about 10 days away,
S
and ifyou don't come up with a plan 
soon, all that lies in your future is a week at home, away from your friends, waiting anxiously to get back to school. Perhaps you have looked into last-min­ute travel arrangements to Cancun or Ft. Lauderdale, but everything is booked or ridiculously expensive and you're on a tight budget. But never fear, all hope is not lost for you and your group of un­motivated friends. This is the perfect opportunity to pack up the cooler, cram into a van with eight ofyour best friends, and hit the road for a break that will definitely beat watching televised poker tournaments all week. 
Though we might complain about South Bend, its less-than-desirable win­ter weather and its lack ofnight life, we are lucky to be situated in 3; location that allows for a number ofpotential caravan destinations. Cancun and Ft. Lauderdale may seem a bit out of reach, but many 
other locales offer just as much potential for letting loose. 
The first stop on this road trip is sweet home Chicago. At no more than a two-hour drive from South Bend or a $9 train ride on the South Shore Line, 
' ", 
. 
little planning is required for this excur­sion. In Chicago, you can spend your day shopping on Michigan Avenue, edifying yourself at the Art Institute or trekking to the top of the Sears Tower. At night, see the Second City comedy group, which performs every night butMonday. At less than $20 per ticket, it won't break your bankaccount. After the show, head south to Gino's East Pizzeria for the best pizza in the city. If you are on a tighter bud­get, head to the Soutli Side of Chicago on March 13 for the annual South Side Irish Parade. Any Domerwill feel right at home while taking partin this celebration of Irish culture and all that goes along with it. 
This trip also will allow you to re­connect with any friends from high school who went to Northwestern or the University of Chicago. Students at these schools will not be on break and can recommend plays and restaurants, as well as provide connections to fraternity parties in Evanston or Hyde Park. Plus, nothing comes cheaper than free lodg­ing in a dorm room. The Web site http: llwww.chicago.il.org provides listings of inexpensive hotels for the frugal, as well as all ofthe current plays and conventions 
. . 
. '.' . ·. -. \ 
and their ticket prices. 
Tired of the Chicago scene? Not to worry. Windsor, Ontario -only a four-hour drive from campus -offers not only the enticement of a drinking age of 19, but also great recreational activities that are perfect for releasing the tension you surely have accumulated after being cooped up in your room all winter. The Trans Canada Trail outside Windsor promises 18,000 kilometers of hiking, cycling, camping, snowmobiling 
· and cross-country skiing; regardless of the weather conditions, you can .have an exhilarating adventure. Nothing forces bonding like camping with your friends, and at a much cheaper cost than lodging at a hotel. You can choose from over 20 campground sites in southern Ontario alone. However, ifyou decide to stay in city -as you probably will at this time ofyear -be sure to check out Aardvark Blues Cafe or Key's Piano Bar for great jazz and delicious food at reasonable prices. Check out the Web site http: //www. windsorontario. worldmap. com for extensive details on all outdoor activities, as well as activities ;n the city. _ 
Another great travel destination is Cleveland, which is famous for the 
22 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 
----------------------llii. .il-.JJ=IJ-----------------------,
~:.JG;i1111iJll!Pli 
Rock and Roll Hall ofFame, as well as the nearby Cedar Point amusement park in Sandusky, Ohio. The hall of fame offers a $2 discount for general admission with a student ID. The museum currently is paying tribute to the late Ray Charle~and other legendary performers. And though the roller coasters are not running yet, Castaway Bay is an indoor water park at Cedar Point that offers the tropical spring break experience without the sunburn. The resort offers hotel accommodations, but ifyou are going to be in the city, you can stay at the Hyatt Regency which of­fers rooms from $119.00 a night. 
Pittsburgh, only six hours from South Bend and two hours from Cleveland, also is a perfect spot for road tripping. Pittsburgh has great dining at its famous Primanti Brothers, which is known for overloaded sandwiches. If finer dining is your dish, you can travel to the top ofMt. Washington and visit the Monterrey Bay Fish Market, which has a scenic view of Pittsburgh's three rivers and the beauti­ful Pittsburgh skyline. For a closer look at the river scene, you can party it up on th~ Gateway Clipper Fleet-which fl.oats near Station Square -known for its hip bar scene. You can also check out the Pitts­burgh Web site for more information at http://www.pittsbztrgh.net. The Cleveland Web site -http://www.cleveland.com -offers more suggestions of places to go in the city. 
For dedicated Notre Dame sports fans, there are multiple spring break options. Both the men's and women's basketball teams will be playing in their own Big East Championship tournaments over break. The men will be playing at Madi­son Square Garden in New York, N.Y. (March 9-12) and the women will be in Hartford, Conn. (March 5-8). Not only is this the perfect excuse to visit the East Coast, but you also can see some great basketball in the process. Just make sure you have access to tickets before planning this excursion. 
So what ifyou don't fit in with the cool kids and come back with a deep tan and guaranteed skin cancer in 25 years? You will have saved yourself a cameo on "Girls Gone Wild" or one ofthose MTVSpring Break Undercover shows that exposes good kids going bad, and you still will have fun in the process. . 

24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 23 


Two of the finest piano virtuosi performing today, Emanuel Ax and Yefim Bronfman are 
also good friends who play well together ---:-especially at the same lime. Take 
advantage of this opportunity to hear rarely performed four-hand compositions by 
MUSIC ACROSS A 
Debussy, Ravel, and Stravinsky. DON'T MISS THESE TWO PAC ACTS! Friday, March lBal Bp.m. Tickets $48, $3B faculty/staff, $36 seniors, $15 students 
BROAD SPECTRUM 

Web Design Surveys Calendars 
Message Boards. 
Your campus publicity experts. 
-Creattve Design -Posters 8e Flyers 
-Table Tents 
-Flier Posting 

CA 

Let's start things off right: Welcome, Coach Weis. But let's try not to get our hopes up too high.As our former Head Coach Bob Davie· 
reminded the sports world, the Irish jtlst can't land top recruits because of the school's: academic standards, location, affinity for Bon Jovi, etc. For example, we could never successfully recruit a future NFL standout like David Givens, who recently graced the cover of 
the Sporting News scoring a touchdown for Weis' offense in Super Bowl XXXIX. Oh, wait ... 
For the record: David Givens' receiving statistics for his 44 games during his entire Notre Dame career under Head Coach Bob Davie: 72 receptions, 814 yards, 3 touchdowns. 
David Givens' receiving statistics for his 17 games (including playoffs) during his latest season with New England under Offensive Coordinator Charlie Weis: 68 receptions, 978 yards, 6 touchdowns. One thing is sure, Givens certainly didn't get those arms at Notre Dame, or that touchdown dance ... 

Did you get that memo? Keeping on the subject of football, the Gipp was wondering what the deal was with that impromptu gathering ofmore than 200 students in theJACC last week to meet with Coach Weis? Seems it all started when Athletic Director Kevin White came across a half-dozen students in front of the JACC on the morning of the BC basketball game waiting for court-side seats. The keen White discovered that these ND students were actually football fans as well. He then invited them to meet with Weis the next week. By the day the students were scheduled to meet the new coach, word had gotten around St. Ed's and other dorms (as well as the Internet message boards), and what was supposed to be a private meeting for a few students turned into an early-morning rally. Truth is, when it comes to football and your drunken hook-up last night, word travels fast at ND ... 
> Everyone's a critic 
Unfortunately, it has come to the Gipp's attention that a few visitors to NDToday.com aren't too pleased with the Gipp's recent work. In fact, they even started a thread to voice their complaints. One takes a cheap shot at this fine publication, calling it "pathetic" (the Gipp has an inkling as to who this malcontent might be), and another concludes that "clearly the Gipper is a women this year" because the column has been lacking the drunken debauchery and sexual mishaps that made this column so popular. The Gipp isn't sure what it means to be a "women," but he has to admit that it sounds totally hot. Seriously though, who is this guy with, The Irish Rover? The Gipp doesn't appreciate your stereotypes. Also, you might want to watch 
out for the growing number ofVagina Warriors on campus ... 
>Who says we have bad gender relations? 
Speaking ofVagina Warriors, a male student -we'll call him Conan -was so inspired by "The Vagina Monologues" and its message of love for the female sexual anatomy that he decided to join the cause. Our hero joined forces with a female compatriot -we'll call her Xena -to demonstrate his prowess in the art ofVagina Warrior-ing. Conan put up a good fight -much to the chagrin of his roommate who was trying to sleep in the same room but was instead treated to a night filled with "battle cries" -but Xena was unimpressed. When Conan asked her how he "measured up," she told him his battle skills only were "decent." Our dejected hero apparently spent the next week moping around campus complaining about the "[loose-moraled women]" on campus. Take the Gipp's advice: Don't give up, son. 
Keep fighting the good fight. 
The Gipp assumes that even the above tip won't satisfy his detractors. The Gipp sympathizes with the thread's creator -the ever­popular tips delivered straight from the dregs of Notre Dame have been lacking -but here's a friendly reminder: this column is based on people tipping the Gipp. Roughly speaking, that means that when the Gipp opens up his e-mail, he should find more than Viagra spam, and no, the burst of messages involving "lonely housewives" that most of the campus seems to be getting recently doesn't count. But the Gipp is all about the· fans. So, to make up for the nearly complete lack of tips (for about the 8th issue in a row), the Gipp has decided to help you out -Mad Libs style. Take your favorite embarrassing moment that you should have sent to Uncle Gipp and make your own Gipp tip instead. If the Gipp gets any hilarious responses, he might even think about printing them in the next issue ... 
_(name)_ and his/her roommate were hard at work _("ing"-verb)_ for their Midterm exams when they decided to abuse 
_(type of elicit substance/school supply/plural animal). Everything was going to plan until the mood got a little too _(adjective)_ 
and _(adjective)_. So, _(same name)_ decided to take the "study session" to _(location on campus)_. Unfortunately, a group 
of _(plural authority figures at Notre Dame)_ had the same idea. But just when our heroes thought they were _(adjective)_, 
the _(same authority figures)_ decided to join in the _(clever synonym for "rendezvous")_.After passing out, the whole group 
woke up next _(time of day/day of week)_ to an extremely _(adjective)_ situation. No one got in trouble, but _(same name, 
possessive)_ roommate's _(body part/psychological state) still hasn't recovered. 

24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 25 

~­
~:-:_~-·-=--\ 
~,.;.,p_~::r 
..;_,.,.-c...-,--• -.;_",,_=·"-•~"' . 
The Bonnie ''Prince'' of Mystery • co REv1Ew 
RYAN METHENY
·whatis one supposed to think 
ofan artist who has recorded 
under at least five different 
pseudonyms in a single decade? Some­
one who has been known to appear 
onstage in a fat suit, has refused to a genius. Will Oldham -a.k.a. Palace, 
a.k.a. 
the Amalgamated Sons of Rest, 

a.k.a. 
Bonnie "Prince" Billy -has been identified with the great tradi­


tion ofAmerican roots music, that ~'?P' little-known class ofbroke-down 
do any more than a handful of interviews and released just last year -under a different name -an al­
bum ofself-co,n,cs? Then 
deepe_n that eni~ma b_y dis-_,,,:-:~ .,: ~;i:%--_,,,. " and a_ stamp of ongmahty covermg that this artist can t~•·· : . ;r _ .~ all his own -and the re-be seen in minor roles in many /;• l ;;"';;..~:_co\11 sults often are amazing. films of the late-'80s and early-· > ~~Ge Oldham sings in a wobbly, back­'90s. What are we supposed to ?· woods brogue that conjures images think? of a time when the only two things 
Most would probably label him a standing between each man and hell 
hack on this information alone, but was a preacher's pulpit and a bottle -strangely enough -the response of moonshine. In some cases, this ob­in many corners ofthe American indie tuseness only succeeds in pushing his music scene has been to christen him recordings into obscurity -a result 
Polito's: 
A Fulfilling Experience 
.,:,,ti<~·~~ singer-songwriters who long ago 
/Y wrote songs ofGod, death, sor­.~:.::};;:, row and booze. But Oldham's .:': _,,,;' }:;' ..+-work in this genre displays 
_ •·.•,. aninruwative, ~iro~ 

JESSICAWHITE
Though Grape Road is better known for its seemingly endless sprawl of chain restaurants and mediocre dining options, tucked behind the Lonestar Steakhouse sits Po_lito's Pizzeria Restaurant, a haven for Italian food lovers. It offers fresh breadsticks, greasy pizza and sumptuous pasta dishes thatwill fill your stomach without emp­tying your wallet. This Italian eatery is decorated in red and white, with quaint knick-knacks and Italian-themed pictures complimenting the cozy atmosphere. The restaurant's layout provides a sense ofintimacy, with its red vinyl booths offering a private spot for close conversation. 
The service at Falito's is commend­able, and ifyou tell your friendly server that you are a new customer, he or she will bring you a sample of rich and slightly spicy rigatoni noodles drenched in a creamy vodka sauce -the house specialty. Thick, doughy breadsticks and a simple salad are served with most ofPolito's dinner dishes. For an entree, we recommend a stromboli -stuffed with all ofyour favorite pizza toppings 
****~~ 
he doesn't seem to mind -but just as often, Oldham's albums are released to wide critical acclaim. His 1999 Bonnie 
"Prince" Billy album, "I See a Darkness," was named by many music publications as one ofthe top-10 albums ofthe '90s; before his death, Johnny Cash even covered the title track. 
"Superwolf," his most current album, which is a team effort with long-time collaborator Matt Sweeney, will most likely meet a similar reaction. The songs here are classic tales oflove, sex, religion and despair that, while they will certainly escape the attention ofpeople who only listen to UZ-and O.A.R.;·shouldnonethe­less only improve his reputation as one of the best songwriters around. 
Will Oldham willbe coming-goodLord! -toLegends, on the campus ofNotre Dame, on April 9. 
***** 
-orthe homemade lasagna. In addition to its traditional Italian dishes, Polito's also offers various soups, salads and subs. It also has a kid's.menu that offers smaller portions ofmany of the dishes; Falito's main attraction, however, is its wide array ofdeep dish pizzas, prepared in both New York and Chicago styles. The pizza, as well as everything else on the menu, is available fortake.:.out·and­would be a welcome change from other chain pizza joints. 
Dinner entrees range from $7.25 -$9.50, and whole pizza prices start at 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 . · 



Come on, Party People 
Start spring-breaking it down a little early next week 
with one ofNotre Dame's own home-grown bands. 
Head over to Legends on Thursday, March 3, at 10 p.m., 
when Slap Bracelet Suicide starts their set. From early­'90s nostalgia to hard-hitting modem tunes, this free 
show salutes all those who love to rock. 
Release Your Inner Rock Star 
Got a passion for performance? Always dreamed of being the next singing sensation? Know all your Madonna or Billy Joel albums by heart? Then you may have what it takes to be the next Irish Idol. Try out for your shot at stardom Monday, Feb. 28, from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in room 115 of Crowley Hall. Bring a friend, bring a favorite song and bring your inner diva. 
Activities About Activism 
Death Penalty Awareness Week began on Wednesday, 
Feb. 23, and continues through Wednesday, March 
2. On Monday, Feb. 28, from 7 p.m. -10 p.m. at the Decio Mainstage Theatre, you can hear Georg,e H­Ryan, former governor ofIllinois, speak on his decision to commute the sentences ofall 167 Illinois death row inmates before he left office. Ryan's lecture will be followed by a panel discussion on the death penalty. On Tuesday, March 1, a lunch will be held in the Coleman­Morse Center lounge at noon with Bud Welch, president ofMurder Victims' Families for Human 
Rights -who will share his experience oflosing his 
daughter in the Oklahoma City bombing. 
Gamble the Night Away 
Do you procrastinate by playing poker online or with your 
buddies? Do you love betting money and taking risks? If 
so, head to the Concourse and Monogram Room of the JACC this Friday, Feb. 25, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. for a 
night ofgambling with the beautiful ladies ofMcGlinn 
Hall. Games will include blackjack, roulette, Texas 
Hold 'Em and many more. "What better way to spend 
your night than listening to great jams, eating free food, 
and winning money with your friends. Tickets are $5 
and can be purchased in McGlinn or at the LaFortune 
Box Office. Prizes include a $200 gift certificate to the 
University Park Mall. 
_Spend a Night with "The Dude" 
Come to Legends Thursday, March 3 at midnight for the infamous Brew & View featuring "The Big Lebowski." It's a classic; there is no cover charge and there will be no one asking you to simmer down while you and your friends recite every line you have been memorizing since the movie came out in '98. The show starts at midnight. 
-Gompiled by Doug Schlarman and Sarah Barrett 
about $11.25. The portions are big and rich; you will definitely get your money's worth. 
So if you've been slaving away in the library all day or are in need of a place to chow down after the next game, sat­isfy your cravings for a fulfilling meal at Polito's. D 

24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 
Staging Hatred 
"The Laramie Project" comes to Notre Dame 
KATIEGALEONE
Tolerance and reconciliation -two foundational values ofthe Catholic Church -are at the center of this year's Spring ArtsFest, and they are also central to "The Laramie Project" which is one ofthe festival's marquee events. Dur­ing the two weeks ofArtsFest, the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Perform­ing Arts will present a number of films, concerts, plays and workshops aimed at promoting these values. Moises Kaufman's "The Laramie Project," is a reaction to the events that occurredinLaramie, Wyo.,in 1998, when Matthew Shepard, a 21-year-old student at the University of Wyoming, was beaten, tied to a fence in the outskirts oftown, and left for dead -all because he was gay. This event prompted Kaufman and nine fellow New York actors and writ­ers to visit Laramie to get an insider's perspective. They talked to a variety of Laramie residents, ranging from Univer­sity ofWyoming professors to farmers, in an attempt to investigate the mentality of the town itself-a university town which had transformed into the unofficial hate crime capital of the United States. "The ,5if,-f4(-'• .,.• Laramie Project" is a 
"' compilation of more than 
200 interviews the New York group collected, as well as the group's own sentiments about what had occurred in Laramie. 
Anton Juan, a professor in the Depart­ment ofFilm, Television, and Theatre and the director ofNotre Dame's production of the play, uses 13 actors -all of whom perform multiple roles -to present what Kaufman and the others learned from their experiences in Laramie. 
There are many reasons why the pro­duction of "The Laramie Project" at Notre Dame takes on special significance; one is the university's history regarding the issue of homosexuality. At a school that The Princeton Review ranked as the No. 1 university for "Alternative Lifestyles Not an Alternative," and where student groups such as Alliance ND are unable to gain official recognition, the production of "The Laramie Project" seems to come at a very controversial time. 
The cast is well aware of this fact. "There's a huge risk ofnegative feedback, but it's worth it ifit's going to get the point across," says sophomoreJim Osborne, who plays the pivotal role of one of Shepard's murderers. Fellow cast member sopho­more Pete Lavorini, who acts as the nar­rator and plays various other roles, voices a fear that many students might shy away from the play due to its association with homosexuality. However, Lavorini stresses that "the play is not about homosexuality; it's about hate." Juan confirms this sentiment and feels that "The Laramie Project" is not simply about one specific hate crime, but rather it is "the archaic tale of Abel and Cain, of brother killing brother because of difference." 
The play is especially profound because it revolves around an act of 
hate that is relatively fresh in the minds of all college-age students. "We were 14 or 15 when this happened, so it's something we can relate to," says cast member sopho­more Annie Hollenbeck. She also stressed that the importance ofthe Shepard mur­der goes far beyond sexual orientation, and she views the play as a complement to the V-Day campaign to end vio­lence against women. Hollenbeck 
says "The Laramie Pr 
oject" more broadly classifies all 
violence as a product of hate and 
ignorance. 
Juan's artistic vision makes this pro­duction of "The Laramie Project" par­ticularly unique. He is an accomplished director and boasts a list of accolades, including an Alexander Onassis Interna­tional Prize for Theatre. The director's colorful and eccentric style brings a new perspective and energy to the already well-known play. "My kind of theater is very visual," Juan says. "I like images." He therefore places a large amount ofempha­sis on the actors' physical movements and facial expressions. Along with enhancing the performance through images, Juan also edited large portions of the original script and added his own interpretations, including such unique pieces of music as Mozart's "Lacrimosa" in order to heighten emotions inimportant scenes. He even cut out a substantial audio-visual portion of the production just days before opening night. 

28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
Juan's intensity was a bit unsettling for the cast at first. "I thought, what am I getting myself into?" Hollenbeck says of Juan. However, he has managed to capture all oftheir trust, and they now continually sing his praises. "He can create things out ofnothing," Osborne says. Lavorini adds, "The university got a great catch when 
they got him." 
"The Laramie Project" is only one of many events sponsored by the Spring ArtsFest. The two-week event kicked off on Sun., Feb. 20, with a performance by rising singer/songwriter Jen Chapin. As chair of the board of directors for WHY (World Hunger Year), Chapin mixes music arid politics, making her work an appropriate beginning to a long line-up of thought-provoking presenta.,; tions. Upcoming events ind1~de performances of Tim Robbins' · ; "Dead Man Walking," as well as a long list of films dealing with the issues ofrace, gender, sexuality, reli­gion and much more-allofwhich draw on the themes oftolerance and 

reconciliation. 
Ultimately,Juan hopes to espouse a message ofhope in his production of"The Laramie Project," in keep­ing with the general aspirations of this year's Spring ArtsFest. He says to his cast: "Ifyou don't have a vision of hope, you're just nihil­istic." . 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 


i; 
I.I 
l 

II ii
I. 
I 
It's All that Jazz at Notre Dame 
The country's oldest college jazz festival celebrates its 47th year 
BETH MURPHY
When people think about Notre Dame's historic traditions, jazz is unlikely to receive mention. That is because few know that the university is home to the nation's oldest college jazz festival. The student­run Collegiate Jazz Festival (more widely known as CJF) was founded in 1959 by a group of Notre Dame students and is celebrating its 47th anniversary this coming weekend. Each year, the Student Union Board-sponsored festival brings together college jazz bands from all over the country and invites Notre Dame stu­dents to see them perform. These bands perform in front of a group of five or six judges -all established and experienced jazz musicians. The task of finding judges for the f es­tival is the major responsibility of Larry Dwyer, CJF's faculty advisor, who is also an assistant director ofthe Marching Band and an assistant director ofNotre Dame's Department of Music. Since Dwyer has performed with various musicians and at­tended several jazz conventions over the years, he has connections with top-flight musicians. When looking for judges for the festival, talent and ability are impor­tant characteristics. However, according to Dwyer, "It's also important that they have an ability to project themselves and interact with the students, because there's an education component to this festival as well." This educational component refers to the feedback that judges provide for each of the bands immediately following their performances. Past CJF judges have included such internationally-known jazz musicians as Dave Brubeck, Quincy Jones and Wynton Marsalis. Dwyer is excited about this year's judges. "They're going to be fantastic," he says. "They're not as widely known as some people we've had in the past, but their playing level is on that very same level,,,Seryi!lg ~s . judges for this year's festival are Andre Hayward, a trombone 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
player and current member ofthe Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra; Frank Catalano, a 24-year-old musician whose saxophone playing can be heard in "Get Right," the recently released Jennifer Lopez song; Lynne Ariale, a pianist who is making her second appearance in CJF at Notre Dame; and the other two members of Ariale's Trio, bassist Jay Anderson and drummer Steve Davis. 
CJF kicked off on Wednesday, Feb. 23, with Preview Night, which featured a performance by Notre Dame's Jazz Band IL On Friday, Feb. 25, the festival shifts into full gear, featuring 45-minute performances by this year's participating college jazz bands. Following these is the Judges' Jam -arguably the highlight of the festival -an event during which the five judges will get on stage together and improvise a performance. Saturday night is the final night for performances at CJF and will feature the Notre Dame Jazz Band I, more of the visiting college bands and a first-ever "alumni combo." 
All performances are held at Washing­ton Hall, and Erin Byrne, the coordina­tor for the Office of Student Activities, expects about 600 to 800 people for this year's festival, making it one ofthe largest events SUB hosts in Washington Hall. The festival provides Notre Dame and the surrounding South Bend community 
Student co-chairs of this year's CJF are senior Greg Salzler and junior Will Sea th. Salzler, a former resident ofZahm Hall, has been working with CJF for a few years now. "I think it's one of ND's best events. A lot of students don't get exposed to this kind ofmusic very often, so this is just a great opportunity. And the Judges' Jam is awesome. It's a pretty amazing thing that we can get such experienced musicians to come here on a yearly basis," Salzler says. 
Dwyer echoes the enthusiasm ofSalzler and Seath, urging all students to come check out CJF this weekend. "Most students haven't been exposed to a lot of jazz," he explains, "because, in the US, jazz isn't a very popular music medium." CJF, however, introduces students to a wide range of jazz music in an intimate and relaxed setting. "Every group has its own unique style," Dwyer says. "Some are loud and wild; others are subtle and cool. It's fun and exciting, and with the free admission, it's a great place to take a date." 
Both evening's peiformances are free to Notre Dame students with valid ID, and tickets are available to non-students at the LaFortune Box Office or by calling 631-8128. A one-night ticket is $3, and a two-eveniiJg (Friday and Saturday) block ticket is $S. More information on the Col­legiate Jazz Festival can be found online at http: 


Are you creative? 
Do you have a short story, poem, drawing or photo?. Submit your work to the Spring issue of 
The.Juggler 
ND's student literary, art and design magazine. 
Please bring artwork to Mary Foster in 206 Riley by March 28. Supply slides for pieces larger than 11x17 or 3-0 work. 
Written work deadline is March 21. Send via e-mail to juggler@nd.edu or dropped off in the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. No entries of more than 2,500 words, please. 
All submissions should .include title, author/artist, and e-mail.. 
And if you're interested in working on the Juggler staff,just e-mail juggler@nd.edu 

ANNIEROBINSON 

en Zailckas' "Smashed: Story of Drttnken Girlhood," is cierrently 
o. 10 on the hardcover nonfiction bestseller list ofThe New York Times. The memoirby the 24-year-old Syracttse Univer­sity gradzeate also hasbeen chosen by Barnes & Noble, Inc., the world's largest bookseller, as one of13 seasonal choicesfor 
I was ·drinking more that semester than any other semester -[my friends and I] were at bars five nights a week. These reporters set up camp at bars; they were researching a story about why girls were drinking younger and more than ever before. I sort offelt froin talking to [my 
its Spring 2005 "Discover 
drunk. NotthatI was ever Great New W?·iters" pro­really the life ofthe party; gram. Zailckas-who now but just to be able just to lives in New York City and find some self-worth. works as afreelance writer -spoke to Scholasticfrom Why publicize your Santa Barbara, Calif., dttr­decade-long battle ing a leg ofher book tottr. -starting at age 14 She talks about her decade­-with alcohol abuse? long battle with alcohol ·All those admittedly abuse and her own venture mortifying moments into the pziblishing world. and self-deprecating 
What first inspired you to write a 
memoir? The seeds for "Smashed" were planted when I was getting ready to graduate from Syracuse in 2002 and two report­ers from Time Magazine came to campus. 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT

friends who were interviewed] that [the reporters] did bring an agenda to it, saying that[... ] "We are doing it because we are liberated, confident and do it to compete with the boys." But here I was, doing it to mask my lack ofself-confidence. I always feel like the people writing about [the is­sue of college drinking] are so removed from the issue. 
Was writing "Smashed" a cathartic exercise? · 
Writing, in a lot ofways, took the place ofdrinking. Itwas nice to find a so1;1rce of identity outside ofgetting 
stories ... 
I know it was risky. Obviously itis still a sensitive topic and it is still a taboo. Ifyou say you are a woman with alcohol prob­lems, it opens the door to all sorts ofstig­mas that we associate with women who drink: "You must be promiscuous; you 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 . 
must be masculine; and you must always 
be in control." And historically, writing a 
memoir has always been [perceived to be] 
a trashy thing to do. But I wanted to lead 
by example and say, "It's OK to talk about 
it. We should talk about it." Statistidlly, 
lots ofwomen have experienced the same . things I have. 
Did you have a target in mind? Col­lege students? High-school students? Parents? 
I think when I sat down initially and started writing, I did imagine that [read­ers] would be women around my age who would connect with it and maybe teenag­ers. I almost didn't write for an audience -you are really just writing in your own voice. What's been the pleasant surprise is that parents are interested in it, too. My mother, when I was 14 years old, she wanted to read anything to give her in­sight into me because I was so secretive. 
So much of "Smashed" is based on distinct female experiences. Do you think that men can glean lessons and insights from the memoir as well? 
There have been a lot ofmen who have come to readings. I have also gotten let­ters from men -not just college-aged men -but 30-year-old and 40-year-old men! I hope that guys reading "Smashed" could have a little bit more of an under­standing about the expectations they have ofwomen. 
How did your relationship with your parents change -if at all ­during writing and after publishing "Smashed"? 
I prepared them; they never could have 
seen what it is was actually going to be. All 
parents want to believe the best in their 
kids. Inyouth, your parents have undying 
love for you and overlook everything you 
do. Itwas really scary to think about them 
reading it. Purposely, when I sat down to 
write, I didn't think about their reactions. 
My mom sat down and read it in one shot 
and cried and was really upset about a few 
parts. We sat down and had conversations. 
I sat down with my dad. You would think 
they would be really tough conversations 
about drinking and sex -but it wasn't. It 
was such a load off my mind; it was such 
a relief. [My mother] realized why I [had 
been] acting the way I was acting. 
People always say, "Why didn't your 
parents know this was going on?" But, 
~SCROl:1XSTl6 ~l'{[ERTAINMENJJ:----------------------, 
in college, it is easy to remove yourself because of time and space. No one ever thought that drinking had to do with my depression. We hide so many of these things from our parents, our boyfriends and, eventually, our husbands. We think 

LEAVING BEHIND A LUSH LIFE Zailckas is now living in NewYork City and hasn't had a drink in over a year. 
[talking to them about alcohol and sex] is going to be really uncomfortable. It wasn't bad. 
You attribute sheer boredom to perpetuating your alcohol abuse in college. Do you recommend develop­ing a passion in order to fend off the temptation to drink? 
When I was the most involved in sports orinwriting orworking at [Syracuse's stu­dent newspaper The Daily Orange] I wasn't drinking a lot. When I did, [I had] a knee injury; or it was winter; or we were shut in. It is nice to have an identity outside of "the girl at the bar" or "the girl at the party." It's great to thinkabout myself now as a writer. 
Is coping with alcohol still difficult? 
For the most part, I don't struggle with it daily. I haven't had a drinkin over a year. I cutit off before I was physically dependent 

24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 33 
-··. . . .. . ,.~ . --~ 
-._,-.:..,_· '"---~ ---••>---------­
I' 



Real 'Roid Rage
Confessions of an Angry Fan 
61. 70*. 73**.
This is how the Major League Baseball sin­gle-season home run records should read. People were disgusted when Roger Maris was slotted as No. 1 in the home run record books under the 162-game format-a season eight games longer than the 1927 season dur­ing which Babe Ruth set the original record. The record-holding system is obviously very lenient. It's perfectly understandable then that I am outraged that Barry Bonds and Mark McGwire have found yet another way to cheat the system: by using steroids. Jose Canseco's recently released tell-all biography "Juiced," which documents the steroids abuses of cer­tain professional baseball players, has caused a stir among sports analysts. In the book's wake, analysts find themselves asking, "vVhat would have happened ifthe players never had abused steroids?" "vVhat should happen to the records that were set?" "vVhat should be the punishment for future abuses?" Canseco's book accuses a number of base­ball's biggest names, including Bonds, McG­wire,Jason Giambi and Sammy Sosa ofsteroid use. The allegations certainly seem plausible, ifnot probable, when you consider that these players significantly increased their size and success every year. In his interview on "60 Minutes," Canseco commented that steroids turn "mediocre players into great players and great players into superstars," and admitted that he had "shot McGwire up personally on a number of occasions." If McGwire started 
STATZONE 
Bryan Lowery brings you 

6 CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
down steroid lane his rookie year, then even his career -one ofthe most celebrated in sports history -could be entirely fraudulent. 
Canseco also said that McGwire taught his "tricks" to his Oakland apprentice, Giambi. Giambi, winner of the 2000 MVP Award, re­cently admitted to using anabolic steroids to pad his statistics. Despite my attachment to the Yankees, I am appalled by the actions of Giambi and the Yankees' front office. "When Giambi signed his seven-year, $120 million contract to play for New York, tl1ere was no reference to the word "steroids." Instead, it was replaced with such vague terms as "chemi­cal dependency" and "controlled substances." Meanwhile, Giambi used these substances to obtain an unfair advantage over the rest ofthe league. Considering the disciplined work eth­ics ofother players striving toward Giambi-like results without the aid ofsteroids, "doping" is similar to a student cheating on an exam; it is a violation ofthe proverbial MLB Honor Code. Giambi's actions have sullied the pinstripes that were once worn by greats like Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio and Mickey lvlantle. 
Notice the change in Bonds' style of play from Pittsburgh to San Francisco. Bonds used · to steal bases and weigh under 200 pounds, and now-because ofhis home run hitting ability, the only base he takes is first -on walks. "What lessons has Bonds learned from steroid abuse? It has taught him that, by violating baseball's policies towards steroids, he can win seven MVPs, set every home run record imaginable 
No. 20 Baseball (3-1): 
The Irish started their season in warmer weather with a four-game tournament in Orlando, Fla., as one of only seven consensus top-20 preseason picks (for the fifth straight year). Notre Dame first played Florida A&M on Friday, swinging deep early and soundly defeating the Rattlers 18-3. This improves the Irish's record to 7-1 in the past eight season 
and almost guarantee his place in the Hall of Fame. This is a far cry from the unequal treatment received by Maris, who without using steroids won two MVPs and broke Ruth's record, but who still is not enshrined in Cooperstown. 
Unfortunately, it is very difficult to decide what actions should be taken to amend the injustices done by these players, as well as to prevent future occurrences. I personally be­lieve that McGwire's and Bonds' accomplish­ments in the '01 and '98 seasons were theft; they stole the glory that rightfully belongs to Maris, and that stolen glory should be returned to its rightful owner. 
Although baseball has made provisions to prevent further substance~abuse cases, I do not think they are strict enough. The current sys­tem suspends a player for 1Q days for the first offense, 3 0 for the second, 60 for the third and a season for the fourth offense. I propose that they take the Olympic committee's stance on steroid abuse. First abuse: two years. Second abuse: You're banned from the sport-end of story. We are not dealing with children here; these players understand the implications of their actions. It's time we penalize them as adults. 
As an avid baseball fan, I would like to end with a message for Mr. Bonds: Retire after career home run number 754. Please do not desecrate the record held by Hank Aaron. Baseball has suffered enough because ofsteroid abuse. . 
openers. 
Notre Dame is also the second­winningest team of past five years. The Irish finished the tournament with a 4-2 win over the Golden Knights of Central Florida. Notre Dame is 15-3 in the state of Florida. Next up for the Irish is a three-game series against the University of Dayton to be played in Mesa, Ariz. beginning on Feb. 26. 
34 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 24 FEBRUARY 2005 
j."@l:to1t4,1@jSPORTS:: 
During.her four years ofundergraduate studies at Notre Dame; Meghan Perry-Eaton distinguished herself as one of· the best divers in the history of the program. Perry-Eaton was:granted a fifth-year ofeligibility because ofan injury she suffered during her freshman year. As an undergraduate, Perry..Eaton majored in aerospace engineering and now is earning her master's degree in biomechanical engineering. · Scholastic had a chance to talk with her about being a grad· student, a role model and a top Irish athlete. 

Our Calls 
Men's Basketball 
OPPONENT: UCLA WHERE:JOYCE CENTER 

Is #mo.re dif.ficult to. k~lance schoolwork.aridathletics.as a.g;radu.ate sJUd.~nt than, it. wa! .. as an underg;rad? · · It is a little bit harder, just because there is a little bit more independent study 
in the graduate school. I actually have a hard time, because a lot ofmy grad school classmates tend do their work early and go to bed at night. When I was an undergrad, we did work all night, so I wind up doing a lot ofwork on my own. · 
rather than with classmates. It's a different adjustment in that respect. 
Since the team is comprised ofmostly underg;raduates, how. do you feel you relate with 
them? 
I just recently realized that they look up to me more than I knew before. I just noticed things that we've been talking about and e-mails that have been going. around. It's definitely a different role and I feel like lam in a different position as a grad student and a fifth-year, as well as doing better athletically.: I relate well with them, but I also know that I am in my own world. . 
With all ofyour achievements, is there anything else you would like to accomplish? I want to win a national title. Both times I have been to nationals! have really 
done terribly on the three-meter [platform] when I have felt like I was prepared to dive well. It would mean a lot to mei even ifI don't end up winning a national title, to keep myselftogether for both boards. I really want to end on a positive note because the end is so near. . 
Areyou superstitious? 
A little bit. I always have my ring on [...] it was a gift from my parents, and it reminds me of their support growing up and how they supported me on the boards and academically as welL If! don't have it on, I feel really weird. 
Describeyourselfin one word. 
Passionate -ifyou look at everything I do, I really get into it. 
What are your plans after Notre Dame? · Probably be unemployed. (Laughs.) I'd like to be working in an aerospace engineering position. I'm looking at a job right now that I am really interested in that's out in California; 
-Christopher Meskill 
WHEN: SUNDAY, FEB. 27, 2:00 P.M. EST 
Notre Dame comes in this weekend uncertain of its future in the NCAA Tournament with its final three games at home. This home stand will prove to be pivotal for the Irish come Selection Sunday. Expect the Irish to come up big in these final three matches beginning with UCLA. Senior C~ris-Thomas will show why he is the team captain, scoring more than 25 points against the Bruins, as the Irish march on to victory, 71-64. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL SPOIUS EDITOR 
Key to the Game: The Irish are on the bubble; they need your support. The Irish host the last three basketball games of the 2004­2005 season, and they need every last one of their supporters at the game. This weekend is not just important to our basketball team. New football Head Coach Charlie Weis is bringing in more than 80 top-ranked high school recruits to check out Notre Dame this weekend, and they will be at the game. Show your fellow Irish and possible future Irish what Notre Daine athletics means. 
No. 20 Women's Tennis (4-4): 
Notre Dame lost a tough match to No: 
9 North Carolina this weekend, losing an 
early lead in two three-set matches against 
the Tarheels. Over the past two seasons, 
the Irish have won only one of eight 
close games. In the losing effort, the twin doubles team of Christina and Christian Thompson defeated North Carolina's No. · 14 doubles team, making the Thompson 
sisters (16-2, 11-1 against ranked opponents) the first Notre Dame doubles team to be ranked No. 1 nationally. 
Men's Basketball (16-8, 8-6): 
The Irish fell to Connecticut Monday night at the Hartford Civic Center. Colin Falls' team-leading 19 points was not enough to hc>l.d .9ff UConn, as the Hrulaes won by 14. The Irish continue to perform well outside ofthe arch, ranking No. 14 nationally in three-point baskets. 
Chris Thomas ranks No. 19 nationally in assists, and the team ranks No. 24 in scoring defense, as only six opponents have scored more than 70 points against 
the Irish this season. Notre Dame will attempt to bounce back from the UConn loss against UCLA this Sunday in the 
JACC. . 
. 24 FEBRUARY 2005 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 35 

,----------------------t:]f:$:~ii01!l::J@C(!eil]ni'-?.il$~:fiiid[[!l@sP_ORTS :---------------------­
Foiling the Competition 
Polish fencer proves the sword is mightier 
MIKELASKEY
Three-time NCAA defending champion Alicja Kryczalo -a senior psychology and political 
science major -is one of the most dominant athletes in Notre Dame his­tory, but odds are that you've never heard her name. Although Kryczalo is looking to win her fourth consecutive foils title at the NCAA Fencing Championships this March in Houston, Texas, her remark­able achievements have slipped under the radar on this sports-crazed campus. Only one previous female fencer anywhere has won four national titles, and no Notre Dame athlete in any sport has accom­plished the feat. Kryczalo acknowledges that her achievements have not come easily, but that gaining experience has made it easier. This experience undoubt­edly will prove to be an asset at this year's championships, where over the past three years she has posted a remarkable record of 69-6. 
Kryczalo, a native of Gdansk, Poland, began fencing in fifth grade and com­peted throughout Europe with the Polish junior women's team while in high school. At a junior World Cup event in Budapest, Kryczalo caught the eye of current Irish Head Fencing Coach Janusz Bednarski. "[The bout in Budapest] was not an easy 
· one for her to win," Bednarski says. "[Kryczalo had] such a great fire. I knew she would be a great fencer." Bednarski offered her a scholarship on the spot, but it took some convincing. "I didn't want to come," Kryczalo remembers with a laugh. "But [Coach Bednarski] sent me all the details, and his son, who is a very close friend ofmine, also recommended Notre Dame to me." 
Kryczalo ended up in South Bend in the fall of 2001, ultimately drawn by Notre Dame's academic reputation and strong fencing program. "I love the academic side of Notre Dame," Kryczalo says. "It's very different here. Professors are so open and so kind to studenfs and care about students. In Poland it's not like 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 · 
~S880L.'ASTIC ~P'c>R~-------------1------,-----, 
that." Kryczalo has done extensive course 
work in psychology, political science, 
Spanish and German. An indefatigable 
work ethic in both fencing and 
academics has led Kryczalo to 
excellence in both areas. "I'm 
just really ambitious. IfI'm doing some­
thing, I really need to do it as well as I 
can," she says. "I also really enjoy what 
I'm studying ... I find it so interesting. 
Languages are just my love, so it is easy 
for me to study them," she adds. 
Bednarksi has observed his senior's resolve both in and outside of fencing. "Not only is Kryczalo a fencer who is get­ting results, but she is a model as a leader and a very hard worker," he says. "She is showing everybody that to be good, you have to put in a lot of work and not only be talented. She is also an excellent student on the dean's list. She is a great asset for us." 
In the little time Kryczalo finds without a foil or textbook in hand, she has done her best to take advan­tage of Notre Dame's other offerings. "I like Latin dancing very much, and I am going to the class," she says. "I also have a lot of friends here, so I like to see them. Sometimes I travel to Chicago." Kryczalo also has enjoyed what she sees 
FULL SCHEDULE Along with dominating on the fencing strip, Kryczalo is a as the university's diverse student body. 
psychology and political science double major who also studies Spanish and German at "It's a very interesting experience in a 
Notre Dame. cultural way here. I am very glad I get to meet people from other countries here as well, apart from Americans," she says. to the various tournaments and camps Ifshe chooses to go straight to graduate "I've never thought that it's not a very in which she participates. Although busy school, Kryczalo will most likely pursue diverse community, because in Poland we schedules over the winter holidays often an advanced degree in political science or don't have so many international students lead to late returns to campus in Janu­international relations. She would like to [ ... ] the people are very nice here, and it's ary, summer breaks allow Kryczalo more pursue opportunities that will allow her very nice to deal with them. Everyone is time to get back into her home routine. "I to use her multilingual abilities. However, open, friendly and helpful." usually start to get adjusted to Polish life, fencing remains a viable option for Kry­
While living far froni home, Kryczalo but then have to come back to American czalo. "I would love to continue fencing, successfully has maintained ties to her life," she says. although I recognize that there are many native country, in both personal and ath­Kryczalo still has many difficult de-other important things in life thatI often letic circles. cisions to make lose because offencing," she says. "I know While she regarding her I have a place on the national team. They only returns "She is showing everybody that to future beyond the want me to come back to Poland." to Poland current fencing Whether or not Kryczalo continues to
be good, you have to put in a lot of 
twice a year, season. With a fence competitively after her graduation, Kryczalo has work and not only be t;ilented:' myriad of possi­the mark she has left on Notre Dame's been able to bilities before her, program is indelible. "It takes us a long 
-Janusz Bednarski, Notre Dame head
keep up with Kryczalo speaks time to find somebody like Kryczalo," family and fencing coach excitedly about the Bednarski says. "Ofcourse, we will have old friends prospects ofeither a hole for a long time. We were happy to over the attending graduate have her here. She was really very special Internet. Whenever she returns home, school or continuing her fencing career for us." . Kryczalo takes her passion for fencing upon finishing at Notre Dame this spring. 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 37 



:LISTENING 

I bet you wish you stored your bike at the stadium: 
A fellow Notre Dame student 
abandoned said bike to whims 
of South Bend winter. Come 
springtime, his wheels will be 
more than rusty. 
I 
i' 

117 Years Ago 
Vacation, All I Ever Wanted Fans ofbase tans know that spring break is right around the corner. It's a time when stndents driving to Mexico will discover that it's easier to get a car into another country than on campus. For those ofyou who are looking for last­minute plans, it might be time to look back at a kinder, simpler time: 1888 at the St. Mary's campus. It was an age when spring was spring, girls were girls and someone with a "consumption problem" didn't have alcoholism but tuberculosis. From an 1888 issue of Scholastic: 
"The days are now approaching when the schoolgirl's mind contains one all-absorbing thought -vacation and its plea­mres .... Among Americans the tendency towards constant drudgery is more manifest than in any other nation. The Yankee, following in the footsteps ofhis Puritan fathers, con­siders it a grievous sin to relaxfor an instant hisfirm hold upon the instruments ofhis livelihood; and ifhe happen[s] to find a few leisure moments on his hands (which is very improbable), we see him busily intent upon the whittling ofhis chip, or the carving ofa wooden nutmeg." 
Keep focus over break! Whether a Belle is pursuing a nursing, education or MRS. degree, it remains impera­tive that she retain a firm hold on the instruments of her future livelihood. 
-Erik Powers 

38 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 
24 FEBRUARY 200S 
SEHOL:ASTIG HQ.M..Q!UI-------------~------, 


.___ ,_. 
t 
i.-:.~r=) l~ 
/·­
Dear Mr. I lenshawWeis, 
ERIKPOWERS 
'm ErikJoel Powers, a junior English major, and my interests four types ofguys choose to go to Florida: six year olds in search 
include hometowns with the initials "E.P." This is an awk-of Mickey Mouse, 20 year olds in search of play, 40 year olds 
ward way to introduce myself. Ifwe were meeting in person, in search of motorcycle rallies and 150 year olds in search of a I could at least look you in the eye and shake your hand. But place to die. Notre Dame needs to drastically improve its talent that's tough to do through a letter, so I've included a picture of level. It's tough to get that done when you're eating a popsicle myself and traced my hand on this page so that you can cut it in a spinning teacup, contracting venereal diseases, wearing out and shake it at your leisure. leather chaps or lying in a. coffin. 
Welcome back to campus! I'm sure a few things have changed The real way to get better is by copying other programs -but since you graduated. There are fewer mustaches. The alcohol not successful collegiate champions such as Oklahoma, Miami policy and dorm dances have been revised. Hall-wide keg par-or USC. Notre Dame would benefit more by copying :fictional ties and hard alcohol-lubricated orgies have been replaced with ones. Two coaches ago, Athletic Director Kevin White chose the consumption of unfermented grapes, followed by gloved George O'Leary because he was "right out of central casting." hand-holding throughout the Michiana area. You might notice White had good instincts to go :fictional once, so why not try that today's ladies ofNotre Dame are noticeably hotter than the it again? women ofyour generation. This might be because contemporary In the 1993 movie "The.Program," a running back played Darners are at least 30 years younger. by Omar Epps was forced to carry a football around campus 
I'd also like to thank you for visiting on Valentine's Day. to cut down on fumbling. I think our defensive players could There are hundreds ofguys on campus who are so pre.occupied improve their skills in a similar fashion: Force them to tackle withNotreDamefootballthatthey're ,-----------------1o.,-cyclists. Chasing down bikers on South unable to comprehend having an emo-:· Quad would do wonders for an athlete's tional relationship with any girl. Your i ·speed, agility and ability to wrap up on appearance at the JACC challenged i tackles. After taking out twins on a tandem duLac's 1imits of intimacy by featur-I '. or NDSP on a 10-speed, catching Reggie ing minimal physical interaction dur-i : Bush wouldn't even be a challenge. ing parietals. You've obviously already / '. Notre Dame also could benefit from im­captured the heart ofthe student body. · -. plementing elements of"Air Bud: Golden But in order to make this love instead • '. Receiver." There's no rule that says a dog of infatuation, you'll have to capture .: can't play. Well, this is contingent on a dog its mind too. Here's a cup of sugary '-being a student, so the university needs to advice from your neighbor: '. begin admitting canines on scholarships. A 
Don't.mention Ty. It was hard for a .: Great Dane would be potentiallyuntackle­lot ofus to see him go. We respected ·•_ : able: In order for a player to be considered him as a man of integrity. It was es-· ~ down, he must have· a knee or shoulder pecially tough for me because of how touch the ground. Have you ever tried to much he reminded· me .of Chuck Nor-__ bend a Newfoundland's knee backwards? ris. Both were tough guys under five-. It's tough. Some Pit Bulls and Dobermans feet-six inches tall who were terse and : : would drastically increase the speed of packed little heat. As Walker, Texas _-. the secondary. And television has taught Ranger, Norris eschewed a firearm · us that the Collie is behind only humans for kicking his opponents; as coach of and dolphins in intelligence, so adding a the Irish, Ty eschewed a real offensi".'e coordinator for punting border breed or two might help the school rescue children from to his opponents. If the similarities continue, Ty should end wells, herd traffic in South Dining Hall's food court, and add up making bank as a spokesman for weightlifting equipment an Academic All-American to its credentials. infomercials. · I hope that my letter has been of some help to you and that 
Don't mention Urban Meyer, either. He's only a little less you will consider being my pen pal in the future. I have plenty popular than a veal-themed buffet at aPSA meeting. At first he offree time and Gelly Rolls in every color ofthe rainbow. seemed like-the perfect guy for the school: brownnosing in the press, a chiseled jaw and a pope-ish first name all worked in his 
xoxo, 
favor. But upon further review, it appears that he really wasn't ErikJoel Powers 
the rightguy for the school-he chose to travel to Florida. Only 
24 FEBRUARY 2005 SCH0LASTICHUMOR 39 
The Scholastic Interview 

JOHN AFFLECK-GRAVES 
John Affieck-Graves was elected as Notre Dame's execu­tive vice president by the universi-ty's Board ofTrustees in April 2004. He oversees an annual operating budget of more than $650 million and an endowment of$3 billion, in addition to directing human resources and construction for the university. Affieck-Graves first served as aprofessor offinance for the university, a position which he held for 14years, and he currently holds the Notre Dame Finance Chair. He has received six outstanding teaching awards at Notre Dame and also has served as a consultantfor such companies as Bayer, Merck and Donnelly Glass. A native of South Africa, Affieck-Graves earned his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from the University ofCape 
Town, where he taught from 1975-1986. 
Whom do you most admire? 
At Notre Dame, it's hard to move away from Fr. Ted 
(the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.SC.) and Fr. Ned (the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S. C.) -just two people who really symbolize great leadership. 
I strive to be ... 
Ideally, honest and trustworthy; someone that you can rely on. 
What work of art has most influenced your , outlook on life? 
[Alan Paton's] "Cry the Beloved Country," because I lived in a world where people were separated. It was the first thing I read that probably made me realize that there are times when you ca,n do things and sometimes, ifyou don't act, it can be too late. 
What do you miss most about South Africa? 
The weather. 
How would someone else describe you? 
As a mad runner. Maybe overly dedicated, sometimes stubborn, hopefully hard working. 
I would like Notre Dame to be more ... 
Ofwhat it is. IfI think ofNotre Dame, I do think 
ofaplace that is warm andfriendly and open and 
inviting ... aplace where there's a deep sense of spirituality. 
What contribution to the Notre Dame community gives you the greatest pride? 
The thing I'm most proud ofwould be my teaching and the number ofstudents I've had ... I miss teaching a lot. 
What is your favo"rite Notre Dame memory? 
I think my favorite Notre Dame memory ... it's a little selfish ... was watching my two daughters -both Notre Dame grads -marry Notre Dame men at the Basilica. 
What or who is the greatest love of your life? 
Well, obviously, my wife. And my two daughters. 
What is your idea of heaven? 
Warmth, sun, sea, Notre Dame winning the National Championship every year. 
If you could have any other job, what would it be? . 
I'd be back teaching ... in the College ofBusiness. 
-Jennifer Osterhage 
40 SCHOLASTICINTERVIEW 24 FEBRUARY 20~5 



Dame Archive f Notre Dame 
·. esburgh Libra 
. . 465 
what·s could possibly be 
·cooler than roller disco· or dinosau·rs? 
••• 71,e·· 
Nsw·· 
,,.,,.11se 
tloi!ll 10, t.lio pri,ci OISIOH... ·. eOHtlltfl soon 
A~l);'l\~~I) Ll~T~,-.Jl~f3 AT••• 
wvfi.nd.edu 
/ 
. . ' 
-· ~ 


