January 21, 1944	Vol. 80, No. 9 |
«‘‘ 7ro<'UW*T’A'
I	jm -i 44 '‘'I
I ' / /	i
IN THIS ISSUE:	A A
A M v	।
■	■•	I
® K. C. Civilian Ball Planned	.	I
•	Father O'Donnell Speaks	at Charter Centennial	I
•	V-12 Ball Attracts 700 Couples	.	I
•	Gilbert-Sullivan	Rehearsals Underway	I
•	Cagers to Meet Northwestern, Valparaiso	I
^he cNotre Qame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney_____________________________Editor-in-chief
Ralph Abell_____________________________  Associate	Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole_____________________________Managing	Editor
Harold Berliner and John McKeon....Asst. Managing Editors Bill Waddington___________________-............. Splinters
Lieut. S. L. Beatty_________________________....Observations
Jim Casey and Buzz Hassett.................._The Green Banner Dick Murphy..........................L— College Parade
Al Lesmez_____________________________Man About Campus
News Staff Frank Keenan..........................i-------News Editor
Al Lesmez-----------------------------------Campus Editor
Edward Madden_____________________;___Administration Editor
John Keleher	Vernon Mikkelson	Joe Plante
J. D. Lisina	R. L. Marske	James McCarthy
Jim Regan	H. G. Gilligan	Bill Thompson
Paul Wood	Leland James	Frank Gleason
Steve Loyacano	John Locke	Mike Canair
Features
Al Broten___________________________________________Editor
Al Bisbee	Palmer Amundsen H. F. Ziegler
James Paris	Leonard Hogan	Sam Miller
Art Wagner	Harry Tanner	Charles Veenstra
Sports Staff
Bill Carey....._____________________________________Editor
James H. Howard	Jim Fennelly	Jack Houghteling
Joe Murnane	Paul Brennan	David Scheider
John Power	Jim Regan	Joe Fahey
Staff Photographers
Al Shaefer Charles Renaud Joe Haller
Circulation
John Matmiller.__________________________________Manager
Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.___.1___Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday thraugh Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
2
Q,.......in...imiuiii....iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu.niuiiiniiiuuimiiuiiiiiiQ
EDITORIAL
(aJiiitiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiitniiiiitiiiiiitiiiittiiiiitiiiiitiiiiniiiiiiiitiiiHititiiiitiiiiiiiiiititittitiiiifa]
The Scholastic observes that:
«
1)	Many things have conspired to make the present semester a rather difficult one for campus journalism. The reorganization of the campus news weekly has resulted in a board of editors who are necessarily somewhat limited in their time to write news copy, assemble that copy, and get it to the printer. In some instances, the new editors are strangers to Notre Dame and her limited facilities to expedite reporting and re-editing copy. As a result, we have, from time to time, failed to get stories to you. In other instances, Scholastic reporters have failed to fulfill assignments for reasons unknown to the Scholastic office. This, of course, is a sad commentary on the reliability of certain individuals who must find it difficult to avoid the censure which obviously accrues from their reprehensible failure to fill vital assignments. It would have been better for the magazine, had they never signified their intention to cooperate in the production of a news-weekly worthy of the Notre Dame war effort.
2)	Now that the V-12 Ball is a matter of memory and happy recollections, the Scholastic desires to compliment the committeemen no less than Lieut. Collins and Commander Pearson, for the wholehearted cooperation which was given to the Scholastic editors in their attempt to give the dance the publicity which it rightfully merited. The Publicity Committee, under the direction of Seaman Fanning, cooperated most satisfactorily in preparing stories and photographs for each issue, thus enabling the Scholastic to be of value in the staging of a most successful dance. The affair is mentioned here, that other organizations may imitate this noteworthy example of cooperation.
3)	The lack of finances, no less than of man-power has forced the Scholastic staff to discontinue efforts to send copies of each issue to various graduates and former students in the armed forces. It is therefore suggested that subscribers on campus, when finished reading each issue, send their old copies to those men in the service who would otherwise be deprived of information regarding campus activities. Copies are sent to USO centers, camps, stations, bases, and wherever else possible. But this in no way satisfies the demand of Notre Dame men for Notre Dame news. It would be a distinct mark of loyalty, no less than an act of charity, to provide former students with an hour or two of enjoyment by this simple procedure at so little cost of effort on our part.
4)	The Scholastic invites all those interested in writing for its pages, columnists, no less than editors, to submit their names for consideration’ relative to appointments for the coming semester. Of necessity, there must be many new appointments that must come from the student body interested in journalism. The Scholastic, on its part, offers an outlet for journalistic talent, no less than valuable experience in the problems confronting the news field. All applications should be directed to the Faculty Advisor. Every application will be given due consideration, and only those appointments will be made which will insure a better magazine for the campus. Reporters who heretofore have signified willingness to assume obligations and who have then failed to meet assignments, need not apply.
5)	The Scholastic is extremely grateful to departing V-7 men who, under the direction of Lieut, (j.g.) Sprinz, contributed to its pages during their training period at Notre Dame.—The Editors
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	*
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 80
JANUARY 21. 1944
NO. 9
Knights of Columbus Semi-Formal Feb. 4;
Civilians Make Plans For Gala Evening
Lt. Col. Rahiser, U.S.M.C.
to Inspect Detachment Here
By Pvt. Ralph Abell
After weeks of observation, quiet questioning, furtive glances at their depleted ranks, and counting the loose change in their pockets, the civilians of the campus have arrived at the crucial stage of decision as to whether or not a dance sponsored by their number is possible.
The Knights of Columbus, with the assistance of the Commerce Forum, have set Friday, Feb. 4, as the date of their “Semi-Formal.” The affair, the first attempted by civilians, will be held at the Indiana Club, South Bend’s most exclusive social headquarters. Bids for the ' affair will total S3.30. Several orchestras are being considered; but the most likely to be chosen will be that of Will Back, currently appearing at the Paradise Ballroom, in Chicago, and well known throughout the Middlewest.
Freshmen to Attend
A radical departure from precedence will permit the Freshmen to attend the affair. All civilians on campus will be eligible, according to word from the Office of the Prefect of Discipline. Father Burke has likewise graciously cooperated in the matter of cars, permitting all those who register cars with the Office of Discipline to use the cars for the week-end. He has, furthermore, extended dance permissions until 1 a.m., with the stipulation that all students be in their halls by 2 a.m.
The Knights of Columbus on the campus have enjoyed an enviable reputation for staging dancing spectacles of distinction, over a period of many years. Each spring their efforts have been anticipated ■with eagerness, and invariably have satisfied even the most fastidious. This year, they are working valiantly to maintain their high standard of entertainment. Freshmen will find prepared, for their initial venture into the local social whirl, an evening of entertainment not soon forgotten.
Heretofore, only white ties and tails were in order. This year, because of the
attendant circumstances, and with an eye to economic necessities, committeemen have decided to admit guests in semi-formal attire, believing that the informality may add to their dancing
pleasure. For the individual, therefore, the attire will be optional, thus making it possible for everyone to attend.
A Challenge to Civilians
The impending affair, representing a considerable investment, comes in the nature of a test and a challenge to the civilian group on campus, and will determine whether or not other dances are to be held, since civilians will be the only ones free on that night. Cooperation in this project will assure success, and the pleasure of a group hitherto not too active in social affairs. Committe-men will be announced in next week’s Scholastic.
Lt. Col. L. S. Rahiser, USMC, of Headquarters, Marine Corps., officer in charge of the Marine V-12 program, will arrive at this station on the afternoon of Jan. 25 for an official visit to this detachment, it was announced by Captain J. W. Finney, officer, in charge.
The colonel’s inspection will be of a general nature and might include anything in the book. Captain Finney said there may be a formal clothing inspection which means that all hands will lay their clothes in an orderly fashion on their bunks and stand at attention while the officer conducts his investigation. Whether a parade and review will be held depend upon the wishes of the visiting officer.
The colonel will hold a meeting of all hands on the evening of the 25th and give a general outline of the program, and later hold a question period.
Army Air Corps Promotes John P. Henebry, '40
By Ed Mikkelson
The Army Air Corps is gaining a reputation for early and rapid advancement of its officers; but it outdid itself recently in the case of a 1940 Notre Dame graduate. John P. Henebry, who is only twenty-five years old, was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. Henebry, stationed at the American Headquarters on New Guinea, has piloted his B-25 bomber Here Comes Howe on almost a hundred combat missions according to the last report- He has both Japanese ships and airplanes to his credit, and is one of the most effective American pilots in that area. His present activities differ sharply from those he indulged in while at Notre Dame where he sang in the glee club. One trusts he stays “sharp” by keeping the Japs “flat.”
3
The Week
byszcz, Captain?” Your date may use the normal civilian salutation. “Jac sie mas.” or “Ja cie kockam!” (Don’t say this too loud in the cafeteria, boys.) or any other suitable salutations. But NOT “Glottshap blubberbilge,” as this will definitely tag you and your date.
BY T. A. GAINES AND HABBY LE BIEN
TOP OF THE WEEK
Saturday night.
SHOE SHOE, BABY
To: All V-12 Trainees.
Subj. INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE V-12 BALL. (Unexpurgated)
1.	Uniform. The uniform for the Marine Privates will be service winter; for the seamen, Dress Blues. Men are to be uncovered at all times, however, trousers and jumpers will be allowed. The Marines WILL wear shoes, and seamen will be required to wear neckerchiefs singly, not jointly. Notre Dame campaign ribbons (LD. Badge) null not be worn, and leaf lettuce is definitely out for girls hair decorations. Any girls found wearing corsages will be asked to remove and donate them to decorate the grave of the unknown V-12. Civilians will wear Navy Blues as prescribed in the Bluejacket manual. (We know)
2.	One trainee will check the coats of the entire party. NO TIPS WILL BE GIVEN THE CHECKERS. Also any hot tips given by the Checkers will be disregarded.
3.	There will be no “jitterbugging” or other similar tactics as employed by ballroom commandos. Squat thrusts and push ups are definitely out, while modified versions of the Jumping Jack and Windmill will be permitted.
4.	The dance will begin at 2100 and car headlights will go on again at 2330! AU men are on liberty after their last class on Friday. However, the shore patrol in South Bend will check on all men out after 2100, so you poor suckers who bought tickets, thinking, you would get out of something, got fooled, ya-ya.
’ 5. There is to be no form of affection for the opposite sex. Your date is to take your arm when leaving the dance floor. She must return it to you at the close of the evening, however.
6.	If your date inquires as to the nature of the gun at the rear of the hall, you will inform her that it is the atom smasher, so as not to reveal any military secrets.
7.	NO SMOKING IS ALLOWED IN THE DRILL HALL OR ANY PART
4
OF IT. This means nothing is to get hot, including trumpets, girls, and your buddies foot.
S. When the punch is ready, seat your date with someone else. One of the males should stay with the ladies, while - the others get the punch. Upon the disappearance of the latter, the former will assist the ladies home. No pinch will be put in the punch to give it punch. Hie!
9.	Trainees will refrain from bringing along their own refreshments. This includes Coke, you know what, and Kick-a-poo juice. You will also avoid the mistake of giving your girl a ring before getting her number.
10.	When in the receiving line, your date should be on your left side with her arm through yours. (IN case she is unable to push her* arm clear through yours, it will be all right to hold hands.) You will tell the Captain’s Aide clearly the name of your date. The Aide will introduce your date by saying: “Captain, may I present Miss Wieszcyzyn-ski,” or “May I present Miss Przy-
Ode to My "Sack"
By Herb Ziegler, Jr.
You may talk of innersprings, “Beauty-rests” and other things, As double beds
With roof o’erhead,
And pillozvs soft as doivn,
And how you’d like your legs
To stretch
Neath cool green palm
Of distant isle
And there to nod
Your head in rest, And dream
Mid Nature’s loveliness.
Yet there it stands,
Unhallowed, true,
Though not the sands
With tropic view
Or double bed	.
With roof o’erhead
’ It has a beauty far above
The trifling things you’re thinking of..
For.it does wield hypnotic power.--Particularly at a certain hour. . Oh,,heaven’s kiss! -	.	•
What perfect bliss!	r
. The “sack” at six.	- .
11.	Be sure to introduce your date to the various officers who are at the Ball. Say: “Captain Finney, may I present Miss Smith.” (Funny, the number of Miss Smiths who were at the Ball!)
12.	Bromo Seltzer may be purchased on the way out.
PIN POINT POISONALITIES
Herb Zigler: “I don’t know much , about these commands, fellows, so you just use your heads.”
Paul Friedman: “I’ve got plenty of money, but I’m always a little short.”
Bay Kenny: “I’d horsewhip you if I had a horse.”
Bob Feltes: “If electricity were brains, you wouldn’t have enough to run a dynamo on a lightning bug’s back.”
Samuel Golf ein: “What makes Sammy run?”
Sammy Kitchen: “You should have, seen my girl at the dance. She wore a strapless sea bag.”
Chief Gleason: “I think I’m gonna go home.”
Art Kartheiser: “I don’t know you, but your breath is familiar.”
GOBSERVATIONS
LS : MFT
QUESTION OF THE WEEK
Does your cigarette taste different lately?
SNIP SNIP
Wes Deist ambled into Bill Fritz’s room the other day and said, “I hear you worked in a barber shop before the war.” .
“Yeh,” says Biill, “I did,” and imme-diately dragged out the scissors. After about a half hour, Wes . got up two pounds lighter and walked to the mirror. A blood curdling scream was heard from Zahm to Sweeney’s for Wes looked as if he had backed into a lawn mower. Turning away from the hacked up face in the mirror, Wes sobbed with tears streaming down his face, “I thought you
. said you worked in a barber shop.”
“I did,’? said Bill, “shining shoes.”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Monday morning.
Father O'Donnell Hits Control of Education.
Stresses N.D.'s War Role in Charter Speech
Know Your Navy
BY EDWARD H. MADDEN
Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., declared in a speech at Indianapolis last Saturday that the University of Notre ► Dame has completely geared itself to war. The speech was delivered at a luncheon celebration in observance of the centenary chartered existence of the University.
Father O’Donnell stressed his point further by stating that three-fourths of r the student body is in uniform; twenty-two priests of Holy Cross are now serving as chaplains; research is being conducted on special projects for the government; and more than 5,000 alumni and students are in active service.
► Federal control of education was excoriated by Father O’Donnell, and he warned that the pending bill in Congress providing for federal aid in supporting primary and secondary schools is only a step toward federal control.
"That our schools need greater support cannot be denied, but we cannot strengthen them by sloughing off local and state responsibility and placing control in the hands of a remote commissar of education. If you do not think that federal subsidy would mean federal control, may I remind you that he who ’ pays the piper always calls the tune.”
Father O’Donnell devoted much of his speech to deploring secularism, and the complete severance of religious aspects from education. In his argument against secularism, he noted:
“Our founding fathers were religious-minded men who had a staunch belief in the existence of God, the God-given rights of man, and the intrinsic dignity and integrity of the human personality. They stated their convictions in the Declaration of Independence, which is an American act of faith; applied them practically in the Constitution; and restated them in. the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 when they set up the government for the territory out of which our own state of Indiana would one day be formed.
Let me remind you of one section of . that Ordinance because it is pertinent to what I want to say to you today: “Religion, morality and knowledge being $ necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged. ...”
■ But for many years this concept has been opposed by secularists — expon
ents of the glorified man philosophy, denying God and basic morality — who have been becoming more and more of a bad influence in education, government, and other phases of our national life. One of their most notable successes has been to remove from education its very substance, that is, religion. After certain educators cynically took God out of the schools and set up in His place a man-made philosophy of pleasure and expediency, the nation adopted a cafeteria morality. We began to choose what pleased us, and to reject what seemed distasteful.”
“Returning veterans,” the president added, “would be well within their rights in calling us to account if during their absence we fail to curb pernicious movements that are undermining the institutions we sent them abroad to protect.” He continued: “Where is the sense in fighting on scores of foreign fronts to preserve the God-given unalienable rights of man, and at the same time failing to check the enemies from within? There is no difference in the color between, the octopus of ‘state-ism’ and the totalitarianism of the axis countries — both are a jaded pink.
“We would have been running to Washington with problems that our forefathers would have solved for themselves,” commented Father O’Donnell as he said we should remember that we voluntarily surrendered our prerogatives to the federal government. He urged that “unless we overcome our indifference, local self government may
The Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C.
1.	What type U| S. ships are named after Indian tribes?
2.	Navy Relief Society emergency aid is available to: (a) officers only? (b) enlisted men only and .their dependents? (c) dependents only? (d) all - members of the Navy and their dependents?
3.	Has the Navy an ojcial song?
4.	Do U. S. sailors ever wear Army uniforms?
5.	What colors appear on the Amer-, ican area campaign ribbon? What do they represent?
6.	The Medal of Honor is never issued to enlisted men. True or false.?
7.	By the end of 1944, how many ships will the U. S. Navy have: (a) 53,179? (b) 8,965? (c) 27,542? (d) 41,179? (e) 13,799?
8.	Which rating in the Nacy is equivalent to the Army staff sergeant: (a) second class petty officer? (b) seaman first class? (c) third class petty officer? (d) seaman second class?
(Answers on page 15)
become a complete anachronism in the United States, and, for that matter, so may democracy itself." The prospect is not one to be regarded with equanimity, and “in the name of the University of Notre Dame, which for more than a century has been a bulwark of American democracy, I must protest any individual act or concerted movement that would weaken the American heritage.”
One of the reasons for appearing before the meeting, Father O’Donnell said in his introduction to his main theme, was because he wished to honor the late John Defrees, a resident of South Bend and a state senator, whom Notre Dame will always remember as “one of her earliest benefactors.” It was Defrees, a Methodist, who went to Father Sorin and offered to procure from the legislature a charter setting up at Notre Dame a university with the legal right to exist and grant degrees.
5
College Parade
happy the ignorance in which those men died.” Slowly, with proud, poise, the dark-skinned man walked down the long corridor, opened the door, and closed it gently behind him.
BY RICHARD MURPHY
“Ticket sir,” the conductor drew the white officer’s attention from the direction in which his friend had left.
A CHANGE OF POLICY
The editors of Student Life, weekly publication of the Utah State Agricultural College, have come to the conclusion that war literature has long ago gone off the list of “pajama reading” and should be replaced by a few “Spicy Stories” or whatever those lurid tales are titled. So the paper has decided to deviate from its former policies and slop its pages with a romantic serial of their own making. The paper announces that any resemblance to incidents or characters represented will be purely uncoincidental for the story is to be taken from a last summer’s campus romance between two local lovelies and a couple of the members of the armed forces. From all appearances it looks as if the paper-is after one of two things—an increase in circulation or, a libel suit; and they can be sure of getting one—or both.
ROOM FOR DISCUSSION
Recently the following article appeared in the Purdue Exponent and because we feel that it deals with one of the acute problems facing the U. S. today we herewith reprint it in its entirety.
OF WHOM WE'RE PROUD
By Plc. Gabriel Elias
As told to me, this happened recently in the states.
A couple of soldiers were resting quietly in their coach seats. Several were sleeping soundly. Few moved. Conversation was sparse. It takes energy to move your lips.
On the other side of the train two officers conversed leisurely. Their subdued manners, their quiet words showed that they too had been under a strain.
Where had they been, these tired men? Where were they going?
The conductor came by. He was an efficient person who took orders, carried them out and tried not to bother too much.
"State line passed,” he bawled out. “Change seats from, front to back.
Nobody stirred it seemed. The drop of hearts cannot be heard.
6
But orders were orders for this efficient man, and he approached the soldiers first.
“Colored car in the rear,” he said as kindly as he could under the circumstances. That prodded the boys. They were no longer soldiers; they were colored folk and must move back. The looks they gave spoke many words, but no lips moved. With savage silence they picked up theii- bags and shuffled off. The last to leave slammed the door. No other noise was heard.
All eyes in the train turned towards the officers. One was colored and the other white.
“Colored car in the rear,” the conductor repeated; and the colored man, now burning with humiliation, bent down to reach for his bags. But the white arm of his companion held him back.
Deeply insulted, the white officer glared at the conductor. “We’re not used to this,” he intoned.
“I’m sorry, sir. I have my orders,” was the simple reply.
“I’m sorry, too,” the white man said as he tried to fight off active anger. “You see those men you shooed back. They’ve all been across. Many of their buddies will never return from the fight against racism over there. How can we who remain submit to it at home?”
“I have my orders,” the conductor replied as if he had heard no part of what had just been said. And, without more, he left only to return with an M.P. who carried out his end.
As the colored officer moved out a mumble escaped from everywhere, “How
❖	CORRECTION	❖
❖ In last week's issue of the "Scholas- ❖ ❖ tic/' it was erroneously announced ❖ ❖ that the "Lost And Found" Depart- ❖ ❖ ment had been moved to the B-X
*•* Room in the Main Building. This is
♦J* untrue, and came from sources lack- ❖ ❖ .ing authority to make such changes. ❖
The “Lost And Found" Department ❖ ❖ will continue to be located in the ❖ ❖ Office of the Prefect of Discipline.
❖ ❖
“Get the hell out of my way,” the white man glowered, pushing his way beyond the efficient man. Proudly and belligerently he shoved through that long corridor to sit with his friend in the rear of the train.
THE LUCK OF OLD SIWASH
The Loyola Maroon informs us that Knox College up to a few years ago had lost 27 consecutive football games and in the last season of that span did not score a single point! The quarterback broke loose, however, one day that year and seemed to be on his way to a touchdown when he stepped in the waterbucket!
A FOUR POINT PROGRAM
According to a would be physiologist, the stages in the life of a woman are:
1.	Safety pins
2.	Hair pins
3.	Fraternity pins
4.	Rolling pins
—Queen’s Journal
SMACK!!
The roadster skidded around the corner, jumped in the air, knocked down a lamp post, smacked three cars, ran against a stone fence, and stopped. A girl climbed out of the wreck.
“Darling,” she exclaimed, “That’s what I call a kiss!”
A HORRID WORLD
They were home for Easter and coming from different colleges, they had quite a lot to talk over. Finally, the conversation swung into the inevitable discussion of the relative merits of the girls they had met. Waxing eloquently, the first stated that his girl was not only refined, but very well educated. As proof, he exhibited her last letter.
The second read the letter and then pondered for a few minutes. “Well,” he . said, “there’s no doubt that she’s refined, but I don’t think she’s so well educated. Why over here on the last page she spells SPIT with two t’s.”
Over 700 Couples Attend V-12 Ball;
Guests Come From All Sections of U.S.
BY JOHN CONHON
Another successful V-12 Ball was written into the records Thursday night when members of the dance committee made their final financial reports and the chairman, Pvt. Bud Davis, closed the books.
Unofficial attendance figures reported that slightly over 700 couples attended the dance last Friday night. Informal interviews revealed that the majority of those attending were more than satisfied with arrangements.
During the evening nearly 500 couples passed through the reception line. This formal introduction to Navy officials coupled with the music of Johnny Long and his band made Friday evening’s Ball one that will long be remembered by those who attended.
V-12 Ball Sidelights
For campus release only is the fol-' lowing item concerning the geographical distribution of dates attending the affair. Girls were present from. New York to South Dakota while the NorthSouth range extended from Minnesota to Kentucky. A check of downtown hotel registers revealed that 410 of the dates were imported.
Advertisers will be glad to learn of the large reading public addicted to scanning the Scholastic. Proof of the avidity with which news printed in this
Captain J. Richard Barry greets couples in reception line
magazine is devoured was reflected by the fact that not one girl arrived at the dance wearing a corsage.
Members of the WCTU would have been delighted at the behavior of trainees and dates at the Ball. Fifty gallons of punch were dispensed within the first hour. Thereafter water fountains commanded as much attention as the orchestra.
One item on the Ball expense account was entered for detective work. Chairman Bud Davis is still trying to figure out where the extra 200 souvenir programs went. Attractively bound in the colors of the trainees’ service, the address books were very much in demand.
0600 Saturday morning saw a hand picked group of Marine trainees busily engaged in preparing the drill hall for the midshipmen’s weekly inspection. Members of the committee want to thank this detail for their efficient and conscientious work.
It happened in the reception line: One slightly flustered trainee approached the Captain’s aide and began the following introduction: “Seaman Joe Zabb, Company Y, second platoon, second squad, Zahm Hall, room etc., etc.” At this point the aide broke in with, “Did you bring a date tonight?” “Yes,” replied the trainee. “What is her name?” prompted the aide. Fifteen seconds later
2]
1	Marine Murmurs
=	By Private Knoc-E Toff
{•Jaaaaaaaaaaaaataataaataasaaaaaaaaaaaaataitaaasaaaasaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
njlIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIKKI
The weekend for which we’ve been looking for months has zipped past, leaving most of us on the brink of a financial crisis and the fact that only five more weeks remain in this semester to work on those faulty marks in physics and math.
The movements of his roommate put-ing on his sweatsuit because he was cold, disturbed Pvt. Lundsman. He. rolled over, fought his way to subconsciousness, and squinted at the form before him attired in the tattletale gray. Pvt. Lundsman lurched out of his bunk, jerked his way into a sweatsuit, and lumbered down the hall for the old gym in the superb cubconscious manner with which many a marine does morning setting-up exercises. Something was wrong however, when he arrived at the gym — no lights, no thing. It finally dawned on him that he was slightly early — four hours .early in fact. "
Pvt. Gundar “Quiet or I’ll deck you” Hald was decked himself last week. It seems that he and another marine were (Continued on page 18)
another couple were presented to the Captain.	.
After all expenses have been met, the extra money will be allotted for use in entertaining V-12 trainees. Plans for the expenditure of this amount have not been completed. Due to the critical paper shortage, trainees are asked to refrain from flooding the V-12 office with suggestions for its disbursement.
It is still being rumored that a broadcast over WSBT occurred during the Ball. However, the majority of those attending cannot attest to the fact because reception in the drill hall was very poor. No refunds for the half-hour lull will be made, the ticketchairman announced this week.
7
Breen Oratorical Contest
Announced; Many Entries
The department of speech of the University of Notre Dame has announced the 49th annual Breen Medal contest in oratory.
Prof. Albert F. Doyle, in charge of the contest, reports that 23 students have already entered, which is a very substantial entrance list in this favorite oratorical event, and is evidence of the willingness of the war-time student to. study and to work for an improvement which he recognizes as valuable.
The Breen Medal was established in 1886 by the late William P. Breen, ’77, Fort Wayne, Ind., who received a bachelor’s degree, a master’s degree, and the honorary LL.D, from Notre Dame.
The medal is awarded annually in recognition of excellence in oratory. The student independently selects his own subject and prepares his material and delivery.
Winners of the contest have numbered through the years men who have risen to high places in business, professional, public, educational and religious life, with oratory playing a prominent . part. The late Hugh A. O’Donnell, newspaperman and actor, was an early medalist. Thomas D. Lyons, now seen frequently through the pages of the Commonweal, won the Medal in 1903. The late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C., and the late dean of the College of Science, Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., were medalists, as was the present president of the University of Portland, Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., and the present Supreme Master of the Fourth Degree, K. of C., Timothy P. Galvin.
William P. Breen, 67 years after his graduation in 1877, still stands as a model of the Catholic college graduate, and especially the Notre Dame man. '
When the Notre Dame Alumni. Asso-elation was reorganized in 1908 Mr. Breen was elected its president. And when the Associate Board of Lay.Trus-. tees was formed to administer the hoped-for endowment funds of the University, Mr. Breen was made a charter member and first president. A president of the Indiana Bar Association, he was its first citizen in the progress of ethical standards within the organization. He . was also one of the organizers and the president of the Peoples Trust Company of Fort Wayne.
; Always a scholar, and an orator of excellent'qualities, Mr. Breen made a.
The Green Banner
< By Jim Casey and "Buzz" Hassett >
Well, the V-12 dance is over and a grand dance it was, too. Johnny Long gave out with some swell music, and gee, we never saw so many nice girls on the campus before. . . . Another big event occurred on campus with the announcement of the K.C. Semi-formal dance to be held on Feb. 4. This is to be* the civilian dance that all civilians have been waiting for, and we would like to go on record as predicting it to be THE event of the semester. Co-chairmen Bob Mammina and Joe Murnane will probably sign up Will Bach and his Orch., so we hope; for some good music is in store for us.
WALGREEN'S WHOPPERS
1st student: Yes, I had my appendix out and I keep it in alcohol.
2nd ditto: That’s nothing, I kept mine in alcohol before it was taken out.
GOSSIP, GOSSIP, AND MORE GOSSIP
Bud Kirk has just found out that coffee is unrationed . . . Cal gets that look in his eyes when the initials J. H. from Rosary are mentioned . . . The fellows would. like to know the story behind the match boxes, with the word “Vivian” on them that Tom Halligan carries around. . . . Kathleen won’t send Jack Kelly any more special delivery letters, unless she gets nine cents back on them. . . . Even Jim Crowley’s best friends won’t tell him ... as a result he keeps failing exams. . . . Rumor has it that the Shore Patrol had an active time Saturday night. . . . Mike Maloy is out for track lately . . . he’s been practicing on the cinder path between Notre Dame and the “Rock” . . . Speaking of track, Coach Doc Handy is considering V-7 men for varsity track. . . . Why not a hockey game between the faculty and the students? . . . turnabout is fair play. ...
Dick Ames is all out for the navy. . . . Don’t worry about being late for your 8 o’clock classes, lads. Your Profs, would be very unpatriotic if they marked you tardy for standing in silence and at attention while the daily flag-raising ceremony is. being conducted. . . . Who is this guy “Hare Lip” whose name the navy chiefs are always shouting at their charges? Sounds like a character out of Dick Tracy. ...
QUESTION OF THE WEEK
How many more days of skating? .
Things we never thought would hap-_ (Continued on page 16)	. :
number of memorable addresses at Notre Dame. But in his own quiet way he has guaranteed the lasting interest in speaking ability at his alma mater. As Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., said in a memorial to Mr. Breen, “The Breen Medal has been, since most of us can remember, the symbol of what is highest in Notre Dame oratory. And to those who know Notre Dame’s record in debate and public speech the symbol is rich in significance.”
By a bequest of $50,000 Mr. Breen also established a chair of public speaking in memory of his old friend, Rev. Martin J. Regan, C.S.C.
And having insured the interest of this field in which he was so interested himself, his generosity to -his University went much further. By a most generous residuary legacy he established at Notre Dame a chair of Civil Law. And in recognition of his own generosity and that of his brother-in-law, the late Frank Phillips, the University named after, them the newest of the residence halls on the campus, Breen-Phillips. Thus the name and the purposes of this distinguished Catholic gentleman, have become an integral part of Notre Dame.
Great Lakes Senior Chaplain Addresses Middie Graduates
Capt. John E. Johnson, of the United States navy chaplain corps, addressed the midshipmen at the initial baccalaureate services of the U.S. naval reserve midshipmen’s school in the Drill Hall Sunday morning.
Developing his topic, “When Does Life Begin?” Capt. Johnson, senior chaplain at the Great Lakes, Ill., naval a training station, told the midshipmen that life begins every time man sets a goal for himself and starts out to attain it.	'	,	_
The chaplain declared that when each of the midshipmen set his course for an ensign’s commission in the navy it ' marked the beginning of life, or a phase of life. It is the accumulation of these beginnings that makes life itself, he . reasoned.. Each goal, he said, supplies new drive and inspiration to accomplish . something. :
The midshipmen’s choir, directed by Midshipman B. D. Ratshin, sang hymns, Midshipman Ratshin sang a solo, and Rev. W. T. Craddick, C.S.C., of the University, gave benediction. The service ended with the entire group of nearly 1200 midshipmen singing “America the Beautiful.” .
8
“Ruddigore" Promises to Uphold Birder Tradition
By Harold Berliner
Publicity Director
Rehearsals are now in full swing at Washington Hall for the coming Operetta, and Prof. Cecil Birder’s Savoyards are nightly breaking the peace of the evening with their' songs,. and shaking the foundations with their dances. This year it’s Ruddigore, or the story of the Witch’s Curse. Following the Gilbert and Sullivan tradition, the production will have entertainment for every taste: singing, dancing and comedy. Ruddigore will be new to the campus in theme and songs, but all will enjoy it for the same reason they did Patience, last year, and H.M.S. Pinafore the year before — “catchy” tunes, horseplay, and real Gilbert and Sullivan humor. The plot follows the adventures and misadventures of Robin Oakapple, played by Barney Slater,, and Rose Maybud by Joan Michel. Slater, a Sorin Hall j'unior, thought he had sung his final Gilbert and Sullivan role last year, in Patience, but he has since had a short career in the Army, and is now back for another show.
Joan Michel is the veteran of four other Savoyard productions, including The Gondoliers and H.M.S. Pinafore. Joan sings a soprano part, and is the center of the romantic interest.
Complicating proceedings are Richard Ames, as Sir Despard Murgatroyd, and June Duley playing Mad Margaret. Everyone will remember Dick’s success as vocalist with Johnny Stehlin’s Band, and will be pleased to find him j'ust as capable in another field.
June Duley has had considerable ex
Prof. Birder's “Patience," produced last year
perience in this sort of work already, having sung many roles, including “Little Buttercup” in H.M.S. Pinafore. She is especially qualified for this role, as the part of Mad Margaret is not new to her.
Although they are only in their earliest stages, the choral dancing arrangements promise to be most entertaining. The steps are quite intricate and the •pattern devious, making the finales exceptionally effective. A great deal of practice is going into, these, because Mr. Birder works on the theory that repetition insures perfection.
Gene Peciulis, baritone, has a part which gives his voice a splendid opportunity to reveal its quality. He sings Sir Roderick Murgatroyd, and makes a very convincing villain. Although dead for ten years before the first curtain, in some marvelous way always understood and appreciated by Gilbert and Sullivan audiences, he is at hand in the end to win one of the lovely ladies of the chorus.
Seaman George Bastyr has a fine tenor role, as Richard Dauntless, and does his best throughout the show to steal the other fellows’ girls. It must be understood, however, that this is not because of malice on his part; he is merely a “Victim of the dictates of his Heart.”
As Old Adam, Robert O’Toole does a very nice j'ob. He has several good comedy scenes, and does some excellent singing. Bob is a Junior, living in St. Ed’s,, and is quite active in the Glee Club. He plays the “valet de sham” to Slater as the Bad Baronet.
Opening night is scheduled for February 9th, and if the. show, is as much fun as -the practice, it will be an enjoyable evening for all.
THE SNOOPER
Snooped, Edited and Written by: THE SNOOPER
Mr. Walter W. Shaffer (Co. C, 321 Dillon) has great possibilities as a crooner; in fact, it has been said about him that it is a good thing Sinatra and Crosby are married — Shaffer would have their jobs. Walter is known as “The Third Deck Troubadour.” His noble endeavors to form (unofficially) a glee club of the Third Deck, have utterly failed — much to his chagrin. He’ll succeed though — some day; he doesn’t know when he’s licked.
Mr. H. A. Keats (Co. H, 152 Alumni — mail clerk) is sadly in need of a lesson in courtesy. He was overheard in the post office the other day giving the gentlemen behind the counter a piece of his mind. Why? Two letters were sent to his company by mistake. Are you infallible, Keats? Do you have a straight one hundred percent average in all your subjects?
One Pvt. “Captain’s Aide” Curley caused some anxiety and confusion last Friday night by his somewhat tardy appearance (or did he just disappear for a short time?) at the dance. There were at least twenty people looking all over the Drill Hall for him, just prior to the Captain’s arrival. Remember Curley, you are a marked man. Be sure that the propei- authorities know where you are at all times.
It has been revealed to me that one Mr. George Sippel (Co. E, 139 Dillon) is afraid of women. Some of the lads, in desperation, tried to arrange a date for him for the Ball—he wouldn’t think of it. Why the young lady might spoil -his evening! Mr. Sippel, you should try going out with a girl sometime.— they are very interesting creatures., .You should try it, for a man who is afraid of women,, isn’t .going to be . much of a Navy man !
(Continued on page'17)
9
By Al Lesmez
The acclaim was instantaneous. The audience literally clapped itself into silence as the white flannel suit of the band leader bowed and bowed in acknowledgement. Five-year old Johnny Stehlin was a hit in his first role as bandleader, which was a creditable feat considering that the rest of the kiddie orchestra consisted of a piano, drums, triangles, sleigh bells, castanets, tambourines and any other noisemaker which little hands could control—though they didn’t do much of that. The audience was so pleased that Johnny knew what his hobby would be from then on.
But this show business is not all flowers. Especially for a young man of 15 playing his first clarinet solo. Somehow, during the passage in which he soloed, the loudest and most clear squeak floated out of his clarinet, and his two accompanists were so surprised that they just stood there and laughed at him. The audience was soon rollicking at the humorous plight of this unfortunate clarinet player, standing there with his honey knees knocking against each other, and looking as scared as a little mouse cornered by a gang of tom-cats. The audience was so pleased that Johnny knew very well what hobby he was giving up, as of that moment.
It took John Stehlin two years to forgive that audience, along with his accompanists, and having eased his hurt feelings, he began to look again towards the musical world for fields to conquer. It was during this period that he took up the saxophone, and began his first band. Just a little later he began the study of the trombone. Ever since then his hobby has been as active as his great desire to make a really good doctor.
John Sebastian Stehlin, junior in premed, was bom on June 16, 1923, in Brownsville, Tenn., a little town about 50 miles from Memphis.
“Sibbey” proceeded to grow up, and then attended Riverside Military Academy in Gainesville, Ga. While in attendance there he belonged to the local band, won a few events in the inter-murals the various companies sponsored, and played football and basketball in inter-company competition. More important than any of these is the fact that he was a member of “Skull, and Bones,” the honorary pre-medical society of that school.
After graduating from this military
academy in the heart of deepest South, "Sibbey” attended Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tenn., for a year. In January, 1943, he entered the Pre-Med School here. Behind him he had the experience of having been an active member of the Commodore, the Vanderbilt year-book, having been president of the University Band, a member of "Delta Kappa Epsilon,” and also having his own dance band. This band was a professional one which played regular engagements two or three times a week.
In the year* that John has been on our campus, he has worked hard toward his worthy goal of becoming a really good doctor. His average to date in this strenuous course of pre-medicine is a substantial 85%. During his first semester-here, he was voted into the Economic Round Table, an accomplishment of which he feels proud to this day.
Having joined the Enlisted Reserve Corps, he was called to active duty right after his U.S.O. concert of last semester. The story gets involved from there on. But in its simplicity, the results show that the Army thought it best to have John study further, and therefore, having assigned him to Ft. Oglethorpe, Ga., sent him smiling back into the ranks of the civilians, permitting him to prepare himself even more for the serious studies ahead. John expects to be called up through Fort Oglethorpe this coming semester, although there is a slight possibility that they will allow him to finish his studies here for a degree.
Perhaps it was the professional persistence acquired from his father, who used to play professional drums at the age of 16 while attending the old Christian Brothers College in Memphis, for as soon as he was granted his leave, John started another band. The success of this new band has already received tops in praise; the very least that can be said is that this is the best college band your reporter has heard.
On inquiry about the band, John says, “The success enjoyed by the band is very heart-warming, but the credit must go to the musicians, and to the never-failing, excellent managing staff headed by Larry Carden, junior from Buffalo, N. Y.
A rather discouraging observation was pointed out by John when he explained the tremendous obstacles that a young band must overcome in order to remain a working unit. One of the unfortunate situations is the fact that none of the service men on the band can receive pay for their services. As a matter of fact, John has come to the conclusion; that the band makes more' money when it' doesn’t play. This fact, along with the imposition of heavy study schedules may yet force the “Victory Band” to disband.
When complimented on his excellent
performance in Washington Hall two weeks ago, John replied that of course he had a full house. After all, since Capt. Finney, comes from the same town in Tennessee as John does, all the Marines were there under orders. Your reporter wonders whether they were under orders to clap so heartedly.
Unchanged after three semesters of Yankee influence, John is still a rebel at heart, casting a longing eye in the direction of “Ole Miss.” However, with the lack of Vitamin A in the dining halls, John’s vision hasn’t been able to get much farther than Chicago. Maybe some interested southern belle will save John from succumbing to Yankee charms. Maybe in time, too.
For his extra-curricular work on campus, for giving the students one of the best bands they have heard while at college, for his quiet, genial personality, a salute is given to John Stehlin. Congratulations are awarded also for his accomplishment in' learning how to spell “Sebastian,” a feat which he managed to do last year. Congratulations, John!
Federal Telephone Personnel
Man to Interview Engineers
Joseph A. Abbott, Notre Dame graduate of 1930, has returned to the campus this week to interview senior engineers. Mr. Abbott is assistant personnel manager for the Federal Telephone and Radio Corporation of East Newark, N. J., and hopes to find at least a few men among the graduating engineers who qualify for specialized positions with his firm. According to Mr. Abbott, six such men were hired last year, and five of them are still with the company and doing well. While at Notre Dame, Mr. Abbott was known for his prowess on the cinders — being a half-miler for three years, captain of the track team in his senior year, and president of the Monogram Club.
Prof. Sheehan Addresses Catholic Forum
Views of what our post-war world may be like were presented Monday evening by' Prof. John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics and assistant to the Director of Studies, in his talk before the Catholic Forum of South" Bend. The meeting was held in the Coral Room of Hotel LaSalle.
Prof. Sheehan has done considerable work in the publicity and labor relations world and has specialized in the railway field. His talk, “The American Pattern, 1944 and After,” was based on the application of Catholic principles of economic order and the moral approach to the economic pattern of American life to come.
10
I

*
I
Notre Dame Sports
Krause's Fighting Irish Try to Avenge Defeat by Wildcats at Chicago Stadium Tonight
BY JIM FENNELLY
After a ten-day absence from the court scene, Notre Dame’s rejuvenated basketball team will again swing into action, when they attempt to tame the Wildcats of Northwestern University tonight, at the mecca of mid-west cage play, the Chicago Stadium. Earlier this season the ’Cats clawed the Irish, 48-32, in the same arena on Madison Street, before 8,000 spectators, most of whom were rooters for the school on the shore of Chicago’s “Big Drink.” It marked the first major" athletic win over the Irish by a Northwestern team since 1940, and was the cause for some high celebrating in the Evanston lair.
The Wildcats will again be led by versatile Otto Graham, captain of the ’Cats, football player extraordinary, and an amazing performer with a basketball. In the first Irish tilt, Otto teamed with guard Bernie Schadler, to score a combined 32 points, a total equal to the efforts of the entire Notre Dame effort for the evening. That “Smiling Otto” is
3'
B
"So you want to be a student manager?"
the kingpin in the Northwestern attack can be seen from the fact that in the only Wildcat defeat of the season, a loss to the “Giant Killers” of Western Michigan, he was bench-ridden with the flu. Since that time he has led the “’Cats” to eight straight victories, including wins over Great Lakes, Michigan, Wisconsin and Illinois.
Northwestern is at present tied for the lead in the Big Ten race with Iowa University and Purdue, with three wins against no losses. In these three games the Wildcats have scored 194 points, an average of 64.67 points per game, while holding the opposition to 105 points, an average of 35 points per game.
Notre Dame has also been planning big things for tonight, and if things go the Irish way, there will be no cause for celebration in the Chicago suburb. The Marquette game was an indication of the new strength of the Irish, when they took ah early lead and never relin
quished it, coming out on the top of a ^2-46 score. Carl Loyd and Leo Klier showed in this game that they are two of the best scorers in college competition, hitting the hoop for 14 and 17 points respectively. In the past the inability to hold the lead has been the deciding cause of most of the Irish defeats, so the Hilltopper game should be a good omen to Krausemen followers.
“Crystal” Klier continues to be the big gun in the Irish attack and still sports a better than 16 points per game average. If he keeps on at the present rate, he may break the season’s scoring record held by Johnny Moir, Notre Dame basketball great a few seasons back.
This game will mark the 45th time the Irish and Wildcats have met on the basketball court, and will see the Irish seeking their 30th win in the series.
The lineup:
Northwestern	Notre Dame
Graham______________F.-------------Klier
Vodick______________F.--------------Loyd
Felt________________C.________Todorovich
Schadler____________G.	 Rutledge
Ward________________G.------------Lujack
Valparaiso U. Skyscrapers Play Here Wednesday
By Bill Waddington
America’s alleged tallest team, Valparaiso, the only quintet to down DePaul’s supposed invincibles this season, comes to the fieldhouse next Wednesday night to take on Coach Ed Krause’s “up and downers.” Mentor Loren Ellis of the Valpo giants has only been away from the high school ranks of tutelage for three years but his success at the small Indiana institution has been steadily growing in acclaim until it reaches its climax in this his ’43-’44 dream season.
Headed by the second top scorer in the nation, Bob Dilie, who totes a better than 20 point average, this outfit takes no back seat in scoring potency. A 54 per game numeral adds most heavily to their prestige.
Don Warrike stretches 6 feet 10 inches skyward, Milt Schoon, 6’ 9", Albert Schmidt, 6' 4", Bob Dille and John Jan-ische, 6' 3", Alvin Schmidt and Nick Hashu, 6' 1", and we’ll throw in short Chuck Eades who is 5' 8". Quite a formidable aggregate in any cage fan’s book.
Albert Schmidt and Dille start at the forward posts, Warnke at the center spot, Hashu and Schoon at the guards. Using their height well to advantage, there is a long overhead pass from Hashu to either Dille or Warnke that scores frequently. Hashu is the type of player with a style all his own, plenty of deception in his passing plus a dead
11
one-hand push shot that pops when his defense gets a little negligent and give him too little maneuvering room.
Dille is the knock-down and drag-out version. Besides, being married, having a four-year-old son, working 40 hours a week in a war plant, carrying a complete college course, this guy finds time for basketball, but rarely gets out of practice, as if he needed it with his record. He conserves his energy for game time. Bob drives in for plenty of pushshots and set-ups, and makes most of them.
Despite their height, the two biggest boys, Schoon and Warnke, loom as potential scorers only when the set-up presents itself. Otherwise, Albert Schmidt and Dille take the scoring duties. John Janische, who works in at the guard spot, has been a tough customer to eliminate from the tally column and when all the boys are put together, they spell imminent danger for their prospective foes, and possible national honors to the hometown followers.
Another Honor for Miller:
All-American Captain
In giving their ballots to Creighton Miller, Notre Dame’s star halfback, army, navy and inarine corps players elected a civilian as All-America captain for 1943, according to announcement by Christy Walsh, member of the All America Board of Football.
Miller, previously in the anny, received an honorable discharge and was the only civilian player selected by the board for the season just closed.
Because of a tie vote for the end positions, the first deadlock in 20 years, the board named 12 All-America players for the 1943 lineup. Miller, Jim White, John Yonakor and Angelo Bertelli, all of Notre Dame, received nine of the 12 votes cast for captain.
Miller will have possession of the Captain’s cup for a period of one year, after which it will pass to the captain elected for the succeeding season. The All-America board consists of 50 members—Glenn S. (Pop) Warner, Christy Walsh and the head coach from colleges in each of the 48 states.
Book Exchange to be
Open One Hour Daily
Beginning Monday the BX (book exchange) will be opened daily, Monday through Friday, from 4 until 5 p.m. This is being done to maintain an even level on the price of books, and to facilitate the sale of books for those leaving for the service.
Sorin Hall and "Harps"
Lead Interhall Leagues
By Jim Regan
Sorin Hall took an early season.hold on first place in the Interhall League, and the Harps gained temporary possession of the top rung in the Overflow League as a result of games played last week. Sorin Hall gained its second win of the season by forfeit over St. Ed’s while the Harps, paced by Barrett with 16 points, defeated the Doaks, 30 to 19, for their second victory.
In the three other games in the Overflow League the Tigers, St. Ed’s, and Wildcats opened their seasons with impressive wins. The Tigers defeated the Mustangs 24 to 20 as Terry led the winners with 8 points and Masterson starred for the losers. St. Ed’s rang up 64 points in holding the Intellectuals to 20. Mazza sparked the winners with six baskets and two free throws. The Blues
Interhaliers and Overflows Battle it Out on the Rockne Courts
fell before the Wildcats, 31 to 24, as Niquette with 17 points was high scorer.
In the only other game in the Interhall League last week Breen-Phillips proved that it has a team to be considered as a leading contender for the title by defeating Off-Campus 54 to 13. Leary and Neimer starred for the winners as each hit the double-figures. Mammina for the second straight game led the Off-Campus team in scoring.
Tonight the two freshmen teams, Breen-Phillips and Brownson, collide in the feature game while St. Ed’s and Off-Campus meet in the other game. Next Friday, Brownson will play Off-Campus and Breen-Phillips will tangle with Sorin.
The teams in the Service League have been playing practice games and their elimination tournament is scheduled to start about the first of next month. The winners of the Overflow League, Service League and Interhall League will play a series with the winner being declared champion of the University.
12
Pressbox Splinters
Tomorrow:
Ohio State over Northwestern Ilinois over Iowa
Minnesota over Nebraska Indiana over Miami Michigan over Purdue Western Michigan over Toledo
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Ollie Hunter, former Notre Dame cinder path star who captured the two-mile event at the Grover Cleveland A.C.
games last Saturday, is now an ensign in charge of Navy athletics at Columbia University. . . . Bobb y Faught, Franny Curran, Bonnie Bon! icelli, and Jim Carlin are four in the ath-L—G; letic group of V-12
Bill Waddington trailiees wh° left the campus i n October and are now attending the Midshipmen’s school at Columbia. . . . The former
three are helping the Middies in their cage activities, probably under the promotional activities of former Manager Bill Boss, who is at Columbia also. . . . Valparaiso, who comes here next Wednesday, will bring a “hot” scoring quintet to the fieldhouse along with plenty of height. . . . After defeating DePaul last Saturday night, the Crusaders prestige rose right up among the nation’s top-notchers. . . . One of the Val-po guards, Nick Hashu, has a particular style of his own that will bring certain attention from the fans who like unusual basketball. . . . Michigan’s track team has three civilians who hold three
Big Ten indoor records . . . Bob Ufer holds the 440, John Roxborough in the 880, and Ross Hume in the mile. . . . Besides the regular quintet that represents the Iowa Pre-Flight Navy school, Lt. Eddie Hickey, former Creighton U. basketball mentor, has formed an allofficers team that includes Lt. Bob Timmons, of the ’43 grid squad, Ens. J. L. Cameron of Elon College, Lt. (jg) Alton Elliott of Syracuse U., Ens. George Wentworth of Notre Dame, Ens. Ivan Hoolen of Oakland City College. . . . With Grantland Rice’s 1943 All-American selections in the annals, Michigan now has placed its 27th and 28th men on the mythical elevens, eight of them having come from the tutelage of Fritz Crisler in his six years at the Wolverine institution. . . .
Early speed plus plenty of sharp shooting got the Fighting Irish off to a flying start in their encounter with Marquette last week ... At the end of six minutes, the Krausemen led, 16-4, which would have yielded 107 points for
a total if the pace was maintained throughout but the basket marksmanship fell off 60% in the ensuing 34 minutes . . . Eight of the first 14 shots connected for the Irish but that percentage didn’t hold forth and before we knew it, the scoring columns were evened up, but the local lads eked out a 52-46 victory before the fracas terminated . . . Just goes to show the odd happenings in an “up and down” season such as ’43 is presenting all over the map. . . . Our second tussle with Northwestern in the Chicago Stadium tonight will mark Otto Graham’s finale against any type of Notre Dame athletic team and the campus eagers would like to see him leave in an Irish blaze of glory. . . . Dick Shrider of Michigan quint had a 26-point average as a high school senior in Glenford, Ohio. . . . Notre Dame’s George Sullivan, who found it difficult to push Jim White out of the tackle spot this season, did not have any trouble in taking the shot put event in last Saturday’s dual meet with the campus Middies . . . George had never thrown the shot until coming here and trying- for the team. ... It looks like the Golden Dome campus has one more “McCoy” to add to a list of real Fighting Irish. . . . Ralph Pohland, Big Ten half-mile champ from Minnesota, showed plenty of leg artistry (male variety) that makes him the champ that he is. . . . The Krausemen, who have alternated wins and losses through the season, being unable to annex either of the two consecutively, will come to the midpoint of their schedule tonight, having four home contests yet in store, three at the Chicago Stadium, one in Milwaukee, one at New York, and a date at Great Lakes. . . . Dick Ives of Iowa has amassed quite a total of court points this season in so far as it takes the combined sum of three other players to measure up to his mark . . . Iowa plays here, Feb. 26. . . . Although Illinois dropped hockejr temporarily, Minnesota, the northernmost Big Ten institution, is keeping the rink game alive. . . .
Prediction for the week-end:
Tonight:
Northwestern over Notre Dame DePaul over Marquette Ohio State over Chicago Purdue over Michigan Iowa over Illinois
Midshipmen Topple Irish in First Indoor Track Meet
By loe Fahey
The 1944 Indoor Track season was officially opened in the fieldhouse Saturday afternoon as the Irish met superior opposition losing to the Midshipman School, 57-55. Overcoming an early deficit Doc Handy’s charges took a commanding lead, holding it down to the last three events where it rapidly dwindled. Finally, placing 1-2 in the 220 yard dash the Middies took the lead which the Irish were unable to overcome even though the sailors were not able to enter a team in the final event which was the one mile run. The four man team covered the distance, paced the last half mile by two members of -the Midshipman squad. The five points thus gained were insufficient to win the meet.
The individual stars of the afternoon were Midshipman Hertz and the former Minnesota half mile . champion, Ralph Pohland, now of Notre Dame. Hertz stole the show with three firsts, broad jump, high jump, and high hurdles, and a second in the low hurdles to aggregate 18 points. Pohland demonstrated his championship abilities by capturing firsts in the 880 yards run and the 440 yard dash. Chief Petty Officer Quinn, former distance star, lapped his opposition to take the two mile run in 9 minutes, 32 seconds. In the same race Roger DeWolfe outran Mike Kiely to gain second honors. In the feature event of the day Frank Martin and Jack Lyons, both of Notre Dame, stayed together for five laps of the one mile run, but Martin proved the better, running it in 4 minutes and 28 seconds. The jumping events were dominated by the Midshipmen. The Irish were shut out in the high jump and broad jump but managed to gain four points in the pole vault. Anderson, naval transfer from Marquette, and Keating of the Middies split the eight points when both knocked off the pole at the 12 foot mark, George Sullivan of football fame starred in his field by put-ing the shot 45 feet, 5% inches. His only competition was in Hollars, also of Notre Dame, who fell more than two feet short. In the 60 yard dash finals which brought together the first and -second men of the two trial runs. Wim
13
berly led home Fraser, a fellow Middie, Bennett and Scarpelli of Notre Dame. The time was 6.5 seconds.
Score Sheet
Notre Dame
Broad Jump 	0
Higrh Jump --------------- 0
Shot Put _________________ S
60 Yard Dash______________ 1
Pole Vault _______________ 4
Two Mile Run______________ 4
SSO Yard Run______________ 9
440 Yard Dash_____________ 9
High Hurdles 	4
One Mile Run______________ 9
220 Yard Dash_____________ 1
60 Yard Low Hurdles____	1
Mile Relay________________ 5
Midshipmen
9
9
1
S
4
5
0
0
5
0
S
8 0
Final Score _____________
N. R. O. T. C. To Face
Concordia Tomorrow
By Jack Houghteling
The N.R.O.T.C. romped to an easy 57-20 victory over the Mishawaka Consumers, members of the South Bend Class AA Municipal League, last Friday night on the varsity court. The issue was never in doubt as the Irish cadets rolled to a 32-9 halftime advantage and used reserves the majority of the game. .
The scoring was well distributed among the navy team as Tony Earley topped all with 11 points and Harry Gilligan and Walt Le Berge each connected for 10 points. Al Wade, high scoring center, was content with six points and dropped his average to 13 points per fray.
Tomorrow night, the squad will journey to Fort Wayne and the feature game of the N.R.O.T.C. schedule as the Irish cadets will tangle with Concordia College. The game will mark the first intercollegiate contest for the unit basketball team.
The following Monday night the team will meet the V-7 Chiefs for the second time, the. chiefs having snatched the first game, 41-36, after the Irish cadets had held a 21-14 half-time lead.
Tentative Plans for 10-day
Leave; Examinations Feb. 21
Tentative plans, according to Lieut. Commander Pierson and Father Lane, set the exam schedule for February 21st to the 25th inclusive. Thus a student may begin his vacation after his last examination.	.
Classes, convening again on March 6th, wall naturally cause service leaves to expire on the 4th or 5th of. March. March 5th, according to Cmdr. Pierson, will be the likely date for the trainees to return.
INTRODUCING
By John Power
LEO KLIER
Action in the fieldhouse is plentiful these days as the track team races around the oval and the Krausemen speed up and down the basketball floor — weaving, cutting, and driving in for shots. Stopping for a moment to w’atch the play, attention is immediately drawn to red-faced, aggressive Leo Klier as he fakes a man out and slips in a beautiful yet seemingly impossible hook shot.
I finally managed to corner Leo in the locker room and found that Ed Krause’s star forward was horn in Washington, Ind., better known as the State of Basketball pandemonium. Klier swears up and down he did not enter the world with a basketball in his hands, but by the time he reached Washington High School, he was so proficient that they copped the Big Four Holiday Tournament, the Southern Indiana Conference Crown, and third place in the State Tournament.
The blond bombshell was destined to uphold and increase the laurels of the Klier family at Notre Dame. His brother, Gene, had been a sensational floor man for the Irish basketeers under George Keogan in 1940. Twanty years of age, and a Junior in the Commerce school, Leo rooms writh Bill Stolze in 249 Zahm.
When asked wdiat he did in his spare time, Leo hesitated and then very calmly said, “Play a little basketball or take a plunge in the pool.” Bill Dickey, catcher for the New York Yankees, is “the athlete” in Leo’s opinion. It may be said that just as the veteran Dickey knowa every trick of the trade on the diamond, so, too, does Klier know- all the angles on the hardwood. To this Wal Kennedy’s scorebook will readily attest. After gaining freshman numerals and being a member of last year’s varsity squad, 20-game winners, Leo, this season has gained prominence as one of the outstanding scorers of the nation. He has garnered 136 points in nine games for an average of better than 15 per game.
Klier is a member of the V-12 unit on the campus and expects to leave during the latter part of June for Midshipmen’s School. He plans to complete his education in the post-war era at Notre Dame, thereby gaining a Bachelor of Science in Commerce degree. Another
year of collegiate competition remains for the shooting wizard, and Coach Krause as well as Notre Dame itself wrill welcome the return of this hawrk-eye of the hardwmod.
RALPH POHLAND
Doc Handy roamed about the fieldhouse eyeing his charges, giving bits of advice here and there, when suddenly he chuckled a little, for his attention was drawn to a sparkling performance by his record-smashing half-miler Ralph Pohland.	•
Pohland, a long, lithe athlete w-ith a modest and pleasant personality, hails from the northlands of Minneapolis, Minn. His interests turned to track while attending Marshall High in Minneapolis where he gained tw-o letters and established new records as he won the half-mile title in both City and State meets. Being a true native son, Ralph headed for the University of Minnesota where for three years he studied Commerce and gained fame as a track star. He ran off writh the Central Collegiate ^2 -mile championship in 1:54.3 and received All American Track rating in’ 1943.
The Minneapolis flash came to Notre Dame in July as a Marine, lives in Cavanaugh writh an old Minnesota buddy, Larry Peterson, and plans to head for Parris Isalnd at the end of the current semester. Leaving the Co-eds behind him to set foot on a strictly male campus was “quite a change” for Ralph but the Irish campus rates high in his estimation. About this time Pete Schwrinn commented that Pohland had staked a claim out yonder across the Dixie, but no comment w-as forthcoming from the halfmiler.
The Marine trainee is 21 years old and is debating as to w^hat Presidential candidate should receive his all-important first vote. A rabid golf eiithusiast, Ralph shoots in the low- 80’s. Also goes for John Stehlin and Co., but fears Washington Hall wrill rock and roll if the sw-ingsters enter the old portals once more.	-
He anxiously awaits the Melrose games at Madison Square Garden w-here he wrill take a crack at the 880 as well as compete writh the Mile Relay team.
“That,” said Ralph, “means a great deal to me, to the team, and to the School.” It seems as though he has been struck writh the contagious Spirit of ■ Notre Dame. To Ralph Pohland, a champion on and off the track, good luck and good running.
14
Classes on Marine Corps
Handbook Produce Results
A series of classes and lectures on the Marine Corps Handbook has been started by Marine Gunner Banashek: These classes are held every Monday night from 1830 to 1930 and are for seniors who will be leaving for Parris Island at the end of this semester.
The first meeting of the class was on Monday, Jan. 10. During the two classes held thus far, Mr. Banashek has lectured on drilling the squad, the platoon, and the company; military courtesy; and the M-l rifle. During the past week the seniors have been trying their hand at field stripping the M-l rifle under the guidance of the N.C.O.’s.
The extra work done by the officers and N.C.O.’s of this detachment in setting up night classes, drilling, inspecting and trying to make this detachment tops, has not been without results: It is a proven fact that the men who leave here for Parris Island and San Diego are the best trained of all V-12 Marines.
Letters have been received telling how Platoon 829, made up of Notre Dame men, was tops in drilling and military knowledge. Their D.I. affirmed that they were the "saltiest” platoon to go through boot camp. They received honors in drilling and in Marine Corps Handbook tests.
Finally, the largest number of V-21 Marines to go direct to Quantico from Parris Island were of the Notre Dame leathernecks. Following is a list of this selected group.
From Platoon 829: Pfc’s. Abrams, Curtin, Krier, McNamara, W. Murphy, Phillips, Bertelli, Gray, Kuffel, and Morelock.
From Platoon 833: Pfc.’s Probst, Ross, Slack, Sortal, Taylor, Solheim, Swisher, and Reiter.
So, all seniors, take heed. You have a fine example to follow. The officers and N.C.O.’s are willing to help you. It is up to you to keep our record bright.
—Pvt. John Knutson
Price Presents Paper on Marlowe to Bookmen Club
On the eve of his induction into the army, Victor Price, a native of British Honduras and Sorin Hall senior, delivered a paper to the Bookmen.
Entitled “Christopher Marlowe and the Paganism of the Renaissance,” the paper dealt with the life, times, and works of that playwright. A lengthy discussion followed.
At the next meeting, two weeks hence, Tex Pequigney, president, will speak on “Chaucer and Morality in Art.”
Three NROTC Students
Receive "Tribune" Medals
Three members of the local NROTC unit, Charles J. Montrie, Gordon L. Forester, and John B. Caron were awarded medals for scholastic excellence and high naval aptitude during the summer semester. Captain J. Richard Barry, new commanding officer of the campus naval and marine units, made the awards before the entire battalion.
The medals are sponsored by the Chicago Tribune, and were presented on Jan. 15.
Montrie, of Monroe, Mich., won the gold medal; Forester, of Wilmette, Ill., the silver; and Caron, of Chicago, the bronze. Montrie last year placed second in the N.R.O.T.C. scholastic rankings.
NROTC to Dance
Plans are under way for the fourth Naval Ball to be held Friday night, Feb. 11, in the Palais Royale by the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps of the University of Notre Dame.
W. W. Wicks is the general chairman for the affair which holds an important spot on the semester calendar of the Naval ROTC. Assisting the general chairman will be F. E. Moore, decorations; J. R. Pedrotty, orchestra; and J. C. O’Rourke, bids and favors.
Lt. (jg) A. E. Coryn, USNR, instructor in Naval Science and Tactics, will be advisor to the committee. The last NROTC ball was held on the week-end of Oct. 1-3 as a part of the fest.vities of the Georgia Tech football game.
KNOW YOUR NAVY
(Answers to Quiz on page 5)
1.	Fleet tugs.
2.	(d).
3.	No. “Anchors Aweigh,” often referred to as such, was written as a football and rally song and has never been officially recognized as other than that.
4.	Yes. Navy enlisted men serving with Army detachments in areas where naval uniforms would be inappropriate are authorized to wear regulation Army. uniforms with appropriate naval insignia.
5.	Red, white, blue and black. The blue background represents the American theater. The blue, white and red pin stripes in the center are a continuation of the American Defense Service. On the outer edges the black and white stripes represent the German colors (Atlantic) and the fed and white stripes the Japanese colors (Pacific).
6.	False.
7.	(d) [estimated].
8.	(a).
Good Turnout for Campus Tournaments; Start Feb. I
John A. Scannell, head of the physical department, announced that several entries have been received for the wrestling, handball, and squash tournaments and that play will start in these events about February 1. Until that time practice tilts will be played.
Only a limited number of squash entries have been received and it may be necessary to cancel this event, it was said. It is believed that lack of equipment has prevented many students from entering the tournament. However, if enough entries are received the tourney will also start around the first of the month.
"Irish Pennant," NROTC Magazine, Appears in Walsh
On Thursday evening the N.R.O.T.C. publication, the Irish Pennant, appeared in Walsh Hall. A 16-page magazine, it is published every six weeks at the local Ave Maria press.
The magazine is neatly made up, and carries a complete coverage of the unit’s news. Members of the staff include: Joseph Conerty, editor in chief; Edward Singelyn, feature editor; Joseph Usina, news editor; John Houghteling, sports editor; Robert Snee, circulation; George Walsh, photography; and Lt. (jg) A. E. Coryn, USNR, faculty advisor.
Articles on naval forces, local news, features, humor, introduction of officers and members, sports, and book reviews fill the pages of the publication.
New Courses in Religion Offered Next Semester
In response to numerous requests, the Department of Religion has announced five elective courses in Religion for the coming semester. All five are credit •courses. They are: “Introduction to Catholic Doctrine,” “Selected Readings in the Bible” (Life of Christ), “Social and Religious Problems of Service Men,” “Catholic Lay Leadership,” and “The Christian Life.”
The requests for elective courses in Religion have come from students who wish to fill out and expand the knowledge already acquired in the regular course, and from others who have not had the opportunity to take the regular course offered to freshmen and sophomores in all colleges of the University. A description of these electives are available in the offices of the various Deans.
15
Distinguished Educators in
Citizenship Program Series
The most important part of the training of citizens for democracy is in the hands of the schools and colleges of the country. There is a growing conviction that although there have been some marked successes, there have also been grave failures in preparing men and women for the American form of government. The educational situation has become sufficiently serious to deserve the active consideration of all thinking Americans, whether in uniform or otherwise.
Education For Freedom, Inc. seeks to awaken all Americans to their country’s educational problem and to stimulate an active interest toward finding its solution.
Education For Freedom, Inc., 70 East 45 Street, New York City, is therefore sponsoring a program of vital importance to all who may be interested in the question: “How well are you prepared for free citizenship?” This question is discussed by distinguished educators and leaders of thought over the Mutual Broadcasting System each Monday night 9:15 to 9:30 Central War Time.
The programs promise to be of exceptional value, and of as much interest to the various groups on campus, including some of the foremost speakers of our times.
Alfred Noyes, educator and author of “The Unknown God” will speak on Jan. 24.
Robert I. Gannon, S.J., president of Fordham University, educator and author, will speak on the Jan. 31 program.
Mortimer Adler, professor of philosophy of law, University of Chicago, author of How to Read, a Book will speak on Feb. 7.
Alexander Meiklejohn, educator and author of Education Between Two Worlds will speak on the Feb. 14 program.	•
Walter Lippman, editor, columnist and author of The Good Society will speak on Feb. 21.
Stringfellow Barr, president of Saint John’s College, Annapolis, Md. will speak on the Feb. 28 program.
John Erskine, professor emeritus, Columbia University, and author of The Complete Life will speak on March 6.
These programs will bring you the viewpoint of many of the country’s most distinguished educators and leaders of . -thought who will outline the need for education for freedom as they see the problem.—By Al Lesmez
Jim Schaeffer Has Exciting Life as Police Reporter
Fame that may come but once in a lifetime was recently accorded to James W. (Red) Schaeffer, University sophomore and a former Scholastic editor, by a recent edition of the Riley Hi-Times, publication of Riley high school in South Bend.
Some time ago the Hi-Times sent an enterprising and highly imaginative reporter to interview Schaeffer in his capacity as night police reporter for the South Bend Tribune. The Riley reporter returned with a story that was , probably destined to make all high school students hero-worship the dramatic existence led by a night police reporter.
It is Shaeffer’s duty, (says the Hi-Times reporter) to witness stirring police gun battles, view the mangled remains of what were once human bodies, and check the police blotter quite frequently, all this to enable him the better to describe events for his readers.
Schaeffer also checks with the hospitals, the sheriff’s office, the coroner, and chases ambulances and runs after fire trucks. He has handled the night police job (a position usually filled by a Notre Dame student), since October, and has had several exciting “adventures.” He has received some by-lines from the Tribune, but the Riley Hi-Times article is the first praise that has been accorded by a rival publication.
Service Center
The South Bend Service Center this week will feature the Servicemen’s dinner and the usual weekend dances. On Saturday afternoon there will be a dance from 2:30 until 5:00, and another Saturday evening until 11:00. Sunday afternoon the Service Center will provide more musical entertaimnent and dancing from 3:00 until 6:00.
On last Monday evening the Service Center turned its facilities over to the Midshipmen for their pre-graduation dance. The music for the dance was. provided by Johnny Long and his orchestra. This marked the second time in five days that the Longmen supplied the rhythm for a Notre Dame dance. The Middies, who were commissioned yesterday, were unanimous in their enthusiasm over the wonderful time they had at the ball.
THE GREEN BANNER (Continued from page 8)
pen: The sun is shining in South Bend. Well, it’s about time.
THIS HAPPENED LONG AGO
Bill Lawless: “Wish we could find a fifth for bridge.”
Jim Kane: “You don’t need a fifth for* bridge, you dope.”
Bill Lawless: “Well, make it a pint, then.”
IT'S DISGUSTING
If you have heard this one — stop me. But there is the story of the fellow over in Alumni Hall who wrote out all the addresses on his Christmas card envelopes, rushed over to the post office, and then returned to his room to discover that he had forgotten to insert the Christmas greetings. We know we’re a little late reporting this mental escapade perpetrated in the very shadow of these historic halls of intellectual pursuits and accomplishments. But then, January always finds us a trifle loggy.
DILEMMA
What with the crowd of St. Mary’s grads on campus, keeping the various offices running smoothly, we don’t know whether to take a walk to the “Rock” or to patrol the home front. . . . Someone must read this column; there were three times as many people skating on the lake, last Sunday. Even the South Bend photographers got busy and gave out with a “darling” ensemble in the Sunday morning edition. We remember having seen one or two of them some place. . . . Why hasn’t Joe Brown been singing long before this? As an old music authority, we suggest that Canary Chapman look to her laurels. . . . Why doesn’t someone introduce us to the library set? . . . And if you want to know more about the Scholastic, drop in at Rosie’s on Friday evening. Things are getting to the point where you have to .be able to manipulate spaghetti in order to retain a decent standing among journalists on campus.
OBSERVATIONS
We don’t like the tone of some remarks aimed at the Marine personnel on campus. Jokes are in order, but they should be of the harmless variety; and any utterance that casts personal reflections on individuals is obviously out of order. We implore the readers (if any) of this department to take us in the spirit in which these lines are invariably written. We don’t mean to injure anyone at any time. We don’t think that other columnist should attempt, anything more than this, either.
St. Mary’s held their Junior Prom Saturday night.
16
THE SNOOPER (Continued from page 9)
Congratulations, Lewis, on making Chief — where are the cigars? Our Yeoman Lewis is now Chief Yeoman, as of January 14, 1944, fellows!
The truth has been revealed! The reason the V-12 Ball was postponed was because the Committee Chairman, John Toole (He’s really pulling some bright ones lately — quite regularly) did not have enough hair. His girl flatly refused to be seen with him until he grew enough hair, thus giving him a “mannish appearance.” The Ball had to be postponed until his hair grew from the boyish bob to a mannish trim!
One Mr. Beverly E. Albert (ex-See-bee, Co. A, 101 Dillon) stands first place in the “bull-slinging contest,” and should be awarded the appropriate prize! He was literally driving a woman to tears with his tales of woe on the South Shore last week. He was telling the female all about his great adventures and undertakings, south of the equator! A very slight part of it was true (the gruesome part), but most of it, well . . . Many have asked, and are
wondering rightly, “Was it Albert who single-handedly landed 10,000 Seabees in the New Hebrides?”
Mr. William Fitzgerald (Co. K, 151 Zahm) has at last turned from a woman-hater to an ardent lover! After much persuasion, from a home town girl, he finally relented and went to a dance at the “Rock,” of all place's. He enjoyed himself—most thoroughly!
Mr. Walter (Jug-head) Farley (Co. D, 167 Dillon) still thinks he is in the Marines! It seems he was enlisted in the marines, but changed his mind, came into the Navy, changed his mind again, but never did anything about it. Now, he has thought so much about his second change of ideas, that he actually thinks he is a marine. Will someone please wake him up?
Mr. James Alexander (Co. A, 102 Dillon) has lost 20 pounds (well, nearly). He had a blind-date for the V-12 Ball, whom he was to meet at the South Shore Station.- He very impatiently paced up and down the street alongside the station, from 5:20 till 6:45 while waiting for the girl to arrive. His anxiety was pressing, and was aided by his many friends, who were telling him of
their experiences with blind-dates (anything but pleasant). It is indeed surprising that Jim isn’t gray-headed from the ordeal he went through those 85 minutes.
If Chief Marks doesn’t do something about that foot of his, he will never be able to sell vacuum-cleaners, or “work his way through college” after the war. He won’t be able to stick his foot in the door to hold it open.
Mr. Rudolph M. Lopez (Co. H, 358 Alumni) has discovered a method to save money while in this V-12 program. He takes his liberties on the telephone. One night last week, he talked with some girl over the telephone for well over an hour, while there was a line of two deep waiting for the phone. No one else was able to use that phone that evening, but Lopez made his “five-cent liberty,” and saved his much needed cash for that proverbial “rainy day.”
The Snooper’s Box has been moved to the Duty Chief’s room (144 Dillon). Remember fellows, just put the victim’s name on the sheet and a sentence or two about what he did!
Just 240 shopping days till Christmas!
Have a “Coke”= Come, be blessed and be happy

4
d
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of South Bend
IBMI
.. .from Idaho to Iceland
Have a “Coke”, says the American soldier in Iceland, and in three words he has made a friend. It works in Reykjavic as it (foes in Rochester. Be sure you have Coca-Cola in your icebox at home. 'Round the globe, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes —has become the ice-breaker between kindly-minded strangers.


-the gh
high-sign
“Coke”=Coca-Cola It’s natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s whyeyouTiear Coca-Cola called “Coke’*
17
MARINE MURMURS (Continued from page 7)
boxing in phy. ed. and his opponent forgot Gundar’s Christmas present of muscle developers and let one slip. The best part of this item is that the tall Dane didn’t say a word to any of his buddies about the affair because he feared losing his Cavalier rating.
Good relations have once more been established between the Purdue Exponent and the Notre Dame Scholastic. Quite a few cow-belles were here for the dance including one of the Exponent staff members, who had a date with our marine associate editor. Whether they like it or not, we still think the Irish ranked No. 1 in football throughout the country.
Campus Centenary Publications
•
Notre Dame—100 Years_$4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell_S2.50
... at the Bookstore
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY -Optometrists and Mig. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Most of the blind-robins showed up with queen-bees. Among the most surprised and pleased members of this group were Privates Hollar, Lubarsky, Arnold, McLaughlin and Manion.
Pvt. Kessler had been looking forward to that weekend so long- when the time came for her arrival he was as nervous as a cat. Then to top things off, the lad gets sick and had to keep a three-foot interval from her. Tough luck, Kessie. We know how it is.
A certain Irish “hang-out” in South Bend reverted back to civilian life last Saturday night. Reason: Most of the leathernecks were out with their hometown girls.
Have all you fellows obtained your T.S. cards yet. Pvt. Roos will equip you with one of these “musts” on this campus at a slightly outrageous price. His offices are located somewhere on the third floor of Zahm.
We could’ve sworn we were back on a coed campus last weekend, all those shapely gals around. The best ones, of course, seemed- to be with the boys in green. Those girls from home seem to be the best after all. .
Pvt. Maggioli: Say, you’ve got quite a few demerits, Luke.
Pvt. Luke: How many have you got, Chick?
Pvt. Maggioli: Only 90. Gosh, think how many I’d have if I was careless.
Definition: V-12 — Victory in twelve years or we fight!
Scuttlebutt: Rumors rieochetin'g around the halls have it that this Marine Detachment will be disbanded next
JOSIE and JIM'S
JUNKY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS PLACE
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
semester, transferred to another school, increased, merged with the sailors, sent to San Diego or back to the draft board. Swell future!
Romeo on the Telephone
By Harold M. Nelson
Probably one of the most disgusting experiences in life is that of waiting to make a telephone call while some love-struck lad blithely repeats over and over again: “if I could only be with you tonight, dear,” which he can’t because he’s in V-12, or V-7, and doesn’t rate liberty. There is nothing which can be said to condone these people who talk over the decently-accepted time with absolutely no regard for others who may wish to use the phone for possibly an important and necessary call. By actual timing, it was found that one such “moon-beamed” specimen talked. to his true love for an hour and thirty-five minutes. That is not only childish; it is ineffectual. Any girl who can’t be dated in an intelligent five to ten minute approach, is probably not going to be worth the expended effort any way.
In a university, such as Notre Dame, it is absolutely necessary for harmony that all hands, both military and civilian, observe those small courtesies which make this life so much more pleasant.
So, it is humbly suggested that all co-operate in this matter by limiting all conversations on the phone to only essential calls, and keep them below five minutes if at all possible. In this manner all men will have a chance to place their calls with a minimum of waiting.


.4

18
By Palmer E. Amundsen
This week it is my pleasure to bring to you Chief Specialist John Duncan Barbes.
Barbes was born in New York City, New York, on April Fool’s Day, 1917. The Chief attended Curtis High School of that city, from which he graduated in 1935. The same fall, he entered Wagner College of Staten Island, New York, where he played two seasons of football, at the end position. Barbes received letters for both seasons. He left Wagner shortly after the second season closed, to find work.
The Chief found work with the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey. There he worked for a year and a half, which was sufficient time to enable him to gather enough together to return to college.
When this southpaw from New York returned to school, he chose Arnold College of Athletics, which is located at New Haven, Connecticut. Football, being his favorite sport, he played it at his favorite position — end. He played his entire three years at Arnold, and earned letters for his efforts all three years.
When asked for a resume of exciting experiences, he humorously replied: “Nothing spectacular has happened at
any game I was in.” It was revealed, however, that in his junior year, while Arnold was playing Lowell Textile College, Barbes received a touchdown pass in the closing minutes of the game which saved Arnold from a defeat. The score had been 13-7, in favor of Lowell, when he caught the pass which tied the score. Also, in the same game, the Chief received a pass and ran 60 yards for a touchdown, “but to no avail; there was a penalty on the play,” he said. In his sophomore year (his first year at Arnold), when Arnold played Lowell, he caught a pass and scored Arnold’s only touchdown of the game. The final score was 26-6, in favor of Lowell.
Barbes graduated from Arnold on May 21, 1941. Just eight days later, John Duncan Barbes said the fateful “I do,” to a Naval Officer. On June 8, 1941, Chief Boatswain’s Mate (Physical Instructor) Barbes reported to the U. S. Naval Training Station, .Norfolk, Virginia. November 23, he was transferred to the Naval Reserve field (Floyd Bennett) Naval Air Station at Memphis, Tennessee.. The nineteenth of August 1943, the Chief left Memphis en route here; he arrived August 24. Barbes is one of the two Chiefs here with the V-12 holding a permanent appointment. His rate now is, C.S.P.A., (P.A.)—Chief Specialist, Athletic (Permanent Appointment) .
The Chief married a Staten Island, New York, girl on October 18, 1941. She is very charming, too.
To you, Chief Barbes — star football player, permanent appointment chief and Navy man — we take off our hats!
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP...TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS 51.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. DJ>.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.
South Beni, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service front. Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N^Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S- Bldg., South Bend. Ind.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
50UTIUH0RE
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. . M. J. Thornton, M.D.
19
*
BETTY GRABLE
STARRING in Tur
PIN-UP GIRL"

WtH THE BOYS...It’s
Chesterfield
l^u see Chesterfields everywhere these days—and why? Because they are milder and better-tasting and no wonder . . . Chesterfields are made of the best tobaccos that grow. And that’s not all — it’s the blend —the Right Combination of
these tobaccos that the cigarette that
makes
Chesterfield