THE I I NI AI E€ETJ
COLLEGE PARADE
Year's Entertainment Bargain
March 20, 1936	University Field House
Established 30 Years
L^MONTREES
OPTOMETRISTS
222^ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Have the prescription of your glasses filed with us. It will serve in an emergency.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Patronize SCHOLASTIC Advertisers
CANT SMOKE A PIPE?
THEN YOU NEVER SMOKED A
RECOMMENDED RY
MILLIONS
UF USERS
- NOVELS STANDARD SHAPES

FINEST BRIAR ■ MONEY - CAN BUY UNHEARD OF VALUE
FILTER-COOLED
MEDICO
(PATENTED)
Tliis simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and coolingmesh screen interiorkeeps juices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth, L wet'heel, bad k odor, frequent > expectoration.
No breaking in. Improves thetasteand romaofany tobacco.
ihai Fillers
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
Terrible puns seem to be the worst hazards facing the three co-eds who are enrolled in the class of 60 embalmers at Minnesota University. According to the girls themselves they have frequently heard such remarks as “If business is so ‘dead’, embalming is quite an ‘undertaking’”; “is embalming a ‘stiff’ course?” and “you are liable to end up in a ‘grave’ situation.”	'
—o—
This is one we picked out of The Log from the United States Naval Academy:
1st Classman: “What do you do when your foot goes to sleep, mister?”
4th Classman: “My feet never go to sleep, sir, I’m slew footed and I can’t make my toes turn in.”
—o—
Manhattan College’s publication The Quadrangle offers the following words, taken from the Rider College News 1 as terms “used constantly throughout the universities and colleges of the country.” So we ask you does your vocabulary include:
Boolo—A freshman.
Chief itch and rub—That most important person.
Yawptologist—A cheerleader.
Bun duster—A male who frequents teas.
Bale of hay—A package of cigarettes.
Cement mixer—A poor dancer.
—o—
The School of Extension Teaching and the College of Home Economics at Syracuse, New York this semester is offering something decidedly different in the way of courses in response to the demand of non-college people. This new and novel course has no requirement or prerequisites and offers instruction in new methods of meal planning, inexpensive solutions to problems of home decoration, and easy ways of wardrobe renovation.	.
v
*
Cambridge, Mass, (acp) —Discovery of ancient “buttery” ledgers of Harvard college shows the appetite of yesteryear.
For one meal, in August, 1729, the “butler” purchased milk, eggs, sugar, flour, nut-meg, “legg” of mutton, pork, squash, butter, “pigeons,” bread, apple pie and wine—all for $7.15.
Another dinner, this one in October, featured pork, cheese, “fowle,” butter, “beafe,” carrots, turnip, apple pie and wine, and cost about $5.
The Scholastic
j
Two
CALENDAR
Friday, February 28
“Scholastic of the Air,” broadcast from campus radio station over WSBT, 3:15 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial staff 6:30 p.m., General Staff 7:00 p.m., editorial offices; Track meet, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, 7:00 p.m., gymnasium; Lecture “On Art” by Oscar B. Jacobson, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Saturday, February 29
Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler, at Indianapolis; Fencing meet, Notre Dame vs. Purdue, 3:30 pan., gymnasium; Track team at St. Louis for St. Louis Relays; Movie, “Bright Lights,” with Joe E. Brown and Patricia Ellis, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, March 1
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; Interhall basketball games, 9:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., gymnasium; Knights of Columbus Initiation, 1:30 p.m., Jefferson Plaza, South Bend.
Monday, March 2
Bengal Boxing practice, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium; Broadcast from campus radio station over WSBT, 4:30 p.m.; Broadcast featuring Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, Instructor in Economics, over WSBT, through campus radio station, 7:00 p.m.; Meeting of Metropolitan club, 7:45 p.m., library basement.
Tuesday, March 3
Bengal boxing practice, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium; meeting of St. Vincent de Paul society, 6:45 p.m., Knights of Columbus rooms, Walsh hall; Broadcasts from campus radio station over WSBT, 4:30 and 7:30 p.m.; Meeting of campus radio group, 8:00 p.m., Engineering building studios; Concert by Siberian Singers, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, March 4
Bengal boxing practice, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium; Campus radio program over WSBT, 4:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.
Thursday, March 5
Bengal Boxing practice, 3:30 p.m., gymnasium; broadcast from campus radio station, 4:30 p.m.; Lecture by Christopher Hollis, “The Last Ten Years,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
When you go to town
• Dinner, theatre, and a round of night clubs may wilt down your bank roll— but never your Aroset collar—the new, starchless, collar attached to Arrow shirts. Stays smooth and fresh from dusk till dawn. Try this Arrow shirt with the new Aroset Collar §2 . .. Arrow Ties SI
ARROW
w------------------->
FOLLOW ARROW AND YOU FOLLOW THE STYLE
For a Complete Showing .Arrow Shirts and Ties
Informal and Formal
Stop at South Bend’s most convenient spot
MAX ADLER
Three
Bengal Bouts
February 2 8, 1936
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
February 28, 1936
No. 17
Musical Comedy Cast Continues Rehearsals
OSCAR B. JACOBSON, NOTED ARTIST, GIVES LECTURE ON CAMPUS TONIGHT
An atmosphere quite in keeping with a real broadcasting station is created during rehearsals of the musical comedy, “Tune In,” now in production in Washington Hall. Scheduled to be presented March 28 and 29, the operetta will be the first of its kind on the campus in several years.
With such crooning tenors as John Ryan, Francis Schaeffer, and Lindsay Phoebus combined with the melodiousness of such talented voices as those of Mark Finocchiaro, Ralph Cardinal, and Goldie Goldman, the show is sure to click. Robert Heywood, a freshman addition to the glee club, should prove a good “hard boiled” Dynamo Dave.
Plot Is Light
Built along the lines of “Broadway Gondolier,” the plot of “Tune In” is light and pleasing. John Ryan, glee club soloist, will be seen in the principal role of Jerry Kennedy, the star of the Kroggins hour.
Soloist Ryan has had a varied career as a singer in Washington Hall theatricals. His first appearance was in the two act operetta, “The Vagabonds,” produced several years ago by the music department. In this play Ryan sang the lead in a story dealing with a mythical kingdom. Since then he has appeared in two Linnet revues, “Thanks for the Blow” and “Music’s the Thing” as well as in the musical satire, “Five Nuts in Two Acts.”
Interspersed among the musical selections by the leads and glee club is some sparkling dialogue by the members of the cast. The action is swift moving and well planned. Rehearsals will be held tomorrow at the regular time under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta in the music room.
KENTUCKY CLUB
John Bray spoke on Irvin S. Cobb and his native town of Paducah at the last meeting of the Kentucky club held Feb. 24. Norvin Casper also addressed the group and rendered a selection entitled “In Old Kentucky.” Plans for future meetings and the adoption of dues were discussed.
Musical Comedy Lead
John Ryan
To star in “Tune In’
UNIVERSITY THEATRE
Initial tryouts for the Globe version of Shakespeare’s play, “The Comedy of Errors,” were held Tuesday evening, Feb. 25, in the department of speech rooms in the Main Building. Professor Albert Doyle, director of the theatre, announced that all who would like to take part in the presentation of this play and who did not attend the meeting Tuesday night should see him at once.
According to present plans the production will be presented twice on as the same night. This is made possible because the Shakespearean plays, as revised by the Globe players, can be given in a little over an hour.
This revised type of Shakespearean drama was first presented on the campus by the Globe theatre players, who were enthusiastically received after their long stay at the World’s Fair. “The Comedy of Errors,” however, will be the first venture of this nature attempted by students.
A national campaign has been started to create a “living memorial” to the genius of Thomas Alva Edison through the endowment of educational research scholarships.
To Speak "On Art" Here
By Harold A. Williams
The ninth lecture of the second semester series will be given tonight at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall by Oscar Brousse Jacobson, noted American artist, educator and lecturer from Norman, Oklahoma. His topic will be, “On Art.”
Mr. Jacobson, who is director of the University of Oklahoma School of Art, was invited to Notre Dame through the special recommendation of Dom Gregory Gerrer, O.S.B., curator of the University’s Wightman Memorial Art Gallery. It will be Mr. Jacobson’s first visit to the campus.
Mr. Jacobson was born in Wester-vick, Sweden. He came to the United States in 1890 and became a naturalized citizen in 1912. After attending Bethany College, Lindsborg, Kansas, where he received his B.P., he studied at the Louvre in Paris. He was awarded a B.F.A. degree from Yale in 1910.
Lectured at Minnesota
He served as teacher and guest lecturer at the State College of Washington and the University of Colorado. From 1925 to 1926 he traveled and painted in the Sahara desert. Lately Mr. Jacobson has exhibited one man shows in New York, Chicago, San Francisco, and Kansas City. He has just concluded a series of lectures at the University of Minnesota.
OFF THE RECORD
“Yes, I believe that cheating is very prevalent at Miami, but I think that women do most of it,” a Miami University (Oxford, 0.) student tells an inquiring reporter.
More than 200 New York state college students met at Albany recently to debate on bills now before the Empire State legislature.
Twenty Connecticut Wesleyan University students are studying practical governmental methods in Washington.
February 2 8, 1936
Five
TRADITIONAL PRESENTATION OF FLAG MARKS WASHINGTON DAY OBSERVANCE
Beefy Chorines Work Out For Annual Absurdities
Seniors Hear Father O'Hara
“This occasion is a solemn, almost a sacramental one, declared the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of of the University, last Saturday morning as he accepted the flag of the class of 1936 in the ninety-first annual observance of Washington’s Birthday.
Father O’Hara went on to cite the duty of the seniors after graduation toward their church and their country.	.
“If in June,” he added, “you close your books, as well as your minds to further thought you will be shirking your responsibility to your country.”
Touching on the need of right principles in the exercise of governmental functions, Father O’Hara reminded the class of 1936 that it was fortunate in being grounded in Scholastic philosophy, and in being able to draw on this background later in life. In concluding, he stressed the need for protecting democracy today in the United States. Representative government, he pointed out, has suffered many setbacks in the last decade, particularly in Europe.
William H. Fieweger, senior in the College of Commerce, delivered the traditional appreciation of Washington’s Farewell Address. In a terse, forceful speech, Fieweger declared that the principles embodied in the first president’s message have stood the test of time and are still sound and dependable today. He concluded by stating that Washington must live again through the principles thus given us.
Howard C. Cusack, president of the class of 1936, in his presentation speech, stressed the significance and tradition back of the flag.
John Ryan, Arts and Letters senior, rendered a vocal selection, and the exercises were concluded with the singing, by the audience, of “Song of Notre Dame.”
Charles J. Boyle, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was general chairman of the exercises.
CHICAGO CLUB
At the last meeting of the Chicago club, Feb. 14, Paul Rubly and George Thomas were named co-chairmen of the organization’s Easter dance.
Kitty Gorman served as master of ceremonies at the affair. The list of speakers included the Rev. Eugene -Burke, C.S.C., Prof. Clarence “Pat” Manion, and Dr. Brady.
Six
Monogram Absurdities
August Church
To tap dance in show.
COLUMNIST PAUL MALLON TO ADDRESS PRESS CLUB
Paul Mallon, former Notre Dame student and author of the syndicated column, “News Behind the News,” mil be the feature speaker at the Press club banquet, to be held in the Faculty dining room Friday, March 13. It was definitely announced Wednesday that this is the only public appearance Mr. Mallon will make at Notre Dame.
Present plans also call for the appearance of John Ryan, well-known campus singer, and a soprano from South Bend. The toastmaster has not as yet been selected.
Mr. Mallon was a student at Notre Dame in 1922. After leaving school, he went to New York, where he worked for several different dailies. Later he began to write for the United Press, and he was later sent to Washington. He was soon made head of the U.P. Washington bureau. While in this position he gained information ,and contacts which led him to begin his own column. Today he is considered as one of the nation’s foremost political writers.
The Press club, which is making possible the appearance of Mr. Mallon, was reorganized this year under the guidance of Dr. John Cooney, head of the department of journalism. Officers of the club are: president, Charles Fitzsimons ; vicepresident, Dick Riley; secretary, James McHugh, and treasurer, Norman Johnson.	‘
As announced in last week’s SCHOLASTIC, fifteen dollars in prizes, and . free tickets to the annual Absurdities have been offered by the Monogram club for the best skits about campus life.	.
These skits should be mailed or brought to Paul E. Rubly in 409 Walsh Hall. They must be submitted by March 15, and must have for their subjects incidents definitely connected with campus life. Rubly has asked that students submit their skits early so that there will be plenty of time to select the winners of the contest.
This year’s Absurdities should be funnier and flingier than ever with such athletic chorines as Art Cronin, “Pepper” Martin, Wayne Millner, Larry Danbom, Bill Shakespeare, Andy Pilney, Steve Miller and Fred Ca-rideo mincing about the stage in Washington Hall. Don Elser and “Streaky” Themes are loosening up their mellow voices for solo work in the review. It is more than likely that “Sunny” Church and Joe Ruetz will exhibit their tap dancing talents in a duo dance number.
And last, but probably most important, vicious tongue competition is under way between Bill Steinkemper, Chris Matthews, and Tony Mazziotti for the personality position of Master of Ceremonies.
MUSICAL ARTS CLUB
Prizes for essays on musical subjects and for musical compositions of the more serious type, are to be offered as part of the program of the newly-formed Musical Arts Club, it was announced this week.
Essays should be sufficiently well written to merit consideration. Musical compositions submitted may be either for voice or for instrument. These prizes will be given to students within or outside of the organization.
At the first formal meeting of the club last night, plans were discussed for a smoker to be held two weeks from yesterday. Plans were discussed for programs to be presented at future meetings, either by members of the group, or by musicians from South Bend were outlined. The selection of a chaplain for the organization, was considered and deferred to the next meeting.
Bengal Bouts
All the dope points to a great Bengal Boxing Show—it’s March 20.
The Scholastic
Siberian Singing Group To Appear Here Tuesday
CONNER AND TANCREDI ARE READY AS THE BENGAL BOUTS DRAW NEAR
The first musical group to be heard on the campus this year will be Demetei' Zachareff’s world famous Siberian Singers who will give a recital of Russian songs Tuesday evening, March 3, at 8:00 o’clock, in Washington Hall.
The ensemble is composed of ten male choristers who formerly were members of the choir of Russia from the Moscow Cathedral. The group is under the direction of Nicholas Vasilieff, former Russian choirmaster.
The repertoire of the choir includes a program of liturgical music and gypsy and folk songs of Russia and Siberia. The singers will appear in seventeenth century Moscow Cathedral robes, and the national costumes of old Russia.
Professor Joseph Casasanta said of the Siberian Singers, “Any organization which has had the experience and background they have had, should give a good interpretation of Russian music. Pay particular attention to the basses; we have a treat in store for us there. Long ago in Russia, due to the lack of pedals on organs, the singers were trained to simulate the bass pedals of the organs; this accounts for the unusual ability of Russian basses.”
The Siberian Singers, since they have been deported from Russia, have been making concert tours mainly throughout the eastern portion of our country. They have been heard frequently over the National Broadcasting Company network.
METROPOLITAN CLUB
The final reorganization meeting for those interested in the Met Club will be held next Monday evening, March 2 at 7:45 in the basement of the library. Robert Cavanaugh, S. A. C. chairman of campus clubs, announced that unless a sufficient number is present, no further effort will be made toward the reorganization of the club.
Assessments are still being received from those interested in reestablishing the organization. A substantial sum has already been collected toward clearing up the club’s obligations.
Bengal Bouts
Plenty of This on March 20.
A Laugh Riot ’
Nick Tancredi Cy Conner
Two boys with but a single thought, when they get in the ring—mayhem.
ANNUAL FRESHMAN ELECTIONS SCHEDULED FOR MARCH 10
Election of officers for the Freshman Class, first political activity of the year, is scheduled to get under way with the primaries to be held on Thursday, March 5, and the final balloting on Tuesday, March 10.
Edward Donahue, chairman of the S.A.C. committee on elections, announced this week that the primaries will be held at 12:30 in the gymnasium, while the finals will be run off in the Carroll Hall recreation rooms, with balloting open all day.
“Candidates must file their intentions of running before Tuesday of next week, March 3,” Chairman Donahue said. “Anyone who has a clean academic and disciplinary record is eligible to run.”
Filing of the intention of running is to be done with Chairman Donahue, at 224 Walsh hall. Those who file will be notified of their eligibility before the date set for the primaries.
PATRICIANS MEET
Plato won as many distinctions in the battlefield and in athletic contests as he did in the class room, Daniel Hanrahan told the Patricians at their first meeting of the semester, held Wednesday evening, Feb. 19, in the Law Building.
The speaker went on in his “Discourse on Plato,” to show the influence the philosopher has had on the modern world. He pointed out that Russia, after the revolution of 1917, was governed by a communist system similar to that of Plato’s “model” republic.
Hanrahan showed that the big drawback of both Plato and Aristotle was that they did not have the benefit of the coming of Christ and the vast influence of His life, teachings, and resurrection.
Renew Feud On March 20
By John Gillespie
Out of the welter of the Prom week-end loom two foreboding figures —Nick Tancredi and Cy Conner. These two muscle-men stole the show at the Bengal Bouts last year and they will again give their all for charity on March 20.
It would be inaccurate, as well as insulting, to say that Nick and Cy have started training, because they are always in shape. Let’s state it this way: they are merely putting on the finishing touches.
Not Fooling This Year
A damaging rumor has originated from the affair of 1935. Some skeptics insist that Cy and Nick were only fooling, that they had no grudge, no real hostility toward each other. These critics even overstep the bounds of common decency so far as to claim that the Conner - Tancredi death duel this year will be a farce. One might as well accuse Lindbergh of faking the ocean hop of the last decade, or maintain that Whistler’s “Mother” was a tracing.
The spectators can be sure that these boys will not follow the shamming formula set by professional “rasslers.” True, they will groan and grimace, but these audible and visible expressions will be authentically evoked. One doesn’t laugh off a kick in the head or an elbow in the ribs.
If Nick and Cy are seen around the campus in something of a friendly guise, don’t feel that they will carry their amity into the ring. It’s just a pose, and they -will discard it when they discard their robes.
No Blood In Their Veins
There was no blood in the ring after their contortions last year, and that led a few sadists to believe that Nick and Cy were just good actors. But the wrestlers’ managers report, that instead of blood, the boys have in their veins a queer mixture of hydrochloric acid and nitro-glycerine which is not easily shed. Of course, they might blow up, but that’s the chance you take when you watch the torture.
Remembering all this advance information, get your seats early, and don’t be surprised if the first row of seats is a good 30 yards from the ringside. Cy and Nick toss one another about with remarkable vigor, and the management doesn’t want another Dempsey-Firpo scandal.
cebruary 2 8, 1936
Seven
Naval Engineer, Author, To Give Illustrated Talk
Commander Edward Ellsberg, famous naval engineer, lecturer, and noted writer on sea life, will lecture at Notre Dame Monday evening, March 10. The lecture, which will be illustrated, is entitled "Thirty Fathoms Deep.”
Commander Ellsberg was graduated from the Naval Academy in 1914, and was sent to sea on the battleship Texas. He was later recommended for post-graduate work in engineering and was sent to the postgraduate school at Annapolis and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where re received his degree of Master of Science.
During the World War Commander Ellsberg was stationed at the New York Navy Yard where he supervised the conversion of seized German trans-Atlantic liners ito transport ships. He was also detailed to construct the super-dreadnaught, Tennessee, which he built and launched.
Ellsberg was sent to the Boston Navy Yard after the war. He was stationed there for five years designing and rebuilding all types of naval vessels. In 1925 he was detailed by the Navy as Salvage Officer in the task of raising the submarine, S-51, from its watery bed. Commander Ellsberg startled the nation by accomplishing this difficult feat of engineering in the face of almost unsurmountable obstacles. For his efforts he received the Distinguished Service Medal from President Coolidge.
With the exception of a few weeks spent in the salvaging of the S-4 Commandei- Ellsberg since that time has served as chief engineer for a private oil company. In recognition of his fine work in the service of the United States he was promoted to the rank of commander by a special act of Congress.
Among the books Commander Ellsberg has written are On the Bottom, Pigboats, and Thirty Fathoms Deep. He also has a number of inventions to his credit the most important of which is a torch which burns steel under water.
Bengal Bouts
There’ll be no .. scalping at the Bengal Bouts—-March 20.
Joseph Francis Mansfield, a Fall River, Mass., product . . . Bothers the home folks in summer time with commercials ria radio . . . Home town announcer who made good at N.D.
. . . Uses Aram Pothier Jarret as Les Qualey to his Husing. . . .
No one has been able to find out why he comes to school by way of New York . . . Went to Army game last year without a ticket . . . Almost
won a Daily Double once, and never tires of telling about the incident. . . . Bothers John Con Murphy when he has the chance . . . Was going to send celery to Murph’s girl when she left the Prom week-end. . . .
Now a member of the elite circle. . . . Heard rumors about our Log Chapel and tried it himself last summer . . . Probgbly the most famous of the campus husbands . . . Liked the cooking so he became a steady boarder. . . .
Believes in doing things that are different . . . Has three cuts in all classes . . . Has the right connections and is awakened in the morning by WSBT announcer through the shower activities of the Second Floorers in Howard. . . .
Girls he’s never seen in his life, say "hello” now ... As a married man, he holds no fear for them . . . Roomed with Spain’s Sebastian Bonet one year . . . Joe collected clothes for Saint Vincent . . . Sebby wore them. . . .
Was a dramatic man even in high school . . . Now an English major . . . Smokes a pipe, too . . . Will replace either O’Neil or Husing in June . . . “This is Joseph Mansfield, speaking from the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering on the campus of the University of Notre Dame.”
Glee Club Personnel Announced by Casasanta
By Lindsay B. Phoebus
The travelling personnel of the University Glee Club as announced this week by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, Head of the Department of Music and director of the Glee Club is as follows:
First tenori: T. E. Adamson, N. A. Aleksis, S. C. Borzilleri, T. E. Cassidy, J. R. Collins, R. J. MacDonald, J. F. McAlpine, J. H. McAuliffe, J. B. McGlynn, J. D. McLaughlin, R. A. Morrison, W. V. O’Brien, A. J. Selna, and P. G. Sinkoe.
Second tenori: R. T. Ducey, I. L. Goldman, D. F. Hickey, O. N. Kane, M. F. Leahy, J. F. McNeil, L. B. Phoebus, J. F. Ryan, and J. M. Sullivan.
First bassi: F. C. Barbush, L. R. Boyle, A. A. Butler, R. M. Cardinal, M. A. Finnochiaro, R. J. Mazanec, J. M. Murphy, J. B. Murrin, F. J. Reidy, and F. X. Schaefer.
Second bassi: C. J. Colgan, A. C. Davidson, G. D. Kerwin, J. W. Kirsch, R. F. Holtz, J. J. Manion, G. A. Miller, D. G. Monaghan, J. T. Pawlowski, E. J. Peter, and C. M. Rooney.
The travelling personnel listed above signifies, in addition to the 40 men who wil actually travel with the organization, substitutes to take the place of members who are prevented from travelling by illness or by scholastic deficiencies.
The Glee Club will entertain the Elks of South Bend on Sunday evening, March 2, at 8 o’clock. At that time, the Elks wil sponsor a Notre Dame night in honor of a group of Notre Dame men, including Elmer Layden, director of athletics; and Joe Boland, assistant coach. The club will present a brief, informal program.
The details of the itinerary of the Club’s annual eastern tour are gradually rounding into form. Full details are not yet complete, but will be announced at a later date.
Two Yale University research workers have determined the exact atomic weight of an atom of sulphur to be 31.9818.
Bengal Bouts
Don’t forget the date; Friday, March 20	'
The Scholastic
Eight
Debaters In Tournament At Iowa City, March 6-7
DEAN KONOP DELIVERS ADDRESS ON THE SUPREME COURT AND ITS POWER
Cosmetic Frauds Revealed At Meeting Of Scientists
A debating team of four men will represent the University in the Iowa Invitation Debating tournament at the University of Iowa in Iowa City
and Friday, March 6 and 7.
next Thursday
David Flynn
• Prof. Wm. J. Coyne, coach of the squad, has selected three of the four men who will debate for Notre Dame in the tourney. On the negative side, Robert J.
Schmelzle and Richard H. Meier will speak, while Robert T. Burke and another man will endeavor to sustain the affirmative side of the question.
Resolved that: “The several states should adopt in principle the Nebraska plan of a uni-cameral legislature,” was the subject of a debate between Notre Dame and the Chicago Kent College of Law last Sunday afternoon in Chicago.
Debate Broadcast
The debate was broadcast from Station WGN at 2:15 o’clock; John J. Locher and Thomas G. Proctor, both students in the College of Law represented Notre Dame on the negative side of the question while Alfred Borah and George Hebei represented Kent College of Law.
Last Friday and Saturday Notre Dame’s debating squad participated in the Manchester Debate tournament at North Manchester, Indiana, where 22 colleges and universities were represented.
The squad’s “A” division affirmative team, composed of John C. Mar-bach, Robert T. Burke, and John D. Heywood, won all five of its debates, defeating Loyola University; Indiana Law School of Indianapolis; Indiana University of Bloomington; the University of Chicago; and Rose Polytechnic.
Negatives Win Three
The negative team of this division composed of David V. Flynn, Robert Schmelzle, and Richard Meier, won three of its debates, defeating Indiana Law School, Loyola University, and Wabash College, and losing to Bowling Green College and to the University of Chicago.
In the “B” division, Norbert A. Aleksis, Eugene F. Malloy, and Robert B. Heywood composing the affirmative team also won three of its five debates.
The “B” division’s negative team, (Continued on Page 10)
“When we consider the thousands of Acts passed by Congress each year and find on an average annually less than one Act declared unconstitutional, both Congress and the Supreme Court ought to be commended rather than assailed from every platform,” Professor Thomas F. Konop, Dean of the Notre Dame College of Law, told his radio hearers in an address over the campus station on “The Power of the Supreme Court,” last Monday night.
Sketches Legal History-
Beginning with the historical case of Doctor Bonham in England in 1610 when Lord Coke declared an act of the British Parliament null and void, Dean Konop listed a number of bills that have since then been passed by legislative bodies and declared either null and void or unconstitutional by the supreme judiciary bodies of various states.
Merely because the Supreme Court has the power to declare acts of Congress unconstitutional, Professor Konop continued, does not mean that in using this power the Court is infallible. The Justices of the Supreme Court should be no more immune from criticism than are members of Congress or the president. The Constitution itself grants the citizens of this nation the right to criticize the judgments of the Court under the right of free speech and free press. The history of the United States shows very definitely that at all times the Supreme Court has been subject to criticism. Dean Konop pointed out that Abraham Lincoln in his first inaugural address criticized “the assumption of power by the Supreme Court in the Dred Scott Case.”
Shows Court Can Err
As conclusive evidence that the Supreme Court is by no means incapable of committing legal blunders we have ample evidence in the number of decisions that have been reversed by that body. Furthermore there is usually a minority of the judges who - criticise the decision of the majority. The Constitution itself, Dean Konop said, if “reasonably and liberally construed will adapt itself to our purpose. It will be viewed by the people as the charter of a living government. They will respect it; they will love it; they will defend it with their lives if need be, against the threatening enemies, communism and dictatorship.”
The concluding remarks of Professor Konop were devoted to our duty as citizens to obey the decisions of the Supreme Court whether we agree or disagree with them. Such action is the “only way to insure peace and concord among our people; the only way to perpetuate our Constitution for future generations.”
Some of the more prominent frauds
in the cosmetic industry were re
vealed to members of the Academy of Science by John Bray, a senior in the
pre-medical school
John Bray
ity of the various the hair, skin, and
of the College of Science, at their meeting Monday night.
Bray treated in an interesting manner a subject which has. been exploited in such books as 100,000,-000 Guinea Pigs and Skin Deep. While the majorpreparations for face are harmless
in character a good many actually are dangerous to use for a prolonged period. The three or four specific cases brought out in this paper were sufficient proof.
One of the oldest and most dangerous groups of cosmetics is the hair dyes. A good number on the market today still contain harmful ingredients such as lead and the poisonous types of aniline dyes.
Bray declared that some of the best talcums on the market today, are Mennen’s For Men, and Yardley’s Old English. As a face lubricant perhaps the best and safest to use is good old fashioned cold cream.
The chief objection to the astringent or face tonic is the fact that many of them tend to dry up the skin. A quotation from the article illustrates the tremendous profit realized on such a preparation.
Ardena Skin Tonic bottled by Elizabeth Arden, and selling for 85 cents a bottle, was found to be essentially water with small amounts of alcohol, boric acid, and a dash of perfume. The approximate wholesale price of the ingredients amounted to four cents.”
In turn the speaker treated lipsticks, rouges, soaps and deodorants. He concluded with a statement in which he said that his paper dealt chiefly with the harmful type of cosmetic and that there are on the market today many brands of various cosmetics which are capable of performing or living up to the claims made by their manufacturers.
They can hardly weight for the Bengal Bouts—March 20.
February 2 8, 1936
Nine
STUDENTS DISCLOSE VARIED REASONS FOR SELECTING JOURNALISM AS A MAJOR
Wranglers Preparing
For I. C. O., April 4-5
By J. Albert Torribio
By Louis Da Pra
Many theories are advanced by students striving to solve the problem as to how and why class-mates take this or that course. Recently, an inquisitive professor sought to find an explanation to fit this question. His classes were becoming larger, and his curiosity was aroused. The answers to his “Why did you select journalism ?” enlightened him greatly; some of the replies, however, left him in the dark.
One answer selected at random
. . Heads, it’s Journalism; Tails, it’s Engineering.”
shows the analytical mind of some of our students. The writer avers that, “since the news of today is tomorrow’s history,” he took Journalism. The connection may be somewhat vague, but he goes on more firmly, and emphatically argues that “people get more economics out of the newspapers than out of dry volumes of theory.” He forcefully concludes that he doesn’t like poetry, so he chose the opposite—“news-writing.”
One is amazed at the frankness exhibited by the members of the class. One individual gives a short account of his life—from the cradle on through the grades and then to Notre Dame. He doesn’t bother to get around to the reason for his taking Journalism, but his life seems interesting enough.
Another insists he came to N.D. with the firm intention of taking Engineering, much to the horror of his elder brothers who had preceded him here. “Too tough!” was their advice to him. Nevertheless, he approached the Registrar’s window without any qualms. He listened to some of the comments about him, and became
Ten	'
more interested as he heard statements like this.
“Engineering? Not me. I came to college for an education and I’m going to get it, but not by carrying it too far.”
Quips like this left him undecided, and as he reached the window he suddenly whispered — Journalism I He now says he looks back on that choice as the turning point in his life. In parentheses, he devoutly writes, “Thank God!” Optimistically he
closes his paper with the comment that “I may starve when I graduate; if so—O.K.” He’ll starve gracefully.
Another’ informant believes journalism will give him a better appreciation of the. newspapers, just as art makes it possible for one to appreciate the funnies, or jazz to appreciate a symphony. He says there was a rumor “that Journalism is a snap course; it didn’t make much difference to me, but it helped some.” He . further believes the course will give him a broader outlook, and although a “multi-tracked mind becomes confused at times, it is good to be confused once in awhile.” He insists that Journalism offers knowledge. He concludes that “Knowledge is a necessity and after all a necessity is a necessity.”
Some of the boys honestly admit that the reasons why they are taking Journalism are rather vague but that Journalism is as good as anything. On the other hand, one student wishes to become a highly technical writer and write about “fish or ichthyology.” This last one must have stumped the
(Continued on Page 21)
Nineteen Catholic high schools in the Fort Wayne and Indianapolis dioceses were invited Tuesday, by Charles F. Myers, chairman of the I. C. 0., to send representatives to the annual Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest sponsored by the Wranglers, the University’s honorary forensic society, which is to be held in Washington hall, April 4-5.
According to plans outlined by Myers, the entire competition for the Joseph McNamara trophy, donated by the deputy attorney general of Indiana, and for several medal awards, will take place in the two day session, which is an innovation in I. C. 0. contests.
The semi-finals are to be held on April 4, and the finals on the following day. Judges as yet have not been selected, and officials in charge do not expect that they will be chosen until the few days previous to the opening of the contest. The judges’ set-up will follow the organization reported last week.
The following schools from the Ft. Wayne diocese were invited by the Wranglers: St. Mary’s of Ambia, St. Mary’s of Anderson, Decatur Catholic High school, Central Catholic and St. Mary’s of Fort Wayne, and St. Joseph’s of Elwood.
Sacred Heart Academy of Fowler, Catholic Central of Hammond, St. Mary’s of Huntington, St. Paul’s of of Marion, St. Mary’s of Michigan City, and Mishawaka Catholic High school.	.
Those invited from the Indianapolis . diocese are: Immaculate Conception of Aurora, Reitz Memorial of Evansville, Catholic and Sacred Heart schools of Indianapolis, St. Andrew’s of Richmond, St. Joseph’s of Shelbyville, and. Gibault High School of Terre Haute.
DEBATING
(Continued from Page 9)
James B. Burke, Charles J. Colgan, and John K. Schemmer, was successful in four of its contests.
No winner of the tournament has been announced, but the final results for all of the schools which participated will be sent to coaches in a few days. Professor Coyne will announce later the final results of the forensic tourney at which the subject debated was, “Resolved that Congress shall have the power to over-ride, by a two-thirds majority vote, decisions of the Supreme Court declaring laws by Congress unconstitutional.
• The Scholastic
THE WEEI\
Three Local Knights
Take Advanced Degrees
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Ye goode olde Lenten season has arrived at last. From now on, undergraduate statisticians will be especially active in keeping track of the number of days, hours, minutes, and seconds which must pass before Easter vacation will begin. If you’re not familiar with the term, let us define the word Lent for you. It is that
period of the year, at the beginning of which, all good Notre Dame men swear that they won’t touch cigars, cigarettes, or pipes for 40 days, only to blandly and conveniently forget their resolution not more than three or four days later, at which time they may be observed smoking twice as much as ever.
- •
The powers that be have recently devised an original method of punishing those who are always getting up just in time for 11 o’clock classes. With infallible wisdom, the authorities know that, as soon as his feet touch the floor beside his bed, the average late-riser instinctively heads for the cafeteria. Once he arrives there, his semi-conscious state makes him an easy victim of the machinations of heartless superiors. Sooner or later he must end up in front of the cash register, and while the machine is being operated, its no more than natural that the student should support his wavering frame by resting one hand on the metal base of the register and the other on the steel coffee counter. The result is a powerful electric shock that causes the reeling victim to knock his food tray clattering to the floor, jolts him into startled consciousness, and scares him into swearing that he’ll never get up after 6:30 again, at least for another week.	.
•
Enjoying an affair like the Junior Prom is not very difficult, especially if you have only one guest to entertain. Suppose, however, that you were threatened with the task of taking care of three girls. If you can imagine such a situation, then you know what kind of a hole Tom Grady was in last Friday night. It was all a mistake, of course, but each of the three ladies was under the impression
that she was the one that Tom had invited to the Prom.
We know you’ve never done it before, but for once anyway, we’d like you to endure the ordeal of reading the so-called column on the other side of this page. There you’ll find recounted the story of several seniors who welcomed their week-end dates at the station with a brass band, waving flags, and raucous cheers. What Goldman failed to mention, though, is the fact that he was present at the scene in the capacity of a sort of flower boy. It was his duty to scatter the girls’ pathway with roses, pansies, and violets and to sing “Lookie, Lookie, Lookie, Here Comes Cooky.”
It’s an accepted fact that the trials and hardships of life in the Sorin “sub” can be adequately realized only by men who are engaged in some such profession as mining. That the residents of the below ground dormitory must suffer from the lack of luxuries normally enjoyed by students lucky enough to have quarters elsewhere is ordinarily taken for •
granted. When, however, their usual unfortunate state is made worse by an inrush of torrents of water from the quickly melting snows, it’s time for protest. And the most vociferous remonstrator in the “sub” is Woody Stillwagon, alias Wood Wagon, alias Wagon Wheels. His room now has running water all over the floor.
When it comes to Mardi Gras and carnivals and such, New Orleans and Rio de Janeiro have nothing on the boys and girls who get their education at opposite ends of St. Mary’s Lake. We on this side of the water made the affair an excuse for getting away from work for one night, they on the other side found in the carnival an opportunity to add a few admirers to their growing string, but no one from either side succeeded in avoiding the necessity of gambling away his heritage at the various booths.
Three of Notre Dame’s Knights of Columbus journeyed to Chicago last Sunday to receive the fourth degree of knighthood. Grand Knight John V. Coyne, Recorder Frank Matthys, and Daniel T. O’Brien were accompanied by Financial Secretary Eli M. Abraham to the Palmer House where a district degree was exemplified.
Notre Dame Council will hold its second and third degree initiations in South Bend next Sunday, March 1. About 50 candidates who have received the first degree will receive the more advanced step of knighthood in the exemplification next Sunday.
Editor Robert L. Grogan of the Santa Maria announced this week that the next issue of the K. of C. publication will be out shortly. Two or three new features will be incorporated in this issue, including an exchange column and the first of a series of articles on K. of C. insurance.
CHEMISTRY CLUB
The Notre Dame Chemist’s Club met Thursday, Feb. 20 at 8:00 pan. in Chemistry Hall for the election of officers for the present semester. Close balloting resulted in the selection of Joseph McIntosh, president; Raymond Fiedler, vice president; Edward Kuth, secretary-treasurer, and Fred Gast, member-at-large. • Dr. Frank J. Sowa was chosen from among the faculty as honorary president.
The club’s constitution was reviewed, and plans for the coming year were discussed. Arrangements are being made for the Chemists’ soft ball league and the club’s annual banquet to be given this spring.
A vote of appreciation was given Jack Norton, outgoing president, and his officers for their work in successfully promoting the banquet given last May and the smoker last December.
The next regular meeting will be held March 11 in Chemistry Hall. Student talks will be given and final plans for the spring activities will be announced.
Wheel Only three more weeks till the Bengal Bouts.
February 2 8, 1936
Eleven
1
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
At the South Bend depot the other evening to see TOM BOTT, JOE WALDRON, JOE WEISS and JOHN MOLONEY receive their prom dates from somewhere in Michigan. Quite a reception. It included a German band, confetti, a mayor (BILL ELLIS), a newspaper photographer and all the hulabaloo of an official gubernatorial welcome (except that the girls’ parents came along). . . Just mentioned to CHARLEY CLARK
that this column reminds some of us of O. 0. McIntyre. He laughed— wonder why? . . .
Pardon us but MALLETT is back. He bet his roomie that he (roomie) couldn’t win a game of solitaire. When the latter left the room, Mallett stole the ace of hearts. . . . Reports convey the idea that the Prom was a quiet affair possessing all the characteristics of a Court Ball... Did ’ya attend the Mardi Gras at St. Mary’s last Tuesday? Couldn’t make it, missed the boat. . .
The Auto Show was the favorite extra-curricular activity last week... The Seniors walking from the Main Building to the Washington Day Ex
ercises reminded us of a bread line in formal attire. No difference— college is just one long loaf made up of fresh crumbs forever seeking more dough. . .
CONNIE BYRNE has great difficulty these slushy days with his oversized rubbers which continually slip off. The result is that he finds himself standing ankle deep in snow, rain, mud, dirt, stones, etc. etc. . . If you want to see a pretty shade of red
just mention FRANK KELLNER’S dimples and he’ll blush a most delightful pink. . . The Editor lost his hat Friday night. . . Someone took it while the former was busy with a bowl of spaghetti. . . That PHONEY FELLOWS at the end of this slice of journalism last week was the work of someone who doesn’t like us guys...
Thoughts while dodging puddles: Why not hold a collegiate amateur hour in Washington Hall. . . . Why not do away with all hall bells. . . Why not do away with all halls. . . Why not do away with education. . . Why not-say. . . WHY NOT BRING YOUR GIRL TO THE BENGAL BOUTS??? The Funny Fellows.
Life
“Your stuff is great” the editor cried. I fairly beamed (it was my pride).
The next words cut me like a knife.
“Too bad,” he said, “I, too, read Life.”
Standard Prom Thank-You Letter (with a few strange interludes.) Dear Andy (sucker)—I really can’t (can) express how much I enjoyed the Prom. And the tea dance too, Andy dear (deer). The thought of having attended these delightful functions ■with you will ever (never) remain amongst the memories of my heart (if I can find room).
And you, dear Andy, were so sweet (sour) and affectionate (awkward). Your whispered words were unforgettable (because they were so silly). My simple thanks are so inadequate (but sufficient). Perhaps some day I can reciprocate by asking you to one of our dances (perhaps).
I know you’re graduating this June Andy-wandy, so lots and oodles of luck and do keep in touch with me (especially around Senior Ball time)., With love,
Winnie Mae (and may not).
P.S. I hope you meant all you said Andy. (If you would only put it in writing.)
P.P.S. A girl friend of mine wants to know the date of the Senior Ball.
Campus Figures
The dance chairman: Always the well-dressed conspicuous fellow seen where the gangs are many and the smoke is thickest. He is an incessant talker, and is always what the girls term ‘so cute.’ He loves to see his name in the campus publications and has secret ambitions of some day making the Interesting Collegians feature in College Humor, thereby insuring his success as a wolf at his local country club during the summer. He strives to be sophisticated and every time you listen to him talk you realize what is meant by the ‘big wind.’
Ode to Depression
The business world is so far down That bosses won’t say “howdy”
To anyone that hasn’t got
A Maxima Cum Laude.
Tradition
Nearby asylums would be filled with gibbering ex-policemen and both South Bend and the campus would be unrecognizable, if all the stories about the good old days were the gospel truth.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGH AL, C.S.C.................Faculty	Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN..............................Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST......................Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagel_________________________________The Weefe
Irwin L. Goldman---------------------------/n the Juggler Vein
Netos Staff
Paul Foley--------------------------------------Netos Editor
Robert L. Grogan-----------------------Assistant Netos Editor
John A. Gillespie-----------------------------Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown__________________________Anthony O'Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus----------------------------Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams____________________________John Hurley
Louis Da Pra-------------------------------Albert Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker---------------------------Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron___________________________Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett-------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley---------------------------James M. McMullen
Allen Bride-------------------------------------Arch Gott
Michael Crowe Art Staff
William V. Ellis-----------------------------------Art Editor
Francis Kroeger----------------------------Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, ’26____________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
February 28, 1936
NOW, NOW, MR. HEARST!
'HE latest attack on supposed communism in our universities is being led by that doughty crusader, William Randolph Hearst. We refer to the weekly series of articles, in Hearst papers, denouncing “widespread” red activities in our institutions of higher learning. For the moment, friend William is featuring the red menace instead of his old standby, the yellow peril.
This switch is recent. On a recent Sunday he frightened a good many timid readers by screeching, in glaring headlines, from the front page of a Chicago paper: “Red Campaign In Universities; Enthusiastic Students Trapped by Agitators.” Underneath followed a long, windy article which made vague generalizations but advanced no concrete facts to support the startling headline.
Quoting in part we learn that “. . . it can be definitely asserted that the Communists have established a strong foothold in the American student body.” Shades of Lenin, World Revolutions, and the Kremlin! Where are the little Pinks hiding? In all these long years we haven’t once been deluged by the “. . . vast quantity of college periodicals, pamphlets, and leaflets, all carrying on blatant propaganda ...” which Hearst mentions.
Continuing, we discover that “Although Communists and Communist sympathizers form less than 2 per cent of the American student body, they are a militant minority able to
February 2 8, 1936
sway much greater numbers on various specific issues . . .” We challenge this latter statement; for Hearst contradicts himself further on by adding that “. . . the Communist students ate of the type not generally cultivated by the leading groups or fraternities. These agitators are usually idealists, some of them dreamers, who for various reasons had already failed to become prominent in the traditional campits activities.13 We would be gullible indeed to believe that students, lacking sufficient ability to lead their fellow undergraduates in even ordinary campus activities, are suddenly gifted, when they mount a soap-box, with the power to turn students from what they have been taught to respect in life, from what their fathers and forefathers believed! Evidently Hearst regards the American college man as an ignorant, brainless individual who, powerless to do his own thinking, can be led around by the nose.
In the same vein we later come across references to “unsuspecting students,” “dupes,” and “local activity . . . carried on by experts in revolutionary strategy.”
Furthermore, Hearst brazenly declares that the Communists have been behind the “pacifist” and “anti-war” campaign. Yet barely two years ago Notre Dame was host at an important Catholic peace conference. Can it be that the Rev. John A. Ryan, eminent economist, was duped when he supported the gathering? Can it be that the other delegates at the conference were merely tools of Moscow? Or is it more likely that those who attended did so because, like normal human beings, they really wished to end war — because they wished to spread Christ’s message of peace?
Frankly, we refuse to become excited by these charges of Communism. Undoubtedly there are some reds in our colleges and universities, but personal observation has shown the number to be exceedingly small. More often so-called “college communist” riots are the work of outsiders, with only a few students taking part. No society, no single group is free from objectionable members, so why exploit the already belabored universities for the sake of a few more newspaper sales? Such high-handed charges will serve only to undermine public confidence in our institutions of higher learning.—J. S. M.
•
"boo, boo For old n. d."
HE exhibition of poor sportsmanship given by the students
at the Minnesota game last Tuesday was the climax to a condition that has been becoming steadily worse all season and one that should be eliminated immediately. The reference, of course, is to the jeers directed at the visiting players, the coach, and the officials.
The men, who are so daring when they are swallowed up in a crowd, should remember several things. One is that it is impossible for two men to watch every action of ten players during a game. Another is that Notre Dame has received the benefit of doubtful decisions fully as many times as the opponents, so that there is no conspiracy against the Irish. Also, when a team has played three hard games in four days, as Minnesota had, the players occasionally forget themselves, but their actions do not justify the barrage of bronx cheers such as was heard Tuesday. Booing was fun in high school. This is college.—C. F. S.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
IRISH TRACK STARS SEEK THIRD WIN TONIGHT
NORTHWESTERN TO PRESENT STRONG ARRAY OF TALENTED PERFORMERS IN LOCAL MEET
Keoganites Face Butler U.
Courtmen Tomorrow Night
VERSATILE DON ELSER MAY BE HAMPERED WITH OLD KNEE INJURY
Coach John Nicholson’s thinlies will be gunning for their third consecutive indoor victory, tonight, when they clash with Northwestern in the fieldhouse. The Purple are reported to be exceptionally strong in the middle distances and the one mile relay.
Bill Doherty, one of the best low hurdlers in college circles, was lost through ineligibility, which leaves the Wildcats somewhat weakened in that event. Last year Doherty placed second to Jesse Owens in the conference indoor and outdoor jamborees.
Co-captains Jack Fleming and Sun-ney Heg form the nucleus of this season’s squad. Fleming captured a second and third in the half mile during Intercollegiates last spring. Joe McGrath will be facing a crucial test against the Purple leader. Jack Cavanaugh, a consistent ‘point-getter’ of Nick’s, will offer another serious threat to Fleming in the 880.
Sunney Heg climaxed a good record in ’35, when he ran fifth for the quarter mile, in the Nationals, and took a second in the Big Ten. Two men will be selected from the combination of Chet Ensly, a sopohomore, Fritz Kaumans, and Keitzel to round out the' Northwestern mile relay quartet.
The visitors will rely on Larry Buckmaster in the long distances. His time for the mile last -winter was clocked at 4:26. Ralph Reid, a transfer from Temple, is another Purple candidate in the long-winded exhibi-
Wildcat Tamer
Coach John P. Nicholson His headaches are Charley-horses.
tion. McKenna and Francis will probably be forced to the limit in overcoming this pair.
Eddie Boyle, Frawley, and Ace Clifford constitute the Irish mainstays in the dash events. Louis Krasno and Jim Delaney, of Northwestern, will oppose this trio in whatp romises to be a tighter race.
Bob Swisher, Venge Burnett, and Bob Carter have replaced their cleats with spikes. Don Elser and John Michuta will be striving to make a slight repayment for November’s gridiron battle. Swisher is a high jumper and McCarthy’s chief opponent in the pole vault. Burnett’s specialty lies in the shotput, and a few years ago he garnered the national prep title in the discus. Carter is also chalked up for the weight event, along with Bob Stephen.
The meet records that stand a chance of being endangered include the 60 yard dash established by Jack Elder in 1928; the quarter mile and the mile set by Martin of Northwestern in 1925; and the shot by Lends of Northwestern, in 1928.
Tomorrow the Keoganmen take a short jaunt down to Indianapolis with the intention of administering the second dose of defeat to the Butler basketeers. Foi’d, Peters and company, fresh from completing their double triumph over Pitt and Minnesota, are out to demonstrate that their superiority over the Butler hoopsters is in no manner limited to the floor of the local fieldhouse.
Butler, as usual, has an impressive record. The highlight of their season was the upset handed to the coholders of the Big Ten race, Purdue. Previous to that defeat Purdue had downed the Irish, and the Butler lads had high hopes of beating the Notre Dame eagers. However, the Irish defense was too much for the downstaters, and they were defeated, 35-27. Tomorrow the boys from Indianapolis will be out to avenge that defeat, and they will have certain points in their favor. They will be the underdogs, they will be performing on their own floor, and they will not go into the game hampered by the publicity of a fresh triumph over an outstanding team.
Meyer, who has been held back for the greater part of the season by an injured knee, is gradually rounding into shape, and will soon be capable of playing the brand of ball that won him a position in the starting line-up earlier in the season. As yet he cannot hope to cope with the speed and-all-around play of Co-captain Ford, who has been playing the best games of his career, still Meyer is expected to see plenty of action.
With the return of Meyer the varsity is in fine condition and are expected to travel at top speed through the remaining four games.
Butler has been an on-and-off ball club all season. Coach Tony Hinkle is recognized throughout the country as one of the smartest mentors there is in the game. It has always been a rule with the Butler Bulldogs to put up a great battle on their home floor when opposing the Irish. Tomorrow evening about ten thousand or more net-fevered fans will jam the Indianapolis fieldhouse to see the tussle.
The Scholastic
Panther's Tail Knotted By Moir's Bombardment, 43-27
MINNESOTA SUCCUMBS TO NOTRE DAME IN AN EXCITING AFTERNOON NET TILT
By John Cackley
Notre Dame’s great net five celebrated Washington’s birthday, prom week, et cetera, before a capacity crowd last Saturday night in the local fieldhouse, when they gave a perfect exhibition of finesse in submerging Pitt’s Eastern Conference champs, 43-27, as Johnny Moir went on a scoring spree to shatter two alltime N.D. basketball records.
Moir rolled the pill through the hoop for an even dozen field goals and one free toss, to give him a grand total of 25 points. It broke Ed “Moose” Krause’s old mark which was established against Minnesota during the season of 1932-33, by three points. With five games remaining on the schedule, the big Scot has 219 to his credit, which also breaks Krause’s all time scoring record of 212.
Pitt drew first blood ,when Loucks sank a double-decker soon after the opening whistle. Paul Nowak then garnered a charity throw, as he was fouled by “High” Noon, and a moment later Ireland registered from the field.
The Irish captured an early lead from this stage of the contest, and maintained it throughout both halves. The Panthers, relying on a fastbreaking, revolving offense, were unable to function against the impregnated defense used by the Gold and Blue. ■
With Ireland and Wade working the ball down the floor to shifty Johnny Moir. Notre Dame soon held a margin of 10-2, after the latter had registered three consecutive baskets.
The visitors employed a shifting defense in their efforts to halt the procedure of Keogan’s men, but it proved to be of no avail. Nowak was
Martin Peters
replaced by Marty Peters toward the completion of the half, after the former had committed three personals. Zeleznick, subbing for Jesko, arched a beautiful shot in from the center (Continued on Page 21)
February 2 8, 1936
John Moir Records are safe no longer.
FENCING ...
Tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 in the boxing room of the local fieldhouse, the Notre Dame swordsmen cross blades with the representatives of Purdue. A month ago the fencers from Lafayette were defeated by the Irish, 11-6, but since that time have shown decided improvement and a close match is expected tomorrow.
The outstanding performer of the Purdue team is Captain Silverman, who can be counted upon to take two bouts in the foils. In some of the matches this year this stellar captain has captured the three bouts in the foils. The Purdue foilsmen can also bank confidently on Seaborg, the only man to hold a decision over the Irish co-captain Kehoe in a sabre bout. In the previous meeting the Purdue star deefated Kehoe, 5 to 6, and Saturday’s meeting between the two ought to be one of the best of the afternoon.
Wednesday, Coach de Landero led his undefeated fencer to the Studebaker A.A. Club where an exhibition was given. The Notre Dame team (Continued on Page 17)
Ireland Tallies 14 Points
By Cy Stroker
Playing in a style much slower than their usual tempo, the Notre Dame basketball team defeated the Minnesota five on the local floor Tuesday afternoon by the score of 37 to 15. Although it was anybody’s ball game throughout the first half, Notre Dame forged into such an imposing lead early in the second stanza that the Gophers were completely lost.
The Irish started the game in a more or less ragged fashion, and seemed unable to break through the defense zone of the visitors. Almost every attempt at scoring was frustrated but by good defense work on the part of the Keoganmen, the Gophers were also prevented from making points enough to take the lead. Minnesota scored 12 points in the first half by a series of such brilliantly executed plays that the shooter was completely free from all Notre Dame men. Several free throws added materially to the Irish score in the period. Notre Dame’s hopping Scotchman, . Johnny Moir, was so zealously guarded that he was unable to let loose with some of his near-impossible baskets. At the end of the half the score stood Notre Dame 15, Minnesota 12.
The second half was played more in the usual Notre Dame style, and it was characterized by the losing of Mr. Ireland’s temper. It seems that George had become disgusted at the failure of his mates to score in the first half, and he therefore made up his mind to do something about it. He did. From almost mid-court he sent seven baskets swishing through
John Ford
the net so cleanly that the ball did not even touch the backboard. The points thus added to the Irish score so discouraged the visiting team that they were unable to score but one (Continued on Page 21)
Fifteen
Nine Notre Dame Stars
Enter St. Louis Relays
As a compliment to Coach Nicholson, who received his start in track as a high school athlete in St. Louis, Notre Dame will send a contingent of nine men to the St. Louis relays, tomorrow.
The Irish will be represented by a two-mile relay team, consisting of
John Francis McKenna Improving with age—also.
Jack Cavanagh, Bob Bernard, John Francis, and Joe McGrath. The one-mile outfit will probably have Paul Rubly, Jim Parsons, Cavanagh, and McGrath.
Although Don Elser recently injured his knee in pole vaulting, he nevertheless will be able to take part in the shot put. McFarlane is scheduled to run the mile for Notre Dame, Jordan possibly will be entered in the 50-yard sprint, while McKenna may be entered in the mile run along with McFarlane.
A few Big Ten aggregations, namely Northwestern, and perhaps Indiana, are contemplating the event. This is the first time that Notre Dame has accepted an invitation to compete in these relays.
AUSTRIAN BASKETBALL
A strange tale of the consequences of a mistake made in translation of a book on basketball rules is brought to the University of Minnesota by a student, Carl Hensel, who has just returned from the University of Vienna.
Hensel said he found the Austrian students playing basketball as they learned it from an American rule book. But in translation they thought they were to use an oval ball instead of a round one. So night after night, before cheering throngs, the Austrian college men fought around the wooden floor, tripping over one another while trying to dribble a football. Eventually they came out on the court with a round ball—but whether the translator’s mistake had been found or their own ingenuity was responsible, Hensel did not know.
Sixteen
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Joe Prendergast
NOTHER track meet is on the program tonight in the fieldhouse. Northwestern is reputed to have one of the strongest teams in the Big Ten this season. Ohio State and Indiana seem to be, at this writing, the best of the lot in the neighboring conference, but Northwestern, while not a title winner, is just strong enough to be plenty bothersome. After tonight’s meet, Nick and many of his chosen boys will board a ‘rattler, for St. Louis where on Saturday evening they participate in the St. Louis Relays.
ALL GOOD THINGS MUST END
Next Tuesday night when Coach George Keogan’s chargers face Ohio State, five of the Irish’s brilliant court performers will be making their last appearance on their home court. They are Co-captain Johnny Ford, Co-captain Marty Peters, George Ireland, Frank Wade and Johnny Hopkins. All of the men have played a lot of ball for the Irish net quintets during the course of the last three years and deserve all the praise that is coming their way. Show your appreciation for their three years of effort on Tuesday by witnessing the conflict and giving them a great hand as they leave the floor.
SLIVERS FROM ANY BENCH
Elmer Layden will view the Olympics this coming summer. Thos. Cook and Sons, Tours etc., are running the Olympic tour and have it billed as the Elmer Layden Olympic Tour. The steamship is the French liner, Normandie. . . . Moir’s twenty-five points are not tops in the local fieldhouse. On December 12, 1930 Joe Reiff of Northwestern scored 26 points as the Irish were Purple with rage, 44 to 29 . . . Butler has lost seven straight ball games. Franklin College of Indiana defeated them last Tuesday, 38 to 37 ... In a recent issue of the DePaul University weekly newspaper a screeching headline read, “DePaul Eyes Olympic Bid.” The story went on to tell how the Demons had been selected as one of the teams to participate in sectional Olympic tournament in the Butler fieldhouse sometime in March because the team has faced the toughest opposition in the mid-west and has come out on top in ten out of twelve games. It also said that the tournament will give the Demons a chance to meet Purdue and avenge one of their defeats. Hear that, George? . . . Frank Lane,
recognized as one of the leading basketball officials in the country, said after the Pitt game, “Johnny Moir ought not to be allowed to play. He is unfair to organized basketball. The best two guards in the country couldn’t stop his shots.” . . . George Keogan had this to say after that tasty Panther defeat, “Moir is without a doubt the greatest basketball player in the country today and Notre Dame has defeated every leading team in any conference of any consequence in the country except the far west coast.” Draw your own logician. . . . And here’s a splint for P. M.’s date, Joe Beach, Irish baseball and grid artist, may sign up with Beaumont in the fertile Texas league this summer, if reports are true. . . .	(Continued on Page 17)
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING
By Cy Stroker
One of the things that has made Coach Nicholson a great coach is the fact that he can perceive and develop talent in a man who has never had actual track experience before. Some of the best men on Nick’s teams each year are men who never followed the cinder path before coming to Notre Dame. Such a man is Bob Bernard, crack Irish quarter miler and relay man. _
Bob was born in Mayville, Wis., a small town situated so near Milwaukee that Bob thinks it all right to tell people that he is from Milwaukee. He was educated at St. Mary’s grade school and Mayville High. In high school he showed no promise of ever becoming a valuable man on a Notre Dame team for his athletics were confined to one year of varsity football as end and one track meet. This track meet was for the championship of the “Little Ten” conference—an association of high schools way up thar in Wisconsin—and Bob ran and won the 220. Although this meet was his only performance in high school it pointed the way for his future activities in college.
Coming to Notre Dame in 1932 he reported for freshman track and the way he went around the oval in the gym made Nick’s eyes open a little wider. The next year saw Bernard in the Notre Dame line-up for the first meet of the season—Marquette. In this meet, as in the next few, Bob didn’t come in first for Notre Dame because there was another Irish sophomore ahead of him, a fellow by the name of Rubly who has composed most of Bernard’s competition for the last three years. But as the season progressed and Bernard became more used to collegiate competition, his time decreased steadily and his rec
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX . . . (Continued from Page 16) ) k -' THOSE IRISH BASKETEERS
Near the tail end of the 1933-34 basketball season Notre I Dame was playing against Minnesota at the local fieldhouse. Ed “Moose” | Krause, captain and All-American center of the Irish net five, was making his>	tory that evening. The “Moose” was ringing up the two-pointers in a remark-
|	able sort of manner. After the doings for the evening had stopped Krause
J. had set a new Notre Dame individual scoring record with ten field goals and two fouls for 22 points. Everyone thought that the ceiling had been reached . in so far as individual scoring was concerned, and that the record would stand 1 as long as the ivy-covered traditions around Notre Dame.
|	Yet on February 22, 1936—approximately two years later, Johnny Moir,
t	sophomore forward from Niagara Falls, makes the old basketball do unheard of
«	tricks to tally twenty-five markers in one ball game. To make John Moir’s
'	record all the more impressive he had to pick on Dr. Carlson’s Pittmen for the
miseries. Moir broke Krause’s scoring record for one season the same evening. Krause countered 212 during the course of one campaign, while at present and including the Minnesota game Moir has 224 points to his credit.
ords increased regularly. He has competed, and with a remarkable number of firsts, in every meet since that eventful Marquette contest.
Bernard is now considered one of the best quarter milers in the Middle West and is chiefly known for his consistency. His best time to date for the quarter is 49.4. He does not confine his running to the quarter mile but also competes in the relay
and occasionally in the half mile. He ran the latter event in the Drake relays last year and will run it again at St. Louis tomorrow. His greatest ambition was to beat Jessel.
He is as successful off the track as on it, and will graduate in June cum laude in Chemical Engineering. Engineering labs take up most of his spare time, although rumor has it that he was unofficial king of the Mardi Gras at Sweetbriar. Does a lot of fishing when home. Lives in Walsh with Bob Kaiser. Defiantly claims that Mayville is not as small a town as you think it is.
Ohio State Contest Is
N.D.’s Last Home Game
Next Tuesday Notre Dame will make its final home appearance of the present court campaign in the local fieldhouse. Ohio State, a fitting rival for the Irishers, will help to supply half of the evening’s entertainment. Memories may be just that to many of the world’s people but to college students memories especially if they are sensational turn into cherished traditions. This is what that hard won victory over the Scarlet Scourge of Ohio State has become already in the Irish sport annals. Two schools such as Ohio State and Notre Dame with such a background as has been built up in their athletic relationships play hard ball every minute of any of their contests and next Tuesday, after the affair is over, this statement may be double-checked.
Two Out of Three For State
Ohio State has won two of the last three net games they have contested with Keogan’s proteges. In 1932-33 they played Notre Dame in Columbus and won out 28 to 24. The score at half time in this conflict was 28 to 8 in the Buckeyes’ favor. The Irish made a determined bid in the last half lead by John Baldwin and Ed Krause but just fell short. In 1933-34, Notre Dame won 33 to 21 here at school. Last year The Statesmen won again; this time the score was 31 to 22. George Keogan was unable to make the trip to Columbus with his boys, being confined to bed with a severe cold and was badly disappointed at his team’s showing. Ohio State has had its very good nights and very bad throughout the season. It is an in-and-out ball team with many more ins than outs’ as far as the won and lost column goes. “Tippy” Dye of grid fame will be given the task of guarding Johnny Moir. Dye plays both forward and guard. On the offense he is a forward and on defensive switches over to guard. Earl Thomas, six foot two inch center is another of the visitors’ luminaries. MacDonald, former Springfield Ohio schoolboy, stellar athlete, and now a three letter man for the Buckeyes will be at one of the guard spots. Warren Whittlinger is captain of the visitors and is also one of the leading scorers of the Big Ten.
FENCING
(Continued from Page 15)
was invited by Mr. Delmar G. Rooss. vice-president of the Studebaker Corporation. Mr. Rooss has long been a fencing enthusiast, and has been a decided help to Professor de Landero in building up fencing at Notre Dame.
February 2 8, 1936
Seventeen
Hockey, Once Popular Sport at Notre Dame
Paul Castner, Hunk Anderson, Ojay Larson and Tom Lieb	'
Are a Few of the Many Stars Among Past Irish Hockeyists
Hockey, the national sport of our neighboring country, Canada, and the “almost” national winter sport of this country, has had its day at Notre Dame, but at present and for the last eight years the popular ice pastime has been lying dormant although, at
. Tom Lieb, ’24 times, several ambitious and hockey loving students have attempted with little success to revive it. This yeai’ for the first 'time in several years, hockey has been encouraged to such a degree that a rink has been erected on St. Mary’s Lake and one game has been played on it.	.
But there was a time at Notre Dame when the hockey teams of tins institution held the spot-light for the Mid-West winter sports enthusiasts and their fame had spread to such a degree that the- traditional hockey schools of the East were anxious to play the strong Mid-western team from Notre Dame. That was in the days of Paul Castner and “Canuck” Gorman, the two traditional and almost legendary hockey players who started the formation of the first Notre Dame hockey team in 1920.
“Canuck” was a Canadian, and had a natural love and ability for hockey. . In Paul Castner he found a friend who was willing to put on a pair of
Eighteen -	’
BY GENE VASLETT
ice skates and go out on St. Mary’s lake to chase the puck around for a few hours every day with him. The two friends got so enthusiastic about the game that they decided to form a team. They enlisted the help of Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., who had played the game in the west, and with his help as coach they issued a call for hockey candidates. “Hunk” Anderson, Ojay Larson, “Spike” Flinn, Perce Wilcox, Norm Feltes, and “Slim” Gentles answered the call and together' with Castner and Gorman formed the first team. Castner was appointed the first captain, but he had only two chances to lead his team in action. The weather that winter was especially mild and the ice consequently soft. The team had time for only two games, both with Culver, which they defeated easily in both their engagements.
The next year, 1921, hockey was pursued on a much larger scale. Castner, the big fullback of the football team, was again appointed captain, and Father Cunningham again aided the team with his valuable coaching. This year a rink was constructed on the field lying between Walsh and Badin halls, but the most important factor, the weather,. once again refused to aid the hockey enthusiasts, and the rink was only used once. The boys tried hard to freeze the rink but met with little success. They could be seen about one or two o’clock every morning flooding the rink in the field, but by noon the thin ice would revert back to water. However the team made two trips during the winter, one North and one East. In the East they defeated Carnegie Tech, 2-0, Michigan School of Mines, 2-1, .and Michigan University, 1-0. During the entire season they participated in eleven games, winning eight and losing three. The three defeats were suffered at the hands of the Pittsburgh Athletic Club and the St. Nicholas Club, neither being college teams. By virtue of their victories over all collegiate competition, the Notre Dame pucksters claimed the Western Intercollegiate title, the only title ever won by a Notre Dame hockey team. At the end of the 1921 season, hockey was firmly established at Notre Dame, and with the Western title in their possession the Irish looked forward to future greatness on the ice.
. In 1922-23, hockey hopes dwindled
as the temperature, for the third year, rose. The Irish were able to play only three games, and because of lack of practice facilities at Notre Dame lost two to Minnesota and tied St. Thomas. This year saw the last of Castner and Gorman to whom must go all credit and honor for the development of a fine sport.
Another dismal Notre Dame hockey season was 1924. The team lost all the games they played, two to Michigan, and two to the Pittsburgh Ath-K letic Club whose team was composed of Olympic stars who had just returned from the matches in France.
Tom Lieb, now coaching football at Loyola in Los Angeles, took ovei' the coaching reins in 1925. At that time he was also assistant coach of football under; Rockne, and the year before had played goalie on the unfortunate hockey team of ’24. He arranged an extensive schedule for the ’25 team with St. Thomas, Wisconsin, Michigan Aggies, and four games with Minnesota. Once more the team tied St. Thomas and split the four games with Minnesota. The Wisconsin and Michigan Aggies
“Hunk” Anderson
games were called off because of poor weather.
Hockey was abandoned for a year at Notre Dame, but in 1927 the greatest schedule the hockey team ever played was arranged. Games with Yale, Harvard, Michigan, Minnesota, and the St. Nicholas Club carried the team to New York, New -	- (Continued on Page-22) -
The Scholastic
Spring Football Drills
May Start Next Week
WALTER MARSHALL, 1935 LIGHT-HEAVY CHAMP, ENTERS HEAVYWEIGHT CLASS
With the first thaw, of winter and the disappearance of the snow from the campus, football men have revived talk of the yearly spring football practice that serves to whip them into shape for the forthcoming grid campaign.
This year it looks as though spring practice will begin at a fairly early date and it is hoped by the coaches to be able to have workouts commence next week in the gym. It will take some time for the ground to completely thaw, out but if the mild weather of the past week continues the football candidates will be summoned in a short while.
Every spring the football workouts enable the coaches to size up their team for next year and to watch at close range the work of promising freshman and sophomores. This spring the sophomores will receive a great deal of attention now that their two years of gaining experience on the Freshman and “B” squads has concluded and most of them will be ready for varsity'competition when next September rolls around. Prominent sophomores who have shown great ability on last year’s “B” squad will threaten the posts of many of last year’s returning regulars. Among these are Paul Smith, sophomore guard, Jerry Clifford, sophomore end, and Bill Saffa junior backfield man. Joe Hoctor is returning to school after a year’s absence to try for a place on the team. It will be remembered that Hoctor was the star left halfback of the Freshman squad of 1934, and will in all probability give varsity men stiff competition for the berth.
Bud Marcy and Tex Durkin who put on a great slugfest in last year’s Bengal Bouts. Durkin won the fight and lightweight crown.
February 2 8, 1936
INTERHALL .. .
The annual interhall track meet, embracing all the halls on the campus as well as those students living off campus will be held on the evenings of March 2 and March 5. The change in dates of the running of this meet was due to the shift of the date of the Ohio State basketball game. The finals of the meet will be held on Sunday morning, March 8.
The men in the following halls will compete on Monday evening, March 2: Sorin, Walsh, Howard, Brownson, Carroll, Freshman, St. Edward’s and Dillon. On Thursday evening, March 5 the men in the following halls will compete: Alumni, Corby, Lyons, Morrissey and Badin.
Events will be run off in all the running and field events which are usually' scheduled on a varsity track meet. The winners of the trial heats will be selected to take part in the finals. J. Albert Torribio, senior manager of track, is in general charge of the meet. Suitable prizes will be awarded the winners.
BEG PARDON
In The Scholastic of last week, in an article entitled “Coach Kline Issues Call For Battery Candidates,” a mention was made of a Charley Brogan. The name should have read Emmett Vincent Patrick Brogan.
Learned Art From Brother
By James A. Waldron
With less than a month to go be- • fore the Bengal Boxing Show will be staged, training has taken on new life with the announcement that at least four new champions will be crowned on March 20. Of the four left in school, two of them, Lou Purcell, the
? - - .• —
Walter “Babe” Marshall Another championship?
welterweight king, and Walt Marshall, the light-heavy titleholder, have expressed their intention of entering a heavier division.
Having a brother who at one time ranked among the first ten lightweights in the country would naturally stimulate an interest for boxing in any normal boy. Walter Michael Marshall, generally known as “Babe” to his friends, used to spar with his brothel* Mike in the various gymna-( Continued on Page 22)
N i n eteen
BOTH BROWNSON TEAMS LEAD GROUP ONE;
SORIN HEAVIES LICK WALSH IN HALL RACE
By Gene Vasiett
GROUP I
Heavyweights W L
Brownson -----3	0
Badin ________2	0
Freshman -----2	1
St. Edward’s	-1	1
DiHon 1	2
Carroll-------0	2
Off-Campus ___0	3
Lightweights W L
Brownson -----3	0
Carroll ______1	0
Freshman -----2	1
Dillon _______1	2
St. Edward’s -.0	1
Off-Campus —.0	3
Badin 0	0
GROUP II			
Heavyweights W	L	Lightweights W	L
Sorin 	3	0	Walsh 	3	0
Alumni	1	0	Alumni 	2	0
Corby	1	0	Morrissey' 	2	1
Walsh 	2	1	Corby	1	1
Morrissey 	1	2	Sorin 	1	2
Lyons 	0	2	Lyons 	0	2
Howard 	0	3	Howard 	0	3
Washington’s	Birthday and		the
Junior Prom didn’t stop the Sunday
basketball tossers from wading over to the gymnasium and battling with rival halls for honors last Sunday, although a few of the Junior teams, as was to be expected, didn’t show up for their scheduled games. But other hall teams did and all in all seven out of ten scheduled games were played, a pretty good record for a Prom and holiday week-end.
Irwin Crotty
Sunday saw the downfall of Walsh in the heavyweight division. Sparks flew when the undefeated Sorin Tigers met the undefeated Walsh team and only one undefeated
team emerged from the battle, Sorin. Paced by Wib Wentworth, easily the outstanding player in any game he participates in, the Tigers tore the Walshers apart with a score of 21-31. Wentworth was responsible for 12 of the 31 points scored by the Tigers and aided by great defensive work on the part of Crotty succeeded in turning aside an outstanding threat to Sorin’s supremacy over the heavyweight division.

However, the Tigers’ worries are not yet over. Brownson is still matching them stride for stride as the race progresses and last Sunday added another victim to their list when they trounced the Off-Campus quintet, 2313. The town boys didn’t have to worry about snow and blizzards that day and appeared at the gym with full strength, but the boys from the dorm were a little bit too good for them and the townsters had to suffer their third defeat of the season. Scal-ly and Smith led the Brownsonites and divided scoring honors between them.
The old feud between the cardboard palace and the gold coast coast popped up again when Fresh
man and Dillon Halls met. The Freshman boys played superior basketball and turned back the Dillon heavies, 28-19. The Dillon team seemed to be composed of but one man, O’Neill, who was responsible for 11 of his team’s points, scoring most of them in the last half.
The Morrissey heavies came back with a bang after a decisive defeat by Walsh the week before and handed Howard a 25-20 drubbing, which defeat was the third debited to Howard. Johnny Wilson and “Red” Scala-fani paced the sophomores both offensively and defensively. Scalafani led the team in scoring, with 12 digits to his credit and strengthened his potential claim for all-hall honors.
The undefeated heavyweights from Badin served notice to Brownson that they’re gunning for them as they defeated the Carroll hoopsters 22-18 in the last game of the morning in the heavyweight division. Scoring was evenly divided among the ’ B a di n teammates who showed good teamwork in their second straight victory.
In the lightweight division of Group I the Brownsonites who are following the example of their heavier mates by remaining undefeated gained another victory, this time by forfeit, from the Off-Campus lights. Walsh routed Sorin, as revenge for the heavyweight defeat, to the tune of 20-2. The Walsh boys are still trying to determine just where the two Sorin points came from and who allowed them to be scored. At present Walsh is leading the Group II lightweights with three victories and no defeats to their credit.
The rest of the lightweight games were forfeited. Morrissey gained a victory when Howard didn’t show up and Alumni surprisingly showed up only to be disappointed by the absence of their classmates from Corby who didn’t.
Next Sunday the wars will be resumed again. The Walsh heavies will attempt to gain some of their lost prestige at the expense of Corby which hasn’t been doing badly itself. Sorin will try to sweep Alumni into the defeated column, and Morrissey and Lyons will battle for the supremacy of the West quadrangle. In the lightweight division of Group II the undefeated Walsh quintet faces Corby and expect to add their fourth victory to the list but naturally Corby will say something about this. Alumni has hopes to continue its undefeated ways at the expense of Sorin, and Morrissey in third place is (Continued on Page 22)	-
ON DOWN THE UNE
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
OSCAR ECKHARDT, one of the DODGERS’ new outfielders, never batted less than .350? . . . ED SON-DERMAN, SYRACUSE’S six - foot six-inch center, has scored more than half of his total of one hundred points with the pivot shot, and he has yet to be called for violation of the ; three-second edict? . . . ANDY PACE, ! CORNELL’S leading diver, rode sev- : enty miles in freezing weather in the : rumble seat of a car in order to make ■ the COLGATE meet. He went imme- ' diately into action on arrival and ‘ won fourth place for his team? ... GEORGE “TIGER” WILSON, the i
i
football star of the sensational UNI- I VERSITY OF WASHINGTON team | of more than a decade ago, is now a | professional wrestler? . . . BUTLER ! UNIVERSITY has been coached by j TONY HINKLE for fifteen years, in ■ which time the BULLDOGS have won I 251 and lost 72, meeting the tough- 1 est opposition in the MID-WEST?
. . . AXEL NORDQUIST, the SCAN- I DINAVIAN track expert, said a week before the event that the WANA- j MAKER MILE would be won in 4:11 i —as did JACK RYDER, the BOS- I TON COACH, who also picked MAN- ; GAN as the winner?	|
•
VENZKE’S RARE PHOTOGRAPH:
GENE VENZKE wrote to photographer SAM ANDRE asking for the picture which showed his leading GLENN CUNNINGHAM at the Garden in their last track meeting. . . . VENZKE said, “Beating CUNNINGHAM isn’t an every-day event for me, a fact which makes a picture of this sort very desirable.”
•
THAT NORTHWESTERN GAME:
A picture appeared in a recent recent issue of the Daily Northwestern showing the NOTRE DAME basketball squad, with a caption overhead reading, “TITLE BOUND.” Underneath the picture was .the surprising, information that PURDUE and NORTHWESTERN were the , only teams to defeat the IRISH this year. That supposedly tie game was claimed by the WILDCATS as not only a moral victory, but an authentic win. Want to play us now, boys?
The Scholastic

Twenty
MINNESOTA GAME
(Continued from Page 15)
basket throughout the second half.
Another feature of the game was the demonstration of the true value of Johnny Hopkins’ playing. For two and a half years Johnny had been a very efficient substitute and nothing more. - But ever since the N.Y.U. game he has dominated the play whenever he gets in the game. Teaming up with Johnny Ford, Hopkins made the Gophers look sick when they were on the defensive.
The failure of the Minnesota team to accomplish anything in the second half was largely the result of their speed. When given possession of the ball, they were so fast in breaking that their shooting was inaccurate. Each man on the Gopher team was a master at handling the ball, and perhaps, if the strain of two previous games did not bear down on them so hard, Notre Dame would have had to work much faster to win the game.
Notre Dame (37) G F
Tord, f ...... 1	1
Weyer, f ----- 0	0
ZMoir, f _____ 2	0
Hopkins, f .... 2	0
Nowak, c _____ 2	2
Peters, c ____ 0	2
Wade, g ...... 0	1
Wukovits. g.... 1	0
Ireland, g ... 7	0
Jordan, g ____ 0	0
15 7
Minnesota (15)
P I Roscoe, f .... 0 10
3 Antil, f ...... 0 0 1
0 Baker, f ...... 0 12
0 Rolek, f ...... 10 2
0 Manley, c .... 0 11
3 Jones, c ...... 10 0
0	Seebach, g....	3	11
1	Gustafson, g	0	0 0
0	Lillyblad. g	0	1 3
0	Halvorson, g	0	0 1
0	F	F	P
9	5	5	11
WHY TAKE JOURNALISM?
(Continued from Page 10)
two who he believes possesses large fortunes—“they made their money in Journalism.”
So many contradictory reasons appear that it would be almost an impossibility to establish a standard. There are many men taking courses without knowing why, yet these same men will staunchly defend their choice by saying that it will enable them to do this or that. The argument as to which course is the best will continue as long as education exists.
PITTSBURGH GAME (Continued from Page 15)
of the court. Peters then counterattacked with a two-pointer on a sleeper from Ford, to hand the Irish a 16-10 advantage at the intermission.
Moir resumed his sensational performance as the third period got underway, by heaving in two from a difficult angle near the sidelines. The Smoky City outfit, working the ball extremely fast on short passes, was frantically endeavoring to increase their percentage, by taking pop shots at the net.
Nowak and Peters threw a screw in Pitt’s scoring power, when they succeeded in holding Noon to a lone field goal. Co-captain Johnny Ford sacrificed a sure two-pointer for his
own credit, as he handed the sphere to Moir near the final gun, in a splendid demonstration of teamwork.
The victory was the second of the year for Notre Dame over Pittsburgh, and the seventh win out of 17 in the current series against the
Panthers’ quintet.
Notre Dame (43) G F P
Moir, f _____.12	1	2
Hopkins, f ___ 10	0
Ford, f ------ 111
Meyer, f _____ 0 0	0
Nowak, c ----- 12	3
Peters, c ____ 2 0	2
Ireland, g --- 10	2
Wukovits. g—	10	1
Wade, g ------ 0	10
Jordan, g -----0	0	0
Totals .......19	5	11
Pittsburgh (27) G F P
Loucks, f____1 0 1 Rodericks, fill
Jesko. f_____3 0 0 Zeleznick, f 1 1 0 Noon, c______112
Garcia, c ___1 3 1 Spotovich. g 2 0 0 Radvansky. g 0 0 2 Rowe, g '____0	10
Johnson, g 0 0 3
Totals ______10	7 10
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
jprof. It has to do with the fish division of biology . . . rather a revelation; the man must have character who after four years at Notre Dame still wishes to write about fish.
A rather interesting story is told by one of the men. He claims he was practically forced into an interest in Journalism. His answer takes us back to his days in high school where it seems to have been the custom of “clubbing” the student. Every student had to join a club. There was a “sewing club,” a “basket-making club,” a “glee club,, and a “journalism club.” “Being the possessor of a raucous voice I didn’t join the Glee Club.” With this explanation he quite naturally became a member of the Journalism Club. He casually mentions the fact that he became so successful that he edited the school paper and year book.
The next paper takes us back to Napoleon. “Math was always my ‘Waterloo’ and I made sure that when I came to college I took a course which didn’t contain math.” This reason is supported by the prevailing materialistic philosophy of the student, who, when asked, “Why did you take this ?” came right back with, “Because there is big money in it.” It seems that he knows a fellow or
February 2 8, 1936
HOCKEY HISTORY (Continued from Page 18)
Haven, and Minneapolis. However, out of the eleven games played, only three were won by the Notre Dame pucksters, and eight were dropped. All the major games with Yale, Harvard, Minnesota, McGill, and the St. Nicholas Club were lost, and the reputation of Notre Dame hockey teams began to drop.
The next year did not produce any
Don't Worry About
COPS AND FIREPLUGS
• Don’t let Chicago traffic cops mar your visit with parking tags. Leave your auto at home and ride South Shore Electric trains . in comfort and safety.
Go to CHICAGO via
SOUTH SHORE LINE
Go direct to the loop and be there on time. South Shore Line riding is comfortable and, remember, it’s cheaper than driving a car.
soiasRe
hockey team, but hope was expressed for a renewal of the popular sport the following year, 1929. However, no team was forthcoming, and since then there has been no offiical hockey team representing the Irish.
Last year say a momentary revival of the sport when a team was organized by Frank Gaul. The impromptu pucksters played games with local South Bend teams and one with the University of Detroit ,which they won. This year a rink has been constructed through the efforts of Athletic Directoi' Elmer Layden, and the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. The team thus far this year has played games with such teams as the Alka Seltzer six of South Bend and other local teams. A scheduled game with the University of Detroit failed to materialize because of the intensive cold weather which has shown quite a reversal of form since the early days of the sport when the struggling hockey enthusiasts were praying for some really cold weather. The pucksters of 1936 have received their cold weather but to such a great extent that it prevents them from playing.
INTERHALL GAMES (Continued from Page 20)
confident of a victory over Lyons in last place.
In Group I, the leaders, Brownson draw a bye and chalk up another winner, both in the light and heavyweight divisions. The Badin heavies meet Dillon and hope for another win to keep pace with the fast stepping Brownsonites, while Badin will be tested by the luckless Off-Campus
The schedule:
March 1—Group 2: 9:00, Sorin vs. Alumni; 9:50, Walsh vs. Corby; 10:40, Morrissey vs. Lyons; Howard bye.
Group 1: 1:30 Freshman vs. Carroll; 2:20 Dillon vs. Badin; 3:10, Off-Campus vs. St. Ed’s.; Bfownson-bye.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Prom Proves Colorful
Event In Social Year
Last Friday night the Junior Prom took its place in history as one of the most colorful events of the school year. Bernie Cummins and his orchestra furnished the music while the Juniors and their guests danced at the Palais Royale.
The evening reached its climax with the Grand March led by Harry A. Baldwin, prom chairman, and Martin T. Burns, president of the Junior class. Class officers and Prom committeemen were followed by the entire group of Prom goers in the long procession which circled the floor in step with Cummin’s delightful tunes.	'
Dorothy Crane, beautiful blonde singer with Cummins’ orchestra, lent much to the value of the music. Miss Crane, featured entertainer, was supplemented by a trio of brunettes who sang in harmony.
The decorations were in gold with gold draperies encircling the orchestra platform and ferns in gold pots placed about the dance floor. Flowers in the lobby completed the decorations.
Nearly all the Prom-goers attended the Tea Dance at the Oliver Hotel last Saturday. The entire mezzanine floor was turned over to the Juniors for the affair which proved to be almost as much of an event as the Prom itself.
Although a complete accounting has not yet been made, it is believed that the Prom was a financial success, according to Chairman Baldwin.
BENGAL BOUTS (Continued from Page 19) siums in his home town of Philadelphia. Oddly enough, Walt never tested his ring knowledge in actual amateur competition.
On entering Notre Dame last year, Marshall tried out for the freshman football team and was one of the main cogs in the line. Line coach, Joe Boland, expects him to plug up some of the gaping holes which graduation will inflict on the Notre Dame line this year. When the Bengal Show was announced, Walt entered the light-heavy ranks. Facing the favorite and defending champion, Harry Marr, Marshall fought a cagy and clever fight to win the judges’ verdict. In the finals, he faced Phil Purcell, former light-heavy titleholder. Both boys kept the crowd on the edges of their seats with their aggressive attacks, but just before the bell ended the first round, both men threw right hand punches simultaneously and each blow cut open the skin above the eye. Referee Packey McFarland, stopped the fight and the men were declared co-title holders.
The Scholastic
Twenty-two
f- ..
•LUCKIES-A LIGHT SMOKE

Copyright 1936. Tho American Tobacco Company
TOASTED
RESULTS VERIFIED BY INDEPENDENT CHEMICAL LABORATORIES AND RESEARCH GROUPS . . .
|	BRAND	B~
1	BRAND	C
|	BRAND	D
BALANCE I LUCKY STRIKE
Luckies are less acid

Excess of Acidity of Other Popular Brands Over LuckyStrike Cigarettes
Recent chemical tests show* that other pop-utat; brands have an <e^
Lucky Strike of from 53^ to 100/L
OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED TOBACCO—"IT’S TOASTED
Luckies are less acid
Over a period of years, certain basic advances have been made in the selection and treatment of cigarette tobaccos for Lucky Strike Cigarettes.
They include preliminary analyses of the tobaccos selected; use of center leaves; the higher heat treatment of tobacco ("toasting"); consideration of acid-alkaline balance, with consequent definite improvement in flavor; and controlled uniformity in the finished product.
All these combine to produce a superior cigarette—a modern cigarette, a cigarette made of rich, ripe-bodied tobaccos—A Light Smoke.
^|>ur throat protection — against irritation —against cough
ruary 2 8, 1936
Twenty-three
MR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY,
NOTRE DAME, IND.