he rora ram
SCHOLASTIC
urn (wus ncuus mznc
FATHER DAYBERRY LOOKS AT $15,000 IN STAMPS
Part of Exhibit Which Opens -Tomorrow
(Story an Page S)
IN THIS ISSUE ...
FINISH RADIO YEAR '37 "DOME" GOES TO PRESS JUNIOR & SOPH ELECTIONS
TRACKSTERS IN COLUMBUS KLINEMEN MEET PURDUE COURT TEAM SET FOR PURPLE
SPLINTERS FROM PRESS BOX COLLEGE PARADE
THE WEEK
MAY 14. 1937
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
FIRST AID
DURING the January floods, Western Electric—Service
Of Supply to the Bell System—once again set in motion its machinery for meeting disasters.
From its three factories and many distributing points, it rushed telephone materials of every kind into the flood stricken areas. Day and night, telephone men and women worked to maintain and restore communication.
Dramatic as is this emergency Service Of Supply, it is really no more important than Western Electric’s everyday work. For 55 years, it has backed up the Bell System withan endless flow of quality equipment. A major factor in making your telephone so far reaching, so dependable!
PUBLIC NOTICE TO ALL PIPE SMOKERS
•pHE CONFLICTING and bewildering claims made for pipe tobacco make it our duty, we believe, to publish this straight-forward statement.
For 60 years we have been making fine pipe tobaccos, which we guarantee against tongue bite. Now for the first time we divulge the methods which have made this guarantee possible.
Pipe tobacco may be rushed through a plant at a great saving in expense. Every tobacco expert knows this.
Or they may be made by the slow, patient method used in Edgeworth. This method we call Process-Aging. There are twelve required steps, each under laboratory control. It takes 4 to 7 times as Ione as might seem necessary.
This prevents tongue bite as no other method will. We invite you to prove this statement to your own satisfaction at our risk. You are the only judge.
N OT E: There are three kinds of Edgeworth for you to choose from:
1—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed—a cool, long-burning tobacco preferred by seasoned smokers.
2 — Edgeworth Plug Slice — for the smoker who likes to crumble the tobacco in his hands until it’s just right for him.
3—Edgeworth Jr.—the same tobacco also Process-Aged, but cut for a^nilder, more free-burning smoke.
Please accept 50e Gold Plated Collar-Pin for only 10e when you buy Edgeworth. Merely send inside white wrapper from any tin of Edgeworth with yournameandaddressand 1 Of to Larus &Bro.Co.,Dept.200, Richmond. Va.
LARUS & BRO.CO.
Takaceaaists Siace 1877.. .Richmond. Va.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	■
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Vol. 70
May 14, 1937
No. 25
93D COMMENCEMENT WEEK TO BE MARKED BY MANY AFFAIRS
•
By Harold A. Williams
Twenty-five events are scheduled for commencement week according to the program of the ninety-third commencement released this week by the Alumni Office in conjunction with the distribution of senior invitations.
The Baccalaureate sermon will be delivered by the Most Rev. Karl J. Alter, D.D., Bishop of Toledo, Ohio. The Commencement address will be delivered by Dennis F. Kelly, LL.D., Chicago, Ill.
Commencement events begin early Friday morning, June 4, with the registration of alumni. Later in the morning the Alumni golf tournament gets under way. Reunion classes meet by special arrangement of class committees. Official 1937 reunions are: 1888-89-90-91; 1897; 1907-08-09-10; 1912; 1917; 1927; 1932; and a special reunion of all St. Joseph hall alumni.
At 2:30 p.m. there is a baseball game—University of Iowa vs. Notre Dame. At 7:00 p.m. the Silver Jubilee dinner of the class of 1912 will be held in the Faculty dining room; and a concert by the University band will be given on the Main Quadrangle. At 8:00 p.m. The University Theatre will present the class play in Washington hall; the class of 1932 will hold their five-year reunion party at (Continued on Page 23)
Radio Organizer Miller and Norb Aleksis
Going over the ’37 Varsity Shotv.
HOUR BROADCAST TUESDAY NIGHT BRINGS TO A CLOSE MOST SUCCESSFUL RADIO YEAR;
CARRIED OUTSTANDING PROGRAMS
By Robert Sheppard	,
The most successful season in the brief campus radio history will conclude Tuesday night, May 18, at 8:30 with a full hour program. This program will be a review of the year’s radio activities and will be presented entirely by the
student staff. Under the guidance of
Vincentians To Begin Storage Drive
•
Under the leadership of Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C., the Vincentians will again this year take over the storage concession on the campus. Father Kelley and the committee in charge of the drive, Louis McKean, Charles Beasley, and Don Sconfietti, have made plans for starting the drive Monday _ and continuing it through Saturday. JEach hall will be canvassed during" these days and those interested in summer storage of any article are urged to cooperate.
In conjunction with the storage canvass, an old clothes drive will also be made. Something new will be added to this in the form of a collection for discarded books. It is the intention of the society to start a library for use in its case work, and any donation of books of any type will be appreciated.
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., faculty adviser, and under the student managership of Norbert Aleksis great advances have been made in both quality and quantity of programs. Approximately 144 hours of broadcast emanated from the campus studio during the year. Ninety-four of these hours were devoted to educa-
tional programs and 50 hours were given over to musical presentations.
The radio staff consisted of announcers Jerry Schaefer, Basil Gillespie, George Morris, Jack Salon, Francis Parks, Bernard Feeney, Edwin O’Connor, Walter Hagen, jr., Phil McHugh, and Jerry Hogan; and Student Engineers James Quinn, Richard Bohn, and Dan Cochran.
Greatest radio scoop of the year was furnished by the visit of Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli. Immediately upon notification of His Eminence’s visit the staff began preparations for the broadcast of the special convocation in Washington Hall. With only 24 hours notice wires had to be hurriedly installed in Washington Hall. After a long search an abandoned wire connection with the South Bend station was discovered in the Sacred Heart Church. This had been used in the broadcast of the funeral of Knute Rockne. Only 20 minutes before the Cardinal’s arrival a wire was successfully strung to the stage of the hall and thousands of interested listeners in northern Indiana heard the words of the Papal representative.
Another outstanding feature of the season was the Pontiac Varsity Show. This program carried the talent of Notre Dame to the audiences of 70 National Broadcasting Company stations. Ably supporting John Held, jr., master of ceremonies for the entire series, was the student staff who handled all dialogues and announcements on the program.
Among the many new features of the year was the organization of the Notre Dame Playhouse of the Air. The personnel of this dramatic organization consisted of Clifford Tall-
( Continued on Page 8)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
McARDLE TOPS SHEEDY FOR CLASS PRESIDENT OF JUNIORS; MULQUEEN TOPS FIELD OF SOPHOMORES; CAMPAIGN HOT
DR. ADLER 'IMPRESSED' AT SECOND FORMAL DISPUTATION
By Graham Starr
“It was a great day for the Irish” at the junior elections last Wednesday when Paul “Buck” McArdle, of Pittsburgh, Pa., and three other “Macs” on his ticket were carried to victory by a large majority. In a sweeping landslide, McArdle topped Dan Sheedy, of Snyder, N. Y., to win the 1937-38 junior class presidency, 288 to 196.
For the office of vice president, Eugene White, a Sheedy man from Peoria, Ill., won over Bartholomew O’Toole. Martin McGinnis, of Memphis, Tenn., was chosen secretary when he beat Oliver Helland, of the Sheedy ticket. Al Nigro, of Kansas City, defeated Paul Morrison, of the McArdle ticket, to become treasurer.
The victors in the S.A.C. contest were John McAuliffe, of Syracuse, N. Y., and Daniel Donovan, of New Hampton, Iowa, for the two year posts, and John McMahon, of Indianapolis, Ind., for the one year position;
In a hard fought battle over the sophomore offices, Joseph H. Mul-queen, of Council Bluffs, Iowa, by polling nine more ballots than his competitor, Pat Goff, became president-elect at the finals on last Tuesday. However all other members of his party were defeated by substantial majorities.
Charles Kelly, a Goff man from Richmond, Va., was made vice-president over Robert Blake, and in the secretarial race, Gerald Flynn, of Rochester, N. Y., defeated James Aylward. John DeMoss, of Chicago, won over Robert Chamberlain for the office of treasurer. The sophomore S. A. C. berth was won by Thomas Judge, who defeated John Schroder.
Under general chairman Arthur Hoffman, George Bonfield, and Marty Burns were in direct charge of the junior and sophomore elections, respectively. On Thursday, May 13, senior political candidates John O’Connor and John Thomas were given their supreme tests. Richard Delaney was S.A.C. supervisor of the senior finals.
To round out the campus politics for the year, on Wednesday, May 19, three S.A.C. presidential candidates, John R. Kelley, of Portland, Me.; B. Scott Reardon, of Sioux Falls, S. Dak.; and John A. Wilson, of Lakewood, Ohio, will vie for leadership of the Students’ Activity Council of 1937-38. These three are the only members eligible to run, as candidates must be juniors who will remain in the S.A.C. next year.
Prof. H. Staunton Leads Group Discussion At Convention
Professor Henry C. Staunton and Professor Andrew T. Smithberger, of the Notre Dame department of English, are in Terre Haute, Ind., today attending the annual meeting of the
Professors Staunton, Smithberger
Headline English convention.
representatives of the English departments of Indiana colleges and universities.
Professor Staunton, who has been Notre Dame’s representative at this convention for the past six years, is to lead a group discussion on the subject “Should Colleges Add to State Requirements for Teachers of English?”
Mr. Smithberger will deliver a paper on “Was Christabel a Fragment?”
This two day meeting of English teachers is being held at the Indiana State Teachers’ College and will conclude Saturday.
Annual La Raza Dinner Set For Tomorrow
Tomorrow evening at 7:00, members of the La Raza club will dine at their annual banquet in the Gold Room of the Oliver hotel, co-chairman Alberto Castineira and Godfrey Armente announced.
Honored guests at the function will be Juan K. Pedevilla, of the Studebaker Corporation, and Professor Pedro de Landero, sponsor of the group.	'
By Fred E. Sisk
“I was very much impressed by the formal discussion, the stating and the defense of the thesis, and the informal discussion of this disputation,” commented Dr. Moi'timer J. Adler, of the University of Chicago, in his remarks concerning the second annual Public Disputation in Philosophy presented last Wednesday morning in Washington Hall. Speaking on the formal and informal objections, Dr. Adler continued, “In the informal objections there were modern or contemporary difficulties, and in the formal objections those of the medieval age were used.”
Chairman John O’Leary opened the discussion with a few introductory remarks of the disputation last year and the problem to be considered by the disputants this year.
Raymond McGrath was first introduced, and in his paper “Why the Nature and Destiny of Man?” he indicated that the solution of the nature and destiny of man would be found in scholastic philosophy. He also discussed the views of the Greek and medieval philosophers on the subject of man.
The main and central thesis, “The Nature and Destiny of Man,” was next examined in three parts: “The Spirituality of the Human Soul,” “The Freedom of the Will,” and “The Destiny of Man.” The “De-dendens” or Defender in each case was William Prendergast, who stated the proposition and then proceeded to substantiate each proposition with a number of proofs.
At intermittent periods during these proofs and statements, formal objections were offered by the “Ar-guentes” or Objectors locatedjjn the audience.
Speaking of “The Freedom of . the Will,” the Defender pointed outthat the will is free insofar as it is not necessarily moved by necessity, because one thing is not moved by another unless the necessity has a capacity which is greater than the thing acted upon.
Continuing to “The Destiny of Man,” the proof followed that all of man’s activity is directed to an end, and this end in man consists in the highest knowledge, which in turn leads man to an ultimate, natural end achieved by an abstractive vision of God. '	'
The concluding part of the formal disputation was a paper entitled, “The Incarnation and Its Relation to Man,” which was presented by Jo-
(Continued on Page 8)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
GOODWILL. PATIENCE, WEAPONS VS. BIAS. SAYS REID
SENIOR BALL SECTION. HUMOR. TO HIGHLIGHT "DOME" NOW ON PRESS; DELIVERY IS SET FOR MAY 26.27. RADIGAN ANNOUNCES
By Vincent DeCoursey
By William C. Fay
“Goodwill, not the social or political good will which springs from reciprocity, but the goodwill which springs from Catholic Charity is the basis of Catholic Apologetics,” declared 1936 Laetare Medalist Richard Reid in the first of a series of five lectures in Washington hall, Monday night. Mr. Reid pointed out that enthusiasm for the Catholic Church is easy to acquire if one will merely study the history of the Church and reflect on the influence the Church has wielded on civilization during the past 1900 years.
He observed that the charitable work carried on by South Bend and other cities during the recent flood emergencies in the Mississippi Valley was but a logical outcropping of Christian charity. He contrasted the lack of enthusiasm of the average layman for his religion with the municipal enthusiasm that same layman develops for his home town.
“But even if we possess goodwill, knowledge of Catholic teaching, and enthusiasm,” Mr. Reid continued, “we still need one more virtue, patience, with which to meet the mountain of misunderstanding and prejudice which has grown up about the Catholic Church.”
The noted Augusta, Ga., journalist admitted that such prejudice had been on the wane since the close of the 19th century, but warned that it still remained in dangerous amounts. “For instance,” he illustrated, “the account of Voltaire’s life in the En-Encyclopedia Brittanica contains a statement that Voltaire once ‘rescued a young girl from a convent’.”
Mr. Reid commented on the treatment the Christian religion receives in the public schools of New York City. There children are taught that Christianity was an oriental cult which appeared in Rome at a psychological period in history. The religion spread rapidly because all parts of the Roman Empire were connected by excellent roads.
“However,”, the speaker concluded, “the Church would rather be misunderstood, would rather be disliked, would rather be hated—than ignored. People - don’t hate without hating -something. And that something whatever it may be, can be destroyed by enthusiastic, informed, patient Catholic laymen.”
Many innovations will feature the 1937 edition of the Dome, university year book, now on the presses which will be ready for distribution to the student body on the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh of May. Under the direction of Editor Thomas J. Radigan, new sections, prominent among them the Dome
Gay Songs, Play, Gives Old World Air To All-Nations Meet
•
More than one hundred members of five language cultural groups gathered in the auditorium of the Law Building Tuesday evening to participate in the first annual allnations program sponsored by the Charles Phillips Cracow club.
Old country airs, a French play, a German band, and four papers highlighted the meeting. The Polish, Italian, French, German, and Spanish clubs took part in the meeting which was presided over by Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C.
“L’Avocat Patelin,” an amusing French play, was given by Le Cercle Francais, under the direction of Professor Benjamin DuBois. Paul Anderson, Louis McKean, Roche Le Page, and Leo Facteau were in the cast.
Papers were read by Frank Kopc-zak, “The History of the Poles in America;” Louis Da Pra, “Leonardo da Vinci;” Paul Doran, “Cervantes;” and “The Life of Richard Wagner” by Bernard Niezer.
The Italian club, led by Joseph Mangelli and Professor Pasquale Pirchio, sang “Faccetta Nera” and “Santa Lucia.” Professor de Lan-dero commented briefly on the two love songs sung by the Spanish group. The meeting came to an end with the hilarious “Bundeslieben” of the German club.
scroll award for extra - curricular achievement, and a new arrangement of the usual sections are introduced.
The usual makeup of previous Domes has been discarded and the -book arranged into eleven sections, grouping the year’s activities in each class under one head instead of the former seasonal arrangement. The book consists of some 350 pages of photographed school life.
A long desired, addition will be the index of students” pictures. . This index has been prepared under the direction of Editor Radigan. The new scroll award is a distinct departure from the policy of earlier Domes. The selection of the recipients was made by a non-partisan committee and the announcement of the winners will not be made until the distribution of the book.
Maxaging Editor Dunn Sweat over picture seekers.
The 11 sections of the book cover the following classification: administration, classes, campus, athletics, dances, publications, features, activities, events, organizations, and humor. Particularly good in these are the sports layout which .was prepared under the direction of Eugene Vas-lett, sports editor of the Dome, and the organization section under Edwin T. Kilrain.
Last year’s striking Dome cover motif will be used again this year. The cover itself is of a shrunken brown leather Van Dyke Overtone, highlighted by the use of gold lettering. The written copy has been cut to a minimum to insure maximum pictorial effect.
Again departing from the established rule, the Dome will contain a (Continued on -Page 7)
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
K. C. DEGREES TO BE CONFERRED ON
FIFTY-NINE
•
Fifty-nine candidates will receive major degrees of the Knights of Columbus at the exemplification on Sunday, May 16, at the Jefferson Plaza. Timothy Galvin and George O’Brien will serve as toastmaster and principal speaker respectively at the
Knights Drolla and Foy Fifty-nine new brothers..
testimonial dinner following the reception.
The annual elections of the organization will be held Wednesday, May 19, in the Knights of Columbus lounge in Walsh hall. Voting will start at 12:30 p.m. and continue until 8:00 p.m. The meeting Wednesday will be the final one of the year for the Knights.
Delegates and alternates to represent the Notre Dame Council at the annual state convention May 22 to 24, at Huntington, Indiana, will be Grand Knight Joseph Drolla; Past Grand Knight, Thomas P. Foy; Trustee Raymond Hoyer; Outer Guard Martin J. O’Connell; and District -Deputy Eli M. Abraham.
The feature address of the banquet Sunday will be delivered by the Most Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne. Supreme Knight Martin H. Carmody, of Grand Rapids, Mich., will also speak. During the convention the state officers for next year will be elected, as will the delegates to the supreme convention at San Antonio, Texas.
Met Club Plans Early Summer Dance
Plans for a dance sometime between June 14 and 21 are being formulated by the Metropolitan Club, according to Ed Condon, newly elected club president. Bill McEwan and-his band, who have played at the Plaza Hotel in New York, are being sought to play for the dance. It will be given at either one of the downtown roof gardens or a country club in New York.
Vatican City, Wild West, Issues Included In Costly Stamp Exhibit on Display Tomorrow
Fifteen thousand dollars’ worth of rare stamps and envelopes (philatelic value) will be exhibited in the art galleries of the University from May 15 to June 7.
The collection, regarded as one of the most unusual in the Middlewest, features a “Parade of U. S. Stamps” from 1840 to 1937. The property of the University, it has been assembled and classified by the Rev. Aloysius Dayberry, C.S.C., who began stamp collecting as a hobby 15 years ago.	‘ '
In addition to the major American exhibit, there is a special display of Vatican City stamps. These include all issues from the founding of the Vatican City postoffice in 1929 to the present time.
Perhaps most interesting to the amateur are several dozen “covers” dated in the early 1840’s before adhesive stamps came into use. These “covers” are regular writing papei’ folded to contain the letter. Wax was used to seal them shut. Instead of an adhesive stamp (not yet invented) the ■wrappers bear a hand-stamped—and sometimes hand-written—amount, showing what was paid to the postmaster.
Fees were high for' postage in-those days, the amounts running from five to twenty-five cents. Several are marked 12 % cents. One
Complete Cast is Chosen for U. Theatere Commencement Presentation "Born Lucky"
The cast for “Born Lucky,” three-act comedy by Samuel S. Richmond, to be presented Friday evening, June 4, in Washington Hall, was completed early this week. Professor Albert L. Doyle, in charge of the production, now in its second week of rehearsals, announced the completion of the first two acts.
Local campus politicians should be sure to attend the presentation of “Born Lucky” to study the technique employed by the fraternity brothers in their efforts to have their candidate attain the coveted “Silver Spoon,” symbolic of the most popular person on the campus of Crigh-ton College. All the action takes place in the large reception room of the Pi Pi Pi Fraternity.
Robert Blake, of Canton, Ohio, as James J. McAllister, better known about the campus as “Mac,” will play the lead in the final theatrical production of the year. “Mac,” in his campaign for the “Silver Spoon,” .will be opposed by George Bernard (Nardi), played by Gerald Hogan.
cover, postmarked Natchez, Miss., Oct. 31, 1850, and addressed to Rt. Rev. Dr. Anthony Blanc, New Orleans, is hand-stamped 18% cents. This meant a 12% cent postage fee plus 6% cents return fee, if letter was not deliverable.
Reminiscent of the Wild West days are several envelopes mailed from territories that are now states. One is postmarked Gibson Sta., Indian Territory, Dec. 29, 1879. Another is marked Dakota Territory, Jefferson Sta., April 14, 1884. This letter, bearing a two cent red stamp, was mailed five years before the Dakota Territory was divided into the two present states. Other territories represented are Utah, Minnesota, and Wyoming.
Represented also is one of America’s first adhesive stamps of the issue of 1851. These one-cent, imperforated stamps were blue, carrying a picture of Franklin’s head. The adhesive stamps was copied from England where they were first used in 1841.
Air mail issues include the China Clipper stamp of 20 and 50 cent denominations, used in the new transpacific mail service. Among the air mail stamps is the 50 cent green stamp showing the Graf Zeppelin in flight, issued in 1933. Its sudden removal from the market now makes it worth many times its original value.
Harold Jablonka as “Dutch” Allender, “Mac’s” roommate, will present “Mac” to the student body in the popularity election. He will be ably assisted by Frank Glick, interpreted by Jerry O’Dowd.
Pete Wentz and Carl Jacobs, two juniors who play a passive part in the course of the election, and a fair game of contract, will be represented by William Sitt and Edward Colgan, respectively. The young member of the fraternity, a sophomore since May 15, “Kip” Boyd will be played by Raymond Sadlier.	.
The elder members of the cast James J. McAllister, Sr., “Mac’s” father, and Mr. Rudolph Lessing will be interpreted by George McDermott and John McKendry. Much of the humor is provided by MacAllister, Sr., known to the boys as “J. J.” representing a small farmer who has come to visit his son at the university. The author has cleverly woven a moral into the story concerning “Mac’s” treatment of his father before the other characters.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
7
Whirring Dials, Intricate Cables Replace Old Notre Dame Manual Telephone System
A few days before the brilliant activities of 1937 Commencement another significant event will occur at Notre Dame; which likewise entailed considerable planning and preparation; that event is the inauguration of the University’s new telephone exchange located in the Administration Building.
For many weeks engineers and technicians of the Indiana Bell Telephone Company, under the personal direction of Joseph W. Quinlan, E.E. ’26, South Bend District Plant Superintendent, have been installing and adjusting myriad switches, the innumerable relays, complex coils, tubes, and other intricate apparatus which in a few days will provide Notre Dame, Indiana, with its own dial telephone Central Office—a miniature of those serving the largest cities.
All of the separate telephone facilities at Notre Dame, except the students’ telephones in the various residence halls, are being consolidated and converted from “manual” operation into a complete dial system. When the change is completed and the “cut-over” occurs any one of the 100 telephones located in any of the various halls, departments and buildings of the University’s 2,400-acre “city” (except students’ telephones) can speedily and easily be connected to any other telephone in the system simply by dialing the proper number, as indicated in the new Notre Dame Telephone Directory.
Calls to South Bend and out-of-town points are carried over trunk lines connecting the Notre Dame exchange with the South Bend local and long distance central office. These calls to out-of-the-city places will be made in much the same manner as at the present time after dialling the Notre Dame operator so as to place the order with her. Calls to South Bend and Mishawaka will be made simply by dialing the proper city number after a trunk line has been assigned by the dial mechanism.
Connecting all these telephones to the dial switches and the trunk lines are over 22,000 feet of underground lead cable running along in the cable tunnel and extending across the entire campus like a gigantic back bone.
The new system has many innovations, such as provisions for a “telephone conference,” whereby two, three or four individual telephones may be interconnected with a telephone in South Bend or one as far away as San Francisco, and a “round-table” discussion take place as if the participants were in a group in the Comptroller’s office. “Rotary”
service is available; in a busy department or office a call for one telephone is immediately shunted on to an adjacent idle telephone if the first telephone is busy. Facilities have been included in the plans for the new dormitory now being constructed. Arrangements for complete intercommunication throughout the Biology Building are being made as the construction of the new central office progresses.
A great deal of the engineering and supervision of the Notre Dame installation was participated in by alumni members of the Bell System organization. C. E. Mason, E.E. ’26, General Plant Supervisor of the Indiana Bell Telephone Company with headquarters at Indianapolis, B. T. Loeffler, E.E. ’28, Equipment Engineer, assisted Mr. Quinlan in drawing up plans for the alterations in the Administration Building, the installation of conduit and the layout of the new equipment. R. A. Holmes, E.E. ’32, South Bend Assistant Engineer, J. M. Scanlan, E.E. ’32, M.S. ’33, and C. J. Pickard, E.E. ’35, Indianapolis Supervising Engineers all had a hand in the inauguration of the system.
H. E. Bolt, South Bend District commercial superintendent, who participated in the negotiations with University officials for the adoption of the new telephone plant, said, in commenting on the new installation: “The telephone company is proud of this installation, and we believe that the University of Notre Dame - also ■will be pleased ■with the efficiency and convenience of its new telephone system.”
1937 "Dome" on Press
(Continued from Page 5)
four page section devoted to the Senior Ball. This is the first time that this function has received attention during the same season it was held. Snapshots of the year are arranged in a unified section that is unusually effective; all details of this work was done under the supervision of John Cottingham, snapshot editor. The usual pictures of the residence halls have been augmented by views of all the buildings and grounds of the campus.
Much of the success of the new Dome can be credited to the invaluable assistance of Faculty Supervisor Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C., and William R. Dooley, business manager of publications. Managing Editor Louis J. Dunn announced this week that cards will be distributed May 20 and 21 announcing the time and place for Dome redemption.
MUSIC GROUPS NAME OFFICIALS FOR
NEXT YEAR
•
By Eddie Huff
Current plans reserved for commencement week when both organizations play their musical finales for the year, the Band and Glee Club already are formulating plans for the 1937-38 musical season.
Its traveling personnel depleted of
Musicians Cassidy and Trousdale Join list of has beens.
only eight members by graduation, the Glee club will retain a large nucleus for an early fall season. The choristers expect to make a long western tour during the Christmas holidays.
Under a plan laid down by Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the club, the newly elected officers, will assume greater importance than in previous years. The officers themselves will arrange the concert schedule for the season. In view of this new arrangement, the Glee club administration already has planned a tentative schedule for the new school year.
Business Manager James M. Murphy, commerce junior from Tucson, Ariz., is making arrangements with several western cities for the Christmas itinerary. William V. O’Brien, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters from Little Rock, Ark., was elected president of the singing.Irish; and Arthur Davidson, junior in the College of Science from Greenville, Miss., was chosen vice-president. Assisting Murphy with the managerial duties, will be Leo Boyle, junior in the department of music, who makes Gary, Ind., his home.
Although the Band and Glee dub are affiliated by way of a common faculty-adviser in the person of Prof. Casasanta, their official bodies are distinct.
Jimmy Murphy, who manages the commercial affairs of the Glee club, was unanimously elected to the presidency of the Band late last week. Leo Boyle, another singer, was named business manager, with Roderick Trousdale, Mott, N. Dak., sophomore in Arts and Letters, beirfe appointed to assist him.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, May 14
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. till benediction, 5:30 p.m.; Lecture, Richard Reid, “Apologetics and the Press,” Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.
Saturday, May 15
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. till Benediction, 11:30 a.m.; Golf, Varsity vs. Wisconsin, William J. Burke Memorial course; Baseball, Varsity vs. Purdue, Cartier Field, 1:30 p.m., Track, Varsity vs. Ohio State, Columbus, Ohio; Picnic, Engineers’ club, Hudson lake, 8:30 a.m.; Movies, Washington hall, “They Met in a Taxi,” first show for freshmen only, 6:405 p.m.; Banquet, LaRaza club, Oliver hotel, South Bend, 7:00 p.m.; Opening Display, University Stamp Exhibit, art galleries, 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., daily.
Sunday, May 15
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m., Meeting, Chesterton Society, L a w building, 10:30 a.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society-, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall, 11:00 a.m.; Exemplification, Major Degrees, Knights of Columbus, Jefferson Plaza, South Bend, to be followed by initiation banquet.
Monday, May 17
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. till Benediction, 5:30 p.m.; Golf, Varsity vs. Michigan State, William J. Burke ■ Memorial course; Meeting, S.A.C., University library, 6:30 p.m. ; Ban- . quet, Patricians, Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend.
Tuesday, May 18	.
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. till Benediction, 5:30 p.m.; Concluding radio broadcast, full hour program, from studios in the John F. Cushing hall of Engineering, 8:30 p.m.; Meeting, Italian club, Carroll Hall Rec., 7:45 p.m.
Wednesday, May 19
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., till Benediction, 5:30 p.m.; Baseball, Varsity vs. Western State Teachers, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Elections, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall, 12:30 to 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, May 20
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m. till Benediction, 5:30 p.m.
Philosophy Disputation
(Continued from Page 4)
seph Loftus. The speaker determined three separate ways of studying man. The first, he said, is by philosophy which studies the abstract nature of man. The historical method, the second way, examines man in the concrete fulness of his being, and the third method by theology is through revelation.
One of the famous McNally boys from the big city. This time it s Joseph Clifford “Six-a-Day” McNally —sometimes W. C. Fields, sometimes Jack Oakie, sometimes Shirley Temple—but always and unmistakably one of the McNally boys.
a breeze from the salt-
in
ocean, Joe arrived here
Like sprayed
Francis Xavier High
1933 from St.
School, and has been breezing along ever since.
Joe is strictly “big town,” but under a strong lamp and some coax
ing he’ll admit to Woodside, Long ~ ' "as his home town. It is not
Island, known mit.
The curred
how much Woodside will ad-
real break in Joe’s career oc-last year when Alumni Hall
took the airlanes on the Interhall Amateur hour, and Joe wowed ’em with a W. C. Fields’ imitation that fairly reeked of old putty-nose himself.
-Since then Joseph Clifford has been in constant demand. Sometimes he appears with pal “Gomer” Hack, sometimes he’s alone with his six characters. His longest stint so far was this year’s Absurdities in which he lugged the second act along all by himself.
- Joe hit the national audience when he strolled to the “mike” in the Pontiac Varsity show and probably sold a car or two.
Joe is an iconoclast in dress, and last year affected something new in fishing hats, duck trousers (with plenty of duck necessary) and grass sandals. But still—the talent scouts liked him this year, and maybe Woodside will roll over and sleep again.	\
DARK HORSE WINS IN HECTIC VILLAGER ELECTIONS
Discarding pre - election notices, Paul Howard, 825 E. Washington street, typical dark horse candidate, spilt the dope bucket again by carrying off the presidency of the Villagers’ club in the election held Friday in Brownson Rec. The final tabulation by the S. A. C. revealed John Lechner running second and Paul Kelley third.
Although Howard’s name was not entered in the nomination meeting held last week, the new administration succeeded in placing his candidacy on the eve of the election. With this puzzling turmoil created at the last moment, Ted Prekowitz, retiring president, and Jim Lahey, both presidential candidates, withdrew their names from the ballot and ceded their forces to John Lechner, their running mate.	'
Jack Scott defeated Bill Prekowitz and Sam Lawler for the office of vicepresident. The post of secretary was won by Abe Zoss who received a majority over Bob Rodibaugh and Ed Minczeski. Bill Rieke was re-elected treasurer over his two opponents, Charlie Reddy and Bob Wilson. The office of sergeant at arms went to Ed Sommerer who defeated Dick Ganser and Bob Nelson.
Close Radio Year
(Continued from Page 3)
man, Arthur Mulherin, John Gorman, Thomas Bossart, jr., and Robert Brown. The group produced the first radio drama to originate on the campus. Their first offering was Edgar Allan Poe’s “The Facts in the Case of Monsieur Valdemar.” The second presentation was that of “The Last Dinner.”
Another new series of programs presented in the past season was “The Notre Dame Varieties.” This half hour monthly program featured the Notre Dame band and Glee club and was under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music. Other regular programs were the faculty talks, the radio debates, Music of the Masters, and the Scholastic of the Air.
Because “Good-nights” come too quickly after “Good evenings,” coeds at the University of Alabama are now fighting to have their 10:45 week-end night deadline changed to 12 o’clock.
To learn about the health habits of the black widow spider, John Pierson, zoology student at Oregon State College, watches the inkcolored captives for an hour or so daily.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
9
THE WEEK
Social Life—Zero
This much we know: St. Mary’s is a girls’ college about 1000 yards from the campus of Notre Dame. Several times during the year we have been chided for not mentioning St. Mary’s. Certainly it is prominent in the lives of more Notre Dame men than we’d care to count. Its representatives swarm to our dances; our representatives throng its parlors on Sunday afternoons. Interscholastic correspondence rounds the shoulders of mailmen. Admitting all that, we droop in confessing that we have never been inside a St. Mary’s building, that, as far as we know, we have never escorted a St. Mary’s student to any function, public or private. We are neither apologetic nor boastful when we say that all our information is second and third-hand. Frequently we have been on the brink of accepting a blind date, but some inner voice always held us back; we shied from tearing away the shroud of secrecy that has shielded the mystery of St. Mary’s. Our impression of her students, from afar, is laudatory. We like to feel that we share with the sorority sisters a bond of sympathy. Undoubtedly nobody has suffered from our closed-door policy —at least not us. Looking back on four long years we are glad we have one illusion left.
In Medio Stat—
Yes, seniors play golf, baseball, and tennis. They swim and practice putting, see movies and take walks. But soon a portion of them will put away these ephemeral pursuits and closet themselves for study. Attendance at a great university has affected our graduates oppositely. Some seniors, roughly one-half of the group to be released in June, have it that the final exams will be tough. They are the sagging-chin boys who break into a cold sweat at the drop of a hat or at the sound of a warning professorial voice. They dread, logically enough, flunking a subject in the last semester, the home stretch. They reiterate the questionable axiom “You can’t trust a prof.” They want to have the last laugh. Other contend that they have the rail position and need only coast to a four-length victory. They are the crinkly-eyed boys, who never fret. They discount, logically enough, most of the pessimism as borrowing trouble. They’ll tell you that the exams last but one hour and that no 60-minute siege can be tough. Besides, they argue, marks don’t count; just a passing grade. We are appropriating the better tenets of both schools. We won’t bet until we
By John A. GiHespie
have a fist full of aces. But we still say that the non-worriers play baseball more expertly. They sink longer putts and serve more aces. They are more amusing on walks and have a smoother stroke in the water. Still, it would be terrible to flunk—oh, let’s call the whole thing off.
Dream Come True
Suddenly and inconspicuously a much-sought but little-hoped-for reform has taken place. At some time during the last two weeks the cafeteria magazine moguls saw fit to discontinue the display of pulps and substitute better class publications. There are still sports magazines but not blood-chillers. What puzzles us is the reason for the change. Complaint after complaint has been uttered and printed yet nothing was achieved by the would be reformers until recently. It may be that the manager of the rack underwent a prophetic vision in which he saw thousands of pulp patrons turned into murderers and Merriwellian athletes. Incidentally, the current trend toward literary condensation is nowhere so evident as at the cafeteria stand. We counted, without half trying, a baker’s dozen magazines with the word “Digest” in the title. There should be a moral in that development, but we’re happy enough as it is. Besides, the elevation of reading matter occurred too long after our weak appeal to make us feel powerful.
« * *
Odds And Ends
And then there was the fellow in Howard Hall who asked the rector to turn on the lights at three o’clock Wednesday morning so he could get the full coronation ceremonies on his radio. . .
Why hasn’t some enterprising student opened a hot-dog stand at the lake? There’s gold in the idea. . .
We suggest a softball game to end all softball games: between the lay faculty and the seniors. No holds barred and the winners to decide on the importance of the final exams.
That Rum Village, reputedly a nefarious portion of South Bend, did not derive its name from the many fire-water stations within its borders. One of the original Studebakers bought the land from the Indians for a bottle or rum.
How many of you can translate the Latin maxim which appears every week on the Masthead of The Scholastic?
Rev. Leo R. Ward Gives Principal Address At Bookmen Fete
Because of the serious injury of his wife in an automobile accident earlier in the week, Professor John T. Frederick was not able to speak at the annual banquet of the Bookmen, last night at the LaSalle hotel. Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., delivered the principal address of the evening.
Newly elected president, Hal Williams, junior from Baltimore, Md., was presented to the members and
Bookman Hal Williams His smooth, slick stuff wins.
to the guests by the retiring incumbent, Bob McGrath. The other officers for next year were also announced: Secretary-treasurer, John Schemmer, and librarian, John Walsh.
Faculty Moderator Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell spoke briefly to the members and expressed his regret at the accident which had deprived the club of the presence of the principal speaker, and extended the sympathy of the club to Mr. Frederick.
The banquet is the last function of the year for the Bookmen, and Mr. Campbell expressed his gratification at the excellent work done by the organization this year.
J. C. McKendry Named Buffalo Club Head
John Charles McKendry, a junior in the College of Commerce, this week was named to succeed Thomas Condon as president of the Buffalo club. In addition, he was named chairman of the summer dance to be given by the group early in June.
Other officers chosen were Louis Brady, vice president; Arthur Lancaster, secretary; Joseph Ryan, treasurer. Norman Anderson was selected chairman of the Communion breakfast scheduled for the near future.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY
14, 1937
ARTICLE BY MULFLUR IS FEATURED IN ’CATALYZER’
The April edition of The Catalyzer, the monthly magazine of the Chemists’ club, was distributed early this week.
The feature article of this issue is the “Removal of Phosphorus in the Basic Open-Hearth Process” by Walter H. Mulflur, B.S. in Ch.E.. Mr. Mulflur has been with the Inland Steel Company, East Chicago,'Ind., . since his graduation from Notre Dame in 1929, and his position there has enabled him to become familiar with the oustanding experimental work carried on in that company’s research department.
Mulflur gives a summary of the work and findings of this department concerning the removal of phosphorus in the steel process.
The second article, “The Thyroid Gland and Its General Relations,” was written by Charles A. Hufnagel, ’37. Hufnagel gives a short history of the various thyroid experiments from the time of Galen, the great Roman physician, to the recent experiments at the University of Notre Dame. He discusses the importance and the functions of the thyroid as shown by recent experiments, especially at Notre Dame.
On the editorial page are two short articles. The first one, “Sour Grapes,” tells of the uselessness of the well-known practice of “griping.” The second, “Little Things,” is a development of the often-heard “It’s the ' little things that count.”
Mulligan Wins In Close Cleveland Election
The boys from the suburbs pushed ahead at the Cleveland Club elections held last Tuesday in the north basement of the Library, when they were victorious in filling all but one of the four offices.
Tom Mulligan, of Cleveland •Heights, carried himself and his whole ticket to victory over that of Charles Macaluso. Vice-leader Frank Payne, of East Cleveland, won over Tom Rini by one vote. In the race for secretary, Ed Schroeter, of Cleveland Heights, beat Paul Hackman. John Hillenbrand, of Cleveland, was made treasurer. His opponent was Charles Butler.
Already the new set of officers , is planning for a summer dance.
Have you ever noticed the “crying student” over the entrance of Howard Hall?
COLLEGE PARADE
By John Callaghan Chin Golf.
No more must we wake up and shave as though it were a penitential morning rite; no more must we stare into the mirror at an unattractive face to hack away in solitary silence. No, now we can start the day as all sportsmen should, and play a round of Chin Golf.
The game’s object, as explained in the Rule Book of the United States Chin Golf Association, is to “promote skill and success in the shaving of the face and to transform the task from its present state of profane drudgery into a sport worthy of participation by civilized men.”
The rules of the game are simple. The contestant who completes the “course”, in the least number* of strokes and the minimum of slices is declared the winner. Two points are tacked on the score for any nip, and six points for each bristle. And if the chin-golfer should commit the unpardonable error of leaving dried soap visible on the neck, face or ears he is docked ten strokes.
So now all you have to do is to practice up and enter the interhall competition in that new college sport —Chin Golf.
Jean Pierre Le Mee
According to the Associated Collegiate Press, Jean Pierre Le Mee, the 19-year-old French student, who was sent to the United States to make a survey of American colleges, finds that the social life is “too lovely for French students.”
He also was amazed that American students have such a good time, saying that if the college life in the United States were suddenly transplanted to his country, the students there wouldn’t think of “working,” for their present life is all “work, work, work.”
Speaking of football Lee-Mee declared that, “At first I thought that they were all crazy playing such a game. All those boys ready to kill each other, and the man whistling all the time. The shouting and. the singing were the only things I liked. But by the fifth time, I began to see how marvelous the game was mathematically.”
Good-bye, Jean Pierre.
Jottings
The DePaulia warns us that there are “only 232 more shopping days until Christmas.” . . . sure enough. Add Stoopnagle definitions . . . The Aquin gives us College is “something that if it wasn’t here we wouldn’t have to go to school if we didn’t go some place else.” ... A student at Harvard can offer his surname as the longest in American colleges. It is Kaisui Nimmanahaeminda. Any other . entries? He modestly comments that “It’s really much shorter in Siamese.”
G. HOGAN IS NAMED 35TH BREEN MEDAL WINNER
•
Gerald G. Hogan, of Brooklyn, N. Y., a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, was named recipient of the Breen Medal for excellency in oratory at the finals in the oratorical contest Tuesday night in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. “St. John Fisher” was the topic used by Hogan.
• Second place was given to John Schemmer, of Colby, Wis., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, who spoke on “The New Expansion of Charity.”
To five other students who competed in the finals honorable mentions were given: Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., Charles Osborn, Bernard Flynn, C.S.C., James Nerney, and Fructuoso Barreda.
Judges for the contest were Professor LaRoy Wilkins, Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C., and Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
The gold medal, awarded each year since 1902 for excellency in oratory, was donated by the late William P. Breen, of the class of 1877, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Picnic, Elections, Keep Engineers Busy
With two parties in the field for the offices of the Engineers’ club, the campaign promises to be the closest in .years. Votes may be cast in'the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering on May 26 from 7:30 to 9 p.m. upon the presentation of the club membership card.
The Active Party, campaigning under the motto: “We need your support,” offers for president, George Schlaudecker; vice president, Frank Kesicke; secretary, Al ‘Tex’ Le-Blanc; treasurer, Jack Bond; junior secretary, Lou Bemish.
The opposition, who “guarantee an active and successful year,” present for the consideration of the club: Dick Hennessey for president; Dick Carrigan, vice president; Jack Bert-eling, secretary; Jim Magee, treasurer, Bill Faymonville, junior secretary. Both have gotten out blotters.
Definite plans have been completed for the annual picnic under the guiding hand of Joe McIntosh and Walt Troy who are heading the committee. A charge of 35 cents will be made for members and 60 cents for non-mem-bers. This will include all expenses incidental to the picnic including transportation to Hudson lake. Busses will leave the Plaza in front of Alumni Hall at 8:30 a.m. Saturday and will return from Hudson lake at 4:30 p.m.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937 11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
NEEDLE NOTES
The Moon Is In The Sky; zl Love Song of Long Ago—Abe Lyman.
Lyman has been around for a long time in the music world. His current band is neither better nor worse than the average. Originality is scarce in the Moon number. Its lyrics are pleasant but uninspiring. Barry Wood’s voice is soothing. This side won’t help Lyman.
Love Song is an improvement because it was created by Sigmund Romberg and Gus Kahn. Muted trombone introduces a waltz mood. Donald King’s vocal treatment is neither here nor there. Throughout our impression was that the band was being held back. (Decca; 1235).
I’ve Got Beginner’s Luck'; They All Laughed—Tommy Dorsey.
Sweet clarinet takes the lead, followed by a muted Dorsey trombone chorus. Edythe Wright should be proud of the background to her neat singing. The arrangement is planned cleverly. For the last chorus Tommy has saved an order of heavy, loose swing.
“They All Laughed” is also from “Shall We Dance,” and is a credit to it. The introduction to Edythe Wrights vocal is particularly appealing. The words are interesting. Dorsey is the leader of a much-improved band. His drummer will bear watching. More good clarinet in this one. (Victor 25544).
Sentimental and Melancholy; Too Marvelous For Words—Glen Gray. Sentimental has the best introduction we have heard this month. It is taken' from an old tune — “Lulu’s Back in Town”—and is worked in to advantage. Wire brushes by the drummer aid the effect. That solid Gray brass is more than good. Kenny Sargent’s contribution is as usual, polished; he hits a high note at the end with ease.
Our review of “Too Marvelous” is prejudiced because we like the melody so much. Nevertheless, anybody would appreciate this record. Sargent again produces an expert vocal. If this disc is any indication, Glen Gray’s band is returning to its position of three years ago. (Decca;
. 1158).
There’s a Lull in My Life; Carelessly Kay Thompson and her Rhythm Singers.
Kay, in the first record we have heard of her group, has selected one
of the sweetest tunes of the season. Her rich voice is packed with expression. Her own band supports her smartly. Noted for ingenious arrangements, her fame is strengthened by this record.
“Carelessly,” one of the newer tunes, rates enthusiasm, although not quite the equal of the reverse. Her rhythm singers are heard more. You should want these tunes. (Victor; 25564)
The Love Bug Will Bite You; Listen to the Mocking Bird—Jim Dorsey. Love Bug has tremendous novelty possibilities and Dorsey capitalizes on them if that sort of thing appeals i to you. Ray McKinley works hard on the lyrics, monopolizing most of the record. When the band is allowed to show, it sounds very fine. We’d like more of the ensemble singing at the end.
It is safe to say that the Mocking Bird never received such treatment before. This is all band work—no vocal—and contains excellent Dixie
land swing. The Dorsey saxophones please. In the last chorus muted brass is featured. Recommended for public consumption. (Decca; 1187)
Brunswick
The Love Bug Will Bite You; The Isle of Kitchy-Mi-Boko—Hal Kemp (7854).
“The love bug will bite you.”
Two novelty numbers played in the Kemp jumpy trumpet style. “The Love Bug” etc., sung by Saxy Dowell, drags in numbers from the Wedding March to Kemp’s own theme song and quite effectively. The other side will be remembered for a smooth Maxine Gray vocal.
They Can’t Take That Aivay From Me; Beginner’s Luck — Johnny Greene and Fred Astaire (7855).
These are Gershwin tunes (which means they’re excellent) and neither suffered in the arranger’s hands. The orchestration is outstanding, featuring Greene’s piano playing in both. Only Astaire’s singing is weak, but it couldn’t mar a record as good as this one. “They Can’t Take That Away From Me” should hit the top.
Siveet Heartache; I Dreanu of San Marino—Ed Fitzpatrick. (Vocallion 3510)
“Sweet Heartache” is a catchy tune played in an unusual manner, featuring wood-winds with a brass beat in the background. The band,
although practically unknown, is excellent. Ed Fitzpatrick does both of the vocals and they are more-than-adequate.
(Continued on Page 21)
12	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.......................Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER...................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie				The IVeek
Anthony F. O’Boyle	 Joseph Rotondo	 Robert L. Grogan		—		College Parade 	In The Juggler Vein 	“Scholastic of the Air"
Louis DaPra _			News Staff	
Harold A. Williams	 Michael Mongoven	 Richard Riley	 George Haithcock	 Frederick Sisk	 Thomas Marker	 Gregory Byrnes	 Frank E. Larwood	 James Dempsey	 Vincent W. Hartnett’/	Edward Huff		Assistant News Editor 	Frank Reilly 	Robert McClain —Vincent de Coursey 	John Callaghan 	James Hufnagel 	Graham Starr 	F. Barreda 	John Kohn
Harold A. Williams C		
Sports Staff	-
Eugene Vaslett_________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe_________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride_____________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby _______________________________John Clifford
Charles Callahan________________________William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott_______________________________;__James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger____________________________________A rt Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, ’26_____________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall. Notre Dame. Indiana.
Vol. 70
May 14, 1937
No. 25
NUMBER THIRTY-ONE ....
FOR THE thirty-first time,' printers are locking up forms for The Dome. Advance information indicates that this year’s book will hit a new high. And this new high will not be just over-stated oratorical praise, but a real accomplishment.
For one thing, the 1937 Dome will carry a special section of pictures taken at the 1937 Senior Ball—something never before achieved by the year book. This move will bring the books to the campus just one day later than last year in spite of the added effort involved.
A successful year book must accomplish myriad tasks with clarity and diplomacy. It must do more than simply compile a photographic record of scenes and events. Many editors have claimed they tried to “capture the spirit of the year”—which is largely poppycock. Production of a real year book demands a solid year of really hard work, intelligent planning, and rigorous regard for that omni-present “schedule.” Inspiration is a small matter.
On May 26 and 27 Editor Radigan will issue a tough year’s work between two covers—it is our guess that the real work will show, excellently.
THE PINK MANIFESTO....
ANEW and sensible note in. the battle-cry against
Communism was sounded Tuesday by Bishop James A. Griffin, of Springfield, Ill., when he urged Knights of Columbus to concentrate on “parlor pinks.”
“Our chief danger is not from the Reds; there is only a small proportion of them,” Bishop Griffin said. “It is the pinks who cause the harm. They show encouragement to radical tendencies; they do great damage.”
In the past several months there have been attacks from many fronts levelled at the large, somewhat nebulous form of Communism. In the attacks, oratorical and editorial, much free advertising has been given the evil under consideration. People only lukewarm to either side of the case have come to conclude that Communism must be pretty important to demand all this attention. In fact it is.
Bishop Griffin has hit a rather vulnerable spot. Most of us, in ordinary routine existence, will rarely come hand-to-hand with a dyed-in-the-wool Communist armed with the Manifesto and a scythe. But many, indeed most of us, will probably have a wrangle or two with some self-styled “liberal” who goes off half-cocked and unconsciously spreads discontent and misunderstanding. It is usually the irresponsible, semi-detached units in an army that cause the most unjust damage, since there can be no defense for their unorthodox moves.
The “parlor pink” always prefaces his remarks “Of course this may sound radical,” or “Maybe you’ll think I’m a Communist—heh-heh!” In nine cases out of ten they are secretly hoping that the auditors will shudder and think of the speaker as some important agent of the OGPU, or a Communist who has been through the evil mill of capitalism and had his ideals twisted. The truth probably is that the poor deluded soul knows no other way of attracting attention and can’t shine by excelling in the more ordinary pursuits. Whatever his motives— the “Parlor pink” causes plenty of trouble and needs the firm feel of a weeding tool that will rout him out by the roots.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
13
Prof. F. X. Ackermann, 50-Years, 1887-Mechanieal Drawing
"These Are the Faces That Launched . . ."
Ten Thousand Careers; Fourteen Present Faculty Members Have Influenced the Alumni of More Than a Quarter of a Century; Always Pleased to See Old Students.
Prof. Jose A. Caparo, 25 Years. 1908-2 Electrical Engineering
Rev. W. A. Bolger, c.s.c., 26 Years, 1911-’ Economics and Politics
“Traditions are the real tapestries of all noble halls. Traditions claim and receive the plenary loyalty of all high and fine spirits. ‘Our fathers have told us’ is a slogan of all reverential — that is to say, the best — minds. It is almost a touchstone of refinement in a man to be mindful of the cave from which he was digged and the rock from which he was hewn. In theology tradition is a fount of revelation; in education tradition is a fount of culture. . .” These were words of the late Father Cavanaugh.
These men here pictured are the living traditions of Notre Dame. They have served school and student 25 years or more.
Some of these faces are familiar to today’s students as they have been familiar to many generations of students. Some others, however, we scarcely know unless we happen to be in their departments.
Rf.v. C. Doremus. c.s.c. 25 Years, 1910-4 French
Prof. Knowles B. Smith, 29 Years, 1908-Mining Engineering
Rev. M. J. Walsh, c.s.c., 28 Years, 1908-s History
Scenes shift rapidly in a fast paced world. It is reassuring to know that some of the characters remain solid, that some of the certainty of solidity remains for guidance.
To those who know them and those who should, we present fourteen veteran faculty members.
Not one of these men fails to express his enjoyment and his appreciation of the thoughtfulness of the men who have gone from his classroom to their careers and who come back in person or correspondence to exchange greeting or reminiscence.
To utilize the beautiful philosophy of Father Cavanaugh in this particular relationship, how vital to a living University that its alumni should be mindful of the intellectual caves from which they were digged by these teachers of Notre Dame, and these sculptors of the young mind who hewed them from their rocks.
Prof. Rob’t Lee Greene, 35 Years. 1902-Pharmacy
1	Father Bolger’s five years at St. Thomas, 1928-33. did not remove his influence or his friendships from Notre Dame.	■
2	Prof. Caparo spent some time in teaching and studying in South America and one year in teaching at Carnegie Tech.
3	Dr. Cooney taught a year in 1901-02, left, to return in 1911 to resume his teaching career.
4	Father Doremus was away from the University for two years in 1924-26.
5	Father Walsh was President of the University. 1922-28, and was on leave of absence. 1934-5.	■
Rev. Thos. Irving, c.s.c.. 27 Years. 1910-Mathematics & Religion
Prof. James Hines, 27 Years. 1910-History
Prof. John M. Cooney, 27 Years. 1901-3 Journalism
Prof. Edw. J. Maurus, 42 Years. 1895-Mathematics
Prof. F. W. Kervick, 28 Years, 1909-Architecture
Prof. Wm. L. Benitz.
41 Years. 1896-Mechanical Engineering
Prof. Reg. Kaczmarek, 25 Years, 1912-Bioldgy
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
A THLE TICS
IRISH TRACKSTERS IN COLUMBUS TOMORROW TO MEET STRONG OHIO STATE SQUAD MANY MEET RECORDS TO GO
NET SQUAD DEFEATS ST. LOUIS. LOSES TO KENTUCKY
The Ohio State thinlies, minus their former four-star place winner, Jesse Owens, will be waiting on their home track tomorrow to meet the Irish of Notre Dame.
Strong in all departments save one or two and headed by two sure winners,
Captain Chuck Beetham and Dave Albritton, the Buckeyes will be out to avenge the defeat suffered in the triangular meet last year when the Irish just barely nosed them out of first: place.
Captain Beetham looks like an easy winner in the 880 in spite of the recent impressive showings of both Cavanaugh and Francis. Against Michigan last week, the Buckeye star ran a 1:52.6 half-mile. Neither of the Notre Dame thinlies have run well enough to beat this mark.
Dave Albritton is conceded first place in the high jump. He did 6 feet 61/16 inches last week, a height around which he constantly hovers. The Buckeyes may, and probably will, .make a clean sweep in this event.
The two mile run will probably be the best event of the meet. Szu-machowski set a new Notre Dame outdoor record of 9:36.2 against Navy, and was followed by his teammate Gormley. However, Whittaker ran a 9:38.4 against Michigan, only two seconds off Szumachowski’s time. This is only a slight margin in comparing two-mile times.
The mile should prove as close and as interesting as the two - mile. Blickle, of Ohio State, came second in a 4:19.7 mile last week and should do even better on the faster. home track. Greg Rice is still suffering from a throat ailment and hasn’t been running in top form. The burden may fall on Arch Gott, who won the event against Navy in fine fashion.	•
If Notre Dame’s Faymonville can’ do nearly as well in the discus against Ohio State as he did against Navy when he set a new record with -a toss of 149 feet 4% inches, he should be able to win the event. Ohio State didn’t place a man in the discus throw in the Michigan Meet. In the shot put his competition will come from Zarnas.
Notre Dame will also hold, the upper hand in the broad jump. Boyle (Continued on Page 21) -
Coach Nicholson Szumachoicski ran too fast.
BADGERS AND IRISH CLASH TOMORROW ON HOME LINKS
•
Notre Dame’s capable golf team, with a record of six victories, one defeat, and one tie so far tins season, will attempt to add to its string of victories when it meets a strong Wisconsin team on the William J. Burke Memorial Course tomorrow. The Irish have already downed the Badgers by a 19%-7% score in their portion of a triangular meet at Minnesota.
Wisconsin has a team of several experienced club-swingers. Bowden Davis, the captain and number-one man, is well-assisted by Hod Powell, a Badger basketball star and one of (Continued on Page 21)
Early season predictions of an improved Irish net squad for 1937 were completely verified last weekend when Coach de Landero’s rac- -quet wielders scored an upset victory over the heavily favored Missouri Valley champions of St. Louis University. Playing on the local courts the Varsity tennis team won three of the singles and one of the doubles to eke out a narrow one-point victory over a team that, prior to match time, was considered its superior in all departments of the clay court game.
Headed by Bob Keaney, intercollegiate semi-finalist, -the St. Louis outfit jumped into an early one-point lead when Keaney trimmed Notre Dame’s first spot player, Captain Bill Fallon by 6-3, 6-3, scores. Jim Waldron’s victory over Reel evened the match for Notre Dame, and Eddie Kilrain gave the Blue and Gold the lead when he whipped Tanney in two straight love sets. St. Louis pulled even when Wilcox beat Arnold, but “Whit” Gregory gave the Irish score a boost by taking Eggleston. Once again, however, the Missouri Valley champions made a comeback by wining the first of the doubles when Kilrain and Arnold of Notre Dame fell before the strokes of Reel and Wilcox.	.
For the all-important final contest Coach de Landero called his only two seniors, Captain Fallon and Jim Waldron, into action, and against them St. Louis pitted its top flight tandem of Keaney and Tanney. Winning the first canto- rather easily by a 6-2 score Fallon and Waldron were pressed in the second and decisive set to a hectic and long fought 10-8 count before they could check in with the winning point to insure Notre Dame’s first tennis victory over St. Louis.
On Saturday, while the eyes of all sportsdom were trained on. the Derby, the Blue and Gold tennis team invaded the Blue Grass State to see what it could do about erasing the . one-sided defeat the “Wildcats” of Kentucky University gave them in 1936. But once again the Kentucky squad proved to be the master of the court situation by winning on a 6-3 / count.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
15
STATE TEACHERS FALL IN LAST INNING IRISH RALLY
KLINEMEN HOST TO PURDUE HERE TOMORROW SOPHOMORES DOMINATE BOILER SQUAD RATED BEST TEAM IN YEARS
By Charles Callahan
Capitalizing on three Western State errors, the Notre Dame nine tallied their fourth and deciding run in the ninth inning, Saturday, at Cartier Field. The score was 4-3. It was the fifth straight time that the Irish had topped the Michigan aggregation.
In their own half of the ninth, Western State had tied the count at three all. When the Klinemen returned to the bench, they decided that something must be done pronto or a late supper would be unavoidable.
Nardone, first up, was safe when the third baseman juggled his high bounder. Andy Puplis, in attempting to bunt hit a little pop fly to the pitcher. However, when the mounds-man dropped the ball, Nardone was one second and Puplis on first. Joe O’Neil then did his part by advancing both runners with a sacrifice. Supper began to look like a late affair again, though, when Johnny Moir flied out to right field. “Chuck” Borowski, next man at the plate, evidently . had a different idea, for he smashed a shot at the shortstop and when that worthy finally stopped fumbling with the pellet, Nardone had placed his spikes on the counting platter and the ball game was history.	'
Borowski was the batting star of the day. Previous to knocking in the final marker, he had hit safely three times in four attempts. Furthermore, the former South Bend Central athlete scored three runs himself.
Larry Doyle, sophomore first baseman, accounted for the first run, in the fourth inning, when he singled to right to score Borowski from second. Successive singles by Borowski Doyle, Braddock and Kovzelove, in the last of the sixth, gave the N.D. team their second run. Western State, in the seventh, tallied twice to tie the tussle. Then in the eighth, Borowski again came through with a single. He stole second, went to third on an infield out, and came home on Kovzelove’s one-bagger.
BILL TERRY was only 20 years old when he managed the Toledo team of the American Association.
CAPT. CARL FISCHER of the Western State tennis team has numbered Norm Bickel of Chicago university and Ernie Sutter of Tulane, the national intercollegiate champion, among his recent victims. '
Notre Dame’s “consistently inconsistent” baseball team will attempt to slug its way into a rousing victory over the Boilermakers from Purdue, tomorrow afternoon. The game will be played on Cartier Field at 2 o’clock campus time. So far this season the Klinemen have proved to be so completely erratic that fans have been taught to expect any- |	.
thing. However with a little more seasoning this team should settle down as a more experienced unit.
Purdue comes here with an outfit
that will provide some red-hot com-
Joe O’Neill Kid boots hit one.
petition. A game scheduled for earlier in the season between the two teams was postponed because of rain, and both squads are eager for the hostilities to begin. -
The Boilermakers are coached by that great former all-star Purdue athlete, Dutch Fehring. Dutch has brought the boys along in fine shape this season. Early in the spring he took his team on a southern trip during- which they won four out of six
Wildcatsa Old Golf Rivals, Defeated .
By Irish Team in Chicago Meeting
Father George Holderith and his six most capable golfers went up to the Kildeer Country club last Saturday to meet the strong Northwestern linksmen, who are in second place in the Big Ten standings, and returned to the campus on the long end of a 12^-8% score. The score was knotted at the conclusion of the morning doubles play but some fine work by the Irish niblick swingers in the afternoon singles engagements spelled defeat for the Wildcats. Sid Richardson and Kostelecky of the Purple and Captain Lou Fehlig and Al Mail-hes of the visitors turned in cards of 73 to share medal honors for the day. The former holds the Western Junior championship and has two more years to compete for the Wildcat golf
starts against Louisiana State and Centenary. In one of these games Arnold Bredewater struck out eleven and pitched airtight ball as Purdue whipped Louisiana State 2-0.
Sophomores have played quite a part in Purdue’s success so far. Three yearling pitchers are Arnold Bredewater, Joe Doan, and Heiss. The team can put a brother battery on the field composed of the Bredewater boys, Arnold and Arthur. Other youngsters are Breslin, Ly-boult, Thompson, and Dean in the infield, and Poulos, Malysiak, and Baker in the outfield. Veterans, who have been playing their usual bang-up game, are Bob Rosser, veteran pitcher; Co-captain Oris Martin, experienced left-hander, who has just recovered from a siege of illness; and Co-captain Bob Lucas, who has been a steady performer at second.
For Notre Dame, Rydell, Arboit, or Goncher will start as pitcher, while Al Kozelove seems to have settled himself definitely at catcher. Andy Puplis still holds an undisputed claim at shortstop, but at second there is a free-for-all squabble between three good boys, Brennan, Braddock, and Gaglione. The remainder of the infield will be made up of Larry Doyle and Mohr. The outfield is more definite, boasting three lads with a punch, Moir, Borowski, and Nardone.
squad.
The Irish lost the first morning match as Marek and Peerpich defeated Melbourne and Bennett, 2-1. The four boys who won medal honors comprised the foursome in the other doubles match and Fehlig and Mail-hes nosed out Kostelecky and Richardson by a 2-1 margin.
In the afternoon singles play the linksters were determined to break the deadlock as soon as possible. Kostelecky and Fehlig tied but Al Mail-hes trimmed Sid Richardson, U-l, to give the Irish the lead which they never relinquished. Castleman then blanked. Marek, 3-0 but Perpich trimmed Melbourne, 2-1. Tom Sheehan copped the finale for Notre Dame as he nosed out Bedrosian, 2-1.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
INTRODUCING By g™
SPARTANS HOSTS TO IRISH TRACK MEN NEXT SATURDAY
From the reserved and sedate environs of New Rochelle, N. Y., there came to Notre Dame, in September of 1933, quietly enough, a blond haired cherub, William Fallon, who had aspirations to be a tennis ‘ player on Notre Dame’s varsity. But the blond haired boy did not remain a cherub very long.
The mid-Western tennis players, or the courts suddenly weaved a spell over him, and in the course of three hectic
Captain Bill Fallon
years William became known, and with good reason, as “Wild Bill” the “greatest show on earth,” and one of the most promising tennis players Notre Dame has sver had.
When we said “quietly enough” we meant just that, for “Wild Bill” wanted, first of all, to be a manager, and that career is certainly a sedate one, mana-. gers’ opinions to the contrary. But the tennis courts got him, and in his last year at Notre Dame Bill has devoted himself almost exclusively to the pursuit of knocking the ball around the court, and out of it, too.
He prepped at Iona and New Rochelle high schools before entering the institution that calls him “Wild Bill.” It was at Iona, in 1932, that he started playing tennis competitively, on the side, so to speak, for at that time he devoted himself to performing on the football and basketball teams of his prep. He won two letters on each of these, besides two letters on the tennis team. During summers of those years he played on the New Rochelle and Westchester- tennis teams in inter-city matches, to keep his game on form and to practice for the various tournaments that he entered.
The tournaments that Bill played in read like a big league tennis schedule. He participated in all the Westchester- tournaments, the Eastern Grass, the Stevenson Tennis Club, and the Larchmont tournaments, just to name a few, and came out on top in the Stevenson in 1934 and the Larchmont in 1931. His opponents in these contests were such top-notch players as Gene Mako, from whom he took one set in a match, Frank Shields, whom he played in a doubles match, Dick Hubbard, National Boys Champion, and John Barrymore Colt, considered one of the best players in Westchester.
Here at Notre Dame Bill won the Fall tournaments in his freshman year, and was runner up last year, besides playing a regular game on the varsity and captaining it this year. In the State Tournament of 1936 he and Joe McNulty advanced to the finals of the doubles play. That particular match was one of the most thrilling ever held in Indiana. The final took two days to play, and was carried to five sets before McNulty and Fallon fell before the onslaughts of their opponents. It was here that he was given his title of “Wild Bill” by Ed Kilrain. During the match he would hit a ball into the net and then get mad and hit the next one over the fence. After a performance like that, it’s a wonder nobody else but Kilrain decided to call him wild.
Besides tennis Bill was a member of the first handball team to participate in an intercollegiate contest. He took part in the first match of the first meet and and auspiciously enough, lost it. But that’s not to his discredit, because the man he played was Illinois A.A.U. champ. He and Clair* are in the final round of the University doubles handball tournament as this is written.
This summer Bill plans to enter the National Doubles tournament at Sea-bright with Jim Waldron, to see what they can do against the big boys. After that he hopes to play in the National Singles at Forest Hills and we, for one, will be out there to watch “Wild Bill” perform.
Sandwiched in between the Ohio Statemeet tomorrow and the all important Indiana State Conference meet on the 29th, the Irish trackmen have an engagement which at first sight does not seem so important. However, when we consider such facts as these—that Michigan State has what they consider the best track team in their history—that seven of their men placed in the C.I.C. meet last March — and that they gave Notre Dame the hardest fight of any of the entrants in that meet, we see the situation assuming startling proportions.
Consequently, when Coach Nicholson takes his men to East Lansing, they will have to be in top form in order to triumph over the Spartans. On the other hand, the showing against Navy last week indicated that several of the lads whom Nick has been counting on to pull him through are rounding into shape.
Bill Clifford’s :09.6 hundred against the Tars should give him an edge over Greer, although the latter beat him in the C.I.C. meet. Clifford has not shown so well in the furlong, but here Nick has an up-and-coming sophomore named Wolf.
Michigan State has three good hurdlers in Dale Springer, John Pringel and Clare McDurmon, who finished fourth in the C.I.C. high hurdles, and who will probably give Morgan no little trouble.
Darwin Dudley’s quarter-miling also got him a place in the C.I.C. meet, but Parsons has come a long way since then, and with Sheehan, will furnish competition aplenty. Nelson Gardner and Art Green should not be too difficult for Cavanaugh and Francis to conquer, although Gardner stuck to Francis’ heels all the way the last time they met.
Ken Waite, I.C. 4-A cross country champ, lost to Greg Rice in the mile, last March. However, since then Rice has suffered severely from a throat infection, and at present is far from being in the best condition. Arch Gott will endeavor to make up for Greg’s weakness, and judging from his past performances, will go far in this respect.
On the basis of early showings, Gerard Boss, is the favorite at two miles. However, Steve Schumachow-ski’s record-breaking race last Saturday shows that he is at last hitting his stride, and with Gormley to help him should have an edge.
(Continued on Page 17)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
17
TEACHERS TO AGAIN TRY TO DEFEAT IRISH "JINX"
TENNISERS MEET WILDCATS AND SPARTANS IN FINAL DUAL MEETS; STATE MEET TO CONCLUDE IRISH SEASON
Having failed in their last five attempts to defeat the Irish of Notre Dame, the Western State Teachers will have one more opportunity next Wednesday when they meet the Irish again on their home grounds.
Despite the fact that the Hilltoppers have been leading the Michigan state teams for four of the last five year, and in spite of the fact that comparative scores have usually made them favorites, the Teachers have been unable to turn in a victory against the Irish in the last two years.
In their most recent attempt, last Saturday, they were again unsuccessful in their efforts to break the Irish win streak. A last inning run scored by Nardone when Krueger booted Borowski’s knock gave Notre Dame its slim margin of victory.
Coach Charles Maher began the season with an experienced player in almost every position, while the Irish started with a group of distinctly “green” players—as far as varsity experience was concerned. However, the latter have been formed into a smoothly working unit since then and have been clicking well against teams which started their season with much beetter prospects.
The defeat Saturday was the first suffered by State this year. The battery used against the Irish was Preston and Abel. However, it is likely that Coach Maher will start his star mound performer, Dave Arnold, against Notre Dame in this next tussle in an effort to stop the Irish winning streak.
The streak isn’t the first of its kind against the Hilltoppers. The two schools opened relationships on the diamond in 1914 and since then the Irish have won 14 out of 19 games played. In the last five years the Teachers have won 32 out of 40 games against Big Ten opponents— which proves that they have had one of the best teams in the Mid-West. Nevertheless, the Irish have been able to take their measure. This return game on the Teachers’ home field may, however, swing them into the win column again.
Michigan State Track
(Continued from Page 16)
In the weights and field events, the Spartans are at a decided disadvantage. Although Bill Smith is state champion of Michigan in the shot put, he was beaten by three Notre Dame men in the C.I.C. meet, and Art Jenkins was able to give him little assistance.
By Tony O'Boyle
With their season already three-quarters over varsity members of Notre Dame’s current net team paused a moment last Monday to survey the record already made and to estimate their chances of jumping their present .500 stride up to a season percentage of .750. To do this will necessitate their winning both of the closing matches on their schedule against Northwestern and Michigan
Jim Waldron
Notre Dame’s versatile boy.
State. If Captain Fallon and his cohorts are able to do this they will set several new records for Irish tennis teams of the future to shoot at, for up to this time no Notre Dame team has ever beaten these schools in tennis, nor has any hit over the .500 mark with a similar schedule.
Having arrived at that conclusion the next project considered was the possibility of winning the State Invitational tournament at Earlham later
Notre Dame Club Swingers Vie With Michigan State on Burke Course Monday
Un May 17, Lou Fehlig and party will tackle the visiting Michigan State organization, to complete another bracket of the 1937 extensive golf schedule.
With five victories, one tie, and one defeat on the records, Father Holder-ith announced “we’re not taking any chances.” After a victory in Wildcat territory on May 8, he learned of the strength of the Michigan State par-sters from the lips of the Northwestern coach. Composed mainly of sophomores, the Michigan State aggregation sounds weak, but actually this handicap is outweighed by skill.
Having beaten such outfits as Wis
in the month. Last year’s net crew fared rather well in the State meet. Joe McNulty won the State Singles championship, while “Wild Bill” Fallon reached the semi-finals of the Singles, and then paired up with McNulty to advance to the final round in the doubles.
This year Coach de Landero has welded together a better balanced, team which can boast of plenty of strength in not only the singles but in the doubles as well. Captain Bill Fallon will be lost to next year’s team as will Jim Waldron, but with such players as Eddie Kilrain, Bill Arnold, Fred Simon, Whit Gregory, Bill Wolfe, Frank Bappenhagen, Bill Waters, and Joe Lewis returning, there’s no need for the smelling salts as was the case this year.
What is known about Notre Dame’s next two opponents, Northwestern and Michigan State, can hardly be called encouraging, since both of them have thus far gone through theii* schedule with only one or two losses checked against them. However, the steady improvement of Arnold and Kilrain as a doubles team and the smooth playing of the Waldron and Fallon tandem gives the Irish the best chance they have had in years. In the State Invitationals the prospects are a bit rosier, since victories over Purdue and Indiana have already been marked up, and these two Hoosier squads are rated as among the best teams in the tournament. Butler University, at the present time, is the main question mark, for the “Bulldogs” have been wiping up about all the opposition they can find in the southern part of the state.
consin, Minnesota, and Northwestern, the local clubsters hope to continue their growing line of victories, meeting Wisconsin first, and then Michigan State. The team showed good form in action against the Wildcats, but even this 1212 to victory left the boys pessimistic as to possible victory over State.
Starters for the meet have not been determined as yet by Father Holder-ith, but Sheehan, Donovan, Milboum, and Mailhes will most likely be on the scorecards. Competition has been keen, and both old and new talent has shown brilliant style in practice rounds played this week.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
BY CY STROKER
We hesitate to inject our sparkling personality into this double column of journalistic effort. We know that you don’t care whether we went to the Derby or spent the week-end playing ping-pong. Well, anyway we went to the Derby, see? We just bring the subject up so that you can profit by a sad personal experience. We readily admit that we know nothing of horses, being a product of a town where horses are only dimly remembered as something that was connected with a milk wagon. So when Sports Editor Gene Vaslett whispered in our ear that he had a "hot tip,” we grabbed him by the arm and told him to divulge. Brother' Vaslett went on to explain that a fellow who knows a horse told him that a certain nag had the race in the bag. Consequently, at the Derby we screamed ourselves hoarse (all right, what if it is a pun?) cheering the favored animal on, but to no avail. The name of the horse?—Sir Damion. He finished nineteenth.
▼
The Notre Dame baseball team has been somewhat neglected in this column so far this spring, but it is not due to a lack of interest in the sport by the students. Every game played on Cartier Field, while not attracting a capacity house, is well attended. And rightly so, for the team has been doing exceptionally well. We don’t have to stretch our memory back very far to remember a day when baseball was almost dying at Notre Dame. But with a revival of interest brought about by Coach Jake Kline, the success of the team became more noteworthy each year. To date the Irish nine has won four games and lost three, playing in a pretty stiff league. At time of writing the Louisiana games have not been played, but the team has broken even with Chicago, and tucked away victories from Illinois, Wisconsin, and Western State Teachers. Michigan State and Northwestern have brought the average down a little, but we hope for a well rounded out season before June rolls around.
BIG TEN CONTENDER OHIO STATE. HERE FOR 2 GAMES
Nor can we neglect the golf team which has been going on its merry way for some time now. The disadvantage under which the golfers work is that they have piled up-good records for such a long time that everyone expects them to continue. Let us review their record to date for you. In their first match they played to a tie with Washington U. in a bitterly cold wind. Aside from a defeat by Purdue, the team has had an uninterrupted series of victories ever since, downing Chicago, Ohio State, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Detroit, and Northwestern. If the team can put Purdue out of the way, they will stand a good chance of capturing the state collegiate crown, one that they have held for several years now.
We pause for a moment to give tribute to Elmer Layden, the managers, and the S.A.C., for the splendid success of the interhall winter tournaments. Conducted for the first time this year, the bowling, billiards, and handball tournaments were greeted with such a deluge of student interest as to show conclusively how badly they were needed. We predict, with a good deal of safety of course, that these tournaments will become a tradition at Notre Dame, and will soon include participation by practically every student on the campus.
▼
Whenever we want any figures or facts, we go over to see our old friend Joe Petritz. This week we wanted the batting averages of the baseball players, but Joe sullenly announced that he didn’t have them. In defense of this rather extraordinary statement he defiantly handed us a list of names which turned out to be a “Brother monogram winner” combination. The idea is that members of present squads have had brothers who also won monograms at Notre Dame. Heading the list was John Kelleher, whose father won a monogram back in 1915. Then there was Emmett Crowe, of the famous Crowe family, whose brother Clem started off the Crowe monogram winning activities back in 1925. Also included in the list were Vic Vergara, whose brother George won his monogram in 1924; Jim Young, brother of Johnny Young of 1933; and Bob O’Neill, brother of Joe.
The Notre Dame baseball nine will play host to the Ohio State aggregation when they meet the Scarlet in a two-game series next Friday and Saturday, May 21 and 22 on Cartier field. The inexperienced Irish showed much improvement in their game with Western State last Saturday, and should show added improvement in following games.
Ohio State this year has one of the best teams in the Big Ten circuit. The Buckeyes split their series with Michigan, last year’s champions. They beat the strong Northwestern team two games. This is the same Northwestern team that beat the Irish last week at Evanston. If comparative scores mean anything the bunch from Ohio State will enter the two contests with a decided advantage.	.
In their only game last year Notre Dame whipped the Ohio Staters by a 2 to 1 score on Cartier field. The return game scheduled to be played at Columbus was rained out. The Scarlet had a good team last year and finished high in the Big Ten standings. This year the lineup is even more formidable. Most of last year’s stars were carried over, and in addition some sophomore stars made their appearance. The best of the promising sophomores is Dagenhard, a classy pitcher.	‘
Notre Dame, on the other hand, started the season with a very green team which has gained poise and experience with each succeeding game. In spite of inclement weather in early practice sessions, Coach Kline has molded a team that is fast coming and has great possibilities. Capt. , Ennio Arboit showed some of last year’s stuff when he turned back Western State last Saturday. ’
Kovzelove behind the bat has developed into a capable receiver. Chuck Borowski seems to be a fixture in center, and has been hitting with renewed vigor. The left and right field positions are two of Coach Kline’s chief worries. In left Nardone and Edelin are the leading candidates; in right Moir and Joyce are’ fighting it out.
Italians Meet
A meeting of all members of the Italian club is called for Tiiesd&y night by Joseph Mangelli, president. Assembling in the Carroll Recreation hall, the group will discuss plans for the election of officers and a final banquet to be held this month.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
19
IRISH HIT BARRAGE BEATS LA. TECH.
IN FIRST GAME
•
Louisiana Tech’s star right hander Bud Stinett may have pitched a perfect no-run, no-hit game against Centenary a short time ago, but Notre Dame’s baseball team suffered from no such starvation of hits as they pounded out a 9-4 decision in the first of the two-game series Wednesday afternoon on Cartier field. The Irish gathered twelve hits including two home runs and two triples from Stinett’s offerings, while Johnny Goncher gave up but seven blows in winning his second game of the season.
The contest was marked by numerous errors on both sides. Notre Dame booted the ball around five times, while Tech committed six miscues. Only one of the Tech runs were earned, the first two coming as a result of two errors by Cousin Joe O’Neil in the fourth inning. “Cousin Joe” redeemed himself, much to the delight of the other Phoenixville residents, by driving out a tremendous home run to deep left center in the seventh inning.
Notre Dame scored in the first inning on a long home run by Borowski. They added two more in the third, and following Tech’s two-run splurge in the fourth, accounted for three more in the fifth, to lead 6-2. O’Neil’s home run increased the score to eight, as Borowski scored ahead of him. Notre Dame scored its final-run in the eighth. Tech scored two in the fourth, one in the seventh, and accounted for its only earned run in the ninth.
Braddock with three hits out of four times at bat led the Notre Dame attack. Borowski with two for five, including a home run, shared the hitting honors for Kline’s men. “Joe” Nardone and “Larry” Doyle each hit long triples, Doyle being held to only three bases following fine fielding by ■ the Tech center fielder. The Tech hits were evenly divided with no player getting more than one.
Servers Dine
The annual banquet of the Servers’ Club was held Tuesday night in the Faculty Dining Hall. Speakers included Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.C. Guest of honor was the newest member of the club, Dan Hanley, who has been the regular server of Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., for many years. Mr. Hanley is caretaker of the fieldhouse.
NOTRE DAME THINLIES SINK MIDSHIPMEN 72-54; FAIR WEATHER AND FAST TRACK AID IN BREAKING SEVEN RECORDS
By Mark J. Mitchell
BRILLIANT SPARTAN BALL TEAM HERE END OF WEEK
Local followers of the national pastime will be afforded an opportunity of seeing one of the best college baseball teams in the Mid-West, when Michigan State comes to Cartier Field, on May 26. Recently the Spartans scored a 8-1 victory over the Irish, at East Lansing. In that contest George Hill, star pitcher for the visitors, held the Irish to five scattered hits and allowed but two walks.
Hill is expected to be on the mound when the two squads clash in a return game. The Spartans got an early start on most of their opponents this spring, by playing an eight game tour through the South, during March and April. The 1937 combine is one of the most prominent that Coach John Kobs has had in his 14 years at Michigan State.
Captain Steve- Sebo leads the Spartans from his catching position. He will be remembered by many gridiron fans as an outstanding halfback on Bachman’s football team, last fall. Milt Lehnhardt, hard-hitting slugger, will be at his usual post in center field. He bats and throws left-handed. Lehnhardt is being watched by several Detroit Tiger scouts, and it is thought that he will enter organized baseball after graduating in June. His base-line drives are extremely difficult to handle, which is probably the main reason why he bats in the clean-up position.
Illinois Is Next Foe Of Irish Golf Team
Saturday, May 22, the Notre Dame golf team winds up its dual match schedule with a trip to Champaign to play the University of Illinois. The Orange and Blue men of Illinois will be a stronger team than Northwestern, which gave the Irish a great deal of trouble last week. Hobard and Kohs,two senior veterans, are the best of the Illini, Hobbard at present being the Junior champion of the state. To continue their winning streak, the Irish will have to be at their driving and putting peak.
Under a vicious barrage of recordsmashing performances, the Navy sank in defeat last Saturday on Car-tier field. Perhaps it was the perfection of the weather, perhaps of the attending Ball guests which in-
Half-miler Cavanaugh Helps to sink Middies.
cited the Irish to such scintillating performances. No matter; they accumulated 74 points to the Tars’ 52, and in so doing, hung up five new marks to two for Navy.
Bill Faymonville alone was responsible for three of the broken records in one event. The old discus mark of 147 feet 8 inches was set by Tom Lieb in 1922. When Faymonville’s tremendous heave settled on • the grass, it was 149 feet 4% inches away from the circle. The results were new Notre Dame, Cartier Field, and meet records. The husky sophomore also got second place in the shot put.
Steve Szumachowski covered the eight laps of the two mile run in 9 minutes 36.2 seconds, establishing another new meet record. Previously, Arch Gott had knocked two seconds off McKenna’s meet record with a 4:24 mile. Irwin, of the Navy, was responsible for the sixth erasure of an old mark, when he threw the javelin 185 feet 1% inch.
In winning the century, Bill Clifford not only tied the existing Notre Dame and meet records at :09.6, but also beat Middy Jack Dalton, who had never before been outrun in dual competition. Dalton came back to win the furlong, and lowered his own mark in doing it. Jake Wolf, a promising Irish sophomore, ran second in this event, and pushed Dalton all the way.
Danny Gibbs, Nick’s “jack-of-all-events,” soared to 13 feet in the pole
(Continued on Page 22)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
The Loui-Douin on High Pressure
At this store we leave the high pressure to the tailors’ irons. You’re always free to come in and examine our stocks without being forced to buy.
Such a policy has paid for itself many times over in good will. That’s why more than half of our business is repeat—men coming back again and again. That’s why we’ve become one of this state’s important clothing institutions . . . and exclusive headquarters for America’s favorite quality clothes—Hart Schaffner & Marx.
P. S. Have you inspected our new Spring collection of models, patterns, colors and fabrics from Hart Schaffner & Marx? It’s really something to see. Stop in and browse around.
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
Notre Dame, Indiana
IRISH LOSE AND WIN ON ROAD TRIP
LAST WEEK
•
Cavorting on enemy diamonds last week, the Irish baseball nine divided two of their most recent “away” games, losing the first to Northwestern 3-2 on May 4, and winning the second 10-9 the following day from Wisconsin.
The Northwestern game was a close one throughout all nine innings, though two Notre Dame errors enabled the Wildcats to score their first two runs. Third baseman Mohr and Outfielders Borowski and Moir accounted for four of the Irish hits. They bunched two hits for two runs in the fifth, but two more in the seventh failed to pay off. The teams were tied going into the ninth. Northwestern pushed across the winning tally in their half of the inning, and, when Notre Dame came to bat, Roth struck out his eighth for the afternoon, quelling any possible Irish uprising in the latter half of the last inning. Both Goncher and Arboit were on the mound for Notre Dame, the former being the losing pitcher.
The Wisconsin game on the 5th was a good old fashioned slugfest with the visitors emerging victorious this time in spite of the 13 hits of the Badgers. Joe O’Neil got three
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
X CARBURETOR f YELLO-BOLE
for five and scored two runs, while Braddock and Puplis also hit well.
Irish “big guns” found the vulnerable spot in the Badger pitcher’s offering in the tenth and walloped him for three hits and two runs. In their half of the inning the Wisconsin nine could do no better than one run, ending the game at 10-9. Lefty Rydell received credit for the victory, though he was replaced in the eighth by Captain Ennio Arboit when the score stood 8-5, Notre Dame’s favor. This is Rydell’s first victory.
Stop with GEORGE J. (Studio) LINS, '02 at the Lins Golden Court Motor Hotel . On U. S. 66 Will Rogers Highway Tucumcari, N. Mex.
Filling Station and Cafe in connection.
The John Marshall
LAW
SCHOOL
FOUNDED 1899
AN
ACCREDITED
LAW SCHOOL
TEXT and CASE
METHOD
•
For Catalog, recommended list of pre-legal subjects, and booklet, "Studyaf Lawaad Proper Preparation** address: Edward T. Lee, Dean.
COURSES (40 weeks per year) Afternoon—3 years 5 days...4:30-6:30
Evening — 4 years Mon., Wed., Fri., 6:30-9:20
Post-graduate 1 year..twicea week Practice courses exclusively.
All courses lead to degrees.
Two years' college work required for entrance.
New classes form in Feb. and Sept.
315 Plymouth Ct, Chicago, III.
New way of burning tobacco —better, cooler, cleaner. Carburetor-Action cools smoke. Keeps bottom of bowl absolutely dry. Caked with honey. At dealers’ now.
UPDRAFT'* *"”",'”™"
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
21
Badger Golfers Here
(Continued from Page Ik) the longest collegiate drivers in the country, and Marty, the runner-up in last year’s Wisconsin Amateur tournament. Bill Ploetz, Paul Jensen, and possibly one or two others will fill out the remaining places on the team.
Captain Lou Fehlig, Bud Dona-van, Al Mailhes, Bill Castleman, Gene Milbourne, and Tom Sheehan, the six men who usually make up the nucleus of the Notre Dame squad, will probably handle most of the play for the Irish tomorrow.
Thinlies Meet Buckeyes
(Continued from Page Ik)
and Gibbs have steadily improved and may better the 21 feet, 11% inches which won the event last Saturday.
Clifford’s 9.6 makes him a favorite over Buckeye Lewis in the 100 yard dash. In the 440 Squires 'will be the man for Sheehan and Parsons to beat.
Phone 4-3601 Hour* 10 to 5
Dr. Landis H. Wirt
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Tower Building '
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919	Indiana
Announcement
On or about May 17th we will be located at
314 S. Michigan St.
*
LEMONTREE’S
Optometrists
Established 1903
Makers of Fine Glasses
Needle Notes
(Continued from Page 13)
Why 'Was I Bom?; I Must Have That Man—Teddy Wilson. (7859)
They were both good numbers, remember? Teddy fixes that, however, and in no uncertain terms. A vivid description of this record would hardly make good table-talk. Briefly, it smells.
GOOD LUCK GRADS
and when you return for a visit remember to ride the SOUTH SHORE line!
In a few more days the
Class of 1937 will be
scattered far and wide---- but someday, we know, each of you will be coming back. Good luck—but it’s not good-bye . . . . “We’ll be seein’ you.”
50Uthnsh°r[
Douglas Shoes Shine in Torture Wheel /,Final,/
Duplicate of shoe testing machine used by the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D.C. See the life-size photograph in our store windoiv.
TEST PROVES ALL-LEATHER QUALITY BACKING UP AUTHENTIC STYLE
$4.40 $5.00 $5.95
Douglas salutes the Class of ’37, and offers a word of wisdom: “Put your faith in the future and your feet in Douglas Shoes.” Why? . . .
Because Douglas Shoes are AllLeather Constructed! Because they are correctly styled to the last stitch! Because representative Douglas Shoes are subjected to the famous Torture Wheel test that ferrets out the slightest defect! Because they’re priced to please!
Stop in at our South Bend store today—then answer this “one second quiz”: Why pay more?
Men's Normal Treds* -	$7.45
* With patented, corrective, scientific features.
W. L. Douglas Store in S. Bend
210 South Michigan Street Open Saturday Evenings
VICTOR C. ASTONE, N.D. Representative
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
501 West South St., South Bend, Ind.	’Phone 3-6121
Navy Track Meet
(Continued from Page 19)
vault, tying the field and meet records. He then jogged over and reported to the starter for the low hurdles. After skimming these for a second place, he wound up his afternoon with another second in the broad jump. By virtue of his varied activities, Mr. Gibbs, with 11 points, was high point man, for which small favor, no doubt, the good Mr. Nicholson was duly grateful.
Jim Parsons’c win in the quarter tied a meet record at 50 seconds flat. However, one of the real surprises of the meet was the race run by Don Morgan in the high hurdles. The South Bend sophomore turned in his first victory of the year against G. Dalton and Isely of the Navy, both excellent hurdlers.
“Boff” Cavanaugh and John Francis jogged in practically abreast in the half mile. However, the former was given credit for first place. In winding up the meet, Boyle took the broad jump at 21 feet three inches. Notre Dame took nine first places to five for the Midshipmen, while neither team scored any slams.
RailwawBexpress
agencv\ . /Inc.
NATION-WIDE It A I L - A I K SERVICE
EARN REAL MONEY THIS SUMMER
Easy - Pleasant - Certain FULL-TIME or SPARE-TIME NO INVESTMENT
The science of the "‘new dentistry” is still in its infancy. It is a most promising field for constructive thought and work. It calls for the best minds interested in health service careers.
Because of advancing standards, enrollment in Dental Schools in the United States has been reduced during the past thirteen years. Today there is one practicing dentist to approximately each 2,4Qp of population.
Marquette University Dental School is given the highest rating —A— by the Dental Educational Council of America. Its diplomas to graduates are recognized in all states. The close relationship of dental-medical study proves an advantage to students.
Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, organic chemistry, and physics. '
For complete information concerning opportunities in dentistry, write to the Secretary, Marquette University Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Write Today tor Details
(please include your home address)
D. R. GOURLEY, President AUSTIN LIME CORPORATION 68 South Water Market, Chicago, Ill.
MILWAUKEE
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MAY 14, 1937
Commencement Week
(Continued from Page 3)
the Columbia Athletic club in South Bend; and the class of 1917 will hold their 20-year reunion party at the home of Bernard J. Voll.
Registration of alumni and class and alumni golf tournaments will continue Saturday morning, June 5. The mass for deceased Alumni will be said in the Sacred Heart' Church at 8:30 a.m. At 9:30 a.m. the class of ’37 will pay their last visit to the Sacred Heart Cchurch (private ceremony). The class day exercises and awards of honor will take place at 10:00 a.m. in Washington hall.
At 11:00 a.m. The Eighth annual council of local alumni clubs will meet. In the afternoon at 2:30 the University and Notre Dame will meet in another baseball game. The annual alumni banquet will be served at 6:00 p.m. in the east hall of the University dining halls. At 8:00 p.m. the University Musical organizations will present a concert in Washington hall.
The events on Sunday, June 6, will begin with an Academic procession from the Main building to the University gymnasium at 8:30 a.m. At 9:00 the Mass will be sung during which the Baccalaureate sermon will be delivered by the Most Reverend Karl J. Alter, D.D., Bishop of Toledo, Ohio. Immediately after the Mass the flag presented by the class of ’37 will be blessed. The flag will be raised on the Main Quadrangle at 11:00 a.m. At 12:00 m. the luncheon reunion of St. Joseph hall alumni will be held in the Faculty dining room; and the Monogram luncheon will be held in the west hall of the University dining halls.
The Laetare Medal will be presented to Dr. Jeremiah Denis M. Ford, in the University parlor, at 3:00 p.m. The Commencement week program will be brought to a clos at 4:00.
4U «LITTLE FENDRICH
AND DON'T FORGET TO VOTE MY WAY!!
Lucky Candidate to have LITTLE FENDRICH campaigning for him and it’s a cinch that after he’s the new class president they’ll still cast their votes anytime for LITTLE FENDRICH PANETELASI! The favorite cigar among young
men for years...
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
-Little .Pendrich
P AN E T EL AS
SUPER MILD - IMPORTED LONG FILLER
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
pleasure of smoking
Chesterfield’s aroma is DIFFERENT ... more pleasing... you like it better. That’s because of the way we blend and balance Chesterfield’s mild ripe home-grown tobaccos and aromatic Turkish tobaccos .. . and because the Chesterfield paper is PURE and burns without taste or odor.
Chesterfields will
give you MORE PLEASURE
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
