

3 The Notre Dame
Scholastic
DECEMBER 2, 1955
fl
E R 'V0R
F I N E
F 1 N E
LIKE A
cigarette
WINSTON
WINSTON™,«
X 7 TASTES GOOD!
K I v
S 1 2
WINSTON changed America's mind about filter smoking!
■ Happy homecoming! Winston brings flavor baclc to filter smoking — real tobacco flavor, rich and full. What’s more, Winston also gives you the benefit of a finer filter. The exclusive Winston filter really does the job so the flavor really comes through to you. King-size Winstons are easy-drawing, smooth-smoking, good-tasting!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
Smoke WINSTON the easy-drawing -filter cigarette!
The new look in neckwear . . . slim, trim ... in soft charcoal tones with a neat red stripe. In grey with muted tones of red, blue, green silver or gold. $2.50
THE NEW NECKWEAR
THE NEW PACKAGE
Introducing the new Gilbert’s Campus Shop Box . . . gold and blue, accented with a clean white top . . . unadorned, except for the distinctive Campus shop signature. A fitting package for smart Campus Shop styles.
^GILBERT'S
THE CAMPUS SHOP
QUALITY NAMES YOU’LL FIND AT
. . . and many, many more!
. . for the smart styles . . . the

Hickey Freeman Botany 500 Society Brand GGG Eagle Alpagova Wilson Bros. Beau Brummell Paris Arrow Stradavari Jockey Dobbs Cricketeer Countess Mara Bronzini Interwoven Skipper Faultless Swank McGregor
quality names . . . the label that stands
for the best in clothing and furnishings
Men who know quality, know that Gilbert’s stands for the best in clothing and furnishings. Look over our list of Quality Names you find at the Campus Shop . . . look at the smart styles . . . the NEW styles you find here. Check into Gilbert’s Young Executive Charge Account and see how easy it is for you to look your best . . . even on a budget.
WB I JEW fflIDEBJKER (MOUJIEK
Some lucky Notre Dame Man will drive a new 1955 Studebaker Commander Sport Coupe home for Christmas! See it pictured in our window . . . go in and find out how easily YOU might be the lucky man! No slogans to write . . . anyone can win! Given to a Notre Dame Man by Gilbert’s and Wilson Brothers!

December 2, 1955
It's a pleasure to get to know Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Each time you shave you can look forward to something special: the Old Spice scent—brisk, crisp, fresh as all outdoors ... the tang of that vigorous astringent—banishes shave-soap film, heals tiny razor nicks. Splash on Old Spice—and start the day refreshed!
Add Spice to Your Life... Old Spice For Men SHULTON New York • Toronto
The Notre Dome
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Dec. 2, 1955 No. 8.
*
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ... News Editor ED JOYCE ...................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN ..................Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ..........Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON............Assistant	Newj^
JAMES McDONALD ..........Assistant	News
JIM O’BRIEN .............Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN................Art	Editor
KEN WOODWARD...........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator DAVE DAVIN ............Sports	Editor
JOHN GLAVIN..............Assistant	Sporty y
JOE NORTON...............Assistant	Spordlf'
FOOTBALL REVIEW EDITOR: Dave Davin.
GAMES: John Glavin, Joe Norton. Bob O’Malley, Joe Bride, Jack Gueguen. Bob Ruhl, Kit EckI, Jim Goethals, Ray Lescher, Paul LaFrenicre. FEATURES: John Glavin. Gwen Warren, Bob Ruhl, Jim Merz. Dave Davin, Dave Kubal, Joe Norton, Jim O’Brien, Bob Early, Jim Merz.
PHOTOGRAPHY: Armin Gumerman, Steve Fox, ‘"Dutch” Hennings, Mike Thompson, Gerry Trafli-canda. Bob Early.	'
ART: Al Balmer and Jim Callahan. ADVERTISING: Ken Woodward, Harry Conlon, Loran Sheffer.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated, Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuso-ipts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: Fans from the country over saw the Irish make pre-season pollsters sit up and listen. Here Al Balmer of Indiana Engraving depicts the tradfi^ tional Notre Dame football colors that the people saw the Irish backs go marching by in.
Football Review
December 2, 1955
Ohly HOLIDAY gives you this Custom
Blend for Mildness!
Yes, five famous tobaccos skillfully blended into a mixture of unequalled flavor, aroma and mildness. These fine tobaccos, selected from all parts of the world, are blended with a base of cool-smoking white burley... Each tobacco adds its own distinctive flavor and
AT YOUR DEALER'S
State.
Mail with S1.00 to “Oide London," Larus & Brother
CM-12
Name___ Address City___
Company, Inc., Richmond, Va. Offer Good Only in U.S. A.
Get this guaranteed “Oide London” Pipe and two full- | size pouches of Holiday tobacco for only SI.00. The pipe ! is fine, hand-rubbed imported briar... with genuine hard * rubber bit . . . carbonized bowl for cooler smoking. If I your dealer is unable to supply you, use this handy order | blank.	■
aroma to make Holiday America's finest pipe mixture. We suggest you try a pipeful . . . enjoy its coolness, flavor and aroma ..- and see for yourself why more and more men who smoke mixtures are switching to Holiday as a steady smoke.
HOLIDAYgives you this Heat-Sealed
Wrap-Around Pouch!
Holiday tobacco leaves our blending line with just the right moisture content for a cool, no-bite smoke. You can be sure every pouch will be that way when you open it, because Holiday is the only mixture which has the Wrap-Around pouch. Sealed air-and-water tight, it guarantees you a fresher, coolersmoking tobacco.
These are the five famous tobaccos which give Holiday its mildness and aroma.
IF YOU PREFER A BLEND OF STRAIGHT BURLEYS
Try Edgeworth— choice cool-smoking white hurleys in the j air-tight pouch. America’s finest pipe tobacco.

Football Review
A Modern Hotel with a Country Club Atmosphere
Indiana’s Newest and Finest
92 ROOMS All Outride Rooms 92 BATHS
•	TERRACE DINING ROOM — Air Conditioned
•PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS —Air Conditioned
•	BEAUTIFUL PATIO
•	RADIO IN EVERY ROOM
•	GOLF PRIVILEGES
•	CIRCULATING ICE WATER
•	LARGE PARKING AREA
DELICIOUS FOOD
DELIGHTFUL DRINKS
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
PROMPT ATTENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESERVATION REQUEST
Sorry, No Public Sale of Rooms for Home Football Weekends
OWNED AND OPERATED BY
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
ARMAND E. LYSAK
Manager
December 2, 1955
9
. The March Is On!
Irish Rope
by JOHN
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 24—Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish successfully a began the 1955 season under their " sophomore coach, Terry Brennan, as they rode the Mustangs of Southern Methodist to a 17-0 defeat.
A crowd of 56,454 sat in sunny Notre Dame Stadium and watched Quarterback Paul Hornung direct a devastating ground attack which literally ate up the newly planted turf. They left the stadium, approximately two and a half • hours later, thoroughly convinced that another in a long line of talented quarterbacks had been born.
The husky junior scored the first Irish touchdown on an 11-yard keep play and then booted a 35-yard field goal that gave Notre Dame a 10-0 halftime lead.
Another pleasant surprise was the stellar line play of the Irish forward wall which had been reported to be woe-J fully weak. Veterans Pat Bisceglia and ^Jim Mense viciously hammered down ^the Mustang backs.
Sherrill Sipes took the opening kickoff and returned it 15 yards to the Irish 25. Eleven plays later, with Notre Dame facing a third and ten situation, Hornung faked to Lewis and rambled 11 yards unscathed into the end zone, thanks to a jarring block by Fullback Don Schaefer. Schaefer’s placement was perfect.
• Hornung highlighted the 75-yard march when he faked almost the complete Mustang team on a keep play as he raced from the SMU 49 to their 24. Schaefer and Lewis then moved the ball to the eleven.
Early in the second quarter, an Irish drive stalled on the SMU 28. With fourth and six, Hornung booted a towering 35-yard field goal that landed in the grandstand behind the end zone and Notre Dame led 10-0.
Roach picked up two quick first downs ^for the Mustangs but Marshall again made a costly fumble and John McMullan recovered on the Irish 41.
The SMU offense began to stir again late in the second quarter but Notre Dame took over after Roach had failed three times to find a receiver from the 27. Hornung- then ran out the clock.
Lewis halted the initial effort of SMU in the third period when he picked off a Roach pass but Hornung was forced to punt after three running plays •failed.
Roach then found the Irish vulnerable to the “screen” pass. He flipped one to Hal O’Brien, faked a pass and
SMU 17-0
GLAVIN
moved for seven and then handed off to Don Mcllhenny who barreled up the middle for twelve.
Again, Lewis played the role of “spoiler” as he intercepted a Roach aerial and, behind a smashing two-man block by Gaydos, returned to the Irish 44. Fifteen plays later, Notre Dame hit paydirt again.
A 17-yard screen pass to Schaefer got one first down but the next one had the Irish rooters holding on to their collective seats. With fourth and 16, Hornung flipped to Lewis who appeared trapped as he went back to pass. The elusive halfback completely reversed his field and scampered to a first down on the SMU 19.
Three plays later, the Irish were again faced with a fourth down situation due to a backfield in motion penalty. Paul Reynolds came in obviously with a play from Brennan. The veteran senior raced 14 yards over tackle for the score. Schaefer again converted and the scoring had finished for the afternoon with the Irish leading, 17-0.
In the fourth quarter, Prendergast stopped an SMU drive on the Notre Dame 16, as he recovered the third of four Mustang bobbles. The Irish were forced to punt but the Ponies’ bid for a tally again went awry as Larry Cooke intercepted a desperation heave by Ray-Masters.
HORNUNG GALLOPS IN WITH INITIAL IRISH ’55 TALLY
MENSE DISPLAYS DEFENSIVE PROWESS
Again the Irish failed to 'move but SMU was literally tossing their chances away with their fumbles. Cooke was forced to kick and he got off a poor one -which went only 14 yards to the Irish 49. A personal foul moved the ball to the 31 and Marshall went for 22 to the ten but two plays later Marshall fumbled for the third time and Cooke recovered on the three.
Cooke then directed the second unit with precision to the SMU 39 in 14 plays. His pass was intercepted by Dave Mitchell as the gun sounded.
All in all, the highly partisan crowd left the stadium impressed with the showing of Tei-ry Brennan’s charges and the 17-0 score. It was great to win the first one. It always has been.
13
MORSE CRASHES THROUGH FOR A TD
ND Adds Hoosier Notch
by JOE NORTON
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 1.—A crowd of 55,694 hungry grid fans took their seats in the Stadium here this afternoon, enjoyed a 60 minute repast of football a la Notre Dame-Indiana, and went away well-satisfied. The final item on the menu read: Notre Dame 19, Indiana 0.
The main course of the afternoon was the play of a heavily outweighed but viciously determined Irish line which throttled Campbell and Co. to a paltry 81 yards on the ground. The Hoosier line, which averaged 211 pounds, looked like a sure bet to roll over the Irish both offensively and defensively. But when the smoke and dust had cleared, Notre Dame had scored three times and Indiana was left holding an empty bag. Twice, as the Hoosiers were knocking at the door, the Irish defense stiffened inside their own ten yard line and stifled the onslaught.
As an added feature, the highly regarded Indiana passing attack, under Quarterback Gene Cichowski, was held to a fruitless 107 yards by the crashing Irish line and an alert secondary, which held him to only eight completions in 24 attempts.
On offense, the Irish attack was again spearheaded by Quarterback Paul Hornung, backed up capably by Fullback Don Schaefer, who carried the ball 20 times for 77 yards, and by Halfbacks
Jim Morse, Aubrey Lewis, and Dick Lynch.
Hornung galloped over for the first score midway in the first quarter. He faked a pass and bootlegged neatly around his left end where a key block by Dick Prendergast set him loose on a 33 yard jaunt to paydirt. Schaefer’s extra point attempt was blocked.
Indiana came back strong and marched to the Irish 33 but Hornung intercepted a pass on the ND 15 to put an end to the attack.
After forcing the Irish to punt from midfield, the Hoosiers took over on their own 20 and proceeded to try it all over again. This time they got all the way to the Irish six, mainly on the strength of Cichowski’s arm. But Notre Dame held and the half ended with the Irish ahead 6-0.
Indiana received to open the second half. The Hoosiers were penalized to their own four yard line for clipping on the kickoff and were forced to punt. The Irish took over on the I.U. 38, and by a series of line smashes, most of them credited to workhorse Don Schaefer, they moved to within a yard of the goal. But Indiana’s line held on fourth down and the Hoosiers regained possession of the ball. Three plays later, however, sophomore Guard Bob Gaydos, recovered Bartkiewicz’s fumble on the Indiana seven. The green juggernaut
went into action again and right half V Jim Morse slanted over his left tackle ; for the score. Schaefer’s try for the ! P.A.T. was good and the Irish led 13-0.
The Hoosiers took Hornung’s kick, but were held on the next series of downs and Les Kun punted to the Irish 35. The Indiana linemen stopped the Irish backs cold for three plays and on fourth down, Ed Wietecha broke through । to block Hornung’s punt. The Hoosiers recovered and were back in business on the Notre Dame nine, but still couldn’t : tally, and Notre Dame took over as ■ the quarter ended.	!
Larry Cooke came in at quarterback and the Irish started to move again from their own seven. Dick Lynch streaked for 18 yards in racking up one of three ’ consecutive first downs, but a Hornung A fumble was recovered by Skoronski on the ND 40 to halt the drive.
Cichowski then proceeded to open his bag of aerial fireworks and the Irish ’ pass defense was put to the acid test.
Two long passes were broken up and one 1 was incomplete. Cichowski’s last toss sailed out of bounds and Notre Dame regained possession on their own 28.	i
A clipping penalty forced Homung to ; kick. His punt was good for 40 yards • as Hoosier halfback Jim Stone was j nailed on the I.U. 18.	’
It was at this point that Lewis went ; into action. The sophomore halfback picked off a Cichowski pass and returned ' it ten yards to the Indiana 23. Hornung, Lewis, and Fullback Dick Fitzgerald ‘ advanced the ball to the seven for a first down. Faking a handoff into the line, Hornung stepped back and pitched ? a strike to Dick Prendergast who was all | alone in the end zone. Hornung’s place- I ment was blocked.	1
Indiana took the kickoff with less than a minute remaining. Cichowski ran out the clock and Notre Dame won their second game, 19-0.	2
LEWIS HAULS ONE AWAY
14
Football Review
* Miami Swallowed-Up
by BOB O’MALLEY
Miami, Fla., Oct.7—The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame finally came of age tonight against a Miami football team । which was outplayed, to be sure, but I was mainly overrated, outfought, and J barely able to stumble off the gridiron 3 after a 14-0 pasting from the Irish.
The fourteen point spread does not [I truly represent the difference between il these two football teams. The Miam-J ians appeared to be somewhat frightened at the prospect of battling what they evidently considered to be a gang of veritable supermen. The Hurricanes were inept when they could least afford to be.
•a A couple of touchdown passes by a

cool-headed Paul Hornung spelled the difference on this warm night in Miami’s Orange Bowl before 75,685 customers. On the second play of the second quarter, right halfback Jim Morse and right end Gene Kapish combined to out-maneuver the left side of the Miami defensive secondary and Hornung sailed an 11-yard scoring aerial into the arms of Kapish, who was lurking unprotected in the middle of the Miami end zone.
Midway in the third period, with Notre Dame still leading 7-0 and apparently stalled on fourth down and
nine on the Miami 32, Hornung fooled Miami with a nifty pass to halfback Aubrey Lewis, who made a commendable reception on the five and lurched into the end zone for Notre Dame’s second and final touchdown, excepting a 65-yard interception runback by Jim Morse which was nullified by a penalty.
Notre Dame Fullback Don Schaefer was the outstanding ball-carrier on the field with a total gain of 69 yards on 17 carries. In addition, Schaefer turned in his usual brilliant but unspectacular game as a blocker and linebacker and kicked both extra points for the Irish.
Despite the considerable heroics of
the Notre Dame backfield corps, the Irish victory was achieved only through a bit of stellar line play by the Notre Dame forward wall, a tremendously effective unit on this balmy night. Three times the Notre Dame forwards stopped Miami thrusts within their own 15 yard line, once on the 13, the eleven, and finally the two yard line. The chief engineer of this seven man wrecking crew was a stubby guard by the name of Pat Bisceglia, who generally backed up the right side of the line and allowed none to pass, friend or foe.
The Hurricanes averaged a little better than two yards per carry on their abortive rushing attempts and their top
ball-carrier was fullback Paul Hefti who wandered through the Irish defenses for
a harmless total of 40 yards.
The Irish, in quest of their third successive win, were off to an inauspicious beginning. On the first series of downs, Paul Hornung’s kick was blocked and the Hurricanes drove nicely to the Irish 13 before losing the ball on downs.
After an exchange of fumbles and punts, Notre Dame’s first scoring foray began in the final moments of the first quarter and continued until Hornung’s initial touchdown pass to Kapish early in the second quarter. ’
Miami continued to pester- the Irish with passes through the remainder of the first half but a sustained drive was
beyond their means.
After a few sallies back and forth in the third period, Notre Dame Capt. Ray Lemek pounced on an enemy fumble on Miami’s 33 and four plays later the -Irish had their second tally on Lewis’ 32-yard pass reception.
Neither team disturbed the scoreboard operators in the fourth period, although
the Irish continually selves with penalties, whatever drives they under way.
hampered them-which choked off
managed
to get
IRISH SCORE
FOR FIRST
COMPLETES PASS TO KAPISH
HORNUNG

December 2, 1955
15
Spartans Stun Irish 21-7 by JOE BRIDE
East Lansing, Mich., Oct. 15—A proud Notre Dame team fell to the powerful perfection of the Michigan State Spartans this afternoon, 21 to 7, before 52,007 people, the fourth largest crowd to see a football battle in Michigan State’s Macklin Stadium.
The Spartans accomplished two things no Irish foe had come close to doing— they were the first 1955 opponent to defeat Terry Brennan’s crew and, in so doing, they became the first team to cross into tire Irish end zone.
The two coaches, “Duffy” Daugherty of Michigan State and Terry Brennan of Notre Dame, both second year men as head coaches in collegiate ranks were meeting on the gridiron for the second time. Last fall, in the mud of Notre Dame stadium the Brennan-men edged Daugherty’s stalwarts, 20-19. After the game, Coach Daugherty congratulated Coach Brennan, and said “We’ll beat the pants off you next year.”
The precision multiple offense of the Spartans did just that. They weren’t content with eking out a victory, but under the inspired leadership of Capt. Buck Nystrom, Earl Morrall, and Gerry Planutis, the men from East Lansing rolled to three tallies. Nystrom was a vengeful Goliath in the middle of the Spartan line, through which the deepest Irish ground penetration was to the five yard line, late in the final period. Mor
HORNUNG AND MORSE TEAM UP—ALL TO NO AVAIL
rall outshone Notre Dame quarterback Paul Hornung on a day when Coach Brennan acclaimed Hornung’s performance as his finest of the season. Planutis, the fellow who missed two extra points in last year’s 20-19 game, scored the second touchdown, kicked three extra points, and recovered a Notre Dame fumble.
The Notre Dame goal line was crossed for the first time in 196 minutes and 48 seconds of football action this year by a Spartan drive which picked up steam in the first period. Halfback Clarence Peaks rambled 24 yards with a Hornung punt to the State 48. Morrall passed to Peaks for a first down on the Irish 31. Planutis made ten yards in three tries for the first down as the opening period ended.
Morrall opened the action in the second period by fighting his way to the Notre Dame nine yard line and a first down. Three plays later Peaks slanted off tackle and into the end zone from the one yard line for the first touchdown. Planutis made the conversion to give State a 7 to 0 lead.
Notre Dame, under the guidance of Hornung, fought back in the waning minutes of the second quarter. Aubrey Lewis picked off a Spartan pass on the Notre Dame 30 and brought it back to the 37. On second down Hornung passed to his left end Dick Prendergast for
KAPISH AND THE OLD STRAIGHT ARM
a first down on the Notre Dame 47. Hornung then tossed five yards to Fullback Don Schaefei- and Schaefer skirted down the sidelines to the 40.
With a first and ten situation facing him, Hornung faded deep to throw. Two Michigan State tacklers hit him on the 46, but he danced out of reach and tossed a long pass to halfback Jim Morse. Morse took the pass on the three and ambled untouched into the end zone. Schaefer booted the extra point to tie the ball game 7-7.
Notre Dame took the second half kickoff and moved from their own 32 to the State 35 where the attack died.
Nine plays and 80 yards later, the score was Michigan State 14; Notre Dame 7. Gerry Planutis started the offensive drive with a 20 yard gallop to the Michigan State 40. Peaks picked up another first down on ND’s 40. a Sophomore halfback Walt Kowalczyk " then romped to the Irish 11. On a fourth down situation, Planutis rammed over from the two. He again converted.
The final score of the contest came early in the fourth period when Planutis recovered a Notre Dame fumble on the ND 16. Gerry Mussetti made eight for the Spartans and Morrall, on a roll out, moved to the one. On the next play, he scored on a quarterback sneak. Planutis kicked his third and final extra point of the afternoon.
Perhaps the key to the Spartan victory was that old piece of football strategy, the fumble. In previous games, the Irish had capitalized on their opponent’s miscues. Today, Notre Dame bobbled the ball three times, and three times Michigan State men were there to recover. Each time it cut short a Notre Dame scoring drive.
Over-all the Irishmen picked up 22 first downs to Michigan State’s 17. The difference between the two teams in^, total offense wasn’t 14, it was only seven—in Notre Dame’s favor, 374 to 367.
16
Football Review
ND Gets Purdue Revenge by JACK GUEGUEN
West Lafayette, Ind., Oct. 22— Sweet revenge was the Irish cry today in Purdue’s sun-bathed Ross-Ade Stadium as a record 55,500 partisans and student trippers watched Notre Dame rout Len Dawson and Company, 22-7.
The Boilermakers’ touted passing attack had snapped Notre Dame’s 13-game victory string, 27-14, in 1954, but this year’s Irish had a secret weapon and eleven trigger fingers itching to get even.
That weapon was the unbalanced line, a tactic completely new in modem Notre Dame football. Brennan’s men alternated the conventional line with the unbalanced formation, usually to the left, and succeeded in keeping- the heavier Purdue line guessing all afternoon.
After taking Dawson’s kickoff, the Irish ran into stiff opposition and punted to Purdue.
On the Boilermakers’ second play from scrimmage, Bill Murakowski fumbled on the Irish 39, Notre Dame taking over and moving quickly into striking position. Jim Morse ran for 23 yards, and Dean Studer added 19. With fourth and three on the Purdue 8, Don Schaefer plunged to the 2 and scored on the next play. He added the extra point and Notre Dame led, 7-0.
After a Murakowski-sparked drive stalled at midfield, the Irish pushed to the Purdue 27 aided by a 32-yard gain by 'Studer, who took a lateral from Paul Hornung.
Purdue’s aerial arm Len Dawson, went into action after taking over possession,
but the Boilermakers had to punt as the quarter ended.
A fumbled Hornung-to-Morse pitchout on the Irish 42 set up Purdue’s only score soon after the period began. Murakowski and Dawson needed only six plays to knot the score. A Dawson-Len Zyzda pass covered the final 13 yards. Dawson added the extra point. Notre Dame 7, Purdue 7.
Another Boilermaker drive was stalling in the vicinity of midfield as the first half ended with the score still tied.
A few plays after the kickoff, Purdue in possession and Dawson back to pass, Bob Scannell, with Dick Prendergast’s assistance, shook the pigskin loose and ND recovered on the Purdue 26.
Studer and Dick Fitzgerald powered to an Irish TD in five plays, Studer going over from the 1. Hornung’s extra point try failed. Notre Dame 13, Purdue 7.
Purdue sprang to life suddenly and two completed Dawson passes carried the Boilermakers to the Irish 34. After an incomplete pass to the 5, Dawson’s next endeavor landed in Morse’s outstretched hands on the 25 and the fleet back returned the ball 29 yards to the Purdue 46.
A sustained drive carried the Irish to the 10, and Lewis scored from there, skirting right end after a key block by Schaefer. Schaefei- converted, and Notre Dame held a 20-7 advantage just before the quarter ended.
Purdue ran and passed to the Irish 42 where Dawson reversed to Tom Fletcher,
A DAWSON OVERSHOT
whose pass was intercepted by Hornung and run back to the Purdue 47.
Another Irish drive carried to the Purdue 10, but a loss and a penalty moved the ball back to the 29 where Purdue took over.
But after two successful Dawson aerials to the Notre Dame 42, the old locomotive went into reverse and the Purdue collapse was swift. A 15-yarder made it first and 25 on the Purdue 40, Ed Sullivan, Paul Schramm, and John McMullan got through to spill Lenny for losses of 3,14, and 10 yards respectively, and with fourth and 52 on the 12, the ball was centered over Dawson’s head and rolled out of the end zone giving the Irish a safety. Notre Dame 22, Purdue 7.
Notre Dame gained 325 yards rushing to Purdue’s 75, but the Boilermakers outgained the Irish, 104 to 8 yards on eleven out of 22 passing attempts.
STUDER SKIRTS THE BOILERMAKER FLANK IN FIRST STARTING APPEARANCE
December 2, 1955
17
Irish Pound Middies
by BOB RUHL
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 29—Navy’s big offensive guns fired salvo after salvo at a staunch Fighting Irish brigade that took all Navy had to offer and then blasted the Middies 21-7 this cold, rainy Saturday afternoon.
Playing before a record paying attendance of 59,475 cheering fans, Notre Dame slashed the Navy defense for 323 yards, in racking up its 24th victory in the 29-year series. Navy hasn’t beaten the Irish since 1944.
The series was started by Knute Rockne, immortal Notre Dame coach who died in a Kansas plane crash in 1931. Special halftime ceremonies paid tribute to Rockne.
Hornung took Navy’s kickoff on the Irish 18 and side-stepped his way to the 48. Navy held for four downs and Hornung punted out of bounds on the Navy 46.
Navy couldn’t find any holes in three tries and Guest punted to Halfback Dean Studer on the Irish 12. The shifty Montana speedster got a picture block from Jimmy Morse and headed up the sidelines for 43 yards.
Studer then cracked over tackle for 3 more, and Hornung added 4, but a fumble lost two yards. Navy took Hornung’s punt on its own 3, and the Middies began to move.
Welsh and Oldham brought the pigskin to the Navy 16 on three tries. Chet Burchett gained two more yards, but
HORNUNG GETS THE FIRST SCORE, AND BITES A WRIST
Welsh’s fumble stymied the Middie offensive march and Guest punted to Morse on the Irish 38.
Only a few minutes remained in the quarter when Navy began to rally. Morse fumbled and Navy recovered on the 50. Burchett slithered over right tackle to the Irish 36. Welsh fumbled but Oldham recovered the ball back on the 43. Again Burchett found daylight and got back to the Notre Dame 36. Welsh then warmed up his pitching am and hit All-American end Ron Beagle on the 22. Welsh and Fullback Guest hit for three more yards. But Hornung snared a Welsh pass on the four and the Irish had stood off the first Navy drive.
Notre Dame’s march carried to the Irish 21 as the quarter ended. A quick exchange of punts put the ball on the Irish 43. Notre Dame had the Middies squarely in its sights and drove relentlessly.
Morse and Don Schaefer ground out 20 yards in three plays. Hornung missed on two passes, then took the ground route. He swept outside left end, down to the Navy 30. Schaefer then shouldered his way over right tackle for six. Hornung picked up a first down on the Middie nine, and Schaefer carried to the six.
Morse loosened up the tight Navy line by turning left end for three yards. And Schaefer went back into the middle
THE WHOLE STORY
again for a yard. Hornung pried the^ stubborn defense open for the score, and Schaefer converted. Notre Dame 7, Navy 0.
Hornung’s kick sailed into the end zone. But Navy could hardly move from its own 20 and the rock-ribbed Irish line forced the visitors to punt.
From the Irish 44, Studer, Morse and Fullback Dick Fitzgerald teamed up to put the Irish on the Middie 17, butO Oldham intercepted Hornung’s pass in the end zone to smother the drive. Navy was bottled up on its own 45 at the end of the half.
Dean Studer took the kickoff and ended up on the Irish 27, then got four more. Morse and Hornung moved to the Navy 43. Three plays later, Morse and Schaefer had the ball on the Navy one. But the Midshipmen trench-^ ed in to stop Morse on the one foot^ line.
Navy Fullback Guest punted out of bounds on the Navy 29. Schaefer fumbled but Hornung recovered on the 12. Aubrey Lewis then took a handoff, trickled by two Sailors and swung around right end for the touchdown. Again Schaefer converted. Notre Dame 14, Navy 0.
Navy still couldn’t get a sustained ' drive going. Hornung stopped the^ wave at the Middie 36 with an inter- " ception, and the Irish again got the scoring gleam in their eyes.
Morse went 18 yards in two plays, and Schaefer bolted to the 14. Hornung then zeroed-in End Gene Kapish and nailed him with a perfect pass for number three. Schaefer’s toe was accurate and Notre Dame led 21-0.
Looking for a way to avoid shutout humiliation, Navy Signal-caller Welsh took his right arm out of moth ballsy. From his own 33, Welsh hit Beagle on™' the 50. A short gain and a penalty put Navy on the Irish 30. Burchett and Oldham pushed to the 16.
An off-sides penalty put Navy on the 11 in the opening seconds of the fourth frame. Oldham pushed to the eight, Guest stole one, but a clipping penalty moved the ball back to the 20. Welsh couldn’t find the target on two passes, but on the third try, big Pete Jakano-vitch ran towards the sidelines, and grabbed the pass on the three. Oldhan^ smashed over right tackle for the Navy touchdown and converted. Notre Dame 21, Navy 7.
18
Football Review

')S.
I

3
-I
Penn Finally Succumbs
by KIT ECKL
Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 5—Overcoming a 108 yard kickoff return, fumbles and a 14-14 first half tie, Notre Dame (crushed a surprisingly stubborn Penn team 46-14, for their sixth victory of the season before 45,226 fans.
The Irish, who gained 531 yards rushing and passing, completely dominated the second half with 32 points after being held to a draw by the Quakers.
Fullback Don Schaefer, an All-American candidate who has always demonstrated his prowess to the fullest in i front of partisans from his native state, gained 114 yards for his afternoon’s work. He, along with Halfback Jim Morse who carried for 113 yards, led the potent, bread-and-butter ground attack of the Fighting Irish. Despite their huge margin in the statistical end of things the Irish were forced by underdog Penn to bounce back twice from
ci the short end of the score. The Quakers >1 were fired up to the hilt for this one, A and they took no chances of being cooled "3; off when the game got underway.
2^7
3
Taking Paul Hornung’s opening kickoff deep in the end zone, Halfback Frank Riepl ran out to the 20, picked up three good blocks, and outraced the Irish secondary for a touchdown with only 19 seconds gone in the game. His conversion put Penn ahead 7-0.
A few minutes later, Riepl gave Penn
j'S another chance by recovering an Irish > M fumble but the drive was halted on jC ND’s 45 and the Quakers had to punt.
-3
After overcoming fumbles and interceptions, the Irish drove 80 yards for the tying touchdown with Morse going over from the five. Schaefer converted for the first of his four points after touchdown, but Penn wasn’t to be denied.
Early in the second quarter Riepl put the Quakers ahead once again on an eight yard pass to End Bob Barber and his conversion.
Studer started the Irish comeback with a 30 yard kickoff return. The Irish were then penalized 15 yards but Quarterback Paul Hornung made it up with a 5 yard plunge and a 24 yard
pass to Studer. Morse carried
three
times for 24 yards and Schaefer went for six more. A 15-yard penalty moved ‘ the ball to the Penn eight and Hornung passed to End Gene Kapish to tie the score for the second time.
From then on it was all Notre Dame as the weary Quakers, returning to normalcy in the second half, lost their sixteenth straight game.
Combining a bruising ground attack
and Hornung’s passing the Irish scored two more touchdowns in the third quarter.
After taking the halftime kickoff back to the 31, Schaefer hit for eight, and added twelve more yards after- Studer and Morse had gained seven between them. Morse and Hornung got a first down on the Penn 32. Gaining 15 more yards in two cracks, Schaefer plunged over from the three after two plunges by Hornung and Morse.
The Irish then moved 70 yards in ten plays for another touchdown as Schaefer dashed from the Penn 24 into the end zone. A 24 yard pass to Morse and 12 yard advances by Studer and Schaefer set up the score.
Penn, trying to come back in the fourth quarter, moved the ball to the Irish 31 by racking up three first downs but Bob Scannell separated Riepl from the ball and the Irish started to move again.
It took Hornung and Co. only six plays to move the ball into paydirt. He got twelve, Morse twelve more, Studer 17 in two carries, Morse eight more and then Hornung passed 20 yards to End Dick Prendergast for the score.
The second team then moved 62 yards in 10 plays with Fullback Dick Fitzgerald going over from the one. Fitzgerald and Quarterback Larry Cooke had led the charge.
Coach Terry Brennan then cleared the bench for the first time this year. The onslaught was expected to be quelled, but the third and fourth stringers had other ideas. Why should they be denied the spoils of victory?
RIEPL ON HIS WAY TO A TD AND NATIONAL FAME
WARD OFFERS ONLY A HIP
They got one offensive chance and utilized it for the last Irish touchdown. Dick Shulsen, reserve guard, recovered a Penn fumble on their 24 with time running out.
Reserve Quarterback Carl Hebert made End George Wilson famous by spiraling the pigskin to him for ND’s final icing on the cake. • Wilson, playing in his fii-st game of the season, warded off a couple of Penn defenders and did himself proud by making a leaping grab of the long pass. The blonde senior was so elated that the officials had trouble retrieving the ball from him so that the contest could conclude.
Penn took the kickoff with only 15 seconds remaining, and the scoreboard clock ran out of time before the Quakers could even begin to muster any semblance of a scoring threat. When the horn sounded, Quaker fans swarmed on the field en masse, leveling the goalposts in celebration of the fine performance given by their team—especially one Frank Riepl. After all, Riepl and his teammates had tied the mighty Irish— for the first half.
December 2, 1955
19
MORSE GETS THREE YARDS AND A LEG-FULL OF HANDS
Tarheels Shod 27-7 by JIM GOETHALS
Chapel Hill, N. C., Nov. 12—A determined, ■ upset-minded North Carolina eleven suprisingly battled heavily favored Notre Dame on even terms for the first half today. But after the intermission, the Irish stormed back with a nifty display of power, spirit, and depth to riddle the Tar Heel defenses for three touchdowns and victory number seven, 27-7.
A sun-baked, shirtsleeve throng of approximately 38,000 in Kenan Stadium viewed the thrill-packed intersectional contest in the pleasant atmosphere of the beautiful pine-studded campus grounds.
This marked Notre Dame’s seventh consecutive victory over the Carolinians in as many years and the second game in a row that they have been tied by an underdog squad after the first half of play. But thanks to the workmanlike efforts of a second unit, the Irish again escaped embarrassment.
Notre Dame started fast and struck for a score in the early moments of the game to inaugurate what appeared to be a rout. However, the Tar Heels had ■other ideas. Fired and fighting, they "began with a series of vicious blocking and tackling which eventually merited the tying counter for them in the second quarter.
Then, in the second half, the Irish proved themselves worthy of their high national ranking by ripping their foes for three additional tallies to ice the game. These were highlighted by a 75-yard pass-interception runback late in the final stanza by Center Lou Lon-caric.
Due to the unseasonable warmth on the field, the first stringers played little more than half the game. As a result
the second team, working under the sharp quarterbacking of Paul Hornung’s understudy, Larry Cooke, were mostly responsible for the rally.
It took the Irish only four plays and five minutes to score their initial touchdown. Hard-driving Don Schaefer set up the score with a 38-yard jaunt through defensive left tackle to the nine yard line. Jim Morse plunged over from the two, a couple of plays later. Paul Hornung converted, and the Irish led 7-0.
The Tar Heels were stunned, but only momentarily, as they roared back in the second quarter to tie the score. Utiliz
MORSE DIVES OVER FOR FIRST SCORE
ing a combination of the shifty running of Halfback Ken Keller and the passing of Quarterback Buddy Sasser, the TaiHeels rolled 53-yards in ten plays. Keller added the extra point to tie the game at 7-7.
The Tar Heel fans went wild as their dreams were beginning to take shape. The handful of ND followers, on the contrary, were startled and unable to explain the play of the keyed-up underdog.
After an exchange of punts in the third period, the Irish regained their poise by grounding out 66 yards in 14 plays, with Hornung sneaking through a hole over right tackle from two yards out for the tiebreaker. Schaefer kicked
the extra point to make the score 14-7.
At this point Terry Brennan replaced his first squad for- good with his second unit, and freely substituted the remainder of the untried traveling squad in the final period.
On North Carolina’s first play from scrimmage following the kickoff, Halfback Ed Sutton fumbled a pitchout on the Tar Heel 27, Ed Sullivan recovering for Notre Dame. Six plays later, through the ball-carrying efforts of Quarterback Larry Cooke, Fullback Dick Fitzgerald, and Halfbacks Buddy Ward and Dick Lynch, the Irish moved to their third score. Lynch scored from the two while Ward added the point to make the score 21-7.
In the closing minutes of the game, Lou Loncaric climaxed Notre Dame’s scoring and electrified the crowd by intercepting a Dave Reed pass on the Irish 25 and loping 75 yards down the sideline to paydirt. The PAT was wide of the mark. Final score: Notre Dame 27; North Carolina 7.
WITH FIRST DOWN AND FOUR, THE HAWKEYES COULDN’T GET BY THE IRISH
Fired-up Irish Down Iowa 17-14
by RAY LESCHER
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 19.—Paul Hornung’s 28 yard field goal with 2:15 remaining highlighted a dramatic 10 point fourth quarter as the Irish heat Iowa, 17 to 14, for their eighth victory in nine games.	•
A crowd of 59,955, largest ever to see a Notre Dame home game, witnessed the most exciting and bitterly fought contest in the 14 game series between the two rivals. The final ten minutes of the game saw a Notre Dame team exhibit its fighting spirit to its deepest degree, resulting in a story book finish second only to the memorable 14-to-14 tie in 1953.
The Irish opened the scoring midway through the second quarter when End Dick Prendergast recovered an Iowa fumble on the Hawkeye 44. Consecutive smashes by Don Schaefer, Dean Studer, and Jim Morse gained a first down on the 33. On a keeper play, Hornung ran to the 18. Schaefer hammered to the A ten and Dick Fitzgerald drove to the one in successive plunges up the middle. Then Studer popped over tackle for the score. Hornung kicked the extra point to give the Irish a 7 to 0 lead at halftime.
Iowa tied it up early in the third period moving 54 yards in ten plays. A 21 yard pass from Don Dobrino to Jerry Reichow highlighted the march to the two, from where Fred Harris climaxed the drive on a straight plunge for the • touchdown. Jim Freeman kicked the extra point to tie the score.
Iowa held the Irish who punted out to their own 48. The Hawkeyes, on the
running of Harris and Dobrino, moved to the four for a first down. Here the Irish front line, led by Mense, Edmonds and Gaydos, put up one of the greatest goal line stands of the year, turning back Iowa on the six inch line.
However, Iowa would not be denied at this point, as Dobrino returned the following Irish punt to the Notre Dame 28 to set-up another drive. Dick Kappel’s 18 yard sweep helped move the Hawkeyes to the two. After two plays had lost four yards, Dobrino passed to Reichow for the score. Freeman again kicked the extra point.
With ten minutes remaining, the Irish, led by the passing of Hornung, started the first of two payoff marches. After Hornung returned the kickoff to the Irish 38, he completed two straight passes, one to Gene Kapish on the Iowa 46, the next to Prendergast on the 31. Fitzgerald, on a delayed handoff, ran to the 16. One pass failed, then Hornung, rushed hard by two Iowa linemen, pivoted away and on the dead run hit Morse all alone in the far corner of the end zone for the touchdown. Hornung climaxed this sensational drive by kicking the tying point after touchdown. This Irish march of 62 yards took only two minutes and 30 seconds.
The fired-up Irish now had seven minutes remaining, and they used every precious second to their advantage. The ensuing kickoff was downed on the Iowa two. The Irish held and Iowa punted out to their own 43. On third down with eleven yards to go, Hornung threxy, down the middle to Morse who made a
spectacular leaping catch on the Iowa nine. Three line plays moved the ball to the three. On fourth down, the Irish were penalized back to the 18 for “coaching from the sidelines” as someone from the Irish bench threw a kicking tee on the field in preparation for the field goal attempt.
Hornung’s kick came from the 28 yard line, on a slight angle to the right. The ball sailed true and the referee’s up stretched arms caused bedlam among the Irish rooters, especially in the hearts of the team who came back from the shadows of defeat. It was a fitting climax to the careers of those 16 seniors who played in the final home game for the Irish. The team’s uphill victory in this gridiron battle ranked them as one of the greatest of all “Fighting Irish” squads.
HORNUNG BREAKS INTO VINCENT
December 2, 1955
21
way mark: Southern California 21, No-"^ tre Dame 13.
Trojans Trample Irish
by PAUL
Los Angeles, Calif., Nov. 26.—Jon Arnett plus trickery plus determination plus power equalled disaster for Notre Dame this afternoon, 42-20.
Southern California’s six touchdowns and a like number of placements were more points than any football machine in the last decade has been able to produce against the Fighting Irish in a single contest. Army’s star-rich squad powdered ND, 48-0, on another disastrous afternoon back in 1945.
“Jaguar” Jon Arnett revved himself up to a speed of 23 points—three TD’s and five PAT’s—to provide enough acceleration for his Trojan teammates to leave the Irish in a cloud of dust.
The win stamped “successful” on the Californians’ season, even though they had been levelled in defeat four times previously. Furthermore, Coach Jess Hill will be spared a hanging in effigy from fickle West Coast fanatics—at least for the time being. They loved Jess after what happened in the Coliseum today.
It took the sky-high Trojan warriors the strategy of only 11 huddles after the initial kickoff to charge 68 yards and gain the first foothold on the scoreboard, 7-0. Ellsworth Kissinger smelled paydirt after a one-yard thrust arid Arnett converted.
Notre Dame immediately counterattacked by‘pushing downfield for a score ■in an even dozen plays •which ate up 67
yards. Paul Hornung, exercised his running option^' after looking vainly for a receiver in the end zone, and galloped home from eight yards out on the 12th offensive scrimmage for the Irish. Hornung, a rightful All-American in his junior year, did the placement honors, too. With four minutes to go in the opening quarter: ND 7, Southern Cal 7.
After this quick retaliation by ND, many of the 94,892 who thronged the Coliseum, figured that the heart would be gone from the Trojans, that the Irish would dominate play for the remainder of the afternoon.
But it was Southern Cal who still had the heart and who doggedly took charge of things. With only seconds elapsed in the second stanza, Cal’s Fullback C. R. Roberts grabbed a pitchout and streaked down the sideline for 15 yards and the six-pointer which put the Trojans out in front to stay. Again Arnett’s toe was true. Southern Cal 14, ND 7.
La FRENiERE
An adroit bit of cunning by USC’s backfield caught the Irish with their shillelaghs down and set up another touchdown for the West Coasters minutes later. Coach Hill rushed in a sub for a fourth down and six situation on the ND 17-yard line. Breaking from the huddle Kissinger knelt down in holding position for a field goal with Isaacson as the kicker—obviously the strategy for which Hill had called. In reality it proved only subterfuge, for Kissinger righted himself for the center pass and then flipped an aerial to All-American Arnett, 10 yards short of home.
Arnett sputtered for naught on the next try, but then the speedy halfback reeled around his right flank to augment the Trojans’ point spread. Isaacson converted this time. USC 21, ND 7.
Not relishing the taste of a 14-point half-time deficit, the Fighting Irish eased the bitterness somewhat with two minutes left in the period. Quarterback Hornung sent Jim Morse downfield from scrimmage on the Irish 22. While Morse was. legging it into the California secondary, Hornung slipped back and rifled a long one skyward which the Irish halfhack pulled down near USC’s 45. Morse ran it the rest of the way. Hornung’s extra-point try failed. Score at the mid-
SULLIVAN’S BLOCK SENDS HORNUNG HOME
The scoreboard came close to flickering a couple of times during the third quarter but never quite made it. Both teams ogled the opposition’s goal line, but both teams were repulsed, Notre Dame only temporarily, it seemed, since Coach Brennan’s boys had the ball on the Trojan three when the third-period whistle blew.	W
All-American Don Schaefer was jarred loose from the pigskin in the end zone to start the final 15 minutes of action. Ron Brown recovered for the Californians.
USC was thwarted and had to quick kick all the way back to ND’s 34. Hornung and Morse staged an encore without delay, the pass play this time winding-up on Southern Cal’s six. Four drives later Hornung slammed for a yard and A the TD, added the boot and ND had come back. 'The Trojans 21, the Irish 20.
The potential storybook finish never went to press for Notre Dame, however, as Southern Cal zoomed into the lead with a volley of touchdowns. A pass interception, a fumbled kickoff, and another stray aerial were the ingredients comprising the Trojan feast. Jim Con-tratto to Arnett for 36 yards made it 28-20. This bulged to 35-20 when Con-A tratto hit Don McFarland with a pitch-™ out to send him 13 yards into the Irish end zone. Arnett wound up his big day by flashing through ND’s line for seven yards with about two minutes left. Southern California 42, Notre Dame 20. - USC had something to look back upon —never before had they gained such a decisive victory over ND. And the Fighting Irish had something to look forward to. After all, Brennan and the lads return to Los Angeles next December.^
22
Football Review
I
Final 1955 Season Statistics
TEAM
Notre Dame	Opponents
210 ................. Points Scored.............   112
190 ................. First Downs ................ 137
153 ..................by Rushing .................. 80
35 .................. by Passing ................. 50
2 ................. by Penalties .................. 7
2727 ................ Yards	Rushing .............. 1469
601 ................ Times	Carried ............... 398
4.5 ............... Yards	per try ............... 3.7
846 ................ Yards	Passing .............. 1011
121................   Passes	Attempted ........... 171
51 ...............   Passes	Completed ............ 83
.421 ............. Completion	Percentage ...........485
17 ............. Passes Intercepted by ---------- 12
" 246 .......... Yards	Interceptions Returned ........ 28
3573 .............. TOTAL OFFENSE .:.............. 2480
38 .................... Punts ..................   40
1320 .............. Total Yards Punts ..........   1544
34.8 .............. Punting Average .............. 38.6
171 ............. Yards Punts Returned............ 202
22 ................... Fumbles ................... 30
17 .................. Ball Lost................... 19
RUSHING
Schaefer 		TC 	 145	Yds. 638	Avy. 4.4
Morse 			 92	404	4.4
Studer 			 88	440	5.0
Hornung 			 92	474	5.2
Lewis 			 56	222	3.9
Fitzgerald 			218	4.8
Lynch 			 24	121	5.0
Ward 			 21	111	5.3
Cooke 			 18	60	3.3
Sipes 			 8	20	2.5
Wilkins 			 4	2	0.5
Lima			9	6	3.0
McDonnell 			 1	4	4.0
Reynolds 			 5	14	2.8
	PASSING		
	Att. Comp. Had. Int. Yds.	. TD	Pct.
Hornung 		.... 103	46	10	743	■ 9	.446
Studer 		....	4	2	0	37	0	.500
Hebert 		....	1	1	0	24	1	1.000
Reynolds 		....	1	1	0	18	0	1.000
Cooke 		...4	0	2	0	0	.000
Morse 		....	3	0	0	0	0	.000
Lewis 		....	3	0	0	0	0	.000
Schaefer 			....	2	10	0	0	.500
	PASSES CAUGHT		
	No.	Yds.	TD
Morse 			 17	424	3
Kapish 			 11	142	3
Prendergast 			 8	105	2
Schaefer 			 6	36	2
Scannell 			 2	21	0
Lewis 			 1	32	1
Wilson 			 1	24	1
Studer 			 2	32	0
Schramm 			 1	18	0
Fitzgerald 			 2	12	0
PUNTING			
Hornung 	 Cooke 		No. 	  30 	 8	Yds. 1017 303	Avff. 34.3 37.9
Hornung 		KICKOFFS RETURNED No. 	 6	Yds. 109	TD 0
Lewis 			 4	91	0
Studer 			116	0
Morse 					 5	88	0
Fitzgerald 			 3	47	0
Lima 			 1	19	0
Schaefer 			 1	27	0
Sipes 			 1	15	0
Ward 							 1	24	0
Studer 		PUNTS RETURNED No. 	   6	Yds. 92	TD 0
Morse 			   6	26	0
Reynolds 			 1	21	0
Lynch 			 1	19	0
Ward 			 2	13	0
Cooke 					 1	0	0
Hornung 		SCORING TD PAT FG 	 6	5	2		Pts-. 47
Morse 			 6	0	0	36
Schaefer 			 3	1	.6	0	34
Kapish 			 3	0	0	' 18
Lewis 				 3	0	0	18
Prendergast ...		 2	0	0	12
Studer 			 2	o 1 o	12
Fitzgerald 			 1	0	0	6
Lynch 				 1	0	0	6
Reynolds 				 1	0	0	6
Wilson 				 1	0	0	6
Loncaric 			 1	0	0	6
Ward 					 0	1	0	1
Safety vs.	Purdue 			2
PASS INTERCEPTIONS
No.
Hornung .............................. 5
Lewis ...............................  4
Morse -----------------------------;__ 2
Cooke ...............................  2
Loncaric ............................  1
Schaefer _____________________________ 1
Hedrick -----------------------------  1
Fitzgerald ___________________________ 1
OPPONENTS’ FUMBLES RECOVERED
Yds.
59 38 45
4
75
21
40
Prendergast (3), McMullan (3), Hornung (2), Lemek, Bis-ceglia, Edmonds, Gaydos, Scannell, Shulsen, Studer (2), Cooke, Sullivan, Kapish.
December 2, 1955
23
Two That Really Gained
F.B, DRIVE
Here’s the play that Notre Dame’s block-busting fullback Don Schaefer used to gouge out huge chunks of enemy turf this season. It’s the Irish “bread and butter” play, the fullback drive. Schaefer’s running power and strong offensive blocking made the play go.
Right half Jimmy Morse was a key man. Morse had to take a fake hand-off from Hornung and hit the line with authority. Hitting over the right-tackle slot, Morse tried to lure the defensive left tackle on him. The Notre Dame right tackle had to drive the defensive tackle to the left.
Right end Gene Kapish also had a clutch blocking assignment. Morse’s fake plunge was fixed to draw the defensive left end into the play too. Kapish had a slicing angle block at the end coming across in front of him. Kapish had to hit the end and keep him down. With the enemy left tackle and end blocked, Schaefer had an open slot to charge through.
As Morse whisked by Hornung and pounded over right tackle, Schaefer took the hand-off from Hornung. The big fullback heads toward the open hole.
On the line the Irish left and right guards and the center find plenty of work. The opposing middle guard and two linebackers have to be stopped. If the blocks are missed the enemy linebackers can bottle up the play and stop Schaefer cold.
The Irish fullback finds the hole and cuts back toward the middle. Dean Studer, Notre Dame left half, plays his part and decoys the enemy back. Skirting wide around right end, Studer draws the defensive back out and away from Schaefer.
Notre Dame’s left end and tackle take over now. They cut into the secondary and double-team the safety man on the left side. If he comes down, Schaefer is clear and going for a long gain.
If the blocking is carried out, Schaefer is on his own. The entire enemy secondary on the left side is free. Going full tilt the Notre Dame fullback pits his speed against that of the defenders.
24
The Irish passing game was saved for crucial spots in 1955. One of the most effective pass patterns was the Full-1 , back fake and pass, especially within the enemy 30-yard line. *
Quarterback Paul Hornung is the “leading lady.” His fake to fullback Don Schaefer can make or break the play. The fake brings the safety man on the left side in. With the safety man charging toward the line, right end Gene Kapish can race behind him toward the end zone.
The play starts with Hornung faking a hand-off to right Half Jimmy Morse. Morse bolts over the right side and cuts toward the side-line. Morse thus decoys the backerup on the left side away from Kapish, the intended receiver.
Hornung also fakes to Schaefer who slants to block the | I defensive left end. Hornung’s fakes to Morse and Schaefer should draw in the all-important safety man to cover the fake plunges.
The blocking on the line is essential. If an enemy lineman leaks in, Hornung will be rushed and less accurate. The Irish left end and tackle, center, right tackle and fullback have to make their blocks stick. The two Irish guards aim at knocking out the enemy linebackers. The guards are also alert for interception possibilities.
On the snap from center Kapish starts down the field and cuts toward the end zone flag. Hornung, after faking, rolls | > back about ten yards and looks for Kapish. Hornung tries to hit Kapish as the big end booms into the end zone.
The pass pattern is “closed” or “protected.” Kapish, cutting toward the flag, has his back to the defender. This leaves little chance for interception. Even assuming an interception, the opponent has little chance for a long return. He would be running along the side-line with the Irish defense converged before him.
e
EB.FAKE- PASS
1955 Varsity Football Team
FIRST ROW: Dick Fitzgerald, John McMullan, Nick Raich, Don Schaefer, Wayne Edmonds, Pat Bisceglia, Capt. Ray Lemek, George Wilson, Paul Reynolds, Gene Kapish, Jim Mense, Gene Martell.
SECOND ROW: Jack Bower (manager), Joe Bill, Bob Salvino, Jim Munro, Jack Dumas, Dick Hendricks, Mike Regan, Frank Epstein, George Nicula, Ben Zajeski, John Kegaly, Bob McGoldrick (manager), Harold Van Huffel (manager).
THIRD ROW: Tom Hughes, Dean Studer, Paul Hornung, Bob Scannell, Joe Bihn, Larry Cooke, Sherrill Sipes, Jim Morse, George Groble, Bob Coyne, John McDonnell, Lou Loncaric, Joe Bosse, Byron Beams, Pete Noznesky.
It Was a Great Fall!
by JIM O’BRIEN
Autumn! The most colorful season of the year, as every weekend features America's most potent pageantry: Football. This is most true at Notre Dame, in the heart of the football country; at Notre Dame, home of the legendary Fighting Irish, a synonym of football spirit and greatness.
The bright sunshine broke through the grey Indiana sky as the green-clad Irish raced past the crimson Mustangs of SMU, as students eased line-weary feet.
Eddie and Debbie
Freshmen glanced covertly at their new roommates, seniors glanced dully at their new professors, St. Mary’s girls stared hopefully at the ND student body.
Halls buzzed with the possibility that newly-wed Debbie would accompany Eddie Fisher to his broadcast from the new WNDU-TV station. Freshman Tietreat begins and class routine settles.
To be quickly dissipated by the appearance of the new, improved (?) Scholastic and the new, improved Hoosiers.
Dust settled on inactive slide rules, as the dogged engineers looked up from their desks to spend a "Night Among the Stars,” at the Engineers’ Ball.
Eddie Fisher endeared himself to thousands of Notre Dame’s finest by bringing along the little woman who
RAIN OR NO RAIN
quickly added to her large following of faithful fans. The Engineers’ Ball fell heir to a fine impromptu performance by Eddie and Debbie, and the inspired Irish rolled across their hapless neighbors for a second shutout and the spirit overflowed into the Drill Hall at the usual victory dance.
Suddenly it was Friday. Murmurs of wonder filled the hall at the potential of almost untested Miami, who had smashed Florida State the week before, and by popular authority, “had been building for this game for three years.” Science students, with great daring, placed themselves vis-a-vis del univers, as Ball Chairman Trimber and committee took over the Student Center for the evening.
Inspired by the unusual weather (balmy) the team smashed Miami, tired from their three years of preparation, without permitting them to score.
The routine was quickly broken for 200 seniors, who prepared with great foresight and anticipation for the arduous junket to East Lansing where the modern version of the besieged Spartans lay in wait for the victory-glutted Irish.
Steamless Boilermaker
The trap sprung effectively as the State eleven unleashed the power which has since made them one of the top teams in the country. But the seniors wended their way home treasuring the blurry memories of a warm welcome and a joyous weekend.
With hopes of a perfect season dashed, the troops returned to the books, with apprehension of Purdue, the spoilers, clouding the weekend.
For Len Dawson, ace passer of the Big Ten, had previously duped the Irish, by rising up in 1954 to create a major upset, as Dawson lobbed four passes into the end zone for a 27-14 victory.
No need to fear. Freed from the gloom of the northern mists, the aroused Irish took charge, running over the huge Purdue line to suffocate lagging Len.
Already tension was building for the Navy game and Decorations weekend.
Homecoming! Clarion call to the lovers of college football. Electric tension of a big game surged through the crowding, pushing, laughing throngs, bright coats and pennants, the girl friend, the folks, the neighbors, the chill air and the torrid football, “Rock’s”
GEORGE WILSON
Dedication Day. The big game!
The game was big enough. The Irish hitting midseason form; Navy, unbeaten and untied; with the best defense in the country in five games, with the finest team since the war years. The crowd was big enough; 58,000 girl-friends, folks, neighbors, subway alumni.
And it rained.
It rained the night before, on the V, Soph Cotillion-goers, whose “Autumn Flagship” ran into a squall.
Navy sunk beneath the sodden sod of the stadium; the clouds at last drained of their moisture, the crowds, the girl friend, all departed.
A freeday to commemorate All-Saints Day, and a departure for the Penn Game, and a restful weekend to spend. And an aroused Penn, playing half of the game of their life, shocked the troops ) into sensibility, until the weight of the Irish came through to right the odds.
Gorgeous George
And a wild night in Walsh hall on the Sunday after, as George Wilson, reserve end who caught a pass for the last touchdown against the hapless Penn defenders, returned to a royal welcome from the throats of his hallmates in the corridor outside his room.
Commerce students, barred by the descent of winter from the “lab”, turned their attentions social-wards to the being of the Commerce Ball, as the team dragged themselves eastward to' the North Carolina game.
Back at Notre Dame, home of bleak skies, thoughts were turned with wonder upon the Hawks from Iowa City.
But after the weekend, all thoughts left the books again and turned toward home—Turkey Day, the folks, girl friend, Notre Dame on the radio from California. And then it was over.
It really was a great two months!
28
PoAZtiMA
Athletic Board Chairman • . •
A few weeks ago, on November 19, a record crowd of 59,685 people braved the snow and cold to assemble in the Notre Dame stadium for the traditionally hard-fought lowa-Notre Dame contest. If they came for football thrills, they were not disappointed. A close first half saw Notre Dame take a 7-0 lead. In the third and fourth quarters the Iowa team gained momentum. With ten minutes left to play in the game, they had gone ahead of the Irish by a 14-7 score and it seemed as though they were surely to enjoy the fruits of victory. What happened in the closing minutes was typical of American intercollegiate football at its best, an apt demonstration of the reasons for its appeal to millions of Americans. The Notre Dame team refused to be beaten. They roared down the field like a team possessed of superman power and scored the tying touchdown. With two minutes remaining to play they once agaiji brought the ball within scoring distance. On a fourth down play, when Paul Hornung stepped back to attempt a field goal, the stadium crowd was tense and silent.
At this point, when Irish supporters were hoping for a kick straight and true and Iowa partisans the opposite, the thought uppermost in my mind was this: “What a pity that millions of other Americans are prevented from viewing this thrilling contest by the narrow, restrictive television policy of the NCAA.”
This may have been a bizarre moment for such a distracting thought but it had been prompted by the events of the preceding week when the NCAA television committee had turned thumbs down on the reasonable request of Governor Leo Hoegh of Iowa to have the Notre Dame-Iowa game televised on several Iowa stations. Here, I think, is an excellent example of situations which arise from such an arbitrary and artificial control policy espoused by the NCAA. The one game that was being televised nationally on November 19 under NCAA auspices was the Southern Cal-U.C.L.A. contest, the
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR OF THE BOARD OF ATHLETICS
starting time of which was several hours later than the midwestern
games. Thus the lowa-Notre Dame game or the Ohio State-Michigan game (for the Big Ten Championship and Rose Bowl representation) could have been televised without conflict. Furthermore, as Governor Hoegh pointed out, there were no other games being played that day in Iowa and the citizens of the state felt it was a ridiculous situation that they should be prevented from seeing their State University in action. We heartily agreed with him and felt the same way about our own supporters throughout the country.
Notre Dame has long been critical of the bureaucratic control that the NCAA exercises over the television of college football games. This is not only due to the fact that we have been prevented from bringing our important games to our national following, both the actual and synthetic alumni, but largely because of our concern with the philosophy underlying the NCAA control. In the first place, it is a reactionary policy based on the attempt to preserve the “status quo” of stadium attendance against the supposed inroads of a new and marvelous invention. Its potency is based on the threat of boycott, which in itself should be suspect in the American way of life. Our nation has been built on respect for private property, on belief in the
advantages of free enterprise and honest competition. It seems particularly strange to find our colleges, which should be bulwarks of freedom, and their athletic departments, which should be advocates of fair and open competition, huddling together in a protective association lest a new invention effect one small aspect of their life.
From the beginning of the TV debate we have pointed out that controls by their nature tend to become more and more restrictive. Permit the camel to warm his nose in your tent and it won’t be long before he will take the whole tent and you’ll be sleeping outside. Sure the NCAA television committee has constantly been widening the scope of its powers. When the American Broadcasting Company presented a film telecast of the Notre Dame games on their Sunday night network in 1953, the NCAA in the following year brought this under their supervision. The same pattern was followed for theatre television after our experimentation with this medium. Undoubtedly we can anticipate similar action in respect to the closed circuit telecasts which we sponsored in a small group of Sheraton hotels this Fall.
The big question in our minds: Where is the line to be drawn on these controls? Is there any limit to the power of a numerical majority within the NCAA to establish new and further controls? If the NCAA has complete and ultimate power over television as one of the factors affecting football attendance and gate receipts, what is to prevent it from having the same power over all other factors? If it can refuse to permit the University of Michigan to televise a game lest the attendance at a nearby college be affected, could it not also restrict the number of fans permitted in Michigan’s 97,000 seat stadium? According to the prevalent line of reasoning, if only 20,000 fans were permitted at the Michigan stadium, the overflow would go to other games. Silly? We think so, but it is no sillier than the NCAA stand.
Since the NCAA is likewise gravely concerned with the financial revenue accruing to the colleges from athletics, is there anything to prevent it from establishing, not only attendance quotas at stadiums, but also strict regulations as to the price of the tickets? A violation of private property rights? We think so, but there is no basic difference between this and the present television control, {continued on page 34)
30
Football Review
Director
Congratulations to Coach Terry-Brennan and his fine staff for the outstanding coaching job of the year.
The record of the 19-55 football team is one of the finest ever compiled by Notre Dame in my tenure as player, coach and athletic director.
There have been undefeated teams in that time whose records were better in the won and lost column. There have been spirited teams that had more size, speed, depth and experience but none “have done so much with so few.” I believe this team will be remembered by the keen observer for its great leadership, its desire .to excel on and off field. And its great Notre Dame Spirit will serve as an inspiration to all Notre Dame teams.—Edward W. Krause, Director of Athletics.


$
i
EDITOR S NOTE: "Moose” Krause has been director of athletics at Notre Dame since March, 1949. But his affiliation with Notre Dame stems back to 1930. when he entered as a freshman. During his college career, he won letters in football, basketball and track. He is one of the few men in the country to become an All-American in both basketball and football.
He first returned to Notre Dame after his graduation, as a line coach under Frank Leahy in 1942. His tenure at Notre Dame was interrupted from 1944 to ’46 when he was in the Marines. ’’Moose” is married to the former Miss Elizabeth Linden of Chicago and they have three children.

s


a 0
Bead Coach
The 1955 Notre Dame team, captained by Ray Lemek, will be remembered for a long time. It will be remembered certainly because of its fine record against all opponents, but the mark it will leave will be more than one of results in the won and lost column. It will leave the indelible mark of a team that has shown more spirit, and desire to play as a team, than any other football team in many years. They had one thing in mind for each game—do not give 100 percent; give 110 percent.
We are going to miss some great seniors from this team and certainly we will miss the great leadership given by Ray Lemek. Despite a knee injury that would have sidelined most players, he led by example ~as'well as words. And led very well.
All-American Don Schaefer will be missed as well as Dick Fitzgerald, our fifth man in the backfield.
Up front, where they did such a fine job under heavy odds, it will be hard to replace fellows like Jim Mense, a very much underrated center; Wayne Edmonds, slowed up by injuries but who did a masterful job when healthy; and George Nicula who filled-in for Wayne very ably.
The last of the group, Gene Kapish, who was bothered by a knee operation, but who came through at crucial times.
John McMullan and Gene Martell came through when needed and left a lasting impression.
This senior group was helped by a spirited number of under-classmen who must carry the load next year, fellows like Hornung, Morse, Prendergast, Sullivan and Studer.
All of us will miss these seniors and we only hope that the spirit they exemplified will carry on for many years to come.—Terry Brennan, Head Football Coach.
A
%
EDITOR’S NOTE: Terry Brennan has finished in's second year as head coacli at Notre Danie. His Notre Dame career started in 1945 when he played for the Irish under Hughie Devore. One highlight of his playing days was his return of the opening kickoff in the last Army game in 1947 for 97 yards and a touchdown. He giaduated from Notre Dame in 1948, picked up a law degree from DePaul in 1953 and then returned to Notre Dame in the fall as frosh coach. His two-year record of 17 wins and three losses is quite an accomplishment for the man who filled ‘’’Old Master” Leahy’s shoes.
Whenever the Irish Play • • •
by GWENN WARREN
Miss Warren is secretary to Charlie Callahan, Sports Publicity Director. She speaks with authority in this background article.
Pessimism rode high this year at Notre Dame when Charles Martin Callahan once again threw the crying towel into the ring and launched another typical Callahan-type hopeless season for the Fighting Irish. Pessimistic as it may have seemed, there certainly was room for thought. Graduation had caused the loss of the almost impenetrable Iron Man line of ’53-’54, and the horizon was heavily clouded. Into the wee hours of the night, any comer could hear the sad moans of Charlie Callahan droning the 5-4-1 record for the ensuing year, and this, if we had luck on our side. Of course, it is common knowledge that the dark always comes before the dawn at Notre Dame, but the picture was by no means colorful.
Every day before the initial game
MANAGER JONES AND ASSISTANT LEN KAHLER CHECK BOOKS
CHARLIE CALLAHAN: PESSIMIST
with SMU, Charlie loped out to Cartier Field, hat set at a dejected angle, and after practice, returned to the office to tap out his daily story to the newspapers. Sometimes, there was a note of
hope, but most of the time the daily epic was punctuated with something short of a defeatist attitude.
Meanwhile, in other parts of the Athletic Building, Coach Terry Brennan, and his unexcelled sidekicks, John Druze, Bill Fischer, Bill Walsh and Bernie Witucki prepared to try to make the unsmiling Irishman eat his words. Druze, former member of the famous Seven Blocks of Granite at Fordham University, and only remaining member of the Leahy era, ran the ends through a grueling treadmill and hoped. Bill Fischer cracked down on the line, using ' his experience as All-American and five years of pro play with the Chicago Cardinals for collateral. Bill Walsh, ■ newly acquired ex-iron man of the ’45-’48	j
Fighting Irish could be seen working	I
with the centers. And last, but not least,	।
Bernie Witucki who coached Washington	.
high of South Bend to State Champion- 4 j ships in ‘37, ‘39, and ‘41 gave the backs -all the benefit of his previous experience. Twice-a-day practice is bound to ! bring reward, but from the looks of the	|
week-end warriors those first few weeks,	।
injuries taking their toll etc., even the i coaches were skeptical.
With the 24th of September approaching, and Southern Methodist presenting its annual threat, Mr. Callahan typed faster, and surrounded even the Golden Dome with the black shroud of utter -gloom. SMU always brought a chill to * the most stalwart of guards, and this ( year, from all reports, they looked good.
32
Football Review
j "Could this greenie team stand up against g the Mustangs from Texas?
I The week before the first game, the I Athletic Department resembled Macy’s I basement during a clearance sale. The | ticket department, having sold out all a tickets, was having difficulty convincing | the public that there were no more. Herb S Jones and the business department were g^busy assembling the usher force, con, ^cession men and other stadium and field personnel that would assure the public, at least, a good day on Saturday. Coach Brennan’s office was overwhelmed with reporters, and in the Sports Publicity Department, the typewriters clicked, file cabinets banged, the floor was strewn with cigarette butts and the phone . . . rang. The number of questions that people as a group can think of to ask were all heard . . . several times an hour. Hardly had the black monster been returned to its cradle than it would
JOHN DRUZE: ENDS
BILL FISCHER: LINE
. . . Confusion Has its Place
again set forth with another jangle. This was only a small part of the confusion . . . press tickets had to be mailed. . . . Notre Dame has a large press box. . . . many papers were covering the upcoming Saturday battle, and in order to keep the newspapermen happy, early delivery of said tabs was essential.
It seems that procrastination in the press ticket department any later- than the Monday before the contest, brings wrathful decrees from every nook and
BERNIE WITUCKI: BACKS
cranny. . . . and therefore there was a big job to be done. Get Joe Blow of the Upper Peninsula Gazette in seat 5 in section D, and be sure that he has a parking pass to get him into the Stadium area so that it will be easy for him to grope his way into the press box without difficulty. Also be sure that Mr. Blow’s Western Union wire is directly in the seat behind him so that it will be easy for him to send his story back to his paper. Mr. Blow’s interests were all taken into consideration by the over-zealous staff in the publicity office, but sure enough on Wednesday, Joe calls and pleads the usual “I will also need” case. Anything to confuse the issue ... if this is possible.
Of course, Joe has friends who don’t find what they “will need” until the day before the game, or even on Saturday morning . . . they may be disappointed. However, all things being equal, tickets, parking passes, wires and temperaments seem to come out even and one hour before the game is to start . . . the office is vacated and settles into a state of normalcy and cairn. This is the time to settle back, take a few aspirins ... a couple of vitamin pills, rest a weary head on a shaking arm and hope to be able to manuever over to the stadium to enjoy what the last drop of blood had been given for all week.
Saturday of the 24th of September was bright and balmy, and the air hung
heavy with anticipation. The stadium was packed to overflowing and the newly-sodded gridiron presented a photographer’s dream in color. The long climb up the stairs to the farthest corner of the stands was worth it. The game was good as have been all of those following it, and once again despite the pessimistic pre-season penning of Mr. Callahan, the Fighting Irish attained the summit in college gridiron ranks, through their unfailing spirit and desire to win.
BILL WALSH: CENTERS
December 2, 1955
33
Notre Dame's Stand on NCAA TV Policy
(continued from page 30)
As a prime example of the lengths to which the NCAA philosophy leads, we cite the Share-the-Wealth Plan espoused by Mr. Robert Hall, former athletic director* at Yale, when he was chairman of the NCAA Television Committee in 1952. Mr. Hall and the entire NCAA TV Committee recommended that serious consideration be given to the proposal that all television revenue be placed in a common fund and be distributed to all of the member colleges of the NCAA. Mr. Hall visualized such a plan supporting the athletic programs of all our nation’s colleges. This presents an appealing objective, but it still remains a miserable means, a socialistic-type scheme which tends to place a premium on mediocrity and to level all schools to one plane.
We suggested to Mr. Hall at the time that it would be equally consistent and attractive to many colleges to share, for even higher purposes, not only football receipts but also the endowments of such fortunate universities as Harvard, Princeton, Cornell and Yale. Mr. Hall remained significantly silent.	■
The argument used by those in favor of the NCAA-controlled television plan has a subtle and sentimental appeal that silences many who would otherwise criticize it severely. Any socialistic scheme is not wanting in its appeal to those who through it hope to augment their fortunes. Everyone realizes that the private colleges of our country have a constant struggle to balance their budgets. No one would like to see their athletic programs jeopardized. Therefore, the expressed desire to protect the colleges from the feared inroads of television, seems at first glance to be reasonable. But is the control plan really reasonable when you stop to analyze it? Is it really operating in the best interests of intercollegiate athletics?
The NCAA Is Trying to Attain the Impossible
First of all, any attempt to maintain a “status quo” is abortive in a free-enterprise system. If a new invention manifestly affects an industry it is extremely shortsighted to hope that artificial restraints will neutralize its effect. The NCAA is highly presumptuous in thinking that it can control the free citizenry in and out of football stadiums. Banning television oi* restricting it will not insure to Starhigh College the attendance in 1960 that it had in 1947. There are too many other variable factors, exclusive of television, that affect attendance. The tendency today is to make television the “whipping boy” for any change in attendance patterns. This is obviously unfair. We need only reflect on the continued adjustments that were made prior to television. At one time the East and the Ivy League held the chief interest of the football world. The currents had shifted long before television came into the picture. Teams that formerly were perennial powerhouses, such as Alabama, Tulane, Fordham, Minnesota, Washington no longer fielded teams of the same caliber. It is to be expected that their attendance patterns would undergo a change. The same would be true, in reverse, for teams like Oklahoma, Maryland, U.C.L.A., Michigan State. We should remember also that since 1940 a considerable number of colleges have abandoned or restricted their intercollegiate football programs for reasons entirely unrelated to television. In fact, I have not heard of a single college that has attributed its withdrawal from the football scene to the adverse effects of television.
At the moment ours is a minority position and as such may elicit more criticism than praise. This doesn’t mean, however, that it is necessarily the wrong position. We well remember an analogous situation in the early days of radio. One reason why we refuse to panic now at the thought of defending a minority stand is due to the salutary experience we had then.
Exactly the same hue and cry went up at that time. Many doomsday prophets saw in radio the lethal weapon that would empty stadiums from coast to coast. Some colleges and conferences adopted measures to ban radio broadcasts of their games. Notre Dame then took an opposite point of view. Knute Rockne, with the foresight, progressiveness and sagacity typical of the man, saw in radio a great ally of American football. He immediately offered, the Notre Dame games to any and all radio stations and networks that desired to broadcast the games. NCAA boycotts were unheard of in those days and the othei* schools began following Notre Dame’s example. Future experience proved how correct Rockne had been. Radio helped to build millions of new fans A for intercollegiate football.	’
Television, Like Radio, Can Be a Football Ally
We think that television, properly used, might well do the same thing. Bert Bell, Commissioner of U. S. professional football, agrees with this opinion. He feels that television has helped to bring innumerable new fans to the professional games. There are differences, of course, between the situation confronting the professionals and that of the colleges. The point remains true, l however, that television can and does produce stadium fans and not just armchair quarterbacks.	• ■
In the early days of the TV debate, those in favor of controls placed much stress on the necessity of protecting the smaller > schools. From our observation it is not the smaller schools which are terribly concerned about the impact of television. In the first place, their attendance already is quite small and is drawn largely from students, local alumni and others who are perennial >1 supporters and will not be gravely affected by television. Secondly, many of these colleges play their games on Friday or Satur- Ir^ day night. Many others would probably do this if they felt their attendance was being adversely affected by the big games and * a television on Saturday.
How explain the fact that the majority of colleges voting within the NCAA have favored the controlled plan? To my mind, their reaction has been largely that they have little to gain from television and perhaps something to lose. It is interesting to note, however, that never have as many as 50% of the member colleges voted in favor of the NCAA controlled TV plan. Most have re-	i
trained from voting at all, probably with the feeling that they would rather remain aloof from the controversy.
In summary, Notre Dame is opposed to the present NCAA policy because it is reactionary, arbitrary, artificial and will, in the	1
long run, be detrimental to intercollegiate football. Although we admittedly are very much in the minority, we do not stand alone	!
in opposing the basic philosophy of the NCAA restrictive plan. Harvard and Yale have both expressed opposition to it. In	i j
May 1953 the Harvard athletic director, Thomas D. Bolles, made the statement that “Harvard intends not to be bound by any	'j
program restricting its right to decide independently when and to what extent it will televise athletics.” Yale followed suit the same month announcing their independent stand to be “a matter of principle.”
For the unconvinced who might still feel that Notre Dame’s athletic policy is governed solely by an inordinate desire for rev-	s|
enue, we have one final consideration. We have for thirty years rejected literally millions of dollars in money by refusing to par-	I'j
ticipate in post-season bowl games. This, too, happens to be with us a matter of principle.	Il
34	Football Review
They Help Field the Irish
The echoes of triumph had died, and now the huge, empty Notre Dame stadium stood desolate and silent. No sound remained of the 56,000 voices that had once roared with delight, and the mute rows of benches waited patiently for another Saturday afternoon of action and excitement.
s
But down in the locker room, a small group of young men was already preparing for the next game. They roamed about the room, gathering the dirty, sweat-stained uniforms, tearing down the old pep posters, and taping new ones to the wall. These were the little men behind the scenes, hiding in the shadows of greatness. They were part of another team, the football managers.
Coach Terry Brennan’s right hand consists of a squad of 59 hard-working, but unseen managers, who set the stage for Irish success. Heading the list this year as Head Manager, Bob McGoldrick handles his mammoth job with enthusiasm and effort. The senior from Danbury, Conn., field-marshalls his men to peak efficiency in their service of coaches and players. Behind him Jack Bower, an (Illinois senior, runs the Personnel Department, while Mike Van Huffel, a senior from Warren, Ohio, cares for the equipment.
But what could possibly keep a staff of 59 managers busy? Work begins for most of the staff on Monday afternoon at practice. The managers check the players as they enter Cartier Field, and the gates are barred to anyone without
By JIM MERZ
ALWAYS AFTER SOMETHING
a pass. An elaborate system of checklists pin-points the location of every player. Then the “Security Service” of the managerial staff moves in. A small team of men patrol the fence and chase all hopeful spectators. Another man roams the corridors of O’Shaughnessy Hall, pulling the shades in empty classrooms, and clearing the corridors and stairs of all loiterers. Even the stadium is scrutinized constantly for any unwanted heads popping over the top wall. This security, plus a tight-lipped refusal to mention Notre Dame strategy to other students, allows the Irish to pull such fantastic surprises as the unbalanced line formation used against Purdue.
Within the solid, green fence of Cartier Field another team of managers scurries about the grid, chasing footballs, mending cleats, and moving equipment at the beck and call of the coaches. Dangerous faucets and pipes are covered for safety. Day after day the managers hustle for over three hours, sometimes in sub-freezing weather. After practice, equipment must be collected and cleaned, and attendance must be recorded.
Finally the big day of a home game dawns to find the managers busier than usual. A thousand minute details must be carried out with precision and speed. The managers dot the sidelines with towels, pails, ice, mats, and chairs, with everything in its proper place. Although the Irish are gunning for victory, the managers supply their opponents with everything but Notre Dame strategy! The President’s Box is provided with blankets and programs, while other managers carry sandwiches and oranges to the officials at half-time. During the game, Bob McGoldrick keeps tabs on
player-eligibility for Coach Brennan, while Jack Bower eyes the clock to record each man’s field time toward his Varsity monogram. Between the halves, Bob times the 15 minute intermission down to the second, shouting the time throughout the lockei' room.
Only four managers follow the team foi’ each away game, the three seniors and one junior. Mike Van Huffel tends the enormous task of transporting 40 duffels and five of six huge trunks of equipment. A down-to-the-minute schedule must be followed, and “Mother” McGoldrick, as Bob is sometimes called, by the players, sees that his boys are on time. Bob keeps the team together, arranges for transportation, and handles all expenses.
During the season Bob receives crank letters and encouragement from fans all over the country. These are promptly taped to the walls of the locker room to fire the Irish morale. This year the managers have circulated over 300 footballs among the squad to be autographed.
When a wide-eyed freshman joins the j ranks of football managers in the fall, i he has little glory in store for him, but years of drudgery and sacrificing service. What makes him slave for the Irish for years? Perhaps he is aiming for a , monogram, or the scholarship awarded || to the senior managers. But, more i likely, he is engulfed in the power of I a mighty team, and enjoys the comrade- ; ship of a wonderful group of men.	i|
1
“chief” McGoldrick in action !
35
No. 1—HORNUNG GRABS ONE	NO. 2—STARTS UPFIELD AS STUDER JOINS PARTY
Interception ...
3
&
I.
Sometimes after a football game, some-Wone will say, “Breaks told the story.” Right in the middle of a touchdown drive someone will pick-off a pass and stifle a score.
Here photographer Bob Early describes pictorially the interception of a Purdue pass near the Irish end zone, and its subsequent runback.
NO. 3—TWO MORE BLOCKERS MOVE IN
The author is a one-time fullback.
At Notre Dame he played guard for three years on the Varsity. He says he wouldn’t change positions because .. . Games Are Won
Up Front
by PAT BISCEGLIA as told to DAVE DAVIN
THE AUTHOR
Every Saturday afternoon after Notre Dame warms up on the field, line Coach Fischer leaves his charges with, “As this line goes, so goes the team.” And he’s so right.
Remember, I’m a converted fullback but I’m convinced that it’s the linemen who cany the club.
Here at Notre Dame we linemen work pretty hard early each September to get ready, not only for the games, but just get ready for work with the backs. It takes a lot of hard work to be a good lineman. And when we come off that practice field at night we’re tired, believe me.
At first we have practice two times a day and those are long sessions when you work like we do. We start with the fundamentals of line play—blocking man-on-man, counter blocking and stay at that stuff for 30 to 45 minutes each
BISCEGLIA (62) DEFENDS DOWNFIELD AS LINEBACKER.
day. After you do that for a while and then run dashes, you’re beat. And then we have a scrimmage.
Before we get real contact, like a scrimmage, we have to go through all the blocking procedures, like pushing your man right or left, depending where the coach motions. And then we practice pass-blocking, where we have to keep everyone except the passer, out of the pocket.
From here we go into units, with backs, and have a scrimmage or intersquad game. It’s hard to be a lineman. There’s more to it than learning how to block. I think it’s harder to be an offensive lineman because there are so many things to do and remember. You always have to remember that the man you are to take out, might stop the play if you miss. If the play is over your position and you get your man and the team
gets about thirty yards, that’s one of the greatest feelings in the world.
On defense, the things you do seem to come more naturally. But even after a while, playing next to the same fellow week after week, like I was there for awhile with George Nicula, you get to know what he’s thinking and you can work as a little team yourselves. That’s when things really work better.
But on offense, the main thing to remember is aim low, keep your head up watching his belly and, wallop him hard with your shoulder and keep moving him. If you get the jump on him, you’ve got him.
Besides this you have to keep all the little details like play changes at the line or “live” color, like we use here
and things like that. The only bad part about that “live” and “dead” color
$
business is that some guys are color blind and mess up the plays.
I’d rather play defense. Although for me it’s a little more work. I usually back the line and the linebacker has to
cover the short pass zones and get in on screen passes, which is kind of hard. But then, different defenses have me doing different things.	,
On some I follow the quarterback, on others the ball carrier. All together we could throw around ten defenses against a split-T team if we had to.
Usually when I find a defense that clicks, I stick to it and call it most of the time. That’s my defensive job—to call defensive signals. At the beginning i of a game, one of the coaches will tell ' me what defense to start with, then I , switch them until one hits.	’
Like down in Miami, we had a little trouble at first with the “belly series.” M But when I hit on the five-four defense and it held them, I kept running into [ .
(Continued on page 49)	I
38
Football Review 4
Irish Numbers in
by BOB EARLY
Review
Numbers on a football jersey are — different from most other numbers; they ®nave a character. They reflect the tradition of Notre Dame football and serve to knit one era of greats to another.
Unfortunately, the numbering system here at Notre Dame can only be traced back to 1929, consequently by-passing such names as George Gipp, Gus Dorais, the Four Horsemen, and many, many others. But, still, these are few compared to the more recent groups who ^have pounded the dummies in Cartier Field.
For example, examine the case of this year’s captain, Ray Lemek, and his leading 72. This number was first worn by Vince Whelan, the left guard on Rockne’s 1929 unbeaten, untied national champions. The following year Harry Wunsch wore the same number at the same position on another national championship team. Again, just 19 years ^ago, anothei* guard, John Lautner, wore ^the big 72. He was so outstanding in the middle of the line that he became 72’s first All-American while leading his team to the western championship.
One of the assistant coaches on this year’s squad, Bill Fischer, was the last man to wear 72 before Lemek donned it in 1953. He, too, was a guard and an All-American in ’47 and ’48, receiving the Outland Trophy as the “Outstand-^ing Lineman of 1948.” He also cap-stained the team that year.
Don Schaefer’s hustling 9 was never before worn by a fullback. However, it was worn by several quarterbacks, the position at which Schaefer started. Included among these are Norbert Christman of the ’29 and ’30 national champs, Wally Fromhart, George Ratterman, and Bob Williams. The latter, of course, was the lad who took over for an injured Frank Tripucka in the last game of the ’48 season and developed into ^an All-American the next year.
The 51 on the back of Jim Mense has an interesting history. Just about everyone who wore the number had to do everything the hard way. Tom (Kitty) Gorman is a good example. His sophomore year he played with the “shock troops” behind team captain Tommy Yarr. The next season he alternated with All-American Jack Robinson and Ben Alexander. Even in his senior year he had a tough fight bin beating out Fred Solari for a starting job, but it all paid off as he became one of the best linemen in the country.
Another example is Ed Longhi. Other
sports came much easier to Longhi, especially baseball which was the big sport here in those days. But Ed liked football. He worked extremely hard at the game and at controlling a fiery temper, and the hard work brought dividends as he was the only man on the ’38 squad to meet Army four times. In fact, he became so good that he was named to the All-America team his final year.
Henry (G-Man) Pojman wore the number in the middle thirties. He was an excellent competitor, a man with a lot of hustle and great spirit; a typical Notre Dame footballer.
Still another example of a man who had to keep fighting and coming back was Bob Ostermann. When he was in the line-up Notre Dame was a power, but when he was out with an injui-y, which was nearly half of the 1940 season, the Irish slumped badly. Probably no one was needed more on any team than Ostermann was needed on that one. All of these last four men were centers.
Then there is Jim Morse’s fleet 17. In 1931 Frank LaBorne wore it at left half on Heartley Anderson’s first team. August Bossu had the number at right guard on 1938’s once-beaten western champions. Most recently the big 17 was worn by Jack Whelan, an outstanding defensive half back of the two platoon days a few years back. However, Morse was the first man in this group to start in his sophomore year.
Number 23, worn by Aubrey Lewis, has seen an abundance of action in the past. Halfback Clarence Kaplan in 1929 was the first man to wear it. Ten years later Lou Zontini used the same number while playing right half. He was a hard runner which he showed in 1938 against Minnesota. The Irish were in a hole on their own 16 with only four minutes of the game gone. Notre Dame came out of the huddle and shifted to the left. Zontini got the ball and powered into the line. In the next instant he was zooming down the sidelines for the touchdown. Minnesota was beaten on that play and the Irish went on to a 19-0 victory. And he could kick, too. It was his toe that beat Carnegie Tech that same year, 7-6.
Twenty-three belonged to Fred Evans, the man with a hundred nicknames, in the early forties. Called “Dippy,” “The Dipper,” and “Fearless Fred” among others, he was a great runner and a pretty fair punter, but a knee injury kept him on the bench most of his third and last year on the varsity.
ZONTINI	LEWIS
Bob Kelly, probably the most controversial figure in Notre Dame football, followed Evans with this number. The piano-legged half back averaged over 8 yards per try his junior year and was called on occasion THE Notre Dame team by the press.
Kelly started his college career at Annapolis but quit there to come to Notre Dame. It was this switch that prompted President Truman to use the term “draft dodger” in describing Kelly and others who left government schools for different institutions.
John Petitbon is probably the player most similar to Lewis that wore 23. In 1951 he led the team in punt and kickoff returns, averaged about 5 yards a try, and played defensive safety, quite similar to Aubrey’s fast, break-away running style and defensive ability.
Notre Dame’s ends, Dick Prendergast and Gene Kapish, numbers 87 and 89, respectively, had no numerical predecessors until 1950. End John Helwig wore 89 that year, but was used only on defense. Another end, Chet Ostrowski had 87 on the same team. He was a brilliant pass receiver, one of the best in Notre Dame history. His senior year he was moved to guard, but had to shift back to end as the season started to provide the offense needed at that position.
The fighting 82 that Wayne Edmonds has used so well this year has a reputation of belonging to exceptionally big men. In 1943 John Yonakor, a six foot
REYNOLDS SCHWARTZ
December 2, 1955
39
five inch, 228 pound end, carried the number to All-America honors. Then came Leon Hart, six feet four inches, 240 pounds, who did everything well as he was awarded the Heisman Trophy as the “Outstanding Player of 1949.”
Paul Reynolds’ counterpart with the number 18 was one Marchmont Schwartz. Marchy was much the same type ball player as Reynolds. He was an excellent runner, especially fine in a broken field, a precision passer, and a better-than-average punter. Playing under Rockne he was a member of the ’29 and ’30 national champions and an All-American in ’30 and ’31, but unlike Reynolds he was never seriously injured.
Pat Bisceglia’s 62 has been associated with some very fine linemen, Bob Massey of the thirties, Al Krueger, Ed Mieszkowski and Steve Oracko of the forties, and Tom Seaman in 1950. All were standouts although Mieszkowski was injured much of the time. Oracko was a three monogram man who excelled in place kicking, and, due to his toe, was among the leading scorers on the team each year. Seaman was a fast guard and a good blocker, but Bisceglia was probably the best defensive lineman who played under 62.
John Lujack wore number 32 with such success that he received the Heisman Trophy in 1947. Before him Dave Flood, Harry Stevenson and Andy Pil-ney, all half backs, had it before Dick Fitzgerald took it over in 1953. Pilney is probably best remembered for the Ohio State game of 1935. In the last quarter Notre Dame was behind 13-0. Pilney ran a punt back to the twelve and passed to the one, and one play later it was 13-6. The score was the same with just two minutes to go when Pilney threw three passes and caught one for 75 of 78 yards in a drive that made the score 13-12. Notre Dame got the ball back on a fumble and Pilney carried it 32 yards to the 19 to set up the winning TD. However, he suffered a leg injury in that game and never played regular for Notre Dame again.
All of these names are only a few of the hundreds who have made the University of Notre Dame one of the greatest collegiate football powers in the nation today.
PILNEY FITZGERALD
Graduation to Take 19 Men
As Notre Dame left the Los Angeles Coliseum last Saturday, a college football career had ended for each of nineteen seniors.
Of these nineteen players, fourteen of them were linemen, which means that Coach Terry Brennan has another rebuilding job to do in his forward wall for next season.
Gone will be Capt. Ray Lemek, the “heart” of the Irish this year. For three years, he has been a fixture in the line.
A replacement for “Old Reliable” Pat Bisceglia will be hard to find. It wasn’t too hard to find “Patsy” on the field this past fall. Wherever there was a tackled ball carrier, there he was at the bottom of the pile.
Another regular all year was Center Jim Mense. Mense was the “iron man” of the team, leading in total time played. Jim took over the center slot during midseason of the 1954 campaign for the injured Dick Szymanski.
Holes in the Line
Tackle Wayne Edmonds was a three letter man and was the first Negro to win a football monogram at Notre Dame. He missed the Penn and North Carolina games but most of the other Saturday afternoons were spent in the opponents backfield. Time after time, it was Edmonds leading the charge and knocking down the ball carrier with vicious abandon.
Another starting senior lineman is End Gene Kapish. Kapish was one of Hornung’s favorite aerial targets. He was the victim of recurring leg injuries which hampered him greatly during his stint the past two seasons. And when he wasn’t spilling a ball carrier, he was snaring a pass, frequently for a score.
Guards John McMullan and Gene Martell appeared frequently in the starting lineup for the injury riddled Irish. McMullan came into his own during spring practice and then it was only a matter of time when he would crack the starting lineup. A stalwart on defense and a good blocker on offense, he earned his first monogram well in his last year.
Martell earned a letter last year alternating between guard and tackle. Because of his ability on defense, he was called on frequently to aid in stopping a scoring threat.
Sorely missed will be Tackle George Nicula. Very speedy for his 210-pound frame, he became a reliable two-way player. In ’54 he picked up valuable experience with the second team and
this year relieved Edmonds of his start- ' ing role when Edmonds had his bout with injuries.	•
Missing from the backfield next fall will be All-American Don Schaefer. The bruising fullback was the “bread and butter” man this year and for that^ matter, the past two years. “Schaef” won his first of three monograms in ’53 when he played quarterback. Switched to fullback in ’54, he began two years . of devasting ground gaining.
Reynolds: Four Monograms
Dick Fitzgerald had the misfortune of playing behind Schaefer but he still earned three letters. He alternated be- < tween fullback and halfback his first two years on the varsity. He was a solid line backer and his speed made him a valuable asset on pass defense.
Halfback Paul Reynolds a four-monogram winner was the victim of injuries throughout his four year career. In midseason, it became apparent that a ' future injury might be permanent; he then took up the reins as an assistant freshmen coach.
Nick Raich and Dick Keller, both -lettermen, became inactive before the season was too far along because of injuries. Raich won his letter as a fullback in ’54 while Keller earned his as a halfback in his sophomore year.
It has sometimes been said that the real heroes of Notre Dame football were those who played most of their football on Cartier’s practice field. Teams on the Irish schedule only have to play them once a year but these reserves have to play one of the top teams in the nation, day in and day out. It is not too often that a reserve has his “day”, but this year reserve end George Wilson had his. In the waning minutes against Penn, George snared a pass in the end zone. It was as if it symbolized the dreams of all reserves.
Among these senior reserves are: ends Mike Regan, Ben Zajeski, and Jack Dumas who along with Wilson had the misfortune of playing behind two of the a better ends in the collegiate ranks in Kapish and Dick Prendergast.
Dick Hendricks played in the number three slot at fullback. Small but rugged, he was the same slashing type runner as Fritzgerald and Schaefer.
John Kegaly, out of St. Ignatius in Chicago, played at guard. He was a good defensive player.
These are the players who -will step out into their chosen professions next June. They have in their own ways helped to “shake down the thunder.” They all did their job well. They couldn’t see it any other way.
—John Glavin.
<0
Football Review
‘Rock’s
Dedication Game
by JOE NORTON
The year’ 1955 marks the 25th anniversary of the death of one of Notre 9 Dame’s greatest sports figures—and one of her greatest men.
It was on March 31, 1931, that Knute K. Rockne was killed in an airplane crash.
The news of Rockne’s death stunned the nation. The great coach was loved and respected by the high and the lowly, the famous and the unknown. The president of the United States paid him perA sonal tribute. The King of Norway sent a special delegation to his funeral. And an Atlanta newsboy tearfully threw his papers into the gutter because he “didn’t want his customers to know about Rock.”
Knute Rockne came to the United States from Norway when he was five years old. His father, a carriage maker, decided to settle in Chicago after visiting the 1893 World’s Fair there. Young Knute was delighted with his new homeland and after a few years he received his introduction to American football.
Besides playing football, Rockne was quite a half-miler on the track squad. During the four year period between his graduation from high school and his enrollment at Notre Dame, he ran for several Chicago athletic clubs. It was through the persuasion of two of his
friends, who were also track that Rockne decided to come
athletes, to Notre
When Knute Rockne arrived
at Notre
Dame, he immediately tried out for the
football team. The results were a little less than disastrous from Rockne’s point of view, so he devoted his attention to the track team. He won his varsity monogram in track and was encouraged enough to give the football wars another try. He won an end position in his junior year and was so impressive that his teammates voted him captain for the 1913 season.
The rest is in the record books. Rockne and his roommate, Gus Dorais, developed the forward pass during that 1913 season. They unveiled it against a strong Army team and trounced the Cadets, 35-13.
After his graduation, Rochne stayed on at Notre Dame and worked as a graduate assistant in chemistry to Father Julius Nieuwland. He also helped out as a “graduate assistant in football” to head coach Jesse Harper. When Harper resigned after the 1917 season, Rockne took over the coaching reins.
The stories of Rockne’s coaching days would fill volumes. In 13 seasons “Rock’s” teams won 105 games, lost 12, and tied five. He had National Championship elevens in 1924, 1929, and 1930.
His first and greatest All-American, the immortal George Gipp, wrote football history during the 1920 season. Rockne’s 1924 backfield of Stuhldre-her, Miller, Crowley, and Layden inspired the famed Grantland Rice to write “Against the gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again . . .”
The sports world lost a great figure when that plane crashed in a Kansas wheatfield.
But more than as a football coach, Knute Rockne is remembered and respected as a man. He was an inspiration to his players, his rivals, and all who- knew him. Part of a quotation from the funeral oration given by Father Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University at the time of Rockne’s death, best reveals the feeling of the American people toward Knute Rockne:
“Yes, Rockne is gone. And who was he? . . . ask the thousands of newspaper men whose labor of love in his memory has stirred every heart in
America, men and life—ask America, who was
. . . But above all—ask the women from every walk of the children, the boys of Ask any and all of those the man whose death has
struck a nation with dismay and has everywhere bowed heads in grief.”
The Notre Dame Football Stadium was dedicated Oct. 11, 1930, when “Rock’s” last team played the U. S. Naval Academy. The Irish won 26-2. This year’s Navy game was dedicated to the memory of the great coach. His wife, Mrs. Bonnie Skiles Rockne, and his coach, Jesse Harper, were introduced at halftime ceremonies.
The opinion was held by a few that Navy might beat Notre Dame this year.
Navy field.
lost before they ran onto the It was Rock’s game.
MRS. ROCKNE, FORMER IRISH MENTORS . . . AND THE
BAND
PAY TRIBUTE.
December 2.
1955
Frosh Hopefuls
by ANDY CARNAZOLA
When Spring practice rolls around again next year for Coach Terry Brennan and his aids, much of their attention will be focused on the new players up from this year’s Frosh squad. And by the looks of things, Terry will see plenty. Rumors have it that this year’s Freshman squad is one of the best to hit Cartier Field in quite some time. With such linemen as Pat Bisceglia, Jim Mense, Gene Kapish, Ray Lemek and others leaving through graduation, there will be many vacancies left in the line. Next year’s line will be “up for grabs” again, giving an added incentive to the newcomers.
Coach Jack Landry and his charges have been working hard daily throughout the year in preparing the team to acquaint itself with the fundamentals of Notre Dame football. No intercollegiate games are played by the Freshman squad, but necessary contact work is fulfilled weekly with scrimmages against the varsity.
Coach Landry is in his first year as Frosh coach. Landry was a one time Irish great at fullback, and graduated in 1950. In commenting on this year’s squad, Jack says, “We have a lot of potential at every position. I feel that the team will be a great addition to next year’s varsity, mainly, because of the tremendous team spirit.” When asked to mention a few outstanding players, Landry answered, “That’s a hard question to answer because no one group of players stand head over heels over any other.”
This year’s line is big, aggressive, and fast. Coach Landry has no first team. Instead, he has been rotating the boys regularly, in order to get a bettei- look at each player. The team is very strong at the end position. Leading the pack are Frank Geremia, a 225 poundei' man
who hails from California. Bob Wet-oska is also a good bet at the end position. Wetoska stands 6-3, as does Geremia, and weighs in at 224. Other leading ends are Neil Seaman from Bower Hill, Pa., and Louis Manzo of Old Forge, Pa.
The tackle slot seems to be capably taken care of by Angelo Mosca and Bronco Nagurski, Jr. Mosca is 6-4 and weighs 240 while Nagurski is 6-1, and tips the scales at 220. Mosca played his high school ball at Waltham, Mass., and Nagurski at International Falls, Minn. Joe King from Cincinnati and Don Lawrence of Cleveland have also shown signs of varsity material.
The team is also very strong at guard, with Allen Ecuyer, Dick Telenko, Jim Schaaf, and Dick Phelan the leading prospects. The hard charging Ecuyer weighs in at 197. He is from New Orleans. Telenko is 5-9, and 205 pounds. One of the fastest linemen out, he hails from Cleveland.
Charles Pontillo and Kevin Burke seem to have the inside track at the center slot. The 200 pound Burke played his high school ball at Columbia High in Richland, Wash. Pontillo is a rough center from East Chicago, Ind.
Coach Landry has been pleased with the showing of the backfield to date. Bob Williams and Norm Odyniec have displayed great skill in directing the team from the split-T formation. Both boys have been tossing the pigskin around quite a bit, and showed great talent in that respect. Williams is 6-2, and weighs 185 pounds. He is 18 years old and played his high school ball in Wilkes Barre, Pa. The 18 year old Odyniec hails from Greensboro, North Carolina. He is 5-11, and weighs 180. Other leading candidates at the all important quarterback slot are: Richard
Selcer of Cincinnati, Robert Hill o^ Dubuque, Iowa, and Mike Dugan of Omaha, Nebr.	;
The halfback department is composed ; of both big, hard-driving backs and -small, swift runners. None of the halfbacks seems to outshine the other by a great margin, but James Just, Robert Zeman, and Peter Salsich seem to have the inside track on the position. Just^ is a graduate of Don Bosco High School,^ Milwaukee, Wise. He is 18, stands 6-1, and weighs 188. Zeman also stands 6-1, and like Just tips the scales at 188. He is from Wheaton, Ill. Peter Salsich is a speedy 175 pounder from St. Louis.
Other leading halfbacks are: Max Falk of Andale, Kansas, Charles Frederick of Ft. Thomas, Kentucky, and Frank Reynolds of Oak Park, Ill.
The top men for the position of full-(J back are: Nick Pietrosante, Don Costa, and Jim Colosimo. This is one of the strongest positions on the team. Pietrosante seems to have the edge, although not by much. The hard charging fullback from Ansonia, Conn., has been hitting the line very hard according to Landry. His 6-2, 215 pound frame gives him a lot of power.
Another hard charger is Don Costa of Ellwood City, Pa. James Colosimo was^ switched from quarterback to fullback early in the season and has been doing very well. This 205 pound line smasher hails from Eveleth, Minn. Another top prospect at fullback is Ron Toth of East Cleveland, Ohio.
Other players worthy of mention are: Gerald Knippenberg, a 200-pound center from Maywood, Ill., Gary Myers, an end, from Spokane, Wash., Arthur Murphy, a 220-pound tackle from Melton, Mass.,^ John Renfree, a 207-pound tackle, from^ Bakersfield, Calif., and Paul Douds, a tackle from Corrapolis, Pa.
All in all, Coach Landry has been pleased with the team. The spirit is running high, and most of the players should fit right into the traditional Notre Dame brand of ball. They should be a welcome sight to Coach Terry Brennan next fall.
42
Football Review
Heartiest Congratulations to the
1955 Fighting Irish
from the
NATIONAL MILK COMPANY
SOUTH BEND, IND. Phone AT 7-1563	MICHIGAN CITY, IND. Phone 6-6277
MISHAWAKA, IND.	NORTH LIBERTY, IND.
ELKHART, IND.	LAPORTE, IND.
The Huddle
Congratulates the 1955 Notre Dame Football Squad
■ , ■ STOP at the HUDDLE ■ ■ ■ for that little snack between classes
December 2, 1955
43
Notre Dame Victory March Musical Powder Boxes
□ Medium size $3.75 plus postage and insurance......................$4.25
□ Large size $5.50 plus postage and insurance.....................  $6.00
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
Name..............  :...................................................
Address...............................................................
City and State........................................................
□ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
Crystal Clear Glasses to Toast Notre Dame
At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your entertaining will be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they are made up in traditional colors.
SEND
□	6 oz. No. 1 Stem Champagne — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance ....$10.25
□	10 oz. No. 2 Pilsners — $7.50 Doz. plus postage and insurance........ 8.75
□	9 oz. No. 3 Stem Goblet—$9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance...----- 10.25
□	3/z oz. No. 4 Stem Cocktail — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance- 10.25
□	3 oz. No. 5 Stem Wine — $9.00 Doz. plus postage and insurance....- 10.25
□	14 oz. No. 6 Hi-Ball or Mint Julep $4.95 Doz. plus postage and insurance 6.20
□	7J/a oz. No. 7 Old Fashion — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance--- 6.00 □ 10 oz. No. 8 Hi-Ball or Coke — $4.75 Doz. plus postage and insurance___ 6.00
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
Name.........................................-..................
Address.........................-.............................................
City and State............................
□ Remittance Enclosed
□ Send C.O.D.
Notre Dame Football Trophy Stein
Here is a complete three piece set. The mug contains a large blue, ND gold trimmed monogram with a football player handle. The miniature stein can be used as a cigarette container or as a novelty along with the “Letter Man.”
Large Stein .....................$4.25	□
Miniature Stein ................  1.50	□
Letter Man ...................... 1.50	□
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana	'
Name...........................................................................
Address......................................................................
City and State---------------------------------------------------------------
□ Remittance Enclosed □ Send C.O.D.
44
Football Review
I
Notre Dame Miniatures For Your Sweetheart
Christmas 1955
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings are used as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice or to a feminine member of your family with whom you share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring design is identical with the official ring, only more delicate in its modulation and construction.
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
PRICE LIST —NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS
Aquamarine, genuine, faceted top and back....$20.00 Black onyx ..........................    —.....—	17.00
Blue spinel No. 1, buff top-faceted back........ 18.00 Blue spinel No. 2, faceted top and back......... 18.00 Ruby No. 1, synthetic, buff top-faceted back.... 18.00 Ruby No. 2, synthetic, faceted top and back.... 18.00 Sapphire, synthetic, dark blue .................  19.00
Sapphire, synthetic, light blue................. 19.00
Tourmaline No. 1, buff top-faceted back......... 18.00
Tourmaline No. 2, faceted top and back.......... 18.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS .
All-diamond cluster, 10K...............   150.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, ruby or tourmaline center ............    83.00
WEDDING BANDS
Ladies', Plain or Beaded, Regular .........$ ’6.00
Ladies’, Plain or Beaded, Contour ________ 8.00
Man’s, Plain or Beaded, Regular  .......   11.00
Man’s, Plain or Beaded, Contour........    12.00
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24k gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram.
Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.
3
Ring Size For Measurini
♦ 5 I 1 8 8 10 11
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
Notre Dame Book Store
t	Notre Dame, Indiana
December 2, 1955
45
When in
for the best buy MAKE IT THE
Fort Wayne
TEMPLE & CASS AVENUES
Adjoining the largest Masonic Temple in the world.
300 delightful rooms with tub and shower. Radio, television, air-conditioning, Parking Home of Detroit’s most attractive and re-nowned Cocktail bar— CAFE BURGUNDY Coffee Shop,
Smw	”
•t hi if ifi in m * •	*


Dining Rooms, Ballroom, Cigar Store, Barber Shop, Beauty Shop, Bowling Alleys.
Tel TEmple 1-8600
/ll Smdk
INVITES YOU TO SOUTH BEND’S FINEST HI Fl SOUND STUDIO
Specializing in High Fidelity Systems
Electric Voice	Tuners
University	Amplifiers
National	Enclosures
Phillips of Holland Changers
Tape Recorders and Supplies
Reck	Presto
O Kut	Garrard
Webcor	V M
Colloro Audiophite Net
•mrrii ntg nil n ri
*.. f nrnrn*" -^

» $
Koom£ from
Affiliated with Hotel METROPOLE—Cincinnati, Hotel DESOTO—St. Louis
‘‘Make Cyr’s your headquarters for haircuts.”
Call CE 30678 for appointment
CYR’S
BARBER SHOP
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100—102 S. MAIN ST. W. E. CYR, Prop.
Tuesday and Thursday
T-Boae Steak only $1.25
Pork Chops $1,111
These are complete dinners
Flamingo Restaurant
610 N. Michigan
OPEN SUNDAY
AL SMITHS HI Fl SOUND STUDIO 412 South Michigan Street At. 9-6540
It's the
HANS-mmSCH Laggage Shop for “Personalized” CHRISTMAS GIFTS
Michigan at Colfax
aidihas
LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
DR RW TURB0W
^OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -----
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces"
---- EYES EXAMINED --------
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
46
Football Review
। Irish Open 68th Season on September 22;
; Oklahoma, Pittsburgh Replace Miami, Penn
by DAVE KUBAL
The season is over, and the team that many pre-season football ‘experts’ •picked for no higher than 14 in the national standings, exploded through their schedule of some of the top teams in the nation with a resounding bang.
Most of the fireworks are over now except for banquets and the All-Americans, but the noise will not have subsided long when Terry Brennan and his aids will light a fuse for the 1956 ^.season with hundreds of feet of film Wand numerous reports.	'
The fuse which stretches until 'Sept. 22 of next year will ignite Notre Dame’s 68th football season in Dallas, Texas against Southern Methodist’s Mustangs.
The Mustangs opening the Irish season for the second year in a row will entertain the Indiana team under the lights. The night game will be but the third in Irish history, and the first on ^Saturday night.
SMU, smartening from a 17-0 beating administered in South Bend this year, will be seeking much revenge. The Mustangs have only won a single game in a series of seven from Notre Dame.
SMU will lose quite a few lettermen by graduation topped by All-American Forest Gregg, but Coach Woody Woodard expects such men as Ray Masters, a soph halfback, and two first string ^junior ends, Tommy Gentry and Smitty ^Keller of this year’s squad to take the initiative next year.
Following an open date Sept. 29, Notre Dame will open their home season against Bernie Crimmins Hoosiers.
Although Indiana was shut out 19-0 this year the Hoosiers will be fortified by Milt Campbell, the Olympic track star, Chuck Chichowski, this year’s field general for Indiana, and Barry Johnson, a fleet junior halfback. Indiana has only a won five of 25 contests with the Irish which dates back to 1898; Notre Dame has won 19.
The next Saturday, Oct. 13, Brennan and Co. will tangle with the Boilermakers of Purdue in South Bend.
The Boilermakers will also be seeking revenge for this year’s 22-7 humiliation. Len Dawson will again be around to haunt the Irish defense with his passes. Two halfbacks will return to back up Dawson in the persons of Neil Habig, who ^was injury-ridden most of the year, and Erich Barnes who was very impressive at the start of the 1955 campaign.
Notre Dame has a large edge in the
series with Purdue, winning 19 out of 27 games with two ties.
The next Saturday, Oct. 20, the Bren-nanmen will run into a familiar foe from East Lansing, Mich. The Michigan State Spartans who spoiled any hopes of an undefeated and unscored upon season for the Irish by beating the visitors from Indiana 21-7 this year will be the guests of Notre Dame.
The Spartans who find it hard to beat Notre Dame here, will seek a repeat of this season by sending Clarence Peaks and Walt Kowalczyk to give fits to the Irish forward wall. Also Ends Dave Kaiser and Bob Jewett are on the returnee list. Although Coach “Duify” Daugherty lost nine of his first stringers the Brennan charges will know what to expect. Notre Dame, although holding an edge of 16-6 in a series dating back to 1897, have received their lumps from SMU in the past few years.
The subsequent weekend1 the ‘Big Green’ will meet the 1955 National Champions, Oklahoma, in a game which promises to be the game of the yeai- in South Bend.
The Sooners who have run up a streak of 29 straight wins to date, invade the Indiana campus with a job to do. The Big Seven Champs have never beaten the Irish. Notre Dame has won both games that the two teams have played. In 1952 the Irish undei- Leahy won 27-21, and repeated 28-21 in following year.
Although the Sooners will suffer from the loss of their All-American guard Bo Bollinger, Oklahoma will be formidable with returning end John Bell, and fullback Jerry Tubs. Also with the passing of Jimmy Harris, Bud Wilkinson should be able to rest a little easier next Oct. 27.
On Nov. 3, the Irish move into Baltimore to face the Naval Academy. The Irish and Middies series has been one of almost complete frustration for the Navy who have only won four out of 28 games played, and have lost the last ten games in a row. In those ten games, the Blue and Gold from Annapolis have failed to score more than one touchdown per game.
The last time Notre Dame played in Baltimore was in 1954 when the Irish escaped with 6-0 victory, played in the mud of Municipal Stadium.
Guards Jim Hower and Tony Stremic along with center Wilson Whitmore, the middle of this year’s staunch forward wall, will be out to brunt Irish backs in revenge for this year’s 21-7 de-
FAY'S
QUALITY JEWELERS
111S. Michigan © ■ “The store for your most important gift shopping.”
"Superb Selection of America’s Foremost Makes of WATCHES of the Latest and most exciting Styles and Patterns.”
Expert Watch and Jewelry Service Our Specialty.
SUNDAY SPECIAL—a tasty turkey dinner for only $1.35 yours at .. .
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
The perfect Christmas Gift for any friend of Notre Dame
A ‘SCHOLASTIC’ gift subscription
$4.00 a year
December 2, 1955
47
feat. Two fleet-footed backs in Chet Burchett and Ed Oldham will be back also.
The Panthers of Pittsburgh provide the opposition on Nov. 10 in the Steel City. Coach Johnny Michelosen’s crew return to the schedule after a year’s absence.
Of the 22 games played, Pittsburgh has only won six, with the 1911 game ending in 0-0 tie. Pitt won five out of six games between ’32 and ’37 and its last win came in 1952 when they upset the Irish 22-19. Last year the Irish won 33-0.
Back for another year will be the Panther’s explosive and elusive back in the personage of Corky Cost. Cost played an important role in Pitt’s upset win over West Virginia this year which all but shattered the Virginians’ bowl chances. In the line will be two sophomore sensations, Jim McCusher and John Guzik.
The Irish will play their final home game of the year on Nov. 17 when they entertain the North Carolina Tarheels. The men from Chapel Hill are winless in this seven game series which started back in 1949 in the Charley Justice era of the Southern School.
Next year could be the year for the Blue and White. Back will be their one-two aerial punch in Quarterback Buddy Sasser and End Charlie Robinson.
Then it is out to Iowa City to face the Hawkeyes of Iowa on Nov. 24. The Irish-Hawkeye battles are always bitterly fought and since the ‘stolen’ game of 1953, when the Irish tied the score in the final seconds thanks to an injury, there- has been new incentive for Forrest Evashevski, coach and poet, to beat the Irish.
The series now stands at eight wins for Notre Dame, and three for Iowa, and three tie ball games.
Notre Dame will return to the West Coast on Dec. 1 to meet Southern California in the Los Angeles Coliseum. Few gridiron rivalries have produced as many thrills as this great series.
Leading Jess Hill’s club will be their two backfield stars, John Arnett and C. R. Roberts who performed so capably against the Irish this year.
1956 SCHEDULE
NABICHT BROTHERS
Congratulations to the
“Fighting Irish”
FRIDAY—Wonderful Selection of Seafoods SATURDAY—Steaks, Chicken, Seafood
OPEN—WEEKDAYS: 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.
SATURDAYS: 11 A.M. to 12 P.M.
CLOSED SUNDAYS
South Bend’s Oldest Catering Family
Nabicht Brothers
Private Dining Rooms for Special Parties
1415 LINCOLN WAY WEST
CE 2-3138	(•
: DETROIT’S good will hotel
• Hotel
WOLVERINE
Overlooking Grand Circus Park in the heart of the downtown theater and ■hopping district.
500 modern, comfortable rooms—all with tub and shower, radio. T-V available. Home of the air-conditioned “Tropics”, Michigan’s most unusual night spot — unique “Rainfall Bar”. Excellent Coffee Shop. Moderate Rates. Adequate Parking.
CHILDREN
under fourteen FREE


Sept. 22 So. Methodist Sept. 29 Open	There
Oct. 6 Indiana	Here
Oct. 13 Purdue	Here
Oct 20 Michigan State	Here
Oct. 27 Oklahoma	Here
Nov. 3 Navy	Baltimore
Nov. 10 Pittsburgh	There
Nov. 17 North Carolina	Here
Nov. 24 Iowa	There
Dec. 1 So. California	There
In the heart of downtown ELIZABETH...
Block East of Woodward
John Sakmar, Manager
Detroit
Michigan
888 88« 188 188 188 818
48
Football Review
Parker-Winterrowd Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 11572-117V2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
hrker-Whterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115%-117% No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult my campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 308 Pangborn
Lineman's Tale
(Continued from page 38)
Bosseler right at the line and we had them.
Calling the defensive signals depends on three things—the position of the ball, the down, and the other team’s attack. Like sometimes a team will pass right away on first down.
I don’t “submarine” when I play on the defensive line because the man who is to block you can just fall on you and keep you down and out of the play. But some guys do just that, to make you fall on them and block up the hole the back is supposed to come through.
But I like defense because you can fight the blocker off and move with the play. And this is hard to stop when you’re the blocker. Take Navy. They kept slanting and roaming on defense. Luckily, sometimes they wandered right into the place where the play was to go. The only remedy for this I have is to drive right out, wallop the man and keep him going.
If he should wander or place himself in the wrong place as far as I’m concerned, I just move him the way he will move best. If it happens to be toward the play, then the back reads your block and cuts over the opposite way after he crosses the line.
Few people realize this, but a lineman is a pretty proud guy. He feels great when he gets his man out of the way and twice as bad if he misses and the runner gets caught. If I miss, I feel as though I had let the back down and try to do a better job next time. But nothing feels as good as a touchdown, especially if it went over your position. But a goal line stand does a lot for morale and your confidence.
When a lineman can move his man pretty well, he usually tells the quarterback and hopes he will call the play over his slot. But all linemen try to help the quarterback by telling him if his man is slanting on his drives or if he is playing off his shoulder or any tip. In a game, everything helps.
Most linemen get a great satisfaction out of doing their job well. They don’t care for publicity or glory. They like to see a back get credit because they think he deserves it. All a lineman wants is his name mentioned now and then and to see the man across the line moved all over the field.
I think it is the greatest of thrills to play on a notre Dame line. But I just like to play football. This is the twelfth year I’ve played organized football—in high school, the navy and here. But I wouldn’t trade places with any back. I believe that games are won up front.
^fARLUS^OSDICK oy al Capp
PHOTOGRAPHERS WILL SOON BE HERE.?’ I MUST- LOOK MY BEST.?"
YOU'RE I NATCHERLY"’-/ YOU GOT BACK? I WHAT WE BUSTED OUT r—r^ FOR" AMERICAS FAVORITE I	HAIR- TONIC, WILDROOT CREAM-
I	OIL WHICH KEEPS* HAIR
I I NEAT AN' • NATURAL —

F
ALSO REMOVES LOOSE, UGLY DANDRUFF, AND CONTAINS LANOUN'F— GET WILDROOT CREAMOIL,CHARLIE"
BUT DAT WOULD BE ILLEGAL.? MY NAME IS 74-117
December 2, 1955
49
Joe Nabieht’s
Kestaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Specially "Chicken In the Rough” % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
91.15
FISH, STEAKS, CHOPS
At Prices You Will Appreciate
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 South Michigan Street Phone AT 7-3630
iimE
208 E. Jefferson Down Town Use Our Drop Off Service Leave it and We Do it.
Washing Drying at Reasonable Rates.
Colored Hose Washed Free
Ask Foi' Sof-t in your next wash-nocharge o
We DO Shirts.
CLOSED THURSDAY AFTERNOONS
Your first lesson is free at Arthur Murray’s
Find out now, without spending a cent; what makes a good dancer. Come into Arthur Murray’s and have a free half-hour trial lesson. See for yourself how quickly and easily you can become an expert. But don’t waste any more good times...come in now. Open 10 AM-10 PM daily.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 EAST WAYNE ST. Phone CE 2-3339
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
•OTTUO UNOM AUTMORirv O» tMt COCA-COLA COMPANY tv COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend
SUNNY ITALY CAFE	|
A Notre Dame Tradition	gj
I	“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll |
always enjoy the	|
Italian accent on	|
Fine Food.	|
Sunny Italy Cafe j 601 North Niles	I
g
Football Review

50
f
Ljccett & Auers Tobacco Co.'