DAILY SCHOLASTIC
’ b$CE- QV^l •	r J	^4 a I • Cf(A5 •MOftiTJ^i' '
*	’ • fl *J
Vol. I.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, Monday. June 13, 1898.	: Norrl
Beginning of the End.
common-sense and aggressiveness
Sunday’s Exercises: The CALAUREATE SERMON.
Bac-
Sunday was the first day that gave evidence of the coming end
were necessary for success, said in part:
I want you to ask yourselves questions: What have we to do? what are we to do it with? The
He
two and first
of the scholastic year, tors to the University Commencement time come in slowly. The
The visi-about the began to graduates
finished their last examinations on Saturday; and the undergraduates took a breathing spell before their final examinations of today and tomorrow. The first part of the closing exercises was finished.
In the morning at eight o’clock, Solemn High Mass was celebrated by the Rev. President Morrissey, assisted by Rev. James J. French
answer you can undoubtedly give, and you would say we must achieve success. To the question, what must we achieve it with?—the answer you must give is that you must do it with the weapons that you have been forging and casting in this school for the last few years. You must use these weapons in the battle of life, and this battle you must fight single-handed and alone.
But in the great battle of-life you must consider that there is only one soldier engraved, one battle, one tremendous strength, one cause, and if you fail and fall in that, so far as the individual is concerned, the battle is lost, the cause is gone. The cause is success, and if you lose that battle of life’ your destiny is at
If we fail it is no one’s fault riutourowiL There is no room for the weakling. The men that are the rulers to-day are not ” the men of genius; they are the hard workers, the determined men, the men . of true virtue and strength.	;
He referred also to the moral side of. life and the ; necessities . for the achievement of success. In / the afternoon Benediction was ; given, and the evening was taken up with a concert by the Univer- .
sity
Band.
Mr. Powers’ Success.
Everyone at Notre Dame was . delighted last evening when a telegram was received that, ran: ?
Louisville, Ky., June nN ’ Powers won the game and was a howl- -
j	j n	T an en<I-
as deacon, and Rev. Martin J. - Education is your force and your guide, Regan as subdeacon. The choir
ing success. .
Fred Clarke.
sang Leonard’s Mass with the Agnus Dei from Concone’s. The altar was ablaze with more than three hundred lights and the sane-tuary was beautifully decorated. Mr. E. Gilbert, igoo, at the Offertory, played a sonata composed by Bro. Basil for the occasion, that was very successful. The ceremonies were doubly impressive being on the last Sunday of the year.
The baccalaureate sefmdn was delivered by Rev. James F. Nugent, LL. D., ’95; of Des Moines, Iowa. Father Nugent has lectured at the University before, so he came not unheralded nor unknown.
As a preamble he spoke of the significance of Commencement, • and the benefit of the traveler’s experience to those just starting but. He praised the worker, and
but you must not lay too much stress upon the mere fact of education. There are thousands of men in the world who were educated and have failed, and there are thousands who were not . educated and have succeeded. Common sense was
their substitute for education. You must keep on working.-
The word Commencement is the best word to designate this period in your college career. This should be the time when you really commence in earnest to study and to work. Let no man tell you that education alone will tame your hearts, or that if.you are.educated you will be necessarily good men.
You are going forth this morning to commence the great battle of life. If I - were to tell you all of the future I might discourage you. It is truly said that the veil that covers our future was woven out of the mercy of Providence. If men could see all the horrors of war, there are few who would criticise the hesitancy of a ruler to plunge a nation into such strife and misery.	",
But there is plenty of chance-for the man. of. buoyant hope and youthful
The news spread quickly, and V in a few. minutes the yell, “ What’s C L the .matter with Powers I’’ could be heard from * all parts of the campus. Mr. Powers is probably the most popular student in the . . University, and his success has a. personal interest for every; mart . at Notre Dame. He was busy all during the week with his examU-lunations, arid when he finished his . E work on Saturday night he’left immediately for Louisville,to pliyN 7 his. first National League game ; -
strength and manly courage. Other, men as necessary qualities said that have succeeded, and we can all succeed.
the- following afternoon... < Mr: Andrew Fehr, ’01, also received, a telegram from Louisville which read:-	■
Powers all right; won today’s game;:C C. P. Dehler, E : gi
Vice-Pres., Loumrilie,B<Bf<O ;E;
The Class, of ’98 sent'di^foijj lowing telegram Hast night
You have passed all examinations^ C01E granulations on grand baseball’succesiX^
Graduating Class.

’*“'£5^3


THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC.
THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Danie. Monday, June 13, 1898.
Our Bow.
The Band Concert.
Published daily during Commencement Week.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Board of Editors.
ELMER J. MURPHY, ’97;
PAUL J. RAGAN, ’97; THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’9S; FRANK E. HERING, ’9S; RAYMOND O’MALLEY,’9S; "WILLIAM SHEEHAN, ’9S; FRANK W. O’MALLEY, ’99; ED'WARD J. MINGEY, ’9S; JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99; JOHN J. DOWD, ’99; FRANK J. F. CONFER, ’97;
LOUIS C. M. REED,	I
FRANCIS O'SHAUGHNESSY, j ^CpOl lei S.
Here you have the first number of The Daily Scholastic. It marks the beginning of a new • era in journalism at Notre Dame. Thirty-eight years ago the first \ college paper—hardly of better size than this — was issued semi' monthly, and even so was short lived. About two years later The* Scholastic replaced it. Perhaps in as many years to come this result of our efforts will appear as unimportant as the first issue of the Progress seems to us; but it will mark, nevertheless, the beginning of Notre Dame’s first daily publication, for which the present board of editors take to themselves no little pride. Otherwise we make no comment. Such as it is we give it to our readers.
The Senior^ Examinations.
- The men of ’98 have made up for their lack of numbers by the hard, conscentious work they have been doing during the year, and by the glorious record they made during, the final examinations, ’ which closed on Saturday.. Every man in the collegiate course passed - successfully, and all will receive degrees on Thursday morning. The Lawyers also did well, and . the Hon. Judge. Hubbard, who presided over the examining board, . . was very much gratified. with the work of the . students of the Law School.
IT is appropriate that the picture of the Very Reverend ^Father M o rr i s s e y shoul d appear in this initial number
of The Daily Scholastic. To
him it owes its existence; and though a small beginning, he no doubt hopes great results from it. There is no reason why Notre Dame should not have a chair of journalism, and this new departure may be a stride toward its founding. It is no slight gratification to us for another reason to present the first issue of this paper, for it is the first effort ever made towards a daily paper, under Catholic auspices in the United States, perhaps in the world. And it is a proof of possibilities. If a college daily paper can be produced at Notre Dame, surely New York, Chicago and Boston ought to be capable of a daily journal on. broader lines. We do not, of course, propose to appear regularly. The end of the year has come, and it is the time to suspend labors rather than to begin new ones. But The Daily Scholastic will appear tomorrow and next day. Of its after-life we can not speak.	-
In’presenting this maiden effort at daily journalism we desire to thank all who have seconded us. Our gratitude is due especially to our Rev. President and VicePresident for their kindly encouragement without which nothing could have been accomplished. We thank the genial'foremen of the composing and press-room and their assistants as if named. Their labor is the aid of ours. They share with us the honor of producing the. first daily issued; .from a Catholic institution in this country.	.. ' C \
The second lawn concert was given by the University Band last evening before a large assemblage composed of the Faculty, visitors, South Bend friends and the students. The programme, which is printed below, was even better than the one rendered a week ago, and .the several selections were
played very creditably.
programme.
March—"American Belle”.........Hall
Grand Selection—“ Faust ”....Gounod
March—“Belle of Season”.....Bratton
Waltz—“Angel’s D ream ”... .Kauptmaun “Stars and Stripes Forever”...Sousa
Inflamatus—“ Stabat Mater ”.Rossini
“March of the’Marines”...... .Hall
The “Stabat Mater” and “Faust ” were the most ambitious numbers on the program, and they were played with a nicety and. finish that won hearty encores. Mr. Vick O’Brien rendered the cornet solo in the former selection in an artistic manner. His high notes were clear, steady and remarkably sweet. On account of the number of encores responded to and the lateness of the hour, the Band omitted part of the “Faust” overture and began with the “ Soldier’s Chorus.” This deprived the audience of Mr. Elmer Murphy’s beautiful baritone solo; nevertheless, the portion of the overture played was highly successful. All the marches were given with a captivating swing that was delightful, especially the “ Stars and Stripes.” Mr. Edward Rauch of Indianapolis, a member of the Band two years ago, donned a uniform, and his excellent work on the piccolo was much appreciated.
The band will give two more lawn concerts, one on Tuesday, another bn Wednesday evening, which will conclude the work of one of the most successful bands we have had in years. Mr. F. Marion Crawford said not long ago that Notre Dame has the best band of any college in the country,


THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC.
and he said it;in all sincerity, too. The merit of the organization is unquestionable,—it is proved at every concert, — but this high degree of perfection has been reached only by the conscientious, able work of Prof. Preston in the.daily practice, and by the willingness of the players. Notre Dame will part with her band of ’97-98 with regret, but all expect to see most of the members back next September, when they will prepare many more days of pleasure for us.
first lessons within its walls.
What those in charge have done for the little ones entrusted to their care: is known and . appreciated.by all .familiar with Notre Dame; and the many friends of St. Edward’s Hall, and especially the Minims of the past, join with the Minims of todav in extending good wishes and congratulations to one to whom so .much praise and gratitude is due.
Young Athletes Honored.
Red-Letter Day at St. Edward’s Hall.
• The Minims had the distinction of being the first to open Commencement time festivities, when on Saturday last, they celebrated in a fitting manner the Silver Jubilee of their Director. The little lads appreciate what has been done for their happiness and welfare, and they entered with spirit into the celebration. There was an excellent program consisting of music, speeches and songs, followed later in the day by one of those famous picnics. The occasion was also selected as the one upon which to complete a Tablet’ of Honor containing the name and year’s scholastic record of each student of the Hall. The institution of this Tablet marks the’ introduction of the honor system among the little men, and every one. of them has- worked hard to leave behind a record of which he might be proud.
St. Edward’s Hall is in a special manner associated with the memory. of our Founder, Father Sorin, for during the last years of his life it was the “ Princes ” and their realm- that awakened his keenest interest and fondest love. St. Edward’s Hall has also been an important factor in the life of Notre Dame, and . many an athlete and scholar has received his
Great is the Varsity, great is the name of Powers, but their glory was overshadowed in St. Edward’s last evening when the victorious teams received their medals. The games have been closely contested; but one side had to win, the other had to be dissappointed.
Through the kindness of Father Morrissey medals were awarded to .each member of the winning teams. At eight o’clock all the Minim ' world assembled in St. Edward’s reading room where the prizes were awarded. Father Morrissey was present and spoke a few words to the Minims about their athletics, praising them for their past work and promising much for the future. Among those present were Rev. Fathers French, Evers, Cavanaugh, Moloney and Prof. Ewing.
In the first-nine series the winning streak of the Greys continued. The members of the team were: S. Abrahams (Capt.), W. B. Blanchfield, G. Davis, R. Lockwood, R. Williams, M. Jonquet, R. Clarke, S. Van Sant, M. Dessauer, W. Hall. Second nine: A. Shields (Capt.), J. Lawton, E. Weis, O. Fleischer, J. McGeeney, J. Ervin, A. McFarland, S. Fleming, M. Guilbault, and J. Abercrombie. Third nine: S. Ebbert(Capt.), R. McMasters, C. Nye, J. Hinsey, S. Phillips, P. Bortell, S. Griffith, R. Leclerque, D. Topper and J. Hart.'
The men that? divided honors in the two fourth nines were: E. McGeeney (C ), C. Bortell, H. Donahue, W. Robins, H. Downey, W. Purdy, A. Fuchs, C. Fuchs, B. Houser, W. Manion, C. Ninneman,-E. Shipley, J. Kirwan, D. O’Leary, C. Dildine, L. Veneziani, W. McBride, H. St. Clair, G. Seymore..
After the distribution Fathers French, Moloney, Evers, and Cavanaugh each spoke a few words, and then the victors and vanquished adjourned to the playhall where luncheon was served.
The military medal for-the best drilled private went to C. Kelley, 1st, 15 pts.; J. Lawton, 2d, 16 pts.; P. Dougherty, 3d, 18 pts.; M. Dessauer, 4th, 20 pts.; and W.McBride,. 5th, 23 pts.
Within, the Gates. /
—The Daily Scholastic begins with a circulation of 800 copies.. '
—The Te Deum after Vespers yesterday was something to-be remembered. The singing has im-proved greatly.	.	\
—The lakes are said to be higher than they have been for twelve years or more. They could never have looked more beautiful than now.	.
—Brother Philip Neri and his -co-laborers are working wonders and Dame Nature has been helping them to the utmost of her -o	t
power.	-	-
. —Every one admires the invitation to the Commencement Exercises. It . is a thing of taste and worthy of preservation as a souvenir of ’98.
—The Annual Catalogue of the University will be published next’ week. It is the most complete one ever issued. Several new de- ; -partures are announced.	'
—Very Rev. Father Zahm finds? time to give general direction to i the workmen engaged in beautify-ing the grounds. Many improvements have been made which must; -be seen to be appreciated.	"
—Old glory at the masthead, ' Our Lady’s Statue on the Dome, I and the Statue of the Sacred Heart L < will be.the last objects to greet the ' departing students. “God and -our Country” are inseparable in the teachings of Notre Dame. ?	7'

F
I
4
THE DAILY SCHOLASTIC.
I-
'll
RAILROAD GUIDE
Our Guests.
6.
10.
LAKE SHORE.
GOING EAST.
.—Day Express	.	.
.—Limited Fast Mail,	.
10:00 a. m.
10:19 a. m.
•Chic, N. Y. and Boston Spec , 1:00 p. m.
14.—Eastern Express,	. 6:iS p. m.
22.—N. Y. &.Chic. Lim., don’t stop, 7:50 p. m.
“ 2S.—N. Y. and Boston Express,
“ 44.—Special Mail, .	.
“ So.—Way Freight,	.	.
GOING WEST.
So. 37—Pacific Express,	.	.
“ 3.—Fast Mail, Limited, .
“ 175.—Elkhart and Chicago Accoin.
11:12 p. m.
4:43 a. in.
3:04 p. m.
4:17 a. m.
5:2s a. m.
7:26 a. tn'.
-N. Y-, Boston and Chic. Spec., 12:35 p. m.
7.—Day Express,	.
23.—Western Express,	.
35.—Special Limited 3>Iail, Si.—Way Freight,	.
3:4s p. in.
6:10 p. m.
9:14 p. in.
9:10 a. m.
MICHIGAN CENTRAL.
GOING NORTH. '
Leave South Bend, .	.	. 9:20 a. m.
“	“	“	.	.	.	4:50 p.m.
Leave Notre Dame, .	.	. 9:29 a. m.
“	■ “	“	.	.	;	4:55 p.m.
GOING SOUTH.
, Arrive South Bend,	.	'.	. 8:40 a.m.
“	“	••	.	,	.	4:20 p. m.
VANDALIA RAIL-WAY.
GOING NOKTH.
No. 6.—Ex. Sunday, for St. Joseph, “ 14.— “ ‘	“
“ 8.—To South Bend only, .	GOING SOUTH.
12:53 p. m.
S:2o a. m.
n:oop. m.
—Mr. J. M. Crowley of Chicago is the guest of his son, Mr. Jerome Crowley of Brownson Hall.
—Mrs. Benitz, of Pittsburg, Pa., is spending the week with her son, Professor Benitz of the School of Engineering, o	o	•
—Miss Ruppe of Detroit and Miss Kasper of Chicago, who are. at St. Mary’s, attended the band concert last evening. _
—Airs. Coleman of Pontiac, ’ Mich., who is visiting in South Bend, called on Notre Dame friends yesterday afternoon. .
—Air. Wurzer came down from Detroit to be present at the graduation of his son, Mr.Henry Wurzer of Sorin Hall.	■
—Aliss Ryan of Chicago, accompanied by Miss Clara Lawler, are being entertained during Commencement week by Aliss Ryan’s brother, Air. John Ryan of Carroll Hall.
The Tribune Book Store
Oliver Opera House Block, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, , (One mile west of Notre Dame University.) A SELECT SCHOOL FOR YOUNG LADIES.
IIO
MOSES, S. & J. LIVINGSTON, CLOTHIERS,
& 112 North Michigan Street, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
DE VOS & HOGUE, (Successors to Van Sickle & Hogue.) Studio, 113 East Jefferson Street.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
E. R. VANDERHOFF & CO.,
DRUGGISTS,
261 West Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
i
I

s
5
21.—To Terre Haute, dailvex. Sun., 445 a.m.‘ 3.— “	“	“	“ ’	“	11:55 a. m
15.—Ex. Sun., for Logansport,	, 645 p. m.
GRAND TRUNK.
, GOING EAST.
3:22 3. m. 11:52 p.m.,	1:10 p. m.j
GOING WEST.
5:02 a. m.,	10:50 a. m.,	2:35 p. in.,
6:15 p. tn.
5:555- m.
INDIANA, ILLINOIS & IOWA.
Depart, No.. 1.—Mail and Express, ’ “. . “ ’ 9.—Local, Ex. Sunday,
’	“ 13.—Fast Freight,	.
Arrive, “ . 2.—Mail and Express, “ - ' “ 10.—Local, Ex. Sunday
7:00 a. m.
7:45 a. in.
. 5:50 p.m. 12:05 a-in-
MEYER LIVINGSTON & SONS,
• —Mr. P. Murphy, of Chebanse, Ill., visited his son, Mr. James Murphy of Sorin Hall, for a few hours yesterday. Mr. Murphy was accompanied by Mr. Elvin, also of Chebanse.	<
—Mrs. J. B. S. Holmes, of Atlanta, Ga., came to the University last week to arrange for sending her son to Notre Danie next year. Mrs. Holmes was entertained by Mr. J. Gillespie Johnson of Sorin Hall during her visit. '	.
The Rev. Luke Evers (A.JB. ’79,
joyed the band concert from the
JOHN C. ELLSWORTH, DRY GOODS, 113 -115 North Michigan. Street SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
GEORGE WTMAN & CO., DRY GOODS, North Michigan Street, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
PATRICK SHEEKEY, -	PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY’S BUS UNE,
G01 South Main St., . SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
THOMAS MILLEA, LIVERY STABLE, 202-204-206 S. Chapin St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
- CLOTHIERS,	. .
,,,	„• - ;	■	veranda of the main building last
evening; During a lull in. the SOUTH BEND, INDLANA, mUsic Father Evers entertained-.
. : . SPIRO ... a reporter, with his reminiscences CEOTHIER and' FURNISHER, “j ^i^he	’
_ .	121 S. Mich. St.,	Rev. Father is; interested . in the Joe	Laundry.
SPUTH INDIANA. • work of the present band, as he is .	122 E. Jefferson St.,
MILTON & ELIEL, DRUGGISTS, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
— " -Z~';,-.-ZZ< Z Z- . interested in all Notre Danie’s SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. .	. ADLER, . f .. affairs; but excellent, as; is the ____________________.	■
CLOTHIER and FURNISHER, present organization, he. did .not -. D M. CALVERT, . '
;	i. X ;x like to admit that it surpassed the • .	. DENTIST
;	107-109S. Mich. St., 10SW. Wash. St. band that he led years ago, and of.	.,	•
J . SOUTH .BEND, INDIANA, i /k which he was so proud. Father;
” Zz McDonald	STUCK & BAILEY
THOTOGRAPIC STLDIO, ';XZZ™ZZZZZ',^ ,,	'
.. .	.. .. " 5 •••; ; . ; -	of Rubber Stamps,