It's Joe Mooney's latest Decca disk
R, J< Reynold* Tab. Co. Winston-Snlem. N. C.
Here's another great record! fate Mik, are, (M wan, ewr b
~'tW4
CIGARETTES
MAYBE you’ve heard other good disks this tune—but that was before Joe Mooney waxed it. His record is a standout.
Another record that stands out is the record of Camel cigarettes. More men and women are smoking Camels than ever before!
You’ll find the answer in your “T-Zone” (T for Taste and T for Throat). Try Camels. Discover why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience.”
I know ■from experience CMAEIS
suit me best /
BLEND
> I*
J < 5 0
W 0
0 I u
LETTERS
IDIOCY, INSULT, IGNORANCE
Dear Editor:
You are an idiot! Eat glass! Is your remark to Miss Nime’s very flattering letter an indication of your true mentality, or hadn’t you yet recovered from the effects of the Navy trip?
Any editor who would make such a caustic and downright insulting comment to such a sincere letter is truly the epitome of ignorance, and misuses his position.
Wise up!	’
Madden, Nedeau & McCullough of
Morrissey £ Scholastic recovers long enough from above blast to tell Readers Madden, Nedeau, McCullough to wise up themselves and quit reading things into the lines.— Editor
BEETHOVEN AND BARTOK
Dear Editor:
Among the Scorner’s latest targets was “one Bartok,” or rather one of the composer’s works that had been recently performed on the campus by the Juilliard String Quartet. Unfortunately I missed the performance; but I happen to know the composition to which the Scorner so vigorously reacted. I am afraid my own recollection of that work differs somewhat from the impressions of Mr. Wilcox. I remember it as an exciting, if not always pleasant, piece of music well written, pregnant with musical logic, and full of intense expression. I may, of ^course, be prejudiced.
Some twenty years ago, at the first performance in Vienna of Hindemith’s “Cardillac,” I was one of the two dozen enthusiasts in the half-empty Opera House who applauded; my neighbor quite innocently asked me whether I was paid! But I am no snob. I love Bach, Mozart and Beethoven as sincerely as anyone who in their name would condemn “so-called” modern music. But I am sure Beethoven would not dissociate himself from Bartok and other “modern” composers as the Scorner wonW Lave us believe.
There is of course quite a lot of modern music which does deserve his scorn, but I would look for it in a very different direction. I do not frown academically at genuine jazz, but I definitely' object to all the cheap (yet “tune-ful”) ear-tickling to which we have become accustomed through numberless movie and stage “musicals” (one might aptly £say: “so-called musicals”). The contrast between a quartet by Beethoven and one by Bartok seems to me in fact merely
incidental; the contrast between either of these and “Bitter-Sweet,” absolute and irreconcilable.
Ludwig Bieler 1051 Woodward Ave.
South Bend 16
BACK COME CHAIN LETTERS
Dear Editor:
For the first time this fall the parlay cards have been rudely pushed out of the limelight and now rank a poor second on the “get-rich-quick” hit parade. Currently in the No. 1 spot is an old-timer from the depression days, the chain letter, which “guarantees” to return $2,048 on a four dollar investment (two for the letter and two more to
Do you like Dancing?
Here’s a dance nobody likes. Arthur Murray never taught it.
It’s called the "All Day Squirm” and is performed by gents who wear undershorts with an unholy center seam that keeps
THE WRIGGLE
Super comfortable, these super-shorts come in plain white oxford and broadcloth with Gripper fasteners. $1 up at your favorite Arrow store.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES »» - ■■ ——---------------------—*
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
the person at the head of the list). At first glance the chain letter seems to be a sure thing, an air tight deal, even better than U. S. Savings Bonds.
However, a little mathematics tells a /lifferent story . . .
It’s the same old story of trying to get something for nothing. A few individuals may clean up but the vast majority will be left holding slightly depleted wallets.
Tom F. McCullough 246 Dillon Hall
Mr. McCullough’s letter speaks for itself. Scholastic only regrets that space limitations prevent running the complex mathematical calculations which Mr. McCullough uses to prove his points.—
Moral: Switch to Arrow shorts and relax. Arrow shorts have no center seam, but do have plenty of room where it counts.
3
Building new telephone lines for you takes well planned
teamwork by these two »
"He’s service I'm supply"
Behind this giant plow train, burying a new transcontinental telephone cable, there’s a story of typical teamwork by Western Electric in helping the Bell Telephone Companies to give you faster, even better service.
As the supply member of the Bell Telephone team, Western Electric is producing the coaxial cable which can carry 1800 telephone messages at once—can transmit television network programs, too. Complex machines — designed by Western Electric engineers—are turning out this cable mile after mile to keep the plow trains pushing forward on schedule.
Ever since 1882, Weslern Electric has been an integral part of Bell Telephone service—helping to make it the world’s best at the lowest possible cost.
Western Electric k UNIT OF THE BELL (Ad SYSTEM SINCE 1882
CONSTRUCTIVE CRITICISM	.
Dear Editor:
This letter is in the nature of con- >r;, structive criticism. Let it be taken as such.	?
I consider the Scholastic a good college magazine, far too good to print articles of the quality of the one of last f week entitled “Trailer Life Crammed, ; Crowded, Confused, etc.” My application j of those adjectives is to the article itself. It was not only crammed, crowded and f confused but also written in typical J comic-book style. One sees clearly the ? weakness of the effort by comparison f with other good Scholastic articles such ; as “Music, Books, Radio,” “Over the A Goalposts,” “Calendar,” etc.	|
Perhaps my disapproval of this ap- | parently innocent article will seem a bit too violent. But it seems to typify | that unsavory brand of journalism which^ | is turned out by those who choose to | sacrifice all coherence, interest, and com- g mon sense in the indulgence of their own | particular literary vices of flowery ex- 8 pression, elegant variation, and sheer | nonsense. ...	»
$
Here’s hoping that in the future the | Scholastic refrains from publishing | such meager attempts at college-level * journalism as the article in question. We | all want a better magazine. Specific and £ hopeful recommendation to further pro- | gress in the direction of that end: Re- | strain all future Tom Gormans.	I
Sincerely,	j
Joseph L. O’Brien	|
250 Alumni Hall	I
Reader O’Brien ivill find other Scho- I LASTIC readers who dislike features he g likes. Scholastic editors felt that the I story should be printed; respect Reader | O’Brien’s opinion; will not restrain its | writers on one man’s opinions.—
Dear Editor:	j
Subject: Un-American Affairs—by J. | Wilcox, Oct. 31 issue.	$
In J. Wilcox’s appraisal of the House | un-American affairs committee, he again | displayed his total ignorance of the facts. |
It is true that the actors who testified g against the “red” fascists were giving nothing but personal convictions and j other stupid, irrelevant tripe.	S
But J. Wilcox is completely ignorant ft of the purpose or operation of the ® “Thomas” committee. The hearing was ® not a trial. Every man cited for con- S tempt is a member of the “red” fascist ® party. The hearing is not a violation of K the First Amendment, (as the “red” fa- H scist party and their tools have claimed), ||| since all witnesses are called to answer ||| questions of the committee and not to 18 disregard the question by condemning the actions of the committee. The pur J® pose of the questioning is to determines whether existing laws are found to be|I|
(Continued on. Page 25)	H
4
I
STONES
Christmas danca will be held at the Ho-
For centuries jewelers have been making millions selling birthstones. Now they have pulled a new one out of the hat. The newest fad in jewelry, so we’re told, is occupational stones. Thought we would pass along a few. For the people down in St. Michael’s laundry, the soapstone. For the architects, the cornerstone. For our cooks, the puddingstone. For the football team, the bloodstone. For our borrowers, the touchstone. For Social Science - to - Biology hikers, the milestone. For the local FBI, the pavingstone. For commerce men, the curbstone. For burglars, the keystone. For beauties (if any), the peachstone. For debaters, the blarneystone. For the editors and columnist, the grindstone.
tel Jefferson in St. Louis. Despite cooperation from the alumni, the duty on bids will be painfully high. Dues have been set but we are having trouble collecting — must be human nature. We have plans for a Communion breakfast. We are hot on the bowling league’s neck. I am writing this during English class. We have a press agent but don’t guess his glands are functioning.” (Signed — X.
Frank Lombardo, Gene Rossi, and John Alfieri of the Italian Club had the privilege of showing members of the Vatican Choir around the campus during their visit last week.
Pat O’Connor, secretary of the Chem
ists Club, was unanimously' elected as club representative to the NFCSS. Chemist’s prexy, Bob Ninneman, ran into uncalled-for side reactions in mixing the necessary ingredients for a club smoker on the Saturday of the California game. The smoker has turned into a Christmas party, to be held somewhere, sometime.
DYNAMIC DETROIT
Borrowing an adjective from H. G. Salsinger, Detroit sportswriter who stirred the country with his Leahy story, the Detroit club plans to do a little stirring itself. A big stag party is planned for the Fort Shelby Hotel, come Christmas vacation. Says Bob Kane, “The management is hereby forewarned.” November 18, 19, and 20, at 3:30, the Detroit club will hold a bowlers’ elimination contest at the Bowl-Mor Alleys in South Bend. The best seven will represent the club in the campus bowling league. All members interested in trying out for the bowling team should see President Lou Jansen before going down. December 3 is the tentative date for a dinner meeting at the Ramble Inn. Looks like the Detroit
(Continued on Page 20)
KKK
The executive committee of the Kam-pus Keglers Klub voted in the last club team last week. The club is now at full force. Twenty-four teams representing 24 campus clubs are enrolled in the Keglers outfit. They will roll in two divisions. The Bowl-Mor alleys in down town South Bend have been reserved for the club. President Ernie Huffman, and Vice-President Jim Silk report the alleys in good shape. Rolling will start about the thirtieth of this month. On Tuesday night at 7:30 in Room 104 of the Law Building, the club will hold its final prebowling meeting. The handicap, the awards, and the schedule committees will make their final reports. After that the contest begins. The possibilities of an activity of this type are innumerable—a Notre Dame Bowling team— bowling alleys on the campus—the future will tell.
ENGLISH CLASS NOTES
Received these notes from a St. Louis club member, who shall be nameless. “The St. Louis club is hiring a special car to take them home Christmas. Hope we can get a club car.” For cokes no jdoubt. “Cokes have been and will continue to be served at club meetings. We are writing a new club constitution. The
“He's got something there! When it come* to girl* you can love 'em and leave ’em, but once you’ve tasted that swell flavor of Dentyne Chewing Gum, you’re sold solid for life, Brother! Dentyne helps keep teeth white, too!”
Dentyne Gum — Made Only By Adams
5
TOP OF THE WEEK
Notre Dame man: “I’m burning with love for you.”
ROUND TABLE DISCUSSION
Every semester the College of Commerce invites noted businessmen to speak before its would-be Morgans and Carnegies. At the first lecture, a famous manufacturer had just finished his speech and was answering questions from the floor. Al Santangelo from Brooklyn, N. Y., stood up and asked meekly: “Did you say that a good poker player could hold down any kind of executive job?”
“That’s right,” answered the manufacturer- confidently. “Does that raise a question in your mind?”
“Yes,” barked Al. “What would a good poker player want with a job?”
HOOSIER HYSTERIA. LIMITED
Not since Dr. Naismith emptied his lungs into the first basketball have Indianans been able to tear the month of November off their calendars without tearing their hair out at the same time. Basketball, to the average Hoosier, is a game in which the players act like monkeys and the spectators like maniacs. Again this year Notre Dame will contribute its share of opportunities for fellow Indianans to come forth and work themselves into straight-jackets. Last week Coach Ed “Moose” Krause issued a communique to the effect that his courtmen would play twenty-four games here and abroad. The feature attraction will be a tussle with Kentucky, a southern school where it seems a student must be at least six-feet-five and wear size 15 gloves. Some Notre Dame cage fans looked at the new schedule and scoffed. There will be only six nome games while school is in session (two will be played during vacation periods). To other students tired of watching giant N.D. cagemen toy with schools so small the janitors have to lead the cheers, the new schedule was welcome. Asked why he thought more games were not scheduled for the Notre Dame field house, a student replied: “----------”
TARGET FOR TONIGHT
Top hats, white ties, and no two o’clock permissions. Once again the campus has taken on the appearance of an Atlantic City boardwalk. Sophomores and upperclassmen have imported many gems (one is cut glass — mine) for the semester’s big social whirl, the Sopho-■ more Cotillion. Ray McKinley & band will do the blasting from the Palais Royale bandstand. Said Ray: “I wuz robbed.” Maybe taken advantage of but not robbed, Ray. Remember, you get all the left-over straws from the coke concession. Perhaps the most used quotation Monday will be: “Sure, I know she didn’t look like her picture, but you wouldn’t have looked so hot either if you had hitch-hiked 1200 miles.”
ADVICE TO THE SOOTHSAYERS DEP T.
There were several rooters at the recent Army game who deserve a free trip to Alcatraz. These phony football fans dumped an estimated $5,000 worth of counterfeit ten-dollar bills into the hands of unsuspecting program sellers, hot dog vendors, and local merchants. The illegal tendei- was a disgrace to the underworld. Jefferson’s picture looked as if it had been taken with Notre Dame’s ID camera. In lieu of a printing press the would-be Morgenthaus must have used a cider press . . . Parlay operatives took it on the chin last week, for a change. One of the local “pointless" parlayers lost over $2,000. For once it was the oddsmaker who got the “point.” . . . Free throw: With the “Rock” so close, couldn’t it be said that we are just a “stone’s throw from heaven?” That is, with a few minor rule changes and many major face changes, of course . . . Add trivia: Deceit—something you sit on. Natatorium—that’s what a college education does to the old swimming hole... Worth remembering: When girls drop their eyes never pick them up.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
St. Mary’s girl: “Don’t make a fuel of yourself!”
Seat
by floe Wdcax,
WHEN WE LEFT McCARTHY
Mr. McCarthy may now unbate his breath. From the content of this week’s letter concerning me, wherein he accuses me of making traitorous remarks, it may be concluded that anyone who had any sense would terminate a controversy whose protagonist indulged in such scurrility; such I shall do. Not, however, without fulfilling my promise to McCarthy and to my great public, which I am sure is palpitating with expectation, to prove what I said about Pegler.
First: The fact that Ptegler’s words of wisdom are cut by editors. Mr. Gerald Cosgrove, associate editor of the South Bend -Tribune and columnist for that newspaper, as well as professor of journalism at N.D. (he once taught Libel Law to journalism students) told me personally that he went over every inch of Pegler’s columns for possible libel. He does not spare the scissors.
Three years ago, when Pegler wrote a particularly strong denunciation of Samuel Spanel, President of the International Latex Corporation, Mr. Cosgrove, sighting trouble afar, cut most of it out. Happy day! Although it was the most drastic slash Mr. Cosgrove ever made, it saved the Tribune a libel suit. Suits were filed by Spanel against the Chicago Herald-American and against Pegler, but not against the South Bend Tribune. The suit is still pending. Mr. Cosgrove says that he no,-.- cuts most of Pegler’s wilder accusations, leaving only the vague innuendo which one sees in Pegler’s column. Pegler is not conscious, apparently, that the law of libel exists. He never makes much of an effort to be temperate. On Wednesday, Nov. 12, Mr. Cosgrove cut Pegler entirely because .of incoherence.
King Features Syndicate, which sells Pegler, often wires to papers that such-and-such a column should be cut in toto, or that parts should be deleted. They have a bevy of bright legal eagles who go over Pegler’s stuff after it has been sent to newspapers; if it doesn’t measure up, the teletypes hum with cancellation notices. That’s why you get misty things like the Guru letter series: no real accusations, only implications and innuendo, leaving you to draw Pegler’s conclusions for yourself.
Now for a specific instance where even the vigilance of the syndicate and individual editors couldn’t catch Pegler’s
(Continued on Page 23)

6
9The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
CALENDAR
(tiiiiiiiiituiiiiititiiiintMtiiiiMt'iMiiiaiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiuiiftnmiiiitiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiHtniinHiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiti .
,	THE STAFF
FRANCIS I. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A, O'CONNOR Associate	Editor
EDWARD J. SNYDER Associate	Editor
! JOSEPH WILCOX Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN  Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT ________________________________________________ News	Editor
ROBERT STOCK  Associate News	Editor
JAMES FERSTEL_________________________________________   Photographic	Editor
0 DONALD BIRREN Art	Editor
E. A. CORDESMAN  Art	Editor
WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian
ROBERT KOPF  Circulation JOHN CLARK ---------------------------------------------------- Circulation
M. E. VARGA----------------------------------------Advertising Manager
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator
tttiiiintiinimuiniiiiiittiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiaiitiiiiniiitiMiiiiiiiHimiiiniitHiiinamiimiitiitHiiHmiitiiunt
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Meet the Editor
Bob Kopf is Circulation Manager for the Scholastic. Actually he works for the Board of Publications, handling off-campus correspondence for the Scholastic, Juggler, Dome and even the Notre
Dame Lawyer.
Before his three years in the Army (he’s an ETO man) Bob was feature editor of this mag. Seems like he can’t get away from this kind of business; after he is graduated in January he expects to do industrial relations work for the Owens Illinois Glass Co.
In his freshman year ai Catholic U. he was managing editor of the campus	Bob Kopf
publication Tower.
Bob is 25, single, an English major, and senior, comes from Toledo, Ohio.
He
Nov. 21 COLFAX, Down to Earth. They can give Rita Hayworth all the dazzling gown creations in Hollywood, surround her with supporting talent fit for a queen, and splash her across the screen in gorgeous technicolor, and still she lacks that certain sweetness that makes for genuine appeal. However, ho hum, you may like it.
CENTRAL HIGH AUDITORIUM, Chicago Opera Ballet, 8 p. m.
Nov. 22 NOTRE DAME versus TULANE. Every now and then the Green Wave comes up with a pip of a team. This is not one of those years. The Wave will dash against our big rock forwards till it whips itself into a spumy froth. N.D. by 30.
VICTORY DANCE. Finale for the home game shindigs. Just one big one left.
Nov. 23 INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP, Stadium. Cavanaugh Hall versus Lyons Hall. RIVER PARK, Johnny O’Clock. Dick Powell is just about the toughest hombre you’d want to meet. Classic line follows a shooting scene. Goes like this. Bunch of thugs hugging cards around a smoky table. In the other room a goon gets riddled with lead. Bullets crack everywhere. One gorilla looks up and says “What’s dat?”
Nov. 23 JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Benno Moi-seiwitsch, concert pianist. First tour of the U. S. since the war. Should be a nice evening.
Nov. 24 CENTRAL HIGH AUDITORIUM, Norman Thomas, U S. Socialist, speaks on “The Price of a Lasting Peace.”
Nov. 26 PALACE, Spirit of West Point. Here it is, lads! Blanchard and Davis make their bows as actors. Our boys could do better. Companion feature, Corpse Came C. O. D.
Nov. 27 THANKSGIVING DAY. Consider your blessings. Life, good parents, health, friends, educational opportunity, etc. When we look at the things we have got in comparison to the things we haven’t, it appears that every day should be Thanksgiving day. COLFAX, Bachelor and the Bobby Soxer. Reviews tab this as one of the funniest shows to come along in a coon’s age. Listen close for the gags.
Nov. 28 RIVER PARK, Jungle Princess. Dorothy Lamour’s first picture. She was very pretty then. An orangutan shares the honors. He earns his bananas.
Nov. 29 DANCE, at Progress Club. The La Raza Club throws its annual baile with Steve Company’s orchestra banging the castenets. Admission: seven pesos ($1.50) per couple.
Dec. 1 MEDIAEVAL INSTITUTE presents Prof. Anton C. Pegis, president of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto. His lecture is entitled “Problems in the History of Mediaeval Philosophy.” Lecture series will ran six days.
Dec. 4 COLFAX, Life With Father. The prize-winning play comes to the screen, and with a favorable reception from the critics.
WASHINGTON HALL, Pirates of Penzance. Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Savoyards give out with another in their series of Gilbert & Sullivan operettas.
7
fyuMti Ute.	.
Motion Picture Alliance
Something which pleases to call itself the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals has also pleased to issue a pamphlet, “Screen Guide for Americans,’' which purports to present a “List of the More Common Devices Used to Turn Non-Political Pictures Into Carriers of Political Propaganda.
Sample don’ts, which are guaranteed with a 100 per cent American guarantee to keep Communists from under your bed, included:
“Don’t smear the free enterprise system.”
“Don’t smear wealth.”
“Don’t smear industrialists.”
“Don’t smear the profit motive.”
“Don’t smear success.”
“Don’t deify the common man.”
“Don’t smear the independent man.”
“Don’t smear American political institutions.”
“Don’t glorify the collective.”
They also said, “Don’t glorify depravity.” What kind of depravity they neglected to say.
We’ll be interested to see what effect all this has on the typical Hollywood presentation of the solid American institution of the family, which, in the usual Hollywood fare, is either a penthouse gang of philanderers or a collection of nincompoops whose idiosyncracies would supply a mental hospital with enough material for investigations for the next century.
Nothing was said, either, about the Hollywood practice of blowing up their own heroes as paragons of achievement. Nor was anything mentioned concerning Hollywood’s adaptation of the most obscene books they can find under book counters anywhere. They chose, instead, to call Communistic any insinuations that all is not milk and honey (individualist style) in this land of the free and the home of the brave.
Why, one asks, doesn’t Hollywood wise up? The greatest attack on American institutions comes not from saying that a businessman or a Congressman is a knave, but from the insidious attack on the American family and Christian morality. It sounds pretty silly to trumpet free enterprise into the ether and trample marriage, the family, and common morality into the dust.
Homicide Highway Still a Menace
Another dance weekend rolls around and at press time nothing in the way of permanent safety measures had been taken at Homicide Highway. Police have been on duty at the crossing the past few weekends, and the Scholastic trusts that they wall be on the job tonight and tomorrow night.
In the past few weeks haggling has continued on proposed permanent safety measures which any blind man can see are necessary to prevent further wanton slaughter. The state, it has been reported, has told the University and St. Mary’s that it will erect Scotch light warning signs at the approaches to the crossing if the two schools erect flood lights.
However, it seems that the state is not keen on erecting any permanent stop light or caution light at the crossing. It is the duty of the two schools to press the state until such action is taken. Too many lives have been lost at the crossing to allow any further pussy-footing procedure in dealing with the public appointed guardians of safety whose job it is to protect the pedestrian.
Such a stand on the matter may seem unreasonable and bitter to the state, but so is death unreasonable and bitter. If state officials don’t believe it, have them ask the Hailei’ or Despres families.
Student Relief Campaign
As the screaming lead page opposite indicates, Scholastic, is throwing its full weight behind the nationally conducted Student Relief Campaign. With a quota of $35,000 the committee here at Notre Dame has indeed set its sights high. But not impossibly so. In fact with the wholehearted, enthusiastic support of the entire student body this quota can well prove to have been too conservative.
The aim of the Student Relief Campaign should be well-known to most men already: alleviation of the desperate need facing college and university students in Europe. The development of the campaign, however, may not be so widely -appreciated. The plan originated formally at the National Congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students (NFCCS) held in Toledo last April, where it took the form of a resolution. Late in June the Executive Council of NFCCS acted upon this resolution by appointing Ken O’Connor from St. Peter’s College, Jersey City, N. J., as national student chairman and simultaneously naming Miss Joan Christie as executive director. The national chairman heads an executive committee composed of the national officers of NFCCS, the executive director and himself. This committee determines the policies and conduct of this campaign.
Nationally, the Student Relief drive is organized to parallel the regional framework of the NFCCS. Each region (Notre Dame being a member of the Fort Wayne region) has a regional chairman, appointed by the regional president (currently Miss Mary Bishop of Nazareth College, in the Fort Wayne region). This chairman is responsible for the conduct of the campaign in his region, within which each college will have a relief chairman who will activate the campaign on his own campus.	.
Here at Notre Dame, Relief Chairman Lou Burns has _ augmented his own efforts through the establishment, by the -Student Council of a relief campaign committee which will embrace the entire student body through means of sub-committees, campus club cooperation, hall participation, and campus-wide functions such as Victory Dances, Washington Hall activities, etc.
With the framework of this vitally important Student Relief Campaign thus set up, Notre Dame swings into action tomorrow afternoon with the formal announcement of the drive to be made over the public address system at half-time of the Tulane-Notre Dame game in the local stadium.
Plea to Drivers
A note to car-owners: You’re lucky driving to school, if you live off-campus. Not so lucky are those who must board the bus. And worse off are those who must hoof it
through wind and rain and all kinds of foul weather. So how about a lift for those you see trudging along to and from school.
Some are very faithful in this regard. They’ll give a guy a lift every time. And it’s appreciated.
But others zoom on by, car usually empty or half-fulL Not a care in the world for the plodding pedestrian.
Apply your knowledge of the corporal works of mercy. Pick up the man on foot.
8
’The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 9
NOVEMBER 2L 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
RELIEF QU0TA-$35,d00
CURRENT CAMPUS SCENE D-Night ior upperclassmen
Campaign Opens Tomorrow, Committee and Proxies Enthused
By Lawrence S. Connor
Notre Dame leaped into the vanguard of the nationally sweeping Student Relief Campaign this week, when the local Relief Committee set its goal at $35,000.00. To open officially at half-time of tomorrow’s Notre Dame-Tulane game, the campaign, in its first (or financial) phase, will extend up to Lent next February. Immediately following the Committee meeting, campus club prexies enthusiastically adopted the plan and brought forth a host of contemplated projects, designed to insure needy foreign students of aid from America’s greatest Catholic university.
750 TO JOIN THAT SHUFFLIN' THRONG AND HEAR McKINLEY'S MUSIC 'N' SONG
The Student Council set the example in the charity drive by offering the proceeds from the Tulane victory dance to the campaign. The Sophomore class followed with a promise to donate the re-
This is it!
Tonight some 750 upperclassmen and their dates will gather at the Palais Royale in downtown South Bend for the 1947 Sophomore Cotillion — Notre Dame’s first post-war “name band” dance.
The Sophomores, desiring to instill some ’ vigor into campus social 1 ife, elected their class officers for the express purpose of making this Cotillion the “biggest and best.” And the elected men, under the leadership of President Bob Lanz, have done just that, for tonight Ray McKinley will hold down the bandstand, aided by the famous Eddie Sauter arrangements.
Although the main event of the week end will be the Cotillion, at least three other attractions will be open to the ca-vorters. At 6:30 this evening home-town girls will get their first glimpse of what
By JOE HERRINGTON
Notre Dame spirit really is at the Tulane game pep rally. After that, the weekend becomes a succession of activities.
Following the rally, the couples will check their bids with the purser and climb aboard the showboat. In honor of the Tulane game, the Sophomores have made theii- dance a “Southland Fanta-sie.” Decorations Chairman Bob Bosler has created a giant tableau “On the Levee” for tonight, and the Palais will be transported by magnolias and roses to fai* below the Mason-Dixon line.
Those lacking cuts or with tests on Saturday will be up early, and everyone will be on hand for* the thrills and spills of the Tulane game. After that, it’s din-
(Continued on Page 20)
turns from their cotillion. The committee itself inaugurated a planned 10-cent donation from the students each time they enter Washington hall proper. Lou Burns, chairman of the campaign, reminds the students that the offering is voluntary and is not binding.
A letter of commendation from Father Murphy, vice-president of the university, was read to the newly formed committee consisting of, in addition to Burns, Vincent Hogan, Robert Uhl, Ralph Thorson, John Murphy, William Duggan, Frank Keenan, and George Sullivan. These men were selected by the Student Council which has assumed responsibility for the success of the drive. •
Burns, in a later meeting before the campus club presidents, restated the plan and purpose of the campaign. He told the club heads that the proceeds will go to any student group in need. The
(Continued on Page 20)
9
Notre Dame Names 25 Men of Distinction For 1948 Issue of Students' Who's Who
By GREG HALPIN
The Notre Dame Men of Distinction (sans liquor) for the 1947-48 academic year were revealed in all their glory this week by the release of the list of 25 students from the University who will appear in this year’s edition of Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities.
First published in 1935 Who’s Who Among Students has attracted nationwide attention and, although little known here (the Library is without a copy), has included Notre Dame students almost yearly. This year’s selections range from Scholastic editors to World Youth Conference delegates and include the inevitable representation of athletes.
The students are selected by school authorities by means of standards of character, leadership, scholarship and potentiality for future usefulness in business and society recommended by the publication. Only juniors and seniors are eligible as candidates for selection and their number must not exceed by
two nor be two more than the percentage quota alloted each school. This year Notre Dame was allotted one more selection than her quota of 24 students.
The great advantage of gaining a place on Who’s Who pages is all in favor of the student. Besides the prestige of being ranked among the “400” of undergraduate society, each candidate is sent an employment blank on which he states the name of the concern and the type of work he would like to do upon graduation. Upon selection this employment blank is forwarded, with the editor’s added explanations and recommendations to the company requested. The claim of Who’s Who is that they have already placed thousands in desirous positions by this means.
Those Notre Dame men who are now “wheels” on a national scale are:
George Sullivan, football tackle and Senior class president; John Defant, former Scholastic editor; Frank Keenan, present editor; Lawrence Turner, Student Council; Bob Uhl, Student Council
officer; Pat Hagerty, Mayor of Vetville;^ Bill Braun, NS A representative; Tom Broden, K.C.: Tom McCaffery, NFCCS national officer; Leo Barnhorst, basketball; John Murphy, NS A representative; Vincent Hogan, World Youth Conference delegate; Marty McLaughlin, NS A representative; Jim Evert, Student Council and tennis player; Ed Cashman, musical director and writer; Ralph' Thorson, President of the Student Council; Gerard Hekker, Catholic Action, Blue Circle; John Walker, Dome editor; Paul Corey, Knights of Columbus officer; Bill Tully, track and tennis; Bill Soos, K.C.; John McCormick, Student Council; Art Coughlin, Dome; John Lu-jack, football; George Connor, football captain.
COTILLION CALENDAR
FRIDAY:
6:30 p. m.—Pep Rally
9 to 1—The Cotillion
SATURDAY:
1:30 p. m.—Tulane-N.D. game
8:30—Victory Dance
SUNDAY:
2 to 4 p. m.—Tea Dance at the Palais (if finances permit).
QUEEN OF THE SOPHOMORE COTILLION
Reigning over tonight's festivities will be Barbara McFarland. 18-year-old St Mary's freshman from Elizabethtown. Ky. A blue-eyed brunette, she is the date of Sophomore Class President Bob Lanz.
COTILLION MAID OF HONOR
Barbara Bale. 18-year-old red-headed senior at Western Academy in Macomb. RI., will be the maid of honor at the dance. She is the date of Class Vice-President Jim Reis.
19
• Vatican Choir Produce Heavenly Music For Appreciative Crowd In Drill Hall Concert
By TOM HANIF1N
Without a doubt, the Navy Drill Hall is not very much like heaven. But last week in the uninspiring surroundings of steel beams, basketball backboards and tinkling coke bottles, the Vatican Choir, under Msgr. Licinio Refice, raised their blended voices to produce music of angelic quality. Fortunately, the appreciative audience was quite large, and, though the works sung did not coincide with those on the programs, the difficulty was handled smoothly by the adroit announcements of our own Father Hes-burgh.
The choir was composed of thirty £ men and twenty-four boys, the former being the superior artists. The boys (aged eight to fifteen) seemed to be slightly shrill at times, and - also did not make their phrasing entrances as cleanly and sharply as did the adults. However, the soprano singing of the boys seemed to improve gradually, just as the music as a whole became more beautiful and inspiring as the concert progressed. As youngsters, the boys are indeed talented, but they were overshadowed by the clarity and richness of the older singers.
The concert opened (after the National Anthem in English) with what appeared to be a few incidental pieces by Msgr. Refice himself, and was not very impressive until the choir performed the “Ave Maria” and “Gaudent in Coelis” by Vittoria. In these pieces, as in Palestrina’s “Regina Coeli,” the voices were fresher and the ensemble was more unified. At this point in the concert the audience was given a hint of the group’s potential power, yet to be exhibited. This church music of Vittoria and Palestrina was obviously designed to raise one’s thoughts in religious devotion. Perhaps it is a pragmatic thought, but church attendance would very likely increase if music wonderfully performed like this was heard more frequently.
After the short intermisison (during which some very unlucky individuals departed) the program was dominated by works of Msgr. Refice. The performance of these pieces was tangible proof of the conductor’s talent both as a composer and as a chorale director of ability. The Monsignor became dynamic and more sensitive in directing his own works and thereby drew out a greater feeling in a the voices.
In the “Oremus pro Pontifice Nostro” the chorus sang well, but much of the
vocal music was obscured by the deep overtones and loud vibrations of the accompanying organ. “The Death of St. Francis of Assisi” followed, and displayed the ringing tenor voice of Luigi Laghi, who was the mainstay of the tenor section all evening.
The Credo from the “Missa Regina Martyrum” and a “Magnificat,” both by Msgr. Refice, closed the concert proper and were obviously the feature productions. The audience enthusiastically applauded the remarkable power and unit harmony, as the Drill Hall was literally overflowing with the full, resonant beauty of pure sound. The chords created in these last works were greatly effective and provided an incredibly exhilarating climax to the evening’s program. The audience demanded encores but these well-performed pieces were anti-climactic and therefore seemed uninteresting.
Sacred church music is a limited field that can become tedious if presented in excessive portions. Such was not the case, however, with the progressively finer performances and compositions in the concert last week. In considering the skill and artistic appeal of Msgr. Refice and his Roman singers, it is not difficult to understand why this local musical event was so culturally successful.
Cavanaugh Concerts
MONDAY, NOV. 24
Gayne Ballet Suite....Khachaturian
Scherazade....Rhimsky-Korsakov
TUESDAY, NOV. 25
2nd Piano Concerto....Rachmaninoff Malaguena ............ Lecuona
Marriage of Figaro Overture.....
......................Mozart
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 26
Selections ........... Strauss
Classical Symphony in D Major....
...................Prokofiev
Scherzo from Octet..Mendelssohn
FRIDAY, NOV. 28
Piano Concerto No. 1 in B Flat
Minor...........Tschaikowsky
Selections from Barbiere Di Si-viglia ............... Rossini
Selections from the Masked Ball .......................  Verdi
Selections from La Tosca..Puccini
All students and faculty are invited to the Noon Hour Concerts in the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room from 12:30 to 1:30.-
S. C. Word to Juniors: Elect a Committee
In the absence of Junior Class officers, the Student Council announced this week that there will be an election later this month to select a committee for the Junior Prom, provided that enough members of the class show enough interest.
Nominations are to be turned in to the Student Council Election Committee, 336 Lyons Hall, by midnight, Tuesday, November 25; At some time before December 1, there will be a meeting of the class to elect the committee.
In view of the poor showing by-the Junior Class in the regular election, it has been determined that at least 100 juniors must attend the meeting or there will be no Junior Prom.
On November 25 the Freshman Class will choose their officers from among the numerous parties which have been nominated. Election will be held from 11:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the basement of the Dining Hall. For a valid election it will be necessary for at least 200 votes to be cast.
Plans for the 1948 Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament were announced recently, and plans are being set up by the Student Council to hold an elimination contest at Notre Dame to select those who will represent the school. According to present plans, the preliminaries will begin within the next two weeks.
In their effort to clear up the question of succession to vacant offices, the council approved an amendment by which the vice-president will succeed to the presidency. If both offices are vacant, the faculty moderator will preside until elections are held. In the event of any other office being vacant, a special election will be held to elect a successor.
YCS Plans Retreat; Moves To New Quarters in Main
Notre Dame’s YCS unit moved to new quarters this week. New home for the organization will be in the back room of the BX in the basement of the Main Building, where YCS administration and editing of the Neivslstter, official YCS publication, will be conducted.
Plans are afoot for a one-day YCS retreat on December 7, beginning with a Missa Cantata in Howard Hall Chapel. Father Mullahy will be the retreat master. Also planned is the organization of a new campus section to be made up of commerce students. Interested commerce men should see Jack Murphy or Fathers Simonitsch or Kenna, section chaplains.
11
QUEEN OF THE LAW BALL Mrs. Donald Hummer
Novice Legal Eagles Hold Law Ball Tonight
In the wavering light of candles, Notre Dame’s thirty-seventh annual Law Ball will get under way promptly at 9 tonight in the highly decorated Indiana Club. About one hundred and fifty neophyte lawyers, betailed and beshined, will cavort with their assigns of the evening, beflowered, bejewelled, and be-gowned.	’
Mrs. Elton E. Richter, wife of Law Professor Elton E. Richter, has been named as guest of honor. Popular Mr. Richter has been named Professor of Law since 1943. On hand to head the reception line for the precedent-minded N.D. bar will be Dr. Clarence E. Manion, Dean of Law, and Mrs. Manion .
Mrs. Donald Hummer, wife of the senior chairman, Don Hummer, and Mrs. Tom Tierney, wife of the co-chairman, Tom Tierney, will be seated on the Queen’s bench for the affair. Mrs. Hummer was the former Nancy Marie Garner, of Louisville, Ky., and Mrs. Tierney the former Alice Tearney of South Dakota. Mrs. Tierney outranked her husband when, as a Lieutenant Commander, she served with him at a Naval base during the war.
In addition to co-chairmen Hummer and Tierney, committee heads are: Jerry Shea and Jack McGrath, patrons; Henry Romano and Robert Scott, bids and favors; Joe Wilcox, publicity; Francis Brinkman and John DiGirolomo, finance; Joe Lynch, tickets and sub
12
poenas duces tecum; Gunnar Hald, John J. Witous, Joseph Quill, Herb Melton and Bill Meehan, arrangements.
Vic Gulyassy Elected Mayor of Vetville
With 78 per cent of Vetville’s voting population casting their ballots last Monday, Law student Victor Gulyassy of Cleveland, Ohio, rode into the office of mayor, succeeding the retiring Pat Hagerty of Toledo, Ohio, last year’s mayor. Gulyassy swamped his only opponent, Joe Wurzler of Chappaqua, N. Y., by receiving 75 of the 91 votes cast.
Prior to the village’s major election, the residents of Vetville met in their respective wards and elected councilmen to represent their particular districts, to function when the Vetville Council begins operations under Mayor Gulyassy. The successful nominees were Chuck Ehret, New York City, Ward 1; Bob Logan, Rockville Centre, N. Y., Ward 2; George Gore, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Ward 3; Denny Carroll, South Bend, Ward 4; Steve Kelleher, Seneca Falls, N. Y., Ward 5; and Bill Connors, South Bend, of Ward 6. The new mayor will test the mettle of his new team on the Vets’ Tulane Game Victory Dance this week.
Vic Gulyassy, who is the proud occupant of 18B in Ward 3, hails from Cleveland, Ohio. Until the present time most of his work in the community has been done as the “Inquiring” reporter on the Vet Gazette. It was in the special election issue of this Vets’ newspaper which Editor Chuck Golden manages to push out to the citizens once a
WARMING UP FOR THE "PIRATES OF PENZANCE"
Some of the leading players in the Savoyards musical, opening Dec. 4. at Washington Hall, give their voices a workout Seated: Frances Hansen and Roy O'Neil. Standing: Bob Ruetz, Elaine Bruck, Petrina Mitchell, and Bill Mills. '
week, that Vetville first learned of Vic’s rise to office. The new mayor served in the Pacific during the war as a first sergeant in the Ordnance.
*
To celebrate Vic Gulyassy’s election the members of Vetville met on Tuesday night to be introduced to their recently-appointed mayor and council. The evening took the form of a regular Irish chowder-party with dancing and free cokes. At the same time they took the opportunity to pay tribute to their former mayor and councilmen. Conspicuously absent from the limelight on these occasions is Father Ted Hesburgh, moderator of Vetville, whose continued presence behind the scenes, however, is a force much appreciated.
—Dave Yerex
Navy Awards Plaque to N.D. For Service During War ~
A bronze plaque for meritorious service to the United States during World War II was presented to the University by the Department of the Navy at 11:30 a.m. yesterday.
Presentation was made by Rear’ Admiral J. Cary Jones, U.S.N., to the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, in the presence of the Notre Dame N.R.O.T.C. and other students and faculty members.
The Naval R.O.T.C. unit, established at Notre Dame in 1941, has trained more than 25,000 naval students. Nearly 13,000 of them have been commissioned ensigns, a number greater than the total officer strength of the Regular Navy at the start of the war. Present commanding officer of the Notre Dame unit is Captain Anthony L. Davis, U.S.N.
BADIN'S DOGPATCH
HOWARD'S SAD SACK
WALSH'S MULE
. . . only Sorin men seemed to like Sorin's display
'Scholastic1 Poll Differs from the Judges' Rating of Sorin, Walsh Hall Decorations
Badin’s was the best, but Sorin and (Walsh didn’t rate it.
Such was the consensus of student opinion on the Hall Decoration Contest as learned this week by a Scholastic survey covering a representative number of on-campus students.
According to general Notre Dame sentiment on the subject, Badin’s Dogpatch scene was far and away the best concocted by any of the University’s thirteen residence halls and fully deserving of the first prize handed it by the judging committee, but Sorin’s balloons and Walsh’s glue factory were no better than also-rans. As one Howardite put it, “Sorin’s stunk and Walsh’s was mediocre.”
For the latter two halls the voters substituted Howard, with its animated Sad Sack cartoon, and Dillon, with its dramatization of the unbalanced Army-ND series, in second and third places.
The question submitted by the Scholastic’s inquiring pollster was: “What in your opinion were the three best decorated halls entered in the Hall Decoration Contest?”
Results were compiled on a point basis, five for a first-place vote, three for a second, and one for a third.
Badin polled an overwhelming lead over the other halls, totalling 374 points. Howard racked up 193 points, and Dillon 106. Sorin, which was judged third by the contest officials, placed seventh in the concensus tabulations. Sorin’s ingenious balloon barrage apparently didn’t hit those surveyed with the same smack with which it bowled over the judges. In the Scholastic poll eight out of Sorin’s 17 votes were cast by Sorin men themselves.
“Off-Campus” actually drew 5 points, despite the fact that they had no decoration, unless you count the furbearing animals slinking around the lob-^by of the Oliver Hotel that chilly Saturday evening.
The totals:
Badin ........................   374
Howard ......................... 193
Dillon .......................   106
Walsh .........................   88
Morrissey ....................... 49
Zahm ..........................   36
Sorin ........................... 17
Lyons ....-...................... 16
Breen-Phillips .................. 14
Alumni ........................   13
Farley .........................  11
Cavanaugh .......................  7
St. Edward’s ...................   4
Trip to Michigan Plants
Made by Commerce Forum
On Wednesday at 5 a. m. thirty members of the Commerce Forum accompanied by Mr. Edmund Smith, Assistant Dean of the College of Commerce, and Mr. Thomas Murphy, the faculty moderator of the Forum, left for the Detroit and Adrian, Michigan, plants of the Gerity: Michigan Manufacturing Company.
This is the first field tour of its kind offered and approved by the College of Commerce and the school administration. Jim Murtagh, president of the Commerce Forum, contacted the Gerity Manufacturing Company and did much to organize the trip.
After touring the die-casting plant in Adrian, the group ate lunch and then left for Detroit. There they toured the second plant of the Gerity company. At 5 p. m. the party journeyed to Dearborn where they were given a banquet and entertained with music. A Henry Ford official spoke to the N.D. Commerce representatives. The next day they toured the Ford plant.
—David S. Schoen.
LaRazans Tango To Latin Band Nov. 29
To the rhythmic beat of Steve Company and his Latin Music Makers, the University La Raza Club will stage its annual dance next Saturday night in South Bend’s lovely Progress Club. As in the past, this annual affair is not restricted to club members but open to the whole student body as a means of helping to cement relations between the Americas. Keeping this in mind, Cugat’s No. 1 competitor will see to it that half of the numbers are of the norteameri-cano (U. S.) style.
The old excuse of “no date” doesn’t go for this affair the La Razans; have taken care of everything. For a wide selection of Anglo and Latin queens with accurate descriptions of each, the socialites are referred to room 254 Alumni hall.
Late permissions have also been taken care of, so you won’t have to leave before you get there. Notre Dame dancegoers have until 12:30, and if their date is from across the Dixie they may keep her out until 12:00.
Ducats are available at only $1.50 per couple, and are available in most of the residence halls from club members.
COMPREHENSIVE EXAM
All majors in Economics who will finish school in January, 1948, are notified to appear for a three-hour Comprehensive Examination Tuesday, December 9, 1947, at 1:30 p. nu in Room 127, Social Science Bldg.
Candidates are strongly urged to review courses in Principles of Economics, Economic History, History of Economic Thought, Money and Banking, Labor Problems, and Distributive Justice.	'
Mediaeval Institute Presents Dr. Pegis
Professor Anton Pegis, Ph.D., America’s leading authority on the History of Mediaeval Philosophy, will be the next speaker in the series of lectures sponsored by the Notre Dame Mediaeval Institute. Professor Pegis, in addition to being the president of the American Catholic Philosopher’s Association, has also served on the faculty of Fordham University and the University of Marquette. The Doctor will conduct his lectures at Notre Dame from December 1 through December 5.
Professor Pegis studied at Marquette University, the University of Chicago, and the University of Toronto, where he received his Doctor of Philosophy degree. While at Toronto, Professor Pegis was a student of Father Phelan of the Notre Dame Mediaeval Institute. While under the tutelage of Father Phelan. Professor Pegis was made a Fellow of the Mediaeval Institute of Studies after publication of his study, “The Problem of the Soul in the Thirteenth Century.”
Professor Pegis is the author of numerous studies on the history of mediaeval thought, and at the present time, he is engaged in writing a two-volume “Study of the History of Christian Wisdom,” which will appear in 1948. Professor Pegis is the editor of a two-volume work on the Basic Writings of St. Thomas, as well as serving on the editorial board of the Review of Metaphysics, published at Yale University.
. Dr. Pegis is a Greek by birth and a convert to the Catholic Church.
Preregistration for New Term To Begin Next Week
Preregistration for courses in the spring semester of 1948 will begin this Monday, November 24, for the College of Commerce and on Monday, December 1, for the other four colleges of the University, continuing in all of the colleges until December 5. Each student will receive a notice from the Director of Studies stating the time he should see his dean for selecting his courses.
Before preregistering with his dean, each student should consult the Head of the Department in which he is taking his major subject concerning his program of courses for the spring semester. At that time he should have available a list of courses which he has taken, and should be familiar with the requirements for the degree he is seeking.
All cancellations in preregistration
must be made before the Christmas vacation.
As all students will hold their present accommodations for the remainder of the school year, no fee or deposit will be required for preregistration this semester. Rooms will not be held, however, for students who fail to preregister with their dean.
Bronze to Replace Ceramic Plaques in Church Entry
The two ceramic plaques that were placed in the vestibule of Sacred Heart Church five years ago are soon to be replaced by permanent bronze reliefs of the same subjects.
KORMENDI AND PLAQUE
For two ceramics — bronze relief
These plaques, which were made at a time in which bronze was not available, were done by the University ai-tist in residence, Mr. Eugene Kormendi, to commemorate Notre Dame’s centennial celebration in 1942. Like the major part of Mr. Kormendi’s work, they are sculptured in very modern style.
One of the reliefs features Father Sorin with the log chapel and the old main building. In Roman numerals is the date 1842, the year of the founding of Notre Dame. The other relief, with the centennial date of 1942, depicts Our Lady praying for the University. In the background are Sacred Heart Church, the flagpole, and the dome, signifying God, Country, and Notre Dame.
Because of the Thanksgiving holiday the SCHOLASTIC will not publish next week. The next issue will slide under hall doors Dec. 5. The football issue containing stories, pictures and features on the players, coaches and games will be published Dec. 12. Students desiring extra copies are requested to send in orders (price: SO cents per issue) to the Publications Office, 118 Main Building, before Dec. 1 to insure speedy delivery.
Year's First 'Juggler' < Issue Out Next Week
With erudite prose and rumbling poetry, the Juggler, Notre Dame’s lately reborn literary quarterly, makes its first appearance of the school year next . week.
Devoted to publishing the best creative and critical work of the student body, the Juggler emerged last April from the ashes of the pre-war Scrip. This semester’s staff is composed of men from the A.B. and Engineering schools. Francis X. Duggan heads the staff, aided by associate editors Thomas H. Doherty, John J. Fallon, Norbert Geier, Edward M. Kralovec, and Elmer A. Steffen, Jr.
The first edition will feature a one-act play by Samuel Hazo and the photographic work of Thomas H. Doherty, which will be remembered from last May’s Juggler. Also included in this issue are the “Cap and Bells” section of light comment, short stories and sketches, essays, poetry, and reviews.
Format will be much the same as last year’s. Subsequent issues will appear in January, April, and June. Contributions should be sent to the editor, 240 Badin Hall. Deadline for the January issue is Wednesday, December 17.
Dr. Nutting Urges Study Of History by Scientists
Dr. Willis D. Nutting opened the Cultural Seminar Series for students in the College of Science last week. The seminar is sponsored jointly by YCS and * the College of Science.
Dr. Nutting told the thirty students present of the importance of history, along with the other humanities, in a science' student’s curriculum. “Individuals today tend toward specialization,” Dr. Nutting declared. “Consequently, a specialist in a particular field may come up with an invention, but he is not capable of asking himself, ‘Is this discovery going to be good for mankind?’ The scientist can learn to answer questions such as this by becoming acquainted with the humanities.”
Dr. Nutting concluded the part of the series devoted to history on Wednesday of this week with a survey of world history. George R. Schrodt, premedical junior and general chairman of the series, announced that further lectures, at times to be announced, will be devoted to Sociology, English, Economics, Po- £ litical Science and Philosophy.
—Pat Hughes
14
■SCHOLASTIC SPCLTJ
Green Wave Splashes Irish Breakwater
MEDIOCRE FOE IN HOME FINALE
By BOB LEANDER
From New Orleans tomorrow, to add its touch of color to the campus of the Golden Dome, the Blue Circle, and the proposed Red Puddle, comes the Green Wave of Tulane, already rendered by its opponents little more than a ripple on the turbulent pond of college football. Coach Henry Frnka has little more to offer this season than last when the Irish trampled his team 41-0 with the aid of Ernie Zalejski and several other sons of the South Bend sod.
Tulane opened the season with a smashing success, 21-20, over Harry Gilmer and his Alabamans who at the time were thought highly of in Southern grid circles. Unfortunately, any sprouting dreams of an undefeated season were badly marred the following week when the Yellow jackets from Georgia Tech traipsed into town and all over the Wave. Even five Tech fumbles could
For Lineup and Roster see page 19.
not implement a Tulane scoring thrust and so the reports read a lopsided 20-0. The next week it was even worse. Rice’s Owls provided the competition— what there was of it — and coasted to an easy 33-0 triumph. Charley Conerly brought his Mississippi Rebels into fair New Orleans on the heels of the Rice debacle and passed for three touchdowns while plunging for a fourth. This time Tulane also had a hand in scoring. The Wave marched 57 and 77 yards for its first sustained drives in four games. Two conversions gave them 14 points, just 13 shy of the rampaging Conerly’s total. So 40,000 spectators departed having seen Frnka drop his third game of the season, 27-14.
Undismayed, the Big Green played again the following Saturday. Played and won. Auburn’s Plainsmen, having lost to everybody else in the south temperate zone bowed once more, 40-0, and presented Tulane its second victory against three defeats. It wasn’t as ele-
Undefea+ed Harriers vie for Championship In National Meet at East Lansing Monday
By JIM HOWARD
Notre Dame’s first undefeated harrier team in many years will attempt to complete a perfect season by winning the coveted national title next Monday at East Lansing, Michigan. The Irish will have their final chance to prove their superiority over Drake, the defending champion and title holder for the past three years.
Notre Dame was not able to compete for the Central Collegiate crown because a train wreck delayed their arrival in Des Moines until the run over the snow-covered Waveland golf course had started. Drake took advantage of the absence of the Notre Dame runners and scored their five point men in the first six places. Drake, beaten at Loyola by N.D., refused to delay the contest so that the Irish squad could compete. Last year
mentary as the score would indicate, however. Auburn’s line was good for only one touchdown during the first half and, though crippled, the Plainsmen hung on tenaciously until the Wave’s reserve strength made its mark in the final quarter. Another 20-0 humiliation, this one at the hands of Mississippi State, showed Fimka that what his boys could do in October they could also do in November. An open date November 8 afforded the Frnkans a respite before wrestling Florida’s Alligators last week. What might have happened without the sojourn will never be known; as it is a 7-7 tie represents the Big Green’s latest football exploits.
Thus a rapid summary would show Tulane with two victories, (Alabama, Auburn), four defeats (Georgia Tech, Rice, Mississippi, Mississippi State) and a stalemate with Florida, which gives them little to write home about. Any kind of victory over Notre Dame would serve to rectify the situation and would very likely be felt indirectly on gridirons the country over. For if Henry Frnka’s
(Continued on Page 18)
when Drake was confident of victory they delayed the meet an hour for the late coming Notre Dame group, so they could have the added honor of beating them in the match. The Iowa school’s refusal to delay the meet was not well received by the local runners, and they are pointing for a rugged battle with Drake on Monday.
Last year the Irish took tenth place in the Nationals with 267 points. This year, on the basis of their decisive wins over Michigan State and Wisconsin, the chances of a N.D. triumph are as good as those of any of the schools competing. Several of the top distance runners in the country will be entered, but Notre Dame will rely on its over-all strength and depth to pull through with the low point total for the meet.
Five of the Notre Dame runners have consistently finished within fifteen seconds of each other, and if these runners can do the same in the national title fight, and still manage to stay within the first fifteen scorers, they are almost certain to win.
Jim Murphy has led the Irish in all contests this season, but he has been pushed by Cornie Styers. Jim Kittell, Jim Kelly and Bill Leonard. Others who have figured in the scoring are Bob Mitchell and Lou Tracy. The group is a perfect example of teamwork, all of them running as a well-knit unit and not as individual prima donnas.
Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy is pleased with the excellent performance of the team this year, and believes it to be one of the finest harrier groups in the school’s history. He refused to venture a guess as to the outcome of the match at East Lansing, but said he thought N.D. had an even chance, although he did not know enough about the records of the Eastern and Southwestern schools.
If the Irish win, it will be the first national crown since a service men’s team running under Notre Dame colors finished first in 1943.
15
Cavanaugh Gridders Gird for Title Contest
By Harry Monahan
Coaches Varda, Powers Brood Over Secret Strategy Leaking Out as Battle Royal With Lyons Nears.
Three soda straw lengths and a shoelace distance behind the Huddle something is brewing, and it isn’t coffee. Cavanaugh Hall’s explosive interhall eleven is putting the final touches to the surprise package they intend to deliver to the 1947 West Campus and 1946 Campus Champions from Lyons Hall this Sunday afternoon in the Stadium. Co-coaches Pete Varda and Bernie Powers have placed 243 Cavanaugh off-limits to anyone who even looks as though he might know Ray Chamberland. Varda is so worried about his strategy leaking out that Powers has had a hard time convincing him that he should at least let the team in on his “Top Secret” project.
Taking their last two games the easy way, by forfeit, while the Lyonites were being pressed to salvage a tie from a resurgent Morrissey eleven and to subdue a hard-fighting Dillon squad, 6-0, the boys from’ the East Side are well rested and will go into the Stadium battle the fresher team. Cavanaugh will be out to protect a goal line which has not been crossed in interhall competition this year. While keeping its opponents scoreless, it hasn’t failed to roll up some convincing statistics. An outclassed Breen-Phillips eleven was the first to tangle with the tornado, which ripped through it, 34-0. Zahm fought back the following week and grudgingly gave up a 7-0 victory to the boys from Cav. Last year’s East Campus Champion, St. Edward’s, fared no better, being subdued, 14-0.
With this record it is no wonder that coaches Varda and Powers are justly proud of their team. But coaching is not something new to Pete Varda, while football is far from a new subject to either of these boys. Pete put the Garfield High School of Terre Haute, Indiana, in the red, paying for the seven letters he captured in track, baseball and football. Uncle Sam gave Pete his first coaching job with the football and basketball teams at Vinthill Farms, Virginia. This experience with service 16
teams he is turning to good advantage, as his opponents thus far this season will confirm. A Physical Education major now in his sophomore year, Pete likes his coaching job.
“It takes plenty of work, worry and . time, but I get a lot of fun out of doing it,” is his opinion of a coach’s troubles. With the record his team has turned in, who wouldn’t enjoy it?
It must be the Leahy influence on campus, however, which makes Pete have at least one regret despite the impressive record his team has rolled up.
“That guard from Zahm,” he moans.
“Yeah, what a schmoe he made out of you! And just because he wouldn’t be mousetrapped on your favorite play,” chides his roommate. A remark which usually necessitates a quick dodge to avoid a low-flying history book.
“If I only had him for Sunday,” Pete sighs, retrieving the book from across the room, “I wouldn’t have a worry in the world.”
Bernie Powers is no stranger to these interhall championship brawls, as many will remember how he sparked a juggernaut St. Edward’s eleven into the finals last year, only to lose to this same Lyons team which he will face Sunday. And he is not likely to forget how the boys from down by the lake took that thriller, 14-0. Bernie received his football initiation in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, playing in high sechool and for a semi-pro team for a while. Varda claims he is the best interhall quarterback on the campus, and the choice stands uncontested. Bernie is kept away from visitors lest some
CAVANAUGH HALL. — EASTERN DIVISION CHAMPIONS
Kneeling, left to right: Biggert, Booth, Wise, Rotchford, Sanders, Clement, Guiltinan. Butler, Harbart, and Goheen. Standing: Hoppke, Dirkin, Hopper, Doherty, Bruno, Co-Coach Powers, Presley, Higgins, Nicholas, and Wolfe.
COACH VARDA (RIGHT) AND AIDE Top plans are 'Top Secret'
of the varsity mentors roam through the halls of Cavanaugh and requisition their quarterback for spotlight duty with the Leahy troupe.
The workhorse of the squad is Jim Presley, 185-pound halfback. Jim holds high scoring honors for the team, having tallied up three touchdowns and seven conversions for a total of 25 points. He spends most of his time in the opposing secondary, putting the grab on Powers’ aerials. Dennis Higgins and Don Wolfe have been keeping the backlawn patrolled on the defense for the Cavanaugh eleven and at the same time leaving no doubts as to their offensive abilities f tom " their halfback spots. Fred Bruno provides a big piece of the charge which is packed into their five-man alternating backfield combination.
(Continued on Page 24)
•splinters
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
Saturday afternoon against Tulane several of Notre Danie’s regulars will be playing their last home game for the Fighting Irish. On the starting eleven, three men will definitely be through with their col-
lege football this year. C a p t. George Con n o r, Ziggy Czarobski, and Johnny Lujack are the three who are ^making their final home appearance Saturday.
Connor has shown some of the finest line play ever exhibited by a Notre
Dame tackle. A very fast man for his size, George has always been a constant “fifth man” in the opposing backfield. On open field blocking and tackling he has stood out in years when there were many good tackles in the country to choose from. The Moose’s habit of standing up in the line and reaching over, grabbing the runner by the neck and wrestling him down has endeared him to Notre Dame fans but hardly to opposing backs. The left tackle spot, filled by the best in the country the past two years, will be a big hole next year. $ Connor’s running mate at right tackle for the past two years has been Ziggy Czarobski. The voluble Ziggy earned a monogram in 1942 and 1943 also. His feat of being a regular right tackle on the 1943 and 1946 national champions and the 1947 logical choice for national honors is one that may never be equalled. In 1943 and 1946 Zig was just a starter, his fine play being overlooked because of other matters. This season, however, the Chicago mayor-to-be has played the finest football of his career. The results will be plainly visible when the All-American selections for 1947 hit the newsstands.
The third man who will be writing finis to a brilliant Notre Dame career this Saturday, as far as the home folks are concerned, is Johnny Lujack, the Connellsville Comet. On the word of Coach Frank Leahy himself, Lujack is the greatest T-formation quarterback ®today, bar none. That is pretty exclusive company, but Mr. Lujack has
INTEKtiALL FCCTEALL
By TOM ADAMS and JOE ARCHIBALD
Cavanaugh Hall, undefeated, untied, and unscored on, and winners of the Eastern Division, will meet Lyons Hall, also undefeated, but tied and scored on, and winners of the Western title in the interhall championship game at the Stadium Sunday afternoon. Lyons was winner of the championship game last year and has a veteran squad back, while Cavanaugh has many of the players who played with St. Ed’s Eastern leaders against Lyons in the 14-0 battle in the rain. All students and their guests are invited to attend his game, which will start at 2 p. m. Admission is free.
Lyons, 6; Dillon, 0
Lyons Hall annexed the Eastern division title for the second consecutive year by tripping a dogged, determined Dillon eleven, 6-0. Lyons’ powerful aerial attack, combined with the brilliant running of Bob Ciancetti and Tom Hanifin, proved disastrous for the Dillonites. The winning touchdown came in the final stanza when Paul “Zeke” Lane completed a 25-yard pass to end Tom Muscatello in the end zone. Lane’s attempt for conversion was blocked. In the closing minutes, Jack McMahon of Dillon unleashed a passing attack in a futile effort to score before time ran out.
Alumni. 6; Morrissey, 0
Alumni Hall struck late in the final period to hand the Morrissey gridmen their fourth setback of the season, 6-0. Both squads fought to a standstill until the final minutes of play when Alumni, sparked by the passing of Ray Kenney and the hard running of Bill Bender, drove to the Morrissey 21 yard-line. With less than a minute to play, Kenney threw a touchdown pass to Bob Wagner, Alumni end. The try for extra point was blocked.
earned the right to such compliments.
Johnny’s three seasons have seen him throw 262 passes, including last week’s Northwestern game. He has completed 133 of them for a .508 percentage. His completions have picked up 1965 yards for Notre Dame. On the ground he has tried 79 rushes, gaining 433 yards for a 5.5-yard average.
Lu jack’s ball-handling has improved greatly this year, and he has been recognized as the best defensive back in football for two years now. Only Pete Ashbaugh will dispute the latter claim. Put them all together, and you have Johnny Lujack, All-American quarterback and as fine a quarterback as will ever grace the campus of Notre Dame or any othei’ college.
Other men who will be definitely finishing their Notre Dame home careers this week end and who have earned a niche in Irish football history are George Sullivan, Gasper Urban, Joe Signaigo, Pete Ashbaugh, Fred Earley, Bob Livingstone, and Floyd Simmons.
Walsh, 0; Badin, 0
Walsh Hall ended its pigskin campaign by holding the strong Badin eleven to a scoreless tie, in a hard-fought battle. Walsh’s only threat came in the final period when Jack Hoey returned a punt 50 yards to the Badin 20-yard line.
Farley, 6; Breen-Phillips, 0
In a game that seemed to lack the in-etrest that is usually associated with a football game, Farley Hall defeated a winless Breen-Phillips eleven by the score of 6 to 0. Neither team was able to make their offense click, and as a result, a dull game was witnessed.
After both teams found out that they could make little or no progress, the game turned into a kicking duel. But, finally, in the third quarter, Farley’s boys, who had the edge in the weak battle, gained their opportunity and managed to capitalize on it. They worked the ball from their opponents forty down to the twenty, via the ground. Then, Dan Finn, Farley back, tossed a twenty-yard aerial to Noonan, for the only score of the contest. Joe Moschella’s attempt for conversion was blocked. Breen-Phillips tried to come back, but just couldn’t keep up with the revitalized Farley eleven.
The rest of the week’s schedule for the Eastern Division read something like this, “Zahm vs. Saint Edward’s . . . Cavanaugh vs. Off-Campus,” but things didn’t go quite to schedule. The St. Edward’s men didn’t show up, noi- did the fellows of the Off-Campus squad, so both Zahm and Cavanaugh won by default.
Season's Standings
EASTERN	W	L	T
Cavanaugh ................ 5	0	0
Zahm ..................... 4	10
Farley ................... 2	2	1
St. Ed’s ................. 13 0
Off-Campus _______________ 0	4	1
Breen-Phillips ........... 0	5	0
WESTERN	W	L	T
Lyons .................... 4	0	1
Badin ..............,_____ 2 12
Dillon ------------------- 2	2	1
Walsh -------------------- 2	2	1
Alumni .................... 12	2
Morrissey ................ 0	4	1
17
tillllllltil
.......................................................................................             mt.]
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Wdk Pete
The Wildcat from Northwestern showed that he had both sharp claws and a lack of taste seldom displayed at an intercollegiate football game. He took advantage of several good breaks to score three times
against a Notre Dame team. It is the first time since the Great Lakes game in 1945 that any team has been able to cross the Irish goal more than once. Two of the scores came as results of inter c e p t e d passes and the other came at the
end of a concentrated drive which was helped along by the passes of the Wildcats’ Don Burson. Terry Brennan was in a position to break up the play on which the Cats scored in this drive. But as he started to move over to block Burson’s pitch, Terry lost his footing and fell. However, the Cats did score and that is what
pays off.
The lack of taste came in the snub given the Irish stands by the Northwestern band. At half time the NU band paraded out on the Notre Dame side of the field and marched towards the N.U. stands. From then on all the Notre Dame rooters saw was their backs. Not once did that group of Petrillo fugitives play a Notre Dame song or any song faintly patting the Irish on the back. J. P. Sousa was the man of the day. It is hard to believe that any university of the standing of Northwestern would be so rude to another school with whom it has had such friendly relations through a long period of years.
There was a letdown from the week before, but that was to be expected. However, the letdown was not enough to prevent Capt. Connor and his boys from pushing four touchdowns across and picking up over 400 yards in total offense. Connor and Ziggy Czarobski were exceptional in their line play. Twice Connor caught pass pilferers from behind. A few scoring opportunities were lost, but still the team displayed a quality of being able to call their shots and score at will. At no time in the game
18”
did there seem to be a call for worry as to what the outcome would be.
BASKETBALL OPENS
On other fronts we notice that the hardwood floor in the old gym is beginning to hear the pounding of feet and the clicking of Kevin O’Shea’s knees again. Having a feature attraction on the campus, once a forbidden thing, has spread to the other branch of major sports here. With the scheduling of Army on the home grounds setting the precedent. Coach Krause, basketball boss, is bringing Kentucky and Georgetown to the home court, so that the students can see what everybody has talked about for years. The Kentucky game shapes up to be the outstanding match on the Irish floor. Georgetown is coached by Elmer Ripley who ran the Irish cage squad during the 1945-46 campaign. Listed among the Hoya’s squad members is Ray Corley who as a freshman in 1945-46 won a monogram with the Notre Dame team.
Ray Donovan, Notre Dame’s man of words on basketball, is bemoaning the fact that the season opens on December 6, which happens to be the same day that the football team closes its season with Southern California. “If,” Ray says with his fingers crossed, “the football team finishes the season unbeaten, it null take the newspapers two weeks to recognize that Notre Dame has a basketball team also.” Because of the time difference between Los Angeles and South Bend, Ray figures that the basketball team will be taking the flooi- for its initial workout just as the football team leaves the field after disposing of Southern California.
Green Wave
(Continued from Page 15)
combination T and single-wing attack should stop the unstoppable Irish, the ex-Tulsa mentor could conceivably find himself proclaimed the new Clark Shaughnessy.
In that event part of the credit would undoubtedly go to Tulane’s array of backfield talent. Don Fortier was heard from last year and is again at his left half post. Leonard Finley, for three years a blocking back, has now taken over several running assignments and
combines with Bobby Jones, a freshman flash, Johnny Campora and Marvin Me- <4 Crain to give the Green Wave its hot and cold offensive drive. The Tulane line has yet to produce a stellar performer and it is in this department that the invaders stand to be thoroughly outclassed. The Notre Dame forwards at midweek appeared ready for full time duty without exception. In the back-field Coy McGee, who rested his sprained ankles beneath a Dyche Stadium bench last Saturday, provides a question mark. He affirms his recovery but it will take a couple of tough Tulane tackles to cinch his argument. By his consistent play against the Wildcats Pep Panelli gave every evidence of a return to peak form. His presence tomorrow certainly doesn’t offer any encouragement to the Green Wave; if anything it should make them just that much greener.
Coach Frnka and his team are flying up from New Orleans. It should be a lovely trip.
Cagers Look Erratic As First Game Nears
With the inaugural game of its forty-third basketball season exactly two weeks off, Notre Dame is far behind in its preparation. During the practice sessions sandwiched between the Army and Northwestern football games, the squad as a whole looked erratic and inconsistent. A casual observer would not even believe it was almost the same club which had hung up an enviable 20 and 4 record last season.
On some days it shows every promise of doing just as well this season. Then, * on other days the passing is ragged, easy shots are blown, and hand-offs are mistimed. Of course, the old school of thought clings to the theory that it is better to eliminate as many of the defects from the system as is possible during practice. After all, that’s what practice drills are for.
Yet, this year’s crop of Irish basket-eers have been booked a challenging schedule. In four months they play twenty-four games, with nary a breather in the bunch; sixteen are road games scattered from New York to Denver. Gone are the days when Camp Atterbury, Franklin, and Ball State could be used as warm-ups before plunging into the meat of the schedule. On December 6 Krause’s cagers open with the Indiana State Sycamores, a team not too far from the top of the Hoosier hierarchy of basketball and who in the past' 0„ have done themselves proud on such
^far-off fronts as Madison Square Garden. Since Notre Dame hasn’t scheduled any intentional breathers, perhaps a good pre-season test would be a scrimmage arranged with a neighboring pro team played on a regular game basis.
Nothing in the nature of even a probable starting lineup can yet be surmised. Assistant Coach Tom Brennan seems to have abandoned the idea of starting Johnny Foley at center, at least temporarily. The forward positions now remain the big problem, although it is certain that Leo Barnhorst will be at one forward come opening whistle. Barnhorst is a game competitor and a scrapper at both backboards. Johnny Brennan has been moved back to center and K. C. O’Shea and Paul Gordon remain at the guards.
The other forward position looks like a scramble among Jimmy O’Halloran, Buster Hiller, and Dick Kluck. All three have worked alternately during practice and each owns a particular forte in gathering points. O’Halloran’s is a one-hand push shot on the dead run any
	PROBABLE		STARTING LINEUPS			
	NOTRE DAME				TULANE	
No.	Name	Wt.	Pos.	No.	Name	Wt.
38	Jim Martin	(205)	LE	57	Emile O’Brien	(180)
81	Capt. George Connor (200)		LT	56	Bob Franz	(190)
72	Bill Fischer	(230)	LG	70	Darwood Holm	(198)
46	Bill Walsh	(205)	C	54	Stan Kottemann	(200)
58	Marty Wendell	(198)	RG	60	Mike Balen	(200)
76	Ziggy Czarobski	(213)	RT	73	Vic Klein	(210)
82	Leon Hart	(216)	RE	66	Ray Olsen	(190)
32	Johnny Lu jack	(180)	QB	44	Jim Keeton	(185)
37	Terry Brennan	(173)	LH	43	John Campora	(175)
14	Emil Sitko	(175)	RH	45	Ed Pi-ice	(190)
67	John Panelli	(190)	FB	88	Bill Svoboda	(195)
	Game Time: 1:30	C.S.T.				
ROSTER OF PLAYERS
NOTRE DAME	TULANE
No. Name	Pos.	No. Name Pos.	No. Name	Pos.	No. Name	Pos.
1 Earley 		....B	44 Leonard 	E	27 Fortier 			B	64 Lennox 			T
3 Brown 			B	45 Michaels 	E	31 McCain ...		B	65 Chassee ...	.....E
8 Tripucka ..		B	46 Walsh 	C	32 Ellener ...		B	66 Olsen 			E
12 Ashbaugh	....B	52 Grothaus 	C	34 Wasieleski	....E	69 Doyle 		.....G
15 O’Connor ..		G	54 Sullivan 	T	35 Fleider 			E	70 Holm 			G
19 McGee 		....H	55 Swistowicz ..B	42 Bienz 			B	71 Villars 			T
20 Smith 		....H	57 Lally 	G	43 Campora ..		B	73 Klein 		.....T
21 Statute 			C	61 Russell 	T	44 Keeton 			B	76 Wojcik 			B
22 Gay 		...B	62 Simmons 	B	45 Price 			B	77 Van Meter	„„B
24 Coutre 		...B	63 Budynkiew’z T	46 Prats 			B	79 Heintz 			T
26 McGehee ..		T	64 Urban 	T	51 Chernick .		B	81 Tessier 				T
27 Espenan ..	,...E	69 Clatt 	B	56 Franz 			T	85 Reising			C
30 Gompers ..	...H	73 Gaul 	G	54 Kottemann	..C	88 Svoboda ...		B
33 Kosikowski	..E	74 Signaigo 	G	57 O’Brien ....	...E	91 Miechowicz	..G
39 Oracko 		...G	80 Cifelli 	T	60 Balen 			G	92 Brown 			G
40 Livingstone 42 Waybright	..H „„E	83 Wightkin 	E	61 Deramee -		G	97 McEver ....		C
where in the vicinity of the foul circle or a drive in lay up. Hiller, from East Bernstadt, Ky., and a former All-National high school star at St. Michael’s of Santa Fe, is remindful of former Notre Dame captain, Billy Hassett, on his set shot consistency. Both he and O’Halloran also work effectively in plays which involve the pivot man. The 6'2", 185 lb. Kluck, from Chicago’s St. Philip’s High and now in his third year on the squad, is fast for a big boy and frequently registers on a drive in after faking a pass or a hand-off.
—Dave Warner
INTERHALL TITLE GAME
Students and their guests are invited to attend the interhall football championship game between Cavanaugh and Lyons Sunday afternoon at 2 in the stadium. Admission to the title contest is free. Lyons, last year's champ, is unbeaten, but tied in this season's play. Cavanaugh's eleven is unbeaten and unscored upon.
Okaite^
By IOE CHENEY
The Notre Dame Express slowed down at Evanston Station long enough last Saturday for the typewriter tappers to grab their portable Coronas, mashed toppers, and rain coats and board the Michigan Streamliner heading for Ann Arbor.
It was nice having them with us for the past four weeks but they left without even hinting whether or not they’d .be back before our season ended. But I guess that’s the life of newspaper writers; they’re chumps if they’re not riding the fastest trains and last week Wisconsin oiled Michigan’s choo-choo.
I’ve been around long enough to realize that it’s not the statistics but the score which provides the headlines. The latter, as we all know, read 26 to 19. Mighty close! But our net yards rushing were 284 compared with Northwestern’s 49. And in the passing department, Notre Dame outshone the Wildcats to the tune of 126 to 83 for a total yards-gained with everything figured in: Notre Dame 410, Northwestern 132. So the Irish didn’t lose too much prestige last Saturday.
When Frank Tripucka faded back to pass deep in Irish territory with only about four minutes left to play, I crossed my fingers but I guess my fat thumb got in the way. Had Frank completed that one he would have been cheered for having the guts to take such a chance regardless of how poor the judgment might have been. Immediately, if not sooner, he was replaced for the rest of the afternoon. The fans forgot about the fine touchdown pass that he had tossed ear-.lier in the game to Lank Smith, which by the way, was a terrific catch considering that two Wildcats had latched on to Lank as he headed for touchdown town.
Maybe Tripucka had thoughts like these running through his mind when he headed for his last huddle: “Let’s see. It’s third down and eight yards to go. Probably won’t be able to pick up those yards in one play unless I pass. Yeah, that’s right, always have passed when it’s third down and we need more than two or three yards.” Anyway, Frank, congratulations on that beautiful touchdown pass. Guess the experts forgot about that.
CAN'T BLAME PETRILLO THIS TIME
The Northwestern Band must have decided that the drizzling rain would pre
19
vent the Irish from marching Saturday because they completely ignored the Notre Dame side of the field. The Notre Dame Victory March wasn’t even played. They did play the Star Spangled Banner though! That’s everybody’s song so I guess the Irish rooters weren’t forgotten altogether.
WHO GHOSTS COSTIN'S COLUMNS?
In the South Bend Tribune last Monnight, Sports Editor Jim Costin put the blast on the Irish again. I could almost picture Costin sitting next to Coach Leahy’s desk in Breen-Phillips Hall taking down the head coach’s statements! Wonder how much Costin pays the Irish coach for ghosting so much of his stuff!!
Sophomore Cotillion
(Continued from Page 9)
ner and off to the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall.
Chairmen of the Cotillion hope to be able to hold a free dance at the Palais from 2 to 4 Sunday afternoon. It will depend, however, on the proceeds from the Cotillion itself.
Miss Barbara McFarland, date of Class President Robert Lanz, will be queen of the dance, and Miss Barbara Bale will be her maid of honor. The latter will be escorted by James Reis, vicepresident of the Sophomore class.
Chaperones for the Cotillion will be: Mr. Joseph Ratigan; Mr. and Mrs. William J. Eisen; Miss Rigney, Dean of Women at St. Mary’s College; Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C.; Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C.; Rev. Charles McCarra-gher, C.S.C.; Mr. William Slowey; Mr. Francis Rey; and Mr. and Mrs. John B. Morgan.
Student Relief
(Continued from Page 9) money will be sent to a central agency in New York City, arid there be used to buy food and clothing.
The clubs reacted to Burns’ plea with a number of proposals. The Villagers Club suggested the raffle of an autographed football at the half of the Tulane game | It was accepted and acted upon, as was the proposal of an automobile raffle by the Law Club president, Lynn Boykin. A committee was named to secure the car, and run the drive; Jack Murphy, chairman; Tom Francis, Joe Reninger, George Sullivan, and Jack Nolan. The Chicago Club volunteered to donate part of the proceeds of a corned beef and cabbage dinner to be held in January.
All the clubs felt the need of a campus-wide bazaar to be held Feb. 16 and 17. Each of the clubs will participate in the Mardi Gras by establishing
20
booths. A similar affair was staged before the war and was highly successful.
Burns told the presidents that the club donating the most money per individual member would be awarded a smoker from the Student Council.
Students Wax Funny On Tulane Predictions
Judging by the student forecasts the “Green Wave” should mean nothing more than a go signal to the Irish Saturday afternoon.
The shock of last week’s clash with Northwestern has noticeably affected the optimists who reside in the Cafe. But after seeing Purple all week the change of color promises to be all the incentive needed to get back to the number one spot in the Associated Press poll.
Dalt O’Sullivan, Riverside, Ill., Howard Hall—ND, 21; Tulane, 6.
“Coach Leahy will save everything he’s got for the Southern Cal game.”
Edward Magner, Garner, Mass., Breen Phillips—ND, 40; Tulane, 0.
“We will want to clean up our record after the mud bath at Dyche Stadium last Saturday.”
Jim Madden, Larchmont, N. Y., Breen Phillips—ND, 26; Tulane, 6.
“Injuries should hold our score down.”
Bob McEvoy, Lonesome Rock, Tex., Dillon—ND, 84; Tulane, 0.
“All we will need is good weather and a few of the breaks Northwestern had last week.”
Bob Thibodeau, Detroit, Mich., Morrissey—ND, 7; Tulane, 0.
“Neither team is capable of winning but we may be able to get a touchdown during the half time.”
Dick Prosche, Riverside, III., Off Campus—ND, 21; Tulane, 0.
“Tulane’s record this season is not too impressive. They shouldn’t even see pay dirt once.”
Red Cronin, Cincinnati, Morrissey— ND, 21; Tulane, 0.
“Coach Leahy won’t pour- it on against a weak team. Our third and fourth stringers should see plenty of action.”
Aero Institute Announces Local Aviation Plant Tours
The fifth meeting of the Student Branch of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences will be held next Tuesday evening. Extensive plans for the coming semester will be announced including information about plant trips to be held in the near future. By that time the second issue of the Burble will make its appearance. Editor Ernest J. Tursich reports that the second issue will contain improvements which were suggested by many of the 300 recipients.
Among the planned activities of the(» IAS is the semester banquet tentatively scheduled for Thursday evening at the D. A. V. club in South Bend. The students of the Aeronautical Department will also have the opportunity to go on a series of inspection trips to local industries engaged in production of aviation products. The Bendix Products Division, Bendix Aviation Corporation, was the host to the first group of ten recently at their South Bend plant. The Studebaker Corporation will conduct a similar series of educational tours next month for the benefit of all the students enrolled in the Aeronautical Engineering Department at Notre Dame.
Campus Clubs
(Continued from Page -5) club has again become dynamic.
Send all club news to 251 Cavanaugh Hall. News wanted in any special issue must be turned in eight days in advance.
MOUNTAINEERS REMOUNT
After a wartime absence from campus activities, the “Mountaineers” from the tall hills of West Virginia have reorganized. Paul Corey was largely responsible for putting the club back on its feet.
Immediate plans include a Christmas dance December 27 in Wheeling, and representation in the K. of C. vaudeville show, the Bengal Bouts, and the Interclub basketball league.
Officers elected at the last meeting of the club were Fred Earley, president; Tom Feeney, vice-president; Jack Williams, treasurer; and Harry Goheen, secretary. Membership is open to all citizens of West Virginia and cities bordering the mountain state.
When the lads from the Windy City get together for an evening of socializing there’s bound to be a big blow as was proved last Saturday night in the Gold Room of the Congress Hotel.
Some 900 other Notre Dame men and their dates put in an appearance to celebrate the Irish victory over Northwestern.
Bill Otto and his orchestra provided the music for- the fracas with an assist from Don Driscoll, currently termed the “South Side’s Bing Crosby.”
The Freshman - Sophomore Science Club lecture series will be continued Monday, Nov. 24, at 7:15 p. m. in the Biology Building Auditorium. Dr. W. L. Miller will speak on The Detection of Nuclear Particles. Everyone interested
is cordially invited to attend this lecture and the many more that will follow.
'notre dame names make news
MISS INDIANA OF 1946 For seniors only . . .
Welcome Additions
Rev. HOWARD KENNA, c.s.c., Director of Studies at the University of Notre Dame, announced recently that the new Gift and Exchange Librarian at the University Library is Miss LOIS G. DOZIER. Miss Dozier, whose home is in Washington, D. C., comes to Notre Dame from Atlanta University (Ga.) "where for the last three years she was head of the cataloguing departement. Before going to Atlanta Univer-"sity, she served as assistant librarian at Miners Teachers College at Washington, D. C., from 1943 to 1944. Miss Dozier received her Bachelor of Arts de-giee from Howard University where she graduated in 1940 with high honors. She received her Bachelor of Science degree in Library Science from Columbia University in New York. At Notre Dame Miss Dozier will be in charge of all gifts from individuals and groups, and of exchanges with other institutions . . .
A group of farsighted young students is studying a special course in Russian taught by Rev. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., former Scholastic moderator. No chow-hounds are allowed since this course is taught at 5:15 p. m.
A portrait of the late Rev. J. HUGH O’DONNELL, c.s.c., former president of Notre Dame has been presented to the University by JOSEPH A. LaFOR-ITUNE, a native of South Bend, a prominent Tulsa, Okla., oil executive and a member of the Associate Board of Lay
Trustees. The portrait, which was painted by Robert Joy, well-known portrait artist in Tulsa, will hang in the Trustees Room of the Notre Dame Dining Hall. Father O’Donnell, who was president of Notre Dame during the critical years of the second World War, died last June after a prolonged illness . . .
The Lucky Dogs!
The announcement of the engagement of Miss Jeanne Ahlgren of Brantwood to ROBERT E. LIVINGSTONE of Hammond was made last Sunday by the future bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Oscar F. Ahlgren. Bob, who has been a spectacular figure on the Notre Dame gridiron in recent years, is a senior in the Department of Physical Education at Notre Dame. Miss Ahlgren is a medical technician and is currently engaged in work at the Kuhn Clinic in Hammond . . .
As the guest of PAUL D. JACKSON of Howard Hall for the Sophomore Cotillion, is Miss Lois Chitwood, of Helms-burg, Indiana. Blonde, petite Miss Chitwood, who teaches the senior class in the Helmsburg High School, was selected as “Miss Indiana of 1946” from a choice group of Hoosier beauties who aspired to that title. Scholastic Photographer Jackson hails from Lafayette, Indiana, and is a student in the physical education department at Notre Dame . . .
Books, Braid, Etc.
A combined commentary on the Constitution of the United States with a detailed discussion of governmental organization and procedure as it has de
FATHER LASKOWSKI AND EMBRYO "COMRADES*' . . . but not for chow-hounds
veloped under the Constitution, is presented in a new book written by Dr. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame. Dr. Bartholomew’s new work, American Government Under the Constitution, was published by the William C. Brown Company, of Dubuque. Iowa. The new book includes chapters covering the major points of historical background and the fundamental principles of the Constitution and political parties; the development of government organization and procedure; and the matter of state and local government in the United States along with many interesting charts and diagrams. The volume will be reviewed in the next issue of the Scholastic.
Lt. Commander EVERT R. SHARP (SC), USN, Assistant Professor of Naval Science at Northwestern University, will visit the University of Notre Dame on December 2 and 3 to lecture before the senior class on the Supply Corps of the Navy. Commander Sharp, during his visit to the Notre Dame campus will be available to those students desiring information or wishing to apply for a commission in the supply corps of the Navy . . .
Dr. W. ALBERT NOYES, of Rochester, N. Y„ president of the American Chemical Society, declared in a seminar conducted at Notre Dame last week, that since wai’ begins in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that peace must be started. The world famous chemist, who is a member of the science committee of the United National, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), pointed out that the program of UNESCO is a long range program to avoid war.
21
TRY A PACK ... TODAY
22
<CIIICI PARADE
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O'RIELEY
HOW (NOT) TO WIN FRIENDS AND INFLUENCE PEOPLE . . .
Hank Racette, sports writer for Detroit University’s Varsity Nezes, found a “short cut” in that direction last week. Hank wrote an article in which he made some pointed suggestions to the football team. They were quickly answered by a group of football players and fans who grabbed Hank and shaved his head clean, after which they added a glossy coat of black shellac to his shiny noggin. Hank apparently is the only one to take the ©ncident lightly for he is remaining on his job despite the resignation of the editor-in-chief and several staff members. No word of the incident appeared in the Varsity Nezes; it was through the Detroit Fr.ee Press and an interested Detroiter that we finally obtained the bald facts.
. SOUTH AMERICA, TAKE IT AWAY!
’ According to Juan J. Fernandez Palacios, Ramon P. Martin and Abel de Jesus Villacorta, we males of the United States are “sitting pretty” as far as dates are concerned. These three gentlemen, by the way, are students at Loyola University of New Orleans and they hail, respectively, from Argentina, Cuba, and Honduras. They base their opinion upon the fact that in the U. S., two’s company, whereas in South America three is the accepted “company.” The -third member of the “Company” is the Chaperone. Latins not only have to buy gifts for their senorita’s family, but they have to remember theatre tickets and dinner for the chaperone.
Xavier University’s latest cheer goes: Zip, Zap, Zui, Zam, Let’s go, Let’s ram, Hit ’em High, Hit ’em low,
Come on Xavier, Let’s go.
This was taken from the Xavier University Nezes which usually can be trusted to refrain from such emotional outbursts.
BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB BULLETIN:
According to the Michigan State Nezes, a heavy favorite on that campus of late has been “The psychology of getting grades.” Dumb or smart, it’s always nice to get good grades.
^£N EYE FOR AN EYE .. .
Although Ohio State University’s vaunted grid machine was humbled by
a 12-0 upset at the hands of an underdog Pittsburgh eleven several weeks ago, all was not lost for Ohio, reports the Ohio State Lantern. At the same time that her footballers were absorbing their licking O.S.’s steel-nerved chess team, undaunted by the fate of their gridiron brothers, were putting the “double whammy” on the Pitt pawn pushers to the tune of 11-3. The contest commenced early Saturday and continued hours after the football game. What better way to spend a Saturday afternoon in October?
BROTHERLY LOVE
From the Drake Tiznes-Delphic: Little brother, in Willie’s shirt, Got buried ’neath a ton of dirt; Willie, smiling, said to Mother, “Gee, I’m glad I got another.”
DON'T EVEN TRY
“If, at first you don’t succeed, try, try again,” could well be the motto of a former Loyola (Baltimore) frosh. According to the Greyhozind, Loyola news chronicle, this poor fellow went to the dean’s office to inform him of his desire to leave school. Being too busy, the dean had him wait, and so it went for five whole days. When the overly-pa-tient frosh finally was admitted to the inner sanctum, he found the Dean confronting him with a notice that he was being dropped from school because he had overcut all his classes.
COEDS & BILLIARDS
The Minnesota Daily carried the announcement recently that coeds who have a talent for billiards should dust off their cues in preparation for the national coeds’ billiard tournament to be held soon. Can’t you just picture a female in blue jeans and plaid shirt leaning over a billiard table with a cigarette hanging from her lips cursing her failure to bank the cueball at the right angle?
SPEAK, C.N.R.
From the College of New Rochelle Tatler:
Professor: “You’re always behind in your studies.”
Pupil: “Well, you see, sir, it gives me a chance to pursue them.”
We bet all the girls at New Rochelle thought that was the cutest thing they ever heard.
The Scorner's Seat
(Continued from Page 6)
“'mistakes.” My authority for the following statements is the Pittsburgh Catholic.
On June 12, 1947, The National Catholic Welfare Conference issued a statement condemning the Taft-Hartley Bill. On June 20, Philip Murray, queried on “Meet the Press,” a Mutual radio show, and not in a prepared speech as Pegler said, referred to this condemnation. Recently, Pegler attacked Mr. Murray for his statement, saying that the only condemnation of the T.-H. Bill by the NCWC was in its Labor Day message of Aug. 25. In other words, he accused Murray of lying when he spoke in June. Pegler said that he had consulted one Ridder, publisher of the Catholic News (New York) and that “the only expression Mr. Ridder could find even remotely connected to the statement spoken by Murray was contained in the Labor Day statement of the Social Action Department of the NCWC. This was issued on Aug. 25 fully two months after Murray’s statement was made on the air.” In other words, Pegler chose to ignore the June 13 statement, or he did not search very assiduously for it.
The Pittsburgh Catholic went on to say that Pegler had said that the Brooklyn Tablet had condemned the stand of the Bishops. This was simply not true. Says the Catholic:
“The Tablet didn’t publish the NCWC statement of June 12 condemning the Taft-Hartley Bill. There was nothing about the bill in its issue of June 14. The following week, it had nothing about the bill in its news or editorial columns, but it did have a letter signed ‘M. O’Brien,’ Washington, D. C., criticizing the NCWC’s Social Action department for its statement. This must be the criticism Pegler speaks of . . . nothing remotely corresponding to the remarks ascribed to the Tablet by Pegler appeared in its subsequent issues; it never spoke of the NCWC statement again. When the NCWC on Aug. 25 issued its Laboi- Day statement, repeating its condemnation of the Taft-Hartley Bill, the Tablet made no mention of it.”
The Catholic also noted that no “top NCWC official” denied any “exaggerated authority” idea, as Pegler had said. In short, this one particular column of Pegler’s was nothing more nor less than the figment of Pegler’s imagination and wishful thinking. It was, to be charitable, slovenly journalism.
Thus endeth my controversy with McCarthy. If another opponent comes along who can keep a civil tongue in his head, I’ll welcome him to go feudin’ with me.
23
INTRODUCING ...
By TOM McNALLY
Gloomy and overcast was the football outlook that day in August, 1945, when Frank “Bull” Szymanski announced his withdrawal from the University. Captain-elect Szymanski had shared equal billing with Herb Coleman on the National Championship team of ’43, and the year following had arrived in time for four bruising games and nationwide recognition as an outstanding- center. . . . And chief replacement was Bill Walsh, a seventeen-year-old freshman who had graduated from high school just three months previous.
What Bill did was simply block and tackle and play his heart out against such competition as Enos of Army and Scott of Navy and otherwise thoroughly earn a reputation as a fine center with a golden future. Every Saturday that verdict looks better and better.
Bill was the workhorse of the Irish team that first season, working fiftyeight gruelling minutes against Navy. Then, the week after, he met up with an Army team which he considers the finest aggregation he’s ever faced. “They had the best,” he says, “a great line and a greater backfield and that’s taking nothing away from that team out here two weeks ago.”
Walsh’s football accomplishments since his arrival have taken the luster off another one of his talents, baseball. At Phillipsburg High School in Phillipsburg, New Jersey, Bill swatted .310 as All-State catcher, but he hasn’t had much time to indulge that pastime here because of spring football practice. However, he did manage to spend a weekend as guest of the St. Louis Browns two summers ago for a tryout, and he has also attended the baseball schools of both the Phillies and Red Sox. Last summer he played two or three games a week in the Tri-County league in New Jersey but found to his sorrow that baseball and football don’t mix too well. “There’s no doubt about it. My muscles have been more or less geared for football the past two years and my timing is off at the plate.”
Bill was an all-around performer back at Phillipsburg, winning three letters in baseball and football, two in basketball and one in track. He was also all-state center in football, but the play he’ll remember longest occurred as a one-play halfback. In that capacity, he threw a pass sixty yards in the air to a fast halfback in a crucial game only

to see the receiver downed from behind and Phillipsburg miss a game-winning touchdown. They didn’t miss many touchdowns in Bill’s four years, however, experiencing only two losses in that time. In his sophomore year they were state champs.
BILL WALSH A .310 hitter converted
Phillipsburg used a single wing formation but, under Wally Ziemba’s able tutelage, it didn’t take Bill long to learn the "T.” And now that he knows it he likes it, as witness one Hering medal awarded in spring practice of 1946 as the best blocking center on the squad.
Bill considers two moments to have furnished the chief sport thrills of his life. The first was earning a starting position against Illinois in 1945. The second was much more recently when Terry Brennan took a kickoff over his shoulder, turned, and started up the western sideline. Bill hadn’t forgotten another game two years ago. . . . Neither-had we!
Cavanaugh Gridders
(Continued from Page 16)
While casting covetous glances towards Zahm Hall, Pete and Bernie believe they, too, have a top performing guard combination in Jerry Guiltinan and watchcharm-sized Dave Harberd. Jerry is given credit for putting Zahm
on ice by throwing the key block whid^ > cleared the path for Presley to score theP lone tally of the game. Flanking the center of the line, Cavanaugh sports 400 pounds of tackles in George “The Monster” Nicholas and Jim Wise, who have kept that goal line uncrdssed.
They have a couple of pass-snagging, defense-wise ends in Jack Saunders and Joe Owens. Center Bob Rotchfort has been plugging up what few holes have appeared in the Cavanaugh defense from his line-backer slot.
But Varda will not be depending on any particular 11 or 12 men to carry the burden of the work against Lyons. He has a very healthy respect for the Lyons’ forward wall and is particularly worried about what “Boo” Fanning and Bob Singer will do to his strategy from., the Lyons’ tackle spots. He will keei& that Cav defense fresh and rested by drawing on such reserve strength as he will have available Sunday.
“We’ve got a few boys from last year’s St. Edward’s team who are out for revenge. I’m confident that they will play the best game they know how,” is Varda’s warning to Cavanaugh’s crosscampus rivals.
Cavanaugh will go into this contest as the heavy favorite, but Lyons has a bad habit of upsetting all the pre-game dopesters. Flip a coin and take your choice. We prefer to let the two teams make the decision themselves, this Sunday afternoon in the Stadium. In a clash between such teams as these, it’s safer to pick them this way.
HALFBACK HIGGINS On offense or defense — Grade A
24

LETTERS
(Continued from Page 4)
satisfactory and just or whether there are conditions warranting new laws for the benefit of the people.
In one breath, J. Wilcox wants the investigation to continue on a closed door level and in the next breath, he wants the committee investigators sent to Siberia. Now, how could the committee ever know what acD”>'Dps are unAmerican and what people it snould investigate without investigators? The committee investigated the “red” fascists of Hollywood, and why not? Since when have “red” fascists become known as speakers of infallible truth? The state-
Typing Done
THESIS—TERM PAPERS—GENERAL Ten cents per page. Duplicate copy or copies one cent each. Minimum charge fifty cents.
W. J. WISSEL, 24-B Vetville
"Say buddy, can you spare some tobacco for.my Dr. Grabow
$po. $200 •. $350 • $500
Fashioned by Linkman
Dr. Grabow Pipe Co. Inc, Chicago u, III
ment by J. Wilcox, about the investigators of the Thomas committee is traitorous.
The committee has the duty of investigating the movie industry because there are Communists who have considerable power in the script writing division of the industry, and when their ideas are presented on the screen before the masses, they will be accepted since the “common man” is not noted for his intelligence.	J. B. McCarthy
- South Bend
P.S. I should like to hear J. Wilcox’s views on the subject, if his views are backed up by facts.
MET CLUB POSTERS
Dear Editor:
A very perplexing and irritating situation has been drawn to my attention in the past 48 hours. As chairman of the Metropolitan Club’s Christmas dance, plenty of work and synchronizing of effort among the various committees has come my way. But nothing is as exasperating as having one of the club members spend much of his spare time in preparing a poster and then to find that it is missing a few hours after being posted. The club has not the money for an elaborate publicity campaign, but we felt that by putting out 1-5 genuinely artistic posters the dance would be well aired.
In Alumni Hall the poster was erected on the bulletin board at about 4:30 Sunday afternoon. It was missing a little after six. We asked Father Glueckert, the rector, and he knew nothing of the disappearance act. Today in Cavanaugh Hall the poster was erected at about 2:30. This evening it was missing.
I can fully see why an individual would want one for a souvenir because Gene Rossi, with the help of Roy Wendell, did a beautiful job. But why couldn’t they wait until the dance is over? If any one should want a poster for his room decoration they are certainly welcome to one after Dec. 17 when campus bid sales close, and if they’ll come to me I will make sure they get one at that time.
In the meantime we beg of them to return the posters to the two hall bulletin boards mentioned because wo have neither the time nor the budget to make more.	Phil Shea, Chairman
217 Morrissey Hall
HELP FOR THE NEEDY
Dear Editor:
I was very happy to see the wholehearted support which the Scholastic has given to the beginning of the student relief drive. . . . The present situation clearly indicates that it is not any longer a matter of choice to give; it is a
duty — the concrete fulfillment of the command, “Love thy neighbor- as thyself. . . .’’
We are not giving to the needy students of Europe and Asia merely, or even primarily, because we are afraid the Communists will get there first; we are giving to those students precisely because they are needy. Notre Dame’s football team leads the nation; I am sure that Notre Dame’s student body despite their late start, can also lead the students of this country in the generosity of their giving.
One item of correction: The Scholastic’s November 14 issue indicates that I made the original proposal to aid dis-
FOR SALE
WARDROBE TRUNK
Interior like new; brass comers and hinges. S35.00. Call 4-0572.
1310 Hillcrest Rd.
WANT TO EARN SQOOO A TEAR?
Would you like to be your own boss . . . with professional standing in your community? Then you’ll be interested in the opportunities offered by a career in life insurance selling for The Mutual Life. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
If you can qualify, we offer a 3-year on-the-job training course, with a 2-year compensation plan which will not make you dependent upon commissions. After that, the Mutual Lifetime Plan provides an opportunity for earnings limited only by your own efforts ... plus a liberal retirement income at 65. Send for Aptitude Test Today! Address Room 1104.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
3< Nassau Street New York 5. N. Y.
9V Alexander E. Patterns Presideat
25
tressed foreign students. Actually, the resolution from which the current NFCCS relief drive has sprung was presented at the Toledo convention by Jack O’Leary of Manhattan College, now NFCCS’ United Nations representative.
Martin M. McLaughlin, 43 Lyons Hall.
Scholastic stands corrected: agrees wholeheartedly with Reader McLaughlin’s plea.—Editor.
SEE HERE. YA DIRTY CROOK
Dear Editor:
I am writing this letter so the rest of the students may profit from my experience. . . . I’ve been saving my money but neglected to take the necessary pre-rautions with it. I just had it placed well back in my desk drawer inside of a box. Last week somebody came in and walked off with it.
I guess I’m just a dumb farm-boy from North Dakota but I figured that at a school where a statue of our Blessed Mother is looking down on all and where the Blessed Sacrament is present in the building in which we live there wouldn’t be much danger of such a thing happening. How wrong a person can be. . . ?
Larry Metcalf,
'	205 Cavanaugh.
Scholastic hopes cash is returned; thief punished as example to future culprits.—Editor.
HALL DECORATIONS
Dear Editor
I would like to express through you to the students responsible foi- the many artistic (?) indications of pre-game spirit which I saw on the campus last week-end, my personal appreciation of their efforts.
The variations on the common theme were cleverly conceived and well executed. I am sure that Farley Hall’s masterpiece must have evoked a smile of approval from my old rector, Father John himself, high up in Heaven.
I am inclined to think that the labors of the boys who made those displays possible, brought as much pleasure to all of the returning alumni as they did to me.
■	Joseph M. Walsh, ’14,
Flushing, N. Y.
VAST DISTANCES —AND LINES
Dear Editor:
In my brief but very pleasant visit to Notre Dame (to see Notre Dame trim Army—but good!) I noted the very many, many trophies for track that line the show windows in the beautiful and spacious Rockne Memorial Building. I was quite puzzled at this, being that Notre Dame is so very popular for football, but after a fast but thorough (?) trot across the campus from law building to cafeteria, library to chemistry lab to grotto etc., I was more than convinced that it takes a very strong pair of legs to cover such distance in so little, time. At the sight of my bulging muscles, which are now only getting back in place, I hereby understand why the
trophy room is bursting with meritorious track symbols.	’
I also must mention the beauty of the cafeteria as I have spent so many hours in that warm room standing in line watching breakfast fade away into lunch and me fade into nothing.
However, I have enjoyed every minute of my inspection tour and hope to make it again with a knapsack on my shoulder and an Atlantic City boardwalk chair.
An ardent N. D. admirer, Ellen E. Reisig 311 S. Second St., Pottsville, Pa.
Notre Dame men share Miss Reisig’s conviction that it takes “a very strong pair of legs” to cover the campus.— Editor
BRIDGE TOURNAMENT
Entries for the 1947 campus bridge tournament which will begin next week, must be made at 251 Alumni before Wednesday, Nov. 26. Entries will be by team only. A fee of 30 cents will be charged to purchase trophies for winning and runner-up teams.
“ Van Hensen shirts
All the right people want to go places with you and your Van Heusen, Shirt. You’ll like the smart sewmanship, the low-set collar models, the action-tailoring, the figure-fit. Sanforized fabrics, laboratory-tested ' 1500 times a month. Get your money’s worth—always say Van Heusen Shirts. $3.25, $3.95, $4.50. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
26
^oARTMt^
Just like Social Security. Only quicker. Pepsi-Cola pays up to §15 for jokes, gags, quips and such-like for this page. Just send your stuff to Easy Money Department, Box B, PepsiCola Company, Long Island City, N. Y., along with your name, address, school and class. All contributions be
come the property of PepsiCola Company. We pay only for those we print. (Working "Pepsi-Cola” into your gag, incidentally, won’t hurt your chances a bit.) Dough-shy? Get doughheavy ! Or start a new hobby —collecting rejection slips. We’ll help you out—one way or the other.


HE-SHE GAGS
Daffy efimtions
Here’s a column inspired by one of man's most fundamental motivations— his primitive urge to make a buck. And why not?—a buck’s a buck. Get daffy, chums.
J*:
Synonym—the word you use when you can’t spell the word you want.
Pedestrian—a married man who owns a car.
Know a He-She gag? If you think it's funny, send it in. If we think it’s funny, we’ll buy it—for three bucks. We'll even print it. Sheer altruism. Take ten—and see if you don’t come up with something sharper than these soggy specimens:
She: Why don’t you put out that light and come sit here beside me?
He: It’s the best offer I’ve had today—but I’d rather have a Pepsi.
lie: Darling, is there nothing I can do to make you care?
She: D. D. T.
He: D.D.T.?
She: Yeah—drop dead twice!
She: Right now I’m interested in something tall, dark and handsome.
He: Gosh! Me?
She: No, silly—Pepsi-Cola!
Yep, we pay three bucks apiece for any of these we print. You never had it so good.
Hangover—the penalty for switching from Pepsi-Cola.
Snoring—sheet music.
* #
You’ve really got us to the wall when we’ll pay a buck apiece for these. But that’s the deal. $1 each for those we buy.
GOOD DEAL ANNEX
Sharpen up those gags, gagsters! At the end of the year (if we haven’t laughed ourselves to death) we’re going to pick the one best item we’ve bought and award it a fat extra
$100.00
<*#*###
Little Moron Corner .
Murgatroyd, our massive moron, was observed the other afternoon working
I [ ou t wi th the girls’ archery team. Some- '< > j* what unconventionally, however— <> <> instead of using bow and arrow, ![ Murgatroyd was drawing a bead on

jitui^uiivyu	utanjii£ a wau vil
the target with a bottle of Pepsi-Cola. When asked "Whytf’ by our informant, who should have known better—
<! "Duiiuuuuul^'’ responded Murgatroyd J
<* brightly, "because IJppsi-Cola hits the J spot, stupid!”	<
! [	§2, legal tender, for any of these ’
]; ire buy. Brother^ inflation is really '
; > here!	<
Jeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee^
Get Funny ... Win Money... Write a Title
*	99
What’s the right caption? We don’t know. You tell us. For the line we buy we’ll ante §5. Or send in a cartoon idea of your own. §10 for just the idea .. §15 if you draw it... if we buy it.
BOX 37 *
-ALWAYS BLY CHESTERFIELD.
? Bk' s chesier
^j?*c
IND
CARTON^^^^y
ARTHUR GODFREY TIME / CBS*EVERY DAY, MON. THRU *<”
W FRI.
fe-
.r.
k3
"OKE DA3£
_________________ SUPPER CLUB y	NBC MON. WED. & ERI. NIGHTS
S^ART SMOKERS SMOKE ’EM AND LIKE 1 ■	Z/C?	CHESTERFIELD SUPPER CLUB
4	NBC TUES. & THURS. NIGHTS
^W’EM BV THE


HESTEJIFIELD
& AIATAYS MIUJER
]jg BETTER TASTING COOKER SMOKING^^^
- ‘"ADin's BEST TOBACCOS