DISCE-QUASI- SEMPERj VICTVRVS VIVE • QUASI- GRAS- MORITVRVS
-	...	—i— ■ -	....	_	_
Vol. LV.
October 22, 1921.
No. 5.
BEFORE THE NIGHT.	I
Oh clouds race swiftly through yon sky,	'
To westward lies the wounded day.
Along the dim blue heaven way His noble blood is spattered. High And higher on that voilet bed
His glorious head	,
Assist. For I	.
So love him; and he must not die, Down, down the winds you sweep and draw him near-And wrap him in your fleece, I pray I plead his aid; What word I hear?
The day is dead!
And watchful eagles circle o’er his bier.
s. v. P.
THE PRESENTATION OF THE LAETARE MEDAL.
WHEN Rev. Dr. George Sauvage, C. S. C., set sail for Europe this summer, the Laetare Medal made its second trip across the sea; the destination was Paris, city of bells and boulevards, of raucous uproar and exquisite delicacy, but most of all city of the older Notre-Dame. It was almost under the shadow of the ancient cathedral that our vigorous young University found the quiet artist and Christian lady to whom it had decided to render homage in the name of American Catholics. Miss Elizabeth Nourse, the recipient, though dean of American women painters in France and one of the most eminent contemporary artists of her sex, stood .for the first time in full glare of public recognition.
The ceremony was simple, impressive, utterly sincere. With the enthusiastic assistance of Father Hemmick and the kindly aid of the Countess de Sayre, the rooms of the Franco-American Welfare Centre were made ready for the evening of September thirtieth. Monsignor Ceretti, Papal Nuncio in Paris, presided with the courtesy and eagerness to serve that distinguish him; and it is to his interest that the success of the oc
casion is largely due. When the guests had arrived, Father Sauvage read the formal address of presentation, which is worded thus:
“The University of Notre Danie to Miss Elizabeth
Nourse, Greeting.	'
“With this thirty-eighth award of the LAETARE MEDAL, the University of Notre Dame reverently bestows upon you her highest honor. It is a token of rejoicing; the men and women who in the past have lent the nobility of their deeds and character to this badge of eminent American Catholic life now welcome you to their company. The LAETARE MEDAL is an heirloom that is consecrated anew by its reception and that becomes more gracious with the years. Miss Eliza Allen Starr was the first woman to wear the medal which is now passed on to you, and the next recipient will understand that it comes through your hands. It is an award that blesses giver as well as taker, and it is a pledge.
“There is especial significance in the circumstance that the LAETARE MEDAL crosses the sea on its way to you. While a large share of your life has been spent in France, the high service to which it has been dedicated is the ideal of every American Catholic. Loyalty to the Faith has made your work as an artist loyal to the excellent traditions of Christendom and therefore a heritage for all the peoples of the earth. That same Faith has taught you to be kindiy in picturing the souls of the poor and even more generous in the charity which has been apart from professional life. The woman’s service that you have rendered the unfortunate, particularly the victims of the War, has rested upon the heads of these with the tenderness of a benediction. Your Catholic countrymen pray that they may always be represented in France by such genius and such devotion.
“Wherefore, the University of Notre Dame, in this year of grace, Nineteen Hundred and Twenty-One, turns to you as to a favorite daughter and with such courtesy as she knows places you, Miss Elizabeth Nourse, in the company of the honored men and women of many years. With proud happiness in the splendour of the Creed which glorifies all who follow it, she confers upon you the LAETARE MEDAL.”
Monsignor Ceretti then decorated Miss Nourse, who found herself in the predica- -ment of having to make the first speech of
66
'Sfie Noure dame Scholastic
her life. It proved very successful, however, for simplicity is often more eloquent than the most fluent ■ oratory. Obviously most deeply moved, Miss Nourse said in reply:
‘‘Your Excellency, Reverend Fathers and Friends-
“I am quite overwhelmed by the distinguished honor which the University of Notre Danjie has conferred upon me, in awarding me the LAETARE MEDAL.	.
“It makes me very happy, but I would feel much happier, if I were not so unworthy to receive it.
“I shall treasure it always, and love it too,—my beautiful medal, and look upon it as a great warm । blessing, coming from my new and honored family, of the University of Notre Dame, and also from my owm dear Country, and from our beloved and glorious Church, for whose exaltation I pray every day.
“I thank you with all my heart for your great kindness to me, and may God and o.ur Holy Mother bless you always, you and the University of Notre Dame.”
The Papal Nuncio arose and offered his official and personal congratulations. He thanked the University for having invited him to the ceremony and recalled having attended similar gatherings in Washington when the Medal was conferred upon Chief Justice White and Miss Merrick.. Felicitations were extended by distinguished guests at the brilliant rinfresco which followed the Franco-American Welfare Centre acting as host. It is interesting to note the unanimous approval of the Laetare plaque as a work of art; many declared, and among them was Miss Nourse, that the medal is uniquely beautiful. Perhaps it is not too well known that the design was executed by Juergens and Anderson, of Chicago.
. Among those present were the following representatives of prominent French and Amprican society :	’
Abbe Wisney, representing Cardinal Dubois ; the Rev. Fathers Hemmick and Logan, Comtesse Jean de Sayre, Comtesse d’Es-claibes, Marquise de Wentworth, Mr. and Mrs. Donald Harper, Mrs. Henry Russell Savage and Mr. Draper Savage, Mrs. Geo. Whitecotton, Mrs. Peter Lynch, Princess Obolihsky, Mrs."C. Wilson, Miss Bonney, Mme. Firmin Roz and Mlles. Firmin Roz, Mrs. G. Baumann, Mlle, de Coubertin, M. and Mme. Fernand Laudet, Mrs. Dickinson, Mrs. I. Huffer, Mr. John Byrne, Dr. Catherine. Lynch, Miss Agnes Redfearn, Mrs. Ar
thur Kraeckmann, Mr. Achilles Audet, M. de Geoffroy, Mrs. Macomber, Miss Mylene Johnson, Dr. Paul Van Dyke, director of the American University Union, and Mr. and Mrs. Edward Hines, of Chicago.
Aside from the pleasant memory of this graceful ceremony in the heart of Paris— from which, in a way, we. have come—Notre Dame is fortunate in its memory of Miss Nourse. She is an artist, of course, and that entails in these days its own story of service and sacrifice, of loyalty to vision and of conscientious effort. But more than anything this year’s recipient of the Laetare Medal is a noble Christian woman whose charity and tenderness are the product of a faith deeply understood and devotedly followed. Her interest in the poor and especially in the victims of the War have shed lustre on the good name of Catholic womanhood everywhere. It is not unlikely that the Art Galleries of the University will be able to display, in the near future, some of the fine work of Miss Nourse’s creation.
Those who look upon it will not fail to see the Catholic inspiration that guided the artist’s hand and lent to her work a transcendent beauty all its own.
Notre Dame wishes to express most earnestly its gratitude to those who made this presentation a success, particularly to Monsignor Ceretti, Father Hemmick and the Countess de Sayre. Most of all, however, we desire to thank Miss Nourse for herself.
ENGELS.
Moure dame Scholastic
67
HOME-COMING.
A great football team, in its third undefeated season and accepting the adulation which the world showers upon a champion,
was slowly succumbing to the force which would ultimately reduce it to mediocrity; as champions always fight the team was fighting, fighting, gamely—blindly—against the power of circumstance which denied that last little yard.
On the sidelines waited the coach, one knee sunk in the earth or nervously pacing-before his bench. He watched his boys advance—saw them frustrated by an intercepted pass—and saw them resume their march. And the time grew nearer to the end of the game, when thousands at home were hanging on every report which came over the wire, refusing to believe what their reason must have made them see, the coach watched his team battle inch by inch their way toward the cloud of defeat which had already begun to settle upon that goal kept sacred by men of other years. It seemed that every new effort would bring success—that the enemy must weaken before every succeeding play.
Victory hung on thread—and the thread broke.
The band played and the crowd cheered and sang “Old Gold” as the victor always plays and cheers and sings; but in their midst walked the defeated team, heads down and hearts down too, each one of them thinking of the folks back home and blaming himself as only a splendid boy who has offered his heart, body and soul to the honor of his school can blame himself. A generous
victor offered pity—the most galling thrust —as they trudged to strange walls of their dressing rooms; and there, amid the showers and lockers and dirty towels, beaten and alone, tortured by their own thoughts, they tasted of the cup—all the more bitter because it seemed unfair. And there their coach came to them, inspecting bruised bodies, healing wounded spirits and referring to the game but once: “There will be no alibi.”
O:i the return trip the party separated in Chicago and drifted in groups of twos and threes; boys are boys after all, and a change of scene had aided the natural optimism of youth to dull the edge of defeat. But in the smoking car, alone, rode the coach, coming home as he had never come before; and upon this man rested more heavily than upon all of his team, the full consciousness and appreciation of defeat.
He had been proclaimed a wizard, a miracle man; but this man who had merited national recognition through sheer personality was now just a loser. He had hoped to increase the honor and prestige of the school to which he was devoting his life, but a slip of fortune, a slight physical error here/ and there by the men who served that school with him, had become a Gibraltar of failure through the accident of relativity. The world forgot that this man almost unaided had coached and managed even to the small-est business detail, football teams which had triumphed over the products of high-priced staffs of tutors and elaborate business organizations ; but it is the custom of the world to forget; and he was coming home, as other idols have come home, and feeling what they might have felt.
The first jerk of the brakes was echoed by a whistle—and then a roar that increased in volume as it poured from the lungs and torn throats of 1,200 students who cried out for their coach and their team.
Victory has returned to the banner and the coach and team are hoping for greater things than the past has ever known; but" there are finer things than victory; and when the boys of Notre Dame offered to their coach and team all of the depth of worship and affection that victory would never have allowed, there was revealed some of the
68
Norre Same Schdascic
splendid things that lie beneath the surface of what we all instinctively recognize as our most precious endowment—the Notre Dame tradition. In the hour of defeat the line held and the cheers that greeted Rockne and the team began a new and greater Notre Dame.
FRANK WALLACE.
THE TOMFOOLISHNESS OF NOTRE DAME. !
As Seen In Sorin. '
The scene is a room on the third floor of Sorin. It has a double-deck bed, a few articles of furniture and wearing apparel scattered about, and in a corner is a huge cuspidor, beside which stands a desk, covered, one might say littered with books. The walls are preserved from nudity by a collection of lithographs and half-tones which would prompt some people to prefer the walls. Students draped in various directions add color to the scene.
Cast: A florid individual, his perfectly 20-20 gray eyes framed in rimmed glasses.
A dapper fellow with an upper lip more evident than what covers it.
A ruddy youth who might come from Iowa.	.
A frail waif, distinguished by poetic confusion of the hair, and an abstracted expression.
Florid One: I’m not saying there is no such thing as money because the average man doesn’t marry for money, and neither do I say there is no such thing as love, because the average man doesn’t marry for love. I merely say the average man doesn’t marry for love. (Concludes with a magniloquent gesture.)
Dapper One: Love is like hash. It all depends on who makes it.
Ruddy One: I won’t concede that. Love is an emotion. Hash is a form of life.
Poetic One: Nevertheless, I contend love is as exalted and immortal as the human soul. (This from the precarious depths of a collapsible morris chair.)
Florid One: Immortal as Achilles’s heel, and just as exalted. (with Shavian contempt.)
Dapper One: Why does the talk
always get down to such an impossible matter as love, anyway?
Florid One: Why do you always get down to the matter of fifteen “beans” every time we meet? ’
Dapper One: Well, who brought it up this time?	1
Florid One: (unnoticingly) love has always been as scarce as money with me.
Dapper One: (laconically) You look starved.
Florid One: Well, I’ll admit I never had starvation stare me in the face, but then I’ve been face to face with you.	'
Dapper One: Nature wasn’t any too generous with that face of yours. The girl who marries you will HAVE to be in love or insane.
Poetic One: Love is divine. It transcends all human limitations.
Ruddy One: As far as my experience goes, love is less a matter of sentiment than of scent.
Dapper One: Too often it is accompanied by a bad breath. *
Florid One: And generally it leaves a bad taste.
Ruddy One: It’s been known to leave a sore lip.
Poetic One: Love is the language of the gods. Lovers are gods unto themselves.
Dapper One: You talk like you knew all about it.
Ruddy One: Sure, tell us some of your experiences.
Florid One: Was she light or dark?
Poetic One: I’ve never seen her for three years.
Florid One: Rather pathetic.' Go on.
Poetic One: I never saw her before that.
Chorus: What the-------
Poetic One: It happened this way. I turned into a crowded street. She was in a passing taxi. I never saw her after that.
Dapper One: If she had been riding in a police patrol, would you have been as enthusiastic?
Poetic One: Love is divine. I would seek her in dungeons.
Dapper One: If you’ve got an extra overcoat—
Florid One: Yes, I’ve got the overcoat
Moure ^ome Schdasuic
69
but it’s not extra. I need it. I’ll tell you why. I’m engaged.
Chorus: What the—Why, you old woman
hater. Congratulations, etc. (and they on in the insane manner prescribed for occasion.)
go the
Poetic One: I never could conceive of him being a misogynist.
Chorus: You’re the misogynist.
Poetic One: (dazed) What do you mean?
Dapper One: Why you’re pursuing some illusion that will never come true; you think you are in love, and because of that you actually hate the rest of womankind. ' At least, you hold them in contempt.
Scene II. is laid in Church. The poet is sitting down in such a position that his knees touch the running-board. The bride and groom are coming up the aisle.
Poet. It’s my phantom. It’s her. It’s her. (He swoons. ) They carry him out by the family entrance.	EDWIN murphy.
ON READING HISTORY IN CARTOONS.
GERALD J. HAGAN.
The opinion of a nation, it seems, is in a majority of cases reflected in its current cartoons. This should not be taken to apply to all cartoons, for we have many papers engaged in campaigns for the spread of doctrines of bigotry and immorality; but I think it does apply to the cartoons which are published in those newspapers which may be considered worthy of the name. Let us take a brief review of the story of the recent war and we may be able to see how history can be read in cartoons.
About the time of the beginning of the war we had the “too proud to fight” series undoubtedly inspired by some generous Englishman who wished to give us the opportunity of helping “Brittania rule the waves,” but no matter from whom they drew their inspiration, they reflected the idea that was in the minds of the majority of our people— that we should some day be stirred from our false feeling of security to join either one side or the other in the great conflict.
Next came the sinking of the Lusitania, and a period rich in cartoons, a period in which the Germans and everything directly
connected with them were depicted in every conceivable shape or form which could make us realize that we were dealing with a cruel enemy of the worst type, and these cartoons played a large part in fostering the growing feeling of enmity towards Germany, a feeling which culminated in our entering the war.
These evidences of animosity and antagonism in our cartoons continued until the end of the war, when the attention of the cartoonists was turned to the League of Nations. From this subject they passed on the profiteer and, after showing him in the worst light before the eyes of the public they passed on to disarmament, which is still a subject for a large portion of them.
If one could imagine that at some future date our country should be buried under a crust such as that which covered Pompeii, and that all our volumes of history and all our people were wiped out at the same time, future excavators would do well to hunt for the files of our newspaper and magazine offices in order to learn the history of the buried race. I can almost see the learned professor of the future sitting on a curbstone in excavated New York with a copy of the Review of Reviews or the Literary Digest or any of the lesser publications in his hand, working out the story of lost America from the cartoons of the race.
Cartoons do not always confine themselves to present day history. We find the Windsor McKay type which takes us back to prehistoric times and shows us from whom and from what we might have inherited many of our traits, our language and our characteristics. We look at his drawings and see ourselves depicted as ignorant savages shooting arrows at an approaching storm in a vain attempt to hold it from us. We murmer to ourselves that the cartoonist carries his ideas too far, that men at this stage in no way resemble us, while the “little spark of celestial fire” within us tells us that many of our actions and emotions would indicate that the cartoonist is right. Here is a man who makes .a serious attempt to trace our development, even to the inheritance of the smallest instinct and mannerism.
In spite of the fact that cartoons tell such
7 0	Noure dome Schdasric
an interesting story, how many of us pay them any attention at all except to give the cartoonist the compliment, and a rather doubtful one it is, of laughing a few moments at the characters he has depicted and then passing on, never thinking that what we have just passed over so carelessly may some day be the sole source of information concerning ourselves and our country.
THE SHAKE.
This column will be maintained during the football season. Please deliver desirable quotations to Frank Wallace, in Sorin Hall.
Grantland Rice in the “Sportlight"”
“Would you mind mentioning the fact,” writes Westerner, “that Notre Dame has four captains and two ex-captains of athletic teams on her football squad, and that thirteen members of her squad are two-sport letter winners? Also that Coach Rockne has one of his star teams that should uphold the Western end of the intersectional argument by beating both West Point and Rutgers, though the two games are only three days apart?” Consider it mentioned.	.
We are just as glad to add that in Eddie Anderson and Rodger Kiley, Notre Dame has two of the greatest ends in present-day football, if that will help a bit.
The ninth game will be played at the polo grounds between Notre Dame and Rutgers. This was decited at a meeting of Judge Landis and the presidents of the rival leagues who have had charge of the series since Babe Ruth got hurt.—Ring Lardner.
Harold Johnson in the “Chicago American:”
Victory over Notre Dame, for the last two years one of the most powerful machines in the Middle West, is responsible for the tremendous wave of enthusiasm that has swept across the corn belt However, many wise men of the game view today’s combat from another angle. Conviction that Jones’ proteges were lucky to win from the Catholics by such a close score as 10 to 7 has settled down upon the students.
.To them the battle with Notre Dame does not look so good in retrospect as it did in the first flush of triumph. _
Notre Dame made 22 first downs against Iowa’s 14. The South Bend steam roller gained more yards
by straight football than Iowa did, plus gains of nearly 250 yards which resulted from eleven successful forward passes. Had it not been for the timely interception of six passes by the Iowa secondary defense the Hawkeyes might have been defeated by a margin of two or three touchdowns.
Grantland Rice in the “Sportlight:”
Kind Sir: I notice that you miss few good chances to speak a good word for your Western football. Against that I have nothing to say. But I would like to name four all-time Eastern back field stars to see how you would go about to match them from the West. Here are my choices:
Quarter back—Daley, Harvard.
Half back—Mahan, Harvard.
Half back—Thorpe, Carlisle.
Full back—Coy, Yale.
What has the West to offer against this^ combination? '	l. p. f.
The West, at least, would have nothing to be ashamed of in this selection:
Quarter back—Eckersall, Chicago.
Half back—Heston, Michigan.
Half back—Harley, Ohio State; or Oliphant, Purdue.
Full back—Gipp, Notre Dame.
THOUGHTS.
Acts of self repression are the petals of the rose of virtue.
Loud laughter bespeaks the empty mind; cheerfulness, the happy mind.	.
If “procrastination is the thief of time,” college men should prosecute.
Despise not a man for the sins he has committed, but respect him for the temptations he has overcome.
Ill-fated is the train of thought that pays no attention to danger.
The wise are always extracting treasure from the mine of experience.
“Save the surface and save all” is a principle of woman’s philosophy.
The happiest moments of our lives come just before pleasure and after pain.
*
. A man is truly great only in so far as he acknowledges the greatness of God.
An education is a pearl of great value obtained only by those who give all they have to possess it.
One type of unessential citizen is the fellow who is always telling you what he would do if he were someone else.
In selecting a summer home, father is concerned with the mail service, but daughter worries about the male service. ■	.
Noure dame Scholastic
71
Brownson:—How near the right answer were you to that tough question we had in Economics?
Walsh:—About two seats.
Leader::—A zero stands for nothing.
Chorus:—A zero’s very lame.
Leader:—It has no business in our marks.
Chorus:—But it gets there just the same.
The rooster said, “To be a weather cock is my desire.”
“Why,” said the duck, “I think that that’s a vane thing to a spire.
The theory that there is nothing new under the sun does nob apply to the moon.
K	Percy has a girl,'
And the last time He called on her She told him That she was making
.	A new gown
But that her heart
■	. Wasn’t in it.
Percy has forbidden her To wear it.
, ***
In Math. Class:—Prof., is a boullion cube equal to a tea squared?	’
Not even the most catty of the “checker sex” loves a Tea Rat during football season.
Headline in the Cornell Daily Sun:—“Ponies Will Be Ready For Use.” Line forms to the left, and please make as little noise as possible with your pails. *** "
A Freshman his relatives buries.
With Juniors and Sophs this rule varies.
For ere they have done .
With school everyone
> Has cousins galore in St. Mary’s. - ***
Soph:—What do bees do with their honey?
Fresh:—They cell it.
Soph:—You’re so smart, probably you can tell me what kind of disease mumps is? ■
Fresh:—Sure, a swell disease. .
***
Of the eternal triangle the vamp is usually the right angle.
***
Do you take the Scholastic?
NO! Then how did you get this?
Babe Ruth should call his bat a glee club.
***
The Musketeers were one for all but all four won.
Fatty Whozzis says that he doesn’t mind being fat, but he lost his temper the other day in a butcher shop when he asked for a dime’s worth of dog meat, and the butcher inquired would he have it wrapped up or would he eat it there.
Brownson Hall claimes to have a man who can “sure make the cow a widow.”	-
***
' “You see” said the Junior, explaining why it was necessary for him to be home during the week-end, “You see, sir, my grandmother is very ill and I must be there in the event that she dies.”
“And what if she doesn’t die,” said the prefect.
“Why, then we all plan on celebrating her ninetyeight birthday.”	'
He got his “per.” •
> *** . ’
A man from Ohio named Burr	.
A piece of bad luck did incur.
Just yesterday noon,
He swallowed a spoon,	.
And now the poor fellow can’t stir.	'
*** • -
Lets send in a contribution to Holy Smoke and keep it from becoming a Coaly Smudge.
•b ¥ ¥
The Prof, was admonishing a lazy student. He ended his remarks by saying, “And do you suppose that when you leave this school your life will be changed' by the mere act of having graduated? It will not. It will be just as it is now.”
“Thanks,” said the student, “I had always hoped so.”	.	-
' • ***
IN PHYSICS CLASS.
Prof.:—Can anyone give me an example of density, in the concrete? -
Stude:—Yes sir, my roommate’s head.
-	KOLARS.
"1--------------
f
72
Noire <&ame Schdascic
||otpe]|)ame|^
DISCE-QUAS1-SEMPER-VICTVRUS-VIVE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LV.	OCTOBER 22, 1921.	NO 5
BOARD OF EDITORS:
Robert D. Shea, ’22
Harold E. McKee, ’22
Karl Arndt, ’22
Leo R. Ward, C. S. C., ’23
Vincent Engels, ’23 z
Frank Wallace, ’23 .
R. M. Munch, C. S. C., ’23 Edwin Murphy, ’23 Gerald Hagan, ’23 Charles Molz, ’24 Frank McGinnis, ’24 Francis J. Kolars, ’24
ADVERTISING: .
Aaron H. Hucuenard, ’22 Charles Hirschbuhl, ’22 BUSINESS:. •
Paul Breen, ’23	August-Fipp, ’25
ART:
II. W. Flannery, ’23
These are the days of autumn mellowness, of scarlet-tinted leaves, dull misty haze and harvest moons. Nature, slipping into lethargic winter, plain-The Time for Hikes, tively appeals through cricket note and waning melody of birds. The ecstacy of spring, summer’s indifference—these have given way to the warmth of autumn maturity. These are days when the richness of life seems apparent. For the old they are a reminiscence; for the young;, an impression of the mystical in nature. And who has not longed to explore that note of mystery.
. Perhaps you too have said, “I’d like to do nothing but roam around today.” Out tover . the campus the leaves shift in the wind; the lake rustles. The briskness of autumn gets into your veins. You . feel that impulse to take a hike.
But do you take it? Walking in this age of motor power, has become almost a lost art. People are getting the riding habit. No matter where they go, they must ride: If an automobile is not at hand then nothing will do. Though it is true there is a certain exhiliration in motoring, there is none of the exercise or the close contact with fields and woods. And it is to fields and woods that we should go. Much that escapes us in the automobile ride becomes apparent during a
pleasant saunter along a country road. Who in an automobile, for instance, has; ever \ stopped to admire the goldenrod? Who has felt the quick elixir of the autumn, air?
There is many a hike that can be taken out into the country that surrounds Notre Dame. Strike out on the unfrequented road, away from the bothersome traffic. Go four
or five miles, then turn back by another route. You may come back tired, but you will be refreshed. You will feel your blood quickening. Pessimism will have given place to determination. Few places are so well situated for the man who would enjoy a pleasant hike. Surely we ought to enjoy the advantage.
MOLZ.
In teaching His disciples how to pray, Christ, knowing the frailty of man, warned them against the danger of temptation. But in the Book of Job we The Sacrament read: “Man’s life on earth Among Men. is a temptation;” and the history of mankind, as well as the life of each one of us, bears witness to this truth. As long as man lives in the world he must bear the affliction of tribulation and trial; but affliction is the law of human life and also the law of Christian virtues. Without it there is no merit. To resist the inclination to evil is the essence of virtue; for the thought, if allowed to enter the mind will grow in the imagination and 1 eventually result in action. Fortify yourself, therefore, -against the beginnings of temptation by visiting daily Our Lord in the Blessed Sacrament. It sobers the senses, enobles the mind, calms the passions, makes labor a joy, lends the touch of song to the prose of small happenings, and diffuses around you a spirit of ineffable peace. It brings to the soul that which it is constantly seeking—happiness.
MCCABE.
The echoes of the Crusaders’ stirring cry, “God wills it,” are being heard over all America. Catholic young men are again being /	aroused by the sum-
The New Crusade, mons to take up the work of the Cross. The New Crusade is a movement among Catholic ;
Nocre dame Scholastic
73
college students to promote the interests of home and foreign missions. In no other school in the country should this spirit spread so rapidly as at Notre Dame, for our school is itself a mission. The Notre Dame man needs only to.look about him to know what wonderful things the missions can do, and to realize fully the great task yet to be accomplished elsewhere.. Moreover, the men here do not lack interest, in such work, as is shown by the generous support given the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal.
The work of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade is soon to be undertaken here. Notre Dame men understand. The undertaking is too noble not to succeed, and too too- closely associated with the traditions of the school to be looked upon as something of little consequence. Let us take up the Crusader’s Cross and continue the work which actuated the men who first carried the ■	J
Faith to Notre Dame.
ARNDT.
IN MEMORIAM.
Although the school year is not yet eight weeks old, Notre Dame has had cause to mourn the death of one- whom she could hardly afford to lose, Robert R. Davis, of Carroll Hall. Robert died of pneumonia at St. Joseph’s hospital on the evening of October 12.
He had been with us only since registration day, but in that short time he came to number among his friends almost everyone in the university. He was a good student, a fre-, quent communicant and altogether a lovable boy.	:
Robert was,19 years old when he died. He was born in San Antonio and lived there continually before coming to Notre Dame. For the last eleven years , he attended St.* Mary’s College in San Antonio. .
To his parents, Mr. and Mrs. James Robert Davis, we offer, our sincere sympathies.	.
'	3 -1‘ .
BEG YOUR PARDON.
Li the last issue of the Scholastic an article appeared crediting Mr. ?Joseph B. Shaughnessy with the design of the greater
. Notre Dame project. Professor Kervick,
head of the Achitectural Department, should be credited with this work. Mr Shaughnessy merely worked under his direction in drawing this picture.
. FAMILIAR FOLKS.
David Wilson Sullivan, former student at the University in ’19 and ’20, is* affiliated with Valparaiso University and sends greetings to his many friends on the campus.
Mr. and Mrs. John Scheibelhut announce the marriage of their daughter, Mabel, to Mr. Paul V. Paden ’22, on Wednesday, October 26, 1921, St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend, Indiana.
Cuthbert Scott, student here last year, is continuing his studies in the College of Arts and Letters at the Catholic University, Washington.	.'
Dr. Jeremiah McCarthy, A. B. ’17, former secretary to the President of the University, is now accumulating experience as an “interne” in Mercy Hospital, Chicago.
Henry Grabner, C. E., is in the efficiency department of the Grabner Bakery Systems at Winimac, Indiana. Hank reports everything 0. K., so far as he is connected with the wheat situation. •
A clipping from the New York Times of Sept. 20 shows that Charles A. Grimes, Jour. ’20 as a member of the staff of the Providence News has been an active agent in the probe his paper is conducting of the Woonsocket (R. I.) City Government.
Patrick J. (our famous “Pat”) Murray is at present connected with the New York State Highway Commission as a construction engineer. Pat reports for duty with the Detroit “Tigers” next spring and in this field we expect him to further increase the glory he so rightfully gained while on the “mound” for Notre Dame.	*
Notre Dame played a major part in one of the most charming social affairs of South Bend’s early autumn season on the evening of September 28, when the marriage of Miss . Ruth Elizabeth Cole, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James F. Cole of South Bend, and Michael Moore, Litt. B. ’20 of Tulsa, Oklahoma, was solemnized at the Chain o’Lakes
74	Norm dame Scholascic
Country Club, the Rev. Patrick J. Haggerty, C. S. C., officiating. The bridal party included Thomas Moore, former student, brother of the bridegroom, as best man, and Harold Delaney T8 and William Francis Fox ’20 as ushers. The University was also well represented among the many guests. After the wedding trip Mr. and Mrs. Moore will make their home in Tulsa.
APOLOGIA PRO OPERA NOSTRA.
The way this column has been conducted (and condemned) in the hallowed past certainly has shown it to be utterly unsatisfactory ... to the conductors. Of course there were others who objected to certain features, but they never ventured outside of their oblivion long enough to register a flaring protest. And nothing was done. Hitherto if a celebrity’s name happened to be spelled wrong herein, he meekly submitted to changing the spelling of his name. It is hardly less than a calamity to let a typographical error or a mental aberration cause an ancient and honored cognomen like Djunk, for instance, to lose its pristine prestige by merely being misspelled Junk in this column.
A new era is blooming. We, the editors, who are not in any way responsible for any of these aberrations and errors,our only fault being an excess of scrupulosity, have devised a system that will insure infallible accuracy, and will eliminate the cheap humor , and vulgar precocity that has estranged the column from all classes of intellectuals—a disgusting form of wit that panders to the lowest instincts of the horrible horde.
We present our formula in brief:
To class presidents, secretaries, celebrities, and press agents/ be it known:
If you have anything possible or passable in this column, write it out in typewriting, or if it is in handwriting, furnish the cipher code, and DEPOSIT IT IN THE BULLETIN BOX, in view in front of the Main . Building. It will then be immortalized in print. Anything from a senior thought to a beatific vision is welcome. All matter must be in Wednesday, to be immortalized the following Saturday.
y Clifford Ward, Annotator.
James Kelly, Sophomore journalist, who came out from New England last fall as a
freshman, is holding down the desk of Sporting Editor on the South Bend News-Times. As Tex Kelly, he writes that peppery column on the sporting page headed “Tex ‘N’ ’Em.”
Miss Viola Wolourcz, known to several generations of Notre Dame students as “Billy Burke,” faithful helper in the AVe Maria office during many years, was married recently to Mr. Santa. If Viola’s faithfulness to domestic duties is half as great as her industry and readiness here, Mr. Santa will be a Benedict indeed.
'	SHEA.
IN SIGHT OF SORIN. •
Connecticut Yankees and others from, “Way Down East” met on October 7th.’and elected the officers of their New England Club. Cletus Lynch of Meriden, was elected to the position of President, Frank Denny of Bridgeport, was chosen Vice-President, and upon John Reardon of Springfield, was conferred the double title of SecretaryTreasurer. The Easterners will soon indulge . in'one of their now famous smokers. ..
. The “Heart of the United States” began throbbing, at Notre Dame last Wednesday when, twenty residents of Kansas City gathered, elected officers and made plans for a dinner-dance which will be given sometime: during the Christmas holidays in. conjunction with the Notre Dame Club of that city? . Willie	is Chief Executive of
the local : organization, Frank Tyler is VicePresident, and Joseph Purcell is occupied with the duties of Secretary-Treasurer.
The. Civil.Engineering Society, for several years a forgotten organization, sprang into existence once again at a meeting Held in the Main Building on Wednesday, October 5th. Plans for the permanent organization were discussed, and officers elected for the year. Walter Shifts was chosen president, George Heheghan arid Mark Foote were elected to the positions of Recording and Corresponding Secretaries, respectively, and Leo Mahoney and Daniel H. Young were chosen censors. A director from among the faculty
Nocre dame Schdasuic
is to be elected to guide the destinies of the society. Meetings are to be held weekly, at which papers treating Engineering will be read and discussed.
Wednesday evening’s concert by Miss Elsie Baker, noted American contralto, was one of the most pleasing offerings which has been presented to Notre Dame music lovers-in recent years. Miss Baker displayed, all the artistry which has made her famous on Victor .records and every number was enthusiastically received by the large audience. Each of Miss Baker’s classic numbers was done with a technique and finish which brought , rounds of applause from her hearers, and the negro spiritual, “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” was sung with a warmth and appeal that will not soon be forgotten.
Mr. Cromweed, accompanist, opened the program with a good rendition of “Rigol-leto,” which was well received. His work as accompanist seemed uniformly excellent and supplied an effective background for Miss Baker’s selections.	’
Mr. Gegna on the cello performed well and often upon the ever-popular instrument and responded to several encores. His interpretation of Roever’s “Shepherd Boy” was probably his best piece of the evening.
The work of all the artists was of unusual quality, and it is to be hoped that the high standard which they have set will be maintained in future attractions booked for Washington Hall.	.
• -
Newspaper men from all parts of the United States gathered together, Monday afternoon, in Lemonnier Library, at the annual reunion of the Notre Dame Press Club. ; The meeting may be adequately described as a happy coincidence. The strangest coincidence was the fact that five men were not elected. They are: Pio Montenegro, who made a speech; Chas. Molz, whose electoral -chances were ruined by an untimely remark; Vincent Engels, who even failed to appear at the meeting; Harry Flannery, the celebrated author of “Footprints of a Footpad;” and Clifford Ward, the Hoosier poet, compiler of “Who’s Your Poet.” Others who made up the rest of the attendence are: William Castellini, the future aiderman of Ciri-
75
cinnati, who was elected president of the Press Club by anonymous’ vote. R. Edwin Lightfoot, a questionable Character, became vice-president on the tide: of universal disgust. Rob Riordan, a youhg artist of note, took up the portfolio of secretary. Greavy, looming up on the horizon as a dark horse, . had the office of treasurer thrust upon him.
Adams was chosen press agent without dis. sension. John M. Cooney, Ph. D., was reelected head of the department of Journalism. Fr. Lahey was chosen to succeed himself as head of the advertising section of the Press Club. Last two mentioned were voted in as honorable members.
Latest figures from the office of the Registrar show a total enrollment of 1486 college students in the University. The complete figures, including registration in the Scholasticate and other departments are not available at the present time, but it is certain that the present enrollment eclipses that of any previous year. The university draws students from the entire nation, from Waukon to the Pacific Coast, and the number of men from foreign countries is a source of great satisfaction to those who have interested themselves to obtain accurate figures on the comparative size of the various colleges, although reports from the commerce school indicate that the increase here overshadows that of every other college in the University.; „ .	■	’	.
. Twenty-two representatives of Fort Wayne, believing that a closer fellowship should be promoted among themselves, met last Sunday and organized the Fort Wayne . Club of Notre Dame. Brother Florian was made: Honorary President; A. H. Huguen* ard, "President; L. Logan, Vice-President; J. Lennon,, Secretary; and Maurice Boland, Treasurer. . The ’21-’22 history of the Club will tell of several social functions, the formation of an alliance with the Alumni Asso-ciatiori of Fort Wayne, and an active part in the Notre Dame drive in that part of the -state.
With more enthusiasm than is usually shown by the directors of a home-state wildcat oil company, several residents of Okla-
76
Notre dome Scholastic
homa gathered in riotous assembly and formed a club. Offices went around nicely. Without much campaigning, Walter Moran became President; Egon Von Merveldt, VicePresident; Paul Craden, Secretary-Treasurer, and “Red” Dwyer, Sergeant-at-Arms. The first social activity of the season was a ride in the Library elevator.
MURPHY, ARNDT.
WHAT’S WHAT IN ATHLETICS.
BOILING THE BOILERMAKERS
Fortune is, as has been observed in every age and in connection with every enterprise from the discovery of the North Pole to the
“Hunk”
winning of a football game, perverse; and it has just as often and as universally been observed that on this sphere, we mortals, in addition to being fools, are never satified. We repeat the first assertion, admit the second and then add another—fortune is inefficient and illogical.
If fortune is intelligent, why did she refuse even one little bit of luck in the much-bemoaned Iowa contest, which we wanted so badly for our football number of the Scholastic, (and for other reasons) and then shower down horsehoes galore in the game last week against Purdue? If fortune is efficient, why did she let our warriors battle their, durndest at Iowa and
get no results and then make them worry through the second half of the Purdue game after the aforementioned Lady Luck had presented that game to us, all wrapped and tied in the second quarter?
But, as has also been universally queried since the time immemorial, what more can be expected from a woman? Oh, well!
The game at Lafayette was rather pale in comparison with the sensational battle at Iowa. Purdue fumbled and erred repeatedly in the first half and allowed us to tally 30 points. In the second half Rockne instructed his men to play a kicking game, the Boilermakers bucked up a bit and made their only three first downs of the game, and everybody hung around until it was over. We got three more points and the score tallied 33-0.
Although generally uninteresting, the contest had its peculiar thrills. Paul Castner amazed the crowd with the prettiest exhibition of punting given by a Notre Dame punter in recent years. Hunk Anderson performed an unusual feat for a guard when he scored two touchdowns in three minutes. Johnny Mohardt dashed through tackle and around the ends in his usual sensational manner for two touchdowns, and Eddie Anderson, Rodge Kiley and Hunk were active in recovering fumbles. The entire line played stellar defensive football and Frank Sey-frit did some excellent blocking of kicks.
Notre Dame attempted but two passes during the game.
As at Iowa, a very pleasing spirit was shown to the Notre Dame team and a respect displayed for the school as a whole. The Purdue cheerleader was as considerate as our own dear Al, and except for the occasional yelp of one of that variety of animals who occasionally infest even our own festive gatherings, the crowd was tolerant enough to a team that was beating the home boys.
The Knights of Columbus of Lafayette entertained with a dance in their club rooms after the game; and although the team was unable to remain for the affair it was enjoyed by twenty or more of the faithful rooters. Coach Dietz of Purdue attended the dance and several of the Notre Dame boys received the hospitality of the various frat
Hocre bame Schdascic	77
houses, particularly the Phi Kappa, where the entire membership is Catholic.
PLAY BY PLAY.
Purdue won the toss and defended the south goal. Garvey kicked to Murphy, Anderson downing him on Purdue’s 20 yard line. Shaw stopped Purdue’s first play. Kiley stopped Murphy. Third down 8 yards to go on Purdue’s 24 yard line. Purdue fumbled but recovered. First down on Purdue’s 23 yard line, no gain. Watson stopped Kiley. Watson punted to Thomas, who was downed on Notre Dame’s 25 yard line.
Mohardt netted 5 yards through right tackle. Coughlin netted 2 yards at left end. Castner was stopped at guard and Notre Dame penalized 5 yards. Castner punted to Wagner, who was stopped on his own 35 yard line.
Anderson threw Wagner for a 2 yard toss. H. Anderson threw Wagner for 5 yard loss. Purdue penalized 5 yards.- Fourth down on Purdue’s 7 yard line.- Watson punted out of bounds on Purdue’s 35 yard line. Notre Dame’s ball. Coughlin netted 1 yard at left tackle. Mohardt gained 2 yards at light tackle. Mohardt passed to E. Anderson who barely caught the ball, netting 4 yards. Castner kicked a field goal from the 20 yard line. Notre Dame 3; Purdue 0.
Mehre replaced Larson at center. Garvey kicked off to Murphy on Purdue’s 5 yard line. Murphy carried the ball to the 21 yard line where he was stopped by Shaw. Watson made 3 yards through right tackle. Geiger made 3 through center. Geiger replaced Meigher at full back for Purdue. Mehre broke through and stopped Wagner. Watson punted 35 yards to Mohardt who returned the ball 8 yards, to the 45 yard line. Shaw and E. Anderson injured but returned to the game. Mohardt made 1 yard around right end. Castner made 4 yards through center on a delayed pass. Notre Dame penalized 5 yards for holding up the game. Mohardt passed to E. Anderson, but Geiger broke up the play. Castner punted to Geiger, who was downed by E. Anderson on Purdue’s 35 yard line.
Purdue fumbled, Garvey recovered for Notre Dame, on Purdue’s 35 yard line. Mohardt made 1 yard through center. Mohardt made 4 more around right end. Castner bucked center for 10 yards. Ball on Purdue’s 11 yard line. Time out for Purdue. Mohardt went through right tackle for touchdown, but the ball was returned, Notre Dame penalized 5 yards for off side. Williams replaced Watson for Purdue. Mohardt hit center for 8 yards. Castner plunged through1 same spot for 3 yards. Mohardt made touchdown through right tackle. Shaw missed goal. Score, Notre Dame, 9; Purdue, 0.
Miller, kicked to Coughlin on Notre Dame’s 10 yard line. Danny returned the ball to the 29 yard line. Coughlin made 3 through left guard. Castner punted to Purdue’s 35 yard line. Williams fumbled, Kiley recovering the ball. Mohardt made
7 yards through right tackle. Time out for Purdue. Thomas made 1 yard through center. Castner made 4 yards at center. Quarter over. Notre Dame’s first down on Purdue’s 20 yard line. ’
Coughlin thrown for 1 yard loss. Castner fumbled, Notre Dame recovering, making first down. Coughlin failed to gain. Castner missed at field goal. Purdue’s first down on their own 20 yard line.
Williams punted 35 yards to Mohardt who was downed on his 38 yard line. Mohardt made a yard through right tackle. Castner made 5 yards at right tackle but Notre Dame was penalized 15 yards for holding. Castner punted to the 15 yard line to Williams, who fumbled but Geiger recovered the ball_and was downed on his 2 yard line by H. Anderson.	'
Williams kicked out of bounds on his 12 yard line. Mohardt hit right tackle for 4 yards. Castner hit center for 1 yard. Mohardt skirted right end for a touchdown. Shaw kicked goal. Notre Dame, 16; Purdue, 0.
Rate went in at quarterback for Williams. Field replaced Wagner. Miller kicked to Notre Dame’s 15 yard line, Mohardt returning the ball to his 30 yard line. Mohardt went around right end for 10 yards. Castner made 3 yards through center. Notre Dame penalized 5 yards for off side. With ball on Notre Dame’s 40 yarjl line Castner punted 50 yards.
Purdue received the ball o line. Garvey dropped Field fo derson blocks punt and Hunk j for touchdown. H. Anderson touchdown. Shaw kicked goal 23; Purdue, 0.
Smith went in for Thomas at quarterback. Carberry replaced Kiley at left end. Lieb went in for Mohardt at left half. Lieb received kick-off at 20 yard line and ran to 31 yard line. Castner punted 52 yards to Field who was tackled on 25 yard line and fumbled. Hunk Anderson recovered ball and ran 25 yards for a touchdown, making his second touchdown from, a fumble. Fields was knocked out on the tackle but returned to the game. Voss went in at tackle, replacing Shaw. Eversman went in for Fields at half back foi- Purdue. Voss kicked goal. Score, Notre Dame, 30; Purdue, 0.
Purdue kicked off, Miller to Lieb, on 10 yard line. Lieb ran to 30 yard line. Castner punted over the Purdue goal line on first down. Ball returned to 20 yard line. Purdue’s ball. Garvey threw Eversman for 2 yard loss. Everman made 2 yards through center on second down. Rate kicked 35 yards to Lieb on third down. Lieb, ran out of bounds on Purdue’s 37 yard line. First down, Notre Dame’s ball. Lieb hit right guard for one yard. Phelan replaced Castner at full. Phelan bucked center for five yards on second down. Thomas hit center for four yards and fumbled. Anderson recovered. First down. Lieb gained 5 yards. Phelan went through right guard for three more. Lieb hit right guard for seven yards but
a their own 11 yard f a yard loss. E. An-mderson recovers ball received credit for a Score, Notre Dame,
78
Moure Same Schdasuic
Notre Dame was penalized 5 yards for off side. Third down, eight to go. Lieb made two yards. Garvey missed a placement kick with A. Anderson holding ball on fourth down. Purdue was penalized 5 yards for Birk off side. Notre Danie’s ball on Purdue’s 15 yard line, first down. Weber stopped Lieb for no gain. Phelan made three yards through left tackle. Lieb shot through center for six but Notre Dame was penalized five yards for off side. Ball on Purdue’s 18 yard line. Cotton went in for Garvey at left tackle. Notre Dame fumbled on trick play Farman, Purdue, recovering on Purdue’s 25 yard line. First down Purdue. Eversman fails to gain. Eversman stopped by Brown, who replaced H. Anderson, for no gain. Rate punted to Lieb who was downed on his own 40 yard line by Carman. Geiger knocked out in the play but went back in game. Geiger replaced by Meeker. Notre Dame's ball on 39 yard line, first down. Walsh replaced Coughlin. Walsh failed to gain as half ended. Score, Notre Dame, 30; Purdue, 0.
The Purdue band entertained the gang.
SECOND HALF.
Notre Dame returned to field limbering up. Larson went in for Mehre at center. Brown went in for H. Anderson. Castner went in at fulL Mohardt took left half. Coughlin right half. Hunk Anderson back in at right guard. Garvey right tackle. Shaw left tackle. Miller, Purdue, kicked to Mohardt who ran to the 30 yard line. Castner punted over the goal line on first down. Purdue’s ball on their 28 yard line, first down. Watson went through center for one yard. Meeker failed to gain on second down and was knocked out. Back in gan e. Third down ball on Purdue’s 22 yard line; eighf to go. Watson punted 30 yards to Mohardt who ran 10 yards to his 40 yard line. Coughlin failed to gain on .first down. Brink stopped Mohardt for no gain. Notre Dame penalized 15 yards for holding. Fourth down, Notre Dame’s ball on 45 yard line. Castner punts 55 yards over goal line, ball rolling over. Purdue’s ball. Wagner fumbled after making two yards on first down. Castner made four yards. Notre Dame penalized 10 yards, off side. Coughlin made 10 yards around left end running out of bounds on Purdue’s 23 yard line. Mohardt went through tackle for 5 yards. Miller broke through and stopped Mohardt for no gain on third down. Notre Dame’s ball on Purdue’s 15 yard line. Fourth down. Castner attempted field goal but missed. Purdue’s ball on their own 20 yard line. Coughlin spilled Wagner for a three yard loss on a trick play. Meeker made three yards through center. Watson punted 45 yards to Thomas on third down. Thomas made a fair catch. Notre Dame’s ball on 45 yard line. Meeker stopped Coughlin at left end. No gain.
Mohardt made. 2 yards through right tackle. Castner punted out of bounds on the third down. Purdue’s ball on the 3 yard line. Watson punted to Thomas on the 34 yard line, who was downed on the 26 yard line. Birk, of Purdue, had his football
togs torn off and time was taken by Purdue while he changed the uniform. Castner made 3 yards through center. Mohardt made 3 more through the same hole. Coughlin made one around left end, where he was stopped by Wagner. Mohardt made 1 around right end. Notre Dame lost the ball on downs.
Purdue’s ball on the 16 yard line. Garvey spilled Eversman for no gain. Purdue fumbled and Kiley recovered. Notre Dame’s ball on the 16 yard line. Castner made two yards. Castner hit center for 2 more. Weber stopped Coughlin for a third loss, breaking through the right side of the Notre Dame line. Castner kicked a field goal from the 24 yard line. Walther went in for Weber. Score, Notre Dame, 33; Purdue, 0.
Purdue kicked to Notre Dame. Miller kicked to Kiley on Notre Dame’s 20 yard line and the ball was run back to the 31 yard line. Castner punted 43 yards to Watson and Eddie Anderson threw him for a 1 yard loss on the 25 yard line. Larson piled up Purdue’s center. Watson made 5 yards through right guard. Watson made three more through right and made it fourth down, 1 yard to go. Watson punted 30 yards to Mohardt, who was thrown for a loss of 1 yard on the Notre Dame 39 yard line.
Castner punted 45 yards, the ball rolling over the goal line. Purdue’s ball on her 20 yard line. Watson punted to Mohardt, who was downed on Purdue’s 45 yard line, Notre Dame gaining 15 yards through the exchange of punts. Mohardt tore off 15 yards through right tackle.
Time was called as Castner sank to the ground in pain. Birk of Purdue was also out. It was Notre Dame’s ball on the 30 yard line. Thomas made a yard through center. Coughlin made a yard through left tackle. Claypool stopped Coughlin on a criss-cross as the quarter ended. It was Notre Dame’s ball, fourth down, on Purdue’s 28 yard line. Cotton wras sent in for Shaw, Smith for Thomas, Voss for Garvey, Carberry for Kiley, Walsh for Coughlin, Lieb for Mohardt.
Voss attempted a placement kick which was blocked, Smith recovering the kick. Walsh skirted left end for four yards. Notre Dame was penalized 5 yards which Lieb immediately recovered by a run through center. It was fourth down on the 31 yard line. Walsh plunged through center for 14 yards. Lieb failed to gain, Phelan went in for Castner and made 5 yards on a plunge through center. Lieb hit right guard for four yards. Hans Geiger went in for Claypool, at right tackle.
Lieb failed to make first down by one inch when he stacked up against the line. It was Purdue’s ball on their own 7 yard line. Watson kicked to Smith in midfield who ran the hall back 11 yards before going out of bounds. Phelan made 16 yards through center. Phelan made six more through the same hole on a trick play. Notre Dame was penalized 15 yards for hurdling after Lieb had jumped the line. Phelan hit the line for six yards. Lieb attempted a placement kick which missed the goal post by a foot. Seifrit

Nocre dame Schdasuic
was sent for Eddie Anderson as the ball was given to Purdue on her own 20 yard line. Meeker hit the line for eight yards. He then made it first down on Purdue’s 31 yard line. Watson made 4 yards through right tackle. Larson downed Wagner after a 5 yard line run. Macklin replaced Watson after* Sleeker had made first down for Purdue on the 41 yard line.	•
Macklin again tried the right end and failed to gain. Flynn was substituted for Cotton. Purdue substituted McKenzie for Wagner, who punted thirty yards to Smith who was thrown by Geiger. It was Notre. Dame’s ball and Walsh tried the line but failed to gain. Bergman made three yards through right tackle and on the next play Phelan made a similar gain through center. Bergman then kicked 38 yards to Macklin, and it was Purdue’s ball on her own 45 yard line.
Macklin renewed the Boilermaker attack, going 2 yards before Larson stopped him. Macklin went three around right end, but was tackled by Garvey. Carberry threw Meeker for no gain, and on the next play Mackenzie punted 25 yards to Smith who fumbled.
Carman recovered and Purdue took the ball on the Rocker’s 28 yard line. Larson stopped Meeker, but on the next play Meeker went through right guard for 6 yards. McKenzie was stopped by Voss, but made first down on the next play. Purdue was then on Notre Dame’s 17 yard line. McKenzie made 2, and Larson stopped Macklin for no gain. A forward pass failed. Swank attempted a placement kick, but Seifrit blocked it. Purdue recovered and Macklin made 6 yards through tackle. Meeker made 2 and Swank again attempted to kick goal from placement, but Seifrit blocked. The ball struck him in the face, and he was holding his nose as the game ended.	.
LINEUP AND SUMMARY.			
Purdue	(0)	Notre	Dame (33)
Carmen		Left End.		Kiley
Spencer _.		Left Tackle.		 Garvey
Birk			Left Guard.	.. H. Anderson
Weber			Center.		 Mehre
Swank			Right Guard.		Degree
Claypool _		Right Tackle.		Shaw
Miller			Right End.	. E. Anderson
Murphy _		Quarter. '	.		Thomas
Watson __		Left Half.		Mohardt
Wagner	-	Right Half.		Coughlin
Geiger			Full.		Castner
79
Score by Periods:
Purdue___________________________0 0 0 0— 0
Notre Dame___________________।___9 21 3 0—33'
Touchdowns—H. Anderson, 2; Mohardt, 2.’
Goals from touchdowns—Shaw,-2; Voss.'
Field goals—Castner, 2.	...
Substitutions—(Purdue) Williams for Watson;' Meeker for Geiger, Harris for Murphy, Fields for Williams, McKenzie for Wagner, Walther for Weber, H. F. Geiger for Claypool, Macklin for Fields. (Notre Dame) Smith for Thomas, Carberry for Kiley, Lieb for Mohardt, Walsh for Coughlin, Brown for H. Anderson, Cotton for Garvey, Chelan for Castner, Dooley for H. Anderson, Voss for Shaw, Flynn for Voss.
Referee—Eckersall. Umpire—Mumma.
Head Linesman—Griffith. Field Judge—Graham.
IN TARKINGTON TOWN.
Indianapolis will take on the appearance of a college town Saturday, Oct. 29, when Notre Dame and Indiana clash in their annual game which will be attended this year by events adding unusual interest to the contest. 2,000 Indiana students will make the trip in a special train from Bloomington and 1,200 will journey from South Bend on another special. Both student bodies will parade through the business section of the town and the alumni of both schools have arranged social affairs for the entertainment of students and players after the battle.
Indiana and Notre Dame are usually the two strongest teams in the Hoosier state; and the state championship will be at stake when the teams clash. Notre Dame has carried off titular honors for the last three years but won last year in the last quarter after Indiana had given Rockne’s undefeated eleven the greatest battle of its year.
An added interest will be attached to this contest because of the fact that both teams have places on the schedule of representative Eastern schools. As a representative conference eleven Indiana lost a 19-0 contest to Harvard on October 8, and Notre Dame will travel to West Point for its annual intersectional clash on Nov. 5, for the game which has come to be considered one of the grid classics of the year. Notre Dame has defeated the Soldiers in the last three years and the score at Indiana will offer a prophecy of the result o fthis year’s battle.
Notre Dame lost its first game in three years to Iowa recently after outplaying the

Nocre &ame Scholastic
80
Hawkeyes whose later victory over Illinois stamps them as possible conference champions. Indiana meets Iowa later in the season and Notre Dame hopes to recover lost prestige by defeating Indiana by a larger score than the Hawkeyes will be able to accumulate.
FRANK WALLACE.
INTERHALL FOOTBALL.
Sunday’s games brought forth numerous surprises in the way of unexpected upsets which beset some of the powerful teams in the interhall race. Sorin, with her first team playing for the first time this season administered another defeat to the luckless Walshites, who drew the zero end of a 19-0 score. The loss of Scott, veteran Sorin backfield star, was more than made up for by the brilliant work of Bruce Holmberg, the huge linesman. Holmberg opened big holes through which even the slowest of backs could have made long gains, and all of Captain Ashe’s men performed in an equally effective manner. Walsh fought valiently, but could not stop the plunges of McDermitt and Prokop of the Sorin backfield.
***
Brownson and the shades of night conspired to defeat Corby to the tune of 14-0. Various delays held up the game until long after the sun had sunk beneath the horizon and play was commenced amid the gathering dusk. The absence of Captain James, star quarterback, was keenly felt during the first quarter, but it is doubtful if even his presence could have prevented the game from being a repetition of the Iowa disaster. Brownson shoved over one touchdown while . the light was there to aid, and secured their second under cover of darkness. The moon came from behind a cloud to aid the Main Building boys in Kicking goal, after which the players groped their way to their halls. Injuries to Byrne and Kelly, Corby’s dependable wing men handicapped Father Quin-Ian’s men, who refused to be counted out of the race for the coveted flag.
***
The Off-Campus students demonstrated with considerable force thatthey are to be considered very much in the swim in regard
to campus athletics. With their team displaying a smoothness which has not been noticeable heretofore this year they swept the Badinites from the field, scoring 14 points while the campus men were accumulating a zero. The Day-Dodgers specialized in straight football and their line smashes tore the Badin line to pieces at critical moments.
***
Forward passing played a prominent part in the interhall games of last Sunday. A misdirected one by Badin paved the way for a 7-0 victory for the undefeated Corby machine. Maher, the genial third-floor prefect, was the shining light in the victory, for it was his work in intercepting a pass and running 90 yards for a touchdown that brought victory to Father Quinlan’s warriors. Badin’s backfield showed a greatly improved offense and their end runs were responsible for the ball being kept in the Corby territory during most of the game. The Corby line played its usual consistent game. McNabb, Badin left guard, once more played the stellar game for his team.
♦**
A long pass from Johnson to Culhane resulted in a 7-0 victory for Carroll over the off-C’s. The game was evenly contested throughout, with the line-smashing of the Day-Dog backfield providing the feature of the game. Quarterback Johnson, and O’Connell and Lamont, Carroll ends, starred. Carroll like Badin is exhibiting a rapidly improving machine and should be a twin-six before the season ends.
***
Acting-Captain Ashe’s Sorin battlers played in hard luck Saturday and suffered their second defeat of the interhall season. This time Brownson took the long end of a 12-7 score. Sorin scored seven points early in the game and the battle waged furious for the rest of the afternoon. Brownson missed goal after the first touchdown and battled savagely to ward off defeat. ’ In the last few minutes of play they succeeded in shoving over another touchdown on the tiring Sorin team and the fray ended with the score 12-7. Burns and Coffey were the stars for Brownson while Scott and Prokop distinguished themselves for Sorin. hagan.