You Haven’t Bought Any Christmas Presents For Your Parents.
You Have No Time To Shop.
Your Parents Love Notre Dame.
You Never Write Home.
Your Prayers Have Been Answered.
Give Them:
Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Don’t have time to write home every week with Notre Dame news? Let us write home for you.
A year-long subscription is the perfect gift for any Irish fanatic.
Your subscription includes our annual football review issue, published in February 1992.
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:___________________________
Address:________________________
City:State:ZIP code:'
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
x>
ENTERTAINMENT
4	Music: U2
5	Restaurant: Cornucopia NEWS
6	The State of the School
9	Sexual Harassment
At Notre Dame
10	Homosexuality and the Priesthood
12	All Temperature Cheer! CAMPUS LIFE
14	A Feast Fit for Kings
18 ND is “Scrooged” SPORTS
20 Fencing
22 National Champions : 1966 DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
3	CampusWatch
16	Coming Distractions
23	On Other Campuses
24	Week In Distortion
26	Glancing Back
28	Final Word i-
DECEMBER 5,1991
o m p ch
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
VoL 133, No.13 December 5,1991.
.? ViveQuasi Cras Moritdrus
Founded .1867
|EblTOR[WHIE| lari Mitchell'?? '
|MANAG|Ni|p^
MadOkuda? 7?":
(EXECUTE Patricia'Doyle?? •,
':news?7.'.7? ,?\
>Editor?Margaret Kenny; '? •• ■ ? .• 'Assistant:. Denisse: Maribn-Landais
CAMPUS LIFE
Editor^ Elizabeth Baytibn
SPORTS, . < ;';;? . Editdr: Jon Pkul Potts
Assistant: Jim Kuser
.ENTERTAINMENT •
: Editor:; Elizabeth Graner
DEPARTMENTS... .. EdiforMichael Owen , Assistant: Kim Cenedella.
PHOTOG^	■_
Editor: Paul Webb, .. ? .
Assistant; Nick Spangler '
•COPY EDITOR' AhneJMaiyKlem
.SENiOR:STAFF:WRITERS' ■ ^7.-^7?. Chns B^	Clinton, Jeff Jotz? 7*
J?Bradley Keck; Ppte McGillicuddy; Maricella ■Ruiz-Calderon, Jenny Tate, Heidi Laura??. ,• ■ ? ?T6b'dhi-7?'7-::':i ??	;■ ?•?7; -?
On Sabbatical
Have no fear! It seems Mr. Manners gorged himself at Thanksgiving dinner this past week and was unable to answer any letters this week. However, don’t be alarmed, Mr. Manners will return prior to Christmas vacation to answer all your letters.
In This Issue
Our cover story this week is an interview with university president Fr. Edward Malloy. Senior staff writer Heidi Taboni discusses such topics as the budget, faculty and classes, and Notre Dame as a research institution with Malloy. This interview was conducted prior to the recent events regarding Fr. James Burtchaell’s resignation and former studentPaul Peralez’s departure and upon talking to Malloy again he declined to comment on either of the issues.
News editor Margaret Kenny examines the universities views and policies on sexual harassment in light of the Burtchaell issue. Senior staff writer Jenny Tate also looks at homosexuality and the priesthood and how this case will affect views on this topic. Also in the news department, Jenny Tate prepares us for the opening of the new St. Michael’s laundry in January 1992.
In Campus Life, Kip Meyer looks at the renaissance Christmas dinner show, the Madrigal, that is performed by Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students. Senior staff writer Maricelle Ruiz-Calderon previews the Flanner/Siegfried Players performance
The Christmas Carol.
Senior staff writer Amanda Clinton’s story on the men and women’s fencing teams examines this often overlooked sport.
In Entertainment, writer Josef Evans reviews U2’s latest album entitled Achtung Baby. Senior staff writer Jeff Jotz critiques the restaurant Cornucopia. In Glancing Back, writer Kristine DeGange tells us a little bit of the history of the Knights of Columbus.
A New Look
The Coming Distractions calendar takes on a new look this week. This new revised version features a seven-day format as compared with the former 11-day format. We hope these changes will make the calendar easier to use and provide you with better information about on and off campus events.
What’s Up?
We want to hear what you think! Tell us your opinions about the magazine and your opinions regarding the articles that we print (see our letters policy below). Also, we are always seeking enthusiastic writers to work for us. If you are interested, please stop by our office at 303 LaFortune or call at 239-7569.
Patricia Doyle
Executive Editor
GRAPHIC ARTS,MANAGER Jeanne Naylor: : .
LAYpUTMANAGER 5Rebecca Armbuster; ”
’SYSTEMS; MANAGER;
•Kevin Hardman? 7???
ApyERTISiNG;7/:L:.7;:/r-;
Qhrniel
JAsgis^nt'.Esperanza Lopez
BpSINESSp^ :Marfager?Scott' Ecker " ?? Assistant: ;Pauf^^
•B^R^
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. Thesubscription ride is$25.00jyear and back issues are available at $125 /copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Letters to Scholaslicmusl be typed and include the writ er's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholaric reserves the right to reject letters thaI are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
SCHOLASTIC
2
I
NEWS COMMENTARY
I
C a m pusl/l/atc/7
H by the gipper
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
Well well well well well
This was a rare week at Notre Dame: one in which there was more news than rumor. But news under the Dome is usually just rumor verified, and so CampusWatch continues...
The Gipper Hates to
~ Say it, But...
He told you so. CampusWatch was the first news source to tell you (on Nov. 14) that the university was considering converting a men’s dorm to female housing. As the stunned residents of Pangbom found out Tuesday, the rumors were true.
Father Wilfred Borden, the dorm’s rector, told one inquirng CampusWatcher that the first he heard of the decision (which put him out of a job and the 200-or-so Pangbom residents out of a home) was 2 p.m. Tuesday. He annoucned the decision three hours later.
Now, the Gipper understands that the Pangbomers (Pangbomites? Pangbom-ians?) aren’t planning any type of formal or informal protest, and Mark Woodmansee, hall president, urged residents to handle the decision with class and not turn it into a mockery of the university or administration. The Gipper admires such sentiment.
Still, he wonders if Pangbom residents might be planning something in the spirit of the last male residents of Howard Hall, which was converted to female housing in 1987. Uncomfirmed rumor has it that Howard Hall residents stole every fork in South Dining Hall, collected them in plastic garbage bags, and sank the cutlery collection to the bottom of Saint Mary’s Lake, where it rests (and rusts) today. Now, hold on there, you eager Pangbom folks; the Gipp isn’t advocating wholesale flatware filching, and he agrees that the university isn’t about to change gears and reverse its decision.
DECEMBER 5, 1991
The Gipper isn’t so much upset at the conversion of Pangbom as he is saddened by the chance missed by the university. As usual, student (or even rector) input on the decison appears to have been nil. The people most affected have no voice. Residents learned of the decision fairly late in the year, giving them little time to seek off campus housing. And perhaps most dishearten-ingly, it doesn’t appear that any serious consideration was given to the idea of converting a men’s dorm or two to co-ed housing, an idea which the Gipp feels is long overdue.
Instead, in the worst Notre Dame tradition, the decision was handed down from on high with little thought to input or innovation. That’s one ND tradition the Gipp would like to see change.
Dirty Laundry
As you may read elsewhere in this issue, St. Michael’s will re-open this spring. Unlike the old St. Mike’s, this version of the laundry will serve both men and women, and contracts for laundry service will be optional. A few weeks back the Laundry and Dry Cleaning Department sent out contracts and rates to the home addresses of all domers. But while the letter begins “The University makes every effort to provide your son/ daughter outstanding laundry services,” it would appear that the university is still thinking more about the “son” than the “/ daughter.” In the accompanying list of rates charged for different items, parents could find the cost to launder shirts, underwear, socks and pants, but no listed fees for skirts or dresses. A call to the laundry revealed that they will indeed handle these items, despite their being overlooked on the price list.
Mother of God
Abducted by Aliens
Several alert junior CampusWatchers contacted the Gipper about the abduction of one member of Notre Dame’s campus community. Well, all right, actually it was just a statue. The statue of Notre Dame used to stand at the main circle, south of Father Sorin. She ain’t there now, however. But don’t worry—no one’s made off with Mary. A quick call to landscape services solved the mystery. The statue, it seems, had started to crack and the worry was that moisture would seep in and splinter it apart (you may have noticed that Mary wore a protective bag for a while to keep the water out). The statue has been removed for repairs and will eventually return to the pedestal sans cracks.
CampusWatch Never Stops
The Gipper never rests. Tip the Gipp — leave him a message by calling 239-7569, writing him c/o Scholastic at 303 LaFortune Or dropping off a note at the office on the third floor. Got a scoop, a tip or a question? Tell one to the Gipper!	□
3
RESTAURANT
CORNUCOPIA.
A healthy horn of plenty
by Jeff Jotz
Do the institutionalized aromas of the dining halls make your stomach cringe with trepidation? Does the mere sight of chicken fried steak clog your arteries and make them long for oat bran? When you sink your teeth into a nice n’ greasy Double Domer, do your P.C. friends regard you as a nazi-admirin’, baby animal-killin’, environment-hatin’ military-industrial complex-lovin’ cretin?
The Cornucopia Restaurant (203 S. Michigan) helps the hungry student fill that empty stomach while keeping the arteries happy and healthy. Offering a myriad of tasty and sometimes exotic specialties, the Cornucopia breaks the stereotype that “natural food” means a
diet of leaves and twigs with a side order of lima bean extract.
The restaurant traces its beginnings to the early seventies, when Bob and Carol Friend opened a small restaurant on Mishawaka Ave. After several location changes and numerous owners, the Cornucopia has been owned and run by Roni Farkas for more than a year. While not posting spectacular profits, Farkas takes pride that such an unconventional eatery has thrived in Michiana for well over a decade.
The decor of the Cornucopia is colorful yet simplistic, creating a Pier One-ish, natural wood n’ wicker feel that reassures the first time visitor of its friendly atmosphere. After surveying the combination of wood, foliage and stained glass, soothing new age music helps both digestion and conversation.
The lunchtime clientele is comprised of the general suit-clad Michiana business crowd, whom Farkas says that after the first visit, “They come back nine out of ten times.” Dinner time brings out more firsttime diners, who, like the lunch crowd, become hooked to the imaginative and healthy
offerings of the Cornucopia. “It amazes me”, remarks Farkas, “that people still say that ‘I didn’t know this place was here.’”
However, it is thefood of the Cornucopia which will make you come back for more. All of the fruits and vegetables are organically grown and are brought in from Chi
CORNUCOPIA RESTAURANT 303 S. Michigan St. 288-1911
Mon.-Thurs. lla.m.-6:30p.m.
Friday	lla.m.-8:30p.m.
Saturday	5p.m.-9p.m.
prices: moderate dress: casual
cago regularly. Popular items such as the soups and veggie chili are made from scratch every day, and the entrees are a product of an interesting hybrid of many recipes—some from word of mouth, some from natural food cookbooks, and some from trial and error. “My cook is creative,” says Farkas, “because he’ll take two or three recipes and combine them.”
The most popular dish at the Cornucopia is the chicken salad, served cold on a wide selection of breads. Closely behind is the spinach lasagna, a tantalizing blend of pasta with chunky marinara sauce and loads of fresh spinach. Other recommendations include the creamy crepes, filled with either chicken or broccoli and mushrooms, and the huge burritos. My personal favorite is the malfatti, an exotic-sounding dish which my taste buds can’t get enough of. Malfatti is spinach and seasonings rolled like a meat-ball and smothered in that fantastic marinara sauce.
While some may gravitate towards the chunky and tangy vegetarian chili or homemade soups for an appetizer, my recommendation is the homus with pita wedges.
Homus is some sort of bean pat6 which, when served with warm wedges of whole wheat pita, becomes a mind-blowing taste experience.
What makes the Cornucopia such fun is the delicious daily specials that are posted by the restaurant’s entrance each day. They are very popular with the Cornucopia regulars who wish to expand their taste horizons, and even appeal to newcomers who feel a bit adventurous. During my visit, I ordered the rice lentil polou, a stew-like entree with brown rice, lentils, onions,, tomato paste, raisins and pine nuts, flavored with taste-filled “secret seasonings.”
The Cornucopia offers other treats to tempts the palate, too. The teas are top-
notch, and I am often tom between their house specialties, yogi tea and mu apple tea. The yogi tea is a combination of black ginger, cloves, cinnamon, peppercorns and cardamon in milk. Not as bitter as coffee when flavored with honey, yogi tea is pleasantly sweet while being both light and rich at the same time. Mu apple tea is an exhilarating blend of apple juice, oriental tea, and ginseng. Hot and spicy, it is smoother and contains more zip than mere apple cider. However, Farkas wishes that more students would patronize such an out-of-the-ordinary eatery. In the past year, she’s sold many cookbooks and books on healthy living to Seventh-Day Adventists, and the Cornucopia recently catered for a meeting of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. She emphasizes that on football weekends, as traditional restaurants are jam-packed with students, parents and fans, the Cornucopia remains relatively quiet and cozy.
So put a little adventure in your life and venture on downtown to the Cornucopia. Not only will your wallet thank you, but your body will appreciate you as well. □
4
SCHOLASTIC
g
MUSIC
by Josef Evans
In describing the kind of sound U2 attempts to achieve on their latest album, producer Brian Eno came up with the following statement: “It was good if the song took you on journey or made you think your hi-fi was broken, bad if it reminded you of recording studios or U2.” Achtung Baby, the band’s first release in three years, shows a band trying to shed its stereotype and reinvent itself. The result is a musical mishmash of different sounds and styles, . giving the band its freshest sound ever.
U2 has long been known and respected for the righteousness and social commentary found in their music, which are brought ou t brilliantly in songs like “Bullet the Blue Sky.” However, the preaching became overbearing on their last album and motion picture, Rattle and Hum, as Bono lapsed into monologues decrying everything from American television to violence in Northern Ireland in a number of songs. The band had become almost a caricature of them7 selves, and a bit of backlash set in. Critics took every opportunity to rip the band, which had justrecently risen to the top of the rock & roll heap, to shreads.
The new album begins at gut level, with a crunching guitar opening “Zoo Station,” a noisy, distorted romp that sounds a bit like the latest offering from the Pixies. Bono’s lyrics are indistinguishable behind a strange-sounding filter, and Adam Clayton provides a big bass sound that drives nearly every song on the album. A personal favorite is “One,” a ballad-like tune which explores a one-on-one relationship of love and
the troubles such a relationship encounters, as Bono sings “We’re one / But we’re not the same I We hurt each other / Then we do it again.” Though the lyrics are rather trite, the simple nature of the music serves to complement them, and makes the song all the more powerful despite its simplicity.
A very interesting song is the album’s lead-off single, although it’s probably (with the exception of “Zoo Station”) the least
likely of all the tracks to be played on the radio. ‘The Fly” features The Edge with another shotgun blast of guitar early off, and then goes into a very melodic chorus with Bono displaying his vocal prowess, singing in a high “gospel voice” (as he labels it) alongside his nearly speaking voice. “Mysterious Ways” finds the band exploring a very new territory also present in ‘The Fly” — dance music. This song is much more mainstream, with its club-style beat and funky bassline done with a surprisingly danceable result. “Trying To Throw Your Arms Around The World,” a down-tempo number, is a complete departure from ev
erything else on the album. It has the honor of containing what is probably the stupidest line in U2’s history: “Like a woman needs a man / Like a fish needs a bicycle / When you’re trying to throw your arms around the world.”
Tracks number ten and eleven on the album, “Ultraviolet (Light My Way)” and “Acrobat,” are the most reminiscent of the band’s usual sound. Rather than being rehashes of old material, they show the band doing what they do best. The Edge’s trademark echoing guitar, the heavy bass .and tom-toms of Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr. and Bono’s soaring vocals combine to great effect, especially on “Acrobat.” The song builds from swirling, uneven verses to an equally edgy chorus, built upon an uplifting, almost hidden melody. The ascending chords of the melody and Bono’s message of hope mix with the dissonance of the background guitar, as he sings, “And you can dream / So dream out loud / You know that your time is coming ‘round,” and the result is one of the band’s finest songs.
Achtung Baby finds U2 rebelling against itself to brilliant effect. The big atmospherics and bad cover songs are gone, in favor of a stripped-down, hipper sound. Instead of injustice and politics, the band explores the theme of love; instead of a big sound, they go back to the basics. Sometimes simple is best, although only the best can make it that way. With this album, the members of U2 have reestablished themselves as one of rock and roll’s finest □
Josef Evans is a Freshman from Stanford Hall.
DECEMBERS, 1991
The State of the School
An interview with Father Malloy
By Heidi Laura Taboni
On October 25, Notre Dame’s Board of Trustees re-elected Father Edward A. Malloy to a second five-year term as president of the university. In an interview with Scholastic conducted last week, President Malloy responded to some of the critical issues which Notre Dame must face today and offered some insight into his vision for the university’s future.
During his second term, Malloy said that he plans to continue to work to realize the goals he setfor his presidency five years ago.
“One was to continue the progress of coeducation in every dimension of the university, Malloy said. “A second was to increase the cultural diversity in the campus. A third was to have a stronger international presence. A fourth was to build strength in our graduate program comparable to the strength of our undergraduate programs. And the last one was to work hard on the town-gown relationship [the relationship between South Bend and the university].”
Malloy’s presidency is often compared to those of past presidents, namely Father Hesburgh’s lengthy tenure, and most agree that he has a different style of governing Notre Dame than others have had. However, different administrative styles can be the result of different interpretations of the role of a Notre Dame president.
“I think there are certain things that presidents have in common no matter what school, especially in a university setting,”
6
Malloy said. “We’re the most visible representatives of the university as a whole and we need to relate to the various constituencies; both on and off campus.
“So what I have tried to do is develop a style of interaction with the various constituencies that can allow me to keep on top of what’s happening and also to project a vision for the future of the university and for the resources it needs to achieve in schools.”
Malloy said that his style of leadership is to involve others in dialog and discussion: “I like to be present at the various groups bn the campus. I’m a big process person. I participate in a lot of meetings. I have established many task forces and committees, and I think they have all been of great assistance in reflecting about some of the big issues of the university.”
Malloy also has a set of responsibilities that are not directly Notre Dame-related, such as serving on the Board of the International Federation of Catholic Universities, the Points of Light Foundation and on President Bush’s Drug Advisory: Council. However, he said, these positions are an extension of his job in that they fill a “kind of service component” that all presidents have.
Another administrative duty in which Malloy has an active part is fund raising. “We have been very successful in fund raising compared to the history of Notre Dame ... the most successful Catholic university in history,” he said. “That doesn’t mean that the funds will all come at once. But for a private university in this day and age, that’s a tremendous source of encouragement that
we’ve been able to get that kind of support.”
Notre Dame has recently completed its Strategic Moment Campaign in which $463 million was raised, exceeding the drive’s original goal by $233 million. ■
The university’s endowment is now $660 million. And, in addition to this funding, tuition has been increased the last few years. Yet this semester, Notre Dame has found itself embroiled in a budget crisis, with several departments in the College of Arts and Letters complaining to Malloy’s administration about bring underfunded. Some may wonder how Notre Dame’s budget could be in the red with such a large endowment.
“First of all, about 77 percent of our operating budget comes from tuition, room and board, Malloy said. That is, we are very tuition, room and board dependent to cover the cost of the university. Secondly, by using the strategy of the endowment, for every million dollars of endowment, on the five percent yield per year, we get $50,000.
“If we chose to use the money and distribute it and not put it in an endowment, we could have a quick fix, but then we wouldn’t have any money left. It would be a short term fix. So what we’re trying to do is to increase significantly our financial aid endowment, and therefore, the amount of annual yield we can use for that purpose.
We need a huge endowment just for financial aid to have additional resources to cover annual costs and commitments.”
Malloy said the university has been working hard in this area, making it their number
SCHOLASTIC
ii.
one priority. And he said that some progress has been made. “But the need is also so great. About 80 percent of our undergraduate students show need. “
Malloy said that another factor which has added to the current budget problem is that the Freshman Year of Studies has no “gates.” Mostother universities have a set number of applicants which are accepted into a college for every freshman class. At Notre Dame students are accepted into the university, not into a designated college. After the completion of their freshman year, students have the freedom to enter the college of their choice.
“So as a result, there are certain cycles of interest,” Malloy said. “Engineering was high for a while, then it declined. Busi
ness was high, then it declined. The big thing that’s happened here is that a very high percentage, about 45 percent of our undergraduate students, are majoring in Arts and Letters.”
The problem is compounded by the relatively recent reduction in teaching loads. Teachers who had previously taught an average of three courses a semester are now teaching two. “That’s the most expensive thing that the university has done in the recent past,” he said.
“Arts and Letters has about 300 faculty members. If you say that one third of their teaching load has been reduced, you need a hundred new faculty members tomorrow to make up for the deficiency. If you say the average faculty member gets so much per year, let’s say $50,000, times a hundred, it would give you some indication of the additional cost an the operating budget for making those kinds of moves.”
Malloy added Notre Dame simply does not have enough money in its budget for mass hirings. “You can only afford to grow gradually to make up the slack.”
Easy, quick solutions to this problem don’t seem to be forthcoming, Malloy said. “One way to solve it is to have gates: You can only have so many people in the college and that’s it. We haven’t chosen to do that. Or we could have kept the teaching load at
Peter Buonaccorsi
three-three [three courses per semester] and not reduced it to two-two. Or we could increase the tuition so that we could hire a lot more professors, but we don’t think we can do that and keep. Notre Dame relatively affordable. So all we can do is [hire] incrementally, over time. And that’s what we’re trying.”
Malloy said that universities are slow to change. “Institutions like this, because of tenured professors and .specializations, are glacial in some times. When they can make changes across colleges, for example. That’s part of the difficulty.
“So we’re making an adjustment. The problems are real, and the students have legitimate reasons to be concerned. But it depends on what you compare us to.”
Malloy cited such examples as the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, where 60 percent of the undergraduate courses are taught by adjuncts and graduate students, and Yale University, which has an eight million dollar operating budget deficit. “In other words, this is a crisis, in a sense, for all of higher education, not just for Notre Dame. We’re better than some places.”
When asked what the students could expect during this transitional period, Malloy said, “Well... larger classes. I mean, there are people in the departments, faculty, who defend that larger classes can be a better way
to educate in some situations... The question is if you’re going to have a balance between larger and smaller classes, particularly when you get into your major courses,”
Malloy said that students have to understand that there is only a limited amount of funding available and to ask the faculty to set priorities. “If you read all the student press over the last several months, every department says to the university administration, ‘Give us more faculty. Give us funding.’ That’s their point of view. Whatl’m saying is the students ought to be saying to the faculty, ‘There’s only so much money to go around and we need for you to give priority, in your judgement about what the department can do in the short
order and in the long order, to our needs and our desire to major in your area.’”
Another aspect of the university that Malloy addressed was Notre Dame’s recent trend toward becoming a more research-oriented institution. Malloy said that research is key to enhancing Notre Dame’s reputation.
“The reputations of universities are driven by the research and graduate programs and professional programs, not by the undergraduate schools. And insofar as undergraduate degrees are weighted when you’ve graduated, from the outside that’s the most important determinant. So in that sense, the value of your degrees increases relative to the productivity and scholarly research and presence of our faculty.”
Faculty members must balance their time between research and teaching, Malloy said. “I think in a research university, which is what we are, everybody needs to do research. I don’t think we want to have those who claim just claim to be teachers and do no research, or those who are just researchers and do no teaching. What we have tried to do is to create a learning environment and a scholarly environment where our faculty can have sufficiant time to do high-quality research, and have periodical sabbaticals, and to have research monies available, so that they can compete with faculty members
DECEMBER 5, 1991
elsewhere. But at the same time bring what they’re learning and exploring into the classroom.”
The typical Notre Dame faculty member teaches both undergraduate and graduate level courses. This differ from the norm on
most research university campuses, where “We represent in the public eye the most there are many researchers who do not teach well known Catholic university in the world.
anyone, or only teach graduate students.’ In terms of numbers of students, about
three fourths of Notre Dame is undergraduate and one quarter is graduate and professional. Many other research universities such as Cal Tech or MIT, are predominantly made up of graduate and professional students. “Notre Dame is never going to be that way in our lifetime,” Malloy said. “That needs to be reflected in the way we distribute our resources. But, we have the capacity to be selectivly strong and superb at the graduate and professional level. And that’s where we have failed up till now.”
Malloy also spoke of another change developing in the university today — the proposed increase of females in the Notre Dame student population. At the Trustee’s meeting last may, the Borad eliminated Notre Dame’s gender-based quota, rendering gender “just one factor among many in admissions.”
“We expect that in the next freshman class, the percentage of females will be between 40 percent and 44 percent,” the president said.
At the officers’ meeting on Dec. 2, the percentage balance for new admissions was set at 44 percent female. In determining the male-female ratio at Notre Dame, the women of Saint Mary’s College must be taken into account, Malloy said. “We have to weigh Saint Mary’s College, which is an all female institution, insofar as there is a social connection between the two institutions,” Malloy said. “I think there’s misgivings on thepartof the Trustees abouthow we count Saint Mary’s College. Because if we were 50-50 at Notre Dame, we would be as a social unit predominantly female. And that might be appropriate, but that needs to be weighed.”
Malloy does not think maintaining standards in accordance with church doctrines a hinderance for an academic institution. “The private schools that will not only survive but flourish in the next decade or two
will be those that have a distinctive identify, something that separates them from just any old institution, particularly state schools. In my judgement, the greateststrength of Notre Dame is its heritage and its identity as a Catholic university,” President Malloy said.
I see that as an opportunity rather than a
burden.”
Malloy thinks we have found a reasonable balance between being a university and being Catholic. “We have found a balance,
but that doesn’t mean that certain issues are	ate I also mean the professionals school, and
going to go away, or that everybody’s going to agree with the outcome.”
“Some things are unacceptable, and that’s why we have policies about things like objectionable conduct toward others. And we have certain internal policies that we think reflect certain accountability structures for the university as a whole. They have been thought up to now to fit the kind of school we want to be,” Malloy said. But he added that
there is always on going debate of policy which he finds necessary and desirable.
Malloy called on students to take responsibility for their own education. “I guess the biggest message I’d have is as important as education in the classroom is, the broadest education takes place when people get involved outside of the classroom as well: in the dorm, in the university, in the community, in the nation. And the students that I think exemplify what Notre Dame is about combine real commitment to education in the sense of pursuing a degree, in the classroom, in lab and in the library, with ac
^Budgeteer
L^motorinn^
SINGLE
tivities, leadership, service and developing a life of faith. And in that sense, if people can leave college having assumed responsibility for their education, it will happen the rest of their life. And if they are simply passive about it, learning will stop after the diploma is finished.”
If the president had to put his goals and visions for Notre Dame in a nutshell, it would be “that Notre Dame would be ever more a full-fledged university, where both the undergraduate and graduate programs are equally excellent. And when I say gradu-
Law School, and the MBA. I think we are not there yet, the undergraduate program is better than the graduate school. But we’re getting there. If people could look back on the period when I’ve been asked to be president, and say we made strides in that regard, I’d be happy.”
(When contacted this week for a reaction to Fr. Burchaell’s resignation, Malloy de
clined to comment.)
□
n
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
♦FREE LOCAL CALLS
♦LAUNDRY
PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS
8
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
smnt At Jfotre JJatne
The resignation of Fr. James Burtchaell, C.S.C. has brought the problem of harassment to the forefront of university debate
by Margaret Kenny
Du Lac states, “The University of Notre
Dame prohibits sexual harassment by all faculty, staff and students.” This includes unwelcome sexual advances as well as requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when such conduct infringes upon the rights of the complaintant. When a student feels that he or she has been sexually harassed and reports the incident(s), serious action is taken by the university. It is also included in Du Lac that it is considered unacceptable for faculty members — including professors, graduate students with teaching responsibilities and other institutional personnel — to “engage in amorous relations with students,” even if both parties have consented to the relationship.
In the case of a student being harassed by a member of the faculty, the incident should be reported to the provost’s office, where the matter will be handled. DuLac also includes that if a formal charge is filed, it will be handled as a serious cause for dismissal of the offending faculty member. According to Sr. Kathleen Cannon, Associate Provost, a formal charge would involve a written description of the situation, including the name of the making the complaint. She adds, “Complaints that aren’t formal charges are very hard to deal with.”
Cannon said that the next step in the process would be to interview all who are involved. The provost’s office would discuss the complaint with the accused party and ask him or her to respond with his or her side of the story. “If there is a difference in the description of the events [between the accuser’s and the accused’s versions], then I
would ask them to meet together with me,” Cannon said, adding that she has never had to call such a meeting.
The provost’s office estimates that this Sexual Harassment policy is used four or five times a year at the university, with the severity of the complaints varying. Cannon also added that the students are “generally not vindictive; they’re not out to [cause the accused to] lose their jobs.”
The issue of sexual harassment among faculty members and students has come to the forefrontat the university concerning the resignation of Fr. James Burtchaell, C.S.C., a noted theologian and university professor.
On December 1, The South Bend Tribune published a story announcing Burtchaell’s resignation amidst charges of sexual harassment, citing its source as an article to be released in the National Catholic Reporter on December 6. Burtchaell is being charged with sexual misconduct while counseling several male university students.
Both articles stated that Burtchaell was formally charged and asked to resign his tenure at the university in April,1991, although this information was not released by the university, pending investigation into the matter. At the time of the allegations, Burtchaell was on sabbatical at Princeton University; his sabbatical was extended until his formal resignation was to be announced early in December.
The National Catholic Reporter states, “During the 1989-90 academic year, several students; independent of one another, confided to a priest in the theology department that they had been sexually harassed or abused by Burtchaell.”
According to Cannon, who is the official in the provost’s office that usually handles
sexual harassment cases, a faculty member who is considered to have violated the sexual harassment policy may face different levels of punishment. This punishment is said to range from a letter of reprimand being placed in the file of the accused, to the denial of a pay increase, to suspension from the university for a semester or a year, to dismissal, from the university. “The provost’s office has referred individuals to counseling as well,” Cannon added.
She said that prior to this week, in the year she has been at Notre Dame, no faculty member has been dismissed from the university for sexual harassment. She also noted the the provost himself, Timothy O’Meara, handled Burtchaell’s case, so she was not familiar with the case. Provost O’Meara could not be reached for comment on the matter. Although she is unable to judge the case personally, Cannon feels that, based on the information released in the newspaper, “There is clearly a difference between rumors and formal complaints.” She said that no-action could be taken until a formal complaint had been made and felt this explained the reported delay between the first report of the incident and the actual disciplinary action.
Burtchaell arrived at the university as a student in 1951, as a student of philosophy. He later earned degrees in theology from the Gregorian University in Rome, the Catholic University in Washington and Cambridge University in England, from which he holds a Ph.D. in divinity. Burtchaell returned to Notre Dame as a professor in 1966, holding the rank of professor of theology. He has offered courses in scripture, and he has also taught and written on the subjects of grace, continued on page 11
DECEMBER 5,1991
9
NEWS
l^©[nnm©w©By ©][n^ B© [M©gB©©dl
Fr. Burtchaell’s resignation raises new questions about old taboos
by Jenny Tate
U ev. James Burtchaell has resigned J\. from the university amidst allegations of sexual harassment. The controversy surrounding the resignation has raised some serious questions regarding an already touchy subject — homosexuality.
Burtchaell, a former university provost and theology department chairman who has been at Notre Dame for over twenty years, is bestknown by students through his capacity as a university counselor. Burtchaell has also gained national recognition for his strong anti-abortion position and his writings concerning the topic.
In a statement released to the press December 1, Rev. Carl Ebey outlined the logistics of Burtchaell’s resignation. “Father B urtchaell has been on sabbatical leave from the University of Notre Dame since August 1990. At the request of the university, he agreed in April 1991 to resign from the faculty at the end of his current sabbatical leave in the summer of 1992,” said Ebey. Burtchaell has spent the duration of his sabbatical leave at Princeton University.
Burtchaell’s agreement to leave the university follows male student allegations of Burtchaell’s sexual advances towards them. In certain cases; sexual contact between Burtchaell and students was alleged to have occurred.
The allegations against Burtchaell and his subsequent resignation have left members of the Notre Dame community stunned. Although many have refused to comment, the sentiments of university officials has perhaps been best summarized by Ebey in his press release. Ebey expresses the sadness felt by the Holy Cross community and deems the event “anomolous and painful.”
The recent controversy surrounding the alleged conduct of Burtchaell comes in the midst of a raging debate at Notre Dame concerning the issue of homosexuality and the fight for university recognition of Gays and Lesbians Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s College (GLND/SMC). Many are already speculating that the impact of the controversy lies in the deep-rooted homophobia which exists at Notre Dame.
“The situation is a real symbol of the way Notre Dame thinks about gay issues,” said GLND/SMC co-chairperson Michael Vore. Vore’s concern rests in the possibility that the university has been aware of Burtchaell’s conduct for several years but ■ chose to ignore the problem as it dealt with the “taboo” subject of homosexuality.
Notre Dame professor of philosophy and an initiator of the group, Families and Friends of Gays and Lesbians, Edward Manier agrees that the university’s attitude towards gays and lesbians is less than desirable. “TheNotre Dame community needs to be more open, understanding, and supportive on topics dealing with sexuality across the board,” said
Manier.
Yet, Manier believes that homosexuality is not the issue in this incident. “The underlying question is a question about sexual harrassment,” said Manier. “GLND/ SMC is certainly not an issue here. In my view, to
Mike Miller feels that gays are repressed at the university
write anything that implies that it is is gay bashing pure and simple,” he said. “It is not a gay-straight issue as if the only people who are affected are gay. That is just silly.”
Manier emphasizes that the controversy encompasses much more than issues surrounding sexuality; the issue questions the very extent of power endowed upon officials, including priests. “Does the local sexual harrassment policy inevitably perpetuate a fatally flawed conflict of interest between individuals who must enforce the policy, not subject to review because of blanket confidentially rules routinely and regularly invoked and those accused of violating it, some of whom may be brothers in a religious order,” said Manier.
Manier stresses that because people attain a level of authority, whether through the priesthood or some other capacity, does not necessarily qualify them to counsel others. “Notre Dame must clarify the distinction of the professional status of the University Counseling Center and the free-lance, untrained, unsupervised, unlicensed and uncertified ‘advising’ which some of us feel
10
SCHOLASTIC
qualified to provide because we are ‘charismatic* or because we have received Holy Orders, or because we have degrees in Sacred Scripture, or theology or philosophy or poetry or biology,” said Manier
Manier’s concern lies in the absence of a system of checks and balances in the priesthood. Manier emphasizes that priests are so often placed in counseling roles yet are subject to review only by other members of the priesthood.
This is not to say that the priesthood is alive with misconduct. Vore emphasizes that the set of circumstances involving the allegations against Burtchaell remains an isolated incident “I don’t think the priesthood is plagued by abuses,” said Vore. But he, along with Miller, feels that the incident does demonstrate the repression experienced by gay and lesbian persons. “It shows the despair that gay people are facing,” said Miller.
Yet Vore stresses that the controversy surrounding Burtchaell is not an issue of homosexuality but rather an issue of sexual abuse. Michael W. Miller, a Notre Dame staff member and GLND/SMC chairperson, agrees that the issue stretches beyond the realm of a mere .question of sexuality. “I think that its a tragedy anytime anyone is a victim of sexual abuse,” he said.
Both Vore and Miller express their belief
that Burtchaell himself is a victim. “It is not the fact that he is gay but it is the fact that he has denied that. The problem is not homosexuality but it is the denial of it,” said Vore. Vore believes that our society puts pressure on gay and lesbian people to deny their sexuality and that this denial results in unacceptable behaviors. .
Miller agrees that the denial of homosexuality results in a situation which victimizes homosexuals by encouraging them to repress their identity. Miller hopes that people look at the circumstances surrounding BurtchaelTs behavior, such as the mindset of society that homosexuality is a non-desirable orientation. “It is very easy for people to say ‘Oh, let’s get rid of the gay priest,”’ said Miller. “That’s the easy way out,” he said.
In a more direct sense, the allegations against Burtchaell have sparked questions concerning homosexuality in the priesthood. Recently, several reports of incidents involving homosexuality within the priesthood have been documented, leaving outsiders to speculate as to the nature and origin of such reports.
Due to the sensitive nature of the issue, many Notre Dame priests declined to comment on the issue. However, Rev. Robert Griffin, who has been a member of the priesthood for almost forty years, expressed
the evolving nature of the question of homosexuality in the priesthood in a recent Scholastic interview.
At the time of his ordination in 1954, priests who professed homosexual tendencies were shunned from the seminary. “I meet people (within the priesthood) today who talk about being homosexual which, again, was something you never used to see,” said Griffin.
But Griffin points out that the issue is not one of homosexuality or heterosexuality, but, rather, one of celibacy. “The problem is not in the fact that the people are homosexual,” said Griffin. Griffin stresses that a priest’s sexual orientation is irrelevant as long as that priest practices complete celibacy in accord with the commitment of a priest to the church.
“If the priesthood is going to work, its going to work because people are faithful to the commitments they have made,” said Griffin.
In response to the specific incident involving Burtchaell, Griffin described the event as a “great sadness.” Griffin said, “It’s hard to speak of it without wanting to weep.”
The allegations levied against Burtchaell have produced a rippling effect of questions involving not only the priesthood, but also the entire concepts of sexuality and authority.	□
continued from page 9 marriage, ethics and abortion.
Burtchaell served as chairman of the theology department during the late sixties, and at one point, he served as provost of the university and trustee. He was rumored to have been in contention for the position of president at the end of Fr. Hesburgh’s term, yet he resigned from his post as provost in 1970 and returned to teaching for unknown reasons.	;
The Congregation of Holy Cross, seemingly in reaction tb the Burtchaell resignation, has issued an interim policy on sexual abuse, the tenets of which are reprinted in part in the NCR. “Sexual abuse may occur not only between minors and adults but also between two adults. Ulis type of abuse, although not publicized as much in the papers, also occurs in our society, and we must
DECEMBER 5, 1991
have procedures in place for dealing with such activity.”
The NCR also reports that the university has been much more aggressive in its disciplinary actions concerning the matter than the Congregation of Holy Cross. In a press release, the provincial supervisor, Fr. Carl F. Ebey, states, “Once the facts of the matter were known by superiors of the Congregation, Fr. Burtchaell was asked to undergo psychological evaluation and treatment and he is doing so.”
Victims of sexual harassment or abuse are encouraged to seek counseling at the University Counseling Center. Sally Coleman, a counselor at the center, said that if the student is willing to talk, the center will provide him or her with support and encourage him or her to talk to a friend or a trusted individual. If a student would prefer off
campus counseling, he or she is referred to the Madison Center, where the victim can speak with a counselor specially trained in Sex Offense Services.
The resignation of Burtchaell has caused an increase in debate over homosexuality within the university as well as in the priesthood. The response of the university has been met with mixed reactions. NCR points out that some applaud the university for taking action and ensuring that Burtchaell will not return to his position, yet questions have risen concerning the extent of knowledge of the university. Allegations have been made that Burtchaell abused students under his counsel as early as the 1970’s, yet the incidents were not publicized until recently; the university cites concerns of confidentiality and will notrelease any information on the matter.	□
11
NEWS
AM Tsmmipoira
Students will enjoy luxury of laundry service in the spring with the reopening of St. Michael's Laundry.
by Jenny Tate
he fire that ravaged St Michael's A Laundry in November of 1989 destroyed the building and all its contents. A laundry crisis was thrust upon the male population of Notre Dame.
Since the admittance of females to the university, St. Michael’s has been shrouded in controversy. Many felt that the service promoted male-female inequality on campus by being open exclusively to males. The laundry facility was also criticized for requiring all males living on campus to pay a $50 fee for the service, whether they took advantage of it or not Most males did, indeed, take advantage of the service as no other means of doing laundry existed, barring the use of machines in a female dorm.
It has been nearly two and a half years since the fire at St. Michael’s, and once again a student laundry iservice is preparing to open. The actual plant of the new facility is located north of the Credit Union across Douglas Road, but the exchange center can be found on Lake Road on the former site of the groundskeeping building.
The new laundry service will begin business, both pick up and over the counter, on January 20. The service will cost$75 per semester, including pick up of dirty laundry. Students can retrieve their laundry at the exchange center in approximately three to four days.	■
Associate vice-president of business affairs James Lyphout indicates that the new laundry will be similar in nature to the bld service. “As in thepast, we willpick up dirty laundry, process it and return it to the exchange center,” said Lyphout
However, the new service will differ
from the old. It will not be mandatory for all males living on campus to subscribe to the service, and the service is open to females. “Our new policy will be that males and females can buy a contract but that it is no longer mandatory for males,” saidLyphout
The contracts require a semester payment and guarantee laundry pick up and delivery to the exchange center. “Those who don’t have a contract will have to find a way to pick it (laundry) up at the plant,” said Lyphout.
The return of the laundry service occurs in response to a high student demand reflected in the fact that many students, after the fire, used the laundry service by transporting their laundry to the off-campus plant. The university also needs a laundry facility to process athletic uniforms, linen and student bedding. “As long as we were building a laundry facility we thought it would be advantageous for students,” said Lyphout.
The news is welcome to many Notre Dame students. “I hate doing laundry,” said St. Edward’s sophomore Mark Berrettini. “This way, I don’t have to waste my time doing it”
Yet for many campus males, doing laundry has become a fact of life. “I got used to doing my laundry myself. It’s easier. You don’t have to wait for it to get done or wait for it to get picked up,” said Grace Hall junior Dan Heenan.
Although the facility will now be open to women, some are a bit skeptical concerning the laundry service. “I think females will use the service for generic stuff,” said Pasquerilla West sophomore Elisa Klosterman. “But I personally would not use it for my regular clothes ... I feel safer doing my own laundry.”
Lyons Hall junior Dora Martinez echoes Klosterman’sapprehension: “Imightdodry cleaning there, but I would rather do my own laundry.”
This is not to say that campus females are not pleased to see the facility equally accessible to them. “The old system definitely promoted sexism and stereotypes,” said Klosterman.
With the appearance of the new laundry, many wash'ing machines now used by males who lack machines in their Own dorms are being removed. Plans to remove all machines from Washington Hall are underway, and the status of the machines in Flanner, Grace and the Rockne Memori al ’ s remain in question. Every women's dorm is equipped with washing and drying machines.
“It (the restriction of laundry machines available to males) seems to set up that only women can do laundry and that men cannot. It keeps sustaining myths of traditional male-female roles,’’.says Beirettini.
Most students, however, feel that the opening of the service to both sexes, even in light of the removal of facilities for men to do their own laundry, eliminates a problem of stereotyping. “It’s more of an inconvenience for guys to not have machines in their own dorms than it promotes a stereotype,” says Klosterman.
Martinez, too, agrees that the males on campus will be inconvenienced by the lack of in-dorm machines available for their usc but does not see it as creating male-female inequalities. “Now that they are offering it for both males and females, it (stereotyping) is not a problem,” she says.	□
12
SCHOLASTIC
"SINCE
1981"
artdtd
*»g«S73£;
UND Parting Lawn
< D
1412 South
Bond Ave., South Bond, (219)	232-4244
z
*Zhe Italian Ristorante1
Partsft
Seafood Entrees
Chicken
Veal
Carbonara
, - Scampi Eggplant
Parmigiana
Italy’s Favorite Pasta’s Pizza & Carry Out Cocktails - Beer - Wine
BANQUET ROOM
Modular Bours: Toso - Sat 4-11
Sundays 4-9. Closed Mondays
GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS
Your Blue & Gold card is good for a $1.00 discount off any footlong Subway sandwich.
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. on days of home football games.
For the next football game or your next party, call Subway for a delicious Party Sub or Party Platter!
CALL 277-7744
iSUBUJAY
State Road 23 and Ironwood
DECEMBER 5, 1991
CAMPUS LIFE
The Madrigal Christmas dinners bring a touch of Renaissance England to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame
Members of the Saint Mary's Women's Choir and the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Collegiate Choir practice their songs for the program.
by Kip Meyer
Men and women dressed in colorful Renaissance costumes, complete with head pieces; court dances and centuries-old carols; traditional English food such as wassail, roasted beef, and figgy pudding — this could be an image straight out of Renaissance England. But it’s a feast for the eyes, as well as the palate, that one can experience every year at Saint Mary’s College.
The Madrigal Christmas Dinners, a program in its nineteenth year at the college, is performed by Saint Mary’s andNotre Dame students. The production boasts a variety of colorful entertainment, including singing,
The Tudor rose, symbol of the Tudor kings and queens who reigned during Renaissance England.
dancing, juggling, recitation and live music.
The traditional “madrigal” is a kind of love song, typically unaccompanied and with parts for five or six voices. Popular in England in the 16th and early 17lh centuries, this musical form was developed in Italy in the 16th century. Also, the madrigal is not necessarily limited to being sung at Christmastime.
Fortunately, this rich Renaissance music tradition can be enjoyed today in a program that’s complete with trumpet fanfares and a court jester. Dr. Menk commented, “This year we are fortunate enough to have a juggler, Justin Hartings, from Notre Dame.” She also added that this is the first year that live trumpet players will be included in the production.
Meanwhile, senior drama major Timothy Deenihan fulfills one of his obligations as Master of the House by performing a number of Shakespearean soliloquies.
These performers accompany nine male singers from Notre Dame, fifteen female singers from St. Mary’s, two pairs of court dancers, and four female peasant dancers. Dr. Menk has trained the singers for the last eight years and been the sole director of the entire program for the past three.
Dr. Menk selects the performers frdm men and women who volunteer their time and talents out of personal interest in the program. The women singers are members
of the Saint Mary’s Women’s Choir while the men sing with the Saint Mary’s/Notre Dame Collegiate Choir.
Although the costumes borrowed from the St. Mary’s theater department do not come from exactly the same time period as the food served at dinner, and the songs are primarily carols and not madrigals, the combination of these elements create an authentic Renaissance atmosphere. ■
Senior Ed Palmisano, who has performed in the Madrigal Dinners since his sophomore year, commented on the advantages
of performing with the talented members of the Saint
14 ’
SCHOLASTIC
Mary’s Women’s Choir: “Every year the guys improve because of this chance to meet and perform with different women from the Women’s Choir.”
Palmisano said that the style the singers use is unique because there “is a lot of verse, refrain, verse, refrain ... and almost everyone sings a solo verse. Everyone
in it gets a chance to do their own thing.”
The music in the program, which is played on a harpsichord, four recorders and three trumpets, is provided by a group of eight talented musicians.
The evening dining festivities begin with the serving of the wassail, a spicy apple cider punch served hot. The drink is brought to the guests with a song and dance. After the wassail is served and the singing is complete, a trumpet fanfare sounds to announce the bearing of a roasted boar’s head to the banquet table.
The main course of dinner, beef du jous, is accompanied by more Renaissance song and dance. In fact, one of the songs performed in this segment was composed by King Henry VIII. •
Another fanfare blares and the performers burst into “We Wish You a Merry Christmas” as the flaming figgy pudding is served. At the end of the meal, a final fanfare sounds and the entertainers present the main part of the performance.
The choir performs a series of Christmas songs with origins from a variety of countries and historical periods, including Traditional French, Austrian, and German, and Old English and Spanish.
During the final presentation, the court and peasant dancers contribute to the lively performance. Finally, the guests are invited to join in a rendition of “Silent Night” to complete an evening of unique entertainment.	.
When asked if the program varies from year to year, Palmisano said that although the choirs “alternate three or four songs” from year to year, the program basically stays the same. “The people expect it that way,” Palmisano said, since changes in the program are noticed by people who have made the Madrigal Dinners a Christmas tradition. “A lot of the companies in town give tickets away as gifts to employees,”
Title page from a book of madrigals.
Ed Palmisano models his costume for the
Palmisano adds.
Although the Madrigal has been performed for nearly twenty years at St. Mary’s, few students are aware that the program exists. One explanation may be that only two hundred seats are available each night of performance, and these are generally bought up by businesses fairly early. Another explanation may be that each ticket costs $22.50.
Dr. Menk explained that “all the cost goes to cover the food, the service and
program printing along
with other minor ex-
penses.” Although the price appears expensive, Palmisano pointed out that “if you consider how much dinner, a movie, and a tip cost, the price is comparable and there is good food and the entertainment is live.”
The tickets can be purchased through the Saint Mary’s Office of Special Events (2844625). The show is offered for three nights, Dec.5-7. Seatingstartsat6:30p.m.,andthe program takes place from 7-9 p.m. Tickets are still available for the Thursday and Friday performances.	q
Traditional Renaissance finery.
Madrigal Dinners.
DECEMBER 5, 1991
15
■
Send information for your event to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Kim Cenedella at 239-7569.
Thursday 5
Movie: "Fletch," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.
Luncheon: Hospitality Luncheon, "Women United for Justice and Peace," 11:30 a.m., Center for Social Concerns.
Student World Premiers:
Films and videos from Notre Dame Communication and Theatre, 7:00 & 9:00 p.m., Snite.
Basketball: Men vs. Louisville, 7:30 p.m., JACC. Performance: "A Christmas Carol," 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall. $2.
Friday 6
Movie: "Home Alone," 8:00 & 10:30
p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Monsieur Hire," 7:30 & 9:30 p.m., Snite Auditorium, $2.
Hockey: Notre Dame against Lake Forest, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
Performance: "A Christmas Carol," 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall.
$2.
Performance: "Annie," 8:00 p.m., Morris Civic Auditorium.
For More Information C all
,..........."'.y	’■	'y, ■
LaFortune^Ihfbnn^tiohT^ 239-8128:
Senior Class: 239-5136
Jumor	tfB
' ' • '	''' "y ''y ’ s,' ' v y-' ' 's''-‘s' '' 's’'	''
Snite Film 'SeriesTiotLihe:,^39r:S
; , / : . . ... : ‘ '
Sophomore Class: 239-5225 .
News Line: 239-5110 '
JAC£ Ticket Information:; 239
",
)Notfe Dame W 283-

Saturday 7 J
Movie: "Home Alone," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: Monsieur Hire," 7:30 & 9:30 p.m., Snite, $2.
Hockey: Notre Dame vs. Lake Forest, 7:30 p.m., JACC.
Performance: "A Christmas Carol/’ 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall. $2.
Windy City Shuttle: Leaves from the Main Circle for Chicago at 9:45 a.m., $12.
Performance: "Annie," 2:00 & 8:00 p.m., Morris Civic Auditorium.
Touch Four
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 2101 for movie info.
x 2114 for the music line x 2112 .for concert info:: x;2117 for theatre ihfo. ? .
x 2525 for college events.
I  ----: :------——_
Sunday 8
Concert: Shenanigans Christmas Concert, 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall Auditorium.
Monday 9
Film: "The Stunt Man," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
I Film: "Choose Me," 9:30 p.m., Snite, $2.
x 1600 for local weather .
x 1903, for movie reviews
x 1300 for local sports info.;
x 13 01 for TV sports eyehti


Tuesday
10
Noon talk: Dr. Dean A. Porter, 12:10 p.m., Snite.
Wednesday
TOUCH
FOUR
Concert: "Dimensions in Jazz," Notre Dame Jazz Band, 7:30 p.m., Koons Band Building.
Trip: To Chicago's Terra
Museum of American Art, bus leaves the Snite at 8:30 a.m., call 239-5516 for more information.
\ we?
MhOThWtM®
CAMPUS LIFE
The cast of The Christmas Carol in a rehearsal.
The Flanner! Siegfried Players present The Christmas Carol in Washington Hall
by Maricelle Ruiz-Calderon
For many, the holiday season wouldn’t be complete without Dickens’ A Christmas Carol. Bert Koehler, an active member of the Flanner/Siegfried Players, feels the same way.
It all began a year and a half ago when Koehler, then a freshman at Flanner Hall, decided that The Christmas Carol would be a fascinating play for The Flanner/Siegfried Players to perform. In order to make his idea a reality, he reserved Washington Hall and encouraged the Players to find a cast of enthusiastic individuals.
Sherry-Ann Morris, a senior communications and theatre major, was recruited to direct the play. Morris started planning the Flanner/Siegfried’s Christmas Carol this past summer, choosing just the right script for this particular production. She remarks, “Choosing a script was hard... because everyone and their cousin has written an adaptation to The Christmas Carol.”
Nevertheless, she decided to work with Brian Way’s adaptation because “this script is light [and]... quite simple.” Morris says, “It is also that time of the year where people are willing to just... dream a little,’’ while stage manager Juliet Dickmann adds, “ ... and not think too hard.”
The interest generated by the play has
18
been exceptional. Those who were already a part of the production were amazed when nearly 70 people came to audition. Morris and Dickmann had the difficult job of narrowing the cast down to 25: “We were looking for people who could do a variety of things.” Morris explains that the reason for this was because most of the people have two parts, and one person even carries four.
As soon as the characters were lined up, rehearsals began. Morris and Dickmann both recognized that the most difficult part of the rehearsal stage would be the “getting-acquainted” period. Morris mentions, “It was really important with 25 people to get them ‘to gel’ right away, so we did a lot of playing, a lot of little games and just fun things.”
In order to get the actors to effectively portray their respective characters, Morris and Dickmann encouraged each actor to experience his or her own character fully. Dickmann explains, “After we’ve had a few rehearsals, we’ve had them gb through and describe their characters; come up with things about their characters that weren’t necessarily in the script.”
They have devoted a lot of time to character analysis due to the simplicity of the script: “If they [the actors] just come in and
read,... it can be very shallow.” Dickmann mentions that they’ve also worked hard on perfecting the characters’ accents.
A student crew has come together to assume the responsibility of the scenery and costumes for The Christmas Carol. They are going to rent some of the costumes and “have a lot of the guys find stuff on their own.” This student crew will also assume the responsibility for the lighting, sound and building the set.
The Flanner/Siegfried Players’ production of The Christmas Carol boasts an enthusiastic cast that is drawn from “ten dorms ... but including the behind-the-scenes production crew and everything there are 16 dorms total helping out,” say co-producers Michelle Griffin and Dianne Dean. Off-campus students are also involved.
The cast comes with diverse theatre experience. Morris notes, “A lot of people have some experience, but really it’s all over the place. Some people are doing it because they want an extracurricular thing to do that’s fun, because they enjoy acting. Other people are a bit more serious about acting.” Dickmann adds, “Some people have been in other shows up here. Some of them have not done anything since high school. They just want to get back into it.”
SCHOLASTIC
Colleen Montoya, a sophomore from Pasquerilla West who plays the character of Mrs. Cratchit, says, “I found out that they were having auditions for The Christmas Carol, and I’ve always liked the story... so I just thought it would be a fun production to be part of, and it has been.”
Montoya participated in a lot of theatre in high school and here at Notre Dame performed in last spring’s production of Do Black Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?
Montoya got into her character of Mrs. Cratchit by doing some character analysis. “Sherry just asks us some questions to think about... like what is your character’s childhood like, what is probably the most importantthing to your character— justquestions ... to get us thinking about the entire character rather than just the character that you see up on stage.”
Montoya explains that “everything we do somehow relates to everything else that has happened in our lives... [and] it’s the same thing with a character that you areportraying in a play. How you’re acting on stage, how your character reacts to things on stage, has to do with their entire life, too, if you want to make it a real character. That’s what we’re aiming to do.
“It’s a really fun play, and we’re having a lot of fun doing it,” Montoya adds. “Sometimes we don’t get as much done as we want at rehearsals because we have too much fun. That’s pretty much our main aim for the audience. Since we’re having so much fun up there... we want them to have fun watching it.”
The Christmas Carol’s star character, the miserly Ebenezer Scrooge, is portrayed by Thomas Williams, a graduate philosophy student Williams explains that he ended up playing Scrooge by accident. “Sherry men-■ tioned it to me while we were working in The Crucible together, and I’ve always wanted to be involved in a production of The Christmas Carol because it’s a lot of fun... It gets people in the Christmas spirit”
Thomas Williams may seem familiar to regular theater-goers at Notre Dame since he has already performed in four campus productions: The Importance of Being Earnest, Accidental Death of An Anarchist, Good Woman ofSezchuan and The Crucible.
Williams says that “the easiest and in some ways the most fun” aspect of his part is “being a jerk. In all of the shows that I’ve
DECEMBER 5,1991
done I’ve been the jerk. I don’tknow if it’s type-casting or not but if you look at the roles I’ve played I’ve always been a really unsympathetic character; the guy that you hate. And of course, that’s what Scrooge is at the beginning of the play.”
When talking about his part, Williams explains that “the most interesting and the most difficult part is sowing the seeds early on from which his conversion will grow, because itcan’t belike he’s one person at the beginning of the show and somebody entirely different [at the end]. You’ve got to see at the beginning that even though he’s a real nasty person, there are some things about him that pave the way for his conversion.”
William stresses that when portraying Scrooge, one must work with “the problem of not making the conversion too sudden or too unbelievable.” The actor must demonstrate that Scrooge “goes through a lot of stages.” William says, “By the end of the show I think it’s fairly believable that he will be a different person from what he was at the beginning ... without being implausibly different”
Portraying Scrooge’s gradual conversion involves “a combination of the words and the ‘physicalization’ ... As the show progresses, he becomes much more humble and much more open, and you see that in the way that he stands, in the way that he faces people more than he used to. You also see him becoming sort of desperate and fearful ... [that]... precious time is going to elapse and he’s not going to have had the chance to make good and to make reparations.”
Williams says, “I like the people in the cast really well. We get along. You look forward to seeing these people and working with them.” He agrees with Montoya that the cast has almost “too much fun... That’s one of the reasons I do theatre. I like acting and I like being on stage, but I also like the people that I work with.”
When the play’s co-producers Michelle Griffin and Dianne Dean are asked about what their job entails. Dean jokes, “What don’t we do?!” The cd-prbducers explain that a big part of their job is publicity. Besides being in charge of the posters and programs, they also share the responsibility of doing press releases, convincing people to buy advertising for the program, making reservations for rehearsals and recruiting people to do costumes, among myriad other
Two members of the cast wait patiently ; off-stage during rehearsal.
details.
Griffin says, ”1 just know that I put more time into this than into anything that I’ve ever... [done]... in my entire life.” But she adds that the play is “going to be great,” confident that all the hard work will pay off.	;
The Flanner/Siegfried Players are donating theprofitsof The Christmas Carol tothe	;
Dismas House, which Dean describes as “a ; home off-campus to rehabilitate former ■ prisoners and get them back into society.” : Griffin adds, “College students usually live i there as well, although this semester Dismas	:
is having trouble with funding and couldn’t ; afford to have students living there.”	:
Since Dismas House is having trouble with funding, the play’s co-producers decided to charge admission this year, instead ; of just taking a collection at the end of the ■ performance. In addition to trying to help Dismas House financially, there will be ; admission because this year in an attempt to	■
cover the expenses of a larger-than-usual • . ' production. Dean explains that this year’s cast “is much bigger, Washington Hall is < b much bigger [the players performed in the . >! Hesburgh library auditiorium in past years], ; - ■ and it’s a bigger project over all.”	: - i
With the efforts of the Flanner/Siegfried < Hall Players, Notre Dame is going to expe- ; - J rience more than the usual cold weather and ; -: • dreaded finals this month. When The ; Christmas Carol seizes Washington Hall on	j
Dec.5,6and7,getting“scrooged”maynot	;
be such a bad idea.	□
’	; - ‘i
19
SPORTS


Nick Spangler
By Amanda Clinton
a ’ encing.
Most people turn the page when they see the word. However, the Notre Dame fencing program deserves a second look.
Does the name Heidi Piper sound familiar? To many it probably does not — but it should. She is a women’s fencer and an NCAA champion. She was awarded the 1991 Notre Dame student-athlete

■ a y 912 tl
Irish mens and womens fencing heads into the 1991 season unheralded, but full of stars
award. A senior hailing from Queensland, Australia, she is perhaps one of the undiscovered jewels in Notre Dame sports.
“What else can be said about Heidi?” said the Fight-. ing Irish women ’ s fencing coach Yves Auriol. “She’s a two-time all-American, and the defending national champion. She’s clearly one of the best fencers in the nation, and one of the best in Notre Dame history. I expect her to put together another outstanding season this year.”
Piper is not the only talented person on the fencing
team. The women’s team has numerous candidates for the supporting position next to Piper. Twin sisters Kelly and Rachel Haugh, Tara Kelly, Kathleen Vogt and Mary Westrick are the key fighters who will be counted on. All of these women are seniors except Vogt, who is a junior.
Kelly and Rachel Haugh are from Portland, Oregon. Kelly is looked upon as having the experience and skill to make a lot of contribution to the team. With a strong effort by Kelly, the team will
20
SCHOLASTIC
be very strong at the NCAA championship. f	Rachel Haugh is expected to take the role of
a leader this season. With her past perfor-. manccs she will undoubtedly be a big asset to the team.
Coach Auriol also has high hopes for Vogt.
“Although Kathleen did not fence last year, she has really been a force to be reckoned with at practice this fall,” Auriol said. ,	“She will have every opportunity this season
to make her mark.”
Both Tara Kelly and Westrick are looked upon as being strong competitors and reliable fighters.
The promising first-year prospect for the women is Corinne Dougherty. She attended the University of Wisconsin last year. However, after budget cuts, the fencing program was slashed from athletics and she decided to transfer to Notre Dame. Prior collegiate competition will be an asset to her fighting which many firstyearfencers do not have.
The men’s team is not so shabby either.
Most people do not realize the large number of gifted fencers who have come through South Bend. Noel Young is a perfect example. He is from Australia and has taken this year off to train with the Australian Olympic team in Germany in prepara
Notre Dame has produced some fine fencers over the history of the program, and 1991-92 will be no exception.
Nick Spangler
tion for the 1992 games.
As a result of his absence from the team, Jeff Piper, Heidi’s brother, will be required to fill the role of leader in the men’s- foil.
“Jeff has been a potent number three man for us,” said the men ’ s coach Mike DeCicco. “Now, he will have to be our number one man. We need Jeff to really shine this year. I am confident that Jeff will come through for us.”
Also returning to the foil squad is sophomore Rian Girard who had an impressive freshman campaign with a record of 16-5.
With the entire epee squad returning, thd Irish are looking forward to the epees leading the team with the sabres at a close second and the foils gaining experience.
The epee squad will be lead by Jubba Beshin who is a senior from Passaic, New Jersey. Beshin placed second at the NCAAs last season and is expected to come through again this year as well.
David Calderhead, hailing from York in the United Kingdom, was once again reelected as captain and will be called upon to lead this promising team to the NCAAs. Sophomore Grzegorz Wozniak will help Calderhead with his impressive 40-12 record.
“This epee team is as talented as any epee team that Notre Dame has ever produced,” said DeCicco.
Nick Spangler
Women’s senior fencer Tara Kelly will provide leadership.
A first year epeeist this year is Swedish newcomer Per Johnsson. Several former Irish fencers were Swedish and have recruited other talented countrymen.
“Not only will he push the rest of the team
in practice, he will make his own impact on collegiate fencing,” said DeCicco of Johnsson.
Although the Sabre team lost two crucial fencers, Leszek Nowosielski and Dan Yu, a solid core of fighters still remains. Senior Chris Baguer is back on the strip to a third year as captain and a record of 37-5. Ed Baguer, his brother, returns with a 29-2 record and a third place at the Great Lakes Championship. Junior James Taliaferro returns to defend his Great Lakes Championship.
Although fencing does not bring in millions of dollars or large scale media coverage, this does not make the hard work and long hours of the fencers any less impressive. This year’s fencing team will undoubtedly, like those of the past, prove to be one of the nation’s best.	;□
21
DECEMBER 5, 1991
SPORTS
A Tradition of Excellence:
1966 National
Champions
Coach: Ara Parseghian.
Captain: Jim Lynch.
Notes: With a record of 9-0-1, the 1966 Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team was the first to win a national champioship for legendary coach Ara Parseghian ... This Irish team, with 12, had more All-Americans than any other Irish team before it or after it... These players scored 362 points on the season and held the oppostiion to only 38 points... The highlight of the season was a 10-10 tie againt Michigan State. It was a game that created much controversy as Parseghian was accused of not going for the win. However, to this day, Parseghian insists that this was one of the greatest games ever played by a Notre Dame football team... Also in 1966, the Observer, thedaily Notre Dame student newspaper, was founded.
1966 National Championship Team
Courtesy of Sports Information
September	24	W	Purdue	26-14	H	59,075
October	1	W	Northwestern	35-7	A	55,356
October	8	w	Army	35-0	H	59,075
October	15	w	North Carolina	32-0	H	59,075
October	22	w	Oklahoma	38-0	A	63,439
October	29	w	Navy	31-7	N	70,101
November	5	w	Pittsburgh	40-0	’ H	59,075
November	12	w	Duke	64-0	H	59,075
November	19	T	Michigan State	10-10	A	80,011
November	26	W	use	51-0	A	88,520
N - at Philadelphia
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Coquese Washington: Washington, a junior from Savannah, GA, continues to move closer and closer to the number three spot on the all-time assist leader list and to the number four spot on the alltimesteal leader list for the Notre Dame women's basketball team. After a 83-68 win againt Marquett, Washington needs four more assists and thirteen more steals to reach these marks. About Washington's performance againt Marquette, coach Muffet McGraw said, "Coquese dominated."
Curtis Janicke: Janicke, a junior from Brooklyn Park, MN, has become one of the nation's college hockey assist leaders. Janicke is averaging one assist per game (11 in 11 games). More impressive has been Janicke's recent scoring outburst in which he totaled nine points in five games to make his season total fifteen points. Janicke scored the game-tying and game-winning goals in a 2-1 OT win against Merrimack, and he scored a shorthanded goal againt topranked Maine.
22
SCHOLASTIC
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
i
GC©©^Bg Yow iy©§ ©in) B© [Booffd] ^©©f ©Ri B© IWD
Frat Boy Community Service
No Nudes! No Nudes!
A famous nude painting was removed from a Penn State University classroom, reports the College Press Service. It wasn’t offensive, but the professor who teaches the class noticed more ,	attention being paid to the painting than was being offered to her and
the artwork caused many lewd remarks. “Nude Maja,” an 1800’s ■ work by Goya, was removed from Penn State’s Schuylkill, Pennsylvania branch campus. “Female faculty find it difficult to ।	appear professional when forced to lecture to class with a picture of
i a female nude on the wall behind them,” was the explanation offerded by the Liason Committee. To avoid controversy over . leaving other nudes up, the university removed four others from classrooms and relocated them at various places. Several members of the University are charging censorship. Before these drastic . measures, the school attempted to replace the classic paintings with ; nude replicas of Roseanne Barr, but a higher amount of in-class i illness, lewd remarks and absenteeism occurred.
The Pi Kappa Alpha Chapter of the University of North Alabama was suspended by the administration for alleged Halloween activity according to the College Press Service. Several Pikes apparently terrorized a neighborhood as they stole pumpkins and Halloween decorations. The University defended their decision since the Fraternity supported the activity. In response, one Pike said, “At no time did a brother mention, suggest or subliminally imply that we borrow, steal or think about a pumpkin.” Prepared statement, maybe? These are definitely some of America’s great minds at work.
Keeping Beer on the Alco-Hill
i A new alcohol policy concerning beer in the football stadium was got some Kansas University students brewing, according to the Daily Kansan. The university has traditionally permitted students t to drink beer in the stands at all home football games. However, a new policy allows only seniors to retain the privelege. More surprising is the new limit on consumption. The students may only consume 3.2 beer (3.2% alcohol) at football games. Many students are concerned about the end of a tradition and the problem of ;	enforcing the 3.2 rule. As one freshman put it, “I don't think the KU
football team will bring in fans by itself.” Ouch.
i
i	. ■
i
DECEMBER 5, 1991
Fingerpainting’s Closed at Miami
Semester course registration isn’t just a major headache for Notre Dame, according to the Miami Hurricane. University of Miami students faced long lines and many course closings at their registration week. Yet the Hurricanes are spared the agony of over-the-phone rejection by an anonymous, androgenous thing. They get the rejection by an anonymous, androgenous person behind a computer. After several hours of malfunctioning computers, the closings started. It was all downhill after CHEM 414: Full Body Tanning closed. This four credit with lab class was soon followed by PHYS 552: Let’s Bake and MATH 000:1 Can Count. When asked if he got any classes he needed for his major, one senior student said “Major, what major?"	□
Edited by Mike Owen
23
S
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Graceland — Heavenly Eternal Resting Place of the King or
Symbol of Our Nation’s Decline?
Your own personal tour of the home of the King of Rock 'n Roll without having to fork over the $16.95
in a cheesy gift shop until you arc dumped off at the end in another cheesy gift shop. Both places like to make big bucks off of pens, sweaters, plates and other garage sale material. This one moment is worth the 12 hours of sheer torture driving through the Bible Belt.
Just to give you the dimensions of Graceland’s popularity, imagine 20 midsize buses departing each hour with 30 people on them for 10 hours a day, 7 days a week. You can only get to the house on their buses. One tour guide, Four Foot Sheila, (due to her height), said we were there in the off season. She said people wait two or
by Michael Owen
"If this were Disneyland, I'd buy a pair of Elvis ears."—The Dead Milkmen
There are some things in childhood you can never forget. The day Elvis was buried is one of those memories for me. I was only six as I watched those 77 white Cadillac hearses pull up to Graceland. My brother Brendan decided that the history of that day was far more important than the usually scheduled tennis lessons. I concurred. Ever since that hot August day,. I have had a yearning to go through those gates with the music notes on them and unlock the secrets of Graceland. Actually, I’ve always wanted to see the house of one
The King In his better days. This was also his heftiest stage (c.240lbs).
of America's cheesiest, overrated millionaires. I consider myself gifted. Not many
three hours in line in the summer to see the house, the biggest day of the year at
people gel to realize their life's ambition. So here goes. Hopefully some of you will be inspired to imbark on a similar soul-searching retreat.
You might wonder why I’m telling you a fall break experience more than a month after it happened. As you will see, it has taken me this long just to come up with the words to relate the experience to the virgin Elvis fan (and to stop laughing). This, my friends, is Graceland.
The trip to Memphis is, at best, different. When arriving in Memphis, one becomes aware that it is Ga-race-lund, pretty momma, not Graceland. You're definitely
no longer in Indiana, Toto. You are less than a few miles from Mississippi and Arkansas and images ofDeliverance do come to mind. It’s not really scary, but it is advisable to switch your license plates if you’re from anywhere northeast of the Mason-Dixon line.
Cruising down Elvis Presley Boulevard and arriving at Graceland gives, I think, the same climatic feeling that you get when you first pull up ND Ave and see the Dome. Although in this case you aren’t let down after ten minutes or so, and you get to hear “Hunk ‘O Bumin’ Love” piped into the parking lot. It’s a euphoric celebration of Elvisism from the moment you buy tickets
Graceland is on the anniversary of his death in August. A candlelight procession of Priscilla wannabees and King devotees march to the grave by the hundreds. I think it's soon to be a national holiday.
The type of people on our bus were certainly not a cross-section of America. Most of them were white-trash husbands and wives who dressed and styled their hair like the King. There were also many foreigners on thebus which mademea little depressed. It was a sad sight representing our country to others by a litany of polyester jumpsuits and Elvis cologne (his own sweat). They have the Coliseum and the Eiffel Tower, we have the King's shack.
24
SCHOLASTIC
The first thing that you learn at Graceland is that television is deceiving. The place is really not that big. It sort of looked like Pangbom with a few Ionic columns slapped in front of it (fake lions included). The second thing you learn is that Elvis’ taste in anything was dyslexic. They proudly tell you that he designed the whole place and, frankly, it’s not hard to believe. The moment you walk in you become one with the 15 foot ‘non-sectioned’ white leather couch where Elvis liked to party. Just up the stairs is the bathroom. Not just any bathroom, but the place where Elvis took his last, um, breath. It’s excluded from the tour, but
many, many people asked if they could just take a peek. We considered it on our second time through.
Anyway, the tour continues with the most blatant displays of a person who did not know what to do with his money. Fifty grand for a bamboo chair shaped like a monkey for Lisa Marie! This piece was part of the Jungle Room collection which he decorated in a 15-minute $200,000 spree. It's quite a sight
The other thing you learn is that they like to 1 ie a lot, or at least stretch the truth. Four foot Sheila tried to tell us Elvis played three games of raquetball and was so tired from
The plastic coated resting place of America's version of royalty. Or is it?
his prescriptions that he just collapsed and died. Raquetball at 240 lbs. Think about it. She also told us we all get that fat after a while. Oh.
Finally, much like the documents at the National Archives, they like to keep Elvis’ possessions in tact. You aren’t even allowed to take flash pictures in the Hall of Jumpsuits, as the scars on
my arms will attest. Imagine leaving Casa Elvis without a shot of the Aztec cape suit.
At this stage, the last thing you expect is a little religious inspiration. However, one of their favorite stories on the tour is that Elvis never accepted the nickname King at all. To quote Shelia, (in southern twang), “Although many of his fans tried to denote him as the King, Elvis never accepted this title as there was only one true King in his life and that was Jesus Christ the Lord." Loud swooning is then heard from all corners of the Gold Record Hall as several holy rollers pass out from divine inspiration.
Once you have your fill of (or
escape from) the main house, you get to see a giftshop, another giftshop and some Elvis horses. After that, it’s Meditation Fountains — the eternal resting place of Elvis Aaron Presley. You can hardly read the tombstone as it is immersed in various plastic flora and fauna, letters from German women and twinkie boxes. You really can’t meditate there, either, since there are always five or six burly women wailing “Nooooo! He’s riawt deeeaddd! Elvis come back to uuuuussss!” In the true Irish tradition, we opted to laugh at departure rather than wail about it. One of my roommates decided to flick pennies at the fat women while the others reenacted the famous Graceland scene of Spinal Tap (“I heard he was working on a musical version of ‘Someone Up There Likes Me’ at the time.”)
The fun doesn’t stop there for your
$16.95. There’s the car museum with his
‘67 Stutz Blackhawk and the Harley Larry Mullins Jr. sat in for Rattle and Hum. Your full package also entitles you to see the touring jet ‘Lisa Marie’ and the King's official tour bus. We skipped the former and easily snuck on the latter. I kind of got a headache from all of the zebra striping and the smell in there. Definitely not worth the $4 extra we didn't pay.
The ‘Day at Graceland’ ends with a tribute movie “Walk a Mile in My Shoes.” From the offensive stench present in there, I think somebody walked a mile in Elvis’ white bucks. Maybe it was the fat women. Anyway, the film shows Elvis in his later, Vegas days where he couldn’t move anything but his right hand and his upper lip. Yet this is the Elvis everyone chooses to remember. They spend about ten minutes in the’50’s and put major emphasis on the fat, sweaty Elvis we all knew. It’s sad because all he wanted was more money. Throughout the tour, the guides remind you of Elvis’ personal philosophical motto known as TCB — Taking Care of Business. At this stage it was more like AFB — Anything For a Buck.
Many ask why anyone would ever go there, much less after a 12-hour drive. For the history buffs, it is now officially in the U.S. Register of Historical Places. For the cheesy, you also drive by John Cougar Mellencamp’s hometown, the Lorretta Lynn Hurricane Mills ranch, and the world ’ s largest ball of twine. But, in my opinion, it is probably the longest and hardest you will ever laugh at something.	□
Mike Owen is the Departments Editor for Scholastic and also enjoys a good Elvis Christmas tune.
25
DECEMBER 5,1991
1.84 2-University of Noire'Dome.
S E S Q U I C E NT E N N1 ALANNIVER S A R Y
Glancing Back
Knights of Columbus safe unlocks past
By Kristine DeGange
In 1882 in the small town of New Haven,
Conn., St Mary’s parish curate Father McGivney founded the first chapter of the Knights of Columbus. The vision he held for his new group was manifold: “To help Catholic men remain steadfast in their faith through mutual encouragement; to promote closer ties of fraternity among them; and to
Nick Spangler
Grand Knight Dave Certo and archivist Peter Lysy examine the contents of the safe at the Knights of Columbus.

set up an elementary system of insurance so that the widows and children of members in the group who might die would not find themselves in dire financial straits.”
The group coined the name Knights of Columbus because they felt that the name should honor the Catholic founder of the United States, Christopher Columbus. At the same time, “Knights” would emphasized the courtly or chivalrous behavior ideal of spirituality and service to Church, country and fellowman.
From its meager . beginnings, the group has expanded to include over 1.45 million Catholic men in some 8,500 councils all over the world.- All are dedicating themselves to the ideals of charity, unity, fraternity and patriotism established by Father McGivney. Each year the Knights dedicate countless hours and millions of dollars to charity. In one year
alone, the
generated $79 million and 27 million manhours of service to charitable causes including hospitals, civic and community projects, schools and libraries. In addition, they gave
300,000 donations of blood and spent 6.4 million man-hours working with the sick or disabled.
At Notre Dame, the Knights of Columbus boast that they are the only fraternity on campus. Founded in 1910 by Father John O’Hara (he later became Cardinal O’Hara and his tomb rests in Sacred Heart), the Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus is the oldest and largest college council. Out of 733 total members, 240 are Notre Dame students. The rest of the council is comprised of Holy Cross students, alumni and faculty including Lou Holtz, Dick Rosenthal and many rectors and campus priests.
“Membership to the Knights of Columbus is open to any male over eighteen years of age who is Catholic,” Dave Certo, Grand Knight at Notre Dame said. “The applicant has to be a practical Catholic, however. That means that they have to live up to the Ten Commandments, go to mass on Sunday and basically believe in the teachings of the Catholic Church.”
Once admitted into the Knights of Columbus, there are four degrees or levels of membership one can attain. The first degree is simply that of initial membership. The second and third degrees encourage the
member to explore the aspects of faith, and Order the fourth and highest degree, is that of an
honor guard. The fourth degree member is awarded with a sword, cap and cape.
The Notre Dame contention of the Knights does more than just charity works, although community service is emphasized. They have official meetings twice a month to discuss business and agenda along with hosting a myriad of social events.
26
SCHOLASTIC
P NTY gjl	\ D A ME DU LAC
“I think a lot of people don’t realize that the Knights of Columbus is like a fraternity. Not only do we get together on Thursdays to watch the Simpsons, have movies every Friday in our lounge and watch Fox on Sunday, we have dances and many other social events,” Certo said. “One of the highlights of the fall was that we reserved a block of about forty tickets for the Purdue game and we all went down,” he added.
The funding of these events comes not from the university but from the steak sales that the Knights hold every home football game.
“We receive absolutely no money from the university,” Certo said. “All of our money comes from the 1,500 steaks we sell each football weekend. In fact, we pay the university for a maid service.”
The building that now houses the Knights includes recreation rooms, offices, study rooms, showers, bathrooms and a kitchen, but the accommodations haven’t always been so posh. The group initially met in the basement of Walsh. Although they wanted their own building and had saved almost enough money to build one, the Depression wiped out the savings they had accumulated and they were forced to meet in the dorm. In 1969 they moved into what was then part of the post office, the building they presently occupy. Only recently was the post office moved to a new location and $300,000 of renovations made to give the Knights adequate space for their members and their activities.
The history of the Knights of Columbus is long and detailed. Contributing to the understanding of this history are the newly-aiscovered documents found in a safe inside the Knights’ building. With the help of assistant archivist Peter Lysy, the safe was emptied and the documents sent to the university archives to be sorted and preserved.
“Not nearly enough people contact us,” Lysy said. “Most of the time, its not easy to predict what is important or what will be important and what is not. Most people just throw records away without realizing that they are important.” Mr. Lysy went on to say
Nick Spangler (2)
Peter Lysy believes that the safe at the Knights of Columbus contains dating back to 1910 are primarily financial in nature.
that the financial records of students in the nineteenth century (a document that most would consider uninformative or useless) is one of the most important records that they have of the university in the 1800’s. “It is really fortunate that Dave had the sense to acknowledge the importance of these records,” Lysy added.
The papers and records that are sent to the Archives are preserved most basically by unfolding the paper, removing any paper clips or fasteners and placing them in folders. Newspaper clippings are xeroxed, pictures are removed and filed separately and the actual records are sorted by date and place in acid-free folders to slow down the deterioration process. From there, records are made on computer disks to facilitate finding these records as they are needed.
“Maybe the most important aspect of the archives is that they allow documents to be studied. It makes records and histories
available to researchers. Another important aspect is that we can get a better idea of the universe of resources available in the archives and at the university.”
Because the Knights’ records were found so recently, archivists have not had time to go through them in detail. Lysy believes however, that the records (some dating back to 1910) are primarily financial in nature.
The Knights of Columbus were founded to promote Catholicism during a time when Catholics were sorely prosecuted. Since that time, the group has flourished to become one of the leading charity and service oriented organizations in the world. They have expanded their horizons from merely supporting widows and embracing the ideals of chivalry to aiding the sick and caring for the poor. At Notre Dame, the Knights of Columbus continue to grow toward a promising future while not losing sight of the deep roots of their past. □
DECEMBER 5,1991
27
I
Do What You
Can Do by Steve Fuller and Gregg Behr
Hold on, hold on
They put you in a box so you can’t be heard
Let your spirit stay unbroken, may you not be deterred
Though you may disappear, you’re not forgotten here
And I wilLsay to you, I will do what I can do
And I will do what I can do
And I will do what I can do
Hold on; you have gambled with your own life And you face the night alone While the builders of the cages Sleep with bullets, bars and stone They do not see your road to freedom That you build with flesh and bone
Steve Fuller and Gregg Behr are co-presidents of Amnesty International Group #43.
28
r |1 hese are the words of Peter Gabriel from the song J- “Wallflower” off his 1982 Security album. We speak these words: “We will do what we can do.”
This Christmas sit with your mother and father, your brothers and sisters, and all of your family. Please share the best of your love with them. Now is the time to do this. Tomorrow you may be stripped from your home, and stripped of your human dignity. Perhaps you are more safe in the United States than in Burma, Mauritania, or Haiti or over 100 other countries, but please share the best of your love while you can.
If this appeal is not enough, think of your brothers and sisters of the world who live with these fears everyday. Be afraid to raise your voice. Be afraid to write your poetry. Be afraid to be who you are. This fear is with you everywhere—a specter which does not allow you to breathe; a prison to the flight of your soul; an end to life before the trials of death.
If you cannot be afraid with your brothers and sisters of the world, visualize with us. Your son is “disappeared.” He is spun around while hanging from a ceiling fan. He is stripped naked and tied to a block of ice. He is forced to crawl on broken glass . An iron bar is rolled on his shins until his skin comes off. You are abducted because you have “information” which will condemn your son. Your hands are tied behind your back, electrodes are attached to the most sensi-
tive parts of your body, you are raped. You are shot in the back of the head and killed. The beauty of you is now gone, forever. Whatever information was asked for echoes the silence of death.
Please, come share some love with those who do experience the fear of being who they are. Share some love with those who do experience the horror described above. Share some love with their mothers and fathers, their brothers and sisters. Tell them they are not alone and they are not forgotten. Please come and do what you can do!
Amnesty International is a worldwide human rights organization which works on behalf of prisoners around the world. It seeks the release of prisoners of conscience (people detained anywhere solely for their beliefs and origins, who have not advocated violence). It works for fair and prompt trials for political prisoners. It opposes torture and execution of all
prisoners. The mission of Amnesty International is to ensure that the nations of the world adhere to the Universal Declaration on Human Rights adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10,1948.
Please come and join AI Group #43 of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s on Human Rights’ Day, December 10, at9:45 pm on the steps of the Administration Building for a 15 minute vigil as we remember the victims of human rights violations worldwide. Afterwards from 10 to 11 in the Dooley Room in LaFortune, we will be writing cards of “Holiday Greetings” to prisoners of conscience and human rights activists. Please save a few moments of your time and do what you can do. Send the gift of hope this holiday season. : ,
“Believe me, my daughters and I have been overwhelmed, it is beautiful to think that in such far away countries, there are adults and young people—I mean the children—that care about us, and seeing all these cards written in the children’s own hand is very moving, and makes me realize that we are not alone, that there are many people thinking about us... I must tell you that we have received more than 1300 cards, all of them expressing hopes for Hugo de Leon Palacios’ release, they make me cry with emotion!”
— Guatemala, 1987 — wife of a primary school teacher who “disappeared” in March 1984.	□
SCHOLASTIC
Distributed by Tribune Media Services
TH£	^T^iAL CAKfafl.
Interested in being a Scholastic cartoonist? Please submit three samples of your work to 303 LaFortune. Call 239-7569 for more information.

Be&W
Theodore's
8:30pm
Tickets on sale at
LaFortune Info Desk December 3 - $5
®X’UVr u; ■ -'. <'
g h I h o u s e Mall in MICHIGAN
COME DO YOUR XMAS SHOPPING WITH SUB AT THE OUTLET MALL
CITY
Sat. December 7
Free tickets available at LaFortune information desk
Limited space available. First come first serve for tickets.
Bus leaves main circle al 10 a.m. returns at 5 p.m.


X

•8-

X
Stf0ns
st
3 -O
§
O —1 (Q
0 § m
o
another quality event brought to you by...
STUDENT UNION HOARD