Vol. XX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 23, 1887.
No. 32.
Home.
Alexandria.
[The following beautiful lines were written by James Montgomery, the well-known Ayrshire poet. The poet, whose smaller pieces are considered nearly equal to thoseof Moore, was born atlrvine, in 1771:]
There is a land of every land the pride.
Beloved by Heaven o’er all the world beside; Where brighter suns dispense serener light, And milder moons emparadise the night;	*
A land of beauty, virtue, valor, truth, Time-tutored age, and love-exalted youth.
. The wandering mariner, whose eye explores The wealthiest isles, the most enchanting shores, Views not a realm so bountiful and fair, Nor breathes the spirit of a purer air;
In every clime the magnet of his soul, Touched by remembrance, trembles to that pole; For in this land of Heaven’s peculiar grace, The heritage of nature’s noblest race, There is a spot of earth supremely blest, A dearer, sweeter spot than all the rest; Where man, creation’s tyrant, casts aside His sword and sceptre, pageantry and pride, While in his softened looks benignly blend The sire, the son, the husband, brother, friend.
Here woman reigns; the mother, daughter, wife, Strew with fresh flowers the narrow way of life! In the clear heaven of her delightful eye, An angel-guard of loves and graces lie; Around her knees domestic duties meet, And fireside pleasures gambol at her feet.
Where shall that land, that spot of earth be found? Art thou a man ?—a patriot?—look around : O, thou shalt find, howe’er thy footsteps roam, That land thy country, and that spot thy home. -
Learn the value of a man’s words and expressions, and you know him. Each man has a measure of his own for everything; this he offers you, inadvertently, in his words. He who has a superlative for everything wants a measure for the.great or small.—Lavater. .	'
At the commencement of his career of conquest, with the laurels of Issus still fresh upon his brow, Alexander, elated with visions of future glory, resolved to repair to the famed sanctuary of Jupiter Ammon, situated in the heart of the Lybian desert, there to be proclaimed the offspring of a god. In the course of this journey, having advanced westward of the mouths of the Nile, he tarried opposite the island of Pharos, and marked out upon the shore of the Mediterranean the boundaries of a city that should become the capital of his dominions. To the celebrated architect, Dinocrates, who had been employed in the rebuilding of the temple of Diana, at Ephesus, was entrusted the superintendence of the work of erection, on a scale of magnificence commensurate with the views of the royal founder. Artificers and workmen were assembled from all parts; the foundations were laid, • and the Macedonian warrior had, bn the occasion of a subsequent visit, the satisfaction of beholding the newly-risen walls of the city destined to transmit his name to posterity.
The site was admirably chosen; on the confines of the Asiatic and African continents, with a com-modius harbor on the Mediterranean, and within easy access of the mouths of the Nile, Alexandria in a short time naturally replaced Tyre, and Became the chief emporium of Oriental commerce.
The ancient city was in the form of a parallelogram, traversed bystreets crossing at right angles, and divided into four quarters by the intersection of two spacious central thoroughfares, terminated by massive gates facing the cardinal points. The erection was not completed till the reign of Ptolemy Philadelphia, under whose auspices the celebrated watch-tower on the island of Pharos was . designed—a large and elegant structure of white marble, nearly four hundred feet high; off the summit fires were kept burning for the guidance of vessels’ navigating the Mediterranean. This lighthouse was reputed one of the seven wonders of the world.	.
To the munificence of the same monarch Alex-’
51S	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. -
andria was indebted for* the establishment of its museum and library; the latter contained at his death one hundred thousand volumes, and the number was subsequently increased to seven hundred thousand. This celebrated collection was formed after the following somewhat arbitrary fashion: All works introduced from Greece and other countries into Egypt,were seized, sent to the museum and transcribed; the copies were then given to the proprietors, and the originals deposited in the library. Ptolemy, being informed that the Jews possessed a work containing the law of Moses and the history of their nation, sent ambassadors, bearing costly presents, to the High Priest at Jerusalem, soliciting a copy of the Sacred Scriptures, and that interpreters should be provided to give a faithful translation of the same. The request was granted, and a copy of the sacred volume, written in letters of gold, was delivered to the ambassadors, and from each tribe six elders were chosen, and authorized to translate the sacred text into the Greek language. The translation which the seventy-two interpreters completed in the island of Pharos, is called the Septuagint version of the Bible.
Under the enlightened administration of the Ptolemies, Alexandria not only attained a high degree of commercial prosperity, but became one of the principal centres of intellectual life in the ancient world. The schools and academies of the eastern capital rivalled those of Athens in the number and repute of the students and philosophers, attracted from all parts by the liberal patronage bestowed on the advancement of learning. It was the arena where the Greek and Egyptian civilizations encountered each other, both destined one day to yield to the sacred influence of Christianity, when the boasted achievements of the greatest of heathen philosophers should pale in the light of the virtues and triumphs of Clemens, of Athanasius, and of Cyril.
Amid the convulsions that shook the colossal fabric of the Roman Empire, Alexandria suffered considerably; and towards the close of the fifth century it retained but the shadow of its former greatness. At the rise of the Saracen power it was subdued by the arms of the redoubtable Amrou; and the fanaticism of the Moslem soon demolished the last relics of its grandeur. The noble library, the accumulation of centuries was consigned to the flames by order of the Caliph Omar; and the museum and other public edifices were demolished.
Though neglected by its conquerors, who transferred their patronage to Cairo, Alexandria recovered to some extent, during the rise of the great maritime cities of the West, its rank as the principal emporium of eastern commerce. The discoveries of the fifteenth century, by diverting the traffic of Europe into new channels,‘gave the final blow to its mercantile prosperity.
At Alexandria, in the opening of the present century, collapsed the grand scheme of Napoleon for the occupation of Egypt, which, he had hoped, • would secure the predominance of France in the -Mediterranean, and accomplish the destruction of
the British possessions in India. The daring enterprise possessed peculiar attraction for his ambitious mind: “ Great names,” he had observed, “ were only made in the East.” A fleet of five hundred sail, collected from different ports of the Mediterranean, carrying forty thousand troops, was placed at his disposal by the Directory, and Napoleon embarked at Toulon, amid the cheers of the soldiers who, under his standard, had covered themselves with glory at Castiglione and Rivoli. The destination of the armament was kept a profound secret, and six weeks later the fleet arrived off the harbor of Alexandria. The troops were hastily disembarked and preparations made for' the assault. The defences of the old town were in a most dilapidated state; nevertheless, the Arabs, who chiefly composed the garrison, only yielded after a stubborn resistence.
Napoleon advanced from Alexandria to the Nile, overthrew the army of the Mamelukes at the foot of the Pyramids, and by this victory obtained the mastery of Egypt; but while the French were exulting over the first fruits of their triumph amid the festivities of Cairo, intelligence arrived that their fleet had been annihilated by Nelson at Aboukir. Brueys, the French admiral, had neglected the advice of Napoleon, either to secure the fleet within the harbor of Alexandria, or sail for Corfu; and, awaiting intelligence from Cairo, delayed in the roads of Aboukir. Nelson had been cruising the Mediterranean in search of the enemy’s fleet, and learning their position, steered immediately for Alexandria. Arriving in the roads of Aboukir, he found the French squadron anchored at a short distance from the coast, in the form of a semicircle, protected on one extremity by a powerful land battery, and on the other by the shoals of the bay. By a most daring manenu-vre the English admiral penetrated between the enemy’s vessels and the shore, cut their line in two, engaging their left and centre with his whole force. The contest was heroic and bloody; it commenced at sunset, and was prolonged through the darkness; but at daybreak, of the entire French fleet, only two vessels had their colors flying, and they at length stood out to sea, and succeeded in making • their escape.
By this victory the retreat of the French army was cutoff, and the expedition deprived of all hope of succor. The courage of Napoleon did not, however, forsake him in the emergency. His composure restored confidence to the troops, and he set to work to organize the resources of the country for the maintenance of the conquest he had already achieved. His restless spirit of ambition planned fresh enterprises; the dream of establishing a new empire in the East still haunted him, and he resolved bn the invasion of Syria. Repulsed from the walls of Acre, and learning the course events had taken in Europe, he determined to return to France. . Entrusting’to Kleber the command of Egypt, he embarked secretly at Alexandria, and, after escaping the English cruisers, landed safely at Frejus.	.
After the departure of Napoleon, the French
j
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
army maintained their position in_ Egypt till the arrival of the British force, under Sir Ralph Abercrombie, in iSoi. In the first engagement, under the walls of Alexandria, the English commander fell mortally wounded; but the French were forced to retreat into the town with the loss of two thousand men. General Hutchinson, who succeeded to the command, reinforced by the army of the Grand Vizier, invested Cairo, and compelled Baillard to surrender, with fourteen thousand French troops, who were immediately embarked for their own country. The allies then advanced to lay siege to Alexandria, where Menou prepared to make a last stand; but perceiving resistance of no avail, he capitulated, with ten thousand men, on the same terms as had been granted at Cairo.
Alexandria modern may be described as a semiEuropean, semi-Oriental city—a rendezvous, where one encounters representatives of all the races of the East, mingled with Europeans. Its ancient beauty has departed; the ruins alone attest pristine grandeur. The town was formerly noted for the two “ Cleopatra’s Needles ” or Egyptian obelisks, one of which marked the site of the Czesareum; but, a few years ago, was brought to the United States and now adorns Central Park, New York. Its companion, which for centuries had lain near, entombed in the sand, was some years ago transported to London. It is formed of a monolith of red granite, nearly seventy feet in altitude, and weighs one hundred and eighty-six tons.
M.
Our Language.
Until the conquest of England by William, Duke of Normandy, A. D. 1066, the Saxon language was spoken throughout England. William discountenanced the use of the Saxon tongue, and recommended that the youth of his newly acquired dominions be instructed in the French language. The pleadings in the Supreme Court of Judicature, the title deeds to estates, and the laws of the land were written in Norman-French, and no other language was spoken at court. But the necessary intercourse between the conquerors and the conquered gave rise to the gradual formation of a dialect compounded of the Anglo-Saxon and the Norman-French, in order that they might make themselves mutually intelligible; and from this necessity arose the structure of the present English language, which has been so richly improved by importations from the classical languages, and from those spoken by the southern nations of Europe. About 1150 may bedated the decline of pure Saxon. In 1169, we have English rhymes by St. Godric, a hermit of Finchal, who died the succeeding year. We have specimens of an earlier date in prose. Richard Ij who died in 1199, was not known to have uttered an English word. In the library of Glastonbury Abbey, in 1248, there were but four books written in the English language. About 1250 may be dated the commencement of pure English. The following is a specimen, at that period, of
PSALM XXIII:
i.	Laverd me steres, noght want sal me; ’
2.	In stede of fode thare me loked he ' lie fed me over watre of fode;
3.	Mi saule he tornes into gode.
He led me over sties of rightwisenes, For his name swa hali es.	*
4.	For and if I ga in mid schadw of dede, For thou with me ert, ivel sal I noght drede. Thi yherd and thi staf of mighte Thai ere me roned, dai and nighte.
5.	Thou graithed in mi sighte horde to be, Ogaines thas that droved me;	.
Thou fatted in oli mi heved yhit, And mi drinke drenkenand whilk schire es it.
6.	And fiiligh me sal thi mercy, And daies of mi life for thi; z\nd that I wone in house of Laverd isse In lenght of daies al with blisse. '
Magna Charta was translated into English in 1258; and the first royal proclamation in English was also made in that year, and addressed by Henry ’III to the citizens of Huntingdonshire. The poem of Wace was translated into English from the Latin in 1297, by Robert of Gloucester. Edward I, who died in 1307, spoke English but once. The psalms of David were turned into metre in 1310. Plays were first performed in English in 1328. Wills and settlements were first written in English in 1347. The use of the French language, however, continued until 1362, when its use in pleadings, and public deeds was abolished; it was about this time that the English language was first spoken at the court of London; and the first speech in English in Parliament was made in 1363, by Sir Edward Turner. The first sermon in English was preached in 1381, by Courtenay, Bishop of London. It was not until 1385, that children in the schools of England were universally taught the English to the exclusion of the French language, o o	•
Gower, Chaucer, and Wyckliffe arose at the latter half of the fourteenth century; after which our vernacular underwent no further violent changes; and as learning advanced, and manners improved, it gradually assumed that form in which it is presented to us, in those two works, which may be considered the standards of pure English,—our version of the Bible, and the writings of Shakspeare. The English language consists of about twenty-five thousand radical words, of which Shakspeare uses fifteen thousand; and it is the vernacular of seventy millions of human beings.	’
About five-eighths of all the words in the English language are derived from the Anglo-Saxon. Of the sixty-six words composing the Lord’s Prayer, all but five are Anglo-Saxon. Gray’s Elegy contains nine hundred and ninety-one words, of which the Anglo-Saxon furnishes eight hundred and twenty-one; the Latin, one hundred and twenty-five; the French, fifteen; the Italian, seven;. and the Greek twenty-three. The soliloquy of Hamlet contains eighty-one words, of which all but thirteen are Anglo-Saxon. There is, perhaps, no work in the English language, in which. Anglo-
52°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saxon words more abound, than in the common version of the Bible. Even in the works of the ■ most classical writers, such as Milton, Addison, and Johnson, words of Anglo-Saxon derivation greatly predominate. Works which treat of the common affairs of life have the largest portion of their words derived from the Anglo-Saxon, and scientific words the least.
The following will exhibit the Lord’s Prayer at different periods:
A. D. 1250.
Fader ure in heune, haleweide beoth thi neume, cumen thi kuneriche, thi vole beoth idon in heune and in erthe. Ure eurych dawe breid gef vus thilk dawe. And vorze vousef ure fine dettes, as vivorzefen ure dettoures, and lede vus nouzt into temptatioun, bote deliuri vus of uvel. Amen.
A. D. 1300.
Fader oure in hevene, Halewyd be thi name. Come thi kingdom. Thi wille be don as in hevene and in erthe. Oure uche dayes bred give us today. And forgeve us our dettes, as we forgeven our dettoures. And lede us not into temptatioun. Bote delyvere us of yvel. Amen.
A. D. 13S0.
Oure fadir that art in heunes halowid be thi name, thi kyngdom come to, be thi wille don in erth as in heune, geue to us this day ouir breed ouir other substance, forgeue to us oure dettis, as we forgeuen to our dettouris, lede us not into temptacioun; but delyuer us from yuel. Amen.
A. D. 14S3. ■
Father our that art in heavens, hallowed be thy name; they kingdome come to us; thy wille be done in earth as is in heaven; oure every days bred give us today; and forgive us oure tresspasses, even as we forgive them that tresspass against us; and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from all evil sin. Amen.
A. D. 153S.
Our Father who art in heauens, halowed be thy name. Let thy kyngdom come nye. Thy wyl be done in erth also as in heuen. Geue us this daye our bread ouer pther sub-staunce. And forgeue vs our dettes as we also forgeue our detters. And leade vs not into tentation, but delyuer vs from euel. Amen.
A. D. 1582.
Ovr Father viho art in heuen, sanctified be thy- name. Let thy kingdom- come. Thy ivil be done, as in heauen, in earth also. Gitie vs to-day our sufersubstantial bread. And forgiue vs oure dettes, as vie also J or gin e our detters. And leade vs not into tentation. But deliner vs from euil. Amen.
A. D. 1599.
Our father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done even in earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debters.
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.
Amen.	-
Only a Drop of Water.
Only a drop of water! What is more common, or more insignificant? But look at the wave as it swells upon the wind-beaten sea and displays a wondrous power in its tossing and raging: the drop of water has become the means of bringing to us greater riches than silver and gold, Does it not carry our ships from land to land and thus serve as an international exchanger of all the products* of the world? .	.	. . - .
With the sea currents it wanders from pole to pole, plunging, it may be, into the depths of the gloomy abyss; or sporting amid tbe'luxuriant and exuberant growth of a tropical coast. It flies upon the wings of the gale, leaps with the brooklet o’er its pebbly bed, and distills from the rocks; or again it penetrates into the hidden recesses of mother earth, forcing its way between the fissures of the rocks, breaking them into pieces and slowly reducing them to arable soil. Again we see it as it flows in the majestic stream, plowing its way through the rocks, which it cuts to their very foundations and lays open to the scrutiny of the geologist, as in the canons of Colorado.
Sometimes, like a miner, it descends thousands of fathoms into the ground and brings to light the o	00
embedded treasures of gold and silver, which had been deposited there ages before; or-having absorbed the heat in the earth, and allied itself with minerals, it reappears on the surface to restore health to those who seek its aid. It bubbles forth bjr the wayside as a crystal spring to assuage the thirst of the lonely traveller. It makes its round in the microscopic cells of the plant, building up the structure of the lofty cedar or that of the humble violet. Often as vapor it passes before our eyes unperceived by any of the senses, and kissing the cool air it condenses into the dark cloud, whence it drops as refreshing rain, or, it may be, crystallizes into most curious forms under the appearance of snow. In the raging cataract it rushes down the mountain side, reflecting the light of the sun as it glitters with a thousand hues, rivalling the colors of the rainbow; or, again, it constitutes the silent tear of the pearly dew-drop that the bending lily bears. Often it forms the golden seam of the fleecy clouds, seen before sunrise and after sunset.
Is the history of a drop of water not more interesting, nay, a thousand times more fascinating than that of a hero of the most thrilling novel? Yon would be convinced of this if you could lend an attentive ear to the story it has to tell when returning to the bosom of its father—the ocean. How it tells, in a whispering voice, of all the work it has done and'of all the wonders it has seen in its wanderings 1 Now it speaks of the icy winter of the North, which held it in its frosty embrace for months; the hoary man grumbled and sometimes shook his flowing curls of silver. Again it tells of gentle spring, that untied the rough hands of winter, setting it free from captivity, and then how the glowing sun greeted it in the morning, and even smiled upon it the whole day long.
Listen, how it speaks of the gentle zephyr who took it up in its arms and carried it to lofty heights, where it became adorned with the purple of the starry sky, or how the night-wind cradled it to sleep in the bosom of the lily and primrose. “ The strength of the giant was given to me,” it says, , “ when enclosed in the iron chest I forced my way into the cylinder, pushed the piston and turned the wheels of some mighty engine.”
Truly, the history of a drop of water is wonderful! Who can describe the happiness of Father Ocean when learning from its child how it has met

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	521
-	-	\J
also good people abroad, and how he must smile, when looking with delight into the serene and inO	O
nocent face of his blue-eyed favorite!
A.
Pleadings.
(Continued.)
There must be certainty in respect to time, place, parties and subject-matter. Special circumstances sufficient to identify every transaction or material element in the cause of complaint must be alleged. According to Coke, certainty is of three kinds: 1st, certainty to a common intent; 2d, certainty to a certain intent in general; 3d, certainty to a certain intent in particular. Certainty to a common intent means that when words are used which will beai* a natural sense, and also a sense artificial, or that which must be made out by argument or inference, the natural sense shall prevail. A higher degree of certainty is implied in the expression” certainty to a certain intent in general.” It means that which upon a fair and reasonable construction maybe called certain without referring to possible facts that do not appear. Certainty to a certain intent in particular, is that which precludes all argument, inference or presumption against the allegations of the pleading. When this kind of certainty is requisite, the pleader must not only state the facts in the case in the most precise manner, but also add to them any circumstances that go to prove that they are not to be denied or controverted.
The declaration need not allege a condition subsequent attached to and following the right claimed. This condition tends to defeat or qualify that right, and hence the defendant may be relied upon to set it forth in his plea. The plaintiff should not anticipate or set out anything that the defendant is obliged to state as a part of the defense. Let him seek merely to set out and build up his own side of the case, proving that he has at least ixprima facie cause of action, and leave the defense to take care of itself. -It is a general rule that where a deed or other like instrument is the subject of litigation, the declaration need state only enough of it to show prima facie a complete right of action. Nothing in it or in any other instrument tending to limit, qualify or defeat the right of. action should be averred. Such matter is properly a part of the defense, and the plaintiff may congratulate himself if it be overlooked by the defendant, or not set out in the plea. But should the plaintiff sue on a covenant or articles of agreement, and any exception appears therein, he must state it in the declaration; for the exception is a part, and must enter into the description, of the covenant. Otherwise there would be what is technically called a variance. The exception should also be set out in the statement or assignment of the breach. Otherwise the breach could not be regarded as within the covenant. But a proviso apart from the covenant need not be alleged, as it is in the nature of a condition subsequent, and does not enter into the description of the covenant. The word breach ap
plies to the part of the declaration in which is stated the violation of contract by the defendant. It is of the gist of the action and must be stated.
A like distinction is observed in respect to exceptions and provisos when an action is founded upon statutes. Any exception in the enacting or prohibitory part of a penal statute must not be overlooked or ignored. But a proviso in a separate and independent clause may be disregarded. The exception enters into the description of the offense, but the proviso is matter of defense.	.
Such words as “ duly,” “lawfully,” etc., without a statement of the special facts to which they refer, carry no weight. They affirm matter of law, and not of fact; and hence they are not to be traversed or denied. Under the code, however, the rule in respect to their use is more liberal.
In ejectment and qteare clausum fregit, the land should be carefully described as to location, boundaries, abuttals, lines and distances. But where actions of trespass, trover, etc., are brought in respect to chattels or goods of any kind, the description may be general, so as to avoid a multiplicity of particulars. Besides, the plaintiff may not be able’ to describe them specifically, and a detailed description would be likely to result in confusion and prolixity. Hence, trover has been sustained for the conversion of a “ library of books,” etc.
Value must be alleged in an action for injury to property. It furnishes a standard in the assessment of damages. Where injuries committed with force, as assault and battery, false imprisonment, or other trespass, are the subject of the action, it must be alleged that the unlawful deed was committed ” with force and arms ” and “ against the peace.” It may be of interest to state the reason: Where there was a conviction in a civil action of a wrong . committed with force, it was technically called a trespass “ vi et armis” The person convicted had to pay a fine to the king for the breach of peace implied in the act. He was, under a judgment of capiatur pro fine, subject to arrest and imprison- ‘ ment until payment of the fine. If the expression “w et ar mis” were omitted from the pleading, the employment of force could not be inferred, and the judgment capiatur could not be given effect. This would deprive the king of his fine, and it is hardly necessary to add that the courts would not suffer any.such evasion of liability to the crown. A.fter verdict, they changed the judgment to a mi~ sericordia, a species of judgment not adapted to the action, and consequently not enforceable.
Where the law requires a contract to be under seal or evidenced by deed, the declaration must aver compliance with this requirement. But such words as “indenture,” “deed,” or “writing obligatory,” sufficiently import that the contract is under seal.	‘	,
Should the action be based upon a contract valid at common law without writing, but required by the Statute of Frauds (29 Chas. IT, c. 3.) to be iii writing, the declaration need not allege or count upon the writing. Hence where an action is based upon the breach of a promise by one person to pay the debt of another, the declaration need not allege
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
. that the promise is in writing, although required to be in writing by the statute. This is because such promise is not required to be written at common law, which would still apply, were it not for the fact that the statute suspends its operation and substitutes the existing rule. The statute simply introduced a new rule of evidence in such cases, and did not alter or affect the manner of pleading.
Should the defendant demur to any promise or agreement within the scope of the statute, he would thereby admit it to be in writing. By con- • fessing the promise, the demurrer precludes all proof of it. The law treats the promise or contract in such case as in writing and established by legal evidence.
However, where a contract coming- within the statutory purview is pleaded in bar, the defendant must show in his plea that it is in writing—or at least that some note or memorandum of it is in writing and signed by the person to be charged. For example, if A were to sue B in assumpsit, and B should plead that A accepted as a discharge of his claim against B an agreement by C to pay the debt, it would have to be alleged that such agreement is in writing. The plea admits a cause of action as having existed in A, and that cause of action cannot be barred by a substituted claim not shown to answer the requirements necessary to support an action.
Again, should a contract or conveyance unknown to the common law, but authorized and required to be in writing by a statute, be set up at - any stage in the pleadings, it must be averred that it is in writing. For example, the Statute of Wills (32 Hen. VIII, c. 1) first authorized devises of realty, which are unknown at common law, and required them to be in writing. Hence, under the rule stated, a declaration which states and counts upon a devise of real state, must allege that it was made in writing, as provided by the Statute of Wills, and signed and attested in accordance with . the Statute of Frands.
In an action against a surety or guarantor it is not necessary to allege in the declaration that the promise is in writing. If the defendant plead that there is no writing, it may be replied generally that there is, without setting it out. If there be no writing where there should be, the fact need not be specially'pleaded; for it may be taken advantage of under the general issue.
When the cause of action is founded upon a record, consideration need not be averred; when founded upon a specialty, the fact should.be stated, although consideration need not be alleged; when founded upon a simple contract, consideration and the liability or agreement to pay should be stated, even though the promise be implied, and not express. :	,
Where only one cause of action is alleged, the statement of it may be called a declaration or count. Where two or more causes of action are set out, each of which requires a .different statement, or where two or more. statements of the same cause of action;are made, each of such-statements is called a count, while, taken together, they constitute and
. are called the declaration. Each count must state in itself a complete cause of action, without dependence upon any other count. Subject to this rule, the plaintiff may insert.in his declaration as many counts as he likes. The object of having more than one count is to guard against an insufficient statement of the cause of action. If one count turn out to be bad, another may be good, and if any one of them be good, it furnishes a foundation for the trial. Should the plaintiff be uncertain as to which of. two forms of action he should adopt in suing, he can prepare his counts so as to meet the dilemma. Again, if the plaintiff have two or more counts to rely upon, he is more likely to have a foundation laid for any facts that may .be developed in the evidence.
(to be continued.)
Early Catholic Grammar Schools.
The first Catholic school, opened within the present limits of the thirteen colonies which became the United States, is probably that spoken of in the English Records as being taught by Ralph Crouch. Though Crouch is referred to by some Protestant historians as Father Crouch, still it is certain that this gentleman was a mere layman during his long residence in Maryland. Before coming to America he had been for some time in the Jesuit novitiate of Watten. Having left the noviceship, for some reason or other, he went to Maryland, about 1640, and under the direction and with the assistance of Father Thomas Copley, alias Philip Fisher, he opened a school in which he taught humanities. Crouch was a very zealous man, and gave great assistance to the missionaries of Southern Maryland for nearly twenty years. After rendering many and distinguished services to religion on the banks of the Potomac and Patuxent Rivers, he returned to Europe, and died a Jesuit at Liege, on the 1 Sth of November, 1679. The sch°°l taught by Crouch must have existed from about 1640 to 1659. In this last year he returned to Watten, and the school was probably closed for want of teachers.
The next time we find mention made of a school in Maryland is during the superiorship of Father MichaeL Forster, alias Gulick. Father John Warner, the English Provincial of the Jesuits, in a letter to the General of his Order, dated August the 20th, 1680, mentions a report that a school had been established under Father Forster, in Maryland, in which they taught humanities with great success. One of the teachers of this early school was Thomas Hothersall, an approved scholastic, who went by the alias Slater.. Mr. Hothersall was born at Greinsargh, England. He was always a Catholic, and made his studies at St. Omer’s College. He became a Jesuit on the 20th of June, 1668. From the old Jesuit catalogue I learn that though he studied theology, he was never ordained. He died in Maryland in the year 1698, aged 56 years. Many of the -native, Mary land Jesuits made their
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
523
preparatory studies in the school taught by Thomas Hothersall. Hothersall taught school in Maryland about 1677-1695.
Fathers Harvey, Harrison, and Gage, chaplains brought out from England by Colonel Thomas Dongan, the Catholic governor of New York, attempted to establish a college in that city about 1685. But their efforts in this laudable direction proved fruitless, owing to the fewness of Catholic citizens and the bigotry of their enemies. Leisler, the usurping governor of New York, wrote to the governor of Boston on the 13th of August, 1689: “I have formerly urged to inform your honor that Col. Dongan in his time did erect a Jesuit College upon collour to learne Latine to the Judges west— Mr. Graham, Judge Palmer, and John Tuder did contribute their sonnes for some time, but noboddy imitating them, the collidge vanished.”
The next Catholic school that I-know anything about was opened at Bohemia, Cecil County, Maryland, about 1745. This school was probably under the care of Father .Thomas Poulton, of the Society of Jesus. “This school,” says Mr. Johnston, “ was the only one in the colony under the control of the Jesuits or any other Order of the Catholic Church; consequently it was patronized by many of the leading Catholic families in the colony, who sent their sons there to receive the rudiments of their education, after which they were sent to St. Omer’s, in French Flanders, to finish it. This was the case with John and Charles Carroll, both of whom afterwards took such a prominent part in the history of this State. It is impossible, owing to the loss of a portion of the records of the mission, to .ascertain how long the school continued to exist. Though it is considered to have been the germ from which Georgetown College grew, it seems probable that it was discontinued before the college was organized. Every vestige of the school-house has long siiice disappeared, but it is well known that it stood in the lawn, a few feet south of the manse, and that the bricks of which its walls were composed were used in the walls of the dwelling-house, which was built about 1825.”
A school existed in the last century some few miles -from Annapolis. This I learned from an old document sent to the rulers of Maryland in the name of seven Protestant ministers. I forget now the exact date of this paper, but, as far as I can remember, it was about 1760. The teacher was one Euston. Euston, I think, was a Jesuit, as I found that name on several books at the Newtown Manor.— U.S. Catholic Historical Magazine.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Richard Caulfield, of Cork, the eminent antiquarian, when dying, said: “ I do not regret anything I ever wrote.”
—Vienna has decided to erect a statue to Joseph Haydn, who was a native of Austria. The execution of the monument has been entrusted to a distinguished Austrian sculptor named Natter, and'
will be solemnly inaugurated on May 31, which will be the 78th anniversary of the great composer’s death.
—The latest addition to the French language is “ Bisvigum,” a compound of the words “ Biscuit, viande, Idgume.” It is an edible, concocted on the system of the famous sausage of the German army. It is for the F rench soldier.
—The Life of Pope Leo XIII, which Charles L. Webster & Co. have in press, will be published in June. It will be illustrated with engravings and colored lithographs. The frontispiece is a steelplate portrait of His Holiness, engraved from a photograph given by the Pope to Mr. Webster for the purpose.
—The Viennese statistician has been at work, and computes that Liszt’s compositions number 1,122. Three hundred and eighty-five of these are original, 264 are transcriptions of his own works, 422 tran-. scriptions of the works of others, 16 are “reductions,” and 14 “ revisions.” Of the original com' positions, 37 are for orchestra, 56 for voice and orchestra, 23 for voice and organ, and 87 for voice and piano.
—A Boston man secured a rare book for almost a song, the other day, at the auction sale of the library of the late Professor Mitchell, of the University of Pennsylvania. It was one of the two copies in existence of “ The General Laws and Liberties of the Massachusetts Colony,” Cambridge, 1672. The other copy was sold five years ago for $500; the lucky Boston man secured his for $2, and next day was offered $650 for it. He refused to sell.
—Verdi is hard at work on a new style of composition-children’s songs. Recently when asked to write anything he has invariably replied that he was engaged on a work which had long- been promised, but he would tell nothing further. Now he confesses That he has been fulfilling.a promise made to the children of St. Agatha—his country home—that he would write some music for their favorite songs and games. “It is no easy task,” declares the veteran composer, “ to satisfy my little friends. Many of the most famous passages in my operas have .cost me far less trouble than the ‘ Song of the Doll ’ and the ‘ Little Soldier,’ which. I have just finished.”
—A most important piece of sculpture, found at Kropia, was lately transferred to Athens and deposited in the Central Museum. The object discovered is the pedestal of a statue of most curious and unique form. It bears various representations on its three sides; in the centre is represented an armed. horseman, on either side of which appear personages with long garments.. This piece of sculpture is one of the few works of art found in Attica resembling Egyptian art as regards the mode of representation, the manner of workmanship, and the form. It was. discovered, serving as a support to the altar in a chapel at Kropia. In the: same: little chapel was also, discovered, walled in, a small piece of sculpture representing Heracles destroying the Nemean lion. This has likewise been brought to Athens.. -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, April 23, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers, of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—We are pleased to announce that the Rt. Rev. Dr. Gilmour, Bishop of Cleveland, has accepted an invitation to deliver the Commencement Oration next June. The learning and eloquence of this distinguished prelate, whose able treatment of vital religious and social questions of the day—especially great educational subjects—has made him widely and influentially known to the American public, render it a matter of congratulation that he will favor us on Commencement Day.
—The concert given by the Mendelssohn Quintette Club of Boston, last Saturday evening, was a rare musical treat, and heartily enjoyed by a large and enthusiastic audience. The programme, as printed in our columns last week, was faithfully followed, and presented a judicious and pleasing blending of the classical and lighter styles of music. The numbers were given in that excellent manner so characteristic of these eminent musicians, who, by their artistic skill, revealed all the beauties of each of their selections. The solos, on the flute, violin, clarinet, and violoncello,, showed the perfect mastery of each of . the players, while the apprecia-
tion of the audience manifested itself in the hearty encores to which the artists were obliged to respond.
—It is well known that throughout the Chris-	:
tian world preparations are everywhere in active	!
progress for the fitting celebration of the Golden	*;
sacerdotal Jubilee of Pope Leo XIII which will	|
take place next December. Offerings of great	J
value have been made, or are designed, by the	£
princes and the people. Nor are the rulers-of earth	1
restricted by religious-beliefs; for all, recognizing the greatness of mind and soul in the Supreme | visible Head of the Church, seek to testify, on the | approach of this auspicious anniversary, their re-.	:
spect for his exalted worth and wonderful genius.
Among these offerings, there is one especially, that will hold a place peculiarly its own, and a description of which has been recently brought to our notice. It is the work undertaken by the Monks of Lerins, at Cannes in France, and which will be at the same time a tribute of glory and praise to the Immaculate Mother of God, and a most mag--nificent expression of homage and respect to the Vicar of Christ. This work, richly and .profusely illustrated, will contain the Canticle of the Blessed Virgin—the Magnificat—translated into one hundred and fifty (150) languages, each in its own proper characters and enclosed in ornamental borders, designed and engraved in the highest style of art. The first letter of each verse of the various “Magnificats” will be embodied in a floral design o	*	o
emblematic of a particular virtue of the Blessed Virgin. In addition to numerous illustrations made after more modern schools of art, there will be a number of engravings, in gold and various colors, the exact copies of famous miniatures of the Middle Ages, and the splendid volume will close with the Magnificat in Gregorian and modern music, the compositions of the most distinguished artists of ancient and modern times.
In order to meet to some extent the immense expense attending the preparation of this splendid work, the Fathers of Lerins have decided to issue a limited number of copies to be sold at 100 francs, or twenty dollars, each. Very Rev. Father General Sorin, we are informed, has subscribed for five copies, one of which he generously intends presenting to the University Library. It will be an acquisition of the highest value, one which will delight the devotee of art and science, while forming a most beautiful testimonial to the grandeur of Christian faith and piety.
Patriotism.
History teaches us that the selfishness of public men has been the cause of the downfall of many . nations,—men who. for the sake of self, sacrificed their country and honor.
We not unfrequently hear men say that they wish the form of government would change; they would prefer another to this, and some there are ' who would assist in the work. There is a class of ! persons who are continually seeking some office^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
525
and it matters little whether they are virtuous, learned or not, or whether they have the ability to fill the office to which they are aspiring, if they are on the strong side and have plenty of money they are sure to be elected; and when they do get the office, they look not to the benefit of the Republic, but to their own private interests. And this is the class of men that hold many of the public offices at the present day. That they may obtain these offices they do not hesitate to use every means in their power, even bribes—a thing which was considered so great an offence in olden times. Then, again, those who assist such men to attain their object certainly cannot be much less guilty than those whom they assist. As I have already said, if a man belongs to the strong party and has money he is generally sure to be elected. It seems to be the great rule of parties to look to but one thing in voting, and that is whether he is a man of their party; it is certain that such men as are ruled in this way do not understand or know their public duties, and I am convinced that this class contains three-fourths of the voting population of the United States. Certainly such men as. the above cannot be called patriotic; and though most of them love their country, still they do not show it in the exercise of their public duties. It is evident that the spirit which animates the men of the present time is not the same as that which animated the heroes of 1776.
What a lively contrast is presented to our minds when we compare these with persons who are not blinded by party spirit, with persons who do not seek office for their private interests but for the genera) good of the people!—men who neither in soul nor in body are absent from the welfare of their country, and such are the men whose names go down to posterity loaded with honors, men who during their whole mortal career have instilled into the hearts of the young, both by word and ex-. ample, the love of public virtue—such are the men who are regarded as benefactors of the Nation.
We are commanded by the Most High to love our neighbor as ourselves, and how is it that we show the fulfilment of this Divine law? We all have a natural love for one another, and when we think of doing anything it should be with the intention of benefiting mankind; that is, in all that we undertake we should ever have a general good in view. There are many ways in which we are able.to render this good; we may do it by giving good advice, by erecting institutions of learning, and, finally, we may and ought to do it when our country is in need of the sacrifice of our property and even our lives.
But let us cast an eye upon the past. It was by their patriotic zeal that our forefathers gained freedom from a foreign thrall, and our country arose and assumed a stateliness and firmness such as the world has never beheld. Centuries have rolled by since Greece and Rome sank into decay; ages have gone since the day when the Grecian republic first presented itself as a model, casting its rays over that proud people. Yes, Greece and Rome were republics, but only for a few, the greater por
tion of the people being slaves; but it was reserved for America to present to the world that glorious spectacle of liberty for all. Yes, it was destined by the Almighty that the New World should be the first to produce this best of governments. It is here, on a land extending from ocean to ocean, that the goddess of Liberty has erected a beacon that will serve to illuminate the whole orb of the earth; nor is it planted on the sands of the seashore, but upon a rock- prepared by the blood of the patriarchs of 1776. Here we have a Government which has existed but little more than a century, which, though despised at first, has grown to be the most respected of nations, and has made the powers of Europe tremble to their very centre. And to what must we ascribe this, but to the great love of country which is found to burn in the breast of every true American!
B.
Recent Paintings by Signor Gregori.
A decided sensation was created last week among _	o
those who had the privilege of viewing two remarkable portraits from Professor Gregori’s atelier —the one a portrait of Rembrandt, and the other of Titian, painted after the method of each of these artists. The wide difference in the treatment of these pictures has given admirable scope to the versatility of our mastro. Besides cultivating a style peculiarly his own, he has a wonderful facility for imitating and reproducing the works of the great masters, and he has made many a picture in imitation of their style, and so perfectly resembling their work, that the most skilled experts have pronounced the creations of his brush genuine productions of the old-time artists. By a process peculiarly his own, and the result of years of study and experiment, he has been enabled to reproduce the ravages of time and the mellow tints of antiquity. Several pictures purchased from him in Rome and taken to France, England, and other countries were sold at high prices as genuine antiques. Gregori, learning that the results of his skill were disposed of in this way, had a scruple of conscience, so he consulted one of his best and most learned friends, the lamented Father Beckx, late Superior-General of the great Jesuit Order. This erudite theologian relieved him by saying that if he himself did not impose upon the public by stating that the pictures were by the old masters, and if he did not demand a higher price than his own labors would justify, he need not scruple to exercise his imitative powers.
The portrait of Rembrandt is certainly a mas-tcrly imitation of that artist’s wonderful and mysterious style. None of the colors of the -palette are seen in the treatment, but the spirited touch of the brush is everywhere visible. In glancing at the picture, the eye is irresistibly drawn to the:face of the subject. The golden play of warm light on the countenance holds the attention. The rest of the picture seems to melt away and vanish into the ob
526
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
scurity of the background. Works of the other modern schools of painting appeal' cold; insipid, and feeble beside this wonderful portrait; in fact, faces appear like yellow-tinted cardboard. A photograph of Rembrandt’s own portrait, by himself, served to guide Gregori in his work. Displayed in the proper light, the effect is marvellous, and, unlike Munkacsy’s “ Christ before Pilate,” the more you study the picture, the more it impresses you. Rembrandt is dressed in a dark, fur-trimmed cameolet of undecided color; around his neck is suspended a gold chain with a pendant of curious workmanship and a quaint, seventeenth-century hat, broad-brimmed and slashed,rests poised on the back of his head.
-In the features one finds conscious power and a trace of the avarice which prompted the subject to take advantage of one of the weaknesses of human nature. Having on hand a large number of his etchings and other works, he undertook a journey. Word came back that the artist had died. His family went into mourning, and as the works of dead geniuses are always more appreciated than those of the living, his widow found no difficulty in securing purchasers for the productions of her husband. When all the pictures had found good purchasers, Rembrandt came from his place of concealment to enjoy the fruits of the trick he had played on his contemporaries.
When one stands before this portrait of Rembrandt, he cannot but feel that he is in presence of a living personality. The illusion is perfect. The execution shows breadth and vigor of movement, and in technique it has all the strong character of a real Rembrandt. How the artist has reached this grand result, it will be difficult to understand, unless one takes into consideration the special faculty of imitation possessed by Gregori, combined with his genius, and the years of deep study given to the marvellous processes by which Rembrandt succeeded in astounding artists and critics of the old and new schools.
To copy the portrait we feel would be an impossibility. How the picture was executed is a wonder. In a moment of inspiration the artist commenced his work, and in less than.four hours the picture was finished. It is remarkable with what rapidity Gregori works at times. On certain days his brush, without being guided by the eye, seems to find the colors on his 'palette; on other days, when he looks for the pigments, he cannot find them. He has his days for working, and outside of these he finds it impossible for him to do anything; there are days when, if he attempts to guide his brush, he will spoil good work already accomplished. On some days he can accomplish as much as at other times he could not do within a month. A.notable example of this was seen by the writer lately when the artist was painting his large picture of the “Death of St. Francis Xavier ” for the Cathedral of Philadelphia. After making his studies in pencil and oil he executed the figure of the deceased saint fin two days, the greater part of which was taken up in .modelling and remodelling the left hand to give it the appearance of contract
ing rigidity, while it took him nearly two months to paint the Japanese and Portuguese youths in the background of the picture. In the absence of living models, the artist moulded little figures in clay to assist him in the disposal of light and shade, and before he could secure the proper harmony of the tints, he painted and repainted the drapery and other accessories. Having finished the background and all the rest of the picture, and given the proper relief to the attendant figures, he then, with the free strokes of a wonderfully handled brush, in the short time mentioned above, completed the principal figure with great strength and effectiveness. The moment you look at the picture your attention is immediately drawn to the sanctified face of the great apostle of the Indies. Look where you will, the eye is unconsciously led back to the principal feature of the composition.
A good contrast to the Rembrandt portrait is an equally well executed portrait of Titian, painted after an ancient original engraving of that master made in 1587 by Augustino Coracchi. The beautiful coloring of this prince of the Venetian School of Art and the exquisite finish which he gave to his pictures at one period of his life are reproduced with marvellous skill. The care and delicacy with which the portrait is finished renders it equally effective, whether seen at a distance or examined closely.. The portrait of Rembrandt, on the contrary, is painted with bold strokes and effective dashes which, when seen from the proper distance, present a perfect picture; but a close inspection makes it appear indistinct and incoherent. In the latter period of his life, Titian also adopted this bold method of treatment, but his effects, while at first sight appearing to be off-hand, were really the result of labor and care. The canvas shows an old man with long, gray beard, close-fitting calotte and fur-edged robe. Every lineament of the countenance displays the energy of the wonderful old man, who in his ninety-ninth year was able to work, and whose physique was so powerful that even at that patriarchal age he did not succumb to the weakness of accumulating years, but was carried away by a pestilential plague.
The two portraits to which we have called attention are the instalment of a series illustrating the great artists of the old schools to be executed for the art collection of Professor Edwards. Each portrait,will not only present the features of some distinguished master, but will also serve to illustrate his style and manner of working. To be able to accomplish this, Gregori spent large sums of money in visiting all the principal galleries of Europe, and he devoted .many of the best years of his life to the study.of each school of painting, and to the works of each of the old masters in particular. When in Europe, two years ago, he visited Vienna, Dresden, Munich and Berlin, where he passed most of liis time in studying the works of the German artists. We understand he intends at an early date to visit Belgium and Holland to add to his store of information and to derive inspiration from the treasures to be found in the art galleries, convents and cathedral churches.	F.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
527
Books and Periodicals.
Personal.
Commentaries on the Law of Contracts, upon a New and Condensed Method. By Joel Prentiss Bishop, LL. D. Chicago: T. H. Flood & Co., Lawbook Publishers. 1887. Price, $6 net.
This work, commonly called “Bishop on Contracts,” contains 600 pages. Typographically it is faultless, and its size, binding and general appearance add largely to its attractiveness. It is probably the most thorough, accurate and comprehensive work of the kind heretofore published in a single volume. It is an excellent book for students. Evidently it fully merits the praise that it has everywhere received.	,
—We have received a very interesting pamphlet descriptive of the famous therapeutic resort of Mondorf-les-Bains, situated in the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg. The curative properties of the waters of this establishment have a widely extended reputation throughout Europe, and their fame has already begun to attract the attention of the medical fraternity and invalids in this country. The work before us shows the progress and development of this resort since the time of its foundation, thirty years ago, and gives a most glowing description of the charms of natural scenery and the healthful and invigorating climate which mark the spot on the banks of the Moselle, upon which the establishment is located. It owes its origin to the discoveries of ageological expedition in 1841, in search of saliferous deposits in that section. It is directed by Dr. Martin Klein, one of the leading physicians, of Europe, who is assisted by a competent corps.
—The May number of St. Nicholas opens with a beautiful frontispiece illustration, by Blum— “ Catarina of Venice,” the “ Historic Girl,” whose romantic history is related by E. S. Brooks; while Nora Perry, in “ An Only Daughter,” tells of a very modern and unhistoric girl, whose story is, however, none the less interesting on that account. General Adam Badeau tells the story of “ Sherman’s March to the Sea,” and it reads like a talc of adventure—which,in fact, it is—the biggest adventure in modern times. It is illustrated by Theodore Davis, who was with General Sherman on the march, and by E. W. Kemble, W. L. Sheppard, and W. Taber. There is also begun in this number a three-part story of life at the U. S. Military Academy at West Point, by a recent graduate. It is entitled “Winning a Commission,” and shows, how the future Shermans of bur country arc being turned out. There is another collection of “ St. Nicholas Dog Stories,”—one for girls, by Celia Thaxter; one for boys, by E. P. Roe, and three for everybody, by other people. Rose Hawthorne Lathrop contributes a clever little story, called Lindie’s Portrait,” with a drawing by Frank Day; Alice Wellington Rollins has a bright sketch of a “ Rainy May Day in Central Park,” illustrated by. Jessie Curtis Shepherd; there is a droll account of “Dolls’ Hospitals,” by Hope Howard; and the first of a series of “ Child Sketches from George Eliot,” by Julia Magruder.	•
—James Bell (Com’l),’79, is Deputy City Treasurer of Terre Haute.	'
—John Cabel and W. P. Mahon, both of ’77, are doing well at Columbus, Miss.	-
—D. J. Bell (Com’l), ’77, is Assistant Ticket Agent in the Union Depot, Terre Haute.
—Lewis C. Watson, ’74, and M. P. Roulo, ’78, Detroit, Mich., were welcome visitors to the College during the week.
—Harry and Charlie Porter, ’85, have returned to their home in Eau Claire, after spending the winter in California and neighboring states.
—A dispatch from Paris announces the death of an old-time friend of Notre Dame, Mrs. C. Dunbar, mother of the late Edward Dunbar, ’61. May she rest in peace!	.
—Charles Brinkman (Com’l), ’78, occupies the responsible and lucrative position of Head Bookkeeper in the office of the Terre Haute Car & Manufacturing Co., of Terre Haute, Ind.
—Among the visitors last week was Mrs. Thos. Hutchinson, of Chicago. She was accompanied by her daughters, Lizzie and Maggie, who are pupils at St. Mary’s Academy. Mrs. Hutchinson is always a most welcome visitor at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, where she is well- known and held in high esteem. For several years members of her family have been pupils in both institutions.
—A Successful College President.—This week’s New York Freeman's Journal publishes a sketch of Father Walsh, President of Notre Dame University, which, among other matters, comments upon' the “unparalleled success and growth” of the institution under Father Walsh’s CT	#	-
administration:
“ Father Walsh has always been an advocate of temperance, and was the first of the college presidents to organize temperance societies among the students.”
In this particular the Rev. President has won the esteem of the best element among American Catholics. There is a degree of profound tact in the serene and genial director of affairs at Notre Dame which, undoubtedly, selected him for his task' before he had attained his thirtieth year.— Catholic Citizen.	‘
—Joseph E. Farrell, Esq., of the Law Class of ’84, has secured an excellent practice in Cleveland. He has recently been offered the position of Assistant City Attorney, .and Congressman ; Foran and other friends of his are warmly urging him to accept it. He is, however, very reluctant to give up his lucrative and growing practice. He fully lealizes that it takes a long time to build up a practice once relinquished. Very wisely, he says: “ The great mistake made by young attorneys lies, according to my opinion, in permitting themselves to be tempted from the regular practice by present advantage and expediency.” Many attorneys twice the age of Mr. Farrell would be glad to secure the office, the compensation being equal to the in- .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
come of a very good practice. Mr. Farrell and wife intend to visit and be at Notre Dame for Commencement.
—We have received the sad tidings of the death, . in Cincinnati, of Mr. Geo. W. Mallay, who was a student here during the first part of the session. The afflicted parents and relatives have the sincere sympathy of all at Notre Dame in their bereav-ment. The Cincinnati Telegraph says of the deceased:
“ A bright and promising young Cincinnatian, George tV. Mallay, passed to his eternal rest last Sunday, at the age of 20; at his pai ent’s residence, No. 428 West Seventh Street. He was the beloved and oldest son of Richard and Fannie E. Mallay, and had been suffering for. some time previous to his death' from a complication of heart disease. Two years ago, acting upon the decision come to by the best physicians of Cincinnati in a consultation, his father sent him to Europe to travel and study, this course being the one recommended to’give him a chance of life. He at first improved in health, but last June his father received a letter informing him of his son’s illness, whereupon he crossed to Europe and brought him back. George Mallav, after remaining a short while with his brother, went to Notre Dame, Indiana, where he was remaining a short time previous to his death.”	‘
,	Local Items. .
—Bel Lycold!
—“Strike woo-uo!”
— Vive la Quintette I
—Gentle April showers.
—Bright was the morn!
—The manager got there.
—What’s the next attraction?
—Soft soap at the boat house.
—Where was the nightingale?
—Lynch the weather-prophet!
—The crews are late this year.	.
—Change in the moon this morning.
—The owl did not survive the ducking.
—Look out for the Philopatrians two weeks hence!	•
—To-day (Saturday) is the eighth anniversary of the great fire.
—The toot ensemble of the Philopatrians’ play will be furnished by a military band.
—The St. Cecilian “suburban expedition ” was postponed on account of the weather.
—On the conclusion of Thursday’s game, “ Sag ” sagely remarked: “ To err is human.”
—The President of the Horticultural Bureau has entered upon the duties of his office.
—“ Familiarity with the office begets contempt! ” the captain sighed, while cleaning the boats.
-—- Ye disappointed candidates are now vainly trying to find the vacancies they have left behind.
—The Philodemics are preparing for the “Public Debate” which wilbbe given in a few days.
... —We are informed .that the series of “Science Hall Lectures” will be opened this (Sat,) evening.
—We hope that our local weather prophets are now convinced that the moon does not regulate the weather.	.
—The great artesian well pump ndw occupies a more central and prominent position to the north of the old spot.
-—Our friend John says that the recent spell of cold weather was attributable to the removal of the double windows.
—That must be a cannibal physician who says “If a child does not thrive on fresh milk, boil it.” Civilized people spank it.
—There will be another general competition in the various courses, and then will come the famous “ triples.” Look out for them !
—An excellent sketch—with a portrait accompanying—of Rev. President Walsh appeared in last week’s N. T. Freeman's Journal.
—As the reports were not returned in time for publication, the “ Class Honors ” and “ List of Ex-cellence”do not appear this week.
—It will be remembered, now, that audiences assemble in Washington Hall to listen, not to chatter, while a piece is presented for their entertainment.
—“Mike” says he understands all about the “ daisies,” feels highly honored at his new position, and the flowers in the Park will bloom “as they never bloomed before.”
—Many novel and beautiful adornments have been added to the Senior reading-rooms through the kind efforts of Bro. Paul. The rooms are now among the most attractive spots in this vicinity.
—The Junior “Reds” and “Blues” met in a friendly game of baseball on Thursday afternoon, and interested a large number of spectators. Victory perched upon the banner of the “Blues,” with the score 11 to 7.	•
—We shall be pleased to publish the “full score ” of all baseball games for the;“ pennant of other games we can only publish the “ score by innings.” An exception will be made in favor of good games with outside clubs.
—The man who insists upon telling you all about it while a piece is being played, is around. If our Nimrods run across him, a means of being of some service to their country might suggest itself—accidentally, as it were. Verbum sap.
—Our old friend, John Larkin, of Pottsville, Pa., has sent to the Historical Department a collection of valuable maps. We are glad to learn that Mr. Larkin is vapidly rising in his profession, and we are gratified to see that he does not forget his Alma Mater.
—The members of the Surveying Class believe in “making hay .while the sun shines.” In other words, they profit by these beautiful “rec’’days to make frequent expeditions through the surrounding country, and put to practical use the theoretical lore with which their minds are stored.
—The local reporter- hasdiscovered that there will be some striking characters in'the “new drama”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	529
which will soon be presented by the Philopatrians: “Prince of the Mohawks,” “ Marquis of Utica,” “Necromancer of Troy,” “Barber of Elmyra,” “ Mayor of Ithaca,” are a few among the prominent dramatis personce.
—Yesterday afternoon the passers-by were struck by the emblems of mourning suspended from the Greek class-room, and with fixed attention they read the notice attached: “ We have put on mourning, for the dear old owl is dead 1” So, the old owl is no more! Hath the ancient Hellenic wisdom departed with him? We wot not.
—There was a great fall in Ave Marias one day this week. It was occasioned by the “ tumble in stocks ” on the part of the person carrying the sheets from the pressroom to the folding, room, who obligingly “sat down” upon several individuals in his pathway engaged in picking up “sorts.” The papers were suffered to go their way, but no financial loss was sustained.
.—The twenty-fourth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Wednesday evening, April 20. The criticism on the exercises of the previous meeting was given by Master R. Oxnard, and abounded in “hits” and witticisms. Interesting essays were read by Masters Goebel, Falter, Kane, Adelsperger and Preston. W. McPhee delivered a declamation.
—The Superiors of the Dominican Nuns of Santa Clara Convent, Sinsinawa Mound,Wis., have given Signor Gregori an order to paint a copy of the lifesize portrait of his Holiness Pope Leo XIII, which is one of the attractions of the Bishops’ Memorial Flail. They have also ordered a copy of the portrait of the late Dr. Orestes A. Brownson, preserved in the Historical Department at Notre Dame.
—A very interesting and well contested game of ball was played Thursday on the Juniors’ campus by the Second Special Nine and the “ Invincibles.” ' B. Tivnen and F. Long deserve special mention for their excellent playing. The score by innings is as follows:
Innings:—1 23456789 Invincibles:—2 0001 510 5=14
Second Nine:—1 3 1 o 2 2 1 o 2=12
—A meeting of the Junior Branch of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin was held Sunday evening, April 17. Masters Austin and Adelsperger read essays, the former on “John England, First Bishop of Charleston,” the latter on “ The Shrines of Our Lady in Europe.” Masters Hayes, Welch, and G. Cooke were appointed to prepare essaysfor the next meeting. Rev. T. E. Walsh then gave a short but deeply interesting instruction.
—A good game of baseball was played on the Seniors’ campus, Thursday afternoon. The game, during the first innings, was characterized by sharp fielding, and the whole, apart from the “circus” play of the sixth inning, was as fine an exhibition as one could desire to see. The following is the score: _ o
Innings:—1 23456789
Blues:—1 o o o o o 0.0 0=1 Reds :—2 00 1 0300 0=6
—A grand “ rally ” of the Senior Temperance
Society was held on the evening of the 15th inst. An interesting and instructive address was delivered by Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., to whom, by a rising vote, a unanimous expression of thanks was tendered by the members. Messrs. Houck and Stubbs were chosen as delegates—with Messrs. Cartier and Lally, as alternates—to the Annual National Convention, which will be held in Philadelphia next August.	.
—Judging from the close application and industry manifested by the students in the classes of the various departments, it is safe to predict that the bulletins for April and May will be exceptionally good. This is as it should be. As the year draws to a close, there should be no diminution in the interest of the student; on the contrary, the near approach of the end should call for extra effort, in order to make amends for any past delinquencies, and to secure the brilliant crowning of a successful vear. a
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.:—Miniatures of the 263 Popes who have ruled the Catholic Church from St. Peter, * to his Holiness Leo XIII, presented by Mr. C. Laroux. Interesting manuscript on Blanchardism and the imprisonment of Pope Pius VII, written to Archbishop Carroll in 1812 by Rt. Rev. Bishop Milner, of England, presented by a friend. Six pamphlets from Rt. Rev. Bishop Healy. Eight autograph letters of Archbishop Wood, of Philadelphia, presented by Rev. Father Quinn. HolyBible used by Rt. Rev. Bishop Luers, presented by L. M. Portrait of Rt. Rev. Bishop Harkins, second Bishop of Providence; engraving of the cathedral church of Providence, presented by Sister Maria. Gold embroidered mitre set with gems, used by .Rt. Rev. Mgr. Mrack, presented by Rev. Father M. Catechism published by Rt. Rev. Bishop Conwell; three lectures and sermons by Archbishop Ryan; biographical sketches of the American Bishops by John Gilmary Shea, presented by Mr. A. Hart. Framed portrait of Pope Gregory XVI, presented by J. Harrison. Unity of the Episcopate, by Edward Healy Thompson—a reply to the work of Rev. T. W. Allies, entitled “The Church of England Cleared from the Charge of Schism”; “Protestant Episcopal Claims to Apostolical Succession Disproved,” by Rt. Rev. S.V. Ryan, Bishop of Buffalo, presented by Thos. McGuire.
—To a circle of friends, who had been invited to inspect Gregori’s marvellous portrait of Rembrandt, Prof. Edwards, for whom the picture: was painted, gave, on Wednesday evening, an interesting lecture on “ The Most Effective Painter of the Dutch School of Art.” The discourse was illustrated by the exhibition of several drawings and studies by Gregori in imitation of the mannerisms of Rembrandt, and also by engravings from original works by this great master. Notably among the latter was a finely executed etching of the. celebrated bust portrait by .Rembrandt, known as “The Gilder,” which created so decided a sensation in New York, and. which was. purchased by Mr. Schaus, of that city, from the mother of the Duke
53°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
de Morny for forty two thousand dollars. Before Mr. Schaus could bring this treasure into our country, he had to pajr thirty per cent, duty on twelve thousand dollars. Other incidental expenses swelled the cost of the picture to sixty thousand dollars. Next week an illustrated lecture on “Titian, the Prince of the Venetian School of Art,” has been promised to the same circle.
—The grand concert which Mr. Thomas Ryan, of Boston, specially arranged for Notre Dame, and which was given in Washington Hall by his Mendelssohn Quintette Club last Saturday, was a most delightful affair, and vastly pleased everybody. The house was well filled throughout, and a more enthusiastic audience never assembled here to listen to a concert programme. The latter was an elaborate one, and admirably adapted to the taste of a college audience. All the Quintette were given important numbers, and all were in good humor. The opening number—the famous overture to “The Poet and Peasant”—was rather quietly listened to, but Mr. William Schade woke the audience up with his brilliant flute solo “ The Swiss Boy,” by Boehm, after which Beethoven’s Quartette in G, Op. 18, No. 2, was rapturously received. Mr. John Marquardt’s fantasia for the violin, “ Mignon,” by Sarosate, was admirably given.
The next important number was by'Mr. Ryan himself—Flamm’s delightful melody for the clar-inette, “ Chant du Soir”—which he rendered with marvellous effect. Mr. Louis Blumenberg was in a happy mood, and as he planted his fine instrument, and gave his bow a few preliminary switches, he beamed all over with graciousness. His selection was a Hungarian Caprice, by Dtinkler, for the violoncello, and was admirably chosen to display his astonishing technique and the exquisite grace and dash with which he handles his bow. The expressions of delight which greeted the artist on every hand were appreciated by him, and he most cheerfully responded to repeated vociferous recalls. Other numbers were: “ Mozart’s Tema con Variazione,” and “L’Angelus,” by Liszt. .
Miss Alice Ryan, the -prima donna of the Quintette, unfortunately arrived here too late from St. Mary’s to take part in the concert. She sang the curious Italian Air “ Bocca, Bocca, Bella,” composed about 1700, by Lotti, and an exquisite “Ave Maria,” from Verdi’s new opera “ Othello,” at St. Mary’s in the forenoon, and did it so delightfully that the audience over there went fairly wild. The fair young artist’s voice is light, but sweet and birdlike, and is under absolute control.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those studenst whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Archambeault, M. Akin, Ashton, Aubrey, Beckwith, J. Burke, Becerra, P. Burke, Baca, Barnes, Bush, Barrett, Beaupre, Burns, Brown, Colina, Crane, Craig, J. Crowley, Cusack, W. Cartier, Coady, Craft, Cassidy, W. Dorsey,
S. Dorsey, Dillon, Dore, Dreever, Dempsey, Eyanson, A. Finckh, Ford, Fehr, Gallardo, Gordon, Gibbs, Griftin, G. Houck, Hummer, Hagerty, Judie, Kreutzer, Kleiber, Kings-north, Kramer, Dally, Ley, Langan, Lyons, Luhn, Luther, McManus, J. McDermott, T. McDermott, McGinnis, Moffatt, McNamara, J. Meagher, L. Meagher, Myers, McNally, Newton, Noonan, Neill, Nelson, Andrew Nicholl, Alfred Nicholl, O’Rourke, O’Regan, L. O’Malley, J. O’Malley, Orr, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, Prichard, Pender, Quigley, Ryan, Rheinberger, Rothert, Rodriguez, Rochford, Suing, W. Sullivan, Shields, Triplett, Woodman, Woodbridge, Wilson, M. White, Weber, Wagoner, W. White, Zaehnle.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Austin, Anderson, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Badger, Bull, W. Boland, H. Boland, Baca, Benner, Burns, Berry, Bruce, Brannech, Burts, S. Campbell, J. Clarke, B. Clarke, Cooney, Coad, L. Chute, F. Chute, Curtis, Cartier, G. Cooke, Carney, Cavanagh, Clifford, Casey, Devine,- Dunning, Duffield, Daniels, Dempsey, Ewing, Fitzharris, Falter, Flood, Fisher, Flynn, Freeman, Galar-neau, Goebel, Glenn, Girten, Hoffman, Houlihan, Hart, T. Hake, A. Hake, Henry, Hannin, Hayes, Hampton, I loye, Handly, H. Higgins, Heller, Inks, Jewett, Jacobs, Joyce, Johns, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Kern, Kellner, Kutsche, Keating, Kinsella, King, Landenwich, Long, Lane, Mc-Kendry, McKenzie, McCart, Monarch, W. McCormick, Mallay, McIntosh, Macatee, Moncada, McNulty, Morrison, Meehan, Mitchell, McGuire, McDonald, McCabe, McCambridge, Nations, Noud, O’Connor, Ormond, O’Brien, O’Shea, O’Hearn, Pfau, L. Paquette, C. Paquette, Preston, Roper, Sweet, J. Stephens, F. Smith, M. Smith, B. Stephens, Sullivan, Taliaferro, Tewksburv, Tarrant, Tedeus, Vhay, Warner, L. White, H. White, Walsh, Wade, Wilkin, Wageman, Weiner, Wile, Ciarcoschi, Gray. Kehoe.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bloomhuft] Blumenthal, Boettcher, Black, A. Backrack, S. Backrack, H. Backrack, Clendenin, Crotty, J. Conners, E. Conners, C. Connor, W. Connor, Cooke, Corbett, Dahler, Doss, J. Dungan, Jas. Dungan, F. Davidson, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, G. Franche, C. Franche, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Gale, Grant, Garber, Graham, Griffin, Goldmann, H. Huiskamp, J. Huiskamp, O. Haney, Hillas, Jewett, Kutsche, Koester, Keefe, Klaner, Kane, Kerwin, Kraber, Kinsella, Lowenstein, M. Mainzer, H. Mahon, C. Mooney, McDonnell, McGuire, McPhee, Martin, H. Mooney, T. Mahon, Munro, A. Mayer, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, Mason, Morgenweck, F.' Mainzer, Nester, O’Donnell, O’Mara, O’Neill, Paul, Priestly, Quill, L. Riordan, Rowsey, Rogers, Savage, Sweet, Stone, Silver, A. Sullivan, J. Sullivan, F. Sullivan, F. Toolen, F. Toolen, Tompkins, Triplett, Taft, A. Williamson, W. Williamson, Witkowsky, Weckler, Walsh, Ziemann.
Arago, the French Astronomer, tells, in his autobiography, how in his youth he became one day puzzled and discouraged over his mathematics, and almost resolved to give up the study. He had his paper-bound text-book in his hand. Impelled by an indefinable curiosity, he dampened the cover of the book, and carefully unrolled the leaf to see what was on the other side. It turned out to be a brief letter from D’Alembert to a young man, like himself, disheartened by the difficulties of mathematical study, who had written to him for counsel. This was the letter: “ Go on, sir, go on. The difficulties you meet resolve themselves as you advance. Proceed, and dawn and light will shine with increasing clearness' upon your path.” Arago followed the simple suggestion, and became the first astronomical mathematician of his age.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. -
53i
Saint TFlary's Academy.
One Mile IFest of Notre Dame University.
—In the last Art report the name of Miss Henke was accidentally omitted.
—St. Ann’s Hall and apartments have been beautifully upholstered by Mr. Trainor, of South Bend.
—Eva Quealy received 100 in lessons, 100 in correct deportment, and was the fortunate winner of the politeness badge. The competitors for the badge were the Misses 1. and M. Becker, Cadda-gan, McCormick, and O’Mara.
—The sad intelligence of the death in Chicago, last week, of Miss Edna Burtis, a pupil of St. Mary’s for several years, brought deep sorrow to the many to whom her lovely character had warmly endeared her. The most tender condolence is extended to her bereaved mother.
—The second number of St. Mary's Chimes, Vol. XII, was read at the regular Academic re-union. Editresses: the Misses Miner and Flannery, of the third Senior Class. It was a sprightly and interesting paper. Very Rev. Father General and Rev. Father Zahm made some verv instructive remarks after the conclusion.
—A magnificent gift, to be presented to our Holy Father Pope Leo XIII on his golden jubilee of ordination, will consist of a richly bound volume, containing the Magnificat in one hundred and fifty different languages. Very Rev. Father General Sorin has sent for a certain number of copies, one of which he has promised to the princesses of St. Mary’s. The little.girls, who are so highly honored by the condescension of their best friend, beg him to accept their profound and loving thanks for his thoughtful attention in making them the recipients of so valuable a prize.
—A grand concert, by the Boston Mendelssohn Quintette Club, was given on Saturday morning, at nine o’clock. To honor the name of their Club, and to compliment the Conservatory of Music, a selection from Mendelssohn preceded the following
PROGRAMME : PART I. 1. Quintette in F, Op. 166..............Franz	Schubert
(Arranged from the Octette.) Introduction, Adagio and Allegro. 2. Bocca, bocca, beila.........................Lotti
Italian Air (composed about 1700) Miss Alice Ryan. 3. Flute Solo, Concert piece....................Popp
Mr. William Schade.
4.	Quartette, C minor, No. 4, Op. iS.......Beethoven
Allegro moderate, Andantino scherzoso.
5.	Violin Solo—Fantaisie, “ Othello ”......... Ernst
Mr. John Marquardt.
Inter mission.
part 11.
6.	Divertimento for Clarinette..............Baermann
Mr. Thomas Ryan.
( a. Love Song............’...............Tattbert
J(b. Adieu to Naples.........'..............Schuster
(Composed for Quintette.)
S. Hungarian Caprice......................- • ..Dunkier
Solo for Violoncello.
Mr. Louis Blumenberg.
9.	Ballad—“Good-bye’’..........................Tosti
Miss Alice Ryan.
10.	Minuet.................................Boccherini
(Composed for Quintette.)
If Angelus, by the Club, and an Ave Maria, by Miss Ryan, were given by request. The high expectations of all were fully realized in the excellent performance.
—On Tuesday afternoon, at o’clock, «New Arts ” and “ The Minims of St. Mary’s ” were presented, according to the following
programme:
“THE MINIMS OF ST. MARY’S.”
Prologue... Charlotte ( Jessie \ Ivy J Marv I
Eva' f
Hazel J Blanche £ Annie )
A Serio-Comic Drama
(By the Author of “ New Arts.”) ............................C.	Caddagan
Verv attentive children.
Interesting pupils.
C. Caddagan j J. Wallace f M. Becker I I. Becker
New comers.
Tableau.
] E. Quealy
( H. Pugsley \ B. McCormic ) A. Dinnin O’Mara
“NEW ARTS.”
A Drama in Three Acts, Written for the Benefit of Academies of Holy Cross, by Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of
Holy Cross.
Dramatis Personce.
Prologue......................".........A.	Schmauss
Madame Affable...................................F.	Steele
Miss Eastlake....................................M.	Mason
Miss Holmes......................................L.	Nester
Mrs. Fairbanks..........................L.	Bragdon
Miss Rosecommon.........................L.	Caddagan
“ McPherson...........................A.	McDonnell
“ Faraday...............................J-	Fisher
“ Clark...............................I.	Stapleton
“ Everett...............................O.	Knauer
“ Carson................................E.	Quealy
“ May.................................L. Koester
“ Copeland............................H. Pugsley
“ Carloman............................A.	Bridgeman
“	Grundy..............................D. Rogers
“	Fish........................................J.	Wallace
“ Toby..................................S.	Crane
“	Delemy......................................F.	Burdick
Ladies of the Reception—T. Balch, E. Blaine, N. Morse, M. Campbell, E. Kendall, A. Bridgeman, L. Leonard.
Tableau.
The rendition of both plays was very successful, and merited the hearty commendation of their venerated author, than which no greater reward could be desired by the youthful performers. The parts, respectively, of Madame Affable, Miss Eastlake and Miss Holmes were admirable. The Minims were the admired of all admirers.
The Joy of Eastertide.
Peace and joy go hand in hand. Twin born of heavenly faith, there is no blessedness that is not heralded, or followed, by their holy- presence. They are the life, the glory of Eastertide. The joy that thrills the heart at the thought of the Resurrection is merged in the peace 'ivJiich passeth understanding. “Be not affrighted,” said the o
532	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
white-robed angelic presence, who sat on the right side of the sepulchre, and addressed the holy women who had come to anoint their Crucified Redeemer. “ He is risen. He is not here. He will ero before ______________________	o
you into Galilee. There you shall see Him.” “When his disciples were gathered, and the doors were shut, Jesus came, and stood in the midst of them, and said: ‘ Peace be to you! ’” and with the words, He revealed His identity. The sacred, wounded hands; the pierced and yearning heart were open still as they had been upon the Cross. “The disciples were glad when they saw the Lord,” and again he said, “Peace be to you!”
Here is the solution of the problem of life. Elsewhere it cannot be found. . The belief in “ The resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting” brings sunshine to the darkest recess of earth, even where sin has cast its withering blight-; for when our risen Saviour had spoken of peace, what followed the divine announcement? In the next instant He added: “As the Father hath sent Me, I also send you.” Then He breathed on them, and added: “ Receive ye the Holy Ghost, whose sins ye shall forgive, they are forgiven; whose sins ye shall retain, they are retained.”
He breathed on them, and that breath was life to all who love the truth: to all in past ages, or in the present time, or in the time to come. Beautiful is the Spring of the year, even in the light of nature. The skies are warm and fair, and when the clouds gather above, they weep soft, gentle tears that sink into the heart of the earth, and whisper such loving invitations to the cold and lifeless flowers that they throw off their dullness, and burst the fetters that bind them, and come forth in all the regal splendor of the floral world.
How fittingly do they symbolize the transformation of the human heart when vivified by Christian faith! They tell of fruitage, too, when the Autumn shall arrive, and with the interior lesson thus conveyed, we see the charity born of faith and nourished by the hope of life everlasting, of which the Easter anthem tells so touchingly. Then with the Queen of Heaven we rejoice, and with the dear disciples receive that peace that could not come to earth till the race of man was ransomed by the sacrifice upon the Cross of Calvary.
How invigorating the reflection that amid the strife of a fickle, changing, treacherous world, there is a "peace which nothing can destroy! The Paschal season is the pearl-white gate which opens upon this heavenly peace. All are invited to enter. They alone who will not heed the loving invitation are excluded.
Gleefully upon the air at dawn the voice of the bird rings as if echoing the Alleluia that thrilled the , atmosphere on Easter morning. Buds are bursting; flowers are blooming. Life gathers freshly everywhere. Nature responds to the Resurrection of its Divine Creator, who so loved the world that He became. Man to die for marts redemption. . Who, that has a heart, can fail to acknowledge His. infinite love, and in .the glorious Paschal season make his peace with God?
• ' •	'	. M. .
Roll of Honor. ’
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allnoch, Brady, Blaine, Bates, Blacklock, Beschamang, Clendenen, E. Coll, Claggett, Dillon, A. Duffield, M. Duffield, H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey, Dart, Dunkin, Egan, Fuller, Foin, Faxon, Flannery, Griffith, Guise, Gordon, Gavan, Horn, Hummer, Heckard, Hertzog, Harlem, Henke, L. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson, Johnson, Kearsey, Kearney, Kearns, M. F. Murphy, McHale, Miner, L. Meehan, M. Meehan, Morse, Murphy, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, McCormic, Moore, McCarthy, Moran, O’Conner, Negley, Neft', Patrick, Pierson, Proby, Quealy, G. Regan, Rend, Rose, E. Regan, Reed, Robinson, Snowhook, Stadtler, Shields, Sterns, M. Smith, Stocks-dale, Sullivan, Sweet, Trask, Triplett, Van Horn, Wolvin, Wehr, Wimmer, Weishart, Wright, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, Boyer, Bru us, Campeau, E. Dempsey, L. Griffith, Geer, Hinz, Hughes, Hunt-ting, Knauer, G. Meehan, N. Morse, Mercer, Prudhomme, H. Rhodes, Rogers, Stapleton, Stiefel, Wiesenbach.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses I. Becker, M. Becker, Caddagan, McCormic, O’Mara, Pugsley, Quealy, Wallace.
Class Honors.
Grad. Class—Misses Dillon, Fuller, Griffith, Horn, Kearsey, Kearney, McHale, Shephard, Williams, Wolvin.
ist Senior Class—Misses Brady, Hummer, Heckard, Kearns, Regan, Snowhook, Sullivan, Trask, Duffield, Guise, Neff, Gordon, Proby.
2D Senior Class—Misses Dempsey, Bub, Dunkin, Van Horn, Stadtler, Smith, Rend, Moran, Hutchinson, Gavan, E. Coll, Hertzog, Riedinger, Meehan, Stocksdale, Blair, Morse, Patrick.
3d Senior Class—Misses Flannery, Regan, Smith, Miner, Pierson, Shields, McCormic, Fisher, McDonnell, McEwen, Quill, Hinz, Duffield, Dempsey, Kennedy, Meehan, Triplett, Hutchinson, Egan, Huntting, Harlem, Murphy, Sterns, Bates, Thompson.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Bridgeman, Blacklock, Nester, Sweet, Claggett, Wimmer, T. Balch, Moore, Leonard, E. Blaine.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Beschamang, Boyer, Bragdon, M. Coll, Hughes, Koester, Knauer, Steele, Stapleton, Zahm, Morse, Lindsey, Wiesenbach, Weishart.	:
Junior Prep.—Misses Kendall, Rogers, Hull, Meehan, Crane, Rhodes, Caddagan, Fisher.
ist Junior Class.—Misses M. Becker, Campbell, Dempsey, Meehan, McCormic, O’Mara, Pugsley, Stiefel,Wallace.
2d Junior Class—Misses I. Becker, Burdick, Mercer, book-keeping.
ist Class—Misses Kearns, Carmien, Snowhook, Morse. Faxon, Guise.
2D Class—Misses Patrick, N. Dempsey, Sterns, Desen-berg, E. Coll, Bub, Kennedy.
3D Class—Misses E. Regan, L. Griffith, Blacklock, Henke, Stocksdale, Sweet, McDonnell, Neft* Quill, Koester, Thompson, M. Murphy.
4T11 Class—Misses Rose, Fravel, Claggett.
French.
ist Class—Miss M. F. Murphy.
2D Class—Misses Van Horn, Clendenen, Snowhook Beschameng.	•
3d Class—Misses Kearsey, Gavan, McEwen, Faxon, Campeau.	.
4T11 Class—Misses Balch, Proby, Pierson, Beaubien, Barry, Birdsell, Prudhomme, L. Nester, Kendall.
German.
ist Class—Miss E. Horn.
2D Class—Misses Kearney, Bub, Clendenen, Trask, Beschameng, Henke.
3d Class—Misses Hummer, Moore, Hinz, Knauer, Bruus.
4TH Class—Misses M.-Smith; Neff, Rose, Stocksdale, Wiesenbach, Quealey, Caddagan, Dart, Stearns, Desenberg, Allnoch, Quill, Hake, Fritz, Huntting, E. Balch, Thompson, Wehr, Birdsell, R. Smith, E. Blaine, Wimmer, Schmauss.
5th Class—Misses Bridgeman, Sweet, Leonard, Griffith.