1OOK
I	... NO WRINKLES WHEN YOU WEAR A
HASPEL SELFCAIRE WASH 'N WEAR SUIT
Keeping a crisp, fresh-looking appearance even during the most humid weather is no problem when you wear a Sir Perior Selfcaire wash and wear fashion by Haspel. For this remarkable suit never loses its press, but loses wrinkles like magic! Yes, it’s true, thanks to a superior blend. of Dacron and cotton. - What’s more, it’s the easiest suit in the world to keep clean. Simply wash it, let it drip dry and it’s ready to wear, with little or no ironing required. Come in and try one on soon. You’ll like the comfortable, handsome styling, and the new deep, mellow shades. We have your size now!
$39.95
May S, 1959
^KWTURBOW \pPTOMTRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel	Phone CE 4-577/
This week's cover is another contribution of junior fine arts major Jerry Florent. Using the title of the current University Theatre production of “The Boy Friend” as a theme he has captured some of the gaiety and spirit of the age of the flipper and the flapper.
Florent in this cover has adherred to his usual modern but realistic style in his portrayal of a typical coed of the roaring twenties.
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
Brasso. ROTC Collar Insignia You Save Every day at GENDEL’S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
When things get too close for comfort
STICK DEODORANT
•	Old Spice Stick Deodorant brings you safe, sure, all-day protection!
•	Better than roll-ons that skip.
•	Better than sprays that drip.
•	Better than creams that are greasy and messy.
NEW PLASTIC CASE N&SET ran neTANT use IjOOmkim
By land or by sea—you need this Social Security !
the Scholastic
Vol. 100 Moy 1 No. 21
Diice Quaa Semper Victara* Vive Quan Crm Montura*
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, r Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
PROJECT TOMORROW: Congratulations to the engineering students who staged their annual open house last week. As usual they put a lot of work into their exhibits, and this year’s open house was evidence of this fact. Among the exhibits which particularly captured our interest were the sonar demonstration which reminded us of valiant Curt Jurgens and his faithful submarine crew evading Robert Mitchum in the Atlantic, and the usual exhibit of thermo-welding (a layman’s reduction of technical terminology). These were but two of the varied fare of exhibits offered to the student visitor and which proved very interesting even to the very unethical mind (ours). An. auto show in the Drill Hall featured exhibits of the major auto companies and, of course, Studebaker-Packard Corporation, South Bend, Ind., which has gone up with the “Lark.” Some of more interesting models had one bad feature: there were no fenders or running-boards. All in all though, the show, entitled “Project Tomorrow,” was a huge success.
BOB SEDLACK
Editor
POLITICS: Congratulations to the victors of each and every electoral contest whether it was for Student Body President or Sophomore Class Treasurer. Let us hope that the new officialdom continues the progress which the Student Government' is currently making.
LOU STETTLER j	Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH.________________News	Editor
WALT RUDGE-------------------Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH.----------------Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON.____________Sports	Editor
JON SIDDLE___________________Cover	Editor
DAVE SOMMER................Photography PETER HASBROOK......Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI...........Circulation
ROY RUBELI____________________Assistant	News
AL GENIESSE.....................Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK----------------------Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA____________Assistant Features JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER...Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER___________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE_________________Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER------------Assistant Sports
.• BOB HORN...............Assistant Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
RACES: Although the Kentucky Derby is slated for tomorrow, we have not been without racing thrills on campus. Of late so many casual students have turned out for the nocturnal spectacle at the velodrome that we wonder when the parimutuel windows will open. In the season of telephone booth cramming, Notre Dame has at least come up with a diversion which has spectator appeal even if it were originated by Howard Hall — which according to Scholastic policy (dictated from Escape) does not exist.
THE IMAGE OF MAN is the title of one of the more interesting books printed thus far in 1959. Its subtitle, “A Review of Politics Reader,” reveals that it is a collection of essays selected from that quarterly published by Notre Dame and edited by Professor Fitzsimons and Fr. McAvoy of the History Department and Professor O’Malley of the English Department.
Many of the unthinking students, we fear, will shy away from this book, as they have shied away from the individual issues in the past, for no other reason than that “they’re not interested in politics.” This reason can be the excuse of only the intellectual sloths who have not bothered to investigate the meaning and purpose of The Review of Politics.
In their introduction, the authors make this initial statement: “For twenty years The Review of Politics, concerned with the philosophical and historical approach to the problems of the human community, has drawn for sources of value and illumination upon the classical and Christian heritage.” Even the most casual reader cannot but be struck by the comprehensive and pervasive view of human life which the editors have tried and, we believe, have succeeded in portraying. The Image of Man is much more than a study of governmental politics, as its title unfortunately seems to convey; it is a study of the intellectual and spiritual; it is a book that should be read.
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carer. Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough, Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade * Clarke, Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin. John Hoey, Bob
Kelley. Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak. Tom Romans. Charles Tausche. Tom Weiss.
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh. -
* Member of Catholic School Ibes* Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York Gty.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during die school year, except during vacation and examine-don periods, at die University of Notre Dame. S^wcription rate, >5.00 a year. Address all manu-ampta to die Ec&tor, Boot 185, Notre Dame, Intfiaaa.
MOREAU HILTON: Last Sunday we took the opportunity to view the newly opened Moreau Seminary, from the inside. New Moreau was built at a cost of 3 million dollars, and to our minds was money well spent. Upon entering the building we were taken on a grand tour of the huge edifice by a hospitable seminarian. Highlights of the tour included the gracious and modern chapel which features the giant wall-window of colored glass by artist Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., who has studios in the building. Our host also showed us the new auditorium, the gymnasium and the recreational facilities which are provided for the seminarians. We even noted a table littered with tobacco where the future priests “roll their own.” Moving upstairs we were shown a typical seminarian’s room which was plain but comfortable, much like the rooms in some of the newest halls on campus. Upon remarking that the rooms seemed very livable our host encouraged us to sign up downstairs if we desired to live in one. Our guide then ushered us (via elevator) to the roof-top which has been completely landscaped. Amid the patio tiles and green grass we scanned the panoramic view of the University and surrounding territory. It would be interesting to learn what a stranger would think if he saw the caretaker taking his lawnmower up to the roof to cut the grass. The building is very beautifully but economically constructed, and is a credit to the Holy Cross Community as well as to the University. It is too bad that more students did not take advantage of the opportunity to see it. P.S. For those who wonder, NO swimming pool.
— S.6S.
5
May 1, 1959
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types
Contact ED SILLIMAN. Campus Bep.
263 Dillon	Ext 631
CHARTER A —
CasixLi/uaJL Bjul±
AQIW LIBRARY art BOSK SHOP
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
KGDL KROSSWORD
ACROSS
1. Not a longhair
4. In Nasser's league
8. Kools are _______Fresh
12.	Misrepresentation
13.	Pudding powder
14.	With 10 Down, an order
15.	Make a booboo
16.	Fly talk
17.	Undosed (poetic)
18.	Gets married
20. Bet accepters
22.	It’s dished or potted
23.	You Quaker
24. Ali
1GDH -tatffci Msay oj. s|oh way. tp/yv^
*1
A
4 1
No. 22
|4	5	6	
I13			
I16			
20
1	2	3
12		
15		
18		
19
21
	9	10	11
			
F			
			
DOWN
1.	Nickname for S. C. college?
2.	He wears a black-and- . tan coat
3.	This is awful!
4.	Dough, for instance
5.	Cheers
6.	Make__________ of it
7.	Western elevation for a tenderfoot?
8.	Willie the Penguin’s chant
9.	Negative arrangement of open
10.	See 14 Across
11.	Gets hitched
19. Catch on
21. Adlai’s initials
23.	Double dates minus one
24.	Top half of a bikini .
25.	Chiropodists’ party?
26.	You can’t blame him
27.	Fancy stuff
28.	Railways (abbr.)
33. AFL associate
36. Blind-date arranger
38. Cover with lettuce
89. Fountain hunter
41. GI, or any guy
24
i
23
25
30
29
31
33
32
ENOUGH TO
37
40
43
45
SWITCH
FROM
35
ARE YOU KQDL I
34

(sounds
sheepish)
25. More playful
29.	Misfortunes
30.	Texas subsoil
31.	One and_____
32.	Good advice during exams
34.	Bucks
35.	Kind of df
36.	Beat
37.	Kind of noxious
38.	A type of year
40. Big Greek
42.	End of the scene
43.	Where to dig
44.	Sgt. or CpL
45.	Wolf look
46.	Take five, twice
KRACK THIS?
• As cool and. clean as a breath of fresh air.

%

KQDL
• Finest leaf tobacco.. .mild refreshing menthol and the -worlds most thoroughly tested filter!
your throat refreshed!
Qfnej-icos MosF Rfefieehing
...ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER!
K®L
mkomcntwol


6
The Scholastic
mark shields loves pat donovair
by CHARLES BOWEN
Spring, to be prosaic, has come to Notre Dame, bringing with it such perennial delights as flowers, Bock beer, highschool tours of the campus, leaves, grass, sunshine, and the seasonal increase in suspensions and probations. But there is one sure sign of the times that always tells me more surely than anything else, even the surging throb of the dance of life (indicated in Sorin by a renewed proliferation of the vermin) that the vernal equinox has been passed, and that summer is not far off. This is the appearance on the University bulletin boards of the annual Spring Regulations.
The sight of this little dittoed sheet every year is enough to send me rooting fondly in my locker for my Haspel Sir-Perior and my Madras cummerbund. Nothing, unless possibly the distribution of free gin-and-tonics at the Huddle, could have a more salutary effect on my morale than reading once again those inspiriting words, “Never are the roofs of residence halls to be used for purposes of sun bathing.” Ah, the ecstasies into which I am whirled as I read that I am not to take university-owned blankets out of the hall or appear on the basketball court without a shirt of some kind! It’s springtime! The only pretty ring-time! Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, to-witta-woo!
I must add, however, that the title “Spring Regulations” strikes one as a bit unfortunate. One gets the feeling that spring itself is being regulated, and it is difficult to suppress visions of such items as “Flowers are to bloom no later than 1400 hours on 1 May,” or “Birds residing within 100 yds. of any residence hall or other university dormitory building are not to sing after the hour of 7 in the evening or before 6 in the morning. Singing is allowed at other times, provided it is carried on in a restrained and dignified manner.” This, I am sure all will agree, is an unfortunate association to be attached to a document which ought to bring unalloyed joy to the bosoms of aill who look upon it.
* * *
I have received word from a well-informed source that the next item in the University’s bag of academic tricks
is a bold stroke of educational pathfinding. The Dalai Lama is to appear at Notre Dame in September as a Distinguished Professor. A small lamasery is already being constructed on the shore of St. Mary’s Lake for his accommodation. (The D. L. will be attended by a small retinue, but his yaks will be lodged at St. Mary’s, where it is felt they will be more at home.) Initial speculation that he was to teach a new course in comparative religion has subsided in the face of reliable though unofficial word that he will instead be attached to the Department of Biology, where he will contribute to the dispersal of universal knowledge by instructing all enrollees in the care and feeding of the yak.
It is felt that his acceptance of Notre Dame’s offer1 solved a rather ticklish problem for several liberal universities who have no official religious philosophy. The Dalai Lama, as you know, claims to be the Supreme Being, and it was felt that in a place where no religious attitude may be discounted, some embarrassing points of etiquette might arise. At Notre Dame, however, the prevailing opinion on such matters is quite clear, and the Lama, having been informed that we are all hopelessly benighted heathen, appears perfectly willing to accept the consequences of this regrettable state of affairs. We of the Notre Dame family all join in saluting His Omnipotence and wishing him 'a long and mutually advantageous stay.
* * *
After due consideration of all the criticism, criticism of criticism, and criti- ' cism of criticism of criticism that has appeared in the recent pages of this magazine, I have come to the conclusion that I was right in the first place: If there’s anything duller than criticism, it’s constructive criticism. In accordance with this radical, socialistic belief, I have decided, along with a few who feel as I do, to form a Campus Defamation League. This organization is to have no other purpose than the sheer irresponsible denigration of whatever fails to please its members. In this way we hope to preserve from extinction in a welter of goodwill and sincerity the fine old arts of
scurrility and invective. The society will meet at least once every couple of weeks and after the preliminary burning of a book or two, the members will read their manuscripts of abuse towards some chosen object. The best papers will be selected for an anthology to be mimeographed on rice paper and carried about by the members, or eaten whenever it becomes expedient.
♦ * *
The first crop of senior essays is rolling in to instructors, and on the upper floors of O’Shaughnessy Hall the initial burst of unbelieving laughter has already quieted down to a steady chorus of gagging. The History Department has announced, as usual, that the combined footnotes of all its papers would, if laid end to end, reach from Fr. McAvoy’s office to Frankie’s Rathskeller. Although it is too early for any announcements of the winners of the various prizes, all the departments are buzzing with rumors and a few predictions may be ventured by the well-informed prognosticator, if we can find him this week end. In the meantime, scuttle butt places the following as strong contenders:
Most thorough coverage of subject: Honore Plip of the Communication Arts Department, who submits a fifty page treatise on “The Immy and its Function in Marbleshooting.”
Most intense concentration of effort: George Plasma of the English Department — 200 pages on “The Table of Contents in the Modern Library Edition of Vanity Fair.”
Most ambitious undertaking: Peter S. Hyphen of the General Program, with “A Thomistic Criticism of the Universe.” 23 pages.
Most puzzling essay: Myron Mellish, who astounded the Modern Language Department with 45 pages of “Some Observations on the Interpolation of the Omega Function, with applications in Ring and Lattice Theory.”
Finest work of fiction: John Bellairs, who submitted to the English Department his collected letters to the Marshall, Michigan Draft Board.
* She’s typing his thesis.
May 1, 1959
7
Ok Campos A™
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys!” and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
ADVENTURES IN SOCIAL SCIENCE: NO. 3
News Briefs
Today, ranging again into the fascinating world of social science, let us take up the subject of anthropology—the study of man and his origins.
The origin of man was indeed a puzzle until the Frenchman, Jean-Louis Siga-foos, discovered the skull and shinbone of Pithecanthropus Erectus in Java in 1891. What Sigafoos was doing in Java is, incidentally, quite an odd little story. Sigafoos was a Parisian born and bred. By day one could always find him at a sidewalk cafe, sipping barley water and ogling the girls: each night he went to a fashionable casino where he gambled heavily at roulette and go-fish; in between times he worked on his stamp collection, which was one of the largest in Paris.
Well sir, one summer Sigafoos lost his entire fortune gambling at the casino. He was seriously contemplating suicide when quite unexpectedly, a letter arrived from one Lotus Petal McGinnis, a Javanese girl and an avid stamp collector, with whom Sigafoos had been corresponding from time to time through the international stamp collectors journal. Until now the nature of their correspondence, though friendly, had been strictly philatelic, but in this new letter Lotus Petal declared that although she had never laid eyes on Sigafoos, she loved him and wanted to marry him. She said she was eighteen years old, beautiful and docile, and her father, the richest man in the tribe, had agreed to give half his fortune to the husband of her choice. Sigafoos, penniless and des-
perate, immediately booked passage for Java.
The first sight of his prospective bride failed to delight Sigafoos. She was, as she said, beautiful—but only by local standards. Sigafoos had serious doubts that her pointed scarlet teeth and the chicken bones hanging from her ears
would be considered chic along the Champs Elysees.
But sobering as was the sight of Lotus Petal, Sigafoos had an even greater disappointment coming when he met her father. The old gentleman was, as Lotus Petal claimed, the richest man in the tribe, but, unfortunately, the medium of exchange in his tribe was prune pits.
Sigafoos took one look at the mound of prune pits which was his dowry, gnashed his teeth, and stomped off into the jungle, swearing vilely and kicking at whatever lay in his path. Stomping thus, swearing thus, kicking thus, Sigafoos kicked over a heap of old bones which—what do you know!—turned out to be Pithecanthropus Erectus!
But I digress. From the brutish Pithecanthropus, man evolved slowly upward in intellect. By the Middle Paleolithic period man had invented the leash, which was a remarkable technical achievement, but frankly not particularly useful until the Mesolithic period when man invented the dog.
In the Neolithic period came the most important discovery in the history of man —the discovery of agriculture. Why is this
so important? Because, good friends, without agriculture there would be no tobacco, and without tobacco there would be no Marlboro, and without Marlboro you would be without the finest filter cigarette that money can buy, and I would be without a job.
That’s why.
© 1959 Max Shulman
* * *
Without tobacco you would also be without Marlboro’s sister cigarette, Philip Morris, a non-filter smoke that can’t be beat. Philip Morris or Marlboro—pick your pleasure.
*
The last of this semester’s lectures spon- ( sored by the religion department will feature noted author-philosopher Yves Simon. Professor Simon, formerly of Notre Dame and now professor of Philosophy at the I University of Chicago, will speak on the topic “The Theological Implications of . ( Positivism.” The lecture will be held on Friday, May 8 at 8 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland . Science. The public is cordially invited to attend.
Notre Dame’s Finance and Industry Forum was attended last week by attorneys ' and businessmen from twelve states. The , forum, held in the Law Auditorium, dealt ' with problems of estate planning and other taxation topics.
Addressing the forum in the North Dining Hall, was Roger Branigin, Lafayette, Ind., attorney and former president of the Indiana State Bar Association. Branigin was an unsuccessful Democratic candidate v for governor in 1956 and a former trustee of Purdue University.
John Thomas, tenor, will be presented in recital on Monday in the O’Shaughnessy Art Gallery. Thomas, tenor soloist with the Notre Dame Glee Club is a student 41 of Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C. Before transferring to Notre Dame in 1956, Thomas was featured soloist with the men’s chorus of St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn. ’
Included in the program are works of Handel, Scarlotti, and others. An added feature of the program is a first performance of a work by John Rockne Guinn, graduate student in the music department.
->
This week Prof. John Logan of the general program will read his own poems and fiction at a number of schools in the Midwest and the East beginning last Saturday 4 , when he addressed the Illinois College English Teachers and the University of Southern Illinois. Following this he will read and lecture at Mountmercy College, q Pittsburgh; St. Vincent’s College, Latrobe, Pa.; St John’s College, Annapolis; and New York University and Hunter College in New York City. He will return to , campus on Tuesday.
An art show, compiled from Notre Dame’s permanent collection of Dutch, English, and American art, will be displayed through April 30, in the O’Shaughnessy Hall Art Gallery from 1 to 5 p.m. daily..
The west gallery is composed of 16 works by 17th-century Dutch artists, while sharing the east gallery are 18th- and 19th-century British paintings and 20th-century American and European paintings, sculp- „ tures, and prints.	'
A student show titled “Primitive Art in Transition,” will be shown May 3 through 31. Loaned to the University by Daniel J. Crawley of Notre Dame, these exhibits contain works from Africa, the West Indies, and Jamaica.
Three former Notre Dame students, who (Continued on page 22)
The Scholastic
CaitUp44A
BABBITT WALKS IN AFTER UNCONTESTEDRACE
Critics of Election Hit By 'Scholastic' Writer
by JIM BYRNE
The “men of the hour” are about to ascend their thrones and the defeated are either seeking political asylum in the world of “what might have been” or are rebuilding the shattered edifices of their ambition.
Running unopposed, Bruce Babbitt, AB-geology Dean’s Lister from Flagstaff, Ariz., became the new student body president. In other major races, Dick Corbett beat out his nearest competitor, Senate Treasurer Bill Scheckler, by 160 votes to become the senior class president; Chris Lund overcame Dave Offutt by a hundred votes to grab the presidency of the junior class; and Ben Salvaty, fourth man of six on the first ballott, finally won the sophomore class presidency on the fifth ballott by 25 votes over Paul O’Bryan.
Though he had no opposition, Babbitt did make the political rounds, concentrating on the freshman and sophomore classes, in order to tap student opinion on the state of student government in the eyes of the governed.
Most people were curious as to why he was running unopposed, in fact this was the major issue for many students. Babbitt gave an answer to the effect that there were few issues on which there was a significant division of opinion to make a real opposition possible on grounds
JIM BYRNE AND BRUCE BABBITT Presidential press conference
other than personality. The members of the present junior class can still recall the bitter ’57 campaign in which a lack of issues did cause an unfortunate emphasis on personalities and no one seemed willing this year- to risk a campaign like that.
To make a judgment that the one-candidate race indicated a lack of interest in student government does not seem justified. On the contrary, if there were no genuine interest in student government one would think that a number of candidates for the top office would have appeared in a “shoot-for-the-moon-or-call-it-quits” race. Also, the large number of candidates battling each other in the lesser races apparently puts the lie to the no-interest opinion.
The fact that only one individual did finally appear in the race led many students to think that he was chosen by the “student government clique,” and not by a particularly democratic method. Quite a fairy tale was constructed by some campaigners around the basic truth that there is a certain group which does seem to lead the way in legislation in the Senate. That it operates as a clique is known to be fiction by anyone who has ever attended a cabinet meeting or, for that matter, even a Senate meeting.
Babbitt has been associated with student government in one fonn or another from his earliest freshman days at the University. Beginning as a member of the YCS “provisional government” in
THE WINNERS
The following are the new student government officers elected in last Thursday’s campus-wide elections:
Student Body President.___Bruce Babbitt AB Senator_________________John	Clark
Commerce Senator..........Keith Hauge Engineering Senator....Thomas J. Moran Science Senator............Greg	Walsh
Senior Class President....Richard Corbett
Senior Class Vice President._________
.......................Ronald	Sowers
Senior Class Secretary.____Jack Geier
Senior Class Treasurer._Paul Lombardi Junior Class President.__Chris Lund
Junior Class Vice President._________
........................Frank	Annese
Junior Class Secretary....Nick Palihnich Junior Class Treasurer....David McCann Sophomore Class President....Ben Salvaty Sophomore Class Vice President.______
........................Chris	Buckley
Sophomore Class Secretary..H. R. Howell
Sophomore Class Treasurer.		 ............................Thomas_Scully
Zahm Hall, he later ran for hall senator and squeaked by with a one vote margin.
Elected to the stay Senate at the end of his first year, Bruce was appointed freshman class co-ordinator, a post created to relieve the YCS of part of the responsibility for guiding frosh leaders up to the time of their class elections.
In the spring elections last year, Babbitt ran for AB Senator and won by a larger percentage of votes than Student Body President Shaul, who had been unopposed until nearly the last minute. At the Senate election which followed, Babbitt was chosen student body secretary for this year.
Checking his campaign platf orm against later accomplishments, we find an outstanding record of putting action in place of words once the election is over. Among the planks in this platform was a promise to work for the realization of an internal organ of student opinion. The constitution for this review is currently before the University Council for consideration (Scholastic—March 6).
Under Babbitt's direction, the AB Advisory Board has set up a very successful foreign language program; received and offered suggestions for improving the curriculum, some of - which already have been put into effect; and organized a series of student-faculty smokers which were very well received.
No one expects any astounding proposals from Babbitt after he takes office. Those who know him best look for the same quiet but ever so effective administration that he has shown for the last three years.
May 1, 1959
9
VOCALIST JAN WINTERS
For singing . . .
QUEEN DENISE WALL . . . for dancing
Juniors Dance to Dorsey Orchestra Tonight; 'Night and Day' Theme to Begin Big Week End
“Night and Day” will be the theme for the 1959 Junior Prom which begins tonight at 9:30 p.m. The Jimmy Dorsey orchestra will supply the music for the dance for ovei- 400 couples. The Prom, which was originally scheduled in the Drill Hall was moved to the LaFortune Student Center after it was determined that not enough bids had been sold to ensure the financial success of the venture.
General chairman of the dance is Emmett McCaithy, a junior in the general program. Chicagoan McCarthy is also a varsity basketball player and a member of the Blue Circle.
Queen for the evening will be Miss Denise Wall, a junior at St. Mary’s College. Miss Wall, who is from Jermyen, Pa., is majoring in Christian culture.
The Jimmy Dorsey orchestra has been led by Lee Castle since Dorsey’s death in 1957. Lee has played with Benny Goodman, Artie Shaw, Glenn Miller, and both the Dorsey brothers. Castle, one of the best trumpet players in the country, has lived and studied with the Dorsey family most of his life. His style is derived from that of Louis Armstrong and he has been called “Prince of the Trumpet,” by Jackie Gleason.
Saturday night a dinner-dance will be held at the Indiana Club as part of the eventful week end. The music of Gene Bertoncini will be featured at this event.
Sunday morning Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation and former president of the University, will speak at the Communion Breakfast. The juniors will attend Mass at 8 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church and the breakfast to follow will be held in the North (new) Dining Hall.
Chaperones for the evening of the Prom will be Mr. and Mrs. Robert Leader and Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence
Baldinger. Mr. Leader is a professor in the fine arts department and Dr. Baldinger is Dean of the College of Science. Honored guests at the Prom will be Mr. and Mrs. F. E. Christen, Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Geary, and Mr. and Mrs. J. F. McCarthy.
This year the use of IBM tabulating machines was introduced to facilitate the handling of Prom ticket sales. Commerce student Jim Wysocki, business -manager of the Prom, worked on last year’s sophomore dance and was determined to cut down the work of this year’s dance. The University cooperated by allowing the use of its IBM equipment which not only speeded up the process of bid sales, but which also allowed for much more accurate accounting. Helping Wysocki were John Gehl, George Milton, and Joe McCarthy, who works with IBM machines in the summer.
This year’s Prom committee which put in a great deal of work is composed of Emmett McCarthy, its chairman; Jim Wysocki, business manager; Jack Sala-dino, decorations; Charles Farrelly, publicity; Bob Toland, tickets; John Christen, dinner-dance; Bob Dow, Communion Breakfast; Joe Geary, accommodations; and Roger Fuydal, favors.
FR. SCHAERF TO SPEAK
The first of two lectures on our Blessed Mother will be given by Rev. Philip H. Schoerf, C.S.C., director of the Confraternity of Lourdes, and pastor of Sacred Heart parish. The lecture will be given this Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Father will speak on the mystery of Lourdes under the title of "The Happy Grotto of Happy Failures."
Garrity Picked Editor | Of ’Lawyer' Next Fall . I
The editorial board of the Notre Dame * ' Lawyer has announced the election results foi’ the 1959-60 season. Donald . , Garrity has been named to the post of editor. Garrity, a law senior next year, received an AB degree in history at Carroll College in Helena, Mont. He ranks a I near the top of his class and has previously participated in the Moot Court. < ,
Assisting Garrity will be G. R. Blakey, who has been named associate editor. < । Blakey received an AB degree in philosophy here at Notre Dame and he makes his home in Burlington, N. C.
Other editors on the Lawyer will be articles editor John Beggan of Watertown, Wis., who received an accounting • . degree at Notre Dame; F. James Kane, note editor, of Buffalo, N. Y. and Cani- -• . sius College; case editor Nick Neiers of Cascada, Iowa, an AB law graduate of Notre Dame; and managing and legislation editor John Dinardo of Cleveland, / another AB law graduate of Notre Dame.	' -
The Lawyer is a technical, legal magazine issued four times a year by the • t law students with a special symposium issued in September.
The theme of the magazine is to present critical and current development of -recent trends in law and the problems concerning it. Each volume contains articles solicited from lawyers and professors and one-half of the magazine is ' < devoted to this work.
Membership on the Lawyer is determined by academic standing. To remain on the magazine each member must maintain a high scholastic rank in the Law School.	*
Plan Latin America Seminar At Moreau Seminary Sunday *
A seminar on Latin America will be presented at the Moreau Seminary Audi* torium Sunday, at 2:30 p.m. This note- ' worthy interchange of Pan-American ideas has been an annual event for the past 14 years. Conferences in the past have included delegates from other Mid- ’ western colleges and universities with students from all of the Americas including Canada.
This year the student leader is Guiller- * mo Vivado, a junior in AB engineering from LaPaz, Bolivia. The faculty moderators will be Dr. Frederick Pike of the history department, Dr. John Kennedy of political science and Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., who is vice-president of the Catholic Committee of Inter-American Student Problems.	" /
Besides providing the site for the conference, Moreau Seminary will provide two speakers, Oswaldo Valdes and Sergio Concha. Other students who will participate in the discussion on “New Horizons in Latin America” are Jose Garcia, Ecuador; Victor Vidaurre, Chile; Tom Brady, Columbia, Mo.; Alberto Perez, Ecuador; and Jorge Boyd, Panama.
10
The Scholastic
YCS Picks Murphy os President for '59-'6O; . Geil, Wolfe, Smith to Round Out Foil Officers

The Young Christian Students have , announced that Jerry Murphy, a junioi-* in the General Program, was recently chosen as President of Notre Dame YCS for next year. Murphy has been active in YCS for three years; he will lead the v * Notre Dame Movement in its new program on the International Life and the Liturgy, a program designed to stimulate interest, participation, and mature v thinking on world affairs'and the liturgical movement of the Church.
Also named were Larry Martin and Tom Geil who will be co-chairmen of * the National Catholic Action Study Bureau, a commission of NFCCS located on the Notre Dame campus. The Study , Bureau analyzes the current thinking ’ on the lay apostolate and publishes literature on all its phases.
Coming from White Plains, N. Y., Jerry Murphy has been chairman of 'f the freshman program for YCS this _ year. As a sophomore he led the freshman group in Cavanaugh Hall and served as group leader in the Student Leadership Training program sponsored by student government. Murphy has also been active in NFCCS.
He attended the 1957 National Convention as alternate delegate for* Notre Dame and was appointed Notre Dame chairman of the NFCCS CURA Pro, gram last year. On the hall level, Jerry was spiritual commissioner of Badin Hall in his sophomore year, and Cavanaugh Hall treasurer as a freshman.
Larry Martin, a junior from Toledo, Ohio, has been active in both YCS and the Study Bureau, as well as a mem' ber of the Blue Circle for two years. He has chaired such Circle projects as the Christmas Caroling Party and the , Freshman Activities Welcome Night during Freshman Orientation. Last year
NEW YCS OFFICERS .
Left to right: Jerry Wolfe, Tom Geil, Larry Martin, J. Murphy, Joe Keyerleber, and Mike Smith.
Larry was editor of Action, the YCS campus newsletter, and chairman of the Saint Thomas More Award Committee. This year the Study Bureau has put his writing talents to work as editor of Anima, the Bureau’s newsletter.
In addition to his position as cochairman of the Study Bureau, Tom Geil has also been chosen vice-president of YCS foi’ next year, acting as service and public relations coordinator for YCS. Tom is a Dean’s List student in the history department of the AB School. His activities this year include announcing for WSND, leading a freshman YCS group, and serving as chairman of the Saint Thomas More Award Committee.
Other new officers for YCS include Jerry Wolfe, a sophomore physics major, who will handle the books as treasurer. He is employed as a technician in the department of physics at Notre Dame and is a member of the Physics club. This year he worked as Chairman of the Gethsemani Retreat Committee for YCS.
Mike Smith, a sophomore English major and Dean’s List student from Augusta, Ga., has been named to head the freshman program for YCS next year. As a senioi- at Aquinas High School in Augusta, Mike won a Merit Scholarship to Notre Dame. During his first year here he served as treasurer of Farley Hall, and is presently treasurer of the sophomore class. This year he acted as YCS group leader in Keenan Hall, and represented Notre Dame last summer at the Midwest Regional YCS Study Week.
Next year Notre Dame will also represent the Indiana Area for National YCS headquarters in Chicago. The man chosen for this key position is Joe Key-(Continued on page 25)
Mieu!
Straining to be moderate, yet knowing full well what a grand job they had turned in, outgoing Student Body President Denny Shaul thanked the senators for their efforts over the year and praised the record of the Senate as the regular session ended last Monday night.
Before the curtain was drawn on the last act, though, the Senate selected five stay senators (Bill Scheckler, Jim Naughton, John Keegan, John Clark, and John Lamont) who, together with the newly elected college senators and class presidents, will mind the place until they are joined by the hall senators next October.
From the group of college and stay senators, Scheckler and Naughton were nominated for the vice president’s post in the Senate to succeed the outgoing Bill Graham. Ron Sowers, Badin Hall senator, made the nominating speech for Scheckler, lauding his record as Senate treasurer, and Bill McNally (who had submitted an excellent Charity Chest policy for Senate approval earlier in the evening) seconded Scheckler’s nomination, calling his record “undeniably excellent.* Ed Butler, junior class prexy, did the nominating for Naughton, pointing out that the vice president had to be complementary to the president and yet the two had to be compatible. Naughton’s nomination was seconded by Graham who spoke “knowing the demands of the vice presidency first-hand.” On the secret ballot that followed, Naughton was selected as the new vice president.
The other officers’ posts were filled by John Keegan (secretary) and John Clark (treasurer), both elected by acclamation.
On still another ballot, the Senate selected two juniors, Butler, and Pangborn Senator-Welfare Committee head, Jack O’Brien, as outstanding senators. In this choice I’m afraid that even I have to agree that the Senate has indeed grown in wisdom. Butler’s legislative record, including his famous adjournment motions (he made all but three during the session) earned him high praise. O’Brien succeeded in making the Welfare Committee worthy of its name. His first reaction after thanking the Senate for the award was to praise his fellow committee members.
So there we have it! The ’58-’59 Senate chairs are as empty as, in the past, senator’s heads used to be. Their record is a fine one. Butler is right. No longer are they the “incompetent, elected by the uninterested to do the unnecessary.”
May 1, 1959
11
New Management Chosen for Student Center; Gugerty Selected for Job by Committee
Tom Gugerty, a communication arts major from Ohio, Ill., is the new manager of the LaFortune Student Center. Tom has been assistant manager this year and has worked in the labor crew of the Student Center for the previous two years. He has also been in YCS and CCD and wrote for the Scholastic in his freshman year.
Two juniors-to-be were chosen as his assistants: Chuck Schuler and Pete Doran. Chuck is an accounting major in the College of Commerce, who calls Muskegon, Mich., his home. Pete, a native of New Hartford, N. Y., is an economics major in the College of Artsand Letters. Pete Doran is a product of the new House Committee Training Program. The program, initiated this year, is intended to provide the men for these positions. The new manager plans to continue it.
Cal Cook, also a trainee of the House Committee program, will be the new labor foreman. The labor crew is the group of students which prepares the Center for all social functions and then puts things in order afterwards. Cook, from Woodridge, N. J., will be a junior in the general program.
All four of these men were chosen after being interviewed by a committee of three, including the present manager, and two appointees of student government.
The new management will take office on May 4. They plan to construct a new TV room in the Rathskeller directly under the present amphitheater.
The Center, which was opened in November of 1953, operates on an appro
TOM GUGHtTY
New Student Center manager.
priation from the Mardi Gras receipts, the generosity of alumni, and the nominal fees charged for the use of the various meeting rooms. From this budget, the upkeep and improvements of the “living room of the University” are drawn. It takes care of the different improvements and changes, such as, the extensive office reshuffling which took place recently and the painting of the interior of a few months ago. A magazine rack for visitors is also in the works.
From 1890 to 1952, the present Student Center housed the College of Science. Its transformation is due, largely, to the generosity of a Notre Dame man, Joseph La Fortune of Tulsa, Okla., and, in part, to student initiative and enterprise. Its basic interior plan emerged from a student architectural competition.
Another recent improvement is the disposal of the troublesome color television set. It has been replaced by a black-and-white set, which (baseball fans take note) receives local and Chicago stations.
In the near future, a questionnaire will be distributed to all the students to find out what the students think about the Center and its policy and to seek suggestions for possible improvements.
SEEKING COMMISSARS
Applications for chairmanship of the various student government commissions for next year and for the 1960 Mardi Gras committee chairmanships are now being accepted in 319 Pangborn. Deadline for all applications is May 15.
CALENDAR
TONIGHT:
8:00 p.m.—Moot Court semi-finals in the Law Building.
9:30-1:30 a.m.—Junior Prom in the Student Center; music by the Jimmy < Dorsey Orchestra.
TUESDAY:
8:00 p.m.—Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., director of the Confraternity of Lourdes,, speaking on “The Happy Grotto of Happy Failures”; in the Student Renter.	f
WEDNESDAY-^
6:30 p.m.—Westchester club banquet.
7 .-00 p.m.—Blue Circle meeting in the Student Center.	"
Fr. Hesburgh To Receive ( U. S. Navy Service Medal
The highest civilian award given by the United States Navy will be bestowed y on Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., the University’s president, at the annual President’s Review of the campus ROTC units on Ascension Thursday.	■
Rear Admiral William Dolan will present the Distinguished Public Service Award to Father Hesburgh on behalf of Secretary of the Navy Thomas Gates. < He will be cited “for outstanding contributions to the Department of the Navy in the field of procurement and education of naval officer personnel.” Father Hesburgh is a former president of the Board of Visitors at the U. S. Naval Academy.
More than 1500 ROTC cadets and midshipmen will pass in review during the ceremonies which will mark the centennial of the inauguration of military at the University. During the ceremonies awards and decorations will be presented to 24 outstanding ND cadets and midshipmen. Earlier in the day the units will attend a memorial service in front of the Administration Building.
Scholarship Established To Honor Bishop Sheen
A new scholarship honoring Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, Director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith in this country, has been established at Notre Dame by Mr. and Mrs. John J. Bund-schuh of New York City.
A grant of $1,000 for the 1959-60 school year will be given to Jerry Florent, a junior fine arts major from Michigan City, Ind. According to Fr. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice president of the University and chairman of the com- „, mittee on scholarships, the Bishop Sheen Scholarship will be awarded to a Notre Dame undergraduate who is considering studying for the priesthood in the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Father Wilson explained that a fund is being set up on a principal basis which will provide an annual grant of $1,000 or more.
12
The Scholastic
The Boy Friend is a musical designed with no other aim in mind than giving an audience a sparkling good time. It brims over with good spirits and purposeful triviality, and has a kind of life
and bounce to it which is apparent as soon as the overture stalls it off with a lurch. Its initial speed builds up fast, and diminishes only occasionally to let us catch our second wind. This makes it somewhat of an oddity in a theatre which ' has seen fit to bring the song and dance to every conceivable locale from Henry Higgin’s drawing room to the New York Juvenile Court. And the change of pace * is not altogether unwelcome.
But this is not the only thing that makes The Boy Friend an oddity. It is . a kind of theatrical package deal, pre-1 senting us with both an enjoyable musical on the order of Good News, chuck full of ingratiating little tunes, a profusion of mad-cap dances and a set of characters to whom we are now and again asked to extend our sincere well-• wishes, plus a large dose of benevolent satire. The question of exactly what is satirized is a many pointed one, and to say it is simply a spoof of “a snickering ' twenties” musical is to do it an injustice. It is also a satire of an age in general, of fiapperism in general, and to a certain extent, of Englishmen in gen* eral. This is what makes it thoroughly rewarding for those of us who were not on hand to enjoy or endure the musical gems of that reportedly frenetic era. But this duality of nature, in addition to giving it both vitality and charm, poses a whole gallery of problems to the people wishing to produce it. These * problems, or most of them at any rate, were in large measure solved by Fr. Harvey and his determined group.
The plot, for what it’s worth, is constructed ai’ound a poor little rich girl who finds, loses and wins again a poor little rich boy. Also involved in a casual sort of way is the renewal of her 1 widowed father’s old flame for the headmistress of the school she is attending. Lest perchance this prove not enough, the boy’s father, a remarkably rejuvenated septegenarian makes an appearance to find out that it’s never too late to fall in love, and sing about it too. Filling out this pot pouree of romantic endeavors are assorted boy friends and girl friends who' eventually wind up in a
Review- .
Boy Friend
by Bernie McElroy
musically happy state of matrimony. It becomes easy to see where the satire enters the picture.
The problem then, is one of serving two masters. If the satirical values are not exploited, the intended ridiculousness of the plot suddenly changes from fun to boredom. However, if the musical comedy aspects are not given their just due, the charm and spirit of the subject being spoofed falls to nothing. And let’s be frank, two and a half hours is an awfully long time to look at nothing but satire. Hence the play requires a unique touch that has a rare ability to like what it laughs at. The players must find a style which makes the satire amusing without putting a damper on the proceedings or alienating our sympathies completely from the situation. It is this style that was brushed with but never hit quite squarely at a preview performance in Washington Hall last Wednesday. The closeness of this brush is evidenced by the fact that this was a highly enjoyable evening. The amount of stylistic success achieved was shown by the nice way the production hung together. This was not just a group of catchy tunes gapped by passages of arid dialogue. It was an integral whole that moved along smoothly and left one with a very satisfied feeling. There were no loose ends dangling, no dead spots dragging. The flaws in technique are somewhat more difficult to pin-point. Mainly they were evidenced by the fact that some lines and some situations that should have been funny just weren’t. The characters were not always perfectly in focus, and the extreme stylism was often too apparent in itself, not just as a spoof of an outmoded technique. It left one with a vague awareness that the last drop of what this musical had to offer had not been squeezed out, either because it was overlooked or poorly executed. But in the final analysis, it was the.refreshing vitality, the enthusi
astic vigor of spirit that carried the evening, and left a delighted audience filing out of the theatre.
The production had its tongue properly in its cheek from first to last. In addition, the actors managed to convey the impression that they were having the best time of anyone (despite the fact that they were doing some very hard work) and the impression was more than favorably received.
All the performances were good, and several were excellent. But nobody stole this show, and I think it is essentially a good thing. It shows a steady maturing of The University Theatre, a raising of the general level of quality to a point where a good performance contributes to the over-all success rather than drawing attention to the individual performer. However, if any one element of this show did stick out, it was certainly a zaney, saucer-eyed flapper named Maisie, played with an almost frenzied enthusiasm by Karen Koehne-mann. She brought to the production not only a good voice and a style of dancing that knows no restraint, but also a generous portion of what for lack of a more explicit term is called stage magnetism. The Charleston she did in the first scene set a frantic pace that the production panted to maintain. Her partner in this number (and throughout the rest of the play) was Rudy Hornish, and the fact that he could hold his own with her up to the last gasp is a tribute to both his dancing ability and his endurance. He was less impressive as a singer, having a rather brassy Broadway baritone that does not always do exactly what he wants it to. But he pitched his stuff with an earnest sincerity, thoroughly in keeping with the spirit ’ of the production and came out quite nicely in the finish.
It has always seemed to me that the ingenue and her leading man are treated rather unfairly in musicals of this sort.
(Continued on page 16)
May 1, 1959
13
WRANGLERS...
by BOB GHELARDI
Again the Wranglers are mobilizing for the bi-annual onslaught of prospective members. I have been chosen, after intensive screening, to air the dirty wash: “Ghelardi, how about writing an article on the Wranglers. Everyone else is busy.” I dubiously assented, remembering that I had mauled my thesis for the last time and conjecturing that I would not be required to attend the bloody interviews. For a peek at the unadulterated facts of Bohemian life, read on.
The Wranglers is reputedly the oldest and most exclusive organization on campus, but the title is being disputed by the Blue Circle, a sour-grapes, philistine, protest group which has recently gotten a toe hold. Its spurious progeny are spreading among the gullible students the equally spurious ideals of organization and service. Compounded of asserted buffoons and earnest idealists, the Wranglers meet weekly in the upper decks of O’Shaughnessy to nourish their powerful minds on U.S.-certified intellectual subjects and to hone their satiric wits on the endless idiocies and vagaries of Notre Dame life. People with sensitive souls are urged not to apply. In general, a wide experience of the higher and lower activities of human fauna are helpful in fitting oneself into this solemn and absurd outfit. The possession of some grotesque feature, psychological or physical, is a help. For example, are you “serious” about the intellectual life? Better yet, can you carry on an intelligent conversation? Have you a canine or ovine profile, a simian gait, or a prehensile tail? If so, you will be an inexhaustible source of amusement for the members and yourself. We urge you to join. If you have no quality but ambition to recommend you, you will have to go through the regular procedures, which may involve some delay.
The members this year probably comprise the most variegated group in the long dim history of the club. They represent all walks of student activity, except the Engineering and Commerce Schools (which really aren’t very active anyway). There is a pin-ball virtuoso, a sociable tippler with the beer capacity of a water tower, a card shark with the wrists of a Houdini who is paying his own way through school, and a cigar smoker with the generous volume of an open-hearth blast furnace. Actually this is all one man and he’s not even an officer, so you can imagine what the rest of them are like. A few names: Bill Jun-gels, amateur poet; Jim Bose, boy cava
14
tier and professed skeptic; Jim Yoch, present energetic incumbent in the Louis Sullivan chair of architectural design in the O’Malley ivory tower and editorelect of The Juggler; John Bellairs, humorist; Bob Vondrasek, forensic jack-of-all-trades and master of none; John Saiz, onetime Trappist monk and schizophrenic disciple of Rabelais and Thomas Aquinas; and on down (literally) the line. Many of the members are distinguished misanthropes who sometime keep the “discussions” moving at a turbulent and exciting pace. One member has attended every meeting for the last three years in the hope of violence (who, I am ashamed to say, has more than once been gratified.) But generally the meetings are quiet and infused with sombre gloom. A meeting opens with a common prayer for the ruin of the organizational infidels and with twenty surreptitious prayers for an interesting paper, which is read immediately after, punctuated by the elegiac incantations of the Secretary-at-Large. An intermission follows, during which the more serious members attempt to decipher what has been said and prepare a devastating attack. The less serious (the majority) organize a soiree to Frankie’s.
A discussion follows the intermission and the serious begin to question the intrepid speaker who is the only one who has control of the subject. By the end of the discussion approximately half of the group will have been enlightened. The less serious are by then becoming very serious while the serious are becoming fatigued and move for adjustment. The party then retires to Frankie’s or Tillman’s for a few hands, moving noisily across the quad like an excited bestiary.
The Wranglers enjoy the distinguished patronage of Mr. Frank O’Malley, without whose vociferous protection it would have long ago been dissolved. Once a year the patron entertains at one of the civilized dinner clubs in South Bend, treating the “boys” to a few rounds, and
The editors of the NOTRE DAME JUGGLER, the campus literary journal, invite applications for next year’s Editorial Board. The deadline for applications is Sunday, May 3.
Address to: JOE RYAN Room 4	Rsher Hall
some intelligent opinions. Cryptic re- * marks are exchanged by all, dinner served, perhaps a paper read, and cabs called by one of the resilient members to carry the men home. A good time is had « by all, and it’s almost free (if you discount hangovers).
The Wranglers offers its members f many advantages. It is recognized, for example, that the president must be a genius in human relations, and this year’s president is starting at IBM next year at twenty thousand dollars a year. -'' All of the members are more than rea- , sonably interested and interesting, and the Wranglers is one of the few groups on campus in which one can pick up an interesting idea or have one’s pristine ideals smashed, a stimulating traumatic experience in itself. (The club has its own aspiring psychoanalyst to help you pick up the pieces.) All of the more intriguing places in town are known and occasionally frequented by the members. , By unintentionally keeping quiet its activities the Wranglers maintain a kind of esoteric appeal, and membership in the Wranglers is always good for recommendations on fellowship applications. Dues are nominal and attendance voluntary. Subjects this year have * ranged from a new plan for capitalism to the validity of sense knowledge to the nature and function of physics, to Albert M Camus’ historical analysis of metaphysical rebellion, to the poetry of Donne to the poetry of Auden to the limitations of art to infinity — all more or less brought under the general heading “The Modern Mind.” By the end of the year everyone is confused, but this at least is one step above the lethargic average. .
Rejected applicants are not cast into the outer darkness; they are reminded that a limited number of memberships are available and urged to return next « time. This June the membership will be heavily depleted by graduations.
Watch for the sign-up sheets on your bulletin boards.
The Scholastic
Flesh and Blood
by Tony de Haro
The heavy artillery fire had already ceased and a calm full of premonitions choked the battlefield. Maurice looked out the window of the crumbling shack at the surrounding hills and smiled. From this post he commanded a view of both armies, victorious and vanquished, now resting uneasily.
The enemy was cornered. Bringing it against the mountains was Maurice’s touch of genius. He paced the shabby room, making circles around the table and chairs in the center and smiling broadly.
He looked a king in his own right. His slender figure and broad shoulders served as a magnificent pedestal for his arrogant head and alert mind. A stern square chin which melted in unusual smiles and deep, lively eyes in constant motion stood out predominantly under his ebony hair. The uniform favored him — and gave him the aspect of an Achilles.
A soft knock at the door* stiffened him and filled his eyes with pleasure. Automatically wiping off his smile, he called:
“Come in!”
At his back, the door groaned and a voice croaked:
“Good afternoon, General. . .”
As he whirled around, an unwanted gasp escaped his set lips and his fiery eyes dug deep into the old man’s dying
ones.
“General La Salle!” The name, uncomfortable for Maurice, made the old man frown slightly. A soft twitch crossed his lips.
“I never fancied you calling me by my last name.”
General La Salle — veteran .of countless campaigns and greatest of his time.
He sat heavily upon a chair and indicated the other one to Maurice. “Sit down; I am unarmed.”
The young man suddenly turned from him and clenched his fists.
“Who commands your forces?” .
“I do.”
“You’re lying!” He turned to La Salle.
“I never lie. It would lead me no
place. Yes, I am the enemy — your enemy, Maurice.”
Anger veiled Maurice’s eyes. “You wanted it this way!” he exclaimed, as if divining a purpose in the General’s mind.
“Believe me. . .”
“You thought you could make me quit with your sweet talk! Well, let me tell you something. You selected your cause, but I selected mine!”
Sarcasm ruled him now, and for the first time he spoke without control. “Maybe you even led your troops into that trap just to satisfy your selfish desire to get to me!”
General La Salle quivered. “I have never been a bad commander! Don’t you dare suppose that I. . . in all my years . . . Oh, Maurice; what is it that turns one man against another to kill and plunder like beasts? Is it impossible for you to regard your fellow men as your own flesh and blood?”
“That is not my business,” Maurice replied sternly. “I have told you before and I tell you again — my business requires no feeling.”
General La Salle looked deeply and warmly into Maurice’s eyes.
“You are a great commander, Maurice,” he sighed. “A magnificent commander — but that is all. . .”
Maurice’s gaze dropped momentarily to the floor, but he recovered quickly.
“You came to surrender your troops, General. I think it best we end this matter as soon as possible.”
“You will never know,” the general kept talking without listening, “how many people wished you would go on to become as great as you are now. . .but you must know who prayed that you would fail. This is no life for me, for you, for any man. It requires your every emotion, your every move, and your very life.” La Salle’s voice was almost a forced whisper as he pleaded. “For God’s sake, Maurice, don’t let hate rule your life!”
“It is not so! Waging war has become a part of me — part that I cannot remove no matter how you try to persuade me!”
He looked much too old. His wrinkled face made even a laugh seem a grimace of pain. His short body had grown stout with age and his wiry legs struggled to hold him up.
Maurice could hardly speak. “I.. .certainly did not expect to see you!”
“Enough,” said the old man. “Let’s conclude our business.”
“I cannot persuade you better than
May 1, 1959
15
you can yourself. Now tell me: whom do you hate? Whom do you want to wipe out? You don’t know. You don’t even know my men — and you didn’t know me from another commander until I came here! However, how many families hate yo uto death even without knowing you? How many mothers have been left childless by the wars you have waged? You’re young, Maurice. . . Get out of it while there is still time, or you will surely face my fate!”
“General!”
“True! Men must be young to wage
war; and wax- drains a man’s youth!” He slumped in his chair. “Someday, you will look at yourself in a mirror, with a magnificent uniform clothing you. And you will wish you hadn’t started... You will curse the day you took up a rifle; and you will not be able to retreat honorably. . . You will be defeated — someday.”
Maurice closed his eyes and made one last effort to control his nervous trembling.
“I have no care whatsoever about the fate that awaits me!”
The General rose—vanquished in soul and body.
“I surrender unconditionally. . . Within the hour you may take over my forces. Not a shot will be fired against you.” He stalled toward the door. But Maurice could stand it no longer.
“Father!”
The general turned slowly.
“Maurice, my child; you must realize what you are about to do. . . Do you really want to take advice from his old buzzard?”
“Yes, I do. I honestly do.”
“You know,” the old man said trying to construct a small joke, “it’s the funniest thing. . . My men are ready to help me escape as soon as I return.”
Old General La Salle shuffled slowly away.
Q. P. Scanpia
HIUIINTCHKB SCMIT ra GOOD DWG
The more I see the products of Notre Dame’s music department, the more I am appalled that they are not given due recognition. The latest product proved an extremely valuable asset. Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., gave a fine reading of Schubert’s Maid of the Mill song cycle at St. Mary’s last Wednesday.
Father Maloney’s tenor possesses some flaws, notably in the upper register, but one cannot help but feel that he has genuine understanding both of the mechanics of the solo voice and of the interpretive problems contained in the music. The listener notices a slight tendency to sharpen, but at the same time notices an amazing strength of color in the placement of the lower register. A complete cycle is a feat in itself, and credit should be given even the crudest attempt. This performance, however, was anything but crude. The nostalgic trials of the miller-maid and her lover, given glorious realization in Schubert’s mystical melodies, were spun out satisfactorily to the audience, and in some instances more than satisfactorily. James Bastien provided the piano accompaniment.
Luckily, the performance will be repeated May 12 in Washington Hall. I’m going again.
Boy Friend
(Continued from page 13)
They are usually a couple of nice kids V for whom we are ail rooting and who sing a pretty song now and then, but ’ who inevitably pale and lose their interest in contrast to the more vital comics and hoofers. It is a fault in the i erstwhile script rather than in the per- ’ formances. Nevertheless, Anne Body and John Smith, working under this ad- *) vantage, brought a wealth of good nature as’well as good looks to their parts, and in the end, were the only thing they possibly could have been, charming. ' J Smith has displayed considerable versatility and assumed an increasingly important place this year in the UniversityTheatre. His performance showed that * it is a place he is capable of filling.
Perhaps his best quality was his ability ' to exploit the glamor of his position without becoming obnoxious about it. ■ Miss Rody’s voice is not always as secure as one would wish, and seems to thin noticeably at the top. But it was always equal to the music and she gave >'■ many fine moments, particularly in her duet, “Poor Little Pierette,” with Elea- * nor Murphy.
Miss Murphy, as Mme. Dubonnet, a * sort of continental school marm, showed herself to be the possessor of a rich, if not always perfectly controlled voice, and considerable comic talent. She was -also the only one who managed to keep the thickness of her accent fairly constant throughout the evening. In her performance, and in that of John Toth ' as Percival Browne, her aging amour, the ideal quality of style was most closely realized. There was just enough spoof, just enough affectation, just enough falsity of inflection. Toth created a. very humorous character almost immediately ?-and never let it lag for a moment. It was a performance in which taste and skill had a fortuitous meeting.
If the University Theatre is doing a ’ production of any kind, old or new, it is a fairly safe bet that Jim Cooney will be prominently connected with it. As Lord Brockhurst (senility with a roving ‘ eye), Cooney clowned around a great deal. He also mugged a great deal and gesticulated a lot too. He was also very funny. A less adroit performer could not have hoped to get away with it. If his characterization seemed absurdly overdrawn, he has in his defense an old and well-nigh irrefutable chapter from thea- ' trical apologetics, it worked.
The rest of the cast lived up to the standards set by the principles, and as always, to them, no less than to the stars belongs the credit for success. They shared the enthusiasm which ran through the whole production and the four girl friends and boy friends distin- r guished themselves particularly well on all counts.
All in all, it was a triumph in the spirit of the production. If the letter of it was occasionally abused, it detracted only slightly from the fulfillment of the play’s purpose, which as stated before, is to provide a happy audience with a happy night at the theater.
16
The Scholastic
Campus Charity Chest
by Bill McNally
“Please extend our deep appreciation to the students of Notre Dame for the generous Christmas gift. . .
“. . . such gifts are seldom seen by us. And it is a special thrill for us in the missions to see such a sizeable check. So we are deeply grateful.”
“Every penny of that money that you sent we have used to buy aluminum sheets to roof a school at Timersu in our > mission district.”
“Really, we were in desperate need of funds as our school was threatened to be closed due to lack of proper accommodations for the children.”
Throughout the United States and the world, priests, nuns and laymen in missions and charitable institutions receive con-* tributions from Notre Dame’s Campus Charity Chest which in a small way help their worthy and beneficial efforts to con-* tinue. From New York to Los Angeles, from Jerusalem to India, many sick, starving and destitute people are treated, fed and helped; many Indians, natives and non-believers are brought the word of Christ through the various organizations R > which receive contributions from the Charity Chest.
The Campus Charity Chest is administered by a student committee of five, functioning under the Student Senate’s Religious Commission. Its peiiodic distributions are made in the 4 name of the student body.
The idea of having a Charity group at Notre Dame was first conceived by the Student Council in 1949-50. In that year over $5,000 was placed in the Chest fund from the Student Council treasury and, in 1950-51, when the Chest began to function, almost the entire amount was distributed to some ' 29 charities. In 1955, after the Student Council had been dissolved and the present form of Student Government estab-" lished, the Charity Chest became associated with the Mardi Gras. Since that time, the Student Senate has each year ap-* propriated a portion of the proceeds from the Mardi Gras to be used by the Chest in the following year.
How does the Chest operate? The requests for aid reaching the University are numerous and varied. Usually they * are written in detail and come from groups who, unaware of the Charity Chest, are simply imposing on the good name of the University, or from the many charities who now know of the Chest’s work. As the requests are received they are classified as local, national or foreign.
Some of these requests have a direct connection with Notre Dame, others do not. Occasionally a student will call to the attention of one of the members of the committee some ‘ worthy charity which he is personally attached to or associated
The WRANGLERS, campus discussion club, invites applications for membership.
Address to: JOE DASCHBACH, 217 Sorin Hall
Applications must be in Friday, May 8.
with, and an-anges for that group to forward information about itself. It is surprising and gratifying to find so many former Notre Dame men engaged in charitable work, and there are undoubtedly many more who are unknown to the committee. Often too, there are other small charities struggling for existence in remote areas who could be assisted if their needs were made known by students who are familial- with them. Since this is a student project, the committee encourages this latter form of request.
The Chest committee meets periodically throughout the year to discuss the relative merits of each requestor. This is a difficult task mainly because little is known about many of the groups who request help.
Defining its conception of material charity has been a problem for the Chest throughout its existence. The greatest concern does not center around the problem of whether or not a given group should receive aid, but rather around the problem of how much it should receive. Generally, it has been the policy of the Chest during the past eight years and certainly during the present year, to help everyone who requests aid, unless there is total disagreement with the established standards. Yet while attempting to help everyone, the Chest has favored giving larger conti-ibutions to the smaller groups which appeal- to have no great source of funds.
To supplement personal knowledge and the limited information contained in Charity Chest files in evaluating, the committee occasionally corresponds with the group itself or with the Society for the Propagation of the Faith in an effort to gather as much information as possible.
In discussing a charity in the light of all available information the committee makes the following considerations to determine who will be benefited and to what extent. Is it a Catholic charity? Is it worthy because of purpose and use of funds? Does it evidence a real need for help? Is it appropriate for the University of Notre Dame and the Campus Charity Chest to contribute? Does there appear to be no other or little other source of funds? Has the Chest made contributions to the group previously? Does the group promote the health, education and/or welfare of the poor and infirm? Does it promulgate the Faith?
Once considered and decided upon, the committee then submits its recommendations to the Student Senate for approval. Donations during the present year have varied from $25.00 to $200.00, with some 39 charities receiving an average of about $80.00 each. The larger contributions have been made to small, individual foreign missions, particularly in India and Africa. Nevertheless, many national groups such as the Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions and the Damien Dutton Society, and local groups as well, particularly in the southern and western states where resources are few and the work to be done immense, have been appreciably aided. In South Bend, the Chest has supported the United Fund with its 36 agencies and the Blue Circle’s Christmas parties for orphans and old folks in four South Bend institutions.
The $5,000 to $7,000 that is distributed annually by the Chest represents approximately one-fifth of Mardi Gras proceeds. There has been fostered in the past few years a hope that a greater amount of money will be placed at the Charity Chest’s disposal so that its scope and effectiveness can be increased. At any rate, the continued operation of the Campus Charity Chest will allow Notre Dame men to promote and assist worthy causes everywhere.
May 1, 1959
17
Why did 14,436 sophomores enter advanced
Army R.O.T.C. during 1958?
Many more applied. Not all were accepted.
In more than 200 U. S. colleges, 14,436 college	>
sophomores met the high standards set. These students were selected to continue officer 4 training in the advanced R.O.T.C. course. Why did each of these young men decide that he would benefit by fulfilling his military	<
obligation as an Army officer? Here are two important reasons. Perhaps they’ll help you make your decision.	<
1... TRADITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
As an Army officer, you’re in command of men. More men than the number supervised by many civilian executives years older than yourself. To meet your command responsibilities, you employ a great many of the LEADERSHIP principles acquired in advanced R.O.T.C. training. And your executive potential develops while
you gather LEADERSHIP experience. The executive ability you gain as an Army officer will be an important advantage in any civilian career. That’s why employment directors often prefer men who have served as commissioned officers. These men have already proven their capacity to handle executive responsibility.
2 ... TRADITIONAL REWARDS
In every organization, greater responsibilities mean greater rewards. The traditional prestige of an Army officer is matched by material advantages. A second lieutenant earns a minimum of $355.88 per month— plus substantial fringe benefits. Think you might want to marry soon after graduation? An officer’s salary can
make things a great deal easier for a married couple just starting out. What’s more, an Army officer is entitled to take his dependents with him, wherever possible. Imagine sharing the fun of travel with your wife —in the United States or foreign countries like France, Germany or Japan.
TRADITIONAL
U.S. ARMY R.O.T.C
over with yOu, j
18
The Scholastic
Irish Netters Beat Powerful Hawkeye Team; Add Three Wins to Continue Undefeated
The Irish netmen will attempt to extend their unbeaten record with four matches in four days during this coming week.
Next Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday and Irish tour the state of Michigan. Tuesday they meet the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, Wednesday they tackle Michigan State at East Lansing, and Thursday they have a return engagement with Kalamazoo, this time at Kalamazoo.
Then next Friday, May 8, the Irish netters host Purdue.
Four victories last week, two against Big Ten opponents, bolstered the undefeated Irish netmen’s season record to 5-0. The four victories included wins over Western Michigan, Kalamazoo, Indiana, and Iowa.
Tuesday, March 21, saw the Notre Dame tennis team solidly defeat Western Michigan University on the Irish courts, 9-0. This was the second straight dual victory for the Irish, a victory achieved without losing a single set. In single matches, Don Ralph, Max Brown, Bill Heinbecker, Ron Schoenberg, Ray Bender, and Chuck Stephens all registered Irish victories. In the doubles, Brown and Heinbecker, Ralph and Schoenberg, and Bender and Stephens all won their matches over the Broncos.
Last Friday and Saturday, the Fallon-men hosted Indiana, Iowa, and Kalamazoo College in an important quadrangular meet. On Friday morning, the Irish repeated their 9-0 score in defeating Kalamazoo College. With Hector Cabello added to the singles roster, they
BILL HEINBECKER
Undefeated sophomore netter
swept all singles competition. In doubles action, Irish teammates Brown and Heinbecker, Schoenberg and Cabello, and Bender and Stephens easily won.
Friday afternoon saw Notre Dame defeat Indiana in doubles competition, with Brown and Heinbecker, Schoenberg and Cabello, and Bender and Stephens all emerging victorious.
The singles competition of the Notre Dame-Indiana meet was held Saturday morning. Brown, Ralph, Schoenberg, Heinbecker, Bender, and Stephens all won their matches on Saturday morning, cinching another 9-0 victory.
On 'Saturday afternoon, the Irish defeated a powerful Iowa squad 8-1 to re-
Klinemen Travel to Kent State with 8>1 Record; Return Home Tuesday to Face Michigan Stale
Tomorrow the Irish baseball team will travel to Kent, Ohio, where they will meet Kent State University. Then Tuesday, May 5, they have a home game with Michigan State. The team’s record has been bolstered to eight wins against one loss by three recent victories.
They defeated Northwestern behind the no-hit relief pitching of Sophomore Nick Palihnich. The Irish also had a 5-1 record in the southern trip which doesn’t count on the regular season record. Another Sophomore, Jack Mitchell, started the game and was credited with the victory, his fourth of the season; but he was shelled for ten hits and five runs before Palihnich relieved him. The game, won by the Irish 8-5, was unusual because only seven runners crossed the plate for Notre Dame.
The oddity happened in the eighth inning when Palihnich’s single and walks to Dick Selcer and John Carretta loaded the bases. Reserve catcher, Jerry McNamara, pinch-hitting for Frank Finnegan, hit a slow roller between the mound and third. The Northwestern pitcher threw wild and late to first. Palihnich scoring easily. But Selcer continued around third and slid toward home. He missed the plate entirely, but the catcher also missed him. Selcer got up and walked toward the dugout while the Wildcat bench yelled for the catcher to tag him. When he went to tag him, Carretta broke for home. Instead of tagging Selcer, he easily got Carretta to retire the side. The umpire ruled Selcer’s run good because the side was retired, but, if the side hadn’t been retired, he could have been tagged and called out.
Last Saturday the Irish won a doubleheader over Central Michigan, 9-3 and 5-3. In the first contest Junior righthander Jim Hannan evened his record at
Sfundl PictiM
main unbeaten in the two-day meet. In the singles, Brown, Ralph, Schoenberg, Heinbecker, and Bender won their matches. Chuck Stephens dropped the only point for the Irish in his singles loss to Hawkeye Hank Utley. This was the first point to escape Fallon’s netters in five dual meets.
Notre Dame’s number one single player, Max Brown, showed superior play in defeating Iowa’s Art Andrews 7-5, 2-6, 6-3. Having been beaten by Andrews in 1957, Max has been the victor in their last two meetings.	.
Notre Dame doubles teams of Brown and Heinbecker, Ralph and Schoenberg, and Bender and Stephens scored a straight sweep, clinching the quadrangular meet. Both Brown and Heinbecker, one and four singles men respectively, -are undefeated in seven matches this season.
1-1 by striking out eight and allowing eleven hits. Mike Brennan, sophomore lefty, gained his first win of the season by hurling a four-hitter; he struck out ten and walked seven.
The Irish scoring was bunched into three innings. Two walks, hits by Danny Hagan and Selcer, and an error brought in three runs in the fifth. In the seventh a walk, a sacrifice, and singles by Jack Gentempo and Don Costa accounted for two more runs. Four runs were scored in the ninth on Selcer’s single, a passed ball, a double steal involving Gene Duffy who had walked, Car-retta’s two run single, two errors, and a single by Costa.
In the nightcap Hagan and Carretta clouted home runs.
DICKSELCHI
Takes over second base
May 1, 1959
The Old-Timers Game
by CHARLIE CALLAHAN
This article was originally written by Charlie Callahan, Director of Sports Publicity here at the University, for the May 3 issue of “Our Sunday Visitor.”
Mr. Callahan was generous enough to permit the Scholastic to run this colorful article on the history of the Old-Timers games. The Scholastic thanks him.
It was spring football time at Notre Dame. Back in the late twenties. Matter of fact it was May of 1929. A fellow named Knute Rockne was the coach.
He felt that the members of his varsity football squad were not sufficiently stirred up about the present matters at hand — namely spring practice. He felt that they needed a game, as in the fall.
Out of this thinking, of perhaps the greatest football coach of all time, came what is known as the Old-Timers game. It will be played for the 29th time next Saturday, May 9, in the Notre Dame Stadium.
The Varsity versus the Old-Timers!
In the very first game, in 1929, it was billed as “Old-Timers” against the “New-Timers.” And if you read the Notre Dame Scholastic of that year, you know that the Old-Timers won, three touchdowns to none. It was a Rockne-supervised scrimmage, and no time was taken to boot the extra points.	.
In the early thirties, somebody got the idea to charge a small admission price. Something like a quarter. And the money was used to pay for Senior Ball tickets for the departing senior Old-Timers. (Those were depression days, bub, and a quarter was a quarter. . . and worth a quarter.)
Meanwhile, despite an initial start with a victory, the Old-Timers, somewhat out of condition, had been losing regularly to the New-Timers, or the Varsity, as they were now called.
Then came 1936. The departing seniors were well aware that they would go down in history as having helped score one of the most famous (possibly the most famous) victory in Notre Dame grid history — the 18-13 win of 1935 over Ohio State. You know the one, where two touchdowns were tallied in the last three minutes. (If you don’t know about it, ask your cousin in Columbus. . . they remember it there.) And, coincidentally, the graduating seniors, representing the Old-Timers of that year, defeated the Varsity by the score of 18-13.
It is unfortunate, but the Old-Timers game really came to life as a “must see” production in the spring of 1937 as a result of an automobile accident.
20
The story concerns Johnny (One-Play) O’Brien. And the telling of said story really reaches back into Notre Dame gridiron lore. It goes back to the story of: “Win one for the Gipper.”
In 1928, when an underdog Notre Dame team beat Army, 12-6, the winning touchdown was scored on a long pass from John Niemic, the left halfback, to Johnny O’Brien, the left end. This was the game in which the famed Rockne, at halftime, delivered his pep talk in which he told his men that George Gipp, on his death bed, had said, “Some day, Rock, when the going gets really rough, ask the boys to win one for the Gipper.” That was the day, in 1928 against Anny, that Rockne asked for the win. The victory came, as mentioned above, on a pass to O’Brien. It was the only play in which O’Brien, then a soph-
JOHNNY (ONE-PLAY) O’BRIEN
Star of the 1928 Army game.
omore, participated that afternoon. And as a consequence, he picked up the name “One-Play O’Brien.”
In 1936, O’Brien had joined the staff of Elmer Layden, then head coach of football at Notre Dame. It turned out to be a one-season job. On March 12, 1937, he was killed in an automobile accident.
It follows that the Old-Timers game in May of 1937, with a higher rate of admission, was played for the benefit of the family of Johnny O’Brien.
That year the Varsity beat the Old-Timers, 7-0. The acting captain of the Varsity was Joe Kuharich, now the head coach of the Irish.
Through to 1947 the game continued
without special purpose. Since then it has been taken over by the Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley. The proceeds of the game have been used for the benefit of four yearly tuition scholarships for young men residing in the South Bend area. The scholarship committee is composed of four members, including the mayor of South Bend and the mayor of neighboring Mishawaka. It is perhaps incidental that there never has been a scholarship award made to an athlete.
Next Saturday, May 9, will be the 29th renewal of the game that was started by Rockne. (In the early days there was a year it wasn’t played, in case somebody should ask how come it isn’t the 30th.)
It will be the unveiling of the first team to be coached by Joe Kuharich. As for Coach Joe, it is to be remembered that these are the graduation losses since last fall: three of the first four ends; the first four tackles; three of the first foui- guards; and the first three fullbacks.
However, coming back and playing for the Varsity next Saturday will be: Monty Stickles, end; Ken Adamson and Al Sabal, guards; Moe Pottios (moved to guard now), Bob Scholtz, and Dave Hurd, centers; Don White and George Izo, quarterbacks; Joe Scibelli, tackle; Bill (Red) Mack, Pat Doyle, and Bob Scarpitto, halfbacks; and Jim Crotty, a halfback moved to fullback. In the fall, all will be seniors except Pottios, Mack, Scibelli, and Scarpitto, who will be juniors.
< I
d
Irish Sailors Third at Michigan; Host Regatta This Week End
This week end the Notre Dame sailing team is hosting its own Invitational Regatta at Eagle Lake, Mich. The following week end, May 9-10, the team will be sailing at Detroit. Seven schools have been invited to participate.
Last week end at the Michigan Invitational Regatta, the sailors captured third place in the six-team regatta. The host school, Michigan, won the regatta with Wisconsin finishing second.
Just before the start of the first race of the afternoon, the sailing was delayed because of 30 mph winds which capsized four boats.
The race finally got under way when the winds died down. The sailors, under the direction of skippers Mickey Pavia and Dan Schuster, found themselves in second place at the end of the first day’s racing.
Both crews had trouble keeping the boats on course in the face of the high winds. Crewing for Pavia were Ed Bukowski and Jim Kuras. Frank Bohlen assisted Schuster. Commodore Pavia tied for high point man in the “A” division. Schuster finished second in the “B” division.
In the race this week end, the best freshmen skippers, as determined by intraclub racing competition, will be given an opportunity to test their skill in the stiffer varsity competition.
The Scholastic
Golf Clinic Scheduled . Here Next Thursday
On Thursday, May 7, the Illinois section of the Professional Golf Association will conduct a golf clinic and play several exhibition matches here at Notre Dame. Students are reminded that May 7 is Ascension Thursday, and there will K be no classes. Attendance is free, and everyone is invited to attend.
The clinic will begin at 11:00 on Thursday morning at the practice area. Beginning at 1:00 p.m., the professionals will oppose the varsity in exhibition matches. Awards donated by Mr. James Gerity will be presented to all participating professionals and varsity players k at a dinner- following the matches.
Charles Penna of the Chicago area Beverly Country Club is in charge of the Gerity Golf show while Harry Adams, of the MacGregor Golf Co., with four of the professionals, will give the free clinic instruction.
w Trackmen Face Army In Opening Dual Meet
The Notre Dame track team travels to West Point, N. Y. to face Army in the first of three outdoor dual meets for , this year’s squad.
Following the Army meet, the thin-clads meet Missouri at Columbia, May 9, and Michigan State here the following Saturday, May 16. The Indiana State Meet at Bloomington is sandwiched in between the latter two meets, being scheduled for Wednesday, May 13.
The well-balanced Army team is one of the best in the East, having beaten , Manhattan and Penn State, both Eastern track powers, during the indoor season.
The Cadets are again strong in the field events with good weightmen, including three fine hammer-throwers. This is the only meet of the year in which the Irish throw the hammer; only some of the Eastern schools retain this field k event.
Besides having a distinct superiority in the field events, Army has two fine distance runners who will challenge the Irish in what is one of Notre Dame’s strongest departments — the distance races.
Last week end, at the Drake Relays in t Des Moines, Iowa, the Irish two-mile relay team set a new school record in the event even though finishing third behind Kansas and Georgetown.
The foursome of Dan Rorke, Marty Clynes, Chris Monahan, and Ron Gregory manipulated the distance in 7:35.1, breaking the old record of 7:36.9 set by the same four men only three weeks before at the Texas Relays in Austin.
Gregory sped through his anchor halfmile in 1:49.3 for his best time in this event. This marks the third straight meet in which he has run the anchor 880 in the two-mile relay in under 1:51.
Four Notre Dame track greats were chosen as charter members in the Drake Relays Hall of Fame, founded at this,
May 1, 1959
Spring Football Practice Enters Final Week; Kuharich Readies Squad for Old-Timers Tit
The third week of spring football practice is drawing to a close. The Irish, having reached the three-quarter mark in their practice sessions, are only a week away from the annual Old-Timers game, which climaxes the year’s spring session. This year’s game is set for May 9.
The first week of practice was almost .
Unbeaten Irish Golfers Travel to Northwestern
Tomorrow, the Irish golfmen travel to Evanston, Ill., for a match with the host Northwestern University squad, Michigan State University, and the University of Wisconsin. They return to their home course on Monday, May 4, when they are host to Iowa University and Michigan State in a triangular meet.
Notre Dame’s golf team extended its unbeaten streak for the 1959 season to five by defeating Detroit University, 1917, and Northern Illinois University, 21%-14%, in a triangular meet at Notre Dame’s Burke Memorial course last Saturday.
Reverend George L. Holderith, the Irish coach, used a completely different six-man squad for the afternoon round after the Irish had built up a 13-5 lead over Northern Illinois and a 11-7 lead over Detroit in the morning rounds.
John Molenda, Detroit’s number two man, proved to be the day’s top golfer with scores of 70 and 72 for a 142 total, which is even par. Christy Flanagan, playing the number three position for the Irish in the morning, shot one-over-par 72 to lead the Irish golfers. Flanagan won all six points from his opponents as did the Irish number five man, Denny Nead, who shot a 74.
In the afternoon 18-hole round, the Irish had to hold off a determined Detroit effort by winning four of the final six points. They maintained their lead over Northern Illinois throughout the afternoon, however. Notre Dame’s number two man, Tom Rose, led the host linksmen in the afternoon round with a 75, picking up three points. Rose captured one point against Molenda of Detroit with a sparkling one-under-par 34 on the second nine while winning 2-1 over Mike Spinello of Northern Illinois. Number six man, Phil Schuster, with an 81 won five points for the Irish.
the 50th running of the Relays.
Those from Notre Dame chosen are: Alex Wilson, present Irish track coach and former anchor man on the winning 1930 and ’32 two-mile relay quartets; Greg Rice, who set a record in the two-mile run in 1939 with a time of 9:10; Bernie Allard, who won the high jump at the Relays in 1955 with a leap of 6-7%; and Aubrey Lewis, a 1958 graduate, who won the 440-yard hurdles race in 1957.
completely devoid of any contact work. A few line scrimmages were held, but these were vei-y limited sessions. The coaching staff, realizing that the players were learning a new system, spent most of the time acquainting their charges with this new system. •
After the first few days, the squad was cut to a more workable size. The players were divided into “A” and “B” groups.
Handling the “A” group are the two line coaches, Dick Evans and his assistant Dick Stanfel, end coach Bill Dad-dio, and the two backfield coaches, Don Doll and his colorful right-hand man, Joe Scudero. Head Freshman Coach Hugh Devore and his assistant, Johnny Murphy, coach the “B” group. Head Coach Joe Kuharich oversees both groups.	‘
During the second week the Irish engaged in daily scrimmage sessions. The “A” group scrimmaged in the Stadium and then usually returned to Cartier Field for further work on plays and fundamentals. The “B” group did its scrimmaging on Cartier Field.
Last Saturday a two-hour scrimmage was held on Cartier Field. The accent in this workout was on passing. Four quar-' terbacks took part in the scrimmage. In order of apearance they were George Izo, Tom Jorling, Bill Henneghan, and Tom Bonofiglio. A fifth signal-caller, Don White, was withheld from the session because of an injured leg.
Several players performed well in the lengthy workout. Izo was passing well. His favorite target was Bill (Red) Mack. Mack repeatedly slipped behind the defenders, making several fine catches. On these plays, Mack lined up as a flanker stationed just inside the end. Izo also threw to Monty Stickles, Bob Pietrzak, and Pat Doyle.
While the stress was on.a passing offense, the Irish did not neglect their ground game. Jim Crotty, running from a fullback position, turned in several good runs. Dan Griffith, another fullback, also ran well. Halfbacks Bill Clark, Bob Scarpitto, Pat Doyle, and Ray Ratkowski were frequent ball earners.
Protection for the passer was spotty, but improvement on this phase is expected as practice continues. At times the passers did have ample time to throw the ball.
The scrimmage was devoted entirely to offensive formations. Coach Kuharich has stated that he intends to work mainly on offensive maneuvers during the spring. His theory is simple: “You can’t win games if you don’t score. Points win games.”
The spring game should' give the coaches a better idea of their material. The Old-Timers will have such former Irish stars as Ralph Gugliehni, Joe Heap, Paul Hornung, Gus Cifelli, the captain of this year’s team, Leon Hart, and Dan Shannon. Many graduating seniors are also expected to play.
21
THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO
I WIN A FIN I ;___________• from LIMERICK LAUGHTER
ENTER NOW! PROCRASTINATION WON’T PAY
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the SCHOLASTIC “Limerick Laughter” Contest. It’s easy. It’s fun! Here’s how the contest works:
The SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the May contest must be received by May 24. Names of the winners will be published in the May 29 edition of the SCHOLASTIC.
The samples below show you how easy it is to write a winning limerick.
I oft must suppress a strong yen, To think for myself now and then. In all this “security,” Why strain my maturity?
It's done for me by “competent men.”
On Ruddy Pierre let us tarry. He dated a coed named Mary. With taste as their basis, They of course smoked Oasis. Compatible pair — need you query?
News Briefs
(Continued from page 8) entered the Dominican Order in 1952, will -be ordained on May 23. The three men are: Joseph D. Nash, O.P.; Paul Johnson, ; O.P., and C. LaPata, O.P. Father Nash came to Notre Dame in 1951 after attend- i $ ing Fournier Institute for three years on a J scholarship. While at Notre Dame he en- | gaged in intramural football and was active 1 in NFCCS.
Father Johnson came to Notre Dame in 1950 and studied chemical engineering. * Father LaPata also began his studies at Notre Dame in 1950. In the fall of 1952 all three entered the novitiate of the Do- , minican Order at Winona, Minn.
In elections last Sunday night Mike Brienza, a junior in the College of Science was elected president of the recently formed <•< Westchester club. Roger Bernardi, an AB | geology major, was named vice president. The position of treasurer went to Benny Barone; secretary is Claude Ceccon, and recording secretary is Dennis Madden.
The possibility of a June plane has been^ proposed, but more specific plans include ' | a splash party at one of the clubs and several activities with incoming freshmen. I
The University of Notre Dame recently named Harold S. Foley of Vancouver, B. C., Canada, to the University’s Associate Boards of Lay Trustees.	. >
He is presently a member of the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council. '
The South Bend-Mishawaka Institute of Radio Engineers honored two senior electri-:. cal engineers from Notre Dame recently at their annual banquet in the Pick-Oliver I Hotel.	;
C. H. Hoffman, assistant professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, presented . the IRE’s student award to Richard Ken-# ville, Penn Yan, N. Y.
Special guest was William McAdam, Wilmette, Ill., who received honorable mention in the competition.	T
CHESTERFIELD KING
Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS
Delightfully Different . —a Refreshing Change
L & M is Low in tar with More taste to it. Don't settle for one without the other.
&
J. CAESAR,Italian politician, says: "All the boys in Rome use Wildroot on their dome! How about you?r
Gel WILDROOT CREAM-OILCharlie!
A
Just a little Wt of Wildroot and...WOW!
22
The Scholastic
Law School to Present Moot Court Competition
Notre Dame’s Law School will present the semi-final round of arguments in the 1958-59 Moot Court competition tonight !' (May 1) at 8 pan., in the Law building. This competition, sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Moot Court Board, enables student lawyers to obtain valuable - experience in the techniques of appellate argument and brief writing. Four members of the second year class will be chosen from this round to participate in ► the final argument next October.
Three distinguished judges will preside over the four courts: Justice Arthur J. Murphy, Chicago, Ill.; Judge * Bernard M. Decker, Waukegan, Ill.; and Judge Jack Murray, Knox, Ind. Members of the second year class competing for positions in next year’s final argument are William Custer, Matthew Hogan, Donald Gardner, Thomas Erbs, John Sullivan, Paul Titus, Larry Wich-mann, and Joseph Marino.
The case under consideration involves c the tort liability of a manufacturer, General Motors, for the negligent manufacture of a refrigerator compressor and the faulty promulgation of reconditioning procedures. Both factors led to serious personal injuries to an employee en-, gaged in reconditioning the compressors. General Motors is appealing from a $150,000 award of damages rendered against it in the court below.
‘ This competition is open to all who wish to attend.
Debate'Team to Host Butler ‘ In 60th Anniversary Monday
In honor of their 60th anniversai-y of debate, the Notre Dame debate team will meet Butler University in a public exhibition debate Monday at 4 p.m. in the amphitheater of the LaFortune Student > Center.
On the affirmative side of the national topic, the testing of nuclear weapons, and representing Butler will be Ruth Ann Clark and Ted Walwick. Jerry Goudreau and Guy Powers will uphold the negative for Notre Dame.
* It was in 1899 that Notre Dame met Butler in the first debate in the history of the University. Monday evening the Butler debaters and their coach, Prof. Nicholas Cripe, will be guests at the annual debate banquet.
At that time five Notre Dame debaters will be initiated into Tau Kappa Alpha, " the national forensic honor society. As governor of the Midwest region, Prof. Cripe will initiate the new members who are Jay Whitney, Thomas Banchoff, Joel Haggard, Powers, and Goudreau.
Other guests will be Rev. George C. Bernard, C.S.C., vice-president of student affairs, and Prof. Thomas Stritch, head of the department of communication arts.
May 1, 1959
LOST
A pair of greenish - brown, horn - rimmed glasses, in vicinity of the circle. Please return to: LARY LEACH, 338 BADIN HALL Nominal reward offered
EUROPE
Dublin to the Iron Curtain; Africa to Sweden. You’re accompanied—not herded around. College groups. Also shorter trips 3724-31390.
EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
255 Sequoia (Bou 6)	Pasadena, CaL
WKDfMffSS 31^^ CAMOf BMPf
We furnish avaay-tiling far a thrilling m vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wiL darnesa! Aluminum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rata. Write today for canoa trip planning kit, map, lists, rataa. (PA Girls make canoe tripe, too!)
tordir Lakis Outfitting P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
The glories of spring and the mood of those Prom week ends. . . . Don’t let them escape without a permanent remembrance for the girl who shares the fun and romance with you. If you haven’t already fallen under this wonderful spell, sto'p»in at the Bookstore office on the second floor and look over the complete selection of miniatures. Make your choice and win her'affectiqn forever.	r - *
Save time and money on the finest at the:
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
CANOE TRIPS
Personal service for wilderness canoe trips into the Quetico-Superior wilderness. Camping equipment, Grumman aluminum canoes and choice food supplies only $6.00 per person per day. For complete information, write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS—Box 717C, Ely, Minn.
At the Movies
J. PAUL SHEEDY.* hair expert, says: "Wildtoot keeps hair neat and hamsome all day long.”
•of 131 So. Barria HUI Rd., WUHcmneiUo, N.Y.
AVON
Senechai the Magnificent: (April 30-May 2). France’s hilarious, horsefaced Fernandel is back; and the result is good, if at times silly.
Cast a Dark Shadow. Dirk Bogarde. A mystery. It’s not for me to say
Three Men in a Boat: (May 3-6). British comedy.	<
Co-Hit: Every Second Counts. Following the Avon Art tradition of unknown movies.
COLFAX	*
Rio Bravo: (April 16-May 6). This has turned out to be a bigger moneymaker than expected. John Wayne, Dean Martin, and Ricky Nelson will continue to whoop it up for another week while they round up their percentage of the gross take.
.	GRANADA
Green Mansions: (May 1-7). W. H. Hudson’s unusual novel is brought to the screen by Mel Ferrer, starring Audrey Hepburn and Tony Perkins. Set in lush South American jungles, this might be a difficult movie to like, but may turn out to be a masterpiece.
Just a little bit of Wildroot and.-WOW!
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
*	A Handful of Dust and Decline and Fall
Evelyn Waugh
*	Idea of a University
Newman
*	The Russian Revolution Leon Trotsky
*	Barefoot Boy with Cheek
Max Shulman
•	The Masten
C. P. Snow
*	The Exurbanites . A. C. Spectorsky
*	Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Giri
Save Time and Money Shop at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on the cnwpns
2*
PALACE
The Mating Game: (April 24-May 2). A surprised entry in profitable movies, this suggestive little story stars Debbie Reynolds, Tony Randall, and Paul Douglas. Debbie is a frisky farm girl with a very animalistic spring fever who sets out to get Tony, a tax collector who is investigating her nontaxpayer father. With the advent of this movie, double meanings have become quite passe, and the story thrives on three or more interpretations to each line. Saucy.
Count Your Blessings: (May 3-10). This is the story of a titled Frenchman who liked, naturally, wine, women, and mistresses. But he got himself a wife and she finds out he’s unfaithful even to his lady friends. A nice mess is worked out for Cupid to settle. That’s it. With Deborah Kerr as the new wife, Rossano Brazzi as the man of many loves, and Maurice Chevalier as Cupid with an accent.
STATE
Compulsion: (April 30-May 14). If this denotes a new trend in the State’s entertainment policy, so much the better for them. At any rate, this adaptation of Meyer Levin’s best seller is a thinly fictionalized account of the	<
fabled Leopold-Loeb murder case packed with suspense and good talent.	f
Bradford Dillman and Dean Stockwell play the two spoiled college boys and Orson Welles steps into their lawyer’s shoes to deliver a 12-minute plea for	■
mercy and in general a performance of the highest caliber. The lawyer, a	|
not-too-disguised and inimitable Clarence Darrow, appears on the screen	f .
when the movie is about half-through, but Orson Welles literally steals the	ft
• show from two young but experienced actors. Miss Diane Varsi, late of	? j
Hollywood, is also starred in what is perhaps one of her better performances.	ft
RIVER PARK	|
-	S-
The Last Hurrah: (April 30-May 3). Lovable and feared, Mayor Frank	8
Skeffington of a “well-lmown New England city” decides to run for one last • $ time in what turns out to be an unforgettable campaign. Spencer' Tracy	B
completes this caricature of Boston’s Mayor Curley now that Curley is dead.	ft
The Trap. Richard Widmark, Tina Louise, and Lee J. Cobb star in this	S
delightful spoof of practically anything. Tina plays a shy Brigitte Bardot	£
who strips until her slip shows all over, but goes no further. However, she	w
still retains that God's Little	Acre's Griselda air	about her.	O
Tony Wong
The Scholasi
Campus Press Set to Publish Outstanding 'Review' Articles
."r.?1 Twenty-eight of the articles judged 1 most outstanding in the 20-year history 1 of the University’s Review of Politics I have been anthologized in a new book Yf published by the University Press under
| the title, The Image of Man.
I The volume has been edited by Pro-j fessors M. A. Fitzsimons, Frank O’Mal-
■v I- ley, and the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, j C.S.C., all of whom have been associated j with the quarterly since its inception in .	1939. Among the articles is one on
w “Totalitarian Religions” and another on | “Lamennais” by the late Waldemar Gurian, founding editor of the Review.
I . World-renowned philosopher Jacques ‘ , Maritain has contributed the first article j to the volume, entitled “Integral Hu-1 manism and the Crisis of Modern L Times”; in the same first section Luigi
' Sturzo is represented by an essay on “The Philosophic background of Christian Democracy.”
The second section of the book de-voted to “Man and the American World” < features an article by Peter F. Drucker on “Organized Religion and the Ameri-k can Creed.” Thomas N. Brown discusses “The Origins and Character of Irish-American Nationalism,” and Aaron I. Abell reports on “The Origins of Cath-. v olic Social Reform in the United States,”
** in the same section.
Christopher Dawson, British historian now teaching at Harvard Theological r.. Seminary, has contributed an essay on " “The Historic Origins of Liberalism” to the volume. Other scholars represented include Hans Morgenthau, Yves Simon, Hans Kohn, Josef Pieper, John U. Nef, Otto Karrer, Eric Vogelin, and Alois y Dempf.
" During its two decades of existence the Review of Politics has concerned itself with the philosophical and historical approach to the problems of the human community rathei* than tying itself down to the immediately empirical aspects of politics. The journal has provided a j y meeting place for, scholars of various faiths and religions as well as an outlet for the Catholic intellectual community.
yCS Officers
(Continued from page 11) erleber, another Dean’s List sophomore English major. As area representative, Joe will coordinate the activities of YCS in all the colleges in Indiana and attempt to establish groups in schools that do not have YCS.
Joe is an honor student from Shaker Heights, Ohio, and has served as leader of the Farley Hall YCS group. Last summer Joe attended the National YCS Study Week; this summer he will lead the Notre Dame delegation to the National Study Week and is acting as Chairman of the Planning Committee for the Midwest Regional Study week.
Rev. Louis J. Putz, CSC, Director of Catholic Action at Notre Dame, 'will again be chaplain of both YCS and the National Catholic Action Study Bureau next year.
May 1, 1959
BHO Sim IT raST3
A column of incidental intelligence _ _ ® by ifodfaj brand
"THIRTY DAYS HATH SEPTEMBER," ETC.
No need to recite further from this bit of doggerel which has served us all as a pony ever since grade school. For this universal handy reference we are indebted to a man named Richard Grafton who was nice enough to compose the rhyme way back in 1570.
"PUT IT IN YOUR PIPE"
No, Sir Walter Raleigh didn't originate this smoker's challenge. It was R. H. Barham, in "The Lay of St. Odille":
"For this you've my word, and I never yet broke it, So put that in your pipe. My Lord Otto, and smoke it."
"LOVE IS BUND"
Next to the Bible, Shakespeare is the richest source of common quotes. He's responsible for this one, too. See his "Merchant of Venice," Act II, Scene 6:
"But love is blind, and lovers cannot see
The petty follies that themselves commit
Jodmi T-Shirts
BRAND
The most respected, creative name in underwear is Jockey brand. It stands to reason, then, that Jockey brand T-shirts are unmatched for quality as well as styling. You can choose from standard T-shirt, "taper-tee" shirt, sleeveless 1-shirt, and V-neck T-shirt models. Every man needs a drawer full of T-shirts—and the label to look for is Jockey brand. Let it guide you to the world's finest underwear.
fashioned by the house of
Bach Pa^e
by Commerce School YCS Group
At some time during a student’s university career, it is important that he should ask himself several pertinent questions about the way of life within which he finds himself. “What does it mean to be a student?” “What is my relationship to other students with whom I live?” “What type of environment do I see around me?” “What kind of environment should it be, and how can I act that the best environment might be attained?”
Our group of ten students has asked itself these and other questions; and though certainly we have not fully answered them, we have come upon a few insights into a single segment of our environment, the student press, and should like to pose several of these involving the Scholastic, the student community, and an independent journal of opinion.
We often refer to the university as an academic community; but what, precisely, do we mean by “community,” and especially, “academic community?” A sociologist could tell us that a community is a group of persons living in the same locale^ and bound together by common general interests, attitudes and feelings. And we certainly find ourselves in this type of community: we live in or near the university, we are bound by our interest in education, our pursuit of truth. We also share various attitudes and feelings which we might, for simplicity, call “Notre Dame Spirit.”
Yet there is a more profound level on which we can view our environment: as a Christian academic community, having the superadded dimension of Love, through oiir incorporation in Christ. It is on this plane that the concept of “community,” or “com-unity,” being-one-with others, becomes truly meaningful. On the sociological level we see in the academic community de facto cooperation with others in pursuing the truths respective to our fields; however, we become aware, on the Christian level of community, of the demands and rewards of pursuing Truth as one body, with students, faculty and administration interacting as an organic unity, having as its end the discovery of the meaning of human existence. On its deepest level, the bond of this community is the same as that of the “whole Christ” — Divine Love, Charity.
But this unity must not be thought of as an abstract theological ideal, which can be' only scoffed at, or at most, dreamed about amidst the density of our day-to-day problems and cares. Rather, it is something that we, as members of Christ must attempt to develop concretely in our body-life. As members of the Church, we must assume, or rather, embrace, the obligations of that member
26
ship. The foremost of these is to love others, concretely; and one of the ways we, as students, love, is by contributing to the well-being of the intellectual community within which we find ourselves. For a community is “good,” is Christian, insofar as it fulfills its proper function; an intellectual community is Christian to the degree that students come to grips with the meaning of truly human existence because of, rather than in spite of, having been a part of that community.
The idea of “community,” especially “intellectual community” implies that communication exists, that ideas are shared throughout the entire community. These ideas may deal with problems both remote and proximate; with the way' things should be in the long run, and with the way things should be here and now. And since all members of the community benefit from its advantages and its wealth, all have the obligation to contribute in some way to this wealth. Also, as members of the Mystical Body, we are responsible not only for ourselves, but also to and for the other members of the Christ-community. This demands that some communications organ exist capable of and willing to serve as a vehicle of expression and reception of these ideas.
Within any community, and especially within the academic community, there is bound to exist some conflict of ideas. This ought not to be viewed by those in authority with alarm, but should be welcomed as an indication of vitality. For as long as the conflict occurs within a framework of mutual concern for the good of the entire body, a community will develop as a result of this counteraction. Each of the conflicting parties will gain deeper insight into the viewpoint of the other, and the ground will be prepared for new concensus springing from this conflict. Have not many of the greatest truths, both speculative and practical, been born in the midst of the labor of conflict?
The Scholastic should be the organ through which communication of ideas throughout the Notre Dame community can occur. However, since the “official” character of the Scholastic, along with its circulation outside the University, often makes the publication of certain ideas and conflicts imprudent, and since the Scholastic is avowedly a “news magazine,” we feel that not only is the Scholastic failing to meet the need for adequate expression of ideas, but it cannot, with its present structure, satisfy this exigency. This by no means implies that it should be discontinued, for there is need of a news organ; but there is a serious need for an organ unhampered by the limitations of the Scholastic.
Pending before the University Council is a motion, passed by the Student Sen-
opinion and life
ate, that the administration approve the constitution of a journal of opinion for a trial period of the 1959 fall semester. If the constitution is approved, the University will be equipped with a publication devoted to the campus-wide exchange of ideas, proper to an academic < community. Such a journal will be directed by a student editor who will determine publication policy, assisted by an advisory board of seven students, 4] along with a faculty advisory board of three. Since the circulation will be re
stricted to the campus, many of the Scholastic’s structural limitations will be avoided. Here will be an opportunity for the administration, faculty and students to express their views on situations both peculiar to Notre Dame and outside our community. And since the journal of opinion will not be an “official” University publication, this will give those persons with opinions not completely in agreement with the administration an opportunity to receive the hearing they deserve, without danger of official censure or damage to the reputation of Notre Dame across the country.
Needless to say, the intention of the proponents of this journal is not to “legitimize” the Thursday Throwback; rather, each author will receive a by-line and will be responsible for defending his views. Rather than serve as a gigantic “crying-towel” for those who can but complain, it will serve as an organ for well-thought-out opinion, which may, in fact, involve serious and vitalizing constructive criticism, presented in a framework of concern for the others in the community.
Most important, a journal of opinion will present an opportunity for all members of the University to fulfill more completely their responsibility to and for the entire university-bndy, a deepening Love can be concretized, for we will possess a means wherein the entire community can participate in a mutually deepening and developmental dialogue.
At the opening of this article, we posed several questions. We would now like to present some closing thoughts related to these questions. To be a student means to be a student-with-others, responsible to and for them; it means that each student must help to create the environment within which all might become more fully human. But to be responsible, one must have the opportunities of exercising responsibility. And in our community, the proposed journal will certainly be a means of exercising responsibility for a further deepening of the entire community. Here is where within the whole community, that Notre Dame might become the example “parexcellence” of the Christian communal pursuit of Truth.
The Scholastic

The new Arrow FREE-WAY puts "action" in a shirt
Here’s a knitted shirt just made for active sports (and lounging around, as well). The feather-light, meshknit fabric is bias-cut for perfect freedom in any position. The back, cut longer than the front, lets the collar fit your neck just right. In a variety of shades to match or coordinate with your summer sportswear. $4.00.
-ztil/lOfF
first in fashion
The new Arrow FREE-WAY is here!
There’s not a man on campus who can’t use one of these new action-back shirts. For tennis, golf or most any sport, the unique cut of the Arrow FREE-WAY prevents binding or straining — ever. (There’s plenty of style in these shirts, too.) In many smart colors—and we have most of them for your selection. Arrow FREE-WAY, $4.00.
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St, South Bend
A PURE
WHITE
FILTER IS ONLY THE BEGINNING OF A WINSTON
I
■ Ig*R£tte
rMvOll ;
America's best-selling filter cigarette!
Its whats up frw that counts I
Winston's got | filter-blend |-clear, mild tobaccos specially processed for filter smoking!
It’s not by accident that smokers draw special pleasure from what’s “up front” in a Winston.
For, up there — up ahead of the modern, pure white Winston filter goes | FILTER-BLEND |. That’s Winston’s exclusive blend of premium tobaccos
which are specially selected for their flavor and mildness, then specially processed for filter smoking.
That’s what [ FILTER-BLEND] is ... and that’s the important difference between Winston and other filter cigarettes. What a difference!
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON«SALEM. N. C.

Winston tastes good /ike a cigarette should 1