SCHOLASTIC 
Notre Dame October 28, 1985 

special edition 
NOTRE DAME AND SOUTH AFRICA 
... ; .. •: . .·, ..... 

CONSTRUCTIVE ENGAGEMENT
DIVEST NOW 
by Peter Walshe 

As I write this, the Board of Trustees has yet to meet on the issue of our investment in South Africa. The Board's Ad Hoc Com­mittee, set up in late August to investigate this matter, is still sit­ting, at least in theory. Even so, the President of Notre Dame, Rev. Ted Hesburgh, has come out publicly against divestment. 
The President of Stndent Government, Bill Healy, after consulting with the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, told the Student Senate meeting on October 14 that Notre Dame's new policy "absolutely was not going to involve divestment." Apparently the issue has been decided --all else is a formality. Once again the University's Administration has shown itself reluctant to risk the slightest pressure on corporate America, opting instead for a cost­less "Christianity" that has characterized Notre Dame's public witness for far too long. 
continued on page 3 
Peter Walshe is Professor of Govemment and International Studies, and Director of African Studies at the University of Notre Dame. Walshe is a member of the Ad Hoc Committee of the Board of Trustees 011 South African Investments. 
SCHOLASTIC 

by Oliver Williams, C.S.C. 
This past sum­mer I_ was in South Africa researching the ethics of U.S. invest­ments there. After nearly four weeks of traveling throughout the country and inter­viewing almost one hundred persons religious leaders, labor leaders, business exe­cutives, members of Parliament, black workers, and so on --I 

·had little hope that South Africa would soon be a peaceful land. About that time I had an interview with Bishop Desmond Tutu, As I walked into his office in Johannesburg, I was greeted by an exuberant Bishop Tutu. My first question was. t0 ask him how he kept so hope­ful, in_ the· · midst of such oppression and violence. He said, "Let's pray before we talk." : continued on page 5 
Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., is on the f acuity of the department of Management at the University of Notre Danie, He is currently working on a book for Harper and Row titled O1'ercoming 
Apartheid. He is a member of the Board of 
Trustees Ad Hoc Committee on South African 
I/1J'estments 
28 OCTOBER 1985 
I • .,• • : • > ' : 

. . ~ -' , .. ~ 
. . . . 

editorial 


1:e debate over Notre Dame's investments in South Africa has turned into an embarrassing fiasco. What was once a constructive dialogue between students, faculty and administrators has degenerated into a tangled mess of petty intrigue, political posturing and moral abdication. The Notre Dame community's inability to deal effectively with the present crisis in South Africa reveals deep flaws within the structure of the University. The controversy has revealed an unresponsive and inconsistent Administration, an impotent, disorganized student leadership and an isolated, apathetic student body. 
The Administration: The position of the University as stated by Fr. Hesburgh on October 11 is morally indefensible. After years of patience, it is apparent that the policy of constructive engage­ment has failed. Almost every reputable expert on African affairs has recognized this failure. We 
· challenge Fr. Hesburgh to present any evidence that American investment has lessened the oppres­sion of the black majority or can be expected to lead to the dismantling of the apartheid system. It is puzzling that a man as well-informed as Fr. Hesburgh is clinging to arguments that have long lost their credibiiity. 
Those who run this University constantly speak of a commitment to justice. Justice is not achieved through words but through action. Fr. Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees must bring Notre Dame's actions into line with its rhetoric. If they do not, then grave doubts will be raised as to the sincerity of Notre Dame's commitment to justice. The Administration, however, is not alone in its bungling of this situation. We have not yet spoken oL 
Student Government: Student Body President, Bill Healy's handling of the Dettling-Baccanari affai_r was at best a public relations ·disaster and at worst a case of kow-towing to the Administration. Healy's dismissal of fellow student government members at the first sign of confrontation with the Administration raises serious questions about his ability to represent the students or take any posi­tion contrary to that of the University. 
Only_ Healy can prove that his government is not a puppet of the Administration. He can do this by. working vigorously for a student referendum on South Africa and then forcefully pursuing its mandate, even if it places him in conflict with the University. Ifhe fails to take such· action, then the image of student government as self-serving resume-grabbers, unrepresentative of the student body~ will grow. The choice is Healy's. One final group which has made a poor showing in this con­troversy is ... 
Th~ S-(udent Body: Until we, the students, awake from our apathy and demand to be heard, the Administration will continue to treat us as children and ignore our legitimate concerns about Univ~·rsity policies. Likewise, we will continue to receive weak student leadership. Furthermore, · as long as we allow ourselves to be ignored by the Administration, we will remain impotent on all · issues that affect our University. 
. . . . . . 
The time has come for the students to demand a referendum, vote for a moral policy of divest­ment, and compel student government to act on their decision. The student government must fulfill its role as a representative body by forcefully presenting the student's position to the Administra­tion until we are heard. The Administration, for its part, must · recognize the moral imperative motivating this issue and divest Notre Dame of its holdings in South Africa.• · 
"'"SCHOLASTIC 
SCHOLASTIC 
f 

conti111ted from page 1 
There arc powerful argu­ments for divestment, but they require some understanding ofthe currents of South African history and of the forces behind the present unrest. The first point to realize is that the struggle against racism has been going on for a long time --in its modern form for a century. Moreover, it was not until it was banned and forced underground in 1960 that the African National Congress turned, reluctantly, to an armed struggle. Founded in I 9I 2, the Congress. spent fifty years in patient, non-violent protests. 
Many people have lost their lives in this struggle over the last few decades, cut down by state violence. Approximately eight hundred •individuals have been shot by by the police and army in recent · months. Hundreds of thousands of children have died as a result of the tightening of apartheid and the destitution, malnutrition and high infant mor­tality rates it forces on African families. 'These families continue to be systematically broken up by apartheid's pattern of migrant labor. In. addition, four million women, . children, elderly folk, and the unemployed have been ,"resettled" in the "homelands" since the I 960's -expelled from that 87% of the country desig­nated "white" South • Africa. These millions, plus those already trapped in the "homelands", have been dumped in these decaying rural backwaters. 
But what of Notre Dame in this struggle? Campus workshops on South Africa date· back to the early 70's; the Administration finally produced its first invest­
. ment policy in 1978. In essence this supported the Sullivan Princi­ples (named after Rev. Leon Sul­livan, a member of the Board of General Motors). These Principles focused on the workplace and caHed on American corporations 
3. 
in South Africa to desegregate their operations. In subsequent years their performance was patchy. The corporations also continued to sell to the South African government, ·its parasta­tals, the army and the police. They injected capital, technology and administrative expertise into the system; they paid taxes to the apartheid regime. 
But more importantly. even when the corporations set about desegregating their offices and plants, they did nothing to under­mine the basic structures of the apartheid. system. As blacks left the corporate premises, they stepped into the apartheid world of pass books, single-sex hostels, inferior education, political powerlessness and police harrass­mcnt. By the early eighties, the South • African government was fully supportive of the Sullivan Principles --it had nothing to. fear from the dismantling of petty apartheid. Indeed, by this time, it was official policy to desegregate certain restaurants, cinemas and hotels. 
Last spring, when the Rev. Leon Sullivan was on our campus, he recognized these realities and 
expressed his deep regret that the Sullivan Principles had, in prac­tice, worked to strengthen the apartheid system. They had, he said, provided a facade of moral legitimacy behind which the cor­porations continued to pump resources into the apartheid sys­tem. Unfortunately, aithough there had been strong dissenting voices, the extent of Notre Dame's moral leadership in 1978 was to fall unquestioningly into . line with the corporations and to back the Sullivan principles; 
In November 1984, the Sul­livan Principles were revised so as to include an exhortation to cor­porations, calling on them to work for the ending of the apartheid system itself. The question, of course, is how is this to be done? There are two levers for change -­black unrest and economic sane'.. tions. It is vitally important that they be used simultaneously to bring the apartheid regime to the negotiating table with legitimate black leaders. Key personalities and the major protest movements in South Africa have called for this strategy --for the steaciy escalation of economic sanctions at this particular moment in the struggle for justice. Bishop Des­mond Tutu and Rev. Alan Boesak have spoken out. Rev. Beyers Naude, who graced our campus in May when he received an Honorary Doctorate, has been calling for divestment since 1976. The African National Congress and the United Democratic Front have asked corporations to begin moving out of the country. A recent poll of urban blacks showed that 77% of them favored divestment, although they recog­
nized that it could cause them hardship in the short run. 
These South Africans are tired of America's rhetoric and many of us are tired of Notre Dame's blarney. The fine points of micro analysis, for example corporations employing a few hundred more blacks or desegra­gating their toilets, have become irrelevant. The macro. issues are now central, made so. by the courage of black South-Africans as they face the firepo~~r. of their oppressors. The question is: How · can economic pressure . be mounted in support of black resis­tance so that white South Africa's self-interest will bring it to the negotiating table? The alternative is a period of even more brutal oppression, followed inevitably by an escalating civil war which will disrupt race relations throughout 
Southern Africa and  could send  
shock  waves  into  America's  
predominantly  black  and  poor  
inner-cities.  

SCHOLASTIC 

It should be emphasized again that South Africa has recently modified apartheid so that the system can provide a steady flow of semi-skilled and even skilled black labor for the white-owned economy. The old argument that western investment and economic growth would frac­ture the apartheid system as the economy required more and more black labor, is widely recognized as outdated and seriously misleading. It must be understood too, that in recent months the South African regime has dug its heals in. Pretoria has refused to negotiate . with the African National Congress, detained· the leaders of the United Democratic Front and banned the black student's organization, COSAS. The army literally occupies the black townships and, for good 
i measure, it has invaded Angola once again, attacked Mozambique and continues to occupy Namibia: 
For Notre Dame to-encourage corporations to remain in South Africa in these cir­cumstances, is to abdicate moral responsibility. When the dust of repression settles (temporarily), our endowment funds will remain 
·invested in the new apartheid with its more flexible institutional racism. It is not irrelevant to add the further perspective of our complicity in a foreign policy of "constructive engagement". As Rev. Beyers ·_Naude put it: "Lack of meaningful support for the South .African black community and its struggle for liberation has created feelings of deep anger and animosity not only toward Wash­ington and its policy of 'construc­tive engagement', but also toward many American institutions and initiatives in South Africa. A word of serious warning has to be sounded to the American govern­ment and people: Do not be surprised if the anger of black South Africans eventually turns to 
hatred or rejection of an Ameri­can presence in Africa. Take cog­nizance· now .of these feelings of anger and bitterness and consider active steps to create a better atti­tude."( Nei~ y ork Times , April 12, 1985) 
So, what should be done, now that Notre Dame has lost yet another opportunity to offer ethi­cal leadership, now that we have refused to lend our support to Columbia and Rutgers, the State of Massachusetts, New York City and the Free South Africa Move­ment that is just beginning to put some real pressure on · South Africa? An investment policy that refers to some vague possibility of divesting at some unknown future date will not do, and the Notre Dame administtration should be constantly reminded of this. As the Anti-Apartheid Network's petition to the Board of Trustees made clear, we should insist that, if by a specific date (February 1, 
1986?) the South African govern­ment has not committed itself to ending apartheid, and has not entered into serious negotiations with legitimate black leaders, including those of the African National Congress, then: 
1. 
Notre Dame should call on the approximately thirty corpora­tions operating in South Africa in which we hold stock, to start disinvesting --withdrawing from the apartheid system. 

2. 
If particular corporations will not start this process, then Notre Dame will begin to divest from them. 


If we do not make this mod­est, non-violent contribution, we. will remain collaborators in ·the new apartheid system that President Botha has tried unsuc­cessfully to sell to blacks and to the world community. We shall also. be contributing to the only alternative means for change -­civil war, without endowment resources at the disposal of the oppressors. • 

28 OCTOBER 1985 
continued from page 1 
We prayed together for several minutes. His prayer called to mind that Jesus Christ came face to face with evil, suffered death at its hands, and finally rose again, overcoming evil once and for all, and that as followers of Christ we believe that that same pattern can be repeated in each of our lives. Bishop Tutu's challenge 1s not unlike· the challenge that we all face: Each of us, in our own way, and in our own cir­cumstances, is challenged to over­come evil with good. 
The Problem: All of us know ·evil from personal experience; but sel­dom do we encounter evil struc­tured in society so firmly and resolutely as. it is in. the apartheid laws of South Africa. While there arc more oppressive systems in the world, apartheid is the only one based on skin color. Over 300 racial laws in South Africa deny blacks many of the rights we take for granted --the right to vote, to move about freely in their own country, to attend the better white schools and to own businesses in white communities. 
I met any number of blacks who had important executive positions in business firms in South Africa and yet they· still had to live in a ghetto --not because they could not afford better but because, according to 
the Group Areas Act, land is zoned by race. South Africa's white towns and cities are gen­erally surrounded by black town­ships, often bleak, dusty and despair-ridden places. Estimates are that 25 percent of the 12 mil­lion urban blacks· are unemployed. The situation of over 12 million blacks Jiving in the . so-called "homelands" is much worse. South Africa is, for the most.. part, a IJcautiful and. wealthy country. But not for the great majority of its inhabitants. It is dominated by the 5 million whites who .control 80 percent of the land. 
The Solution is Selective Dh·est­ment: For Christians and all peo­ple of goodw1II, the important question is how can we assist in overcoming this evil. In my view, the unrest and racial violence will cease only · when blacks arc treated as equals, having all the political and civil rights the whites now enjoy. As long as we in the United States have signifi­cant investments in the country, we must be concerned as to how our money is being used. There. is a moral dimension to economic decisions, and our investments in companies in South Africa are moral only if they are clearly advancing the welfare of the blacks in the country. In my judg­ment, most American companies in South Africa are using their corporate power to advance the . welfare of the blacks, and there­fore the investments are moral and ought to remain there. If a particular company refuses to use its power to dismantle apartheid, then, I believe, moral persons would want to dissociate them­selves from that company, that is, • selectively divest. The difficult question is what is the best means for U.S. corporations to assist in dismantling apartheid. 
The problem . is in the numbers: whites are outnumbered by blacks almost by a factor of six. The whites have tried all kinds of schemes to maintain all the power --the homelands, white job reservation, restrictions of 
black businesses, and so on --and for · a while these policies had worked. The strategy of the white ruling class seems to have been to do anything that would hinder the. emergence of a unified black pol­itical group. The name of the game was survival, and the Afri­kaners played it well. Now, how­ever, the nation is at a crossroads. The blacks are, with good cause, increasingly agitating for political and economic rights, to the point of disrupting the white economy. Can the whites broaden the democratic processes to include blacks without losing all they had ever worked for? They must be persuaded that this is their only reasonable option. 
Unlike most societies, the business institution in South Africa is one of the more progres­sive institutions in the land. Some acting from moral conviction, oth­
. ers perhaps from enlightened self-interest, businesses have been actively dismantling apartheid in 
.--------------~ the workplace for a number of 
"In my judgment, most_ American companies 1n South Africa are using their corporate power to advance the welfare of the blacks, and there­fore the investments· are moral and ought to remain there." 
, , 

.:_,,..._____;____....;,__.....:...__..,..........:._...J
5 . 
years. Most U.S. companies have·· been in the vanguard of this movement, largely through the efforts of the Reverend Leon H. Sullivan. Sullivan, a black pastor in Philadelphia and a member of the Board of Director·s of the General Motors Corporation, · called 12 major U.S. companies together in 1977 and drew up a code of conduct that has come to 
.be known as the Sullivan Princi­ples. If U.S. companies were in South Africa, they must pursue the following policies: I) Non­segregation of the races in all eat­ing, comfort and work facilities; 
2) Equal and fair employment practices for all employees; ~) Equal pay for all employees doing equal or comparable work for the same period of time; 4) Initiation 
. . . SCHOLASTIC 

and development of training pro­grams that will prepare blacks, · coloreds, arid Asians in substan­tial numbers for supervisory, 
administrative, clerical, and 
technical.jobs; 5) Increasing the number 'or blacks, coloreds,· and Asians · . in management ·a:nd supervisory positions; ·and 6) Improving the quality of employ­ees' lives outside the · work environment in such areas as housing, transportation, schooling, recreation and health. facilities. Even though U.S. corporations employ only a small percentage of the 9 million workers in South Africa, the efforts to dismantle apartheid by American firms have served as a beacon and a catalyst in generating reform throughout business and industry. 

Within the · workplace, the code and similar measures by 
· non-U.S. firms have long been standard policy, and many blacks told me that their lives were a lot more pleasant because of them. Outside the -workplace, land is still zoned by skin color and there are over 300 laws· designed to enforce apartheid, the Afrikaans word for "separate ·development: (literally "Separate-hood"). In 1985, in a bold new development, the Rev. Sullivan and the 128 signature companies added a new requirement to the code: All U.S. companies operating in South Africa would "support the ending of all apartheid laws." 
U.S. companies following the Sullivan Code are now actively lobbying the South African 
. government to end apartheid laws. The lobbying, for the most part, is to be done through the American Chamber of Commerce, (AMCHAM) an industry associa-. tion of all the U.S. firms in South Africa. AMCHAM ·has writteh a hard-hitting document that places industry squarely in opposition to the apartheid laws. Th~eir position paper covered urbanization and influx control, housing, removals, migrant labor, black business rights, and citizenship. It also ·. argued for· channels for demo­cratic participation at all levels of government, the means of which were to be arrived at by negotia­tion and consultation with all 
. leaders of the various constituen­cies. The final document was offi­cially presented to a special RSA Cabinet Committee and it was widely publicized. Last month, in a dramatic new move, the major business groups of . South Africa gave President Botha an ultima­tum: He must begin to negotiate with key black leaders to abolish apartheid. To stress_ the urgency, some of · the most prominent leaders of industry flew to Zam­bia ·and met with the leaders of the outlawed African National Congress. 
Will the South African ·government respond to. the grow­ing demands for change, demands both from within the country and from the international commun­ity? I must honestly say I do not know, but _I think we must give them some time. Time is running out and they know it. The n_ew South African Ambassador, Her".'· 
· bert Beukes, told me at a meeting at the Brookings Institution last week that "The decision has been made to dismantle apartheid." On a "Meet the Press" show in Sep­tember he made similar femarks indicating that citizenship and political equality were· essential. "Political equality means obvi­ously that everybody should have the right to· participate in the process;..every person should have 
28 OCTOBER i985 
the right to vote...." These arc 
public statements by a represcnta­
tivc of the Botha government. I( 
we arc to believe them, the Botha 
government is headed in the right 
direction. There are always the 
haunting questions: Do they really 
mean what they say? What will 
they do and how fast will they do 
it? None of us can answer these 
questions now but the answers 
will become clear in time. If after two years no major reforms have been enacted to deliver on these promises, it will be time to con­sider a new stance. For now, in my view, the University of Notre 
Dame's policy in its new form is 
the best response to the evil. 
(The policy entails monitoring all 
companies that have operations in 
South Africa and divestment of companies that do not follow the
. Sullivan Code). 
Complete Divestment: The 

Wrong Policy at the Wrong Time: 
There · is a movement in the 
United States .to force the U.S. 
firms who have operations in 
South Africa to leave the troubled 
nation. This campaign has several 
strategies, the most popular being 
divestment. A number of states 
and cities have passed laws res­
tricting and forbidding investment 
of public monies, including pen­
sion funds, in firms involved in 
Smith Africa. University endow­
ments are under increasing pres­
sure to make similar rulings. The 
hope of advocates is that divest­
ment will eventually cause U.S. 
firms to leave South Africa, 
which, in turn, will pressure the 
white rulers to change their racist 
policies. 
I understand the passion peo­

ple have to find a quick way to 
end apartheid, for I feel it myself. 
After seeing the situation first­
hand and after considerable 
reflection, I · do not think. that 
div~stiture is an effective means 
for bringing. about the situation 
we au· want , to see in South 
J\frica. The only way that the 
U,S. disinvestment campaign will 
have its desired effect' is if the ing diplomatically and economi­
U.S. sanctions arc also adopted cally from South Africa is a lux­by the international community. ury that the vastness of American At present Great Britain, West · wealth could afford. But indul­Germany, Japan, Taiwan and gcncc in that luxury for the sake Israel carry on significant com-of purity of con-science, what­mercc in South Africa and they ever genuine motives produce that conscience, would do no more than demonstrate the moral ineptitude of a great nation in the face of challenges from a remote 
"I do not think that area of the globe. Buthclezi is fighting to keep U.S. corporations divestiture is an effec-in South Africa because he needs· tive means for bringing their leverage in his fight to over­come apartheid, and he needs about ·the situation we their jobs for his people. all want to see in South 
Implications of ·Divestment: Africa." Should we decide to advo­catc divestment of certain stocks 
in our University endowment 
portfolio because we judge these companies to be involved in immoral behavior in South Africa, we must be consistent. That· is, if ._________________J trc University of Notre Dame demonstrated little interest in sells, for example, IBM stock on sanctions. Taiwan alone opened moral grounds, then. we must not 20 factories in South Africa in the accept any money from that com­last two years. I met marketing pany for student scholatship sup­people in South Africa who · port, or any equipmedt frorri . the 
I 

assured· me that Japanese and company. Faculty and staff sup-European computer firms were porting this divestment would be already telling customers that U.S. obliged to advocate that their per­firms may leave South Africa and sonal pension funds invested in that they shou\d buy their pro-the TIAA-CREF national port­ducts from non-U.S. sources. To • folio also sell the stock in ques­be sure, I cannot prove con-tion. As I have argued above, I do elusively that U.S. divestment not support divestiture of stock ·or would not cause the other nations all companies operating in South to join the withdrawal, but I find Africa, but if the time comes little evidence to support that when we do support such a move, hypothesis. Alan Paton, author of we must be consistent. ·_.­
Cry, the Beloved Country , and a In conclusion, the moral pol­liberal who has given most of his icy for the University, in my life to fighting apartheid, recently judgement, is to support firms to 
summed. up my position well: "To stay in South Africa and believe . that disinvestment will ·ct
overcome aparthe1 . At the same bring our government 'to its time, we should do all in our 
knees' is to believe nonsense." · 
power to have our government 
Chief Gatsh Buthelezi, the take a firm and resolute stand highly regarded leader of the 6 against racist policies . by the million Zulus, told me in no unc-South African rulers. Govern­ertain terms that, in his judgment, mcnt to government action is the "disinvestment is anti-black." In most effective way to assist our his words: To stand on American black friends in their struggle for indignant principles by withdraw-freedom.• 






CONFLICT or COMPROMISE 
. : ' 
Student Leaders. Address The Apartheid 
The debate over investments _-The policy does_ not include in South Africa could have major the.immediate threat of a process implications _for student lea-der:­of -divestment in South Africa, ship at Notre Dame. This debate which Dettling and fell ow -student has __turned into a shovydown; of committee member ·Pat -Baccanari sorts, between . those leaders who advocated. "We have exhausted believe that student goals are best all the legitimate channel!>." The served through _quiet -negotiation· question is "wh_at next?" accord­with. the University and those fog to Dettling. whq believe that the situation has 
"I think we should threaten·deteriorated to such an extent the companies [in which Notrethat. open ccmfrontation· -is the Daine invests] with a process cul­only path. Thus, this controversy minating in divestiture. Com­is as much an issue of various stu­panies have had no reformingdent approaches to leadership as effect in the macro sense in Southit is a tale of South Africa. 

Africa. At the same time com­
John Dettling proudly says panies have pumped money, pro­that no issue presented to Notre ducts and technology into a Dame's _ Board . of Trustees white-controlled economy. It is through student initiative has ever critical that external pressure be had as much effect on University applied now or all hope of a non­policy as the . issue of South violent solution will be lost," said Africa. Dettling. 
An alternative policy sup­. "We have more student :input ported_ by Dettling and the Anti­on South Africa than anyone on Apartheid Network calls for _a 
bottom line policy . making,"·. he process of divestiture to begin said.· February 1, 1986 if companies in South Africa are not able to force 
Dettling, a senior, is vice the government to begin negotia­chairman q_f the Anti-Apartheid -. tions· •to dismantle apartheid by Network at Notre Dame and a that date._ member ofthe Ad Hoc committee -­

s· ­

of trustees • administrators, faculty .. · -• tudent government ·involve­and stude~ts examining" Univer.:.· · mcnt .. with the anti-apartheid sity investments in South Africa:'.. movement began ·. in __ February 
· when Dettling approached then Eight months of disctission in Student Body President, Rob Ber­
student government: _and _among tino. with the idea of setting up a trustees on ·Notre ..,; Dame's co!llmitteeto examine University response to ap~~-theid:: in South investments in South Africa. Africa, initiated by Dettling, cul-'fWe decided the· best way to 
minated this month··wjth an anti-approach .the issue . was through apartheid rally on the :step's-of the legitimate channels," -Dettling Administration . -building '..an_d . the. . said{ Bertino agreed to the pro­release of anew Notre Dame pol-posal, placing Dettling at the head icy regarding the issue .. -of the committee. 
by John Affleck and Ted Kelleher 


Controversy 
Bill Healy included Dettling's position in his cabinet when he came to power in April, renaming the group the · Committee for Responsible · University Business Practices and increasing · the number of issues it would · exam~ inc. 
Later in April Dettling made 

a presentation to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, suggesting there be a meeting between the trustee's investment committee and · administrators, faculty and stu­dents to discuss University invest­
ments in South Africa. 
As a result of the presenta­

tion, the trustees formed the Ad 
Hoc committee of trustees, 
administrators, faculty and· stu­
dents to examine the issue. "I 
suspect the · board did this ·because, one, they saw a need in South -Africa and, two, we did not ·approach the presentation in a rash manner," Dettling said. "We were not antagonistic. We had a protest against the Board of Trustees called off because we did not want to approach .the board with animosity." ­
Board of Truste~s Chairman, Thomas Carney invited Healy and Dettling during the summer to sit on the committee as student representatives. -Dettling said·-he . asked Healy to. step down -from the committee, .. allowing Bae-' canari, who was -more informed on the _issue, _to take_ his place. Healy refused, saying his place:on the committee was ,a step toward getting. ·a student on . the board full-time, Dettling said. Healy a:sked Carney if Baccanari could ­
SCHOLASTIC 

be added to the committee and the request was granted. 
w::i' 

.a..;,,arly this fall the Ad Hoc Committee met to try to form a new policy. That two hour meet­ing was the ·basis for a rough draft of the policy, which was sent to committee members. "We were to respond to the draft by letters," 
Healy said. 
Dettling said all three stu­dents dissented from the first draft because there was "not even the threat of divestment." Healy counters, "I wouldn't say we dissented. I thought we wrote about things we thought the com­
mittee had decided would be in 
. " 

there that were not. After reviewing the responses to the first draft, a second propo­sal was written and presented to the student representatives for the first time by Carney at a breakfaSt meeting on October 4. Once again Dettling and Baccanari found the proposal unsatisfactory and expressed this to Carney. 
A week later, at the first anti-apartheid rally on campus, a major split developed between student leadership on the South Africa issue when . it was 
· annouriced that Dettling and Bae­canari had been dismissed from their student government posts, in part because. of their actions at the breakfast 'µieeting. 
"It was a management deci­sion. I don't , regret it," Healy said. Their behavior was not worthy of what they were trying to . accomplish. They were unprofessional--! thought they were rude. I had hoped it might be possible to bring them back on the cabinet, though." Dettling, however, ·maintains that, . "We weren't rude. We didn't insult Carney or raise our voices. We were just up front with him." 
:Now student leadership is visibly divided over the best approach to achieve student goals. 
28 OCTOBER 1985 
The question is which path to take now. Healy said the release of the new policy does not end 
the student voice on South Afri­can investment. He believes it is crucial that the Ad Hoc Commit­tee remain in existence because the situation in South Africa is so volatile that a policy chan;ge might be needed at any time. 
"The South Africa iss_ue is important because the students deem it to be important. It is a priority," Healy said. The stu­dent government is going ahead 
· . with plans for a referendum on campus to get a better under­standing of student opinion on the 
issue. 
When asked if he thought the students had received enough education on divestment, Healy said he hoped to proceed with the referendum with a week of edu­cation on the issue. The result of the referendum would· then be presented to the Trustees' Student Affairs Committee. 
"The student government can only do so much," Healy said. you must deal with the Adminis­tration. If you say 'I'm not going to deal with the Administration because they're. tyrannical, v.:en then you might just as well give up the ship:" 
"We can march all we want but that ·won't get us anywhere. 

We can't rant and rave for ranting / ami raving's sake because they won't listen to us. Which is what they usually get away with. We need a united front and airtight arguments. Then how can they refuse us?"
D ettling · thinks students 1 should now react to the new pol-:­icy. "Students should look at t~e policy ov·er history and in Sou.th Africa right· now to see if t¥ey think it's· moral." When as.ked how he viewed the future or,' the Anti-Apartheid Network in light of the conflict between itself and Notre Dame policy Dettling said, "We have· irreconcilable differ­ences with the Administration. The struggle is just beginning for the Anti-Apartheid Network. It needs to raily student support around the threat of divestiture and they should vocally and visi­ble show their dissatisfaction. How far that' goes depends on how much people are willi.ng to sacrifice to ertd apartheid." 
It is clear that unless our stu-: dent leaders can resolve this fun­damental question of approach, student government will remain paralyzed, unable to affect change on any level on this campus. The next few weeks will necessitate a choice on the part of the student . body as to which path to take to achieve their goals: cooperation. or conflict. • 



STUDENTS RALLY 
lj: 
1! 

)1 AGAINST PARTHEID 

£fessor Peter Walshe, Director of African Studies, has made the eradication of apartheid his life struggle. He brought this struggle with. him to Notre Dame in the 1960's. In the 70's he ini­tiated a student movement that culminated in the 1978 University Policy on South African Invest­ments. The 1978 policy limits Notre Dame's investments to companies that abide by the Sul­livan Principles. Prof. Walshe has repeatedly labeled this policy as timid. The recent protests and violence in South Africa allowed Prof. Walshe to .revive . the anti­apartheid movement at. Notre Dame. 

Last semester, with the inten­tion of awakening Notre Dame to the violence and injustice of apartheid, the Black and African Studies Department sponsored a series of movies and lectures. Among the lecturers were Ran­dall Robinson, one of the initia­tors of demonstrations at the South African embassy in Wash­ington, who told students to push for divestment; and Reverend Leon Sullivan, author of the Sul­livan Principles, who called on Notre Dame to change its policy in light of recent revisions he had made to his guidelines. 
12 
by Patrick Mullen 

In April, after one of the series of lectures at the request of Prof. Walshe, a group of students and faculty members met in the Center for Social Concerns and the Anti-Apartheid Network was formed. Its goal was to create increased awareness of apartheid and its effects on South Africa as 
well as to raise the issue of divest­ment as a possible Notre Dame response to apartheid. Those present at the meeting were con­cerned with the University's reluctance to take a bold stance on the issue. They felt the University should use its influ~ ence in the Catholic and Univer­sity communities by taking a leadership role in condemning apartheid and acting to help end it. 
The Network was to be a coalition of various University groups all of whom would send a representative to a steering com­mittee that met weekly. John Det­tling and Pat Baccanari, members of the Committee for Responsible University Business Practices, were appointed as student. government representatives to the AAN, and Steering Committee members . elected Margarita Rose as chairwoman. 
Despite the fact that a few Network members had strong pro-divestment views, the group decided on an initial strategy of dialogue rather than confronta-.-. tion. That is, instead of immedi­ately confronting the Administra­tion and· demanding that its obli­gation as a Christian institution was to divest, the AAN opted to draw the Administration into a debate. In this way the pros and cons of divestment could be dis­cussed i_n a rational manner, enlightening members of the Notre Dame community while aiming for a revised investment policy in the future_. 
Father Richard Zang, the University Investment Officer, was invited to debate Prof. Walshe, but refused, citing past encounters with Walshe as pro­ducing "more heat than light." AAN members were unable to meet with University President Theodore Hesburgh; but did talk to Executive Assistant Fr. William Beauchamp, who suggested that 

they approach the Board of Trustees since it was the body responsible for inve~trrient policy. Overall, the Network. found the Administration rather reluctant to publicly defend its investment policy. University leaders also refused and continue to refuse to disclose in what companies Notre Dame invests. 
Disappointed · but not discouraged, the AAN turned to 
SCHOLASTIC 

the Board of Trustees which was 
. meeting on campus in· early May. Contact was established, and Robert Wilmouth, Chairman of the Investments Subcommittee agreed to allow a group of AAN members to meet with the sub-. committee. At the meeting, the group presented board members with a petition containing almost 1000 signatures. The petition called on the Board to "initiate dialogue with the administration, faculty, and students on South African investment policies with a view to revising the 1978 U niver­sity Principles." Contemporarily, John Dettling met with the members of the Student Affairs Subcommittee of the Board. 
Approaching the Board yielded the AAN some success. An Ad Hoc Committee on South African Investments was esta­blished and met in late August to examine the investment policy in further detail. Pat Baccanari, John Dettling and . Student Body President Bill Healy attended the meeting as representatives of stu­dent government and Peter Walshe acted as faculty represen­tative. The results of the committee's meeting are as yet confidential, but the Board is due to issue a policy statement after 
· its next meeting in October. Prel­iminary indications are that the new policy would not bring signi­ficant change. 
Meanwhile, the AAN regrouped after the summer and decided that instead of merely sit­ting tight and waiting for the Ad Hoc Committee's statement, it would be useful to bring the issue of divestment more into the pub­lic light. It was important that the 
-· entire Notre Dame community participate in making the final decision on divestment, not just the Administration and the Board of Trustees. This required more members of the community to become informed both about the nature of apartheid and about the arguments surrounding divest­
28 OCTOBER 1985 
ment. In John Dettling's words, the issue had to be brought "from the periphery to the center of campus." 
When Prof. Walshe suggested the Network plan a rally to coin­cide with National Anti-Apartheid Protest Day on 
--~ 

October 11, all members were in agreement A rally would serve for publicity and to send a defin­ite message to Notre Dame's leaders that divestment is an issue with which it must deal. 
With the AAN gathering weekly under the leadership of Rose, plans slowly fell into place. The "Rally Against Apartheid" was to be preceded by an "Apartheid Awareness Week" designed to familiarize Notre Dame with the evils of apartheid and the discussion of divestment. With the help of the black studies department, the AAN sponsored movies, lectures, and an informa­tion table in the library. The Net­work wanted to get the attention of as many students and faculty members in time for the rally. 
Late in September, Santiago O'Donnell pointed out to the AAN members that there were 
· only a few weeks left before the rally was to take place, and that the great majority of students on campus had never heard of apartheid, much less of the Anti­Apartheid Network. As chairman of RASTA, Santiago had some concrete suggestions for bombard­ing the campus with information about apartheid and the AAN. 
With the design help of Elaine Jackson, the Network pro­duced buttons that were to be sold during the Awareness Week. 
. Flyers and posters of all kinds · were distributed and pinned up around campus. AAN members wrote editorials. In addition the network circulated a petition cal­ling on the University to divest by February I if certain improve­ments have not taken place in South Africa. The petition was sig~ed by over 1200 students and 
faculty members and presented to the Board of Trustees at their October meeting. 
By October 11, apartheid and divestment had become campus issues. A crowd of 400 
turned out for the "Rally Against Apartheid" to hear Fr. Hesburgh, Professor Walshe, Motumbo Mpanya, · Bill Healy a:nd John Dettling address the question of Notre Dame's role in helping to end apartheid. 
Fr. Hesburgh's speech indi­cated that in the eyes of the Administration divestment 1s still out of the question, and it appears that the AAN still has a long uphill battle ahead. The Network has, however, succeeded in bring­ing this issue to center stage at Notre Dame and, if nothing else, generating political debate on a largely apolitical campus. • 
13 
-.i 
¦ 

i',,
\1 
Iii
:'1 





A HOUSE DIVIDED 
by Bill Krais 

In 1948, apartheid became law in South Africa. The policies of racial · segregation, however, affected the black. majority for many years before '48. Today, apartheid flourishes under the presidency of Peter Botha, and 
· blacks continue to be prohibited from partaking in many cif the rights enjoyed by whites. 
· Aparth<!id is the legal separa­tion of blacks from whites. 
. Theoretically, apartheid allows for "separate but equal facilities", but in In South Africa, the facili­ties are far from equal. The whites have ruled with an abso­lute authority, restricting the per­sonal freedoms of blacks includ­ing the freedoms of speech and movement, the right to a free and equal education, and the right to vote. 
Whites ·. comprise 15 percent of the total population of South 
'. Africa while Blacks (73 percent), coloreds, and Asians make up the remainder. Yet, even though they make up a very small percentage of the population, the white minority controls the South Afri­can economy. Whites own 87% of all the land including most of the mines and the richest· farmlands. The blacks, however, own only 13% of the land, most of which is classified as "barren, rural areas." The blacks, through "pass laws" which state that they must carry passes with them at all times in order to move about their own country, are unable to get up and move to the suburbs, or apply for a different job elsewhere. 
·The South African Constitu­tion prohibits blacks from partici­pating in the national government. 
Blacks are forbidden to vote in national elections while whites, on the other hand, arc entitled to vote and are represented in the · South African Parliament and in the all-white House of Assembly, two of the governing bodies in South · Africa. Black representa­tion is · limited to the "home­lands", This type of representa­tion is inadequate because · the national policies affect the blacks more adversely and more directly 
than grass roots politics. 
Perhaps the single greatest factor contributing to the suppres­sion of blacks is education .. For whites education is free and com­pulsory. For every eighteen white students, the government provides one teacher and spends an aver­age of $780 annually per student. For blacks, however, the story is quite different. Parents, many of whom are impoverished, must pay for their children's education out of their own pockets. Further­more, education is not compul­sory for black children and the teacher-student ratio is 39: I and the per capita expenditure on education for blacks is $110 annually. As a result of many unfavorable circumstances, 54 percent of the African schoolchil­dren are forced to drop-out before the end of third grade. 
Discriminatory conditions exist in the job world as well. Whites are permitted the right to unionize. Blacks, however, are not allowed to form unions, except under strict limitations, and collective bargaining is "vir­tually illegal". White ownership consequently becomes dispropor­tionately wealthier, as they hoard profits and grant few if any sub­stantial concessions to th,eir black employees. 
The average annual earnings for workers last year is also . grossly .. disparate... Whites earned 
. an average of $8,260 while blacks were forced to survive upon $1,815 a year. In 1983, no whites were reported to be living below the poverty level while, in that 

•same year, over 60 percent of the blacks in both Johanne~burg and Durban were 'struggling under the poverty lev~l. 
The disparity between whites and blacks is most striking where health issues are concerned. The infant inortality rate is 27 times greater for blacks than whites. Whites have one doctor per 330 
_people while blacks have one 
The infant mortality rate is 27 times greater for blacks than for whites 
doctor to , tend the· needs, of every 91,000 people. These statistics display a deplorable health crisis of . epidemic-proportions. One of the most alarming facts, however, is that the life expectancy for · whites is 70 years while black Hfe 
expectancy is only 57. 
These ' statistics reveal the underlying problems of . today's South Africa. It is clear that the violence will continue untilequal­ity . is achieved for blacks. Apartheid can only lead to bloodshed in South Africa. • 
r 
28 OCTOBER 1985 
NEXT JSSUE:rnsrnE THE ND $PORTS EMPIRE 




