WEMRE THEM All!
Philip Moums n
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a PHILIP MORRIS. Just take a puff—
DON'T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?



2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip MORRIS invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
uwiisnid
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER smok.no PUA"e
<


'5‘
■ PHIUP MORRIS

The Scholastic

— — — “ “ « — — — — <1
Famous old Paul Bunyan has nothing on you when you’re in Van Heusen Sportchecks. Big checks, small checks—every kind of check except the one the old man sends the first of the month. Fine cotton gingham, §4.95. Lustrous rayon, $5.95—both completely washable. All wool Vanaca flannel, $7.95.
! 0 Van Heusen 1-. !
।	'7/ie icorkFs smartest SIUllS	।
|	PH 1LLIPS-J ON ES CORP.. NEvV YORK 1. N. Y. I
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Sophomore Cotillion Law Ball
November 10, 1950
Students who were not fitted on the campus may still rent tuxedos at Logans in South Bend, 107 N. Main St. Over 500 suits to choose from; shorts, stouts, regulars, longs and extra longs. Sizes Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56.
PRICES:
Tuxedos — $5.50
Accessories — $ 1.00 (Shirt, Bow Tie, Jewelry, and Suspenders)
Full Dress, $7.50
NO DEPOSITS
GILBERT'S
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
Due to the large demands place orders early.
LOGAN'S
107 No. Main, So. Bend, Ind.
The Scholastic

Top of the Week
The spirit all over campus prior to the Michigan State tussle . . .
Going Up!
After all the waiting and fund-raising campaigns of the past year or so, the new Notre Dame Science Building is going up. The area east of the Architecture Building looks like the proving grounds for Demolition 32, a required course for all Guerilla Warfare majors.
The huge cavity produced by the busiest steam-shovel this side of Seoul is attracting more spectators than you would think possible. Around the excavation *' stands a wire fence to prevent the unobserving or bleary-eyed from falling into the gaping chasm. In fact, the barbedwire on top of the fence either keeps onlookers five feet away or rips the devil out of your clothing and forearms.
But this Science Building should really be the cat’s “meow” when it comes to things scientific. We hear that they will install atom-smashers to smash atomsmashers and a laboratory equipped with everything known to science and a few things they haven’t heard of yet.
Those crowds that watch the A. F. of L. Construction Workers between classes really fascinate us, more than the un' questionable attraction that goes with any building project. Civil Engineers kibitz, Geology majors drool in anticipation of every bite of the scoop, and Commerce men stand and wonder if the truck-drivers are getting more money than the rest of the gang.
Occasionally a Science prof will me> ander along with a big smile and a hopeful look and if you walk real close to him you can hear a muffled “Go Sol-itt, Dig, Dig, Dig!” .
We were thinking about changing our major in order to use the new building, but we’ve still got the Social Science Building and our leg muscles need that exercise. So do yours.
Winter Harbringer
With the rapid switch from hot to cold by the weather around here comes
another sure sign of snow, sleet, ice, earmuffs, and foot-warmers.
East of the Infirmary, in the state of complete dishevelment, lies the Notre Dame skating rink, vintage 1949. To those who weren’t around last year, this wooden-bordered rink is erected in cold weather, filled with water which is supposed to freeze, and opened to the student body for ice-skating, hockey games, tic-tac-toe, or any other ice sport.
Last year the rink led an almost uneventful life except for being put up in the Fall and taken down in the Spring. This year the weatherman has signed a
Learn To Dance
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
106 W. MONROE CORNER MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND DIAL 3-8229
contract with the Student Council to have freezing weather, every weekend during December, January, and February with a renewal of contract slated for Feb. 16 to decide about March, April, May, and June. Personally, we think it would be fun to get a diploma in snow-shoes and parka, instead of that traditional cap and gown outfit that everybody wears.
We have one suggestion for the Student Council. If they ■ really want to serve the students, why not add a permanent floor to the rink, so that the hundreds of roller-skating enthusiasts on campus can have some fun too? What have those ice-skaters got that we rollerskaters haven’t got? It looks like a conspiracy to overthrow ths time-honored sport of roller-skating and a committee should be appointed to investigate this situation, and darned quick, too.
Bottom of the Week
. . . guys who stay away from tonight’s “Monster Rally,” NUFF SAID.
"2 for 1"
RATES
NOW IN EFFECT
. . . Two can learn to dance for the cost of one the GEORGE DAVIS way and save 50 %.
George Davis “Speed Method” has turned out thousands of Smooth Dancers. . . The kind . you see dancing continuously and having a world of fun! Put yourself in the hands of one of our talented experts. You’ll soon be dancing the Fox Trot, Jitterbug, Waltz, Rumba or any other dance in iust a few interesting enjoyable hours.
Phone 3-8229 for a FREE interesting analysis lesson.
Attend our Gala OPEN HOUSE DANCE Sunday, Oct. 29, 9 p. m. Harlan Hogan’s Orchestra
Oct. 27, 1950
OCTOBER 27
CAMPUS—A gigantic torchlight parade begins at 7 p. m. at Farley Hall with the entire band leading it around campus. It will proceed to the field behind the tennis courts where a huge bonfire rally will be held. Any student missing the year’s biggest rally should be fodder for the lake.
COLFAX (through Nov. 1)—After seeing Mister 880 (Legion of Decency Rating A-l) you are bound to leave the theater with a smile on your face. This film, starring Edmund Gwenn, Burt Lancaster and Dorothy McGuire, is pleasant and warm. Too bad there are not more like it. As an added attraction there is an exceptionally fine short entitled Holy Year, 1950.
PALACE (through Nov. 2)—Jimmy Cagney tries to regain his popularity in Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye (B), but the immoral film blocks his path. Practically every anti-Christian concept is brought up in the plot. Miss this one.
GRANADA (through Nov. 2)—Do you like Yvonne deCarlo? Do you like technicolor? And how about a story that’s as thin as cellophane? The answer is yes? Then Desert Hawk (A-2) is just fox’ you. While you’re at it, why not take some kindergarten kids along—they love this kind of movie fudge, also.
OCTOBER 28
STADIUM—Another win, or another loss? Another WIN!
PALAIS ROYALE—Another Student Council dance. They used to be called V--y dances . . . and they will be again if the team gets enough support.
WASHINGTON HALL—There have been many wonderful sea epics since the motion picture industry was founded—but Captain China (A-2) t’aint one of them. With John “lower-lip” Payne and Gail “darkeyes” Russell as its co-stars, this mistake is as soggy as a dead mackerel.
OCTOBER 31
DRILL HALL—Informality will reign at the Junior class sponsored Halloween dance. Jeans and colorful shirts will be the order of the day. The hoe-down begins at 8:30 p. m. and runs to 11:30 p. m. with 12:30 permissions granted. Gene Hull’s ork is set to play.
WASHINGTON HALL—The rickety relic is sure to be jammed for the screening of Cinderella (A-l). Disney’s coloring is nice but it’s a crime his scriptwriters had to devise such a sordid plot. If you’re under eighteeen, don’t go—this is definitely a film for adults.
SOUTH BEND—Kids by the score, will be roaming the town asking “Trick or treat?” Remember it’s Halloween, so stay away from those headless horsemen and that witches brew which conjures them.
NOVEMBER 1
CAMPUS—All Saints Day.
NOVEMBER 2
COLFAX—TEA for Two (A-2) is a filmization of a roaring twenties stage musical called No, No, Nanette. It’s been hepped up a lot but the melodies of Youman’s stay the same—which is downright great. Vivacious Doris Day is the star and is supported by Gordon McRea, Gene j Nelson, Eve Arden, Cuddles Sakall, Patrice Wymore and one or two extras whose names are forgotten.
Vol. 92 October 27. 1950 No. 7
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors	f
WALTON R. COLLINS '51
JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52______________News
CHARLES B. DULLEA *52___Assistant News
ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51_______Features
JOHN F. MEANEY '52 Sports
JACK R. VARLEY *52_____Assistant Sports
JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51„Photography
LEON GARDNER. '52__________.Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER__________Advertising
WILLIAM ]. HOSCHEIDT '51___Advertising ROBERT WILDEMAN '52________Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS_________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the < school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: This weekend all eyes will be on End Jim Mutscheller, and all the rest of the “Fighting Irish” for that matter, as they battle the upset-hopeful Michigan State Spartans in the Notre Dame Stadium. Spirits are high for this one. Let’s go team. Smeai- the Spartans.— Photo by Kinville.
6
The Scholastic

We're Up for It
You can already feel the electricity charging throughout the campus. There’s usually one game each year that generates such spirited excitement. Last year it was the Tulane game (remember?) and now it’s tomorrow’s battle with the Spartans.
i	Only this year we have more reason than ever to get
:	riled up. It’s time to grit our molars. The student body
knows this; they know it’s not a job just for the team. Right now the players are trying to hurdle a psychological stumbling block, more than anything else. That’s why each and every one of us has to get out there and give them a roaring boost.
For the first time in years permission has been granted to have a bonfire rally. Placards and posters are peppered throughout the campus. Everyone is pulling for victory. We should keep this spirit rolling at a peak—yell like blazes, show the team we want a win; in fact, show them we’re aoinn to win!	i
o o
Get that electricity charging. Smear, swamp, spill, slam, stop, stomp and do anything else to MSC—it all boils down to the same thing—BEAT THE SPARTANS!!
The Dawn Came
NFCCS—like the alphabetically named agencies of the New Deal and war programs, these letters create an enigmatic repulsion. For some unknown reason people shun organizations known mostly by initials. The groups hold no interest for the average person . . . but what’s all this ' driving at?
The crux of the matter is that the Notre Dame student body has too long been avoiding the National Federation of Catholic College Students. Nearly everyone knows there is such an organization but few know what it’s purpose is, how it works, how it benefits the individual student, and what it’s place is in the country.
The Scholastic must also confess to such ignorance. In the past it has dutifully printed dry reports of NFCCS meetings and similar squibs. But it has never bothered to investigate the organization; to look in and see how and ’ why it ticks. True, there was a feature on the Federation in the October 6 issue of this year’s Scholastic, but even that was given poor play.
The reason for the awakening to the fact that the NFCCS is a vibrant organization and one every Catholic college student should be vitally interested in came about last weekend. The Federation held a National Press Workshop at St. Joseph’s College in Rensselaer and the Scholastic was permitted to attend. It’s too bad the organizational set-up doesn’t allow a wider participation of students, but since its main objective is coordination throughout the coUn's try, this is impossible. Therefore, the student bodies must
rely on fine leaders for representation. Watching Notre Dame’s representatives in action last weekend left little room for worry. Our two delegates are fine.
Because they are is no reason why the rest of the student body should lean back and say “Leave it to George.” The NFCCS is no wishy-washy club—it knows where it is going.
From here on in the Scholastic will acknowledge its importance. Why don’t you? In fact, why don’t we all forget those enigmatic letters—NFCCS—and begin to take an active part in the National Federation of Catholic College Students?
McCarran Law
With November elections just around the comer, the public eye is on Washington. The 81st Congress is about to pass out of existence and the as-yet-unnamed 82nd Congress is waiting at the polls.
One of the “hottest” election issues, as things look from here, will be the McCarran-Ferguson-Mundt-Nixon “AntiCommunist” Law, passed last month by the 81st Congress. This bill, in substance, requires that all Communists in the United States register themselves as Communists with the Justice Department.
It also gives the Justice Department the power to regulate subversive activity and propaganda, and to keep out of the country all persons with Fascist, Communist, or totalitarian tie-ups, past or present, along with the right of determining the existence of such tie-ups.
To acquaint readers with the two sides of this Law, the Scholastic this week presents a forum written by two distinguished professors. Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew is head of the Department of Political Science. Professor Marshall Smelser is a member of the Department of History. We urge all readers to give careful attention to this forum (page 22).	___________
A Week to Remember
Tuesday slipped by just like any other Tuesday on the campus and you probably didn’t know how special Tuesday was, or how special the whole week was. •
Last Tuesday was United Nations Day and last week, U.N. Week. It was something special and something we can’t afford to forget. Because if we forget the U.N., we forget our own country, our fellow Americans in Korea, and ourselves.	.	’
The histories of world organizations have been relatively short and never has the modem world united under one government in peace and security. Before we start crusading for America first again, we’ve got to remember that we live in a mighty big world.
Instead of Seoul, Pongyang, and Teagu it might be Seattle, Pittsburgh, and Topeka.	.
Oct. 27, 1950
SMEAR the SPARTANS