
COLLEGE PARADE
1 ".More smoke from Edgeworth Junior? . . . Wha’d’ya mean? . . . Tastes good, anyway.”
^"ButFveneversmoked any tobacco more than half way down . .. Yes, this still tastes good.”
3 ”1 get it! . . . 1OO% smoke from Edgeworth Junior, because it’s so mild you can smoke it ALL THE WAY DOWN TO THE HEEL!”
TOBA®
"CELLOPHANE” WRAPPED
ATni

By Anthony F. O’Boyle
If you have been prone to consider that college born organization known as the Veterans of Future Wars as a collegiate prank or, at the best, a witty burlesque without any serious thought or systematic organization behind it we suggest that you read Patriotism Prepaid by Lewis J. Gorin, Jr., National Commander of the V.F.W. It is not the intention of this column to act as literary press agent for Author Gorin, Princeton, ’36, but we do feel that the book is worth calling to the attention of college students.
It is probably true that the economic aspect of the bonus demanded by the V. F. W. will not bear too strong a scrutiny but this is of only minor importance. The main point we contend is the fact that such a movement, using the deadliest of all propaganda weapons, satire, can be effective if correctly interpreted and properly directed. Gorin’s literary effort is abundant with suggestions to bring about such coordination. Patriotism Prepaid satirically and amusingly, yet definitely and comprehensively, states the viewpoint of the younger generation towards war. Deftly it ridicules the waste of money on those veterans who are veterans only because of Congressional definition while those deserving of financial consideration are more or less ignored. Cleverly it points out that the American Legion started out as a non-political organization. The final portions of the book ironically comment on the methods by which the tax payer is induced to pay for the bonus.
If it does nothing else it is our hope that the growth of the Veterans of Future Wars will be generally accepted as a definite sign that modern college students are no longer following the dictates of impetuous legislators who will not have to go to war when Mars again becomes the deity of nations.
‘OU’LL stick to Junior. It’s so
Edgeworth mild you’ll
smoke every grain of this free** burning tobacco—right down to the heel. Larus & Bro. Co., Richmond, Virginia. Tobacconists since 1877.
GOOD ALL THE WAY DOWN TO THE HEEL—
M.I.T. was the recent victor over Yale in a contest that was not only decidedly unique but was also the first of its kind in America'. The contest took place in darkened class room where one end was arranged as an office and artificially illuminated. Each team interviewed an applicant desiring a job with a firm known as the Consolidated Motors Corporation. Because of a better penetrating set of questions and sounder all - around judgment the Tech team was given an unanimous decision.
The Scholastic
Two
Friday, May 8
Senior Ball, Palais Royale, South Bend, 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, Editorial staff 6:30 p.m., General staff 7:00 p.m., Editorial offices.
Saturday, May 9
Tea Dance, Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club, 3:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Triangular Track Meet between Michigan State, Ohio State, and Notre Dame, Cartier Field; Movie, Washington Hall, first performance 6:40 p.m.; Senior Dinner Dance, Mezzanine of the Oliver Hotel, South Bend. Golf—Purdue at Notre Dame.
Sunday, May 10
Sunday Masses 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; officers’ meeting, Knights of Columbus, 10:30 a.m., Walsh Hall club rooms; meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, 11:45 a. m., K. of C. rooms.
Monday, May 11
Preliminaries for Breen Oratorical Contest, 4:00 p.m., auditorium of Law building; Baseball, Louisiana Tech vs.
N. D., Cartier field, 2:00 p.m.; Golf, Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame at Madison.
Tuesday, May 12
Preliminaries for Breen Oraotrical Contest, 4:00 and 8:00 p.m., basement of Law building; Faculty lecture by Prof. Henry B. Froning, 8:00 p.m., auditorium of Law building; Campus broadcasts from Engineering building studio, at 4:30 and 7:30 p.m., through WSBT; Baseball, Louisiana Tech vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field, 2:00 p.m.
Wednesday, May 13
Two campus radio program, 4:30 and 7:30 p.m. from WSBT; Tennis, Kentucky vs. Notre Dame, here; Baseball, Western State Normal vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field, 2:00 p.m.
CLIPPINGS
Via the Ohio State Lantern:
Latest theme songs — “Chasing Shadows” for the Italian soldiers in Ethiopia. Before the finals, “I Wish I Were Aladdin”—during the exams, “Where Am I?” after the exams, “Out in The Cold Again.”
—o—
From the Alabama Rammer-Jammer:
This class reminds me of Kaffee Hag—99 percent of the active element removed from the bean.”
M a y 8, 19 3 6
—I High, Wide and Handsome
• On every campus, smartly dressed men are wearing the Arrow Hunt shirt with the authentic button-down, wide-spread English collar. Exclusive fabrics, beautifully tailored, in oxford white, stripes, and checks. Sanforized Shrunk.
$2 and $2.50
ARROW sXl
FOLLOW ARROW AND YOU FOLLOW THE STYLE
MAX ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner”
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors.
Three
■ Qirl of	S enlor (Ball
Light of step, light of heart, Of beauty ne’er surpassed. Winsome ways, grace my days And ne’er from me depart.
Words of love, fidelity. You rank above them all. Live with me forever— Girl of my Senior Ball.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing-] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 191&J
■ Volume LXIX
May 8, 1936
No. 24
SULLIVAN, KERIN, PROBST, HURLEY ARE ELECTED

HEAVY BALLOTING IN SENIOR ELECTIONS;
OTHER RETURNS INCOMPLETE AT PRESS TIME
Primary Victor Loses Finals
>
Richard Parker Sullivan of Lexington, Ky., defeated Harry Baldwin, of Oak Park, Ill., for the 1937 class presidency by a count of 220 to 163 in the election held Wednesday, May 6, in the basement of the dining hall. The Sullivan ticket was backed by Walt Nienaber.
Although Baldwin, winner of the primaries, did not triumph, the rest of his ticket made a clean sweep of the offices of vice-president, secretary and treasurer. Mark Kerin, of Denver, Colorado, ran up 214 votes against 169 for Toni White to win the idee presidency, Vincent Probst, of New Athens, Ill., polled 208 ballots against 173 to beat Ed Gannon for the office of treasurer. John Hurley, of Rushville, N, Y., nosed out “Tex” Powers for secretary by a count of 198 to 186.
, In the S.A.C. election two more of Baldwin’s men got into office. William Foley, of Brooklyn, N. Y., won over Tom Pendergast 84 to 73 for the College of Arts and Letters. In the College of Commerce, George Bonfield, of Fairfield, Iowa, defeated Alex Sloan 63 to 57. Dick Delaney, of Indianapolis, Ind., the only other Sullivan man to win in the finals, triumphed over Ed Flanagan by a vote of 32 to 21 for the College of Engineering. Art Hoffman, a Sullivan man, was automatically elected for Off Campus by polling a two-thirds majority in the primary.
The Junior and Sophomore elections were held yesterday in the dining hall from 9:00 a.m. till 5:30 p.m. Ed Donoghue, S.A.C. election chairman, said final tabulation of the Junior and Sophomore elections would not take place until this morning, consequently returns can not be made in this issue.
KILGALLEN, ACE REPORTER, TO TALK ON EXPERIENCES; HERE ON MAY 14
James L. Kilgallen, ace reporter of the International News Seiwice, will deliver an address on “The Hauptmann Case and Othei- Famous Stor-
James L. Kilgallen
To discuss Hauptmann case.
ies” at Washington Hall, Thursday, May 14, at 8:00 p. m.
Mr. Kilgallen, who has worked on the Lindbergh case since its inception and had covered every aftermath of the kidnapping for the past two years, will deal with the unpublished aspects of the country’s most famous trial, and with the problems faced by the press in securing information.
He will come here directly from Lakehurst, N. J., where he will cover the arrival of Germany’s new zep-
Breen Preliminaries Set
For Monday and Tuesday
Preliminaries in the annual competition for the Breen Oratorical medal will be held in the auditorium of the Law Building on Monday, May 11, and Tuesday, May 12, according to announcement this week from Professor William Coyne.
The following schedule will be used in the try-outs: On Monday, May 11, at 4 p.m.—John Donnelly, Wm. F. Kiely, John Locher, Wm. P. McVay, Tom Mulligan, Richard O’Melia, Joseph Pawlowski, John A. Scott.
On Tuesday, May 12, 4 p.m.: Pat Bannon, Wm. Fiewieger, John J. Kohn, Bernard McCafferey, Wm. Page, Thos. Proctor, Francis Parks.
On Tuesday, May 12, at 8 pan.: Michael Clonse, Robert Heywood, John McGee, Richard Meier, Matt Merkle, George B. Morris, Chas. F. Osbourn.
pelin, the LZ-129, on its first flight from Berlin to the United States. Immediately following his talk, Mr. Kilgallen will leave for the national political conventions to which he has been assigned for a series of special feature articles.
This famous reporter has the reputation in newspaper circles of having served in more far-flung places during the past thirty years than any other reporter now in active work.
Public figures who fight shy of newspaper interviews have been the special assignment of Kilgallen. He obtained the only newspaper interview ever granted by Thomas A. Edison, and was the only reporter whom Samuel Insull would consent to see from the ’time of his arrest in Istanbul until his arrival in New York. In addition he has had exclusive interviews with Henry Ford, John D. Rockefeller, Sr., Harvey Firestone, Alfred E. Smith, Commander Richard E. Byrd, and AI Capone.
Five
M a y 8, 19 3 6
Senior Ball Tonight At Palais Royale x
TOP HATS AND COLORFUL GOWNS
WEEK-END PROGRAM
(Central Standard Time)
FRIDAY. MAY 8
Senior Ball, Palais Royale, 10:00 P. M. to 2:00 A. M., Freddy Martin and his orchestra.
SATURDAY, MAY 9
Tea Dance, Chain -o'- Lakes Country Club, 3:00 P. M. to 5:30 P. M., Myron Walz and his orchestra.
Triangular Track Meet between Michigan State, Ohio State, and Notre Dame, Car-tier Field. Jesse Owens of Ohio State will appear.
Dinner Dance, Mezzanine of the Oliver Hotel.
SUNDAY, MAY 10
Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 9:00 A. M.
Event_______________—-----.Senior Ball
Place .................Palais Royale
Time ____........i.......JO p.m. to 2 a.m. Music............_...Freddy Martin’s band Essentials ......Ticket , and a girl Decorations ____________.....Different
By Louis Da Pra
Tonight is Senior Ball night. In the. colorful setting of the Palais Royale, fourth-year men and their guests from every section of the country will dance to the scintillating music of Freddy Martin and his orchestra.
Six
LEND CHARM TO BRILLIANT AFFAIR
William Schmuhl Chairman of Ball
The Ball will usher in a gay weekend of smart dinners and dances in the Oliver Hotel and the Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club which will climax the spring season of social events.
Martin’s Band Outstanding
In the selection of Freddy Martin and. his fourteen - piece orchestra, Chairman William J. Schmuhl and Class President Howard C. Cusack bring to the Palais Royale one of the country’s outstanding “name” bands which is becoming increasingly popular with dance lovers.
Martin will come direct to the Senior Ball from a successful stay at Andrew Karsas’. Aragon Ballroom , in Chicago. Previously he had completed a long, engagement at the St. Regis Roof in New York, and this summer his music will be heard from the Cocoanut Grove of the Hotel Ambassador in Los Angeles.
His orchestra is featured by the Martinettes, a distinctive male trio, and by a piano-playing baritone, Aimer Feldkamp.
Miss Margaret Keck
Guest of Chairman Schmuhl
Tom Bott, well-known campus pianist, is the composer of the Senior Ball song entitled, “I Wonder,” which Freddy Martin will feature tonight. Bott collaborated in the writing of last year’s Junior Prom song.
Distinctive Favors
Favors for this year’s Ball are gold pendants set in pearl, with the official Notre Dame seal inscribed upon it. The Balfour Company of Attleboro, Mass., one of the leading college jewelry establishments, has provided the favors^
Chairman Schmuhl announced that the programs are white, embossed with a distinctive crest. The seal was especially designed for, the Senior Ball by the Balfour Company.
Patrons and Patronesses for the Ball are Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy, Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Layden, Mr. Devere Plunkett, Mr. and Mrs. Donald Plunkett, and Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Boyle.
Miss Grayce Breslin of St. Mary’s and Lyndhurst, N. J., the guest of Howard Cusack, and Miss Margaret Keck of Blytheville, Ark., the guest of William Schmuhl are the guests of honor. The grand march around the flower-embanked ballroom will be led by Class President Cusack and Miss Breslin.
The customary regulations concerning permissions and use of automo-
The Scholastic
Music By Freddy Martin’s Orchestra
Miss Grayge Breslin Guest of President Cusack
biles are in force during the weekend. Students attending the Ball, which will be held from 10:00 p. m.. to 2:00 , a. m. (Central Standard [Notre Dame] time), must be in their halls by 3:00 a. m.
Tomorrow afternoon at 3:00 p. m. (C.S.T.) the Tea Dance will be held at the exclusive Chain-o’-Lakes Country Club, the traditional Notre Dame locale. Myron Walz and his full orchestra, well-known South Bend dinner ensemble which plays at the leading country clubs in the Middle West, will furnish the music.
Dancing will take place in the glass - enclosed promenade of the Country Club, and refreshments will be served at the tables which line the dance floors. The grounds of the club are at the disposal of the Seniors and their guests.
Transportation to Club
In order to facilitate matters, President Howard Cusack announced that bus transportation to the club will be provided. During the week, Robert T. Burke, Jr., chairman of the Tea Dance, stated that a special $2.50 round-trip taxi rate had been secured.
The week-end will be climaxed tomorrow evening by a dinner dance scheduled to be held in the mezzanine of the Oliver Hotel. This is entirely a class function. Tickets are priced at $1.00, and reservations are obtainable -from Robert Burke, or Joe Foley.
May 81.l;?46!fU
GUESTS HERE FROM EVERY SECTION FOR YEAR'S PREMIER SOCIAL EVENT
Howard Cusack
President of Senior Class
A full course dinner, specially prepared for the Notre Dame affair by the maitre d’hotel of the Oliver, will be served. The Oliver will provide the orchestra for the dance, as well as charming favors.
Dinner Dance Will Be Informal
Chairman Schmuhl announced that the concluding social function of the week-end will be conducted in an informal manner. Seniors and their guests will be permitted to go and come at their leisure. To make the affair representative, Seniors will supply their own entertainment.
The following morning the Seniors and their guests will attend the 9:00 o’clock morning Mass in Sacred Heart Church bringing to a close in true Notre: Dame fashion the glorious week-end.
The' committee chairmen for the affair are: Tickets, Achilles H. Moorman; Music, John C. Schultz; Publicity, William N. Darcy; Hall, Daniel T. McLaughlin; Favors, Edward H. Daley; Programs, .George B. Meagher; Reception, Lawrence J. O’Toole; , Decorations, William J. Smith.

I WONDER
(Senior Ball Song)
I wonder—is this spell I'm under —caused by any blunder— of this heart of mine?
I love her—tho’ it's under cover —when will I discover—lips that are divine?
She's not aware—it's so unfair— the way I care—just makes me see those eyes and start to
Wonder—when I shall discover —that I'll be her lover—and that she'll be mine, all mine?
Words and Music by
Tom Bott
Other chairmen are: Patrons, George Miller; Arrangements, Donald M. Kelly; Refreshments, Peter Nemeth; Floor, John J. Cashin; Finance, William B. Stapleton; Invitations, William Saffa; Entertainment, Charles J. Boyle; and Door, John A. Torribio.
. Students attending the Ball have been requested by the dance committee to dispense with the custom of sending corsages.
SENIOR BALL ISSUE
This is a special souvenir issue of The Scholastic dedicated to the guests at this year’s brilliant Senior Ball. In it the editors have tried to capture some of the traditional color of the affair.
Seven
SENIOR BALL GUESTS
Mary Gallagher, St. Mary’s; Kay Ruffing, Mt. St. Joseph College; Laura Lou Finan, St. Mary’s; Jean Flanagan, Flanagan, Ill.
Rita Bittorf, St. Mary’s; Kathryn Wurm, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Genevieve Taggett, Niles, Mich.; Helen Krani-ger, Minneapolis, Minn.; Mona Schleicher, South Bend, Ind.; Francis Joer-
ger, Chicago; Rita McGuire, Toledo, 0 h i o ; Eleanor Grace McGeever, Birmingham, Ala.; Margaret Leyden, Chicago.
Ann Kennedy, Oakville, Conn.; Vivian Greene, Canal Fulton,
Ohio; Rosemary Reardan, Chicago; Mary Elizabeth Leinen, Rochester, N. Y.; Sarah Bowes, St. Mary’s; Shirley Crosby, Michigan City, Ind.; Leah Marie Fogarty, McKeesport, Pa.; Patricia Cohl, River Forest, Ill.; Eulalia Fitzpatrick, Grand Island, Neb.; Mary Helen Scott, St. Mary’s.
Margaret Eleanor Stroup, South Bend, Ind.; Virginia Heyden, St. Mary’s; Thelma Haug, Michigan City, Ind.; Kathleen Hickey, South Bend, Ind.; Rita Black, South Bend, Ind.; Helen Carney, Stone Lake, Iowa; Dorothy Glade, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. Paul Brown, South Bend, Ind; Betsy Farnum, River Forest, Ill.; Mary Moujko, Johnston, N. Y.; Marska Drumheler, Kansas City, Mo.; Margaret Luxton, South Bend, Ind-
Virginia Lewis, Chicago; Nathalia Dahlstrom, Chicago; Alice J. Griffin, Chicago; Virginia Higgins, Chicago; Alice Akers, Harrisburg, Pa.; Anna Lucci, Mt. Vernon, Ohio; Rita O’Brien, St. Mary’s; Gladys Reed, St. Mary’s; Marie Poffenberger, St. Joseph, Mich.; Cassie Mae Moses, St. Mary’s; Veronica Roach, Mt. St. Joseph College.
Betsy Smith, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods; Mary Louise Drew, Indianapolis, Ind.; Helen Jane Edwards, University of Kansas; Pat Magiera, South Bend, Ind.; Betty Raiss, St. Mary’s; Arlene Young, Toledo, Ohio; Kathryn Dutton, Norwich, Conn.; Hildegard Bergman, South Bend, Ind.; Martha Tuthill, St. Mary’s; Ann Wyatt, Lindewood College, St. Louis, Mo.;
Kathryn Lea, Clarksdale, Miss.; Martha Sinclair Smith, Parkersburg, W. Va.; Virginia Shelley, Clarksdale, Miss.; Mildred Flanagan, St. Mary’s; Lenora McCarthy, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods; Anna Laura Curtis, Purdue; Isabel Geddes, St.
Eight
Mary’s; Mildred Winn, Oak Park, Ill.; Loretta Leonard, Buffalo, N. Y.; Jean Shinners, St. Mary’s; Raphie Lannon, Chicago.
Rosemary Enright, Chicago; Patricia Crumley, St. Mary’s; Dorothy Kreitner, St. Louis; Marie Sabadas, Detroit; Henrietta Kohler, South Bend; Helen Puplis, Chicago; Mary Wilcox, Chicago; Mary Barry, St. Louis; Patricia McKinley, Chicago; Louise Argus, Indianapolis; Marti Morgan, St. Mary’s; Jeanne Cauhape, St. Mary’s; Kathryn Gorman, St. Mary’s; Mary Rourke, Omaha; Florence Twomey, St. Mary’s; Helen Romback, St. Mary’s; Dorothy Overlock, St. Mary’s; Clara Carey, St. Mary’s; Henrietta Wright, Beardstown (HI.); Elizabeth De Bernardi, Gary; Mary Heekin, Cincinnati.
Alice Kennedy, South Bend; Ann Burke, Portsmouth; Dorothy Green-en, Indianapolis; Mary Kull, Indianapolis; Peg Lang, South Bend; Jane Molyneaux, St. Mary’s; Frances McMahon, Chicago; Laura Kenny, Brooklyn; Peggy McGloon, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods; Mary Gray, South Bend; Eileen Hurley, South Bend; Anne Wasill, South Bend.
Virginia Chudleigh, East Orange; Janet Haverstick, St. Louis; Betty Crist, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods; Cecilia La Montagne, Milwaukee; Germaine Thihnan, South Bend; Virginia Hickey, St. Mary’s; Mary Fick-enger, Dowagiac; Eilene Carroll, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods; Rose Rocca, Barat College; Sue Swan, Pittsburgh; Frances Woods, Chicago; Mary Sexton, St. Mary’s; Helen Wells, U. of Illinois; Mary Cullinane, Niles; Jean Hayes, St. Mary’s.
Olga Castellucci, New York; Virginia Vogg, South Bend; Catherine Driscoll, Ludlow; Rosemary Meyer, Cincinnati; Jean Borden, Mishawaka; Catherine Cooney, South Bend; Frances McAllister, Kalamazoo; Virginia Pike, Muncie; Kay Broussard, St. Mary’s; Dorothy Walsh, Pittsburgh; Gertrayel Heinrich, South Bend; Mary Wolf, Eau Claire; Ruth Morgan, South Bend; Ruth Makielski, South Bend; Cosette Roult, South Bend; Rita Hussian, Rosary; Ruth Thiel, Milwaukee; Jane Lange, Fond du Lac.
Andre Yoder, Goshen; Louise Morrison, South Bend; Emily Calloway, St. Mary; Aileen Bouten, Amsterdam; Mary Pickett, St. Mary’s; Lillian Daughery, South Bend; Frances Richardson, South Bend; Ruth Courtney, St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods; Frances Fuller, Indianapolis; Allene Quigley, Rosary; Kitty Kauffman, St. Mary’s; Cecilia Reilly, St. Mary’s; Rosario Pereyo, Puerto Rico; Eleanor Elliott, (Continued on Page 23)
William John Schmuhl, senior ball chairman and S. A. C. man. . . Already predicting the biggest Ball in years. . . Has held the ranking of one of the ten best dressed men on the campus for all four years. . .
Started to be a lawyer but after getting a 96 from the Dean decided that it was too easy so went back to his Philosophy in the Commerce school. . . Will take a bow at commencement when he receives his cum laude. . . .
Will probably work for Pullman Co., in home town, Michigan City, Ind., when he finishes. . . Spends summers in the Wisconsin woods fishing and dreaming of revolutionizing transportation. . . . Often sings the ditty, “I Get A Kick Out Of You”. . . Probably some relation to the Margy Keck he will bring all the way from Arkansas for the affair tonight. . . Used to play the Lake League but suddenly opened his eyes to St. Charles, Mo. and its Lindenwood College. . . Is going to change the saying to “I’m going to he from Missouri.”
Stages the most hectic ping-pong battles on the campus with Bill Higgins. . . Keeps the spectators agog with his paddling. . . . Higgins once sprained his ankle going after a fast one. . . He beats Higgins consistently. Will get a new Dodge for graduation but refuses to take Seniors for a ride who do not go to Ball. . .
Chairman activities are old stuff to Bill. . . Lead the Prom in St. Mary’s High in Michigan City. . . And gave a speech at commencement. . . Has forgotten why, but rumor has it that he was valedictorian. . . Give him a hand tonight for the swell time. . .
The Scholastic
Priest-Poet's Birthplace To be Scene of Monument
ANNOUNCE THE COMPLETE PROGRAM FOR NINETY-SECOND ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
“The Forest” Memorial Association has been formed at Notre Dame for the purpose of erecting a monument, in Amelia County, Virginia, upon the site of the birthplace of the poetpriest, Father’ John Banister Tabb.
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, is president of the Association, Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., head of the Department of English, and T. Bowyer Campbell, acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters, are vice-presidents, and Professor F. W. Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture, is secretary and treasurer.
The purpose and aims of the Association are explained as follows, in a recently-mailed letter:
“Of ‘The Forest’ home not a trace now remains, the surrounding landscape is strangely altered, and soon all knowledge of the memorable spot will have vanished from the minds of living men. We think that now is the time to save it from oblivion.
“It is the hope of ‘The Forest’ Memorial Association to have the monument in place before the end of the approaching summer, and also to be able to provide thereafter for its proper care and protection. It is our hope that this monument will not only preserve knowledge of an historic spot and the memory of one of America’s great and good men, but that it will also be truly representative of the affection and admiration felt for Father Tabb by thousands still living and glad, we trust to share in this creditable undertaking.”
The Association plans to raise a fund of one thousand dollars to carry out the project. The Association membership is open, and any contributor will be enrolled as a member simply by mailing his request to F. W. Kervick, secretary, Notre Dame, Indiana.
STUDENT OCEAN TOUR
Because of the limited space still reserved on the S. S. Columbus, May 28 is the latest possible date for joining the group from Notre Dame which will sail with other college groups for a tour of Europe this summer.
Reports from the general offices of the Hamburg-American Lines in Chicago reveal that Wisconsin, Drake, Iowa and PePauw will be represented in this tour.
The price for the all-expense, seven weeks’ tour of five European countries and the Olympic Games is $399. Full information may be had upon . inquiry at either 420 Howard or 109 Dillon.
M ay 8, 19 3 6
Memorial
The Proposed Tabb Monument
STUDENT RADIO ARTISTS GROOMING FOR FINALS OF TALENT CONTEST
The new Interhall Talent contest went on the air for the first time this week and if the preliminary programs are any criterion the contest should prove one of the most interesting of interhall activities. On Wednesday evening Dillon and Freshman Halls were presented in one half-hour program, on Thursday evening Alumni and Badin vied for honors, and on Friday Morrissey and Lyons renewed their old rivalry in a new way.
All the entertainment was well presented and representative of student talent. The scene in the studio proved that the various artists were really enjoying the opportunity of doing something for the hall and at the same time gaining valuable radio experience.
Next week the preliminary contests ■will enter the second bracket. Wednesday night, May 13, Walsh hall will match its talent with the Off-Campus group. Because of a Glee Club and Band trip the Thursday night program has been moved up to Friday when Carroll and Howard will be presented. Wednesday and Thursday of the following week will bring to the microphone Corby and Sorin, and Brownson and St. Edward’s.
The finals may possibly be run off on Friday, May 22, because of the imminence of the Senior examinations.
Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity will receive the bulk of the estate of James Anderson Hawes, deceased New York lawyer.
The number of college men applying for free Navy air training has decreased sharply since last year.
By Harold A. Williams
The complete program for the ninety-second annual Notre Dame Commencement was announced this week by. Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association.
The Commencement address will be delivered by Dr. William J. Mayo, cofounder of the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn., and the Baccalaureate sermon will be given by His Excellency, Archbishop Edward F. Mooney, D.D., Rochester, N. Y.
Friday, June 5, will mark the first of the three-day exercises. At 12:45 p.m. there will be a private address in Washington Hall to the Class of 1936 by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University. An Alumni golf tournament and other forms of entertainment in the afternoon and evening will be held.
Alumni Clubs Will Meet
At 8:30 a.m. on Saturday a Mass for deceased Alumni will be celebrated in the main chapel. The class of 1936 will pay their last formal visit to the Sacred Heart Church at 9:30 a.m. At 10:00 a.m. Class Day exercises and the awarding of honors will take place in Washington Hall. Later in the morning the seventh annual council of Alumni clubs will meet. In the afternoon the Notre Dame baseball team will engage Michigan State College on Cartier Field. In the evening the class of 1936 will be guests at the annual Alumni banquet and meeting.
The ceremonies on the final day .-will start at 8:30 a.m. with the Acad.’* emic Procession from the Administration buillding to the University gymnasium and will be followed by the Baccalaureate sermon and the blessing of the flag presented by the class of 1936. At 11:00 a.m. the raising of the flag will take place on the main quadrangle. The Notre Dame Monogram association will lunch at 12:30 p.m. in the dining halls. At 4:00 p.m. the 466 seniors will be awarded bachelor degrees in the University gymnasium. Doctorates of Law, honoris causa, will be conferred upon the Most Rev. Edward F. Mooney, D.D., Dr. William J. Mayo, Dr. Charles H. Mayo, and the Hon Francis P. Gar-van. Following these awards the Commencement address will be delivered by Dr. William J. Mayo.
The ninety-second Commencement will feature the special reunion classes of 1921 and 1926 and the reunions of 1886, 1892-3-4-5, 1911-2-3-4, and 1931.	■
Nine
GAY BLADES SWUNG THEIR PARTNERS AT "SENIOR HOP" IN EARLIER DAYS
Dr. O'Grady Discusses
Philosophy and Life
By John A. Gillespie
This is the night when campushaunters and book-worms turn dilet-
tante and stomp at the Palais. This is the night when men from the hills of Kentucky and the Ozarks put on
their shoes and gavotte.
The men of ’36 are lucky. In the past it was not unusual for the band to be unannounced and even -unconsidered a week before the dance. Committees banded and disbanded. Frantic class officers spent small fortunes on
phone calls to Chicago. And the tea dance—that was just a name.
But this year everything has moved as smoothly as a politician’s pep-talk. Freddy Martin needs no buildup. Saturday’s affair will be run off without a hitch. The only additional furbelows we can think of are a canopy from the street to the door of the Palais and a butler to announce the entrants. But canopies rip and butlers stutter, so choose your partners and swing!
Five Seniors Attend 1908 Ball
Pardon the interlude, but let’s dig up some old Domes and read about the super-super dances of the past.
In the Dome of 1908 appears the following account of that year’s Senior dance: “As a dancing party, the affair was a remarkably glorious success, and everyone present pronounced it the most elaborate of Notre Dame’s social attempts; but as a Senior function, it was a flat failure. It is hard to realize a Senior hop ■with only five Seniors present, to ' represent the class. To account for the scarcity of members only one reason can be offered, and that is the absence of real class spirit.
“This criticism may seem harsh, but when one realizes that this same crowd of Seniors, who absented themselves, placed every, obstacle in the way of the committee in charge— even going so far as to urge their friends not to attend—the criticism loses the appearance of severity.... . ■.As the hour, of one drew near, the music swung into the. strains of the old familiar “Farewell,” and the five loyal Seniors and the committee of two parted, to take up their work in life.”	.
“The programs were of blue ooze,” says the Dome of. 1910 without a word of explanation. In that year there was unrest and rebellion. Only Seniors were allowed to go to the ball,
Ten
whereas in previous years, all classes were permitted to attend. Perhaps the Seniors were ashamed of the title attached to their quadrille — Senior Hop.” Hop indeed!
To go on with the voice of 1910. “A sumptuous banquet was held. . . Mildly, it was a marvel of the culinary art.” We haven’t heard of any elaborate catering for tonight. But then, one can always eat.
We couldn’t overlook this gushing passage from the 1907 Dome.
“But there is one social event which, to paraphrase a recent -writer, stands out on the horizon of the student’s memory like the Mars at Perihelion. And that is the Senior Prom. Was not the old Gym heaven itself, all ablaze with lights, and decorated with bunting, as down its glistening floor you led her, your queen.”
Fancy Figures	.
Really now, men of 1907, .you didn’t think the Gym was heaven itself, did you? How about the lockers?
“The marchers were arranged in the form of an N.D., and while they were in that formation the Dome picture was taken.” We quote the 1912 year book. Any attempt to form an N. D. -with the dancers tonight, would necessitate knocking down the walls of the Palais and extending planks out over Colfax avenue. .
Seniors are -wise in choosing the month of May for their relaxation. All other classes and campus organizations have had their flings and the Ball is the cream in the coffee.
We lower class men can’t go, but it doesn’t stop there. Egad, they won’t even let us out so we can hear the premiere tunes of Martin’s music masters from Hook’s corner, dear old spot. We’ll . be taunted by a broad cast sometime during the evening from station WSBT — good music,, people singing and laughing. There, there, lit tie man, don’t you cry. You’ll be a Senior by and by-
Come to think of it, the Seniors must be giddy tonight, what with cars to drive, dance floors to scratch, pers to flaunt, and blooming beauties to escort. It’s almost too much for one weekend. Don’t say a word—just dance.
Philosophy was defined as “the science of ultimate causes of all . things, acquired by the light of natural reason” by Professor Daniel O’Grady in his lecture on “Philosophy and Modern Life,” in the auditorium of the Law building last Tuesday evening.
In defining his terms he explained that by “science” was meant “knowledge,” and not merely the physical sciences. He stressed the fact that philosophy has for its objective the finding of the causes of all things.
The speaker made it clear that by “philosophy’7 he did not mean the
Professor Daniel O’Grady The ideal day—eight hours of leisure.
Will Rogers method of forgetting our troubles by saying, “Oh, well, the first hundred years are always the hardest!”
Professor O’Grady attributed the fact that philosophy now enjoys a vogue, to the World War, the depression, and the recent developments in the “new physics.” These things made people curious about fundamentals, and they became much more serious. Next, they found themselves as philosophers.	.
In answer to the question, “Is there a need of philosophy today?” the. lecturer pointed out that in an ideal day, a man has eight hours of. leisure. During this time he is a human being, and his problems are much different from those he meets professionally. To answer them he must have the necessary equipment— philosophy, just as he needs food in order to live.	.
The speech was the third of a current series of five faculty lectures, last night’s address was given by Professor Andrew Smithberger of the English department.
Columbia University students are petitioning that institution’s President Nicholas Murray Butler to withdraw his acceptance of the invitation to attend Heidelberg University’s 550th anniversary celebration. ; -
The Sc h o I a s t i c
Rubly's Riotous Revue Reverberates Rafters
This year’s Monogram Absurdities have come and gone and Washington hall still stands! The venerable edifice withstood the terrific strain imposed upon it Sunday and Monday evenings, not only from the graceful movements of the three-quarter ton chorus but also from the enthusiastic applause of an appreciative audience. This year’s show was a credit to its director, Paul Rubly, and to all the men who helped make it a success.
As usual the chorus stole the show. But the skits written by students and interpreted by men of the Monogram Club were an outstanding hit on the program. The one dealing with the “caf” was particularly popular. Henry Poj'man as master’ of ceremonies teamed up with Bill Steinkemper to keep the show moving with well-timed repartee.
Don Elser, as a mere slip of a girl, sang several popular numbers, while roommate Marty Peters was the leading man in a skit satirizing the annual rush for the “seat behind the post” at examination time. All the skits were well handled and were sufficiently numerous and varied to include almost every member of the monogram club.
The silent tribute to the memory of the late George Wirry was a fitting symbol .of the esteem in which he was held by the student body as a whole.
ST. VINCENT de PAUL SOCIETY
• Robert T. Burke and Richard T. Baker, both members of the Society of Saint Vincent de Paul, have, during the past week, been giving short informal talks on the society in several of the sophomore religion classes. This is the first time that it has been possible for the society to make itself known in this way.
The discourses consist of an exposition of the present day need for welfare work, and a brief historical sketch of the St. Vincent de Paul Society. A description of the operation of the local organization is given, along with examples of the various ways in which its 27 members serve.
The privilege of conducting these discourses was given by the Department of Religion at the beginning of the semester. The lectures will be continued during the remaining weeks of school.
, Next year its is planned to deliver these addresses before all religion ’ classes. Then beginning a year later • there are to be annual addresses for the freshmen only.
All interested in further information are invited to call at the society’s office, 10 Lyons hall.	.
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Come and trip it as you go On the light fantastic toe.
Shakespeare’s advice will be just as excellent for the Seniors tonight as it ever was for his theater-going public more than three centuries ago. The Ball can’t help being a success if Notre Dame’s fourth year men and their guests accept his suggestion in the same spirit in which it was given. Not even such obstacles as the winning of the Kentucky Derby by a dark horse and the presence of suffocatingly hot weather should make the dance any less successful than it should be.
Of course, many wallets are empty as a result of Brevity’s failure to nose out Bold Venture, but where lives the senior who hasn’t one or more loyal creditors? And no doubt the heat will probably be so intense that stiff shirt fronts will become as soft and spiritless as cellophane by intermission time.
©
The unusual ability of the Notre Dame senior football team was once again made apparent as the “Old Timers” beat this year’s varsity last Sunday. By winning, the seniors revealed their genius for accomplishing the unusual. Rarely in previous years has any graduating group of players been capable of defeating the varsity. It is fitting that the last gesture of the gridiron men of 1936 should be one of victory.
No more philosophical disputations for us! If one were held in Washington Hall every day, we would starve
other eleven present; and
to death. Although the disputation was not supposed to be a debate of any kind, it was the inspiration of numerous private arguments and bull sessions. One exciting discussion was held at the dinner table. Before we realized what was happening, we found ourselves arguing with the so-called philosophers so absorbing did the
wrangle become that during meal time, we didn’t have a chance to gulp down one morsel of food.
Your concept of Scholastic staff meetings is entirely wrong if you imagine that they are conducted in a staid and dignified fashion. Nothing could be further from the truth. During the staff meetings on Friday nights, such a banging, and a clattering, and howling pour out of the Ave
Maria building that it is a wonder the statue doesn’t topple from the dome on the Main Building. At such times, the editor-in-chief is not chastising is men, the reporters are not holding an initiation, and the printing ' machines are not being run at a fiendish rate. But what is worse, “Rhythm Man” Foley and “Swing” Gillespie are presenting their noisy version of what a modem dance orchestra sounds'like.
It is the code of every southern gentleman that he demand satisfaction for all insults of his honor. Therefore, when Ted Kumrow invited the girl friend of Joe Foley (no relation to “Rhythm Man”) to one of the recent dances, the latter, .being one of those southern gentlemen (?), j'ust had to be avenged. He went about it as follows. On the day after the dance Kumrow took Foley’s light o’ love to the Palace theater, at the entrance of which the betrayed man had stationed a friend with a filmless camera. As the couple came toward the theater, the make believe cameraman, posing as a newspaperman in search of pictures of those who had attended the dance, approached them. It was no difficulty at all for him to get the proud and highly elated Kumrow to pose patiently for shot after shot. While the empty camera clicked repeatedly, Foley’s pal required Ted to act the entire process of taking out .his wallet, buying tickets, and escorting the girl into the theater. He demanded shots of Kumrow’s profile, front, and rear. And only after painstakingly getting the victim’s name, address, and history, did he permit the two to enter the Palace. .
M a y 8, 19 3 6
Eleven
IN THE J L OG LEE VEIN
CAFSMOKE
Event after event. Last week it was the Derby in Louisville and tonight it’s the Top Hat at Notre Dame. As the horses were well-groomed for the big race so are the Seniors well-groomed for the big ball . . . Speaking of dances the Absurdities displayed a few muscular ankles and muscle bound joints. WAYNE MILLNER still remains the Russian Bal-leteer of the campus. Who’s been keeping STEINKEMPER under cover all this time? He’s what they term in Hollywood a 'find.’
Socially the golf team will lose a
intend to glide safely through their exams. Study is merely another word to the boys, particularly those living in the end near the library!. . .
Those Monogram Men were monetarily alert—when the ticket selling grew and grew they decided to charge special prices for seats in the rear of Washington Hall. . . . Notre Dame should have closed for a day to allow the boys to go to the circus. . .
PAT MALLOY thinks of his girl as one would of an angel for she’s coming in a United Air Liner. . . Back in 1900 the Seniors were posi-
Pity the Senior Ball-Goer Who:—
1—forgot his ticket.
2—was campused the day before.
3—whose shirt displayed a smudge of Prom lipstick.
4—whose shoes squeaked.
5—whose laundry label continually stuck him in remote places.
6—whose date thinks everything is Simply Too Sweet For Words!
7—whose girl wants to be introduced to that “handsome fellow over there.”
8—who can’t carry a tune and
9—whose girl asks coyly that he hum each song.
10—who didn’t want to go in the first place.
Mother Goose Rhymes for the Ball
1
Mary, Mary quite contrary,
Would your mother give her consent To allow her daughter for eight and a quarter .
To go to our big event?
2
Mary had a little beau
Who answered her beck and call.
She refused to go where her beau went—
Except to the Senior Ball.
3
One, two—buckle my shoe.
Three, four—slam that door.
Five, six—this button fix.
Seven, eight—gee; it’s late!
Nine, ten—did she say when ?
Eleven, twelve—(can’t find a rhyme).
Thirteen, fourteen—who’re you courting?
Fifteen, sixteen—is she still fixing?
Seventeen, eighteen—hurry! I’m waiting!
Nineteen, twenty — ONE GIRL IS PLENTY!
The Left one—“Glad it isn’t ten cents a dance tonight.”
The One left—“Yeah, eight buck’s worth would kill me.”
game tonight for Herm Green and Bill Taylor will mourn while DAN O’BRIEN dances with Charlotte Moore. . . Pity TED KUMROW and Louise Argus who posed patiently the other day before a camera only to discover later on that said camera was film-less. . . For reservations on the second annual bus trip to the Spa see JOE FOLEY and for dates over the week-end see BILL FAY of Sorin whose date brought along four other girls.
DAN HANRAHAN, the only Latin major in the Senior class, was considered a patron for tonight’s highlight. . . Flash! . . . JACK DONLY will attend his first Notre Dame dance tonight and with Virginia’s Charm Queen, too. . . Howard’s third floor give the appearance that they
tive that their ball was the grandest ever held, TOO! .... flash/ . . . . SABBY BONET charter member of the ‘rumor-twins’ couldn’t rent a Spanish Dons costume and refuses to attend the ball without one. . . From the looks of the pictures in the South Bend papers tonight’s square-dance at the Palais should be a beauty parade. . .
Since 15 bus-riding Seniors have been forbidden to attend Notre Dame dances (with exception of the Ball) they have found St. Mary’s girls playing hard to get. . . O’BRIEN of Walsh changes his outfit with the seasons which means he wears new models about four times a week in this Indiana weather. . . TONY MAZZIOTTI was good in the Old-
Little Audrey just laughed and laughed and laughed because she knew seniors would never, never bawl.
Timer’s game but he was better at the Sodality Dance. . .
A certain Kay from across the way sends a certain Walshite pennies. Could he be saving up for tonight? . . . . GEORGE THOMAS intends dropping law and taking up importing. He’s begun the latter by importing his date for tonight. . .
A kindly thought—all Senior Balls are alike but to each couple on the dance floor their’s is an individual, unforgettable event. . . Thus for the first and last time this year THE FUNNY FELLOWS wish all the ball going graduates a rollicking, romantic and rythmful evening. . .
—The Funny Fellows.
Twelve
The Scholasti
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.________________Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN------------------------------Editor-in-chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST______________________Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei_______________________________The IV eel?
Irwin L. Goldman---------------------------/n the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Paul Foley---------------------------------------News Editor
Robert L. Grogan-----------------------Assistant News Editor
John A. Gillespie-----------------------------Feature Editor
Clifford F. Brown--------------------------Anthony O'Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus----------------------------Gregory Byrnes
Harold A. Williams----------------------------John Hurley
Louis Da Pra-------------------------------Albert Torribio
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker---------------------------Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron---------------------------Co-Sports Editor
Eugene Vaslett-------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley---------------------------James M. McMullen
Allan Bride--------------------------------------Arch Gott
Michael Crowe
Art Staff
William V. Ellis_________________________________Art Editoi
Francis Kroeger----------------------------Daniel Sherrod
William R. Dooley, '26-------------------Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
May 8, 1936
TO-NIGHT'S SENIOR BALL
T* O-NIGHT the Class of 1936 makes its social bow at the Senior Ball in the Palais Royale. To the chairmen and those who worked for the success of the affair we wish a capacity attendance; to the many others who will attend we wish a truly enjoyable evening at this, the year’s biggest social function.
A SCHOOL FOR STATESMEN
*T HE mad political scramble in the gym last Tuesday during the state primary elections called attention to the fact that the great majority of the voters knew practically nothing of the candidates whom they supported. This same condition prevails on a national scale, for many important offices are filled by men whose prime qualification seems to be a passable platform personality.
For this reason, the recent proposal of Oklahoma’s representative, Wesley E. Disney, to establish a National Academy of Public Affairs has attracted much notice. The purpose of the bill is to establish at Washington an institution in which young Americans will be trained in administrative and diplomatic careers. Representative Disney suggests modeling the new Academy on the style
of West Point or Annapolis, with students to be selected along the same strict lines now used to fill the corps of the service academies. The proposed institution would be supervised and financed by the government. Its location at Washington would assure the students ample contact and experience in practical government functions, not for a few months, but for a four-year term.
The graduates of the new academy would be given Civil Service preference. As in England, government service would be made a career which would attract a high grade citizen who would be secure in the knowledge that party politics could not touch him. Many offices now filled through election would be made appointive in order to secure the benefit of these trained officials.
The army and navy are in no greater need for an efficient general staff than is the national government. Business men do not entrust their affairs to the hands of novices—why then should the government, which has greater responsibilities than any business house? The average politician lacks the broad background, and technical knowledge necessary in the running of the national government. Why not then, as in England, develop a trained personnel for certain offices which suffer with each change of administration?
An Institute of Public Affairs would turn out a valuable body of men and women whose life work would be to run the government of the United States. Representative Disney’s proposal for the establishment of such an institute is a recognition of the need for a trained personnel in the greatest of all games—national and international politics. As such, it is worthy of serious consideration and support.—]. S. M.
LIFE BEGINS IN 1940
The recognition of fencing as a minor sport has had, and still does have, the support of The Scholastic. Students are proud to cite the record of the fencing team as another example of Notre Dame’s athletic prowess.
Sporting writers praise another great Notre Dame athletic record—the Irish fencing slate. Student opinion is all in the affirmative on the question of enrolling fencing in the minor sports activities. But all for naught. What price recognition* *
The Scholastic through appeals in these columns hoped and still hopes to bring about the reward merited by this deserving team. Co-Captain Kevin Kehoe was sent to the Olympic fencing trials in New York by the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club. The members of the fencing team are to have a victory banquet but it is costing each member of the team $1.50 to attend. No announcement has come from those in a position to know why fencing is not a recognized minor sport. It may be that Life Will Begin In 1940 for this excellent and representative Notre Dame athletic team.—J. P. P.
M a y 8, 19 3 6
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
CARTIER FIELD, SCENE OF TRIANGULAR CONTEST
MICHIGAN STATE AND OHIO STATE TO CLASH WITH COACH NICHOLSON'S FORCES TOMORROW
Irish Nine Whips Chicago Badgers Inflict First Loss
OWENS, BUCKEYE NEGRO STAR AND RECORD - HOLDER, TO PERFORM
By Gene Vaslett
Track and field enthusiasts will be treated to one of those rare spectacles of sportsdoni tomorrow afternoon when the Irish meet the track teams of Ohio State and Michigan State in a triangular meeting on Cartier field oval. Very rarely are three such great track teams ever brought together at one time in a closed meet, and the action that is expected promises to be the best ever viewed on the local oval.
The Buckeyes will come with their Jesse Owens, and little more need be said on that point. The dusky sensation is capable of taking four first places, and in all probability he will be the first to break the tape in the century and furlong dashes and in the low hurdles. The broad jump is generally conceded to him on the basis of his world’s record that he established last year, but Notre Dame’s own George Meagher will have something to say about that, as will Dietrich of Michigan State, who is another one of those consistent 24-foot men.
The meet, as seen from Coach Nicholson’s eyes, looks very, very bad for Notre Dame. In fact, from the way he talked, he had us wondering (Continued on Page 18)
Robert Bernard
Fourteen
Net Captain
Joseph Waldron
KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY'S NET TEAM MEET IRISH NEXT WEEK
The Notre Dame tennis team victors in two of the four matches played to date will meet a strong University of Kentucky tenis combine on the University courts next Wednesday afternoon. The recent matches with Indiana and Northwestern were rained out. The former after six of the, single matches had already been started with Irish representatives leading their opponents in all save one of the tilts. Indiana is the only serious threat to Notre Dame’s supremacy over the state tennis meet to be held in Richmond, Ind., the latter part of this month.
Not much is known of the Kentucky squad winch will oppose the locals next week except that they have held the state team as well as individual net title for the past five years. Captain Joe Waldron, Joe McNulty, Bill Fallon, Joe Prendergast, Ed Kilrain, George Cannon, George Feeley, and Bud Verveat are the members of the Irish troupe from which the six or four men, depending on the number the “Colonels” bring, will be chosen to face the visitors.	.
Captain Frank Gaul and his mates chalked up their tenth win at the expense of Chicago, 8-0, in the Windy City on Tuesday, but Wisconsin plastered the lone defeat on the Irish record, thus far in the season, Wednesday, when they eked out a 5 to 2 victory, on the latter’s home field.
The Irish scored three runs in the first inning against the Maroons, without the aid of a hit. Four of the first five men to face Yedor walked, while Scafati sandwiched in a sacrifice. Fromhart then singled to Ka-cena, Chicago third-sacker, who made a two-base error on the ball, and two more tallies came in for the Irish.
Notre Dame continued to pound away at their opponents’ hurlers. The Gold and Blue succeeded in picking up five earned runs, in the seventh, off of Amundsen who had relieved Yedor. Chuck Borowski and George Wentworth led the Irish attack, each getting two bingles, while every other Notre Dame player made one hit with the exception of Themes.
In yielding only four scratch hits, Matt Themes twirled a beautiful game, and was in complete control of the situation at all times. His mates gave him good support both in the field an at the plate. It marked the second time this season that Notre Dame had defeated Chicago. The other win was garnered here on Cartier Field by Kline’s men, 8 to 2.
Rallying to score four runs in the sixth, the Badgers defeated Notre Dame, Wednesday, 5 to 2.
Matt Thernes
The Scholastic
Two "Big Ten" Golf Squads Meet Masterful Irish Team
The Irish golfers will be seeking their sixth consecutive victory here tomorrow, when they meet Purdue on the William J. Burke Memorial course. Captain Win Day and his mates will journey to Madison, on Monday, for* their- initial engagement against the strong Wisconsin combine.
Although the Boilermakers have fared none too well thus far in their campaign, they will nevertheless afford major competition for Father Holderith’s men. The visitors suffered a draw in the opening clash with Indiana, 9 to 4. Recently Purdue bowed to Detroit by a 13% to 4% count.
The Lafayette team has a group of stellar’ performers in Bob Smith, Lockwood, Doublebower, and David. This quartet has caused considerable trouble to opponents, during the present schedule, and promises to offer a serious threat to the Irish’ hopes of an unmarred card. Smith came close to smashing the municipal course record, last w sek in Bloomington, as he shot a 71, one under par.	.
Wisconsin will entertain Notre Dame, in what looks to be a hard battle. Northwestern, who was de-
Win Day, Jr.
Leads undefeated crew.
feated by the Irish earlier in the year, experienced little difficulty in downing the Badgers, 17-10. Wisconsin has shown to be extremely tough in the doubles, having led the Wildcats 5 to 4 at the conclusion of the foursome hatches.
Father Holderith will, in all probability, rely on the same men that have been playing brilliantly this
(Continued on Page 16)
LA. TECH AND WESTERN STATE TEACHERS OPPOSE N.D. BASEBALL TEAM NEXT WEEK
Managers. . .
At the recent Annual Managers’ Banquet held last week in the faculty dining hall the managerial appointments for 1936-37 were announced.
Because of the unusually fine staff of junior managers which served during the present year it was difficult to pick a man for the coveted position of senior football manager. Paul Barker of Rochester, N. Y., a junior in the school of engineering, was finally selected for the all important post. He will be ably assisted by Albert J. Schwartz, an Arts and Letters man from Salina, Kans., who will serve as associate football manager in charge of stadium personnel, and by another Arts and Letters student, James W. McHugh, who hails from Fitchburgh, Mass., and who bears the title of associate football manager in charge of equipment. Barker succeeds the late George J. Wirry who passed away after carrying out the duties as football manager smoothly and efficiently.
The care of Keogan’s eagers both at home and abroad next year will be in the capable hands of John J. Manning of Sioux City, Iowa, a junior in the College of Science, and who succeeds William Gillespie. '
Robert L. Waldeck takes over the duties borne this year by J. Albert Torribio as manager of track. Waldeck’s home town is Lakewood, Ohio, and he is a junior in the Arts and Letters school.
The position of baseball manager was awarded to Robert C. Weaver, of Coshocton, Ohio, who was named to succeed Woodrow Stillwagon, who is now serving in that capacity. Weaver is an Arts and Letter student and also a membei- of the University debating team. The position of manager of minor sports was held in abeyance.
The present sophomores who were appointed to junior managers were also announced. They are Thomas D. Bond of Franklin, Ohio; William P. Condon, Greenville, Miss.; John P. Donnelly, Michigan City, Ind.; Donald W. Fisher, Utica, N. Y.; Thomas (Continued on Page 20)
Teachers' Nine Undefeated
After two successful extended trips abroad, each embracing three games in as many days, the Notre Dame baseballers return to their own diamond to face three more tough contests on successive afternoons. Louisiana Polytech, fresh from the ideal baseball weather of the ever sunny south,
Frank Gaul
Waterville, Maine—Hometown.
invades Cartier Field for a two day stand, the contests being scheduled for Monday and Tuesday. On Wednesday the future teachers from Western State Normal move in for a single encounter.
Although the quality of the Louisiana Polytech nine is unknown to most individuals, it is understood from various reports of the southerners that they possess an exceptional team. It seems as if the southern school has fine aggregations year in and year out, and that this year is no exception to the rule. These representatives from below the Mason-Dixon line seem to have the knack of placing drives over the infielders’ heads and in places where the outfielders aren’t. Not only would this upset most moundsmen, but it is also given us to understand that they have one or two boys that can swat ’em far, wide and handsome. Nor is the ability of these southern ball hawks limited to brilliant performances at the plate, as they are reputed to be fast, sure, smooth fielders. The infielders have acquired the practice of scooping up twisting grounders, and converting them into double plays that nip many a would be rally that might otherwise have matured. As for the outfielders, we can say pull ’em in and their arms (Continued on Page 21)
M a y 8, 19 3 6
Fifteen
INTRODUCING
Keoganmen Practice
In Spring Court Tilts
By Cy Stroker
When Jake Kline began to build up the lifeless group that was the baseball team three years ago into' the well-organized, game-winning outfit that it is now, he started by making a lot of changes—and he’s still at it. An outsider doesn’t know just what the line-up for a game will be until it has been in progress for a couple of innings, and it is popularly believed that Jake doesn’t either. All of which is very confusing, especially to players like Curly Reagan who has been popping up at the most unexpected places in the infield for the last three years. And that brings us
around to the interesting story entitled “The Rise of Curly Reagan” or Where Do I Play Next?
Curly Reagan (well, all right, Harold James Reagan) is a product of the great Northwest — Yakima, Washington to be exact. He received his education, both academic and athletic, at Marquette High school there, and even at that tender age showed signs of becoming a jack of all athletic trades. He played third base on the baseball team, guard on the basketball squad, and figured prominently in the football team’s backfield, calling the signals at quarter.
Having conquered everything conquerable in Yakima, Curly set out for Notre Dame in 1932. After watching the varsity practice, he decided that
the football team could struggle along without him, so he did not report. Ditto with basketball. But when the baseball season rolled around Curly reported for the Freshman squad. So successful was he that when the season opened in his Sophomore year Reagan was definitely on the squad. His first varsity game was the Purdue tilt of 1934 in which he played third base. The Irish lost that game, but that fact was not especially caused by Curly’s playing third.
After that first game Reagan began to move around. One opposing team would find him at third base, the next at short stop. This was caused primarily by the competition he met in the forms of “Wild Dan” Cunha at shortstop and Mettler at third base. Nevertheless Curly finished the season with such a good record that his field of activity was extended, for in 1935 not only did he appear at third and short, but was frequently seen hovering in the neighborhood of second base. Now, in his last year Reagan finds that he has found a more or less steady berth at second base, but who is to say that he is any happier for it?
Besides being the smallest member of the Irish squad, he is considered the best man on ground balls on the team. His chief worry now is Joe Ponzevic another second baseman of note. His batting hasn’t been as good as it should be in the past but it is improving. Besides baseball Curly has found time to play on three interhall championship basketball teams (lightweight) .
Reagan is a first year student in the Law school and lives in Walsh hall with Louis Lang. During the summer he works as a forest ranger in the aforementioned great Northwest. His feminine impersonation and specialty dance with Matt (Tarzan) Thernes had spectators rolling in the aisles at the Monogram show. Tonight at the Senior Ball he will appear with roommate’s sister.
IRISH GOLF TEAM
(Continued from Page 15)
season for the Gold and Blue. Captain Win Day, Lou Fehlig, Bill Taylor. Bill Castleman, Pat Malloy, Bob Wilke, and Johnny Green compose a formidable squad capable of exhibiting a super-brand of collegiate golf. Taylor, who broke the local course mark in the Illinois setto with a 69, will be striving to repeat his former feat. The Irish are unfortunate in having lost Bill Cole, veteran monogram man, because of illness.
In preparation for the coming Varsity vs. Freshman game, Coach George Keogan has been running his basketball squad through vigorous drills ever since April 20. Since the practicing squad is made up entirely of Freshmen and “B” squad men, Keogan has been stressing the fundamentals of both offensive and defensive play in an effort to get the men in good condition after the early spring lay-off.
Many of the first squad men have not been present for the basketball practice since they have been occupied with baseball and track. The courtmen who are now reporting for other sports are Moir, Nowak, Wu-kovits, and Jordan. Captain-elect Ray Meyer has not seen active duty since the season ended, for he wants to give his injured leg sufficient chance to heal thoroughly before regular practice starts again in the fall.
The drills which Keogan is stressing at the present time are pivoting, stops and turns, and shooting. Of-ense and defense are practiced by using one squad to act defensively with only one man on the offense. As things look at the present time, it will be necessary for Coach Keogan to rely mostly upon the present sophomores for next year’s team as very little material of the Moir-Nowak-Meyer class seems to be present in the Freshman ranks. Practice for the squad will end next week, completing a month of reconditioning for the future upholders of Irish records on the court.
FOOTBALL TICKET APPLICATIONS
The Athletic Association wishes to bring to the attention of the students that August 1st is the opening date of sale for all games on the 1936 football schedule. Application blanks will be mailed the latter part of July to all who leave their name and address in the Athletic Office. The names and addresses of friends may also be placed on the mailing list. It is suggested that all wishing to purchase tickets this year place their orders before returning to school in September for there is a good possibility that one or more games may be sold out by that time.
EQUIPMENT
Please return all interhall equipment to the new interhall room under the North stands in the gymnasium, next to the apparatus room. Open all next week.
Hours: 3:00 to 4:00 o’clock.
The Sc.holastic
Sixteen
Grid Varsity Humbled By Creaky Old-Timers' Eleven
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James A. Waldron
Reviving the final score of the famous “Battle of Columbus,” the Old-Timers defeated the Varsity, 18-13. Although playing without the services of many of their stars, the Veterans were too smart and experienced for the Irish football team of next year. Neither Andy Pilney, starring for the
Dominic Vairo Captain in 1931.
baseball team, nor Bill Shakespeare, All-American halfback, were on hand to help run up the score which they made famous last November. Wally Fromhart, Frank Gaul and Don Elser were other last year’s stars who were tied up with other sports and were unable to join in the fun.
A quarterback sneak and two beautiful passes were responsible for the Old-Timers’ scores. Johnny Hoban, star back of Coach Cerney’s “B” team last year, caught the Varsity off-balance and went over from the two-yard line. Nick Vairo, captain of the 1934 team, returned for the game and caught a long pass for the last Old-Timers’ touchdown just after Wayne Millner had emulated his great catch against the “Scarlet Scourge.”
The varsity also scored their first touchdown on a pass when Bunny McCormick made a beautiful catch over his shoulder of Jack McCarthy’s forward pass over the goal line. Charley O’Reilly converted the try for the extra point which was the only successful attempt in that department of the five tried during the afternoon. Larry Danbom got the last touchdown of the afternoon in the last period after the Old-Timers had called it a day and left the playing to some of the recruits for next year’s varsity.
With Hank Pojman smashing through play after play, the varsity found their ground attack hopeless during the early stages of the game. Wayne Millner and Marty Peters (Continued on Page 22)
M a y 8, 19 3 6
By Joe Prendergast
KLINEMEN HAVE VICTORY EPIDEMIC
Jake Kline, that congenial maestro of the Irish diamond sluggers, is being showered with all kinds of praise and back-slaps for the truly remarkable manner in which he has the Notre Dame baseball team performing. With the schedule bye the half-way point the club has yet to lose a game. Coach Kline had many veterans on hand at the start of the training season, but most of the students, including your writer, expected nothing like the doings they have been recording, taking into consideration the play and winning averages of the ball combines of the past few years. Seven wins and no losses is the record at this writing not including the three or four practice beatings handed out by our subjects to various club teams around these parts. The slugging of Gaul, Pilney, Wentworth, and Borowski are four of the solutions to this win-streak aided by splendid pitching by Arboit, Themes, Rydell, and Goncher.
On this coming Monday and Tuesday the baseballers from way down Louisiana way will be at Cartier Field to face the Irish. Louisiana Polytechnic Institute’s nine is on a tour of the mid-western states and have a well-balanced outfit. Their record shows three losses in ten tilts, very impressive for a club on the road during the majority of the ten contests. Student support of the baseball team has been woefully scanty this year. The present nine is the best that has graced the Cartier Field diamond within the past seven years, and deserves the attendance of the students. Get over to the games on Monday and Tuesday and see Coach Jake Kline’s hustling ball-tossers—their ability and pep will get you into making a habit of taking in these campus engagements.
HOCKEY FOR NOTRE DAME IN 1936-’37?
The hockey addicts of the University have lost no time in formulating plans for next winter’s ice season. The past year saw a team composed mostly of sophomores play under the name of the Notre Dame All-Stars in a South Bend-Mishawaka Hockey League and perform in great style in spite of lack of suitable ice for practice drills. All these youths and many more held a joint meeting a short time ago when elections were held. George Guyer was elected player-manager for next year and Bill (Art Editor) Ellis was elected captain. In a talk with ice-captain Ellis the other day he told us that an eastern trip was on tap for the club if permission could be obtained from the University authorities. The jaunt would take place sometime in February and would line up something like this: Feb. 12—West Point at New York. City; Feb. 13— Yale at New Haven; Feb. 14—Harvard at Boston; and Feb. 15—Princeton at New York. All the above mentioned schools have been contacted according to the captain-elect and have signified their desire to play the Irish in—(football; Oh, I bg your pardon!) hockey. This would be great stuff if it only works out.
•
SPLINTS AND SLIVERS FROM THE SUNNY SORIN BENCHES
Joe McNulty has not as yet received his tennis trophy which is coming his way for winning the fall tournament in 1935 . . . Holy Cross is well on its way to a second eastern intercollegiate baseball banner. Undefeated in eight games and meeting only the best. Jack Barry, their miraculous mentor, owns a car-selling agency in Worcester, Mass. . . . Vic Mettler, last year’s Irish baseball light, is batting .456 in the Evangeline League in Virginia ... “Peanuts” Duffy of Walsh Hall has a regulation Notre Dame monogram won in a track meet years back as a minim of St. Edward’s Hall . . . Cochrane, Notre Dame’s substitute short-stop, and as promising a ball player at Notre Dame since Billy Sullivan left the institution, was approached in his home in Washington, D. C. by scouts from the Senators; according to those who know . . . Francis Wallace, writer and N. D. grad, is doing a story for Paramount Pictures titled “Rose Bowl” but hopes to be back here for Commencement . . . The “Old-Timers” minus wind and practice put a cold blanket on next year’s varsity crew last Sunday. Not a boy on the varsity made one look twice or wonder what his name was . . . Pat Malloy’s brother Jack, captain of Princeton’s golf team, once made a hole in one at Colorado Springs without the ball touching the ground until it landed in the cup . . . Best crack of the week, DeGarmo to doubtful watchman, “Who are you?” DeG.—“Oh, I’m just a future child of a future gold star mother.”
Seventeen.
NOTRE DAME’S GOLFERS DEFEAT NORTHWESTERN, AVENGING LAST YEAR'S LOSS TO THE WILDCATS
By Gene Vaslett
The Notre Dame golfers wiped off -an old debt of last year and extended their winning streak of the current season to four straight last Saturday when they defeated the Northwestern golfers here 12% to 7%. The Wildcats had been undefeated up to the meeting with the Irish, and despite the defeat inflicted upon them by the
locals are expected to take the Big Ten honors this year.
Bill Taylor, Notre Dame’s sophomore sensation again turned in a subpar score during the match when he shot a 71 in the i-ain, the same weather conditions as the Illinois meet when he broke the course record with a 69. Rain doesn’t seem to hinder Taylor’s performance at any time. “Pick” Wagner, the star of the Northwestern team, fell before Taylor's sub-par golf in a singles match during the afternoon.
The Northwesterners were able to win but one singles and one doubles match. Saielli defeating Fehlig in the afternoon singles match, and Kos-telecky and Marek turning back Day and Malloy in the doubles.
Saielli, captain of the Wildcats, shot the best score for his team, a 74, two over perfect figures. Captain Win Day’s match with Kostel-ecky was one of the best of the day. Day won the match 3 to 0 but only after he had scored an eagle three on the 501 yard ninth hole to offset Kos-telecky’s birdie four on the same hole and had to turn in some mighty fine putting before he could gain the de-
(Continued on Page 20)
Part of the Afternoon Crowd at Wildcat Match.
NOTRE DAME TRACK (Continued from Page 14)
where the Irish were going to score any points at all. Nick thinks the meet will be all Ohio State with the Irish and Michigan State trailing a bad second and third.
Besides Owens, who will probably score about 15 points by himself, the Buckeyes have Beetham, one of the stand-outs in the Big Ten in the halfmile ; three milers who are capable of. 4:25; four two milers who can run the long race in 9:45; a few hurdlers who figured prominently in the Penn Relays showing that Ohio State made; a javelin thrower who approaches Big Ten javelin records in every meet; and just to make the picture complete a high jumper who can outjump anyone Notre Dame has to offer.
Along with the star-studded Buckeyes Michigan State will come with their perenially consistent distant runners who will make the mile and two mile races even more interesting ■ for the Buckeyes. Then there is Dietrich, the stellar broad jumper, who will make it a three-sided duel between Meagher, Owens, and himself. All three of these men have bettered 24 feet, and something is going to break when the three of them meet. The boys from Michigan are also said to have a thirteen-foot pole vaulter to chalk up some points for them.
Notre Dame’s only strong point seems to be the shot put and possibly the quarter mile, although the quarter will be so close it is impossible to conjecture just what will happen there. Don Elser seems to be in complete control of the shot, and aided by Michuta, Lill and Levicki the Irish are sure to have some points there. These men will also break in on the discus throw, and Levicki will figure in the javelin. '
| ON DOWN THE LINE j
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
MONK MEYER is not the first WEST POINT-born son of an Army officer to be elected captain of a Cadet sports team? JOHN TUPPER COLE, ARMY basaketball captain in 1917, was bom on the post, a son of COL. JOHN A. COLE, a WEST POINTER in the class of ’95. FREDDY FRANCIS who is trying to buy the controlling shares of the NEW YORK GIANTS once worked for a whole season at the microphone back of home plate announcing the batteries, changes in the line-ups and the pinch hitters at the POLO GROUNDS?—The ten INTERCOLLEGIATE basketball double-headers this season at the MADISON SQUARE GARDEN drew 160,058 persons, which is an increase of 3,500 people a night over last year? While INTERCOLLEGIATE billiards at the present time is regarded somewhat as a novelty, the records disclose that on JULY 25, 1860, representatives of the freshman classes of HARVARD and YALE met at WORCESTER, MASS., at old style billiards—Many sports followers in contemplating the coming JOE LOUISMAX SCHMELING fight have overlooked the hitting power of the GERMAN in their praises of the colored boy—In fifty-seven fights SCHMELING has scored 33 knockouts, which is a high average in any pugilistic day. HARRY HOOPER, Jr., who traces his ancestry back to the famous RED SOX outfield of DUFFY LEWIS, TRIS SPEAKER and HARRY HOOPER, is forsaking the diamond game in order to take his place as star of the ST. MARY’S COLLEGE tennis team? — MILDRED “BABE” DIDRIKSON, the greatest living woman athlete, can hit a golf ball as far as a man and in most cases farther? If she can polish up on her short game which is costing her ten to fifteen strokes a round, she’ll be down in the low sevenies. ABRAHAM LINCOLN MONTE-VERDE walked from NEW YORK to SAN FRANCISCO in 1929 at the age of 62? He covered the 3,415 miles in 79 days, 10 hours and 10 minutes. HACK WILSON, the roly poly home run clouter of a few years ago, is a partner in a billiard room and cigar store enterprise in MARTINS-BURGH, WEST VIRGINIA?
The Scholastic
Eighteen
Michigan State, Toledo Irish Baseball Victims
IRISH TWIST PANTHER’S TAIL AGAIN BY IMPRESSIVE TRACK MEET VICTORY
Notre Dame’s slugging baseball team slashed out a 12 to’ 3 victory over a highly touted, nine from Michigan State on April 30 at East Lansing. The Fighting Irish were not to be denied once they started to hit the ball, but for a short time it seemed that they were in for a licking. Michigan State countered with three runs in the first inning, Lehnhardt’s homer with two on doing the trick. After this disastrous opening, Arboit of
George “Wibby" Wentworth Bucksport, Maine—Hometown.
Notre Dame settled down to pitch eight scoreless innings and the Spartans could garner only seven hits.
The Irish began their onslaught in the second inning with a long single by Andy Scafati which scored two runs. Gaul cracked a stinging drive in the third that fell for a double, Fromhart scoring and tying the count. In the fifth Notre Dame pushed three more runs across the pan on a sacrifice fly by Gaul and a single by Velcheck. Wally Fromhart again figured in the scoring in the eighth when he smacked a terrific three bagger that brought home Wentworth and Arboit. In the ninth Notre Dame put on a final splurge for the customers and scored four times with the assistance of a triple by Scafati and a double by Wentworth.
Journeying the next day to Toledo, Ohio, the traveling Irish team took on Toledo U. and registered its second one run victory of the season over the crowd from the Buckeye state.
Notre Dame scored in the initial frame when Pilney shot a single to center to score Fromhart from second. The rest of the Irish scoring was done in the fourth when they bunched three hits and took advantage of a Toledo error to tally four runs. Gaul ripped off a double and Borowski singled to left scoring Gaul and Velcheck. Scafati then laid out a neat triple to score Borowski and scooted across the plate himself when (Continued on Page 21)
M a y 8, I 9 3 6
Neither the combined forces of Pittsburgh’s famed smoke and the unusually hot, sticky weather could prevent the Notre Dame thinlies from continuing their athletic supremacy over the Panthers of Pittsburgh. Coach Nicholson’s spiked shoers collected an impressive total of 79 1/6 points to Pitt’s 45 5/6 in defeating one of the East’s strongest track and field representatives.
The Irish’ strength lay in the track events where they ran off with six firsts in the eight events. Notre Dame was paced by Alabama’s husky but by no means slow moving sprinter, Jack Frawley, who captured firsts in the gruelling 200-yard dash and in the 220-yard low hurdles as well as placing third in the century. This brilliant afternoon’s performance by Frawley gave him individual honors, barely nosing out big Don Elser who won the shot put, took second in the 220-yard low hurdles, and finished third in the discus.
While Notre Dame’s mastery gained them firsts in nine of the fourteen events, it did not prevent the Panthers from annexing all the record breaking perforamnces. A University record, established in 1924, finally fell when Pete Bennett skimmed over the high jump standard at 6 feet 4% inches. The first of the two meet records was broken when little Gene Taano threw the javelin into a strong cross wind for 202 feet 11 inches, a brilliant throw under the adverse circumstances. In the discus the Pitt star, Fessinger, broke his own record when he sent the disc twirling 137 feet 10% inches.
The Irish tracksters were able to sweep two events, taking all the places in both the shot put and the 220-yard low hurdles. Elser’s toss of 48 feet captured first place in the shot put, and Michuta and Lill were able to outdistance the Pitt tossers. Frawley was the first to get up and over the 220-yard hurdles followed closely by Elser and Mahoney.
The two mile run was one of the best events of the afternoon, Thie-riault barely finishing ahead of the Irish ace, McFarlane. Gott ran smoothly to capture third place. In stepping the 440 yards in the fast time of :49.6 Bernard managed to lead Pitt’s crack middle distance man, Donnelley, to the tape.
Gibbs tied the meet record in the pole vault by clearing the bar at 12 feet 6 inches, and in an attempt to break the record narrowly escaped injury when his pole cracked and gave way under his weight.
Summary:
100-YARD DASH—Won by Jordan, Notre Dame; second. Mason, Pitt.; third, Frawley, Notre Dame. Time, :10.1.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Frawley, Notre Dame; second. Mason, Pitt.; third, Boyle. Notre Dame. Time, :22.4.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Bernard. Notre Dame; second. Connelley, Pitt.; third. Parsons. Notre Dame. Time, :49.6.
880-YARD DASH—Won by McGrath. Notre
Dame; second, Groat. Pitt.; third, Cavanaugh, Notre Dame. Time, 1:56.9.
ONE-MILE RUN—Won by Tost. Pitt.; second, Francis, Notre Dame; third, McKenna, Notre Dame. Time, 4:28.2.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Thieriault, Pitt.; second, McFarlane, Notre Dame; third, Gott, Notre Dame. Time, 9:54.1.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Mahoney, Notre Dame: second, Meagher, Notre Dame; third, Good. Pitt. Time, :15.8.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES — Won by Frawley, Notre Dame; second, Elser, Notre Dame: third, Mahoney, Notre Dame. Time, :24.2.
POLE VAULT — Won by Gibbs, N.otre Dame; second. Gerrety, Pitt.. Langton, Notre Dame, and McCarthy, . Notre Dame, tied. Height, 12 ft. 6 in.
SHOT PUT—Won by Elser, Notre Dame: second, Michuta, Notre Dame; third. Lill, Notre Dame. Distance. 48 ft.
JAVELIN THROW—Won by Taano, Pitt.; second, Sowiski, Pitt.; third. Levicki, Notre Dame. Distance, 202 ft. 11 in.
DISCUS—Won by Fessinger, Pitt.: second, Levicki, Notre Dame; third, Elser, Notre Dame. Distance, 137 ft. 10% inches.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Bennett. Pitt.; second, Oden, Pitt.; third. English, Notre Dame and Good, Pitt. tied. Height, 6 ft. 4%’ in.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Meagher. Notre Dame, second, Boyle, Notre Dame; third. Good. Pitt. Distance, 22 ft. S1^ in. ,
Nineteen
GOLFERS HAD MANX OBSTACLES TO OVERCOME IN THE GAME'S FIRST YEARS AT NOTRE DAME
MANAGER APPOINTMENTS (Continued from Page 15)
' By Mike Crowe
Though present day Notre Dame golf teams just go out on the course and the other teams wilt at their sight, conditions haven’t always been that way. A few years back the golf team members had to journey to neighboring links whenever they desired to get in a few practice swings. The golfers were ■without a stamping ground which they could call their home course.
In 1922 some daring students began to walk around chasing a little white ball. They told their fellow students that the game was called golf in Florida and Georgia and that they wanted to introduce the sport at Notre Dame. These addicts were known as the “knicker sisters.” Interest grew rapidly that year. There was a golf tournament held to determine the school champion. The tourney was held at the municipal links in South Bend. In flight A, Paul McNulty was the winner with J. Medart as runner-up. In flight B, Jim Martin was the champion while flight C honors went to Eddie Durcan of Walsh Hall. Thus it was the interest of a small group that started Notre Dame on the way to golfing fame.
Notre Dame was represented by her first official golf team in 1923. A tourney was again held. Class A was won by J. Q. Adams, J. R. Bartz-en topped the other entries in Class B, P. C. Romweber triumphed in Class C and E. R. McClure was the best in Class D. Father J. Hugh O’Donnell became interested and called a meeting for all students interested in golf. George Ward was appointed manager of a- team to be formed. Tryouts were held. Ward, Corbett, Adams, Link, Bartzen, Mouch, Foglia and Harris qualified for the places on the team. A group of link artists from Chain-o’-Lakes whipped the inexperienced but ambitious Irish 14-5. Notre Dame was again defeated in its final match of the year with the Christiana Country Club team of Elkhart. The Dome of that year predicted that Notre Dame would some day have teams of championship caliber. Their prediction certainly proved to be correct.
The first successful year was 1924, for the Notre Dame golfers. Only in one meet was the opposition able to defeat Notre Dame. Northwestern which seems to make it a habit to defeat great Notre Dame teams) turned the trick, barely nosing out the Irish 12-11. Notre Dame defeated Loyola 11-0, Indiana, a strong Big Ten squad, lost to us 14-8, and De
Twenty
Paul fell before the Irish 12-9. De Paul was whipped twice during the season, decisively in ther second attempt to overcome the Irish. The Irish also outscored Culver. Members of that first great team were Captain Adams, John Bulger, Joe Foglia, Jim Corobett, Daniiel Harris and Charles Mouch.
George Ward led the golfers through an undefeated season in 1925. This was the start of Notre Dame’s great undefeated link teams since that year. The best middle west teams played the Irish and three or four Western Conference foes fell before the unerring eyes of Notre Dame’s team. * .
Twenty men were candidates for the 1926 varsity after the successful season of the year before. Roy Robertson, a professional golfer offered his services as coach. He received no salary. The Erskine Links were used by the golfers for practice and for home meets. A squad of eight men was carried. To rank a place on this coveted group of eight, a tourney was held. Capt. Bulger was greatly assisted during the season by the play of Totten, Adams, Shouse, Hulerich and Rucklehaus. The latter joined the squad at the close of football. The first match was with Northwestern. The Wildcats won 16-5. Our only two wins were over Culver 17-1 and Loyola 23-0. Notre Dame was defeated by Indiana 11-7, Armour Tech 12-10, Wisconsin 12-7 and Marquette 14-5.
A tournament featured the opening of the ’27 season. The year was very successful. Notre Dame outscored Northwestern 12-3, Armour Tech 17-3, Loyola 15-8 and Marquette 14-0. Wisconsin upset the Irish 12-11. Another great season was finished.
Early in the spring of 1928, the Board of Athletic Control of the University announced that a University course would be built and would be ready for play in 1929. The tract of land east of the Niles highway and north of Angella Blvd, was to be utilized for the 18-hole course. Thus that was the greatest step which lead up to our present great team and our present beautiful golf course.
NORTHWESTERN GOLF
(Continued from Page 18)
cision from the Wildcat representative.
The summaries:
Doubles: Kostelecky and Marek (N). defeated Day and Malloy (ND) 2%-%; Taylor and Fehlig (ND), defeated Saielli and Wagner (N) 2%-%.
Singles: Day (ND), defeated Kostelecky (N) 3-0: Taylor (ND), defeated Wagner (N) 2%-% ; Saielli (N), defeated Fehlig (ND) 3-0; Malloy (ND), defeated Marek (N) 2%-%; Castleman (ND), defeated Graham (N).‘2%-%.	.
Score: Notre Dame 12%; Northwestern 7%.
A. Kelly, Anaconda, Mont.; John C. Lungren, Sioux City, Iowa; James W. Mulhern, Palisade, N. J.; and Joseph F. Nigro or Trinidad, Colo. The alternates chosen were William T. Mahoney of Chattanooga, Tenn, and John E. Troskosky of Willard, N. Y.
Freshmen who were appointed to sophomore managers were: Laurence Barrett; Julius Bercik, Robert Bolz, Paul Donovan, John Doyle, Joseph Dray, Charles Flanigan, Joseph Gorman, Francis Hogan, Alfred Kiefer, Robert Kvatsak, Lucien LaCroix, Charles Nelson, Daniel Sheedy, Edward Schoeter, John Seigel, Albert Van Huffel, Andrew Wilson, and Thaddeus Zachek.
THE JOHN MARSHALL
FOUNDED 1899
AN
ACCREDITED
LAW SCHOOL
TEXT and CASE
SYSTEM
•
Note: Beginning September, 1936, the afternoon course continues os a 3-year course, but the evening course changes from a 3-to a 4-year course.
• Students desiring to take the present 3-yearevening course must enter on or before July 6,1936.
LAW
SCHOOL
CHICAGO, ILL.
CLASSES Afternoons . 4:30 Evenings . . 6:30 Lead to L L. B. and J.D. degrees. Two years* college work required for entrance.
For free catalog and booklet, **Study of Law and Proper Preparation" address: Edward T. Lee, Dean, Box 23, 315 Plymouth Court, CHICAGO.
Established 30 Years
LEM^R^S
OPTOMETRISTS
222 )£ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
▼
Glasses promptly repaired to avoid delay in your school work.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
The Scholastic
TOLEDO AND MICHIGAN STATE (Continued from Page 14)
Wade dropped Reagan’s fly.
Up to the seventh inning, Toledo batters were putty in the hands of Ferd Rydell who allowed only one hit that far. In the seventh and eighth the opposition were a little troublesome, getting two hits and two runs in each of the frames, but they were blanked in the ninth, just one marker short of their goal. Rydell turned in one o fthe finest pitched games of the season allowing only five hits, striking out four and issuing only one free pass. His control was well-night perfect and his curves worked like a charm. This game marked the eighth straight victory of Notre Dame’s team, and they seem to be coasting along smoothly to a great season.
The box scores:
Notre Dame (12) Ab R H C
Reagan. 2b 6 112
Wentworth.ss 6 3 4 3
Fromhart.3b 4 2 0 2
Pilney, If 4 2 4 0
Gaul, c 4 2 4 0
Velcheck. cf 5 1 2 0
Borowski, rf 2 0 0 0
Scafati. lb 4 2 12 1
Arboit, p 5 2 0 5
Mich. State (3)
M’Grain. If Spr’nk,2b 4 Bar’ger.lf Weimer ,3b Sebo, c Bartling.ss Lehn'rdt.cE Kuhne, rf Welch, rf Scott. 2b Glaza, 2b Randall.lb Ziegel. lb Hill, p Stemm Henkel, p Bright
Ab R H C 2 0 0 0
113 3 3 0 0 1 4 12 5 4 0 3 4 4 2 15 3 13 0 10 0 0 4 0 10 10 11 2 12 3 10 10 2 0 12 0 2 112 110 0 0 0 0 0 10 0 0
Totals _____35 7 27 21
Totals _______40 15 27 13
Stemm batted for'Glaza in sixth.
Bright batted for Henkel in ninth.
Runs—Pilney (2), Wentworth (2). Arboit (2), Fromhart (2), Gaul. Borowski. Velcheck, Reagan (12) ; Sebo, Bartling. Lehnhardt (3). Errors — Fromhart, Gaul (2) ; Weimer (2). Bartling (3). Two-base hits—Gaul. Arboit. Barling (3). Three-base hit—Fromhart. Home run—Lehnhardt. Stolen bases—Borowski. Sacrifices—Ziegel. Scafati. Left on bases—Notre Dame. 8 ; Michigan State 6. Bases on balls— oft Hill, 5: Arboit, 4. Hits oft—Hill. 15 in 8 2-3 inninigs: off Henckel. 0 in 1-3. Losing
pitcher—Hill. Umpires-
Notre Dame (5) Ab R H P A
Regan.2b 4 0 13 2
Went’th.ss 5 0 0 3 5
Fromh’t,3b 4 110 2
Pilney.lf 5 0 110
Gaul, c 4 12 4 1
Velch’k.cf 3 1111
Boro’ski.rf 4 12 10
Scafati,lb 4 1 1 13 1
Rydell, p 4 0 111
Totals ___37 5 10 27 13
* Batted for Wade in
■Green and Mahoney.
Toledo (4) Ab R H P A
Con’ell.If 2	10	10
Cupp,lb 4	117	0
Day. rf 3	1	2	2	0
Hayes.Sb 4	0	0	2	3
Mat’s’n.c 4	0	16	3
Folger.ss 4	0	0	2	1
Crow.If 1	0	0	3	0
Wade.cf 2	0	0	0	0
*Rehm 1	0	0	0	0
Camp.p 3	0	0	1	1
Totals ....32 4 5 27 11 9th
Errors—Wade, Connell, Folger, Wentworth. Runs batted in—Pilney. Borowski 2. Scafati. Regan. Mattison 2, Sprunk. Day. Two base hits—Cupp, Sprunk, Gaul. Three base bits— Mattison, Scafati. Stolen bases — Fromhart. Sacrifices—Velcheck. Doouble plays—Camp to Cupp. Left on bases—Toledo 4. Notre Dame 8. Bases on balls—off Camp 2. off Rydell 1. Strike outs—by Camp 4. by Rydell 4. Hits— oft Camp 10. in 9 innings. Rydell 5 in 9 innings. Hit by pitcher—by Camp (Fromhart) by Rydell (Connell).
Umpires—Radunz and Slavin. Time 1:45.
BASEBALL TEAM (Continued from Page 15)
have discouraged many a player from dashing home after a fly ball has been caught. The pitching staff has had the advantage of warm weather and their pitching arms are loose and
May 8, 193 6
contain plenty of speed and “stuff.”
It seems likely that the Tech boys will be opposed by Thernes and Arboit, but they may also have to face the left handed slants of Rydell.
The home and home series with Western State Normal is a steady fixture on the Notre Dame schedule. Wednesday the basebailers from Kalamazoo engage the Irish in the first meeting of these teams this season. Last season, it will be remembered, the Klinemen bfested the Western Staters in two torrid contests. Western State last year was considered by many as the outstanding ball club in collegiate circles and they possessed a pitcher ranked equally as high. The Irish pinned two defeats on this club and in so doing gained both from the brilliant twirler. Although some of last year’s regulars are lost to the Western State nine, they still have retained power- both at bat and afield. This year they will be out to make up for the defeats suffered last season by downing the Irish who are in the midst of one of the most successful seasons ever enjoyed by Notre Dame ball teams.
Jake may call upon the sophomore flinger, Goncher, to do the twirling, or the more experienced Matt Thernes may get the assignment.
The Notre Dame starting line-up seems to be fairly well set with Captain Gaul catching and calling advice and encouragement to the fielders. In the infield Scafati will probably cover first base, Corcoran at second, the veteran Wentworth at short, and Fromhart playing the hot corner. Reagan might crash this line-up as he is fully recovered from his operation and has been showing improvement in practice sessions. Joe Ponze-vic suffered a painful injury when he was spiked just before the recent trip and will probably be out until the wound has fully healed. Van Wagner’s failure to come through at bat has been responsible for his absence from the starting line-up. In the outfield Pilney, Velcheck, and Borowski seem to be sure fixtures.
SENIOR INVITATIONS
Senior invitations for the 1936 Commencement, given annually to the members of the Class by the University, are being distributed this week in the Alumni Office. Hours are from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Distribution ends at noon on Saturday, May 9. Each Senior receives ten invitations. Seniors must call in person.
In connection with this distribution the Alumni Association is making a Placement Survey of the Class of 1936. Seniors are listing their courses and employment preferences for careers, together with information as to whether they have jobs already waiting for them, whether they have con
tacts which promise to develop jobs, or whether they have not as yet anything definite ahead of them.
The Association plans to use this information through the 85 local Alumni Clubs to develop contacts in these communities which will tend to absorb any Seniors not already placed.
The survey inaugurates organized effort through the Alumni Association to place all graduates of the University.
PICNIC at the DUNES'
The call of outdoors is upon us . . . and for the benefit of those who do not know their local geography you have a garden spot of scenic beauty but a few minutes away ... in the glorious Dunes! Folks travel thousands of miles to view this natural wonderland . . . only 57 minutes from South Bend via South Shore electric train!
Go via SOUTH SHORE Line
Call 3-3111, or write C. W. Veach, City Passenger Agent, 301 N. Michigan Street, South Bend, about fares and schedules.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
SOUTHnSH°RE
Twenty-one
One Hundred Attend Chemistry Banquet
The Notre Dame Chemistry Club climaxed its year’s activities last Tuesday evening when they held a banquet in the Red Room of the Oliver Hotel. Over one hundred students attended.
Following the supper, Joseph McIntosh, president of the Club, spoke briefly and introduced the toastmaster, Professor Ronald Rich, of the Chemistry Department.
The principal speaker of the evening was Professor H. B. Froning, Head of the Department, who spoke on the future of chemistry. He pointed out that the employment of chemists is larger than it was a few years ago.
Paul Doyle, editor of the Catalyzer, told of the purpose of the chemists’ magazine and asked that students of chemistry be generous in submitting articles for publication.
Entertainment was provided by
John Ryan who sang “Rose Marie,” “Hills of Home,” and a negro spiritual. He was accompanied at the piano by Arthur Davidson.
Other speakers were Prof. H. Hinton of the Chemistry Department, who spoke in behalf of the Freshmen Chemistry Club, and Prof. F. T. Sowa, honorary president of the organization, and John Norton.
The committee in charge of the banquet consisted of Fendall, Froning, Carney, and Willick.
OLD-TIMERS GAME (Continued from Page 17)
toyed with the Irish interference and kept plays inside where either Poj-man or Stilley would break it up. In the second period a complete new team took the field, and with Mike Layden tossing some beautiful passes to Mitchell and Millner, the vets soon had a score. Red Darcy replaced Mike and continued to fill the air with passes which ripped the secondary defense of the varsity wide open.
Marine Scholarships
Because of the number of applications for admission to the Platoon Leaders’ training camp of the United States Marine Corps, the quota of the University of Notre Dame has been raised from six to 20, according to an announcement Thursday by Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline.
There are 43 student applications on file for admission to the marine training camps at Quantico, Virginia and San Diego, California this summer. After completing two years of training the students will be commissioned as second lieutenants in the marine reserve. Five percent of this year’s class will be advanced to the rank of captain as soon as vacancies occur.
Major Curtis Beecher, in charge of reserve applications in this area was here Thursday to supervise students’ applications. Major Beecher met the students at the students’ infirmary.
etc £ a
sL\\

CLIFTON for Men's Watches
BEVERLY for Women's "Watches

— and there's a distinctive "snap" to a Wrist- Watch ensemble that includes a Hadley Bracelet/ Strap, Cord or Thong. Besides, there is the utmost in Style, Comfort and Perfect Fit.
Send for "Smart Wrists," a folder that shows many of the Hadley 1936 Designs in Wrist Watch Bracelets for Men and Women.
THEN CONSULT YOUR JEWELER
HADLEY,pROVIDENCE R b " “	“ - New York Chicago • Los Angeles •
COMPANY • INC•Toronto Canada •• London • England
WHIST-WATCH BRACELETS EXCLUSIVELY-SINCE 1312
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
NOTHING ELSE NAS ITS FLAVOR
Ako Imperial Yolh Boh $1.50
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
The Scholastic
Twenty-two '
SENIOR BALL GUESTS
(Continued from Page 8)
South Bend; Jane Hvitfeldt, Moline; Kay Hedman, St. Mary’s; Roberta Tuthill, St. Mary’s.
La Von Pansonby, Elgin; Dorothy Webb, Chicago; Evelyn Basker, South Bend; Marie Lucas, South Bend; Eunice Harrington, Philadelphia; Rosemary Page, St. Mary’s; Sophie Kas-mer, Birmingham; Margaret Kran-itz, South Bend; Jeanne Murphy, To
ledo; Rosemary Coleman, St. Mary’s; Caletta Brophy, Lakewood; Kathleen O’Shea, Brooldyn; Katherine McClure, Goshen; Marguerite Moon, South Bend; Marie O’Laughlin, Kankakee; Marge Downey, Chicago.
Charlotte Gray, Erie; Catherine Phillipson, St. Mary’s; Ruth Nash, St. Mary’s; Helen Weber, St. Mary’s; Bette Walthemath, St. Mary’s; Virginia Grieder, Lakewood; Josephine Dickie, Albion; France Regan, South Bend; Marjarie Verhoeven, Winnet
ka; Pauline Putnam, Hinsdale; Rene O’Connor, Cleveland; Louise Flood, Cleveland; Paula Dillon, Chicago.
Virginia Marlowe, Detroit; Jane Hearn, St. Mary’s; Catherine Sheehan, St. Mary’s; Jeanne Myers, South Bend; Bernice Fredrick, Lakewood; Gertrude Heinz, St. Mary’s; Virginia Burke, River Rorest; Cathleen Murphy, Chicago; Eileen Runkle, Chicago; Mary O’Neill, Kansas City; Virginia Rowen, Flint; Mary O’Keefe, St. Mary’s.
machine
kind
The only of its
500 camshafts can be inspected every hour by an automatic machine which has been designed and built by the Ford Motor Company. It is the only one of its kind. It has a gaging accuracy of one ten-thousandth of an inch.
It gages Ford camshafts at 25 points. Any dimension not within the specified limits causes electrical and mechanical devices to reject the camshaft as it leaves the machine.
There are ten inspection stations. The camshafts are placed in registered position in carriers mounted on an endless linked conveyor and carried into the machine. At each station the conveyor stops momentarily. Automatic centers engage the ends of the camshafts and hold them rigidly. Then 25 floating gage
The Story of Wool and Mohair,”
heads lower automatically, measure the shafts, then rise. As the conveyor moves the shafts to the next station, other mechanism rotates and indexes them for the next set of gage heads.
The gage heads contain hard-alloy-tipped measuring plungers which are linked to amplifying levers. Variations in shaft sizes, beyond set limits, close a set of contact points which operate two solenoids. One sets the rejection mechanism; the other raises a marking plunger which puts a daub of copper sulphate solution on the shaft where the dimension is over or under size.
When shafts come out of machine they are automatically passed or rejected. All told, there are 54 inspections on every Ford V-8 camshaft.
a Ford educational sound slide him
presenting the entire history of the textile industry, is now available for showing before college groups, clubs and organizations. The local Ford dealer will be glad to furnish film, projector, and operator if desired.
May 8, 19 3 6
Twenty-three
MH. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME, IND.
N^hafs
going on
a 1000 pound hogshead of leaf tobacco
FRIDAY DANCE PROGRAM 8 P. M. (c. S. T.)
WEDNESDAY LILY PONS
7 P. M. (C. S. T.)
KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS COLUMBIA NETWORK
© 1936. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

... whafs happening in these 40 houses

—the curing and ageing of leaf tobacco, that’s what’s going on.
Thousands of hogsheads of mild ripe tobacco are under these roofs . . . just lying here ageing and sweetening and mellowing for Chesterfield cigarettes.
Like Rip Van Winkle, they sleep — the tobaccos getting mellower and milder for the cigarette that Satisfies.