NOTRE' DAME, INDIANA, October 19, 1889.
Vol. XXIII.
No. 7,
The “Autos” of Calderon de la Barca*
BY MAURICE FRANCIS EGAN, LL. D.
Professor of English Literature in the University of Notre Dame.
The Reformation has done infinite intellectual harm to all of us who have inherited the English tongue by narrowing our literary sympathies. Literature, as received by us, has made us feel rather than believe that the English language was invented by Luther and used by Shakspeare in defiance of Rome, and that no real literature ever existed outside of England, and no literature in England until Shakspeare’s time. In fact, many Americans seem to have the impression that Luther invented Shakspeare •and the printing-press. This sectarian narrowness has caused Calderon to be only a name, more or less connected with the Inquisition, and consequently disreputable, and made us content with a small portion of the glorious inheritance which Catholic Spain has left us. It would be absurd to claim that Calderon was a poet because he was a Catholic, but it is certain that Dante and he would never have been great poets had they not been Catholics. They were glorious flowers blooming at the end of a glorious summer. Around them were the tinted leaves of decay which hid in false splendor the track of death; their roots were not nourished by the sun-dried soil around them; they struck deeper, and were vivified by eternal springs. The influences around them would have made Dante a weaver of conceits and Calderon an inventor of court spectacles. The Church strengthened their inspiration, and to her we owe them. Cal-
' * A lecture on Denis Florence MacCarthy’s Translation, delivered in the. Class.of...Criticism. .	. .
deron is, above all, a Christian poet. As Emer- • son has it:
“ The litanies of nations came, Like the volcano’s tongue of flame, Up from the burning cave below— v The canticles of love and woe;
The hand that rounded Peter’s dome. And groined the aisles of Christian Rome, Wrought in a sad sincerity:	_
Himself from God he could not free.”
God, the Trinity, our Lord, true God and true man, His Blessed Mother, and the saints, are always with Calderon. The teaching of the Church was the pivot upon which all the world swung. Her life filled his heart and his soul. Humanity might ask questions and nature present problems, but Calderon always found their answer and solution in the Church. It is this characteristic of the great Spanish poet which causes Frederick Schlegel to exclaim: “In this great and divine master the enigma of life is not only expressed but solved.” But the Schlegels were smitten with that Calderon fever against which Goethe protested, and their indiscriminate praise has done his reputation as much harm as the coldness, prejudice, and ignorance of Sismondi and Hallam. Hallam, however, was only ignorant of Calderon’s real merit, while Sismondi was evidently prejudiced and maliciously bigoted. Catholics, as well as Protestants, are apt to have their judgment in matters of art influenced by religious feeling; but Catholics, when capable of judging, are more likely to give praise to beauty in art, as art, than Protestants, who nevertheless pride themselves on the catholicity of their tastes.
| It may seem ridiculous, but it also seems true i that if the fact that Dante put a pope into the Inferno had not given the Italian master a. schismatical flavor he would not have become so well known among us. Calvinism never
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
accepted art as art, or poetry as poetry, and . never encouraged either. Puritanism accepted
Milton because of his un-Christian theology rather than of his sublime poetry; and if its blightingbreath had not been tempered, it would have taken from Shakspeare much of his beauty and.freshness. The opinions of Calderon that one finds in English books show that minds imbued with the influences of Calvinism cannot free themselves from its prejudices. Even Dean Trench, who has written a valuable and appreciative essay on Calderon, approaches his “autos,” or religious dramas, hesitatingly, and, broadminded as the dean is, he constantly offers apologies to his prejudices by carefully explaining that he does not admire Calderon’s “Romanism.”
Having made this plain, he says: “And it is not too much to say of the greater number of these marvellous compositions that they are hymns of loftiest praise to redeeming love, summonses to all things which have breath topraise the Lord; and he, too, that writes, writes as one that has seen Satan fall like lightning from • heaven, and rejoices in spirit with his Lord.” Calderon’s “autos” were the perfection of the miracle-play, or “mystery,” which was the national drama of Spain. With the skill of a trained dramatist—he was manager of the court theatre in the palace of the Buen Retiro—and the insight of a poet he seized the parables of the Scriptures, the doctrines of the Church, the religious legends of the people, and even the heathen myths, and wrought them into these “autos” for the salvation of his countrymen. They might, indeed, rather be called moralities than mysteries. Every incident is arranged with almost mathematical precision, to the end that . a moral may be taught.
■ Lope-de Vega, Calderon’s predecessor, had done much to elevate the stage of the people; but Calderon, at once priest and dramatist, found both his vocations joined in the compositions of his “autos.” He could preach his ser-nions more effectively to the eye than to the ear. The Germans recognized the genius of Calderon with great cordiality, and Schiller regretted that he had not read him earlier in life. For a long time the only translations of any of these “autos” were in German. Until Denis Florence MacCarthy translated “The Sorceries of Sin” none of the “autos” of Calderon had appeared in an English garb. Dean Trench had an analysis of “The Great Theatre of the World,” and several scenes, and Mr. Ticknor and others had given analyses of “autos”; “but,” as Mr. MacCarthy says in his introduction to
“The Sorceries,” “the ‘autos,’ the most wonderful of all his productions, and the only ones (with but two exceptions) which the great poet .himself thought worthy of revision, have been passed over, I may say, in almost utter silence.” The Germans, enthusiastic as they have shown themselves over the secular plays of Calderon, shrank from the task which Mr.- MacCarthy completed with such thorough success.
The characters in “ Los Encantos de la Culpa,” which is called a “sacramental allegorical auto,” are the Man, Sin, Voluptuousness, Flattery, the Understanding, Penance, the Smell, the Hearing, the Touch, the Taste, musicians and chorus. The scene opens to the sound of a trumpet. A ship is discovered at sea. In it are the Man,‘the Understanding and the Five Senses. The Understanding warns the Man that he is afloat on the world’s wide sea and that a mighty tempest threatens him. The Senses then declare their characters and act the part of the crew during the tempest with wonderful dramatic spirit. The character of the play and its motive, in the hands of so religious a poet as Calderon, may be gathered from the title and the names of the dramatis persona. But no analysis could do justice to the originality, the beauty, the simplicity and the intense dramatic quality of this poetical drama. In this “auto,” as in several others, Calderon uses the Greek mythology in a manner which shows his skill and his deep religious feeling. His fervor fuses the Christian religion and the myths so that their pagan character is entirely lost. In the hands of a poet like Camoens the'myths, intermingled with Christian personages and symbols, produce a grotesque and profane effect. Calderon seizes them boldly, as if by the divine right of a Christian. He illumines the faces of the gods with a new glory; he causes the pipe of Pan to join in the heavenly chorus, and makes Orpheus, whose music gives a new sense to the beasts, a figure of our Lord. “The True God Pan” is the title of one; another is founded on the story of Cupid and Psyche, and another on Ulysses and Circe. Most of his “autos” rest, however, on a Scriptural basis, such as “The Vineyard of the Lord,” “The Wheat and the Tares,” and “The Hid Treasures”; others on Old-Testament facts—“TheBrazen,Serpent,” “Gedeon’s Fleece,” “The Sheaves of Ruth,” and “Baltassar’s Feast”; others, while strictly moral, are somewhat less Scriptural, for instance, “Love,"the Greatest Enchantment” and “The Sorceries of Sin” are Christian dramatic allegories, both founded-on the myth of Ulysses and Circe. The richness of imagery, the wealth
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of fancy, and the firmness of grasp which the poet shows us working out these marvellous acts make each a precious heritage to poetry as well as to dramatic art. They are unique, and they merit a thorough study. A Catholic alone can sympathize with their spirit, and revel in the deep religious life which fills them. A speech of Penance to Sin in “Los Encantos de la Culpa” will give an idea of the beauty of the drama. This passage loses nothing of its beauty in Mr. MacCarthy's interpretation:
I*
Erst who wore the rainbow’s dress, ' ’	Who if in a car triumphal
Thou to-day behold’st me seated ’Neath a canopy, wherein Purple, pearl and gold are blended, ’ ’Tis because I come to triumph
• Over thee; for whensoever Calleth me Man’s Understanding, Never is the call neglected.
All the virtues which he squandered In his ignorance demented I have here regathered, since Certain ’tis that when presented By the hand of Grace they’ve been, He who turneth back repentant Ever findeth them again, ' Safely guarded and preserved And that Man may know that they Can alone thy sorceries render Powerless, thou wilt now behold All the viands here collected Vanish into air, and leave Naught.behind to tell their presence; Showing thus how human glory Is as false as evanescent, Since the only food that lasteth Is the food for souls intended—.
Is the eternal Bread of Life
• Which now fills this table’s centre. ‘ It is Penance that presents it
. Since without her (naught more certain) Man deserveth not to witness So much glory manifested.
Yet, ye Senses, ’tis not bread, But a substance most transcendent: It is Flesh and Blood; because When the substance is dissevered From the species, the White Host • ■ [Hostia blanca} then But the accidents preserveth.
Sin. How canst thou expect to gain Credence from thy outraged Senses, When they come to understand How you wrong them and offendthem? Smell, come here, and with thy sense Taste this bread, this substance; tell me ' Is it bread or flesh?	’
.	. The Senses Approach.
The Smell. Its smell
' Is the smell of bread.
* “,Yo - ■
■ Que el Arco de paz he fido, '	- Quefi oy.en'Carro Triunfal,” etc.	- .
'	- Sin. Taste, enter. Try it thou.	'
The Taste. Its taste is plainly
That of bread.
Sin. Touch, come. Why tremble? Say what’s this thou touchest? The Touch. Bread.
Sin. Sight, declare what thou discemest In this object?
The Sight. Bread alone.	•	.
Sin. Hearing, thou, too, break in pieces This material, which, as flesh, Faith proclaims and Penance'preacheth; ‘ Let the fraction, by its noise, Of their error undeceive them.
Say, is it so ?
The Hearing. Ungrateful Sin, Though the noise in truth resembles That of bread when broken, yet Faith and Penance teach us better It is flesh, and what they call it
- ' I believe: that faith asserteth Aught is proof enough thereof. The Understanding. This one reason brings contentment Unto me.
Penance. O Man! why linger
.	Now that Hearing hath firm fettered
To the Faith thy Understanding? Quick! regain the saving vessel Of the Sovereign Church, and leave Sin’s so briefly sweet excesses. Thou, Ulysses, Circe’s slave, .
.	Fly this false and fleeting revel,
1	Since how great her power may be,
Greater is the power of Heaven, And the true Jove’s mightier magic Will thy virtuous purpose strengthen.
The Man. Yes, thou’rt right, O Understanding! Lead in safety hence my Senses.
All. Let us to our ship; for here All is shadowy and unsettled.
Sin. What imports it, woe is me!— What imports it that my sceptre -Thus you seem to ’scape from, since My enchantments will attend ye? I shall rouse the waves to madness. Penance. I shall follow and appease them.
[Trumpets peal. The Ship is discovered, and all go on board} .
The “auto ” ends with the triumph of Penance over the enchantments of Circe, and this new Ulysses having escaped, the dramatis persona sing:
" LeLthis mightiest miracle Over all the world be feted,	-
. .	Specially within Madrid, .
City where Spain’s proud heart swelleth, Which, in honoring God’s Body
-	Takes the foremost place forever.'
In another “auto,” “The Great Theatre of the World,” Calderon takes for his theme, -	•
“ En el teatro del mundo	,
Todos son representados,” .
which Shakspeare had already rendered: ..
" All the world’s a stage, - -And all the men and women merely players.” ‘
100
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In the beginning the Author summons his people, the Rich Man, the Beggar, the King, the Husbandman, the Beauty, the Hermit, or Discretion, and the Infant. They receive their parts from him, with the words,
“ACT YOUR BEST, FOR GOD' IS GOD,” and a sublime drama of life goes on. Dean Trench* has given an interesting analysis of this “auto,” to which we refer the reader who is too indolent to rub up his Spanish.
. (conclusion next week.)
The Pictures of a Century.
SKETCHED FROM THE EARLY HISTORY OF MARYLAND.
BY O. H.
II.
Many sachems and tribes were subject to the chief of the Piscataway, and Governor Calvert determined to win his friendship. Accompanied by Father Altham and a small retinue, the governor sailed up the Potomac with the Dove, and another small pinnace he had purchased in Virginia. As they approached the Indians fled to the interior; but when they landed at Potomac, a small village on the Virginia side, Archihu, uncle of the king who was a mere youth, assembled his chiefs and people to listen to Father Altham who spoke to them through an interpreter.
“ Good will and loving brotherhood ” were the themes of the good priest’s discourse, for “you are welcome,” said Archihu; and when the Father told him he would come again to instruct him in Christianity and acquaint him with the arts of civilized life, “It is well,” replied the chief; “we will use one table; my people shall hunt for my brother, and all things shall be in common between us.” At Piscataway the natives assembled on the shore armed to dispute the landing of the English, but signs and words assured them of peaceful intentions, so that the chief ventured on board the pinnace, and granted the governor permission to settle within his territories. His point was gained; the chief, and “Weroa'uces” of the powerful confederacy were his friends, and Governor Calvert returned to his colony.at St. Clement’s—the island upon which the cross had been raised. Here he found that the colonists he had left there had made friends with the. Indians, and Father White’s journal records the wonder and astonishment
* Calderon. By R. C. Trench. - ..........  .
of the natives at the size of the ships and the thunder of the cannon brought by the English.
Captain Henry Fleet, who had accompanied Governor Calvert from Virginia, suggested a site suitable for a settlement, and conducted them to the village of King Yaocomico on the left bank of St. Mary’s River. On the opposite bank, about a thousand paces from the river, they purchased thirty miles of territory which they called Augusta Caroline—now the county of St. Mary’s; arid, landing “in great solemnity,” they laid the foundation of a city, March 27, 1634.	.
The colonists planted corn which yielded so plentifully that in the fall we find them sending ten thousand bushels to New England in exchange for salt, fish and other provisions. The Indians continued most friendly, and one of the chiefs gave up his hut to the Fathers White and Altham who arranged and dedicated it as a church—the first church in Maryland—and our records prove that many converts were made, and many souls received into the communion of the Catholic Faith. But in the midst of this friendliness a sudden coolness became perceptible among the Indians in the vicinity of Saint Mary’s. .
Prior to the issue of the Maryland charter, the Governor of Virginia had granted Captain William Claiborne permission to trade with the Indians on the Chesapeake. As the charter granted to Lord Baltimore would destroy this trade, Claiborne determined to resist the settlement of St. Mary’s. When Governor Calvert sent him word that if he remained upon Kent Island, he would be a subject of the colony, Claiborne sent to Governor Harvey of Virginia for advice how to proceed. The Virginians determined to support Claiborne, and suggested that he should destroy the colony by exciting the hostility of the Indians. Captain Fleet, who had appeared to be the friend of Governor Calvert and his colonists, was influenced by Claiborne to further his designs by interpreting to the Indians, in the neighborhood of St. Mary’s, that the new settlers were Spaniards and secret enemies. Terrible indeed would have been the consequences had not the unfailing kindness and friendliness of Fathers White and Altham to the Indians disproved the assertions of Fleet and Claiborne. Failing in his endeavor to excite hostilities on the part of the natives, Claiborne next resolved to use open measures of attack. He fitted out a pinnace in the spring of 1635, and sent it under command of Lieutenant Warren to cruise'against the colonists. They opened fire against the small pinnaces sent by -

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	ioi
Governor Calvert to protect his settlement; but the Marylanders returned the fire with such effect that Claiborne’s galley was captured, and Lieutenant Warren taken prisoner. Claiborne who had not entered actively into the conflict fled from his post on Kent Island to Virginia, whither Governor Calvert sent to demand him as rebel and traitor; but, aided by Governor Harvey and other friends, he succeeded in getting off in safety to England.
In 1653 the freemen of St. Mary’s were assembled by Governor Calvert who gave them power of legislation under Lord Baltimore who remained in England to superintend the interests of his territory at court. This was the first general assembly; but the public records of their proceedings have been destroyed; it is probable, however, that the members of this convention were more occupied in strengthening the surroundings of their settlement than in legislative duties. The laws they made and sent to Lord Baltimore for approval were rejected by him, and it was not until the Second General Assembly, convened by the Lord Proprietary, in 1638 and summoned by Governor Calvert to meet at St. Mary’s, that important rights and liberties to colonists were incorporated in the groundwork of Maryland’s charter. Laws made by Lord Baltimore were now rejected by the Assembly; but the Lord Proprietary, preferring the welfare of his colony to his own privileges, and knowing the veto power he possessed was quite sufficient to protect his own rights, allowed the Convention to frame such bills as they thought necessary for the welfare of their settlement. And while freemen were assembling to legislate and protect the rights of colonists, the priests, the pioneers of those colonists, were • extending their kingdom into the surrounding wilderness.
The Indians, especially the Patuxent tribe, received the missionaries most favorably. The unvarying kindness, the gentleness and selfabnegation of the priests appealed to the simple, unaffected nature of the savages, and to show their respect,'the chief of the Patuxents bestowed a plantation upon some priests who had come to the tribe as teachers. St. Mattapany on the Patuxent River thus became the store-house and starting-point for the missionary labors in the wilderness of Maryland. The zeal and energy of these priests produced abundant fruit. Five years from the date of settlement at St. Mary’s they had extended -their stations throughout the greater portion-of the province. They had visited many tribes, and converts innumerable to the Faith; They had four permanent stations;
the most distant was that of Kittamaquindi, the capital of Tayac, a hundred and twenty miles from St. Mary’s—the seat of the colony. Their most important convert was the Tayac or chief of the “great Piscataway tribe,” as Father White calls them in his journal.
The king of the Patuxents having suddenly . changed and become most indifferent to the missionaries whom he had established at St: Mattapany plantation, Father White, by the advice of Gen. Calvert, who feared some new treachery, withdrew from the St. Mattapany and went to the Piscataways. He was most gratefully received by the Tayac of the tribe, who declared he had had a dream and the vision of a missionary who would come to him and love him and his people, and confer great benefits upon them. Soon after the arrival of Father White, this chief fell sick, and the medicine men were powerless to cure him; but the priest visited him and treated him with such skilful and judicious care that he very soon recovered. Then, desiring baptism, he put himself, together with his wife and daughter, under Father White’s care that they might be properly instructed to receive that holy Sacrament. He laid aside his Indian dress and-assumed the costume of the English, and commenced to learn their language. Thoroughly convinced himself, he sought to bring his people to the Christian Faith. He . visited St. Mary’s with Father White, and placed his daughter under instruction there. On the 5 th of July, 1640, in his chapel at Kittamaquindi, he and his wife were baptised in the presence of Governor Calvert and many other of the principal inhabitants of the province. Tayac took the name of Charles in honor of the English king, and his wife was called Mary, from Queen Henrietta Maria. His infant son, with many of the sachems and chieftains of the tribe were soon after baptised, and a number removed to St. Mary’s to receive Christian education.
In the following year Tayac died, and his daughter, baptised and educated at St. Mary’s, became Queen of the Piscataways. Owing to the indefatigable zeal of Father White and his assistants, Fathers Altham, John Brock and Thomas Copley, the inhabitants of seve’ral neighboring Indian villages were converted and baptised; thus encircled with a band of Christian Indians, the colonists suffered but little from the hostility of natives; and although the Sus-quehannas on the north were a most warlike tribe, and the Nanticokes on the eastern seashore were most inimical to the whites, and while it was most natural that a feeling of jealousy should spring up on seeing the rapid i^-.
io2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
crease of the colonists, and their extending settlements which threatened to swallow up the graves of their forefathers and their hunting grounds, the unfailing kindness of the missionaries held the savages in check. The waters of the Chesapeake proved a barrier to the Nan-ticokes, and the Susquehannas, on the north, lay beyond the lands of the friendly Piscata-ways and the Patuxents on the western shore of the bay; but Claiborne had returned to America and was secretly sowing the seeds of invasion and rebellion among the fierce Susquehanna and jealous Patuxent tribes. -
In 1638, Lord Baltimore granted the people the right of making their own laws, and the following year, Feb. 25, 1639, the Third General Assembly was convened at St. Mary’s to “frame general laws for the government of the prov-- ince.” At this convention a county court was established, a court of - chancery erected, the jurisdiction of justice of the peace extended and defined, weights and measures adjusted, military discipline provided for, the planting of Indian corn and tobacco regulated, and customs and duties on these exports fixed. These important particulars in legislation provided for, and the province peacefully progressing, Governor Calvert determined to return to England where the difficulties between the king and Parliament were threatening to result in the overthrow of royal power and danger to the provinces supported. by royal grant.
In 1643, the governor leaving Mr. Giles Brent, “lieutenant governor, admiral, chief captain, magistrate, and commander,” in charge of the province, sailed for England to consult with his brother, Lord Baltimore. The spirit of disaffection and rebellion which Claiborne had fostered suddenly increased, and the Susquehannas assuming a threatening attitude, the lieutenant governor appointed Captain Thomas Cornwallis—one of the most popular and able men in the colony—to take command of an expedition against the rebels, the Susquehannas on the north, and Claiborne and Richard Ingle, his associate, on the south. The colonists were victorious; but Ingle escaped to Claiborne’s protection in Virginia, where he managed to -elude capture.
In 1644 Governor Calvert returned, and found the country in great disorder.; Claiborne and Ingle had established themselves on Kent Island, and in spite of Governor Calvert’s attempts to dislodge them, they gained victory after victory, until securing entire possession of the western shore, they forced the governor to fly to Virginia for protection, while they made
themselves masters of the province. Father White and other inoffensive, unassuming missionaries were seized, their stations broken up, plundered, and. they themselves sent in chains to England where a long and cruel imprisonment awaited^them.	•
Claiborne and Ingles, acting in the name of the English Parliament, gained and destroyed the records of the province; hence it is that so little is accurately known of their proceedings; but Father White, “the Apostle of Maryland,” has left us enough in his journal to show that the supremacy of the rebels in the colony of St. Mary, threatened destruction to the charter granted Lord Baltimore. The Lord Proprietary himself seemed to have forever abandoned all hope of recovering his proprietary rights. In 1646 he desired his brother, Governor Calvert, and Mr. Lewger, the secretary, to collect and take charge of all his private property which might be saved from the wreck of his fortune. This they did; but before the close of the year, the governor, having collected about him a volunteer force from the ranks of those whom the outrages, misrule and oppression of the usurpers had prepared to throw off their yoke, entered St. Mary’s in triumph, and again took possession of the government. The missionaries who survived their freedom returned to their posts, and after two years of rebel rule, the colony of St. Mary’s was re-established in peace and freedom. Father White, who afterjhis imprisonment had been banished from England, returned, in spite of penal laws, to London, and pursued his duties as priest. He was again imprisoned, and after a life of faithfulness to duty and noble service in the early colonization of Maryland, he died, December 27,1656, injthe seventy-eighth year of his age, in an English prison, under the . Protectorate of Oliver Cromwell.
In 1649, on the second of April, the General Assembly again convened at St. Mary’s to pass that act which has rendered the founders and people of Maryland sublime in the annals of history. No grander picture of a nation’s nobility is needed than the simple words of that Act. Canvas and color are powerless to record such a scene; marble monument and tablet of bronze alone are worthy. And these are the words which should be graven on adamant beside the picture of planting the cross on Terra Maria; for on them the pride and boast, of Maryland should rest:	’
“Whereas the enforcing' of conscience, IN MATTERS OF RELIGION,. HAS FREQUENTLY FALLEN OUT TO BE OF DANGEROUS CONSEQUENCE IN THOSE COMMONWEALTHS WHERE IT HAS BEEN
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	103
PRACTISED, AND FOR THE MORE QUIET AND PEACEABLE GOVERNMENT OF THIS PROVINCE, AND THE BETTER TO PRESERVE MUTUAL LOVE AND UNITY AMONGST THE INHABITANTS .... NO PERSON OR PERSONS WHATSOEVER, WITHIN THIS PROVINCE OR THE ISLANDS, PORTS, HARBORS, CREEKS OR HAVENS THEREUNTO BELONGING, PROFESSING TO BELIEVE IN JESUS ClIRIST, SHALL FROM HENCEFORTH BE ANYWAYS TROUBLED OR MOLESTED, OR DISCOUNTENANCED FOR OR IN RESPECT OF HIS OR HER RELIGION, NOR IN * THE FREE EXERCISE THEREOF, WITHIN THIS PROVINCE OR THE ISLANDS THEREUNTO BELONGING, NOR ANYWAY COMPELLED TO THE BELIEF OR EXERCISE OF ANY OTHER RELIGION AGAINST HIS OR HER CONSENT.”
The passage of this Act, and its scrupulous fulfilment, until the government was overthrown by the Puritans, is one of the splendid triumphs of Maryland over other colonies on the continent of America. In the north, the Puritans were driving Episcopalians from their borders, and sending the peaceful Friends to whipping posts or gallows. In Rhode Island, the mild and gentle Roger Williams denied Catholics participation in political rights. In Virginia, the Episcopalians banished Catholics and Puritans. Only in Maryland, the persecuted and suffering for conscience’ sake, fleeing-from intolerance and cruel oppression, found shelter, protection and repose. Only in Maryland was true toleration to be found, and that liberty of conscience which won for her the name, “Land of the Sanctuary.”
(conclusion next week.)
In Autumn Days.
In autumn days when Phoebus’ eye, Bedewed with tears, sees Nature die, And leaf-strewn brooks glide fast along And sing the Dryad’s parting song’
As by bare woodland trees they fly.
Stripped of their flow’rs, the hills on high Look sadly to the clouded sky
And bear with pain the suffered wrong:— In Autumn Days. ’
Boreas, as he passes by, Sees woods in ruin, and heaves a sigh.
The oak once green, and fresh, and strong Does now to Nature’s dead belong:
All things in desolation lie—
In Autumn Days.
Fred. E. Neef.
Dedication of the New St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas.
Yesterday (Oct. 9) was the day appointed by President Hurth for the solemn dedication services at the new college which, for some unavoidable cause, had been postponed last June.
It was, in our homely, common parlance, the “ house-warming,” and proved a very happy and enjoyable one in every respect. The weather was delightfully propitious, such weather as can only be seen and enjoyed amid the lofty hills and beautiful scenery around Austin at this time of the year; and a large concourse of distinguished visitors were present to witness the ceremony and bid the prosperous young institution God-speed in its praiseworthy undertakings and new quarters. The buildings had been tastefully draped and festooned by the students. They were literally covered with bunting from garret to basement, with the grand old “ Stars and Stripes” and the flag of the Lone Star Republic floating in the breeze above the main building.
Among the visiting ecclesiastical dignitaries were the Right Rev. Bishop Neraz, of San Antonio, the ordinary or bishop of the diocese; the Rev. C. H. Smith, O. M. L., of St. Mary’s Church, San Antonio; Rev. F. Bouchu, of the old mission of San Jose, Bexar County; Rev. J. Wack, of D’Hanis, Medina County; Rev. P. Chandy, of Jefferson, and the Rev. P. Lauth, of -Austin. The wealth and beauty and talent of Austin were fittingly represented. Governor Ross could not be there except by proxy, so he commissioned his worthy Secretary, Major Holmes, on whom honors sit with an easy grace, to take his place. Ex-Governor Lubbock and the Hon. John M. Moore, Secretary of State, were also present. The University was represented by Prof. MacFarlane and the other educational departments by Prof. O. H. Cooper, State Superin- • tendent of public instruction, and Prof. John B. Winn, the veteran and zealous superintendent of the Austin public schools. Each and all were cordially welcomed by Rev. President Hurth.
At 10 o’clock the solemn ceremony of dedication and consecration was performed by Bishop Neraz, assisted by the reverend clergy, after which a grand Te Deum was sung by a double quartette of the Austin Musical Union, under the direction of Prof. Besserer. The ceremonies . were interspersed with music, the rendition of the “ Gloria,” from Mozart’s “Twelfth Mass,” and the closing invocation," Lord God Almighty”— bass solo and quartette—being given in splen- -did style and with marked effect. The vocalists in the musical part of the programme were Mrs. Maxey, Mrs. Crane, Miss Rizpah Bowers, Miss Madge Stacy and Messrs. Geo. P. Warner, W. H. Stacy and Bowman, with Prof. Besserer-at the piano.
At the conclusion of the dedication ceremonies Major Holmes made a neat, forcible and eloquent speech, after which, Rev. President Hurth delivered the dedicatory address. Addresses short, but'pointed and eloquent, were also delivered by Mr. C. H. Miller and Governor Lubbock The college is now more prosperous than at any previous period of its existence, and with a large number of students (A round 100) which called for the promised banquet given yesterday and highly enjoyed.—Austin Statesman.	*
ic>4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
IBubltsfjdj t&crg SaturliaD Surins (Term Etmc at X. IS. ®ni&rrsitj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, October 19, 1889
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twenty-third year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOIRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.	.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
'	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
J. W. Cavanaugh, ’90,	H. P. Brelsford, 91,
H. A. Holden, ’91,
WM; C. Larkin, 90,	W. P. McPhee, ’90,
.	J. B. Sullivan, ’91,
C. T. Cavanagh, 91,	Joseph E. Berry, ’91.
—The year 1889 that marks the coming union of the two Americas by a bond of common interests and mutual ties, has also been a period of unprecedented prosperity for the University of Notre Dame. Attracted by the fame of the Institution, the South American delegates to the all-American Congress will this (Saturday) afternoon visit this celebrated home of learning and religion, and test its well-known hospitality. A cordial welcome will be extended to them, and everything will be so conducted that our distinguished visitors may feel at home.
The treaty now in progress between the Government of the United States and the powers of the South American Continent is of the greatest importance. We trust* that nothing in the future will occur to disturb those feelings of respect and interest that have so long been kept in abeyance, to the common injury of all. The ■ future holds forth many promises of greatness and renown to the nations of the Western continent; but these promises can only be realized when the people are united in the common bond
of brotherhood. What need'is there to seek alliances in the Old World when the foremost people of the New are ready to welcome their brethren of the South?
Celebration of St. Edward’s Day.
Owing to the fact that the 13th, St. Edward’s day, fell this year upon Sunday, it was the original plan to celebrate the field sports and other exercises incident to the occasion upon the preceding Saturday. However, “ man proposes and God disposes”; and, much to the disappointment of the expectant students, the day selected proved rainy and exceedingly disagreeable, and in consequence the field sports were postponed until the following Monday, while the annual reception given by the students to Very Rev. Father General Sorin occurred according to programme in the evening. Following a time-honored custom, representatives from each of the three departments presented addresses to the venerable Founder of the University, and the programme as published in the Scholastic of last Saturday was carried out in every particular.
The vocal numbers were hardly up to the usual standard, the most meritorious being, perhaps, the rendition of “The Concert Waltz” by a well-balanced quartette, consisting of Messrs. Mock, Hackett, McPhee and Lahey. The festal greeting from the Seniors was read by Mr. R. Adelsperger, ’90. Mr. Adelsperger showed admirable self-poise, but hardly threw sufficient force and earnestness into his well-written pro-, duction. -	*
Mr. L. Monarch, of the Junior department, rendered a declamation, “St. Edward’s Day,” with excellent effect. Mr. Monarch has mastered the first principle of’ the elocutionary art in that he always appears heartily in sympathy with his subject. After the greeting from the Juniors, read by Mr. J. Wright, ’91, Mr. W. Ford followed with a personation, entitled “The Archer.” This production was, perhaps, the best of the evening.. Mr. Ford has a very musical voice of wide compass, and in articulation and gesture he showed considerable elocutionary training.
Masters Connor, O’Neill and McPhee presented the greeting from the Minims in a manner very creditable to themselves and to their instructors. One of the “ little princes ” furnished an agreeable diversion not on the programme. Master. Alexis Coquillard appeared upon the stage bearing a huge basket of choice flowers
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Io5
which he brought forward and gracefully presented to the venerable Superior General amid great applause.
The entertainment .concluded with a scene from Richard III, in which Mr. Hummer showed considerable skill in his development of the character of “Bloody Gloucester,” and Mr. Herman did well as “King Henry.” Before the audience was dismissed, Professor Maurice F. Egan extemporized a few happy remarks with reference to the occasion, which were received with hearty applause.
Sunday, October 13.
At eight o’clock Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Father General, assisted by the Rev. President and Vice-President of the University as deacon and subdeacon. The appearance of the venerable priest with noble, manly form, erect and majestic, notwithstanding its weight of nearly four score years, as he performed the sacred rites and offered up the Holy Sacrifice of the Altar, imparted additional-solemnity to the ceremonies, and made them deeply impressive. An eloquent and appropriate sermon was preached by the Rev. J. French, C. S. C.	'
THE BANQUET.
At 12 m. the students and invited guests assembled in the Seniors’ spacious dining-hall to grace the annual feast. The room was tastefully decorated with gay festoonings intertwined with .the national and papal colors. Very Rev. Father General, the guest of the day, presided.
THE MENU.
Potage.
Poulet a la Creme.
Hors d’CEuvres Varies.
.	Poisson.
Dalles de Saumon a la Sauce Anchois.
Pommes de Terre en Pur£e.
Entree.
Pot de Veau a 1’Americaine.
Rotis.
Dinde Farcie a la Sauce de Cranberries.
Selle de Venaison a la Jelee de Groseilles.
Salade de Homard.
'	Legumes.
Choux-fleurs an Gratin.
Pommes de Terre Douces.
Dessert.
Pudding de Cabinet, Sauce au Vin.
Creme Glacee a la Vanille.
•	. Fruits, Noix et Gateaux Assortis.
The—Cafe.
After the inner man had been satisfied, Mr. W. P. McPhee, ’90, toast-master of the day, announced the toasts, as follows:
Our Holy Father, Leo XIII.
“Vivat, in aeternum yiyat Leo, Papa, Rex! ”
Rev; Father .Spjllard made an eloquent re
sponse and said: “The sentiment expressed in this toast finds an echo in every heart. Leo XIII rules as a king. His sway is even mightier and more absolute than the Czar’s. His is a royal authority that appeals to the minds, the feelings and the hearts of his subjects. The Pope aims not so much at the temporal as the spiritual welfare of his people. It may be said of him as was said of another pontiff: ‘ He is the prince of one world and the prophet of another.’ The name of Leo XIII will live in the hearts of succeeding generations as a benefactor of mankind, when other names, great to-day, will long since have been forgotten. The prayers of two hundred and fifty million loyal Catholics are daily ascending in humble supplication to the Most High that this holy and wise and honored Pontiff may long be spared to govern and direct the affairs of the Church Militant.”
The Guest of the Day, our Honored Founder.
“ Qui fecerit et docuerit, hie magnus vocabitur."
Rev. President Walsh was called upon to respond to this toast and spoke substantially as follows:
It was customary for those who were called upon for after-dinner remarks to excuse themselves on the pleathat they knew nothing about the subject on which they . were invited to discourse, or that it suggested to them no ideas. He had no such excuse to offer. His subject was of such a character that his great and only difficulty would be not to find something to say, but to decide what to leave unsaid.
The honored guest of the day, the venerable Founder of Notre Dame, was a theme embracing, by its very richness, matter for a volume rather than fora few desultory remarks. The sentiment to which the speaker was expected to respond was the Scriptural quotation which informed us that the man should be called great who had first done and then taught others how to do. Let each one present mentally glance over, not merely the list of those with whom he was personally acquainted, but those whom his reading might have pointed out to him as benefactors of their fellow-men; and then say how many better fulfilled the Master’s requirements of greatness than the venerable guest to whom they had gathered together to pay honor.
Then followed a review of the life-work of Very Rev. Father Sorin, in the course of which the speaker said: • “Like.all men to whom Providence ha^confided a great task, Father Sorin is a man cast in no ordinary mould. Nature has done much for him, Grace still more; and when the question is asked of him, to which every man must some day find an answer—the question, what use he has made of the talents entrusted to his care, of the gifts of nature and of grace confided to his keeping—he will have no reason to shrink from the most searching scrutiny.....In early life his zeal impelled him to bid adieu to friends and home and kindred, and bury himself, as it were, in a distant and at that time unknown and uninviting land. What marvellous transformations have been brought about—mainly by his energy, devotedness and faith—since that time! The desert has been made to bloom like the rose, and to bring forth the choicest fruits of learning and virtue; his home has become the centre of an ever-widening circle of influence and of good; thanks to his zeal, the land has been dotted with seats of learning or asylums of charity...... He has done, and he has taught others how to do; his whole life has been a lesson the value of which it would be useless to attempt to estimate. . .: The memory of his life and labors will remain to. those to whom it will be given to continue his work, to sustain, encourage and stimulate them, and to raise them to a higher plane of effort and self-sacrifice.”
L In conclusion, in the name of the hundreds present and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the thousands of friends who were present only in spirit, the speaker expressed the earnest hope that many years and the choicest blessings of Heaven awaited the venerable Founder in the future.
Our Country.
“ May the star of her lustre never grow dim! ”
In reply to this toast Mr. Sidney B. Dicker-son,’85, spoke in substance as follows: “Oh! America, what feelings of pride and joy swell our hearts at the mention of thy loved and honored name! Long mayst thou continue in thy onward course of progress, civilization and enlightenment, acting as a beacon light to generations yet unborn! Thy watchward shall ever be Liberty, Wisdom and Progress. All depart. ments and channels of life at the present day— trade, politics, science, art, letters and religion—feel thy benign and salutary influence, and voicing the sentiment of the civilized world, labor to express the gratitude, admiration and wonder that thy wisdom, beauty and culture excite. Long mayst thou continue to develop looking with unabated- vigilance and care over the interests and welfare of thy subjects, so that, year after year, as thou progressest in Science, in Art and in Religion, their hearts and , sentiments, their love and veneration may glow afresh at the mention of thy name.
Old Notre Dame—our Alma Mater,—in this our country’s march to the achievement of a still grander and a more glorious future, mayest thou continue to hold thy rank amongst the foremost institutions of this country. Long mayst thou live to be the tender mother of noble youths who shall go forth from thy portals each succeeding year to be Columbia’s honored and trusted citizens, aiding and fostering her growth in times of peace, and supporting and succoring her in days of trouble!”
The University of Notre Dame.
“Vires acquirat eundo.”
Mr.H.P.Brelsford, ’91, was chosen to respond to this toast, and well was the duty performed. . Mr. Brelsford said: “ We feel that the exercises of this day commemorate the happy issue of half a century of prayer and zealous labor. We feel that not alone do they recall the struggles and triumphs of the past, but as well do they -presage the boundless glories of the future. Almost incredulous we listen to the story of this great institution’s humble origin. Amazed we look upon the evidence of its wonderful development. Father General, the students of this great University mark to-day, with pride and gratitude, this grand fulfilment of your early hopes and prayers; nay, more:
“We dipped into the future as far as human eye could see, Saw avision of the world and all the wonders that would be.” •
And it needs no prophet’s vision to foretell the grandeur of this institution’s future: Founded upon the rock of Christian faith, dedicated to Heaven’s Blessed Queen, who shall dare to set limits upon its influence or bounds to its development? In fifty years a little log-cabin, lost in the
wilds of a frontier forest, has become a mighty structure. Then few students sought its portals; now hundreds throng the halls of Notre Dame, and thousands call her Alma Mater. And, Very Rev. Father General, when the lilies sweet—emblems of your faith—shall- offer up their fragrance o’er your tomb, then shall it be ours to guard with jealous zeal the honor of fair Notre Dame.
“ On! on! Notre Dame, to the future that awaits thee;
On! on! to the glories that the coming years shall bring.”
Upon the conclusion of the toasts Very Rev. Father Sorin arose, and in a clear, sonorous voice thanked his many friends for their kind expressions of good-will and cordiality. The Very Rev. Founder related many interesting facts in connection with the early history of Notre Dame. At the close of his address the hearty and enthusiastic applause told but slightly the measure of the students’ love and reverence for the venerable Father Sorin.	'
Monday, Oct. 14.
THE REGATTA.
At about 10.25 a. m., the students and visitors wended their way down to the lovely St. Joseph’s Lake to witness that most exciting of manly contests, a boat race. The lake, as it lay, circled by its green banks, and reflecting in its placid depths the riches of Nature’s autumn splendor, was- still, with here and there a ripple that widened and widened and lost itself in the confusion of the broken surface caused by’the slight breeze. More beautiful weather and surroundings could not have been desired to charm the eye and enhance the pleasure of the occasion.
At precisely 14 minutes to 11, amid deafening shouts and applause, Captain Campbell’s young and muscular crew appeared bearing in their arms their pride, the Yosemite which was followed by the favorites bearing carafully their invincible Montmorency, captained by L. Chute. The crews of the four-oared barges, the first to race, were:
Yosemite—Bow, E. Prudhomme; 2, R. Bronson; 3, S. Campbell (Captain); 4 and Stroke, J. Jackson; Coxswain, S. Dickerson.	.
Montmorency—Bow, W. Meagher; 2, J. McKeon; 3, L. Chute (Captain); Stroke and 4, T. Coady; Coxswain, J. Fisher.
Promptly they filed into position, the Yosemite . taking the left hand course, and the Montmorency the right. At the word “go’’given by the starter, Rev. M. J. Regan, both crews doubled up and shot forward, with Chute’s crew about two feet in the lead, which advantage they obstinately , retained down to the first turn. After making a beautiful turn around the buoy; they- started
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	107
back on the home stretch fully half a length ahead. More exciting became the cries of “Blacks, Blacks!” “Chute, Chute!” as nearer the contestants came to the finish; shouts rent the air, hats were not respected, and amid this tumult Captain Chute’s little men shot over the line fully 2% lengths ahead. The race was two lengths of the lake, about 7^ of a mile, and was made in 3 minutes, 26 seconds.
The next event was the race between the six-oared barges. The “boys in blue” first dipped their oars' for position in their lucky Evangeline on the inner course; they were quickly followed by “those manly reds,” who were always on the “ha,” “ha,” carrying their Minnehaha. “Go!” and off they started, fighting for every foot even at the turn; but—“ oh! that home stretch ”— the quick splash of the-strokes was lost in the deafening shouts of “On, Reds!” “Blues!” “On, Chip!” etc. Then the breathless silence for a second as the “Reds” cut the line a boat-length ahead. Thus ended the race. The distance was two lengths of the lake. Time, 3.11.
• The crews were as follows:
Evangeline—Bow, B. Hughes (Captain); 2, J. Ford; 3, W. Daily; 4, J. Mithen; 5, A. Larkin; 6 and Stroke, N. Sinnott; Coxswain, J. McCarthy.
Minnehaha—Bow, J. Toner; 2, J. McKeon; 3^L. Pim; 4, E. Howard (Captain); 5, D. Cartier; 6 and Stroke, J. Youngerman; Coxswain, A. Adams.
Bro. Marcellinus and F. Fehr acted as judges, and M. Kelly as time-keeper.
The field sports took place in the afternoon and are reported in another column.
Exchanges.
—A journal which has a mission in the present day is Parochial Schools, which is published at Phlox, Wis., and devoted to the interest of education among minor schools. The Parochial Schools is ably edited and deserves a high degree of success. '
—The Cynic, a journal published by the junior and sophomore classes of the University of Vermont, is one of the neatest college papers that we meet with. A high standard is maintained throughout the various departments, and we regret that it does not appear more frequently.
—The High School Bulletin, from Lawrence, Mass.,-comes to us freighted with twelve columns of good literary work. It is hard for us to see how certain colleges and so-called universities can content themselves with the make-up of their representative papers in the face of this unpretentious and charming school-journal.
'. —The October issue of. the Haverfordian has just reached us. Within its covers, which are gotten up in exceptionally good taste, are found
many well-written articles, notably a poem expressive of thrilling admiration for the “Mosquito.” There are two good columns of exchange work, and, altogether, the Haverfordian is one of the spiciest visitors to our sanctum.
—The College Chips is the title of a sober paper which comes to us from Decorah, Iowa. It is published by the students of Luther College, and in its latest issue forestalls us in the criticism of an essay in the last Speculum, entitled “The Power of Circumstances.” This essay is pervaded by the most desperate fatalism, and it is indeed a matter of surprise that a number of cultured gentlemen such as make up the student body of the Michigan Agricultural College should permit such sentiments to be paraded in the columns of their representative journal. Is the Speculum really a reflector in this case? ‘
—In one of Whittier’s poems the word “far” is made to rhyme with “law,” and a poet in the Dartmouth writes “leer” as a sound consonant with “idea.” In the first case it was easy to guess that the Quaker poet wished us to pronounce the preposition as if spelt “faw,” but in the second instance it is very difficult to say whether we are to make “leeah” sound like “idea,” or to make “leer” rhyme with “ideer.” Both forms are equally compatible with the Eastern dialect; but we cannot see why Dartmouth man should not pronounce English as Webster and Worcester did, when he rushes his poetry into print.	.	•
Personal.
—Rev. R. Maher, C. S. C., returned on Tuesday last after a two months’ sojourn in Ireland. .
—Rev. J. Molloy, C; S. C., formerly Professor at St. Isidore’s College, New Orleans, is now at Notre Dame.
—Mrs. G. W. Frost and daughter, of Florissant, Col., were among the visitors to the College during the week.
—J. E. Walsh, M. D.; of ’83, is meeting with great success in the practice of his profession in Brooklyn, N. Y.	.
—Mr. Ira Pendleton, of Denver, Col., is spend-a few days at Notre Dame, visiting his son, Ira, of the University, and his daughter, Effie, at St. Mary’s...	.
—Mr. W. H. Johnston, ’85, of Columbus, Ohio, accompanied by his accomplished wife, paid a very pleasant visit to his Alma Mater during the past week.	.
—Mr. Frank H. Grever, of ’85, was married, on the 9th inst., to Miss Grace Louise Quinn, in Holy Family Church, Cincinnati, Ohio.. The happy couple have the heartiest congratulations and best wishes of numerous friends at Notre Dame.
—Mr. A. S. Hughes, General Traffic Manager of the Denver & Rio Grande RRi, of Denver,
168
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Col., made a short call last week visiting his sons, Bela and Ellsworth, of Sorin Hall, Mr. , Hughes is always a welcome visitor to the University.
—Very Rev. Father General’s singing of the Solemn High Mass on the 13th was singularly thrilling and beautiful. As one who was present remarked, it was supernatural in richness and melody. A speech, descriptive of the early days at Notre Dame, which he made after the banquet, was no less a proof of the youthful enthusiasm that keeps his heart as warm and strong, and his eye as bright as twenty years ago. May a score and more such grand celebrations of the 13th of October be in store for the energetic and glorious Founder of Notre Dame!
—Among the visitors during the week were: Rev. L. Nutzel, Milford, Neb.; Louis S. Alter, Remington, Ind.; H. E. Alter, Russiaville, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. John L. Cooke, Henry W. Quan, Mr. and Mrs. Connor, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. W. H. Lewis, Bartlete, Mo.; Mrs. H. J. Homas, Indianapolis, Ind.; N. Werthenall, Ligonier, Ind.; Mrs. V. Zimmerman and son, Rochester, Ind.; Mrs. J. A. Foster, Minneapolis, Minn.; Mrs. John • Sweet, Big Rapids, Mich.; Mr. J. Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. P. Roberts, Independence, Mo.; Mr. and Mrs. Stapleton, Aberdeen, S. Dakota; J. Pendleton, Denver, Col.; Mrs. L. Sam-ford, New Castle, Ky.;	-
Local Items.
—Field day.
—Ten seconds.	.
—Oh, that record!
—Farewell until ’90.
—St.‘ Edward’s Day.
—Good boys, “Montmorency.”
—Chip got there just the same.
—Not many dark horses in the Juniors.
—20 feet, 5 inches—how’s that for a jump?
—We could not wish for a more beautiful day.
—“Sport’s” heart will rest easy for another year.	.
—What’s the matter with Jewett? He can’t be beat.
. —By actual measurement three and one-half times around the Junior’s campus is a’mile.
—Sorin Hall was beautifully decorated and illuminated in honor of its illustrious namesake on Founder’s Day.	.
—The well-known Schubert Quartette Club, of Chicago, will give an entertainment in Washington Hall on next Tuesday evening. _
—Bro. Lawrence acted as starter, and Bros. Marcellinus and Leander as judges in the Junior sports,-and gave entire satisfaction to all.
—On the eve of the 13th every window.in St. Edward’s Hall flashed a “Happy Feast”to the heaven-blest client of the glorious King Edward.
—St. Cecilia’s Day will be appropriately celebrated this year. The exercises of the day will be under the auspices of the St. Cecilians who promise an interesting programme.
—The Delegates to the Pan-American Congress will be entertained at Notre Dame this (Saturday) afternoon. In honor of their visit the buildings are beautifully decorated and the Central and South American flags float gracefully from the main building.
—As usual, Very Rev. Father General sent his great pyramidal cake to the “palace,” and, needless to state, the “princes” disposed of it with the vigor and activity characteristic of them in the performance of such duties. They request the Scholastic to be the medium of their thanks to the revered donor.
—It is gratifying to note the continued sue- . cess attending the publication of our esteemed contemporary, the Ave Mana. Orders from London and Dublin agents were recently received for 1000 specimen pages, while another large lot of sample copies has been sent to India, where its subscription list is constantly increasing. These are but some among the many evidences, frequently recurring, that the Ave Maria needs but to be known in order to be praised and desired.
—It is rumored that the competition in the English Literature and Criticism classes for the medals is very close, no man in either class being, at the beginning, so excellent as to be sure of either of these medals. In this respect, the situation differs from last year’s—Messrs. Meagher and Brelsford being then, in the opinion of both classes, the most eminent candidates. “Columbus” is the Literature subject; “Parties and Politics” and “The Philosophy of Hamlet,” the Criticism subjects.
—A meeting of the Football Association-, held for the purpose of reorganization, took place on the 17th inst., with Bro. Paul in the chair. The election of officers for the coming season resuited as follows: President, Bro. Marcellinus; Director, Bro. Paul; Vice-President, S. Dickerson; Secretary, J. Hepburn; Treasurer, J. B. Sullivan; Field Reporter, C. Cavanagh; Captain, E. Prudhomme; Assistant Captain, Frank Fehr. After agreeing upon a plan of operations for the season, the meeting adjourned.
—The fourth and fifth regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association were held Sunday and Wednesday evenings, the 6th and 9th inst., respectively. The question: “ Resolved that Chicago should haye the World’s Fair,” was discussed by Messrs. F. Wile, G. O’Brien and L. Riedinger on the affirmative, Messrs. E. Du Brul, B. Ba'chrach and W. O’Neill on the negative. The judges rendered a decision in favor of the affirmative. Mr. J. Wright read a very interesting criticism on the preceding meeting, and declamations by Messrs. L. Monarch and R. Healy closed the exercises of the evening. At the fifth meeting, Mr. R. Healy, after
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

reading a good criticism on the previous meeting, was elected organist. The society numbers twenty-one members, and is in a highly prosperous condition.
Field Day, Oct. 14.
SENIORS.
In the Senior department the various contests were especially interesting. Our local athletes had practised for some time, and everyone was determined to do his best to win. The campus was crowded with visitors and.students, and, under the efficient management of Bro. Paul, everything passed off in the usual first class style.
Interest centred upon the 100 yard dashes, and particularly the first which was for the championship of the University. H. Jewett, who has held this title for the past two years, was the favorite, while some of the students declared that Cassin would surely win.
About half past two the contestants faced the . starter for the first heat. • They got off together and ran about even till within 25 yards of the flags, and then Jewett worked ahead and passed the judges about a foot in front of Cassin. The time was 10 seconds—the best ever made at Notre Dame, and is equal to the amateur record. After a short rest preparations were made for the second heat: and after a few. false starts they set off. The time of this heat was a trifle slower than the former, although they ran at a terrific pace. Cassin passed the judges first after making the hundred yards in 10 seconds. Both of the principals were as fresh as ever when they started on the third heat, and excitement ran high among the spectators. From the start Jewett led and Cassin soon gave it up. Hal did some of his best sprinting, and made the dash in 10 seconds again. This race proved that both men were good runners; and while Jewett proved himself the superior, Cassin showed that he is one of the best sprinters ever seen at Notre Dame. His time was 10%, which is far above the average.
The 2d 100 yard dash was easily captured by that dangerous, personage known as a “dark horse.” S. Curtis was the fortunate athlete, and won the first two heats easily in nj4 seconds. A pretty race was made for 2d place by Toner and Brannick, the latter winning by a fraction of a foot. It was a close decision, but was, of course, correctly made.
The’3d 100 yard dash which, like the former, was for a gold medal, was won by J. Keenan in 12 seconds. S. Fleming ran a good second in 12%.
The mile race was easily won by J. Moncada in 5.47^. Comstock led for ~A of the distance, but on the last lap Moncada, who had been saving his strength, worked his way to the front and won by over 50 yards.
The next event was throwing the base-ball for a gold medal, and was won by-Long, the
University pitcher, who made a throw of 323 feet 11 inches. Cassin captured the second prize . by throwing 315. feet, 8 inches.
Putting the 16 pound shot followed and Jewett won the gold medal by throwing 38 feet 10 inches, which is the best record ever made at the college; Fehr was second.
In the hop, step and jump contest, Jewett again broke the college record by making 41’ feet 10 inches. S. Fleming captured the second prize and P. Fleming came third.
The entries for the standing jump were Hayes, Jewett and Fehr. In this contest Hayes not only beat the college record, but also the best ever made by an amateur. Fehr came second with 11 feet, 9 inches, which is also above the best amateur jump. Hayes earned the gold medal, making 12 feet.
The high jump was won by Hal Jewett with 5 feet, 10 inches. This is also a new college record.
The entries for the -high kick were: J. Cooke, O	J	9
Fehr, Bovett, W. Campbell and S. Fleming. The last named won the gold medal and W. Campbell was second.
The entries for the football kicking were very numerous. Some excellent kicks were made, and the contest for the second place was rather close. D. Cartier won by 144 feet 9 inches, S. Fleming second, 131 feet 5 inches, and- Paradis third. A summary of the sports is as follows:
100 yard dash, 1st prize, gold medal, H. Jewett; time, 10 seconds. 2d 100 yard dash, 1st prize, gold medal, S. Curtis; time, o.nj4. 2d prize, silver medal, E. Brannick; time, 0.12. 3d 100 yard dash, 1st prize, gold medal, J. Keenan; time, 0.12. 2d prize, silver medal, S. Fleming; time, 0.12%.—Mile Race: 1st prize, gold medal, J. Moncada; time, 5-47X- 2d prize gold medal, J. Comstock.— Throwing Ball: 1st prize, gold medal, G. Long, 323 feet n inches; 2d prize, silver medal, J. Cassin, 315 feet 8 inches.—Throwing Weight. 1st prize, gold medal, H. Jewett, 38 feet'io inches.—Hop, step and jump: 1st prize, gold medal, H. Jewett, 41 feet 10 inches; 2d prize silver medal S. Fleming, 36 feet 8 inches.—Standing jump: 1st prize gold medal, W. Hayes, 12 feet; 2d prize silver medal, ' F. Fehr, 11 feet 9inches.—Running Jump: 1st prize,gold medal, H. Jewett, 20' feet 5 inches; 2d prize, silver medal, J. Keenan, 17 feet 4X; 3d prize, silver medal, S. Fleming, 11 feet.—High Jump, 1st prize, gold medal, H. Jewett, 5 ft. 10 inches.—High Kick, 1st prize, gold medal, S. Fleming, 9 ft. 4 inches; 2d prize, silver medal, W. Campbell.— Kicking Foot-ball (Drop-kick), 1st prize, gold medal, D. . Cartier, 144 ft. 9 inches; 2d prize, silver medal, S. Fleming; 3d prize, silver medal, E. Paradis.—The “Consolation Race” was won by E. Brannick, in 12 seconds; J. Fitzgibbons 2d.
The gold medal for champion general athlete of the University was won by H. Jewett, ’90, who has held the title for the past two years. On field day he gave an exhibition of his skill that far excelled all his former efforts. It is the general opinion that he is the greatest .'general athlete ever seen at Notre Dame, and the College should be proud of the record he has made. The various other contests were postponed until next week. A report of them will then be given.
JUNIORS.
The Junior sports began promptly at two o’clock, and were witnessed by a large number
i io
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,

of spectators. They were as follows: Special ioo yards dash: J. Cunningham, Gold Medal; J. McPhillips, Silver Medal; Time, nj4 seconds. IOO vds. dash, ist grade: P. Wood, Gold Medal; C. Hooten, Silver Medal; Time, 12 seconds, ioo yds. dash, 2d grade; G. Brubaker, Gold Medal; A. Campbell,Silver Medal; Time, I2JX seconds. 100yds. dash, 3d grade; G. Hahn, Gold Medal; J. O’Mara, Silver Medal; Time, 13 seconds. 100 yds. dash, 4th grade; J. Delany, Gold Medal; Walter Lee, Silver Medal; Time, 14^ seconds, i mile race, ist grade; R. Healy, Silver Medal; F. Robinson, Silver Badge; Time, 5 min., 30 sec. yi mile race, 2d grade; W. Hasenfuss, Silver Medal; A. Campbell, Silver Badge; Time, 3 min., 7 sec 5/^ mile race, 3d grade; C. Fitzgerald, Silver Medal; J. Girsch, Silver Badge; Time 3 min., 23 sec. mile race, 4th grade; F. McDonnell, Silver Medal; A.Leonard,Silver Badge; Time, 4 min., 36.
Throwing ball: ist grade, L. Kehoe; 2d grade, F.Crotty; 3dgrade,J.Ayer; 4thgrade, H.Snyder.
The remaining races were postponed until Thursday. A full report will be given in our next.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
The following were awarded prizes:
Running Races—(1) W. Hamilton, ist; W. Crawford, 2d; (2) J. Pellenz, ist; E. Falvey, 2d; (3) J. Lonnsberry, (4) Crandall, ist; Londoner, 2d; (5) W. Hoffman, ist; W. Finnerty, 2d; (6) Croke, ist; J. Packard, 2d.	.
' Hurdle Races— (1) C. Zoehrlaut, ist; R. Powell, 2d; (2) A. Clarke, ist; A. Green, 2d; (3) H. Mestling, ist; Hill, 2d; (4) Ayers, ist; Fuller, 2d; (5) W. Scherrer, ist; W. Nickols, 2d.
Three-legged' Races—(1) Finnerty and L. Stone, ist; Mattes and Gerardin, 2d; (2) Walsh and Griggs, ist; McPhee and Tunke, 2d; (3) Blake and Trujillo, ist; Ball and Howard,’2d.
Sack Races—(1) Seidensticker, ist; Gilbert, . . 2d; (2) G. Mayer, ist; J. Marre, 2d; (3) Evers, ist; Durand, 2d; (4) S. Keeler, 1st; Cornell, 2d.
Mile Races—(1) Barbour; (2) Sloan; (3) Matternes.
The sports were concluded by a tug of war in which Master Lee Stones’ side was victorious.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Adelsperger, Ahlrichs, Allen, Anderson, Blodgett, Berry, R- Bronson, Burns, E. Brannick, H. Brannick, Barrett, H. Beckham, G. Beckham, Jas. Brennan, Benz, Burger, Brelsford, Jno. Brennan, Compton, Cabanna, Combe, Cassin, Carroll, Cassidy, S. Campbell, G. Cooke, Casey, Cavanagh, L. Chute, F. Chute, Cooney, Clayton, E. Coady, P. Coady, G. Cartier, W. Cartier, Dela Pena, Dorsey, Delany, Dacy, Dennis, Daly, Draper, Davis, Dwyer, Dougherty, Daniels, Darroch, Dillon, Fitzgibbon, C. Flynn, F. Flynn, Ford,Fehr, S. Fleming, Fack, Guillen, Garfias, Giblin, Gibbons, Galen, Hepburn, Houlihan, Herman, Hanrahan, Healy, Heard, Hackett, E. Hughes, Hummer, Hempier, Hayes, Johnson, Jackson, Jewett, Karasynski, Kearns, Keenan, King, Krembs, F. Kelly, J. Kelly, Kohlman, Lesner, Langan, Lair, Lancaster, A. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lane, Lappin, Lynch, Lahey, F. Long, L. Long, Leonard, Lehman, Moncada, H. Murphy, Mc
Ginn, R. McCarthy, G. McDonald, McKee, McAlister, McPhee, Mithen, McConlogue, Mackey, Morrison, Mc-Aleenan, Meehan, Meagher, O’Neill, O’Brien, O’Shea, Olds, O'Connor, Otero, Prudhomme, Parker, Powers, Philips, Paradis, Pyplacz, Portilia, F. Prichard, Paquette, Rebillot, Rose, Reynolds, Rothert, W. Roberts, C. Roberts. Scherrer, Schwarz, A. Sinnott, L. Sanford, C. Sanford, N. Sinnott, Steiger, Schaack, J. Smith, T. Smith, J. B. Sullivan, Seeberger, Soden, Satter, Tivnen, F. Vurpillat, White, Walsh. .
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Aarons, Anson, Atchison, Brubaker, B. Backrach, E. Bates, B. Bates, J. Brady, T. T. Brady, T. Brady, W. Brady, Burns, Bradley, Crandall, Cosgrove, Conroy, Case, Cudahy, J. Connors, Coilman, E. De Brul, Davis, Delany, Doig, Dempsey, De Lormier, Elkin, Evers, Elder, J. M. Flannigan, C. Fitzgerald, J. Fitzgerald, Field, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke, Gale, Gnewuch, Gough, Howard, Hambaugh, Hack, Hesse, Hahn, Healy, Halthusen, Hagus, Hebbard, Hoerr, Hague, Hull, Jacobs, Jewett, King, Kearney, Keough, V. Kehoe, J. Leonard, Lewis, Mackey, Murphy, Maurus, Maher, D. Monarch, Merz, Mitqhell, Merkle, Mier, McConnell, J. McCartney, E. McCartney, Jas. McPhillips, A. McPhillips, W. McDonnell, McDonald, McIvers, F. McKee, E. McKee, McLeod, F. Neef, A. Neef, O’Neill, Otis, O’Mara, Putnam, Pendleton, Prichard, Quinlan, Rarig, Robinson, Root, Reichhold, Roper, Regan, Riedinger, Roth, Rowsey, W. A. Stanton, F.’ Schillo, Scott, Seerey, Snyder, Sutter, Spalding, Siebert, Talbot, Town, Thorn, Tetard, Turner, Walsh, Welch, Weston, Wright, Weise,Ward, T.Whalen, White, E. Whalen, Wolff, Wertheimer, Youngerman, Zinn, Zimmerman, L. Monarch.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayers, Ball, O. Brown, F. Brown, Blake, T. Burns, J. Burns, Barbour, Browning, Cornell, Crandall, C. Connor, W. Connor, Covert, W. Crawford, A. Crawford. Coquillard, Croke, Clarke, Crane, Durand, Dench, Elkin, Evers, Eckler, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, Fischer, Frankel, Falvey, Fuller, C. Furthman, E. Furthman, W. Furthman, Funke, Girardin, Greene, Gilbert, D. Gilki-son, Grant, A. Gilkison, J. Griggs, C. Griggs, Hill, Hen-neberry, Hoffman, Hamilton, Hendry, Jonquet, Krollman, Keeler, King, Klaner, Kern, Lonergan, Londoner. Lonns-berry, H. Lamberton, C. Lamberton, Levi, LoonieLoomis, Montague, Maternes, Marr, Mattas, H. Mestling, E. Mest-ling, Myers, McGuire, McPhee, McPhillips, McCarthy, Morrison, Mayer, Marre, W. Nichols, C. Nichols, O’Neill, Powell, L. Paul, C. Paul, Pellenz, C. Packard, J. Packard, Pierce, Roberts, Ronning, Rya.n, Stone, Sloan, A. Seidensticker, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Stephens, Thornton, Trujillo, V orhang, Vandercook, Washburne, Wilcox, Wever, Walsh, Weber, G. Zoehrlaut, Ziegler, C. Zoehr-laut.
S--
3

tStL L

^■

By



B-5
Class Honors. *
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. E. Brannick, Crandall, Fisk, J. Flanigan, B. Hesse, Hanrahan, J. McCartney, Maher, F. Schillo, Talbot, Artimer, W. Brady, Blake, Garrison, Seeburger, Scott, Quigley, Johnson, Kerns, E. McCartney, Heard, Nockels.	'	‘
List of Excellence.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Book-Keeping— Messrs. Crandall, G. McAlister, Tet- ; ard, Scott, Quigley, Kerns, G. Long, Heard, Nockels; . Arithmetic—Messrs. Hayes, Maher, Dyer, Kerns, Quig- ; ley, Garrison, Nockels, Rice, Wolff; Grammar—Messrs. Clendenin, E. Connors; Reading— Messrs. Lynch, Johnson, G. McDonnell, Rebillot; Orthography—Messrs. S. Fleming, Garrison, L. Kehoe; United States History— Messrs. J..Dempsey, J. Delany; Geography—J. Delany; Penmanship—Messrs. C. S. Roberts, Schwarz, J. Connors;
Grammar—Messrs. Kearns, Heard.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Menu's figademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The pupils of the French classes offer thanks to Miss Sophie Papin for favors received.
—The Misses D. Fitzpatrick, M. English, M. Rend, Class of ’89, and A. Murphy were among the visitors on Father General’s feast.
, —After the reading of the Seniors’ address on Monday last, little A. Dennison presented a - handsome floral offering to Very Rev. Father General in the name of St. Mary’s pupils.
—The Minims who paid their respects for their department to Father General on the 13th were Misses A. Dennison, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, M. Egan, N. Smith, L. Ayer, M.and K. Hamilton. . —The visitors at St. Mary’s on the 13th and 14th inst. were: Mrs. J. H. B. Daly, Mr. and Mrs. J. I. Cooke, E. P. Byrnes, Miss T. Lynch, Mrs. L. G. Skancke, Mrs. J. F. Quinn, Chicago, Ill.; F. J. Bernhart, Attica, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Connor, Evanston, Ill.; A. J. Hughes, Denver, Col.; F. Palmer, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. A. Thomas, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mrs. S. Gulp, Marrietta, Mich.; Mrs. S. Rose, La Grange, Ind.; Mrs. S. B. Davis, Constantine, Mich.; Mrs. A. Gordon, Elkhart, Ind.; J. F. Nester, Detroit, Mich.; Mrs. M. F. Egan, Notre Dame; Mrs. Morse Grinnell, Iowa; Mrs. T. Nester, Marquette, Mich.
St. Edward’s Day.
If, as some one has said, there are anniversaries of the heart, surely St. Edward’s day is one for all at St. Mary’s; it is a day of rejoicing, and each one enters into the spirit of the feast with enthusiasm. To explain the interest attached to the 13th of October, we need only say it is the feast of Very Rev. Father General’s Patron Saint, Edward the Confessor.
St. Mary’s Founder is dear to St. Mary’s pupils; hence everyone considers it a pleasure to honor him who has done so much for religion-and Christian education in general, and them-selves and their school in particular.
This year formed no exception, and on Monday, at 3 p. m., the strains of Feierlicher Marsch from “Nero” announced the opening of an entertainment as an offering of filial affection to the kindest of fathers. The study-hall was artistic.ally decorated for the festal occasion; a handsome floral crown.was suspended over Very Rev.Father General’s chair and ropes of smilax twined the pillars of the hall. A statue of St. Edward graced the niche facing the audience, and a picture of St. Mary’s Founder occupied a prominent place. The Rev. clergy accompanying Very Rev. Father General were: Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh, L’Etour-neau, Spillard, Saulnier, Zahm, and French.
The programme was as follows:
Feierlicher—Marsch from “Nerd”......Rubinstein
Misses O. O’Brien and M. McFarland.
•Voices of the Heart.....’...........Miss	K. Morse
Greeting Chorus........................Vocal Class
Accompanied by Miss E. Flannery.
Souhaits de bonheur..................Miss	T. Balch
“Dost thou know the Land?”—from “Mignon,” Thomas. Miss R. Kasser—Accompanied by Miss O. O’Brien.
Address from the Children of M ary.... Miss C. Dempsey Minims in Wax.
Festgruss............................Miss	M. Piper
Valse des Vaises..........................Satter
Miss E. Flannery.
MRS. NIGHTINGALE AND HER MERRY WARBLERS.
Mrs. Nightingale.........................T. Balch
Chorus....?..............................Juniors
Queen Emma.
IN THREE SCENES.
Dramatis Personce. Queen Emma..............................B.	Hellman
Prince Alfred (at 10 years old).......... .F. Palmer
Prince Edward (at 8 years old)..........L. McHugh
Lady Ermina, Normandy Lady.........M.De Montcourt
“ Rowena,	“	“ .............L. Woolner
“ Anita’,	“	“ ................M. Bates
“ Helen,	“	“ ................K. Morse
“ Alida,	“	“ .............M. Skancke
“ Hortense, “	“ ................R. Bero
“ Ethel, Maid of Honor..................A. Regan
“	Margaret,	“	“	..............L. Ernest
“	Bertha,	“	"	..............N. Morse
“	Edwina,	“	“	.............. ,L. Dolan
“ Hilda, “	“ ................M.Hurff
“	Gertrude,	“	“	..............H. Nacey
Scene I—Queen Emma in Normandy.
“The Day is Done”............................Balfe
Miss M. Leahy. Scene II—Queen Emma at Winchester.
Quartette from Semiramide..................Rossini
Misses Kasser, Leahy, Dempsey and Homer. Scene III—The Triumph of Innocence.
Tableaux—1st, Ave Maria.
Tableaux—2d, The Cry of Earth's Children.
Retiring March......................  Scuburt
Misses B. Wickersheim and L. Healy.
The music, both vocal and instrumental, was, as usual at St. Mary’s, noticeably fine. Miss E. Flannery and.Miss O. O’Brien fully merited the words of commendation bestowed by the audience, and the Misses Leahy, Kassar, Horner and Dempsey sustained the enviable reputation enjoyed by the vocal department.
“ Mrs. Nightingale and her Warblers,” was well received, as were also “The Minims in Wax,” and “Queen Emma.” In the little drama presented, all who took part gave entire satisfaction, particularly the Misses Hellman, K. Morse and Hurff.
The play was followed by a Tableau in two parts: first “The Annunciation” during which the “Ave Maria" was sung; the second part represented the different countries paying homage to Heaven’s Queen. The national colors and banners made an impressive picture; and as the soft notes of the Sancta Maria ascended, one felt how consoling is the doctrine of the Church, which gives us such a tender advocate as the Mother of God. Those taking part in the Tableau were the Misses Van Mourick, Hull, English, Nickles, Stapleton, Lynch, Dennison, Patier, McPhee, I. DeMontcourt, Nester and L. Scherrer. The addresses were well read, and were inclosed in covers beautiful in design and painting. At the close of the entertainment Rev. Father Walsh and Professor Hoynes.of the University

THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
addressed a few words of commendation to the young ladies. The Retiring March, by Schubert, closed the celebration.
The day was indeed a happy one, and when the last prayer had been said and the evening hymn sung, good wishes still ascended from grateful hearts to the Giver of all blessings in behalf of Very Rev. Father General.
Address Read on St. Edward’s Day to Very Rev. Fattier General.
Our Venerated Father:
Holy Church in her sublime commemorations varies not her ritual; but, as festivals recur, she chants forth her praises, or moans out her sorrows in words impressive by their very repetition. The heart of the Church changes not, nor do her utterances grow old. To-day does she invite us to honor one of her children, royal in sanctity as well as in lineage. To England’s Confessor, then, do we offer the allegiance of faith and love, the while our hearts go out to him in earnest impetration for our loved Father whose Patronal Feast we celebrate.
What memories come over us as St. Edward’s day dawns in all its autumnal beauty! Angelic spirits seem to draw aside the mists that veil the past. Far back are we carried until there opens to our gaze a young life and, step by step, we trace its path. Love and gratitude paint the picture, and Time’s brush tells us this story: ’Twas France. The breath of winter touched the earth, and held the blossoms spellbound. The pulse of that fair land was beating fast in token of the sad unrest which marked . the times. So wildly did it throb, it heeded not the advent of a soul into the world whose coming was the first link of a blessed chain that formed a sacerdotal life. Baptism’s sacred waters flowed over that soul, and in the newborn heir of Heaven St. Edward found a client.
Year followed year, and noble aspirations rose within that client’s heart’—aspirations whose end was God. To him the winds seemed to bear a message that told of Christ’s vineyard where the “harvest was indeed great, but the laborers few.” To labor in that vineyard meant a severing of all the ties that man holds dear, separation from . home and loved ones—a sacrifice complete. The holocaust was made, and France lost a noble son to America’s most lasting gain.
The glorious standard of Columbia’s land breathed a welcome to the heroic leader of Holy Cross, and under that flag—the fleur-de-lis in his heart—he planted in America’s wilds the sacred symbol of man’s redemption. The uncouth tongue of savages, the sighing of the winds, the gentle murmur of St. Joseph’s River, mingled with the songs of birds, were the first Crux Ave raised to greet the sign of salvation. Predestined from eternity to be an apostle of the cross, everywhere was the cross found, but illumined by the smile of God.
More than fifty years of holy priesthood, and the picture brings us to this day, and behold! from north and south and east and west, borne on the wings of prayer, there come triumphant notes of filial loyalty to swell the song of praise to God that He has so blessed our loved Father. Yes, it is our Father’s feast day, and, though the world extends its hand in greeting, nearer and dearer are your devoted children of St. Mary’s, who offer anew their hearts’ allegiance and their warmest congratulations.
Prayer is the only adequate expression of love; and with most earnest sentiments of gratitude do we raise our souls to Him in whose service your golden years have been spent, to implore for you every grace and blessing. To Heaven’s Queen do we cry, that she may present our pleadings with those of England’s sainted Edward, in behalf of you, our loved Father, whose life’s labors we are now enjoying.
Accept, then, our wishes and prayers; and that the good accomplished by your zeal may lead countless souls with you to the haven of the Sacred Heart, shall ever be the object of our earnest petition.
Wishing you a most happy, holy feast, we are proud to be
Your devoted children of
St. Mary’s Academy.
g a s 4
&

I £ I s
Roll of Honor.

SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Ash, Anson, Ansbach, Bates, Balch, Bernhart, Bogner, Bero, Bovett, Byrnes, Beck, Clarke, Cunningham, Collbrann, A. Cooper, Coll, Currier, Crane,’Curtis, M. Davis, C. Dempsey, N. Davis, Deutsch, Dennison, S. Dempsey, D. Davis, Dorsey, Dolan, M. De Montcourt, I. De Montcourt, Donahue, Ernest, English, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Frost, Green, Ganong, Hammond, Healey, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, H. Hanson, Holt, Hess, Hagus, Harmes, A. Hanson, Hellmann, Hale, Hull, Hutchinson, Hamilton, J. Hughes, L. Hughes, Hepburn, Haight, Jungblut, Kasser, Krimbill, Kelso, Koop-mann, Kimmell, Linneen, Leahey, Lynch, Lauth, Lewis, Leavic, McFarland, Moore, N. Morse, McLoud, Maher, K. Morse, Mills, M. McPhee, S. McPhee, McCarthy, McHugh, Murison, McCune, Mullaney, Miller, Marley, Nickel, Norris, Nacey, H. Nester, L. Nester, O'Brien, Otis, Piper, Pyle, Penburthy, Pendleton, Pugsley, A.Ryan, K. Ryan, Roberts, A. Regan, Rinehart, Rose, Rinn, Robinson,Rentfrow, Reilly, Stapleton, Spurgeon, Studebaker, Schiltz, Shaefer, Skancke, Smith, Schrock, N. Schermerhorn, M. Schermerhorn, Sweet, Saviers, Tormey, Van Mourick, Violette, Woolner, Wickersheim, A. Wurzburg.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Barry, Burdick, E, Burns, Black, M. Burns, E. Cooper, Cooke, M. Clifford, M. Cooper, Culp, Daly, M. Davis, L. Dreyer, B. Davis, L. Ernest, E. Evoy, Farwell, M. Fosdick, M. Hickey, H. Henry, L. Holmes, L. Kasper, C. Kasper, S. Levy, I. Mabbs, M. McCormack, McGuire, Meskill, Mestling, Moore, Northam, A. O’Brien, O’Mara, Palmer, M. Patier, Patrick, Pellinz, F. Philion, Quealy, E. Regan, C. Reeves, Robbins, C. Rtiger, Shirey, M. Scherrer, M. Smith, Soper, J.. Smith, Sweeney, A. Tormey, Thirds, E. Wagner, Waldron, M. Wagner, N. Wurzburg, Wood, Wright, Young.
MINIM- DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Ayer, Crandall, Dennison, M. Egan, Finnerty,-Good win, K. Hamilton, M. Hamilton, L. j McHugh, M. McHugh, Porteous, S. Scherrer, N. Smyth, L. Scherrer, S Smyth.