RM aW	O^nstoll I
WINSTON is the cigarette selected by Capital Airlines to serve passengers aboard the new Viscount.
Of
w
w w inston changed America’s mind about filter smoking! This cigarette gives you real tobacco flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. You know what they say: “Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!”
Winston also brings you an exclusive filter that really does the job. It filters so effectively that the flavor really comes through to you — smoothly and easily. Have fun — have a Winston!


R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CC.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C
.31
< *3
I
35^4
f I N f ! N
fI Lt e * eb
E » F
CIGARETTE

WINSTON TASTES GOOD-
SHOULD


W?
ShokWINSTON
tta ea^^-dnawi^ kw&i clqanzike,! j
GILBERT'S
CAMPUS SHOP
US' a’t'vi.rEi.l
»69S0
May 1st
USE YOUR JUNIOR
EXECUTIVE CHARGE ACCOUNT
Pay
The Home of SKIPPER SPORTSWEAR by Wilson Bros.
You’ll like the Natural Look in men’s clothing! It means trimmer lines . . . narrower at the shoulders . . . tapered sleeves and trousers ... no pleats in the trousers . . . more comfort. See the Natural Look at the Campus Shop . . . in Sport Coats, Shirts. Neckwear. Slacks, and Suits. Natural Look Suits, by Eagle . . .
NO CARRYING CHARGE
^GILBERT'S
January 20, 1956
3
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Jan. 20, 1956 No. 12
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ...News Editor ED JOYCE......................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN...........Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ...........Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON..............Assistant	News -
james McDonald.............Assistant	News
JIM O’BRIEN ...............Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN..................Art	Editor
KEN WOODWARD............Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator DAVE DAVIN .............Sports	Editor
JOHN GLAVIN......................Assistant	Sport*
JOE NORTON.................Assistant Sports
... and get a better shave! Old Spice Pre-Electric Shave Lotion sets up your beard—tunes up your shaver. Stops dragging, dogging and over-heating. The new, non-oily lubricant, “Isophyl”,* prepares the skin for easy gliding... lubricates the shaver cutting edges for greatest efficiency.	JOO Nofederdtax
SHULTON New York • Toronto
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas . Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, Joe Heimoski, Tom Holberg, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mocarski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, David । Schwartz, Jim Stcintrager, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.	1
SPORT STAFF: John Barthel. Patrick DeFoe, Rob- ■ ert Early, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, Frederick Lavin, Raymond' Lescher, James Merz, Brian Moran, Robert Parnell, James Reiher, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff, Richard Sofranko.	Ra
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon, Loran Sheffer. ;
- — - ________________________________ |
Member of Catholic School Press Association, As- 1 sodated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the i school year, except during vacation and examina- , tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-	|
dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185,	I
Notre Dame, Indiana.	,
ON THE COVER Artist Dick Navin emulates the old master, Picasso, in depicting the mephistic part of “hell week” at Notre Dame, the test.
4
The Scholastic

6
by William M. Malloy
all about tests and then some
H'BNRY Trot-la-la, on most occasions a dashing and clever wit, has encountered the problem uppermost in all our minds today, i.e. tests. Yesterday he went to a test looking like a piano-tuner stalking out of the sea shaking off sea-weed. It was 8:30 in the morning. He tried to ignore his questioning stomach and the overbearing feeling of salty suction in his mouth that tasted like a ripped pocket. The clothes seemed to cling desperately to Henry giving the damp appearance that they would surely be left behind. One shoe was somewhat missing.
Henry Trot-la-la kicked his way through the indignant mass of hounds clustered along the quad and entered O’Shaughnessy.
Falling into a complaining chair he tried to arrange his unresponsive body so that it would be in a position least affected by gravity.
“Trot-la-la!”
“Yes, Sir.” (They never did get
along).
“You’re late three minutes!”
“(You dog) I’m sony sir, (hate) but, ah, ah, my uncle called me this morning (drink of water) and he said that my aunt (tried) had (sob) just passed away so (thirst)) I had to call my parents. (Smile.)”
“Very well, take down the following questions: Discuss Hamlet (give up) and his relationship with each of the following people (no pen) keeping in mind through the action of the play with particular attention to the (time?) thematic significance and value (itch) to this pattern for the play as a whole (hole?) 1) Ophelia, 2) Rosencrantz, 3) Guildenstern, 4) Polonius, 5) (STOP) ! Gertrude, 6) Claudius. (What?) The other questions are on the board.”
With extreme effort Henry Trot-la-la organized pen and paper and almost as if he was a disinterested spectator, concepts began to pass through his mind suffering only slight hesitation when they came to the agent intellect. Materializing in movement of the hand he began to write . . .
“Hamlet is a very nice play. I like it very much. It is a very good play. It was very interesting too. I liked that part when Hamlet said ‘To be, or not to be.’ Also that part when he said ‘That is the question.’ I think that was a very nice part.
“Hamlet was written by Julius Shakespeare who was a good author. I like him. His relationship with other people was good. Except with the king whom he killed. But it was all right because the king wasn’t a very good king anyway.”
Being the first one finished with the test he went to lunch early, walking on snow that crunched like peanut shells. On the way over he was joined by Evering Cupshoe, the boy with the firm foundation. Evering said:
“It must be remembered that in the past few years the student has become an important factor in college life. But this change has brought confusion; for example, the faculty complain that the student has become an I.B.M. toy of the administration. The I.B.M. and the administration complain that the student has become too much like a student. Now the student complains that he is being treated like a dog, and the dogs have no comment, and conversely.
“But there are- three different types of students. The first doesn’t care. His appearance is messy. His books are few
and his note paper borrowed. He is not a member of the Blue Circle.”
“Are you a member?” asked Henry.
A badge of blue and gold hung from the coat of the youth at his side.
“The second,” continued Cupshoe, “is studious. He will have his notes typed and orderly. The corresponding page numbers will be in red opposite the headings. He detests sports, anyone who likes them, and be-bop. Never late for class.
“And the third is studious, goodlooking, rational, and strikes a mean between the first two.”
“What type are you?”asked Trot-la-la.
A badge of blue and gold hung from the coat of the youth at his side.
“Well then, which way is the dining hall?”
“One of the unusual benefits of a large campus is the process of getting food,” continued Cupshoe, “and to become a well rounded man the student need only eat a few times at the cafeteria.”
“I turn off here. ’Bye," said Henry.
“The main and most valuable part of the process,” continued Cupshoe, “is waiting in line. This offers him many opportunities to catch up on his back reading. Some try meditation. However, most of the people prefer to engage in conversation. I know of a case where a very strong Christian was converted to Communism while waiting for his food.” (Cupshoe caught up with another student walking in the same direction.) “And so in this school the student may live a secluded happy life. There are convenient electric plug outlets around his room and soft bells call him to his duty at convenient hours and all of which goes to show how tired you can get of writing a column.”
5
January 20, 1956
I--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------J
A Campus-to-Career Case History
"I take a job from scratch”
The Air Force introduced Forrest I. Hurst to communications. In 1953 he was Communications Officer at Lowry Air Force Base near Denver, Colorado. He was partially responsible for the communications setup of the President’s “Summer White House,” and in this assignment he met members of the local Bell telephone company.
“The telephone people I met,” says Forrest, “were always helpful. I considered them the experts. They gave a very good impression of the Bell System. So three months before I was discharged I wrote to Indiana Bell for an interview, and subsequently I was hired as a Student Engineer.”
Today Forrest is in Indiana Bell’s Engineering Department, working with
carrier facilities—the means by which a number of telephone calls can be sent simultaneously over one circuit.
Forrest is given the basic circuit and equipment requirements for a job. “My boss farms it out to me,” Forrest says, “and I take it from scratch.” Forrest does the complete engineering job. He writes the specifications, including wiring plans and the list of equipment for the job. Then the installers take over.
“I really feel that I’m contributing to the telephone business,” Forrest says. “My wife does too. When we’re in the car we get a kick out of driving by a job that I engineered. Nothing can compare with a career in a business that’s growing as fast as the Bell System. It’s the place to move ahead.”
Forrest graduated in 1952 from Purdue University with an E.E. degree. His career is typical of those which exist in other Bell Telephone Companies, and in Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has more information about Bell System companies.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
6
The Scholastic
f i
Campli Seem
JR. HESBURGH TO LAUNCH MARRIAGE TALKS FEB. 2
800 Seniors to Hear President's 'Courtship' Lecture; Institute Series Continues For Seven-Week Period
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will deliver the initial lecture of the 1956 Marriage Institute in Washington Hall, on Feb. 2 at 7:30 p.m. More than 800 seniors and many of the University’s graduate and married students are expected to hear Father Hesburgh speak on “Courtship.” After- the lecture there will be a ques-£ tion and answer session, followed by a coffee hour in the Student Center.
In his lecture, Father Hesburgh will speak on the background, the normal stages, and the purposes of courtship. After discussing the proper approach to choosing and winning the right girl, he will give the dangers involved in courtship.
The annual Marriage Institute is
• ;.....................................
Juilliard Quartet to Appear At Washington Hall Tuesday
The Juilliard String Quartet will make its seventh annual appearance Tuesday evening when they present a concert in Washington Hall at 8:15 p.m.
Tickets for the concert may be obtained at the Washington Hall box office this evening from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. and on Monday from 11 a.m. to 1:30 W p.m., and from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. There will be no charge for the tickets.
Quartet-in-residence at the Juilliard School of iMusic, New York City, the members are Robert Mann and Robert Koff, violinists, Raphael Hillyer, violinist, and Claude Adam, cellist.
The Juilliard String Quartet has brought to the fore the masterworks of today’s great composers, which have remained inaccessible due to their immense technical difficulties and newness A of musical language. The Quartet is w being brought to the campus in connection with the Concert and Lecture Series.
January 20, 1956
sponsored by the Senior Class and the department of religion, represented by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C. It will consist of six lectures with the final lecture to be delivered on March 22. The Institute’s other speakers will be: Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe, Dr. Louis Leone, Rev. Francis Nealy, O.P., and Dr. and Mrs. Linus Maino.
Tickets for the whole series of six talks are $1. The lectures are open to seniors only.
During his studies and teaching, Father Hesburgh has specialized in the subjects of Christian marriage, Catholic Action, and in the theology of the modern period of the Church. He is the author of God and the World of Man, a widely used college religion text, Theology of Catholic Action, and several pamphlets.
Father Hesburgh was ordained a priest in the Sacred Heart Church on June 24, 1943. Following his ordination, he continued his study of sacred theology at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., receiving his doctorate in 1945.
While in the nation’s capital, Father Hesburgh served as chaplain at the National Training School for Boys and as auxiliary chaplain at nearby Fort Myer, Va. His interest in servicemen and veterans led to his appointment as
COMING SOCIAL ACTIVITIES
Open house will be held tomorrow night at the Student Center for all students and their dates. Recorded music and refreshments will be provided for the couples. Admission will be free.
A similar open house party will be held next Saturday, Jan. 28, it was announced by Pat Logan, Student Senate social chairman.
FR. HESBURGH
Lectures on ‘courtship’.
chaplain to the married veterans and their families when he returned to the Notre Dame campus in 1945. He was named head of the department of religion in 1948 and was appointed executive vice-president of the University in 1949.
Booth Holders Named For 1956 Mardi Gras
Twenty-five selected booths will comprise this year’s Mardi Gras festival, scheduled to start on Feb. 10. These booths have been chosen on the basis of the best money-making ideas submitted.
Organizations and groups to be represented this year are: the Met Club: Oklahoma Club; Hawaii Club; Dillon Hall; Press Club; Phy.-Ed. Club; Texas Club; Villagers; Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club; Zahm Hall; A.I.R.E.E.; Military Council; California Club; Chicago Club; Commerce Forum; Detroit Club; Italian Club; Architecture Club; Marketing Club; K. of C.; Pacific Northwest; Aesculapians; Chern. Engineers; Finance Club; and Lyons Hall.
A §50 prize will be given to the hall that has the highest percentage of its books sold. Five other individual cash prizes ranging from $75 to $10 will also be awarded.
Awarding of the 1956 Buick Super will take place in the Drill Hall Feb. 14, about 10 p.m.
In keeping with the overall theme of the celebration, a typical Mardi Gras atmosphere will prevail at the ball, held at the Student Center on Feb. 10.
LOCAL THESPIANS AT ‘CAINE MUTINY’ REHEARSALS
Captain Queeg on Wash Hall stand.
Riley, Donahue, Sasseen Capture Lead Roles In Production of 'Caine Mutiny Court Martial'
Allan Riley. Phil Donahue, and Robert Sasseen will star in The Caine Mutiny Court Martial, the second of three productions presented by the University Theater. Five performances will be given beginning Feb. 29 and extending through the first four days of March.
Riley will portray Barney Greenwald, wily middle-aged lawyer and lieutenant in the Navy. Donahue will assume the role of the upright Lieutenant Maryk, second in command of the Caine. Robert Sasseen will perform as Captain
BLUE CIRCLE ORIENTATION
The Blue Circle Honor Society and The Villagers in conjunction with the Student Senate will sponsor-a three-day orientation program Jan. 27-29 for the incoming freshmen of the February semester. The program will be highlighted by an informal get together Sunday afternoon, Jan. 29 from 2 to 5 p.m. in the basement of the Student Center.
Chairman Sil Resciniti announced that Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh. C.S.C., will be the main speaker of the afternoon. Other administrative heads, student leaders, and campus organizations will also be on hand to welcome the incoming freshmen and answer any questions which they might have.
Queeg, whose competence is questioned.
The Caine Mutiny Court Martial, one of the most successfully produced plays in the modern theater, enjoyed a long Broadway run, and won further praise through the performances of two road companies. The play is based on the trial scenes of Herman Wouk’s Pulitzer Prize winning novel The Caine Mutiny, which also was credited as the best World War II novel. The original Broadway cast included Henry Fonda, the late John Hodiak, and Lloyd Nolan in the starring roles. The book was also made into a movie starring Humphrey Bogart, Fred MacMurray, Jose Ferrer and Van Johnson.
The University Theater box office will open February 23 from 2 to 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 to 9 p.m. for ticket sales. Prices will be $1.50 and $1 for the general public and $1 and 75 cents for students, faculty, and employees. Season ticket holders have already accounted for some 750 tickets.
Included in the court martial proceedings will be Reginald Bain as Willie Keith, Gavin King as Torn Keefer, Jim Cooney as Chailee, Pete Wistort as Judge Blakely, Joe Kelly as Urban, Mike Kennedy as Dr. Bird, Benedict Harrington as Dr. Lundeen, George O’Donnell as Capt. Southard and Tom Brady as the Orderly.
The members of the court will be Tom Kiernan, Charles Conway, Kevin Solon, Bill Brisick, Earl Ware, and Joe Ryan.
The court stenographer will be Bernie Gessner.
Heading the technical staff will be John Kent, stage manager. Peter Jan-drisevits will assist him along with David Neal, electrician, Terry Nieuwlandt, stage carpenter, Dick Jones, property chairman, and Robert Moran, publicity chairman.
Alumni Heads Named In Nationwide Voting
A corporation lawyer, a manufacturer, a banker, and a telephone company official have been elected directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, according to results of nationwide ballot- — ing announced by executive secretary™ James E. Armstrong.
Elected to three-year terms on Notre Dame’s alumni board are Oscar John Dorwin, vice president and general counsel of the Texas Co., New York City; Edmond R. Haggar, president of the Haggar Co., a Dallas manufacturer of men’s clothing; Eugene M. Kennedy, vice president of the Bank of America, Los Angeles; and Francis L. “Mike” Layden, district manager of the Indiana W Bell Telephone Co., Evansville.
The new directors will be installed at the January meeting of the alumni board opening today at the Morris Inn on the campus. New officers of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, traditionally chosen from among the twelve alumni board members, will be elected at the Friday afternoon session. During its three-day meeting the alumni board also will consider a new proposed constitution for the Association and confer with officials of the University administration.
Othei- Notre Dame alumni directors include John AV. Brennan, Detroit, Mich.; J. Patrick Canny, Cleveland, 0.; James L. Ferstel, AVilmette, Ill.; Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis, Ind.; Robert H. Gore, Jr., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; John E. McIntyre, South Bend, Ind.; Joseph I. O’Neill, Midland, Texas; and Joseph E. AAHtalen, Des Moines, la. A
ENROLLMENT RESERVATION FEE
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president in Charge of Academic Affairs, pointed out again this week that a $50 enrollment reservation fee must be paid by March 9. He reiterated that students who do not pay the fee by this date will not be included in the enrollment quota and will be denied admission in the fall.
The Scholastic
Femmefatale
Fitting?
Eeeeeeeeee!
UNDER THE IRON RUDB of old blit lively Fiddler Cole, Simple Simon, Jack Horner and various other notables combined their efforts to create a bigger, madder Arts and Letters Ball over the past weekend.
Lest anyone might consider these antics beneath the dignity of the somber students from O’Shaughnessy, FOLIO takes note of the findings of an eminent historian who declares that the same nursery rhymes which peopled the Ball’s entertainers, form the only direct connection of modern society with its mediaeval roots.
Though it is doubtful that chairman Phelan Thompson and his eager crew had this historico-sociological tidbit in mind when they plotted the evening’s festivities, it is an interesting commentary on the lengths to ivhich one can go without escaping the perimeter of a liberal education.
Miss Loretta Gallagher, who graced the transformed center as Queen of the Ball, would probably have had no comment to make on being informed of the fact. Also, the rumor that Cinderella, chosen by a glass slipper fit, would have to have four or fewer toes, has been adequately dispelled.
Although the committee was unable to make arrangements to the effect that ■ cars out after the 2 a.m. permissions ; would turn into pumpkins fell through. । great efforts were made to avoid this j possibility.	i
a Mass in Fisher hall chapel, | celebrated by Father Sheedy, Dean of	j
the AB School, the Ball-goers broke	|
fast at the Morris Inn.	•
Later in the day, the couples parted, ! still feverishly trying to think of clever “Variations On a Theme By Gum”.
January 20, 1956
a Qlance
impoverished parents but he refuses to' stay with the new owners. The story concerns his wanderings over the countryside while heading home.
Unconquered, (Begins next Thursday) ; Paulette Goddard and Gary Cooper have the leads in this re-issue. Pretty old!
AVON
Diane, (Starts tonight and runs through next Wednesday); A-2; “She animated a century,” says a French biographer speaking of Diane de Poiters, 16th century mistress of France’s Henry II, who actually ran that country. Lana Turner, 16th century apparel et al., fails to do a convincing job as Diane though.
Guys and Dolls, (Begins next Wednesday); B; This musical needs little more to recommend it than the stars, Marlon Brando, Jean Simmons, Frank Sinatra, and Vivian Blaine. But there’s much more to it than that. An excellent cast, portraying Runyonesque Broadway characters and well-done camera work make for some very fine entertainment. However, 150 minutes is a long time for any movie and, can Marlon sing?
COLFAX
The Square Jungle, (Now through next Tuesday); Tony Curtis, in the role of a boxer, shows himself a performer in this story of a San Francisco youth who rises to the highest rung of the pugilistic ladder. Three championship fights take place in the course of a story that runs off smoothly except for a few wobbly spots at the end.
Ransom, (tentatively set for next Tuesday); The story is decayed and too well-aired to be of much entertainment A small boy is kidnapped and there’s an argument as to whether or not the ransom money should be paid. Glenn Ford as father decides, against Donna Reed’s protests, not to pay. The boy gets back and the story ends happily for the sentimentalists.
GRANADA
Indian Fighter, (Now through next Wednesday) ; B; As you can probably guess, the title presages another hackneyed cowboy-indian story. This one is a little better than usual, thanks in small part to Kirk Douglas.
All That Heaven Allows, (Beginning next Thursday) ; The stars of Magnificent Obsession, Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson, return in this fairly good story of a widow’s search for happiness. Jane can’t seem to find the right man until Rock comes along; then she is inhibited by her grown children, but love finally finds a way. Jane does her usual fine acting job and Rock does well in a poor role.
PALACE
Treasure of Pancho Villa, (Tonight till next Monday); A-2; A blood-and-thunder movie from the first train robbery to the last bloody machete duel. The story, if you can call it that, revolves around some buried gold and Pancho’s uprising in Mexico. Roy Calhoun and Shelley Winters play the leading parts in a story highlighted by real Mexican scenery.
Also, Dig That Uranium, A-l; Leo Gorcey, Huntz Hall, and the Bowery Boys return in one of their usual zany stories—this one a tale of intrigue and danger while prospecting for the aforementioned precious metal.
ON THE 24TH, IN PERSON, Gene Autry and Gale Davis (TV’s Annie Oakley). All seats will be reserved; get your tickets now, kiddies!
Kiss the Blood Off My Hands, (Begins on Wednesday) ; A re-issue. Starring in this gory-story is Burt Lancaster. Also, Johnny Stoolpigeon; Another re-issue. Capsule comment, a lousy fare.
RIVER PARK
Purple Plain, (Tonight and tomorrow); Along with Lone Gun, this makes another trite combination of run-of-the-mill movies. These two are no different from thousands that have been turned out in the last thirty years—absolutely worthless.
Drum Beat, (Sunday through next Wednesday); Another indian story. Alan Ladd is the hero who heads west on orders of President Grant to placate some redskins, but can’t. The “good guy” wins, naturally. Also, Gypsy Colt; Sort of a “Lassie Come Home” with a horse instead of a dog. The horse is sold by a little girl’s
10
STATE
The Vanishing American, (Tonight' ( and Tomorrow); A-l; Adapted from a Zane Grey novel, this picture shows great promise of being another maudlin enactment, rather re-reenactment of the dying indian race. Why can’t they vanish from the screen too? Accompanying this, The Lonesome Trail; A picture too putrid to be classified as poor.
Rebel Without A Cause, (Sunday through Tuesday), A-2; James Dean, g in the title role, does a fine job of por-" traying a juvenile delinquent in California. His fine performance shows that a promising star died in an auto accident a few months ago. Also, Beachhead; A-2; Story of the Marines in the South Pacific during World War II. Frank Lovejoy, Tony Curtis, and Mary Murphy are entangled in a love triangle that highlights interest and makes for a good movie.
Strawberry Roan and Loaded Pistols, with Gene Autry playing the hard-riding hero in both rancid shows. A fabulous double feature for the kids.
’ Reviews by Bob Sedlack
CONCERT
The Juilliard String Quartet is scheduled to perform at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday, January 24, in Washington Hall.
THE UNIVERSITY ART GALLERY
O’Shaughnessy Hall is exhibiting Mes-^ trovic’s sculptures and its collection of Peruvian pottery. The Mestrovic collection will remain only until the 31st of this month. There has also been a recent addition of ten paintings to the art gallery.
WSND
Regular programming has terminated for this semester and will resume again Monday January 30th. From the 15th through the 29th there is F.M. music every day.	£
WNDU
Tonight: High School Basketball, 7:55. Basketball Scoreboard, 9:30. Bandstand, 10:15. Tomorrow: Top Pops, 4:20. Week In Review, 5:45. Saturday Night Dancing Party, 9:40. Sunday: Campus Quiz, 4:00, Music You Want, 10:30. Weekly, Out of the Sack, 6:008:00. Sammy Kaye Show, 12:15.
WNDU-TV
Tonight: Celebrity Playhouse at 8:30. Also, Lamplight Theatre, 10:30. Tomorrow: 7:00, Perry Como Show. Sunday: 7:00, Comedy Hour. 9:30, Sunday Cinema. Weekly, 10:05 Sports Final.
The Scholastic * ।
SkowcaAe
a goodnight in lakeview
^by Tony Speranza
ONLY THE BOLDEST INSECTS dared chat near the Petersons’ summer residence in the evening. Silence was the rule after ten o’clock, and this regulation was strictly enforced by the master of the house, Mister Peterson. It had been a rather peaceful summer until. . . .
Shortly after twelve one night, a Hollywood-muffled convertible sprang onto a gravel driveway and dug in directly beneath Mister Peterson’s bedroom window. Audrey Peterson was returning home from her first date with Tommy Miller. Audrey, a fetching lass of seventeen, was still thrilled by the prospect of the wonderful evening. Unwittingly, she had allowed her unsuspecting escort to bring his hotrod to a roaring stop on the most perilous spot in the little township of Lakeview.
“You don’t live very far from the lake. You’re lucky.”
“Please don’t talk so loud, Tommy. My dad is sleeping in that room up there.”
“I’m sorry; I didn’t know.”
“That’s all right. Talk low. He doesn’t like to be disturbed.”
There was no sign of life in the window above, and the couple breathed more easily.
Two heads were brought to a whispering distance in the silent darkness. Throughout the evening Audrey and Tommy had made valiant efforts to create good impressions. Both realized the importance of a graceful parting.
“I had a wonderful time tonight, Tommy. In fact, I don’t know when I’ve had a better time.”
“I’m glad you liked it. I always have a good time when I go out. There isn’t any sense in going out if you’re not going to have a good time.”
Audrey’s eyes glowed with admiration when she heard this!
Tradition holds that no self-respecting young lady should allow a boy to kiss her on the first date. However, Tommy Miller was the Prince Valiant of the high school football team. To Audrey he was the catch of the year. For Tommy, some allowances could be made. She lingered awhile.
Tommy, sensing her willingness to be kissed, would have liked nothing bettei-than to do just that. But even though his Charles Atlas frame suggested a
January 20, 1956
healthy constitution, the boy was a victim of that dreaded allergy known as hay fever. At the moment, the unmerciful pollen in the atmosphere was causing a very annoying tickling sensation in his nose. A feather playing with the membranes of his nostrils would have been less bothersome. Tommy shuddered when he thought of being forced to pause in the middle of a kiss to facilitate a sneeze. What was even more disconcerting was that Tommy’s sneezes often rivaled the blast of the history-making trumpets that crumbled the walls of
Coffey Vindicated
An editorial blunder on the part of Folio last week, did injustice to the person of Paul Coffey, author of the article on the Notre Dame expansion program. Lest Mr. Coffey and other fearful staff members abandon the sinking ship, Folio herein tenders its most humble apologies.
Jericho. He gazed up at the dark bedroom window and suddenly it seemed lower.
Time passed and Audrey grew restless. Yet she was becoming no more irritated than poor Tommy’s tickling nose.
“Why do you keep rubbing your nose. An itchy nose usually means a fight you know.”
Tommy answered her with a smile, silently assuring her that there was nothing wrong. He knew that a sneeze was inevitable, and he attempted to say goodnight as quickly and as pleasantly as possible: “Well, I guess I’d better be going now. It’s late, and your dad is liable to start wondering where you are.”
Tommy could not risk a kiss.
Most girls pride themselves in that they can “see right through” boys. Audrey thought she detected some shyness in Tommy; she would not be put off so easily. She decided to take the initiative. Suddenly she tightened her arms around his neck and pressed her lips over his. A wet nose nibbed against her soft cheek. Tommy’s struggles were interpreted by Audrey as the motions
of an ardent lover trying to put more than the usual effort into a kiss. She struggled with him and pressed even harder, not suspecting that he was about to sneeze.
Finally, Tommy could stand it no longer. He took Audrey by the shoulders and pushed hei- away with such a powerful thrust that the car door handle dug cruelly into her back. She screamed. At the same time, Prince Valiant let loose a loud blast that spread a glistening spray on the windshield, the door and Audrey.
Then all hell broke loose. What followed has never been quite clear to anyone.
A growling face partially hidden by an unruly mass of black hair burst through the bedroom window:
“What on earth are you two doing down there?” shouted Mr. Peterson.
The sound of his voice echoed around the neighborhood. Audrey jumped out of the car, startled. Jones, a neighbor with no hair at all joined the chorus in a sleepy bellow:
“Peterson, will you and that brat of yours please shut up so I can get some, sleep?”
“Daddy, please go back to bed; everything is all right. Please . . .”, Audrey stood in the driveway now, tears trickling down her pretty face from the pain of her injured back and pride.
“Then why are you crying? Did that big ox hit you? I’ll break every bone in his body.” Mr. Peterson was waking fast.
“Peterson! Shut up!”
“Mind your- own business, Jones,” shouted the aroused Peterson. “There’s something wrong with my little girl?”
“I’been trying to tell you that ever since she was bom.” returned Jones. “Now shut up and go to bed.” He slammed the window shut.
Taking advantage of the momentary break, Audrey turned to the car window:
“Tommy Miller, I hate you.” She said tearfully, making up in emotion what she lacked in originality. “I never want to see you again.”
“Now listen to me, young man . . began Mr-. Peterson again, recovered from the verbal blast of his neighbor. “I want to talk to your father . . .”
As he continued, his voice gathered volume. The Jones window flew open with a bang and the frustrated Jones shattered the night with an inarticulate roar.
Still wiping his nose, Tommy Miller looked from Mister Peterson to Audrey to the raging countenance of the neighbor. It had been a hard evening. At last, he could take no more. With a deafening roar, the motor of his hopped-up jalopy exploded to life; flinging a twin spui-t of dust across the scene, the hotrod took off, carrying its taillight out of sight down the darkened street.
11

THE TASTE IS GREAT!
■>
/A
©A. T. CO
FILTER TlpTAREYTON
I lere you have the best in filtered smoking— Filter Tip Tareyton, the filter cigarette that smokesA milder, smokes smoother, draws easier — the only one that gives you Activated Charcoal filtration. All the pleasure comes thru...the taste is great!
V>s4#&&
1


PRODUCT OF
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
12
The Scholastic
Jliik Sum
IRISH PLAY HOOSIERS AFTER LAY-OFF
^Cogers 'Take Break' For Semester Exams, Then Hit Road Against I.U., Loyola, Butler
After a two-week layoff for final exams, Notre Dame’s rather frustrated eagers will try to accomplish on the road what they have been none too successful in doing on the tradition-worn Fieldhouse court—to win a few ball games.
Indiana’s Hoosiers present the first obstacle on Jan. 30 at Bloomington. Coach Branch McCracken’s boys came out on top in a 73 to 70 affair here last year. Our neighbors from Bloomington have taken eight out of their first eleven battles. Two of their three losses were thumpings by the powerful St. Louis and Illinois quintets.
Chief offensive threats for the Hook siers are senior forward Wally Choice, currently averaging 19.4 points a game to lead the club in that department, and
BOB DEVINE
Sparkplug—at home or away.
a 6-foot 8-inch sophomore center with a 16.3 average, Archie Dees. Other top scorers are junior guard Hallie Bryant, who contributed greatly to Notre Dame’s downfall last year, and the very promising sophomore, Charley Brown.
The 6-foot 4-inch Choice is a good rebounder and can score from practically anywhere on the floor. His main fault is inconsistency. Dees is an agile and speedy big man whose best shot is a jump from the right side. His hook
is not considered first class.
Loyola provides the Irish with plenty of opposition in the first game of a Saturday night doubleheader at the Chicago Stadium on Feb. 4. On Dec. 7, Notre
PROFESSIONAL BASKETBALL
The Ft. Wayne Zollner Pistons basketball team, in cooperation with the Student Senate are sponsoring a Notre Dame excursion to the St. Louis-Ft. Wayne game in Elkhart, Ind. on the evening of Feb. 4.
Price for reserved seat .game ticket and transportation to and from Elkhart will be $1.50. Watch campus bulletin boards for time and place of ticket sales.
Busses will depart from the circle and return immediately after the game.
The trip is open to all Notre Dame personnel.
Dame, although never leading in the first half and trailing with only 23 seconds left in the overtime, edged the Ramblers 85 to 84 in an ulcerized atmosphere.
Sixteen times the Ramblers have clashed with the Irish, and sixteen times they left the court with bowed heads. The possibility of Loyola registering its first victory against Notre Dame appears alarmingly good. Coach George Ireland will certainly have his victory-starved Chicagoans foaming at the mouths for the Feb. 4 rematch.
While the Ramblers have won their five games only against second rate opposition, they have made excellent showings against such teams as Marquette, Purdue, and Notre Dame.
Ireland has been desperately searching for an effective first string five since the season opened. Nine players have seen extensive action so far. Only Capt. Jerry Lyne, a senior who missed the first Notre Dame encounter, and 6-foot 8-inch sophomore center George Burmeister are now assured of starting assignments. Individual scoring averages are at a low ebb because of the free substitution employed by Ireland.
The 5-foot 10-inch Lyne holds the key
WALLY CHOICE
Hoosier with 19 plus.
to Loyola’s basketball fortunes. The little guard is an excellent playmaker who has a deadly long shot, can drive, in, and specializes in free throws.
Sophomore Art McZier, and Jim De Wulf, junior Joe Shirk, and senior Ed Stube are all capable of scoring a lot of points. Stube hit for 23 at Notre Dame but has averaged only 8.4 since. Senior Ken Howard may see considerable action at guard.
In view of Notre Dame’s 83 to 69 conquest of Butler in the Fieldhouse early in January, the team’s jaunt to Indianapolis on Feb. 7 should be a profitable one. Although the Bulldogs have dropped more than they have won, their wins over Wisconsin and Michigan indicate that they can be dangerous.
Bob Plump, a 5-foot 11-inch sophomore who registered 18 points in the first Notre Dame-Butler game, leads the Bulldogs with a 14-point average. A 6-foot 4-inch freshman, Sheddrick Mitchell, who racked up 10 points against Notre Dame and looked good doing so, could steal the show for Butler. Senior Dave Sheetz, a guard, and sophomore forward Ted Guzek both average over 10 points a game. Coach Paul Hinkle’s lads are hampered by inadequate height.	.
The winner of this game will receive the Albert Feeney Trophy. The late Mr. Feeney was a contemporary of the great Knute Rockne. No matter what happens, the Irish are sure to get a good workout in all three contests.
January 20, 1956
13
PAUL LEITZINGER
Form without a coach.
Gymnasts Open Jan. 28 Against Northwestern
Irish gymnasts will unveil their streamlined ’56 version of the Notre Dame Gymnastic Club Jan. 28, when Northwestern journeys to the Drill Hall for the opening meet at 2 p.m. The coachless Irish squad faces a powerful team which hardly felt the touch of graduation among its ranks, while Notre Dame lost four heavy-point men from last year.
After a 1-1 record with the Wildcats last season, Capt. Ev Hatch, Paul Leitzinger, and Bill and Jim Brunot return to lead the Irish through their paces.
Ringmaster Hatch performs on the high bar along with Leitzinger, while the Brunot brothers tackle the parallel bars. Although ten or twelve men will see action for Notre Dame, the remaining starters are still uncertain.
Charlie Ollinger returns from last year to handle the horse and trampoline, and Roy Williams is springing from the ranks to work the rings. Some of the promising Frosh include Doug Gon-. zales, Ed Lahey, Art Raymond, and
Dennis Ryan.
Northwestern throws a solid punch in the form of Ken Dahlberg, a threat in every event. Dahlberg led the Wildcats against the Irish last year, and hopes to trip them again.
Notre Dame faces a rough road for 1956, meeting some of the strongest teams in the Midwest. These squads hold varsity status, and are able to farm talent with rugged high school experience. The Irish, hoping to boost their 3-6 record of last year, face a manpower shortage.
14
'Cats, Hawkeyes Next ForVictorious Fencers
The unbeaten Notre Dame fencers, sporting a 5-0 season record as a result of last weekend’s triple victory over Detroit, Indiana Tech, and Case, do not expose their two-year 11-meet winning streak again until Feb. 4 when they travel to Iowa City for a triangular meet with Northwestern and Iowa. The Irish swordsmen will1 be anxious to avenge last year’s two 14-13 defeats at the hands of the lowans. Coach Walter Langford sees the meet as “a big test” for his charges. Besides facing a “troublesome” Northwestern squad, they will have to shake off the effects of a three-week layoff.
In sweeping past Detroit 16-11 last Friday, the Blue and Gold defeated a team which Coach Langford termed “one of the best we’ll meet all season.” Led by Julio Vizcarrondo’s three wins in as many bouts, Notre Dame won the foil event 7-2. Capt. Don Tadrowski, last year’s NCAA epee champion, aided the locals’ 5-4 victory with three wins. In the 14th and deciding bout, Jerry Isaacs clinched the victory with a 5-0 win in the sabres.
Case and Indiana Tech offered little resistance as the Irish swept to an 18-9 and 22-5 double win in the triangular meet held in the Fieldhouse.
In the Case meet, as in every meet this year, the foil was the pacesetter, with the ND fencers fashioning a rare 9-0 shutout. In defeating Tech the foilsmen fared only slightly worse as nine different swordsmen combined in an 8-1 victory. Jack Friel, Mel Fox, and Viz-carrondo, all with three wins and no losses, paced the foilmen in the two meets.
After dropping the sabre event to Case 6-3, the Irish again used nine different men in walloping Tech 8-1.
Wrestlers Decision Miami; Crowley Qualifies For Letter
Captain Terry Crowley became the first Notre Dame wrestler to qualify for a varsity monogram as he gained his twentieth point of the season in the Irish victory over Miami of Ohio last Saturday.
Crowley, a junior from Sorin Hall and Omaha, Neb. pinned his 147 pound opponent in 7:27 to win the match and the vital points.
Five of the Irish matmen contributed to the 21-9 victory. 123 pounder Buddy Day won by default when his opponent failed to make the weight. Sophomore Bob Pivonka 136 pounds won a decisive 15-4 victory and was followed by Crow-
Tankmen Defeat Xavier
As Garrity, Regan Shine
The Notre Dame Swimming Club won its first meet of the year last Sunday with a 60-24 victory over Xavier University of Cincinnati in the Rockne Memorial.
The Irish captured seven of the ten firsts with Jim Garrity and Mike Regan ” each winning two events. Garrity won the 200-yard individual medley and 200-yard backstroke. Regan won the 50-yard and 100-yard free style. Paul Kerwin of the Irish finished a close second to Regan in both events.
Ed Healy took first in the diving with Joe McNellis finishing second. Jim Swain won the 440-yard free style and the Irish relay team of Kerwin, Bill Holland, Tom Londrigan, and Jim Hilliard won the 400-yard free style relay.
The next opponent for the Irish will be Ball State. The meet has tentatively been scheduled for- Feb. 18 at Ball State.
ED HEALY
Form and a first place.
ley’s win.
Junior Bob Calabrese lost a decision in the second bout.
Chuck Henzy grappled the full time limit in the 157 pound match but lost 7-2. Senior John Gavin was edged in the following match 2-1.
These two Miami wins brought the score to 13-9 in favor of the Irish. Jack Armstrong 177 pounds overcame his opponent pinning him in a quick 1:39 to clinch the match for Notre Dame.
Bob Salvino wrapped it up by outpointing his foe in the heavyweight match.
The Miami win gave the Irish their third victory against one loss.
The Scholastic
*Thinclads Face Purdue In Opening Meet Feb. I
The Notre Dame track team Avill begin its indoor season facing Purdue University Wednesday, Feb. 1, in the Irish fieldhouse.
The combination of ten returning let-^termen and a promising group of sophomores is the reason for Coach Wilson’s belief that this year’s team has more potential than any other he has coached.
Co-captain Alex Pestrichella, Frank Hall, Aubrey Lewis, Joe Foreman, and Tom Rohrer will give the thinclads solid depth in the dashes. Bernie Allard, Booker Rice, and Lewis will be scheduled for action in both the high and fe., low hurdles.
• Mike Kearns, Tom Sanfacon, and Al
lard will compete in the high jump. Jim Redmond, John Stevenson, and Jack Cote will combine to represent the Irish in the pole valuting event. Byron Beams, Ben Zajeski, Frank Geremia, and Mike Kaufman give Coach Wilson four capable performers in the shot put. Sophomore Don Farley, Cote, and Lewis give the Irish a definite threat in the broad jump.
Bill Keegan along with two promising sophomores, Frank Hemphill and Barkley Evant, hold the positions for the 440-yard dash. Al Porter and Dale Vandenberg will attempt to fill the shoes of Al Schoenig in the 880. Co-Capt. Bill Squires, Ed Monnelly, and Vic Dillon give the Irish real strength in the one-mile run. Jim Daley, Neil Wallace, John Michno, and Dick Di Camillo will compete in the two-mile run.
Tennis Squad Prepares For Rugged Schedule
The 1956 varsity tennis team, which has been holding informal workouts in the fieldhouse since the start of classes, is slowly rounding into form. Although Coach Samson lost his one and two men, Wally Clarke and Morry Reidy, through graduation, he feels that this year’s squad will be better balanced than last year’s.
This year’s racketmen face an 18-game schedule beginning during the Easter vacation with the annual southern trip to North Carolina. Samson feels that this year’s opponents will be much improved over last year and foresees some tough matches for the Irish this Spring.
Opportunity
for technical graduates with Goodyear
Representatives of The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company will be here on the date shown below to interview Seniors who will receive B.S. or advanced degrees in the following fields of technical study:
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING 1
CIVIL 8 ENGINEERING
There’s a career for YOU at Goodyear in any of the following fields:
•	PLANT ENGINEERING • MACHINE DESIGN
•	PROCESS DEVELOPMENT • RESEARCH
•	FACTORY MANAGEMENT • TECHNICAL SALES
• PRODUCTION DEVELOPMENT
Contact your student placement office now — plan now to have a personal interview!
f
j Goodyear representative will be here on •
>	;
I Wednesday, February 8 J
I__________________________________j
THE GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER COMPANY
January 20, 1956
DON'T FORGET
INTERVIEW with
BABCOCK & WILCOX
Tuesday, February 7
DEGREES	•OILER DIVISION	TUBULAR PRODUCTS DIVISION	REFRACTORIES DIVISION	ATOMIC ENERGY DIVISION	RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Mechanical Engineering	X	X	X	X	X
Ceramics Engineering			X		X
Chemical Engineering	X		X	X	X
Civil Engineering	X			X	
Electrical Engineering	X			X	
Engineering Physicists				X	X
Physicists				X	X
Fuel Technologists	X				X
Industrial Engineering	X	X		X	
Metallurgical Engineering	X	X		X	X
Metallurgists	X	X		X	X
Business Administration and Engineering	X			X	
Chemists				X	X **
Nuclear Engineering				X	X
All you need is background in one of the fields listed in the left-hand column above and a pencil to check the activities you want to talk about when the B&W representative appears on your campus. He’ll be there on the date shown above...
He wants to see you.
J
I BABCOCK
161 East 42nd St., N. Y. '7, N. Y.
Sailing Team Begins 9 Boat Racing Seminars
The Sailing Team will begin the first of a series of seminars on “Sailboat Racing” on Feb. 1. The meetings will be held in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Hall at 7:30 p.m. These sessions will begin with a half hour introduction to the subject matter to be covered in the sem-^ inar, followed by an hour of discussion on the subject.
There will be no charge for these discussions and they are open to both faculty and students. The only requirement is some knowledge of sailing, since the seminars will deal entirely with racing.
The topics for the seminars are starting, rigging, tuning, crew, beating, reaching and rounding marks, running^ and finishing, and theory, rules and summary.
It is the aim of this program to bring about an increased knowledge of racing in an interesting manner. Those who will be chairmen at the various seminars are Ray Nelson, commodore of the Sailing Team; Bernie D’Almeida, who took third place in the Snipe Championship of Lisbon, Portugal; Ron Meissner, a past Junior Champion on Lake Michi- r gan; Lou Morgan, series champion on" Lake La Belle, Oconomowoc, Wis.; and Joe Boland, Jr., second place man in the regatta at Diamond Lake, Mich.
The seminars, sponsored by the Sailing Team, will be directed by Mike Crowe, holder- of the Red Cross Sailing Instructors Award; Al Woolsey, a veteran sailor on Lake Michigan; and Don Gillies, a Lightning sailor from Long Island Sound, N. Y.
ND Civil Engineers Install Officers For New Semester
The local student chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers installed their new officers for the 1956 spring and fall semesters on Jan. 11, the last meeting of the semester.
Elected to the office of president, in elections held before Christmas, was Richard Cunningham. Taking over as vice-president was Arnold E. Schwartz, and William R. Jible was named secretary; Joseph R. Pioniclia became the new treasurer. All officers are juniors.
Also at the meeting, a special award was presented to Richard Jacob a senior from Elgin, Ill., for his outstanding work with and for the chapter. The award is one which goes to a non-officer senior in recognition of his efforts. The award is not an annual presentation, and is given only when there is an outstanding candidate. Jacob, as program chairman, was responsible for bringing A many top speakers to the campus. He " also has been active in the annual Engineering Open House.
16
The Scholastic
£.....................................
NROTC TEAM HERE TUESDAY
Representatives from the Naval ROTC will be present at the Dining Hall on Jan. 23, 24, and 25 from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. for the purpose of explaining Officer Candidate Program open to graduates.
Principal openings are in the Of-fleers Candidate School, Newport, R. I., and in the Aviation Officer Candidate training program at Pensacola, Fla.
The interviews are being made available primarily to assist the graduating class, but inquiries from members of other classes will be welcomed.
Engineers Announce Open House Theme
Chairman Bill Brehl announced last week that the theme for the 1956 Engineering Open House will be “The Engineer—Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow.” Presented by the students in the College of Engineering, the Open House puts the Notre Dame engineer and engineering in general on display to the public on April 20, 21, and 22 this year.
In keeping with the theme the displays and student-constructed projects will portray the evolution of engineering and its future contributions. Thus the Auto Show will present both experi
mental models, the cars of the future, and antique autos, the cars of the past.
Among the student projects will be a demonstration of a new type of refrigeration which uses only two metals and an electric current. An exhibit on solar power is planned by the chemical engineers, while other displays will show new types of concrete construction and the rayon making process.
This year the Engineering Open House will use one color scheme as far as possible for all displays and advertising. Green, the color traditionally associated with the engineering profession, and white have been chosen as the colors. Such a device it is hoped will help integrate the various phases of the Open House.

repi
* . .-tes and Undergrad®®*®5 Graduatesa■	M PHYS1CS, aw
ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, AERO
find yourself
in the most diversifiedI aircraft company in *• industry n A 1bcr AFT CORPORATIO1 GOODYEAR AlRCRAr*
• 0 Departments in Akron, ?ded missiles, guidai The Engineering PaU phases of gn^	Specialists
Arizona, areas && d ®dopment of analog co Wy important to systems and mechanism, circuitry, e c. e\ectronic, electromicrowave, serv	departments req	d aeronautical
these operations. Other P	propulsion, departments
development engm	industrs' “	wheels and brakes,
which cater to the e	radoines, airplay aperture an-
tennasfor gr	.	Goodyear Aircraft	of our
sets-"S
. CONTACT YOUR PLACEMEN s_on w.ih ou,
CORPORAWO*
GOOOY~l"^Akro"’5'owo

January 20, 1956
17
Rack, Paje
by Curt Matthews
»
pure engineering: a myth*
Twice each, year, in February and again in June, the engineering students in colleges across the nation have a most optimistic picture of their futures set before them by the large industrial people who seem to go all out to grab technical talent.
The recruiting of engineering graduates has become more elaborate than the recruiting of good baseball players or high school football stars. The big fuss made over the engineer is, naturally, quite a stimulant to his ego.
However, certain things must be remembered. First, to look upon yourself as indispensable is a pretty dangerous attitude to hold—even if you are.
Technical achievements have made our recent boom era possible. But, mass advertising, financial shrewdness, and social adjustment have also contributed something essential to our present prosperity.
Secondly, I personally wonder if the rosy picture the industrial recruiters paint is really quite so rosy.
The immediate opportunities are made to look just a bit too appealing. Those who have taken the recruiters at their word sometimes find things something less than they were led to believe.
This point is supported by the one common complaint coming from the recent engineering graduate today. It seems that the budding engineer too often finds himself engaged in doing a lot of menial jobs that have really little or nothing to do with pure engineering.
While the engineer might find this less than what he expected, I think it’s something he should have been made to realize in college and something that, while it may seem to him a waste of his talents, is actually in itself good for him.
It’s foolish to delude ourselves with the idea that good engineers are more needed in our expanding industrial setup than good sociologists, good business men, or good artists. There is, and always will be, a demand for a good anybody. And good engineers, like good business men or artists, should have a period of “apprenticeship.” It’s an experience that is needed to complete any education—commercial, artistic or technical.
IS
But, because of the present pitch made by the industrial recruiter, some engineers may feel a slight sense of having been taken in when they finish their training periods and still find themselves doing menial, un-engineering work.
One of the reasons why I think everyone should be made to serve a period of apprenticeship is that such periods give an appreciation for the problems and work of others in the organization.
Slowly but surely the errors of the kind of special in-plant training period set up by most of the industrial concerns is being recognized.
The top brass of industry is beginning to express openly that to take a man who has concentrated for four years on getting through a tough course in college engineering then send him through a six months’ of specialized plant training so he can manage the particular problems of the industry, does little more than create perfect specimens of the “skilled barbarian.”
Management is now beginning to see the impossibility of pure engineering. Pure engineering, like pure finance, or pure economics, or pure law, just doesn’t exist in today’s industrial set-up.
Pure art or pure science can exist— pure engineering can’t, simply because art and science can exist in themselves without ncessarily having social repercussions. Engineering is intended to have social repercussions.
Foi- that reason an engineer must be aware of the economic, social, and artistic influences not only of the projects he works on but also of the industry he works in.
I recently learned that schools like MIT, Carnegie Tech, and Rensselaer Polytech have worked out and /or strongly encouraged extensive five-year programs in which a student takes most of his classes for three years in liberal arts and then transfers to an engineering school for the rest of his education.
His work in liberal arts is intended to give the future engineer the ability to communicate with the outside world—inhabited by labor representatives, company executives, advertising men, artists, and lawyers.
To take the naive attitude that the engineer will be able to go quite far in
the world equipped only with a well oiled slide-rule neglects the fact that even engineers live in a society and work in an industry made up of other people with other jobs and other interests.
The engineer need not have an expert knowledge of art, economics, law and £ sociology but he must try to develop ' usable appreciation of the problems men who must deal with these things have. He should try to forget pure engineering—because it just doesn’t exist.
To what degree of misdirection the glorification of engineering and technical training can lead is seen in those who hold the opinion that engineers should be the people in the driving seat of production, that is, deciding what, when and how much should be produced.
Such people believe that, with the commercial, social, and artistic shackles removed, production would be accelerated by the freed hands of the technicians.
What such people fail to see is that we’ll soon be overrun with better mouse traps even after we run out of mice. Too many engineers have the idea that the solving of the engineering problem £ is an end in itself. Obviously it isn’t. Without the social need the problem won’t exist.
To become fascinated in the project for the project’s sake alone may give great satisfaction to the engineer but does little in the way of improving our lives and our living—which should be the real goal of the engineer.
Engineers may be indispensable, but so are a lot of other people. Industry isn’t all technical—though we may at £ times think so. And as essential as the work of the engineer may be, the biggest accomplishments still, come from men like Henry Ford who revolutionize their industry by solving not just a technical problem but a problem of organization as well.
The ability to do that rests not merely on a knowledge of physics, chemistry, and mathematics (although it may surely include these). It rests on a knowledge of general information and an ap-t preciation of its application.
Skilled barbarians may be useful—but considerably less so than skilled humans.
. The Scholastic
GEORGE M. LINCOLN, JR. expects to receive his B.S. in metallurgical engineering from Lehigh University in 1957. George is active in sports, vice president ot his junior class, and a participant in many other campus activities. He’s starting his employment investigations early, for he feels that the selection of an employer is one of the most important decisions in a man’s career.
George Lincoln asks:
What do metallurgists do in a chemical company?
CHARLES I. SMITH, JR. received his B.S. Ch.E. from V.P.I. in 1943, served in the Navy as an engineer officer, and joined Du Pont’s Engineering Department in 1946. Since then he has advanced steadily through a number of interesting assignments at various Du Pont plants. Today Charlie Smith is technical superintendent of Du Pont’s Newport, Delaware, Plant, Pigments Department.
Metallurgists and Metallurgical Engineers can find some of Charlie Smith’s challenging new problems described in “Engineers at Du Pont.” For a free’copy of this booklet write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
REG. U.S. PAT. Off.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH “DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV

Charlie Smith answers:
They have an almost endless variety of interesting problems to face, George. As a student of metallurgy you know that about two-thirds of all known chemical elements are metals. Many of them are revealing valuable new applications, when highly purified on a com- ’ mercial scale. Du Pont is greatly interested in several * metallic and semi-metallic elements.
My own experience at Du Pont ranges from work on titanium pigments, to metallic titanium production, . and to the ultra-pure silicon used in transistors. You can appreciate some of our metallurgical problems when I point out that impurities in transistor silicon have to be below one part in 100 million. That’s equivalent to one pound^of impurities distributed through a train of •ore cars twenty miles long!
Some of our metallurgists carry out fundamental research on new metals, and, in the development stage, they frequently operate pilot plants for producing them. Other metallurgists study problems relating to engineering materials used in construction, carry out research on intergranular corrosion, or investigate fatigue relationships encountered in dynamic, high-pressure operations.
You’ll find many challenging opportunities in every phase of metallurgy at Du Pont, George.