fNTHESATURMYEVSN/NG POST THTS WEEK'
Pierce. And others.
NOTRE
DAMES
COACH
LAYDEN

tells you about the toughest job in football
“Following a genius in anything is a trying role to play. There was only one Rock.” Thus Coach Elmer F. Layden talks, with Charles Moran, for the first time of how it feels to inherit the job of coaching a team ‘suicide” sched-
with a thousand recruits ules, and a reputation for winning.
I’M FOLLOWING ROCKNE
SHORT STORIES... by Leland Jamieson, Lester Atwell, I. A. R. Wylie, Stephen Vincent Benet, Everett Rhodes Castle.
. How to Make a
SPECIAL ARTICLES..
Movie, by Grover Jones. I Went to Red China, the inside story of China’s united front against Japan, by Edgar Snow . .. Are Fish Citizens? by Frank Richardson
egnm c editorials, humor, cartoons,
ERE’S excitement, football, and love, crammed into a fast new novel by the man who wrote “Pigskin Preview"... All-American prospect Larry Todd hits the campus and declares one-man war against professional, “razzle-dazzle" style football. He even steals the coach’s girl! In four fast installments, starting today.
BEGIN A NEW NOVEL
of love and high-pressure football
by FRANCIS WALLACE
Author of “Kid Galahad” and “TheDouble Ride”
AT YOUR NEWSSTAND

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 71
November 5, 1937
No. 7
YEAR'S BIGGEST PEP SESSION WILL FEATURE BURNING. IN EFFIGY. OF PITT PANTHER
By Graham Starr
“Quarterback Percy Pitt” will be hung, quartered, and burned alive tonight on a huge 25-foot scaffold constructed at the north end of the “Green” Parking Field, as the pre-Pitt game pep rally bursts forth in exuberance tonight. Not
only that, but insult will be added to the four winds.
The fourth in a series of pep meetings characterized by an ever increasing enthusiasm, tonight’s festivities will top them all. Besides the “great execution” of “Percy,” the dummy, there will be an immense bonfire, which, coupled with skyrockets and the regular flares, will present quite a spectacle.
“Red” Barber, WLW announcer, and Warren Brown, of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, will be outside speakers for the rally. The Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, and Elmer Layden constitute the Notre Dame speakers. A last minute attempt may be made to secure Frank Wallace, Notre Dame alumnus whose latest serial is now running in the Saturday Evening Post and also Bill Cunningham of the Boston Post.
John Kelley, cheer meeting chairman, has been mustering rally committees all week for the big event. Signs were placed in the halls to the effect “Whip Pitt,” and the rally committees functioned in much the same manner as they did for the Navy game. The unofficial “dawn patrols” will probably function tomorrow morning as they did before the Navy fray.
The band will start the parade at the Morrissey quadrangle at approximately 7:50, after Benediction.
Bill Costello is chairman of the bonfire committee, consisting of John Hynes, Robert Halbert, and Tom Judge. The wood for the fire was obtained from the business men of South Bend, through the cooperation of Mr. Connelly, campus dining hall manager.
If possible, the pep gathering will be broadcast, at least in part through a local station. John O’Connor and John McMahon are co-workers on the broadcasting and public address system committee. John Wilson is in charge of fireworks.
The Presidents Council, under Charles Callahan, is lending several
when his ashes are scattered to
Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C. Sponsors “Scrip.”
"Little Jamboree" To Feature Radio Week
The “Little Jamboree” with Phil McHugh and his “Modernairs” will be the feature program of the radio week. This program, which is to be tried Monday evening at 9:15, will present a complete campus dance orchestra in several swing selections.
Guests of the program will be Don Tiedeman, singer, and Jerry Hogan, elocutionist. Hogan will repeat his rendition of “The Last Recruit,” the number that brought him many congratulatory letters following its presentation on last year’s Varsity Hour.
Other regular programs of the week include: Monday at 7:45, faculty talk; Tuesday at 7:45, “Music of the Masters”; Wednesday at 4:15, “Man in the Tower” with Redmond Duggan; Thursday at 7:15, a sports program with Steve Miller; and at 7:45, the Department of Music program with a talk by Mr. Elton Cre-peau.
hands to the S. A. C. to help make this the “biggest and best” of the year.
In case of inclement weather, the meeting will be held in the fieldhouse, but afterward “we will burn ‘Percy Pitt’ even if we have to pour gasoline on him.” The speaker was Scott Reardon, S.A.C. president.
'SCRIP* MAKES YEAR'S INITIAL APPEARANCE
Scrip, the Notre Dame literary quarterly magazine, will make its first appearance of the 1937-38 schoolyear on the campus next Friday afternoon, Nov. 12. The students’ .response to the call for Scrip material was especially satisfactory this year and Editor Charles Nelson announced this week that a considerable amount of excellent material is available for this issue.	.
An attractive new cover is being designed by Edward Kort, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from West Palm Beach, Fla. Other drawings by Kort will appear in- this issue and others during the year.
Numerous writings in poetry have been submitted for consideration and some excellent verse writers were uncovered in these contributions. Also appearing in the quarterly will be several pieces of fiction, and a few short stories.
There will be two critical essays. One on “Coventry Patmore,” and another on “Francis Thompson.”
The Freshmen sketches which have been a popular feature in past years will be continued this year. This department is exclusively for-the men of ’41 and they are urged to cooperate by submitting contributions.
Editor Nelson also announced that there would be some new mechanical arrangements in the literary quarterly this year, the exact extent of which has not as yet been determined.
Start Study Groups
William Mahoney, president of the Schoolmen, announced that the society has been divided into four study groups. The Theodicy group is under the leadership of George McMorrow; Philosophy of Communism (Ethics), George Keenen; Philosophical Aspect of Sociology, Jim Dahon; and the Philosophy of Art, August Sidler.
A meeting to form a fifth study group, Legal ethics, was held Thursday evening. A faculty supervisor for each study group will be appointed shortly.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BOB WIDMOR TO PLAY FOR ANNUAL LAWYER'S BALL AT COLUMBIA CLUB. NOV. 12
Q
Next Friday evening, Nov. 12, one of the highlights of the Notre Dame social year will take place, when the annual ball sponsored by the Notre Dame Law Club is held at the Columbia club in South Bend. This year’s ball prom-
ises to be one of the finest yet held.
W. Dohnalek, of Chelsea, Iowa, has secured the services of Bob Widmor and his radio broadcasting orchestra. The Widmor organization is ■well known to the colleges and universities of this section of the country as a favorite wherever college men and women dance.
Among the several innovations planned for* the ball this year is a new method of issuing invitations. This year’s invitations will be sent in subpoena form. The bids will be $2.00.
Anyone is eligible to attend the ball except freshmen. The time of dance will be from 9:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
The president of the Lawyers’ club is Louis Vettel, of Ashtabula, Ohio, and the general chairman in charge of arrangements is George Murphy, of Galesburg, Illinois.
St. Louis Club Formed
A new club makes its appearance at Notre Dame. The St. Louis Club, formed for and by the students of greater St. Louis, has received a charter. Membership in the club at the present time is 25 students. The club was formed at the suggestion of the St. Louis alumni, and has the full and complete backing of that body of men.
At the inaugural meeting of the year, the plans of organization were carried out. Jack Griffin, junior of St. Edward’s hall, was elected president. James Raaf, Howard, was selected as vice-president, and Norvel Hunthousen was chosen secretarytreasurer. It was decided to hold a dinner-smoker some time before the Christmas holidays. The club also plans to hold a Christmas dance, but no definite arrangements were made as to the time and place.
"Dome" Senior Pictures
Pictures of the members of the senior class for the Dome were started Tuesday, Nov. 2, from 1:30. to 5:00 p.m. in the basement of Walsh hall.
Work is moving along at a record pace this year as all the junior pictures have already been taken according to managaing editor, Jim Raaf.
The Dome editors will appreciate all cooperation given the canvassers of the senior halls this week to keep up the speedy work on this year’s edition.
The music committee, headed by Charles
❖------------------------------------
I	"
Lawyer George Murphy
I Arranges Lawyers' Night Out.
Pope's Encyclicals Are Studied by Knights
o
For the purpose of discussing current social problems, four study groups have recently been formed by the Knights of Columbus. These groups, composed of nine members each, meet every week under the direction of a faculty advisor. Special attention is given to the analysis of the encyclicals of Pope Pius XI.
For the purpose of study, 500 of these encyclicals have been obtained which will be distributed to all members, and the remainder given to the local members in South Bend. The aim of the organization is to acquaint the members with the letters of the Holy Father.
The annual football dance, which was held the night of the Navy game, proved to be very successful. The proceeds have been given to the Gi-_ bault Home for delinquent children in Terre Haute, Indiana. The contributions of the Knights of Columbus have greatly aided in the education of these under-privileged boys.
Another first degree initiation will be held on Tuesday, Nov. 9. The last class will be presented on Nov. 30. Students wishing to join the Knights may obtain further details at the Knights of Columbus office in the basement of Walsh Hall.
PLAN ACTIVITIES FOR VARSITY DEBATE
•
The varsity debating schedule, though still tentative in some respects, is starting to take shape. Prof. William J. Coyne, who will lead the debaters again this year, entertains thoughts of a highly successful season.
Both the “A” and “B” debating teams will participate in the Manchester, Indiana, tournament which will be held in the latter part of February. Last year the Notre Dame debaters won nine of the ten engagements at this meeting.
In March the “A” team will engage the University of Iowa. Later in the same month it will take part in a tournament at the University of Wisconsin. Michigan State is also listed as an opponent of the Irish wranglers. Othei- collegiate engagements not as yet determined will swell the list of foes that the debaters ■will encounter before their season is completed.
Notices posted on the bulletin boards advise those who intend to try out for the varsity squad that they should hand in their names to any member' of the Department of Speech. Since everyone is eligible to try for the team, Mr. Coyne expects to see a representative number of men from each class. The dates for the preliminary try-outs are Nov.
VILLAGERS PLAN FOR THANKSGIVING
•
A Thanksgiving dance to be held Thanksgiving night, Nov. 25, at the Palais Royale was the subject of discussion for the Notre Dame Villagers, off-campus students residing in South Bend, at a dinner meeting held Monday night in the Columbia Athletic club. The meeting was in charge of President Paul Howard.
General chairman for the annual party will be Edward Scheer. Other chairmen appointed by President Howard are: tickets, James Lahey; music, John Reider; publicity, George Elmore; decorations, William Myers.
"Santa Maria" Out
It was announced by Editor Louis Dunn that the first issue of the Santa Maria for the schoolyear will make its appearance about November 8. The issue will be composed of the many interesting features which were presented last year. However, according to the editor, there will be several new features for the readers.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
KANALEY BREAKS GROUND FOR MEMORIAL TO ROCKNE THIS NOON
DOLAN MAKES PLANS FOR VICTORY DANCE
Construction of a lasting shrine to -Knute K. Rockne in the form of a memorial fieldhouse will begin shortly after noon Friday on the University of Notre Dame campus. The time has been set to coincide with the semi-annual meeting of the University’s board of lay trustees, and Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago broker and chairman of the A board, will turn the first spadeful of *
earth, after a few words of dedication by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., University president.
Mr. Kanaley, who won his athletic monogram early in the century, was a close friend of Rockne from the time of his matriculation as an undergraduate until his untimely death in 1931.
Mrs. Bonnie S. Rockne and Knute Rockne, Jr., who entered Notre Dame as a freshman this fall, will be present for the ceremony, as will the Notre Dame Monogram club, a large section of the student body, and numerous former friends of the great coach from South Bend and vicinity.
In laying plans for the huge building, which will be one of the largest on the campus, Mr. Rockne was kept constantly in mind by the architects. The structure’s massive lines will suggest the rugged individuality of the coach, while the Gothic features of the facade will be illustrative of his keen mind and warm personality.
How far toward completion the building can be carried at the present time is still undetermined. Alumni and friends subscribed $135,000 for the memorial in 1931, and this fund has been swelled to $150,000. To supplement this the University has appropriated $200,000 from its general fund. Although the needed $550,000 for the finished memorial may not be immediately forthcoming, it is the plan to have at least the swimming pool and some exercise rooms available for use with the beginning of the next school year.
Features of the building in addition to the above will be handball and squash courts, golf facilities, apparatus for corrective gymnastics, and quarters for boxing, wrestling and similar sports. Three standard basketball courts will be provided. On the south side of the fieldhouse will be a large solarium.
In the center of the main wing will be a trophy room, 48 x 44 feet, in which all athletic mementoes of the Fighting Irish will be housed. To the left of this trophy room will be a large faculty lounge, and immediate— ly beneath the latter will be locker rooms and other facilities for the use of instructors.
As previously announced the building will be used exclusively for intramural sports and for the physical training needs of the student body.
Alumnus Editor Dooley
Lunn Red Article In Second "Alumnus"
An article, “The Communist Threat to Peace,” by Arnold Lunn, was one of the features of the November issue of the Notre Dame Atanas. In his article Mr. Lunn treats of camouflaged propaganda that is sweeping the world. He states that this propaganda is present everywhere except in Russia, where power was seized by direct attack.
The sport page was written by Joseph S. Petritz, director of athletic publicity. Summaries are given of the Drake, Illinois, Carnegie Tech, and Navy games. Among interesting facts presented are little known items that make for excellent reading, as the fact that the Notre Dame allotment of tickets for the Minnesota game was sold out by Aug. 10, and for the Army game by Sept. 15.
In his Campus Notes, John Lechner tells the alumni of the rebirth of Notre Dame spirit for the Navy game. He also relates the story of “Clash-more Mike’s” disappearance. Other paragraphs deal with the Sophomore Cotillion, and a short article about Mario Pieroni, blind law student.
The ever popular Alumni Column is again presented. Among new items here we garner the history of several Notre Dame athletic stars of recent years: Frank Gaul is coaching at John Carroll in Cleveland as assistant to Tom Connelly, former end coach; Rocco Schiralli is married; and George Ireland and Tom Yarr have become proud fathers.
Mr. William Dooley, graduate manager of publications, is the head of the Alumnus staff.
Come swing and sway Be your feelings what they may. And you will be gay, gay, gay.
This is the informal invitation extended to the student body by Gene Dolan to dance to the tunes of campusman George Sauter and his 12-piece collegiate style orchestra Saturday night. The event is the S.A.C. post-Pitt-battle dance at the Columbia Athletic Club in South Bend. John McAuliffe and Joseph McDermott are assisting chairman Dolan in making arrangements.
Price is 75 cents per couple, and dancing will be from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.
Several novel dances are to be attempted, among them “Posin’,” and “Pausin’.” The latter, Dolan explained, consists of a bracket of four or five numbers, between which the orchestra pauses for a few seconds. During these pauses, dancers are tov turn about face, and receive those nearest them as new partners.
Tickets may be obtained from any of the 18 S.A.C. members, or at the door the night of the dance. Present indications show that a large crowd will be present. Don’t forget the date: Nov. 6, at 8:30 p.m.
Forum's Group Plans
A group of members of the Commerce Forum met Wednesday evening to develop plans for the newly organized round table discussions. The unit plans to follow the general outline of the Wranglers society in its treatment of various topics.
A number of subjects suggested by the members will be treated by individual speakers at bi-monthly meetings. At the conclusion of each lecture the subject will be submitted to the entire group for general discussion. The purpose of the organization is to acquaint the group with pertinent questions of the day, both political and social.
The Forum anticipates such enthusiastic reception of this first round table as displayed by the number of applicants for membership, that in the future a number of units may be established. With the expansion of the idea, each group will embrace a particular topic, studying it in minute detail, concluding the analysis of each question by a general discussion of the various units.
The Commerce Forum hopes that by this new innovation its members may benefit from the research of others and the stimulation of interest in current topics.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WORK OF N. D. STUDENTS HIGHLIGHT EXHIBIT OF INDIANA CATHOLIC SCHOOL ART DISPLAY
By Frederick E. Sisk
Art exhibits from Catholic colleges, academies, and high schools in Indiana were formally viewed for the first time yesterday at the opening of the third exhibition of parochial high school and college work under the sponsorship of
St. Mary’s College. This competitive years ago, and this year’s display will continue through Sunday, Nov. 21. In charge of the event is Sister M. Edna of the Fine Arts Department at St. Mary’s.
Two divisions prevail in the exhibition: one group is devoted entirely to college work, and the second to high school achievements. In each group prizes of $10.00 and $5.00 will be awarded at the conclusion of the exhibition with the provision that first and second prize in either group may not be awarded to the same school. Professor Stanley Sessler and Alexis Jean Fournier are acting as jurors for the awarding of prizes.
To facilitate the competition, the displays are classified according to sculpture, which is done in high and low relief and including soap sculpture ; craft, consisting of weaving, pottery, book binding, leather tooling, wood and linoleum block printing, and textile painting; creative design work and posters of all different types; oil paintings; watercolors; commercial art; and figure drawings.
In the college division seven schools are represented, among which are St. Mary’s College, St. Mary-of-the-Woods, St. Francis Art School of Lafayette, Indiana, and the University of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame’s entry consists of twenty mounts representing landscape, portrait, and still life paintings; design work; graphic arts; and photography in connection with commercial designs.
Students from Notre Dame submitting work in the exhibition are: August Sidler, painting of the Sacred Heart Church, University of Notre Dame; figure drawing and photography by George Delker; Don Driscoll’s drawings, illustrations, and pastel painting; drawing, figure drawing, portrait painting, and a still life done by Bernard Cullen; Francis Kroeger with a portrait painting, dry points, drawing, and designs for oilcloth and serving trays.
The remainder of work entered in the exhibit by students in the University consists of drawings in pastel and a portrait by Hugo Melchione; a campus view painted by George Elmore; Tom Powers’ cover design work for Collier's magazine; and a charcoal portrait by Brother Hilarion, C.S.C.
exhibit of Catholic art was begun two
Artists Kroeger and Elmore Exhibit Work.
Sorin Eliminates Dorm Team in Hall Debates
•
The interhall debating tournament went into the third round this week as the Brownson - Carroll team was eliminated by Sorin last Tuesday evening.
As far as Judge William Bowes was concerned, the Sorin men who defended the negative side, had the better argument. They contended that the National Labor Relations Board should not have compulsory arbitration power to settle industrial disputes. This power, the Sorinites maintained, would deprive the workmen of theii- strongest weapon—the strike—against capital industry.
Professor Coyne was pleased with the presentation and is “scouting” these debates for promising orators who may fill the vacancies still open on the varsity squad.
This week will see the conclusion of the first round of the tournament. Although only one team has been eliminated to date, there are many with one defeat against their records. The second round, to- be run off early next week, will see still further eliminations.
NOTICE
All those interested in contributing to the literary pages of THE SCHOLASTIC' are invited to call at the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria building, Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock.
NOTED GUESTS HERE FOR PITT CONTEST
•
Welcome to Notre Dame!
Tomorrow afternoon Notre Dame is to be host to thousands of visitors. Many old grads will come ‘back’ to see dear old Notre Dame. Big and small are to gather in the stadium to witness one of the best and toughest games of the season when Notre Dame plays that ever-strong team from Pittsburgh.
Among hose many thousands will be a man from Anchu, Korea, Rev. Edward Barron.
Representatives of the Catholic hierarchy include: Bishop Karl J. Alter, Toledo, Ohio, commencement speaker at the 1936 Notre Dame graduating ceremonies; Bishop William Griffin, LaCrosse, Wisconsin; Bishop John Francis Noll, Bishop of the Fort Wayne diocese; and Bishop Gorman, Reno, Nevada.
Old grads and members of the Board of Lay Trustees include: Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, Chicago, President of the Board of Lay Trus-tees of the University; Fr. Frank C. Walker, ’09, New York City; Mr. Angus D. McDonald, ’00, San Francisco; Mr. John P. Murphy, ’12, Cleveland; Mr. Frank E. Hering, ’98, . South Bend; Mr. Grattan T. Stanford, ’04, New York City; Mr. John H. Neeson, ’03, Philadelphia.
Locher Political Paper
“Some Aspects of Neutrality” was the topic of the paper presented by Paul Locher before the members of the Academy of Political Science last Tuesday evening in the Main Building. Mr. Locher cited several authorities for points of view concerning the future aspect of neutrality in the United States. In this respect the speaker referred to the attitude of the United States during the present civil strife in Spain and the current war in the Far East.
Chairman Art Mulhern presided and announced that the meetings of the Academy in the future will be held on the second and fourth Tuesday of every month. Possible topics for discussion at future meetings were also discussed and recorded.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., and Prof. Paul Bartholomew, of the Department of Politics, were present at the meeting and participated in the general discussion of the topic treated by Mr. Locher.
Memories: Alumni, often with their wives, some with wives and children, visiting the Grotto.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
LAUD FR. CARROLL'S LATEST BOOK
•
Many Shall Come is a new novel by Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., published by The Ave Maria Press, price $1.50.
Father Carroll consistently contributes to Catholic literature. Patch, The Bog, Michaeleen, and others already are familiar to Catholic book readers and deal principally with Irish life and characters. Many Shall Come leaps to Chicago for its setting, retaining the Catholic theme that runs so fresh and real through the lives of Father Carroll’s characters.
Although James Rice renounces Catholicity for a money-marriage and economic success, eventually he sees the shallowness of his conquests.
The Irish faith in his blood, fanned by the devotion and conversion of his daughter, rekindles in his heart. The International Eucharistic Congress in Dublin unfolds as the scene of Helen Rice’s conversion. Quietly romance grow’s delightfully into realization, and in the end Faith crushes materialism so superficial, yet so characteristic of our generation.
Realists reveling in the beautiful rather than the morbid, will chuckle with satisfaction in viewing the exact and good life of Helen. The pattern of underlying wholesomeness in true Catholic life mingles with stimulating wit and throbs with reality. Dialogue sets a swift pace. An age so elusive to true portrayal fits snugly under the story—a picture scintillating our life and times.
Bandmen Parade and Make Formations as Many Thousands Watch from Stadium
They march up the field and they march back again, these boys without the blue coats and the white spats. And when they get through they go through the same thing again. And still once more. And those confounded drums!
Thus is a practice session of the University band. It’s “Hey you, third trumpet, which is the right leg?” and a few assorted cracks about the placeemnt of the left arm to get across the point that to turn to the right all that is necessary is to figure out the position of that same right arm and just follow it around. But there are, of course, limits to the understanding of any bandman.
Yet the Notre Dame band has not done so badly in the years of its existence. Of course, the formations that it uses are about the same year after year, with some changes here and there to brighten up the effects, but they are at the same time good, colorful, formations. And when there is something new introduced by directing genius, Prof. Joe Casa-santa, it is always spectacular; if you stayed in the stands during the half of the Navy game this would be apparent. Whoever heard of a band marching in shape of a battleship before? And again, whoever heard a ninety-piece band strike up “The Irish Washerwoman?”
This band of ours is not as large
as some of the outfits that come heavily padded to the stadium, as witness the Ohio State band of last year, and yet its volume will compare with that of any. This because there is no padding (that means the inclusion of people who walk around to full oui" formations and whose main duty is to keep in step and look interested); every man in the band plays and plays well (address all letters to Complaint Editor).
The high spot in the recent history of the band occurred at the Southern California game in 1935. Joe Sullivan, captain-elect, had died of pneumonia. During the halves of this game, the Notre Dame band gave a memorial tribute to this Fighting Irishman, who looked on from beyond the grave. The “Ave Maria” played in an arrangement that seemed perfectly reasonable struck the ears of the large crowd and silenced them completely; at the conclusion of the piece there was no sudden outbreak of noise as is usually the case at such events. People sat down in their seats silently . . . and wondered.
University of Georgia got a superinitiation at the mechanical hands of the machine age.
Into a machine went Freddie -Frosh’s papers and a little meter told him whether he belonged with the potential Phi Beta Kappas, the great middle class, or the dullards.
All set to Strut Their Stuff Tomorrow.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSICAL NOTES
By Paul R. Locher .
It is only natural that the average American wonders, after being awed by the accomplishments of Paderewski, Rachminoff and Sibelius, whether or not America has anyone to contribute to the musical world, and whether the symphonies ever play contemporary works by American composers.
The answer is pleasantly surprising. At no time in the history of the symphony in America have native composers been getting such a reception from the orchestras. Naturally, the American orchestras are the principal players of their music. The Philadelphia • Orchestra, under Stokowski and Ormandy, and Dr. Stock, of the Chicago Symphony, are eminent American patriots, approximately ten per cent of their programs having been composed of native works.
However, an analysis of such programs would indicate that, while the conductors are alive to what is taking place among American writers, they are seeking repertoire numbers of permanent value in their selections, rather than introducing numbers which might tend to stifle future native effort.
After an exhaustive survey the Musical America magazine considers the late George Gershwin, Hanson and McDonald as the favored composers on symphonic programs during the past year. Other composers gaining wide appreciation are Grofe, McDowell, Sowerby, Bloch, Schelling, John Alden Carpenter and Deems Taylor, who at the present time is consultant on music for the Columbia Broadcasting System.
The writing of operas by American composers has been somewhat limited. Walter Damrosch has written a recent opera, “The Man Without a Country,” based on the life of Nathan Hale, which has received favorable comment. On October 17 “Green Mansions,” by Louis Gruenberg, was given its premiere as radio’s first opera, and its success has given the incentive for future endeavor in this field. The Columbia Broadcasting System immediately formed a second Columbia Composers’ Commission, which has designated Vittorio Giannini to write an opera whose playing time would be approximately 29 minutes and 30 seconds.
The influence of the Federal Music Project on American music should not be underestimated. The National Director, Dr. Nicolai Sokoloff, recently announced that 57,000,000 people had heard the 80,000 performances given under governmental aus-
“About 30 miles north of Toledo.” But if you pin him down, he’ll tell you that he’s “Lou Dunn from Adrian, Michigan, on the Raisin River, Lenaway County.” And was he the flash of St. Mary’s Academy in Adrian! Played tackle on an undefeated football team, captain of a 12 man squad. Also a three letter man in basketball. Has kept the remainder of his high school career a deep secret, except for a few slips about
how he’s always craved a motorcycle and an airplane. But ask him sometime why he rushed home that time in his freshman year in defence of his fair one’s honor. A real Galahad, this Lou Dunn!
At Notre Dame Lou has been quite active. For three years he was a member of the Dome staff, climaxing this with a managing editor’s job. Now he edits the Santa Maria. He’s a director in the Commerce Forum, and most important of all he’s the president of the Adrian club—also the sole member. If you were to ask him why he hasn’t done much, drop in at 311 Walsh any morning before eleven. He’ll roll over in bed and groan “Gosh I’m tired.”
Used to correspond with a girl in Cincinnati. Called her one night from the pay phone in the Rambler Inn... dropped three quarters in the waste basket and hasn’t heard from her since. Has now joined the throng at St. Mary’s, but admits that he would just as soon sit.
pices. Although the greater bulk of these performances were admittedly experimental, it stands to reason that something very much worthwhile should emerge in this original music.
MAGAZINES REQUEST VINCENTIAN STORIES
Recognition of a nation-wide character came to the Notre Dame Saint Vincent de Paul Society when it was announced during the past week that two leading Catholic publications have requested material concerning the local conference to be used in forthcoming issues.
The Journal of Religious Instruction has recently asked for information of the Notre Dame conference to fill eight pages in that magazine. The second publication is the Catholic Charities magazine which has signified intentions of publishing an article concerning the work done and methods used by the campus Vincentians.
In cooperation with the Department of Religion in the university, members of the Society wTill present talks in the Religion classes in the near future. These talks will be informative in nature, discussing the foundation of the Society, its aims, and the accomplishments of the Notre Dame Council.
Due to the extended holiday over the last week-end, there was no meeting held last week by the Vincentians. The next gathering of the Society will be Sunday morning in the Knights of Columbus chambers in Walsh Hall, during which time a detailed report of all work and activities being engaged in by the members will be presented.	•
Spanish Club Plans
The next meeting of the Spanish Club will be held Thursday evening, Nov. 11, in the Cavanaugh recreation room.
It has been announced that plans will be discussed for the introduction of intra-club and inter-club sports activities. Among these activities will be ping-pong, pool and bowling contests. By the cooperation of all other campus clubs, these plans can be achieved.
Plans for basketball games will be considered at a later meeting.
C. E.'s Take Trip
The Engineering Club has had no meeting during the past two weeks. The upperclassmen have been resting from the rigors of initiating the freshmen, and the freshmen have been recovering from the entertainment. However, the civil engineers are a hardier bunch of boys than the other technicians and recovered quicker. On Friday and Saturday two weeks ago, these future bridge builders visited the neighboring cities of Gary and East Chicago. They inspected the industrial plants and other structures.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE WEEK By Harold A. Williams
MUSIC DEPARTMENT PRESENTS PROGRAM
Student Trip
Promptly at ten o’clock Friday the special pulled out. . . student trip veterans wore old clothes and soon had the seats constructed into long bunks. . . The ride was very quiet and orderly. . . The boys played Old Maid or Stealing Bundles for match sticks. . . talked about their professors. . . studied their lessons for Tuesday. . . and drank loads of ice water. . . At the Chicago yards the train crew got lost and wandered around on different railroads until some switchman showed them the way. . . At LaCrosse the train was stopped so the boys could receive Holy Communion. . . The train was held for 20 minutes but the LaCrosse priest didn’t show up. . . During the layover some obliging Freshmen signed McCormick’s, McCarthy’s, and Puplis’ autographs for awed townspeople. . . The colored waiter in the dining car warned all the boys about “Dat Jefferson lad who plays swell ball for Northwestern—runs as fast as Joe Louis moves his left.”. . . The two and a half hour delay in reaching St. Paul which wasn’t explained by the railroad people... The parade behind the band through the streets of St. Paul. . . The four to one odds on Minnesota which disappeared as soon as the boys arrived in town. . . The excellent seats in the stadium... The cheering all during the game... The happy Lamberto, Scholastic staff man, who was sent to cover the game for the campus weekly. . . The fine reception the band got during the half. . . The rosaries during the last few minutes. . . The attack on the goal posts which was thwarted by boy and sea scouts. . . The march up and down the field after the game behind the band. . . The hoarse throats. . . the empty pocketbooks... The sleepy fellows on the ride home . . . The swell time. . .
•
Drama
Along about 12:30 or 1:00 o’clock while the student trip special was lost in the Chicago terminal, a bunch of the boys groped their way forward to the baggage car. The purpose of the expedition is unknown but we presume that a group of railroad-minded Commerce men were inspecting equipment, or some conscientious band members were looking after their instruments. They stumbled into the dark baggage car, and the leader of the group, while searching for a light, stubbed his big toe on the bass drum. “Boom!” went the drum. There was silence, then a surprised bark, a low growl, and a loud “Ouch!” Somebody found the lights. Clashmore Mike was standing on top of the bass drum with large portion
of a blue cheviot suit in his mouth. About four steps away from him was a terrified student holding his hand over a large hole in his blue cheviot trousers.
You might have seen the fellow: He was the one who didn’t take off his heavy overcoat while dining in the warm grill room of the St. Paul hotel that night.
•
M-a-g-e-e
Magee gets more fan mail than any six of our football players. When Magee came running out on the field the applause was terrific. Magee, they say, is a potential All-American.
Magee, in case you are one of those who doesn’t get around much, is Minnesota’s head cheer leader, and their candidate for All-American cheer leader. Just what constitutes an All-American cheer leader and who selects him and on what basis is unknown to us, but not to the people of Minneapolis. The only trouble was we couldn’t get the people of Minneapolis to stop alibiing long enough to tell us about All-American cheer leaders. Anyway, Magee was their candidate for All-American cheer leader, and there wasn’t anything we could do about it. When Magee came running out on the field after an appropriate introduction, a lusty cheer, and a somewhat awed silence from the Minnesota section, we settled back for something stupendous. We were very much disappointed. Magee handed his jacket to an assistant cheer leader, spit on his hands (his own, not the assistant cheer leader’s), climbed up one of the goal posts, waved his hand to someone in the crowd, did a half spin which could be duplicated by the most anemic member of our Freshman Phy Ed class, landed rather awkwardly and unexpectedly on his right elbow, pranced around the field, waved his arms, and disappeared.
After the game we pulled out our pencil and paper and tried to interview Magee on the ins and outs of All-American cheer leading. Magee was surrounded by admiring high school girls who were beseeching him for his autograph. When we finally bucked our way through, he grabbed the pencil and paper, scribbled “Magee,” and turned away before we could ask him his first name.
We didn’t get any interview, but we still have the autograph. If anyone wants to trade a “Madeline Carroll” for a “Magee” drop around some night about seven.
•
Coming attractions
Tomorrow: Goldberg & Company Inc.; next Friday: Scrip.
(Continued on Page 21)
The first of a series of radio programs presented this year by the students of the music department, with the aid of faculty members, was presented last night at 7:45.
The Music Program is to be a weekly feature of the radio schedule for this season. The features of last, night’s program were two numbers presented by the newly reorganized symphonic orchestra. Within the past few weeks the head of the music department, Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, has
Crepeau and Davidson* “Music on the Air.”
gathered a symphonic group and developed a highly commendable unit.
As part of the program, Professor Elton B. Crepeau, special lecturer and instructor on voice, gave a revealing talk on the Origin of Music.
Having given a successful program, by way of inauguration, the music department has numerous plans for future entertainment. During the course of the year various musical organizations about the campus besides the symphonic orchestra will be featured. Among these will be Freshmen Choral Club, newly organized this year, possibly the Glee Club, and various ensembles made up of either string or brass quartets.
In addition to the organizations mentioned above, during this quarter hour selections by Arthur Davidson, Paul Locher, William Mooney, and Jack Collins will be presented. Mr. Davidson is well known for his work in the Monogram Absurdities last year, while Jack Collins has been a member of interhall radio teams for two years, both having won championships in their respective years. Paul Locher, a graduate student, has been writing a feature column “Music Notes” for The Scholastic.
Mr. Pedtke will alternate the program personnel from week to week, presenting various units alternately. The symphony orchestra will perform the classics of symphonic literature as well as the better known light favorites. This orchestral field represents the finest in music.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GRANADA PRESENTS MALE DANCE TROUPE
•
South Bend is in for a real artistic treat Tuesday, Nov. 16, if press notices from other sections of the country are to be believed. On that date Ted Shawn and his company of men dancers will be presented at the Granada theater. Tickets for the performance, which is under the management of Ethel S. Gaumer, range in price from 50 cents to one dollar.
As a leader of the troupe, Shawn has won for himself a position of distinction and importance throughout the dance world. He has succeeded in bringing before incredulous eyes a dance form for men that is virile, exciting, and at the same time a significant art form.
The performers of these dancers is a novel combination of athletic prowess and dancing. Theii' athleticism, however, is not that of the football field, nor of the track, rather is it that of the aerialist or gymnast. But the performance is not offered merely as a stunt or demonstration of physical prowess. It is directed in accordance with sculptural and dance concepts, stressing melodic and harmonic beauty and movement.
Last season in their dance play "0, Libertad,” the troupe was hailed from coast to coast as the greatest existing exponent of the artistic dance. In the American saga which they presented Shawn utilized authentic folklore; and on this he created a truly great drama.
It was as a soloist, however, that Mr. Shaw established his reputation, and it is as a soloist that he is best known. Among his many famous interpretations of former seasons wei'e those of St. Francis of Assisi and of John Brown.
Religion Office Change
Father Cavanaugh announces that the Prefect of Religion’s office will no longer be confined to the single office in Dillon hall but hereafter will be located on three sectors of the Notre Dame campus. With the opening of the scholastic year, the incoming students found that this department of the University had new offices in Howard and Cavanaugh halls.
In order to accommodate the growing demands for spiritual assistance new members of the clergy were added to the staff. Fr. Grimm and Fr. Gartland are at the services of the-students for the greater part of every day in Howard and Cavanaugh halls respectively.
Invaluable in the accomplishing of the above desire is the daily Religious Bulletin which is celebrating its sixteenth birthday this year.
COLLEGE PARADE
By John A. Callaghan
Purty Purtry
My love have flew, Him done me dirt; I did not knew Him was a flirt.
To you unschooled, Oh let me bid Do not be fooled As I was did.
He have came, He have went, He have left I all alone. He never came to I, I never went to he— It cannot w’as.
The Campus Reflector.
* Wanted!
Prof. Walter B. Pitkin, of Columbia university, says that what this country need is a “Rabble Rouser of the Right!” Writing in last month’s Advertising Agency, the new luxurious bible of the industry which sets the pace for all of us, he says, “The hour has come for words which smell, for words which set fire to men and things, for words which loosen avalanches back in the mountains. The pat phrase, the polite patter and the unctuous argument will never save America. Heaven send us a Rabble Rouser of the Right!”
We always thought there was some future in cheerleading.
Daffinitions
abbey—abbey New Year, gold—very chilly ink—a corporation, languish—speech fret—male sorority, nose—understands.
born—where cows are kept, mist—young lady.
hot—simple abode
cavort—liquid measurement. “Two pints make a quart.”
doctrine—female doctor.
diploma—the guy who comes to fix the sink.
iceberg—a permanent wave, bigotry—having two wives, oboe—mendicant hitchhiker.
The Torch.
Jottings
Want to have a radio career?. . . Take law! . . . Bing Crosby (Gonzaga), Rudy Vallee (Yale and Me.), Lanny Ross (Yale and Columbia), Hoagy Carmichael (Indiana), Lowell Thomas (Kent) and Don Ameche (Wisconsin) are all former law students now appearing before the court of public opinion. . . A book is something not half as cracked as it should be. . . The Purple and White sez: “Europe seems - to be having their own World Series, and it looks like the Yanks are going to challenge
CALENDAR
Friday, November 5
Pep meeting, 6:45.
Saturday, November 6
Mass for the team, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a.m.; Football game, Varsity vs. Pitt, stadium, 2:00 p.m.; Victory dance under sponsorship of S.A.C., Palais Royale; Movie, Washington hall, first show for Freshmen only, second show 8:20.
Sunday, November 7
Student Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6, 7, 8, 9, a.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul society, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall, 11 a.m.; Evening services, Sacred Heart church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, November 8
Meeting, Economic Round Table, Rose Marie Tea Room, 6:30 p.m.; Interhall debate, Law building; Radio program, “Little Jamboree,” 9:15 p.m., campus radio station; Ticket sale for Lawyer’s Ball starts, on sale in Law building.
Tuesday, November 9
Knights of Columbus first degree initiation, Walsh Hall chambers, 7:45 p.m.; Interhall debates, Law building; Radio program, “Music of the Masters,” 7:45 p.m.; Meeting, Met club, north basement of Library, 6:45 p.m.; Meeting, Academy of Political Science.
Wednesday, November 10
Meeting, Wranglers; Interhall debates, Law building; final day ticket sale for Lawyer’s Ball; Radio program, “Sports” by Steve Miller, 7:15 p.m.; 7:45 p.m., program of department of Music; Meeting, Bookmen, former library, Commerce building, 7:45 p.m.
Thursday, November 11
Lecture, Arnold Lunn, “The Spanish Situation,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
the winners.”. . . Trinity has a new course — “Theory and Practice of Profanity.”. . . Approximately 97 per cent of the college presidents have come from two professions—teaching and the ministry. . . . The St. Leo Chronicle states that women own 75 per cent of the wealth in the United States. (Yeah, but how much of it do they own directly?) . . . News Item: “Co-eds at Syraacuse U. charge the boys for good-night kisses as means for raising house fun. Special weekend rates. Cash only.”. . . The La Salle Collegian defines state relief as a pool game with a politician at each pocket. . . We like this from the New Rochelle Tatler. Little Baby Corn asks Mamma- Corn where it came from. . . says Mom Com: “Husk, my child, the stalk brought you.”. . . “But,” queries Babe Com, “what about Pop Com?”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
One Wonders
... at the reason foi- the green light in front of Walsh Hall which makes the entrance look peculiarly like that of a police station.
. . . when Leo Simpson, who has a locker crammed with clothes, is going to discard that blue, gabardine shirt which he wears six out of seven days.
. . . how those three Howard juniors reacted when they were caught, with a group of youngsters, soaping windows on Hallowe’en night.
... if the frosh are getting soft, not having seen any panthers paraded around, especially after the goat brigade of two weeks ago.
... if our honesty is being tested by that dime pasted to the underside of the showcase top in the candy store.
... if studying on the top floor- of Pittsburgh’s “Tower of Learning” would be conducive to lightheadedness.
... at tomorrow’s score.
Another Definition of a Freshman
A high school senior who worked for four years to acquire an air of superiority and then took a three-months’ vacation to prepare for a relapse.
Tops for the Week
After a lot of coaxing, Hank Leader finally consented to show that St. Mary’s young lady the campus. Their meanderings finally led them to the hothouses (located immediately in front of the new infiramry). She admired the flowers for a while and then turned to Hank with the query, “But why do they have hothouses here? Do they put floral centerpieces on your dining hall tables?”
A Louis XVI Room
A room has been found in the old infirmary, so large so ’elp us, that lighted desk lamps on opposite sides of it cannot penetrate to its midway. George Flanagan and John Terrel, who share this over-sized ballroom, say that they need a flashlight to traverse the dark, center portion when they visit one another. They attribute their lack of “roomy” quarters to the fact that they can get up enough energy to make the long trek only about once a week.
* * *
“Those extra - sensory perception
experiments being conducted at Duke university are old stuff. Why, for three years the professors here have been reading my mind and asking me just the questions I didn’t know.” (George “Bud” Roach)
Jottings
A decoration suggestion, worthy of mention, was that of a few Alumni lads (who paid to keep their names out of this), showing “Clashmore Mike” digesting a panther. This gastronomic difficulty was a little hard to depict and consequently overvoted. The usual “Welcome Pitt” will prob
“What’s that, a resident hall?”
“Can’t you recognize the K. of C.’s dream castle?”
ably take its place. . . . From across the highway we are told that “strong, silent men are preferred—being easier to talk to.” . . . Word-coinage: “Are you pounding somewhere in particular or just dead-heating around?” (George Flanagan) . . . The young lady accordionist in the Trianon who will play any request was stumped the other night by a request for “I’ll meet you on the highway.” It finally came to light that the junior asking for it meant “Loch Lomond.” . . . “I’m glad that there’s so much of you to love” is the prize inscription on a photograph recently given to Hal “Wimpy” Wardell.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C...............Faculty	Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT........................Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA............................Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams______________________________The Weefe
John Callaghan College Parade
John F. Clifford________________Splinters from the Press Box
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey News Editor
George Haithcock______________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard_______________________Michael Mongoven
Vernon Sneider______________________________Edward	Huff
Joseph Miller____________________________Thomas Marker
James Dempsey John	Kohn
William C. Fay________________________Fructuoso Barreda
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli_____________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_______________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto_________________________Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe_____________L_______William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan_____________________________Ed Brennan
Art Staff
George Elmore__________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers_______________________________________Ed Cort
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Thb Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh . Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.		
Vol. 71	November 5, 1937	No. 7
The Memorial
POETS, ever on the lookout for verse material, have ample opportunity today to collect material for another poem on Rockne. For today, once again, the great coach was honored as the first spade was sunk into the green sod inaugurating work on the Rockne Memorial.
A verse maker wouldn’t have to write a stirring poem about this event. This is far from the glamor of the gridiron with its crowd and thrills. This commemorates another phase of Rockne, a well known phase, and yet a little of one. That is, his concern for the athletic welfare of the whole rather than Just for his team.
A poet could write of “Rock’s” smile as he saw, in years to come, the importance this Memorial will play in the ordinary student’s life. He could write of the students who will frequent this building more than any other on the campus, outside of the Church. He could write of the great gap in Notre Dame student life this building will fill. Of how during the winter months everyone from freshman to senior will get over to the Memorial for a game of handball or basketball, or possibly a swim.
For once the poet would not have to dwell on football. He could bring out the personality of the man and his feeling for the non-athletic student, of his efforts to do something about him when he was alive and then describe his pleasure, when, seven years after the crash in Kansas, he finally sees his dream become a reality. That provides ample material for any poet.
Looking Ahead
ONE of the most tragic pictures one can imagine is that of a man, who, after many years at the top of his profession, begins to slip. Institutions are like the men who run them. History will readily freshen our minds of institutions that have come, flourished, and have departed. Usually there is a reason behind all this. They have simply failed to keep pace with modern developments, and have floundered along the way while other fresher, more intelligent men and institutions have pushed forward.
The Catholic Church has not been one of those institutions to flounder. It never will. It is guaranteed by divine prophecy. And so, too, it seems, is protected and safeguarded its collateral institutions—its colleges, hospitals, asylums, and seminaries. They have always kept pace with civilization; with Mother Church. And the truth of this becomes doubly apparent if one will but review the address before the Rotary Club last Wednesday by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
It is an amazing address. One will never need fear that Notre Dame will be one of the institutions to flounder along the.way. Our astounding success and phenomenal growth from a little college building by a little lake into a large University known the world ovei’ illustrates two things: one, that the University is based on time-honored principles and truths; and secondly, that the men actively in charge of the college administration have vision and foresight, and instead of resting on then* laurels are pushing forward to new heights.
When Father Sorin founded this University there must have been three objectives for which he sought: the giving to men a Catholic education destined to lead them in a life which would save their immortal souls, to instruct them, and to aid them in building up sound, healthy bodies. Last Wednesday Father O’Hara declared:
“Our aim has always been and will continue to be, three-fold—the saving of immortal souls by the development of healthy minds in sound bodies—and that is the order in which we rank their importance.”
Notre Dame has never changed in this policy, and as Father O’Hara has pointed out, it will never do so; because this policy has been fruitful, been successful. The trite saying goes that ‘truth will always prevail.’ Notre Dame’s policy based on sound principles and honest truth simply substantiates that.
It is in answer to the cultural and research needs of the student body that the University is forging ahead with new building plans, stepping into a position of leadership, both in instruction and resarch, from firm foundations now established. It is by bringing men famed in science, mathematics, apologetics, and the fine arts that a University hopes to remain in step with civilization.
The illustrious names which line our faculty list indicates that the University is not laggard in this respect. Today it commands a pre-eminent position in the science of mathematics, listing among the faculty such names as Professors Arthur Haas, Karl Menger, Eugen Guth, Canon Le Maitre, and others. In political science and apologetics, the University is continually progressing.
A university is only as great as the men who found it and those who steer its course. Notre Dame has been enviably fortunate in its founders, and the history of the past ninety years shows that it has been fortunate in having brilliant men guide its course. The events of the past few months indicate that the destiny of Notre Dame is in the hands of far-seeing men. Men who build for the future on an imperishable foundation of the past.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
South Bend—Archeological
By H. Tonel
“Hello, Arlie. Where are you going tonight?”
“Lecture, Wiebald. Want to come along?”
“Thanks, no. Frightfully dull, don’t you think?”
“They’re not nippy as a rule, but I think this will be somewhat interesting. Archeology stuff, you know. Professor Inglesby, the noted archeologist, has found some new ruins of civilization in this part of the country as far back as the Twentieth century. Wonderful what they can do with a few ruins. They can figure out all about a people, what they did and thought and everything. I say, come along.”
“I shall, old boy. I hope it’s all you claim for it.”
“And now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce to you Professor Emeric Inglesby, outstanding archeologist of the country who has made amazing discoveries of a people who inhabited this part of the globe in the twentieth century, just one hundred years before the glacial wave crossed the continent. But I am infringing on your grounds, Professor. Please continue.”
“Thank you, Dean Drawley. Ladies and gentlemen, as Dean Drawley pointed out to you, my discoveries made in the past year indicated that a race of people inhabited this country 1000 years ago. Let me try to describe this people to you from what ruins I have found and let us see just what scientific knowledge we can obtain from the ruins of these people who lived in and around South Bend.
“The first question we always ask ourselves is ‘What was the religion of a primitive people?’ Our answer is found in a piece of periodical literature found in the ruins of ancient South Bend.- Cinema News contains an article about an individual called Robert Taylor who is referred to as ‘adorable.’ We find that people of this vicinity worshipped a race of beings who were believed to live in a far off place called ‘Hollywood.’ No doubt Hollywood was their equivalent of heaven. A polytheistic form of religion existed, for many inhabitants of this place are said to be ‘adorable.’ Evidence indicates that the women were naturally religious and men were scoffers. The women united in seeing these gods as adorable, but
Robert Taylor is referred to in a man’s magazine as an ‘ass.’ Philologists inform us that ‘ass’ means ‘Indian,’ being derived from the longer form of the word, ‘Aztec,’ a race of Indians who inhabited this continent four centuries before the people we are studying. The men, we conclude, scoffed at the women’s gods and said they were nothing but Indians.
“We have been able to learn much about these people from a single news item found in a South Bend paper which refers to a group of men known as “The Fighting Irish.” Evidently South Bend was the headquarters of a band of fierce fighters who roamed about the wilds of the continent, subduing other primitive peoples and conquering animals who infested the countryside.
“This clipping tells us that the “Fighting Irish” would clash with a group of Bulldogs from the Drake country, a group of Panthers from the country of Pittsburgh, a band of Gophers from Minnesota, and a group of Wildcats from what was then called Northwestern, undoubtedly the country in the neighborhood of the ancient Columbia River, which is in the northwest corner of the continent. Besides fighting all these hordes of wild animals, the Irish were also fighting Scotsmen from Carnegie (we have not found just where all these countries were located) and also the combined Army and Navy of some not-mentioned country. We conclude from • our discoveries that these brave warriors rid the country of many animal pests from time to time, a blessing indeed. Moreover, it is evident that they planned their wars far in advance, for the news item tells us exactly when the battles were to take place. Since the enemies could not read the language spoken in South Bend, the information could be safely printed without fear of warning the enemies.
“The Fighting Irish were undoubtedly a group of wild men descended from the Celtic race which once inhabited the isle of Ireland in the Atlantic Ocean. Further evidence of this contention is found in the names of some of the leaders who were mentioned in the news clipping as being ‘on the team,’ undoubtedly a phrase meaning ‘on the general staff.’ Such Irish names as McCarty, McCarthy, O’Reilly and McCormick appear. Oth-. er names, like Zwers, Kell, Zontini, Tonelli, Burnell and Skoglund, indi
cate that the Irish had conquered many diverse races and had subjugated them in the past to such extent that they were then numbered among the Irish fighting ranks.
“A picture of the Fighting Irish leaders give us some indication of warfare in those days. It closely resembled the conflicts of the knights of the Middle Ages in Europe. Each fighter wore a heavy leather hat and pieces of leather across his shoulders, undoubtedly to protect him from the vicious down-swing of an enemy’s club. Evidently the battles were fought in hand-to-hand fashion, for no evidence can be found of weapons. The fighters must have been tireless men and fleet of foot. We find that they planned most of their battles to take place on Saturdays—a sure sign that they were superstitious and believed the Hollywood gods favored them on that day—and they could migrate thousands of miles from one Saturday to the next, sweeping down on the enemy with sudden and devastating attack.
“The ruins also show us much of the intellectual life of the people, such as can be found. A large institution of leisure was established near ancient South Bend. Not much can be found of its nature, but the word ‘school’ by which it was known, is derived from the ancient Latin vrord and Greek word meaning ‘leisure.’ These schools were places where young men went for periodic vacations before entering the active ranks of society. We cannot suppose, however, that such an institution could be run without some rules. We find from an instrument dug up that torture must have been resorted to in some instances. This instrument was labeled ‘Saxophone,’ meaning Saxon or Teuton or barbaric. When blown this instrument emits tortuous wails which drive one insane when he is confined with it for any length of time.
“My next lecture, to be given a week hence, will picture the life of these young men at school. My knowledge is based on a little green book found in the ruins near South Bend, a book entitled ‘A Student Manual.’ Many passages are obscure and apparently meaningless, but I have reconstructed student life from the knowledge contained in its pages. So come back next week and learn how a student of 1000 years ago studied and rested and enjoyed himself.”
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
v ATHLETICS
CAPACITY CROWD TO SEE PANTHERS AND IRISH CLASH IN LAST GAME TOMORROW
SCANNELL REVAMPS INTERHALL CARD
By Charles Callahan
Pittsburgh tomorrow! Remember last year! Whether or not an Irishman is possessed of a long or short memory is a debatable issue. However, that Elmer Layden has forgotten the 1936 score, or that the Fighting Irish football squad has forgotten the score, or that the N. D. student body has forgotten the
score is not a subject open to debate. All three remember that the powerful Panthers handed Notre Dame a slaughtering 26-0 setback. Tomorrow, all three want victory. They wanted to beat Minnesota, and all the other, but even more they want to beat Pitt.
Coach Elmer Layden announced on Monday that the squad came out of the Minnesota fray without any serious injuries. In Monday’s scrimmage though, injuries received by Jerry Clifford and Jack Fogel—reserve left and center, respectively— will probably sideline them Saturday. Coach Layden said that if Notre Dame is to win tomorrow we have “got to go on from where we left off last Saturday. We’ve had a winning combination the last two games: the spirit of the students, and the smart driving football of the team. If that combination continues to click tomorrow, we’ll make the going tough for Pitt.”
Layden also announced that the starting team for Notre Dame would most likely be the same one that opened against the Golden Gophers last week. Therefore, we may expect to see Sweeney and Skoglund at the flanks; Beinor and A. Shellogg smacking them down at the tackle posts; the South Bend Joseph’s — Ruetz and Kuharich — will again be handling the guard assignments; McCarty will snap the ball to signalcaller Puplis, and to halfbacks McCormick nad McCarthy. The only berth not settled is fullback, and Simonich is expected to get the nod over Thesing.
Many experts stated after the Minnesota contest that the Notre Dame victory resulted from the fact that the Irish line outcharged the Gopher frontiersmen. Tomorrow the N. D. line will have to charge every bit as hard in that they are facing a group that have been scored on but twice this year. In that Pitt line, reading from left end to right end, are: Dad-dio, Matisi, Lezouski, Hensley, Petro, Delich, and Souchak. Michelson and
(Continued on Page 22)
KEOGAN LOOKS FOR CAGE RESERVES
Coach George Keogan’s charges put in another week of conditioning for the exacting schedule facing them this winter. While last year’s varsity men concerned themselves merely with limbering up and getting the feel of the ball, the ambitious sophs were sweating blood in their efforts to draw a favorable comment from the watchful George.
Biting on an unlit stogie and watching practice last week, was an old time basketball great named James Stanley. He was a competitor in the days of the Original Celtics and was as tough a guard as ever donned a nose-guard. He complains that the present game is too slow, too much whistle blowing, too soft in other words. In his day the ball was tossed up at the opening whistle and from that moment was in play until the end of the half. No offsides were called and players would pile into the c rowd after loose balls and pile into each other on the floor. Nose guards, knee-guards, elbow pads, and long stockings were the order of the day. Commenting on the new rule of putting the ball in play from under the basket after a basket has been scored, Mr. Stanley said the move might speed up the game some—“but it still can’t be compared to our game.”
Basketball as Notre Dame plays it may not be as tough as played in the good old days, but Coach Keogan among others thinks that a majority of Notre Dame’s opponents are going to wonder if they’re back in those good old days—when they tangle with the present Irish Five.
Razz: Co-eds entering the cafeteria of the Cite Universitaire, Paris, with their hats on are greeted by the rattle of dishes and cries of “chapeau” from the men.
By Clarence Sheehan
The Student Trip to Minneapolis,' week-end visits to Chicago, and journeys home robbed the Interhall Touch Football tournament of most of its participants and as a result Mr. Scannell, head of the department of Physical Education, will be forced to revamp his schedule in order that the first round contests may be completed.
The followers of Interhall Soccer were more fortunate, however. Three nip and tuck contests were staged and not only were the vanquished whitewashed but in each case they showed enough defense of their own to hold their conquerors to one lone tally. Thus, all the battles were decided by a 1-0 score.
The boys from Freshman Hall broke into the victory column as they nosed out their class rival, Cavanaugh. On the following afternoon the Brownsonites were given their initial defeat of the season by the Zahm outfit who stepped into first place in the league standings. The next day the Sophomores, displaying their usual contempt for the yearlings, garnered a victory from the Freshman Hallers. This victory placed the Sophs in first place along with the aforementioned Zahm crew.
Team Standings in Soccer League
TEAM
Zahm .............
Sophomores .......
Brownson .........
Freshman .........
Cavanaugh ........
Juniors ...........
G W L PCT. 110 1.000 110 1.000 2 11	.500
3 12	.333
10 1	.000
000	.000
Interhall Soccer Schedule
Monday, Nov. 8, 3:30 p.m.—Freshman Field: Freshman vs. Zahm.
Wednesday, Nov. 10, 3:30 p.m.— Freshman Field: Sophomores vs. Juniors.
Friday, Nov. 12, 3:30 p.m.—Freshman Field: Zahm vs. Cavanaugh.
No Army Tickets
In reply to yours of even date. . . I’d like to be an angel And with the angels stand When Michael halts his cohorts O'er Ruppert’s concrete band; Where Irish hearts are throbbing To the thud of Irish feet, And Irish wits say laughing— “We early got a seat!”
E. Z. Mark.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
On The Enemies’ Bench
By Ed Brennan
According to Ralph Cannon, in the Chicago Daily News of Oct. 30, Bernie Bierman claimed that his team was not worked up for the Irish-Gopher battle. “It’s just another game to them,” he said. “Half of them probably don’t know whom they’re playing. It’s the coaches who do the worrying.”—	•
The mighty Gophers had not lost a game on their own field since Michigan beat them in 1932—
This season Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, and Ohio State, in the Western Conference, have been beaten by their failure to add the extra point.—
Pitt gave two of its mainstays, Marshall Goldberg and Bill Daddio a day off last Saturday. Apparently the Panthers are pointing for the Irish with much the same furor as Minnesota. At any rate Coach Jock Sutherland, now in his fourteenth season at Pitt, will be seeking his 100th victory.—
Fabian Hoffman, regular left end on last year’s squad, spent the summer working his way around the world on a boat. When he reported for practice the first week in September, he found himself replaced by Frank Souchak, who so far this year, has been playing the type of ball to merit a regular position.—
Dick Cassiano, sophomore left half back sensation, is considered as fast as Goldberg, but he lacks the drive of the Jewish star. On account of Sutherland’s policy of breaking a sophomore in slowly, Cassiano may not see much action tomorrow.—
The Panthers continued their erratic ball handling by fumbling nine times against Carnegie.—
Frank Checkerneo, 2 0 0 pound quarter back, and Riffle were high school teammates in Warren, Ohio.—
Jock Sutherland has not lost a November game in 12 years.—
Tony Matisi, giant tackle is a brother of Joe Matisi, well known fighter among Eastern heavyweight circles.—
■ Accustomed to getting six and seven men in to the Notre Dame press box, Army scouts were somewhat taken back when they received only two tickets at Minnesota last week.—
Approximately 400,000 persons have applied for the 102,291 available seats for this year’s Army-Navy game.—
Layden in "Post"
Elmer Layden’s article “I’m Following Rockne” appears in this week’s Saturday Evening Post. Layden, in his article, contemplates what Rockne would have done to counteract the changes that have taken place in football since his death. Elmer thinks that the great coach would have kept right up with the game.
CADETS AND IRISH WILL MEET IN GOTHAM NEXT WEEK; YANKEE STADIUM SOLD OUT
By Fred Digby
After the Pittsburgh Panthers come the Cadets of West Point. And the
Army Cadets are always at their best for the Irish of Notre Dame. Army will
be playing a Notre Dame team that will have been, of necessity, unusually “high” for its three previous games with Navy, Minnesota, and Pittsburgh.
FROSH IMPRESSIVE IN TRACK MEET
A thrilling stretch drive by Greg Rice, N. C. A. A. two-mile champion, that failed by a foot highlighted the annual Varsity-Freshman fall handi-
N. C. A. A. Champ Rice Repeating Again.
cap meet, Thursday night in the gym.
Rice, although not in the best condition, and suffering from recurring “stitches” in his back, thrilled the handful of spectators by his courageous burst of speed. Starting on the back-stretch, 160 yards from the finish line and 40 yards behind Steve Szumachowski, Greg turned on the heat. Flying around the final turn like a sprinter, Greg just failed to catch Steve at the finish by a foot.
Jim Tracey, a Freshman from Cavanaugh, showed good possibilities by winning the half-mile by 30 yards, the amount of his handicap.
John Dean, Sophomore from Milwaukee, was the only double winner on the night’s program, copping the pole vault and the high-jump. He was tied with Tom Leonas in the latter event but was given first place on a handicap basis.
In the hurdle events Bob Lawrence won the 60 yard high hurdles, and Bill Mahoney the 6-5 yard low hurdles.
Bill Clifford, star varsity dash man turned in the best time in the 60 yard dash in winning his trial heat in :06.5, but dropped out of the finals when his starting blocks slipped.
Gold, silver, and bronze medals will (Continued on Page 19)
There is always the possibility of a let-down after three successive games such as these, and the Irish can’t afford to slacken their pace when they meet the Cadets.
Army will also have all it can do to win this Saturday, however. The West Pointers face a Harvard team that is fresh from a 34 to 6 victory over Princeton. They have already defeated Clemson, Columbia, Washington U., and Virginia Military Institute. The Cadets lost to Yale in the third game of ther schedule, 15 to 7.
The West Pointers have a number of very powerful backs in Wilson, Ryan, Schwenk, Long and Craig. Craig, understudy to Monk Meyer for the past two years, has very capably filled the little dynamo’s shoes.
Craig will be a threat to the Irish with his passing as well as with his ninning. Against V.M.I. Craig accounted for two of the three Army scores with passes to Schwenk. The Cadets moved into position for their first score with a pass from Wilson to Long. Obviously the Irish will have to be prepared to defend themselves against a powerful passing attack.
In the line the two outstanding West Pointers play side by side. Captain Isbell, with two years’ experience, has been playing brilliantly at right tackle. Right end Kobes was heading for an All-American nomination before being hurt in the Notre Dame game last year. He is a good pass receiver as well as an excellent defensive player.
Seats for the Army game have been sold out for some time. A capacity crowd of 80,000 will be on hand to witness the 24th meeting of the two teams.
Quarterback Puplis Don’t stop clapping, Andy
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING ByMark j-Mitche|1
SCRIBE GIVES GOPHER GAME SIDELIGHTS
Perhaps you’ve wondered why we haven’t introduced Jack McCarthy before this. After all, he has played pretty regularly at left halfback, and they’ll all tell you that the left halfback is the key man, the spearhead of the attack on a Notre Dame team. To tell you the truth we have had a growing suspicion all along that we could do a lot for the Notre Dame team this year if we could
only get going. In what way? Just this. The Scholastic comes out on Friday afternoon, and this column usually says a lot of nice things about some particular football player. Now Mr. Layden’s boys are such gentlemen that they wouldn’t for the world make a prevaricator out of even a lowly Sports Editor. So the next chance they get, which usually comes on the day after The Scholastic appears, they go out on the field and and really live up to all the nice things we say about them.
Of course Chuck Sweeney is our biggest selling point for this argument. But then it took even the Notre Dame Varsity a while to get going this season, and we are just beginning to feel our oats. Consequently we expect to see Mr. Goldberg and associates overwhelmed tomorrow by an Irishman named Jack McCarthy. He’ll need the assistance of some ten other Irishmen to do it, but we think he can and will.
Now perhaps you’d like to know something about this big game hunter who is going to specialize in Panther-killing tomorrow. We’ve watched Jack McCarthy a long time, watched him work his way up through some lean years until he finally led a splendid Loyola Academy team to a Sectional Championship of Chicago’s Catholic League in 1934. He was the greatest
player on that team, and one of the best in the League that year. His passing and running and kicking made him a real threat, and big things were predicted for him in college.
Despite all the high school’s build up he never really blossomed out in college competition. He’s been pretty consistent, but that not enough to beat teams like Pitt and Army. He’s done most of the kicking this year and has averaged about 35 yards a try, which isn’t so bad when his teammate Andy Puplis managed to run back about 15 yards every time he gets his hands on an enemy boot. In fact Puplis’ shiftiness in an open field has all but nullified any advantage the opposing kickers have had over Jack this year.
Last year Jack was understudy to Bob Wilke in which position he played more than enough to win his monogram. His percentage of completed passes was a good .400. He also did the kicking with the second team.
At the start of this season, he was playing regular left half, and only once did he yield his place in the starting lineup to another. That was against Carnegie Tech when sophomore Lou Zontini was tried out because of his exceptional showing against the Ulini. When Zontini’s side arm throws were consistently broken up, McCarthy replaced him and played the full sixty minutes against Navy. In this game he began to hit his stride for the first time, displaying some very fine leg work when he scored the only Notre Dame touchdown after a 35 yard run.
Last week his running game fell victim of the heavy Minnesota line. But he was a definite threat from start to finish, and the Gophers discovered they couldn’t stop everybody, as the score indicated. One of his bullet passes found the arms of Bunny McCormick in the first quarter for a first down on the 20-yard line. This, as you know, was the beginning of the end for the Golden Gophers.
And so we’re hoping that John Gregory McCarthy, of Glencoe, Illinois and Notre Dame, will find it in his heart tomorrow afternoon to startle some wild animals, to help our personal reputation as an Introducer, and to keep faith with the millions of Notre Dame followers who are behind him to a man.
By Nick Lamberto
A last minute assignment to make the student trip and get a story of the game. . . Finally got a train ticket. . . Art Haley procures a sideline pass for me. . . There I sit behind the hulks of humanity that are the Irish reserves. . . The boys on the bench shout encouragement to those in the game and razz the Gophers. . . “Down in front!”. . . Race comes out of the game: "Those guys are getting easy.”. . . Every time the Irish get the ball the bench takes up the chant: “Drive ’em out gang.”
When Andy Puplis scored on a quarter back sneak in the first quarter it was the first time in four years that a touchdown was scored through the Minnesota line. On the touchdown play the ball was snapped befoe the shift. Andy started toward right guard but slid off through a hole over left guard.
After Minnesota made their touchdown Bernie Bierman sent Horace Bell, star colored guard, into the game to kick the extra point. The referee refused to allow the substitution because Bell had already been in the game in that quarter. It wouldn’t have made much difference who kicked it because Sweeney blocked the ball after it had travelled only about five feet.
Bierman had a special defense rigged up for Bunny McCormick. Every time Notre Dame shifted left with McCormick back, one of the Gopher guards would pull out of the line and play wide for end sweeps. The Notre Dame quarter backs fooled them after a while by sending Sim-onich through the hole left by the guard. Big Ed usually complied with a nice chunk of yards.
Joe Thesing knocked .Minnesota’s Captain Ray King off his throne with a vicious block in the first quarter. The Notre Dame bench then took up the cry, “He was King—but not foi' long.” Pat McCarty really jarred the Gopher ball carriers when they saw day light through the Irish line. The whole Irish line made up for their weight disadvantage with their fierce charging and aggressive playing.
Clashmore Mike, the Notre Dame mascot, walked ahead of the band from the St. Paul station to the St. Paul Hotel, the official Notre Dame headquarters. Mike came up in the student special train and slept in the baggage car. His caretaker and trainer, Dan Hanley, was worried because he feared that Mike would catch cold in the unheated car. The student body got off at the Union station in St. Paul, but the official
(Continued on Page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
SECRET DRILLS MARK PITT PREPARATION
•
An air of mystery surrounded the Notre Dame football practice this week as the Irish drilled determinedly for to-morrow’s game with the Pittsburgh Panthers. Even the possibilities of seeing through or over the fence were methodically checked and eliminated, and very little leaked out except the militant battle chant of the players themselves.
Elmer Layden drilled his team defensively in ways of stopping Goldberg and the Pittsburgh power, offensively in putting across winning touchdowns against the seven-man line which has been giving the Irish so much trouble within the ten-yard stripe. Monday afternoon he rested his eleven iron men, who had played 52 minutes against Minnesota and most of the game against Navy, by giving them a taste of the Pittsburgh plays as executed by the freshmen. However, he drove his second and third teams hard in scrimmage. Tuesday afternoon the entire squad had dummy scrimmage.
Trainer Eugene “Scrap” Young was called from the gymnasium to the playing field three times within five minutes Monday afternoon. First, John Fogel, third string center, was helped from the field with a torn muscle in his right knee; then a freshman was carried off with a serious leg injury; and finally Jerry Clifford, third team left end, received a gash in his right cheek that required five stitches to close.
Ed Simonich, who averaged five yards a try and intercepted two passes against Minnesota, might possibly break into the starting line-up tomorrow, but so far everything indicates that the line-up will be the same that started against the Gophers last week. The team has come through the bruising battle at Minneapolis in surprisingly good shape physically. A few perennial pessimists have indicated that the terrific strain of holding Minnesota in check might cause some sort of mental relapse, but instead, that game has probably served as a taste of raw meat, and after seeing moving pictures of the humiliation of Notre Dame by Pittsburgh last year, the team is determined to have a victory over the Panthers tomorrow afternoon.
Spark: The spontaneous decoration of the halls.
Check: Two Notre Dame men now occupy important positions at the Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh. John F. McMahon, A.B., ’28, is Executive Secretary of the Air Hygiene Corporation, and Editor of the Mellon Institute News.
Mighty Gophers Upset by Notre Dome, 7-6;
Puplis, Sweeney Lead Mates to Victory
When Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish beat the Minnesota Gophers 7 to 6 last Saturday, they defeated the Number Two opponent on their 1937 schedule. Despite Minnesota’s defeat by Nebraska and its inglorious 6-0 victory over Indiana, it ranks only below Pitt as the year’s strongest foe of the Irish. But the men in blue and gold had the defensive charge to upset the Minnesota strength and the drive to sustain an offense of their own all the way across the double white line.
This was a game without “flukes,” a game won by the better team. The things that Notre Dame had just barely missed doing in the earlier games were being done. The Irish were “on” from the opening kickoff, when Joe Beinor, who had established something of a reputation for ferocious but ineffectual dives, drove through the Gopher blockers, plunged and made contact with Gmitro, returning the kick. Gmitro went up in the air and came right down flat.
Fullback Buhler thumped the middle of the line without advancing the ball and Captain Ray King made the first of his many long punts, a 60-yarder to Puplis. It was too long to allow the Gopher ends to get under it quickly enough, and Andy had about ten yards of room to get his bearings and cut for the sidelines. He picked up blockers about midfield and
Great Gridiron Battles of Past Recalled
As Pitt and Irish Close Relations Tomorrow
Tomorrow’s game will see the end of one of the nation’s brilliant grid series, the great modern rivalry of Pittsburgh and Notre Dame.
With the mighty Panthers pointing for its second successive National Championship and the Fighting Irish fresh from a brilliant victory over Minnesota, tomorrow’s game bids fair to be a great climax to a great relationship.
Pittsburgh and Notre Dame have met ten times on the gridiron since the inception of the meetings back in 1909. In that first game the Irish triumphed 6-0. Matthews, Irish left end of that year caught a pass and sprinted 38 yards for the winning touchdown.
Knute Rockne was playing his first year of college football the next time the Panthers and Irish clashed, in 1911. The first and only tie of the series was the result as the two teams battled each other evenly for 60 minutes and the scoreboard read 0-0. The next meeting the following year saw another Irish victory as Gus Dorais kicked a field goal
ran down a sort of aisle, sideline on his right, Gophers on his left, with Gmitro alone waiting at the end. Gmitro hit him head on and stopped him on the 33, after a 40-yard run.
Tackle A. Shellogg Hello Goldberg.
The Minnesota line tightened up at once, so McCarthy ran to the right, stopped, and completed the first pass of the game to McCormick cutting to the left on the Minnesota 19. McCarthy started wide, then turned sharply inside the end, going forward for a nine-yard gain. McCormick was stopped, but Thesing found a hole for three yards and a first down. Both sides exchanged offside penalties, and Minnesota stopped a Notre Dame re-(Continned on Page 20)
through the uprights for three points and victory. Score 3-0.
An 18 year interval followed and then in 1930 Jock Sutherland and Rockne arranged for a home and home series to settle the national question as to which team was the better. 1930 was the year of Schwartz, Carideo, Savoldi, and other greats. The Irish sent Pitt tumbling down from. the heights of football fame by the score of 3-5-19 and went on to win the National Championship for Rockne.
The Panthers came to Notre Dame the following year only to fall once more before Schwartz’s passes 25-12. Luch, great Pitt back was the Panther’s star of the day as he scored two touchdowns for them.
The home and home series was then extended by Jesse Harper and Sutherland for five more years in 1932. That year Pitt registered their first victory, in a great upset. The two teams had been battling evenly all game long until, in the closing minutes, lightning in the form of (Continued on Page 23)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John F. Clifford
Now that Minnesota is definitely disposed of, we’ll sit back with journalistic complacency and grin. . . . For three long lean years we have been waiting for “Handy-Andy” to take up where he left off in the last half of the Wisconsin game and return those punts in true Puplis style—just "draaaaging” his well-padded hips and scooting along the sidelines. . . . Don’t look now, but there are several faces around the campus of the Galloping Gophers with a slight vermillion tinge, and one of them belongs to Bernie Bierman. . . . Returning from a personal scouting tour of the Navy-Notre Dame game two weeks ago, the Gopher coach was impressed no little by one Nevin Francis McCormick, the “best little man in the country” and the greatest little gum salesman east of the Rockies. . . . Hence, the keynote of the Minnesota practice sessions— “Watch McCormick!” . . . But unfortunately someone overlooked a low-slung, slippery-hipped young lad by the name of Andrew Joseph Puplis, one who was due to come into his own as a ball carrier very soon.
BEAT PITT
The smartest bit of ball playing was turned in by Chuck Sweeney and Len Skoglund, who time and again turned would-be Gopher end sweeps into the tackle position to be smeared by the entire Notre Dame line. . . . When the second team went into the game two linemen who were fairly bubbling over with vim and vigor (“Just let me at ’em”) were Joe Race and Paul Kell. . . . The two had a field day in turning off the power of the Minnesota line with vicious shivers that made the Gophers’ teeth rattle. . . Elmer Layden, the happiest man in the Irish locker rooms after the game, was all praises for his boys: “Maybe the boys have found themselves—I don’t know. I hope we have, for we’ll have to hold this form to have a chance against Pittsburgh.” . . . Elmer hadn’t heard at the time that the “Silent Scot,” Jock Sutherland, had refrained from using Daddio and Goldberg, the two dynamos in the Pitt power-house, in the Carnegie Tech game.
BEAT PITT
HAS NOTRE DAME GONE TOO GAELIC? Such has been the theme of various commentaries on the 1937 Notre Dame football season since Illinois and Carnegie Tech halted the vaunted march of the Irish. One writer, in particular, was greatly perturbed over the fact that two Irishmen have started all the games this year in the Notre Dame backfield, and yet these same fighting Irishmen were repulsed (to put it in his own words) by “futile Illinois” and “frustrated Carnegie Tech” on successive Saturdays. Obviously the writer does not know the facts. As a matter of record he under-estimates the problem which he is lamenting: there are five true sons of the Erin Isle on the varsity this year, and every one has been an important factor in the surge of the Irish, towards a very successful season. Has Notre Dame gone too Gaelic when a lad by the name' of Sweeney in holding down his end post has been directly responsible for the winning scores of the last two games? Have the Irish of Notre Dame become too numerous for the opposition with McCormick, O’Reilly, and McCarthy, the sparks that set off the Irish bomb for three Saturdays ? Has Notre Dame been imbued too deeply with Irish tradition when one of the bulwarks of the line has been Irishman Patrick Francis McCarty? Notre Dame gone too Gaelic? We think so—too much so for Navy and Minnesota, at least.
BEAT PITT
From the results of last week’s games it appears that the weekly poll of up-and-coming All-Americans and potential National Champs conducted by the Associated Press is due for a drastic change. Clint Frank, of Yale, and Bill Hutchison, of Dartmouth, are the leading candidates in the mythical backfield to date, with California’s Vic Bottari, Detroit’s Farkas, and Goldberg, of Pitt, well in the running. California, fighting for the Rose Bowl bid from the West Coast, is still the most popular choice as the best the West has to offer. Chuck Sweeney and Jack McCarthy are the two Irish players mentioned by the sportswriters as outstanding thus far. Forecasters fared comparatively well, but none picked the Minnesota game corredy—that is, none but Steve Miller (and
RESERVES TIE ILLINOIS IN CLOSE GAME
By Robert B. Voelker
The Notre Dame B-Team and the Illinois Bees battled at Champaign last Saturday, Oct. 30, and when the final gun boomed they were deadlocked, 7 to 7.
It was a very even affair, for both teams scored within the first eight minutes of play, threatened a while later, and for the remainder of the game stayed outside the shadow of the goal-posts.
The game was off to a spectacular start when Bill Huston, flashy Ulini quarterback, scooped up Chuck Riffle’s kick-off and sprinted to the Irish four-yard line before he was stopped. After three unsuccessful attempts, Phil Brovelli, giant Illinois fullback, plunged over for the score.
Bob Porter then pulled out of his left guard post and booted the ball for what later proved to be the tying point of the game.
On the next kickoff, Jack Mand-jiak, at right half for the Irish, returned the ball to his own 3 5-yard stripe. This was followed, by a long, high pass from Jack Sullivan to Mandjiak on the goal line for an Irish touchdown. Mandjiak then tied the score with a perfect place-kick.
The second quarter was mainly a battle between punters who were trying to get within striking distance of the goal. In the closing minutes, the Illini Bees marched from their own 35-yard line down to the Irish 17. With but a few second remaining Porter tried a field goal which fell wide, to the left of the posts.
Swinging into the third period, the Irish reserves had a ray of hope when Steve Rogenski, center, blocked an Illinois’ punt on the Notre Dame 43-yard line. This was followed by a pass from Paul Morrison to Brad Lynn, which netted the Irish 34 yards. However, the Illini tightened up, took the ball on downs, and punted out of danger.
Late in the third quarter the last scoring threat was made by the Irish when a 30-yard pass from Sullivan to Mandjiak would have meant a touchdown if the ball had not been called back. The Irish backs were in motion, and hence they missed the last opportunity to win the game'.
none picked the Minnesota game correctly—that is, none but Steve Miller (and the sportscribes in yon metropolis). With the Irish victory Steve had 17 right out of 21, discounting the four ties, had an average of .809 for the week-end. All midwest games were picked on the nose. That’s good enough for any man s money. For tomorrow, tonguein-cheek and fingers crossed, we pick:
(Continued on Page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
On the Enemies1 Trail
TO DATE:
PITTSBURGH has defeated Ohio Wesleyan 59-0, West Virginia 200, Duquesne 6-0, has tied Fordham 0-0, and has defeated Wisconsin 21-0, and Carnegie Tech 25-14.
ARMY has defeated Clemson 21-6, Columbia 21-18, has lost to Yale 15-7, and has defeated Washington University 47-7, and Virginia Military Institute 20-7.
NORTHWESTERN has defeated Iowa State 33-0, Michigan 7-0, Purdue 14-7, has lost to Ohio State 7-0, and has defeated Wisconsin 14-6.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA has defeated College of the Pacific 40-0, has lost to Washington 7-0, has defeated Ohio State 13-12, and Oregon 34-14, has lost to California 20-6, and has tied Washington State 0-0.
THIS WEEK:
PITTSBURGH plays Notre Dame.
ARMY plays Harvard.
NORTHWESTERN plays Illinois.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA plays Stanford.
FALL TRACK MEET (Continued from Page 15)
■ be awarded to first, second, and third place winners respectively.
Summary:
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES — Won by Lawrence; Mahoney, second: Devine, third. Time, :08.8.
SHOT PUT—Won by Faymonville (44 ft. in.) ; Holland, second (38 ft. 7% in.) : Mizerski, third (38 ft. 4 in.).
BROAD JUMP—Won by Tucker (22 ft.) ; Gibbs, second (21 ft. 10 in.) ; Daugherty, third (21 ft. 9 in.).
880-YARD RUN—Won by Tracey; Francis, second : Obreys, third. Time—2:02.6.
HIGH JUMP—Leanos and Dean tied for first (5 ft. 10 in.) ; Devine, third (5 ft. 8 in.).
MILE RUN—Won by Francis; Quinn, second ; Donnelly, third. Time—4:39.
440-YARD RUN—Won by McMahon; Johnson, second; Sheehan, third. Time—:51.1.
60-YARD DASH—Won by Shields; Rice, second ; Coughlin, third. Time—:06.6.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Szumachowski; Rice, second ; Gormley, third. Time—10:01.5.
POLE VAULT—Won by Dean (12 ft.) ; Gibbs and Langton tied for second (11 ft. 6 in.).	.
65-YARD LOW HURDLES —Won by Mahoney ; Lawrence, second; Gibbs, third. Time :07.5.
... You take no
OVER 5,000,000 MEDICO PIPE SMOKERS AGREE WITH DR. MILLING, M. o.
SEE NEW SHAPES* FINISHES
FINEST 9 ■ BRIAR ■ MONEY
CAN BUY
UNHEARD OF VALUE
OR. CHAPMAN J. MILLING
MEDICO
FILTER-COOLED
COUUM..A...C, yg!,,	10#	1937
S. M. Frank & Co., Inc.
Hew York, N. Y.
Gentlemen:-
About eighteen months ago I was forced to quit smoking a pipe because the tarry products in the heel kept me chronically nauseated. Too bad, but it couldn’t be helped. No use feeling miserable every time I fired up. So I stayed off tobacco for over a year.
Then one day I saw a few Frank’s Medicos in a druggist’s showcase, and half-heartedly decided to try one. So many ’patented filter systems on the market. But I’d risk a dollar on one anyhow,-just in hopes .. •
For six happy months, now I’ve been B smoking that Frank’s. This afternoon I bought my second one, and have it sending up incense as I write. I want to tell you - in case you don’t■already know it -that you’re one of the benefactors of society. Lol the poor Indian! Lol Sir Walter Raleighl Lol everybody who died before you brought out a filter that really works. I’m-telling my friends by the dozen, but not fast enough.
You may use my name if you care to, and add that this letter is absolutely unsolicited on your part.
Very cordially yours,
ONLY PAY'D FILTER COMBINING MOISTURE-PROOF CELLOPHANE EXTERIOR AND 66 BAFFLE ABSORBENT MESH SCREEN INTERIOR, RESULTING IN GREATEST PIPE SMOKING INVENTION EVER KNOWN
chances on the
SOUTH SHORE LINE
You lay your travel money on a "sure thing" when you go by South Shore Line — it's a cinch to save you time and money, too. And weather and traffic don't count as risks . . . you're safe all the way. At two cents a mile, you're sure to win when you travel by South Shore.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
-SOuth^shore
A ------------K
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A BROKEN insulator—fungi in a pole— . dust in central office apparatus—a hundred things might interfere with your telephone service. <LThey rarely do interfere because of this Bell System practice: Look for trouble before it happens—don’t let it happen. ®. Preventive maintenance keeps the System always ready to carry your voice wherever you
wish—quickly, clearly, at low cost.
Why not call home tonight? Rates to most points are lowest any time after 7 P.M. and all day Sunday,
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
GOPHER GAME
(Continued from Page 17) verse for a loss back on the ten. McCarthy went wide right again to the corner of the field, where he was knocked out of bounds on the three-yard line. Puplis then sneaked under the Minnesota guards to score. He kicked the point.
Van Every, a tall 190-pound halfback, made two long gains of 15 and 18 yards, then kicked out of bounds a yard from the goal line. McCarthy kicked out right away for 40 yards, but Van Every made a 12 yard return. Two plays gained about two inches; then the Gophers opened up their prize scoring play. Christiansen, playing fullback in place of Buhler, bucked the line, handing the ball to Quarterback Gmitro just behind the line. Tailback Van Every ran to the right and took a lateral from Gmitro, then barely got away a fine pass to King, running from his right end position diagonally toward the left corner of the field. The Notre Dame line was not fooled, for the play had been well-scouted by Joe Benda, Irish end-coach, and almost smeared Van Every for a loss. But the Irish secondary were lured in (Continued on Page 23)
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8211
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
MINN. SIDELIGHTS
(Continued from Page 16) reception committee was waiting for the Notre Dame train in the Minneapolis station.
Anxious apprehension during those last two minutes. . . plenty of Aves . . . groans every time a Minnesota pass was completed. . . Minnesota’s supporters find new life after rather solemn cheering all afternoon. . . the wind rush for the team as the gun barks. . . the scramble for the ball . . . Sweeney gets it. . . the band and students awe the spectators by remaining in the stands to chant the the Victory March. . .
The locker room seething with enthusiasm. . . players hug each other . . . Elmer pats them all on the back . . . thanks all the. well-wishers. . . managers help pull the jerseys and tape off. . . celebration in the hotel . . . autograph seekers satisfied. . . Layden talks to the men after dinner . . . “Don’t forget Pitt”. . . “Gophers were plenty tough every minute”. . . Bierman’s sportsmanlike tribute: “They were just tougher than we were.” . . . The team leaves St. Paul at 9:30. . . Mass and Communion at St. Patrick’s in Chicago on Sunday . . . back to school and thoughts of Pitt.
Discrepancy: At the end of the first half the clock on the scoreboard indicated 59 seconds left to play.
At the end of the second half the clock had already indicated that the game was over for five seconds.
THE WEEK (Continued from Page 9) Custom
At Minnesota they have a custom of shooting off a large cannon every time Minnesota scores a touchdown. Evidently they anticipated a big day Saturday because next to the cannon they had a pile of shot big enough to make Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek or General Francisco Franco look like- a pair of pikers. We even heard a rumor that all the good people of Minneapolis were ordered to wear cotton in their ears between the hours of two and four-thirty. But there was plenty of shot left over, and the onlly thing the cotton was good for was to wipe away the tears.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Tower Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
SPLINTERS (Continued from Page 18)
NOTRE DAME 14, PITT 7
California over Washington
Duquesne over Carnegie Tech Fordham over Purdue
Army over Harvard
Holy Cross over Colgate Minnesota over Iowa Northwestern over Illinois Alabama over Tulane
IN Ch
I
HOTEL SHERMAN
COLLEGE INN
Also the Twelve
Boots McKenna Dancers and the
Queens of Hearts
Ohio State over Indiana Dartmouth over Princeton Southern Cal over Stanford Navy over Columbia Villanova over Marquette Yale over Brown Nebraska over Kansas Michigan State over Temple Drake over Tulsa
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Honey in the towl
The"Yello-BoIe" treatment—real honey in the bowl —gives this pipe a "well-broken-in” taste immediately, AND impregnates the briarwood thoroughly as you smoke, so its wonderful flavor is preserved permanently Special attachment gives (1) auto- ■ matic free draft (2, double-action condensor. H YELLO-BOLE
also "carburetor" "STEMBITER", "IMPERIAL" YELLO-BOLES, $1.25 & $1.50
STETSON
Pin TUSSLE
(Continued from Page 14)
Chickerneo are neck and neck for the quarterback post. Patrick has a slight edge over Stapulis at fullback. Stebbins will be at right half, and he will be blocking for a ball-carrying left half who answers to the name of Goldberg. “Mad Marshall” Goldberg they call him back in Pittsburgh. If the Notre Dame line bottle up “Mad Marshall,” they should win.
Pitt goes into the fracas as pregame favorites. However, Ohio State was supposed to have won that memorable 18-13 tangle; again, last year Ohio State was a heavy pre-contest favorite; the dope was upset a second time last year when the Irish knocked Northwestern out of a National Championship; last week look what happened at Minnesota. By this time tomorrow, maybe the Irish will have again upset the dope-sheet. Let’s hope so!
TOBIN
says:
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
IIO North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
FELT WITH A FLAIR
• by Stetson
Take it from any angle you wish, this newest Stetson with its broad welt-edge brim has the smartest lines of Fall.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
' --------------♦----
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Stetson Hats
Optometrists Est. 1903
Patronize SCHOLASTIC Advertisers
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
MINNESOTA GAME _____(Continued from Page 20) away from the criss-crossing ends, and King easily took the pass with no one closer than five yards away, scoring after a short run. Faust came in for Gmitro to place-kick. He never got the ball more than shoulder high off the ground, for Chuck Sweeney went through without being touched by a single blocker and got his whole body across in front of the kick.
Van Every’s exceptionally accurate passing under pressure saved the Gophers from a shutout and kept them in the bail-game with a lastminute 54-yard push. On every pass he completed he was forced to throw off-balance, and was hit by Beinor or Shellogg with the ball barely out of his grasp. Most of the last Minnesota passes started from a singlewing formation to the left, and Van Every, a right-handed passer, had to I run to the left, stop and reverse Iris position in order to get the ball away ever on the verge of being smacked for a long loss. That he could complete three passes attests to the accuracy of his throwing, for the Irish had six men downfield covering all receivers.
PITT HISTORY
(Continued from Page 17)
Warren Heller’s passes struck and Pitt quickly scored twice to win the game 12-0. The following year saw another Pitt victory as Mike Sebastian and Nick Lukats starred for their respective teams. Pilney and Millner as juniors in 1934 tried valiantly but Notre Dame again lost to the mighty Panthers 19-0.
Then in 1935, before a great crowd of 53,000 people in the Notre Dame stadium, Marty Peters swung his right foot and scored the winning field goal that broke a 6-6 tie and gave the Irish their first victory since ’32. Irish fans thought that was tops for the year at the time but they didn’t know what was going to happen at Ohio State the following week. It was in this Pitt game that Bill Shakespeare booted the ball the prodigious distance of 93 yards, 80 yards of it through the air.
Then last year, in Pittsburgh, a valiant Irish team fell before Goldberg, and lost by the score of 26-0, the largest margin a Notre had lost to since early in the century.
Thus we come up to the present. The series ends tomorrow. Spirits of great Irish and Pitt players of the past will hover over the gridiron watching the two teams battle for the last time. Memories of Rockne, Dorais, Dolan, Carideo, Schwartz, Shakespeare and other greats are woven into the history and tomorrow as the series close they probably all hope for one more victory over the । mighty team from the Smoky City. i
College Men’s Headquarters for ARROW Shirts . . Handkerchiefs Ties . . . Underwear
MAX ADLER
Authenticity of style is easily recognized in the Rodney ... A new shirt with white cuffs and a white collar contrasted on a colored body. For town wear and semi-formal occasions. Mitoga-form-fit and Sanforized Shrunk. $2.50
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
Chesterfields give everybody more pleasure
Take out a pack and it draws ’em like a magnet...right away smokers crowd around for that refreshing MILDNESS and BETTER TASTE
-a lot of smokers are turning to em every day
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.