
4.
T
H g £
0
G
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.
E
■■
*' " n g s iH
WINSTON
TASTES GOOD!
LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD I
K I N
Seems almost eveiyone knows the
good word for WINSTON
AND THE WORD IS “TASTE” . . . good taste! See if you don’t think that Winston is the best-tasting cigarette you’ve ever smoked! Part of the reason is the exclusive snow-white filter, carefully made to let you enjoy Winston’s rich, full flavor. It’s no wonder, really, that Winston is America’s best-selling filter cigarette — and by a wider margin than ever! Try a pack real soon!
Enjoy WINSTON... with the snow-white filter in the cork-smooth tip!
THE CAMPUS SHOP . . .
NEXT FALL!
c
Next fall, every thing . . . except the personnel and the service . . . will be brand new at the Campus Shop! Gilbert’s Campus Shop policy is to keep nothing but the best . . . the newest and freshest stock here. Because of our downtown store, nothing needs to be “held over” £	from season to season at our Notre Dame store.
So, come back next fall with your suitcases empty . . . You’ll find everything new and “right” at your Campus Shop.
DRESS RIGHT . . . You can't afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
May 17, 1957

Attention
1957
GRADUATES
Keep in touch with your friends and the news of the Notre Dame campus with a subscription to the SCHOLASTIC ... at a special rate for 1957 graduates for the 1957-58 school year. Take advantage of this opportunity to receive campus news all next year wherever you are.
Special Price $3.00
to Graduating Seniors only
Send your name, home address and remittance to
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, Indiana
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 98 May 17, 1957 No. 24
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of Postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized une 23, 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER   News Editor JAMES McDonald ..........Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL ...........Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS........Assistant	News
BOB WILLIAMS ............Assistant	News
HARRY McKEE.............Assistant	Copy
MARSH PIDGEON...........Assistant	Copy
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation	Mgr.
HARRY CONLON ............Business	Mgr.
JOHN GLAVIN................Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY...............Assistant	Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK ________Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, Bill Duffy, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Karnath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppek, Roger Leto, Ed Plumly, Bob Quinn, David Schwartz, Don Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon.
Business Staff: Loran Sheffer, Mike Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by .National Advertising Service, Inc-420 Madison Avenue. New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
PapersMate
$500 Golden
Jewelry-finished
Electroplated Gold
WITH THE PIGGYBACK REFILL the Ideal Gift for Any Occasion
FREE GIFT BOX e
Notre Dame Bookstore
The Scholastic ;
t
common scents
Hey. whassamatter? Is this place going Ivy League?” remarked an underclassman coming out of O’Shaughnessy Hall the other day. He continued, “I hear that they are going to make us wear coats and ties to the evening meal in the Dining Hall next year. I can’t see that.”
This report has neither been confirmed nor denied as this issue goes to press. But it might not be a bad idea.
f A move of this sort could do wonders to pick up the atmosphere of the Dining Hall in the evening. Now that spring has finally come, most of the students are trying their hand at golf, tennis, or baseball. As soon as some of them finish with the afternoon game they trot over to the Dining Hall. They leave all of their equipment outside. But there are some things that thev can’t leave outside, at least not without a shower.
Generally, we at Notre Dame are not too particular about the atmosphere in the Dining Hall. We go over there *to eat. not to relax. However, this presence of another atmosphere there can be overdone. Sitting near a couple of the afternoon athletes is like eating dinner in the locker room after the roughest football game of the year.
Naturally the conditions in the Dining Hall are not exactly like those at a coeducational institution. We don’t expect them to be. This is a man’s school. But uncleanliness is not the same thing as manliness. The most virile man is not the dirtiest, at least not at the dinner table.
This situation isn’t limited to the Dining Hall, though. There are several who frequent the Huddle who look like ^hey just came from the woods behind the Biology Building. Their green tee shirts are not tucked in their trousers, but that doesn’t make any difference, because their trousers are dirtier than their tee shirts. And if a razor company were depending on these fellows for business it would have gone into bankruptcy long ago. These few men would have no trouble getting the “Animal” role in the movie “Stalag 17.”
Except for Saturday nights at the Huddle, the situation 's the same as the Dining Hall. Possibly the coat and tie ■outine would pick up the atmosphere. It would do little :o change the standings in Gilbert’s “Man of the Year” iward. But we aren’t shooting for the best dressed student jody—just a civilly dressed group.
We would not be the only school west of the Alleghanies o follow this rule. Several other colleges in the Midwest lave switched to the coat-and-tie rule in the last several 'ears. It isn’t the Ivy League influence; it is just decency.
—D.T.
the last word
This page has been a long time coming. xAt times it seemed as if it would never come. Even this writing stumbled through a few difficult hours before it was finally ready for the presses.
I hope that no one will get the impression that I am glad to be rid of this job. On the contrary', I hate to leave it now when I feel I am just getting the hang of the editor’s position.
I know we have made enough mistakes to cause ourselves any number of red faces during the year. But without those same mistakes we could not have learned much about newspapers, their problems, and the solutions to those problems.
But it’s not the errors one makes that he remembers most in later years. Rather it’s the project he initiates and the sendee he renders that the journalist holds fast in his memory. The Scholastic staff has tried to serve the University as best it could. Sometimes our suggestions were turned down; at other times they were accepted and became a new part of student life. It is the latter of which we are most proud.
On another page in this issue you will see pictures of men who will guide the Scholastic next year. I have no doubts that Editor Jim Steintrager and his staff will succeed in giving to the University an even better publication next year.
However, there is one thing I would like to say to the new editor and his staff before I retire. Passive communications have no place at Notre Dame. Those of us who have worked on the magazine for four years realize that, in order to have a worthwhile publication, you must have something to say in every issue. If you do or say nothing of any importance in a given issue, then you might as well have not published it in the first place. There are so many things that need to be aired that you will be doing yourself and your fellow students an injustice if you pass over them without consideration. An inquiring attitude is a necessity for any editor. Without it his publication is valueless, and his own development is stunted in the process.
In closing for the year I would like to thank all the members of the staff and the men at the Ave Maria Press who have helped to make this a most pleasant job. I would also like to extend my thanks to our moderator, Mr. John P. Defant, for his patience and guidance this year. And lastly, I would like to express my gratitude to the Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., who has been an invaluable counsellor and guide in forming our policy over the past year.
—C.McK.
5
May 17, 1957
THE
CHICAGO TRIBUNE
WILL INTERVIEW
COLLEGE MEN
TO TRAIN FOR
EXECUTIVE
POSITIONS
IN ADVERTISING
The Chicago Tribune has salaried positions for seniors who shortly will be graduated from schools specializing in commerce, advertising, journalism and allied subjects.
These men will be trained for executive positions under the direction of executives who themselves joined this 11 O-year-old organization as graduating seniors and advanced to the top under the Tribune’s policy of promotion from within the organization.
If the business side of advertisingpublishing interests you, if you would like to know more about the opportunities offered by an enterprise doing a quarter billion dollars annually, you are invited to write or phone for an appointment for an interview.
Just write us a letter about yourself, your education, jobs you’ve held, if any, and your ambitions. Address J. G. Paddock, Chicago Tribune, Room 1015, Tribune Tower, Chicago 11, Illinois. If you live in the Chicago area, telephone: WHitehall 4-0400 and tell Mr. Paddock’s secretary you’d like to make an appointment for an interview.
OUR OFFICIAL RINGS
Editor:
A significant test case affecting the control and merchandising of the “Official Notre Dame Ring” is now in pro-^ gress in the Federal Court.	’
Through the Notre Dame Bookstore, the University for many years has exercised a careful supervision over the quality and distribution of the Notre Dame class ring. Such a control was highly important if the ring were to fulfill its purpose as a symbolic, external mark of the Notre Dame man.
In order to insure the quality of the ring, the University authorizes a reputable ring manufacturer, the Balfour Company, to supply a die-struck ring containing the specific insignia (the Dome and the Seal) which identifies the wearer as a Notre Dame man. Since the ring is intended primarily to signify a Notre Dame graduate, sales are restricted to alumni and to students who have entered their junior or senioi' years at the University. The latter^ groups are in the final stages of their University training and are considered to be eligible for the official ring in view of the proximity of graduation.
In recent months a copy of the official rinpr has been marketed in South Bend. Although to the layman there would seem to be little difference between the present Notre Dame ring and its counterfeit, the latter is produced by casting instead of being die-struck. A metallurgy expert^ recently compared these two processes by saying that the cast ring is analogous to porous (sponge) rubber while the diestruck ring would be analogous to solid rubber.
Another disturbing factor about the new ring being merchandised is that it is being made available to anyone who cares to buy it. Thus, the chief purpose of the class ring is being thwarted an<(^ the prestige factor which was formerly attached to the ring and its wearer is being undermined.
Thus, the matter has been brought to court and it is the University’s hope, as
(Continued on page 24)
This week’s cover depicts a late evening scene of the Golden Dome ant* Sacred Heart Church. The artist, Jack Simmerling, is a senior art major from Blue Island, III. The scene is a fitting one both to be featured on the cover of the SCHOLASTIC’S last issue for the school year and as a parting view for the seniors who will graduate some two weeks hence.
The Scholastic
J

by Bryan Woods
C
the year in rhyme
In a week or two we’ll all go home, far away from the beloved Dome. And so I decided to write a poem, you can carry with you from Maine to Nome.
Though the rhymes are forced and the metre bad,
the images absent and the content sad, I gave the damn thing all I had,
for your edification, be you frosh or grad.
I’ve tried to recall the year just past, a curious year from first to last, but there’s one little thing that leaves me aghast,
four-time rhymes aren’t coming too fast. So from here on in the rest of the rhymes,
will only be used a couple of times.
Poetry suffers when announced intention exceeds the power of poetic invention.
Early last fall as in other Septembers, The freshmen were oriented by Blue Circle members.
Lectures and picnics and mixers and all plus a soul-stirring movie in Washington Hall.
The rest of the troops returned imbued with hopes of a change in the Dining Hall food,
and dreams of a football season glorious, certainly not one so non-victorious.
On football weekends the crowds would
pour in,
watch the antics of the men of Sorin,
cheer Morse’s catches and the passes of
Hornung,
and lock their cars with the motor running.
After the game the men of the Sub, were usually seen at the Touchdown
Club.
As well as others, all twenty-one,
. trying to forget which team had won. fcNext to arrive was the winter weather, ^falling snowflakes light as a feather,
snowplows racing along the walks, as if students were chickens and they were hawks.
’Twas last November that winter descended,
’twas two weeks past that it finally ended.
But with the snow came basketball
season,
The sport of Hawkins, Devine and . Gleason.
And McCarthy and Duffy, the delight of the fan,
along with a fellow named Jack Bedan.
The start of the season was shrouded in gloom,
And the voices heard were the prophets of doom.
When we left the valley for Christmas vacation,
We left in a spirit of resignation.
And amid Christmas carols’ joyous refrain,
We read that the team had lost again.
But why speak of Christmas’ joyous days,
they’ve disappeared in a golden haze, Tell of your parties, and tell of your lasses,
You were back on the seventh in time for classes.
When we returned we had a surprise,
Our basketball fortunes were on the rise,
And Captain Smyth with spirit fierish, Led the rejuvenated Irish.
The brand new system of registration, was accomplished without much complication,
due to the efforts of those who fought it, The Student Senate, who’d have thought it.
The Mardi Gras drew the troops in a flock,
and some of the men are still in hock. What better way to go into Lent, With pockets empty and money spent. The round-bailers due to the games
they’d won,
Made the journey to Lexington,
Sad to say that ended the journey, Since the Spartans knocked them out of the tourney.
But pretty soon back on a field called Cartier,
They started spring practice for a sport somewhat heartier. -
Nagurski and Gaydos, Lynch and Wetoska,
The only one missing was Angelo Mosca.
Then came the Bengals, three full nights,
Of noses bloodied by lefts and rights, They battled each other with instincts tigerish,
that’s why they’re called the fighting Irish.
Posters were hung on the boards with care,
In hopes that the voters would read them there.
Platforms were published with care and cunning,
The student leaders were off and running.
What need to speak of the Easter Vacation,
or the money spent in it’s short duration,
of Proms and Balls and trips to Hie lake, besides look at all the space it would take.
If your spirits are somber and your hearts are solemn,	’
Cheer up for this is my very last column;
As was one time said by a bard of yore, That’s all there is, there ain’t no more.
May 17, 1957
How to roll a box car Southern style
THE rings this railroader’s holding are Timken® tapered roller bearings. Mounted, instead of ordinary friction bearings, on freight car axles, Timken bearings reduce friction so much you can actually roll the car by yourself.
Reducing friction to a minimum enables Timken bearings to eliminate the hot box problem, No. 1 cause of freight train delay. They roll the load instead of sliding it. And that’s why the Southern Railroad has started to go "Roller Freight”, with 415 of its freight cars on Timken bearings. One of 58 railroads making the big switch to "Roller Freight” to speed shipments, by eliminating the hot box problem, cutting terminal bearing inspection time substantially. And when all railroads go "Roller Freight”, they’ll save an estimated $224 million annually.
The Timken Company pioneered the use of roller bearings for freight cars. We’re looking for young men
to pioneer improvements like this with us, help find new places to reduce friction, speed up machines. Men who want to grow with the world’s largest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings. Men who will work hand-in-hand with the railroads, and with the people who make aircraft, automobiles, construction and farm machinery.
We think you might find profitable reading in our booklet, "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company”. Drop us a card at The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio.
TIMKEN tec u s pat orr.
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS
Timken®
bearings keep America on the GO... and you keep going up when you go with the Timken Company
The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY GRANTS 1,225 DEGREES JUNE 2
* Justice Earl Warren To Address Seniors
An address by Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren and the presentation of the Laetare Medal for 1957 to Clare Booth Luce, former U. S. Ambassador to Italy, will highlight the Uni-f versity of Notre Dame’s 112th annual commencement exercises here on Sunday, June 2, according to a recent announcement by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
Father Hesburgh will confer seven honorary degrees and approximately 1,225 graduate and undergraduate degrees at the ceremonies beginning in the Notre Dame Stadium at 2 p.m. Earlier, Bishop William Scully of Albany, N. Y. g will preach the baccalaureate sermon at a Solemn Pontifical Mass to be celebrated by Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne in the stadium at 9 a.m.
Honorary degree recipients, in addition to Justice Warren and Bishop Scully, include Ralph Bunche, undersecretary of the United Nations; Joseph Kaplan, director of the U. S. Satellite Program and chairman of the U. S. National Committee for the Inter-C national Geophysical Year; Monsignor John Tracy Ellis, historian and author, Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. Ernest M. Morris, South Bend, Ind., civic leader and chair-
f CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN ft	Commencement . . .
I May 17, 1957
man of Notre Danie’s Women’s Advisory Council; and James F. Keenan, Fort Wayne, Ind., hotel executive and Notre Dame lay trustee.
Mrs. Luce was named recipient of the Laetare Medal on Laetare Sunday, March 31. She is the sixteenth woman to receive the award which has been made annually since 1883.
Following the Baccalaureate Mass in the morning, Father Hesburgh will bless an American flag which the senior class presented to the University on Washington’s birthday. Traditionally, the senior’s flag is blessed and flown for the first time on their graduation day.
COMMISSIONING CEREMONY
On the eve of their graduation from Notre Dame, about one of every five seniors will be commissioned as officers of the armed forces. A total of 231 senior members of Notre Dame’s ROTC units will receive Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine commissions at Class Day exercises in the University Drill Hall Saturday, June 1, at 10 a.m. Prizes will be awarded to students of achievement at the ceremonies.
Student speakers will be valedictorian Douglas Cole, Forest Hills, N. Y.; class orator Robert Sasseen, Rockville Centre, N. Y.; and class president George Strake, Jr., Houston, Tex. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s executive vice president, will preside at the Class Day Exercises.
BISHOP SCULLY
. . . Baccalaureate speakers
Notre Dame’s senior class will make the traditional “Last Visit” to Sacred Heart Church on the campus an hour-earlier at 9 a.m. on Saturday. The cere
mony, which is resti-icted to members of the graduating class, will be conducted by Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., prefect of religion.
Bertoncini to Conduct Campus Dance Band
Gene Bertoncini, partner with Ed Pistey for the past two years in the campus dance band, the Lettermen, will take over the group for next year. ■
Bertoncini, a junior architecture major from New York, has played in clubs in New York City and studied under Johnny Smith there. For three years he has played guitar with the Lettermen and this summer will be playing in New York clubs on weekends.
Plans for next year include reducing the size of the band slightly to gain more flexibility. The big band will include about 15 pieces and the combo from five to seven pieces.
Arrangements will stay pretty much the same, Bertoncini said, with the primary purpose of the band to provide good dance music. Featured with the band will be Bob Brown on tenor sax, Bob Byrnes on piano, and Stu McKeever on drums. Len Barbarisi, vocalist with
the band, will return next year.
The band is the official University dance band. Its appearances this year have included school victory dances, St. Mary’s College and St. Mary’s Academy proms, high school proms in Illinois, and backing the Crew Cuts in their concert appearance here.
Pistey, who has led the band for the last two years, will go on the road with Richard Maltby and his orchestra this summer. He is planning to go into the music business.	■
SENATE DANCE	;
The final Student Senate spon-	j
sored dance of the year will be held I tomorrow night in the LaFortune	i
Student Center from 8 to 11 p.m. i
Ed Pistey and his Lettermen will	।
provide the music for the dance. The	!
dance is for couples only, and the ’ price of admission is $1.
9

Freshmen Climax First Year of Social Life
Prof. Carl A. Mathes
With Teahouse of the August Moon’ Tonight Overtaken by Death
Members of the Class of ’60 climax their first year of social life at Notre Dame tonight with the annual Freshman Frolic, to be held in the LaFortune Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The usual car and late permissions will apply.
Jimmy McShane and his band will furnish the music for 350 couples, and Ann Hurley of River Forest, HL, a freshman at St. Mary’s College, will reign as queen of the folic.
“Teahouse of the August Moon” will be the theme of the dance. Decorations will include construction of an oriental teahouse on the first floor of the Student Center. The Center will be hung with oriental lamps. Different rooms in the Center will be decorated in various colors and designs.
Saturday afternoon’s activities include the annual Armed Forces Day parade in South Bend in which the three ROTC units on campus will participate.
Early Saturday evening, a concert is
Color Movie Depicts Notre Dame Campus
A new color movie which portrays the excitement, beauty and serious purpose of the University is being viewed by thousands of the school’s alumni and friends throughout the country.
“Notre Dame” had local premieres in more than fifty cities when alumni clubs observed the thirty-fourth annual Universal Notre Dame Night during the week of April 29. Shortly thereafter, the twenty-nine minute film became available for use by television stations and other interested organizations.
Joe Boland, nationally known sportscaster, narrates the film which opens with an exciting football sequence. Then, at “halftime,” Boland guides viewers on a visit to the Notre Dame beyond the stadium.
The new movie depicts the intellectual, spiritual and social life of the University as viewed in its classrooms, laboratories and libraries, its church, chapels and shrines, and its residence halls, athletic fields and other recreation facilities. Hundreds of Notre Dame students and faculty members appear in the movie which was filmed entirely on the campus. The film features the music of the Notre Dame Band, Glee Club and the Moreau Seminary Choir.
“Notre Dame” was produced for the university in 16-millimeter film by Owen Murphy Productions, Inc., New York City.
planned by the lake on the campus, and is to be followed by one of the biggest Student Senate sponsored parties of the year in the Center.
The weekend will be concluded on Sunday morning with a Communion Breakfast in the East Dining Hall following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Breakfast chairman John Dorenbusch has announced that Rev.
J
ANN HURLEY Frolic Queen
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the main speaker at the breakfast.
The Frolic Committee, under the leadership of General-Chairman Larry Martin, is composed of Joe Albright, business manager; Jim Wysocki, publicity; Tom Hirons, hotel reservations; Bob Toland, entertainment; Lenny Muller, tickets; Bob Dow, refreshments; Jack Saladino and John Kostecki, decollations; and Phil Collins, special assistant.
Heffernan, Murphy to Head Wrangler Discussion Group
Patrick Heffernan, a junior in the General Program from Wilmette, HL, was recently elected president of the Wranglers, a campus discussion club. Marty Murphy, a junior in architecture from Chicago, HL, was chosen secretary of the group for the coming school year.
The Wranglers installed the new officers at their annual banquet last Wednesday evening. The theme for next year’s consideration was discussed, but no final decision was made by the group.
Carl A. Mathes, associate professor of music, died last Sunday in St. Joseph’s Hospital, ending a career of more than 33 years as a pianist, organist, composer, and music teacher.
Mathes had been blind since birth but 4. had overcome his handicap through his music. He had inspired many young pianists as a professor through his understanding of music.
Born in Hungary, Mathes studied at the Royal Academy in Budapest. He came to South Bend 34 years ago, and after serving on the faculty of two conservatories in Chicago he joined the faculty of Notre Dame.
The musician won international fame a few years ago when a Christmas carol program he arranged for a church choir was taped and broadcast to countries behind the Iron Curtain by the Voice of America.
He has written many songs, masses and instrumental compositions, some of which have been performed by the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra.
Death left many projects unfinished U. by Mathes including a symphony of which he had completed two movements. His interests were wide and varied, and included such fields as history, politics, and literature. He was also a linguist who spoke several languages.
His funeral was held Wednesday at 9 a.m. in Our Lady of Hungary Catholic Church. Burial was in Highland Cemetery.
Storage Chairman Sets Final Dates for Articles
Only eight days remain for students to buy tags for the articles they wish to store at the Field House this summer.
Pat Rogers, storage chairman, urges students to purchase their tags as soon " as possible. The last minute rush will be avoided if tags are purchased before exams begin.
Students may begin bringing their storage items to the Field House next Saturday. Articles will be accepted from Saturday until noon, Wednesday, May 29. All articles must be brought in before this time and nothing will be accepted later.
The summer storage organization will deliver the stored articles to the students’ rooms in the fall. However, the items must be brought to the Field । House by the students themselves. j
Storage tags are available in each ; hall from the hall salesman. Off-campus students should see either Tom Berg, - '| 131 Fisher, or Henry Luepke, 403 Fisher.
10
The Scholastic
JIM STEINTRAGER, DAVID KUBAL, JOHN GLAVIN Editor and Associates
Steintrager to Head 'Scholastic' Next Year; Kubal, Glavin Selected for Assistant Posts
Jim Steintrager has been named editor J of the Scholastic for the coming year.
Announcement of his appointment was made by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice President of Student Affairs and Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Student Publications.
Steintrager, a junior political science major from Detroit, Mich., has served as news editor of the magazine during the past year. Steintrager was an assistant jnews editor and reporter for the maga-^zine during his sophomore year.
John Glavin and Dave Kubal have been
Dean O'Meara Names Winners of Scholarship
Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Notre Dame Law School today named George JjBlakey, Burlington, N. C., and John Beggan, Watertown, Wis., as recipients of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh Law Scholarships.
Established in honor of the former Notre Dame president, the Cavanaugh scholarships provide tuition for three years in the University law school.
Blakey, who will receive a bachelor of parts degree in philosophy in June, has been on the Dean’s Honor List. He is a member of the Wranglers, and served as chairman of the Student Government’s Summer Storage Program.
Beggan will graduate with a bachelor of philosophy degree in Commerce in June. He is vice-president of the Ac-.counting Club and is a member of the -Milwaukee Club.
named associate editors for the magazine. Glavin, a junior journalism major from Scotsville, N. Y., served as sports editor during the past year. Kubal has been co-features editor of the publication. He is a junior English major from Lombard, Ill.
News editor for the coming year is George Clements, a sophomore political science major from Penn Yan, N. Y. Clements was a reporter for the magazine his freshman year and has served as assistant news editor this year.
Next year’s copy editor will be Harry McKee, sophomore AB chemical engineering major from Western Springs, Ill. He has served as an assistant copy editor for the past year. Bob Williams, sophomore business administration major from Sweetwater, Tex., was named photo coordinator. He was an assistant news editor and reporter this year.
Mike Fitzpatrick has been selected sports editor of the Scholastic. He moves up from the position of assistant sports editor. Ed Rohrbach is the assistant sports editor. Fitzpatrick is a junior journalism major from Los Angeles, Calif., and Rohrbach is a sophomore English major from Crown Point, Ind.
Bob Early, a junior1 in English from Indianapolis, Ind., will be the new feature editor for the magazine. His assistants will be Tom Edwards and Tom Lamont. Edwards is a junior English major from Pueblo, Colo., and Lamont is a freshman in Arts and Letters from Chicago, Ill.
Business manager of next year’s Scholastic will be Loran Sheffer, a Commerce junior from Lansing, Mich.
Three Grants Given Engineering School
Three grants totalling more than $40,000 have recently been awarded by the National Science Foundation and the Atomic Energy Commission to the Notre Dame’s department of mechanical engineering, according to an announcement by Dean Karl Schoenherr of the College of Engineering.
Dr. M. K. Newman, head of the mechanical engineering department, has received a grant of $14,900 from the National Science Foundation to conduct a two year research program on “Thermo-Elastic Damping in Impact Vibrations of Beams.” His research will deal with the mechanism of energy dissipation in materials.
A second National Science Foundation grant of $12,800 will be used by Dr. Kwang Tzu-Yang, assistant professor of mechanical engineering, for a “Study on Unsteady Laminar Boundary Layers with Heat Transfer.” Dr. Yang is a specialist in the field of heat transfer and thermodynamics.
An Atomic Energy Commission grant of $13,400 is being used to purchase equipment and instrumentation for the nuclear engineering program, Dr. Newman said.
WRITERS
Students wishing to write the “Back Page” or “Escape” columns for next year’s SCHOLASTIC are invited to submit at least two manuscripts of 600 to 700 words each for consideration. Entries should be mailed to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
May 17, 1957
11
NEW ‘DOME’ EDITORS
Joe Bumbleberg, Ron Durand
Bumbleberg Appointed Dome Editor-in-Chief; Durand, Meyer, Corbett Selected Associates
Joe Bumbleberg, a junior sociology major from Lafayette, Ind., has been appointed editor-in-chief of the 1958 Dome. Bumbleberg served this past year as head of the sports department.
Ron Durand, a junior accounting major from Salem, Ohio, was named as the assistant editor. Don Corbett, a junior in political science from Rochester, N. Y., and Dick Meyer, a junior marketing major, also from Rochester, were appointed as associate editors for the ’58 yearbook.
Joe Kneuer, a junior in Engineering from Massapequa, N. Y., is the new business manager and Bill Guinan, an Arts and Letters junior from San Francisco, Calif., is the managing editor.
Next year’s copy editors are Pete Volante and Emile Bernard. Volante is an engineering junior from Newton Center, Mass., and Bernard is a junior in science from Waynesville, Ga. Jerry Florent, an AB freshman from Michigan City, Ind., has been appointed the art editor. John Thurin an AB sophomore from Canton, Ohio, will be the sports editor.
Assistant sports editors for next year will be Ken Murphy and Dan Lyons. Murphy is a Commerce freshman from Malverne, N. Y., and Lyons is a freshman in engineering from Drexal Hill, Pa.
Bob Janoski, a sophomore in Arts and Letters from Chicago, has been selected social editor. His assistants will
be Pat O’Daly, a Science freshman from Brooklyn, N.Y. and Dick Corbett an AB freshman from Rochester, N.Y.
The activities editor will be Tom McHale, a Commerce sophomore from Pawtucket, R.I. His assistant will be Ed Butler, a freshman in Commerce from Akron, 0. The two halls editors are Joe Galvin and John Maloney, both Commerce sophomores from Chicago, and Crown Point, Ind., respectively.
Vito Nigrelli, an Engineering sophomore from Gary, Ind., was appointed academic editor.
Louis Stettler and Tom McBreen were named senior editors. Stettler is a sophomore in AB from Chicago, Ill., and McBreen is a Commerce sophomore, also from Chicago. Jack Benchiks, a Science sophomore from Shelbyville, Ind., is in charge of the index.
Bumbleberg, the new editor-in-chief, stated, “Rather' than come out with something new and spectacular, we are going to concentrate on improving the nucleus of the book as it stands.”
The 1958 Dome will again be divided into sections of the various phases of the student’s life at Notre Dame. A more complete type of index will be installed giving references to clubs, teams, and other groups as well as to the students’ pictures.
This year’s yearbooks will come out as usual during final exam week. The dates for picking them up will be posted on the bulletin boards soon.
Name James Keenan To Board of Trustees
The appointment of James Keenan, Fort Wayne, Ind., hotel executive, to the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame was announced here recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
Father Hesburgh also named four new v members to Notre Dame’s Advisory-Council for Science and Engineering. They are Frank Freimann, president of the Magnavox Corp., Fort Wayne, Ind.; Charles Huisking, president of Charles Huisking and Co., Inc., Brooklyn, N. Y.; Leo Vogel, head of the Interstate Equipment Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.; and Dr. Matthew Weis, physician and.^ faculty member at the St. Louis Uni-^ versity School of Medicine.
As a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees, Keenan will share the responsibility of holding, investing and administering the endowment funds of the University. The board will hold its spring meeting on the campus May 17 and 18. Keenan, who operates the Hotel Keenan in Fort Wayne, and his wife are the donors of^' a student residence hall currently under construction on the Notre Dame campus.
The Advisory Council for Science and Engineering is composed of scientists and industrialists who consult with University authorities regularly on research and instruction conducted at Notre Dame in the two fields. The group held its spring meeting this past weekend on the campus. Vogel is a member of the^. board of directors of the Notre Dame^' Alumni Association, and Weis is a for-mei- vice-president of the Association.
Library Sets Deadline On Student Book Loans
All books borrowed by students from University Libraries are due on May 23.@ Should there be a need for library books beyond this period, an additional short period of circulation can be arranged.
Students will be billed for books which are not returned on time. The charge will consist of the cost of the book plus a $5 service charge for replacement.
In accordance with the decision of the Faculty Committee on the Library-all faculty loans are to be renewed by June 1. If a faculty member is to be away from South Bend for the summer, i books should be returned.	I
Vacation hours of service will be ob- | served ’by the University Libraries I from Thursday, May 30, until Monday, I June 24.
The Scholastic 1
12
? •
Xke Bud of an Sra
A Portrait in Quotes
f
I September
“Let me get that straight . . . Pot . . . Potta . . . Pott . . . the hell wit it, we’ll make it picnic in lower case at the bottom.”

“He doesn’t like the name Bryan Patch. Says he doesn’t want anybody to connect the column with him.”
“If we could only get Rommy Hammes to donate a car for that football contest.”
“What do you mean the parents would object ... oh NO”? (A vision of things to come)
“They found the cover, Charlie, you left it in the baggage room in New Orleans.”
October
“This is a character I thought of dur* ing the summer . . . name’s Ciccino . . . maybe we could make sorta a series out of it.”
“My name is Spiering. I like to write features. I’ve got all kinds of experience.”
“Thanks kid, that’s fine, yeah . . . well let’s see . . . why don’t you write about your first experience out here.”
“He says we’ve got to do an article £ on the Concert and Lecture Series. That’s something everyone will read.”
“This Jazz article is good we’ll have to get more of these outside articles.”
“Why don’t we let that kid Farrell do it? He needs an excuse to get over to St. Mary’s.”
“Listen to those sports editors mock-A ing that article . . . I’ll take some of that money Tyler ... Now if we win _ more than two games, you’ll give us Weven money.”
“The cover’s all right, as long as we don’t use a green tee shirt and a beret.”
“She gave the article to her younger brother and he thought it was pretty good. They are two serious young ladies, so let’s run it.”
“Here’s another manuscript by Spiering. Who is this Spiering anyhow?”
“Change the title, get a few pics and we can run that Kaniewski article straight.” . . . “Great idea, John.”
“Why are all the dance pics of dogs?”
“This Senate Maturity things sounds good, Dave.”
“How about this monkey pic ... it doesn’t fit, but it looks good. I wonder 0. how this Brady kid will fit in at Notre I® Dame?”
May 17, 1957
November
“There’ll be trouble about printing these Kelly originals with Hall and Butler in the same issue.”
“Let Spiering do the Pittsburgh article. He says he knows the girl schools out there.”
“Just think what will happen when we run out of Miller cartoons!”
“Give him something cultural to do to keep his mind off of Ciccino.”
“If Jim McDonald wants to write stories, why doesn’t he get on the Juggler?”
“Next week we can run an article on how to buy a good cheap second hand car.”
“See I told you Spiering could write an intelligent article, Dave.”
“Si, I am Osorio, I am a cartoonist.”
December
“Thank, God, we don’t have to work . . . it’s the football issue.”
“Who ‘black-balled’ Frank McCue from Who’s Who?”
January
“But if we take the bottle off the cover we’ll have to change the cutline.”
“Here’s two articles by Spiering, one on World Government and the other on South Bend ...”
“If we give Trafficanda a spread, Peaches will want one too.”
“I understand Miss America writes short stories, maybe she would like to submit them to us.”
February
“I’ll do something, Dave, if you do the review, and, then Spiering can always come up with something.”
“Why don’t we follow up that Logan article?”
“Cusack will jump at the chance to do something, and how about the guy who runs that mimeograph machine, he always has something to say?”
“But we can’t print that they passed a law against putting holes in the mashed potatoes!”
“No, Frank, those pictures weren’t from the Dartmouth Winter Carnival.”
March
“We’ve had this Clifton article for nine months we might as well run it.”
“Why don’t we ask Dasek to write something, that guy can really hack them out?”
“Well, maybe they’ll see Louie’s pictures on TV some night.”
“Remember that guy who wanted to write features, Van Kula, he’s up at the radio station now . . . quite bitter, quite bitter.”
“I still think Kennedy did a good job and what do you expect at 4:30 in the morning.” ... “I understand, they don’t know how to take criticism anyhow, but I liked the other story you did.”
“How about doing something about the lack of freshman manuscripts. It’ll be good practice in criticism, and we have to reject at least one article.”
“Why don’t we title this radio thing j WPFA?”	i
“Murphy and	Kiley wanted	four pages	i
and then they	forgot	what	they	were	j
going to say.”	i
“I don’t think that the Wittenberg Expose is that hot.”
“Another jock issue, let’s get a beer.”
April	. .
“I still think that an April Fool’s issue
is a good idea, Charlie.”
“I think Brubeck is quite a bit more interesting than any University article.”
“Here’s that McDonald again, I think he’s been reading too much Berkley and Camus.”	|
“I still think we should make Norman	|
Wends the 13th Scholastic ‘Man of	|
the Year.’ ”	I
“Spiering wants to put the religious	j
piece under a pseudonym . . . it’s not in	I
his line.”	I
May	3
“It’s all right that Crutcher wants to develop his intellect, but he should learn how to write.”
“Go ahead and run that Purple Snorkel thing, my bags are packed.”
“When I asked him if a crab apple was a bitter fruit, he told me to ‘exeunt j philistine’.”	;
“We know where the yellow went.”
“Did you see the Freudian symbolism
in that ‘The Bumpy Road to Morocco?’ ”
“Don’t criticize Winkler’s writing, Frank, he got higher than your 79 in English.”
“Well, what do you want to title this thing, John?”
“Something appropriate.”
“I can’t establish what is appropriate anymore.”
“If that’s the case you’re coming to the end of something, Dave.’?
“Yeah, the end of an era which began this September.”
“We’ll let Frankie down at the press think of something.”	’ •
13
I'm No Draft Dodger
by GEORGE WINKLER
I’ve always realized that I had a military obligation. That’s why I signed up for the NROTC freshman year. I only stayed in for two years because all I wanted was a military background so I’d know how to use a rifle in case I ever went duck hunting. I never took that selective service exam because I heard that you had a better chance to pass if you -waited until you had a liberal background. Since I also left the PFA, I never did get anything more than a practical education.
I was going along fine until a little while before Easter I got a friendly note from my New York draft board asking me to stop in for a little visit. This
shook me up, but I out-witted them. I went down to the South Bend draft board and had everything transferred out here. I really had a ball at home. When I got back though, I found a note from the South Bend board on my desk with my subscription copies of the Saturday Review. I had to go to Chicago for a physical. I figured this would give me an excuse to see Zella so I didn’t mind. So I went down to the army recruiter to make the arrangements. He was a nice guy and offered to get me sent to Antarctica for the Geophysical Year. He said that there would be big doings down there and my four years residence in South Bend would be recommendation enough. He took me through the jail to check my record and show me what would happen if I got any ideas. I signed a few papers and everything was set for me to join the “new fangled six months deal,” as he called it.
First I went to the office upstairs about excused cuts. I don’t think he believed me because I was all duded-up in that bow tie and West-Side straw that Zella gave me for my birthday. That’s what got me into this mess anyway, being twenty-two now I mean. The following morning at five ayem, I had to walk down to the railroad station. I don’t mind the walking; it’s one of my hobbies that I understand the army will give me a lot of free time to practice, but being off-campus, I’m not used to getting up so early since I believe in doing a lot of studying in the cooler moments of the night. But you guys don’t care about getting on the dean’s
list, you want the scoop on this gung-ho ® stuff.
There were five of us leaving on the train. Four endee guys and a fellow from a local high school. Nice guy, but not too bright. Real early we tromped over to the medical center. A little pipsqueak of a sergeant asked me what I was here for. I told him I wanted to get into the glee club or the boxing battalion. That sort of floored him and^j he said that the glee club was three years and boxing ten rounds. I told him that I was already signed up for six months. “Not bad,” he said, “six months and the rest of your life in reserve.”
So I went inside. The first word I heard was: “get off with those clothes boys; it’s hot in here.” We were told to sit down and fill out form after form. Then they marched us into a big room^. and gave us tests. Boy, you think it’s** tough taking a test out here, wait till you see those desks. They have regular sideboards on them. That’s the honest truth. That test was tough; you had only fifty minutes to answer a hundred questions. Big Joe is the only prof out here that would do something like that. But the passing grade is only 13. I did a little better than that. I got a £1) 77 like I always do. It should be good l for at least one stripe. By the way this test took a half hour to explain and fifty minutes to do. It was filled with stuff like they show you a picture of a nail and they have pictures of a saw, a hammer, a pair of pliers, and a screwdriver. You probably guessed the answer al-zw ready so I won’t tell you.	”
14
The Scholastic
w* Pretty soon it was lunchtime and they marched us down to our first GI lunch. I There was gravy, bread, watered-down I milk, and something else which I never saw before so I left it alone. This was the first chance we had to talk. All the guys called me a coilitch wise-guy because I had a crew-cut. They’re not really bad guys. It’s just too bad that they don’t have an education. Oh well, that’s the " breaks. The meal was quick. We had two minutes to eat it.
Then we were back on line. Talk about the lines out here. Well you won’t if you ever get in that place. What have you got, five thousand out here? Well the lines out there go for blocks and it’s cold boy. You don’t have no shirt or parka. But the line finally ended. One thing, _. your measurements really change when you go to these guys. I lost two inches and twenty pounds. They’re real nice guys, and they’ll even lie to get you in.
I’ll never forget that next one we went through. They wanted to sample our blood. These duck-tail characters were passing out like flies. I almost got sick too. I didn’t pass out though. I’m still doing my road work you know. But I did get white in the face and sweat a W bit until that medic gave me a shot in the arm. They’re all looking out for you
I
really. 1 didn’t see a guy there that flunked.
Gee, after the blood we sat down a while, then we stood up a while. Then they checked for diseases. They called off a long list of names of stuff I remember seeing in a Human Biol movie. Only one guy in our bunch stepped forward. The sergeant wanted to know if everybody went to Notre Dame. They were always wise-cracking us guys. Calling us draftdodgers and such. I think they were jealous that we had a college education.
Then they checked our hearts and our lungs. That took two minutes. When I say two minutes I mean for the bunch not for each individual guy. We each
took a breath at the same time. The eye 0 check was easy. I remember in the Navy test, I had to read these real small letters but out here they were at least four inches high. It was a snap. They checked our feet next. You know starting from the bottom. This physical went on and on. Everything from toe-nails to length of hair.
It got around six o’clock and I was ready to blow the joint. The word must have got around though because the sarge came over and told us that since we were such good guys, they weren’t going to keep us overtime but were going to give us a free night on the town with a hotel room and a meal. I won’t say anything about the meal since it was the rsame thing with a little darker gravy.
So we had the meal and they gave us
May 17, 1957
a token for the bus. There was one joker —a farmer. They gave him ’a map to get to the Y. It was only ten blocks away. He made out ok until he left by the side door. Then he got lost. He was a real nice guy though. He only got a twelve on the test but they’re letting him in since he’s such a nice guy.
We finally got to the hotel. They had a big room for all of us. None of those little rooms that you get on campus. This one was so big that you’d be dead if you ran from one end to the other. Seventeen beds like I said. No rug, but the concrete floor had a new paint job.
And boy did those kids have fun. Pillow fights? You never saw anything like it. Just as good ... no this beat Zahm. Water fights? Boy, did this kid’s bed get wet. What a riot! He was
a farmer I think. They didn’t like the farmers too much.
Well I figured that I had enough of this. I’m an educated man. I was going to see the town. I called up Zella but she was working a late shift back in South Bend at the lunch counter. So I visited some friends of the family. I had a good meal for a change. They felt sorryi that they didn’t give me a uniform so Don stuffed some pajamas and a clean shirt and some socks into a bag. After a few drinks, I went back to the barracks..
When I got back about two, the pillow fight was still going strong. One guy was getting ready to open up another guy’s pillow with a shiv. He was only kidding around but they all quieted down when they saw my pajamas. For a gag, my buddy had slipped in his wife’s. The guys asked me where I got that. I lied. Everybody started to get dressed and they dragged me down to show them where the loop was.
I told them I was feeling kind of weak so they decided to set me up with a few. While we were all getting bombed, I de
cided to give my folks a ring. One of the other boys called for me and said: “You should be proud. Your son is in the army.” His voice was deep in a hillbilly sort of way so they know it wasn’t me, but I guess they’re still wondering where I met a character like that who would reverse the charges on a call all the way from Chi.
All these cats were up at five but us endee guys stayed in bed till the last minute like we do at school. We had a quick breakfast. I’ll say it was quick the way it scurried off the plate. Then we had to wait around and wash our hands for fingerprints. I washed mine and walked in. . The sarge gave me a towel and told me to dry them. I handed them back. He spit on them. “Look they’re still wet,” he yelled, “don’t you college guys know how to dry your hands?” I told them that we did all the time and that he should wait for Mike MaGahey to come up here. He didn’t get it. The fingerprints were easy but he wouldn’t spit on my hands the second time to dissolve the grease.
It’s going to be a good life. I could tell that when they gave us this subversive organization list to check over. These other guys read every one but I just checked for Blue Circle and since they’re clear I figured I was too. These other guys couldn’t even read the names let alone belong to the groups. Well have it all over these guys, let me tell you.
Finally, they really went gung-ho like I was expecting. “George Francis Winkler in, from Notre Dame, step forward.” He also said something under his breath about draftdodger but I didn’t catch it. We went into this room with a picture of Dwight D on one wall, General Grant on the other, and a picture of some other general who’s a big-shot in Chicago on the other wall. They clued us in on what was expected of us. You know, how to go AWOL instead of deserting. Then they swore us in.
I got back to South Bend a little after four. I’m putting this in so my excused cuts come through. I shined my shoes and reported down to the armory. I have to go to drill now every Friday night. I think my girl will understand why we can’t make the prom. At last I can rest my tootsies at the dunes Saturday.
Just a word of advice fellows. If the going gets tough out here, get into the service and this place will be a paradise. Also you’ll get a good chance to talk to your profs when you make them sign that paper every month. But if you stick it out, don’t try and compete with college guys in OCS, you’ll have a racket in the six months deal with the dumb guys and you’ll have two and a half more years with the girls than these flyboys and jaybirds and other glory hounds.
15
T oward An
Intellectual Milieu
Last week I sketched what I think is the fundamental problem here at Notre Dame, namely, it’s non-intellectuality. I gave reasons in support of my contention that there is an intellectual apathy here. One consideration which space did not permit is the fact that noted scholars and leaders in various fields come here to lecture. But, whereas at many universities an attendance of one or two hundred students is considered small, most of the lecturers who come here speak to the four walls and to not many more students.
COMPARATIVELY FEW ATTEND
It • is the same with concerts, the Student Government movie series, and all the other cultural and intellectual opportunities presented to the students:. Many men of Notre Dame just are not interested.
In another article in last week’s issue quite a compliment is paid our university. Our distinguished faculty guest, poet Robert Fitzgerald, is quoted as saying: “Notre Dame is perhaps becoming the American center of Catholic intellectual activity. Literary minds cannot be produced, but in such a center they may grow . . . Notre Dame will inevitably be a much more influential and vital university.”
A TRUE INTELLECTUAL COMMUNITY
What Mr. Fitzgerald says Notre Dame is becoming should be the common end of administration, faculty, and student body alike, the purpose which binds them into a true intellectual community. Much has been done toward this end, for example: the Distinguished Professors’ Program, the A.B. Honors Program, and the liberalization of the Commerce curriculum. But not enough is being done.
16
by JACK CRUTCHER
What Mr. Fitzgerald describes as “inevitable” is in reality quite contingent on what we do. And what we are to do is the point I intend to discuss.
Now, there are many things which can be done that will aid in the formation of the intellectual community at Notre Dame. I will state what I think some of these are, but what I say can by no means be considered a definitive solution to the problem.
The university itself must not only
THE AUTHOR
maintain the highest possible standards on admission to, but in the retention of students at Notre Dame. We should desire and we are able to demand that the Notre Dame man be superior, selected and developed in every way, but especially intellectually.
The faculty should take note of the student’s criticism that they are not
being challenged. The professor must not only teach but stimulate the student. He must not only teach thoroughly his own subject matter, but he should strive । to encourage an interest on the part of his students in all the arts and sciences, showing where in the hierarchy of being and value his own subject lies. There is no room on the faculty, therefore, for I narrow mindedness, for the “this-is-the- | only-important-subject” attitude.	~ I
OBJECTIVE TESTS PREFERABLE
Further, many subjects are not of such a nature that students should be given the objective type tests in the course. The true-false or blank type test should have no place in many of the subjects for which it is used. Facts are without value unless they help us to understand or to do something. Let us be tested, then, on our understanding or on our ability to work with the facts.
The solution to the problem of student apathy toward things of the mind must be sought among the students themselves, however, as well as in the faculty and administration. Students have grumbled among themselves about the mediocrity of some of their courses and about the representation by some of the & university as primarily a place of religious formation, but they have not made themselves heard.
Here are a few things we can do as students:
We have to seek a solution to the “grass roots” level problems—to those of the student himself and his immediate environment, the hall. About all that we can say about the individual student is that he must devote himself to being a * good scholar. If the men here were as devoted to their vocations as our athletes are to their avocations there would be no problem.
THE HALLS AS INTELLECTUAL COMMUNITIES
The halls must be intellectual communities if the university as a whole is to be one. Our wholehearted concentration must focus on the hall. This is one responsibility which most needs acceptance by the men of Notre Dame, and especially by Student Government. The hall councils and the Hall Presidents Council are potentially the most important components of Student Government. Their influence could be vast. Hall decorations, parties and mixers have been their greatest concern, however. If -the councils would devote their energies to promotion of activities which would serve to develop a hall unity of an intellectual nature, they could have a far reaching effect. For instance, they could promote periodic smokers to which were invited outstanding professors for the purpose
(Continued on page 32)	-
The Scholastic I
Tex and Jett	The Brave Ones
Glee
Singing with .Mickey Mouse at Disney Land
Clubbers Go West
“Let’s forget about them."
Reflections

Is he in the ROTC too?
It certainly is a warm night."
photos by john McDonough
I like to play the field.
ICHARD maltby provided the music and Don Flock the tropical fish, as 800 seniors and their dates gathered for the final major social event of their’ four years at Notre Dame.
he fish obviously made the bigger hit (who was in shape to dance anyhow?) and they were apropos the weekend’s weather.
ever to be outdone by any form of liquid however, the seniors retired to the Dunes and places north Saturday to relax a little before winding up the weekend with a Dinner-Dance and Communion Breakfast.
May 17, 1957
19
Interview
At the Movies
AVON
The Bachelor Party. (B) Don Murray, E. G. Marshall, Carolyn Jones. Four hard-working young men in a New York office entertain a fifth colleague at a bachelor party immediately prior' to the latter’s marriage. As the boys wander through the streets they begin to reflect on the problems that are facing them. Don Murray is beset by worries of the impending addition to the family while he is struggling through night school. And if that ain’t bad enough he is taking cost accounting. When Don gets a few too many under his belt he gets the roving eye which almost ends in disaster. The movie is entertaining up to a point but its moral implications are certainly not the type which lift the viewer to a higher plane.
Summing up: This is not the last lecture of the Marriage Institute.
COLFAX
The Tattered Dress. (A-2) Jeff Chandler, Jeanne Crain, Jack Carson. Jeff Chandler is a famous criminal lawyer who comes out west to defend a man accused of murder. Jack Carson is the unscrupulous politician-sheriff, and he gets his when he tries to frame Jeff. To make a long story longer, Jeff is beaten up in an alley and one of his friends is murdered by the sheriff. The climax comes when Jeff makes an emotional plea to the jury and wins the freedom of Jack the Ripper.
Summing up: A law school must.
GRANADA
Abandon Ship. (A-2) Tyrone Power, Mai Zetterling. The story of the ND sailing team.
PALACE
Smiley. (A-l) Ralph Richardson, Colin Peterson. Once again we journey to the land down under to visit a little boy by the name of Smiley. Unknowingly he becomes a dope runner and when he learns what he is carrying he gets hopping mad. His father steals his bicycle money and the kid runs away on foot. Everything gets straightened out and Smiley gets the bicycle back and 1-10 years for possession of narcotics.
Co-hit: The Storm Rider. (A-2) Scott Brady, Mala Powers. This movie is not too interesting and since it was written up last week let’s forget it.
STATE
The Naked Gun. (A-l) Mara Corday, Barton MacLane, Veda Ann Borg. This one concerns an Indian sorcerer’s curse on a fortune in gold and jewelry and how it affects the inhabitants of a border town. Tragedy sweeps the town as everybody tries to get their hands on the loot.
Summing up: A real loser.
Co-hit: Hold That Hypnotist. (A-2) Huntz Hall, Leo Gorcey. Need I say more.
RIVER PARK
Love Me Tender. (B) Elvis, Debra Paget.
Co-hit: Carmen Jones. (B) Harry Bellafonte, Dorothy Dandridge.
—Dennis J. Britt
“Bob Moran is the most natural Shakespearean clown with whom I have | ever worked.” So stated Mr. Robert Speaight, who just recently finished a successful run of Midsummer Night’s Dream at St. Mary’s College, in the Lon- | don Tablet. Nor is Mr. Speaight alone in ] his estimation of this good natured red- I headed individual. Moran has just been offered a “passage” with Westport, Conn. Country Playhouse for this summer. Westport is regarded by many people as the number one summer stock company in America. This summer they will boast of such stars as Van Johnson and Faye Emerson.
Moran who is in town for rehearsals 10 which will run over graduation weekend of ‘Midsummer’ (as ‘Bottom’) modestly i comments on the possibilities of a Broadway part coming out of his break with ’ Westport. It seems Westport handles pre-Broadway tryouts, so the chance is there. However, if nothing happens this summer, Bob plans to enter the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.	|
Peering out from under a rather heavy M growth of his bright red hair, Moran < N more or less returned Speaight’s compliment by saying that he (Speaight) without doubt is the most capable man that he has ever worked with, and that he taught him “the desperate need of audience contact in ‘a Shakespearean play.’
Moran, who is a former student at the University, decided this past February that it wasn’t exactly what he wanted, and dropped out in order to give 10 more attention to theatre. As well as the Shakespeare comedy he has had comedy parts in last Spring’s Finnian’s Rainbow and this year’s musical Carousel. Also, he was a member of the WNDU-TV staff. However, the part that Bob enjoyed the most was that of ‘Harold Frung’ in a student directed musical revue of last year. Moran has also done quite a few productions away ^1 from the South Bend area.
Asked if he could point out a basic fault among college actors that he has worked with and watched, Bob felt that they at times failed in concentration and slipped out of their character. Also, at many times the chorus parts lacked a certain stage consciousness. Then, before he could be interrupted, he turned a sharp eye of criticism upon himself. He saw as his main problem a lack of consistency from show to show.
At this time, the part that Moran most admires and would like someday to play is that of ‘Doolittle’ in My Fair Lady. Stanley Holloway, who created the part on Broadway, played ‘Bottom’ with the Old Vic.—D.K.
The Scholastic
20
The ^umpy Koad to Morocco
I’m not much of a guy when it comes to adventure and intrigue, and as far as designing women go, the only one I know is Ceil Chapman. So you can see that I didn’t expect much in the way of the cloak and dagger on my recent trip to North Africa. I was content with getting a lot of sun, maybe catching Bobby Locke’s exhibition swing through the North, visiting the scenes of the great Tony Martin, Yvonne de Carlo smash-hit, “Casbah,” and possibly taking part in a few Moslem rituals. Flee trouble at all costs, was to be my motto. Cowardice was to keynote the whole trip.
Ostensibly, I was headed to North Africa to join the Foreign Legion. I was their number one draft choice from Notre Dame; and besides, as a boy, I had flipped bubble-gum cards with action shots of legionaires on them, and I felt it was a good opportunity to get the cards autographed.
The real motive behind my North African expedition, however, was money. Some months before a vision had appeared to me in my sleep. It was Judge Crater, the New York State Supreme Court justice, who disappeared mysteriously some 27 years ago. Crater was lying unconscious in what I made out to be a jai-alai court. He was wrapped in a white burnoose, and I could barely discern the label on the hood, “Estelle’s, Tangiers, Morocco.”
It was all the incentive I needed. I knew the judge’s lovable wife, Fang, had said that she would give oodles to the person instrumental in leading to the whereabouts of her elusive hubby. I had an airplane ticket to Tangiers in the left breast pocket of my rope-knit, rinso-white tee shirt, the very next
May 17, 1957
by MIKE HYLAND
morning. And it was round-trip, too. Even in my hour of awaited greatness, I still had a razor-keen eye for a bargain.
I was determined that nothing would deter my plan of attack—scour Tangiers’ jai-alai courts, find Crater, maybe whip him two-out of three in some fast mixed-doubles action, (I had to figure on mixed doubles. As I remember Crater was no misogynist back in the thirties.) telephone Time, Pathe News, Mike Wallace, the works; and then emerge from the jai-alai fronton, with Crater on my back, as the good shepherd leading him back to the flock.
If I played my cards right, I could sneak over to Estelle’s after the mob had been dispersed by a grenade or some such Arab custom, and see what she had to offer in the way of whoopee. Then I’d repair stateside to Mama Crater’s lair and collect the wampum. The brilliance of the whole coup had me chewing on my safety-belt.
The trip over was fairly dull. The pilot got air-sick, but Wonder Woman was on board, and she brought us in on her back. Like the true “All-Star” she is, she modestly lost herself in the crowd at the airport before anybody had a chance to thank her, and incidentally see if her hair was really blue.
I bought the Tangiers Sun-Times from a hooded newsboy, and proceeded to scan the sports section for the day’s jai-alai pairings. One pairing in particular caught my eye. It read, “Judge Crater, 2-6 vs. Herbie Flam, 6-1; Eb-bets Fronton.” It was the same Crater all right. His jai-alai record read like his “decisions reversed” record in the New York courts. I rented a dromedary from the Hussein-Hertz Enterprises, and
gave the beast the whip all the way over.
Crater was easy enough to spot. He wanned up in his judge’s robes, and his manager kept shouting, “oyer, oyer,” in an effort to divert the crowd’s attention from a sloe-eyed sorceress who was weaving her way through the crowd vending 30 foot rubber anacondas.
Crater- took a thorough first half beating from Flam, and the patrons became so bored that they started lashing at each other with the rubber snakes,- cracking them like bullwhips. For a while it sounded like the North African invasion, but then the half ended and the Tangiers Central High School band quieted things with a rousing arrangement of the American standard, “Shine.”
I fought my way to Crateris dressing room, and found the illustrious judge deeply immersed in Frankfurter’s classic, “Innocent Men I Have. Sent to the Chair.” I introduced myself as a Pinkerton man, and told the judge that I was taking him back to America as soon as he finished paying homage to the superior playing talents of Mr. Flam. I - figured Flam was either affiliated with Jack Kramer or the State Department, and I was willing to let my greed for a buck take a back-seat to Point-Four—at least, for the second half.
It seems that 27 years ago Crater was kidnapped by Moroccan jai-alai promoters who had heard that he used to play hand-ball outside the courthouse during adjournments and short recesses. Figuring to capitalize on his name, (he was known the world over as the most blundering idiot in the legal profession) they whisked him away by blimp to Morocco. For several years after the kidnapping they billed him as “the Swami,” until the world-wide manhunt for the judge had ceased, and then they sprang the magic name, Judge Crater, on the Moroccan jai-alai scene.
He was an instantaneous box-office sensation until the truth began to shine through the glitter of the judge’s name. He was a lousy jai-alai player. Nobody wanted to let him near the Moroccan judicial system, so he stuck it out as a jai-alai player, following main events every Wednesday night.
He expressed no great desire to return to the States, claiming that just to watch those rubber snake fights in the audience every night was worth the price of expatriation.
Nobody was forcing him to stay in Morocco. His jai-alai promoter friends had emigrated to Miami long ago. He had mingled in with Moroccan life and was bothered by nobody. Moroccans knew from nothing about Judge Crater, (Continued on page 32)
21
A Woman’
by JOHN
Robert Winthrop presses down on the accelerator of his 1947 Ford as he finally hits a straight stretch of road. He feels relieved to reach this section after all the hills and curves on the road with the faded white line in the middle. That’s why he always drives too fast here and he knows it. But it’s good to go fast because it helps him to think and he always begins thinking when he hits the straight stretch.
“Only a fool like me would travel a route like this, weekend after weekend, for over a year. Only a damn fool like me. And even now I’m still doing it. Even now when I know.”
And now he comes to a junction. He reluctantly releases his right foot from the gas pedal and presses it on the brake while he looks out his left window down the road which connects with the one he is on. As far as he can see, until the road curves to the left and is hidden by a group of large, uneven trees, it is empty, so he accelerates again and is on his way. Now he will travel curves and hills, hills and curves for the rest of the way. He can visualize the remainder of his journey on this narrow, bumpy road.
As Robei-t Winthrop drives on he begins to remember Sunday night, the last night he came to see Jean before this one. It started out like many other evenings that he had spent with her. He went out on the porch with her in the cool summer night air. He noticed the part of the screen door near the handle that was torn. He sat on the low couch with the faded flowers, which was worn comfortable by many years’ use. As she sat down on the chair opposite him, he at once became very aware of her presence. He noticed her long black hair and her smooth, rounded face with her half smile. “Damn, why does she always wear those Bermuda shorts. She should know by now that she just isn’t built for them. I’ve told her often enough.”
They began talking and they said the same trivial things they usually said, he thought. After about a half hour of
22
s Privilege
KENNEDY
this he decided to ask her the question which he had planned on asking her this evening.
“What’s wrong with you, Jean? You’ve been acting awfully funny lately.”
“What do you mean, Bob?”
“Oh, it’s hard to explain exactly, but every time you go out with me lately you’re tired and a lot of times I call you up to go out, you already have a date and things like that.”
She didn’t answer this immediately but looked straight at Robert with those eyes of hers, those eyes . . . He now knew that he would believe and understand everything that she would say in explanation because her eyes would compel him to believe and understand.
“I haven’t been doing these things intentionally, but I guess you’re right. I’m sorry. I just didn’t realize how they looked to you.”
The Scholastic
“Don’t be sorry; if you didn’t do them on purpose, there’s nothing to be sorry about.”
“It’s just—just that I’m a little mixed up. Don’t get me wrong, Bob, I still like you a lot. I just don’t want to get too serious. I guess I’m not as sure about you and me as I was.”
■ He wasn’t surprised. He knew something like this was coming. He even felt somewhat relieved, but then he felt li a little twinge of hurt and anger.
“Well, if that’s how you feel, maybe we shouldn’t see each other anymore. It would be kind of silly as things stand now.”
He said this half heartedly because he didn’t really want to stop dating her. He knew that she would have no trouble persuading him to continue their relationship.
“You know I don’t want that,” she said. “How am I ever going to be sure if we don’t keep seeing each other? Someday when I’m older and know my mind better my feelings for you probably will be just like they used to be.”
“Fine, but what if they aren’t? I’d really be in great shape then. No, I think it would be better all around if I just didn’t see you anymore.”
Finally he agreed to keep coming to see her as he knew he would, and he even made a date for the next Saturday evening. When he got up to go he decided not to kiss her good night. “I’ll show her that I don’t feel too wonderful about all this. Why the hell couldn’t I have gotten madder at her when we were talking about it? I should have made her decide. . .”


I Just at this point Jean leaned forward I on her tiptoes and kissed him lightly on I the forehead.
I “Good night, Bob. Be careful driving
I home.”
I® Robert Winthrop’s thoughts return to I	the present as he sees the little white
I	picket fence which tells him that he has
I arrived at Jean’s street. He turns down I this street, pulls over to the small dirt I bank between the sidewalk in front of I the house and stops the car. He goes up I through the porch door and rings the I front door bell. He has never been sure ■ whether or not this bell works so he also knocks on the door. Jean’s mother I* greets him. This doesn’t surprise him I because he has never known Jean to be I ready on time. He can see a re-I semblance to Jean in her mother’s face, I but it is much more round and wrinkled. I She has a slightly overdone, but still I pleasant smile which is by far her most I prevalent expression when she talks with anyone.
। “I heard on the weather report a little while ago that it’s supposed to rain to-
I night, Bob. I hope you kids won’t run

into any wet roads. Did it feel like rain when you came in?”
“It did look sort of dark out. Don’t worry, though. We’re only going over to Greenwood to that dancing place. The roads are pretty good over that way.”
“Well, I won’t really be worrying because I know you’re a good driver. I just hope you won’t be too late.”
“We’ll be in early.”
“Good, I’d better give Jean a call. That girl would take forever getting ready if someone didn’t keep after her. Jean, oh Jean, Bob’s down here waiting you know.”
Robert heard her answer something from upstairs but he couldn’t make any of it out. This habit of Jean’s of never being ready on time was one that never failed to irritate him.
“She’ll be down in a minute, Bob, how about a snack while you’re waiting?”
“No thanks, Mrs. Barret, I just got through eating a little while ago. Thanks anyway.”
It was a few more minutes before Jean came down. Robert thought at this, time as he had many times before when she
May 17, 1957
first came down the stairs that she was well worth waiting for.
As he drives along he notices Jean glance at him every once in a while with those eyes of hers. He tries not to think of this because he wishes to act very indifferent to her this evening and every other evening he is with her. He is through making a fool of himself.
“The Red Sox really walloped the Yanks today,” he snaps. “They’re only three games out now. I sure hope they can keep it up.”
“Oh, that’s good. I didn’t have a chance to hear how they made out today.”
“Sullivan won his fifteenth. I think he’s got a good chance to win twenty.”
“I hope so.”
“Williams got two for three.”
“Good.”
He notices that she doesn’t seem interested in what he is saying. He sees that she has something on her mind. “She probably wants me to ask her what’s wrong, so she can bring up some more things like she did last Sunday. Well, I’m not going to give her that satisfaction. I’ll make her think I just don’t notice.”
“Bob, about what I said last week—.” “Nevei‘ mind about that. I understand. Let’s not discuss that anymore.”
“Okay, Bob, but—.”
“Please.”
They finally arrive at the dance hall which is called Broad Cove. Bob has been here many times before and he doesn’t really like it. The only reason that he keeps coming here is that it’s the only real dancing place around without having to go all the way into the city. They have the same band every week and this band is sure to play just about the same songs every week. The first time he came there he saw a dark complected couple go through many exaggerated motions every time they danced to a fast number. He liked this as he thought this added some sort of atmosphere to the place. Later he found out that this was really part of the act. The place always seemed phony to him after this. Tonight as usual he is bothered by the different colored spot lights which keep gliding across the flooi- in dizzying speeds and patterns.
Jean and he hardly speak to each othei-all evening. They dance together as if it is some duty they have to perform.
“Why did I come to this damn place,” he thinks. “I can tell she’s having a lousy time. I bet she’s wondering why I’m holding her so loosely. She’s certainly not going to get me to show her how I feel about her anymore.”
As they dance Jean suddenly snuggles closer to him and whispers in his ear, “I love you.”
Robert Winthrop is bewildered and then it all starts again.
SPECIAL STUDENT
RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
• 1,000 suits in stock
• All the newest styles •Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56 •No Deposit for ND Students Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price chi new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $5550
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL 107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
23
Repercussion
(Continued from page 6) well as it should be our hope also, that the entire issue will be solved satisfactorily before the opening of school in September.
Loran Sheffer Advertising Manager Notre Dame Bookstore.
THANKS
Editor:
We would like to publicly acknowledge the fine job done this year on the Scholastic. In our opinion this year’s magazine has been the best one of our four years at Notre Dame. The magazine has not only handled campus news items well, including Senior Class activities which we thank you for, but you have taken an inquiring attitude regarding Notre Dame, her Administration, and her students. We cannot help but notice a similarity between your forth
right presentation of your convictions and those brought out in Senator John A. Kennedy’s (recipient of this year’s “Patriot of the Year” award) recent book Profiles of Courage. If you have read this book you will recall that it is a tribute to various individuals who fought for their convictions, despite possible opposition.
Your articles on Administration—student relations, student responsibility and others have been most interesting, most thought provoking and most constructive.
It is our hope that next year’s editor will continue this leather new policy of examining university life and offering practical solutions.
George Strake, Jr., Pres.
Don Barr, Vice-Pres.
Pat Williamson, Sec.
Jack Casey, Treas.
Senior Class Officers.
HE JUST AIN'T
Assorted charges of “charlatan” and “condemned” levelled against one Dr. D. A. Daist by one Ricardo Laissezfaire in the “Letters” column of the May 10 issue of the SCHOLASTIC have proved to be as ephemeral as a spring day in Indiana.
Dr. Daist, a supposedly proper Boston economist who supposedly delivered a lecture at Notre Dame, is a strictly fictitious character. Ricardo Laissezfaire is straight out of the imagination of an editor casting about for a space filler.
Ricardo has retracted his charges and retired to the 19th century, and at last report the Boston Economic Relations Council is preparing to inter Dr. Daist in the same typewriter from which he arose.
i
1 i
I i
I I
! i k
I
i » i I I ! I
I «
i
i
I
the
Social
Security
that pays off



4 *
v * :
* *
* * v * ;

STICK DEODORANT
. For absolute security, all day, every day. So quick and clean ... melts in instantly. Gives you Social Security in just 3 secondsl 1.00 plus tax
Or use the new OLD SPICE SPRAY DEODORANT-in travel-light plastic, 1.00 plus tax
S H U LTON New fork • Toronto
24
The Scholastic
JlUk Seem
BASEBALL TEAM LOOKS FOR NCAA BID
* Linksmen's Unbeaten Streak Breaks at Eleven; Face Purdue, Indiana in State Meet Tomorrow
I Notre Dame’s golf team saw its ■ chances for an NCAA tournament bid m temporarily sidetracked last Monday I afternoon when Wisconsin subdued them I 20-16 on the Badger’s Madison, Wis., I* home course. The linksmen had a string j” of eleven straight golfing triumphs be-I fore the Wisconsin engagement but still [I boosted their record to 12-1 by defeat-9 ing Northwestern in the other match 1 of the triangular, 25%-10%.
9 Co-captain Roger Rubendall paced the ■	Badgers to victory with an even par
9	73-71—144 for two rounds over the
■ Maple Bluff Country Club course. Juniors V Joe Grace, Irish co-captain, with a 76-73—149, and Chuck Thum, also co-cap-I	tain, with 76-74—150, led Notre Dame.
■	Wisconsin also whipped the Wildcats
1	27%-8%.
9 Tomorrow afternoon the Irish meet 9 Purdue and Indiana at the Boilermaker’s ■ trying South Course in the State Meet. 9 It will be the first time ND has faced ■ either of the two teams. Purdue, rated I as the strongest squad in the Big Ten, ■ will pose the most difficult test in the IV triangular. Their six-man contingent is I fortified with several returning veterans. I Scores in the individual matches will I decide the winners in the opposing I matches while the aggerate team scores
will determine the state championship team. Golf coach Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C. will send these five players to the meet: Joe Grace, Chuck Thum, Lloyd Syron, Tom Garside and Jim Mrus. It will be the last regularly scheduled meet of the season.
If the Irish receive their expected bid to the NCAA, they will oppose the nation’s top inter-collegiate teams June 23-29 at Broadmoor Country Club in Colorado Springs, Col. The 1951 NCAA golf tournament was held at Broadmoor, a course with many difficult holes.
Last year in the tournament at Ohio State, ND placed sixth behind the University of Houston and Purdue. The Notre Dame four man total for two rounds each was 607, six strokes off the 601 pace of champion Houston. The Irish finished ahead of all the other schools from the Midwest and East, besides Purdue.
Houston and Purdue boast two of the country’s top collegiate golfers in Lex Baxter, Jr., who was NCAA medalist for Houston last year and placed second in the individual play-offs, and perky Joe Campbell of Purdue, who was the NCAA individual champ as a sophomore in 1955.
Other strong teams Notre Dame will have to contend with if they receive the tournament bid are Oklahoma A&M, North Carolina, Louisiana State, Stanford, Southern California and Florida State.
Monogram Club Mames Devine New President
The Notre Dame Monogram club recently announced the election of new officers for the next school year.
Basketball Co-captain Bob Devine was named to succeed Larry Cooke as president. Footballer Chuck Lima was elected to the vice-president’s position, and wrestler Bob Pivonka will be the new secretary. Aubrey Lewis, who runs on the track team and plays football in the fall, was elected treasurer. Sar-geants-at-arms are baseballer Bob Seneca! and fencer- Ron Farrow.
All of the new officers will be seniors next year.

Baseball Team Plays Great Lakes Saturday
Coach Jake Kline will be taking his baseball squad into the final lap of the 1957 season with his eyes on a bid to the NCAA tournament at season’s end. Tomorrow afternoon the Klinemen will be hosted by the Great Lakes sailors at the Naval Base in a return engagement. Their next encounter will be on the Cartier Field diamond against Valparaiso on Tuesday afternoon. Following the final examinations the Irish will again swing into action with a home and away set against Western Michigan on May 31 and the first of June, closing regular season play.
Monday after-noon at East Lansing, Mich., the Irish baseball team combined eight hits and Tom Bujnowski’s sound pitching to gain a revenge, 3-1, victory over Michigan State. The Spartans had * previously beaten Notre Dame 4-3 at Cartier Field.
Notre Dame garnered their three runs in the first three innings at the expense of two Spar-tan hurlers. Gene Duffy started the Irish off in the top half of the first with a scratch single. Ed Hurley then forced him at second and then Hurley scored the first run of the game on Elmer Kohorst’s line double. In the second, Bujnowski walked, went to second on Hurley’s infield hit and
(Continued on page 28)
JIM CARIDEO AND ED HURLEY Irish keystone cops
25
The Year in Review
by TED THOMPSON
The Notre Dame football team opened its season in Dallas by dropping a thrilling 19-13 decision to SMU on September 20. They almost pulled it out of the fire with a last second rally.
Two weeks later, back at Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish moved well on offense in scoring a 20-6 victory over Indiana. The rest of the month, the Irish found victory practically impossible to grasp. Purdue came in on Oct. 13 and pulled away in the second half for a 28-14 win. Michigan State also used the second half plus more depth and experience to break a 7-7 halftime deadlock and romp to a 47-14 triumph. Oklahoma was in command all the way in posting a 40-0 shutout.
As November started, Notre Dame took to the road. In Baltimore, on a field that resembled a steeplechase course, Navy slushed to a 33-7 victory. A week later Pitt took a 26-14 decision from the Irish. Notre Dame highlights in this game were Bobby Ward’s 85-yard kickoff return and Paul Hornung’s 50-yard sprint from scrimmage. The Irish returned to the Stadium on November 17, and drove 70 yards in the final quarter to gain a 21-14 victory ovei' North Carolina. Iowa manhandled Notre Dame the next Saturday at Iowa City, running up a 48-8 score.
By this time the cross-country season had closed, and the Notre Dame harriers had completed a successful season by capturing four of six dual meets and
BUDDY WARD IN THE OPEN
Junior seatback hope for the future
faring well in the larger meets. One of the Irish’s two dual meet defeats was administered by the eventual NCAA champion, Michigan State, 19-38. The other loss was to Indiana. Notre Dame bested Marquette, Loyola, Bowling Green, and Central Michigan.
The Irish took the CCC Meet handily with 29 points. Western Michigan was second with 44. The harriers also placed second in the Indiana State Meet, fourth in the IC4A Meet at New York, and sixth in the NCAA Championships at East Lansing, Mich.
Top point-getters for the year were Captain John Michno and Mike Ha-verty. Michno won four meets and was third and fourth in the two losses. Ha-verty consistently placed close behind Michno.
On December 1, the football squad closed out their season at Los Angeles against Southern California amidst the controversy stirred up by former Head Coach Frank Leahy. He claimed that Notre Dame had lost its fighting spirit. Playing probably their best full game of the year, the “fighting” Irish lost a thrilling 28-20 contest.
Just three days later, the basketbailers opened their slate against St. Joseph’s College and won handily, 98-55. They also dumped Wisconsin, 75-55, before dropping two, to Northwestern, 75-60, and Purdue, 85-72. This was the only time all year the team lost two in a row. Notre Dame’s 86-74 win over
HEISMAN WINNER HORNUNG His replacement a question mark
Valparaiso was followed by an 85-75 loss to Louisville’s powerful Cardinals.
The Irish entered the Holiday Festival Tourney in New York unnoticed because of their mediocre 3-3 record. They edged NYU, 72-71, on Bob Devine’s last second lay-up. Scoring 55 points in the second half, the Irish raced past Brigham Young, 91-66, to gain the finals. Tom Hawkins’ 35 points weren’t quite enough as Manhattan hit 46 per cent of their shots as a team and tripped the Irish, 86-79.
The beginning of the New Year for the hoopsters was an 86-84 loss to Butler as the gun went off. Ted Guzek tipped in teammate Bobby Plump’s missed shot as time ran out. Guzek had 38 and Plump 32 for 70 of Butler’s points. John Smyth rimmed 37 for the Irish, the individual high for a single game for the year.
This put the team’s record at 5-5. They then went on to win 14 of their next 17. The Irish started their streak by dumping Northwestern at Evanston, 82-61, reversing the earlier decision. They slapped defeats on Loyola, 90-76, and Michigan State, 86-76, before they ran into a tall, high-scoring Illinois five, which dumped them, 99-81.
The Irish turned right around and smashed Indiana, 94-82. McCarthy and Hawkins formed an excellent one-two punch with 35 and 30 points. Then Notre Dame started on a two-game Eastern tour. Canisius handed Johnny Jordan’s ^ll boys a 94-89 double overtime setback, If but the Irish broke even on the trip by I pumping in 99 points to tie the school I record to down Holy Cross, 99-82. I
The Irish breezed past Portland, I 78-64, and Loyola, 96-64. They had to I score the last 13 points of the game to I slip past Butler, 70-65, but regained ^1 their poise and scoring ability in de- ^*13
The Scholastic I
26
CAPTAIN JOHN SMYTH
Led Irish to regional;
feating Detroit, 99-88, tying the record again, DePaul, 95-80, and Marquette, - 76-56.
The Notre Dame track team won two of their three indoor dual meets and placed an unofficial second at the Michigan State Relays where no team standings are compiled.
At Michigan State, Notre Dame winners were Bill Keegan in the 300-yard dash; the sprint medley team of Keegan, Frank Hall, Aubrey Lewis, and Dale ■ VandenBerg; and the mile relay squad ' of Keegan, Barkley Ewart, Joe Foreman, and Lewis.
In dual meet competition, the Irish thinclads defeated Purdue, 65-39. VandenBerg set a meet record of 1:53.2 in the 880, and Booker Rice tied the school indoor high hurdle record of :07.5. Dick DiCamillo, Jack Cote, VandenBerg, and the mile relay team all set meet records, and Rice and Lewis tied one each as the R’Irish trounced Marquette, 73-31. Indiana stopped the Irish at Bloomington, 68 %-45%. VandenBerg and the mile relay team established new meet records.
In March, the basketballers closed their regular season by rallying from a 62-62 deadlock to whip DePaul, 85-73, and convincingly dumping Marquette, 94-55. At Columbus, Ohio, in the first round of the NCAA regional, hitting seven of their first eight shots, the Irish ripped through Miami of Ohio, 89-77. Hawkins with 25, Smyth with 23, and McCarthy with 22 carried the bulk of the scoring load.
The following Friday, March 15, Michigan State cut the winning streak at ten games and eliminated the Irish from the tourney, 85-83. The Spartans led all but the first few seconds of the I) second half. The Irish came back to defeat Pitt, 86-85, for third place in the regional. This was the 20th win of the season and the 100th of Johnny Jordan’s six-year career at Notre Dame.
Tom Hawkins set a new school scoring record for a single season with 576 points. John Smyth moved into the num-xber three spot on the list with 534. } Notre Dame scored more points as a
team than it ever had before, 2,364, and also allowed more, 2,000. The number of games played, 28, also is a new record.
The fencing team, undei- Coach Walter Langford, closed out their eleventh straight winning season, losing only once in 15 matches. The last losing season was in 1943 before the sport was discontinued at Notre Dame during the War. The Irish wound up their season by taking ninth in the NCAA Meet at Detroit, thirteen points behind NYU, who won with 65 points.
The fencers sailed through their first eleven matches with only Chicago U. and Michigan State coming within five points of them. They both lost by 15-12 counts. At Champaign, in their toughest match of the year, excluding the NCAA Meet, the Irish tackled both Illinois and Wisconsin, the two other top fencing schools in the Midwest. Aftei- the Badgers had snapped Notre Dame’s winning streak at eleven, 19-8, the Irish bounced back for a thrilling 14-13 win over Illinois. The Irish went into the final nine bouts, trailing 12-6. They won eight of the last nine, including the last six straight, to pull it out. They finished the regular season by downing both Fenn and Case, 17-10.
Co-captain Denis Hemmerle closed out his career by capturing 36 of his 41 bouts this past season. Coupled with his totals from the two previous seasons and his tournament play, this makes him the winningest fencer in Notre Dame history. He has won 84 bouts. With 18 losses, he has an .824 percentage, which puts him third on the all-time list.
The wrestling team showed three wins in ten starts this year. The victories
BOB DEVINE AFTER THE NYU GAME
His basket gave Garden victory to Irish.
came over U. of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago U., and Findlay. Captain Terry Crowley paced the wrestlers with a record of seven wins, two losses and one tie.
Notre Dame retained its Central Collegiate Conference Track Championship on March 2 with 65% points. Marquette was second with 36%. Dick Di Camillo, Joe Foreman, Steve Dornbach, Mike Haverty, Jack Cote, Aubrey Lewis, and the mile relay team won events for the Irish. DiCamillo in the mile and the relay team bettered the meet records. Cote set a new school indoor* record for the broad jump with a leap of 23' 11%", and Lewis skimmed the low hurdles in :07.4 for another new school mark. Ron Gregory won the Freshman Invitational Mile in 4:16.7, breaking the freshman mile record.
At the Milwaukee Relays, the two mile relay team of Marty Clynes, Al Porter, Ed Monelly, and VandenBerg finished second while DiCamillo and Gregory were both fourth in the college mile and the open mile respectively. The two mile relay squad of Clynes, Porter, DiCamillo, and VandenBerg won at the Chicago Relays, and the mile relay team was second to Villanova. At the Cleveland Relays, the mile relay team was second to Villanova again, and the two mile relay team third. Ron Gregory finished fourth in the open mile.	.
Four spring sports were in action last month. The tennis team, with Maxwell Brown leading the way, swept through six straight matches without a defeat. Cincinatti came closest to the Irish netters, 7-2.	•
(Continued on page 28)
May 17, 1957
27
TIME OUT
While you are checking that exam schedule for dates, mark down Sept. 28, 1957 as one of the most important in this University’s athletic history. On that date, Terry Brennan takes his football charges to Lafayette, Ind. to encounter the Boilermakers of Purdue. The beginning of this campaign could be as successful as the invasion of Normandy or as ultimately disastrous as Napoleon’s trek into Russia.
It is no secret that next year has to be the year for Coach Terry. No one can stand another losing season and one wonders whether even a 5-5 season would make many people very happy. No, Notre Dame has got to make the jump right back to the top in just nine short months. This seems highly improbable.
Not even Coach Brennan is that optimistic. He figures that we are still two years away. Next year is a rebuilding year but at Notre Dame you are never- supposed to be rebuilding.
Everyone points to the fact that he will have a large number of veterans returning but one must remember that these veterans compiled a 2-8 season. The question is whether Brennan can find a winning combination out of his returnees and upcoming sophomores. You can bet he will try anything. He can’t do anything but win. The reasons are evident.
To put it plainly, Terry Brennan is on the spot. Here’s hoping he can handle it.
IRISH STARS IN THE NEWS
The Richmond Virginians, currently battling Miami for first place in the International League, can thank their shortstop’s lusty hitting. Tom Carroll, the Yankee bonus baby who still attends ND in the fall, has come into his own after sitting on the Yankee bench and collecting World Series money the last two years. His first hit of the year was a home run in the last of the tenth to beat Rochester 4-3. His bat and fielding have made the Virginians the surprise of the season.
One of the rookie pitchers in the league is Miami’s Dick Bunker who pitched for ND in ’55 and was considered one of the best lefthanders in the Midwest. In his first start, he beat Montreal, 3-1, with a five hitter. Last season, Bunker had a 17-7 in the Class A Eastern League. The Phillies are quite high on him. He spent the spring with the parent club but was sent out where he could work regularly.
THE END
It is about time to clear off the desk for the last time. It is just as well because we don’t have much to write about with the Cubs in last place and the White Sox ready to make a hurried descent.
Before signing out, tribute -should be paid to a couple of fellows who insist that this section wouldn’t have been possible without them. In all seriousness though, Mike Fitzpatrick and Bob Early, my two assistants, did a great job. The biggest feather in' tlieir cap was the First Annual College Sports Editors’ All-America. This poll received national recognition and we hope it is something that continues.
That just about wraps up a year in sports that seems like it started only yesterday. J. G. leaves and M. F. takes over, but next year—TYLER WILL RETURN.
Baseball	!
(Continued from page 25) then scored on Jim Cusack’s clutch single. A walk to Jim Carideo opened the 1 way for the Klinemen’s last run in the third. The Irish shortstop raced to third base on a double by Bob Senecal and then scored on third baseman Steve Johnson’s sacrifice fly.	@
After splitting a two game series with the Wisconsin Badgers, the Irish went on to pound out a 14-0 six inning revenge victory over the University of Michigan on May 9 at Cartier Field.
Gene Duffy greeted Wolverine Bob ! Sealby by sending his first offering sail- | ing over the outfielder’s heads, scoring ! the first run in a ten run first inning , that saw 14 Irish batters walk to the plate. Two more markers were added by the Irish in the second when they combined three hits, a pair of errors, and Duffy’s sacrifice fly off third Michigan hurler Don Poloskey. Singles by Duffy, Cusack and Kohorst accounted for the thirteenth run in the fourth while the final Irish tally came in the fifth when Johnson blasted a home run over the left field fence. With Hurley batting ' in the home half of the sixth, the rains came and the umpires called the game to a halt.
Led by Captain Kohorst and behind the combined three hit pitching of seniors Paul Besser, Bujnowski, and John Hammet, the Irish last Satur- j day afternoon posted their ninth win in J 15 starts when they downed Great Lakes j by a 9-0 score.	j
Senecal scored the .first ND run in the second when he tripled and came -home on Steve Johnson’s single. Ko< horst doubled home Cusack, who was safe on a two-base error in the third and the Irish boosted this margin to 4-0 in the fourth when Johnson singled, Duffy reached base on an error and Hurley singled both runners home.
The final Irish markers crossed the plate in the sixth when Duffy doubled, Hurley walked, and Cusack’s single filled the bases. Kohorst singled home Duffy, then Hurley and Cusack scored on the left-fielder’s error. Giarrantano’s single scored Kohorst with the final run.
Review
(Continued from page 27)
The baseball nine split their ten April games, downing Indiana (twice), Central Michigan, Ohio U., and Northwestern. They lost to Indiana, Michigan (twice), Ohio U., and Michigan State.
Alex Wilson’s trackmen opened their outdoor season with a third in the mile relay and a fourth in the sprint medley relay at the Texas Relays. The mile '
28
The Scholastic
^.relay team’s time of 3:15 set a new school record.
Two weeks later at the Ohio State Belays, the Irish turned in two firsts and four other good performances. The mile relay foursome sped the course in the winning time of 3:14.5 to set the Belays mark and reset the Notre Dame record. The shuttle hurdle relay team of Bon Parker, Steve Dornbach, Booker WBice, and Lewis also captured their event in 1:02.9. The sprint medley relay team finished second as did Jack Cote in the broad jump. The 880 yard relay team tied for second, and Mike Haverty came in third in the mile and a half.
At the colorful Drake Belays three weeks ago, the mile relay team again took the relay, lowering their school record to 3:13.1 as Aubrey Lewis sped ^the anchor leg in :46.2.
Tracks+ers Best Pitt; LewistCote LeadWay
Aubrey Lewis and Jack Cote led the Irish track team to a hard fought victory over Pittsburgh last Saturday, 69 1/3 to 61 2/3 as Notre Dame scored ML its first dual meet win of the season. ’ Notre Dame took nine first places to only six foi- Pitt.
Indiana’s Hoosiers unseated Notre Dame’s defending champions in the State Meet last Wednesday night by rolling up 110 points to 94% for the Irish. The host squad, Purdue, placed third with 34 points while nine small Indiana colleges trailed in the scoring.
Tonight, at the Cartier Field track, M\the Irish engage Michigan State. Field events begin at 6:30 p.m.
Lewis anchored the winning mile relay team which gave the Irish the lead, although Cote’s victory in the broad jump was the actual clincher.
Besides anchoring the mile relay team, Lewis won the low hurdles in 24.1 and placed third in the 100-yard dash and the javelin. Cote placed second in the ■ pole vault and took third in the high ’ jump.
The mile relay team of Foreman, Al Porter, Dale VandenBerg and Lewis gave the Irish the lead by winning in a time of 3:16.5. Going into this event, the Panthers led by a score of 58 2/3 - 581/3. It was one of the most exciting relays ever run in Pitt stadium as VendenBerg took the lead H in the third leg and Lewis fought off Pitt’s Charley Hefflin and won by approximately three yards.
Two new stadium marks were set as Notre Dame’s Dick Di Camillo set a new record by running the mile in 4:14.4 and Pitt’s Wesley King hurled the discus 156% feet for another.
The Panthers’ last chance for a vic-?}tory was crushed when Cote soared
to victory in the broad jump with a leap of 23 feet 6% inches.
In the other events, Foreman won the 440-yard dash in a time of 49 seconds flat, and Co-captain Bill Keegan was second. VandenBerg captured the 880 in 1:53 and Mike Haveity won his two mile specialty in 9:35.6.
Co-captain Mike Kaufman won the shot put with a heave of 49 feet 3% inches.
Swim Club Sets Date For Annual Banquet
On Wednesday evening, May 22, the Notre Dame Swim club will hold a banquet at the Morris Inn to culminate a successful swimming season. Invited by the Club to attend the banquet are: Ed Krause, Athletic Director of the university, Bev. Edmond P. Joyce, C.S.C., Vice-President of Notre Dame, Bev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Vice-President of Student Affairs and Frank McKinney, Jr., Indianapolis, Ind., a high school senior who last November won a bronze, third place medal in the Olympic Games at Melbourne, Australia.
McKinney will be the principal speaker at the dinner. He will probably enter Indiana University next September because the Big Ten school offers swimming as a major sport, though his father, former chairman of the Democratic Paity, wants him to go to Notre Dame. The young athlete has been seriously contemplating attending Notre Dame, but since swimming is not recognized as a varsity sport here, his choice will most probably be the state school, which has had several outstanding swimming stars in the last few seasons. Which college he attends depends largely on whether Notre Dame will raise swimming to the status of a major sport next year. This, the future standing of the Swimming team, will be discussed at the banquet by the University officials and Swim club representatives.
Also on the agenda for the banquet will be the awarding of beer mugs, which will be given in the place of monogram sweaters to the members of the team during the past season. One of the most important factors which will determine whether the squad will get varsity status is the interest in swimming at Notre Dame as shown by the student body in general and the various organizations on campus. The clubs donating mugs are: Monogram club, which is donating two mugs as is the Met club, the Chicago club, the Senior class, Fisher hall, Badin hall, Dillon hall, Notre Dame Band, and the Scholastic, while the Phy-Ed Club, and Howard Hall will donate one mug. Most probably, the Knights of Columbus will give two and the Florida Club one.
Tennis Team Loses; Meet Iowa Tomorrow
What had appeared on paper to be Notre Dame’s toughest tennis opponent this year proved to be just that as the Irish were whipped by Michigan last Friday by a score of 7-2.
The trip to Ann Arboi- last Friday, in addition to a Wolverine victory, also brought the season’s first defeats to Notre Dame’s singles stars Max Brown and Bon Schoenberg. Brown lost to Davis Cuppei- Barry MacKay, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4 and Schoenberg met defeat at the hands of Mark Jaffe 6-3, 6-2.
The other matches, Michigan’s Dick Pottei- beat Harry Smith 6-3, 6-3, Michigan’s John Harris defeated Sergio Garza 6-2, 6-2 and the Wolverine’s Dale Jensen won over Hector Cabello 6-4, 6-1. Notre Dame’s only singles victory was scored by No. 4 man Chuck Vanon-cini‘ as he won 6-4, 2-6, 7-5 over Jon Erickson.
In the doubles, Brown and Smith teamed to hand McKay and Potter their second defeat in collegiate competition in a long match ending in a score of 13-11, 4-6, 6-3. Erickson and Jaffe avenged this defeat with a 6-4, 6-0 win over Schoenberg and Vanonconi. Michigan won the last match of the day as Cabello and Garza lost 6-2, 4-6, 6-1 to Harris and Johnson.
Tomorrow the Irish move on to Iowa City to meet Iowa and finish the season. The Hawkeyes are considered one of the Big Ten favorites and it appears that Notre Dame will be up against another tough opponent.
Canoe Trips
Total cost $5.75 per diem for a thrilling vacation in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. For information write: CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Bill Rom, Box 717 C,. Ely, Minnesota.
May 17, 1957
29
Appoint Weismantel Editor of Tech Review
Student Senate Announces Appointments; Griffith, Rogers, Link to Take Over Posts
Guy Weismantel, a junior chemical engineering major from Lancaster, 0., has been named editor-in-chief of next year’s Technical Revieiv. Weismantel served as feature editor of the magazine for the past year. He is also a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society and the Glee Club.
Chet Raymo, a junior electrical engineer from Chattanooga, Tenn., and Frank Moore, a junior mechanical engineer from Kilgore, Texas, have been named associate editors. Raymo has been a staff writer this year and has edited the electrical engineering newsletter. Moore has served as copy editor of the Technical Revieiv foi* the past year.	.
Bob Norris, another junior engineer from Middletown, 0., will again serve as business manager next year. Norris has helped with the Engineer’s Ball and the Engineering Open House and has been selected as the general chairman for next year’s Engineer’s Ball.
Dennis Ready, a sophomore metallurgical engineer from Aurora, Ill., has been named the copy editor. Bill McAdam, a sophomore electrical engineer from Wilmette, Ill., will head the feature department and Roger O’Neil, a sophomore chemical engineer from Susquehanna, Penn., will be the new articles editor.
Pete O’Connor, a junior civil engineer from Jackson Heights, N. Y., is the new circulation editor. Joseph Higgins, a chemical engineer from Wauwatosa, Wis., will head the office staff.
Appointments of Student Senate commissioners and chairmen were announced this week by Jerry Brady, Student Senate president for the 1957-58 school year.
Three of the eight commissioners, who serve in the executive cabinet, have been announced. They are: Bill Griffith, academic commissioner, a general program student from Smithfield, Tex.; Pat
Massman Named Chairman Of Autumn Commerce Ball
Bob Massman, business administration junior from Kansas City, recently-appointed chairman of the 1957 Commerce Ball, has announced that the Ball will be held on November 22, the weekend of the Iowa game.
Massman has released the following list of assistants for the ball: Drew Aman, business manager; Jim Carell, decorations; Fred Booth, hotels; Tom Bartley, tickets; Mike Kuras, publicity; Gerry Pastula, Communion breakfast; Bob Cushing, entertainment; and Jerry Maurer, refreshments.- Assisting these men will be Jim Masterson, Gene Kervin, Dick Grimier, Duncan LaVigne, Tom Fleming and Tom Smith.
The procedure for obtaining bids, football tickets, hotel reservations, and Communion Breakfast tickets will be outlined in a newsletter which will appear in the early fall.
Rogers, social commissioner, a PFA major from Sioux Falls, S. Dak.; and Dave Link, public relations commissioner, a business administration major from Sandusky, O. Brady will announce his other commissioners on Monday.
In the Senate, John Dewes, the Commerce senator, was appointed chairman | of the finance committee. Jim Rose, a ' stay senator, is the new chairman of the honor system committee. Bill Graham, Senate secretary, was re-appointed chairman of the committee on the extension of self-responsibility and Bruce Babbitt, another stay senator, was appointed .J
I *** freshman coordinator.
Brady said that Paul Coffey has been named to head a new and special committee to assist the University registrar | and Alumni boards throughout the coun- j try in encouraging promising students to come to Notre Dame.
Applications may still be made for j Dining Hall, Infirmary, Library, and	1
Rockne Memorial committee chairman-	J
ships, and for membership on these com-; x mittees and the honor system committee. Applications are also being accepted for spiritual, inter-campus, judicial, and student organizations commissioners and members. These applications may be made to Brady in room 25 Pangborn.
The Senate held its annual banquet on Wednesday night at the Mishawaka Hotel. Seniors Bob Kiley and John Cusack and Junior Vic Clesi were presented plaques as the outstanding senators for 1956-57.
‘TECH REVIEW’ STAFF
Weismantel, Norris, Moore, Raymo.
Pugliese, Butcofski Named Heads of Aesculapian Club
Frank Pugliese, a junior from Wilkes-Barre, Pa., was elected president of the Aesculapian Club for the next 'school
year.
The club also selected as its officers for the fall Jim Butcofski, another junior from Wilkes-Barre as vice-president; Mike O’Neil, a sophomore from Omaha, Neb., secretary; and John Bottiglione, a junior from McIntyre, Pa. as treasurer. .
In addition to the officers for next A’ I! year, three trustees were also named.
They were Phil Hodonos, of Hammond, Ind., Bob Ellis, of Flossmoor, HL, and Ed Weinheimer of El Campo, Tex.
The officers were installed at the Aesculapian Club banquet which was ; 1 held last Thursday night. Dr. John D. ; | Mizelle, biology professor, was the,n principal speaker.	e- ; I
The Scholastic / I
30
JACK MARTZELL To Lead Debaters
Martzell Named Head Of 1957-58 Debaters
Jack Martzell, a junior accounting major in the Commerce school, has been jL named president of the Notre Dame " Debate Team for next year. Prof. Leonard Sommers, head of the speech department and coach of the team, announced Martzell’s appointment at the team’s annual banquet.
Bob Dempsey, an AB sophomore, was announced as vice-president for next year at the banquet. The Doyle Award for public speaking, given annually in recognition for exceptional achievement I in the field of debate, was won by Paul Coffey, retiring team president.
Martzell received the Conwell Award for outstanding service and Debate Team plaques were presented to Stan Kusper and John Hirschfeld. Tom Banchoff received first prize in the Freshman Oratorical Contest.
The Debate Team, just prior to the Easter vacation, won first place in the Notre Dame. Invitational Debate Tournament. Coffey and Martzell came out on top of 30 other teams from all over the nation after eight rounds of debate. In winning the tournament the Debate Team retained possession of the Rev. William A. Bolger revolving trophy which they had won last year.
John Burgess of the Vermont team placed number one among all the participants in the tournament on the basis of speaker points. Martzell was second, and Coffey took sixth place.
During Easter Vacation, the Debate Team participated in the West Point National Debate Tournament against 36 of the nations top teams. The team was awarded a finalist plaque .and both । Coffey and Martzell received certificates jr for “excellence in debate.” 1 May 17, 1957
Storage for Winter Garments
only $2.95
—PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
IT IS" T necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional
amount.
CALL CE 4-3188 OR
STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST
ON THE BUS LINE
SHEAFFER PEN CONTEST WINNER
		“Senator”—J. Michael Ledden "Jill A”—Norman Cook	
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
31
Road to Morocco
(Continued from page 21) and visiting Americans figured it was some guy who needed a stage name.
The judge finally agreed to accompany me back to the States. It took a 30% cut in the reward money, plus half the alliteration rights to Time’s story on us, and my personal guarantee that I would never mention his jai-alai record in public to do it, but he knuckled under at last. .
I finally dragged him out of the fronton and into the waiting arms of an NBC mobile unit. Within 24 hours I was lauded the world over as another Stanley. And within two hours I found that Estelle’s had been turned into a
IQIIMS
LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
SONIC
Ever since Jack bought his new Sonic CAPRI phonograph at the local college store — he’s become the biggest BMOC ever. You can join him and be the biggest ever, too, for you can buy a CAPRI phonograph for as little as $19.95.
This month’s special is the CAPRI 550 — a twin speaker high fidelity portable with 4-speed Webcor automatic changer, hi-fi amplifier in attractive	.
two-tone Forest Green, only *59” at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC.'19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook, N.Y.
jai-alai fronton. I had had enough truck with Morocco, and back to Uncle Sam land I came.
I quickly disposed of the cheering thousands at the airport in New York. I was made up as John Foster Dulles, and nobody would even begrudge me the previous day’s ball scores. The indifference accorded me was a welcome sight, and in a trice I was in front of Sime. Crater’s modest villa. An Arabic looking chap dressed in nothing but a leotard greeted me at the door. “Where’s Fang Crater,” I boldly queried, disregarding the fact that his left hand cradled an icy-gray automatic. “Oh, she lambed out of here yesterday with some boys from the Sudan,” he replied. “Did she have her racket with her,” I next wanted to know. With that the Arab shook his head affirmatively, and fell to the floor bellowing with laughter, as if he had just seen the script to next week’s Pinky Lee show.
I thanked him for the information, and then rendered motionless his ugly frame with a well-placed slug from my .38. I had had enough of the Crater’s, and their fiendish penchant for jai-alai to last me a life time. Somebody else could have Lady Crater’s oodles. I was going home and attempt some visionless sleeping.	•
Toward a Milieu o'
(Continued from page 16)
of discussing their fields with the men in the halls. As a result, the students, regardless of their colleges or majors, could become interested in and learn something about art, or political theory, or physics, ox* stocks and bonds, just by discussing these things in an informal way in the halls. It is for the men in the halls to seek out for their hall
officers those who are eager to promote activities of this sort. Under the present hall system it is difficult for students to do any long range thinking and planning about their communal life, because every year they move to a different hall. It is my opinion that in order for the hall community to develop it is necessary that there be a more stable hall system. If there were a preferential hall system whereby students might choose either to remain in their present hall or go to another one, a nucleus of students would carry over in each hall every year. This
increased stability would be a favorable climate for the development of the hall community. This is something for us to consider.
Student Government assumes a primary significance here. If it is to be a government of students as students and not as social beings alone, it must obviously concern itself with student’s i problems. If they could initiate some and promote all of the intellectual activities on the campus they would be taking the proper step. Student Government , could easily initiate a bulletin which * could list all lectures, concerts, plays, and J' the like to be held the following week ® in much the same way that the Religious Bulletin keeps the students posted on current devotions.
Further it would be a significant im- ' provement if once each yeax- a meeting , were to be held at which members of the administration, the deans of all the . colleges and members of Student Govern- | ment could consider- such things as I J have been discussing. In such a way the three elements which compose the uni- ; versity could be brought togethex- in an ' understanding of theix- common and particular problems.
When a freshman walks into a community in which there pervades a love of wisdom, of knowledge about the uni- ! verse which surrounds him, of the society of which he is a part, a desire to , see all things in the framework of God’s $ eternal plan, in the unity of Being’s analogisity, and God in all; and a love i of beauty which uplifts man in music, ii literature, drama, and painting; and a । love of doing well what work is being done—then, and only when he is compelled by such an atmosphere will the university have matured.	i;
32
The Scholastic
YCS Awards Given To Campus Leaders
At the annual YCS banquet on May 8, the St. Thomas Moore Awards were presented to Ray DeSutter, Tom Kris-topeit, Ron Francis, and Tony Yur--kChak. Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president for business affairs, made the presentation.
The awards are given annually to seniors who have done outstanding work in Catholic Action on the campus. DeSutter was the Prefect of the Third Order of St. Francis, while Tom Kris-topeit, Senate spiritual commissioner, served as vice-president of YCS. Ron f Francis was chairman of Catholic activ-Pities for the Knights of Columbus, and Tony Yurchak was campus co-ordinator for NSA-NFCCS.
In awarding the citations, Father Wilson complimented the recipients, pointing out that they were “the cream of the crop of Notre Dame men.”
Tom Fogarty, newly elected president of YCS, announced the appointment of Bruce Babbitt as freshman co-ordinator >for the 1957-58 school year. He will be in charge of setting up temporary hall governments under YCS groups in the freshman halls.
Hy Q—the brilliant scholar	Z
tells how to stretch your dollar •
Greyhound’s the way to go— • saves you time as well as dough! Z
ATLANTA, GA. $16.90 CHARLOTTE, N. C. $17.90 CHEYENEE, WYO. $24.40 CINCINNATI, OHIO $ 7.00 DETROIT, MICH. $ 5.40 HARRISBURG, PA. $16.00
HOUSTON, TEX.	$24.05
LOUISVILLE, KY.	$ 7.30
MIAMI, FLA.	$31.30
MOBILE, ALA.	$20.85
ORLANDO, FLA.	$27.25
SEATTLE, WASH.	$47.45
All prices plus tax
Following freshman elections in December, Babbitt will assume the chairmanship of the freshman council, composed of the freshman hall presidents and senators, and will assist them in conducting the affairs of the freshman L class.
It's such a comfort to take the bus ... and leave the driving to us!
University Announces Math Contest Winners
GREYHOUND’

| Winners in the 1957 Notre Dame Mathematics competition were announced I recently by Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., I vice president of academic affairs.
1 Brian Moran, an Arts and Letters mathematics major from Tulsa, Okla., I received first place in the sophomore I division. In the freshman section of the I competition, there was a tie for first I place between Thomas Banchoff, an Arts I and Letters math major from Trenton, I N. J. and Herbert Moeller, a major- in I physics from East Norwalk, Conn.
| Second place in the sophomore com-| petition went to Keith Williams, while Thomas Scharle and George Craven tied for the freshman second place.
Over 75 Notre Dame students par-I ticipated in the contests. The competition consists of a series of questions designed to test for originality, imagina-tion, and elegance as exemplified in mathematics.
MAGNIFICENT GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore.
We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
111 SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
UNION BUS TERMINAL 117 WESTERN AVE., AT 7-6541
Flying Somewhere?
Now You Con Make AIR LINE RESERVATIONS Right on Campus at No Extra Cost First Bank & Trust Co.
Travel Department Second Floor, Book Store Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Also Steamship Reservations; Domestic and Foreign Tours
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J.TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJW3. Bldg.
May 17, 1957
33
0
Paas
by Harry Heyl
the student and the university j
There is one fundamental problem ■which confronts every person entering college: how may I become truly educated? He is faced with that question during each year of undergraduate study, until he must judge in retrospect his activity as a student. No university claims to educate a person; it merely provides certain opportunities for education and, perhaps, intellectual inspiration. It rests finally with the individual to make such use of the possibilities presented him as his values dictate.
Here at Notre Dame, the student enters not only upon a set of opportunities proper to a university but also those peculiar to a Catholic university. He has, therefore, a context within which to place himself that is essentially different from the non-Catholic col-।	lege. But no one will deny that Notre
|	Dame embodies as many faults as virtues
!	—and the faults often obscure the vir-
i tues. The point, however, is not that faults are plentiful but that they are not essential and permanent. Even what would seem to be the central cause for discouragement—control by a religious congregation—is not a burden for the intellectual life. The resolution of certain undeniable difficulties is more than anything else a matter of the gradual development of Christian wisdom—and if that “Christian wisdom” seems meaning-g	less, then we choose to ignore our place
I	in Creation. My point is that criticism
of the university is absolutely necessary, but by itself, it provides only half the force needed to become educated. Right criticism must be part of an organic process of evolution that recognizes human imperfection in action—and so does not by itself attempt the perfect in the temporal sphere, but achieves the right ordering of things human to things divine.
For the Notre Dame student, that is a most important consideration. Neither he nor his teacher can expect a faultless university, but only a better one. And the student here is prone to excuse his own faults by those of the university —-and consequently fails to see both as they are. The student too often fails to realize not only that things simply do
34
not change overnight, but more importantly, that in this university he is responsible for eliminating the faults as far as he is individually concerned. A purely passive attitude is not only stupid but is itself a greater fault than those to which it objects. Again, the point is this: Notre Dame embodies the actual possibilities for the individual of getting the best possible education as an undergraduate.
The normal structure of classes, however, by their nature cannot provide an education; they are necessary means to an end. That end is growth and development of what is most human in the individual, not only his reason but his intuitive soul. In themselves, classes may seem inadequate, and often they are. But that does not make an impossible situation, for* there always exists the real possibility of taking what is offered as many steps further as seems worthwhile. That is necessary in any case if one is to become educated; and the “appropriation” of things offered, development beyond mere acquisition, is always the job of the student himself. For that reason—the necessity of development —there exist as aids, a library, discussion groups and the whole body of co- and extra-curricular activities. If those activities are valued as they help and encourage real development, then they are as necessary as classes.
But here again one faces a very fundamental condition for truly human existence: genuine development takes place not in the area of activity but in the quiet soul of the individual. It is as simple as this—one cannot speak and listen at the same time. Nor can one develop by means of what he has learned and what he has experienced if he does not become quiet, drawing within to order himself and place himself in relation to all existing things. In his book, Leisure, the Basis of Culture, Josef Pieper examines with remarkable insight and clarity this basic aspect of Western culture. (All students without exception should read it and re-read it, rememoer-ing that the realm of human excellence is a personal realm that no institution can achieve for them.) Implied in this idea
of the necessity for interior silence is an attitude toward reality which differs from that generally found in studies. When reality is considered not just as material for man’s shaping hand but primarily as the Creation of God, only then does its inexhaustible fullness and richness open, as it was meant to, for the human soul.
Notre Dame’s great advantage in being a Catholic university lies precisely in this area of the fulfillment of the in- I tellectual life by the spiritual. Through I the liturgy, the Mass, which binds the j material and spiritual in the act of wor- ,< ship, the human is lifted above his everyday world of work to the sphere where his divine end is in sight. It has been rightly said that this University is neither “a gymnasium nor a monastery,” but it is nevertheless true that intelligence alone and unlighted with grace is only human.
At this stage of its growth, Notre Dame is Catholic and a university; the two exist more or less side by side. It r remains for the individual student to overcome in his own education not only departmental fragmentization in the colleges, but to integrate the intellectual and the spiritual as well. Both are absolutely necessary for Christian existence as the college graduate must regard it; and properly speaking, neither substitutes for the other in the university. > Both the intellectual and the spiritual r must be entered fully by the Catholic student if he is to justify his presence in a university. But it is unfortunate in the extreme that most Catholic students, when they enter a Catholic university, hold consciously or unconsciously certain mental reservations about the Catholic Faith—some continue to do so, others gradually embrace Christ. The unhappy fact is that nearly all fail to see that \ fully three or four years are needed to achieve real and lasting personal wholeness. Neither the intellectual nor the spiritual will “wait” for the other in education, and unless the student brings them together within himself, he will fail in his vocation as a Christian stu- 1 dent.	\
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
Page one item: new Arrow permanent stay collar
If you’ve ever lost a collar Stay (and who hasn’t?) this smart Arrow shirt with permanent-stay collar is for yo'd.
These stays are built right in, permanently and invisibly.
They can’t get lost—ever!
Permanent stays are introduced this season in a trim short-pointed collar model with French cuffs.
Yours in “Sanforized-labelled” broadcloth, just $5.00. Pure silk tie, $2.50
ARROW
—first in fashion shirts • TIES
New—Arrow shirt with built-in collar stays
At last a stay that doesn’t stray! This handsome Arrow is the perfect style shirt for every college man. The flexible stays are a permanent part of its soft, comfortable collar. No more lost stays. No more fumbling to insert them. Shirt with French cuffs, $5.00. Choice of pure silk ties, $2.50. Drop by today!
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
Out after a deer?
Of course you know You must get a license
Before you go!

Oh! After a dear. Then it’s reversed.
Never mind the license Catch the dear first!
MORAL: Big game hunters, attention— take your pleasure BIG! Smoke a regal Chesterfield King and get more of what you re smoking for. Majestic length—plus the smoothest natural tobacco filter. Chesterfield—the smoothest tasting smoke today because it’s packed more smoothly by ACCU-RAY!	*
Like your pleasure BIG?
Chesterfield King has Everything!
*$50 goes to Jerry A. Bys, Coe College, for his Chester Field poem.
$50 for every philosophical verse accepted for publication. Chesterfield, P.O. Box 21, New York 46, N. Y.
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
&M¥£rs tqbacco