i ! I
s I 1
he SNotre
Volume 84. No. 9
ame Scholastic
May 18.1945
Notre Dome, Indiana
kl
I
&
i
f M a y, M on th of >M a ry and Grotto Deydtioh
F
University Lay Trustees Approve Post-War
Plans

Of Extreme Interest to Notre Dame Men!
Type A-2 U. S. Army Aviator's Style LEATHER JACKETS $16’5
T ITERE’S quality and long wear! Fine glove-soft horsehide and goatskin jackets JL Ji- with full zipper fronts, leather collars, w'oot knit bottoms and cuffs, fully lined with broadcloth selitia. Styled exactly like the regulation Air Corps jackets and made to “take it.” Strictly First Quality — No Rejects.
^GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
VOL. 84
MAY 18. 1945
NO. 9
Post-War Plans Approved by Lay Trustees
Butler New V-12
Regimental Commander
With the completion of the first half of the semester, a turnover has taken place in the personnel of the regimental and battalion staffs for the V-12 unit. Lieut. (jg) B. E. Hummon has announced the appointment of new staffs to serve for the remainder of the semester in directing the drills and daily formations of the unit. Appointed as regimental commander is James Butler.
In addition to the commander, the regimental staff will consist of Donald Toker as sub-commander, William Welch as adjutant, and Frank Miller and John Gehring as,aides.
In charge of the two battalions comprising the regiment are J. D. Owens, first battalion commander and William Reid, second battalion commander. The first battalion staff will consist of Strand as sub-commander, Cartier as adjutant, and Demmerle and Cloud as aides. Assisting Commander Reid on the second battalion staff will be Lindsay as subcommander, Kier as adjutant, and Martin and Hagstrom as aides.
Also accompanying the change of regimental and battalion staffs was the appointment of new officers for each of the companies. A new six man group consisting of company commander, two platoon leaders, chief petty officer, and two mustering petty officers will preside over each company formation.
Ray Donovan Assumes
Publicity Post June 1
Raymond Donovan, a member of the Notre Dame graduating class of 1942, has been appointed to the publicity department as announced by J. Walter Kennedy, Director of Publicity. Donovan, who assisted in the publicity department during his undergraduate days and for some time after his graduation, will succeed Miss Mary McCormick whose resignation will become effective June 1.
Post-war plans of the University of Notre Dame were approved last week by members of the Board of Lay Trustees meeting for their annual spring session. In addition to the regular portfolio routine, an outline of plans for the future was presented to the board by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.', president of the University, who touched upon the post-war development of the graduate school; the rehabilitation program for returning veterans; the technological developments in the colleges of engineering and science; and the program to strengthen the undergraduate school, especially the revitalizing of the liberal arts, and the training of men for government service.
Father O’Donnell then discussed the expense and the faculty which these programs would entail, and reviewed the newer elements of progress on the campus, namely, the alumni vocational committee, the new personnel bureau, and the placement of graduates. He told of
FOR GOD AND COUNTRY
With the announcement of the death of Cpl. Wayne H. Johnston, ex. ’47, the total Notre Dame men making the supreme sacrifice jumped to 228. Those missing in action amounted to 36; those captured still remained at the 31 mark.
The Scholastic lists below the latest reported World War II casualties of Notre Dame men:
★Ensign Daryl G. Huish, ex. ’47, went down with his ship off Iwo Jima on Feb. 17, 1945.
★Major Cletus N. Schommer, ex. ’42, was killed in action on April 4, 1945, on Luzon. He was awarded the Silver Star for leading a group of Philippine Army troops in an attack at Ternate on the southern Luzon coast.
★John J. Burke, ex. ’38, was killed in action on Jan. 30, 1944.
★1st. Lt. Robert W. Caley, ex. ’46, was killed by mortar fire while leading his men into enemy territory. He had been
the building program planned for the near future. The trustees approved of measures that should be taken to meet this required endowment over a period of years.
On Saturday evening the trustees were guests at a special showing of the new technicolor movie, The University of Notre Dame.
Attending the meeting were Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, president of the board; Mr. William Corbett, Mr. Edward Doyle, all of Chicago and Mr. Thomas Beacom, Jr., of Winnetka, Ill., and Mr. John C. Tully of LaGrange, Ill.; Mr. Peter C. Reilly, vice-president, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mr. Roy McCanna, treasurer, Burlington, Wis.; Mr. Joseph La Fortune, Tulsa, Okla.; Mr. John P. Murphy, Cleveland, Ohio; Mr. John Neeson, Philadelphia, Pa.; Mr. William Broderick, ass’t. treasurer; Mr. E. M. Morris, chairman of the finance committee, Mr. Bernard Voll, and Mr. John J. O’Brien, all of South Bend.
overseas nearly two years and had seen action in Africa, Sicily, Italy, and France. He had received the Silver Star and a Presidential Citation.
★Pfc. Galand V. Funk, Jr., ’44, who was previously reported missing, is now officially reported as killed in action.
★George E. Alingham, ’33, was killed by mortar fire in the Philippines on April 11, 1945. George was an Assistant Field Director with the Red Cross and served since 1943.
Lt. William J. Bogan, ’41, of the U.S. Medical Corps, is missing in action since Jan. 6, 1945, in Belgium.
Cpl. Andries A. Curtin, ’34, disappeared while blazing a trail between the Colville and Ikpikpuk river’s above the Arctic Circle. He served as an Alaskan scout for the army.
Capt. John Serman, ’31, was freed from a German prison camp after four months of capture.
3
^he ^Notre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
EDITORIAL

THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN, Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND GEORGE DESPOT JAMES REGAN -james f. McCarthy AL KUENZLI -RALPH HAYMAN BOB O'TOOLE
Navy Associate Editor Managing Editor
- Sports Editor
- Feature Editor Advertising Manager Circulation Manager
- Promotion
COLUM N ISTS
POWER-WALTERS E. F. GILLESPIE ART WAGNER TOM McCAUGHEY
The Green Banner The College Parade - Swabbie's Log Man About Campus
With the official announcement of the termination of hostilities in Europe many people here in the United States celebrated, many prayed, many scarcely lifted their heads from their machines making war material for the Pacific War.	.
There was cause for celebration, for the Allied forces in Europe had accomplished a great military feat. There was cause for prayer, for. men in the Pacific must die before that fighting reaches its final victorious end. And there was cause for men to stay by their machines of production, for the Pacific war' will require great masses of equipment with which Allied fighting men will wipe out the fanatical japs.
The Notre Dame campus is today the temporary home of over two thousand American sons, some of whom have seen action against the Japanese; more of whom will see action in the Pacific before they return again to civilian life. Among these men there was no big celebration; there was prayer and a renewal of purpose in their job to carry the fight to a successful conclusion in the very heart of Japan.
When V-J day comes, and we hope that it will be soon, there will again be cause for celebration, prayer, and sticking to the job. We will celebrate because another war has ended; we will pray giving thanks for victory and men returning alive; and we ■will stick to the job, for another task will then face us—making the hard-earned peace a permanent one. The road ahead is not easy, and the future security of every individual in the world depends in great part on American leadership. We believe America can and will do the job.—R.R.
FRANK GUIDO -	-	. -	- Photography
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Adviser
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JOHN FEENEY JOHN MILES
JOHN DEFANT J. J. TENGE LOUIS HAFNER GERARD HEKKER DAN DANISZEWICZ ROBERT J. SHAW OCTAVE EMOND TOM RYAN JOHN THOMAS
PAUL WEYRAUCH
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.	.
4
“So they're celebrating back in the States. Celebrating what?"
V-12 Week-end Plans Become Realities;
Ted Fio Rito's Music to be Featured at Ball
As late arrangements are completed and the committee for the Regimental Formal Ball relaxes into the satisfaction of completion and a period of anticipation prior to the actual staging of the spring semester extravaganza one week
from tonight, every indication points to the continuance of the reputation of V-12 balls as standout features of the University social calendar.
Highlighting the Friday night promenade in the Service Center will be the initial Notre Dame appearance of Ted Fio Rito and his well-known orchestra. The new Fio Rito orchestra, with vocals by Ward Swingle and the Solidaires, comes to the ball direct from extended appearances on the West Coast at the
St. Francis hotel in San Francisco and the Cocoanut Grove in Los Angeles. Long among the name bands of the nation, Fio Rito’s skyline music was aired for a long term as part of the Old Gold variety show and later supplied the background for several movie productions by M.G.M., R.K.O., Warner Bros., and Paramount Studios. He is best known in the Middle West for numerous appearances at the Edgewater Beach in Chicago.
The setting for the Fio Rito music will be the completely altered and improved background of the Service Center ballroom. The decorations committee has
night for the informal. Recent local appearances indicate that the “Commanders” are quickly hitting their stride before taking over for theii- biggest task as music-makers for the evening “Romp.”
been the busiest and most diligent of all groups building up to the week-end and the fruit of their efforts is expected to be an atmosphere which is in no way reminiscent of heat power labs, chemistry lecture rooms, or calisthenics chambers in the old gym.
Transportation problems for this semester have been solved, in the main, by the movement of the ball from the drill hall on campus to the center of town. For those who will be finding their companionship in the outskirts of town or from the neighboring metropolis of Mishawaka, there will be an ample supply of taxicabs as well as the inevitable albeit erratic service provided by the vehicles of the Northern Indiana Transit Company. Those who have proximity on
their side may walk. Those desirous of deviating from these usual conventional modes may crawl, roller skate, or take a tricycle. The main idea is to get there before 2130. Dancing will begin at 2100 and continue on until 0100 on Saturday morning. The refreshment committee promises that the punch will not be potent enough to necessitate an earlier adjournment since derivatives of malt, barley, and alcohol will be waived in favor of the more appropriate elixir of crushed cherries and mashed berries.
No reluctance is expected to accompany the jaunt to the Rock on Saturday
Sunday will see a return to the Colfax Avenue mecca for a tea dance, so named because of the absence of orange pekoe. Music will be provided by one of the
jazztime philharmonics which has made its name and fame in St. Joseph county circles. This is expected to act as a prelude to the arrival of the Grand Trank for Shamoken and the departure of Mabel with a satchel of pleasant memories involved in the sharing of a full week-end of socializing.
Louisiana Club Meets;
Reorganize on May 22
The organization meeting of the Louisiana Club will be held Tuesday, May 22, in room 1 of the Law building, at 7:15 p.m.
All navy and civilian students from Louisiana are eligible for membership in the organization. At this meeting, officers will be elected and a committee will be appointed to draw up a constitution. Plans for the future will also be discussed, which include a smoker before the end of the semester.
5
Senior Ball Plans Go Into Final Stages;
Five Dollar Balances on Bids Due Monday
With the Senior Dinner dance but a week away, next Saturday night in the Oliver’s Rotary Room, Sorin’s men are scurrying about the campus in search of tails, tuxedos, stiff shirts and accoutrements proper to the formal character of the evening. Co-chairmen Gillespie and Riordan are enthused by the cooperation of the fortunate lads who have made the very necessary down payment on the ducats for the occasion. Bids for this final blowout have been limited, and at the present time all but a few have been snapped up. The few still available may be picked up from the Ticket Chairman Tom Bergan upon the surrender of three and a half plasters in his Sorin domicile.
Details for the ball have been almost completed, and the promoters are most happy about the unique character of this dance. It stands alone in the memory of even ninth semester veteran, Frank Kent, as a dance which showed healthy signs of being a financial success at so early a date, due almost wholly to the very wise policy of restricting the patronage of the affair and demanding a deposit on all bids before contracts were signed.
Chief item of importance in the matter of publicity this week is the demand of the ticket committee that all who in
More Surprises Are in Store for the NBOTC Party
tend to close out the semester and/or their academic careers by hopping on the Ball wagon present themselves at 130 Sorin or 201 Dillon by Monday, May 21, to pay the balance of the bid price, or five dollars, in terms of hard cash. Once this matter has been disposed of, nothing but the actual enjoyment of the evening will remain for these men who have volunteered their efforts for the dance work.
The Arrangements Committee, under George Haley, came through with an added attraction in the form of John “The Fox” Bresnahan, who has been signed as master of ceremonies. Thus far the Fox has been evasive as to the exact character of his activities, but he has resurrected enough jokes from old copies of the Notre Dame Juggler, copies of which are still in circulation in Sorin, to keep the patrons happy.
Decorations Chairman Jack Allen has been wrestling with the problem of dressing up the room on a rather short budget, but he plans to bring out something simple, in accord with the tone of the dance.
And, at last report, Myron Walz was said to have been practicing long, long hours to provide the type of rhythms demanded by Music Chairman Frank Lin
ehan and his cohorts. All in all, arrangements are proceeding smoothly and with little fanfare, for a goodly number of the members of the June class will be involved next week with comprehensive examinations, these and term reports, with the dance the chief respite between now and the end of the semester.
New Room Assignments Mode This Week
Students were assigned their residences for the next semester this week. Sorin, St. Edward’s and Walsh were available for residence by juniors and seniors and all students over 20 years of age, all of whom will enjoy senior privileges. Cavanaugh was open for sophomores, and Zahm for freshmen.
Raymond Scott to Play for NROTC Ball
A week-end of gaiety and revelry looms for the members of the NROTC. The time is drawing near and the arrangements are fast approaching their magnificent culmination on June 8. For this is the date of this semester’s outstanding ROTC Naval Ball; this is the date that Raymond Scott will render his distinctive music to please and delight 300 RO’s and their guests who will make this pilgrimage from the far - flung reaches of the land.
With the cessation of the curfew, cochairman Rudy Anderson immediately completed arrangements with Raymond Scott to provide his lilting melodies from 9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. This is only one of the many things that have kept Rudy Anderson and John Caron working in high gear with the special committees.
Joe Lauck and Tom Brownell are still very surreptitious in their discussion of the development of the decoration plans. But after consultation with the chairman of the Midshipman Ball, arrangements have been made to share basic expenses and in that way to insure abundant resources for outstanding adornments for the South Bend Servicemen’s Center. The entire committee have well earned their positions and serve as assurance that the proceedings of the evening will be clothed in subtle and striking draperies.
Dave Murphy has put away the track shoes long enough to attend to the general but vital business of the dance. For the details must be complete and letter perfect when every RO shall fete his own particular version of stardust and sunlight. And the tickets and invitations shall be works of distinction handled by Tom Sparks, while the chief informer of the bureau of enlightenment is Dave Armstrong.
6
LAMENT TO THE LACK OF A WEED
The following heart-rending display of righteous anger comes in the form of a rebuke which a prominent campus dignitary (name withheld) sent to Gene Diamond after the latter’s light treatment of the cigarette shortage in this column.
“Your words show a sad lack of appreciation for the sensibilities of the cig-aretless civilian. It is obvious that you have never gone from smoke shop to smoke shop to brave the scowls of clerks and the inevitable, “Can’t you read”, pointing to the “No Cigaret” signs. It is obvious that you have never- poured reluctant tobacco into unmanageable paper while wide-eyed bystanders watch the process and the messy soul-searing humiliation that ensues. You have never stood in the cafeteria looking anxiously for a friend so that you can sit opposite him and gaze hungrily and expectantly at him and his fag until charity conquers greed in his breast. It is obvious that you have never seen a V-12 manifest a sudden and unaccountable interest
in a faraway column of midshipmen as you approach him with a glint in your eye. It is obvious, in short, that you have never experienced thoughts such as these; thoughts occasioned by a fag-less night and two pipefuls of Granger Roughcut.”
To the writer and to all, Gene wishes to condone for a lack of feeling. It is said that his disregard for the shortage is caused by a passion for Father Brennan’s La Palinas.
❖
REGIMENTAL BALL NEXT FRIDAY EVENING
If you still haven’t a date for the V-12 Regimental Ball next Friday, we would like to mention that you have only seven days, including only one week-end, to do all the necessary big time operating to secure that lovely young lady, OR be sorrowful ever after. Comes the night of the ball and you aren’t going, you will want to bash your head against the closest bulkhead when you wake up and begin to realize how much extra liberty,
with a wonderful time inevitable, you have deliberately deprived yourself of; and the extra watches you have indirectly pleaded for.
So, wise up before it’s too late, you B.T.O.’s, and throw out those lines. You can’t possibly be “caught without a catch” if you simply use the V-12 Regimental Ball for bait—try it!
QUICK! SOMEONE HELP THIS ENGINEER FIND HIS SLIDE RULE
A noon muster announcement last week involved the following which we may not have remembered verbatim: “Lost—One engineering building . . no that’s not it, “Lost—One engineering student . . .,” no, this is the way it was, “Lost—In engineering building, by engineering student, one slide rule.” Quick, somebody please help this poor fellow find that slide rule, because where would an engineering student be without one.
Speaking of engineering students, I heard of a pretty bright one with an idea I’d really like to copy if only I had a radio. As the story goes, he is an electrical engineer and plays his radio whenever he chooses, whether the “radio playing lamp” is out or not; and what’s more, he gets away, with it. He has a switch hooked to the door so that when the door is opened the radio goes off automatically and the investigator goes mad trying to find the radio in operation “out of season.”
❖
PASSING OUT THE GLORY
Well, Some AREN'T going to the V-12 BALL
Much ado has been made of the first R.O. champion in the history of the Ben-gals, so we have decided to toss some laurel at the V-12ers who copped three titles in spite of the fact that we are practically equal in numbers with the Walsh Halseys. We also point to 135-pound Champ Pasquerella’s eight months in V-12 during which time he, no doubt, learned his boxing before moving over to Alumni.
Woelfle, Wounded in
Holy; Now Drives Jeep
Pfc. Jack Woelfle, formerly an outstanding antagonist of St. Mary’s through the columns of the Scholastic, is now driving a jeep in Italy. According to word received prior to V-E day, he was assigned to the driving job following his release from an army hospital in Italy. He had been wounded by shrapnel and a grenade explosion.
7
Saint Mary's "Static" Does it Again;
Inaccuracy Highlights Latest Attempt
As we walked into the office recently, we noticed all the windows were open and knew exactly what was wrong. The room was filled with a sickening perfume, so we went right to the cause and carried the latest issue of the St. Mary's Static out into the open air. That Static is the publication of the institute across the Dixie and is best known as the only paper published with six reporters directed by 12 editors.
After reading one item in the paper we feel like telling the gals to go look for Central Catholic High school boys the next time they want to throw a dance. It seems that they trapped seven unsuspecting C.C.H.S. boys to take parts in a play they’re presenting. But when they want to have a dance they seem to have a lot of connections here at N.D. They will accept a middle-aged middie, a poor freshman uninformed as to the real situation, a V-12 who got tired of the records at the SMC, an RO who has the “Rock” habit and can’t break it, or an upperclassman who knows what is going on but goes back once a year hoping that some improvement might have been made, always finding the same deplorable conditions.
One Static columnist finally broke down and confessed, “We were tempted to dispense with the April issue of Static, since Scholastic is affording us such complete coverage of St. Mary’s news...” The only thing we can say is that they could dispense with not only the April issue, but every other one, and the col
Queer Individual — Believes what “Static" says
legiate journalistic world would be much better off.
A few (trying to be polite, they were flagrant and inexcusable) errors appeared in this most recent issue. For instance, Static reported that two books, among others, had been reviewed. The books according to Static were Road to Victory by Dr. Simon Yves and March to Liberation by Dr. Simon Yves. Strangely enough, Dr. Yves Simon, a distinguished Thomistic philosopher, is a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame and wrote Road to Vichy and March to Liberation.
To Static it seems to make little difference whether a man’s first name comes first or last, and Victory and Vichy, having a certain phonetic similiarity, completely baffled all 12 editors.
The lead story of the issue was reporting a talk given on Argentina by, as the Static reported it, Dr. Langford. Mr. Walter Langford, professor of Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American history at Notre Dame, is an energetic student of modern Latin American affairs and is quite capable of discussing the topic he chose. But Mr. Langford has not as yet achieved his doctorate, probably because of a very heavy teaching schedule on the accelerated system, in addition to coaching one of the nation’s leading collegiate tennis teams. It would not seem impossible that one of the six reporters or one of the 12 editors was awed by Mr. Langford’s understanding, and assumed that a man of his brilliance must, as a matter
of course, be a doctor. Could it be that Static doesn’t know what the M.M.L. after Mr. Langford’s name means?
We are writing the War Department immediately for some of their surplus gas masks so the quasi-journalistic and inaccurately pleonastic individuals who write that literary monstrosity can send us a copy of the next issue without the Scholastic staff running the risk of being overcome by the mephitis. We wonder if the government knows that some of its valuable paper is being put to such a wasteful use.—Riordan
Prof. Edmund Smith
Talks at LaPorte A. of C.
Professor Edmund A. Smith of the College of Commerce addressed the regular monthly meeting of the Association of Commerce at LaPorte last Wednesday evening, May 16. Mr. Smith, one of the
Mr. Edmund A. Smith
most popular of the Commerce College professors, talked on the subject of “Some Problems of Reconversion.”
Professor Smith has been a member of the faculty since 1936 and is now acting as assistant to the Dean of the College of Commerce. He is also faculty moderator of the active and aggressive Commerce Forum which he was instrumental in reorganizing in 1943.
Comm. Dunlap Transfers
Lieut. Commander E. H. Dunlap, Jr., USN, head of the ordnance and gunnery department of the Midshipman School at the University, has been assigned to sea duty in the Pacific theater of war. His assignment has not been revealed but it was said that he would act as a gunnery officer.
Commander Dunlap is the wearer of the Navy Cross of Valor for his service aboard the U.S.S. Nevada when the Japs struck the infamous blow upon Pearl Harbor. He is also the co-author of an Ordnance and Gunnery textbook which is now used in the United States Navy.
—Louis Hafner
8
“Preregistration” was the nice polite title the office bestowed upon that melting pot of the universe, which gathered late this week in the Main Building to push and crowd, and rant and rave about a measly “two-by-four room where they intended to put their frames for the next semester. They screamed and they scolded, yet most of them ended up living in the same room as they now occupy. There was so much noise it sounded like the San Francisco Conference.’ Only the food was lacking and this caused consternation and confusion to Arthur Sears Henning. All that noise and no food.... Couldn’t be the conference!
Reminds us of the time we attempted to eat lunch in an automat. All Anne Stroyna had to do was call a name and up it popped and whether large, small, fat or thin it could always moan. What a life!!! -
We pity the poor freshman from Zahm who last week suffered a severe heart attack at the sight of a second pink slip within three days. The first one-was the real McCoy in the form of a flunk, commonly called a pink slip. As a result of the first pink slip the Zahmbie got the green banana and also went into the “red” as a result of a reduction in allowance. Slowly recovering from the shock,
For the last time, NO! You can't go to the Senior Ball
. . . By Harry Walters and John Power
he was taken off guard, as the second pink slip came sliding under his door, and immediately lapsed into a coma. And to think the second one was only a preregistration notice. Considering the fact that ten bucks on the line must accompany your registration, we feel that “black & blue” would be more appropriate color scheme rather than the monotony of pink. To get two pink notices within one week we think is adding insult to. injury. Notice.... Any St. Mary’s girls writing to this freshman on pink stationery will be prosecuted for manslaughter. ... Besides who said he would answer the letter?
Rogues gallery pictures were taken last Saturday, complete to holding the prison block number in your hand. Oh Yes! we have Alcatraz off the sunny shores of California, Leavenworth in the scenic state of Kansas and Notre Dame in bleak, cold and forgotten state of Indiana. St. Mary’s voted in a recent poll that most Notre Dame students looked like inmates of the two afore-mentioned institutions, but we never thought it would come to this. These pictures were taken of course under the guise of personnel but reports have it that they will be filed with the Prefect of Discipline for purposes of identifying students who in
sist on proceeding into the wrong places on the downtown area. Reliable sources have it that this week, fingerprints will be taken for the same purpose. Fingerprints do register on glasses, do they not??? .... That’s what we thought!!!!
*
Memories of pre-war romances returned to the campus last week as phones were restored to the residence .halls. In 1941 five Notre Dame boys married telephone operators, and now Frank Linehan and Phil Martin have moved their beds into the phone booth in Sorin, we wonder which will marry operator No. 15 whom we hear from so often.
❖
Who said Jim Clynes and Tom Kennedy couldn’t get below 80 on the links? Was it the Scholastic? They not only can but they did. Ask the Wisconsin boy who will attest to the fact that- the gentlemen in question were well under 80. The fact that Clynes was blindfolded and using jet propulsion clubs makes no difference whatsoever.
♦
That V-12 in Dillon Hall who makes airplanes by night, goes to school by day and studies when he finds time, put his newest number through a test flight the other day on the quad, and it’s really a honey. All he needs now is some gas. Try the Navy store, lad. The Huddle has neither cigarettes nor Hersheys; so it certainly won’t have gas._The sharpest duo on wheels is the Paulson-Berliner legal concern which parades into Trial Court each Saturday decked out like ads for Gilberts. That clothing drive really did wonders for the boys!
7th War Loan Hits
$47,522 on Campus
Though returns on the University’s pai-ticipation in the Seventh War Loan Drive are incomplete, the subscribed amount has reached the enormous figure of §47,522.00.
Once again as in the recent Red Cross drive, the faculty is helping to make the University’s war loan campaign a success. Of the total amount subscribed, $36,250.00 was contributed by the 114 faculty members, making their subscriptions average $317.98. This is believed to be the highest average per faculty member in the purchase of E bonds of any educational institution in the country.	•
Members of the successful faculty canvassing committee, working under Paul C. Bartholomew, president of the Lay Faculty Club, were: John Mizelle, John Sheehan, Robert Anthony, Walter Langford, Ernest Wilhelm, Edmund Smith, Lawrence Baldinger, Walter Shilts, Carson Buck, Andrew Smithberger, John Scannell and Christopher Fagan.
9
Wolverines Run Rampant Over Klinemen; Michigan Scores 10 Runs in Seventh Inning
BY PAUL WEYRAUCH
The Wolverines of Michigan continued their reign of superiority over Notre Dame’s baseball team by soundly trouncing Jake Kline’s boys 12 to 3 in Ann Arbor Saturday May 11. Rol Louthen, Michigan pitcher a la expert, held Notre Dame to four singles while his teammates tagged Jack Barrett and John Le Brou for 17 hits. Notre Dame would have won if the seventh inning had been forgotten for it was in that frame that Michigan sent ten runners across home plate to ice the game.
Kell singled and Weisenburger doubled to open the Michigan attack in the first inning but, unlike later innings, Barrett weathered the storm. Kell was caught at third base, Tracy to Tom Martin after which Gregor and Lund were easy outs with no runs scoring. Nelson boomed out a home run in the Michigan second for the first run of the game. Kell and Weisenburger duplicated their first inning feat in the third with better results. The single-double combination was good for a run with the help of a wild pitch that sent Kell across.	'
It looked as though Notre Dame was going to rally in the fourth when Billy Hassett drew a walk to start things off. Captain Frank Gilhooley skied to left and Neil Kelly forced Hassett at second. Barrett came through with the first ND base hit, a single but Louthen struck out Martin to end the inning. A run did score in the Irish sixth, Gilhooley sent Hassett home with a single to center after Hassett was given life on an error. Before describing that Michigan landslide of runs, it may be more encouraging to mention the fact that two runs came home for Notre Dame in the eighth. Hassett and Gilhooley drew passes after which Kelly singled to score Hassett. Martin drove in Gilhooley with a single but once again Louthen settled down to retire the side before more could happen.
That “unlucky” seventh for Notre Dame included only five Michigan .hits but they all came at the right time. The feature was a three base bust by Don Lund with the bases loaded. Rosema also connected for a triple in that big onslaught., Four walks and an error were
mixed in with the base hits to add up to a big, bad inning for Notre Dame.
Louthen struck out 12 batters before the afternoon festivities ended. Tomasi, Kell, and Weisenburger led the Michigan attack with three hits each. Lund, Ro-sema, and Stevenson had two apiece. Gilhooley, Kelly, Barrett, and Martin made the only Notre Dame safeties.
Rain washed out the scheduled game for Saturday and cancelled the one remaining chance for Notre Dame to salvage a victory from the Wolverines this year. Michigan had previously whipped Notre Dame twice earlier in the season on Cartier field.
Notre Dame ... 000	001 020 — 3 4 1
Michigan _________ 011 000 10 Ox —12 17 2
Batteries: Barrett. LeBrou, and Tracy: Louthen and Stevenson.
Tennis Team Defeats Wildcats and Badgers In Triangular Meet at Evanston Last Friday
The Notre Dame tennis team won a Triangular match last Friday from Northwestern 7% to 1%, and Wisconsin 8 to 0 at Evanston, Illinois. Wisconsin
Warming up for Wildcats
beat Northwestern 6 to 3 to finish second.
Charles Samson and Jim Griffin paced the Irish in their win over Wisconsin, both winning their singles matches, and both playing on winning doubles teams.
Against Northwestern, the Irish won their first five single sets to clinch the
Irish Nine to Oppose
W. Mich., Bunker Hill
Notre Dame’s baseball nine begins a busy week-end this afternoon at 3:00 by entertaining Western Michigan’s diamond hopefuls at Cartier Field in the first tilt of a two-game series. The Irish will meet the Broncos again tomorrow at 2:00 on the same grounds and will move to Peru, Ind., on Sunday to oppose the Bunker Hill Naval Air Station.
The Klinemen, with'a record of five wins and three losses—all the setbacks were administered by Michigan — need only to continue earlier performances to experience a happy trio of encounters during the next 48 hours. May 5 saw N. D. trounce Western, 26-10, in the first half of a doubleheader at Kalamazoo, Mich. The second game resulted in a 2-all tie in five innings. Play was halted because the N. D. squad had to catch a train.
The Irish also hold a decision over the Bunker Hill team. On May 6 the Sailors fell before the Blue and Gold, 7-2, as Jack Barrett allowed only six hits.
John LeBrou, Jack Stewart, and Barrett will probably again handle the mound duties for Notre Dame in the coming games but the order of their selection is not known.—John Feeney
match, and then Samson and Bill Tully paired to shut out Northwestern’s two best, White and Ryan, 6-0 in the number one doubles.
Each match was but one set, and that a maximum of ten games, which resulted in three 5-5 ties, thus accounting for the possibility of half points being scored.
Summary:
Singles: Samson (ND) defeated Rogers (W). 6-2; Tully (ND) tied Dowling (W), 5-5; Griffin (ND) defeated Verkins (W). 6-1 ; Ratterman (ND) tied Heckrodt (W), 5-5; Martin (ND) defeated Hammond (W), 6-2; Brown (ND) defeated Froemming (W), 6-2.
Samson (ND) defeated White (ND), 6-3; Tully (ND) defeated Ryan (NU). 6-0: Griffin (ND) defeated Nethercott (ND), 6-0: Ratterman (ND) defeated Roth (NU), 6-4: Martin (ND) defeated Kosbeer (NU), 6-3; Chalberg (NU) defeated Fountain (ND), 6-3.
Doubles: Samson and Tully (ND) defeated Rogers and Dowling (W), 6-3; Griffin and Ratterman (ND) defeated Verkins and Heckrodt (W), 6-4 : Brown and Martin (ND) defeated Hammond and Froemming (W), 6-4. Samson and Tully (ND) defeated White and Ryan (NU), 6-0 ; Griffin and Ratterman (ND) tied Nethercott and Roth (NU), 5-5 ; Grown and Fountain (ND) defeated Chalberg and Gircr (NU), 6-2.
10
N. D. Linksmen Trample Wisconsin Golf Squad
The Notre Dame golf team defeated the University of Wisconsin’s squad last Saturday, 18 % to 8% on the local course. Led by co-captains Tom Kennedy and Jim Clynes, both of whom won their single matches 3 to 0, the team started off to an early lead and held it all the way, though the visitors were but three points behind going into the doubles.
and Kennedy last yeai* were regulars on the team that won the N.C.A.A. title, and will have another chance later this season.
Summary:
Singles
Kennedy (ND) defeated Sorgel (W), 3-0: Clynes (ND) defeated Rousenwald (W). 3-0: Capwell (W) defeated Morrow (ND), 3-0; Thuer-
end. The two tied in the matter of indi-dividual firsts won, each taking five. Indiana won three events and DePauw captured the remaining contest. Notre Dame and Purdue each had two double winners. Ben Harvey of Purdue won both the 100-yard and 220-yard dashes, and Don Weber, Boilermaker distance star, captured the 440-yard dash and the 880-yard run. For the Irish, Bill O’Neil won both hurdles, and Joe Kelly took the shot put and discus throw. The other blue ribbon winner for Notre Dame was Ray Struble in the pole vault, which he won with a jump of 11 feet, 4% inches.
Irish golfers teeing off before a student gallery
Jim Clynes turned in the lowest score posted in a scheduled match this season when he shot a 72. It looks like Clynes and Kennedy may have hit their stride, and with these two leading the way, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. may be able to round out another good golf team. Clynes
TRACK TEAM TO MEET
Notre Dame meets its stiffest test of the outdoor track season thus far tomorrow when the strong University of Ilinois cinder squad visits Notre Dame. The contest will be in the form of a dual meet and will be held in Cartier field. The only previous competition the Irish have experienced in regard to the Illini tracksters took place at the Drake relays three weeks ago without too much success, for the Illinois boys walked off with the university title;
The neighbor-state crew has one of the outstanding track teams in the Big Nine this season, and it would be quite an upset if Notre Dame could defeat the Illini. One of the best races on the afternoon’s docket should be the mile relay, if the slender margin of victory of the last meeting between the two quartets is any standard. Both squads will be at full strength, so a close contest is expected.
Last Saturday the Irish retained their title of Indiana intercollegiate track and field champion they won in 1942 when they outdistanced a field of seven other schools on the Indiana university oval.
man (W) defeated Trusehel (ND). 2%-% ; Mosher (ND) defeated Hering (W), 2-1; Scully (ND) defeated Wilson (W). 2-1.
Doubles
Kennedy-Truschel (ND) defeated Wilson-Sorgel (W). 3-0: Clynes-Mosher (ND) defeated Capewell-Rouenwald (W), 2%-%: Morrow-Porter (ND) defeated Hering-Thuerman (W).. 2%-%.
ILLINOIS TOMORROW
The meet had been abandoned in 1943 and 1944.
The Handymen triumphed after a hard-fought battle with Purdue. Notre Dame piled up 70.6 points to 66.5 for the favored Boilermakers. Indiana was third with 44.7 points, DePauw finished fourth with 33.2, and Ball State scored 4.5 markers for fifth place. Wabash, with three points, and Indiana State and Rose Poly, eoch of whom scored 2.5 points, trailed.
The Notre Dame-Purdue duel was decided in the mile relay, which the Irish won with the Boilermakers placing sec-
NOTRE DAME SPORTS SCHEDULE FOR THE WEEK-END
Baseball: i Friday. Western Michigan at Notre Dame; Saturday, Western Michigan at Notre Dame.
Tennis: Friday, Northwestern at Notre Dame.
Monday, Wayne at Detroit, Mich.
Track: Saturday, Illinois at N. D.
N. D. Tennis Team
Wins from Indiana
The Notre Dame tennis team won as predicted over the University of Indiana team last Saturday, 7 to 0, on the Notre Dame courts. With Bill Tully participating in the Indiana State Track Meet, Jim Griffin took over the number two spot on the team, and George Ratterman moved up to number three position. Both of these men won in straight sets as did Captain Charley Samson.
In the doubles matches, Samson and Griffin paired to defeat Indiana’s two best, King and Kaminski, this match, too, taking only two sets. This makes the record stand at four wins against only one loss for Coach Walter Langford’s boys for the season thus far.
Summary:
Singles
Samson (ND) defeated King (I). 6-3. 6-2: Griffin (ND) defeated Kaminski (I). 6-2. 6-2: Ratterman (ND) defeated Hunter (I). 6-2. 6-2 Martin (ND) defeated Curley (I). 6-8. 7-5. 6-4: Fountain (ND) defeated Wilson (I). 6-0. 8-6.
Doubles '
Samson-Griffin (ND) defeated King-Kaminski (I), 6-1. 6-2: Brown-Fountain (ND) defeated Hunter-Curley (I), 6-4, 6-2.
Tennis Squad Faces
Two Foes This Week
The Notre Dame tennis team, after easily defeating three Big Ten foes last week-end, will play two matches in the next four days. Today, they meet Northwestern University for the second time within a week, and will try to prove that last week’s victory was no mistake. The match is scheduled to start at 2 p.m., on the Notre Dame courts.
The tennis match scheduled with Lawrence for tomorrow has been postponed until May 27. Sunday the team leaves for Detroit where they will play Wayne University Monday afternoon.
—Robert J. Shaw
11
Bengal Bouts Winners Get Champ Emblems
At a brief ceremony of presentation, held in the gymnasium, last Tuesday evening, all finalists in the recent Bengal Bouts, the annual Scholastic, charity show, were awarded emblems which bore witness to their achievement in local boxing circles. At the same time, Joe Kosnik received the Sportsmanship Trophy, annually awarded by the Huddle to the boxer who, throughout the tournament,
Traditionally
The place where Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations

best displays the qualities of good sportsmanship.
The highly-prized boxing award presented to each finalist consisted of a chenille boxing glove, measuring 7*^ by 5J4 inches surmounted by a monogram of the university. The monogram measures five by three inches of block design. On the award presented to the champions is the word “champion.” The other finalist awards contain merely the year, 1945.
The boxing finalists will be permitted to wear the monogram about the campus, thus joining the ranks of other distinguished athletes of the University who have distinguished themselves by outstanding performances in collegiate competition.
Golfers to Play Two
Rev. George Holderith, Notre Dame golf coach, will lead his team in two matches this week-end against two Big Ten foes. Tomorrow Purdue will play here, and Monday the Irish venture to Ann Arbor to play the strong University of Michigan team.
The record for the golf team to date is two wins as against two defeats, so
121 W. Colfax
Notre Dame Jackets Sweat Shirts Pennants
601 N.NIlfS
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
Phone 3-3702
the boys will be striving to keep from falling before the .500 mark. The scores handed in last week showed considerable improvement over the early season rounds and future opponents of the Irish will have to shoot consistently good golf if they are to top Notre Dame.
To honorably discharged ex-servicemeh
HERE'S AN
HONORABLE
DISCHARGE
BUTTON
with our compliments
A great badge of honor . . . that Honorable Discharge button. You should wear it proudly ... it tells the world that you were prepared to give your all, for your country.
We salute the more than a million men like you . . . and the thousands that are returning monthly . . . and as a tribute to you, here is an Hon-
arable you to course, one . . useful.
Discharge button we'd like accept, without charge, of We know you already have . but another might be very
Bring your discharge papers with you. (The button can only be given to ex-servicemen in person.)
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Golf Clubs Hand Balls and Gloves
12
Spring Sport Schedule Changes Announced
Several additions to the spring sports schedules and one change were announced this week by Hugh Devore, acting director of athletics. The date of one tennis match has been changed while two games have been added to the baseball and golf schedules.
Notre Dame will meet Great Lakes in a home-and-home baseball series on June 6 and 17, it was announced. The Irish will play the .Sailors at Great Lakes on the 6th with the two teams getting together at Cartier Field on the 17th.	.
The Baer Field golf team will be met twice by the Notre Dame linkmen. The golfers will travel to Fort Wayne on June 2 to meet the Army squad and a return match will be played here on June 9.
The tennis match with Lawrence College scheduled for tomorrow at Evanston has been postponed until next Saturday. The match will now be held at Appleton; Wis., home of Lawrence College.
Economic Roundtable
Hears Ralph Hayman
Ralph Hayman, Jr., returned veteran, and Philadelphia junior economics major, addressed the members of the Economic Roundtable last night on “Post War Employment.”
“Perhaps of prime importance, among the many problems confronting us is the matter of Post War employment, as the social and economic structure of our coountry is most certain to hinge on future employment.”
“Lessons from the pages of history, and particularly 1918, show us that it has been a demonstrated fact that the . period between the cancellation of wai-contracts and the full resumption of civilian activities is a most difficult one, but we know the resources of the country in materials, manpower, plant facilities and purchasing power are sufficient to bring about and sustain an economy of
a higher and better type than that which existed before the war, if the people realize the multiple tasks confronting us,” Hayman declared.
The speaker analyzed and presented the pro’s and con’s of the “sixty million jobs” aim and contrasted the views expressed by several authorities on the subject. He concluded, “What every individual wants today is peacetime security, work that is steady, and the knowledge that they will have a job after the production of the weapons of horror and destruction has yielded to the production of the products of peace.”
The meeting was presided over by Professor William Downey, of the department of economics and Paul Ragan served as chairman.
Aero Club Views Film of Naval Air History
“The History of Naval Aviation,” a movie released by the U. S. Navy, provided very interesting entertainment for the Aero Club at the meeting last week.
The movie, compiled from official navy films, traced naval aviation from the time of Glen L. Martin and his first plane of “bamboo, canvas and glue.” Progress in the post World War I period was shown and the development of long range air
THESE NAMES ARE FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW	COOPER
Shirts and Neckwear	Underwear
VAN HEUSEN	BRENTWOOD
Shirts and Sportswear	Sweaters
B. V. D.	MARLBORO
Underwear and Sportswear	Sportswear
McGREGOR	HICKOK
Sportswear	Belts and Braces
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
you'll find them all at
mson of SPoutkSiend
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
craft. The many difficulties encountered in perfecting aircraft carrier technique were also seen.	e
In the business meeting that followed, plans for the Aero Spring picnic were discussed. Joe Haggar reported that other engineering societies are cooperating and that a full afternoon is in store. Special student rates for the Journal of the Aeronautical Sciences and the Aeronautical Engineering Review are announced. Those interested should contact Tim Simon.
13
Robert Riordan. . . . lives next to Mr. O’Malley over in Sorin Hall, which is a great impetus to Bob’s literary inclinations. ... At the moment his chief interests are the Senior Ball, the Scholastic, and his girl friend from Kalamazoo. . . . Since Bob is co-chairman of the Senior Ball, the gal from Michigan will be coqueen for the evening.
Bob has risen to great political heights here since transferring from St. Benedict’s College, Kansas, one year ago. . . . At present he is editor of the Scholastic, as well as being treasurer of the Knights of Columbus, secretary of the Wranglers, former president of the Student Council and ex-president of the Fort Wayne Region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students . . . he is also prominent as a member of the Commerce Forum . . . last semester
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL dentistry X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-S661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING
SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
SO3 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-12S4
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
S2S SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M. D,
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE, D. D. S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2S74
Bob won the coveted Commerce Forum Award for the best talk of the term with his topic on “Cartels.”
This semester Bob has been seen wearing a suit quite often about the campus, which is quite a novelty.... could it possibly be for the Dean’s class?. . . . He claims that he’ll follow the Dean’s advice and be an adventurer until he’s 35.... although he may find security by taking over Big John’s job in the N. D. Dining Hall.
Boogie-woogie is one of Bob’s favorite interests.... every now and then he lets loose on the piano with a terrific blast of discords.
Bob’s ambitions vary widely..,. one of the most prominent is to go into the consular service of the government and ultimately land in Brazil.... his Spanish and Portuguese courses may come in handy yet.
St. Mary’s is not to be left out as far as Bob is concerned. . . . although he contends that he is strictly anti-Saint Mary’s, he can be seen over there across the Dixie frequently with someone by the name of Mary Cae.
When downtown Bob likes to drop into one of his favorite haunts, namely George’s, and order a lettuce and toma-toe sandwich on toast.... he also regularly inhabits the K. of C. clubroom.
Bob spends a great deal of time hammering a typewriter.... sends lengthy carbon-typed letters to his friends in the service.... An interesting pastime of “Senator” Riordan is engaging in sarcastic repartee ■with Prof. Ed Smith.
Bob plans on going back home to Solomon, Kansas, after graduation and having a quiet two weeks’ vacation.
Greeting Cards
• Artists* Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
DECORATORS 128 North Michigan Street
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
•Kediaj hairline. Free
Phone 4-1481
cea depend on yoridM, vijorwe appearance. Let ear tained graduates ex-anena yoor hair and scalp
HA DPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00 •
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
14
K. C. District Plans
Week-end Activities
Important events adding to the growing momentum of activities in the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus council are in the offing for this week-end. Fifteen members of the council will be administered the second and third degree rites of the order tomorrow afternoon and to-
state K. of C. convention to be held May 27 at Indianapolis.
The Knights have planned a full day for Sunday June 3 with the annual spring picnic being uncapped that afternoon. Carrying out the council proposal for a corporate Communion to be held the first Sunday of each month, the members will hear Mass and receive Communion in a body in the Walsh hall chapel that morning, to be followed by a corporate breakfast. Attendance at the picnic is limited to initiated members and students who have submitted their application for membership (and the picnic fee) before May 24. The affair will be held at Hudson Lake and commutation will be via the South Shore.
The next council meeting of the Knights will be Tuesday, May 29, at 7:30 p.m. in the basement of the Law Building.
When you*re down-ttvn . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
morrow night the candidates and members will be the guests of the South Bend council at a dance and buffet supper to be held in the Hotel Oliver.
At the council meeting held Tuesday of this week the Knights completed plans for the annual picnic and received the invitation to participate in the full weekend planned in connection with the initiations. George Koch, district deputy of the K. of C., addressed the meeting, giving the details of the week-end and extending the welcome to participate fully in the week-end proceedings.
Following the second and third degree initiation Saturday afternoon, plans call for the beginning of the informal dance in the Rotary Room of the Hotel Oliver at 8:00 o’clock. The buffet supper for the Knights and their guests will be later in the evening. Sunday morning the Knights will hold a corporate Com-
The Knights of Columbus district deputy, George Koch, has announced that it will be possible for applicants to receive three degrees of initiation Sunday, May 20. Students desirous of entering the Notre Dame council should contact Recording Secretary Bud Malone, 219 Sorin hall, as soon as possible. Mr. Koch expressed his desire to receive applicants for all three degrees at the N.D. council meeting this week.
munion at St. Patrick’s church. Second and third degree ceremonies will be held Sunday afternoon for candidates unable to appear Saturday.
Business handled at the meeting this week included the reading and approving of two applications for membership and the election of Deputy Grand Knight Dick Martin as alternate delegate to the

210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Open Monday Evenings until 8:30 INVIST IN VICTORY—> BUY BONOS
15
Downey to Address
Final Town Meeting
The last in the series of meritorious lectures on current events presented by the Notre Dame Town Meeting organization will be held Tuesday evening, May 22, at 7:30 in the Law Building Auditorium. Addressing the assembly will be William H. Downey, A.M., professor of economics at the University, whose topic will be “Post War Problems.”
To treat in his speech, Mr. Downey has selected three chief problems which the United States will have to face after the war; namely, the matter of monopolies and cartels; the method of financing an unbalanced budget; and the danger of a declining birthrate. To each of these Mr. Downey will devote 15 minutes. It is his assertion that the solution of these and many similar problems is paramount also in winning the war and in attaining a free economic system that will assure a lasting peace.
Mr. Downey is well able to present excellent material for an edifying lecture because he has been interested in economic problems for many years. After . attending the University of Wisconsin, • Mr. Downey entered business for a short period. In 1926 he was graduated from Valparaiso University. Later Mr. Downey came to Notre Dame where he attained his master’s degree in 1928; however, he has been a member of the faculty since September, 1927. He became head of the department of economics and remained in that position
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
from 1937 until 1942. He was an organizer and the first secretary of the Catholic Economic Association which is a national society of which he is now the director.
Al Kuenzli will be student chairman for the evening.—John L. Hoeck.
A.B. School Announces
New Elective Courses
Despite wartime curtailments the new list of elective courses in the College of .Arts and Letters for the summer semester has just been distributed to upperclassmen by Father Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Dean. It contains an appealing variety of courses in most departments. The English department leads in the number of courses listed— 14—followed closely by Political Science with 13. The others are: Philosophy, 11; History and Modern Language, 10 each; Classics and Journalism, seven each; Economics and Education, five each; Sociology and Music, four each; Speech, three, and^gligion, two.
_ . Among the primarily undergraduate courses, those that are new or that have : not been recently offered are the follow
ing: The Later Middle Ages 1300-1500, Mr. Tschan; American Municipal Government and Administration, Mr. Bartholomew; Comparative Government: Continental Europe, Mr. Gurian; Criminology, Father Murray; Psychological and Educational Measurements, Mr. Kuntz; and Fundamentals of Dramatic
Interpretation, Mr. Kelly. For students with the proper prerequisites in language, the following are offered: Medieval Latin, Fr. Garvin; French Comedy of the Seventeenth Century, Mr. Langwell; and Readings in Italian Literature, Mr. Pirchio.
In addition there are 12 courses in Philosophy, History, Political Science, Economics, and Education that are intended primarily for graduate students, though they are open to advanced undergraduates.	-
It's Just
One More Month
'Till Final Exams!
Yes, it's only four fast-moving weeks until final examinations. We remind you that . . .
Efficient study demands complete college supplies . . .
So now is the time to check up on your stock of necessary materials. Come in today and buy those supplies you lack so that you will not be handicapped in finishing up the semester's work.
TEXT BOOKS
NOTE BOOKS
NOTE PAPER
TYPING PAPER
FOUNTAIN PENS
PENCILS
STATIONERY
MANILA FOLDERS
P. S. If you haven't as yet seen the new Notre Dame Scapular Medal, ask to look it over the next time you're in. You'll like it, and the price is only $1.95 including the chain.
NOTRE DAME
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Hours:
Week Days—8 a. m. till 4:15 p. m. Saturdays —8 a. m. till 1:00 p.m.
16
NTEPS
FROA TMC
RESS BOX
By JIM REGAN
With the downfall of Germany, horse racing has. resumed in this country after a four-month hiatus. The interest that is manifested in this sport by fans all over the country was clearly shown last Saturday when $1,837,799 was wagered at the opening meeting of two tracks.
Also to be resumed in the horse racing field is the annual Kentucky Derby. This event will be held June 9 at Churchill Downs with approximately 70,000 expected to attend. A field of 155 horses have been nominated for the 71st running of the derby. Although little is known about many of the horses by this writer, we are naming Dockstader to win this racing classic.
*	* *
Lieut. Fred “Dippy” Evans, former Notre Dame backfield star, has signed a contract to play with Cleveland in the All-America Football League, it was announced. Evans, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1943, was a member of the Irish grid teams of 1940, 1941 and 1942 but in ’42 saw little action because of a knee injury.
*	* *
From the start several pitchers have
made in the major leagues this season, there will be more 20-game winners than in some years. Among those who have started off on the right foot are Bill Voiselle, Paul Derringer, Harry Feldman and Ed Heusser in the National League, and Al Benton, Hank Borowy, Joe Haynes and Paul Trout in the American League. Last season Trout and Hal Newhouser of Detroit were the only pitchers in the American circuit to win 20 or more games while William Walters, Truett Sewell, Bill Voiselle and Mort Cooper won at least 20 contests in the senior league.
The real name of Pete Gray, one-armed outfielder of the St. Louis Browns is Peter Wyshner. He is of Lithuanian descent as is Jack Sharkey whose real name is Cukoshay (a phonetic spelling).
*	# *
Con O’Kelly, one of the leading heavyweights in Great Britain 10 years ago, has been ordained a priest and celebrated his first solemn Mass last Sunday. O’Kelly engaged in 64 professional bouts and was never defeated. He fought King Levinsky to a draw in Chicago in 1931.
*	* *
According to an announcement made by J. Monroe Johnson, director' of the ODT, the World Series will not be played this fall unless the winners of the two leagues are from the same city. Under the same restriction bowl football games are banned and all college football games must be played on the “home” field of one of the competing teams.
The annual Notre Dame-Army and Notre Dame-Navy football games might be affected by this edict. The N.D.-Army tilt is annually played in New York City while the N.D.-Navy game is played in Cleveland or Baltimore. Whether either or both of these games may be played at Notre Dame or at the home grounds of the military schools is not certain. It is believed, however, that no decision will be made upon the changing of the sites of these games for at least a few months.
BOOKS
For Your
Reading Enjoyment
THE BEST FROM YANK1
Yank Magazine's best in fact, fiction and picture from every battle-front and camp.
SANDWICHES
SOFT DRINKS
ICE CREAM
FINE PIPES
TOBACCO
GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
"T" SHIRTS
4. (Monogram and Plain)
THE HUDDLE
"Captain Rom Castile"
"Border City"
"The Blue Danube" "77 Willow Road" "Poor Child"
"Tomorrow Will Sing"
"The Ballad and the Source"
"The Father Brown Omnibus"
"The Apostle"
"My Unconsidered Judgment" "Contract Bridge"
"The Robe"
"They Change Their Skies"
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction.
NEWS CENTER • CI6AR STORE
127 W. Washington St
"In the J. M. S. Building"
RUO0NERS
17
COLLEGE PARADE
. ... By E. F. Gillespie
V-E DAY -
Last week the European half of the greatest conflict in all history officially came to a close. American universities and colleges, together with the rest of the nation, had long awaited that day. There were no hilarious celebrations, no wild parties, and no outright suspension of classes; instead, there was a day of sombre thanksgiving and petition to God to quickly aid the conclusion of the Japanese theater of action. Howard L. Bevis, president of Ohio State University called for a “Rededication to the tasks ahead.” Ohio Staters participated in a simple ceremony of thanksgiving, while many of the Columbus, Ohio, churches held special evening services for the students. Tulane University was joyous, but it was a subdued joy with a silent prayer for the 3800 Tulanians in the service and the 100 who have paid with their lives. Eleven o’clock classes were dismissed at Minnesota to enable the Gophers to attend a special convocation marking the occasion. Thanksgiving was again the
motif at the Northwestern observance as freedom’s flags were again raised in Europe.
OFF CAMPUS ANTICS?
The sofa sagged in the center
The shades were pulled just so.
The family had retired, and '
The lights were burning low.
There came a sound from the sofa As the clock was striking two.
And he slammed his textbook shut
With a thankful, “Now I’m through!”
—The Tatler ❖
ACROSS THE CAMPUSES
Miami University, Purdue University, and the universities of Kansas, Missouri, Illinois, and Nebraska are among those 25 schools which have been chosen by the United States Navy as sites for new NROTC units, effective Nov. 1.... Dr. Thomas Verner Moore, C.S.B., noted psychiatrist and author of books on mental hygiene, psychology, and ethics, recently
lectured at Seton Hill College, Greensburg, Pa.... University of Maryland medical students have been applying the tuberculosis patch test to the undergraduates of the university in an effort to isolate any possible cases of the disease which might serve as a source of infection on the campus.... Ohio State University has 14,867 students serving in the armed forces.... Josef Hofmann, internationally famous pianist, was the most recent artist to appear at the Hall of Music at Purdue.... The Northwestern student who purchases the largest amount of bonds at the university’s auction in connection with the seventh war bond drive, will serve as president of Northwestern for one day.
❖
SWEETRBIAR MELODRAMA
Setting: Bench'in the shade by the lagoon.
Time: April 23, 1845.
Dialogue:
First Sweetbriar Sweetie: “There are an awful lot of men in the world who don’t want to get married.”
Her friend: “How do you know?”
The first one again: “I’ve asked them!” Finale: Five outboard motor boats laden with the Sweetbriar chorus girls, clad in medieval armor, race around the lagoon to the strain of Spike Jones playing Don’t Fence Me In.
Have a “Coke”=On with the dance
... or keeping the younger set happy at home
Hot records and cold “Coke”...and the gang is happy. Your icebox at home is just the place for frosty bottles of “Coke”. Your family and all their friends will welcome it. At home and away from home, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become a symbol of gracious American hospitality.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
“Coke”=Coca-Cola
It’s natural for popularnames to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke".
. 13
j.AVRVb. .•.<<<•	%	J
THE 7’WARLOAN
ISON! '
/ . - • %	** • '
Ye», the Seventh War Loan is on right now!
There are new planes to be built... new tanks... new ships. All to bring the war to an earlier close.
Our fighting men will do their job. But we must do ours!
got to do a two-loan job in one.
But Americans have never failed to meet a War Bond quota yet—and we won’t fail now! So find out what your quota is— and meet it!
And right now, the most important job we have is to meet our personal quotas in the Seventh War Loan drive!
Those quotas are big. Uncle Sam needs $7,000,000,000 from individuals. For this loan is really 2 in 1—there had been 2 drives in 1944, by this time. So now-we’ve
WAR LOAN
FIND YOUR QUOTA.. .AND MAKS IT!		
IF YOUR AVERAGE INCOME FER MONTH IS:	YOUR PERSONAL WAR BOND QUOTA IS: (CASH VALUE)	MATURITY VALUE OF 7TH WAR LOAN BONDS BOUGHT
$250	$187JO	$250
225*250	150.00	200
210-225	131.25	175
200-210	112J0	150
180-200	93.75	125
140-180	75.00	100
100-140	37.50	50
Under $100	18.75	25
ALL OUT FOR THE MIGHTY 7th WAR LOAN
OLIVER COFFEE SHOP
OLIVER EMERALD ROOM
THE OLIVER HOTEL, Inc., Corner Washington and Main Streets
•ir Tbit if un official V. 9. Treettury advertisement—prepared under the auspices of Treasury Department and War Advertising Coned p
19
-r&S
am
Its two again
Just the way it used to be ... Two to grab for the morning paper, Two places to set at the table .. . and Two Chesterfields over Two cups of coffee...
es, and when you share Chesterfields together
you share all the benefits of smoking pleasure
Real Mildness—Cooler Smoking—Better Taste