

11AM-4AM 
Fri &Sat 
11AM-2AM 
Sun -Thur 
Domino's Pizza Edison Plaza 
www.dominos.com 

M ·AG AZ N E 
~ The Freshman 15 


No matter how excited you are to leave home for the first time and to embark on a four-year adventure of work and . play, you probably have some lingering questions about daily life at Notre Dame. Scholastic offers 15 tips to help make the transition smoother. by Bridget Bradburn 
The Big 10 
Several of Notre Dame's sports have hit the headlines this past year. For better ·or worse, these are the 10 sports stories to remember. by Corey Spinelli 
"'"" How to Do South Bend &, 
Answering the eternal question, "What is there to do in a mid-sized Indiana town?" this guide compiles some of the best and worst activities to be found in the Michiana area. by_Aaron Nolan 
Power to the People by Jim Pastore 7 In the News by Patrick Downes 8 Meet the Family l 0 
by Michelle Crouch and Lauren Winterfield Packing 101 by Kristin A/worth 12 Perfect Strangers by Allison Fashek 14 A Fresh Start by Tom Repetto 20 Athletes of the Year by Chris Hamilton 24 Seeri & Heard · 28 
by Brian Christ, Chris Myers and Aaron Nolan 
Departments 
From the Editor 2 ND Notebook 5 Campus Watch 15 Out of Bounds 29 Week in Distortion 31 Final Word 32 
VOLUME 1 4 0 , NUMBER 1 • S U M M-E R · 1 9 9 8 
OWelcome home 
~ 
LU LU 
I­-<:: < 
°'Q 
U.. 
· -for the first time
you've gone through birth, infancy, 
childhood and adolescence so far. Get 
ready for the next step. 
Independence is about to begin. Though 
the transition is relatively gradual at Notre 
Dame (rectors, parietals, etc.), it can be a 
rough process wherever you are. The first 
few weeks can be difficult, they can be eye­
opening and they can be both. You've heard 
it before and you'll hear it again (about 
1,000 times): it's what you make ofit. 
My first night was spent cowering in a 
comer. My parents had left and two of my 
roommates had arrived. They unpacked their 
crates, set up their computers and settled 
down to a late-night chat about girlfriends, 
hometowns and, of course, football. I was 
too chicken to open my mouth. Eventually 
I did, and my roommates became like fam­
ily, the dorm became my home, and the 
Golden Dome became the obnoxious lawn 
ornament in my back yard. The same will 
happen to you. It might take a few weeks, 
months or even years, but most of you will 
eventually settle rather nicely into life at 
Notre Dame. And though ours is not a 
perfect community, chances are, you '11 learn 
to love it. 
The Issue 
The Freshman Survival Guide contains everything you'll need to know. Every­thing. Don't listen to your parents, girl­friends, boyfriends or high school teachers. 
Just read Scholastic. During your perusal of the next 32 pages you will be brought up to speed on campus news, sports and all the prerequisite Notre Dame entertainment. Our Campus Life section offers some tips for packing, dealing with roommates and just generally getting along in college, starting on page 12. To learn how to "do" South Bend check out page 26, and for some words of wisdom from a graduating senior, see the Final Word on page 32. And if you insist, go ahead and listen to your parents for other advice. 


Scholastic Magazine 
Scholastic is a biweekly student publica­tion printed during the school year and dis­tributed to the dining halls, classroom build­ings and just about everywhere else stu­dents congregate. We provide news, cam­pus life, sports and entertainment features, along with regular humor columns like Week In Distortion and Campus Watch by The Gipper. We've been in business for over 130 years, which ranks us among the oldest student publications in the country. 
Scholastic is always looking for fresh blood -new writers, photographers, page· designers, artists and editors. If you 're in­terested, stop by our new office in the base­ment of South Dining Hall, or give us a call at 1-7569. (You '11 get used to the shortened phone numbers.) In the meantime, check out back issues on our webpage: http:// www .nd.edu/~scholast. 

1 00 Years Ago: 



A Growing Campus
In the August 1898 edition ofS cholas­tic Magazine, the editors looked for­ward to the coming academic year by describing some of the changes to campus: 

The new athletic hall will be for­mally opened in September, and at last Notre Dame will possess a gym­nasium which will compare not unfa­vorably with those ofthe heavily en­dowed and state-aided secular col­leges. A complete system'Of cold stor­age will also replace the old ice­house. The students' store has been enlarged and renovated, and a large force ofmen has been busy during the summer months preparing for the in­flux ofstudents in September. 
This year offers just as much ex­citement. Another new gym, the Rolf's Sports Recreation Center, opened in March, and a new book­store will open sometime next se­mester. The gym mentioned above, the Fieldhouse, was used until 1968 and, after a fire, was razed. 
-BC 
Editor in Chief 


SCHOLASTIC SUMMER 1998
MAGAZINE 

MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVA.L 
WE  BRING  YOU  THE  WORLD  FOR  FREE  
OCTOBER  5  -OCTOBER  9  
"MOVEMENTS  THAT  MADE  HISTORY/HERSTORY"  

ENTERTAINN.IENT TASTE OF NATIONS 
ON THE QUAD

October 9 October 5 -98 :00pm -12mid 
FIRESIDE CHATS 
4:30pm-6pmStepan Center October 5 -9 

Fieldhouse Mall 12:00pm -1:00pm Notre Dame Room 2nd Floor LaFortune "Environmental Movement" "Women's Movement" 
CULTURE ON THE "Peace Movement" 
SPECIAL EVENTS 

·QUAD 
"Civil Rights" October 7 

October 5 -9 7:00pm -11pm
4:30pm-6pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Fieldhouse Mall 
S~fu,lk M~ 
c~e~ 

SUMMER 1998 · SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

)> 
0 
<m 
iO 
:::!. I 
(/) i 
m 
s 
m 
z 
-I 
., 
:1 
i/ !1 
ii 
it 
II' 
ii ,,'I 
. /l 
i! 
!! 
i'
i:ti 
ll Ii Ii 
' 
·3 

1­
z 
LJ.J 
~ 
LJ.J 
-V) l­
o::: 
LU 
> 
<( 





Things To Do: 
Attend Activities Night on 9/1 /981 
Joyce Center Gate 3 

7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
Don1t miss the chance to check out 
the many club opportunities that _ are available! there will be 225 clubs and organizations that 
will be represented there! *music clubs · *athletic teams *special interest clubs *academic clubs and honoraries *ethnic clubs *social service organizations *campus media . 

Don't forget to buy: 
Your Official Football Shirt of the ND Student Body. 
11The Shirt 19811 is available at: -Lafortune Information Desk -JACC .Yarsity Shop -Alumni Association -The Hammes ND Bookstore 
JBE PART OF' THE TRADITION! Wear your shirt on September 5th for the season opener when Notre Dame takes on Michigan! 
For info on Activities Night, The Shirt 198_ Project, or the Student Activities Office, stop by our office in 315 Lafortune Student Center, call us at (219) 631-7309, e-mail us at__ stdactiv@nd.edu or check out our web site at www.nd.edu/---stdactiv. 
4 
SCHOLASTIC SUMMER 1998 
MAGAZINE 

FOOTBALL FOLLIES 

A Gameday Guide 
Surviving the first football weekend 
Six times a year, the population of South Bend doubles for a simple foot­ball game. A Notre Dame football weekend is quite an experience, and some­thing for which you must be prepared. Here's what you'll need: Elbow pads: Trying to weasel your way through a mob of 100,000 is not a simple task. And if you're planning on visiting the bookstore during a football weekend, here's a tip: don't. Fans line up hours in advance for a shot at that all important seat cushion -ND Logo affixed, of course. Ear plugs: The band is everywhere on football weekends. At 4 p.m. on Friday, they march from Bond Hall, the architecture building. The next day, they do it again with a noon concert on the same steps. Then they march to the stadium and play throughout the game. The band is always a treat, but, needless to say, the flute section gets a little overwhelmed -hence the ear plugs. Body paint: Spirit is a must during a football weekend-unless you 're a cynical senior or an anemic alum. The pep rallies, usually held in the Joyce Center the night before the game, give students a chance to come together, listen to celebrity speakers and cheer on the team. For the big games, you'll want to get there early. 
',-·..·-:::::-rl;J, 
-, 

,; 
CD a, 
=e . 
c3 ~: ·\',-. 
FLUFF FIGHT. Though it's particularly vicious in the senior section, beware the halftime marshmellow melee. 
An empty stomach: Tailgating, tailgat­

ing, tailgating. For many this is the high­
light of the football weekend. Alums park 
their minivans, open the trunk and hand out 
brats, burgers and beer to willing students. 
Students are generally willing. 
Comfortable shoes: You'll be walking 

around campus for hours before the game, 
tailgating, touring and people-watching. 
Then you '11 stand on a six-inch wide board 
for four hours. If you sit down, except at 
halftime, your name will be anathema. 
The Shirt: Available everywhere. This 

year it's an olive/slate/grayish color. $14. 
Proceeds go to charity and university clubs. 
Everybody wears it at the first game. Don't 
be left out. It's also useful for absorbing goo 
during the halftime marshmellow melee. 
Lozenges: You'll yell. You'll yell at the 

pep rally, at the game and at the refs. 80,000 
throats were never so sore. 
Tickets: You'11 need the booklet and an 

ID to get into the game, but seating is a free­
for-all -within your section. Whatever 
you do, don't leave them in your top drawer. 
-Patrick Downes 

~::i){i)t:".:::· ~:,,~'-•.:~:._;_. 
illfllfIflltiriilifJfI~~ii1~i11~:i}il)fif1l(i 
It lass :of'02 . . . . . . . fpkury~ars_g}_dby ir,,. afl~sli. Don't forge,t to tes~i;ve yow· ill .· i i i ... · ··. · • ,._... .tic ets1prgra uqtwnnow. ··. . . ·..· i: , : l....:..:_,,c._:.·_.-'..•. ,,i.,~_:_,_,_.·._.:_: ___:._·.~-~~...::.:.::. ·.·.. -~-·-.··. ·.·:·.. ·.• · ... > ,: "::2) 
Q&A 

10uestions with 
Dorm Life: Animal House or Alcatraz? 

Many a freshman comes to Notre Dame with visions of Animal House, but when they discover that being a Domer means living in a single-sex dorm with a rector and parietals, they think they've been sen­tenced tofour years atAlcatraz. ButSister Susan M. Bruno is here to tell you thatyou needn't sign your transfer papers yet. As she enters her sixth year as rector of Pasquerilla West, this long-time Chica­goan has a few words ofwisdom that will both dispel many rumors about dorm life and lead to discussion about why Michael 
Jordan is the greatest player in history. 
What's your job description as a rector? 
Well, rectors try to look out for the aca­demic, spiritual and emotional needs ofthe students, but we're also kind oflandlords and landladies who keep an eye on the plumbing, furniture and look for missing materials. Then there's the festivities, the picnics, barbecues and dances we help students organize. 
So what's the one misconception incoming freshmen have about rectors? 
They think we're their Mom and Dad rolled up together -and that our mainjob is as disciplinarians, you know, to keep an eye on them -but actually less than 5 percent of our time and energy goes to discipline. 
What do you think aboutthe graffiti dance? 
I'm .a big supporter of the graffiti dance. 
Freshmen wonder if they'll be accepted, 
but once you get out there you meet all 
continued on next page -. 

z 
0 
z 
0 
-I 
m CP 
0 0 
7' 
SUMMER 1998 SCHOLASTIC ·5 
MAGAZINE 


~ 
0 0 
co 
w 
l­
o 
z 
0 
z 
II I. 
Q & A continued from the previous page kinds offolks -it's strange, but countless friendships tl1at last four years are made there. In fact, one of my RAs is engaged right now to a man she met at that dance. 
What's agood place to take the parents out to eat during orientation weekend? 
PapaJoe's in Mishawaka is great for Ital­ian food. They don't rush you out ofthere so you can sit and talk for two or three hours. 
The "Freshman 15": Fact or fiction? 
Fiction -though for some it's definitely fact. But usually they'll put it on the first year and lose it the next. 
Dating at ND: Fact or fiction? 
I tend to find that for the woinen of this dorm who feel good about themselves, they make friendships that develop into relationships. But, some studentsfeel awk­ward with the opposite sex at first. When it's that first dance and you have to find someone to ask, there's a lot of stress. 
Besides the social scene, what's the big­gest adjustment freshmen have to make? 
The idea that there's a code here, socially, blows them away-but fitting in is really the most difficult thing. 
So who's going to win the NBA finals? 
Welllll, MichaelJordan and the Bulls, ob­viously. I may be prejudiced because I am from Chicago ... but I think MT is the greatest player ever to put on a uniform ­plus he's a great role model for our young people. 
Don't you think the refs give him afew too many calls, though? 
I don'tknow, I can'treallybe too objective about that. Probably not, but it does level off. I mean, look at Rodman last year. Everysingle call wentagainsthimbecause he was Mr. Bad Boy. So it all evens out with the Bulls. 
One more question about ND: How many years does it take kids to learn the Alma Mater? 
It varies from dorm to dorm, but our girls have the freshmen up at 7:00 a.m. the first day singing it outside and then at 7:30 the m,rningofthefirst football game all around campus.... So my·girls in P.W. will learn it fairly quickly. 
-Zac Kulsrud 
SCHOLASTIC
6 
MAGAZINE 
SANCTIONED .GRAFFITI 




Fun and Games 
Orientation weel~end-isfull of it -fun, that is 
·when you arrive on campus late this 
summer, a gang of T-shirt clad 
perclassmen will immediately de­
scend on your car. They will surround you, seize your belongings and hustle you to a bare room. Scary as this may be, it should not alarm you. Those strangers emptying your trunk constitute the Freshman Orien­tation Staff, and they will be your first contacts at Notre Dame. 
For nearly all freshmen, being away from home in unfamiliar surroundings is a fright­ening prospect. Fortunately, the activities during freshman orientation offer informal ways to meet the people in your dorm and around campus. Most of the activities are enjoyable, although some will make you feel like you are back in junior high. As goofy as they may be, though, these activi­ties ease the transition from home life to that of Notre Dame. Here are some of the events to look forward to: 
Ice Cream Socials: Usually held in front ofthe sponsoring dorm, they challenge fresh­men to make friends while stuffing their faces with melting, sugary goodness. 
Mixers: Typically, the dorms from each quad get together, hire a DJ and give fresh­men a chance to dance and mingle in the summer air. 
Tie Exchanges: Every guy from the par­ticipating dorm places his tie in a box. The ties go over to a girl's dorm where each girl picks out one to wear. When the dorms meet, each guy tries to find the girl wearing his tie -and hopes that she likes him as much as she likes his taste in clothing. 
Graffiti Dance: The biggest event dur­ing freshman orientation -all the fresh­men gather carrying markers and wearing white T-shirts. During the dance, if you see someone who interests you, ask if you can sign each other's shirts. It's a good idea to bring two different markers to use when people ask if they can sign your shirt: one color for those you want to remember and the other for the ones you would rather forget. -Jim Pastore 





Power to the People 
Through their efforts this year, Student Body President Peter Cesaro and Vice President Andrea Selak seek to "put students first". 
BY JIM PASTORE 

ost of us arrive on campus each fall with some sense of what we hope to accomplish in the coming 
year. We plan to get involved in campus life, improve our grades or perhaps find a major. Very few will arrive with such a clearly determined set of goals and such a precise plan for achieving those goals as Student Body President Peter Cesaro and Vice President Andrea Selak. As he looks ahead to the challenges that await, Cesaro notes that the emphasis of this year's Stu­dent Union will be "putting the students first" -which was their campaign slogan. 
In order to achieve this goal, Cesaro and Selak have formed two new departments in the Student Union: an Administrative De­partment and a Transportation Department. The Administrative Department will focus on issues such as revisions to du Lac and improving faculty-student relations, while the Transportation Department will address parking and other transportation issues. 
With the Administrative Department, Cesaro and Selak hope to implement a num­ber of changes which they feel will bring professors and students together outside of the classroom. One change involves a monthly lunch program. By sharing a meal once a month in the dining halls, students and professors will be able to meet in an informal setting. The Administrative De­partment will also look into reviving the Hall Fellows Program. The program had been instituted by an earlier administration but was not a priority for later student ad­ministrations and eventually disappeared. Under this program, each dorm is "adopted" by a professor who volunteers for the posi­tion. Hall Fellows would attend dorm func­tions, present lectures to the dorm and pro­
. vide academic advice to the students within their adopted dorm. "We're hoping to make up a manual or listing ofconcrete things that a Hall Fellow can do because I think that was one ofthe weaknesses [of the program] in the past," says Selak. She feels that inter­action between students and professors within the dorms would broaden the learn­ing experience to include settings other than the classroom. 
The second of the new departments, the Transportation Department, plans to increase the reliability of SafeRide, which provides free transportation back to campus for stu­dents out at birrs or off-campus parties. In the past, the service has been available only on Friday and Saturday nights. This year, however, the Student Union will extend the hours of operation to Thursday nights. "In reality, a lot of people go out Thursday nights and it would be used a lot," says Selak. In addition to increasing the days of operation, the dispatchers will now be paid for their work. "By paying these coordina­tors, the service will become more reliable," says Cesaro. According to Selak, "Running it every weekend is key .... If someone is going out and relying on SafeRide to take them back, and it's not running, we've let down the students." 

The Administrative and Transportation Departments, along with the entire Student Union, will emphasize reacting to student input. This year's administration hopes a numberofnew programs will increase com­munication with the student body. Each Thursday, the Student Union will publish a list ofupcoming campus events in The Ob­server. Cesaro and Selak hope that coordi­nating this effort with the clubs and organi­zations on campus will keep students in­formed about the activities that each club offers. In addition, Cesaro and Selak will personally attend a Hall Council meeting at each dorm. They feel that this will lead to a greater amount of communication between .individual dorms and student government. At the meetings, each dorm's government will be able to· make direct requests to the student body president and vice president. The meetings will also allow Cesaro and Selak to keep the dorms up to date on the Student Union's future plans. 
Cesaro and Selak also plan to encourage discussion on multicultural and gender is­_sues within the dorms. "We;re taking the steps to create a type of presentation by working through the halls, taking it to the grass-roots level," says Cesaro. 
Many of their plans are ambitious, but Cesaro and Selak remain confident in their ability to successfully complete their agenda. "We've done all these mission statements and lists of our short-term and long-term goals. We've got them all written down on paper," says Selak. "We're ready to come back here in August and get right back to 
where we left off in May."  0  
SCHOLASTIC  7  
MAGAZINE  


Center and of  
bringing alco­ 
hol along while  
dispatching  
SafeRide  - a  
student govern­ 
ment-sponsored  
taxi service. All  
of these things  ..  
were reported in  
Scholastic' s  ~  
"Campus  ~  
Watch"  ~  
column, and  IN THE HOTSEAT.  
along  with  Student Body President  
charges offiscal  Matt Griffin was no  
irresponsibility and general in- stranger to controversy this year.  

V) 
~ 
w 
z 

In the News 
Scholastic looks at the top stories and issues from the past year that will affect you in the next 
BY PATRICK DOWNES n the outside world, presidents were 
being shamed, Popes were visiting Cuba 
and Unabombers were being tried. By all accounts, it was an eventful year. And in Notre Dame, Ind., the same held true. 
It was a year ofbig stories at Notre Dame, and many of these issues will continue to affect students in the coming year -fresh­men included. So here's a recap of the top five issues in the news this past academic year. 
I
Fathe, J';!arri~!~,believe he was being treated fairly. And after being denied the opportunity to say Mass or hear confessions at the Basilica for several months -ostensibly for the poor quality of his sermons -he haci had enough. In March, Garrick, a priest, professor and celibate homosexual, resigned in protest. 
That was the spark that ignited the debate this year. 
Two years earlier, it was the university's· refusal to recognize Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) as an official student organi­zation. Last year, it was the university's refusal to include sexual orientation in the nondiscrimination clause. 
Whatever the catalyst, gay rights has been the issue at Notre Dame in the 1990s. And very few things have kept the student body, faculty and administration more polarized. 
Advocates ofgay rights want the nondis­crimination clause in du Lac (the rulebook) and other official university publications to include sexual orientation. They also want the university to grant GLND/SMC all the rights and privileges of a recognized group (the right to meet on campus and to receive university funding, for example) and they want to eliminate what they feel is an atmo­sphere of homophobia. 
Opponents believe that GLND/SMC en-
SCHOlASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
dorses homosexual sex, and that the university's Catholic affiliation should give it the right to withhold sponsorship of any group that endorses a position contrary to Catholic teaching. 
The catechism of the Catholic Church holds that homosexual orientation is not wrong, but that homosexual activity is. 
Last year, the university responded to student and faculty outcry over the matter with a statement called the "Spirit of Inclu­sion." The statement held that Notre Dame would welcome its gay, lesbian and ques­tioning students with compassion -but it did not offer legal protection to them. 
The details are endless; the debate is fierce. Look for this issue to explode once again next spring, after the campus' collective attentJPn turns away from football. 
;~ailingthe President 

He mrssed the Beginning of the Aca­demic Year Mass. He arrived a day late for a leadership retreat. He was accused of drinking in his office in Lafortune Student 
competence, all appeared as complaints on the petition to recall the student body presi­dent from office. 
Student Body President Matt Griffin was 

shocked when senior Jeremy Lingenfelser 
began circulating the petition last Decem­
ber, but Lingenfelser didn't have any pa­
tience for the man who, in the words of the 
petition, was guilty of "Incompetent and 
Negligent Performance." 
According to the year-old Student Union 

Constitution, Lingenfelser needed to col­
lect the signatures of 15 percent of the 
student body for the issue to be brought 
before the voters. Lingenfelser insisted that 
he collected enough signatures for the peti­
tion, but nothing materialized. Griffin's term 
expired three months later without further 
ado -but the incident was to have lasting 
effects. 
The issue highlighted the question of the ethics, responsibility and image that a stu­dent body president should present. Some felt that a president should be a model citi­zen, someone to whom students would look up and administrators would respect. Oth­ers thought the president is first and fore­most a student, and should be allowed (if of age) to enjoy a drink now and then. Most of the candidates in the student body election that followed the controversy advocated a middle ground. Eventual winner Peter Cesaro said, "I think that holding the job does come with some responsibility and you should be able to represent the students · ... But you should be able to go out and have a burger at CJ's [a local bar] ... without any 

,,,,,,, ·; ·dget's Busted 
"What's your birthday?" 
"Uhh, March ... something." 
"Close enough." 
Time and again, after countless exchanges 

like the one above, the bouncer would re­
turn a dubious ID to some jumpy freshman 
and admit her into the crammed barroom. 
For 25 years, Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, affectionately dubbed Bridget's, had been a notorious haven for underage imbib­ing. But no more. In January, police came knocking on Bridget's doors for the last 
time. Roughly 165 underage students were 
cited and eventually ordered to perform community service and pay fines. The bar, which was owned by State Representative 
B. Patrick Bauer, was closed permanently. 
Some speculated that Notre Dame's ad­ministration was behind the bust. The uni­versity had been buying the surrounding property, and has looked into purchasing the bar's property, which is just blocks from 
SUMMER 1998 


campus. But Assistant Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk assured the Cam­pus Life Council that no undue influence with the police departments, state or local, was exercised. 
Whatever precipitated the bust, Notre Dame's drinking culture suffered-but not permanently. After the bust, underage stu­dents eventually found ways to drink again. Some of the other local bars have relaxed their security, and according to one anony­mous bustee: "We've gone to dorm parties or to people's houses off campus." 

~:, !l>cial Space 
',·~~It's a nebulous concept that includes space in dorm lounges, LaFortune Student Center or anywhere else students congregate to study, party or just hang out. Many think there isn't enough ofit, and that students drink to excess, either in bars, off­campus apartments ortheir_own dorm rooms, as a result. 
With this in mind -and after years of complaints from students, faculty and other administration -the university finally de­cided to do something about the lack of on­campus social space. Last year, a consulting firm, Center Concepts and Design (CCD), came in to assess the need. The firm con­ducted a survey, and' looked into options that may include constructing a new build­ing or expanding an existing one. 
No projects are in the works yet, but if anything comes of CCD's assessment, fu­ture classes may have more construction, and possibly more social space, to deal with. 
SUMMER 1998 
CRAMMING CRAMPED. LaFortune Student Center offers space for both studying and socializing, but many feel it is insufficient. 


· f.J::l enerations

MoNs the world go round, and Notre Dame is no exception. Generations is the largest-ever fundraising effort by a Catholic university, and it is nearing comple­tion. Generous benefactors are lining up to finance everything from buildings to books, and the efforts of the university's develop­ment office are paying off. As of last May, the university had raised $636 million ofthe $767 million dollar goai. They expect to exceed that.goal. By way of example, $767 million could buy 2 BMWs for every one of Notre Dame's 10,000 undergraduate and graduate students. 
Of course, Generations won't directly affect incoming freshmen. There will be no shiny new car waiting in your dorm room. But the fundraising drive should enrich your college experience -literally. The steady flow ofcontributions is putting more books in the library, endowing more professor­ships and scholar­

Also Making · Headlines:· 
The tr~nd in minority enrollment is_ downward, and many feel that the · _ lack ofdiversity in the student body and faculty is one ofthe major problems continuing to plague the university. 
Early in the year, the Syner/Fuller incident led to bad blood on both sides of 

· U.S. 31, the road that separates Notre _Dame and Saint Mary's College. Notre Dame sophomores Catherine Syner and Stacey FuUer wrote a letter to the editor of The Observe,\ the student newspaper, 
·•and blasted Saint Mary's "parasites" for · their use of Notre Dari:l.e resources. Out­cry ensued and the "debate" raged. 
When Indiana Lieutenant Governor Joe 

Kernan was selected as the speaker for Notre Danie's 153rd commencement cer­emonies, not everybody was happy. Se­. niorClass President Beth Nolan's com­lllents that the lieutenant governor would . be fine for IU or Purdue, but that Notre ·_Dame deserved a "nationar' speakei:, were broadcast across the state. Though Nolan may not have meant that Notre Dame was _better than Indiana or Purdue University, thafdidn'tstop an editorial in the India­napolis Stai"fromlabeling her comments "breathtaki.ng arrogance.'' -­
-' ' ­

One ofthe banes ofyour college exist~ · ence will ·be construction. The stadium 
• 
is.finished,buttheDome,theEckVisitor's 

•
Centei:,theColeman-Morris StudentCen­


-_ ter and. the Pei-forming ·ArtsCenterwill all be cloaked in scaffolding for at least part ofyourtenure. · · 


ships and funding the construction and renovation of count­less campus build­ings. 
As Father Edward "Monk" Malloy says, "Money alone doesn't make a great Catholic university ... but you can't have a great_ Catholic uni­versity without suf­ficientresources." 0 
UNDER CONSTRUCTION. The Eck Visitor's Center, , · scheduled for completion in January or February, is one · of several construction proje s being funded by , I 
Genera'tions. '• 1

. ~--L_[. '-1 ~,_ 
I 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 




Meet the Family 
V} Your guide to a few campus pers~nalities 
~ 
LU Rev. Theodore M.· _·,
z 
Hesburgh 
:, 
I 
I BY MICHELLE CROUCH AND LAUREN WINTERFIELD 
ii 
:i 
i 
"Monk" 
Father Edward A. "Monk" Malloy, CSC, is in his third five-year term as the 16th presidentofthe university. Formerly a mem­ber of President George Bush's Advisory Council on Drugs, he was recently appointed chairman of the new Commission on Sub­stance Abuse atHigh Schools. He is also a founding director of the Points of Light Foundation, a national initiative to promote community service. 
Malloy has been a faculty member in the Department ofTheology since 1974, and he continues to teach today. He resides in Sorin Hall and is one ofvery few university presi­dents in the country who lives in a dorm with students. 
Ted the (former) Head 
Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, re­tired in 1987 after serving as Notre Dame's president for 35 years. He spends much of his time making speeches and fulfilling his obligations as a member of a number of international organizations. 
10 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
Despite these obligations, Hesburgh is still involved with Notre Dame students. He can be found making guest appearances, lecturing in classrooms and presiding over liturgies in the residence halls. In addition, he chairs the advisory committees oftwo of the university's academic institutes. 
Father Hesburgh is probably best-known for his public service career. He has held 15 presidential appointments over the years, involving him in major social issues such as civil rights and atomic·energy. He is also a leader in the field of education, as reflected by the fact that he holds more honorary degrees than all but one individual. 
Contrary to the rumor that Father Hes­burgh lives on the 13th floor of the library named after him, he actually resides in Corby Hall, though he does have an office in the library. 

PattyO' 
As vice president of student affairs, Pro­fessor ~atricia A. O'Hara makes many of the decisions that affect Notre Dame stu­dents. She sets the agenda for Campus Min­·istry, Campus Security, Student Activities and Residence Life. 
Consequently, her relationship with stu­dents is bittersweet, as many students asso­ciate the Department of Student Affairs with discipline and punishment. "That comes with the territory," says O'Hara. "Part of our work is with rules and expectations, but there is so much more to what we do, from Campus Ministry to student activities to counseling." 

O'Hara tries to maintain contact with students, spending time in each dorm at least once a year and working personally with the resident assistants and student gov­ernment. She also teaches two law classes. 
O'Hara was named to this position in June 1990, becoming the first woman to serve as an officer of the university. 


Coach Davie 
Former defensive coordinator Bob Davie 
was named head football coach of Notre 

Dame six days after the legendary Lou Holtz 
stepped down on November 18, 1996. 

Inhis first year as head coach, Davie tried to focus more on the students and the play­ers. This was a change from the Holtz re­gime, which was dominated by Holtz's strong presence. Davie formed a committee that aims to increase involvement by the students and fans at pep rallies and games. "Although Notre Dame students are prob­ably the best football fans in the country, it · still takes someone to get students going," 
he says. 

After achieving mixed results in their first . season, Davie and offensive coordinator Jim Colletto hope to find success with a return to the option offense, which best suits the style ofnew starting quarterback Jarious Jackson. D
.
.. ..· . ~ -~ . -. '. -...~, 


-· Coaeh1Bofl-Oav1.e·.
l°W J -~ .. i ' . •. -., .Q ~ -_.·tp ... ~fl/~ 

SUMMER 1998 


WASHINGTON HALL -Donald Crafton, Chairman of the Department of Film, Televison and Theatre (FTT), has announced that the annual receptionfor students interested in film, television or theatre will be held Wednesday, August 26, at 
6:00 P.M. in Washington Hall. Students interested in filmmaking, video/film production, broadcasting, stage acting, directing, scenery, costumes, lights or stage management are encouraged to attend. Following refreshments, there will be a brief informational meeting to discuss ways to become involved in departmental activities. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students ­majors and non-majors -who wish to participate. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. If you have a willingness to learn, you are qualified. 
Becoming involved in theatre is an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something special on campus. 
This season, the Department of Film, Television and Theatre will present a mainstage season consisting of fours plays as well as many other acting and directing projects. Mainstage productions this season will be: 
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof Getting Wrecked The Angels' Cradle performed by Theater Grottesco 
The School for Scandal-
In addition, FTT will host a residency by THEATER 
_GRoTTESco, sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series. Acting and directing projects are showcased at the end of each semester. All of these projects will need a great amount of student support. There are positions for all who wish to participate. Auditions for the first two plays ofthe season will be held Wednesday, August 26, and Thursday, August 27, at 7:00 P .M. If you cannot attend the reception, but wish to be involved or have questions about the program, please call Tom Barkes at (219) 631-5956. 



Bus Tickets to Chicago Airports 
. ­

LaFortui1e ·(219) 631-7080 Stude1Jt Center 
SUMMER 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
11 
MAGAZINE 





ll.l 
LL. 
-I 
U) 
:J 
a.. 
~ 
<( 
u 
Lists. They con·sumed every open inch of my desk, dresser, mirror and even my car dashboard the ·summer .before I left 

. 

forcollege. Unfortunately, whenthetrrnecametotransport ff -j all of my belongings, I found that everything on those lists would ¾,~ 

take up two cars and about three dorm rooms. 
It is tempting to bring all of your-earthly possessions to college, but most dorm rooms are downright tiny, and you have to take into consideration the fact that you'll be sharing thatrooin with at least one other person. Here are some packing tips and a little common sense as you prepare to make the great migration from ho1:lle to college. 

Figuring out how to arrange furnitur:e in a dorm room usually requires a magician. Many students make extra space in their rooms by constructing lofts, an elevated bed that leaves open space underneath. Lofts can be a pain to construct, but the added space can make the trouble of as­sembly worthwhile. Loft kits c·an be pur~ chased relatively inexpensively at stores like Lowe's. Theuniversity regulates what kind ofloft you can have in your room, and the regulations vary from dorm to dorm, so you need to look into your dorm's rules 
12 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
before constructing one. 
All dormrooms come equipped with beds, 
desks and a wardrobe or dresser to store 
your clothes, but most students bring extra 
furniture. Couches, bean-bags and futons 
are popular, since they are a lot more com­
fortable than sitting on the floor. Carpeting is another necessity in the dorms, unless you want to live with hard tile floors through the 
year. You'll probably want to wait to buy 
carpet until you have measured your room, 
since dorm rooms come in all shapes and 
sizes. 
Electronics are an important source of entertainment in dorm rooms. It is a good idea to.bring a stereo because some students find South Bend radio lacking. A TV and a . VCR are nice additions to a dorm room even though cable isn't available, but all dorms have TV lounges with cable so you can still catch your favorite programs without mak­
ing an expensive investment. 
There are numerous computer clusters 
with both Macintoshes and PCs on campus, 
some of which are open 24 hours a day. The 
cluster computers have on-line access and 
CD-ROMs. However, if you plan to use the 
cluster computers during especially busy 
times of the year like midterms-and finals, 
expect to wait in line. 
Most students bring or rent a refrigerator, which is useful for keeping those beverages and late-night snacks. A hot-pot is a nice addition too, since it can make everything from hot chocolate for cold winter days to macaroniancicheese for more creative chefs. Also, fans are c:rucial during the first few weeks ofschool ifyou are living in an older dorm without air conditioning. 
SUMMER 1998 




decorative~/------~--­
<~ 
ON THE MOVE. Cars are jam­packed as students make the great migration in August. 
down the hall to take a shower, a robe and a shower caddy are important items. Many stu­dents wear flip-flops in the showers because they are not always the cleanest place to put your bare feet. 
As far as bedding is con­cerned, you will need to bring sheets, towels, blankets and pillows as none of these is pro­vided by the university. Some dorms have extra long beds, so you may want to wait to hear from your rector before you 
. purchase a new sheet set. A laundry bag or basket, a j stain stick, laundry detergent · ; and lots of quarters are neces­
sary if you plan on doing your 
ownlaundry.Forstudents who 
have yet to conquer the wash­
ing machine, St. Michael's 
Laundry provides an on-cam­
pus service that will pick up 
""' 
'/':\.  your laundry each week  
· ){) ,., 7  ifyouopttopayfortheir semester-long service. St.  


A little bit of decorating can personalize a dorm room and make it inviting. The overhead lights in most rooms are dim and will make the room look like a cellar, so pack some lamps. A desk lamp is a must, while floor lamps can brighten a room tre­mendously. Free-standing halogen lights are also very popular, though some schools have banned them as a fire hazard. Posters and pictures, whether they are of your fa­vorite music group or a Monet print, add character to a room and help muffle echoes. Creative touches like Christmas lights and plants also jazz up a room. 
to agonize about forgetting · something as you prepare


odds and 
your own list of things to bring to college. Your neighbors and friends will · probably be happy to loan you that obscure tool or 

Apart from furnishings, there are inany miscellaneous items that you will need for dormitory living. Since you will have to trek 
SUMMER 1998 
Michael's also has a dry clean­
, ing service available to all. 

You will need to bring hangers for your clothes. Crates and other organizers are also useful for increasing storage space in your room and can be a good place to stash heavy winter clothes during ·the off-season. An alarm clock, preferably a loud one, is also necessary to wake you up for those dreaded 
8:30 classes. 
South Bend has plenty ofdiscount stores, such as Mei jer, ifyou forget something. The Student Union Board (SUB) also sponsors a "Fall Mall" at Stepan Center, where they sell and rent various items at reduced prices. 
There is really no need 

reference book on the one occasion you really need it. And your par­ents are only a phone call and a care package away. 0 

• 
camera 

• 
umbrella 

• 
crates/organizers 

• 
alarm clock 

• 
stamps and envelopes 

• 
stain stick, quarters and detergent 

• 
sheets and towels 

• 
shower caddy 

• 
a good fan 

• 
iron 

• 
phone and answering machines (dorm-issued phones have voice mail) 

• 
vacuum 

• 
wastebasket 

• 
microwaves, toaster ov­ens and hot plates 

• 
pets 



SCHOLASTIC 
13 
MAGAZINE 


w 
I -I 
I V> 
i:)
I~i <( 
iU 

Getting along with an assigned roommate is a unique aspect ofthe freshman experience 

BY ALLISON FASHEKNever before has a computer held so much control over your life. The computer that randomly assigns roommates for Notre Dame freshmen may provide you a year of happiness or disap­pointment. There will be few times in your life when you will be forced to live with a total stranger. This is one of them. But it's not as scary as it sounds. There are typically three categories under which roommate relationships tend to fall, ranging from "we're inseparable" to "com­puter malfunction." You should view get­ting to know your roommate as an opportu­nity to share your everyday experiences with someone, an important part of the college adventure. Whichever situation you find yourself in, remember, it is up to you to make the best of it. 
This category You Complete Me is for those students 
who find a long-lost brother or sister 
in their roommate. Upon meeting, the two find they have everything in com­mon, including a love for country music and racquetball. While unpacking, they discover they own matching lava lamps. Even their bedsdpreads coordinate. They will go to every meal and party together, walking around as though attached at the hip, laugh­ing at the same stupid jokes. They will 
14 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
t'I 
rarely fight, even during the weeks of mid­terms, finals and room picks, and will prob­ably become godparents for each others' children. If you find yourself in this cat­egory, you are somewhat rare, but also ex­tremely lucky. If this is not your situation, don't fret. Undoubtedly, you will still find this type of friendship with someone on campus, just not with your roomie. 
This I'm OK, You're OK is probably the most common 
category for roommate situations. 
So you 're not best friends with your roommate-no one said you had to be.You still get along. You hang out on the week­ends sometimes and you have fun spending time with each other.But you have more fun hanging out down the hall or downstairs with another group of people. 
Having a best friend who lives down the hall, or even in another dorm, can be a major asset. Sometimes it's important to get out of the room for a little while, whether for a change of scenery or even for a temporary refuge. As you start class and become in­volved in activities you will find people on your own with whom you will enjoy spend­ing time. But you also have a good friend in your roommate and have the opportunity to get to know his or her friends as well. This is a great way to meet a diverse group of people. 
It Wasn't Meant To Be 
Some people just weren't meant to live together. This is another rare situation, but it does happen. Cer­tain roommates do not get along. This is no reason to panic or call home in tears. You can have a great freshman year, no matter whom you room with. A room­mate is someone to share living arrange­ments with -anything more or less is up to you. ff anything, this situation should en­courage you to be more outgoing, to meet more people in your dorm, your classes and your extra-curricular activities. 
Whether you are best friends or just ac­quaintances with your roommate, the key to the survival of the relationship lies in com­munication, compromise and respect. It's always better to try and talk to your room­mate about a problem before it grows out of proportion. He or she may have no idea that a problem even exists. 
The bottom line is that roommate assign­ments are totally random,just the luck ofthe draw. Worrying about your future room-• mate is aboutas futile as worrying about the weather. When you walk into your room for the very first time and set eyes on your new roommate, keep in mind that he or she has the same worry about getting along with you. 
What happens next is up to you. 
SUMMER 1998 


Gipper. l@nd.edu. Tipp the Gipp. Gipper. l@nd.edu. Tipp the Gipp. 
0.. 0.. 
(5 
Q) 
+­
0.. 0.. 
1-= 
...c C'9ffi12tts
::> --0 
Q) 
--0 
C 
@ 
...... 

4:Me~
i..: 
Q) 
0.. 
(5 
0.. 0.. 





0.. Cl?atC~
<..'.) 
Q) 
...c 
+­
Greetings, freshmen and not-so­fresh-men! Let the Gipp take your tender young hands in his and lead you on a guided tour of America's favorite multinational corporation/institution of higher learning. By the time this lesson is over, you will be wise in the ways of Notre Dame, displaying just a little bit less of that wide-eyed optimism that upperclassmen and administrators alike find so sadly amusing. Let's begin with some proper introductions. 
Hello, My Name Is ... 
The Gipp would like to introduce you to the Gipp. Although he does refer to himself in the-third person and has been known to years here the Gipp will be one of the best friends you have. Notre Dame administra­tors want you to think they are your friends, but as soon as the next tuition increase comes around you'll learn that they only love you for your money. The school news­paper, The Observer, is your friend, but it's that one friend who talks to himself and whom teachers describe as "a little slow." And your roommates may seem nice, but you should keep in mind that they are much more likely than the Gipp to throw up on your bed. 
As your new best friend, the Gipp re­minds you that you can tell him anything. Your tips make this column what it is, so 
feel free to pass along 

word of strange hap­It's hard to believe that a penings, rumors, po­tential scandals or any­benevolent God could be thing else your heart desires. You can reach the Gipp by e-mail (gipper. l@nd.edu) or by phone (1-7569). 

responsible for the darkness 
that envelops northern Indi­
Short of tarring and feathering, this is your 

ana for most of the year. 
most effective means 

ofestablishing justice, brandish weapons at members of opposing ensuring domestic tranquillity and other­sports teams, he is not to be confused with wise sticking it to the man. ESPN's weirdly obse~sive sports fan The Rick. The main difference is that whereas Cats and Dogs The Rick is a creepy loner, the Gipp consid­One ofthemostpuzzlingproblems facing ers all ofyou his friends. In fact, during your the university's theology department is the 

ATTITUDE • ALLEGATIONS 
SUMMER 1998 
mystery of South Bend's weather. It's hard to believe that a benevolent God could be responsible for the darkness that envelops northern Indiana for most of the year. The Gipp is suspicious that this barrage of cold rain and snow is the deity's way of getting revenge on Indiana for having the strongest KKK presence in the nation. But because the Gipp remembers from Theology 100 that no human being can understand God's will, his main concern is preparing you for what you are about to experience during South Bend's interminable winter. Just re­member this: most people think Hell is hot. It isn't. It is windy and freezing and is open for business from September through March at the most famous university in America's second-least educated state. And out here we don't call it hell; we know it as the South Bend winter. 
This Is My Body ... 

Notre Dame likes to remind its students that they are part ofa family. Maybe it is fear of incest, then, that makes the administra­tion so interested in keeping you from really "getting to know" your fellow students. Should you break from Notre Dame tradi­tion and actually attempt to have intercourse, social or otherwise, with a member of the opposite sex, keep parietals in mind. Pari­etals are the deadlines by which guys have to be out ofgirls' dorms, girls have to be out of guys' dorms and any non-Catholic ideas that might promote positive gender rela­tions have to be tossed out the window. Either get used to them, get used to the idea of expulsion or get looking for an off-cam­pus house or apartment as soon as possible. 

Some Parting Words 
Now that two of the Gipp's favorite sub­

jects -the climate in South Bend and the 
climate in Notre Dame students' pants ­
are out of the way, he wants to leave you 
with a few final dos and don 'ts. On any trip 
to the dining haU, remember tl-iat you live 
1,000 miles from any ocean. So for your 
own good, DO beware of the shrimp pop­
pers. DON'T bet your beer money on the 
football team winning a championship any­
time soon. Most important, children, DO 
hold onto your sense ofhumor. You'll need 
it. And when you hear something worth 
repeating to everyone, remember who gave you the best advice you got all summer. Tip -the Gipp. D 
• INNUENDO 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

n 
)> 
s 
7J 
C 
(/) 
n 
0 
s 
s 
m 
z 
~ 
;iO 
-< 


·To TH~ UHtV~RStTY OT HOTRl!DAM~ 
! i 

I. WH~R~ W~'R~ PUTTrHc; Ii STUD~HTS 

ST 


Away Game Pep Rallies . 
Sending off the Fightin' Irish with a bang! . . Safe Ride 
Establishing a free, campus-based taxi service for weekends 

End of the Year Mass 
Closing the year on a religious note 
Student Diversity · · Freshman Orientation Diversity Workshops 
' . 
i 

i AND MUCH MUCH MORE! 
. ' 
iii 16 SCHOLASTIC SUMMER 1998
f MAGAZINE 




Student Body President 
PETER CESARO Student Body Vice-President · ·Chief of Staff .ANDREA SELAK DE.ANETTE WEISS 
J 



FIRST 

Welcome to the University of Notre Drune) Class of -2002) you've made a fine choice. Please feel free to stop by our office in 203 Lafortune to say hi) our door is always open! · 
SUMMER 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
17 
MAGAZINE 

)> 
0 
< 
m 
iO 
-I 
(./) 
m 
~ 
m 
z 
-I 
:1 
;i 
! 
1 
11 

w 
LL. 
'.....J (./) ::) 0... 
~ 
<( 
u 



THEFRESHMA 
19 
Our survival guide will answer all ofyour questions about life as a Domer except how to fit Friends, ER and a 10­
page paper into one night 
BY BRIDGET BRADBURN ou 've packed your entire life into 
Y 
six boxes and a couple of 
suitcases. You've heard all the ad­vice from your well-meaning parents and all-knowing older friends and siblings. But no matter how prepared and eager you are to embark upon four years of unlimited fun and work, questions about daily life at Notre Dame undoubtedly still linger. You are not alone. To provide information about some of these important details, Scholastic has compiled a list ofthe answers you will need to survive your first year at Notre Dame. 
1. Starting Out 
Freshman Orientation will be your most entertammg, carefree and hectic time at Notre Dame. From the Graffiti Dance, where you meet other freshmen by signing their shirts, to scavenger hunts and cook-outs, to moving in and saying goodbye to your par­ents, there is little time for homesickness. Enjoy every minute of this chance to meet people. 
2. Braving the Elements 

No matter what comer of the world you come from, you will not be prepared for Notre Dame weather. The days ofFreshman Orientation are traditionally hot and humid, but this pleasant weather ends soon. You will quickly learn to be prepared for rain, no matter what the weather reports say or what the sky looks like. And you will need your winter clothing sooner than you think. The 
first snow can come as early as October, and the campus usually does not thaw out until March. 
3. Food for Thought 
After settling into your room, you will no doubt wonder about the means of satisfying the most basic col­lege student need: eating. North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall both make valiant attempts to offer a variety of culinary delights. Al­though the choices are sometimes less than appealing, the freedom to have less-than-balanced meals is a definite bonus. If you decide to skip the dining hall, various fast foods are available at the Huddle in LaFortune Student Cen­ter. The university will be adding other 

fast food establishments like Starbucks and Burger King in the fall. In addition, most dorms have food sales during prime study hours. 
4. Dining Out 

Inevitably, you will get tired of dining hall food and find your way to local restau­rants. South Bend and Mishawaka have plenty to offer. Macri' s Deli is an affordable sandwich spot, in addition to TGIFriday's, Don Pablo's, Olive Garden and Outback Steakhouse, which are close to campus. South Bend has a few nicer restaurants including the Landing, The Emporium, The Wharf and Tippecanoe Place. Of course, ordering Papa John's pizza is always an option, but for better quality pizza, try Rocco's or Bruno's, both traditional hang­outs for Domers. 
5. Weekend Escapes 

Weekends offer the perfect opportunity for students to escape from the tedium of schoolwork. In the fall, bus trips to away football games offer students the chance to visit other college towns. Once the football season is over, many students travel via the relatively affordable South Shore Railroad to Chicago and to Michigan City, an outlet shopping location. In February, the fresh­man class usually sponsors a class trip to Chicago, a great opportunity to bond with friends and make new ones as well. 
6. Shopping Around 

University Park Mall is close by, and there is a bus that runs from campus to the mall every half hour during the day for the low fare of $1.50 round-trip. The 24-hour Meijer store is a favorite shopping place, offering everything from frozen pizzas bites to TVs. On campus, there is a convenience store in Lafortune Student Center and the bookstore has a limited amount of drug­store products, as well as various school supplies and anything you could ever want plastered with the Notre Dame logo. 
I 
i 
0 
18 SCHOLASTIC SUMMER 1998
MAGAZINE 
7. Hitting the Books 
Wait until the first day ofclass to buy your books, as professors tend to make last-minute changes to the syllabus. Before you go to the bookstore, check posted lists of used books for sale -but remember to make sure they are the right editions. When you do brave the bookstore, be prepared to wait in long lines and spend most of your summer earn­ings in one trip. However, the bookstore does offer certain used books and lines tend to be shorter in the morning. 
8. Dollar Sense 
Ifit sounds like you will be spending a lot of money in the first few weeks of school, don't worry. The spending will slow down. For the money left over, there is a branch of Key Bank in the Lafortune Student Center, and a branch of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union (NDFCU) just behind cam­pus, which offer students savings and check­ing options. And for those instant-cash needs, there are several ATM machines on cam­pus. One is in the basement of Lafortune and another is at Gate 10 of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, both serv­ing Key Bank. There is another one at the bookstore, serving NDFCU, and a fourth in the basement of the library that serves 1st Source Bank. 
9. Keeping in Touch 
One way to save money and keep in close contact with family and friends is to activate your e-mail account. Just go to a computer cluster, where. a consultant will help you open your account free of charge. Students who purchase ResNet equipment for their computer from the campus Computer Store will have access to e-mail and Netscape from their dorm room. 
10. Getting Involved 
Beyond e-mail, other sources of diver­sion are the various student clubs and orga­nizations. Watch for signs during the first few weeks of school advertising Notre Dame's annual Activities Night. This is an opportunity to meet representatives from many different organizations and to sign up for those that interest you. 
11. A Sound Mind in a Sound Body 
For those who are concerned about keep­ing in shape, there are several exercise op­tions on campus. The Rolfs Sports Recre­ation .Center, which opened last February, offers a modern alternative to many of the 
SUMMER 1998 
older fitness options on campus. In addition to an indoor track, basketball courts and a weight room, Rolfs offers a roller-hockey rink, ping-pong and pool tables and a fit­ness-counseling center. The Rockne Me­morial offers a pool, a weight room, rac­quetball courts and basketball courts. There is an indoor track in both the Loftus Sports Center and the Joyce Center. The Rolfs Aquatic Center holds an Olympic-size pool with a diving well. The Eck Tennis Pavilion and the golf course are other sporting op­tions. For those looking for organized exer­cise, the RecSports department offers vari­ous activities. 
12. The Balancing Act 

No matter what diversions you choose, schoolwork cannot be neglected. There are several services available specifically to freshmen to help balance these time de­maµds. The First Year of Studies provides free tutoring and an advising program to assist . freshmen in picking dasses and a major. 
13. Taking the Night Off 

Central to social existence at Notre Dame are SYRs (Screw Your Roqmmates) semi-formal and formal dances. Each dorm typically has one SYR and one formal each, semester. When 0 held in the dorm, the decorat~ ing before the dance is enter­tainment in itself, providing a memorable day of section bonding. It is traditional to bring your date a small gift, ranging from flowers to a crazy trinket. Typical SYR attire at Notre Dame includes khaki pants, a tie and a blazer for the men. For the ladies, a short, semi-formal dress is the norm. 
14. Lights Out 

If you haven't heard the term "parietals" yet, learn it. Parietals are the visitation hours at Notre Dame. Students must be out ofthe opposite sex's dorms by midnight on weekdays and by 2 a.m. on week­ends. However, there are 24-hour lounges in all of the dorms, so coed studying and socializing don't have to end. The consequences for viola­tions can be severe: It is not a good idea to test these rules. 
15. The Joys of Communal Living 

No student escapes getting sick. As a preventative measure, free flu shots are offered during the year. But the combina­tion of little sleep, lack of exercise, unbal­anced meals, stress, bad weather and close contact with other students can lead to many colds and flus. The infirmary has doctors and nurses on staff, as well as a pharmacy. But unless you are seriously ill, it is a better idea to keep your own supply of medica­tion, stay in bed when you get sick and call home if you need a little extra attention. 
There is no experience common to all Notre Dame freshmen. Everyone's first days in­volve a great deal of exploration and a lot of trial and error. But the more questions that can be answered before arriving on campus, the more excited you can be about embarking on the first of your years at Notre Dame. D 

MAGAZINE 

V) 
I­
0 ~ 
a.. 
V) 

Bob Davie hopes for a better season with a bumper crop ofhighly ranked freshman recruits 
BY TOM REPETTOIt was just 10 seasons ago that the Irish dominated then undefeated West Vir­ginia 34-21 in the Fiesta Bowl to claim their record 11th national championship. At the school that has produced more national champions and more Reisman winners than 
tremendous speed with a4.46 in the 40-yard dash and arm strength that produced 30 touchdowns in his high school career. Amaz' s specialty is running the ball. He ran for 2,731 yards and 46 touchdowns in high school. With skills comparable to current Irish quarterback J arious Jackson and former quarterback Tony Rice, Battle should make 
any other, winning at least nine games a season and qualifying for a major bowl is supposed to occur as often as student tu­ition is increased (that is, ev­ery year). After last year's dis­appointing 7-6 finish, theNotre Dame football team is looking to return to the level ofsuccess that football fans expect. 
Coach Bob Davie took a major step in improving the future of the program by land­
ESPN's TOP 10 RECRUITING CLASSES 
1. 
MICHIGAN 

2. 
UCLA 

3. 
GEORGIA 

4. 
NOTRE DAME 

5. 
FLORIDA STATE 6.ALABAMA 7.TENNESSEE 


8. 
UNC 

9. 
FLORIDA 1O.NEBRASKA 


ing a top-notch recruiting class this spring. The class was rated fourth by ESPN and third by the majority of other college foot­ball analysts. Although rated behind Michi­gan and UCLA, Notre Dame recruited more Top 100 players than any program in the country. According to ESPN, Notre Dame signed 10 of the best 100 high school pros­pects, while Michigan and UCLA landed seven each. 
"The overall depth of this class is impres­sive," says Davie. "Down the line at ev~ry position we have guys that can step in and make an impact." 
At the quarterback position, Arnaz Battle should provide a spark for the offense. The 6' 1" quarterback from Shreveport, La., has 
20 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
was fullback. After landing two of the top fullbacks in the nation, Tom Lopienski and Mike McNair, the running game should get a boost. Lopienski, whose father was a defensive back from 1972-7 5, has size (6'0", 238) and a good fit for the of­fense. 
"Everyone just raves about Arnaz down in Shreveport," 
,Davie says. "He's a scholar-athlete with great character." 
Another position the Irish focused on year, earning him a spot on the USA Today All-America First team. He is among the top five sprinters in the country with a 10.62 in the 100 meters, a particularly amazing time considering his 230 pounds. 

Davie comments, "Mike came from a great program at Mater Dei and just has outstanding athletic ability. His speed is real good for his size." 
. At tailback, the Irish landed a surprise named Tony Fisher. Ohio's "Mr. Football," Fisher was expected to sign with Ohio State, but it was the Irish who attracted him. At 
·6' 1", 205, Fisher rushed for 4,250 yards in his high school career, averaging 11. 7 yards per carry his senior season. He is big, strong and elusive in the open field. 
The addition of depth to the receiving 

CNN/Si's TOP 10 RECRUITING CLASSES 
1. 
UCLA 


2. 
MICHIGAN 

3. 
NOTRE DAME 

4. 
GEORGIA 

5. 
FLORIDA STATE 

6. 
FLORIDA 

7. 
PENN STATE 8.ALABAMA 9.TENNESSEE 


1O.NEBRASKA 
corps was a high priority in recruiting. Javin Hunter and David Givens give the Irish two quality receivers to comple­ment Battle. Hunter, a 6' 1" re­ceiver from Country Day High School in Michigan, has a knack for making big plays. "Javin will really help us with his speed and his ability to catch the foot­ball," Davie says. "He could develop into a big-play re­ceiver." He averaged20.3 yards per catch in his high school career and had 15 TDs. Hunter 

strength. His 4.55 speed should also make . could also make a contribution as a kick him tough to bring down. returner; he brought back seven kicks for 
Mike McNair, from Mater Dei High touchdowns in his prep career. School in California; ran for a school record David Givens is tentatively listed as a 2,671 yards and 33 touchdowns his senior receiver, but he could play any number of 
SUMMER 1998 

positions. Givens is one ofthe top all-around athletes coming out of high school, with experience at quarterback, tailback, receiver, defensive back and kick returner. At 6'0", 210, this native of Humble, Texas, benches an impressive 375 pounds. 
Davie adds, "David is one of the most mature young men I've met. He's such a good athlete, and he can fit in to any nurriber of positions." 
The Irish signed two giants for the offen­sive line in Jordan Black and Ryan Scarola. Both listed at 6'5", 320, Black and Scarola should add depth to a strong offensive line. Black flattened defenders last year playing in a tough conference in Texas. Scarola, like Lopienski and line recruit Sean Mahan, is the son of a former Notre Dame football player. 
On the defensive side of the ball, Carlos Pierre-Antoine was the most talked about player signed by the Irish. At 6'2", 244, Pierre-Antoine dominated opposing high school offenses at inside linebacker. He was a USA Today Second Team All-American. "We were after this guy since day one," Davie says. "He's an excellent student and he's big and strong." 
Rocky Boirnan, a strong safety from Ohio, impressed coaches at last summer's foot0 ball camp and was offered a scholarship. Big for a safety, Boiman could fit in as a linebacker. Wherever he plays, he is a hard­nosed defender who likes to hit. His 163 tackles and six interceptions last year earned him honors as the top player in Cincinnati. 
After losing comerbacks Ivory Covington and Allen Rossum to graduation, the Irish needed to recruit defensive backs that could help out immediately. It made sense that the Irish would try to sign Rossum's cousin, Clifford Jefferson. Jefferson is a First Team All-American rated by many as one of the top defensive backs in the country. His 15 career interceptions stand out almost as much as his ability to stuff the run. 
Jefferson is the type of physical comer that defensive coordinator Greg Mattison is looking for. Davie says, "Clifford is a fine cover comer and he has a great personality. He might be able to contribute right away." 
Donald Dykes should also fill in nicely in the secondary. From the same high school as Irish sophomore Brock Williams, Dykes is tenacious defensively. This 5' 10" defen­sive back could help contribute at either comer or safety. 
With Hunter Smith in his final season and Irish placekicking having problems recently, the Irish have given a scholarship to local kicker David Miller ofGranger, Ind. Accus­tomed to kicking in adverse conditions, Miller should fit in during late season games where poor weather can play a factor. 

All ofthe recruits have had great numbers coming out of high school and possess a great deal of potential. Davie is cautious, however, about speculating on how good the players will be. "It's early to tell whether these guys will play at the level that we think they can, but with the overall depth of this class, the coaching staff is feeling good." 
The new football class will face tough competition throughout its four years. Games this year against Michigan and Ari­zona State as well as future games against Nebraska, Tennessee and Florida State will challenge the Irish. The road will only get tougher for the incoming freshmen. But the potential for this class, considering its depth and quality at so many positions, is virtually limitless. If the recruits live up to the hype, there may not be many 7-6 seasons in the near future. Optimistically, the class of2002 should help restore Notre Dame football to its familiar place among the elite programs in the land. D 
SOUTH BENO~arr1ott. 
123 No. St. Josepl1 Street Soutl1 Bettb,. 1N 46601 

Welcomes the Class of 200211 How Can you 1mpress your Visitors? ... The Marriott, of course. 
¦ 
We are conveniently located 5 ¦ Discounted Weekend Rates minutes from Notre Dame ¦ Heated, Indoor Swimming Pool 

¦ 
Allie's American Grille and Bar ¦ Exercise facilities, sauna and 

¦ 
Garage Parking whirlpool 


tct us cottcmtratc Ott 11our sucsts,. wl1ile 11ou cottcetttratc ott 11our stubics! Form.ore lnform.ation: 800/328-7349 



SUMMER 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


(/) 
I­
~ 
0... (/) 

:1 
I 
i i 
![: 
Iii 


Scholastic ranks the 10 biggest highlights and lowlights ofthe '97-'98 season 
by Corey Spinelli 
1. The False Start 
The much-anticipated first football sea­son under new Head Coach Bob Davie quickly turned sour following a shaky vie­
tory in the home  ..,...,..,......,.,,_,.,,,.­ 
opener against  ~'"..'' .--­ ·.·::c<,:.  
Georgia Tech.  ,  
Notre Dame then  
dropped four con­ 
secutive games. Af­ 
ter a win over Pitts­ 
burgh, the squad hit  
. rock bottom when  
its third listless per­ 
formance in Notre  
Dame Stadium re­ 
sulted in a 20-17 de­ 
feat at the hands of  
their archrivals, the  
USC Trojans. The  
2-5 start was attrib­ 
uted to injuries at  
key positions, an in­ 
ability to stop the  
run and the ques­ 
tionable play-call­ 
ing of new offen­ 
sive coordinator  
Jim Colletta. A de­ 
parture from Lou  the team started  the season 1-4.  

Holtz' s run-oriented philosophy proved det­rimental to offensive output, as an offense which returned nine starters averaged 10 fewer points per game. 
2. A Husky Surprise 
The most successful team on campus for the past few years had yet another impres­sive season, finishing 23-1-1. Led by senior co-captains Holly Manthei, a four-time All­American, and Kate Sobrero, a three-time All-American, the Irish soccer team cruised 
22 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
through the regular season undefeated and claimed the Big East championship with a 6-1 thrashing of Connecticut. In an October match up at Notre Dame against number one 
North Carolina, the second-rankedirish stormed back from a 2-0 deficit to tie the game in the sec­ond half behind goals from fresh­man phenom Anne Makinen and sophomore Jenny Heft. Severe light­ning halted the game and left soc­cer fans waiting for the NCAA tourna­ment to see who would prevail in the most hotly con­tested rivalry in women's soccer. The Irish and the -Tar Heels, who have dominated the sport for the past four years, easily advanced to the Fi­nal Four in Greensboro, N.C., but a shock­ing 2-1 semifinal loss to Connecticut elimi­nated Notre Dame and prevented a show­down with eventual champion North Caro­lina. The Irish placed Sobrero, Makinen and sophomores LaKeysia Beene and Jen Grubb on the All-America First Team and return virtually their entire lineup next season. 
3. How Sweet It Is 

The women's basketball team followed up its 1997 Final Four appearance with a surprising run to the '98 Sweet 16. The Irish fell out of the top 25 early in the season as they struggled to replace All-Americans Katryna Gaither and Beth Morgan for the bulk of the campaign. After receiving an at­large bid to the Big Dance as a nine seed, the Irish knocked off SW Missouri State 78-64 and then defeated number-one seeded Texas Tech 74-59 on their home floor. The win was the first in the program's history over a team nationally ranked in the top five. The Irish led their next opponent, the Purdue Boilermakers, 56-40 with 13: 17 left to play in the second half, but fell 70-65. The expe­rience gained in the tournament bodes well for next season, as Head Coach Muffet McGraw returns seven ofher top eight play­ers. 
4. Everybody's AIi-American 
Senior forward Pat Garrity, Notre Dame's mainstay on the basketball court for four years; capped off his brilliant college career in fine fashion. Number 53 etched his place in the record books with a 2,085 total points, good enough for third on the all-time list. He averaged 23.2 PPG and 8.3 rebounds per contest during the '97-'98 campaign. Garrity was chosen Second-Team All-American by the Associated Press and earn~d GTE First Team Academic All-America honors for 
-the second consecutive year. The 6' 10" biology major will undoubtedly survive if his NBA career should ever stall, as Garrity maintained a 3.8 GPA during his time in South Bend. 
5. The Long BaII King 
Junior catcher Jeff Wagner shattered the Irish home run record of38, previously held by Mike Amrhein and Frank Jacobs, in Notre Dame's 33rd game of the season against Wisconsin-Milwaukee. The right­handed hitter from Louisville, Ky., posted an impressive .417 batting average and drove in 114 runs in his first two seasons. A unanimous first team Big East selection his sophomore season, Wagner led the Irish to the Big East regular season championship and back to the NCAA Tournament in '98. 
6. Fire On Ice 
The men's hockey team advanced to the CCHA playoffs in '97-'98 led by the play of frontliners Brian Urick, Aniket Dhadphale and Steve Noble. The Irish finished the year with a 18-19-4 record. Senior goalie Matt Eisler broke the Notre Dame all-time career saves markand stopped 124 of 133 shots in playoff action. The Irish twice defeated 
SUMMER 1998 




eventual national champion Michigan be­fore falling 4-3 to the Wolverines in the deciding game of their playoff series. A strong sophomore class led by US National Team members Ben Simon and Joe Dusbabek hopes to propel Notre Dame into contention for the CCHA titl.e next season. 
7. Five Against One 
That was often the case during the '97-98 men's basketball season, where Irish for­ward Pat Garrity could not overcome a glaring lack of support to lead Notre Dame to post-season play. Though the 13-14 Irish defeated top 20 foes West Virginia and Syracuse, their inability to consistently shoot from the perimeter plagued head coach John MacLeod's squad throughout the season. Losses to Big East cellar-dwellers Seton Hall and Rutgers ensured that the Irish would once again have a seat in front of the television for the postseason. The loss of Garrity and the transfer of quality shooting guard Keith Friel will force Notre Dame's incoming freshmen recruits to contribute extensively if the Irish are to have any chance at competing in the Big East next season. 
8. The Courageous Finish 
Just when the football season appeared headed into the tank, strong senior leader­ship and a renewed commitment to the running game enabled the Irish to win their final five regular season games and qualify for a bowl. The streak was highlighted by a dominating 24-6 victory in Baton Rouge over the 10th-ranked LSUTigers and a last­minute 21-14 win over West Virginia in quarterback Ron Powlus' final home game. Senior kicker Scott Cengia's field goal as time expired allowed the Irish to squeak by Hawaii 23-22 and finish the regular season 7-5. However, a lackluster showing in the Independence Bowl resulted in a 27-9 loss in a rematch against LSU. Bob Davie and Company must improve immensely if Notre Dame is to advance to a major bowl next season. In addition to highly-touted Ari­zona State, all six teams that defeated the Irish in '97 appear on the '98 schedule, which begins with the home opener against defending co-national champion Michigan. 
9. Chopped Sticks 
Another squad with high expectations for the '98 season was the men's lacrosse team. Fresh off the heels of an NCAA Tourna­ment appearance, the Irish entered the spring ranked 13th in the country. Returning All-
SUMMER 1998 
c: 
~ 
§
:§ 
FRESHMAN PHENOM. Freshman center Ruth Riley helped the Irish to the Sweet 16 of the Women's NCAA tournament. She and guard Sheila McMillan(3), who will be a senior, will lend experience to next year's team. 
Americans Alex Cade, Jimmy Keenan and Chris Dusseau figured to lead the Irish deep into the post-season. In perhaps the most disappointing performance of any Notre Dame team, the lacrosse squad dropped four of their last five games and finished their underachieving season a dismal 6-6. 
10. Primetime 

That's the name of the 1998 Bookstore Basketball Champions. As every freshman will soon learn, the Bookstore Basketball . Tournament is four weeks of no-holds­barred outdoor hoops. 625 teams entered the tourney, with participants ranging from members ofthe varsity football and basket­ball teams to Father Malloy. The Final Four is played on the Saturday of the Blue-Gold game in April, with the championship held the next day. The number-one seed in the 27th annual tournament, Prime time ( com­posed of five non-varsity athletes from Stanford Hall) outlasted Mickey's (a team featuring punter Hunter Smith and offen­sive lineman John Teasdale) 21-13 to claim the championship trophy. Primetime will be looking to repeat as champions in '99, as they return all five starters including last year's MVP Raam Jani and two first team 
All-Bookstore members.  0  
SCHOLASTIC  23  
MAGAZINE  



(/) I­
~ Allen Rossum -Football The cornerback/return man was one of the few bright spots o~ a disappointing
a. 
(/) team. Du.rin.g the ye~lti{~ senior co-captain 
fl Ii! 
and t~~-iecr s~r '~ged 28.5 yards per ,Ip.:9koftjt!l!Jll'J?~J · olds the NCAA recof.d' for,thi\~,dg,returns for touchdowns with niriejossu~'s game-savi~g tackle_on the final p)ay agamst Navy and mterceptmn 
"' 
return for a score against Hawaii helped the Irish qualify for a bowl game. 
Honorable Mention: Autry Denson, Bobbie Howard, Ron Powlus (Football); Ryan Turner (Soccer) 
Jaimie Lee-Women's Volleyball 
The senior outside hitter was an honor­able mention All-American selection. The two-time Big East player ofthe year led the Irish with 131 kills for an average of 4.55 kills per game, the second best all-time total for the Irish. She also led the Big East with 
a .451 hitting percentage. 
Honorable Mention: Anne Makinen, Kate Sobrero, LaKeysia Beene (Soccer); Angie Harris, Lindsay Treadwell (Volley­ball) 
Rookie: Anne Makinen ­Women's Soccer 
The freshman midfielder from Finland led the Irish in goals (23) and points (58), helping the women's soccer team to a 23-1­1 record and an NCAA semifinal appear­ance. Makinen was named most outstand­ing player ofthe Big East Championship. A fmalist for the Hermann Award given to the nation's best player in women's soccer, Makinen was also selected as a first-team All-American in '97. 
Honorable Mention: Meotis Erickson, Kelly Lindsay (Soccer); Jabari Holloway (Football) 

Pat Garrity -Basketball 
The senior forward was named a second­team All-American and the ~jademic All-American o. the y~Jf~~his final collegial~a.@~\}i ~~~e'd the Irish in scorinlXj41.} a·lf?ounding (8.3) and was the t1llfft'li1ghest career scorer in school history with 2,085 points. The First Team 
24 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

All-Big East selection ranked sixth nation­ally in scoring his junior year. 
Honorable Mention: AniketDhadphale, Matt Eisler, Ben Simon, Brian Urick (Hockey) 
Sheila McMillen -Basketball 

McMillen led the team in scoring, aver­aging 13.4 points per game, and was influ­ential in helping the ninth-seeded Irish ad­vance to the Sweet 16. The junior guard set a Big East tournament record with eight three-pointers in a first round victory qver St. John's. 
Honorable Mention: Mollie Peirick, Ruth Riley (Basketball) 

Rookie: Ruth Riley -Basketball The freshman center was named to the Big East All-Rookie Team after averaging 
7.4 rebounds and 11.5 points per game dur­ing the regular season. Riley was the lead­ing scorer in four of the team's last five games. In Notre Dame's three NCAA tour­nament games, she averaged 18 points and 
7.3 rebounds per game. · 

Honorable Mention: Martin Ingelsby (Basketball); Mark Eaton (Hockey) 
Luke LaValle -Fencing . The j_un_iorcaptain":on th~?~,;_al c~a~­p~onsh1.p m sa?re, No.'~r~jf!J"l~ first md1­v1du~kG~N~'~sJ1!,990... e defeated Mi~Goli¾~JM---~-11 in the final to claifitt~tle:-The two-time All-American fini~~eleason with a 44-3 record. · Honorable Mention: Alex Shilliday, Brant Ust, Jeff Wagner (Baseball); Ryan 
Sachire (Tennis) 

Linda Gallo -Swimming Gallo was named most outstanding swim­
mer at the Big East Championship, paving 
the way for Notre Dame's second straight league title. She won Big East titles in.the 
200,500 and 160freestyle, the 200 medley relay and 800 freestyle relay. The senior 
garnered All-America honors at the NCAA 
Championship in the 500 freestyle (16th overall) and 1,650 freestyle (ninth). 
Honorable Mention: Magda Krol (Fenc­
ing); Jennifer Hall (Tennis) 
Rookie: Michelle Dasso -Tennis 
In her first year ofcollegiate tennis, Dasso played in the number-two spot in singles for a majority of the season. She won her first 
20 dual matches of the season and was 
· ranked 16th nationally in singles play. She had a 37-6 mark and won 21 of her 23 dual matches during the regular season. 
-Chris Hamilton 
SUMMER 1998 



~~ 


cffrUP-To-DATE CAMPUS EVENT
(....LATEST VIDEO GAMES INFORMATION 
~FNE FULL-SIZE POOL TABLES 
~TICKETS 10 CAtvIPUS PRODUCTIONS 
c..-FoosBALL TABLE 
(~DISCOUNT MOVIE TICKETS ~NIGHTLY SPECIALS ~WINDY CITY SHlJITLE Bus TICKETS TOCHICAGO
c,_..RECREATION TOURNAMENTS . c,rND MERCHANQISE & 
~FREQUENT SPECIAL EVENTS 
WATERCOLOR PRINTS crrBoARD GAMES FoR CHECKOUT ~MAGAZINE AND NEWSPAPERS 
~MEMBERSHIP DISCOUNTS FOR CHECKOUT 
)> 
0 
< 
m 
A] 
--l 
(J) 
m 
~ 
m 
z 
--l 


631-7376 631-8128 
25

SUMMER 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 





LU 
l I 
,-j 
HowtoDo South Bend 
A few hidden spots ofthe town you'll call home 
BY AARON NOLANThose of us who have attended this university long enough realize that South Bend is neither the Spring Break capital that Daytona Beach is nor the cultural mecca that London or Paris is. One might say that besides the occasional mon­ster truck rally orWWFevent, the entertain­ment potential of this city is virtually nil. The fact of the matter, however, is that beneath the daily hustle and bustle of this small Midwestern city lies a latent party town. The only problem is trying to pick and choose from the best in South Bend night life. So we at Scholastic have assembled this list ofthings to do in South Bend for you to get a better idea: of the unlimited possi-
MORRIS LESS. The Morris Civic Auditorium in downtown South Bend will be reopening in the spring of 1999. 
.~~~~::;3/~:~.:i~,~~,.~-~ . 
:?, =­
,,-.,-~--. ~t;F;~::--:.-• ~-~ 
"";':::-":;;c;.~ec:/.;,:~;;;a=~?.::'~'=tt
f!;;t~,f;''.'~%?:< '<'?;;\S'•.•;.·;c;ce0;,;,.,,,··n• "£,~f~J!!i1 
f . 
bilities the Greater Michiana area has to offer the next time you go out for a night ( or day) on the town. 
Try the College Football Hall of Fame. This place can keep you occupied for the whole day, so make sure you plan ahead. There are hundreds of things to see and do hereincludingthe360degreetheater, where you'11 feel like you are a part of the game. Check out the Hall of Champions, where you can view displays of the inductees and interactive kiosks. Maybe the Training Cen­ter is more your style. You can test your agility, practice passing at targets and hit tackling dummies and blocking sleds ­just about everything except suit up for a 
game. "Going to the Hall of Fame really . . unwind after a long week ofclasses, and the 
gave me a chance to look back on the rich 
26 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
tradition of the sport," says rising senior 
John McCarthy. All told, the Hall is a great 
place to soak up some sports history with a 
couple of fellow football fans. (111 S. St. 
Joseph Street) 
Ifyoufindyourselfinthemoodforagood caffeine buzz, pay Lula's Cafe a visit. It's practically right on campus and is a more laid-back alternative to the bar scene. Lula's is a carbon copy ofFriends hangout Central Perk-butdon'texpecttofindMonicaand Chandler hogging all.the couch space. In­stead, a jolly constituency oflatte-guzzling ·Darners can be found there playing check­ers, reading poetry or just engaging in friendly banter. This is a great place to 
coffee isn't bad, either. (1631 Edison Road) 
When life at college gets you down, the 
St. Joseph's County Public Library is the 
perfect place to kick back. It sounds crazy, 
but it's amazing what a nice, quiet library 
can do to calm a student's frazzled nerves. 
Sit back in one of the library's 57 Barca­
Loungers and leisurely read the newspaper 
or magazine of your choice. A silent and 
carefree refuge away from .the pressures of 
school. (304 S. Main Street) 
The Morris Civic Auditorium. is a de­
cent place to catch touring Bn;>adway shows 
and concerts, although itis undergoing reno­
vation until the Spring of. '99. Try one of South Bend's numerous charming fringe theaters such as the Wagon Wheel The­ater, Dunes Summer Theater or the Can­terbury instead. These theaters offer the most for your money: a good view, comfort­. able seating and quality mu·sicals, comedies 
and dramas. Since 1995, these theaters have 
presented A Chorus Line, Jesus Christ Su­
perstar, Our Town, Guys and Dolls and 
SUMMER 1998 


many others. Overall, they're more entertain­ing and economical than trekking out to Chicago. 
Relax at the Golden Gate Spa in Michigan City whenever the pres­sures of classes and ex ­ams make you feel like one big knot of stress. Let any one of the spa's "professional American and Oriental masseuses" rub their way to a healthier you. This den of delicate digits will have you moaning for more. ( 1304 Franklin Street) 
With luck, this list has given you an idea of what Michiana really has to offer. The good news is, this is only a small taste of the cul­tural smorgasbord that is South Bend. D 

COFFEE BREAK. Lula's coffee shop, within walking distance of campus, is a great place to take a break from the books. 
WVFI 

640am 
The voice 'of.Jhe Fighting; 
Irish, serving_all of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's with 
college music, sports, and :news.·· ... Find LJs at Activitie.s··.. · Nighfand· l~t th·e fun t>egi_r11· 
. 

1­
z 
w 
~ 
z 
~ 
~ 
.W 
! 1­
z 
w 

by Brian Christ, Chris Myers and Aaron Nolan 

The Jerry Springer Show: For­get Oprah and Rosie O'Donnell -Jerry rules at Notre Dame. The Jerry Springer show offers great insight into the sexual pec­cadillos, bizarre habits and all-· around weirdness of those who don't go to Notre Dame. In place of Oprah's guest stars, this show gives "real" people the opportu­nity to sort out their problems in front of a live studio audience. Those big guys in the front rows aren't audience members, though -they're the guards who break up the inevitable fist fights and 
chair throwing. 
Party of Five: A touching look into the lives of five orphaned siblings who rely on each other to make it through some tough times. 
Party ofFive will certainly become the most watched FOX weeknight television show on campus. It's the perfect show to watch in a dorm room full of other Party addicts and is sure to perpetuate many a heated dispute. Will Griffin and Julia's marriage work out? Will Bailey and Sarah ever end up together? You'll have to see for yourself. 
South Park: Unless you're suffering from explosive diarrhea, you'll probably take quite a few study breaks to head to the section lounge to watch Comedy Central's highest-rated program. Ifyou don't already, you will probably know every episode by heart by the end of the year, but it's still fun to watch Kenny die and Cartman gain weight. Yeah, I want Cheezy Poofs! 
28 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


The Star Wars Trilogy: George Lucas' sci-fi, intergalactic epic should be at the top ofyour list. Multiple viewings in dorm rooms throughout the year spark some of the most identi­fiable film conversation on campus. Disregardingthenow­retro special effects, those dopey Ewoks and all of Mark Hamill's "acting," the trilogy presents topics and ideas that can easily be incorporated into any theology, philosophy orlit­erature class. 
Scream & Scream2: The two highest gross­ing horror movies ofall time and great films for snuggling close on the couch before parietals roll around. A bunch ofhigh school students (college freshmen in the sequel) run from a masked killer with a lust for blood. Even if you've seen them before, these movies still offer some fear-inspiring surprises that are great for boring nights in a dorm room. 
Rudy: Hoosiers on 
the football field ­
at Notre Dame! This 
saccharine-sweet, 
beat-the-odds story is 
strictly of the beens 
there, done-that vari­
ety, but the campus 
footage makes for 
fun repeat viewing. 
Unless your parents 
have already made 
you watch it with 
them 100 times, this 
is a must-see. 

Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fic­tion soundtracks: Itis a little­known fact that a Notre Dame dorm party is not permitted unless a song from one of these two soundtracks is played. Whether you are "Hooked on a Feeling" or "Stuck in the Middle," these . songs are probably the most overplayed on campus next to the "Notre Dame Victory 
March." 
Dave Matthews Band: The slow tempo of a snare drum ... a saxophone joins in ... a violin starts fiddling away. It could only be one song-Dave Matthews' "Ants March­ing." Many students find this odd combina­tion of instruments and the whiny-voiced "Dave" (as h.e is avuncularly dubbed by students) simply annoying. There are, how­ever, 20 times as many students who think he's really cool. Whether you like him or hate him, get to know him. He's as inevi­table as death and taxes. 0 



. HEY FROSH 
How to tacklefhe ND experience (and entertain your friends, too)· 
Outo/Bo~n~s(seebelowfordefinition) is supposed to cover entertainment, but unfortunately it's too early in the school year for stuff like that. So we're gonna go with the biggest source of enter­tainment coming to campus right now: the freshmen. • While many people give freshmen ad­vice on how to be entertained on campus, few people mention how entertaining the. ' frosh are. Admitit: the whole freshman experience is just plain silly. The new· backpacks, the directions to DeBartqlo, the freshman orientation activities -it's funny, that's what it is. And those are just laugh for two hmirs; watch a frosh and yeareachfreshmanbloomsfromtheseed­you '11 be entertained for a semester. ling of a high school senior into the full­
Just like a movie, not all freshmen are grown blossom of a Notre Dame student. entertaining. Huge classes, strange neigh-The calls home get less frequent, the bors and a sense of loneliness intimidate number of friends grows, the sense of everyone entering college. This usually re-loneliness is eclipsed by being one of sults iii a lack of confidence, which in tum community, and the desire for late night results in a desire to return home or at least . Domino's reigns supreme. This is the 
. stayinsideallsemester.Everyfresbn!anhas . the opportunity to be entertaining, but few re8:lize this potential. , ·· 
The freshmen to watch for are the .ones who take chances. Ones who get out and introduce themselves to strangers. Ones who . balance study and partying so that they 
. the times when you 're sober! . · · complement each other. Ones whoimmedi-· 
Freshmen are entertaining to young and· .·. ately get involved indubs. Fi:eshm,en who 
old alike. To other ND students, because spend every waking hour longip.g for home< 
they remind them of the way they used to· '. ar~ a dim~ a·dozen -.it's the oneswho get·•· 
be; to family and friends, who are watch-·· · involved who stand out, Sure, you might 
ing their little babies grow up before their · make a total fool of yourself alongthe way, 
eyes; and even to other freshmen, who but being a fool is almost as important as 
don'Lrealize that they're all having the being able to laugh at yourself. 
same experience. Watchamovieandymi'll Somewhere between a semester and a point where the freshmen get really en­tertaining: when all the upperclassmen and adults have to watch with envy as the new freshmen begin making the most of their four years at Notre Dame. 
So here's. another bit of advice about the Notre Dame experience from all ofus at OOB: relax. The Notre Dame commu­nity will reach out to make you feel wel­come. All we. ask in· return is a little entertainment ~ try to give something back during your freshman year instead of watching it go by. Remember, laugh and the world laughs with you, cry and we'll all laugh anyway. Or something like that. 

. HELLO,. MY NAME IS ... 
.Welcome One and· All, Old and New 
·somewhere·amid all the .farewells to : family and all the hoopla of preparing . to go.away for school/you've probably neverheard of the most vital part of the Notr~ Dame experience: Out oj Bounds. That's right-the very article you 're read­
-ing: right now is probablythe best-kept .secret at the university;• 
.Out ofBound:ds a column published by .. >. every week to dish outthis little slice of 
·· Scholastic; the Notre Dame student niaga~: •·· heaven; From time to time we even write zirie, wb.ich arriv~s at the dining halls every' ': stuff that people want to ~ad (but <ion't other Thursday evening. Unofficially, ·9ut coiintonit). Inshort,OutofBoundsisone ofBounds is whatever the heck we decide it · ofmany reasons to pick up Scholastic­is. .· . so whether you're a bright-eyed, bushy-A lot of ent~rtainment issues, a dash of ...· tail(ld freshman or a jaded senior, keep sarcasm and asprig ·of parsley combine -coming back for more! 0 
by Joe Gallagher 

SUMMER 1998 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 

m 
z 
-I 
m 
70 
~ 
z 
~ 
m 
z 
-I 


MACRl'S ON THE RACE 
214 N. NILES Ave. 
~~~~!~~~"~~~~~ 

Six 7' TVs 
NTN 

pATIO DINING PASTA SPECIALTIES 
A UNIQUE DINING ATMOSPHERE 
30 SCHOlASTIC · SUMMER 1998 
MAGAZINE 
Standin' at the Edge of Tomorrow ~ 
z 
Don't expect to live the life ofZack and Slater when you move in 
BY KARA ZUARO t still shocks me that Saved By the Bell: The College Years only
I
lasted one season on prime time. The theme song was catchy, the 
characters were refreshingly one-dimensional, and the studio audience generated the most enthusiastic hoots and hollers that I've ever heard. After a year at Notre Dame, I realize how well that show prepared me for my college experience. Sure, there were a few slight! y umealistic aspects ofZack and Kelly's California U, but on the whole, it was a lot more realistic than you might think. 
First of all, the Saved by the Bell (SBTB) gang is kind of like a family. Out here, folks take the family idea pretty seriously. Contrary to what some ofyou skeptics are thinking, the NotreDame family is not just some advertising ploy. It does exist, and like any other family, it's a little bit dysfunctional. Sure, you've got some positive points: the grandma-like lunch ladies in the dining hall who remember your name ( or at least read it offyour ID card before they swipe it). And you've got a rector or rectress in each dorm to serve as a parental authority figure. The problems set in when you get into the Big Brother and Sister assignments. At some point you will be assigned a Big Sibling from your brother or sister dorm. These Big Siblings do not want to counsel you. They want to see if you're cute enough to take to their next SYR. Do you want to know how many giggly girls I've heard declare, "I'm going to'a dance with my Big Brother this weekend"? I didn't think so. 
On SBTB, the gang is disappointed when they find out that there's no drinking allowed in their dorm. Here, a lot of kids are disap­pointed when they find out about our alcohol restrictions. I don't know what the deal with that is because I've only got a couple of girls inmy section who are over 21, but every Saturday and Sunday morning, tl).ere is this mysterious mountain of empty Budweiser and Rolling Rock cases sitting atop our section recycling bin. Of course, I know now that these empty boxes are just the special gifts we get from the Beer Fairy for being so good all week. Sometimes the Beer Fairy sends other blessings, too, such as bestowing my roommate with the power ofsong. On some weekends, she stumbles into the room in the wee hours ofthe morning and starts rapping the Fresh Prince ofBel Air theme song. Of course, like all fairies, the Beer Fairy has a mischievous side. Sometimes she makes people sprawl across the floors of strange rooms with their heads in puke­filled wastepaper baskets. It's a good thing you're reading this because they never really warn you about the Beer Fairy on SBTB. 
Now, there are a few-aspects oflife under the Dome that don't fit in with theSBTB life-style. For one thing, at California U, nobody's parents ever come to ·visit. Here, somebody's parents are always snooping around. Keep in mind that your parents might not come back, or worse yet, cut your cash supply, ifyou scare them by letting them in on your deviant college ways. Just the other day I was walking to class behind a pair•of parents who were apparently a little shaken up. . 
SUMMER 1998 
er, 
-I
"Well," said the dad, with a touch of worry in his voice, "Brian 
seems very comfortable after his first year here." 0 ''He was always such a good boy," added the apprehensive mom. iU "Seems well adjusted," declared Dad. "Got some friends. Com­-I 
fortable with his surroundings. Grades are good." 
"But honey," said mom in a hushed voice, stopping short and 0 turning to face her husband, "When did he start collecting shot z glasses?" 
Silly parents. I took it upon myself to inform them that not everyone who collects shot glasses uses them for drinking. Be­sides, Natty Light is much cheaper than hard liquor, and it comes in cans. 
Kids might develop a few bad habits that range from spending too much time building beer-can pyra­mids to spending too much time at the library. But other than that, most kids don't change \ . toomuch.Again,justlikeSBTB: ~ Zackisalwaysthefunguy,Slater 41, "-. ~' is always the womanizing jock, 
l\i~ \ 

Kelly is always the bimbo-next-\~ 1 .... door, and Screech is always the geek. College doesn't change them. Of course, you may find yourself expanding your horizons a bit once you get settled in here. Most of this has to do with dating. Say you like the Beastie Boys but 
'\ 

there's a cutie in your phi­losophy class whci' sway into 
,~.

country. Before you know it, you'11 find yourself at a 1\I 1 1 
\I,,,,.­

Brooks and Dunn concert. Or perhaps you're strictly /· · into action movies, but if that / dreamboat from the dining hall asks you to see WhenHarryMet Sally, you'll manage to sit through ...... 
-
it, I'm sure. 
•. 

Whatever the case, you've •c::, justgot to remember to hang in there, develop a safe and healthy relationship with the 
-Beer Fairy, and whert the go­ing gets tough, just hum along to the lyrics of my all-time fa­vorite TV theme song: "I'm standin' at the edge oftomorrow, today." . 



.....J 
<{ 
Don't Blink
z 
Four years ago, a friend who stood where I now stand offered me a piece of parting wisdom. He said, "Don't blink." Sure, yeah, whatever, I thought. Four long years of college stretched before me and I hoped only to be spared from this sappy senior's sentimentality. His reflective mood clashed with mine as an energetic freshman ready to take on the world, or at least the world of Notre Dame. But four years later, his words are still with me. I go back to them often when it hits me how quickly things change and how unprepared I feel for them to do so. Just days shy of graduation, I am about to leave the place you will arrive at shortly. Four years older and, hopefully, wiser, I hope to be able to answer some of the innumerable questions that lurk in 
----------'------------every . soon-to-be freshman's mind. ButYou will never have a period of. to be honest, you will 
ask yourself far more

time as intense as your college 
questions than you can years to examine who you are ever answer during your college years. Some of
and who you want to be. 
those questions will ----------,-----------challenge you to the 
Lauren Winterfield is a graduating senior from Hinsdale, Ill. She will be working for Catholic Charities in Chicago after leaving Notre Dame. 
i 1 
32 SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
core of your being and may eventually make you look at life differently. Some of them will be more like trying to decide if you want to order your late­night snack from Papa John's or Pizza Hut. And some others will be in between, but still pretty important: choosing classes and roommates, decid­ing whether to live off-campus or on. Regardless of the overall importance of the question you are grappling with, you will always be thinking about something. And that, as you will soon discover, is a pretty cool thing. 
Never again will such constant stimulation ­mental, physical, spiritual or emotional -be pre­sented to you or, more often than not, thrown at you. Before you even think you've settled into your dorm room, ·you will be attending your first home football game, tailgating, scoping out a potential SYR date in the dining hall and taking tests. You'll go home at Christmas and realize that you never did unpack that last box that's been sitting in your room all semester, and you rearranged your room about six times since your parents left on orientation weekend. Your clothes will be permeated with dining hall odor, you might not have too many pairs of underwear left, and you almost definitely will be suffering from a sleep deprivation more severe than you ever imagined. Despite the seeming discomfort of the circumstances and the sheer pleasure of returning once again to the comforts of home, you will eventually realize that it's just that disorder -that randomness of life, that discomfort-for which you will long most when you leave. 
Anything can happen during the next four years. You'11 soon discover that the most significant changes you'll see are ones that you could not even articulate now. As a potential math major, you may find that poetry is. your passion. You may rule the school by your senior year or you may leave it before you get there. You may leave forever, you may spend a year traveling around Europe. You may participate in a Summer Service Project that opens your heart to the possibility of doing post-graduate service work. You might fall in love, you might have your heart broken, you might not even speak to a member of the opposite sex. Whatever your path, that's okay. Just keep fol­lowing it and be open to the miraculous potential around you. 
While you may feel okay with who you are and where you're going by senior year, you may be more confused than you were when you got here. But as my very wise friend also said, "We don't go to college to become something, we go to become someone." You will never again have a period of time as intense as your college years to examine who you are and who you want to be. And that burgeoning self-awareness happens without your even realizing it. It happens both because of and despite late nights in the library, overindulgence in alcohol, fights with roommates and a diet almost entirely void ofnutritional value. It is that unsettledness that allows you to create strong bonds with others and to take the chances that allow you to go to the places you never thought possible. 
You might not always view this process as fun as you go through it, but-it really is. You inevitably view it that way when it's over, so savor it while it lasts. 0 
SUMMER 1998 
by Lauren Winterfield 


FALL MALL 
Amarket of your favorite back-to-school merchandise 
~ORM ROOM] NECESSITIES 
RE-FRI-GER-A-TO 
schedule 
SAT 8-22 12PM-8PM 
SUN 8-23 9AM-6PM 
P61TERS 
Parents: Keep track of your kids 
Only $35 a year ­regular biweekly issues plus the annual Football Review 
You'll find: -• the latest campus news and sports 
• 
national arid campus entertainment coverage ·· 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happening on weekends 

•
·off-the-wall humor 


STEPAN CENTER ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
FURNITURE 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 


I 
I I I I I I I I I I 
R 
I I I 

Please put me on your subscription list. Name: Address:_.__________ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 303 Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.I 



Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
THE 

LaFortune Student Center University of Notre Dame 
Phone (219) 631-COPY • Fax (219) 631-FAX1 

fl 
21 
The Copy Shop on the lower level of the LaFortune Student Center is Notre Dame's student copy center. The Copy Shop offers a wide selection of products and services. 
High Speed Copies '-" Color Copies Fax Service • Binding • Resumes Desk Top Publishing • Course Packets Printing • Thesis & Dissertation Copying Overhead Transparencies .Jt School Supplies Laminating' • Carbonless Forms • Diskettes 

TEI &WffKENDS 
Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Quality Ql 
COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPiES COPIES COPIES CC 
Ouickly1 · Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly! Quickly' Quickly1 QL 

Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly' 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly' 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly' 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly' 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 
COPIES 
Quickly! 
Quality 






