



THE NOTRE DAME !
SCHOLASTIC
D
Volume 72, No. 17
February 24, 1939
Enjoy the Post tonight!
IS THE U.S. PREVENTING (or provoking)
A NEW WORLD WAR?
What one country worries Europe most today? Germany? Italy? Russia? Japan? No, the answer is the United States. A brilliant foreign correspondent reaches this conclusion after gathering evidence from behind the European scene, where statesmen fear that Uncle Sam may upset the bomb racks. See Unde Sam Scares Europe, by Pemaree Bess.
They toy with
DEATH
UNDER THE RIVER
► "Sand hogs” have their choice of three quick, easy ways to die. They can be drowned, trapped by fire, killed by compressed air. No wonder they call river tunneling a man’s job—a crazy man’s! Here’s the story of the young mechanic who licked a job no old-timer would touch, you Can't Stop a Guy Like That, says Borden Chase.
THE SPY
they wouldn’t believe
► It was March, 1936 ... and Hitler was moving into the Rhineland. Would he backdown if France mobilized? Only one Frenchman knew—and the Army wouldn’t believe him! A dramatic story of espionage: Crisis by William C. White.
Aiso
bagpipe music in a swamp? It gave Dr. MisCally the shock of his life. Here’s the strange story the Doc learned one night from The Pipe Major of Little Sorrowful. A short story by Glenn Allan.
"IMAGINE THAT HIRED GIRL making eyes at our son!” said Mrs. Timble. “Why, I think that just shows taste, natural good taste,” said her husband. Dorothy Thomas tackles a farm problem that might stump even the AAA. See Thank You, Rosie. .. .
Arizona
by CLARENCE BUDINGTON KELLAND
20 years old,and the
FIGHTINEST GAL IN
ALL ARIZONA!
Here’s a new kind of heroine—slim young Phoebe Titus, who had reddish* chestnut hair and a ready hand with a Sharps rifle. Fighting her own way through Arizona of the 60's ... a land overrun by Apache raiders, Mexican bandits, gamblers, murderers, and riffraff from the States. Fearing no man in the Southwest—yet finding there the one man she could love.
Start an exciting new novel in this week’s Post. First of eight installments.
A smashing, action-packed romance of the old Southwest :
uiHcn n BusinEssmnn OUTTALKS POLITICinnS —that’s news! _
ffey,Iuke,how do you shoot a
HYPOTHETICAL BULLET ?
► Businessmen admitted Washington their master at the game of words. But one dissented—Wendell L. Willkie. And New Dealers, after theTVA-Commonwealth . & Southern deal, ad- d mitted they had
W...'
met their master.
The Man Who Talked Back by ALVA JOHNSTON
• Suppose you were an antiaircraft gunner.
'	And were ordered to
S	beat off a sham attack
with “hypothetical” fa	bullets, and no search-
/yadKmA lights! What would you d°? That’s the puzzler Luke Dorgan’s regi-ment faced. You’ll find S’ their solution in
Luke Brings Home the Beacon by WILLIAM CHAMBERLAIN
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
February 24, 1939
No. 17
CONTINENTAL GYPSY ENSEMBLE HERE TONITE: GLEE CLUB GIVES CONCERT. TUESDAY
DEBATERS LEAVE FOR MANCHESTER MEET
By Thomas C. Fern eding
The tempestuous melodies of a nomadic race will shake the ageing boards of Washington Hall tonight at 8 o’clock when the Continental Gypsy Ensemble makes its first campus appearance. Next Tuesday evening Professor Daniel H. Pedtke and his University Glee Club will present a varied program of Irish
and German folk-songs, and Negro spirituals.
Franz Allers, Gloria Romano, Ador Berger, Carlo Brueckner, and Frank Kish are the featured artists in the Continental Ensemble, which will present a number of Gypsy folk songs by Mascagni and Rubinoff. “Dark Eyes” and selections from “The Countess Maritza” by Kalman are featured group numbers. Hungarian and Rumanian rhapsodies from the pens of Popper and Enesco are solo bits by Mr. Brueckner on the cello and Gloria Romano on the accordion.
Mr. Pedtke will present three new soloists — Edward Ettel and Frank Ciolino, tenors; and Bob Bischoff, baritone—when the Glee Club gives it second concert of the year Tuesday evening. William Mooney will play a group of piano solos.
Two Negro spirituals, including “Deep River,” two Irish folk-songs, “The Minstrel Boy" and “Little Irish Girl,” and an arrangement of “Old Mother Hubbard” in the classic polyphonic style of Handel will be included in the program. One of the featured numbers will be the Crucifixus from the Mass in B minor by Johann Bach—one of the works lost after Bach’s death and not found again until 1840 when Mendelssohn revived Bach’s works.
"Mob Psychology" Talk By Sheed. Wednesday
•
Francis J. Sheed, noted Catholic author and publisher, returns to Washington Hall Wednesday night at 8 o’clock to speak on “Mob Psychology.” Mr. Sheed has contributed to many Catholic reviews, both in England and the United States, and has three books to his name, Nullity of Marriage, A Way of Life, and Communism and Man. He is an old friend to Washington Hall audiences.
Daniel H. Pedtke
Presents three new soloists.
Papal Smuggler Spoke At '35 Commencement
In 1931, the late Pius XI wished to publish an encyclical condemning the Italian government. Monsignor Francis E. Spellman smuggled the document—tucked in a secret pocket of his bag—into France. It was Monsignor Spellman who, as Auxiliary Bishop of Boston, delivered the baccalaureate sermon here in 1935.
Once Upon a Time There Were Seven Irishmen....
It is last Saturday night after the basketball game and a bunch of the boys are whooping it up in a downtown coffee-shop when in comes the Marquette team. A couple of Dangerous Dans named M--------- and R------- are at the counter over a glass of acidophilus milk.
M------- decides he wants a closer look at the Hilltoppers. He shoves aside his milk and moves towards their table. Now M---------- is nearsighted and he has left his pince’-nez in his other pants, so R---- follows after him picking up tables and chairs.
M---------- announces that the Marquettes would not bump into each
Four Notre Dame debate teams left yesterday for Manchester, Ind., where today and tomorrow they will participate in the annual tournament held in that city. Seventy schools will participate in the tournament.
The Notre Dame lineup is: Frank Fitch and Al Funk, “A” team, negative; Frank Parks and Milton Williams, “A” team affirmative; Thomas Grady and William Meier, “B” team, negative; John Wintermeyer and Gerald Flynn, “B” team, affirmative.
The first debate of the 1939 season last Wednesday was a non-decision affair with Marquette University in Washington Hall. Veterans Frank Fitch and Al Funk argued the negative side of the question, “Resolved: That the United States should cease spending public funds for the purpose of stimulating business.” Marquette was represented by Aiken and Grossman. Frank Parks, a member of the Notre Dame “A” team affirmative, acted as general chairman for the contest. Prior to their debate’with Notre Dame, the Marquette team had just completed a 13 day tour covering several mid-western states. -
Notre Dame meets St. Ambrose College here, Sunday, Feb. 26, in preparation for the University of Iowa Tournament, March 2 to 4.
other so frequently if they would open their eyes after the shoot, and then asks, “Is there an Irishman in the house?”
Having expressed himself with full candor the rhetorical M------ is distracted by a friend across the room. He wanders off, leaving R---- sole possessor of the field.
One Marquetter stands up and says, “I’m Irish,” and six of his friends also arise to claim similar ancestry.
It is not the time for action; besides the door is too far away. R---- begins to talk very fast: “Who’s Irish? I’m not Irish. My friend’s Irish. I don’t want to fight. And besides I don’t care who wins anyway. ...”
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BARREDA FLAYS NAZI JEWISH PROGRAM
T H E W E E K	By Bill Donnelly
“The Persecution of the Jews in Nazi Germany” was the question presented for argument by F. G. Barreda at the Wrangler meeting last Tuesday. Mr. Barreda thought the persecution a terrible thing and said so. Other members' of the club (noticeably all from New York City) weren’t so sure.
Arguing fiy first citing the reasons for the persecutions and then attacking them, Barreda disposed of the old
F. G. Barreda
He thought it detestable.
scare that has recently been popularized by Father Coughlin, namely that Jews foster Communism. Said the speaker finally: “Nonsense, there’s not supposed to be any money in Communism.”
Point number two: that Jews will break down racial purity and overthrow Nordic supremacy came in for a rough time. “Historically, sociologically, and economically it is difficult, rather it is impossible, to prove any such thing as the supremacy of the Nordic.”
When, in the rebuttal which is the source of argument at a Wrangler meeting, Walt Johnson wanted to know about the war record of the Jews in Germany, wondering out loud if they hadn’t stayed behind and gotten control of all the business of Germany, Barreda amazed the assembly by producing figures and facts. “. . . and even if it were possible that they had gotten control of the business, what happened to those German business men after the War was over and the inflationary period set in?” was the parting shot.
Possibly the most significant statement of the entire speech was given during a discussion of human rights and the right of participation in them by the Jews. It was “No nation is greater than the minimum right that is given to its least citizen.”
George Susce, of Pittsburgh, Pa., and Ray Mueller of Pittsburg, Kansas, will both be behind the bat for the Pittsburgh Pirates this year.
Small Fry
We only managed to keep one anecdote of the Illinois Relay trip aw’ay from our roommate and his “Splinters,” but it is a good anecdote. As the winners of the shot put were waiting by the victory stand to get their prizes, Hackney of Kansas State who had taken first place leaned over condescendingly to Beinor and asked him, “Do you play football?” “A little,” All-American Joe said modestly. Hackney then turned to Faymonville, “What do you play, tackle?” Bill told him he didn’t play football. “Well,” Hackney said as he drew himself up, “I’m All Big Six mvself.”
* ' •
Personal question to all Seniors:— CAN YOU HEAR ME NOW?
Service	.
A couple of students rushed out in agony after the basketball scandal last Saturday night and got on a trolley to go down town and drown their sorrows in dancing at the Palais Royale. As they waited for their trolley to start another trolley came in and stopped in front of the one they were on. Both trolleys filled up somewhat and finally the other one pulled out and left theirs standing there. After a rather long wait a second trolley came in front of them and not to be duped again they asked the conductor for permission to change. “Sorry,” he said, “you’ve already paid your fare.” Then they got sore at the whole company and decided to walk to town. Of course they hadn’t gone more than 50 yards before both the front trolley and the one they had been on went rattling by them.
But then again we know some other fellows who let four trolleys go by while waiting for the taxi they had called because they were in a hurry. They finally ended up by taking the fifth trolley and just as the car started a whole fleet of taxis came roaring up the avenue. You just can’t win. .
Secret Slanderer
There is a mystery over in Alumni Hall. Some fellow went to the trouble of putting on each door of a whole corridor newspaper clippings appropriate to the inmate within, and no one seems to know who the ingenious and energetic fellow was. But they say that a half hour after it happened, about ten o’clock last Monday night, the whole corridor was filled with a mulling slow-moving mob of fellows just walking up and down the corridor, examining every door minutely, and commenting in hushed groups on the appropriateness of each
remark. For most of the remarks you would have to know the fellow to which it applied to really get full benefit, but you can get a vague idea of the general tone from such things as “Two Bit Special,” “Tugboat Annie sails again,” “Everybody thought I’d be a failure,” “Our national shame,” “False Alarm,” “Glamorboy,” “Local ghost makes good,” “Tell me, am I safe in these pants?” “Keep safe from dangerous lips,” and “They say she married him for his money.”
Bottom of the Week
The bedraggled-looking prom dates last Sunday — slinking through the rain to ten o’clock mass.
“Uh”
A friend of ours tells us of a professor in one of the other branches of the Arts and Letters school who has such a habit of sticking “ah’s” and “uh’s” in the pauses that occur while he’s groping for the correct word that some of his students have become more interested in keeping “uh” statistics than in the lectures themselves. One student who has been a particularly diligent “uh” counter says that the record for a full period is 340, while there was one record streak of 114 in only 11 minutes. The statistician claims that if the professor could only sustain this particularly fast 11-minute pace, by the end of the period he could acquire a total of 513 “uh’s.”
Odds and. Ends
An agent reports that he saw a professor down in the South Bend Music Shop ask in a loud voice for a catalogue of classical music and then in a furtive whisper ask for “Mr. Bach Goes to Town” by Benny Goodman. ... We also hear vague rumors that a certain former Scrip editor has been trailing Mr. Fenlon to the South Bend Book Shop, watching the books he buys, and using his taste in books as a criterion for his own.... We’re sorry, fellers, we just haven’t got any prom stories. Notre Dame promgoers don’t seem to be doing the odd things they used to do. Isn’t there a Miller Mallet and his red sash and use of hyperbole hiding anywere?.... We have always known there was something different about engineers. We always thought it was indefinable but we had a feeling of knowing more closely than ever before what it was when we saw a group of about eight of them taking informal snapshots after the Washington day exercises and one leader saying, “Now you electrical engineers stand there and you chemical engineers stand down here and you aeronautical....”
FEBRUARY 24. 1939
5
AMERICAN FLAG INC. SHOWS 50% GAIN
By Ed Huston
Why is the flag at half-mast not at half-mast? That was our assignment, and we were told not to ask foolish questions, but to report in a week with the correct answer. It seems that someone was worried because for the three days following the death of Pope Pius XI the flag was seen flying about three-quarters of the way up the staff. And so we set out to find someone who knew someone who knew why the flag at half-mast was not at half-mast.
We started our quest at the little booth in the University offices falsely labeled, “Information.” We wore our most charming smile and sweetly asked, “Who pulls the flag up in the morning and down at night?” In answer we received a lifted eyebrow, a frozen stare, and a sniff. Finally the little lady, remembering her duty as dispenser of wisdom to an unenlightened public, answered, “The janitor of the Commerce building.” This was a guess and a very wild one, but we thanked the little lady and set out to find the janitor.
We found him in the Dean’s office playing checkers with the Dean and beating him rather badly. We asked him how he was able to beat the Dean, and. he answered, “Oh! It’s easy,” as he calmly jumped three checkers. But he disclaimed any knowledge of the flag and said that the janitor of Washington Hall was charged with that duty.
Rather Nice Flag-pole
Coming out of the Commerce building we cast a venomous glance at the flag-pole and silently cursed it for all the misery it had caused us. It is a rather nice flag-pole except taht it has a tendency to lean toward Cartier field. The moment we noticed that lean we began to hope that some day it would topple over on one of our favorite professors.
Then we began to think that it was silly to chase the janitor when all we had to do was sit on one of those nice cannons and wait for him to come to us. And so we sat, and we sat, and it got colder, and colder, but still no janitor. We began to entertain visions of freezing to death on the cannon and getting a plaque erected to our memory with “Faithful to His Duty” engraved on it. When that little hacking cough that indicates the first stages of pneumonia came upon us, we gave up and went in search of the janitor.
We found him sitting in his room in Washington Hall with earmuffs (Continued on Page 22)
FATHER O'HARA RETURNS FROM S. AMERICA, FINDS 'STUDENT-EXCHANGE' DIFFICULT
By Bill Scanlan
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., browned and rested after representing the United States at the Pan-American Conference in Lima, Peru, resumed his Presidential duties at the University last week enthusiastic to further student exchange methods between this country and the South American nations.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.
Travelled 20,000 miles.
They Marry in Style in Mobridge, S. Dak.
Do you want to be a journalist? Here’s the way to describe a wedding. Learn now in one easy lesson. The textbook is the Mobridge (S. D.) Tribune.
“Miss Jennie Jones and Bob Henry were married at the Jones mansion last night. The bride is a daughter of Constable Jones who has made a good officer and will undoubtedly be re-elected this spring. He offers a fine horse for sale in another column of this issue. The groom runs a grocery store on Main Street and is a steady patron of our advertising columns. He has a good line of bargains in his ad this week. All summer he paid two cents more for butter than any other store in town. They were married by Reverend Josiah Butterworth, who last week called at this office and gave us a nice order for handbills. He is also going to give some time to the real estate business and will write fire insurance. So say the business cards we recently printed for him. Jennie and Bob left on the ten o’clock train for Milwaukee to visit the bride’s uncle who, we understand has lots of money and cancer.”
■Mobridge (S.Dak.) Tribune
“Juan Carlos Goyeneche, one of the editors of the new Catholic magazine called Sol y Luna and one of the secretaries of the Argentine delegation at the Lima conference, will come to Notre Dame next September to accept a graduate scholarship in philosophy,” the genial University president announced when interviewed in his favorite Sorin Hall room.
Belloc in Spanish
“Goyeneche, son of the mayor of Buenos Aires, and some of his friends have translated Belloc, Chesterton and other authors into Spanish. In addition, Alejando Bunge, professor at the University of Buenos Aires, will be a visiting professor at Notre Dame next fall.” (Bunge lectured here in 1922.) “He is Chief Statistician of the Argentines and is on the editorial staff of the La Nation, Buenos Aires Daily.”
“How far did you travel?” I asked.
“Why I was just figuring the total the other day and I found that I travelled approximately 20,000 miles —by rail, auto, air, ocean liner, and lake launches,” he replied. A trip across the Chilean lakes which were surrounded by volcanoes and snow capped mountains especially thrilled him. He was guest of the Chilean and Argentine governments at the time.
“I have always been interested in student exchange,” he continued, “but the obstacles of 20 years ago still exist today, even more so—and that is the difference of the exchange value of South American money in terms of the American dollar. In Brazil, for example, the milreis which was worth 30 cents 30 years ago is now worth but five cents in American currency. That would mean that the American boy spends $800 for an education while a Brazilian must pay $4,800 for the same service.”
He quoted similar instances in Peru and Chile — the peso in the latter country, once worth 20 cents is now valued at only 2% to 3 cents. “The tuition cost for a student at the Catholic University in Santiago, Chile, is only ten or fifteen dollars a year— 400 pesos are worth but $10; and the cost of living is low there too. Maybe lots of the American boys will be going there to school when they hear that!”
(Continued on Page 22)
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
SHARPS AND FLATS
Liturgy
Pius XI synthesized and gave direction to the teachings of his immediate predecessors to meet the evils which beset the world—Benedict XV on peace, Pius X on secularism, Leo XIII on the restoration of Thomistic philosophy. He would have his children intellectual but first of all spiritual. The Liturgy, he kept on insisting, furnished both the substance and the form. As the true basis of the Liturgy he renewed and encouraged an understanding of the doctrine of the Mystical Body of Christ. Lent being a time for reflection affords an excellent opportunity for reading on the subject. In the order named these authors offer a good approach; the titles are almost identical: Myers, Gruden, Sheen, Kelly, Angers. The Index to Catholic Periodicals also lists many articles on the same subject.
Mass Calendar: Feb. 26 to'March 4
Sunday 26—First of Lent. Semidouble. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 3d The Living and the Dead (Omnipotens). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday 27—St. Gabriel of the Mother of Sorrows. Confessor. Double. Mass proper. 2d prayer of the ferial. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Tract. Last Gospel of the ferial: or ferial mass with Collects as above.
Tuesday 28—Ferial. Simple. Mass proper. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis) 3d The Living and the Dead (Omnipotens). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, March 1—Lenten Ember Day, Mass proper. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 3d The Living and the Dead (Omnipotens) 4tb Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Thursday 2—Ferial. Simple. Mass proper. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 3d The Living and the Dead (Omnipotens) 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday 3—Ember Day. Simple. Mass proper, 2d, 3d, and 4th prayers as yesterday.
Saturday 4—Ember Day. St. Casimir. Confessor. Semi- double. -Mass: Os justi (Common). 2d prayer of the ferial. 3d St. Lucius. 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Tract. Last Gospel of the ferial: or mass of the ferial with Collects as above.
February 11, 1939 Dear Editor:
I would like to protest against Mr. Heywood’s criticism of the “Musical Fest” as reviewed in the February 10th issue of The Scholastic. I do not pretend or claim to be an authority on music therefore I do not question the statements Mr. Heywood makes regarding the quality of the performance. No doubt some of his criticism is true, perhaps some untrue; that, of course, is his own opinion.
However, I do not believe that Mr. Heywood is justied in some of his remarks, for example: “But as long as pianists insist upon inflicting us with the acrobatic Liszt, there will always be some of us who prefei’ to listen to our scales and exercises in a less fluorescent form”; “. . . still Debussy did write a few other things beside “Clair de Lune” and “Reflections dans 1’eau”; “. . . I Love Life” has long since outlived its usefulness”; “Thank God foi* a Garden” was executed with the usual hushed sentimentality.” I feel that these remarks bear not at all upon the technical perfection of the artists, but rather they merely represent Mr. Heywood’s personal prejudices. I do not think that any critic should condemn a number because he dislikes it, but rather, he should base his criticism upon the artist’s interpretation and presentation of that number.
Mr. Heywood’s criticism would lead one, who did not attend the concert,
Ladner Traces Portraiture of Medieval Popes, Claims Ecclesiastical Politics Influenced Art
In the first of a series of three lectures, Dr. Gerhard Ladner, last Tuesday evening discussed the Iconography of the Medieval Popes.
Explaining that Iconography means portraiture Dr. Ladner showed how ecclesiastical politics influenced art. A series of slides of the Medieval Popes demonstrated the development of the Icons as paralleled to historical events of the time. A perfect example was the triple tiara which appears on so many statues and pictures of Boniface VIH.
Starting with portraits found in the latter fourth century catacombs, he traced the development of the portraits through the mosaics of the fifth and sixth century basilicas to the highly developed and symbolized art of the Middle Ages.
Wednesday afternoon Dr. Ladner discussed the relation of Church History to the architecture of the Church Building.
It seem to the audience that Dr.
to believe that it was poorly chosen and presented, and more or less a failure. This is quite contrary to fact. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the vast majority, the concert was well chosen and presented, as well as being a definite success.
In presenting this concert Mr. Collins attempted something entirely new. For this reason alone he and his fellow artists should be encouraged and not discouraged.
Sincerely
Bob Connolly Dillon Hall
February 21, 1939 Dear Editor:
I am grateful for the opportunity to reply to Mr. Connolly’s letter. It should be clearly understood that I accepted Mr. Mooney’s invitation to write the criticism of the “Music Fest” on condition that I would comment on the performance as I saw it.
Criticism loses its meaning and descends to mere back-slapping when the critic does not hold to a sense of values, rigidly and impersonally. I should have been doing violence both to my own criteria and to the performers themselves if I had pretended that either the program-selection or the presentation was irreproachable. Credit should certainly be given Mr. Collins for his initiative in presenting a group of student musicians in recital and my review did just that.
The function of the musical critic (Continued on Page 20)
Ladner fell short of proving his point, which was that the lay investiture controversy had a controlling influence on ecclesiastical architecture. On the other hand, he did make clear the relation of the Eucharistic Controversy to the development of the Church from the simple meeting room of the basilica to the elaborate shrine of the Romanesque style.
He also discussed various methods of interior decoration used in the Churches of the Middle Ages, describing the introduction of symmetry and the use of monstrosities, such as the gargoyles of Notre Dame.
Dr. Ladner ended his series Wednesday evening by declaring that the Iconoclasm of the Eastern Roman Emperors was inspired primarily by political reasons. It was an attack on the Church in the sense that the Byzantine Emperors, especially Leo HI, wished to keep the Church from manifesting herself externally.
FEBRUARY 24, 1939
7
? IS ELATED; PLANS TO STRANGLE KELL
Mr. McGoivan continues as ?’s Boswell....
Like all great artists ? is temperamental. Sometimes I think it would be more apropos to call him an exclamation point instead of a question mark—certainly there is nothing as prosaic as a period about him. One mood will have him punching at clouds in a mountain of glee; another mood will find him uprooting trees in gargantuan despair.
One evening I sauntered over to the gym to see what I could see, and I found Mac, the keeper, and assorted athletes, managers, students, and juniors running in all directions. ? just sat on the dirt floor laughing like a Peter Amo creation in the Macy Parade. He had a small heap of footballs, soccerballs and basketballs in front of him, and every minute or so he’d burst one by squeezing it between his thumb and index finger like a walnut. Once ? saw a head peer above the bleachers and he flicked a ball in that direction the way you would a cigaret. It split open with a roar and rattled the wooden stand.
“Missed him!” ? laughed.
I was watching the fun through a window and could hear the besieged group screaming at ? to stop. But it wasn’t until his favorite manager came in and told him that unless “he cut this nonsense he’d go without his spinach for a few weeks” that ? showed any sign of relaxing. The gang got up then and walked away muttering. I could hear various remarks: “Oh, if Kell were only a couple of feet taller!” arid “Couldn’t we put a mickey firm in his gruel just before the Bengal Bouts?”
The manager told me then why ? had been so wrought up. It turned out that ? had been told that this was to be a wrestling match and not a fist fight, as I had previously informed him. The first thing he said after recovering from a slight swoon was— “Oh, youse mean I kin strangle Kell quiet instead of moiderin’ him wid left hooks. Gee, dat’s swell. Cuz I could never stand a guy screamin’, especially when he’s all blood. Hasslin’ ! Gee, now I kin croak him peaceful. No kiddin’, at’s swell.”
? called me over then where he was dandling the favorite manager on his knee and told me he heard from “a guy who kin read” that I had been calling him “?” in The Scholastic. I told him that was true.
“Well, why doncha call me somethin’ besides a question mark?”
I told him that searching for a name to fit his peculiar status and talents was my one big puzzle and
• (Continued on Page 23)
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
Freshmen, the loud voice that woke you up at 10 a.m. last Wednesday with a dissertation on “Washington on the Rights of Man” belongs to Claude Francis Fitch, Cherokee, Iowa. He was delivering the Washington Day oration.
His full title is a long one: Senior class orator, chairman of the discussion group of the Commerce Forum, varsity debater for three years, chairman of interhall debating as a junior, interhall debater one year, member of the Wranglers, and the Iowa Club, and accounting major.
Although his first name is Claude, the boys all call him Frank. Claude is sidetracked because it’s his father’s name.
Right now Frank is wrangling in
the Manchester tourney at North Manchester, Ind. About 60 teams are competing for the championship.
In search of more books for his library, Frank attends the shows at the Granada whenever possible. And he’s got some of the boys in Walsh Hall corridor to help, too.
He goes in for engineering as a side line. Mirrors are so placed in his room that by opening his cabinet door half way he can see the back of his head. Several prom goers availed themselves of the contraption.
Last year when he arrived he was to eat in the caf, but over night he was shifted to the dining halls. Few know the reason. Anyway he hasn’t done it again since. Intends to hitchhike to Florida with Fred Sisk at Easter time—just for the trip. Last year he was a frequent visitor to Michigan City and St. Joe’s, where Joe Ryan and he played catch with
CATHOLIC ACTION IS NOT NEW—McGUIRE
By Harry Penrose
With a whole-hearted endorsement from Bishop Noll, Fort Wayne, “As a man who really knows his subject.” Paul McGuire, of Australia, delivered a sincere and enlightening address on Catholic Action to a large audience in Washington Tuesday evening.
“I speak about nothing new,” said Mr. McGuire, “for Catholic Action is really nothing new. It is the same old business of converting people to Christ. Its new part is intensifying and extending the word of Christ in the world by the laity.”
Speaking with a fire that was strengthened by his deep-rooted belief in the cause he is working for, this lay apostle from “Down Under” astonished his audience with tales of what concerted action of a few lay people can do when they work for a common cause.
“Within a period of five years, in Shanghai alone, over a million and a half people have been converted as a result of Catholic Action,” he recounted, “and in Belgium the movement has become so strong that more than two-thirds of the families of that country belong to Catholic Action groups.” He stressed the fact that Catholic Action is not merely an after six o’clock affair. Real Catholic Action is a twenty-four hour job that allows no let-down.
“Of all the social forces now working in the world, the one that will have the most impact on this century is Catholic Action,” he said, basing his statement on the enormous growth of Catholic Action within the last decade. He believes that Catholic Action is one of the most far reaching reforms of the age. Essentially, it concerns the individual. “We must reform ourselves first, then we can branch out to others.”
When a group of confirmed Catholic Actionists combine and pray, study, and act together then, the lecturer maintained, almost any purpose could be accomplished. He stated that as a result of Catholic Action the social and political ills of the world would greatly diminish. He also advanced Catholic Action as a check to the totalitarian form of government. “When we are doing our jobs properly,” he said, “then we need not worry about Nazism and Communism. It is only when we fall down that they crop up.”
a bottle of ketchup among other things. Last year he used all spare time for bridge. Claims that 90 percent of the people in Cherokee are Indians. Swears that he isn’t one though.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
After you’ve listened to the Academy of Politics Forum tonight at 7:30 switch vour dial to that other CBS outlet, *WBBM for the “Campbell Playhouse.” There, Orson Welles tackles Phil Strong’s novel" County Fair,” the hilarious and yet very human comedy made famous by the late Will Rogers. This should test the versatility of Mr. Welles for it is hard to form an image of him in the role of the old exhibitor with his prize pig! Interested critics undoubtedly will be waiting this.
Local Data
Professor Roemer of the Philosophy Department will talk on the Faculty series next Monday night at 7:45.
It is good to hear that both Phil McHugh and Jack Solon, local staff announcers of last year have found places in commercial radio.
Future columns ■will carry sidelights on this year’s staff members and others connected with local radio activities.
The Old Discussion
That never ending controversty has popped up again. This time it has taken the form of a complaint on the part of the motion picture exhibitors who hold that Sunday radio offerings are hurting theatre box-office receipts. As a result, rumor has it that Darryl Zanuck yanked Tyrone Power from the air. To this writer, the controversy appears quite similar to that old argument we heard that broadcasting the baseball games would injure the attendance. Unless we are deceived the reverse has been true. And the answer lies in the fact that people want to see as well as hear.
Radio Miracles
Those who heard that recent “We, the People” broadcast of Mr. X, who had existed for years in a southern hospital, not knowing his own identity or place of residence, because of loss of memory, listened to a most moving appeal — a desperate cry over the ether! Now, it is known that his cry has been answered. Mr. X knows who he is—a Mr. Will H. Lawrence. His brother and sister living in Alabama identified him after the broadcast!
• Campus Radio Log
Mon. 7:45 — Faculty Talk — Prof. Roemer, Ph.D., WFAM.
Tue. 7:00—Men of Yesterdaywith Ed Heinz, WFAM.
Wed. 9:00 — Periscope of the News with Ed O’Connor, WSBT.
Thur. 9:30 — Music Appreciation — Music Department, WSBT.
Fri. 7:30—Academy of Politics, Forum, WFAM.
ACKERMANN FETED AT FACULTY BANQUET
By Joe Perkins
Professor Francis X. Ackermann was guest of honor at a banquet held last Thursday evening by the University Faculty Club. Prof. Ackermann, recently retired, had been a member of the University faculty since 1887. He has completed over a half century of active teaching here at Notre Dame.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University, recently returned from the Pan-American Conference in Lima, Peru, spoke interestingly of his recent trip.
Following the dinner the members and their guests enjoyed a delightful program which opened with a trumpet trio consisting of John Sheedy, John Stack, and Arthur Starr. Professor Francis J. T. O’Malley then read a poem, “The Good Heart,” which praised Prof. Ackermann’s loyal service to his students and his University.
The Good Heart
A man of good heart Came here long ago And labored and lately ceased Reluctantly.
A man of good heart Taught, glad to forego Greater glow of honor, pleased Dutifully
On ten thousand days To prime the skillful, Animate the ways Of the stubborn, dull.
A man of good heart Asked no glaring show To shout sterile praise, released Belatedly.
Still, friends of fine heart Wish grace; God’s love flow Fully, all pain be appeased Unfailingly.
—Francis J. T. O’Malley
There were also vocal solos and duets by Jack Collins and Donald Tiedemann. The musical portion of the program closed with a vocal quartet of Jack Collins, Donald Tiedemann, Burley Johnson, and Anthony Dona-dio. All musical contributions were under the direction of Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music.
Prof. Ackermann then spoke of his years at Notre Dame. He told of the relatively small institution which existed here back in 1887. He mentioned several instructors who were here at that time, and those who have been here during his 50 years of teaching experience.—Among those men whom he mentioned, none are alive today.
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
This week we consider something that is always of interest to students —if it is not their own—a financial report. This semi-annual report of the Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society is amusing as well as enlightening. For instance, among all the various categories of the statement there was no place for the listing of one little item of income—a pair of riding breeches!
They had been collected in one of the clothes drives, but with no demand for them among the poor of South Bend (even the horses have found times hard), the only way to make use of the pants was to turn them into cash. This our executive secretary, Magician Frank Itzin, did. The transaction is given a place of its own, a well-earned place, under “Income Other Sources” (“other” than that of the weekly collections).
A New “440” Record
An item that is of tremendous significance tells us that the N.D. Vincentians voluntarily put in four hundred and forty hours of visiting institutions and families. Financial aid is, of course, always desired when it may not be desirable, and is very frequently necessary, but the good that can be accomplished through the personal contact of the Vincentians with the individual or group is beyond our powers to reduce to mere figures.
It is impossible here to give an itemized account of the financial report, but a brief review of the high points in it should whet one’s appetite for the complete report that is to come for study by the student body.
For the period from June 1, 1938 to January 31, 1939 the total income was $927.03 and with the balance in cash on June 1, 1938, gives us a total of income and balance amounting to $1,078.65.
Account Shows Balance
The total expenses for the same period ran to $819.93, leaving a balance of $258.72 on January 31, 1939. Of the expenditures, $147.13 for books and tuition stands out; and in the income, column the $264.17 from commissions on the storage of student belongings labels this last half year’s work as a united effort of the student body. More about the report later.
* * *
Conference members will see three new men in official posts. Two VicePresidents, Joseph Mulqueen and John Reed; and wardrobe keeper Robert Marbach fall in behind newly advanced President John Reddy. .
FEBRUARY 24, 1939
9
SENIORS GIVE FLAG; HONOR WASHINGTON
By James Magarahan
The two hundred and seventh anniversary of the birthday of George Washington was celebrated at Notre Dame last Wednesday morning by 400 seniors in cap and gown in Washington Hall. It was the ninety-fourth annual Senior Class program for the presentation of a flag to the University.
The Class of 1939 entered the Hall in a formal academic procession. Fol-
James Tansey Richard O’Melia They gave a flag.
lowing several selections by the symphony orchestra Frank Fitch of the College of Commerce delivered the Washington Day oration. His speech, entitled “Washington on the Rights of Man,” outlined the freedom of man as an individual in the state, proving that society was made for the convenience of man, not man for the convenience of society.
William A. Donnelly of the College of Arts and Letters, then read the commemorative poem, “Washington Day Ode,” an original composition which portrayed him forming and shaping a state.
In presenting the flag to the University, Richard OMelia of Rhinelander, Wis., president of the senior class, paid parallel tribute to Washington, founder of our country, and to Father Sorin, founder of our school.
Speaking on behalf of the University administartion, Father Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, delivered an address in acceptance of the flag. He congratulated the seniors for the perpetuation of the Washington Day tradition at Notre Dame, saying that this tradition was more than mere sentiment, because it symbolizes our close relation with religion and patriotism.
During the course of his speech, Father Miltner outlined law and the necessity of law, showing the various degrees of differentism in the people who compose society which makes the governing of it a complex job.
“When this flag is consecrated and raised over the University, it will be
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
For Your Information
From a columnist writing in the Siena News, Siena College, Loudonville, N. Y., we give you a formula for determining your blonde’s or the roommate’s age and how much change either may have in the pocketbook. The instructions go something like this: (1) Put down the age, (2) multiply by 2, (3) add 5, (4) multiply by 50, (5) subtract the number of days in a year—if it’s the blonde, suggest 365, and (6) to this result add the amount of change the person has under a dollar.
Whatever the result is, you ask for the total number derived and add 115 to this. The first two numbers will give you the age of your victim and the second two figures will divulge the net amount of silver he or she has in his or her possession.
Passing in the Parade
In the February Wampus, humor magazine of the University of Southern California, there is an expose of the technique of cribbing.... The silk stocking “pony” and the “tape worm” methods are among those illustrated .... Cribbing came in for more print at Indiana University where the Indiana Daily Student has run a series of four articles on the subject.... Says the Student: “Cheating may be considered efficient business procedure, a game of getting by, or a moral disgrace according to University observers.”. ... Permanent funds of the nation’s colleges total more than $1,600,000,000.... Sir Cedric Hard-wicke, well-known star of Shadow and Substance, visited Mundelein College in Chicago recently and observed, “Mundelein strikes me as an uncommonly sensible place. Not only are you taught how to make a living, but what is more important, how to live.” ... At the University of Kansas, they label their Engineer’s formal as the Hob Nail Hob... Because of the hob nails, it will be informal this year... Ohio State University’s students have been fined $4,700 for traffic violations in four years by the student council .... All of which may be an answer to Dr. Robert Hutchin’s non-football, non-fiscal plan.
a mystic bond of unity between you who are to go and we who are to remain. It will be symbolical of your love of country and love of God,” he concluded.
James C. Tansey, of the College of Arts and Letters, • was chairman of the annual exercise.
NEW BOOKS BOLSTER ANTI - SMUT DRIVE
9
There are now 150 volumes in the Library of the Prefect of Religion— positive support for the national Catholic anti-smut campaign recently launched by the bishops of America.
Rev. Francis Gartland, C.S.C. Building a library.
Novels are the most pleasant approach to doctrine. Popular favorites in the library include Sorrow Built a Bridge, a biography by Alice Burton. The life history of Nathaniel Hawthorne’s daughter; it deals not only with the conversion of Anne Hawthorne to the Catholic religion and her subsequent religious vocation as a nurse for the incurably diseased, but also describes the childhood and literary environment of the heroine.
Most popular is Leighton Hilary Barth’s Flesh is not Life, current Catholic best seller which deals with the leading problem of our age, Communism vs. Christianity. Although strictly fiction, the story presents a definite, logical solution to this modem dilemma.
In the Steps of St. Francis, a biography by Earnest Raymond contains photographic illustrations of important landmarks in the life of St. Francis. An important gift to the library is the special Knights of Columbus version of the Catholic Encyclopedia, (15 volumes), donated by a friend of the University from Boston.
City and Club Pictures
Paul Hellmuth, Dome editor, has announced that beginning Monday, Feb. 27, all city club pictures will be taken after evening dinner in Washington Hall, with bulletins in each hall designating the date and time of the various clubs.
For those city clubs which have not as yet been contacted by the Dome representatives for their pictures, their respective presidents are asked to see Kevin O’Gorman, 384 Dillon, for- details.
The opportunity to get your favorite candid-camera shots of your own group or other events into the Dome’s snap-shot section is still open, so bring your pictures to 257 Dillon. -
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MORAL: ROOM-MATES MAKE POOR VALETS
Scene: A room, any room, of some poor deluded Junior who thinks he is going to be happy going to the Prom. He is busily dressing, impeded and heckled by several of his more fortunate classmates who are not going to the Prom.	.
Heckler: “Hey! Al, are those formal shorts or are you breaking them in for a friend?”
Second Heckler: “Does your gal know it’s a formal or will she be wearing her usual gingham dress?”
Third Heckler: “Say, Al, that shirt’s a little dirty. What undertaker did you borrrow it from? Of course it might do. Your coat’ll cover most of it.”
Meanwhile the fourth heckler has hidden Al’s tie, and while Al frantically hunts for it, helpfully offers to lend him a white one.
First Heckler: “Say, Al, it’s nearly ten o’clock, and by the time you squeeze into Joe’s pants you’ll be too late. And remember, don’t sit down too quick, or you’ll spend the rest of the evening with your back to the wall.”
Second Heckler: “Al, in what war did your grandfather capture those studs? If they were any older the Smithsonian Institute would be after them.”
Third Heckler: “Don’t drink too many of those potent Cokes or you’ll be talking in bubbles. And offer to buy the girl a new pair of shoes after you get through tramping on them.”
Finally, Al stands before the mirror in his sartorial triumph while his friends playfully lock him in the room. After much pleading they let him out. He runs to the door of the hall just before the Rector locks and bolts it.
First Heckler: “We’ll be waiting to see you run across thatgolf course at 2:28.”
Acting Head of Church Was Recent Visitor
• -
Cardinal Pacelli, Acting Head of the Church until a new Pope is elected, received the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters from the University when he visited the campus, Oct. 25, 1936. The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, made the award, referring to Cardinal Pacelli as “the Vicar of the Vicar of Christ.” Cardinal Pacelli was then Secretary of State to Pope Pius XI.
Gregory XVII Will Succeed Pius XI — "If" Prophecy of Saint Malachy is Fulfilled
By Edmund Butler
If the renowned prophecies of St. Malachy are realized as completely as some are certain they have so far, all heretics and schismatics, including the Greek Orthodox Church, will return to union with Rome under the guidance of our next Holy Father.
If these private prophecies hold true, the successor to Pope Pius XI will be Gregory XVII and his election to the papal throne will be almost miraculous in nature. After a long electoral struggle the new pope, designated as “Pastor Angelicus” (the Angelic Pastor), will reign in a glorious age of unity in the Church.
May Rule Rome
Still retaining the “if,” the “Angelic Pastor” will hold tremendous temporal power, perhaps even to rule the city of Rome. He will travel extensively and administer the needs of his people far and wide. He will be gifted with power of miracles and prophecy. Through his spiritual doctoring the sanctity of the Church will reach its height, but it will forego the bitter dissension in the Church, which will come at the end of this Catholic rennaissance.
No one is required to believe all this. In fact, most scholars call the prophecies forgeries or superstition. But the world still discusses them and take sides in arguing their authenticity. They are at least interesting to consider.	-
St. Malachy was a zealous Irish monk of the twelfth century. While he ruled as Archbishop of Armagh he restored discipline to a lax Church and reestablished Christian morals in his land. Being known for his piety, his performance of miracles and his unceasing episcopal labor, he was canonized by Pope Clement VI in 1199.
Saw Pontiffs in Vision
While at Rome on an official visit to Pope Innocent II, he supposedly received a vision of the future in which was unfolded the long list of illustrious pontiffs, who were to rule the church until the end of time.
Ever since these predictions were published in 1590 there has been much discussion as to whether or not they are genuine. The reason for such questioning is the silence of 400 years on the part of so many learned authors who had written about the popes of that period. This silence is especially significant in the “Life of St. Malachy.” The biography was written by St. Bernard, in whose arms St. Malachy died.
. Such a flagrant contradiction would
seem a decisive argument against their authenticity. But it is not conclusive if we adhere to the stated theory that the prophecies were hidden in the Roman Archives during those 400 years.
Add Mystical Title
These short prophetical announcements number 112 and they indicate some noticeable trait of all the popes from Celestine II (Elected 1130) until the end of the world.
Each pope is named and a mystical title is added. So far, 19 out of 20 popes have been named correctly. Those who have undertaken to interpret and explain the symbolical prophecies have succeeded in applying this mystical title to some trait in the individual, whether it be country, name, insignia, talent, learning, etc.
But here is where another possibility for argument arises. Are not these mystical titles ambiguous and fitting in some manner to any churchman or layman?
To the name of Urban VIII was affixed the appelation Lilium et Rosa (Lily and Rose). This pope was a native of Florence and on the arms of this great city was figured a lily. Three bees were emblazoned on the pontiff’s escutcheon, and bees gather honey from lilies and roses. Because of these facts the prophecy concerning this pope is supposed to be fulfilled.
The “Pilgrim Pope”
Pius VI was described as “the Pilgrim Pope” and the prophecy pleads verification in the fact that this pope journeyed much in Germany, his papal career was long and at the end of his pontificate Pius VI was expatriated from Rome.
Those following the course of events in an intelligent manner during the recent pontificates claim to discover something more than coincidence in the designations given these popes so many hundred years before their time.
One doesn’t need recourse to family names or armorial bearings to see the fitness of some of these designations. The afflictions and crosses of Pius IX were more than ordinary and seem to justify the prophecied title of Crus de Cruce (Cross from a Cross); and the more aggravating of these crosses were brought on by the House of Savoy whose emblem was a cross.
Leo XIII was a veritable luminary of the papacy and thus a true Lumen in Caelo (Light in the Sky), as St. Malachy called him; and Pius X, Ignis Ardens (Burning Fire) was
(Continued on Page 23)
FEBRUARY 24, 1939
II
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
Saturday the Metropolitan will present “Manon,” by Jules Massenet. The title role will be sung by the Brazilian soprano, Bidu Sayao. In this opera Massenet celebrates the ability of a beautiful woman to get whatever she wants. Manon must choose between true love or a life of luxury. When she chooses the latter, her lover Des Grieux enters a seminary.
She soon realizes her mistake and lures Des Grieux from his clerical life. Having spent all his money on Manon, he resorts to gambling, and just as he begins to win, he is accused of cheating. Both Manon and Des Grieux are arrested, but, through the influence of his father Des Grieux is freed.
Manon Dies
Manon is condemned as an immoral woman and sentenced to a French penal colony. Des Grieux plans to attack the convoy_escorting Manon to prison. However, Manon is very ill, and just as Des Grieux reaches her, she dies.
The music to this opera tends to be light and lyrical. It is full of poetry and refinement, and it is perfectly suited to the story.
Milton J. Cross, NBC commentator has recently adopted the plan of having the vital details of the opera dramatized in English. Since his explanations are adequate these comments in the future will be very brief.
The perfection of the NBC Symphony concerts does not entirely depend upon the genius of Toscanini. The excellent quality of Toscanini’s symphonic music owes much to engineering skill, experiments, and patience combined with the best musicians NBC could assemble. The following information is condensed from an article published in Cue under the title “Toscanini’s Tools.”
“Toscanini’s Tools”
“You’ve noticed, of course; that Arturo Toscanini in his radio concerts with NBC makes the orchestra sound differently from an orchestra playing in such a place as Carnegie Hall. Everybody wonders how it’s done, and assume it’s Maestro Toscanini’s genuis. Undoubtedly a lot of it is genius; Toscanini is one of the greatest conductors of all time. But the greatest master craftsman can do very little without a good set of tools, and Toscanini has as fine a set of - tools to work with as has ever been given to any man in his trade.
“First he has a concert hall which
was built especially for radio broadcasting, by the most expert accoustic engineers in the business.
“Such things as seating arrangement, tuning of the instruments, and position of the microphones were given unique treatment. Furthermore each man in the orchestra is a topnotch concert artist, and they have collectively what is said to be the greatest collection of pedigreed instruments in the world. No one knows exactly what they’re worth, but a conservative estimate is something well over §500,000.
“This collaboration of engineers and musicians, to produce the peculiar clarity of tone that characterizes the NBC concerts, is by no means finished. The orchestra has been strengthened by no less than 20 changes this season, and all hands listen critically to every broadcast to figure how it might have been done better.
“Right now, they’re considering having the violins and woodwinds stand up, on the theory that they would play better that way.”
MT
By Dick Metzger
It’s here! The Norman Rockwell Exhibit — 25 paintings and drawings by the artist whose humble, down-to-earth, humorous characters liven the front page of Saturday Evening Post.
Not in the whole exhibit is there one painting, nor a part of one, in which Mr. Rockwell has been careless or slipshod. His technique is that of the miniaturist; his works recall the “Gleeful Monk” by Estorach which hangs next to Carl Hoermann’s “Cathedral Interior” in the South Wing of the Library.
In preparing for his career, Rockwell studied the work of Howard Pyle, Abbey, and Millet. There is also the suggestion of Ter Borch and Vermeer. Like them he is scrupulous in detail, yet has an underlying unity and solidarity. Here he is Norman Rockwell, the composer — an expert draftsman, a capable technician, and a thoroughly sound and honest painter.
His paintings are down-to-earth, particularly so his “Saying Grace,” “Ichabod Crane,” and the “Negro Church.” His red conte crayon drawing of the girl’s head is incredibly fine, and his five drawings from Louise May Alcott are example of his flawless handling of another medium —the carbon pencil.
See the Norman Rockwell Exhibit in the Library this week!
THEATRE
By Gerald Hogan
The conscientious dramatic critic, especially of the movies, can have but few friends these days. Normally, his observations should be a crystallization of general opinion. Actually, he is looked on as a complaintmonger. The theatre-goer leaves the performance, decides that he liked or did not like it, and lives within the fortress of that conviction. The critic approaches to attempt an assault.
He points out that the heroine did nothing but smile and look glamorous; he looks for dramatic talent and objects to its absence. But the theatre-goer thought that the heroine was very beautiful; that was enough for him. He was looking only for a mild sort of peep-show. The one is disappointed, the other gushes with admiration; the one sought an artist, the other an artist’s model.
Both Reactions Honest
The reactions of both the critic and the theatre-goer were honest, but-only one was legitimate. An actress is one sort of person: she may have been born with a gift for acting, or she may have acquired that gift through years of practice and training; usually both. A star is another sort of person: often, she is properly a Hollywood waitress who has been made by high pressure publicity.
Usually, she has neither been gifted with, nor acquired, an exceptional dramatic ability. When we go to the theatre, it seems reasonable to look for actresses. When we criticize the performers in a play, should we not criticize them for their dramatic performance? Surely, anything else is a perversion.
The separation between the critic and the theatre-goer is wider than their opinion of actresses. It extends to direction, plot, movement, and many other things. But this single example should illustrate the point.
Anyone Can Learn
Anyone can learn to criticize intelligently, to tell a good from a bad play. Only an elementary knowledge is necessary for decent criticism. In his book, The Twentieth Century Theaters, Professor Phelph has put the case nicely: “. . . as soon as one understands, as soon as one sees the mind of the dramatist interpreted by subtle acting, one enjoys pure happiness. Men and women ought to take dramatic art seriously if for no other reason than to add to the pleasure of existence.”
12
Hie Notre Dome Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell______________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey.__________________ Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney...................Literary	Editor
William C. Fay...........................News	Editor
Donald Foskett.........................Sports	Editor
Tom Powers................................Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C..........Eaculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Vol. 72	February 24, 1939	No. 17
Religion and Politics
SCARCELY had Pope Pius XI died than the governments of the world began sending Romeward the customary expressions of regrets and condolences. Among these were the governments of Italy and Germany. Immediately afterward they both offered “advice” in the selection of a new pontiff.
From Berlin, Das Schwarze Korps, Nazi news organ “advised” the successor of Pius XI to adopt a policy which would completely separate political affairs from religion. This advice was sent to four German Cardinals, among whom was Theodore Cardinal Innitzer, himself a recent victim of brutal treatment at the hands of Nazi stormtroopers.
In Rome the Telagrapho, Count Galeazo Ciano’s newspaper, called for an “evangelical” rather than a “diplomatic” pope, and declared that the College of Cardinals should elect a pope who would “attend to the care of souls.” The paper specifically rejected Cardinal Pacelli, Vatican Secretary of State, on the grounds that he was a diplomat.
These two facts are evidence enough of the influence of the Vatican in the fight for Christian principles. This fight must not completely separate religion from politics, for to do so would be to negate all that Pius accomplished. It would be to lose sight of two great ends to which Pius gave his life.
First, the Papacy finds itself the one authority capable of solving the terrible muddle into which the world has forced itself today. The world is blindly following the Machiavellian doctrine of “might makes right.” Somewhere into the midst of all this mess there must come a rational, just, clear-headed arbiter. That arbiter must be the Papacy.
The other end toward which the Vatican must strive, as it always has in the past, is the promotion and defense of Christianity itself. This end cannot be separated from things political, because the prestige of Christianity depends on what it does now. The world waits to hear what the Vatican thinks about world affairs. Protestants and Catholics alike realize that in the Papacy they possess
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
a common champion of the Christian principles in which they believe.—Donald A. Foskett.
Papal Briefs
THE DEATH of the Pope produced some colorful, if not accurate reporting. The first accounts were chiefly routine coverages. Even when the special correspondents got on the job there was a noticeable lack of knowledge of things Catholic. The absence of Catholic correspondents is worth noting. Catholic or not, a correspondent could, in Rome of all places, make a checkup.
One dispatch described a Vatican as “sprinkling the body with incense!” A correspondent expressed himself as “shocked” at the casualness of the Italians selling pictures of the Pope, or adjourning to the wine shops after paying respects to the remains in St. Peter’s. He must never have been around much among normal humans. Alfred Noyes—a recent convert, it is true—told of its being the first time American Cardinals “gave absolution to the soul of a dead pontiff.” The blessing at the catafalque is technically called an “absolution” but it is not the same thing as sacramental absolution.
The tapping on the head of the dead pope with a silver hammer and calling his name three times by the Camer-lengo came in for some literary histrionics. Yet there is no such ceremony. In A Papal Chamberlain, the personal chronicle of Francis A. McNutt, there appears the following observation:
“The reported tapping on the forehead of the dead Pontiff with a silver hammer, and calling three times ‘Pater Sancte?’ after which the Camerlengo solemnly announces that the Pope is really dead, is a fiction. There is no such hammer, and the calling aloud three times of the words ‘Pater Sancte’ last took place in 1676, when Clement X died. It is remarkable how much foolishness is talked about the Vatican, even by people living under its shadow, who might and easily could know better.”
Francis A. MacNutt was appointed Papal Chamberlain by Leo XIII and actively served throughout his reign, as well as under Pius X and Benedict XV. In his official capacity as a member of the papal household he assisted at the death of Leo XIII.
Evidently conditions along the Journalistic Front haven’t changed since MacNutt wrote his Chronicle.
—William C. Fay.
. A Kind Man11
IN THE death of Edward Patrick Cleary, countless Notre Dame students and alumni, indeed Notre Dame herself, lost a good friend. “Ed” Cleary to everyone, he spent a good part of his life here at Notre Dame, first as a student, later as a teacher, finally in an executive capacity. His sudden death on February 9, was a shock which brought sorrow to many, yet joy in the knowledge that he died as he had lived, a Christian gentleman.
The number of students who remember gratefully his advice and aid during his years at Notre Dame is legion. To others he was a very sociable person, a good companion for a walk or talk. To all he was a friend. The Scholastic sincerely mourns his death. For he was a very kind man.—Mark J. Mitchell.
FEBRUARY 24, 1939
13
Washington on the Rights of Man
The Oration by Claude Francis Fitch, Delivered at Washington Day Exercises.
Political freedom is oui’ great heritage from the days of George Washington, Father of our Country, and it is not an exercise of imagination that traces the guarantees of our personal, religious, economic, and political freedom to the efforts of the man we commemorate today. Washing has told us that “the propitious smiles of Heaven can never be expected on a nation that disregards the eternal rules of order and rights which Heaven itself has ordained.” Washington was chairman of the convention that prefixed to the supreme document of our land the words, “to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, we do ordain and establish this constitution of the United States of America.” And it was during the administration of Washington that the first ten amendments to the Constitution of the United States were adopted — the amendments that went farther than the original documents in securing the rights of man in this country.
Thus, Washington manifested much concern foi* the liberties of man by assuring this new nation of freedom, of that native freedom with which God has endowed his rational creatures. The Creator has ordained that man be entitled to a reasonable life as a means to the eternal purpose of his being, and • to this end He has given to man certain natural rights. In this age of ours, perhaps more than ever before, it is to be understood that these rights belong to man in consequence of his very nature, and are not in any fundamental way derived from the positive law. Man, by the very fact that he is man, has natural rights to life, liberty, property religion, and education. These natural rights are absolute in the sense that they exist independently of the will of any other human being. And since the end of each man is the same as that of every other man, it fellows that men are equal in their
fundamental natural lights, though they may be very unequal in the concrete realization of these rights.
These basic natural rights of man are sacred against interference from any sort. The rights to life and liberty may not be infringed in any way by any power so long as they are exercised with due respect for all the real rights of others. True freedom is not an unrestricted right to do as one wishes, but the right to do as one ought to wish.
Now, since man is by nature a social being, as well as an individual with exclusive natural rights, since man cannot live the life proper to a human being without constant association with his fellowmen, since he cannot live a life of adequate economic sufficiency without the help of many others, it follows that man must live in right relation with other men. Thus the civil society comes into being. This necessary society is willed by God and is organized by men in whatever form they may choose. The state is indeed a natural and indispensable society, deriving its authority from God. As an institution it is at once natural, human, and divine.
Since man has reason and free will, he is by nature capable of being regulated by law, in the strict sense, and Capable of high duty in obedience to the law. He has moral obligations of obeying the just laws of the state, the civil society, in which he lives. The purpose of the state is to protect the rights and promote the welfare of the individual citizen. Man is by nature a member of civil society and so is subject to the state, and yet, fundamentally, as an individual he is vastly superior to the civil organization. The most important truth of political philosophy is that much-neglected truth that the state is for the sake of man, not man for the
sake of the state. In the organization of the state man does not give up any of his natural rights, nor can the state take any of his natural rights from him. Whatever its form, the state must always respect the inalienable rights of its citizens.
Since the state exists for a definite and important purpose in human life, it has definite duties which it must recognize and fulfill. The purpose of its existence is the material and temporal welfare of its subjects. Its proper business- is to secure economic conditions which will make possible the realization and exercise of the natural rights of the individual citizen. And it is not enough for the state to make this possible for some of its citizens. This duty is in regard to all of the individuals that compose the state. There must be a place of profitable employment for every decent man who wants to labor. Work is the means of preserving life, the means to the fulfillment of a most serious moral obligation imposed upon man by the Supreme Lawgiver. Labor is indeed the law of life.
The duty of the state in regard to the workingman and his wages is set forth clearly and convincingly in the great encyclicals of Leo XIH and Pius XI. The worker has a strict natural right to wages that will provide for him a decent livelihood. And it is the duty of the state to see that he receives such wage. The policy of laissez-faire has defeated badly this natural right of the workingman. The result of it is economic slavery. In permitting such condition the state fails of its very purpose, and the result of such failure is Communism, of which we have so much on all sides today.
It is not the attractiveness of the ideals of Communism that has enlisted the millions of its followers hut the provocation provided by a capi
14
talistic system which has grievously ignored the rights of the many, that his deprived them not only of economic freedom but of personal, political, and religious liberty as well. In the totalitarian state the individual is no longer treated as an intelligent and free being but as a mere tool of the state, a mere animal without freedom. The absolute state recognizes no restriction on its own will. .
We are well aware of the present trend of a large part of the world toward totalitarianism. But are we conscious as we have much reason to be, of this trend in our own country,
well-founded though it has been on the basis of natural rights and freedom in the exercise of those rights.
Washington, revered as father of our country, did his utmost to insure for us a form of government that makes ample provisions for the freedom needed by man for the attainment of his supreme purpose in life. Are we going to sacrifice that freedom to unChristian principles, to the selfishness, and greed of the few who care nothing about the welfare of the many? We must take active part in the movements which will enable our government to save surely that fun
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
damental freedom as the birthright of every American citizen.
Monsignor Hass of the Catholic University of America calls to our attention the need for men who think, of the need for men who care, and, above all, of the need for men who will act. We of today have much reason to think, and care, and act. There is indeed no end of opportunity for action in the cause of our freedom as American citizens. And in this action, this fight for the preservation of the freedom achieved for us by Washington and the other great founders of our country, college men should surely lead the way.
The Power
Ode for Washington Day by William A. Donnelly.
The far wild forest stretched limbs out wide, And dipped deep roots in rich fertile earth,
Earth that verged on bursting with power still untried, Earth surging with strength, hungering for birth,
Now latent and potential, longing for full life,
For a will to lead and draw it, for a force to give it form,
For a hand to mold its being with a well-wielded knife, Taking the rough clay, still pulsing fresh and warm
And scraping off the surplus, shaping unity, Making it organic, a breathing living thing,
A bright and rigid frame, glowing, throbbing free And shutting out all that tyranny would bring.
A figure rose from the vigorous untamed earth To tame it; to guide, guard, turn the course
Of living, to give it energy and worth
And shape a solid body with the heat of his own force, And like a tree he stood through all the winds that scream
And lash to break the branches from the bole,
Through all the bare dead winters where the warm rays' never gleam,
But cold dark hunger cries to gain control.
Other figures rose like other lesser trees
To say, “Why should he be the one to lead?”
These bickered, but each one would fail to please
The others, and die immersed and choked in greed
The enemy to crush his work before it had a chance to crust,
’ While embryonic, lacking fullness of its own, Raged fierce and large, yet every hard-hurled thrust
That strove to shake him fell as paper against stone.
They beat him back, they tried to force his will,
They hacked until they thought they had him weak and
• pinned,	•
And as they hovered around to make the kill
He struck one blow that smashed them, and burst them to the wind.
And then the frame was finished and he let the blood bolt through,
He set it undulating in a steady, eager flow, He filled it full of life, flaming with strength of new
And rich and vital being infused with power to grow.
And with the work complete he stepped aside
To let the others guide what he had shaped and bent;
His need had been fulfilled. He died
And left a solid state as monument.- •
FEBRUARY 24, 1939
15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
NICKMEN AT WOLVES' DOOR, TOMORROW
By Frank Aubrey
Notre Dame’s trackmen go up against a tough proposition tomorrow in Ann Arboi* when they stack up against Michigan’s team of allstars. The Wolverines boast exceptional strength this year and in Coach Nicholson’s estimation his team will bow by at least 20 points.
The two-mile will see a resumption of a great duel between Greg Rice and Ralph Schwarzkopf. In the Millrose Games in the Garden Greg won with 9:07.6 and Ralph was third in 9:08.5. Since then Greg has bettered a meet record at Illinois—running the 1500 meters in 3:58, and seems to be in the best condition of his career. At that he is only rated an even choice against Schwarzkopf. Doing the mile Greg will, it is hoped, have his back to Karl Wisner and Hal Davidson. These two distance events count heavily in Irish pre-meet scoring figures—so Greg once more is on the spot. Nick also hopes to cut into Michigan’s 20 point margin by' getting Dave Reidy home in front of those two ace hurdlers, Stan Kelley and Elmer Gedeon, both of whom won their events last week at Illinois. Reidy finished second to Kelley in the 75 yard low hurdles and third to Gedeon in the 75 high’s. The margin both times was close enough to give Dave a sporting chance of turning the tables in a second try at Ann Arbor.
For a one-man gang there is no disputing the supremacy of Big Bill Watson in the field events. Bill tossed the shot 51 feet plus to crack a meet record in the relays and had to be satisfied with a place position when Elmer Hackney of Kansas State unfurled another gargantuan heave to cop the event. Faymonville and Beinor hope to give Watson a go in the shot, but, well—have you ever seen Watson push ’em up? Big Bill will be broad-jumping too,—but here Bill Dougherty should jump right with him. Michigan’s Bill leaped 23 feet 7 inches in the relays, a mere % of an inch beyond N.D.’s Bill. In the high jump Wes Allen will be attempting to break Willis Ward’s record of 6 feet 6 inches and to take Ted Leonas into camp again. At that Wes* 6 feet 3% inches a week ago only shaved Ted by an inch. Only in. the pole vault are the Irish favored with John Dean who recently joined the 13 ft. class, and Benny Sheridan.
IRISH FIVE SETS OUT TO EVEN SCORE WITH MARQUETTE; MEET BUTLER WEDNESDAY
By Pete Sheehan.
Notre Dame and Marquette will meet again on the basketball court tomorrow night but the Hilltoppers will meet a different Irish team. The .personnel will be the same, the style of play will undergo a few variations, but the nervous tension which naturally accompanies a ten game winning
Coach Keogan
No nervous tension.
Interhall Basketball Enters Final Round
•
A brilliant last-half attack handed the St. Edward’s Lightweight basketball team a 26 to 24 triumph over Cavanaugh, thus retaining its leadership in that section of the Interhall competition at the field house Sunday.
Seven games were on the program of the round. In other league games, Brownson mastered Carroll, 29 to 10, while Off-Campus unit downed Zahm, and Freshman Hall won over the Old Infirmary squad via the forfeit route.
In the Heavyweight section, Sorin Hall pulled out a thriller over Badin, 19 to 17. The only other Heavyweight game of the day had Walsh winning again, 26 to 19, over Lyons.
One round and several postponed games remain on the schedule before the championship games which are scheduled for March 5.
The schedule for this Sunday, February 26, includes the following: Group I—9:00, Freshman vs. Zahm; 9:15, Carroll vs. Cavanaugh; 10:00, Brownson vs. St. Edward’s; 10:15, Off-Campus vs. Old Infirmary. In Group II—1:30, Morrissey vs. Badin; 1:45, Sorin vs. Dillon; 2:30, Walsh vs. Alumni; 2:45, Howard.vs. Lyons.
streak will be missing. A spirit of revenge, rather than that of nervous strain, will dominate the minds of the Fighting Irish and the Milwaukee team must not expect to rest on their laurels.
A victory for the Keoganites will boost their average over the .750 mark and start another winning streak which they hope to continue at Indianapolis next Wednesday night when they encounter Butler’s Bulldogs for the second time this season. This time Butler will be out to avenge a previous defeat which they received at the hands of the Blue and Gold early in January when , the Irish victory march was just getting under way.
Marquette, with the advantage of playing at home, will be striving to annex their twelfth game and tie the Irish in the matter of games won. At present both teams have lost four games but have defeated some of the strongest teams in the East, Midwest, and South. Last year Paul Sakody*s long shot in the closing seconds of the contest nosed out the Irish at Milwaukee.
The Hilltoppers are a rangy quintet and very adept at capturing rebounds. This was one of the high lights of their last victory for they employed a man-to-man defense which kept the Irish forwards and centers from getting set for a shot and, as a result, the guards were forced to resort to long shots which bounded into the waiting hands of the visitors on almost every occasion. In Adams and Deneen Marquette has two high scoring forwards who are also very capable on defense.	.
Butler, at present undefeated in Indiana Conference competition, fought furiously in the local field house before succumbing to the Irish attack, 37 to 35. Since then they have won consistently and if their “basket twins,” Steiner and Dietz, are not closely watched the Irish will be forced to sink many a shot to keep ahead of the Bulldogs. Neat, running guard, has a habit of scoring 15 or more points every now and then and will warrant close guarding at every point as he sinks them consistently from any corner.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BENGAL BOXERS BEAR DOWN AS FINAL FOUR WEEKS OF STRENUOUS TRAINING BEGINS
FENCERS IN SECOND TILT WITH PURDUE
With the first three weeks of conditioning drills over, the largest squad of fighters ever to turn out for The ScnoLASTic-sponsored Bengal Bouts will inaugurate their first week of strenuous sparring exercises Monday afternoon. And from present indications these sparring sessions will be “rip-roaring”
affairs. Why? Because instructors “Nappy” Napolitano and his three assistants Broscoe, Padon and McKeon, have most of the boys beyond the mere conditioning and fundamental stage. From Monday on most of the mitt-slingers will be going at least four or five rounds every day.
Included in this impressive squad of fighters are most of last year’s champions. Phil Dahar, heavyweight champ of the 1936 tournament, is training diligently each day and expects to be in top form for the opening of the elimination bouts. Bruce Harbenstreit, winner in the 175-pound division last year will be ready for the opening whistle.
Sammy Dolce, 126-pound champion, and Jimmy Brown, 147-pounder, will be defending their respective titles for the third consecutive time when the curtain goes up four weeks hence. Dick Leahy, champion in the 142-pound class, will defend the title he captured last year. Another champion, and one that packs plenty of wallop, Lloyd Harbert, lightweight boxer of last year, will again see action this year.
While all of these returning champions look mighty impressive in the daily training sessions, there are many freshmen contenders who are showing brilliant flashes of form and ■will undoubtedly have excellent chances for crowns. All of which is in keeping with the bouts of past years. Freshmen always prove “tough nuts to crack.”
Promoter Louis DaPra reports that the turnout of novices has been so good that the possibilities for the holding of the proposed novice tournament in conjunction with the elimination bouts “is excellent.”
“If the influx of novices and freshmen continues as in the past week, the tournament will be assured,” stated Promoter Da Pra.
We repeat that all freshmen and novices who wish to take advantage of the training sessions—held daily from 3 to 6 o’clock and from 8 to 10 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday—but not enter competitive boxing in the bouts, are urged to sign up immediately. New equipment in the form of gloves, jumping - ropes, mouthpieces, punching bag, etc., has been purchased and is at the disposal of all fighters.
Sammy Dolce
For the third time.
Rockne Club at Game
Just to make sure that Captain Earl Brown and his Irish court squad had an organized rooting section at the Madison Square Garden, the Knute Rockne Club Inc., of Elizabeth New Jersey, attended the recent double-header at the Garden which featured the game between Notre. Dame and N. Y. U. Accompanying the club to the game was Johnny Hopkins, who starred for George Keo-gan’s teams a few years back. Hopkins, with ten points, was high scorer for the Irish against N. Y. U. in 1936, when the Irish won, 38-27.
Richard J. Leonard is president of the Rockne club which boasts a membership of 70.
Great Britain was the first nation to accept an invitation to the 1940 Olympic Games. .
Before the fencing squad departed East, we had occasion to talk to the coach, Professor Pedro de Landero. At that time, the professor stated that he anticipated two'very hard matches in the Ohio jaunt and that the Irish would have to exert themselves to win either of those matches. Things hadn’t looked very promising in the early part of the season, and it was a well known fact that the performances of several veteran members of the team were far below expectation. The general outlook seemed to be that, if the boys came through the two pending matches in the Buckeye state with any degree of success, the rest of the season would hold a bright outlook. Thus it is that today Coach de Landero is once more sporting that happy look that seems to bob up whenever his fencing teams have given him a satisfying performance. In the two matches in Ohio the Notre Dame team broke even, winning decisively from Cincinnati, 14-3, and losing to the powerful aggregation from Ohio State in a “photo finish,” 9%-7%. When one considers that these two hard matches followed each other in less than twenty-four hours, it is easy to see why the professor has reason to be proud of his men. Neither is it hard to see why each and every man on the fencing team looks forward to the coming Purdue match with eager anticipation.
The Purdue team will play hosts to the Irish tomorrow, Feb. 25, and all indications point to one of the toughest matches of the entire season. On January 14, the Boilermakers visited this campus and were defeated by a narrow margin. The significant factor in that match was undoubtedly the number of Purdue men who were rather inexperienced but who, with a few matches to give them that experience, would blossom into first class fencers. By this time, they have had that experience, and, along with the Purdue veterans, are anxiously-awaiting the chance to repay the Irish for the earlier defeat. Certainly, when they meet the 1939 edition of Coach de Landero that has at last come into its own, there will be a lively afternoon for everyone concerned.
Although gliding is comparatively new to natives of Finland, the people there have taken to the sport enthusiastically. Since 1934 several clubs have been in operation in different parts of the country under the sponsorship of the Finnish Air Defence League.
FEBRUARY 24, 1939
17
BROWNSON TAKES INTERHALL TITLE
By Jack White
Brownson is king. For the second season the trophies of Interhall track lodge beneath the golden dome.
Slight favorites, the Brownson team entered the final field Thursday evening against competition presented by nine rival halls, amassed a total of 26.5 points, garnered four firsts, and swept to a brilliant victory in the half-mile relays. Freshman placed a close second with 22.3 points followed by Badin and Cavanaugh who finished third and fourth with scores of 19 and 16.3 respectively. Alumni’s one man team was fifth with 15 points. The Interhaliers put on a thrilling show that pleased a gallery of more than 300 enthusiasts. Pacing the meet in a smooth consistent manner were the managers, under Pat Gorman, Bill Mahoney, assistant coach of track and Bob Weaver and Bill McVay.
Little Varsity Material
Varsity Coach John Nicholson was there, of course, patrolling the midtrack region, glancing at the ambitious tracksters. “Nick” summarized the affair in a few choice words. “Very promising, but little varsity material.” Coach Nicholson did admit however, that he liked the work of Quinn, Kristoff, Brooks, Patten, and McNiven.
In the 65 yard low hurdles Devine of Alumni broke the tape at :07.9 just ahead of Johnson of Sorin, who left the meet early after an unfortunate fall. Both Devine and Johnson had taken four firsts apiece in the preliminaries. Devine duplicated his prowess over the 65 yard high hurdles in 08.1 seconds. Finishing the 65 yard dash in :06.6 seconds was Tom Brooks of Zahm. Mainstay in the Brownson fold was Haines who took the 440 yard run in 55.8 seconds. McNiven of Zahm ran the half mile in 2:11.2. Carroll, defending titlist, won its single first place when Scheckel completed the mile in 4:49.7. Freshman’s Kane plunged ahead of Smith, of Badin, in the two mile run at 11:16.
Patten of Freshman topped the bar at 10 ft. 6 in. in the pole vault, while his team-mate Petschel sprang to 20 ft. 5 in. in the broad jump. Devine high-umped 5 ft. 8 in. Brosey of Cavanaugh tossed the shot 46 ft. 2 in.
The final event of the evening, and by far the best in the way of thrills, found the four Brownson “H” men, Howell, Horn, Hanlon and Haines beating out Cavanaugh by two seconds. The time in the relay was 1:40.1.
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
Charley Colgan was “monkeying” around on a tree down in Buenos Aires several years ago when he tumbled for a blond belle. This resulted in Charley’s losing his left arm. The right arm, having been broken and having failed to respond to the best treatment in Argentina, Charley began commuting between the south and north temperate zones to have the right limb X-rayed and re-set in New York.
Charley’s dad had been transferred to the South American division of a States commercial project, and Colgan, Jr., was to live his summers and winters upside down for seven years. Charley still regrets his leaving New Jersey in the spring, for he was to fight the frigidity of fall and winter* for twelve consecutive months.
When Coach de Landero’s foil-and-epee specialist settled permanently down on the pampas, after many times negotiating the distance between the Rio de La Plata and Long Island Sound, he managed to cover the distance of a normal secondary education in two and a half years flat.
Several uncles had matriculated at Notre Dame, so Charley had his career cut out for him. For his third season, Charley is “finessing” with the lighter swords, and his winning percentage is something like twenty-five conquests with only thirteen “deaths.”
Sal Scarlata, fencing team captain x and Charley’s roomie, will bet all the spaghetti in Rosie’s that Charley will dress or undress faster than any man on the campus. Burt McEnearney, another teammate, says that Charley
"?" HOLDS NO TERROR FOR THE KILLER
By the “Canvas Cub”
Champ Kell tried the social swirl this week, but he became very peevish when I told him that this nom de plume would not care to crush bones to the tune of Osborne’s music.
“But I likes jam secessions an’ beating drums,” Killer pouted. As I said before, the Camp is touchy, and with his biceps on the loose, I know it pays to approach most cautiously. Patiently I explained to him that he could not go dancing because the hair on his chest showed through his dress shirt, which was nothing more than a starched sheet anyway.
His manager tells me that he tried an electric razor on this chest-mattress, but blew all the fuses. “That’s not hair, on my chest,” retorts the Champ sheepishly. Right there my esteem for this fine specimen of animated electrons increased no end.
We showed Killer the latest picture of his opponent and he became ferocious. “Looks is only skin deep,” he comments, “and this thing has got a poor complexion. With my diverous techniques I will twist It worse than a calculous problem. I been readin’ up on the Art of Fistic Endeavors, which gives lessons on playing tiddle-de-winks with manhole covers, but I am quickly bored with such things.”
The Champ went on with his very interesting revelations. He asked me whether or not I remembered the bags of sand that were strewn thither and yon about the campus the contents of which were to be used to make the walks non - skiddish. Killer beamed when I said that I had.
“Well, I thiught them was beanbags, so I starts tossing them into the stadium. I swing one 'round and ’round, and it breaks and everyone thinks it’s a sand storm. I sure do have deceptive methods,” says he, grinning so that I can see his fine gold fillings.
But the Champ was getting restless with all this mental inactivity, so I asked him what he thought of the Rockne Memorial, knowing his love for the development of physical prowess. “Gosh, I will certainly feel most joyful when the swimming pool opens so’s I can take me baths in private,” he says wistfully. And so I left the Killer in this blissful mood.
is an excellent swimmer, a good billiard shot, consistent enough to break a “hundred” every time on the golf course, a slashing ping-pong artist, and a very good student in the commerce school.
When Charley leaves Notre Dame in June he expects to study admiralty law at Columbia University.
18'
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX By Andy Wilson
Coach John P. Nicholson of the Irish track squad returned from the Illinois Relays at Urbana-Champaign, slightly disappointed with the work of his sprinters and half-milers, but generally pleased with the efforts of the team as a whole. Michigan, of course, with the strongest team in the country east of the Rockies dominated the meet, but of the other schools represented, perhaps Notre Dame and Indiana deserve to be ranked second.
The Irish entered four of the five relay events, placed in two. However of the ten open events for individuals, the Irish missed placing in only one, the 75-yard dash. Captain Greg Rice was as usual Notre Dame’s outstanding performer, winning the 1500-meter run in meet-record time of 3:58. But the most interesting showing was that of our unknown broadjumper, Dougherty, who placed third with a good leap of 23 feet 6^4 inches. Watson of Michigan, the winner, took the event by jumping a bare 23 feet 7 inches.
We are told that Dougherty hit 24 feet on his first jump, but fouled on the take-off. Notre Dame does not include the broad jump in any of its indoor meets, so Dougherty went to the relays truly unknown—even to his teammates. We are told that one of them on the bus on the way down, dubious as to Dougherty’s identity, asked the latter if he were competing or just going along to root for the team.
“Nick” himself got the biggest kick out of the mile team race. This is run rather on the style of a crosscountry run, with each school entering a four-man team, the object being to place all four men as high as possible. Captain Greg Rice hung back in the pack of 28 entries, nursing his teammates along, talking to them, like a hen with chicks, or a sheepdog tending herd. Finally with the gun-lap coming up and half the field ahead, “Nick” had to shout at Greg to go ahead and try to win it himself.
Greg bolted off at once, rounded one group, then came up behind a line of six men all strung out across the track and digging hard for the tape. Somehow Greg scooted through their legs and beat out Michigan’s Ralph Schwartzkopf by a foot, in a last - second lunge. “Nick” figures Greg ran the last 100 yards in almost 11 seconds flat, and picked up some 40 lost yards on the field. Greg’s time, 4:25.7, also was a meet record.
• -
John “Dizzy” Dean, junior polevaulter, ended up in a tie for third
place at 13 feet, and a bloody nose. With the bar 13 feet 3 inches, Dean arched over the bar, started to come down, then whacked it sharply with his nose. The bar landed in two pieces ,and poor “Diz” landed with blood covering his upper lip. Milt Padway, who won the event with a 13-foot, 6-inch vault, competed for Wisconsin at Iowa Saturday afternoon, winning there at 12 feet 6 inches. He dressed hurriedly, and was driven all the way in to Urbana from Iowa City by a young man from Milwaukee who is (or was) Dean’s best friend. Padway started vaulting with the bar at 13 feet, when “Diz” was just about finishing up.
•
Klann of Kansas was leading the field in the 1500-meter run for most of the way until the back-stretch of the gun-lap. Then our own Greg bolted past him, to win by 15 yards. Klann grew more and more wobbly going around the last curve and into the home-stretch, but managed to come in fourth behind Feiler of Drake and Mitchell of Kansas State. He keeled over at the finish, but as teammates and attendants were quietly lugging him off the track, he roused himself sufficiently to moan, “I wish my wife were here — she’d know how to take care of me.”
•
The visiting trackmen discovered every place in Urbana - Champaign closed because of the flu epidemic— every movie, every school, every church. However the boys managed to find Newman Hall — the Catholic chapel on the Illinois campus—open for Sunday Mass. Of all the men in the party, Captain Greg Rice was most anxious and insistent that everyone get up early and be over to Mass on time. Then in the course of his sermon during Mass, Father John A. O’Brien talked about discipline and self-denial, mentioning as examples the hard-training trackmen, and espe- • cially Greg Rice of Notre Dame, who had received Communion in the chapel Saturday morning with his teammates, and then had proceeded to lead them to two splendid victories in the meet that evening. Greg was kept busy on the trip back vehemently denying that he had received an advance notice from Father O’Brien about the sermon.
•
On the back page of last Saturday’s “Daily Illini” appears this notice: “Anyone interested in going to Notre Dame to play handball call Bill Califf, 7-1184, or Tom Boynton,
(Continued on Page 19)
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PING PONG TOURNEY DRAWS SEVERAL
By Francis Kennedy
Neither rain, snow, slush, nor sleet has been able to stop the avalanche of eager contestants in Notre Dame’s annual Indoor Sports Tournament. Now that competition has been going on for over a week in all sections, it appears that Senior Manager Joe Dray and his able assistants are determined to make this year’s tourney the best ever.
Although over 258 men are taking part in the various tournaments, the eliminations are almost complete in all sports. As soon as the first round results are completely posted the competition will enter into the second round. It is hoped that the whole tournament will be completed "within four weeks.
Though ping-pong has the largest number of entrants, it is interesting to note the increasing interest in bowling. The bowling division has over 80 men enrolled in the singles only. This is a far cry from the days when bowling was looked upon as a sport for only the uncouth and ill-mannered. The number of bowlers at this school has been increasing regularly for the past few years, and no small part of this increase is due to the mounting emphasis put upon bowling in the modern high school. Because of the large .number of entrants in the bowling tourney the alleys of Walsh Hall have been set aside exclusively for tournament purpose from 12:30 to 6:00 in the afternoon, and 7:30 to 9:00 in the evening.
Little Interest in Billiards
If the totals in the billiard tourney do ont lie, it would appear, conversely, that the interest in this sport is waning. Nevertheless, there are entrants enough in this sport to insure keen competition for the championship.
In the handball tournament, which probably taxes the endurance most, it looks as though the winner will have to be a pretty rugged individual. Sal-Trentacoste, last year’s winner, is a pre-tournament favorite, but the competition is so stiff that an upset will surprise nobody.
For all winners there will be gold trophies. Runners - up will receive silver trophies.
For the first time in the history of the games gliding will be included on the official Olympic program when Soaring Flight enthusiasts will compete in the 1940 games at Helsinki, Finland. . Gliding specialists took part in the 1936 games at Berlin, but showed their skill purely for demonstration purposes.
FEBRUARY 24, 1939
19
"42 TRACKMEN LOSE TO OHIO STATE
Freshman Track Coach Bill Mahoney had his first look at his 1939 charges under fire last Saturday afternoon even though the Irish frosh didn’t even have to move out of the field house. Neither did their Ohio State opponents have to leave Columbus. They didn’t even come halfway, for the two schools held one of those economical affairs known as a telegraph track meet, in which the coaches run off the various events at each school, record the times and measurements, and send them to each other for comparison. The totals are then added as in regular meets. Last Saturday Ohio State was the winner, 48 4/15-36 11/15.
Two things must have stood out in Coach Mahoney’s mind after the meet. First, he realized that he has on hand this year some excellent material in the field events and a group of promising dashmen. The second part of Mr. Mahoney’s speculation could not have been so cheerful, for the Notre Dame yearlings showed themselves to be very weak indeed in the distance runs—so weak that they failed to place in either the mile, the half-mile, or the two-mile.
Honors were pretty evenly divided in the 60 yard dash, as Here Bereolos, George Schiewe, and Joe Prokop tied with two Buckeye dashmen to cause a five-way tie at :06.5. The Irish frosh continued to hold their own as Schiewe and Kieth Roy took the first two places in a 440 that was run in 52.4. At this point, however, the Ohio State team drew away by taking all nine places in the mile, half-mile, and two-mile.
Notre Dame showed to advantage in the field events when O’Rourke started things’ off by leaping 6' 4U" in the high jump. Bob Reif did 12' in the pole vault, and Henry Brosey tossed the shot 46’ 5"; Sullivan placed third in this event.
Prokop and Schiewe added more points to the Notre Dame total by taking first and second in the 70 yard low hurdles. Bill Baader tied for second in the 70 yard high hurdles.
Chicaga Club Breakfast
The Chicago Club of Notre Dame will sponsor a Communion breakfast for its members next Sunday morning. A special Mass will be said at 8:30 a.m. in the Dillon Hall chapel, and breakfast will be served in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall immediately after Mass. Tickets are 35 cents, and may be had from Dan Curley, chairman, or any of the officers of the club.
Spring Sports Schedule
April April April April April April April April April April
May May May May May May May June
8...
11.
15.
17.
18.
22.
25.
26.
27.
29.
1____
6____
11___ 12-13
16___ 20__ 26-27
2.__
April
April May 1 May : May May !
Baseball
---Illinois at Champaign ---.Western State at Kalamazoo —Northwestern at Notre Dame ---.Indiana at Bloomington ---.Chicago at Chicago —Western State at Notre Dame ---Chicago at Notre Dame ---Purdue at Notre Dame ---Ohio State at Notre Dame ---Michigan at Ann Arbor ---Indiana at Notre Dame ---Michigan State at Lansing ---Northwestern at Evanston ---Wisconsin at Madison ---J?urdue	at Lafayette ---Michigan at Notre Dame ---Jowa	at Iowa City ....Michigan State at Notre Dame
Track
15 Missouri, Wisconsin, Notre Dame Triangular Meet at Columbia, Missouri 28-29__.Pennsylvania and Drake Relays
6...
13.
20.
27.
___Ohio State at Columbus .Michigan State at Lansing ___Marquette at Notre Dame —State Meet at Notre Dame
June 2 Central Colleg. Conference, Milwaukee June 16-17 National Collegiate Athletic Association Meet at Los Angeles
April 22.
April 24.
May 1.__
May 6___
May 8-..
May May May May May
13.
15..
18..
22..
27..
Golf
----.Illinois at Notre Dame ----Ohio State at Columbus ----Chicago at Notre Dame ----Purdue at Lafayette ----Michigan at Notre Dame —.Wisconsin at Notre Dame —Northwestern at Evanston ----Detroit at Notre Dame —Minnesota at Minneapolis ----State Meet
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 18) 4186.” The quiet detachment of this bit, in the midst of scareheads about vice, murder, epidemics and relay carnivals, was very impressive. And at the same time, its calm indifference must have been discouraging to those handball enthusiasts who are trying to raise their favorite game above the “intra”-mural level into full standing as an intercollegiate sport. We say to you, Tom and Bill, if you can’t find anyone else, don’t hesitate to come on along yourselves. Father Brennan will play on your side.
Seriously, Father Brennan and his men have been working hard for matches, and we do hope the boys from Illinois can scrape together a team. Out of 13,000 students, surely there must be some anxious to satisfy a curiosity about coed-less life here at Notre Dame.
We left our comment on last weekend’s basketball game for the bottom of this column, where it belongs. Once we said we couldn’t understand how Notre Dame’s basketball teams ' could lose — that misunderstanding has been cleared up. We hope the team’s reaction tomorrow night at Milwaukee is favorable, rather than unfavorable. The Irish should be too level-headed to let one off-night—no matter how badly “off” it was—upset their equilibrium.
AT YOUR SERVICE/
AT YOUR PRICE/
ONLY 10c TO TOWN
FOR 4 OR 5 STUDENTS
Hourly Rate, $1.50
INDIANA CAB CO.
YELLOW SOUTH BEND
CAB CO.
CAB CO.
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
New Manion Textbook
The development and source of American political and individual rights is the theme of a new text-book on civics and government announced by Professor C. E. Manion of the University.
The book, Lessons in Liberty, is designed for the use of students of the junior high school level and will be published by the University of Notre Dame press. It will be ready • in Catholic classrooms this Fall.
Publication of the book was precipitated by a nationwide demand from Catholic educators as a result of a commencement address Professor Manion gave at the conclusion of Notre Dame’s summer school session last August. Prof. Manion, noted throughout the country as an eloquent speaker, frankly told the assembled educators that they were “mistaken” in their approach to the teaching of American civics. Educators tend, he said, to emphasize the “forms” governments take, while ignoring the all important “principles” from which the “forms” derive their vitalizing spark. The speech, later distributed in pamphlet form under the title Goel and Government, forms the nucleus of the new text.
The Manion approach to the study of civics is vigorous yet clear in its simplicity. He simplifies theories of government by stripping them of verbose complexities and reducing them to terms which the adolescent mind may readily understand.
“Lessons in Liberty” defines the Catholic understanding of the relations between the Catholic Church and American democracy, and reiterates and clarifies Catholic allegiance to American customs and traditions.
SHARPS AND FLATS
(Contined from Page 6) does not consist only in notations of defects or excellencies of technique. The musical critic also has the right and duty to estimate the music itself and the music-selection. The review in question was importantly concerned with matters of technique and interpretation, but the major matter of the music itself was not neglected. If one states that Liszt’s “Sixth Hungarian Rhapsody” is highly artificial and very overdone, or that “I Love Life” and “Thank God for a Garden” are not intrinsically very good music, or when one makes a plea for something other than the Debussy of “Clair de Lune” and “Reflections dans 1’eau” such judgments are far from being based upon “personal prejudices:” they are founded
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BENO
upon objective judgments and evaluations. If Mr. Connolly and others cannot see any objective differences between works of art, there is not much that can be said to them or done with them.
It should further be insisted that the valuation of music or the judgment of a musical presentation is not a matter of democratic vote. What was said concerning Mr. Collins’ musical was neither vicious nor pernicious. Since the criticism considered a few of the more important matters of technique and the vital subject of program selection and the music itself, the performers should have been encouraged to continue— but to continue with better music.
I cannot admit that the encouragement of music consists in a complacent and uncritical acceptance of whatever is presented. Rather, good music will be advanced when both musicians and audiences accept a true sense of criticism and an integral standard of critical values.
Sincerely
Robert B. Heywood
Symphony Concert
Selections from a symphony by one of the members of our own faculty will feature the second concert of the Symphony Orchestra next Friday evening, March 3, at 8:00 p.m.
The orchestra will play the Ozark Suite of Sir Carol Busch, noted composer who is a member of the faculty during the summer session and who has been knighted by the kings of Norway and Sweden. In addition they will play Mozart’s Symphony in G Minor.
Included in the program will be several trio and duet numbers. The three trumpeters of the orchestra, John Sheedy, John Stack, and Art Starr, will present “The Three Kings.” One of the duets will be a Serenade, played by John Steidl on the horn and Lawrence Sutton on the flute.
Specialising in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lene or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Sociology Department To Re-Group Courses
•
An innovation in departmental organization will be introduced at Notre Dame next year when a group of new courses will be offered with a common theme, “Man in the Modern City,” according to information just released by the department of sociology. The new grouping of courses is being made in the belief that a crisis has developed in the evolution of the modern city and in man’s adjustment to it.
Almost every conceivable problem involved in modern urban life will be examined in semester courses to be taught under such titles os Urban Sociology, American Culture in Transition, Social Psychology, Population Problems, and Criminology and Penology. It is believed that this intensive study of modern urban life will prove to be of great value to future city dwellers, especially to lawyers and others who will play a major role in effecting changes that seem to be so necessary.
Additional information about this development will be given from time to time on the sociology bulletinboard which is just inside the lower entrance to the Administration Building.
They're Here Again!
MUSICAL POWDER BOXES
They play
The Notre Dame Victory March
Priced from $2.95 to $7.00
Orders Taken for Shipment to Any Place in the World
Leading Credit Jewelers BLOCK BROS. Cor. Michigan and Washington
FEBRUARY 24, 1939 .
Indiana Breezes Bring Despair to Hat Wearers
•
There she blows! No it’s not the cry from a whaling vessel . It’s not a school-boy flying a kite. What is it? Right the first time! It’s the cry of a Notre Dame man whose hat has just taken off on a non-stop cross-campus flight, powered by a 65 horse power Indiana breeze.
On a surprise hop the other afternoon we clocked a “Stetson Reliant,” which took off from the head of a dignified senior, in 6 seconds flat for 50 yards. It probably would have broken all campus records if the Commerce building had not been in the way.
Then there’s the time your correspondent’s “Adam’s Speedster” wafted its way merrily across the new quadrangle in something less than a minute before being brought up short against the Dining Hall steps.
These spur of the moment flights have been causing considerable embarrassment. If present wind conditions prevail Notre Dame men, out of neccessity, will be forced to “ground” their toppers by adopting the idea of St. Mary’s “engineers,” who have been using ground ropes (chin straps) with great success.
... Bob Howard
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Why Worry About it?
Either you flunk, or you don’t flunk. If you don’t flunk, there is nothing to worry about. If you flunk there are only two things to worry about; either you stay here, or you go home. If you stay here, there is nothing to worry about. If you go home there are only two things to worry about; either you live off your folks or you get a job.
If you live off your folks there is nothing to worry about. If you get a job there are only two things to worry about; either you get paid or you don’t get paid. If you get paid there is nothing to worry about. If you don’t get paid there are only two things to worry7 about; either you eat or you starve.
If you eat there is nothing to worry7 about. If you starve there are only two things to worry about; either y7ou go to heaven or you go to hell. If you go to heaven there is nothing to worry about. If you go to hell, you’ve got all eternity to wony about it.

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOG., SOUTH SENO
■	—	-	aeA
Notre Dame
BOOK STORE
BADIN HALL
SPECIAL
Indirect Table Lamps
$2.68
INK
PENS NOTEBOOKS
Plain Stationery 100 Sheets, 75 Envelopes Special, 59c
•
A Complete New Line of Pennants!
2i
Polish Leader Praises Early Priests
•
The Charles Phillips Cracow club, was honored last Thursday, with the presence of Mr. Francis K. Czyzew-ski, of the South Bend Tribune, who lauded the leadership given by- the early and pioneering priests of Holy Cross order from Notre Dame to the Polish people in South Bend, in organizing their parish and community life in the early seventies.
Mr. Czyzewski, substituted in place of Major Marion Dolatka, Poland’s ace glider expert, who was unable to appear on the program because of illness.
Also included on the program were Mr. Edwin Haracz and Mr. Eugene • Kwiecien, who described in detail a banquet scene in old royal Poland, by reading the original extract from Mickiewicz’s poem and' giving its translation.
THE HUDDLE
COKES ...
SMOKES . . .
MALTED MILK ...
Your Favorite
PIPE . . .
APPLES, 5c each
WILL OSBORNE and His Famous "SLIDE" ORCHESTSRA
SUNDAY, February 26
50c in Advance 75c at the Door Plus Tax
Tickets on Sale in . WALGREEN’S and CLARK'S
PALAIS ROYALE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
22
FLAG QUESTION
(Continued from Page 5) over his ears, and his hands ovei’ his earmuffs. He lives next to the music room where some thirty young men were blowing assorted horns with all their might. Using the sign language we asked him if he were in charge of raising and lowering the flag. He nodded his head, “Yes.”
“Then why is the flag three-quarters of the way up the pole?” we shouted.
“For the Pope,” he answered.
“Yes, yes, we know it’s foi* the Pope, but why isn’t it at half-mast where it belongs?”
That had him. He admitted that Pete somebody, who used to have charge of the flag, told him to put it there. Pete takes his orders from the Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University, who ordered the flag placed at three-quarter mast because it can be seen better there. That was all oui’ janitor knew, and so we beat an orderly retreat with the orchestral din vibrating in our ears and the janitor shouting something about half-mast.
Finally we looked up the flag in our Boy Scout handbook and found, “The flag as a sign of mourning should be raised to the top of the staff, then lowered to half-mast.” It made no mention of three-quarter mast, nor what happens to people who put the flag there. Maybe they get shot or something. We’ll have to tell the janitor that.
Finally, again, we thought of the Library. Over we went and put the
For
Books	Stationery
Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
Visit
The Book Shop 130 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
problem to the ever ready, capable Miss Lawrence, “Just a moment,” she said, when we suggested returning next day. Before we had time to wink the.library dust out of our eye she returned with a ponderous volume issued by the War Department. In the section dealing with flag etiquette it said: “Half mast: Raise the flag to the top, then lower it one-third.” So half-mast is not halfway down the pole, but one-third.
Moral: Pay no attention to people who foist themselves off on the public as information-dispensers but consult the library first.
FATHER O’HARA
(Continued from Page 5)
“Students from some of the South American countries go to Santiago, pay their traveling expenses and schooling for less than it would cost to attend a university in their home country—this is one of the reasons why 1000 of the 5000 students at the University of Chile are foreigners.”
Commenting upon the Lima conference, Father O’Hara noted that the “Harmony of the conference was remarkable to all concerned. Visiting delegates received every possible courtesy from the Peruvian government and people. All set speeches were read simultaneously in four languages
Talk
about
VERSATILITY
Here’s a shirt that goes with every suit you own . . . that is correct for sports, business or social events . . . that may be had in plain or buttondown collar. It’s America’s favorite oxford shirt: ARROW Gordon. Only
aisww
and interpreters were readily available for anyone who desired one.”
I asked how it was possible for the set speeches to be presented in four languages at the same time. “The speeches were broadcast through head-sets supplied to each of the 130 delegates who tuned in on the Spanish, Portugese, French or . English speaker—whatever their choice,” he explained.
“Did you happen to be in South America during the earthquake?”
“No, we passed through the earthquake area two weeks before the devastation occurred — but have their been any reports about Notre Dame men from the area? We have several graduates there,” he asked anxiously.
Before donning his overcoat and rubbers to keep an appointment, Father O’Hara recalled that it was 34 years since he first visited South America—and 19 years since had been to the west coast. “Of course, I visited the northern coast last winter,” he said.
LEARN TO FLY with JTOCKEKT FLYING SERVICE, Inc.
Bendix Field
STUDENT COURSE, £45.00 Trial Lesson FREE!
Charter trips to anywhere in the United States in Stinson.
See campus representative CHAS. CARROLL 114 Dillon Hall “Our business is in the air”
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
*
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
IE M O N T H E E S
Optometrists and Opticians Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
A
FEBRUARY 24, 1939
23
ST. MALACHY
(Continued from Page 10) truly a burning fire, of zeal for a restorations of all things in Christ.
Our late Holy Father truly earned the title Fides Intrepida “Intrepid Faith”—which St. Malachy affixed to his name. His fearless battle against all the enemies of faith, and his amazing performance of duty throughout his long suffering, even up to the very end of his temporal life, could only be summed up in those two words, “Intrepid Faith.”
There were some events foretold, which were to take place during the reign of Pius XI that obviously fell short. St. Malachy spoke of a “Great Immolation” in which Paris would severely suffer. The immolation most certainly took place, but Paris was not the city to suffer. Possibly this might be patched because of the fact that Paris has been considerably weakened recently by radical uprisings through Fascist influence.
St. Malachy listed only six more popes after Pius XI. This is important because he calls the sixth pope -the last, and with this pope, whom he calls “Peter the Roman,” the end of the world is supposed to come. He doesn’t say there will be only six popes between now and the end, but he definitely calls Peter the Roman the last pontiff, and of this he says:
“In the final persecution of the Holy Roman Church there will reign Peter the Roman, who will feed his flock amid many tribulations, after which the seven-hilled city will be destroyed and the dreadful Judge will judge the people.”
It cannot be proved that all of St.
Malachy’s prophecies concerning the popes have been adequately and consistently fulfilled because the ambiguity of these predictions have already been pointed out. It is a matter of personal belief or disbelief. But St. Malachy did not confine his prophecies to the Church.
He also made prophecies concerning his native Ireland in which he foretold the oppression, persecution and calamities which would befall her. He heralded her bitter struggle with England and predicted her deliverance after seven centuries. Most interesting was the fact that Malachy prophesied that Ireland would finally make Great Britain Catholic and thus restore to her the gift that Britain tried in vain to destroy in Ireland.
Frosh Hall Gets Gay
On the night of Saturday, Feb. 11th, the men of Cavanaugh assembled in their recreation for another of the “get-togethers” that the rector of the hall, has been instrumental in promoting. The appearance on the program of Bill Mooney and Jack Collins, students, attracted much interest. They, were followed on the program by “Cavanaugh’s own,” Tom Schmidt, who mystified more than one of the onlookers by his “black magic.”
At the conclusion of the program refreshments were served to the students. The affair was a distinct success and left a desire for a similar party in the near future.
There is a tradition among the Italians that for 200 years no Cardinal with an R in his name has succeeded another in the Papacy who had an R in his name.
? BOASTS
(Continued from Page 7) that if he had any suggestions I’d be glad to consider them.
“Why doncha call me one of them things youse have for breakfast?”
“What do you mean—Hem?”I said. “Are you sure that’s a correct picture of the situation?”
I thought he’d make me a pre-Kell sacrifice, and ducked behind his entourage of managers.
“Naw! I don’t mean Ham. I mean them Misery Balls and you know it too,” ? growled.
IT’S ALWAYS
Icy pavements . . . snow blockades . . . sleet and rain storms . . . constant worries to auto occupants! But on the South Shore Line weather difficulties are rarely handicaps. No missed appointments ... no danger ... no discomfort . . . and best of all YOU ARE ALWAYS SAFE IN ALL-STEEL CARS! Get the South Shore Line habit, be safe and save.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE « SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
REMEMBER THE TWO JIMMIES FOR:
WATCH REPAIRING Jimmie Warner
SHOE REPAIRING Jimmy McAllister
Call
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan St.
PHONE 3-3111 for more information
(Located next to Candy Store and Telegraph Office)
Visit Our New Complete Record Dept.
VICTOR Latest releases:	BLUEBIRD
Artie Shaw plays “An Album of Popular Music”
1—CARIOGA, F. T. Vincent Youmans; BILL, F. T. (V. R.) Jerome Kern.
2—THE DONKEY SERENADE, F. T. Rudolph Friml; MY HEART STOOD STILL, F. T. Rich. Rodgers.
3—LOVER, GOME BACK TO ME, F. T. Sigmund Romberg; ROSALIE, F. T. (V. R.) Cole Porter.
4—ZIGEUNER. F. T. Noel Coward; SUPPER TIME, F. T. (V.R.) Irving Berlin.
5—THE MAN I LOVE. F. T. George Gershwin; VILIA, F. T. Franz Lchar.
Album BP-1 — Price ^2.25
RODIN. Inc.
132 North Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana
MR. PAUL BYRNE,
LIBRARY, ,	NOTRE DAME, IND.	, .
VELOZ anti ¥OLANDA in their famous Dance of the Cigarette”with
( Chesterfield
THE HAPPY COMBINATION (perfectly balanced blend} of the world's best cigarette tobaccos
CChesterfield's can’t-be-copied blend of mild ripe American and aromatic Turkish tobaccos gives you all the qualities you like in a smoke . . . mildness, better taste, and pleasing aroma.
When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure,.. why THEY SATISFY

Copyright 1939, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
the cant-be-copied blend . a HAPPY COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos