SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 82
August 4, 1944
No. 4
&
Commodores” Concert Tonight

di
•	NROTC Third Company Awarded Colors
J
•	Clatt and White to Play With All Stars
The new V-12 Band inarches to the Dining
Navy chow.
Hall after providing martial music for and Marine companies marching to






^he cNotre Q^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON
Associate Editor, Marines
AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON -DICK MURPHY BOB O'TOOLE
Managing Editor
Sports Editor Circulation Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -JIM HECK EMMETT HASSETT BLAIR NATTKEMPER PETE BROWN HARRY LE BIEN ARNIE SKLARE
Observations Know Your Navy The Green Banner Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters The Periscope The Gabby Gizmo
CONTRIBUTORS
DON MURPHY jack McCarthy JOHN BUTLER TOM DINGES JIM CAREY DICK GORMAN JACK CAHILL JIM MELLETT JOHN MORRIS TOM McNALLY JACK MILES
GEORGE KRAUSER JOHN FEENEY GENE DIAMOND BILL BYINGTON D. NUECHTERLEIEN JOE HAMMOND S. B. STOCKWELL I. S. HAMEL A. E. FUSS R. L. VOSBERG TOM SHANAHAN
BILL LESSARD C. STONEBARGER J. KLOCKENKEMPER ART WAGNER L. HERGSTEIN JIM FOY BILL OVER JIM SOMMER AL KOHN GUY WILSON GEORGE NUTIL
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD DON WHITE REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. -- -
The College Parade
By EMMETT HASSETT
NEW ROADS TO ROME
Kaleidoscope of Imo, religion, art,
And every mortal trial of state and man, Rome, great theme for every human heart, Now oives high promise to the American.
Columbus, Genoese, sailed the broad West, Our arms today crusade by Eastern, sands— Strange wheel of fortune: In true freedom’s quest We turn back Goths and Huns, new heathen bands.
Brave as our legions, be our councils wise
To lay the cornerstone of stable peace
On such foundations as in Rome still rise
Of Christianity’s undying lease.
War would ever be a fugitive
If only Christ among us all might live.
—James Patrick McGovern
Here is an interesting item clipped from the Indiana Daily Student.... “The unwavering confidence of the Right Rev. Msgr. Flanagan that ‘There is no such thing as a bad boy’ is finding new expression today in the military record of his former citizens of Boys’ Town. In the 26 years he has devoted to taking in homeless, and orphaned boys, and worked night and day to build good solid American citizens, 5,000 boys have come under Father Flanagan’s guidance.
Of these:
More than 600 are serving in the armed forces of the United States;
More than 100 are on active fighting fronts.
Twenty-one have been reported killed in action; three are prisoners of war;
One has been awarded posthumously the Distinguished Service Cross; three have won the silver medal for gallantry; and several wear the purple heart.
News Report from a New York newspaper
“A new bureau of census studies shows that there are only 1,700,000 unmarried men in civilian life today, between 20 and 34 years of age, compared with more than 4,000,000 unmarried women in the same age group.”
This isall the more significant, when viewed in the light of a normal peacetime year when unmarried men in the 20 to 34 age group outnumbered unmarried women by almost three to two....
The Indiana Daily Student comes through with another interesting item. — “Students who were using the fact that the big clock in the student building tower was five minutes slow as an excuse to get to class late will have to think up another one because the clock was set to the right time yesterday by the university service department....”
Around here the most common and perhaps the best one has been the flag raising.
It seems as if the University of Indiana really kept the mailman busy last year with a little item saying that $20,000 worth of postage stamps were sold in the Union last year.
Yes, but, fellows look at all the big dances that they have.
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3. 191". Authorized June 25, 191S.	■
VOL. 82
AUGUST 4, 1944
NO. 4
ROTC Third Company Awarded Colors
Lay Faculty War Bond Sale Exceeds Quota
Members of the lay faculty at the University of Notre Dame have exceeded their $20,000 war bond quota set for a recent bond drive it was announced today by Paul C. Bartholomew, chairman of the bond committee.
Mr. Bartholomew, head of the department of politics, and president of the Lay Faculty Club at the University, stated that bonds subscribed totalled over $21,000. Members of the bond committee included: Clarence E. Manion, James E. McCarthy, Raymond Schub-mehl, Lawrence H. Baldinger, Andrew J. Boyle, Herbert J. Bott, Robert L. Anthony, Robert Ervin, Ernest J. Wilhelm, ■ Walter L. Shilts, Louis Hasley, and Raymond V. Pence.
Johnson Succeeds Caron as Cadet Battalion Commander
Twin events affecting the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps on the campus took place during the past week. On Saturday, July 29, the presentation of colors to the Third Company took place with a formal review and on Tuesday of this week, the new battalion organization went into effect.
The assignment of student-officer posts saw J. J. L. Johnson named cadet battalion commander to succeed John B. Caron at the head of the unit. W. J. Em-blom was named sub-battalion commander; R. K. Griffin, battalion adjutant; H. A. Hoover, battalion commissary officer; L. R. Broun, battalion CPO.
The rest of the organization follows:
J. J. Johnson, commander; J. G. Brozo, first platoon; C. W. Powers, second platoon.
J. G. Mack, commander; R. L. Payne, first platoon; F. M. Ahern, second platoon.
R. R. Young, commander; H. J. Pi-sanko, first platoon; H. J. Gilligan, second platoon.
Color guard (Third Company): D. J. Champion, J. R. Kinney, E. H. Ball, H. A. Slamin.
B. C. Grosscup, drum major.
As victor in the inter-company competition, the Third Company of the Naval ROTC was awarded the colors as a symbol of merit for achievement in drill and athletic contests. W. W. Moore, cadet lieutenant and company commander, received the colors from Miss Florence Mickley of South Bend in conjunction with the traditional kiss.
(Continued on page 16)	■ :
❖	"THE COMMODORES" ❖ ❖	CONCERT TONIGHT ❖
❖	Tonight at 8:00 in Washington Hall, *1* ’5“ the famed "Commodores" will present a concert of semi-classical song ♦♦♦ and popular ballad, open to all.
❖	The Commodores are a male quar- ❖ ❖ tet, plus soprano and contralto, and ❖ ❖ each voice is a solo artist of genuine *1* <♦ merit. This combination makes pos-❖ sible their great variety in program. ❖ ❖ They specialize in musical comedy ❖ ❖ "hits," the music all honestly enjoy. ❖ ❖ Almost every number offers inci- ❖ £• dental solos, duets, or trios; and sev-❖ eral duet, trio, and quartet numbers ❖ ❖ from standard repertoire are always & & programmed.	❖
& Some of the selections for tonight's ❖ program are: “Liebestraum," "Cos- ❖ $ sack War Song," "A Great Day ❖ Coming," "American. Prayer," songs ❖ & from "Oklahoma," "Smoke Gets In ❖
& Your Eyes," "Wanting You," hits ❖ ❖ from “The Student Prince." medley ❖ ❖ from "Naughty Marietta," "Some- ❖ C* thing About A Soldier," and many 4 other popular pieces.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Colors being presented to the^Third Company of the Notre Dame Naval ROTC unit. Left to right are: Bill Moore. H. J. Pisanko. Captain Barry, and Miss Florence Mickley.
3
By BLAIR NATTKEMPER
John B. Caron, battalion commander (apprentice seaman to his friends) is the highest ranking student officei’ in the Notre Dame NROTC unit. Perched on the upper bunk of room 225 Walsh Hall, John stated that his job was to run the outfit and keep Chief Muson pacified.
John entered Notre Dame in September 1942 and although he was immediately transferred into the R. O.’s, he spent bro semesters of civilian life, being one of the elite with a private room and bath in Zahm Hall. Now in his sixth semester, the commander is majoring in
John B. Caron
chem-engineering and will graduate next June. “Unfortunately,” he said, “I think they are saving us for the next war.”
“Black” as he is called hails from the west part of Chicago, but was graduated from high school in Tucson, Arizona, where he played baseball, polo, and edited the sports section of his school paper. Deep sea fishing gets the nod as John’s favorite hobby, and the R.O. leader casts his vote for boxing in the field of sports. He fought in the “43” Bengal Bouts but lost to Bob Lee—the champ, incidentally.	.
He is a member of the “Delicate Fellows Organization,” or the “Unholy 10” which spends its time surpressing inner thirsts from the lure of the hops. His pet peeve is having to spend a week-end in South Bend—can you blame him?
During the entire interview, John kept
4
Stars and Stripes Show a Favorite With V-12;
Regular Saturday Night Feature of S. M. C.
By SEAMAN GENE DIAMOND
The average V-12 at Notre Dame, a quiet little man whose brain, time, and energies are saturated with such strictly scientific burdens as physics formulas, math equations, and chemical theorems will find a most welcome outlet for his more original and effervescent self in the weekly Stars and Stripes show, staged each Saturday by the Studebaker corporation.
Each week at the Service Center, just about the time the hostesses start limping from the effects of dancing clumsiness, the couples adjourn to the main floor for a half hour insight into the transformation of Seaman Dripsey, bookworm, into Dripsey the first class entertainer.
The show has become almost a strictly V-12 affair and has revealed some remarkable talent among trainees. Here it is that shower-room Sinatras, melodic cadence callers, and chow hall Barrymores get an opportunity to turn their talents from a small, at times unappreciative, station audience, onto a WSBT hookup.
Handling the m-c-ing for the show is hefty Hal Isbell, well known announcer, whose gags and script are highlights of every program. Before each show the rotund Mr. Isbell interviews each contestant with the significant result that none of the “Stripes” has ever failed to win the $2, $3, and §5 sections of his quiz.
fondling a highly scented letter from the one and only. The dope on his “fem” straight from John is as follows: “Lives in Michigan—sweet kid.” All this and nothing more. It seems however that although he doesn’t possess a picture of her, there are three frames sitting placidly on the window sill of his room with sweet alluring faces. (Incidentally, one of them has not attained the age of three yet.)
Although John would like very much to be out of school wearing a pair of ensign bars, he will be around until next June taking orders from everyone and the chief.
The SCHOLASTIC presumes that the Lawyers' Ball is to be held as scheduled; and regrets that no publicity was released for this issue.
—The Editor
The body of the program, however, is composed of the “Stars” or the entertaining group, consisting of singers, humorous and dramatic readings, and all sorts of instrumentalists from A-sax to zither. V-12 and V-7 men who have starred on the show in the past have turned in outstanding performances although in some cases their early reluc-
Stars & Stripes ‘on the air"
tance turned into enthusiasm when they saw the kind of considerate cooperation they received from program directors. Seaman who have starred on the show include, Jim Mazar, Rome Hartman, Ray Kopituk, Jim Masterson, Dick Pearse, and Johnny Clark.
Besides the glory, each competitor is assured of a share in the prizes ranging from $7.50 to $12.50 in war stamps which constitute the monetary reward for talent and effort.
The V-12 participation in the program is under the supervision of Lieut. Collins, recreation officer, with the direction being handled by Chief J. J. “De Mille” Broderick. Chief Broderick is currently scouting for talent on the station, with a special desire for participation by the new men.
The primary purpose of the show is to gain public support for the Service Center in the form of donations of food, books, and all other conveniences. Obviously, Navy men benefit mostly from this service and should therefore be anxious to give cooperation that will insure the success of the show.
All trainees who are interested in participating in the show should see Chief Broderick in 144 Dillon to arrange for an audition.	.
New Faculty Members
By THOMAS L. DINGES
Among the new faculty this semester is Mr. George F. Driscoll of the Civil Engineering department.
Mr. Driscoll gained his B.S. in Civil Engineering, cum laude from Notre Dame in 1925. Many old timers will undoubtedly remember him well as a monogram man in pole vaulting.
After graduation, Mr. Driscoll held the position of assistant engineer of the Ohio Department of Highways and later advanced to division engineer in charge of construction.
After seeing service with the Ohio department of highways and the Mead Paper Co. of Chillicothe, Ohio, Mr. Driscoll spent the period of 1930 to 1933 as Chillicothe city engineer and district engineer of the C.W.A. in southern Ohio. In 1934, Mr. Driscoll directed his abilities to the position of executive secretary and engineer for the NRA Code Committee representing the crushed stone, sand, and gravel industries.
From 1935 till the present semester, Mr. Driscoll was sales manager and engineer of the Southern Ohio Quarry Co. which is engaged in bituminous pavement construction in Ohio, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky.
“I am very well pleased to be back at Notre Dame,” said Mr. Driscoll. “Anyone who has attended school here knows what a great privilege it is to be able to come back.”
On leave of absence from the Bradley Institute of Technology is Dr. Harold C. Perkins, now serving on the Notre Dame faculty as a teacher in the Department of History to assist in the V-12 program.
Dr. Perkins obtained his degree of doctor of philosophy from Yale university.
Before holding his previous position as associate professor of history at Bradley in Peoria, Ill., he had also taught at the University of Pittsburgh.
Dr. Perkins is especially interested in the history pertaining to the American Civil War period.
❖ IMPORTANT V-12 NOTICE ❖
’I* All men interested in working on ‘I* "fr the coming V-12 Ball are asked to & leave their names, halls, and room ❖ numbers with Nelson Boswell, Ball -♦* mittees, last semester. As many, if
*2* chairman, in 201 Zahm.
Over 75 men worked on Ball com- *1* & not more, will be needed again this ❖ •1’ time.	❖
Start V-12 Dance Band
An all V-12 dance band has recently been organized by Yeoman Frederick and C(Sp) Broderick. Although it has
had but few rehearsals, the organization has displayed such talent that it has already received requests to play for local •functions.
This band, which should not be con-
Roommate of Mine
There’s an empty cot in my room tonight, There’s a locker that’s barren and cold,
There's a barren desk, just off to my right.
That belonged to my roommate of old.
No more will I see his sweet smiling face, Nor be kicked by his accurate feet,
He’s gone from this room, not leaving a trace
For Johnny is back in the fleet.
Like all of the rest he came here one day Expecting to make this his home,
He flunked his math, I heard someone say,
So now he is back on the foam.
I wait for that day, I hope soon to be, When I too shall pack up my grip.
Like Johnny I, too, ivill go to sea, Just as soon as they find “my ship.”
—Seaman Joe Hammond
fused with the University Concert Band, plans to give one-hour concerts weekly in Washington Hall auditorium. A public rehearsal is planned for the near future, and there is a possibility of weekly barracks dances in the “Rock.”
Twenty men, under the leadership of Marvin Crask, compose the group of musicians. A muster list of these men follows:
Sax section: J. H. Greene, A. A. Katchelmeier, L. M. Nelson, C. H. O’Grady, H. G. Portz, C. W. Stout.
Trumpet section: J G. Duffy, R. C. Kopituk, L. F. Twardzik, H. Hillegass, W.’ E. Bolleart.
Trombone section: R. G. Ballenger, R. Bosler, V. P. Shellenbarger, Houck.
Rhythm section: W. Braun, drums; K. S. Barry, bass; K. F. Merten, tuba; D. A. Frederick, piano.
Vocalists: R. M. Leliaret, K. S. Barry.
—Seaman Bill Byington
Band Concert To Be
Wednesday Feature
Last Wednesday night, the UniversityBand, under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope, entertained a group of students and their guests with a short concert. Commencing about 8 o’clock, the show was played under the trees in front of the Administration building. Among the compositions played were “The Hungarian Comedy Overture,” selections from Rudolph Friml’s “Firefly”; the “American Patrol”; and “Andalucia.”
The best-liked part of the show was the playing of such songs as “Oh, What A Beautiful Mornin’,” “Oklahoma,” “People Will Say We’re in Love,” and • the “Surrey- With the Fringe On Top,” all from the show “Oklahoma.” “We’re On Our Way” an infantry song written by Richard Rodgers, was also played, despite the fact that most of the musicians are Navy men.
The smiling Mr. Hope, director and emcee, did a fine job, though the wind kept him running around the grass after his sheet music. Everyone enjoyed the concert very much, and so were happy to hear that a similar one is planned for each Wednesday evening, for the next six weeks. The affair ended, quite appropriately, with the Notre Dame “Victory March.”—Dick Gorman
Knights Picnic is Success
With all the spirit and enthusiasm of an old-fashioned Notre Dame outing, the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus held a picnic at Lake Christiana last Sunday which was attended by some 30 members and prospective members.
Organized activities got under way with a soft ball game after which the group enjoyed a picnic of ham, potato salad, baked beans, and other miscellaneous items too numerous and mouthwatering to mention.
The afternoon was occupied with various games, and facilities for boating, swimming, and golf were available for those wishing to use them.
This picnic, one of the most successful since the coming of the navy, was the first of a program of activities as part of the membership drive which the Knights are making on campus. The outing was full evidence that the spirit of the Knights has not decreased despite the reduction in numbers because of the inroads made by. members joining the armed forces.	.
The present members feel that with an increased membership, the Knights will again be the most active, progressive, and largest campus organization.
5
OBSERVATIONS
BY LIEUTENANT S. L. BEATTY, USNR
1.	Few Batings Given Nowadays:
The official word and the news coming back in personal letters from V-6 men who were formerly in V-12 is that very few, if any, ratings are now being given men who complete Class A Service Schools. They are being given S/lc or S/2c, according to their qualifications, and- assigned to duty in line with the training they receive in the Class A School. Only about five percent of those completing this training receive ratings. This fact should be considered by the few local trainees who are not trying to succeed in V-12. A man in V-12 who deliberately fails in his duty by not working in his studies is handicapping himself, cheating his country, and inviting separation on disciplinary grounds. He is also wounding his conscience as a selfrespecting person. When a man has requested and been assigned duty in V-12, that duty becomes his service to his nation, a nationally approved and essential duty. Failure because of inadequate previous education is in no sense disgraceful; but failure because of weak and lazy inattention to duty in studies is proof that the man is not fit to become an officer. Those who do their best and still find that they are not preferred to succeed here, now will be assigned without prejudice to the next best duty for which they are qualified. Those who are found lacking in officer-like qualities in conduct will be recommended for separation. A new V-12 bulletin directs that a constant review be made of V-12 men’s qualities as potential officer candidates, and that those men found lacking be transferred for other duty for which they may become qualifed. Men in V-12a ought especially to keep their academic and military records up to the best of their ability. Those who have failed in their studies or conduct and have been reclassified into V-6 will have decreased their chance of winning an aviation rating. Keeping their academic and military record sound will enable V-12a men to qualify for deck officers’ training or for other officer’s candidate training, including any limited future quota of men to be assigned to flight training.	"
❖	.
2.	University Tutors in Mathematics and Physics:
The University is soon announcing a free special service to V-12 men who are deficient in mathematics or physics. Spe-6
cial classes will meet each week at a regular hour, the Navy requiring attendance of all who sign up for the service or whose grades indicate their need of it.
Other assistance may be had by referring to the list of civilian and trainee tutors recommended by the departments of mathematics and physics and published by the course officer. The civilian tutors will be paid by the trainee receiving the assistance. All trainees are forbidden to receive any kind of remuneration for outside employment, but many on the recommended list are willing to give occasional assistance to deficient trainees in need of a few minutes coaching on the principles involved in a new assignment in physics or mathematics, enough to enable the deficient men to work the problems on their own thereafter.
3.	Types of Candidacy Available for Regular Screening into Advance Phases of V-12:
Men whose total college work completed by November 1944, consists of the first two terms of the fully prescribed V-12 curricula will be screened into one of 16 upper-level specialties for seamen or one of five engineering specialties or the line officer quota for Marines. The screening will take into account: (a) quotas based on the needs of the service; (b) the academic record to date; (c) the Comprehensive Achievement Test; (d) ratings on officer-like qualifications; (e) the student’s written preferences; and (f) the Commanding Officer’s recommendations.
There are large quotas established for NROTC, both General and Engineering, but none for NROTC Supply. Quotas for aerology and for constructor corps are very small. Last term 43 men expressed first preference for the Supply Corps; 19 received that assignment. Supply is among the quotas open this semester.
4.	Aviation Candidates:
Regarding this candidacy the V-12 Bulletin on screening of second semester men to upper-level specialties reads:
“Quotas for transfer to flight training will be limited to students who have completed a minimum of three terms in ■ the V-12 program. Therefore, there is no quota available for transfer of V-12 (or V-12a) students to flight training at the end of their second term. Aviation
(Continued on page 15)
Purple Heart Awarded
By SEAMAN AL BROTEN "Scholastic" Associate Editor
Wounded while clinging to the outside of a dive bomber which had been damaged by enemy fire is part of the story of Bernard J. Meddleton, Co. E, who on July 22 was presented the Purple Heart by Comdr. Walter S. Gabel at review ceremonies.
As ARM'3/c, Seaman Meddleton was serving with a combat unit, carrier based, operating in the Southwest Pacific. During March of this year, the dive bomber, to which he was assigned set out on a combat mission aided by 12 other dive bombers and about 15 fighter escorts. Over the target they were engaged by the enemy. •
Damaged severely by the enemy fire,
Seaman Meddleton receives Purple Heart
the plane was doomed; the pilot immediately ordered Meddleton to jump. The latter, however, failed to get away from the ship and was forced to hang on to the side. While in this position, he received the leg and head wounds, which earned for him the Purple Heart.
After remaining in this dangerous spot for several minutes, Meddleton decided to pull the rip cord, which he did, and thereby got away from the ship successfully. When he landed in the water, he turned his life over to his Mae West, which kept him afloat for half an hour after which time he was picked up by a friendly destroyer.
On July 1 of this year Seaman Meddleton reported to Notre Dame for his first semester of V-12 training. He is taking the basic requirements. His home is in Johnson City, N. Y.
Out of Little Seeds...
When Mrs. Bodoh first taught her son the secrets of victory gardening and the mighty power it would play in wartime, she did not realize that her teachings would create the effect in him that it did. In fact, there are very few persons/ex-cluding his own personal associates, who realize what Bob Bodoh has done with his valuable gardening experience.
Bob, who this semester lives in Room 264 of Alumni Hall and who almost lives for the success of Company H, spent two semesters previous to this in Dillon Hall, where Chief Scharff officiated daily as “house mother.”
It was in Dillon Hall during the spring semester that Bob saw the “Irish” trees bud and the Notre Dame gardeners go into action for the first time. Those things brought back to him vividly thoughts of springtime at home and visions of the victory gardens in his neighborhood. -	'
One day he visited South Bend (on a liberty day, of course) and the sight of a garden seed stand inside one of the grocery stores captivated him. Now, if he was back in civilian life, he could go in there and purchase the seeds he wanted and go home and plant them. He did!
That night when he returned to his barracks, he showed his roommate, Seaman Blum, the two packages of seeds that he had purchased in an off moment. One package contained carrot seeds and the other, radish seeds.
What Seaman Bodo did with those two packages is a matter of history now.
Seamen who lived in the vicinity wall swear to the fact that, each morning a series of cups of water would be emptied out of the window of that room and onto the small area which held the radish and carrot seeds. As days went by and the sun got hotter, the radishes and carrots showed their heads above the ground. The one big danger then for the safety of this victory garden was the vicious Notre Dame gardener who, in one of his weeding expeditions, might extract the precious vegetables from Mother Earth.
Bob Bodoh’s heart dropped one day when, as he was peering out of the window, he saw a couple of the aforementioned gardeners moving steadily toward the “garden.” All fear left him, however, when the workers merely weeded the garden and went on their way.
Today, as observers can see, the vegetables are approaching harvest time. Reports have it that Bodoh himself has been in the vicinity inspecting his masterpiece. It remains to be seen, however, who will get there first to harvest the crop.—Seaman Al Broten
Letter From Alphonse:
By SEAMAN JOE HAMMOND
Dear Mom,
Well, Mom, things are beginning to shape up here at Notre Dame. I’m learning to be a good sailor—or a Marine, one—I don’t know which. I wish I was back on the farm though. Honestly they keep me on the run more up here than Pa did when I was back there at home.
Yes, I know, you said that there would be days like this—but you didn’t say there’d be so darn many. Gosh, I even believe Sherman made an understatement.
I wish you could meet my executive officer, Mom. You’d like him. He talked to us the other day and said he was a liberty hound.—A liberty hound is a sailor who likes to come back to his own hard little bunk on liberty nights. Anyway, we’ve all got to be liberty hounds just like him so you’d better tell Pa that I won’t get down that one day a week we’d planned on to help him with the heavy farm chores.
You, know, Mom, all this has caused me to think. Here we fellows are up here at Notre Dame in the good old U.S.A., and then there are those other fellows in those far away places—just dreaming about any old spot in their homeland. I guess they’ve got a right to think that we’re in this war as much as them.
Remember that letter Aunt Tilly got from Cousin Seth telling about all the dry days he spent on North Africa. Well, I guess there are a lot of other guys on these deserts—going days at. a time without hardly any water. You know what? Just to show those guys that I’m one fellow that is completely behind them, I’m not going to drink any water for the rest of the week.
I was on watch last night. I don’t know what I was supposed to watch, because they didn’t tell me. I don’t know what they need with us “S.P.,” because there’s no place around here to go to see if there was anyone there that was not 21 yet.	'
Well, Mom, if you see Sally, tell her I said “Hello.” Sally may not be much, as girls go, but she don’t have the flighty ideas these girls up here have. I went with a girl for quite a spell and then— well she just practically says to me, “I like you, Alphonse. You’re a good boy. I’m going to look around to see if I can find anyone I like better. Meanwhile you just stick around.”
Take good care of Pa, Mom, and I’ll write you again next week and let you know the dope.
Your loving son, Alphonse.
Burble to Appear Next Week; B-29 Highlighted
John Parchem, president of the Aero club, and associate editor of the Notre Dame Burble, announced recently that the first issue of the local Aero club publication would appear sometime next week.
John .stated that the feature articles would be ones by Mr. Robert S. Eiken-berry, professor of aeronautical engineering at the University, and by James F. Dugan, aeronautical student.
The amazing new bomber, the B-29, is to be the topic of Dugan’s article, with an emphasis on the technical points that make this modern flying fort one of the most potent, aerodynamically-perfect bombers yet to be developed. The task of production has been eased by many innovations of production engineers, some of which will be described by Dugan.
Other highlights of the publication will be a page of cartoons on the Aero engineers by the able V-12 areo student, Seaman Bevington.
Still another column will be the “Burbling” or gossip column by Ralph Valva, an article on new equipment in the laboratories by Al Lesmez, and other articles by Cliff Marks, John Parchem, and staff writers.
Al Lesmez, Scholastic editor and senior in aeronautical engineering, is the editor of the Burble; since this marks Al’s initial attempt with the aero publication, the department and the aeronautical engineering students are looking forward with interest to the finished product.—John Farley
Parade Ground Queries
“What are they doing to our parade ground? Why are they taking out the nice holes?” A wave of interest flowed about the campus as large bulldozers and highway graders plowed up and down the grassy hills of the field. Speculation ran riot as to the purpose of the landscaping. Some claimed that a new addition to the cemetery was being plotted. Others foresaw the erection of a mammoth obelisk and formal gardens commemorating the anniversary of the WAVES. Still others suggested that a strip mine was being promoted. But no one seemed to really KNOW. Our guess is that someone parked a tractor on the field overnight and then one thing led to another.—Seaman Bill Byington
7
Comdr. Gabel's Order on Keeping Perishable Food in Room Meets with Hearty Approval!
BY SEAMAN AL BHOTEN "Scholastic" Associate Editor
Certain seamen are happier today (and probably healthier), because Commander Gabel has expressed his desire that no food should be kept for any length of time in a room occupied by a V-12 trainee. Just ask Donald Peck, Co. G, whose “home” is 145 Alumni Hall.	■
Commander Walter S. Gabel
Only last week the hero, a red-haired Romeo who ain’t doing so hot in math, received a mysterious package in the mail. He knew who it was from, because that old loveable name of Hortense Slurpslobber (fictitious name used here to avoid complications) was scrawled in the upper left hand corner. And besides, she always put her stamps on upside down.
But, because Donald knew who it was from caused him to- be slightly suspicious. The last time he saw her in Milwaukee she couldn’t cook and she couldn’t sew and she didn’t even know what had made Milwaukee famous. What could the. package wrapper hide?
Courageously, after consulting Ed first had arked, “Does it tick?”), Teck first had asked , “Does it tick?”), Peck decided to open the parcel. He did! To his surprise, nothing happened.
Unfolded before him, he found that the contents were in the shape of a flattened loaf of bread, the ingredients, of which seemed to include nuts and
raisins. Its color was a hazy brown. Its weight was equal to that of a brick.
When he went to chow that evening, Peck’s little heart was troubled. Between gobbles, he asked a friend of his, Don Mitchell, if he could enlighten him concerning the identity of the gift he had received. Mitchell, after hearing the description and studying the facts as presented, came to the conclusion that Peck’s little woman had sent him a portable victory garden—but he was willing to waive final judgment until after he had seen the phenomenon with his own eyes.
After chow a confused group of individuals gathered in Room 154 to witness Exhibit A and pronounce their verdict. There .-.was Peck with his magnifying glass, Mitchell with his encyclopedia, Peters with his smelling salts, and Bob-Naumann, another “neighbor” boy, with his appetite.
Following two hours of intense deliberation, the court decided that Peck’s parcel contained a variety of sweetness, called fudge, which Hortense in one of her ingenious moments had concocted. Hortense had, however, forgotten to cut the fudge into fudge’s usual shape. For this reason and since there were few other evidences that it ever had been fudge, the question it raised in the minds of the recipient and his friends had been legitimate. (Peck still doesn’t believe it!)
The revelation of this incident is not meant to discourage other “thoughtful” Juliets from flattering their V-12 steadies with gifts of this nature. However, as Peck sighs, “Why don’t they send ya a road map? If it hadn’t been for my wise friends, I still wouldn’t know what to thank her for.”
Chief Musen Leaves
Chief Boatswains Mate Alybert Musen, who has been attached to the Naval ROTC staff for the past eight months, left Monday for further duty at Great Lakes Naval Training Center, Great Lakes, Ill.
Chief Musen, before coming to Notre Dame, was with the Sixth U. S. Construction Battalion. This unit was one of the first group of Seabees to go into action. They landed with the Marines on Guadalcanal on August 7, 1942 in the first American offensive operation.
—Bill Brill
► Know Your Navy 4
Turn to—An order to begin work. Unbend—To cast adrift or untie. Under hack (Slang)—Restrictions on an officer as a punishment.
Underway—A vessel is underway when not at anchor, moored, made fast to the shore, or aground.
Unship—to take apart or to remove from its place.
Up anchor—The order to weigh the anchor and get underway.
Veer—To pay out chain or line; said of a change of direction of wind clockwise.
Very’s signals—Red, white, and green stars fired from a pistol and used in a special code for signalling purposes.
Waist—The portion of the deck between the forecastle and quarterdeck.
Wardroom—Commissioned officers’ mess room and lounge.
Warp—To haul ahead by a line or anchor.
Watch-and-watch—Two watches alternating on deck.
Water breaker—A small water cask carried in ships’ boats.
Waterway—The gutter at the sides of a ship’s deck to carry off water through the scuppers.
Weather-eye—To keep a weather-eye is to be on the alert.
Weather side—The windward side.
Weigh—To lift the anchor off the bottom.
Well!—“That’s well.”—an order meaning sufficient.
Whaleboat—A sharp-ended pulling lifeboat.
Where aivay—A call in answer to the report from a lookout that an object has been sighted.
Wide berth—At a considerable distance..
Windsail (winsel) — A canvas trunk spread to admit air below decks.
Windward (second “w” is not. pronounced)—Toward the wind.
Work—To work a ship—To handle by means of engines and gear.
Yard-arm blinker—A signal light carried on the yard-arm of men-of-war and operated to indicate dots and dashes.
8
cosmopolitan gent these days. While his true-love languishes for him on the west coast, he’s studying medicine and things under the tutelage of a sharp Chi-town nurse. Says Jim, “I figure I'll have plenty of time for my steady when I hit Dago; now, I want to live!” Everyone knows he’s a live wire!
“And noiv, I’m off like a zephyr, Can’t let that swabbie catch her!”
“Even the’ it ain’t so, Read it in the Gizmo!”
"THAT'S LIFE ON CAMPUS!"
Everyone, excluding the ration board in South Bend, wants to know where Nelligan procured the “c” gas coupon which helped carry him up to Lake Michigan one recent Sunday. They tell us he has friends in town. Well, anything is possible.
Is there a more efficient coke-machinefiller-upper than Don Weibel? Judging from the exodus to the second deck of Cavanaugh from all points above-board and below, we think not. This is not to criticize the other coke-machine-attendants, but merely to commend Don. Good work lad—we’ve just got to have ’em!
Monsieur Bill Safron, a new V-12er, and his happy-go-lucky roomie Bob Roth, just never seem to make formations on time. “We like our billet so much,” they tell us, “that we can’t bear to leave it, even for formations.” If a list recently posted is any indicator of public feeling at all, we imagine Bob, at least, has changed his mind. Life can be so different!
SAY IT, OVER?
Howard “Big Pete” Peterson wants to. know who trampled his deck before his excellent wax job dried last week? His room-mates, Bob Pavlin and Bill “Lincoln-Stephens” Over, who were comfortably ensconsed in their sacks during the atrocity, refuse to talk. Yes, Minnesota’s boy won’t say it Over again!
A TRICKY ENDING....
I once knew a gal named Bobby, Who used to date an ND swabbie; And she had a cute sister Maureen, Who ran around with an ND Manne; One nite the four got together, And there folloived a terrible tether,
—any Marine want Bobby’s number?
CORN ABOUT CORNELL
Why did so many Gyrenes make feverish attempts to find out whether Col
gate and Cornell Universities are co-ed or not, this last week?
Speaking of Cornell, John Kelly, jr. knows all about it. Unlike Odysseus of Greek literature, he comes from Utica and not Ithaca (where Cornell is located). And of course, John, like Odysseus, went off to the wars (not the Trojan Wars.) Now, will the parallel end here? The classic Odysseus found his best gal, Penelope, surrounded by suitors when he finally got home—But not John! He’s in solid!
Now that we’re on the classics, it’s necessary to mention that we’ve got the modern prototype of Achilles here in the form of Achilles “Chick” Maggoli. Remember how old king Agamemnon prom-
ised to wed his lovely daughter Iphiginia to Achilles, and then tried to kill her instead? We hope no similar fates await present-day Iphiginias around town!
❖
FROM THE COAST
Comes word that Bob Setzer has excellent reason to look forward to his phy-ed classes this term. One of his long standing heroes of the cinema now stands beside him during muster, and what a thrill for Bob. He runs around screaming, “Oh Skippyyyy!”
MORE COPY
Guido “Jim the Gymnast” Norini is a
STILL MORE COPY
Bob Bauer, also referred to as “The Map Reader,” is reforming. He gets to classes on time now. But his friend Harold “Mercury” Davis isn’t doing too well on that account. A certain prof had all but given him up, when in breezed Davis, three seconds late. “I met a guy and...”, explained Harold.
EGGS IN YOUR BEER?
In a recent nation-wide poll taken for The Favorite Marine of The USD, Bill “Service Center” Eggbeer copped the laurels.
Quoth the new king: “Gosh, and—, just gosh.”
A REAL OLD SALT
Say, did everyone see old John “Superman” Miniclier last liberty day? Yes! It’s true! He was actually seen pouring salt on his hash-marks and mumbling, “You shee? I’m jush an old salt!” And that he is!
Well, as the sailor said when he saw the Marine approaching his partner on on the dance floor, “Guess I better shove off now!”
HEAD-LINERS
If you don’t like the weather in Indiana, just wait a minute. One hot day this spring a farmer came in from work in his field and decided to take a swim in the creek before lunch. He stripped off his clothes as he walked along and dived from the bank without noticing that the recent drought had dried up all the water from the stream. As he left the cliff he was horrified to see the rough, rocky, dry creek bed waiting to receive him. About that time, however, came a sudden shower, the creek rose quickly and he landed in eight feet of water. He started to swim ashore when it became a blizzard and the water froze him fast in the ice. Before he had time to worry about missing his lunch, the sun shone brightly, melted the ice and the only ill effects suffered by our hero was that his shoulders were blistered by the sun before he could swim ashore and get his shirt on.
9
Dan Hanley, Clashmore Mike Combine to Inaugurate Tenth Grid Season Together
BY JACK MILES "Scholastic" Sports Wrner
With football season just around the corner, a feature on Clashmore Mike, the Notre Dame mascot, seemed appropriate, so we set out to get same. Being of average intellect, we reasoned that an interview with Mike would be impossible, so as the next best thing, we consulted Mr. Dan Hanley, his genial trainer.
Mr. Hanlev was in the gym and we sat down and had a little talk. He would not say much about himself, preferring rather to give me the history of Clashmore Alike.
Will he clear it this fall?
In 1935, a kennel-owner in Chicago presented Head Coach Elmer Layden with an eight-week-old pup, which Coach Layden turned over to Dan Hanley for training as mascot. After giving him the sobriquet Clashmore Mike (the name of a famous Irishman) Mr. Hanley set to work on the training. Using a broken hurdle, he taught the playful puppy to clear a height of about twro feet. Gradually raising the bar, he soon had Mike skimming easily over the high hurdles.
Clashmore made his debut in the fall of ’35, when the mighty Pittsburgh eleven came to town. The Pitt “mascot” was a student dressed up as a panther. Unfortunately for the panther, however, Mike wanted to “play.” After a few tufts of fur had been dislodged from the panther’s pelt, Alike was called off and the made-over student scampered to the Pitt bench.
True Irish Spirit
He has exhibited traces of enmity toward mascots of other teams, also. In 1941, at the Navy game in Baltimore, Alike gave the fans their money’s worth. Air. Hanley had him on a leash, and the temperamental terrier was snarling meanly at Bill, the Navy goat. Mr. Hanley, noting this, and being a sympathetic and understanding man, "tripped” and “accidentally” let go of Mike’s leash. The dauntless dog broke all existing speed records as he raced across the field with his trainer in rather slow pursuit. After the dust had cleared, the goat was a bit bedraggled, while Alike was none the worse for wear. The Irish mascot had “got his goat.”
A few weeks after this game, a letter came into the N.D. post office addressed to "Clashmore Alike.” It was delivered to the addressee who requested his trainer to read it to him. It read as follows:
Bahiniote. Maryland
“Deai Clashmoie Mike:
“I suppose you get lots of letters from youi fans. I would like to be one of them. I saw you at the Notre Dame-Navy game. 1 thought you weie very brave the way you went after the Navy goat.
“Mike, if you have any autographed pie-tuies. I would dually love to have one. I am suie you must have lots of requests for them. Well heie’s wishing the best o’ luck to you and your team.
“As ever your aident fan,
Mary Kiehne.”
She got the picture. It was the first fan letter the colorful canine had ever received according to the records, and none other has come up to this day.
The following year, he renewed hostilities with Bill in Cleveland. Head Cheerleader Jerry Flynn had set up two hurdles in the center of the field and everything was in readiness for Alike’s hurdling stunt. Before his act, however, the meticulous mascot surveyed the crowd and chanced to see Bill on the Navy side. Completely ignoring the hurdles, he made for Bill. It proved to be a repetition of the happening of 1941, much to the chagrin of the midshipmen, and the goat.
As evidence that he was not partial to the Navy, Alike took the subborn streak out of the Army mule the same year. He nipped the mule’s heel, and from that time on there has been bad blood between them (the mule’s blood.)
Alike’s predecessors are two in number. According to legend the first mascot was a bulldog who operated as such
Free Time at St. Joseph's Lake is Announced
As a result of the use of St. Joseph's Lake by physical education swimming classes, the hours for recreational swimming have been cut considerably compared to what they were during the Afarch-June semester.
Mid-Summer's Dream
Comdr. Walter S. Gabel made the new regulations for recreational swimming known to V-12 men through a recent noon-muster announcement. According to his order, the “lake will be open for recreation during mornings from 20 minutes before the hour until five minutes after the hour, until noon-time.”
During the afternoon the lake will be free for this purpose “from five minutes before the hour to 20 minutes after the’ hour. About 1600 the lake is free for swimming until 1800.”
On Saturdays recreational swimming for navy men will be allowed from 0900-2100 and on Sundays, from 0900-1800.
- -- — . ------------------------------ carry a football in his mouth and enter around 1924. His chief stunt was to the stadium in advance of the team. After him came an Irish Terrier named ' Shawn Rue, who lasted until 1931. It • was in this year that the team, under the j direction of Hunk Anderson, lost five games. Upon completion of this unsuccessful season, the dog disappeared. Who can blame him?
This brief resume just about brings us up to date. Alike celebrated his ninth birthday in February, and Dan Hanley will observe his seventeenth anniversary in the employ of the University in October. Veterans though they are, they both expect to see service together this football season.
10
Seahawks Risk 23-Game Winning Streak Here Tomorrow; At Michigan City Sunday k.
BY JOHN FEENEY
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
Jim White, Corny Clott
Join Ail-Star Ronks i's lg	By BILL WADDINGTON
n-	''Scholastic" Sports Editor
ii-li e
The All-Star football squad has added much to its prestige of late and the announcement today of the signing of Jim White, Notre Dame’s 1943 stalwart tackle who was voted the most valuable lineman in the nation during the past collegiate grid season, will give the World’s Champion Chicago Bears another problem that they’ll have to solve in the All-Star forward wall.
w ig it to c-:1-2S
ie
3S
ie
Jim White
ir
=
jr to t->d
y
is
h
y y
Earlier this week, the acceptance of Corwin Clatt, ex-Notre Dame fullback of ’42, boosted the college team’s stock. The Fighting Irish gridders to answer the roll call thus fai" totals four, John Adams and Creighton Miller having been signed last week.
White, who starred at All Hallows Prep in New York before coming to Notre Dame is presently on duty with the Navy. He stands 6'2" with 208 charging pounds of playing potency. His standout work in the Michigan contest last year in which he literally crushed Wolverine linemen to snag the fast Michigan back and his stealing the ball from Glenn Davis in the Army game were brilliant examples of his fast and clever play.
Unanimous All-American
White’s unanimous choice for AllAmerican honors was duly awarded him (Continued on page 18)
The vaunted Seahawks from the Iowa Pre-Flight School at Iowa City, posses-ors of a line-up bristling with former major league aces and a victory string of 23 straight, make their appearance here tomorrow to oppose the Notre Dame baseball nine at 5:00 p. m. at Cartier Field.
The visitors, who buried the Ottumwa (Iowa) All-Stars under a 23-4 avalanche in their most recent outing, will send to the mound Ed Weiland, former Chicago White Sox flinger. Catching will be Bill Baker, once a Pittsburgh Pirate, and more recently a member of the Great Lakes squad which defeated the Irish, 8-2, and 13-7, in the spring, while Ned Harris, ex-Detroit Tiger slugger, will play left field.
Coach Jake Kline’s choice as mounds-man for his club, which has won five and tied one in eight tries, will probably be Paul Lammers. Win or lose, Sunday will see the Irish at Michigan City to meet the Michigan City Cubs, with Jack Barrett slated for mound duty.
Win at Hammond, 12-7
The Golden Domers racked up win No. 4 by unloosening a bombardment of 17 hits to overpower the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co., of Hammond, 12-7, last Friday night at Hammond. The Irish tallied first but the losers led most of the way and were ahead, 6-5, as late as the eighth inning, when a 6 run out
He'd better "step on it."
burst settled matters. Paul Lammers, in notching his third triumph, permitted only 7 safe blows but five N. D. errors contributed to Youngstown’s cause.	'
Frank Ciszczon, who hit like a demon over the week-end, paced the Blue and Gold offensive efforts with three singles and a double. Jack Tree connected three times and Ken Manarik clouted a home run and a single, while Art Fitzgerald knocked a two-bagger and a single. Dotlick, with two blows, was best for Youngstown.
Bunker Hill Edges Irish, 5-4
Bunker Hill copped a slim 5-4 decision from Notre Dame last Saturday afternoon on left fielder Miasek’s home run with one on in the eighth. Unlike Friday’s slugging match, this tilt produced-only 15 hits, 11 by the Irish.
Jake Kline’s charges tallied in the first frame on singles by Ciszczon, Manarik and Mayo, but the winners came back with a run in each the second, third and fourth innings to forge ahead.
In the first half of the eighth, Art Fitzgerald’s double drove in two runners to put N. D. in front, 4-3. Then Miasek’s round tripper decided the verdict. Jack Barrett, Notre Dame’s hard luck hurler, allowed only four hits but each one came in a bad spot, while Hoover, Bunker Hill's nioundsman, was tight in the pinches.
(Continued on page 18)
11
Langfordmen Travel to Lawrence Tomorrow;
Inherhall Program Now Being Formed
BY JIM CAREY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Although losing a closely fought match, 5-4, to the River Forest Tennis Club of Chicago last Saturday, the Notre
Coach Langford
Dame summer tennis team put on a sparkling exhibition of the type of play that carried them to the acme of collegiate ranks. Venturing out of the intercollegiate assemblage, they found it tough going against the experienced competition.
The singles matches were split with the Chi town club, 3-3. Charley Samson, outstanding midwest player turned in another shattering display of his court ability in subduing Norm Beckel in two sets, 6-3, 6-3. Beckel was a former Big Ten champion when he was a student at the University of Chicago.
Jerry Evert, a member of Notre Dame’s western champions, and Samson formed the combination that won the first doubles match in two straight sets. The River Forest racketeers bounced back to cop the second and third rounds of doubles in three sets each.
At Lawrence Tomorrow
Coach Walter Langford and his proteges will return to collegiate activity tomorrow, when they journey to Appleton, Wis. to seek the blood of the Lawrence College courtsmen. This is the second contest of the informal summer session and it will be the first meeting of the two squads. The boys from the dairyland boasted of a strong team in the spring and were aching for a match with the Blue and Gold but it was unable to be carded, hence, the match this term. A return engagement by the Lawrence boys is scheduled for Sept. 2.
Mr. Langford says that the team is ready for its joust tomorrow and there is an optimistic grin on his face when he is questioned concerning the outcome of tomorrow’s tilt.
Because of the unavailability of many of the players, largely due to the weekend activities of the tennis team, the matches in the Notre Dame Open Event tournament have been few in number. However, the tourney will definitely proceed at a faster clip this week. Joe Wood and Jim Griffin, both team members, won their matches with little opposition. Bill
Moore triumphed over William Ray with two easy victories, 6-0, 6-1, while Dennis Strzalkowski trounced E. Salem of Cavanaugh.
Interhall League Planned
During the week, plans have been formed for the Interhall Tennis League which will be composed of a six man team from every hall. There will be matches between each hall with four rounds of singles and two doubles rounds. Interhall medals will be awarded to the winners.
Players wishing to take part in this program should make it known to Coach Langford at the clay courts during any afternoon practice session.
Softball, Volleyball In NROTC Sports Billing
Dennis "Gabby” Hartnett, a veritable Judge Landis of the NROTC athletic activity but lacking a bag of popcorn, a railing to put his chin on, and a slender frame, has fully reinstated the softball play that was a main recreational feature of last term’s Walsh Hall activity.
The inter-deck set-up that was followed during the past semester has again been given the “go sign” and there are five teams in all that are competing fox’ softball honors. Games are played every Monday and Friday evening after chow, two contests each night, one in the Badin Bog expanse and another on the parade grounds adjacent to the clay courts.
Hank Frailey again commands the aggregation that represents the first deck, Joe Fishel' has the reins of the second deck south, Bud Gotta is head mentor for the second deck north, Bob Maurer does the negotiating for the third deck south, while Jack Cassidy completes the list as supreme head of the third deck north.
Plan Volleyball League
An innovation that will give an opportunity to many of the fellows who are lax to acclimate themselves to the “bat and ball’ game, is the volleyball league that is being formed. If the looming possibilities are fully realized, there will be a total of 15 or more teams competing in the play which will take place in the rear of Walsh on the newly planted volleyball court.
Lt. (jg) Jablonski, NROTC athletic officer, has expressed the desire to satisfy as many boys as possible with the
Cross-Country Team to Feature 200 Mile Club
By JACK McGRANE
"Scholastic" Track Writer
Faced with the same difficulties that confront Ed McKeever and Jake Kline, mentors of the football and baseball teams, respectively—the loss of experienced men—track coach “Doc” Handy began preparations on August 1 for the forthcoming cross-country schedule. Besides losing the bulk of last year’s well-balanced squad, Coach Handy has been deprived of the services of captain-elect Frank Martin, N.C.A.A. two mile champion, when the Navy ordered him to continue his studies at St. Alban’s Hospital, N. Y.
Greg Rice about to take over
In order to round his squad into shape, Coach Handy is featuring an innovation known as the 200 Mile Club. Each man will run five miles a day, five days a week until the commencement of the hill and dale season in about eight weeks. Thus, before the first scheduled meet early in October, each member of the squad will have 200 hard, but profitable miles behind him. Handy is counting heavily on freshmen to bolster his depleted ranks, and hopes that his 200 Mile Club may develop a successor to Greg Rice, Ollie Hunter and Martin.
funds and facilities that are available to the NROTC trainees. His suggestion of the volleyball plan is already meeting with widespread approval in the early stages.
12
pji i m tt uh tu 11 ti 11 mm i mi tn mmmmmiimiimimmmim im^
[ INTRODUCING {
By JIM HECK
PAUL LAMMERS
St. Henry, Ohio’s gift to the world and the Notre Dame baseball team is Big Paul Lammers. You can’t miss his big 6'2", 190 pound hulk on the campus or at Rosie’s on Saturday night.
Paul has confined himself largely to baseball here at Notre Dame, but besides winning four monograms in baseball at St. Henry’s, he also won three in basketball. He and his brother teamed up to star for St. Henry’s in the cage sport.
A student in the College of Engineering, Paul is majoring in the aeronautical field. He makes his residence at luxurious St. Edward’s Hall.
Paul worked out between semesters with the Brooklyn Dodgers. He said that he gained valuable experience during the few days that he was with the “Bums.”
We don’t think that the Dodgers would approve of Paul’s idol. It is Bucky Walters of the Cincy Reds who has caused the Dodgers a great deal of trouble in the past few years.
For relaxation, Paul likes ping-pong and eating. He says that fried rabbit is “tops,” while he likes Henry Busse’s orchestra and “Star- Eyes” in the way of music. His biggest sport thrill came when he pitched a no-hitter in his last high school game.
We are certain that it won’t be long before those major league offers, not only from the Dodgers, but from other teams as well, will start pouring in.
JACK BARRETT
Born and bred in old Kentucky, where the horses run fast, the beer runs continuously, and the women just run, was Jack Barrett. Jack, a 19 year old sophomore with a 6 foot, 160 pound frame, is one of Jake Kline’s best pitchers.
Jack, who won two monograms on the baseball team of St. Xavier High, Louisville, Ky., inherits his baseball ability from his father. His dad pitched in the Bluegrass League, a semi-pro circuit in Kentucky and according to reports was quite a pitcher himself.
Majoring in aeronautical engineering, Jack lives at St. Ed’s Hall. His ambition is either to land a major league contract or a job with Curtiss-Wright.
Summer Grid Practice, With One Week Left, Finds Many Positions Still in Question
BY GEORGE KRAUSER
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
After three weeks of rugged scrimmage, the Irish gridders find themselves with only one more week of practice remaining. To top off the four week summer program Coach Ed McKeever has scheduled a squad practice game for Saturday, August 12th. With the conclusion of practice, the Blue and Gold warriors will take a rest until they begin tuning up for the season opener against Pittsburgh.
During the course of the pigskin preps no serious injuries have been reported. “The spirit of the team has been excellent,” states Coach McKeever, “and because of this attitude of the squad something has been accomplished.”
Competition Heavy
As the afternoons wear on, the same group of players have stood out in the practice drills. The fullbacks have been waging a hot battle for a first string berth with Frank Ruggerio, Rudy Krall and Jim McGurk the three men to watch. At the end position the 6’7” Joe Kelly, Bob Skoglund, Bill O’Connor and Mike Davlin have shown up best. With the right half slot practically conceded to Bob Kelly, another back has stepped into the picture as a strong contender for the same berth. Elmer Angsman, a
His sport idol is, of all players, the former Red Sox ace, Ted Williams. Jack said that he wouldn’t care to pitch against Williams, but then most of the pitchers in the American League felt the same way before “Big Ted” left for the Navy.
Jack’s favorite pastime is outdoor life of any kind and just plain “shooting the breeze.” His top sports thrill came when he played a major part in St. Xavier’s winning the Kentucky State baseball crown in 1942. Chief among his likes are Kay Kyser, “Fire Ball Mail,” and roast beef.
ball carrier with a world of speed and a lot of drive has caught the eye of 'Ed McKeever.
Another point of interest to be noted is the switching of Steve Nemeth, a quarterback, to a halfback position. Steve’s running ability has caused him
to be changed from the signal calling role to a spot where he can take better advantage of his natural ball-toting ability. Nunzio Marino, a short tailback who can spin on a dime, has proven himself a definite candidate for left half chores.
Closing Chatter: Lieutenant Frank Leahy of the Navy has been watching the progress of the summer program for the past two weeks . . . The voice of Adam Walsh, line coach, as it sounds out over the field, is a distinguishing feature of all Irish practice sessions . . . The familiar cry of “three laps around” is amusing to the looker-ons but a source of discomfort to the battle-bruised linemen.
Col. Gabreski Missing
Lt. Col. Francis S. Gabreski, ex. ’42, Oil City, Pa., a student at Notre Dame from 1938 to 1940, has been reported missing since July 20 in action over Germany, according to word received by his parents from the war department.
Col. Gabreski had 31 enemy ships to his credit, 28 of these were shot out of the air, and three were destroyed on the ground. He was a member of the most famed fighter squadron of the war, the Wolf Pack.
It was revealed that he was preparing to come home at almost any time, and residents of his home town had planned a homecoming celebration in his honor.
Col. Gabreski is a brother of Major Thaddeus S. Gabreski, ’34, on duty with the medical corps in India.
13
By PETE BROWN
Marquette and Michigan are out to start a new trend this year. They have scheduled a game to be played in Milwaukee on Sept. 23, that will start at 7:00 p.m. It is to start in the twilight and when it gets dark they are going to turn on the lights. Baseball teams have been playing twilight-night affairs, but these have been double headers in which the first game could not be played in daylight and under lights.
Ed Hanyzewski, Chicago Cub pitcher who hails from South Bend, has had a very-unusual season this year. During a game earlier in the season, he hurt his arm. He rested for a month, and the next time he pitched, he hurt it again. He will be out for the remainder of the season.
Last Saturday, Heartley “Hunk” Anderson, former Notre Dame guard and football coach, was on the campus to renew old acquaintances. Anderson is now head coach of the Chicago Bears, who will play the All-Stars in Chicago on August 30. Also on the campus watching football practice was Lt. Frank Leahy. It must have been pleasure to just watch the team practice not have to show anybody his mistakes.
By the way, we have a correction to make. Last week we stated that the AllStar game would be played on July 30. Please make it August 30, with our apologies.
Navy seems to be in the same fix as everyone else when it comes to football veterans. They have one man returning in the line. He is Ben Chase, a guard who will act as captain. The situation is not so bad with the backs. Numbered among the plebes is Fred Earley. He was the man, or should I say the toe, who helped defeat the Iowa Seahawks. You never can tell what can happen between now and Nov. 4, when the Middies and the Irish tangle.
A complete lack of veterans is what faces Harry Stuhldreher, coach at Wisconsin. The best he can produce are a few 17 year olders and 4-F’s, who, no doubt, will carry the major part of his attack.
Great Lakes, the last opponent of the Irish, have a fairly bright outlook on the football situation. They have a 12 game schedule to look forward to. But
14
they don’t have to look, they can just go out and grab it. On the squad are such backs as Jim Mello and Bob Hanlon of Notre Dame, Jim Youell from Iowa and Johnny Mangold, a member of Indiana’s great civilian team of last year. In the line there will be Plank and Reese of Ohio State and Dick Eggers of Northwestern.
There will be one consolation in football this year. Nobody will be able tc beef because one of their juniors or seniors, whom they have worked on, has been transferred to another school by the navy or marines. Everybody will have to depend on whatever material they have on hand.
The All-Star squad is shaping into a good outfit. At present they have four men who could make the dream backfield to end all dream backfields. At quarterback we have ylenn Dobbs, great Tulsa back we have Glenn Dobbs, great Tulsa skins with his passing in last year’s game. At left half there is Creighton Miller. Need anything else be said. At fullback there is Gene Fekete, who led Ohio State to the Big Ten championship, two years ago. And finally there is at right half Billy Hillenbrand, who starred for Indiana in the ’41 and ’42 seasons.
Form V-72 Glee Club
University authorities warn visitors on the campus not to mistake the voices in Washington Hall on Monday and Friday afternoons as those of an angelic host. Rather they belong to men of the new V-12 glee club, whose numbers according to the latest estimate approximate 80.
According to Chief C. L. Scharff, who has been in charge of the club’s organization, the club will, at an early date be combined with the University glee club, which is under the direction of Mr. Pedtke, head of the music department.
The vocal organization, composed of both seamen and marines, held its first rehearsal on Thursday, July 27. Its second meeting was in Washington Hall last Wednesday.
Chief Scharff, who will remain in a capacity as supervisor of the Navy members, announces that this singing “battalion” will perfect a variety of songs including classical, novelty, and religious numbers. He was very optimistic over the eventual success of the group after having heard their initial rehearsal.
Because the organization is so large, a member has been selected from its ranks to serve as a representative on the V-12 executive committee. This man was chosen by the group at its rehearsal on Wednesday.
Quiet, Please
This is Real Scuttlebutt
By SEAMAN JIM FOY
The zoological fame of Bernie Collette, commandant of C company, is rapidly being relayed to all corners of the campus. Mr. “C.” has given way to the title of Chelonian custodian since he has begun harboring a fly-eating turtle in his billet. The reptile’s name is Sylvia, .supposedly after an ex-chow hall employee, a third-string gravy dipper, who lost her job not long ago when she gravied a trainee’s potatoes after he had explicitly told her to moisten his pork chop.
A legend surrounding the origin of Sylvia (the one with four legs) has been put forth by M. Collette. He claims that the thing belonged to a former resident of 211 Dillon, a flamboyant fellow, who under an older regime was finally separated from this unit after accumulating some 937 class A demerits.
Industrious beavers from Company C gather food for Sylvia which consists chiefly of house flies. Recently tragedy has shown its ugly head in this cheerful domestic scene. One of Bernie’s room-, mates has challenged him to prove the sex of his reptilian pet.
Educators unanimously agree that the engineering curriculum is disconcerting enough to tax the mental abilities of even the best of V-12’s. There are times when pressing academic work can influence a man’s behavior. Witness Ed Desloge, Cavanaugh resident, who has been showing signs of trying strain lately. Upon scrutinizing Ed at mess formations, you will notice his lips moving incessantly during the treks across the campus. You may hear the monotony of his droning voice as- he whispers his own cadence, counting the steps between Cavanaugh and the chow hall.
If you know Ed, however, you might give his strange conduct a second thought. Perhaps another causative agent could be determined if one knew his exact actions during the last semester leave.
The entire second deck of Alumni turned out the other evening while an eager coke custodian was in the throes of replenishing his vender. It was the inquisitive genius of dispenser attendant, Red Corbett, which was stirred at the sight of complex gears, automatic refrig. eration, and the like. Dissatisfied with a pigeon-hole view of the mechanisms inside of his intricate cabinet, Red endeavored to take the lid off and view the whole works in its complicated uniformity.
In so doiing he dislodged a crucial cotter-pin and the man-made monster
• (Continued on page 191
KXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX3
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
zxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxS

FAN MAIL
Oh boy, are we tops? Three readers again this semester! And how do we know; and what makes us so sure of ourselves? Why the fan mail, of course. None of it favorable, you understand— just three complaints. All of which makes us very happy. Sooo, let the quips fall where they may.
KNIGHTHOOD IN FLOWER
Buzz Hassett received permission to leave the reservation last Sunday, but only for the day. He went on the K. of C. picnic. At first the Knights were afraid that Buzz had forgotten how to conduct himself in the society of others, (it has been a long time since he was turned loose). And don’t think for a minute that the Hassett let them down, ’cause ■ he didn’t. He believed that a metal rowboat, if filled with water, would float. It wouldn’t. Buzz is looking for a new theory to prove; and some fisherman is looking for a new boat.
What’s a picnic without a baseball game? And the Knights aren’t ones to be different. Sides were chosen and Bill O’Connell’s team won the game, and we believe that the Okie did a fine job, especially so when you consider that Bill shouted orders to his victorious sluggers and figured out the lineup from atop the pop barrel. In fact, good authority has it that he didn’t roam ten feet from the amber life-giving fluid all afternoon.
breach-of-promise suits so often, that he now addresses all of his well composed love letters to his many admirers: “Dear Snookums, and Gentlemen of the jury.”
PROBABLY ACCIDENTAL
Mr. Bender umpired the Commerce Forum vs. Freshman baseball game, Monday afternoon. During the course of the game, Jim Thomas, playing third scooped up a grounder, and hurled the ball towards first in an attempt to put the batsman out. But the pitch was either slightly astray, or Mr. Bender himself was at the time... ’cause the ball creamed him perfectly. Oh, it was a beauty! (Honestly, we’re simply relating the facts; not attempting to arouse chuckles), and ended up in deep center field (the ball, not Mr. Bender). We could accuse Jim of taking an unfair advantage of this opportunity, but he is no longer a student of the umpire’s. And after that one, he hopes that he isn’t ever, at all, in the future. Incidentally, in this very game, we learned that Harry Ryan, local turf authority, has a fair knowledge of baseball. Harry slugged the first ball pitched to him for a four-bagger. The Commerce Forum won, 7-6.
HERE AND THERE
The Lawyers’ Ball, we understand, is coming along in good style. For particulars, see Tom Bremer, or any of the lawyers. In fact, just try to avoid them,
if you can.__And where is Murphy going this week-end? We have the hardest time keeping track of some people. — Did you notice Henebry here last week (Col. Henebry to you, sir) ? Yes, and we noticed the people with him, too, as did all of Sorin Porch. Oh, the spot pays dividends, doesn’t it?. — We’re thinking of chartering a week-end cruise on St. Joseph’s lake, local authorities permitting. _______ One innocent observation on our part is that the Student Council has more angles than the Main Building; but we’re still waiting for that “coke” machine in Sorin and St. Edward’s. Rumor has it that the Huddle is lobbying against such a concession.
LAST THOUGHT '
We may go down to Rosie’s now, or we may not get that far. But later, you can find us at the Arcadia.
OBSERVATIONS
(Continued from page 6) should not be indicated as one of the three preferences by any student subject to screening for 1 November 1944.
“All regular students (including the V-12a’s) who are subject to screening for 1 November will be selected and assigned to upper-level specialties in V-12.
“As quotas for Flight Training become available in the future all V-12 students meeting the requirements will be eligible to apply. However, it is anticipated that quotas will be made available only for those students who are in training in upper-level curricula from which they can best be spared in the interests of the Naval service. It now appears probable that future quotas for transfer to flight training may be limited to students who have been screened to upper-level deck candidacy.”
Incidentally Bob Riordan almost had to resort to the use of that barrel in order to make it back to school. We didn’t realize what a shrewd bunch of Freshmen we have here at N.D.
Kline, Sadowski, and Bristol didn’t make out too well with the Bendix beauties they met up there. “Da babes” told them they were in the habit of dating men. The meanest trick of the afternoon, however, was the feeding of certain unauthorized foods to the turkeys. For particulars, consult some of the •picnickers.
A DELICATE POINT
Mike Gary, Sorin politician, must be organizing Dogpatch, these days. He has been over in that vicinity for the past six evenings. What’s the story, Mike, some smooth Dining Hall debutante? By the way, Mike has been threatened with
That dope may be O.K. But I tell you. the smart hoys talk to Harry Ryan.
15
Famed Philosopher's Kin is N. D. Novy Student
Death robbed Orestes Brownson, great convert and editor, of his ambition to teach at the University of Notre Dame when it claimed him in 1876 while he was enroute to the famous institution, but, thanks to the United States navy, his great-great-grandson, Apprentice Seaman Clarence E. Brownson of Des Moines, became a Notre Dame man.
Seaman Brownson had to battle off blindness three times to achieve his ambition. He came to the University after seeing active duty in both Atlantic and Pacific waters. When afforded the chance of enlisting in a V-12 school, Seaman Brownson lost no time in picking Notre Dame, where his famous forefather is buried in Brownson Memorial chapel and where the Brownson study hall in the Administration building is another memorial to him.
Before he joined the navy, young Brownson was employed as a welder in an aircraft plant in Wichita, Kans., and at was there that he lost his sight three times while at work. Each time he fought off blindness successfully and when he joined the navy his sight enabled him to qualify as a spotter, to serve as fire controlman, and as gun pointer.
NROTC 3RD CO. AWARDS COLORS (Continued from page 3)
The entire battalion was in hollowsquare formation on the drill grounds adjacent to the Notre Dame Stadium and Captain J. Richard Barry, commanding officer of the station; Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president, were present for colorful ceremonies.
Captain Barry made the official announcement of the Third Company’s victory in the color competition and the colors were then presented.
Father O’Donnell spoke briefly to the unit noting the pride and affection held by the University for the Naval ROTC, the Corps being established at Notre Dame in the pre-Pearl Harbor days. He mentioned the men of the first graduating class, 100% Notre Dame men, who are serving on the seven seas as naval officers.
Father O’Donnell then gave Mr. Moore the guidon colors of gold and blue— another mark of company honor in this traditional inter-company contest in the NROTC.
The Drum and Bugle Corps created during last semester sounded off as the battalion passed in formal review.
—Joseph D: Usina
ALL-STAR "STARS" (Continued from page 11) because of the aggressive type of play that he featured all season. On defense, he was a stubborn character, a veritable stone wall that the opposition found hard to crack.
Corwin Glatt, who highlighted the play of the 1942 Notre Dame-Iowa Sea-
Corwin Clatt
hawk encounter, and is making his second appearance in the annual late summer grid classic, is stationed in Memphis, Tenn., a private in the medical detachment.
Before matriculating at Notre Dame, Clatt was a Peoria, Ill. product coming from East Peoria High. The 205 pounds
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
that he totes around his brawny frame is his greatest asset when making his phenomenal off tackle smashes. He was only a sophomore when he left the Irish institution. In the Great Lakes game of ’42, Corny took the ball on the first play from scrimmage and reeled off 82 yards to pay dirt.
It is now universally accepted that they who have only industry and method are quite as sure to attain their end, as they who have talent.—Spalding.
16
PeAiAc&ae
By HARRY LE BIEN
IN THE FIRST PLACE
Each Navy company on the campus now has a man who will serve as a representative for this coly-um. The individual company commanders (bless ’em) know who these men are, so officially or otherwise the names of the representatives should be circulated among each company. Thus if any of your liquid minds should be inspired on any subject, from Joe Glutz’s dirty scivvies to Marines, it will be a very easy matter to
OM YEAH ? MOW MANY SEMESTERS DO YOU HAVE IN THE NAVY -
get the dope to these men and eventually here. The net effect should be to mutiply that telescope by 15. If each company doesn’t get its two cents worth in here, it will be because (1) Nothing ever happens in your company, or (2) what did is unprintable.
Arnie Sklare is a schloomp.
I HEAR YEZ TALKIN'
Jim Curttis would like to know how he can be expected to arrive at musters on time unless the sun dial on the west wall of Alumni is adjusted for Central War Time.
Roommates Tyler and Amstuts are such a grand pair! Mr. Amstuts noticed a few of Mr. Tyler’s white hats soaking in the basin a few days ago and cleverly substituted his own. Tyler proceeded to wash them—nice of him, wasn’t it? Still a devil at heart and a substitution ex
pert, Amstuts labored some time to effect a transfer of a quantity of shaving cream into Tyler’s tooth paste tube. The result should have been very interesting had not Tyler discovered the adulterant in time. Next time Amstuts will use a shaving cream with the same color as his roomy’s paste. .
Sklare is a schloomp.
For the bravest man in the world we nominate Warren Schringer who went out for football and scrimmaged the first day. What has he to show for it? An elbow twice its size.
If Don Davis doesn’t start wearing a bib at chow he’ll be singing those washday blues, but good!
Melvin Cruger and George Gaskell, the “Goldust Twins” of Co. K, are still walking on air as the result of their recent visit to Elkhart. What happened, boys?
Jim Kennedy, the eager beaver of Co. K, received four shots instead of the usual three. It seems he took a wrong turn over at sick bay and ran the same line twice.
These men, DeFlippo and Dougherty, have a tough time of it. Flip believes that all rebels should be repatriated. “Missouri” firmly believes that C.B.’s are strictly “for the birds.” (Note: We believe their feelings do not actually embrace all members of the respective groups.) •
Arnie Sklare is a schloomp.
This semester there are quite a few fleet men in Co. E and with them seems to have come a saying that will be remembered forever, in the annals of Notre Dame history. Their battle cry is: “There will be no beans.” It is expected that this will be adopted as the University’s motto.
Who has the tightest fitting uniform in this V-12 Unit. Look out for “Salty” Schramm. He'11 give anybody a race for their money.
Are the chow hall girls interested in some particular member of Co. D, or is it our particular smart appearance that draws their attention at evening musters?
George Grainger, the “Physics Wizard” of Co. K, is now charging one coke per problem. How’s business, George?
Arnie Sklare is a schloomp.
QUESTION OF THE WEEK
What is a schloomp?
ANSWER	-
Oh, that would be telling.
FOR ADULTS OR CHILDREN
f" N1 x 7«/ VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B.-B, (G)-C-B6
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Nine-Vitamin Tablet Contmns— AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bt” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B-” as 40 ozs. Raw Green Be_ AS MUCH “Bs” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as % lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS ^*3.50
17
Four-Minute Mile is Being Approached
By SEAMAN GENE DIAMOND "Scholastic" Sports Writer
It began with a couple of Greeks racing for laurel wreaths back in the Coliseum and throughout the cycle of its modern development, the hub of track enthusiasm and the criterion of track accomplishment has been the mile. The strong, open stride, vital endurance, shrewd judgment of pace, and essential finishing kick which are combined in the truly good miler hold that rare attractive magic to the spectator.
In the last decade, when the fabulous four-minute mile passed from the unthinkable to the possible to the probable, those who negotiate the eight furlong trot have enjoyed their most productive
Ollie Hunter. Former N. D. Star
and successful period. For a brief period such great sprinters as Paddock, Wykoff, Metcalf and Owens stole the headlines and column space but with the coming of the incomparable Glenn Cunningham a new epoch began.
Cunningham had every attribute of a truly great athlete. He had overcome
(Continued on page 19)
initial start, allowed only six hits and whiffed five. Except for a danger spot in the seventh, when Baer Field scored twice, he was never in trouble. Irish hitting accounted for five runs in the first stanza, one in the sixth, and four more in the seventh. Ciszczon, Mayo, Laurita and Cianchetti split the batting laurels with two bingles each. Brown had a like number for the losers.
Notre Dame ______________ 0 02 1 0 1 1 6 1—12
Youngstown Sheet & Tube 000 330 01 0— 7
Lammers and Laurita: Armond, Major (S) and Cieslak.
Notre Dame .............. 100 010 02 0—4
Bunker Hill _____________0 1 1 0 1 0 0 2 0—5
Barrett and Laurita: Hoover and Baer.
Baer Field ______________011 000 21 0—5
Notre Dame ______________ 500 001 40 0—10
Tursie and Gryzka, O’Brien and Laurita.
When the Philadelphia Athletics opened the 1932 season at Shibe Park, Max Bishop, lead-off man, walked four times during the game . .. and yet failed to score.
Polo was first played by a regiment of the British army in 1869.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
srxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxg
H h N
x M M X M M M M M X M M X X X X X X X
X
JOSIE and JIM'S
fLNNY ITALY CATE
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS PLACE
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
Ted Husing, CBS sports announcer always wears a Notre Dame baseball cap when announcing sports events. Recently his cap was lost, and he has written to the sports department for another, and a cap has been mailed to him with the best wishes of the department.
i Campus Centenary = | Publications f
z Notre Dame—100 Years$4.00 j
= Collected Poems of	|
| Charles L. O'Donnell_______________$2.50 |
I ... at the Bookstore I
ttiiiiiiitllititttiii until tin iMHiiiuiti Mil ittn tin lit liiUtliliQ |»]iiiiiiitmiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiniititiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiHniiiiiiiiiimimf«| |	BUY WITH	CONFIDENCE	|
=	at	i
=	South Bend’s	Leading Jeweler	=
|	A wide selection of	j
I	Desirable Gifts	।
=	on display.	=
=	Use our lay-away plan.	f
fa^iiitiiniiiitiiiiiiitniiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiimtnittniiiintiiiiniitfal

M
X X X
BASEBALL (Continued from page II)
Notre Dame measured Baer Field of Fort Wayne, 10-5, Sunday at Cartier Field for the second time this summer. Earlier the Irish copped a 12-4 victory from the Soldiers.
Lefty Eldon O’Brien, making his
A TRADITION AT NOTRE DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
X X x X X
18
QUIET PLEASE (Continued from page 14) emitted a metallic roar which rang- up and down the passageways with a ferocity that hadn’t been heard in Alumni hallowed halls since Bob Brown moved over to Dillon. The commotion brought trainees from their quarters and awakened a sentry dozing in company H’s gear locker. Red, however, summed up the situation in a glance. He jammed the machine with a stray copy of Saunder’s Physics, restoring tranquility once again.
Cheers went up last week through Company B area in Dillon Hall, when faithful paper deliverers slid evening editions of the South Bend Tribune under newly-waxed thresholds. There on the first page of section two stood the palpable puss of Jerry Schroering surrounded by the unmistakaable kissers of other boisterous B-ites. Jerry, as usual, had his arms benevolently wrapped about two girls. This time they just happened to be a pair of infant twins. Among those who clipped the photograph from the news lines and sent it home to an adoring home town lassie to paste in her scrap-book, were J. P. (lover) Fitzpatrick and Bryan (Ahearne) Athey.
Wesley Duane Ettridge, leery-eyed percussionist and escort extraordinary, has been warned to reduce the number of photogs perched atop his desk. Since each trainee is theoretically entitled to
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP...TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP =
iiiitditniiiitiuiutiiiiHMitttiiHttuiiiiiHiiitiiiMiuniMnianiHMQ]
only one openly displayed portrait, there have been numerous complaints against the drummer boy’s full dozen. Upon questioning Wes gives out with his shy grin, stamps his feet, and chuckles, “Aw shucks, fellers, twarn’t nothin’.” Well Wes, for once we are prone to agree with you.
• Company E’s Tom Scheitlin has acquired a new nickname through no serious fault of his own. It seems he has been troubled over the outcome of a recent bus journey from town. Our advice to him can be summed up: “Don’t worry, Stinky, everything will come out in the wash.”
FOUR MINUTE MILE (Continued from page 18) great handicaps in rising from a nearcripple in childhood, he fulfilled probably the most vigorous training schedule ever undertaken and his every race was a masterpiece of headwork and sportsmanship. A great student of Nurmi, Cunningham’s form is probably the most famous in history and was duplicated by high school and college runners throughout the country as the wave of mile interest spread in the early and middle thirties.
After bowing to Lovelock in the Olympics, Cunningham returned to begin ar even more determined assault on the record books. He lowered Lovelock’s mark below 4:07 and then had his own record shattered by another Britisher. Sidney Wooderson. After Wooderson was humiliated in an exhibition race, Cunningham was chased by Venzke, the Rideout twins, and a brilliant speedster from Wisconsin, Chuck Fenske, to numerous marks as low as 4:07.4, but Wood-erson’s mark seemed untouchable. Then Cunningham ran history’s most controversial race, a 4:04.4 with pacers over the fast Dartmouth oval, which seems destined to remain unrecognized.
With this race, the fire of mile interest became a roaring inferno. Nurmi tutored Taisto Maki of Finland to flashes of brilliance; young Leslie MacMitch-ell was hailed as the most perfect piece of mile mechanism in history. After several outstanding races, including the matching of the indoor record, Mac-Mitchell faded and the search was on again.
From Indiana came the famous Golden Boy, Campbell Kane, who won the Banker’s Mile while still a junior in college and seemed sure to rise to great heights. Weed, Ginn, and Mitchell chased Kane to marks at and around 4:10, but it soon became apparent that he was better suited to shorter distances. John Borican, holder of virtually every record from 600 to 1000 yards, flirted with the mile only to find it far beyond his range.
In New York, a colored school boy, Frank Dixon, smashed long - standing interscholastic records with an incredible 4:10.8 while trailing MacMitchell. Here certainly was the four minute miler. Dixon went as low as 4:08 as an N.Y.U. freshman but soon faded to yield the No. 1 spot to Gil Dodds. Suddenly from out of nowhere came Gunder Haegg of Sweden, who in the short span of two months broke every existing mark from 1500 to 10,000 meters, including the mile at 4:04.6.
Now with Haegg to push him, Arne Anderson has become Mr. Mile by virtue of his recent phenomenal 4:01.6, and the four minute mile has become something of the very near future. American overall track supremacy seems still unchallenged, but the most coveted mark has been lost. None of the present crop seems capable of regaining it and so we must look to the future.	■
The great American miler, then, may be in high school, college, or the service. Recent Notre Dame luminaries like Ollie Hunter, Frank Conforti, Tony Maloney, or Frank Martin might very well enter the picture in post-war years.
Wherever or whoever he is, he has quite a task to perform and will immortalize himself in the magic of the four-minute mile.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-S66I
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLEft DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING .
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST . FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
19
LANDis
AamT^S*
and
BETTER TASTE
Z?*" from home ^'garettes that
SATISFY
Back from the war zone, Carole also says
I saw thousands of cartons of cigarettes given
to our boys overseas and can say without res-
ervation Chesterfield is always a favorite.
Discover for yourself the meaning of Chesterfield's
5 Key-words to more Smoking Pleasure . . . RIGHT
_COMBINATION WORLD S BEST TOBACCOS.
Chesterfield
FOR MILDNESS