I
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
FEBRUARY 15, 1946
V!
$
The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean oi Notre Danie's graduate school, with Dr. Ralph Tyler of the University of Chicago, and Dr. Paul A. Witty of Northwestern University, reviewing letters submitted in the Quiz Kids' radio program contest. (Story on page six.)
$
VOL. 86, No. 12

§ %


"Oue Mok. VeZZi Amikefc"
It's our famous slogan prompted by the aim of this establishment "to serve in such an efficient, courteous way that we'll be talked about." We want the personality of this store to be outstanding in friendliness, and we realize that this feeling of good will, to be mutual, must be sincere.
Here — you are always a guest
before you are a customer.
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing '	at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 2o, 1918.
VOL. 86. NO. 12
FEBRUARY 15. 1946
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
Senior Ball Highlights Weekend
Saturday evening’, February 16th, will find some sixty couples gayly enclosed in the red-hearted Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel as the Seniors hold their prom. A candlelight supper initiates the evening’s activities at 6:30, with dancing to commence at 9 and lasting to 1.
Though somewhat belatedly, the ever popular theme of Valentines will be in evidence. A large red heart will be in back of the co-chairmen’s table, and another will serve as backdrop for the orchestra. Smaller hearts will dot the walls. Unique favors have been promised by Rudy Lopez, Chairman of the decorations committee, and his assistants, John Graif and sailor John McDermott. Jack Davies and his twelve piece orchestra have been signed to supply the music, with the melodious, “You Are Always in My Heart,” as the evening’s musical theme. Soft lights and soft music will be in force.
With the absence of a class president to select his queen, co-chairmen Bob Rock and Brendan Biggert will escort two young ladies from Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois. Miss Mary Carmody will be the guest of Bob Rock, and Miss Pat Sheehan will be squired by Biggert.
Two a. m. permissions and car permissions insure a good time for all.
SHOULD THE JEWS CONTROL PALESTINE?
Debate Team of N. Y. U.
Coached by Doctor Manuel Maxwell
Will Meet
The Varsity Debate Team of N. D.
Discussing	.
"Resolved, That a Jewish National State be Established in Palestine."
Washington Hall Monday Evening February 18, 1946
Miss Mary Carmody
Fine Arts Department Is Resuming Courses
The new classes in Ceremics and Sculpture will be taught by Eugene Kormendi, famous Hungarian sculptor and artist-in-residence at Notre Dame.
Francis J. Hanley, who was an assistant professor in the department, expects a discharge from the Navy in the near future. He was on sea duty in the Mediterranean during the war and is now stationed in Washington, D. C.
The Department of Art, which was a war-time casualty, will return to a prewar schedule next semester with the resumption of old courses and the addition of new classes in Ceramics and Sculpture.
A limited curriculum was offered by the Department last November when courses' were resumed after the wartime lapse with the return from service of the head of the department, Stanley J. Sessler. Mr. Sessler served as a combat intelligence officer in the 3rd Air Force.
ESMWT Commends ND
For Services During War
The University of Notre Dame has been warmly commended for its services in the Engineering, Science and Management War Training Program of the United States Government, it was announced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
The Commendation was received, Father O’Donnell revealed, in a letter from George W. Case, Director of the ESMWT office. The letter was sent to the Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S.C., administrative assistant to Father O’Donnell.
In his letter to- Father Leahy, Mr. Case said that government officials in charge of the ESMWT program appreciated the “cooperation and spirit of friendliness” displayed by Notre Dame in answering their many requests for information.
“Your programs were well planned and most effective in providing the training that was badly needed by industry,” Mr. Case wrote. “I am glad to report that our records show that the University of Notre Dame has enrolled 8,265 trainees, certainly an excellent contribution to the war effort.” Mr. Case continued.
“Please accept my congratulations for the fine service the University has rendered and my best wishes for the success of any similar program you may undertake for the adjustment of war workers and veterans in civilian production.”
The ESMWT program was introduced at Notre Dame in the summer of 1940. Engineering, chemistry and industrial management were taught to war workers, tuition free, by Notre Dame professors. The courses were taught from 7 until 10 p.m., and attendance averaged 1100 nightly. The courses were terminated Jan. 31, 1946, when the ESMWT Program was discontinued nationally.
Father Leahy succeeded the late Rev. James I). Trahey, C.S.C., as Director of the ESMWT Program at Notre Dame, in March, 1944.
3
^he cNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semter Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS — - — ■ — — - ■ - -■ ■ - ■ -■
«ttii iitiiiiiiuiiiitiiiiittiiiiutitiiituintttiii iiitii mt iiiimitiiiiiiiutiiiititiiitiiitiiiiittuiiiiimiutiiiiittii
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -	-	-	- Managing Editor
GEORGE COLLINS -	-	- Navy Associate Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH -	-	-	-	- Sports Editor
COLUM N ISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-
LOUIS ALMASI -	-	-
ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN JACK STEWART -	-	-	-
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -
The College Parade - The Crow's Nest - - The Shillelagh
The Green Banner - Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM JOE RENINGER W. O. MILLER JIM REGAN JAMES BURNS SAMUEL HAZO PAUL RAGAN ROGER CAHANEY JACK HUMMEL RALPH HAYMAN JOE LANG FRANK TYCHSEN DAVE OLSON MICHAEL GREENE
JUSTIN CICCONETTI JOHN C. THOMAS JAMES JOHN ' BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER JOHN GUNTHER BILL BRAUN RUDY SCHREITMUELLER WALTER S. BUNKER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY JACK SULLIVAN JOHN WALKER . LAWRENCE METCALF ARNOLD ANDERJASKA CLARENCE ZIMMER FRANK FINN
JAMES FERSTEL -	-	-	- Photography
ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	*	- Circulation Manager
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	-	- Faculty Advisor
M, E. VARGA .	_	-	_ Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Noire Dame, Indiana.
4	’
It seems to us that the real College Parade this week was right across our own campus. Most of the colleges in this vicinity were represented, and some that are not so close. Mundelein and Rosary naturally threw in a heavy contingent, and there were representatives from Michigan, Vanderbilt, Washington of St. Louis, and Nazareth of Rochester. As was expected, however, the greatest contributor- of dancing partners (outside of the South Bend College of Commerce) was SMC. Even the St. Mary’s girls agreed that the whole week-end was a terrific success. . . . Hats off to the chairmen and their committees. Here’s to more and better social activities.
❖
After a bitter duel, which lasted through two columns, our corner of the genius market has outwitted the Editorial Department. Now they have come to us on hands and knees and pleaded for our humor. . . . Ha, little do they know what they are letting themselves in for. . .. Just to show that we are right guys, however, we’ll condescend to let them have a joke or two, whenever we can spare one. . . .
❖
To start off, here’s one that might have been the theme of the whole Cotillion.
Prom Trotter: I can’t see why you stayed outside so lo"ng with such a splendid dancer as William.
Date: Well, he showed me some new steps and we sat on them.	—Annapolis Log
Since this week, February 14th through the 20th, (note that it starts on Valentine’s Day) has been proclaimed National “Be Kind to St. Mary’s Week,” we thought that we had better get our plug in early. For our bid, we’d like to suggest that someone start a collection for a new juke box and some new records for the girls at “The Rock” who play hostess at those Sunday afternoon jamborees. We think that would go down easily.
★
Professor: Didn’t you have a brother in this course last year?
Student: No, sir, it was I. I’m taking it over again.
Professor: Extraordinary resemblance though—extraordinary.	—Lampoon
★
Southern Cal is opening a big drive for a new field house with an eye to inviting big name basketball teams to the coast for big tournaments, a la Madison Square Garden and the Chicago Stadium . . . and the Notre Dame field house.
After winning a contract from some film company, Miss Ohio State elected to return to Columbus and finish out the semester. . . . The kid must have had her hoard paid in advance.
★
And to return to a former feature, The Worst Joke of the Week Department—This week’s effort, as can be expected, is clipped from the Creightonian.
“And is the prince incognito?” asked the reporter.
“Well, no, sir,” answered the porter. “I don’t know as I would say that, but he certainly has had a few.”
Dr. Magner of Catholic University Deplores United States Attitude Towards Franco
The present official attitude of the United States government towards Spain is deplored by the Rev. Dr. James A. Magner, of the Catholic University of America, distinguished educator, historian and authority on Spanish-American culture, writing in the Feb. 2, 1946 issue of the Ave Maria magazine, published at the University of Notre Dame.
In an article entitled “What to do With Franco?”, Dr. Magner commented on the puzzling paradox of the attitude of the United States Government in recent years toward the Franco Government. During the war, he wrote, the United States was willing to recognize the Franco Government and “to deal with it as it did.” Yet, at the end of the war, this apparent attitude of friendship was repudiated by the American Government and “after we had gained our ends,” he added.
“This type of dealing,” Father Magner continued, “cannot strengthen confidence in the practical idealism of those who are to guide the destinies of the United Nations. It is regrettable if the new plan for an organized world peace should go the way of another Holy Alliance.
“Hardly anyone can doubt that the Franco regime represents but a temporary political arrangement for Spain. Franco himself has given definite indications that the Spanish government must undergo important modifications to assure its permanence and transmission of power.
“If the purpose of the San Francisco and Potsdam pronouncements is simply to hasten a legislative process, well and good, providing the acceleration is not ill-timed or immature. But if it represents an act of revenge on the part of Russia, or the signal for a violent upheaval in Spain, or an invitation to Communism, then let the interventors be prepared to carry the responsibility.
“If Franco must go, and the entire government with him, whom or what will the Big Three designate as acceptable to succeed him? This is a question of the greatest moment and one which should be answered now.
“It would be a tremendous mistake for the Catholic Church to tie its destinies to the tail of any political kite. On the other hand, we cannot, in view of past performances in Spain and elsewhere, be passive to possibilities of political systems and changes.
“The omen in both Nazi Germany and Communist Russia were clearly recog
nized by the Pope and Catholic thinkers everywhere. The wounds in Spain are still too fresh to be forgotten. Christianity and Christian culture as a whole have a far larger stake in this issue than appears on the surface; and even the declaration of the four freedoms should not lull us to sleep when the woods are still full of wolves.
“The personnel now reorganized in Mexico under the name of the Spanish republican government and poised for reentry into Madrid bear names that are none too reassuring. It would be well to know just how it is proposed to dispose of Franco and what is in store for Spain after that.”
Father Leo R. Ward on Atomic Bomb Committee
Members of the Atomic Associates, Inc., at the University of Chicago, invited 35 religious leaders to take up with them, in a closed conference, the social and moral and religious problems raised by the atomic bomb. The scientific and the religious leaders met at Chicago University on Feb. 5, 6 and 7th. It was the first time in the history of this University, now nearly 60 years old, that the scientists have asked religious leaders to confer with them on any problem; and the scientists themselves—as do the vast majority of those who had to do with making the bomb usable— showed a truly humble and contrite attitude. In fact, the atomic-bomb scientists are the only group in America which to date have shown any general spirit of humility and repentance for our responsibilities in the recent war.
A permanent committee on Science, Religion, and the Bomb was set up, with six scientists and six religious leaders named to compose it. On this committee are Father Leo R. Ward, Canon Bernard Iddings Bell and others, Catholics, Protestants and Jews being equally represented. Their work is to be altogether an educational one, with stress on the facts that force or power can not control the bomb, and that only law and a religious conscience may be expected to give results that are truly human.
Glee Club Will Sing
Concert Monday Night
(Editor's Note: Page three of this magazine had already been printed when it was discovered that the debate scheduled for Washington Hall conflicted with the Glee Club concert to be held Monday night. This is to correct the story on page three: the debate will be held in the Rockne Memorial lounge at 7:30 p. m. Monday.)
The Notre Dame Glee Cijib under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, will present its Winter Concert in Washington Hall on Monday evening, February 18, at 8:15 p.m.
The program is an excellent one, presenting music in many forms and by well-known composers. Included will be a group of five religious numbers, an old English ballad, a selection from opera, the college songs, a tenor and a baritone solo, and two special arrangements. One of these latter, a selection of Jerome Kern music, is a special setting with original and revised text and was written by Anthony Cashman, a music major from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada and formerly a member of the Royal Canadian Air Force, who has a great interest in Jerome Kern and his compositions.
The program:
PART ONE 1. “Ave Maria"Witt 2. “The Lord My Shepherd Ever Shall Be”
’	—	Bach
3.	“Legend” --------------Tschaikowsky
4.	“Crucifccus”_________________Lotti
5.	“Let their Celestial Concerts all Unite”
Handel
6.	Solo. “When I Think upon the Maidens”
Head Lawrence Madigan—Baritone
7.	“My Bonny Lass”----------Morley
8.	"Irish Lullaby” John McGuire—Tenor Solo 9. “Military March” ______Schubert
INTERMISSION PART TV^O
1.	Coronation Scene from “Boris
Godounouv” ________________Moussorsky
2.	“When Johnny Comes Marching Home
Sweet Home”
3.	Jerome Kern Selections
4.	“Anchors Aweigh”
5.	“Irish Backs”
6.	“Victory March”
5
Drugs Developed Here Selected for Clinical Trial
Four new antimalarial drugs developed by the Department of Chemistry at the University of Notre Dame for the United States Government have been selected for clinical trial, it was announced this week by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
Selection was made, Fathei- O’Donnell added, by the Committee on Medical Research after the drugs had been thoroughly tested on animals. Clinical trials will be made at various civilian and military hospitals designated by the Government, and are expected to be concluded about July 1, 1946, when additional results will be announced.
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, Associate Professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame, is in charge of the extensive antimalar-
Quiz Kids1 Scholarship
(See Cover)
Letters are flowing into the office of the three judges who will determine what teacher will receive $1,000 and a full year of academic scholarship at either Notre Dame, the University of Chicago or Northwestern University. The winning teacher has his choice.
Written by grade school and high school students on “the teacher who has helped me the most,” these letters are being used as a medium to determine “the best teacher in America” by a committee of three, sponsored by THE QUIZ KIDS radio program. The three judges are the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of Notre Dame’s graduate school, Dr. Ralph Tyler, chairman of the department of Education, the University of Chicago, and Dr. Paul A. Witty, Director of the Psychological Education Clinic, Northwestern University.
Charles Callahan Named Asst. Publicity Director
Appointment of Charles M. Callahan, of Lexington, Mass., former New York Publicity man, as an Assistant Director of Publicity at the University of Notre Dame, was announced last week by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President.
Callahan, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1938, recently was discharged from the Army after 40 months’ service, principally in public relations. During the last football season, he handled publicity for the Second Air Force Superbomber’s team at Colorado Springs, Col.
Callahan will assist Notre Dame’s new
ial research work which has been carried on at the Notre Dame Department of Chemistry since 1941, at the request of the United States Government. Although still of a confidential nature, this research, it is understood, also has been productive of other discoveries of great value to the Government in its efforts t< wipe out the scourge of malaria.
Long noted in scientific and educational circles for the quality of its research in many fields of chemistry, the Department of Chemistry at Notre Dame has several important discoveries to its credit, notably research making possible the commercial production of synthetic rubber. The department also has been conducting active research work in ordnance for the National Defense Research Committee.
Director of Publicity, Lieut. Col. John V. Hinkle, formerly of Washington, D.C., and the New York Times, who assumed his new duties on Jan. 1, 1946, aftei" more than five years’ military service. Raymond J. Donovan, formerly of Logansport, Ind., will continue as an Assistant Director of Publicity at Notre Dame.
Prior to his war service, Callahan did publicity for the New York World’s Fair, the National Sportsmens’ Show, the Boys’ Club of New York and the New York Football Americans. He will report at Notre Dame on Feb. 15, 1946.
Inter-American Affairs
Club Holds Dinner
The Inter-American Affairs Club held a dinner meeting recently at Ramble Inn, Roseland. Frank Foss, president of the club, introduced the speaker for the occasion, Professor William H. Downey of the Economics Department.
In his talk, Mr. Downey praised the club by saying, “The Americas need more organizations like this since they go far in promoting the Good Neighbor Policy.” He also stressed the importance of economics in the Inter-American role. His very interesting talk was followed by an animated, informal discussion in which all took part.
An active organization on the campus, the Inter - American Affairs Club now consists of American, Canadian, and Latin American students, and all interested students may join. The club is under the sponsorship of Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., who acts as faculty advisor. Rolando Duarte serves as vice-president and Tom Murray as secretary.
Armstrong Addresses
Speech Class Meeting
Carrying their knowledge of the art of speaking into the realm of practicality, members of Professor Kelly’s Business and Professional Speech class, convened Tuesday evening at the Morningside Hotel to demonstrate their oratorical capacities.
Following the addresses by the members of the class, the honored guests of the occasion, Mr. James Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, and Professor Frank Kelly, of the Department of Speech spoke on the philosophy of life that was typical of a Notre Dame man. Mr. Armstrong pointed out that the leadership, “which in recent times has come to the fore and attempted to overshadow our moral teachings, must be throttled.” He emphasized that “living your own life in a manner which sets an example, is a necessity. Setting an example, however, in a sphere where you can be seen by others, and are not just seeing yourself.”
Present at the gathering were Paul Doyle, NDOTC; Brendan Biggert, Paul Qualy, John Mahar, Jack Specht, Tom McMahon, Aurnaud Wilson, Otis Mack, Bob Mulcahy and Frank Venner. Ralph Hayman and Richard Ungasheck served as toastmasters for the occasion.
Lieut, (jg) Disque
New Athletic Officer
Lieut, (jg) A. F. Disque has replaced Lieut. J. A. Van Orsdel as athletic officer of the naval units. Mr. Disque was commissioned in June, 1942 having attended the Columbia midshipman school.
After receiving his commission Mr. Disque was ordered to a motor torpedo training school in Melville, R. I. Shortly following this training period he was assigned to motor torpedo squadron 16 at Leyte in the Philippine Islands. While a member of this group Mr. Disque participated in the battles of Mindanao, and Borneo. His next assignment carried him to Notre Dame where he reported for duty last Monday. Lieut. Disque attended Springfield College in Springfield, Mass., before his entry into the naval service. During his stay at Springfield he played football, ice-hockey, and la crosse. His favorite hobby is fishing. Mr. Disque is married and lives in South Bend. He expects to receive his discharge on the first of August and plans to continue with his college education afterwards.
6
University to Retain Much of Navy Equipment Will Purchase Drill Hall and Navy Administration Building
By SAM SMITH
The University will take on a nautical touch when arrangements are completed for the purchase of navy property on the campus. With the combined navy program being diminished to a mere 475 students on board and complete curtailment of the active duty phase of the programs to come by the end of June, the navy is selling its buildings to the University.
The navy property on the campus has been located mainly in the navy drill hall, which was the center of practical work for the midshipmen school, and in the administration building, located behind the Rockne Memorial, which served as a classroom and office building for the middies. Prior to November, the ROTC and V-12 units used the Law building for theii- navy classes and only moved to the west end of the campus after military successes lessened the need for naval officers and the midshipman school closed.
Under the present set-up, the administration building houses the main offices, and the various ROTC subjects are taught there by navy officers. The two-floor wooden building made its appearance on the campus in 1942, practically over-night, and much to the surprise of local observers, its architecture and color was of a far bettei- nature than was expected. The large basement contains an especially constructed naval vision test room, a motion picture studio complete with an extensive file of navy film aids to study, a small storage issue stockroom, and a garage for official cars. The University has purchased the building with the idea of using it as a general store room in their post-war building plan.
The navy drill hall, which contains an extensive group of modern ordnance, is to remain the ROTC training building. The huge hall, which already contains several classrooms, is to be altered by the construction of two new rooms where the stage is now located. The navy is sending to Notre Dame some instruments of war, including latest type naval submarine attack gear.
The drill hall is a fond memory of over ten thousand middies who received their commissions at Notre Dame. The various masts located at diffei'ent parts of the drill field gave practical experience to many a budding communications officer. The three inch gun, the 40 and
20 mm. mounts and the various small arms were worked over by both middies and RO’s and the larger five inch gun, with its director, is currently receiving attention from ordnance classes. This gun was constructed for the aircraft carrier Franklin, which earned its place in naval lore by its stubborn refusal to go down under the severe punishment of exploding magazines and fuel tanks. The canner was completed before the gun was ready and rather than wait for the ship’s armament, substitutions were made.
Trainee* man 5-inch gun on Cartier Field
Located in the Drill Hall are a ship’s bridge complete with all necessary instruments located over the stage; general ordnance equipment, such as mines, torpedos, etc.; and large scale working models of various navy ships. One room is exclusively devoted to the more technical side of fire control equipment and actual problems are worked out. This equipment will not be sold to the University, but will remain under navy ownership.
Although of wooden construction, the navy drill hall for many years will be of invaluable assistance to the civilian ROTC students who will study naval science courses under the revised peacetime proceedure of obtaining naval officers.
Commerce Forum
Election of officers of The Forum for the next semester was held at the conclusion of the regular meeting on February 6th. Bill Carbine was elected president; Dan Danisewicz, vice - president; Frank O’Brien, program chairman and Tom McMahon, pubilcity chairman.
K of C's Elect Four
New Council Officers
Tabulation of election returns by the local council of the Knights of Columbus at their meeting last Tuesday revealed that the following men had been elected to office. For the position of Chancellor, Palph W. Hayman, pre-law senior from Philadelphia, was elected. Other successful candidates were Fred J. Rovai, stellar football guard, whose home is in Hammand, Ind., for the position of Warden; John R. Galloway, commerce student from Watertown, N.Y., as Recording-Secretary, and Julian A. Mahany, liberal arts senior from Covington, Ky., as Advocate. The new officers will serve during the semester. An entirely new slate of council officials will be chosen at the close of the spring term for the next fiscal year.
Other business concluded at the regular bi-monthly meeting was the appointment of James A. Webb, commerce freshman from Philadelphia, Pa., as assistant director of publicity. Plans for founders week, the next Communion Breakfast, future initiations, and a reading of new applications for membership were also considered as part of the regular business meeting. Highlighting the evening’s activity was the welcoming of the twenty-six new members who received their second and third degrees last Sunday at Mishawaka.
Assisting in the welcoming were a number of brother knights from the nearby South Bend and Mishawaka councils and a large number of the older Notre Dame members. Tribute was paid during the meeting to those brother knights who will be leaving the Notre Dame council following their graduation at the completion of the current semester.	—James Sullivan
THE BOOK EXCHANGE
The students are again reminded to take advantage of the money-saving Book Exchange, the non-profit clearing house for used book*. The B-X operated by the Catholic Action group of Notre Dame, gives the student* the best prices available for their used book*. Students may also purchase used books there for the coming semester.
Nearly all of the text* now in use will be accepted by the B-X. The B-X located in room 10 (ground floor) of the Administration building, is open now on Mondays from 1:15 to 2. and will be open from 1 to 4 from Feb. 20 to 27.
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
As the war-weary eyes of Notre Dame graduates turned from four years of strife—this time it was in 1867 following the War Between the States— thoughts turned to the University’s Silver Jubilee, and thus was born the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame.
After proving its worth by helping make the event a success, the association continued on a semi - permanent basis until 1908 when it was reorganized on a continuing setup.
Then in 1923, the Alumni Association opened its first full-time office and began publishing the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, three years before James E. Armstrong, ’25, resigned as publicity director to become the first full-time alumni secretary.
William R. Dooley, ’26, former editor of the SCHOLASTIC, joined the association in 1934 as managing editor of the ALUMNUS and now directs the momentous national placement program as well.
Under Mr. Armstrong’s guidance, the association grew to a pre-war membership of 94 local clubs, including six in foreign countries, to become one of the most widespread alumni bodies in any American university. The program for 1946 calls for the revival of all of the groups, many of which were almost wiped out by loss of members to the armed forces in the past few years.
The Alumni Office handles personal records of more than 25,000 Notre Dame men, including various types of flies and folders, such as the 9,600 N.D. men in service, club members, classes, etc. Each graduate’s name is included in several different files.
Of the 13,500 now on the mailing list, more than half are graduates of the last ten years, making it primarily a “young man’s” organization.
Among the tasks of the association, its direction of class reunions stands out. These will be resumed in 1947 on the five-year plan. A general reunion, the first since suspension of commencements during the war, is tentatively planned for June, 1946.
Student activities are also given full cooperation by the office to coordinate them with alumni interests and activities in similar fields and to acquaint the student with the advantages of the center, which he may call upon to serve him at any time after he is graduated.
Under the present war-time board of directors, headed by Thomas Byrne of
8
Cleveland, the association has established a strong program for the post-war alumni. It includes:
a)	Placement committees to aid returning veterans and new graduates in securing employment.
b)	Committees on Alumni Action to promote alumni leaders in citizenship and religion.
c)	Committees to contact preparatory schools for counsel of prospective students.
d)	Committees on public relations to promote non-alumni contacts for the University.
e)	The Alumni Fund, which has raised, during the war years, more than §300,000 for the University in unrestricted funds. Alumni Hall is named in honor of the efforts of the alumni from 1908 to 1922 in raising funds for a residence hall.
f) Annual observances of Universal Notre Dame Night, founded in 1924, and Universal Communion Sunday, founded in 1938. Lay retreats, the Family Rosary, and other devotions will be stimulated through alumni leadership and the clubs.
Five - Year Reunions
All Notre Dame graduates have had hopes of returning to their Alma Mater some day, to recapture at least a part of the joys they left behind at college. Such is the feeling that engenders the spirit of alumni reunions—the desire to come back and make vivid the memories and scenes of college days and perhaps, an opportunity to see what old chums look like with “middle-age spreads.”
Previous to 1942 when the' influence of war was felt in most activities, this desire to look over the old and growing school was an organized custom. Each graduating class met every five years during commencement week at the University, and its members lived the lives of the college men they used to be. They would sleep on the campus, have forums in the different colleges to give them the latest methods in their fields (and otherwise make them feel they are back in school), have banquets, golf tournaments, or whatever might strike their fancy. A usual weekeijd- program would be highlighted by an annual report concerning the University as a whole, given by the President of Notre Dame, and the report made by the President of the Alumni Club.
Now that peace has come, plans have been made to rejuvenate these gatherings. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association, has stated that a general reunion of all alumni will be held in June, at the end of the coming term. This will be done to reorganize the few broken chains of five year interval meetings, and to atempt to 'place’ the graduates of the accelerated program and those veterans who have been with several different classes. The regular five-year class reunions will then commence in 1947, when Notre Dame graduates of ’42, ’37, ’27, and all the way down the line, even to include some diligent members of the ’92 class, will come back like homing pigeons to their beloved Alma Mater. —Robert E. Aziz
A SCOOP!
Saw my boss, the Editor, last Monday night and he told me there was a scoop which needed tracking- down. A knowing glint came into my eye when he asked me to find out why, in every basketball game this season, Hassett has worn the same sweat-stained jersey and Gilhooley the same dirt-streaked trunks.
The yarn had its intriguing aspects, for at once one begins to think of superstitions, mystic powers, and other unearthly signs. Let’s amble over to the library and see what the authorities have to say on the subject. After several hours of deep research, we found, much to our dismay, that not a single author dealt with the superstitions of basketball players.
What to do? The Boss was in an uproai- and was clamoring for a story. Browbeaten and discouraged, your reporter wandered over to ancient Sorin Hall and found Gilhooley and Hassett engaged in their favorite pastime, friendly banter. My two friends asked the reason for.the perturbed look. Then, suddenly, your reporter burst out, “Look, fellows, give me a break, won’t you ? The SCHOLASTIC needs a story, so the Boss sent me to find out why Willie continually wears a sweat-stained jersey and Frank, dirt-streaked tranks.”
Both boys almost strangled in their merriment and gaspingly gave answer: “McAllister keeps issuing us the same euipment, that’s why!” —Paul Abraham
The post office intends to forward all mail arriving during the vacation period. If you are staying on the campus, please notify the postoffice clerk.
John G. Fahey, Postmaster.
Vet's Club to Welcome
600 ex-G.l.'s to Campus
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE, MOTHER
“From the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli.” Such are the words found in the Marine Hymn. But that could well be changed to, “from the beaches of Iwo Jima to the campus of Notre Dame.” For that is exactly what it will mean to many of the veterans coming to Notre Dame for the spring semester of 1946.
A hearty welcome is being sent to each veteran who is lucky enough to trade his carbine for an algebra book. The Veteran’s Club of Notre Dame is sending a letter to each new vet, telling him that he is most welcome, and that there will be members of the Vet’s Club stationed at strategic spots on the campus to direct him when he arrives. The letter also states that maps of the University will be distributed, and that they will not have too difficult a time getting acquainted.
So with the arrival of over 600 new veterans, the total number of veterans on the campus will be well over 1000. New things are being planned by the Veteran’s Club, and the incoming vets will help insure their success. Our new vets have done their job well, and we wish them the best of luck.
Navy Athletic Dept.
to Lose Four Specialists
Since the outbreak of the war and since the time that the NROTC, V-12, • and V-5 units have been founded at Notre Dame, there have been a group of men appointed to supervise the athletic pursuits of the naval trainees. This group of men are lovingly referred to as specialist’s A’s. Contrary to all popular beliefs the A does not stand for “abject,” “achievement,” or “animal” but it stands for athletic. These are the men who gleefully chuckle as you skin your knees on the obstacle course, these are the men who solemnly assure you that the “bar isn’t too high to jump over,” or “go ahead you won’t sink, go on jump in.” The loving regard the trainees have for these specialists is evident as they lead the trainees through a series of “settingup” exercises, better known as calas-thenics and collective groans, grunts and muttered curses are heard. So, it is with a deep sense of sorrow that the men learn that four of the. specialist A’s are leaving.	.	.
The specialists are leaving in order to obtain their discharges under the navy point system. Chief Leo Zukowski
“Hey, can any of you guys tie a bow tie?”
“How do you get into one of these iron shirts, Brother?” Such were the plaintive cries which echoed thru the maze of corridors of Dillon just before H-Hour of Cotillion night. Top hat and tails prevailed where sport shirts and loafers reigned supreme. The hallways of Dillon were bright with the glare of shoe shines and perfumed with the essence of after-shave lotion.
There was much weeping and gnashing of teeth over the elusive collar button, true to its tradition, found the most inaccessible region under the bed and secreted itself there. The straight-jacket type formal shirt frayed many a temper-before it fitted its rigid contours to the
COTILLION TIME — The Hockne Memorial was a place out of this world last Friday night as the Sophs staged their first formal class dance since 1942. The hum of feminine voices was a strange but welcome sound in the masculine halls of the "Bock" a* pretty girls in sweeping gowns walked hand-in-hand with students in tuxedos and tails, while in the gym dreamy-eyed undergrads danced cheek-to-cheek with their best girls to the music of Jerry Wald. When the last bars of music sounded at one a. m., the Sophomore Cotillion, was a recognized success, as was the Tea Dance held Saturday afternoon.
will leave February 20. Specialist A 2/c Bob Hill will head for the Lakes March 15th; while Specialists A 2/c Pryor Hollingworth and Bob Sullivan will both claim their discharges on the second of April. The favorite of the trainees, “roly poly” Dick Eggers, is
body of its wearer. Bow ties were tied and retied before they were found acceptable.
Brother Reginald was easily the hero of the third floor of Dillon. While the genial Brother didn’t attend the dance in person, half his wardrobe went to the cotillion to represent him by proxy. Collar buttons, cuff links, studs, white scarfs and even a pair of socks all belonging to Brother Reginald trooped out of Dillon on a whole host of students. Brother came to the rescue of the hoys who were getting a half-Nelson on each other attempting to tie bow ties. Brother can be sure that his boys were among the snappiest looking fellows to leave Dillon on that evening supreme.
—Johnny Walker
attending church every morning and writing letters to the Bureau of Personnel at odd times, hoping to obtain , his discharge by the first of July. The physical, training courses for the Navy .wiH be in charge of civilian instructors after the specialists leave the campus.
9
A recent wave of practical jokes that has hit the campus is not a coincidence but part of the planned campaign of an ex-G.I. named SMOE, who when last heard from was living in Badin Hall, and giving the boys there a good run for their money. Nearly every day some hound returning to the hall in the quiet hours of the afternoon to do a little research in Horizontal Engineering finds his bed has been disengaged beyond recognition. The job is neatly signed and sealed with a trim little calling card announcing that, “SMOE has been here.”
Those who don’t know him just laugh at the thought of such an anonymous visit, but those who have tasted of his terror know better, and do whatever they think proper to stay in his good graces, which to be honest, isn’t much, because SMOE thinks nothing of paying the same party several visits, and it seems that from what the records show, return engagements are one of his specialties.
When the war broke out back in 1941, SMOE was one of the first in line to enlist in the armed forces, and from the beginning of his basic training to the day of his discharge he blazed a trail of
snot was Jvsr Hwe
nonsense across the battlefields of Europe, and later in the islands of the South Pacific, always causing some bit of devilment that gave many tired, battle weary Joes a minute or two to laugh and forget their hardships and homesickness. When the war ended Smoe, with thousands of other G.I.s received his discharge papers and was turned out into a cold misunderstanding world of civilized people. Smoe was heartbroken at the thought of being separated from all of his buddies and in a moment of desperation followed a group of Vets on their way to Notre Dame. When the trains pulled into South Bend and the vets crowded off to board busses and taxies for the University campus, he was lost in the shuffle and it wasn’t till long after the hour of midnight several days latei' that he got up enough curiosity to pay his respects to Alma Mater. The vast numbers of beautiful women who thronged through the city streets diverted his attention, and only when the one that he chanced to meet at George’s told him that she worked in the Notre Dame Laundry, did he remember
the purpose of his mission. After many fond farewells to his new found love he once again turned his back on civilization and braved the perils of the Dixie Highway to the dark and lonely Notre Dame campus.
Mistaking the Mess Hall for a student dorm, he entered quietly, signed his name in very small letters at the bottom of a Religious Bulletin pinned to the bulletin board (Smoe found a little Green Book at George’s and was well aware of signing in when he arrived), and curled up in one of the big bays to catch a few winks before starting his career as a student in the college of science where he intended to major in the study and design of booby traps, for local use.
Except for the fact that Smoe received only eight “Pinkies” at midsemester (one of them was for insufficient Mass Checks) and has been cam-pused for the past two weeks, he is doing splendidly, and is contemplating a big blowout at the Sophomore Cotillion with a slick chick (typographical error) across the pond, whom he will drive in a 1925 Maxwell, loaned to him by eversmiling Ziggy, keeper of the meat balls in the N.D. galley.
VETS SMOKER
Despite the typically Indiana soupy weather last week, more than a hundred veterans gathered Tuesday evening for an elaborate smoker in the Indiana Club in downtown South Bend.
Starring on a program overloaded with entertainment was Frank Leahy, who introduced some of his coaching staff and some of the Irish football players who are among the veterans at Notre Dame. Leahy then ran off a film on the highlights of the .1943 football season and contributed his own commentary.
Music by the Cavaliers, campus swing band, got the variety show for the evening in gear. With Joe O’Toole as emcee, the program consisted of Ray Chamberland, a character performer extraordinary,' Fred Ealy, who played the accordion, and Johnny McGuire, N. D.’s little Irish tenor.
Asked to take a bow were: The Rev. Francis Goodall, C.S.C., of the Notre
10
Dame personnel department; Mr. Bowers of the vets administration on campus; Col. Hinkel, Publicity Department Director; and the Veterans Club Chaplain, the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.
General chairman of the affair was Joe O’Toole, and the committee consisted of Bill McShay, Ray Caffrey and Frank Kowalski. The recognized success of the smoker has prompted the Vet’s Club to proceed eagerly with plans for similar gatherings next term.
Economic Roundtable
Officers for the Spring Semester were elected at the weekly meeting of the Economic Roundtable held last Thursday evening at the Ramble Inn. Retiring president Paul Regan summarized the club’s activities during the past semester and thanked the members for their cooperation throughout the winter. Charles Bartlett, the other graduating member of the club, expressed the gratitude of the members for the services
performed by the officers during the semester.
Pat Nolan, an economics major from Detroit, was elected president to succeed Ragan. Fred Funk, senior commerce student from La Crosse, Wisconsin, was elected secretary-treasurer. Funk has just returned to the campus this semester and resumed his membership in the Round Table after having served as a lieutenant in the Air Corps.
Ralph Hayman, Bill McGah and Pat Nolan will represent the club at the Regional Conference of the International Relations Conference to be held in Oshkosh, Wisconsin on March 8 and 9. Nolan will present a paper on “Spiritual Resources for Peace.” An attempt will be made to bring the conference to Notre Dame in 1947.	'
President Nolan expressed an optimistic outlook for the coming semester. Plans were made to welcome back all returning members and also for the acceptance of new members in the spring.
Franco Misunderstood By VENTURA GONZALEZ
It is a foregone conclusion that Francisco Franco is lawless and wrong. The secular newspapers of the United States have been in complete accord with this denunciation. And, of course, the newspapers are never wrong. But just for the record, let’s review a few pertinent facts in the case, that I myself have seen while living in Spain.
What I state I know by personal observation and close contact with parties, taking an active part before and after the revolution started, and most of my assertions are substantiated in the book, Spain, by Salvador de Madariago.
A good many Americans blame Franco for the Spanish Revolution and think he caused the civil war. Franco was only one of the many Spaniards who could no longer tolerate conditions existing in the country and who were ready to gamble their lives to change the state of affairs.
The original head of the revolution was not Franco. San Jurjo was, and aftei- his accidental death the Junta Nacional named General Cabanellas who retired three months later. The Junta then chose General Franco.
Franco and his followers were called the Rebels because they revolted against the government, but the Rebels of 1936 were the Loyalists of 1934, and vice versa. In 1934 a large group of those supporting the Leftist’s government, known later as the Reds or Loyalists, revolted against the government then legally constituted. On more than one occas-sion I had to scramble to the nearest open store or house to avoid being shot in the streets of Madrid during the revolt of 1934.
Had not the Rightists started the revolution when they did on July 17, 1936, it would have been started by some of the Leftists themselves shortly after. They were preparing to revolt on August 1st against the government that tolerated them so much.
Many claim Franco was Fascist, but he was actually more democratic than the Loyalists’ leaders. While living in Santander and Madrid, I saw ample testimony of the despotism and tyranny of the Loyalists. For example: The Loyalists closed the Churches. Since the majority of the people are Catholic, it was a direct blow at Catholicism. Franco allowed the churches to be opened. Radios, confiscated by the Loyalists, were never returned. Franco left the
people alone in thi^matter. The Loyalists operated exactly like the German Gestapo, coming in the dead of night and boldly entering homes to take people to their deaths. Because the most important newspaper in Madrid, the A.B.C., favored Franco it was silenced. Franco, on the-other hand allowed freedom of the press. It is worthy to note that communiques were controlled by the Loyalists.
What started as a civil war later took the aspect of an international war. They blame Franco for this too, but the first foreign troops to fight in Spain were those brought in to help the Loyalists defend Madrid. Then other troops came to help Franco, but they probably would not have come had the international Brigades remained away.
The Loyalists were helped by England and France which today are steeped in communism. Franco openly and strongly opposed the communists. True, he was helped by the Germans and the Italians. If you were being beaten to your knees by an enemy, would you not accept the aid of someone, even if he were a person you would ordinarily not like? It is a matter of survival.
Franco was accused of killing enemy leaders. Today what are we doing in Germany and Japan? One thing I would like to make clear: The Loyalists were given a trial and convicted by testimony, not by the decree of Franco.
Ventura Gonzalez, a student in the Notre Dame Department of Architecture, was bom in Santander, Spain, twenty-three years ago and lived there until 1939 when he came to the U. S. During winters he attended school in Madrid, and much of the contents of this article is based on what he saw there. Texas, he says, is the "best place in the world." And he has seen much of the world: Portugal, England, France, Germany, Denmark, Mexico, California, Missouri and points enroute. After four years of Texas high-schooling and three semesters of architectural study at Noire Dame, Gonzalez entered the Army in 1943 and served two years in the Air Corps, making 32 combat missions with the Eighth Air Force as a gunner-engineer. He returned to Notre Dame last November.
Franco’s men were said to be vandals. They were destructive, but what men in war are not? I have also seen plenty of cruel inhuman acts of our own American forces, which no G.I who served over-seas- in combat will deny. Cruelty existed on both sides in the Spanish War. I have seen the Loyalists demolishing homes and causing such destructions as tearing up bed clothing and shooting at anything that appeared as a target. In a church I saw them firing at a figure of Christ crucified, filling it with holes, just for the. pleasure of shooting.
Franco is charged with buying material from Germany and Italy, but mention is hardly ever made of the Loyalists obtaining theirs from other powers. Very early in the war they got planes from France and the Foreign Legion of the Air. From Russia they got tanks, and a number of Russian generals and their staffs appeared in Madrid in September of T936. In the latter part of the war the Russians took an active part not only in the fighting but in the direction and the management of the campaign.
During the civil war, the Loyalists, sent a number of Spanish children to different European countries. Some went to England, to France, to Belgium, and to Russia. The number given at the time was 5,000 to each country. At the end of the war, England, France and
(Continued on page 17)
VENTUBA GONZALEZ
11
Notre Dame Squad Faces Five Tough Teams in Final Games of Season
INTERNAL
By DAVE WARNER
Five tough games lay ahead of the Notre Dame basketball squad as it returned Monday morning from New York after losing a hotly contested game to New York University in the annual Garden classic. It is clear that from now on the work is cut out for the Irish basketeers, since four out of the five remaining games are return engagements, and four of the five games will be played on the road. Here are the five remaining contests in order as Notre Dame comes up to the fourth lap of its unenviable schedule with a record of 14 wins, 2 setbacks.
BASKETBALL
Showing a well-balanced attack, the Lyons Hall basketball team defeated Walsh Hall Monday night, 32 to 24, to win the 1946 campus basketball championship. Lyons had already defeated St. Edward’s in the first game of a round-robin series to decide the title.
Marquette
Journeying to Milwaukee the Irish courtmen will face Marquette in the jam-packed Milwaukee Auditorium tomorrow night. Coach Ripley had almost an entire week in which to prepare a solution to thwart the Hilltoppers’ fast breakingoffense. Defense tactics will be specifically focused on stopping speed-merchant forward Howie Kallenberger and jumping jack center Ken Wiesner. Kallenberger and Wiesner scored 19 and 20 points respectively when Coach Bill Chandler’s charges, after a slow start, roared to within two points of the Irish last time out. This will be the Hilltoppers’ last game of the season, and they are particularly rugged customers in their own backyard. The fact that Marquette has lost three out of four games since playing Notre Dame must be tossed to the wTind because it is always anybody’s ball game -when these two old court rivals tangle.
❖
Michigan State
Next come the Michigan State Spartans who will be met at East Lansing, Mich. Their fire-wagon brand of offense gained much recognition from fans in these parts when they lost to the Ripley-men 62-57 in the closing minute of play. This game begins the first of four games to be played in ten days by Notre Dame. Since meeting the Irish, the Spartans have lost only to Kentucky in four starts and of a season’s total of 16 they have won 11. When they appeared here in the fieldhouse on January 31 the Spartans gave out with some very impressive ball handling, passing, shooting, and breaking to really make a fracas out of the affair after they were trailing 3024 at the half. It wTas the sensational second half shooting of Leo Klier and George Ratterman and a lay-up by Johnny Dee in the last 30 seconds which saved the day for the Irish. When they tangle at East Lansing, February 20, the Notre Dame eagers can again expect trouble from virtually the entire Spartan
line-up—Sam Fortino, Robbie Roberts, Bill Krall, Don Waldron, and “Ollie” White.
De Paul
And here’s the one which will again pack the Chicago Stadium to the rafters. The long awaited return game with De Paul will be played February 23 (the day semester finals begin at Notre Dame). The Blue Demons, needless to remark, are definitely pointing for this one, nursing the thought that Billy Hassett’s long looper with seven seconds to go, giving the Irish a 43-42 victory, was sheer, unadultered robbery. Notre Dame, likewise, will be “up” for this game and are out to prove that its uphill victory in the fieldhouse on January 2 was no fluke. Coach Ray Meyer’s clan, since appearing here, have enjoyed reasonable success losing only to Great Lakes and Oklahoma. A & M -whom it earlier defeated. The Blue Demons now show a season’s record of 14 wins and 5 losses. Coach Ripley maintains that “when you play De Paul you just have to spot it 20 points because of the presence of Mikan in the line-up.” And the records bear out the Irish Coach’s observation (Mikan’s average is well over 20 points a game); yet this season five teams have proved that you can let the Joliet skyscraper have his 20 points and still beat De Paul. But the thing to remember while concentrating on Mikan is that his mates, Gene Stump, Jack and Chuck Allen, and Ernie Di Benedetto are crack shots also.
❖
Northwestern
To the Irish this game, which will be played in the Notre Dame fieldhouse on February 26, will be the “revenge” game of the season. After 559 minutes of undefeated basketball Notre Dame finally succumbed to the Northwestern Wildcats in the last minute'on February . 2 when Max Morris took a long pass from guard Tom Worthington and scored on (Continued on page 16)
St. Edward’s and Walsh were tentatively scheduled to play a game tonight to determine the second place winner, but the “Scholastic” went to press before any final arangements were made.
Summary:
LYONS Skaff If ....................
Owen If .....................
Pogue rf ....................
Ramsey rf ...................
Peck c ......................
Obie 1g .....................
Sargel rg ...................
Redecker rg .................
R.	F.	P.
4	2	10
0	0	0
2	3	7
0	0	0
14	6
3:	0	6
113 0	0	0
Totals ........................... 11	10
WALSH	B.	F.	P
Desmond rg .................. 0	0	0
Rainer rg ................... 0	0	0
Alberts 1g .................. 1	2	4
Lammers c .................... 2	4	S
Long rg ..................... 0	4	4
Kennedy If .................. 4	0	S
Totals .................... 7	10	24
VOLLEYBALL
Undefeated in its first five games, Walsh Hall needed to win but two of its three games scheduled for this week to win the volleyball championship. If Walsh drops two games, it will do no worse than tie for top honors. Breen-Phillips and Zahm Green are still in the running, although each team has already been defeated twice.
In the only games played last week Zahm Green triumphed over Dillon and Breen-Phillips downed Zahm Gold.
HANDBALL
Dave Lloyd advanced to the final round of the interhall handball tournament by defeating Frank Parise. Tom Conley is scheduled to meet Lewis Polk in the other semi-final match and the winner will play Lloyd for the title.
❖
SWIMMING
E. O. Williams of Lyons Hall paced the winners in the open swimming meet
12
. SPORTS
PRESENTING
held in the Rockne Memorial pool Tuesday as he accounted for 10 1/2 points with two firsts and a tie for third. A. L. Schmid of Dillon finished second with eight points, while Les Hahne of Breen-Phillips had six points.
The meet was an individual open meet with no team points being recorded. However, swimmers from Lyons Hall racked up 23 1/2 points out of 63 possible points. Winners received five points, runnersup three, and third place finishers one. Summary:
50-yd. free style: Won by A. L. Schmid (Dil); T. If. Claydon (St. E.), 2d; T. R. Brownell (Mor) and E. O. Williams (Lyons), tied for third. Time: 27.4.
50-yd. breast stroke: Won by A. X. Tilchen (Lyons); J. H. Martin (Mor), 2d; ,T. A. Bacon (Mor). 3d. Time: 32.
50-yd.^ back stroke: Won by Les Hahne (BP); S. Stockwell (Lyons). 2d; Time: 32.
Diving (four req.: three op.): Won by G. Bartuska (O-C); M. C- Carroll (BP), 2d; Nichols (Lyons), 3d. Points: 171.9.
100-yd. free style: Won by E. O. Williams . (Lyons); A. L. Schmid (Dil), 2d: J. H. Martin, ) (Mor). 3d. Time: 1:02.2.
75-yd. medley: Won. by T. R. Brownell (Mor.); T. E. McDonnell (Lyons). 2d; L. Hahne (BP), 3d. Time: 49.6.
200-yd. free-style: Won by E. O. Williams (Lyons); AV. A. Adler (Mor.), 2d; S. Stockwell (Lyons), 3d. Time: 2:3S.4.
Co. Three Wins Novy
Intro-Mural Basketball
With a perfect record of eight games played and eight games won, company three made a clean sweep of the honors in the recent intra-company navy basketball tournament. The tournament was brought to a premature closing because ’ of the large number of men who will be leaving Notre Dame at the end of this current term. Companies two and four tied for the second place awards while company seven clinched third rating. Final standings are as follows:
Lost
..0 ..1 ..1 ..3 ..4 ..5 ..6 ..6 ..8
Company Won
3...........8...
2............7...
4............7...
7...........5...
5...........4...
'	6.............3...
I	9..............2...
10............2...
1...........0...
Johnny McHale, Detroit Tiger Starlet
Hidden aivay in the deep confines of the Sorin Hall basement is Notre Dame’s representative of professional baseball— outfielder Johnny McHale of the Detroit Tigers. Johnny is no stranger on the campus, having enrolled here in 1939. His college career was broken up by the war but he has returned to finish Avork for his degree during the baseball vacation period.
McHale played center on the Irish football team in 1940, leaving school in 1941 Avhen he Avas signed by the Detroit Tigers. He never played baseball at Notre Dame but rather, broke directly into pro ball. He played Avith Beaumont of the Texas League and with the Muskegon State League in 1941. Both are Detroit farm clubs. During the 1942 season, Johnny divided his time betAveen Winston-Salem of the Piedmont League and Beaumont. At the close of the season he entered the Navy V-7 program at Detroit University in his home town. The Navy sent him to Central Michigan College as a V-12 trainee in July of 1943. After tAvo semesters at Central, McHale moved on to Asbury Park, N. J., pre-midshipmen school and then to Abbott Hall midshipmen school at Northwestern. McHale received a medical discharge at Great Lakes on August 15, 1944, before completing his midshipman training.
Once out of the Navy, Johnny com
pleted the ’44 baseball season Avith the Tigers and returned to the Notre Dame campus in the fall. 1945 was his big ye^r in baseball as he opened Avith Buffalo in the International League where he batted .320 and pounded out 22 home runs before being recalled to Detroit. John found his Tigers in the midst of a red hot pennant chase so he joined in and landed in the 1945 World Series against the Chicago Cubs. Johnny appeared in three of those games. The Tigers became the World’s Champions, taking four out of seven from the Cubs.
The tall, good-looking Mr. McHale has had many thrilling experiences in sports but has tAvo that stand out in his mind. One Avas starting against Army in 1940 as Irish center and playing 59% minutes and the other came last summer when he got a hit against the New York Yankees to Avin a crucial game for the Tigers. Quite naturally, his hobby is baseball and his favorite athlete is Babe Ruth. On the other hand, Johnny is quite fond of his two campus companions, Billy Hassett and Frank Gilhooley. Rarely are the members of this trio found separately. Incidentally, Hassett and Gilhooley are quite at home on a baseball diamond themselves.
McHale recalls one baseball experience Avhile playing at Muskegon that proved embarrassing at the time but good for a
(Continued on page 16)
13
Triangular Meet
Here Tomorrow
Before 3,750 fans, largest turnout ever to witness a track meet in Jenison fieldhouse, the University of Michigan monopolized the honors in the 24th Michigan State Relays last Saturday night in East Lansing. The Wolverines scored eight first places in the sixteen event total, winning the shot put, pole vault, two mile, and 1,000 yard run, plus four relay victories. Notre Dame’s Irish were second in line with three winners, Captain Bill O’Neil in the 75 yd. low hurdles, Fred Jones in the 600 yd. run, and Lou Tracey in the mile. Western Michigan and Michigan State followed the Blue and Gold harriers with two victories, and Ohio State’s Carl Baynard gave the Buckeyes their lone first in the 75 yd. dash. Marquette, was slated to compete in the relays, but failed to show up.
Ed Taylor, Michigan State’s “one man team,” upheld his reputation as he won the high jump and the 75 yd. high hurdles, being the only double winner of the meet. Notre Dame’s “two Jims,” Murphy and Kelly, also did double duty, garnering a total of eight points between them in the mile and two mile runs. Murphy grabbed a second in the two mile and fourth in the mile, while Kelly finished third in each event. Other individual point-getters for the Irish were O’Neil, who added a fourth in the high hurdles to his win in the low sticks; Frazier Thompson, fourth in the 300 yd. run; Floyd Simmons, third in the shot put; and Bob Struble, who tied for second place honors in the pole vault. Notre Dame scored in four of the five relay events, notching seconds in the one mile, two mile, and distance medley relays and a fourth in the sprint medley relay, -with Michigan winning in each case.
The Irish tracksters will play the role of hosts to the Michigan State and Marquette thinly-clads tomorrow on the fieldhouse oval in their first triangular meet of the season. Notre Dame is expected to win handily, since neither of the other schools have shown a great deal of promise in previous competition this season. Spartan middle distance star, Jim Fraser, who won the 300 yd. run in the Michigan State Relays, may prove to be a thorn in the Irish’ side, with some help from Wonch, pole vaulter, and Kalmbach, a miler.
Marquette, on the other hand, is distinctly a question mark because of its lack of experience. Coach Connie Jennings was greeted by a turnout of forty men this winter, the largest Hilltopper varsity track’ assemblage in the last decade, and has been pleased with the
spirit of his proteges, but disappointed over the general lack of experience of the squad. The only holdovers from last year’s Marquette roster are Sprinter Tom Thorson, Quartermiler Luke Kauth, Hurdler Bill Ullrich, Weightman Bob Richardson, and Highjumper Ken Wiesner. However, Wiesner, who is national collegiate co-champion, may not be able to compete against the Irish because of basketball.	—John C. Thomas
Captain William E. O'Neil
Irish Rally Falls Short;
NYU 62; ND 58
Despite the Herculean efforts of sub Georgie Ratterman in a frenzied but late rally, the Fighting Irish relinquished their hold on the No. 1 position to N. Y.-U. as they fell to the vaunted Violets at Madison Square Garden, 62-58, before a sell-out crowd of 18,000. The slim, blondhaired, one-hand artist, taking advantage of N. Y. U. coach Howard Cann’s decision to play two men on Klier, netted 8 buckets from the court plus 3 free throws to walk away with the scoring honors for the night. Although he didn’t see action till midway in the first half.
It wasn’t until five minutes before the game’s end that Notre Dame, trail-ling 59-47, suddenly gave birth to their best rally of the evening as New York City’s quasi-alumni, along with the real grads of N. D., roared then* approval. , But the Irish, although outscoring the Violets 11 to 3 in this period, were unable to completely erase the deficit and still trailed at the final gun, 62-58.
Coach Howard Cann conformed to his publicized pre-game strategy by keeping two men on Notre Dame’s high-scoring Leo Klier, but the Irish apparently were unable to exploit this defense set-up until Ratterman’s entry
Irish Display Best Form of Season in Canisius Win
Notre Dame came roaring back from their one-point loss to Northwestern to display their best form of the season in trouncing an unpredictable Canisius five, 69-47, before a crowd of 10,000 at the Civic Stadium in Buffalo. Vince Boryla was the big man in the point column with 12 buckets and four free throws for a total of 28, only three points short of his individual scoring record. In racking up his 14th victory in 15 starts, Coach Elmer Ripley cleared the bench of subs, a not too frequent occurrence.
It was nip and tuck the first ten minutes with the Buffalonians keeping abreast of the Irish by virtue of several scores from far out, the lead changing hands exactly eight times. But a corner shot by Boryla plus a pair of free throws by Ratterman put Notre Dame out in front, 17-13, and from there on out it was strictly a great night for the Irish. The board read 38-27 at half-time.
Canisius, however, did threaten once again before the final gun when they came back strong early in the second half. A bucket and a free throw by the highly-touted Jim Quinlan plus two more buckets by Don Hartnett narrowed the gap to 41-34. This was the signal for those two point artists, Boryla and Klier, to go to work, and they proceeded to dazzle both players and spectators alike with a demonstration of Mid-Western, one-handed shooting. Halfway through the last period, with Notre Dame leading 58-40, the stalwart regulars were relieved. The subs, not to be outdone, took over and continued to outscore their opponents till the final gun sounded.
Leo Klier, not surprisingly, was second high scorer for the evening with 16 points—seven buckets and two free throws. Dee, Ratterman and Hassett garnered eight, seven, and five points. Six-foot-eight-inch George Riley scored his first bucket from the court as a Notre Dame basketball.	—Pete Pesoli
into the fracas. George’s exhibition no doubt brought back to many a Gardengoer’s memory his 24-point scoring spree of last year when the Irish defeated N.Y.U., 66-60 Now that it’s Monday, we can legitimately speculate as to whether it would have been a repeat performance this year had Ratterman started.	.
Except for a few seconds early in the game the Irish were never able to come out from behind, trailing the highly-touted Violets from 4 to 12 points throughout the first half. At the intermission they were still on the short end of a 28-21 score. But the Irish, coming (Continued on page 16)
14
Splinters from the Press Box By PAUL WEYRAUCH
NEW YORK NIGHTMARE
Howard Cann, head basketball coach of New York University’s Violets, is probably walking up and down Fifth Avenue with his chest overly expanded as a result of N.Y.U.’s 62-58 victory over Notre Dame in the Garden last Saturday night. Now Mr. Cann, whose boys literally “canned” the Irish, has every right in the world to do this. For several days preceding the big game he boasted loudly that his team would win —that he had a defense all set up with which to stop the Irish. His team won the game, so Cann deserves his privilege of chest expansion. Boastful characters in the sports world rarely get very far but when their boasting produces results, nothing can be said.
New York not only defeated Notre Dame but led them all the way save for a few brief moments in the second half. Cann had Sid Tannebaum guarding Leo Klier and the Irish wizard was held to three field goals.-Matty Goldstein hung on to Captain Billy Hassett, the latter scoring only twice from the court. The only weak point in Cann’s defensive setup was in the guarding of George .Ratterman. The Violet coach had Dan Forman on the job but George paid little attention to Mr. Forman as he scored 19 points to lead all scorers for the evening. This, by the way, .was the only consolation in defeat for Notre Dame.
The defeat definitely knocks the Fighting Irish from their reign as number one team in the nation, for the time being at least. The road ahead is not an easy one for Elmer Ripley’s boys as they must meet Marquette, Michigan State, DePaul, and Northwestern. But you can’t sell the team short. Last week this column swore some powerful allegiance to Notre Dame as a great basketball team and it still holds.
FIGHTING IRISH IN THE NEWS
Elmer Angsman, leading ground gainer on the 1945 Irish eleven, has signed to play pro football with the Chicago Cardinals. ... It seems that there will be two Begley’s trying out for Frank Leahy’s 1946 gridiron machine. Jim Begley III, all-Philadelphia fullback, and George Begley, star halfback on Mount St. Michael’s high eleven in New York City, have registered at Notre Dame. . . . Stan Krivik is considering rejoining
the Army. . . . Larry Danbom, discharged from the Navy recently, will operate in South Bend as a representative of an oil company. Larry was a great fullback in his days on the campus. . . . Former football and track star, Cliff Brosey, is back in the States and expects to be discharged soon. . . . Creighton Miller has been made talent scout for the Cleveland Browns of the All-America pro football league. He received his first name in honor of Creighton University in Omaha, Nebraska. Last year he was awarded an honorary “C” by Rev. David A. Shyne, S.J., director of athletics at Creighton, for his outstanding gridiron ability. . . . Andy Pilney, another former Irish grid great, has been signed as assistant football coach at Tulane. . . .
FRANKIE THOMAS *23
Head Football Coach, University of Alabama
{Editor’s Note-. This is the fourth in a series of articles on Notre Dame men who have distinguished themselves in collegiate coaching at colleges and universities throughout the nation.)
As a citadel of sportsmanship in the United States, the University of Notre Dame ranks highest in producing the men who have become the leaders of young American manhood in the field of friendly combat. All over the country men are continually entering the spotlight of public prominence, Notre Dame men, not merely in athletics but in many fields of endeavor.
Last fall, the sports editor of one of the New York newspapers, covering the Notre Dame-Navy clash in Cleveland, visited the campus in South Bend for a few days prior to the game. He was so impressed with Notre Dame and its student body in general that he wrote a column extolling the record of the University in the American way of life and the many well known ND men in today’s sports picture. One of the first names to come from his pen was that of the popular dean of Southern football, Frankie Thomas.
When Frankie Thomas led his undefeated ’Barna team into the Rose Bowl at Pasadena last January 1st it marked
Gerry Cowhig and Tom Sheehan will return to school next semester and this is good news for Frank Leahy and Jake Kline. Cowhig was a monogram winner at fullback in 1942 while Sheehan was an outstanding catcher on the Irish nine two years ago. . . . Louis Bevilacqua, who attended Notre Dame several years ago though not graduating, was married last week and will report to the Washington Senators spring training camp. Louis hails from Nelson, Illinois, and attended Dixon, Ill., high school prior to entering Notre Dame. . . . Leo Klier still tops all Irish scorers for the season with 260 points though Vince Boryla’s 41 points on the eastern trip brought him within 8 points of Klier. Vince has 252. Hassett and Ratterman have each connected for 128 points. Johnny Dee has 101. . . . Since next week’s edition of the SCHOLASTIC will be devoted entirely to the graduates, sports will not appear until the first issue of the March semester. A lot will happen to Irish teams between now and that date but complete coverage will be afforded all SCHOLASTIC readers.
the third time he had achieved that honor since he assumed the coaching reins back in 1931. During his years at Alabama, Thomas’ crimson tide has perennially been one of the top football aggregations of the nation. Frankie’s record at ’Baj^^ls certainly awe inspiring, one that speaks truthfully of the well-coached, hard hitting, and hard to beat Thomas teams.
Since he first arrived at Alabama in 1931 none of Frankie Thomas’ elevens has ever lost more than three games in a season and only on two occasions did that occur. During his fifteen years Thomas has lost only twenty games while tying eight and racking up the overwhelming margin of one hundred and eight wins, a count unmatched by any school in the nation.
Frank Thomas hailed originally from Muncie, Ind. He attended high school in East Chicago where he was all state quarterback for three years. After starring for a year at Western State Normal College in Michigan, Thomas entered Notre Dame in 1919 where he was varsity quarterback for three years under the immortal Knute Rockne. Upon his graduation in 1923 * Thomas became backfield coach at the University of Georgia where he introduced Rockne’s Notre Dame system to the South. In
IS
1925 he became head coach at the University of Chattanooga. Here he won the Dixie Conference championship three consecutive times during his four year stay. His complete record added up to thirty wins, six losses and one tie. In 1931 he succeeded Wallace Wade as head coach of Alabama.
Thomas can boast a string of athletes who have gained All-American distinction under his coaching, among them Johnny Cain; Tom Hupke, Tarzan White and the famous pass combination of Dixie Howell and Don Hutson. Now Frankie has developed another passing wizard in the person of Harry Gilmer, whose rubber arm and twinkling toes led the Tigers through their untarnished ’45 season. Gilmer, with another year of college ball yet to play, threatens to surpass the records set by Slingin’ Sammy Baugh and Davey O’Brien in their Texas Christian days.
Thomas has developed a bowl team in each of Alabama’s last four football seasons. On New Year’s Day in 1942 Alabama defeated a highly favored Texas A & M in the Cotton Bowl, then followed it a year later with an Orange Bowl win over the mighty Boston College eleven. After a season of inactivity they returned to meet powerful Duke in the Sugar Bowl and last season they climaxed a perfect schedule, returning to the Rose Bowl to trounce Southern California 34-14. Frankie was recently tendered a lucrative offer to coach Pro ball but turned thumbs down. It will take a bit more than money to lure these two apart, Alabama and Frankie Thomas.
—Dick Dietz
I » a >	-
IRISH RALLY FALLS SHORT (Continued from page 14) back strong in the second half, clicked for 7 points to knot the score at 28'—all. Later the Manhattaneers, paced by 150 lb. Don Forman, retaliated with a 12-point rally of their own, putting the non-shrinking Violets out in front 5947, with 5 minutes of game time remaining. It was at this point that N. D., in spite of their opponent’s freezing tactics, shot the works—but fell four points short.
The product of nearby Brooklyn Boys High, Don Forman, was runner-up to Katterman for scoring laurels, collecting six and six for 18 points, closely followed by Capt. Frank Mangiapane who scored seven times from the court for a point total of 14. Big Vince Boryla, with 4 buckets and 5 free throws, outscored his man, center Adolph Schayes, 13 to 11.
Notre Dame’s defeat, its second in 16 starts, was only its 3rd loss in 13 games with N. Y. U. in a series that started back in 1934.	—Peter F. Pesoli
JOHNNY McHALE
(Continued from page 13) laugh now. During a particular game, John was on first and a teammate on second when the batter connected with the ball, sending Johnny to second and, he thought, the man on second to third. In the meantime, the situation was befuddled a bit so that when McHale came sliding into second amidst a cloud of dust, he discovered his teammate had decided to come back from third. So the two were tagged out before they could again escape. Johnny didn’t comment on what his manager said to the two baserunners upon their return to the dugout. An Economics major, McHale is just 15 hours short of his degree. He will report to the Detroit Tigers spring training camp at Lakeland, Fla., on February 27. However, the name of McHale will not long be absent from Notre Dame as John’s brother, Tom, will enter in the fall. Tom was an All-City athlete in Detroit in football, basketball, and baseball.
Additional “facts” on Johnny McHale as provided by Hassett and Gilhooley include ....... and......... Also,	they
said that .......
Johnny should be ready for a big season with Detroit this year. He has the experience and ability to go a long way in professional baseball. He will have plenty of support from his many Notre Dame friends, so keep an eye on Johnny McHale, Tiger starlet, during the coming baseball campaign.
N. D. SQUAD
(Continued from page 12) a lay-up to eke out a 56-55 Wildcat win. Coach Ripley and his boys know what they have to do this time—stop Morris! Le Roy King, 6 ft. 7 inch center, did not present nearly the scoring problem as expected last time, but he is always dangerous, as is Tom Worthington, who rose from a lowly sub to play his most brilliant game against Notre Dame in the Chicago Stadium. Morris, who seems destined to repeat his accomplishment as the Big Ten’s leading individual scorer, and his Northwestern mates lately have been the hottest thing since the Chicago Fire.
❖
Detroit -
No one ever hears much about Coach Lloyd Brazil’s Detroit Titans, who will be Notre Dame’s final opponent of the 1945-46 basketball campaign. But the unheralded Titans boast a season’s record of 12 victories in 16 starts. Two of those wins were achieved at the expense of Marquette and another over Toledo. Originally scheduled to be played at the University of Detroit’s Hackett Field House the site has been
shifted to the Olympia in order to accommodate a larger crowd. Incidentally, Notre Dame has been playing to sellout crowds all season regardless of the arena. Those to be feared in the Titan line-up are forward Jack Richardson, guards Eddie Bartz and Art Stol-key, and center Gino Solran, a transferee from Assumption College across the river where he scored an even 1,000 points in three years. Solran is currently being named the successor to Bob Calihan, the Mr. Basketball of former Titan years.
Aeoe BOOKS FOR YOUR ENJOYMENT
By the author of ‘Rebecca.’
$2.75
The new novel by the author of “All Quiet
On The Western Front.’
$3.00
The story of the start and probable end of a great tobacco dynasty.
$2.75
Through the magic of words the author has evolved the story of God’s most magnificent sinner.
$3.00
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE
127 W. Washington St.
“In the J. M. S. Building"
16
FRANCO MISUNDERSTOOD (Continued from page 11)
Belgium returned the children to Spain, but Russia did not; evidently she thought she had better right to them than their own country- and their own parents. Often I have thought of what had become of those children; no one ever mentioned them. Finally, Rafael Miralles Bravo, who fought the Loyalists, and later went to Moscow, wrote an account of them, according to Radio Nacional, Madrid. Mr. Miralles Bravo placed the number of children sent to Russia at 4,000, and states that of them 800 died of starvation, and the rest were destined to prostitution and robbery. This may be the result of the tutelage exercised by the
Russian Estate. Is not that sufficient cause for the parents or relatives of the children, and othei- enemies of the cause, to go and fight anywhere and anybody for the freedom and liberty of their loved ones?
From the beginning of World War II Franco declared himself and Spain as non-belligerent and he succeeded in maintaining this position regardless of the heavy pressure and instigation of the axis powers. It is true that he supplied the axis with material, but what country or individual does not take advantage of doing business when there is an occasion even though caused by war? Besides, he had financial debts with Germany and Italy, and that gave him an
opportunity to repay them and get his country out of debt.
Franco was the first to give recognition to the French who formed against the Vichy Government and the axis. He gave all kinds of facilities for the Underground French to cross Spain to go. to Africa and fight the axis. Now those same Frenchmen are plotting against him and trying all means to get the Communists into power in Spain.
The Spanish people do not want another civil war, neither do they want outside powers to impose on them the form of government that they are to have. This privilege they reserve for themselves.
"CACH year General Electric selects engineering college graduates and assigns them to the Testing Department. There they obtain a broad experience with a variety of apparatus and broad training in classroom and factory—to equip them for research, development, application, and manufacturing in the engineering field of their choice.
Upon being assigned to one of the Test sections, the new Test man assists others in testing equipment, and as he gains experience, he assumes more responsibility. He may be placed in charge of testing a piece of appara-
tus with newer Test men acting as his assistants. The groups wire, adjust, and make tests on standard equipment manufactured by the department in which they work.
Although he’s part of a large organization, no Test man is allowed to get the feeling that it’s an impersonal one. The Company provides facilities for recreation in various cities in which Test men work, as well as encouraging these men to join clubs that promote dances, hikes, tennis matches, golf, swimming, and other forms of recreation. General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.
GENERAL © ELECTRIC
ess-nop-ai
17
At LOWER'S
You'll find any and all types of Greeting cards.
•
J 28 N. Michigan St.
(Across from the Francis Shop)
^ioJt ^>iotk . . .
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
HOW BOTH HALVES LIVE ! ! !
The freshman’s father smiled as he looked over his son’s marks, containing not a mark under 90. (This, of course, is pure fiction, as any fool can plainly see.) Turning to his missus, he said, “Tell me, dear, do you think Dick took his intelligence from me?”
“He must have. I’ve still got mine.” AND—
There’s a sad faced fellow that sits alone in deep disgrace;
There’s a lump arising in his throat and tears run down his face;
He has wandered from his playmates for he doesn’t want to hear
Their shouts of merry laughter since the world has lost its cheer. •
He has sipped the cup of sorrow, he has drained the bitter glass,
And his heart is fairly breaking— this kid who didn’t pass.
RUGGED
like a mid-year exam ...
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
Dear Men (You too, Virok),
. If it. were my custom to title this weekly dispatch, then this week’s would surely be “On the Outside Looking In.” As every freshman will instantly realize, I am referring to last week’s social highlight, the Sophomore Cotillion. While those exalted lads, the sophs, juniors, and seniors danced away the night, we stalwart freshmen were safely tucked in our trundle beds; as the great ones stepped into new (or slightly used) cars, borrowed, begged, rented, or stolen for the occasion, the younger set was entering the realm of dreams, where there are no upperclassmen and Cotillions every night. But cheer up, comrades. Comes the Revolution (and March 14th), and we leave behind—forever, we hope —the ignominious title of freshman.
As a sidelight, I’d like to pass on the remark I heard on the bus after the S.C. (Soph Cot., natch.) Two sophs were as usual, saying much about nothing, when one remarked about his date, “Too
JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
W.L.DOUGLASrSHOE CO.. BROCKTON 15. MASS.
210 S. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND, IND.
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
lllltlllllfttlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllltl
Leading Credit Jewelers BLOCK BROS. Comer Michigan and Washington
18
bad about her,” he said, “she went nuts trying to get the last word with an echo.” And anothei* soph told me about his pal who took his girl to the Cotillion in a cab. She was so beautiful he could hardly keep his eyes on the meter.
Well, laddies, there is nothing else to report on the Walgreen front, so I’ll quit.
A D F ♦
A tramp knocked on the door of an English inn named “George and the Dragon.” The landlady opened the door and the tramp asked, “Can you spare a poor man a bite to eat?”
“No!” And she slammed the door.
After a few minutes, the. tramp knocked again. The door opened and the lady reappeared.
“Now,” said the^tramp, “could I have a few words with George?”
♦
“Too bad about the disappearance of Professor Smith. He was a profound thinker.”
“Yes, he was always thinking, no matter where he was. The last time I saw him he was in swimming and he suddenly called out: ‘I’m thinking! I’m thinking!’ ”
“You fool! Professor Smith spoke with a lisp.”
And in the poet’s corner, we have:
If Little Red Riding Hood lived today, The modern girl would scorn her;
She only had to meet one wolf, Not one at every corner.
and—	*
Ruth rode in my new overdrive
On the seat in back of me,
I hit a bump at fifty-five And rode on ruthlessly.
The following conversation is reported to have taken place 12 years ago between Tom Schilder and Frank Harty:
T. S.: I’m five. . . . How old are you?
F. H.: I don’t know.
T. S.: Do girls bother you?
F. H.: Nope.
T. S.: Then you’re four.
♦
The California Pelican quotes a headline from The New York Herald Tribune : BOY, 6, DENIES HE’S DEAD.
Maybe so, but some kids are terrific liars at that age.
♦
ATTENTION ST. MARY'S GIRLS— AT LAST IT'S HERE ! ! !
You will no doubt be extremely gratified to hear that as of this issue, Frosh Froth will have terminated its brief existence on earth, and that Messrs. Caso
and Piedmont must seek literary employment elsewhere. The sword which we have carried is sheathed, the typewriter is silenced.
Let there be great joy at St. Mary’s for Frosh Froth is no more!
(Editor’s Note—Amen.)
Do the handsome thing
GIVE JEWELRY
Jewelry is an exquisite compliment for the one you would remember.
Make your gift the memorable one by choosing it from
19
’	By JACK STEWART
Due to the abolition of the O.W.I. this column again appears.
THE FEUDAL SYSTEM
What is it that Art Kernen and Phil Luppi are bitter about? It couldn’t be a girl we know, because Joe Phelan introduced Phil to a sweet young thing last week. Then there are those tons of fun, “Bubbles” Welch and “Friar Tuck” Batchelor. Welch, the philosophy major, feels justified in denunciating “Friar. Tuck” with trenchant, metaphysical barbs, whilst the latter retaliates with vituperous verses on the love life of the Wisconsin Whiz. Welch keeps in condition by doing pushups on the corridor of second Walsh. He did one in succession the other evening.
WORRY
Now that all those dogs are no longer to be seen around the dining hall it is time that we should begin worrying. Ziggy has a new pair of gloves, but where did the rest go?
♦
MORAL
After the Don Fisher—“Harp” Dougherty episode it is a sure bet that the future Mrs. Fisher will never have hubby lugging anything back from the store in paper bags. You boys should know better than to accept rides from strangers; didn’t Mother ever warn you?
SENIOR BALL
After the success of the Sophomore Cotillion the Seniors will try to better that affair and everything indicates that it will. If it is impossible to have the hometown girl here by tomorrow you
Philadelphia Club
The Philadelphia Club at the University held their final meeting of the semester last night by attending an informal dinner party at the Sunny Italy Cafe in South Bend.
Following dinner, plans were formulated for a get-together in Philadelphia during the between-semester holidays. It was also decided that the initial meeting of the forthcoming semester would be for the purpose of welcoming the new club members. The exact date will be announced soon after the beginning of the Spring semester. .
can always go across the road and help yourself—Smorgasbord style.
ALMASI—NOTE
You shouldn’t treat Larry Sims like that. By now you should know that he can’t help it. What is his specialty: eating apples or polishing them?
❖
REBUTTAL
There remains no doubt in my mind that Art Moshe rftoff is extremely talented and endowed with many wondrous aptitudes. His proclivity to dissertate at the crash of a vodka glass evokes obsequious admiration for the spontaneity of his pomposity. How uneasy must lie the remains of Dostoyevsky, Gorky, Chekhov, and Tolstoy when they realize the vacuousness of existence without having known him. No doubt though, supra-mundane Art is in communication with their psyches. Not unlike Socrates did Stewartovsky chug-a-lug the poison-
Traditionally
The place where Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt, courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
20
ed drink. Rather than see the peasants deprive the kulaks of their hard earned lots, Stewartovsky willingly drank the infected water. “Mosherkoff” continued to escape the sepulchre, and drove about aimlessly with a paralyzed brain devoted to the adulation of literary heroes. "Mosherkoff” is at a bad age—in the primary stages of intellectual puberty. This fact is substantiated by a Calcutta psychiatrist who diagnosed his case as “mental truancy.” This has been evidenced in the volatility of his endeavors— academic and amorous. Pay him no heed —he won’t pay you. There was one woman in Stewartovsky’s life—Irinka Nolanski. He was obligated to Mde. von Kolkoski for two bucks which she advanced him at the Knights of Colum-buski for a couple of b—rs. At the time she was escorted by Charles Claussiski. Nolanski and Stewortobsky lived happily ever after.
Boston Club Dance
The Boston Club of Notre Dame will gather during the semester vacation at the Totem Pole, Auburndale, Massachusetts, on Friday evening, March 8. All those interested may secure information from publicity chairman Joe Braught, 146 Dillon Hall.
It was decided that on Tuesday evening, March 19, an election meeting will be held to select officers for the Spring semester. Bill Thompson will preside. It is hoped that all Massachusetts men on campus will be in attendance.
Glycerine enough to form a compound capable of bursting a bomb—which accounts for her being so explosive.
Enough gluten to make five pounds of glue—which enables her to stick to the man she loves.
Phosphorus enough to make 2,200 match heads—which explains why she flares up so easily.
Sufficient fat to make seven pounds of soap—which provides an ample supply of soft soap to feed the men.
For Notre Dame Men .
Sulfur enough to rid a dog or cat of fleas—which explains why those animals love to be petted by her.
And finally (incredible fact!) a measly quarter pound of sugar—which, as anyone not totally blinded by her charm can see, is utterly insufficient to sweeten and render palatable such a powerful mixture of water, salt, lime, glycerine, glue, phosphorus, grease, and sulfur.
—Georgia Tech Technique
The Notre Dame
SCAPULAR MEDAL
$1.95
with chain
. . . You’ll want one to take with you between semesters.
▼
BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
Little Girls Sugar and Spice But They Change
Long, long ago we learned from Mother Goose what little girls are made of: “Sugar and spice and all that’s nice.”
As we and they grew older we had reason to suspect many times that in the process of becoming young women, their original composition changed—and not always for the better.
More light has been thrown on the subject by modern chemical research. Science has come forward with a list of the principal chemical ingredients Nature uses in constructing a young woman. Here they are, boys:
Thirty to forty teaspoons of salt— which should certainly keep them from being so fresh.	.
Eight to ten gallons of water, which, combined with salt, provides for a copious flow of briny tears.
Enough lime to whitewash a small garage—which is why she is so bright and fair.
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
21
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS TELEPHONE 4-866!
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
303 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1284	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4266
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-626 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 8-2874
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Coin
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair .service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Campus Centenary Publications
"Notre Dame—100 Years”__.__$4.00
"Collected Poems of Charles "L. O'Donnell, C.S.C."__$2.50
THE SET—$5410 • PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
HOW TRUE . ..
The 00D was reprimanding the regimental messenger on watch:
“Why didn’t you deliver that message to the Commander as I instructed?”
“I did the best I could, sir,” replied the messenger.
“The best you could! If I had known I was sending a jackass,” said the 00D, “I would have gone myself.”
❖
IT'S BEEN A LONG, LONG TIME . . .
Ray Chissus: “Have you forgotten that you owe me five dollars?”
Carl Brecheisen: “Not yet, but give me time and I will.”
♦
That reminds us, payday is tomorrow, and it comes none too soon for the average RO. A few days ago, we saw a company commander downtown who was evidently hard up for the green stuff— he was trying his damdest to bum a dime from a pan-handler.
♦
HE WENT THAT WAY . ..
Carl Erickson was asking one of the South Bend beauties (are there such things?) for directions on how to get to Fletcher Street.
She explained, “Well hey, you go down Michigan for two blocks, turn right until you . . . no, that’s not right. Go down Washington for four blocks, turn left and keep on walking till you get to Jake’s . . . no, that isn’t right either. Take a bus to . . . that’s wrong too. Gee whiz, kid, you know what, hey? You can’t get to Fletcher Street from here.”
WE KNOW BETTER .. .
Marty Ris was standing on a corner waiting for a bus when an attractive young lady walked up to him and said, “After being a sailor for so long, you must be accustomed to sea legs.”
Marty blushed and said, “Honest, lady, I wasn’t even looking.”
IT'S A SIN TO TELL A LIE ...
Oscar Birdbrain (yep, he’s still here) asked Lt. Anderson if he could have special leave because he wanted' to see his grandmother, who was seriously ill.
Nedt
2?^
Lt. Anderson said, "Mr. Birdbrain, it gives me great pleasure to inform you that I received a phone call today from a party who said that your grandmother is out of danger and is now coming along fine.”
Oscar started to leave, then turned around and said in an offended tone, “Mr. Anderson, I hate to say this, but someone in this unit is an awful big liar. My grandmother’s been dead for the last six years.”
♦
I HEAR THAT . . .
The meat strike has definitely dealt the chow hall a serious blow. It’s getting so bad that you can’t even cut your meat anymore for fear that it’ll slip through the prongs of your fork.
George loves this rugged life in the ROTC. He says it’s a wonderful feeling to get up at the crack of dawn and then go back to sleep as the echo dies out.
Higgy Higginbotham thinks . hash marks are the gravy spots that drip all over your new tie.
♦
ZOLTAN'S THESAURUS ...
Milton: A blind poet who wrote Paradise Lost. Then his wife died and he wrote Paradise Regained.
Thermometer: An instrument for raising temperature inside a room.
Planet: A body of earth surrounded by vast amounts of nothing.
Tug: The game you play with your girl when you try to get her away from the jeweler’s window.
♦
FAREWELL ADDRESS ...
By the time this issue comes off the press, your repoiler will be at the Great Lakes Naval Hospital . . . no, it has nothing to do with a mental condition. For a moment I’d like to dispense with the bothersome editorial “we.”
Perhaps at one time or another in this column, I have offended certain persons unintentionally. In that case, I can only say that I’m sorry and assure you that it was not prompted by any personal dislikes—this even applies to St. Mary’s. (I’ll never live this down.)
To make it short and sweet, it’s been • fun writing this column and I hope you readers got as much enjoyment out of reading it as I did out of writing it. Adios.
22
Detroit Club
After a four year absence, the progressive Detroit City Club has resumed its functions on the Notre Dame campus.
Some forty members were present at the first meeting, and a cordial invitation is out to all students living within a fifty mile radius of Detroit to attend future meetings. Meeting dates will be posted on bulletin boards.
Patrick Nolan presided at the first meet and read the club constitution which states that the purpose of the organization is to create within its members a spirit of comradeship and mutual helpfulness and to promote friendships that wil be permamently enduring. The club also proposes to remain in intimate contact with the Notre Dame alumni in Detroit, and to cany home the Catholic life which has been so much a part of the student’s life here.
Election of officers: Pat Nolan, a juni or in the A. B. school was voted to the presidency; Carl Karey, ROTC student, vice-president; Warren Tonroth, corresponding secretary; Richard Moons, treasurer, and William Dawson, recording secretary. Fr. Mulcaire, C.S.C., of the economic department is the club’s moderator.
The club is evolving plans for attendance of students and alumni at the basketball game between Notre Dame and the University of Detroit to be played on March 2 in Detroit.
Rochester Club Dinner
The Rochester- Club of Notre Dame, will hold its annual stag dinner for all members and their friends, on Monday the 8th of February. All members are urged to make their reservations now with Dick Corcoran in 210 Dillon Hall. Reservations must be made before Monday noon.
All members of the Rochester Club and others residing in the vicinity of Rochester are cordially invited to attend. Dinner will be served at seven thirty promptly in the dining halls of the Disabled American Veterans club at 117 S. William Street in South Bend.
There will be speakers and entertainment.
Cincinnati Club
Plans have been completed by the Cincinnati Club for a semi-formal dance to be held between semesters on Saturday night, March 2, in the Hall of Mirrors of the Netherland Plaza Hotel.
The club has formulated plans to welcome new students from the Greater Cincinnati area who will be entering Notre Dame as frosh next semester. Other elaborate but tentative plans have been given root by the Cincinnatians.
"You rang for me?"
**I have been working for you for years.
"That telephone in your hand, I made. The long thin wires, the stout cables that carry your voice at the speed of light ... I provided them, too.
"I’ve been busy...since 1882...manufacturing telephones, switchboards, cable and other Bell System apparatus and ' equipment. I purchase supplies of all kinds for the Bell
. Telephone companies . . . distribute all this material and equipment to them throughout the nation. I install central office switchboards.
“Our nation’s telephone service is the finest and most . economical in all the world. I help make it possible.
"Remember my name . . . It’s Western Electric.”
Western Electric
SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM
a
MILDER
Copyright 1945. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

DO YOU KNOW YOUR
SIGNE HASSO
knows her A B C's. This glamorous star is currently appearing in Twentieth Century-Fox’s "The House on 92nd Street.

ien you know your A B C’s of real smoking pleasure . . . you’ll have the answer at your finger tips. .
Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the World’s Best Tobaccos gives you a cigarette that’s A—ALWAYS MILDER, B—BETTER TASTING and C—COOLER SMOKING