rnlB book is not to be
Uksa fro« th* Library
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
APRIL 13 Nineteen Thirty-four
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
CTumiiim in iitiftiiiiitaafrifiii if	uirutttttttttmit g
DR. J. BURKE	I
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS	1
DR. E. C. BEERY	1
Optometrists ■& Manufacturing	:
Opticians	:
228 S. Michigan St.	j
Established 1900	:
"WHEN A FELLER
NEED5 A FRIEND”
Whether you’re late from a night out or cramming for quizzes — a midnight snack is good. Kellogg’s PEP satisfies that empty feeling. But PEP doesn’t burden the body or interfere with sound, restful sleep.
Delicious flakes of wheat. Nourishing. Easy to digest. Plus extra bran. Mildly laxative. Ready to eat with milk or cream. Sold at campus lunch counters and canteens.
PEP is always fresh in the individual packages. Enjoy it for breakfast too — with sliced fruit or honey. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
C P. Lonllard Co., Inc.
When you can’t draw a pair . . . you can draw pleasure from a pipeful of BRIGGS. Aged in wood for years . . . BRIGGS is mellow, fragrant, bite-free. You can pay twice as much for tobacco . . . not half so good. Won’t you let BRIGGS win you in its own mild way?
KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notro Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana*. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,191". authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns___
Mitchell C. Tackley.
___Editor-m-Chiej .Managing Editor
Associate Editors
News Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_____________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN___________________JOHN E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD_____________.MICHAEL F. WIEDL
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH.___________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK._____________________College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL_______________________Stag Artist
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY._________________Graduate Manager
THOMAS G. PROCTOR)
JOSEPH A. BUCCI J ' ROY O. SCHOLZ_____ WILLIAM A. KENNEDY. GEORGE P. LEYES___ FRANK KELLY
-------------News Editors
------ROBERT F. ERVIN ------JOHN W. WALKER -------LOUIS R. HRUBY
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE____________)	'
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING___J------------Sports Edaor*
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR-------------HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER
Volume LXVII
April 13, 1934
No. 21
CONSIDER THE REST OF THE WORLD
A considerable portion of the student body seems to have discarded the practice of thinking of the other fellow. It seems to have forgotten that the man next door has a few rights, and that he has nerves. Such forgetting, if universally adopted in a community organized into group residence units, will eventually put a good number in sanitariums for nervous disorders.
Any number of individual practices are running along unchecked that might well be eliminated. As is usual in such situations, the simplest cure is an application of thoughtfulness on the part of the individual student.
Physical expressions of enthusiasm are probably very healthy manifestations of youth and strength and good nature, but they are a little wearing on the onlookers’ nerves after the first week or two. Impromptu corridor exhibitions of how Jim Londos knots the members of his wrestling opponents are as damaging to a neighboring reader’s peace of mind and ability to concentrate as they are to the plaster. And the intra-hall free-for-alls are comparatively minor abuses: blaring radios, conversations between individuals three floors apart, and megaphoned paging on telephone calls are probably even worse. And all of them are easily corrected by a little individual thoughtfulness.
Outside the realm of the various residence halls, one easily sees similar indications of thoughtlessness. The removal from the library of reserved reference books is obviously unfair. The carving on the desks in the Commerce Building is patently the work of unthinking persons. And it is more: it is unlawful destruction of another’s property; it is indicative of very common tastes in personal monuments and of amateurish inaptitude in the art of carving. This particular practice is a sorry commentary on the maturity and consciences of the offenders.
A return of quiet courtesy, of personal thoughtfulness to campus life will not in any way subtract from the prized virility of which some persons like to boast. College education, after all, is assumed to imprint on its
April 13, 19 3 4
products a bit more than a 77% average, a label A.B., and a certification that some facts are known. An ability to live in a normal society should be one of its by-products. And such an ability is not possessed by an individual whose activities keep his neighbors either constantly holding their ears or warily dodging.
THE PREP TRACK MEET
The recent announcement made by the University Athletic Association of the sponsorship of a national Catholic interscholastic track meet here comes as one of the most welcome bits of athletic news of the year. Few sports are in greater need of a new impetus than is Catholic high school track competition. It is completely fitting that Notre Dame should be the one to aid in the encouragement of Catholic prep athletics. It is doubtful if any other project could have been as timely and as well-conceived as Athletic Director Layden’s and Track Coach Nicholson’s plan for the national track meet here in June.
REQUIESCAT
The Scholastic this week lost a very good personal friend. Brother Martin, C.S.C., who died Tuesday morning, had been for eighteen years the manager of the Ave Mana press. He greeted with unruffled calm, and with cheerful cooperation the encroachments made on his already crowded business routine by eighteen successive student editorial boards. He was a very kind man. May he rest in peace!
Prescription: for student movie addicts whose selfchosen function is to furnish talk at the talkies—a dose of Flit. To the same type we offer a word of warning: not only are your ears likely to go bad for want of use, but your quiet brethren who prefer to do their own reacting at the theatre may rise up some day and pitch you out of one of South Bend’s better windows.
One
THE WEEK
By- Thomas J. Stritch
Spring
Spring came Good Friday afternoon. That we know because it was then we first smelled the sickening whiffs of that ghastly fertilizer which has ruined the lilacs these last two years. Three good weeks and the lilacs ought to be ready to bloom; wonder if the Japanese magnolias will flourish tins year? When they do they’re the best thing on the campus.
We may look forward-to burrs and sand on the tennis courts, to the fra-gz-ance of the fertilizer, and cinders —oh yes, cinders by the cartload; Esposito has already been in the lake; says it’s rather chilly yet. The golf season looks very hopeful if they can persuade industrious John Mon-tedonico to tear himself away from his law books for a few days. And you may have something to look back on in the nature of an Easter vacation. Aside from the stupendous number of absentees from class last week it appeared to us to be wholly undistinguished.
Class Interlude
It was some time ago that the following happened, but this is the first chance we’ve had to erupt about it. As we were sitting in class, it befell there came a knock on the door. A face appeared, and told the professor that the Manager’s Outfit wanted somebody; then the eyes in this face, casting about the room, fell on their prey, and, of all things, a large hand was extended and motioned for the boy to follow it! On the doubtful testimony (oral) of this extraordinary person, the professor very properly refused to excuse his student. The face retired.
We got right along for the next few minutes, when lo, there burst through the door a bigger manager. He bore down on the professor, produced a slip of paper which he laid before the awed pedagogue, and fetched off his man. No, he did not knock; nor did he bandy words. He entered and left in a cloud of triumph.
It may have been necessary that the gentleman appear forthwith at the Athletic Office, even at the expense of dragging him from class; we don’t know who the man was, or what they wanted him for, and we don’t see that it matters. It is all very well for the Managers to get their man,' but it seems rather a pity that all courtesy, decency, and respect for academic procedure should be waived in the process.
Diploma Esoterica
This is about the time when the annual amusing battles between the seniors and the Office of the Director of Studies takes place. The University is a stickler foi’ diploma propriety, and won’t permit any levity or familiarity in the mattez* of the names of graduates. The worst encounters are always with people named Harry; they insist that they were baptized Harry, not Henry, and that Harry, not Henry, must appear on the diploma. The Office says that Harry is a bastard name for Henry; that Henry is the saint’s name; and that it properly belongs on anybody named Harry’s diploma. And so it ' goes. We know a man who fought three weeks to get Hany in some years ago.
Another touchy point is the inclusion of Junior, we hear. The University insists that your old man doesn’t go to school here now, and the name goes on minus the “Jr.” But our evidence on this point is mostly hearsay. Frankly, we’re awaiting with bated breath the decision on what they’re going to do about John O’Connor III.
It is a matter of some regret to us that we will not clash on either matter. But then we’ll probably get a blank with a little note attached: “You owe the Library §1.05. MKL.”
O
Better Nature Appeal
There is a breaking point. Take the case of Clyde Craine, the touchfootball meteor. He is long of wind, fleet of foot, and possessed of a digestion which no amount of violent exercise can impair. For four years, therefore, he has been the emissary of a certain group to dash from the Dining Hall to Washington Hall on Saturday nights to secure the front row for the movie. During all this time his supremacy has been unquestioned; he has never failed his boys. Now, his careel’ seven-eighths over, he has been challenged by some young upstart who is giving him an awful run for this same front row. The youth generally enters the lists a little before Brother Craine, who picks him up around Walsh. From there on it’s a merry battle. So far C. has been able to maintain his string unbroken, but the kid is pushing him hard; and C’s legs aren’t— well, they just aren’t what they once were. Look at Babe Ruth.
This is an appeal to the outsider’s pride: leave the old men alone. If you’re as good as C. says, your chance will come next year.
Ball Committees Are Selected By Leonard
Russell J. Leonard, general chairman of the 1934 Senior Ball, announced this week the personnels of the various committees connected with the dance. The Ball will be held at the Palais Royale, South Bend, on the evening of May 11.
To date, no orchestra has been selected foi’ the dance. The selection is expected to be made next week and an announcement will be published in The Scholastic. The price of the tickets for the Ball and Tea dance will also be made known.
The committees have been named as follows:
Ticket Committee — Edward J. O’Brien, chairman; J. Huttig Landers, Edwin A. Graham, Charles J. Schwartzel, Anthony F. Marra, John H. Begley, Robert K. Kelly, Redmond J. Lyons, George J. Lynch.
Tea Dance—William J. Mottsett, chaiiman; John J. Dorsey, William R. Gilger, Thomas F. Dalton, Thomas W. Oakes, Andrew C. Auth, John P. English.
Music Committee—Edward M. Farley, Chairman ; Mitchell C. Tackley, Donald F. Dugan, Robert C. Chenal, Howard J. Gillespie, Howard Hedges Flananery, Joseph I. Hayes.
Favors Committee — Eugene J. Holland, Chairman; Thomas Dugan, Robert J. Hanley, Jr., Eugene Peter Bloemsma, Adelrich F. F. Vitt, Edward T. Herold, John J. O’Connor.
Brust Heads Program Group
Programs Committee—John J. Brust, Chairman ; John J. Siscanaw, John J. Canino, George W. Kohs, William F. O’Brien, Edmund F. Fitzmaurice, John Sullivan.
Invitations Committee—William H. Veene-man, Chairman; William W. Huisking, Leo J. Brugger, James E. Fagan, Raymond W. Troy, Thomas H. O’Melia, George H. Como, Edmund Hafner, William D. Ayres.
Patrons Committee — Joseph R. Glennon, Chairman: Gerald C. MacPeak, John W.-O’Neil, Cyril J. Rickard, George P. Maloney, James L. O’Dea, Otty J. Cerney.
Ballroom Committee — David J. Froehlich, Chairman; John E. Conley, Daniel E. Brennan, Richard E. McMonagle, Edward P. Monahan, Frank J. Murphy, Charles G. McNich-olas.
Reception Committee—Vincent J. Reishman, Robert Cahill, co-Chairmen; John McKiernan, Thomas Daly, Robert W. Hughes, John L. Connolly, John F. Donnelley, Alfred J. Pa-nella.
Arrangement Committee—Martin A. Donlan. Chairman; Edward J. Fitzmaurice, Leo Hendricks, John. P. Youngen, John M. Wolfe, James P. Murphy, Edward E. Kerns, John Ffrench, John J. Hanley.
Entertainment Committee — Frank C. McCann, Chairman; Byron M. Smith, Joseph A. Bires, John E. Kiple, Dennis J. O’Connell, Arthur C. Mueller, John B. Martin.
Decorations Committee—Robert W. Van-Lahr, Richard W. Mullen, co-Chairmen; Paul LaFramboise, John McGrath, Clyde Craine, Robert J. Stone, James P. Reeves, John Sharpe.
Publicity Committee—William J. Sheridan, Hector J. Mariani, co-Chairmen; Wallace J. Curry, John L. Ruppei, Clifford Sausville, Ed-(Continued on Page 4)
The Scholastic
T tv o
Calendar
The calendar of Sports events ivill be found on page 11
Friday, April 13
Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Scholastic Staff meeting, Ave Maria offices, Editorial, 6:30 p.m., general staffs, 7:00 p.m.; Engineer’s Ball, Palais Royale Ballroom, 9:00 pan.
Saturday, April 14
Movie, “Ace of Aces,” with Richard Dix and Ralph Bellamy, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:30 pan.
Sunday, April 15
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m.; for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, April 16
Pharmacy Club trip to Indianapolis, 6:00 a.m.; Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; Universal Notre Dame Night; Testimonial Banquet for basketball team, sponsored by St. Joe Valley Alumni Club, University Dining Halls, 7 p.m.; University Theatre production, “Gold in the Hills,” Washington Hall, 8 p.m.; Oratory: Breen Medal Preliminaries, 4:00 p.m., 7:00 p.m. Law Building basement.
Tuesday, April 17
Economics Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p.m.; St. Vincent de Paul Society, meeting, Walsh Hall, 6:45 p.m.; Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m; University Theatre production, “Gold in the Hills” Washington Hall, 8 p.m.
Wednesday, April IS
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 4 p.m.; Oratory: Breen Medal Contest finals, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, April 19
University Theatre production, “Gold in the Hills,” Palace Theatre, South Bend, 8:00 p.m.
Law School Summer Session
At the Summer Session this year, Dean Konop will offer courses in Constitutional Law, and in Labor Laws and Industrial Codes. Judge Cain will offer courses in Conveyancing and Drafting of Legal Instruments and in Civil Practice Acts and Probate Practice. Dr. Whitman, the Librarian, will offer courses in Legal Bibliography and Research.
Met Club Meeting
The Metropolitan Club ■will hold a meeting next Tuesday evening at 7:30 o’clock in Brownson Rec., announced James J. Dunnigan, president, to-day.
Eleventh Annual U.N.D. Night to Be Observed Monday by 74 Clubs
Editorships----
The Faculty Board of Publications will receive applications from undergraduates of the University for editorships of the following publications for the scholastic year 1934-35: The Scholastic, the Dome, the Juggler, and Scrip.
Applicants must state in writing their qualifications, experience, academic rating, and qualitative average. Letters should be addressed and mailed to the Chairman of the Faculty Board of Publications, the Reverend L. Broughal, C.S.C., Administration Building, not later than four o’clock in the afternoon of April 27.
Only those applications which are received by mail will be considered.
Movies Are Scheduled
Movies scheduled to be shown in Washington Hall for the remainder of April and the first Saturday in May are as follows:
April 14—“Ace of Aces,” with Richard Dix and Ralph Bellamy.
April 21—“Morning Glory,” starring Katharine Hepburn.
April 28—“Midshipman Jack,’’ featuring Bruce Cabot and Betty Furness.
May 5—“Only Yesterday,” with John Boles and Margaret Sullavan.
CONTENTS
News Butler Relays ..............   14
Commencement Committees ....... 4
Editorships ................... 3
Elections ..................... 4
Engineer's Ball ...............10
Football ......................11
Golf...........................13
Lazvyers' Ball................. 8
Linnets________________________ 7
Ohio State Baseball ........................ 11
Tennis ........................12
Track ........................ 12
U. N. D. Night ................ 3
University Theatre ............ 5
Features
College Parade ................10
Conspectus .................... 5
“K. of C. News” ............... 6
Man About Campus -------------- 8
“On Dozun the Line”............16
“Splinters” ___________________15
“The Week” .................... 2
BASKETBALL DINNER HERE
“Banquets, dinners, programs, fetes will mark the eleventh annual Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 16th,” says James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association. To mark the occasion on the campus a special dinner is to be given the students in the dining halls. The plans of the Association call for the participation of the seventy-four local Alumni Clubs in this Universal Night. These clubs will have their own programs—the types of observance varying. A few of the clubs will probably have their programs on the air.
Father O’Hara To Speak
Notre Dame is sending representatives to attend some of these celebrations. The Vice-President of the University, Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., will be present and speak at the Notre Dame banqeut in Chicago. To the South goes Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies. He will address the New Orleans alumni. The Reverend Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., will represent Notre Dame in the East at the New Jersey banquet.
On Universal Notre Dame Night the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club is giving a testimonial banquet to the Notre Dame Basketball team. Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden will be at this dinner. Mr. Layden will also speak at an alumni banquet in Columbus, Ohio, on April 14th. The date of the banquet at Columbus was moved up to the 14th so that he would be able to attend both banquets.
Among other representatives from Notre Dame who will attend banquets and dinners are: James E. McCarthy, Dean of the Commerce School, who will go to LaPorte; Robert Riordan, Registrar, who will be at Cincinnati; Professor V. F. Fagan at Detroit; Chet Grant at Toledo; William Dooley, Assistant Alumni Secretary, at Milwaukee; James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, at Pittsburgh.
Keep Off The Grass
The Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, requests the students to respect the rules and traditions of the University by using the walks instead of the lawn. “Now that the grass is starting and the lawns are turning green it would be a good thing to keep them looking that way,” says Father Dolan.
April 13, 1934
Three
Commencement Committees Are Named By Senior Class President
Polish General Pays Visit to N.D. Campus
OSBORN HEADS CLASS DAY
James V. Moscow, president of the Senior Class, selected today the various committees for the 1934 Commencement exercises in June. The committees include those for Class Day, cap and gown, and invitations.
Stewart Osborn, College of Commerce, has been named as general chairman of the Class Day Exercises. Other members of the committee are as follows:
Arts and Letters—Francis Taylor Crawford, Patrick V. Felker.
Commerce—John J. Gleason, Jr., Norbert J. Schenkel, Julian J. Pod-raza.
Science—Robert L. Corcoran, Rob-era A. Nachtwey.
The Cap and Gown committee has been named as follows: Erwin J. Kiep, John W. Kiely, co-chairmen; Leo Brias, David J. Paskwietz, John F. Pavlick, Joseph E. Hanratty, Henry C. Donnelly, Jr., Hugh Farrell.
The committee on Commencement Invitations includes: Charles L. Mon-not, chairman; Anthony Anzlovar, Edward M. Moran, John Tingley, Norbert T. Mizerski, Edmund P. Philbin, Frank J. Jehle.
Father Ryan, Catholic U., To Lecture Here Next Saturday
The Reverend John A. Ryan, noted economist and authority on Distributive Justice, will come to Notre Dame, Saturday, April 21, for a lecture, it was announced today.
Fathei' Ryan lectured here last year and was most popular with all who heard him. He is coming from The Catholic University in Washington, D. C.
BALL COMMITTEES
(Continued from Page 2)
ward F. Lee, Edward J. Butler, Leo Cn* *w*, Edward Sherman, Francis L. Linton.
**(*ittee: James S. Kearns, Chairman — Editor-in-Chief, Scholastic; Hugh J. Devore, Thomas Gorman — co-Captains of Foothall; George H. Shields—S.A.C. Chairman ; Edward W. Krause — Captain of Basketball; Lawrence T. O’Neill — Captain of Baseball; Joseph A. Young—Captain of Track; Vincent J. Fehlig—Captain of Golf; John R. O’Hanlon—Captain of Tennis ; Fred Sullivan—Manager of minor sports; Reuben A. Grunde-man—Chairman of Blue Circle; Bryan J. Degnan—Editor of Juggler; Paul F. McManus— Editor of Scrip; Clyde A. Lewis—Manager of Football; Edward J. Fisher—Associate Football Manager; Edward J. Mulvihill—Associate Football Manager; John P. Quirk—President of Chicago Club; Robert J. McDonough— President of New Jersey Club; James J. Dunnigan—President of Metropolitan Club.
Four
Elections —
Campus political machines will swing into action Monday, April 23, when the Juniors meet to nominate candidates for the Senior class offices. On the 24th the Sophomore primary will be held while the Freshmen will nominate their candidates on the 25th. The primaries will take place at 12:30 in the gym and any candidate receiving a two-thirds majority will be elected without further vote.
The finals will be held Tuesday, May 1, in the basement of the Dining Hall and will last all day.
In order to check on their eligibility, all candidates are required to file their names with George Shields, 225 Walsh, not later than April 18.
To be eligible for a class office, the candidate must have a good disciplinary record and a good scholastic standing. This means that even one scholastic deficiency is sufficient to bar a candidate from running for office. No monogram athlete may be a candidate for representation in the S.A.C.
Notre Dame Mentioned For An R.O.T.C. Unit Corps
In recent issues of the Hoosier Legionnaire and in the Army and Navy Journal very favorable comment has been made in regard to Notre Dame being an ideal school for a Reserve Officers Training Corps unit. The occasion of these remarks was the abandoning of the R.O.T.C. unit by DePauw and the expressed hope of many fans of Notre Dame that the University would request that the unit be assigned here. DePauw is maintained by the Methodist church and the abandoning of the military unit was in keeping with that denomination’s policy of pacifism; it is rumored that they will begin shortly a nation-wide campaign for pacifism and disarmament.
In land-grant colleges military training is compulsory for freshmen and sophomores; in non-land-grant colleges, institutions like Notre Dame,
The Scholastic expresses the sympathy of the student body to the immediate family of Brother Martin, C. S. C., who passed away this week. Brother Martin was manager of The Ave Maria press room.
On March 26th, last, Notre Dame was honored with a visit by the eminent Polish general, Josef Haller. Genei-al Haller, who .at present is touring the United States, had been stopping off in South Bend, and while there decided to visit the University. During his visit the general dined in the west dining hall with the student body. After the meal he was persuaded to speak to the students.
Though expressing his happiness on returning to Notre Dame after an absence of ten years, he also voiced his regrets on being unable to see “that great friend of Poland,” the late Charles Phillips, before the latter’s death.
Praises Notre Dame
General Haller went on to assert, that of all universities which he had ever come in contact with, Notre Dame, because of its vigorous Catholic atmosphere, was the greatest. He declared that in this respect Notre Dame reminded him of his own Alma Mater, the University of Cracow, the third oldest in Europe. Manifesting pleasure at the spirit displayed by the university, he claimed that Notre Dame presented him with the same fine impression now that he had carried away with him ten years ago.
Concluding his speech, the general said that he was visiting the United States in order to raise funds for the support of foui’ thousand Americans, who had so nobly lent themselves to the defense of Poland during the World War, and who were now receiving pensions neither from this country nor Poland. He ended with expressions of gratitude to the officials and the student body of the University for their friendly and enthusiastic welcome.
militaray training may be elective. The government furnishes the teaching staff from the Regular Army at no expense to the school and the courses are conducted on a strictly academic basis.
Students taking military training-are furnished uniforms and equip-
• ment free, and those who elect to take the advanced courses during their junior and senior years are issued an officer’s uniform or an equivalent money allowance and paid about ' $100 a year in cash. Those successfully completing the advanced course are eligible for a commission and in the Officers Reserve Corps, but there is no obligation to accept such commission and enrollment in the military courses do not subject the student to calls for military duty.
The Scholastic
Conspectus For A.B.
Majors: Education
By Prof. Leo F. Kuntz, Head of the Department
Ink flows freely in discussing matters educational. Encomiums are heard on the one hand and severest strictures on the other. All of which indicates quite clearly that Education as the youngest of the Social Sciences has not yet crystallized its own thought. Education is both a science and an art. As a science it does not claim to compare in exactitude with the natural sicences, though progress has been made and further progress lies ahead. As an art, there are delicate, imponderable touches to the teaching process that can never be reduced to formal rule. The science and art of education, in a word, are as complex as human life itself.
Educational writers are wont to insist that in evaluating any course in a curriculum, as well as the curriculum itself, at least two criteria should be kept in mind: first, the intrinsic merit of the content matter; and, second, the disciplinary value of the content material in developing student. The two values, intrinsic and disciplinary, are of course not not necessarily mutually exclusive; inherently valuable content may possess highly disciplinary value also. The contrary may prove equally true. Nevertheless, the distinction is a legitimate one. Expressed in a slightly different way, any subject may be thought of as predominantly cultural, on the one hand, or as largely practical, technical on the other.
The work offered in the Departent of Secondary Education may be regarded similarly from dual points of view. The major sequence in Education, leading to the Bachelor of Arts degree, is essentially academic, cultural in nature. The specifically teacher-training program is more characteristically professional, technical. Keeping this distinction in mind will assist the student who is pondering the matter to decide his academic major, particularly if he is giving some thought to becoming a teacher.
What can be said by way of guidance for the student who is uncertain about teaching as a life career? There are no unfailing guide-posts her any more than there are to the pathway of any other vocation. Nevertheless, the following qualities are significant. Sympathy and love for youth are indispensable. Social consciousness, social sensitivity, the desire to serve others should be a more impelling force in the individual’s life than personal gain and self interest. A leaning toward and ability (Continued on Page 10)
“Goldin The Hills” To Be Played Monday And Tuesday Evenings
On Orient----
Before a large number of students and faculty Brigadier General K. Naylor, commandant of the Indiana military district and chief officer of Fort Benjamin Harrison, gave a discussion on “The Political and Economic Situation of the Orient” in the Engineering Auditorium, Wednesday, April 4. General Naylor visited the University as the guest of the Vice-President, Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., this being part of the honor conferred upon him while visiting South Bend to attend the Military Ball at the Oliver Hotel under the sponsorship of the South Bend Chapter of the Reserve Officers.
General Naylor gave the listeners evidence of his qualifications to speak upon the selected topic. As a member of the China Relief Expedition in 1900 he witnessed the Chinese Boxer Rebellion and aided in the saving of several important Chinese cities. After the World War he again spent considerable time in China, acquiring, through his close contact with governmental affairs, a wide acquaintance with some of the outstanding military men in China.
In his explanation he disclosed the migrations of the overcrowded Japanese to Manchukuo; their progress of conserving resources there; and their relation to China on account of occupying Manchukuo. General Naylor used charts and diagrams to clarify some of the complicated situations. That there was little possibility of a wax* between the United States and Japan because of the latter’s supposed attempt to gain the Philippines was revealed. “Japan already has too much coastline to defend without adding more by capturing the Philippines,” said General Naylor.
Following the lecture the General with a number of his officers were shown about the campus.
Child Labor Discussed By The Catholic Action Club
Arguments for and against the Child Labor Amendment now before the states have been studied by the Catholic Action Club at its meeting the last few weeks, with the Reverend William A. Bolger directing the discussion. Most, but not all, of the members are in favor of this amendment.
The credit union, the ethics of war, and the different aspects of international peace will be discussed at the meetings of the next few weeks Father Bolger announced.
IN SOUTH BEND THURSDAY
Announcement, has been made by Professor Kelly that the University Theatre production of “Gold In The Hills,” will be played in Washington Hall on Monday and Tuesday, April 16 and 17. Further announcement states that the play will be given on the Palace Theatre stage in South Bend on Thursday, April 19.
The appearance of the melodrama at the Palace Theatre is being sponsored by the South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce. The proceeds will go to the city milk fund to be used to aid the needy school children of the city.
This will be the first time a University Theatre production has been played anywhere else other than on the campus. The Palace Theatre, a Publix playhouse, has been donated for this performance.
Once again the students of Notre Dame and for the first time the citizens of South Bend ■will have the opportunity of viewing the Bowery-days of the past. The audience will sigh and smile as it watches the villainous antics of Richard Murga-troyd, played by Eugene Blish. His efforts to break up the happy home life of Robert Ward as Hiram Stanley, the farmer, and his daughter Nell, portrayed by Miss Irene Pyle, have lived down through the years.
The action of the play takes place in the Old Homestead and Big Mike’s Dance Hall. The savory saloon atmosphere that permeates these two scenes of the play will long be remembered.
As yet it has not been decided whether the Notre Dame Collegians will furnish the music for the production.
Pharmacy Club Members To
Go To Indianapolis Monday
Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, and Dr. L. H. Baldinger, head of the Pharmacy Department, are the faculty members who will accompany some 30 students on the Pharmacy-club trip to Indianapolis next week. The group will leave South Bend in a special car of the Big Four Railroad, at 6:00 a. m. on Monday, April 16.
While in Indianapolis, those making the trip will be guests of the Eli Lilly and Company, manufacturers of pharmaceutical and biological products. A complete inspection of the plant is one of the major things planned for the visit. Returning, the party will arrive in South Bend Tuesday night, April 17.
April 13, 193 4
Five
I
Orators To Vie In 32nd Medal Contest
The New Deal, Dictators of the Age, Russian Recognition, Crime and Capital Punishment, and many other contemporary subjects will undoubtedly come in for their shares of criticism and praise when the sixteen aspiring orators meet next Monday to determine the finalists foi' the annual Breen Medal Oratorical Contest.
Debate Coach W. J. Coyne, of the Speech Department, has arranged the contest this year and says that the preliminary or tryouts will be held in two sections, one meeting Monday afternoon, the other Monday night in the Law Building basement. From the sixteen orations delivered in these two meetings four will be chosen, whose composers will compete in the finals Wednesday night at 8:00 p. m. in Washington Hall.
The Breen Medal has been presented for excellence in oratory each year since 1902. Its donor, the Hon. William P. Breen, LL.D., ’77, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, died recently. Last year this gold emblem was won by Maurice E. Powers, C.S.C., ’33, who spoke on “Recognition of Russia.”
Students who are delivering orations in the tryouts are as follows: Monday, ’ April' 16th, 4:00 p. m.: James Boyle, William Fieweger, Vincent Gorman, Franklyn Hochreiter, John Locher, Thomas Proctor, Harry Rockett, and John Pavlick; at 7:00 p. m.: Joseph Becek, Louis Fautsch, Hugh Fitzgerald, John Gallagher, John Logan, James McCole, Richard McMonagle, James H. Gleason. Two winners will be chosen from each section. Several professors will assist Coach Coyne as judges.
Bookmen Get Library
The first half of the library of the Bookmen was distributed at the regular meeting held last week. The remainder of the library will be distributed at the next meeting.
Professor Andrew Smithberger, of the Department of English of the University, will address the group at the next meeting to be held Monday evening in the Law building.
Thesis Lectures
Reverend James McDonald, C.S.C., head of the Department of English, has announced that the lectures on the thesis in the Deparment of English will begin on April 16. There will be a lecture every Monday, at 4:15, room 112, Administration Building. The course will run approximately five weeks. All Junior English Major students are required to attend.
Six	.
A.B. Lay Faculty Club Is
Addressed By Prof. Groom
Professor Willard L. Groom, of the Department of Music, spoke on “The Musical Panorama” at a meeting of the Lay Faculty Arts and Letters Club at the South Bend Inn Monday evening. Among the interesting phases touched on were the three revolutions counted in. the history of music: first, that which first made music secular and not simply ecclesiastical as it had been previously; second, the revolt led by Richard Wagner, the German poet-dramatist composer; and finally, the modern revolt, of which Claude Debussy, the late French composer, is considered the leading force. Illuminating, though necessarily brief, treatment of liturgical music, and even of jazz, as well as explanation of certain technical elements in music, was given by Professor Groom.
Many angles of his richly suggestive talk was further amplified in the interesting open-forum discussion that followed. Professor George J. Wack was chairman for the evening.
The club is headed by Professor Louis F. Buckley as president. Professor David L. Campbell is secretarytreasurer. The program was arranged by a committee of which Dr. Leo F. Kuntz was chairman.
Chemistry Club Hears Toussaint, Loritsch at Meet
The Chemistry Club held its biweekly regular meeting Wednesday, April 11, at 8:00 p. m., in the Chemistry Building.
Joseph Toussaint, graduate student in Chemistry, gave a paper entitled “A Brief Discussion of the Raman Spectra.” This very interesting discussion was followed by a paper on “Chemical Warfare” presented by John Loritsch, Sophomore Chemical Engineer, in which the methods used in chemical warfare during the Great War were discussed and a brief resume of the" advances made in this field since that time was given.
The stunt of the meeting was performed by Michael O’Connor, ably assisted by Ralph Kaiser. Both men are sophoromes in Chemical Engineering.
Previous to the meeting two committees were appointed. For the annual smoker of the Chemistry Club, Karl Schueppert was named chairman of the committee in charge, to be assisted by Arthur Kranzfelder, Melvin See, John Verbanc, and Robert Lux. Joseph John was appointed chairman of the committee in charge of formation of the Chemistry Soft Ball league, with Albert Schwartz and James Swords as committeemen.
Success Marks Glee
Club’s Eastern Tour
With the many rounds of applause and calls for encores still ringing in their ears, the University Glee Club of 40 members, headed by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, returned to the campus last week after a successful spring tour of eastern cities.
Contrary to their schedule, the Gleesters left two days earlier for New York City. On Easter Monday, over a coast to coast hook-up, they presented a 15 minute program broadcast from the Columbia Broadcasting studios in the city. The program began at 5:15 p. m., eastern standard time.
The Glee Club scored a hit in Hartford’s Bushnell Memorial Hall where it received five encores. Quoting the Hartford Courant: “The groups within the club were unusually well balanced and blended. Not many times this season, even among organizations much more ambitious and longer trained, has it been possible to hear all four voices with such distinctness and fullness, or to hear so satisfyingly the interplay of parts within the songs. The group sang with richness and vigor and easily filled the large auditorium.”
In Utica, N. Y., the Gleesters again won the favor of the large audience that jammed Lourdes Hall. All of the soloists received encores. Of the local singers, the Utica Observer said:
“Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, conductor, using restrained gestures, blended the .voices nicely and produced such uniform and shiningly clear diction that not a word was lost in any selection.”
On next Friday, April 20, the Club will journey to Detroit, where a concert will be given under the auspices of the Notre Dame Club of that city.
Radio Club Meets
Professor Edward Combs, of the Department of Electrical Engineering, addressed the Radio Club of the University last Wednesday evening on the subject, “Radio Interference.” Professor Combs, who is the faculty adviser of the club, pointed out the many causes of radio interference and the modern methods of elimination.
Albert Kennifake, a member, addressed the previous meeting on “Forms of Radio Coupling,” in which he showed the types of coupling and their mathematical relationship.
Application has been made by the club to the government for an amateur radio station license. Code classes are being conducted to prepare the members for the radio operators’ test which is given by the federal government.
,	The Scholastic
Cast Of 65 Working On New Linnet Show
With a cast of 65, the Notre Dame Linnets are whipping together the acts of their Spring revue, “Music’s The Thing,” which will be presented in Washington Hall on the evenings of April 29, 30, and May 1. The production will be in two parts, a minstrel show, and a travelogue with the locale in a metropolitan night club.
Included in the first part of the show will be such Dixie numbers as “Come On Down South,” “Dixie Jamboree,” “Alexander’s Ragtime Band,” a medley of “Carolina,” “Sleepy Time Down South,” and “Got the South in My Soul.”
Soloists Abundant
Soloists George Menard, Dick Tobin, Justin Tompkins, Charles Clark, Ralph Hruska, John Ryan, George Wenz, John Henry, and a group of others 'will render special numbers throughout the show.
Specialties include a piano duet by John Sharpe and Hugo Melchione, tap dances by John Dasso and Bob Jassoy, a negro eccentric enterpreta-tive dance by Tom Byrne, a tableau entitled “Mother,” and a trio presentation by Tompkins, Fromm, and Flynn of “Thanks For the Blow” fame.
The master of ceremonies is as yet unpicked. Frank McGahren, and Joseph Vaschak, seniors, will take the parts of Jewish comedians in 'Part Two of the show. Richard Burchell will sing the popular Bert Williams’ melody, “Nobody,” and John Henry will sing “Black Moonlight.”
Gunn Praises Linnets
In producing, “Music’s The Thing,” the large staff of technicians, stage hands, and directors are sparing no time or expense to make the presentation as elaborate and successful as the other Linnet shows. New stage equipment has been purchased and will be used by the organization.
Glenn Gillard Gunn, noted music critic of the staff of the Chicago American, last Sunday gave special mention of the Notre Dame Linnets and of the splendid work accomplished by that local group. Mr. Gunn, having been informed by more than one person of the caliber of the productions staged by the Linnets, stated in his article that he is keenly looking forward to witnessing the opening of the new work.
Rehearsals are taking place daily in Washington Hall under the supervision of the Rev. Charles C. McAllister, C.S.C.
April 13, 19 3 4
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
The Knights of Columbus annual golf tournament will get under way beginning tomorrow, Saturday, and will continue throughout the remainder of the school session. Every mem-• her is invited to participate in this tournament, which will be conducted as in the past on a handicap basis. This method is the most equitable possible, and it assures every member an equal chance with every other member in the tournament. The purpose of this tournament is not to determine the best golfer in the council, but it is held simply as another phase of council activity. The council in this manner provides competitive interest in golf, which sport nearly all members play, and as a spur to better efforts offers a very attractive prize at the end of the season.
In order to prevent the recurrence of last year, when the finals of the tournament were played during examination week, the tournament will begin earlier and end a week before examination begins. Because this plan must be earned out, it is imperative that two complete rounds, signed and attested, be turned in not later than Sunday evening, April 22. These rounds must have been played since the preceding Saturday. No cards will be accepted which are dated prior to April 14.
After all the qualifying cards are turned in, and the handicaps allotted, match play will begin. The details of this portion of the tournament will be substantially the same as last year, but they will be more fully explained both at a regular council meeting and in The Scholastic.
All members are invited to enter this tournament, and all are assured strict fairness in handicapping which will level off the differences in the scores of the various classes of players.
Turn in your scores next week.
Law Notes
Robert E. BonDurant, Louis E. Jackson, Martin P. , Torborg, and Robert L. Daerr, of the senior class, took the Indiana Bar examination in March, and were admitted to - the Bar by the Supreme Court of Indiana on March 27, 1934.
All students who desire to preregister for courses for the First Semester 1934-35 in the College of Law may do so at the Dean’s ofiice between 2:00 and 4:00 p. m., on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays, from April 16th to May 1st, 1934.
‘Scrip’ Issue Uncovers New Campus Talent
The third issue of Scrip, the Notre Dame literary quarterly, composed of stories, essays, and poems was released last week by Editor Paul V. McManus.
The first contribution of a freshman to be printed in Scrip this year appeared in the form of a poem— “Repetition,” by Matthew J. Bruc-coli. “Repetition” is a well-done bit of the most difficult form of literature.
“Cock Robin: Suicide” by John D. Carbine is a satirically humorous essay which, by a process of elimination, concludes, as the title infers, that Cock Robin was not murdered but died by his own claw.
“Young Love is Talkative,” by Charles E. Sheedy, editor of Scrip last year, is the best of the short stories in this issue. As the editor notes, the story contains a moral which should not be overlooked.
Daniel J. Mahoney reminisces pleasantly in the second poem of the issue, “2 West 123rd Street.”
“The Broken Seal,” by William B. Steis mixes subtle humor with cutting sarcasm to make a story which is well worth reading. The fact that it is a football story out of season does not lessen its worth, in the editor’s opinion.
“Romance Shattered,” by Paul F. McManus, editor of Scrip, is a story which may strike close to its readers. It is a realistic story showing the pitfalls of a so-called puppy-love affair.
Bryan J. Degnan turns from his duties as editor of the Juggler long enough to write “Rather Too Bad,” a short story. Degnan portrays his characters very adequately.
Professor Rufus W. Rauch, of the Department of English, reviews the Catholic novel. Professor Rauch states the modern-day accusations against Catholic novels and his arguments pro and con.
Professor Fred I. Myers, of the Department of English, reviews the recent biography of Samuel Pepys by Arthur Bryant.
Ray Brancheau Marries
Ray Brancheau, right halfback on the 1931, 1932, and 1933 Notre Dame football teams, married Miss Hildegarde Olson at Battle Creek, Michigan, April 2.
Ray and his bride are to live in Peoria, Illinois, for a few weeks. Later they will journey to Silver City, New Mexico, where Ray will assume his duties as Athletic Director and head football coach of New Mexico State Teachers College.
Seven
Mark Fisher to Play At Lawyers’ Ball
Mark Fisher and his Edgewater Beach Hotel orchestra have been named to entertain for the Lawyers at their dance which is to be held April 27, at the Palais Royale Ballroom.
The invitations will be in the form of subpoenas. Each member of the Lawyer’s Club is entitled to two guests.
Thomas J. Gately, the general chairman, has announced the various committees:
Tickets—William Kirby, C. Johnson, J. Dubbs, R. Waterson, S. Banas, R. Bondurant.
Invitations—Tom Roach, M. Murphy, M. Gorborg, H. Kilburger, E. O’Donnel, J. Tobin.
Music—Granville, Ziegler, F. Nelson, L. Gentili, P. Kempter, J. Judge, T. Crowley, P. Lagoni.
Publicity—Kenneth McConnell, F. Marley, J. Orzechowski, L. Jackson, I. Granitz.
Reception—John Shively, J. Condon, E. Crane, J. Kelly, L. Dunn, E. Connors.
The tickets will go on sale April 16.
“Big Drive” Planned by Local St. Vincent Group
The St. Vincent de Paul Society held their first meeting since the Easter recess Tuesday night at 6:45 in the basement of Walsh Hall. Reverend John Kelley, C.S.C., opened the meeting with the prescribed prayer.
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday evening, April 17, 18, and 19, were the dates fet for the “Big Drive” collection of old clothes in all the halls on the campus. Members of the society were appointed to go from door to dooi- after night prayer on these nights. Father Kelley expressed the hope that the students would cooperate completely with the work the society is carrying on.
Old clothes will gratefully be received by the society. After they have been sorted, they will be distributed among the poor of South Bend and Roseland. Many families in these places are in dire need of clothing.	-
• Bulletins will be tacked up in all the halls to remind the contributors to gather the old sweaters, shirts, shoes, suits, or underwear they intend to give away. Any article of apparel suitable to discard can be used by the society.
The financial report was made by Mr. Gleason. Father Kelley expressed the society’s gratitude for the seven dollar contribution of the Auburn club.
Eight	.
’about the camPys
Now that the golf season is in the process of blooming, a short rather heavy set figure may be seen making his way around the campus a little less leisurely than usual. He is John Scott Montedonico, embryo lawyer,
golfer extradordinary, card cataloguer and all around gent. It is common knowledge that Monty, as he is familiarly known, is one of the best liked members of the class of ’34, and that he has no enemies with the exception of Kearns with whom he is always ready to argue.
A native of the South, Memphis to be exact, Monty was preceded at Notre Dame by a brother Joe, has a brother Ed a resident at present, and another yet to come. All in all there is a Montedonico tradition to maintain in regard to brassie and mashie wielding.
In the spring of his freshman year Monty added a chapter to the book of thrills in the history of Irish athletic traditions when he held Larry Moller, intercollegiate golf finalist, until the final hole of a close 36 hole match for the University championship—at that Moller was forced to sink his approach for an eagle to better the yearling’s birdie.
Winter is the hated adversary of this fun loving youth. According to his room-mate it has been known to drive him to be swathed in' a sheepskin coat and woolen socks. But with the approach of warm weather he thaws out and comes forth in all his famed sartorial perfection, the Farrell of collegiate golf. Next to the cold Monty dislikes shaving, but no one has ever seen him in need of one, another example of his meticulous appearance. The evenings find him either deep in his legal volumes or ready for excitement with such scape
Legion Brow-Beats Congress—Wrangler
Citing the recent Economy Act which struck from the rolls of pension receivers some 426,000 veterans who admitted having incurred their disabilities in civil life, John H. Logan, Law 1, speaking before the Wranglers last Tuesday evening in the Law Building, criticized the purposes and methods of the American Legion in attempting to force its legislation through Congress.
The speaker described many of the typical cases which had been pensioned by Congress previous to March, 1933. He demonstrated the injustice of these claims and contrasted the high pensions given to men in the army only a short time for injuries “possibly aggravated by their service,” with those received by wives of men killed in service, dependent mothers and soldiers totally incapacitated as a direct result of their service.
The conclusions drawn were to the effect that: “The Legion’s work in Washington is merely vote-getting and forced legislation; that the next thing demanded will be the bonus, which, according to the law of 1924 should not be paid until 1945, but of which one-third has been paid through forced, overt acts.”
In closing Logan declaimed the policy of the Legion as “a travesty on justice,” saying that “the soldier is becoming a soldier of fortune like the unit of Hessians sent here to fight England’s battles in the Revolutionary War. It is time the deserving man is given his due and the soldier compensation racket stopped.”
President Arthur A. Sandusky then delegated the chairmanship of the Membership Committee to Thomas G. Proctor, A.B. 3, with power to appoint his own assistants.
grace pals as Reese, Regan, O’Brien, and Monahan.
Although Monty has a maxima average to maintain in freshman law, he will be for the third consecutive season one of the mainstays of the golf team. As captain of the squad last year he led his mates undefeated through an imposing schedule and to a third place in the intercollegiate matches in Buffalo. It was here that “Toots” Banks two timed the captain with his beneath-the-table tactics.
The ever-present smile of Monty’s has won him numerous admirers among both sexes because it is genuine and always accompanies a hearty “hi” in his best drawl. Then, too, it has saved him from what might have been embarrassing situations as for instance, the local formal he attended minus his suspenders.
The Scholastic
Dial Telephones Are Explained to A.LE.E.
At the regular bi-weekly meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of the Aemrican Institute of Electrical Engineers held in the Engineering Building on last Monday night, the principal speaker was Dr. Harry E. Hershey, chief design engineer of the Automatic Electric Company and the Associated Electric Laboratories.
Dr. Hershey, well-known as one of the most eminent authorities on automatic telephony, was one of the outstanding pioneers in the development of the art of automatic telephony. His name is attached to a great many important patents in this particular field, as well as appearing on the title pages of several excellent texts on the subject. His remarks, therefore, carried considerable weight, and his lecture Monday night on the step-by-step dial telephone system was listened to with great interest by the student engineers and members of the faculty.
Di?. Hershey first sketched briefly the history of the development of the dial telephone system and then went on to discuss in some detail the operating principles of the numerous switches required to accomplish the switching of calls through the central office. Through his intimate contact with the early days of the industry he was able to entertain his listeners with delightful anecdotes concerning the founders of the system and their-associates.
In closing, the speaker declared that the telephone industry has apparently reached the peak of its development and growth, and overcrowded as it is, it is a poor field for a neophyte to point at. He said, however, that the switching principles learned in the study of the automatic telephone system are finding wider and wider application in other lines of endeavor—notably power network control.
Armstrong and Dooley Leave On Another Tour Sunday
James E. Armstrong, SecretaryTreasurer of the Alumni Association, and William R. Dooley, assistant Secretary, will leave the University Sunday for a tour, similar to the one from which they recently returned. They will visit local alumni clubs and interview prospective Notre Dame students in the various high schools.
Mr. Dooley, who will be gone for two weeks, will visit Milwaukee, Green Bay, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Sioux City, Omaha, Des Moines, Kansas City, and St. Louis. Mr. Armstrong’s itinerary will include Pittsburgh, Youngstown, Akron, Toledo, and Detroit.
French Club Hears Prof.
Reyniers Talk On Pasteur
A summary of the life, education and career of Louis Pasteur, eminent French biological chemist and pathologist was presented by Prof. James A. Reyniers to Le Cercle Francais at the regular meeting last Monday evening in Carroll Rec.
Discussing the work of Pasteur in the field of science Prof Reyniers described his experiments with rabies, anthrax — a contagious disease common to cattle and sheep—and spontaneous generation. His work on the latter subject attracted the attention of Napoleon III who built a small laboratory for the scientist to further aid and encourage him.
Against a background of war and revolt Pasteur so engaged the love of his nation that by popular subscription a fine laboratory, now known as the Pasteur Institute, was constructed for him by the French people.
Forbes Reads Galsworthy Quotation
“A man at once a patriot, a savant and a Catholic” was the speaker’s characterization of Pasteur. Work dominated his life, for his philosophy and theme was, “Will, Work and Success.” It was Pasteur who first discovered bacteria and employed vaccines to combat disease.
In conclusion the speaker said, “He has taught science that you have to be practical, that you must go to the layman for support.”
It was announced that a portrait of Pasteur, autographed by himself hangs in Science Hall.
Preceding the talk Robert Forbes 'read a quotation from one of the' works of John Galsworthy, titled “An interpretation of French character by a renowned Englishman.”
Arrangements for the meeting were handled by S. Ferrari, Sci. 4, who presided as chairman.
In adjourning the session, President Louis Grosso announced that the final meeting of the group would be held Monday, April 30, at 7:30 p. m.
South Bend Golf Pro Gives
Talk In Washington Hall
Pete Hodkinson, professional of the South Bend Country Club, gave two interesting and educational lessons on golf in Washington Hall, Monday and Wednesday. Mr. Hodkinson described the various grips and stances in use at the present time and named the outstanding golfers who use them.
Eimei- F. Layden is making arrangements to have Mr. Hodkinson give another golf lesson.
Eminent Authors’
Works at Library
The works of several well known writers are included among the new books now available at the University Library.
Francis Sheed, who lectured in Washington Hall last semester, discusses religion in A Map of Life, while Gilbert Chesterton’s St. Thomas Aquinas and Stephen Leacock’s Charles Dickens, his life and works, are outstanding in the field of biography. Rexford G. Tugwell contributes Our Economic Society and its Problems, and Mary Roberts Rinehart’s latest mystery, The State Versus Elinor Norton is also included. Worthy of mention is Behind the Doctor.. by Logan Clendenning, .well known newspaper columnist, who has the faculty of being able to write on the mysteries of medicine for the average layman.
Finance: Einzig, Paul, The Sterling-Dollar-Franc Tangle; Weckwire, Arthur M., The Weeds of Wall Street; Dulles, Eleanor L., The Dollar, the Franc and Inflation.
Literature: Williams, Stanley T., American Literature.
Biography: Fay, Bernard, Roosevelt and His America; Flood, J., Cardinal Newman and Oxford.
Philosophy: Walshe, Rev. Thomas J., The Quest of Reality.
Religion: Seldes, George, The Vatican.
Sculpture: Jagger, Charles Sargeant, Modelling and Sculpture in the Making.
Economic History: Doane, Robert R., The Measurement of American Wealth.
History and Description: Davis Jerome, The New Russia Between the First and Second Five Year Plans; Eddy, George S., Russia Today; Fischer, Karl, Norway Today.
Father O’Donnell Returns To University To Convalesce
Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, returned to the campus last Thursday, April 5. After treatment in the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, last December, Father O’Donnell went to St. Francis Hospital in Miami Beach Florida, to recover from a streptococcic infection. This illness prevented Father O’Donnell from performing his duties of office for one year.
According to Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president and prefect of religion at Notre Dame, Father O’Donnell’s condition is somewhat improved.	•
April 13, 1 9 3 4
N in e
Engineers’ Ball Will Attract 200 Couples
Two hundred students and their guests will dance tonight at the Palais Royale at the Engineers’ .Ball. Mickey Isley and his Gary Hotel orchestra will play. The dance, sponsored by the Notre Dame Engineers’ club, will begin at 9 o’clock and end at 12 o’clock.
The Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Engineering, and John F. Cushing, C.E., ’06, donor of the Cushing Hall of Engineering, have been named honorary patrons. Regular patrons include all the members of the faculty of the College of Engineering.
Attractive blue metallic'favors with acid etched lettering will be distributed to the guests. A sketch of the lobby of the Engineering Building is included in the program. The programs were designed and planned by co-chairmen Robert Wiele, and Paul Martersteck.
The ball is under the supervision of Robert FitzSimon, president of the Engineer’s Club. Special twelve-thirty permissions have been granted by the Prefect of Discipline to all who attend the dance.
St. Joe Valley Club Has Mass Said For Rockne
A Mass commemorating the third anniversary of the death of Knute Rockne was celebrated at> the St. Olaf’s altar in, Dillon Hall Chapel Sunday morning by the Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C. Elmer Layden, director of athletics, who was one of Rockne’s stars, served the Mass. The Mass had been requested by the St. Joseph Valley Alumni club. About fifty of the members were present. Mrs. Rockne and Mrs. Layden both attended the Mass.
After the Mass breakfast was served in the faculty dining room. Father Dolan, Elmer Layden, and Paul Butler, President of the St. Joseph Valley Club, spoke at the breakfast recalling Rockne’s achievements. St. Olaf, at whose altar the Mass was said, is the patron saint of Rockne’s fatherland. The altar was built in Dillon Hall chapel as a memorial to him. The anniversary of Rockne’s death is March 31 but because of Holy Week Sunday was chosen to observe it.
‘Lawyer’ Notice
The April issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, official publication of the College of Law, was sent to the printers this week and will be distributed this weekend, announced Thomas L. McKevitt, editor of the quarterly, today.
T enii
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
Dr. Stephen Leacock never said a truer word when, taking athletics as his example, he accused the modern university of being too “spectatorial” in its attitude toward sport. But athletics is but one instance of a general failing. How many of us in the college world are ever and again playing the role of spectator instead of participant in the affairs of the university in, for instance, scholarship? The tide of existence in the collegiate realm sweeps us impulsively into its maw and we are content to drift as hulks of wood in a millstream. We go where the tide goes and never ponder over the result. Individual enterprise is supressed in a general mass energy which lacks even the semblance of vitality. The unperturbed smoothness of our youthful years seems in itself sufficient evidence of progress and the ultimate attainment of a vague state wherein we may call ourselves “educated.” Is this all there is to a college course today? To follow the mob and grab a degree? A few men and women work of their own accord and take part of their own volition in those activities in which they are interested. The rest? They graduate, yes; but it is a nautomatic graduation, such as is that of a Ford turned out of a factory. We all have it within our power to plot our own path. Everyone cannot participate in competitive sports; but anyone can particpate in athletics. Anyone, at the same time, can strive for scholarship. Never in the history of man has there been a closed season on scholarship.—McGill Daily.
From the Indiana Daily Student: The following eight steps to reform in the college of liberal arts are being advocated by the Daily Northwestern at NORTHWESTERN university:
1.	Abolishment of all requirements.
2.	Competence as the criterion.
3.	Effective advising.
4.	Three divisions, natural sciences, arts and letters, social sciences.
5.	Twenty-eight courses for the pass degree.
6.	Three grades: honor, pass, and fail.
7.	Voluntary class attendance.
8.	To the future from the past: construction of a purposeful, working hypothesis of life.
‘Scholastic* Meeting
The regular staff and editorial meeting of The Scholastic will be held tonight in the Editorial offices, Ave Maria Building, at 6:30 and 7:00 o’clock.
Conspectus For A.B.
Majors: Education
(Continued from Page 5)
in the solid courses of the high school program along with an early interest in teaching as a life’s work possess undoubted index value of potential teaching ability. Above all things the teacher must be a morally good person. To those who aspire to a life wherein they may assist young people develop from immaturity to maturity, who are sympathetic and patient toward the faults and foibles of the immature, we may say that teaching provides opportunities for* personal satisfactions than which few other occupations can boast greater rewards by way of the finer things of life.
In making a decision here, as in all other cases, however, facts should be faced squarely. It is commonplace to observe that teaching, not unlike the other professions is somewhat overcrowded. This is true in some phases of teaching more than in others. It is trite to say, also, that there is ample room for GOOD teachers, many of them. In fact, good teachers are a crying need in nearly all educational systems. One who has the necessary qualifications to teach and a strong inner urge to do so has no sufficient reason, therefore, for becoming pessimistic because of the possibility of not securing an immediate appointment upon the completion of the training period.
Passing now to the training itself, it should be borne in mind that the preparation of the teacher involves, in the final analysis, the entire scholastic experience of the student. This preparation, then, is a task that devolves upon the entire University, or at least upon the college in which the student pursues his academic work. The specific contribution of the Department of Education is necessarily limited to certain aspects of the prospective teacher’s professional or technical training, Nevertheless, the academic and professional phases do and must constitute an essentially unified process.
. The Department recommends that the student desirous of becoming a teacher shall elect as his major sequence of studies the subject-matter field, English, History, etc., in which he expects to teach. Mastery of subject matter is of prime consideration for every teacher. A student applying for a teaching position cannot be unqualifiedly recommended unless he has attained at least a B average in his academic work. In addition to the academic courses, the student should, through his electives, take those Educational courses that con-
(Continued on Page 17)
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish Football Team
Checked by Injuries
Yesterday afternoon the Irish grid candidates went through their most strenuous scrimmage of spring practice. Coach Layden will send his charges through another scrimmage today. He plans to give every member of the squad a chance to work in at least one of these practices.
Injuries hit the football squad for the first time this week. Dick Pfef-ferle, monogram winning left tackle in 1932, suffered a recurrence of his old shoulder' injury and will be out of action for some time. Dick Barstow, another left tackle, received an injury to his neck and will probably be forced to stay on the sidelines for the remainder of spring practice. These injuries hurt all the more since Johnny Michuta is the only tackle on the squad who earned his monogram during the 1933 season.
Since returning from Easter vacation, the Irish have been working especially on pass offense and defense. Pass scrimmages were held last Saturday and Monday. These practice sessions were devoted to the perfecting of the intricacies of passing plays and the covering of the receiver of the pass.
Dan Hanley who, a few weeks ago,-was shifted to center, has been changed back to his old right halfback post.
"Coach Layden plans to wind up practice around the first of May. Plans for the annual spring practice game in the stadium are indefinite as yet.
Irish Fencing Team Defeats Cincinnati in Final Match
The Notre Dame fencing team wound up a successful first season last Saturday evening by defeating the University of Cincinnati, 12% to 4 %. In the foils Caresio won three points, while Grosso and Kehoe each won two and lost one. de Lan-dero won two points, and May split one and one, in the saber events. Ryan took one and a half points, and Martersteck won one and lost one in the epee. The victory gave the fencing team, coached by Professor Pedro deLandero, the creditable record of three victories and five defeats for the season. This showing is the more remarkable since this was the first year for the sport at Notre Dame.
Irish Nine Meets Ohio State In Baseball Inaugural Here Today
Sport Week ---
Friday, April 13 Baseball—Ohio State vs. Notre Dame, 3:30 p.m., Cartier Field.
Saturday, April 14
Golf — Detroit vs. Notre Dame, 9:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., University golf course.
Sztnday, April 15
Soccer — South Bend Bluejays vs. LaRaza Club, 9:00 a.m., Freshman Hall field.
Tuesday, April 17
Baseball—Western State Teachers College vs. Notre Dame, 3:00 p.m., Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Wednesday, April IS
Swimming—S.A.C. Swimming meet 8:00 p.m., South Bend Natatorium.
Friday, April 20
Tennis—Northwestern vs. Notre Dame, 2:00 p.m., University courts.
Saturday, April 21
Baseball—Chicago vs. Notre Dame 1:30 p.m., Chicago, Illinois.
Tennis—Western State Teachers College vs. Notre Dame, 2:00 p.m., Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Track — Notre Dame competes in Kansas Relays, 1:30 p.m., Lawrence, Kansas.
Annual S.A.C, Swim Meet to be Held Next Wednesday
The annual swimming meet, sponsored by the S.A.C., will be held Wednesday, April 18, at 8 o’clock in the South Bend Natatorium. There will be no entry or admission fee for contestants or spectators.
Medals will be awarded to winners of first, second, and third places and to members of the winning relay teams. Negotiations are under way to provide numerals f or Freshmen who make the required times. All entries must be filed with Phil Purcell, 134 Morrissey, by Tuesday noon, April 17. No entries will be accepted after that date.
The list of events follows:
100 yard free style.
40 yard free style.
40 yard back stroke.
60 yard breast stroke.
160 yard 4-man relay.
140 yard medley relay.
Diving—high board.
FAVOR IRISH TO WIN
By Cy Stroker
Notre Dame, after weeks of vigorous practice, officially opens its baseball season this afternoon in a game with Ohio • State on Cartier field. “Jake” Kline’s team will start with a newly formed outfield composed of Devore at left field, Beach in center, and, Perry in right. These men have shown outstanding ability and great batting strength during practice sessions.
A veteran infield is Notre Dame’s chief claim to victory this afternoon, with Captain O’Neil behind the plate and a staff of pitchers made up of Sagartz, Huisking, Rascher, and Leonard. Dunn, who made four hits in f oui' times at bat against the Buckeyes last year, will hold down the initial sack, while Kane at second, Mettler at third, and Cunha at short complete the infield. All of these men are veterans of last year’s play and all helped to give the Irish nine its 12-4 victory against Ohio State last spring.
Look For Better Pitching
All pre-game dope seems to indicate a victory for Notre Dame in the coming tilt.
Last Saturday’s trouncing of the Pleasant Valley Indians on Cartier field and the double win Sunday from the strong St. Joe team shows that the long period of outdoor practice has moulded a smooth-running Irish aggregation. Notre Dame won the first game from St. Joe with a shut-out, 6-0. The second game, although closely contested, was a decisive victory for the Irish nine, the score being 9-8. Coach Kline used many reserves in this game, some of whom performed very favorably.
•Although better pitching strength is desirable Jake is optimistic about the outcome of to-day’s game. An alert infield, combined with the good hitting that is expected of the outfield, should bring success to the Blue and Gold.
Ohio State comes to Notre Dame with a veteran team. The Buckeyes have a hard hitting outfield. The members of the infield are all experienced and work well together. Several of last year’s starting pitchers were lost by graduation and a newcomer may start on the mound.
April 13, 1 9 3 4
Eleven
Nickmen Begin Outdoor Workouts In Preparation For Kansas Relays
Tennis Tournament To Start This Week
FORM 1ST SHUTTLE TEAM
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
With a successful indoor season behind them the Notre Dame track-sters are at present busily preparing for the coming outdoor campaign. Warm weather permitted the Nickmen to hold a lengthy outdoor drill for the first time last Saturday. With the Kansas Relays only a week away Coach Nicholson has been pushing his men to the limit.
Prospects for the outdoor season are bright. In the past the Irish track teams have always been at their best when running on the cinder paths outside and this year should be no exception. Nick figures his men are capable of winning their three dual meets with Ohio State, Pittsburgh, and Michigan State, but not quite equal to the task of finishing on top in the outdoor Central Intercollegiate Conference Meet at Milwaukee.
Entered At Drake, Penn
A new event will be added to the program of the Notre Dame spike-sters this spring. It will take the form of a shuttle hurdle relay race. In this event four men compete, two standing at either end of the 120 yard course. The starting runner covers the distance prescribed and touches a teammate at the end of the course, who runs the 120 yards the other way. This is repeated until all four men have run once and a total distance of 480 yards has been covered.
Coach Nicholson plains to send a shuttle team to the Penn Relays on the same day the local relay teams appear in the Drake carnival. The appearance of the Nickmen in the Penn Relays was not announced as a part of the original outdoor card. Vince Murphy will, in all probability, also appear in the Penn Relays.
The javelin and discus, events not held indoors, will remain a question until the campaign is underway. Ed “Moose” Krause and Vince Murphy will hurl the javelin, and Don Elser and Charlie Finkel will toss the discus. Krause, who threw the javelin las year with varying degrees of success, has not reported for practice as yet.
One casualty crept into the ranks last week when Joe Young suffered an injured leg. The Irish captain pulled a muscle in the calf of his leg while jogging around the track. The injury is of unknown seriousness but it will keep Joe off the track for a short while.
Butler Relays---
In the Butler Relays held at Indianapolis on March 24, the Irish spikemen scored nine points to finish in sixth place. The University of Michigan gathered 18% points to capture the meet.
The Irish gained their only first of the evening when the four mile relay team of Roberts, King, McFarlane, and Young outran a classy field to win by a good margin. King, McFarlane, and Young all lengthened the ten yard advantage given them by Roberts, the leadoff man. Nick’s two mile team placed fourth in their event.
Vince Murphy, Coach Nicholson’s most consistent point winner, was defeated by Michigan’s Willie Ward in the high jump. Ward cleared the bar at six feet, five and three-quarter inches which bettered his own relay record. The Michigan star also took a first in the 60 yard dash and a second in the high hurdles to carry off the individual scoring honors.
Heve Lambertus of Nebraska lowered his own world’s record by onetenth of a second when he topped the low hurdles in :06.7. The relay high hurdle record was lowered four-tenths seconds by Sandbach of Purdue who finished in :07.4. Willie Ward raised his own high jump record and tied Ralph Metcalfe’s :06.2 record in the 60 yard dash. Glenn Cunningham, intercollegiate champion, did 4:17.9 to win the invitational mile run.
Will Hold Catholic Prep
Track Meet Here June 1
The first of a proposed series of annual Notre Dame Catholic interscholastic track and field meets will be held on Cartier field on June 1st. The meet will be under the direction of Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden and Track Coach John Nicholson.
It is expected that Catholic high school track athletes from coast to coast will compete in this meet. During their stay at Notre Dame the contestants will be housed in the University residence halls. Meals will be served to them in the Notre Dame dining hall.
According to present plans the meet will include the following events: the 100 and 220 yard dashes, 440, 880, and mile runs, high and low hurdles, broad jump, high jump, pole vault, shot put, discus, javelin, and 880-yard relay.
With three veterans of last year’s team once again ready for action and with great faith in the ability of three promising sophomores, Jack O’Hanlon, tennis captains, looks forward to enjoying one of the most successful campaigns in recent years. Dick Kelly and Frank Weldon along with Capt. O’Hanlon will form the nucleus around which the new combine will be moulded. Kelly was number three man last season, and Weldon played in the sixth position.
Joe McNulty, Joe Waldron, and Ed Buchart are the three promising second year men on whom much will depend. McNulty eliminated Waldron in the tournament last fall by the narrowest of margins only to lose to Bill Fallon, freshman, in the finals. Ed Buchart, Kentucky state champion, is returning to the game after a forced layoff due to an operation. He is rounding into shape and his playing should strengthen the team considerably.
To Pick Squad Of Eight
The spring tournament is slated to get under way this coming week, entries for winch closed today. The drawings and pairings for this event will be posted on the bulletin board in the gymnasium. The boys who make a commendable showing in this tourney are cei-tain of receiving recognition as possible- members of the varsity team. An eight man squad will be carried during the season with a six man line-up for matches to be picked from this squad.
Plans Completed For N. D.
Faculty Golf Tournament
The Notre Dame faculty golf tournament, sponsored by the Faculty Club, will get under way next week. Yesterday, April 12, was the deadline for entries.
Two qualifying rounds of 18 holes each will be required before April 25. After this date the entrants will be divided into flights of 16 players each. Championship and consolation matches will be played continuously until May 26 at which time the final matches will be played.
Murphy vs. Ward
The only time Vince Murphy, star Irish high jumper, ever defeated Willie Ward of Michigan was in the in-itercollegiates last year. Murphy tied with McNaughton of Southern California for first place and the Michigan jumper finished in a tie for third place.
Twelve
The Scholastic
Brownson, St. Ed’s Win Interhall Titles
Vince Fehlig Leads Irish Golfers In Opening Match With Detroit
They were just fooling, those Brownson heavies and St. Edward’s lights. Apparently unable to even predominate in their respective brackets, those two clubs finally found themselves, won their league playoffs, then became the whole show in the championship gathering. The league champions that faltered in the big games were St. Edward’s, Group I heavy league leader, and Carroll lights, the king pin in the second group of that weight. Neither the heavyweight or the lighter division finals was close, Brownson winning 28-15, and St. Edward’s, 26-14.
Brownson Defense Strong
The game between the two larger clubs was the pay-off when it comes to startling the natives. St. Ed’s with their high-scoring trio, Degarmo, Hawley, and Thernes, were being favorably compared with the best Interhall team this campus has seen. But the boys that live under the Dome hadn’t seen many, and weren’t impressed, so pushed right on and by half time were leading 19-11. Dempsey, Levicki, and Stillwagon then kept the Brownson basket hot with a determined slow break drive in the final period to discourage any sophomore rally, especially one that was limited to four points. Brownson’s defense was undoubtedly the strongest seen in interhall competition this year. It was the very evident point on which the game pivoted, for St. Edward’s ordinarily a high scoring machine, threw their defense aside in a concentration upon the others smooth working five man.
Saints Lead At Half
In the lightweight play-off, Carroll undefeated, and almost unthreatened in their league competition, fell before a St. Edward’s team that had been steadily improving during the latter half of the interhall season. Led by Lange and Regan, one of the most consistent pairs in their circuit, the Saints won from the Group II champions by twelve points. The first half was rather close and somewhat cautious, ending 9-6, in favor of the ultimate winners. In the later period St. Edward’s threw caution to the winds, and with it the Carroll lights, right out of somewhere forged into the deciding lead to win 26-14. Tobin, a true All-Interhall, looked as good as ever in defeat, collecting six of his team’s points and displaying exceptional floorwork.
Tom “Kitty” Gorman, co-captain and center on the 1933 football team, and Steve Banas, fullback, will work under Jake Kline as assistant freshman coaches next fall.
Interhall
The interhall baseball schedule was announced this morning by John Scannell of the Department of Physical Education. The schedule follows:
Baseball
Lyons vs. St. Edwards, diamond No. 1, 9:00 a. m., Sunday.
Morrissey vs. Badin, diamond No.
2, 9:00 a. m., Sunday.
Dillon vs. Sorin, Cartiez' field, 9:00 a. m., Sunday.
Howai’d vs. Walsh, Freshman field, 9:00 a. m., Sunday.
Brownson vs. Off-Campus, Brownson field, 9:00 a. m., Sunday.
CaiToll vs. Freshman, Brownson field, 2:00 p. m., Sunday.
(Diamond No. 1 is the west diamond south of the Law building; No. 2, the east diamond.)
Softball
Lyons vs. St. Edwai’ds, Alumni field, 3:30 p. m., Tuesday.
Morrissey vs. Badin, Brownson field, 3:30 p. m., Tuesday.
Dillon vs. Sorin, St. Edwards field, 3:30 p. m., Tuesday.
Howard vs. Walsh, Alumni field, 3:30 p. m., Thursday.
Brownson vs. Off-Campus, Brownson field, 3:30 p. m., Thursday.
Carroll vs. Freshamn, St. Edwards field, 3:30 p. m., Thursday.
Coaches and Officials Pick
Interhall Basketball Team
The annual selection of the All-In-terhall teams, made by coaches and officials of the four leagues, was released this week. They have picked a first and second team for both the light and heawyweight divisions, including also honorable mention lists, league play. The final selections follow:
ALL-HEAVYWEIGHT
First Team Pos. Second Team Vitt (Off-Campus) ....LF....DeGarmo (St. Ed.) Prendergast (Lyons) RFDempsey (Brownson i Levicki (Brownson _C__ Hawley (St. Ed.) Costello (Carroll) ___RG_ Pogue (Badin) Joyce (Brownson) ....LG.... Nigro (Morrissey)
Honorable Mention: Hickey, Freshman ; Bun-do. Freshman; Sigmar. Off-Campus; Carry. Corby: D’Amora, Off-Campus.
ALL-LIGHTWEIGHT
First Team	Pos. Second Team
King (Carroll) ___LF.... Kenefick (Corby)
Bucci (Howard)  RF.... Lannon (Alumni) Tobin (Carroll)  C.------ Meir (St. Ed.) Reagan (St. Ed.) --------RG— Horrigan (Walsh) Coleman (off-C’mp’s) LG.. Kenan (Morrissey)
Honorable Mention: Nerad, Alumni: Caldwell, St. Edward’s; Graves, Badin; John, Howard ; Shores. Lyons.
TO PLAY HERE TOMORROW
The Notre Dame golf sextet, boasting an enviable record of 26 dual meet victories in 27 starts since the sport was recognized here, will pry the lid off its schedule tomorrow when Fehlig and company act as hosts to Detroit University. The one-defeat was administered by Purdue in 1931. Since that time the local mashie wielders have amassed a six match winning streak.
The Irish will be gunning for their fourth win over the motoi’ city squad in as many stalls. In the spring of 1931 Captain Larry ’Moller led his team to 15 to 6 and 13% to 4% victories over tomorrow’s opponents. The local linkmen flirted with par to conquer Detroit in 1932 by the score of 10% to 7%.
Six Matches On Card
Reverend George Holderith, C.S.C., will depend upon last year’s veterans to bear the brunt of the Irish attack tomorrow. The two remaining contestants will be chosen on the basis of cards which were to have been turned in last night, weather permitting. The quartet returning from last season includes Captain Vince Fehlig, ex-captain Johnny Montedon-ico, Johnny Banks, and Bill Veene-man.
Fehlig was the quarter-finalist in the national intercollegiate tournament last spzing and Banks was comedalist in the same affair.
Six matches will be played tomorrow. The card calls for two doubles matches to get undez* way at 9:00 a. m. and foui’ singles to begin at 1:30 p. m. Scozang will be based on each nine and the eighteen holes; three points being at stake in each match. One point will be awarded for winning each nine and a single tally for capturing the match as a whole.
Will Carry Six On Squad
Father Holderith will carry six men on the varsity squad and six on the resezve crew. The composition of the two groups will be determined definitely within the next two weeks. A reserve golfer may replace a varsity man at any time during the season, however, if he is able to get his game down to a point where it would be advisable to substitute him for one of the varsity men.
►^Little is known about the current Detroit team but it is almost certain that some of the 1932 squad composed of O’Brien, Smith, Mooney, and Whiting, will be teeing off tomorrow.

April 13, 1934
Thirteen
Baseball Team Wins Two Games Sunday
Introducing...
LaRaza Soccer Team Plays Bluejays Sunday
By Nick Connor
The 1934 baseball season was opened with Jake Kline’s Notre Dame diamond aspirants chalking up a double victory over the St. Joseph Athletic club last Sunday. The Irish won the first game with apparent ease, 6 to 0. The second fracas came near being a stumbling block for Notre Dame. The score was tied at 8-alI as the teams entered the last half of the inning. A mighty triple by Hurdis Dausman and a passed ball by Manuslak, the St. Joe catcher, gave Dausman credit for the winning tally.
When Coach Jake Kline first issued his call for spring baseball he was greeted by such a crowd of candidates that he found himself up a tree when it came time to weed out his field of players. After a lengthy discussion with himself he decided to wait until after the St. Joe game before making any cuts in the squad. After the close of the first game he was firmly convinced on his starting club for the remainder of the year.
Rascher Hits and Twirls
In the first game Charley Huisking started on the mound and during the four innings he twirled, he allowed but three hits, all of them being singles. Norb Rascher replaced Huisking on the rubber for Notre Dame and during the three innings that he worked, he held the down-towners to no hits. He was credited with striking out two St. Joe batsmen and issued no walks. Norb also knocked in two runs when he got a timely single with the bases loaded in the fifth inning.
In the second game Jim Leonard had a little trouble with his support as the infield piled up three errors, and the outfielders let a couple of easy pop flies drop. “Red” Tourney relieved Leonard on the mound and worked for the last three innings of the ball game. In the last inning Tourney set the Saints down in one, two, three order.
Lefty Dunn and Vic Mettler turned out to be the hitting sensations of the day. Dunn batted a thousand, getting two doubles and two singles in four trips to the plate. Mettler was also handy with the willow as he garnered a triple and a double in three times at bat.
The laughing sensation of the game occurred when McLaughlin, batting for Perry, reached first on a hit. He stole second with Cunha on that base, but Danny advanced until both were safe. McLaughlin, then not satisfied with one stolen base to (Continued on Page 15)
By John D. Carbine
If instructors mean anything, Captain Larry O’Neil of the Irish baseball nine should be a good ball player for his first instructor in the dia-
Larky O’Neil
He didn’t bunt.
mond art was no less a personage than Mike Devine, the famous old-time New York Giants catcher. And judging from Larry’s consistently good performances, Devine’s coaching was not in vain.
Regular For Two Years
Larry has been the regular catcher for the Irish nine for two years. When he reported for baseball as a catcher in the spring of 1932, there did not seem to be much hope of his breaking into the lineup as a regular. The veteran Joe Sheeketski had a firm grasp on th§ catching position and during the first three games, O’Neil sat on the bench as second string receiver. Larry hit so well in practice, however, that Coach Keo-gan, seeing the need for a batting punch, shifted Sheeketski to the outfield and made O’Neil the first string receiver. Larry has held that position ever since.
To O’Neil, the most thrilling moment of his career came when he disobeyed instructions, pulled a classic boner, and not only got away with it, but by doing so won the ball game. It happened in the Michigan State game of 1931. This game was a tight pitchers’ battle all the way and when the sixth inning rolled around, the Spartans had a 1 to 0 lead. Pem Pemberton, State’s hurler, had the Irish eating out of his hand, but, in the sixth, the first Keoganite to bat singled and romped to second when the left fielder juggled the ball. O’Neil was the next man up. Before
The La Raza club will open its spring series of soccer games Sunday when it battles the strong South Bend Bluejays here at 9:00 a. m.
At the recent La Raza meeting a tentative schedule of spring contests was drawn. Present plans call for games with Wisconsin and Michigan universities. La Raza is booked to appear in Madison to play the Badgers on Sunday, May 5.
To Sponsor Hall Soccer
The two following Sundays will be filled by a two game series with Michigan. The Wolverines will invade the La Raza camp on May 12, the week-end of the Senior Ball. Ann Arbor will be the scene of the second battle, on May 19.
The local eleven will also sponsor interhall competition. It appears certain that squads will be organized in Corby, Walsh, Badin, Howard, Morrissey, St. Edward’s, and Dillon halls. They are represented by members of the club who have seen service on the soccer field. Other halls are encouraged to organize teams and communicate with Mike Yri-berry, 12 Corby Hall.
he went to the plate, Coach Keogan instructed him to bunt. Once in the batter’s box, O’Neil forgot all his instructions and took a wild swing at the first ball pitched. The ball landed far out in right field for a double and drove the tying run across the plate. Unlike John McGraw in the Casey Stengel case, Coach Keogan rather liked O’Neil’s way of doing things.
A versatile athlete, Larry was for two years a member of the Irish basketball squad and played a year of reserve football. In his freshman year he won his numerals in baseball, basketball, and football.
A Good All-Around Man I
O’Neil came to Notre Dame in 1930 from Albany, New York. He prepped at the Christian Brothers’ Academy in Albany where he played baseball, basketball, and football. Larry was captain of baseball and basketball in his senior year. While he was playing with the Christian teams, they twice won the New York State Catholic baseball chamiponship and once captured the state basketball title.
In the summer he catches for the Schuyler Athletic Club in the Albany Industrial League. Two years ago, he led the league in hitting.
This June Larry will be graduated from the physical education departmen with a cum laude.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
GOLF
We went poking over to the golf course early this week in search of our regular springtime pleasure of watching someone else take exercise in the sun, and found the ever willing varsity golf team knocking a flock of balls around the practice field.
After seeing Captain Vince Feh-lig, Bill Veeneman, Johnny Monte-donico, and Win Day shake the winter rust out of their swings, we concluded that maybe this would be a pretty good spring after all. When we located Montie’s little red-headed caddie shagging balls in mid-summer style, we were sure things were all right. The squad should line up favorably with the great Irish teams of recent years.
Few sports have boomed with the rapidity and consistency that golf has shown in its local rise. When it was made an official intercollegiate sport here in the spring of 1930, there was no local tradition behind the varsity, there was no coach, but there was a new golf course and some of the boys had clubs.
It turned out that they knew how to use them too. They went through their first season without losing a dual match and captured the Indiana state collegiate title. In the state meet that year Bill Redmond won the individual championship, Fran Beaupre finished second, and Larry Moller third.
Moving along to the national inter-collegiates, the Irish squad finished fourth as a team, Moller won the qualifying medal and reached the finals of the individual play before George Dunlap, then of Princeton, turned him back. Moller was subsequently elected president of the National College Golf association.
In 1931 the squad was about the same: Moller, Redmond, Louie O’Shea, and Fran and Russ Beaupre. They barged along through eight more dual matches without a defeat, won the Indiana state meet, this time with Larry Moller taking the individual title. In the state meet of that year, the five Irish entrants finished first, second, third, fifth, and sixth.
In the 1931 Nationals, Notre Dame finished third in the team standing and qualified two men for individual play. Moller lost in the first round, and Redmond fell before Dunlap in the quarterfinals.
In 1932 all of the veterans but Captain Redmond were gone. Sophomores Montedonico, Veeneman, and
Fehlig moved onto the varsity. The quartet won all but one of its dual matches, Purdue finally snapping the Irish streak after 20 consecutive victories. The Boilermakers also interrupted Notre Dame regin as state champion, winning the state meet while the Irish slipped to fourth. Redmond, however, returned the individual championship to Notre Dame. The team did not play in the nationals.
A year- ago the three Irish veterans, bolstered by sophomores Johnny Banks and Billy Cole, won all of their six dual matches. They regained the state title and Cole bagged the individual award. In the Nationals at Buffalo the team finished third, Banks was co-medalist and Fehlig went to the quarter-finals.
And that’s some record.
IRISH WIN TWO
(Continued from Page 14)
his credit, proceeded to steal third with the same runner ahead of him. Cunha was out, but McLaughlin later came home on one of Dunn’s bingles.
Notre Dame outhit the St. Joe team 17 to 13; getting 10 hits in the first game and 7 in the second. St. Joe A. C. earned 3 in the first game and 10 in the final game. •
First
Notre Dame (6) Ab R H P A
Kane 2b -.3	1	0	1	1
Cunha ss 2	0	1	1	2
Mettl’r3b 3	2	2	2	1
Perry rf 2	0	0	1	0
McLaigh-
lin rf ..1 1 0 0 0 Dunn lb 4	1	4	5	0
Devore If 2	1	0	1	0
L’borne If 1	0	0	0	0
Beach cf 2	0	0	1	0
Sepe cf -0 0 0 1 0 O’Neil c 1	0	1	6	0
R’bins’n c 0	0	0	2	0
H’sk’g p 1	0	1	0	1
Rasch’r p 1	0	1	0	0
xDizenze 1 0 0 0 0 xxCarter 1 0 0 0 0
Totals ....25 6 10 21 5
Game
St. Joe A. C. (0) Ab R H P A C’s’lski 2b 2 0 10 2 P’n’ski 2b 1	0	0	4	1
Rogers If 2	0	0	0	0
Harman-
cinski If 1	0	0	0	0
D’br’ki ss 2	0	1	0	0
P’tr’ski ss 1	0	0	0	0
Dobosi-
wicz 3b	2	0	0	1	0
Fiwek cf	2	0	1	0	0
Nespo cf	1	0	0	0	0
W’sn’klb	2	0	0	6	0
N. Ciesiel-
ski rf __1	0	0	0	1
C’z'ski rf	1	0	0	0	0
M’n’zak c	1	0	0	3	0
Herma c	1	0	0	1	1
K’tk’ski p	1	0	0	2	2
St’rg’s p	1	0	0	0	2
WTnski p	1	0	0	0	0
Totals —24 0 3 1811
x Dizenzo batted for Huisking in the fourth, xx Carter batted for O’Neill in the fifth.
Errors — Kazmeirczak, S. Kush. Two-base hits—Dunn (2), Huisking, Mettler. Three-base hit—Mettler. Sacrifice hits—Cunha, Perry. Stolen-bases—Kane, Dobrucki. Hits—off Kwiatkowski, 4 in two innings: off Sturgis, 2 in two innings; off Huisking, 3 in four innings. Struck out—Huisking 4, Rascher 2, Kwiatkowski 2, Sturgis 1, Deranek 1. Bases on balls —Deranek 3, Sturgis 1, Kwiatkowski 1. Winning pitcther—Huisking. Runs batted in— Dunn 2, Rascher 2, Mettler 1.
Second Game
St. Joseph A. C. —1 3 1 2 0 1 0—8 Notre Dame ______4 2 0 0 2 0 1—9
Will Fete Fencers and Coach At Banquet Tuesday
A fencing team banquet, the first of its kind, will be given in honor of Professor Pedro deLandero, coach of the team, next Tuesday evening at 6:30 p. m. in the Oldenburg Inn. Honor guests include Athletic Director Elmer Layden, Professors Bott and Robert Riordan, Comptroller Lloyd, and Mr. Roos, former intercollegiate fencing champion, now Head Engineer in the Studebaker plant.
Both varsity and freshman fencing and saber teams will attend this banquet and will bring a few guests. The election of a captain for next year will precede the addresses of the evening.	’
for a short time only at our campus shop
Wilson Bros, famous white broadcloth
SHIRTS
for young men specially priced
All pure tvhite supercount, pre-shrunk broadcloth, collars attached, sizes 14 to 16V”
£i^inqstbn&
April 13, 19 3 4
Fifteen
Baseballers Triumph Over Valley Indians
The Notre Dame baseball nine inaugurated its 1934 season with a onesided victory over the Pleasant Valley Indians of Mishawaka last Saturday. After nine innings of baseball, clowning, and few other things not associated with the diamond, the Irish were on top, 18 to 1.
As the score indicates, most of the erratic play, typical of first games, was done by the Indians. The whole story rests on the point that the red men forgot to bring their tomahawks. Someone got the smoke signals mixed and brought, instead, a bag of baseball bats, tools with which the Indians were not acquainted. After holding a pow-wow the chief decided to allow his young warriors to use the willows. Their efforts netted them five hits off the hurling of Mazelin, J. Sagartz, and Schmit.
Jake Kline’s crew collected sixteen bingles to offset the scarcity of hits. Paul Kane, veteran second sacker, led the attack with four. Danny Cunha was close behind with three safeties.
The Irish mentor took the opportunity to view the larger portion of his squad by using 23 men to scalp the Indians. Mazelin, Sagartz, and Schmit handled themselves well on the mound, each twirling for three innings. Mazelin, a sophomore, added to his accomplishment by fanning six enemy batters. Schmit sent seven hitters away via the strike out route in his three frame reign.
The box score: Notre Dame (18)
Ab R H P A Kane 2b 5 4 4 0 1 Powell 2b 10 10 0 Cunha ss 4	2	3	5	0
R’gan ss 1	0	0	1	0
M’ttl’r 3b 5	1	1	1	0
Pmsni 3b 0	1	0	0	0
Perry rf 4	2	1	2	0
R’k'rd rf 1	0	0	0	0
Dunn lb 3	1	0	2	0
OC’n’rlb 10 110 Devore If	3	0	2	0	0
Hagan If	0	0	0	0	2
Sene cf -2 1 0 0 0 L’b’rne cf	0	0	0	0	0
O'Neil c	4	2	0	8	1
Underkof-
fler c -.1 0 0 6 0 J.S’g’tz p 2 2 10 2 Mazelin p 0 1 0 0 0 Carter 1110 0 P’sman 10 10 0 M.S’g’tz 10 0 0 0 Gafney 1 0 0 0 0
Pleasant Valley (1) Ab R H PA
R.Cr’sby 2b 4	0	1	4	1
L’n’ng’r 3b 4	0	1	4	3
R.Fr’nk’l If 4 0 0 0 0 Fr’d’cks ss 2	1	0	3	0
Hopper ss 2	0	1	0	0
Allison cf 2	0	0	0	0
P.Cr’sby If 1	0	0	0	0
Soos lb .—2 0 0 11 0 P.Fr’nk’l rf 3	0	2	0	0
Hood, c —1	0	0	11
Hopper c -.1	0	0	0	0
Gentler p ..1	0	0	0	4
Fl’k’nger p 2	0	0	0	0
Zimm’rly p 1	0	0	0	0
Totals ____30 1 5 24 9
Totals —4118 16 27 6
Errors — R. Crosby (2), Fredericks (4), Hopper, Cunha (2), Reagan, O’Neil. Two-base hits—Kane (2), Devore. Three base hits — Cunha. Sacrifice — Cunha. Stolen bases — Cunha (2), Powell, Mettler, Perry. Struck out by — Mazelin, 6; Sagartz, 4Schmit, 7: Fleck, 1.
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
Another Notre Dame man from Bellaire, Ohio, takes to the coaching game; this time JOHNNY NIEMIC becomes head football coach at Columbia College . . . FRED ASTAIRE has a real rival in baseball. Believe it or not “KIKI” CUYLER, fleet outfielder of the Cubs, is an expert ballroom dancer—and has a whole room full of cups and trophies he won as a prize waltzer . . . Hard luck WALTER MARTY, holder of the world’s high jump record, leaped to a new unofficial mark of 6 feet 9% inches last week; but as no official of the A.A.U. were present, the mark will not be eligible for a new record . . . Do you know that no English player has won the singles championship at WIMBLEDON since 1909? . . . COLGATE and SYRACUSE basketball teams have met 65 times, but the difference in points scored is only 57 in favor of the latter ... In a dual meet with So. California, “Bullet Bob” KIESEL started his campaign as the ranking college sprinter by running the century in :09.5, a tenth of a second lower than the world’s record.
•
LEONARD SEDARSKI, of Berlin, Wis., once won a bet by pedalling his bicycle from his home to Miami, 1750 miles in 19 days . . . There are very few schools that can say a President coached their football team; but WOODROW WILSON coached the Princeton University football team in 1890 . . . GLENN CUNNINGHAM galloped to another world’s record this time in the 1000 meter run; he covered the distance in 2:11.1. ..This displaces the record of 2:11.2 set by ELLIS of Great Britain in 1929 . . . During the last seven years OKLAHOMA University has won three Big Six track titles, tied for a fourth, and was runner-up in a fifth and sixth . . . MISS SONJA HENIE, petite Olympic fancy skating champion, has one ambition and that is to be a ranking tennis player. At the present time she is the third ranking tennis player in Norway . . . HUGO OTOPALIK, Iowa State wrestling coach, has a sign on the ceiling of the gymnasium which reads: “If you can read this you’re a flop.” . . . PHILLIP REED, new flicker sensation, is a four letter man at Cornell, having won monograms in football, basketball, tennis, and soccer.
TOM SHARKEY and FRANK MORAN, old time heavyweight boxers, were a very religious pair of athletes, for they never fought without having attended Mass in the morning.
. . . LES PATRICK of the New York Rangers has been a big time hockey manager for 23 consecutive years. . . . The former boy wonder of billiards, WILLIE HOPPE, thinks nothing of engaging in three and four matches daily, sometimes in three towns on the same day, for months at a time . . . Alabama expects to have an international backfield next fall with HOWELL, an American; REILLY, an Irishman; DEMYANOVICH, a Pole; and GOLDBERG, a Hebrew . . . Only one of the 16 major league baseball managers, the venerable CONNIE MACK, has held the same position since 1929; in fact, he’s been leadei- of the Athletics for 33 years . . . Most of the cars entered in important speedway races cost as much as $25,000 . . . The Trenton High School basketball team in New Jersey used a white ball at home games the past season so that spectators could follow it more closely .. . Although JOCKEY JACK WESTROPE won 301 races during 1933, not one of those victories was in a stake event.
•
Do you know that a bridge foursome could play 24 hands every day for a period of 6,123,828,480,455,-565,917 years and never have the same distribution of cards? ... In 1925, the top speed for out-board motor boats was 16 miles an hour. Last season the record was set at 61.75 miles . . . Only five players in the history of the American League have made 3000 or more hits during their careers. They were TY COBB, TRIS SPEAKER, EDDIE COLLINS, NAP LAJOIE and SAM CRAWFORD . . . PETE DEPALO and LOU MOORE have been selected to represent the United States in the famous 356 mile Italian Sweepstakes in Tripoli May 6 . . . The top price for seats at the CARNERA-BAER fight in June will be $25, and prices will scale down to $2.50. Thousands of fans paid $50 to see the second Tunney-Dempsey fight . . . According to National League figures, baseball clubs last season were able to play only an average of 60 days out of the 77 on which home games were scheduled. . . .
Interhall Rifle Shoot
Arrangements for the Interhall rifle shoot under the auspices of the Notre Dame rifle club are very rapidly being completed under the direction of Chairman James F. McDevitt. Each hall has entered at least one team in the meet and some halls have entered several teams to swell the total entries to twenty-two.
Chairman McDevitt states that he has made arrangements to distribute suitable prizes to the members of the winning team.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
Conspectus For A.B.
Majors: Education
Continued from Page 10) stitute the technical part of the teacher - training program— as set forth in the General Bulletin of the University. It may be noted, then, that a major in Education is not recommended in the specifically teachertraining program.
What then of the Education major? There are two conditions under which this should be considered. In the first place, the professional requirements for a state license to teach in some states are- such that a student who wishes to prepare to teach therein finds that he cannot through his permitted electives qualify for a license in those states. In such a case the student should elect Education as his major and use his electives to build up to a maximum the subject-matter field in which he intends to teach.
To other students in the Arts and Letters College, whether immediately or remotely interested in teaching but who wish to gain a deeper insight into the nature of the educative process and the relation of education to the civilization of a people, past and present, the Department of Education offers a sequence of studies predominantly liberal in nature and leading to the Bachelor of Arts degree. In this sequence the highly technical course are excluded. The student in this program is invited to associate with the great educational leaders of all ages. He is led through the labyrinths in educational philosophy that has prevailed in various periods of Education’s history, from the social philosophy of a Plato, the naturalism of a Rosseau, the pragmatism or experimentalism of a Dewey, to the humanistic supernaturalism of a Forester and a Shields. He is expected to evaluate critically these tenets, along with more modern experimental investigations and to note the significance of the findings to a sound system of pedagogy. Participation in such academic activities, it is hoped, will lead the student to a keener appreciation of the great problems confronting the serious educator of every age, will clarify somewhat the relationship that exists be' tween the social structure and prevailing educational philosophy, will enkindle a sensitiveness to the responsibilities of the teacher in the classroom and the parent — as the most important of all teachers — in the home, will make of him, in a word, a better individual and a better citizen, an educated young man with a special knowledge of educational problems and educational thought. The objective sought is depth and breadth of scholarship, and these are necessary for a real understanding and appreciation of the science and art of Education.
To Revive Hard Ball
As Interhall Sport
Hard ball is being reintroduced as an interhall sport this spring after a seven year interval. Hard ball as an interhall sport lost favor upon the opening of the golf course seven years ago, and has not been played since. But this year an attempt is being made to reawaken an interest in it.
The program for Interhall hard ball came as a sort of surprise to the followers of interhall sports and may be traced directly to our new head baseball coach, and his search for material for varsity competition.
Nevertheless soft ball is not being-neglected in favor of hard ball and a league is being formed in both sports. When hard ball was dropped seven years ago, soft ball took its place, and since then such an interest has grown up in it that it is deemed unadvisable to discontinue that sport.
The competition in both sports begins Sunday on four diamonds scattered about the campus, on Brownson field; on the Varsity diamond; in back of Freshman hall; and in back of the Law building. The season will compromise of a 42-game round robin, both leagues being divided into two circuits. Games will be played on Saturdays, Sundays, and week days after four o’clock.
The schedule is tentative and unpublished as yet, but will be arranged by Sunday in time to start competition then.
Dr. E. J. Cain
Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
213 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
5-Tube Superheterodyne
Aetna Radio
Should sell 4 CM *95 for much more! *
Everything you want in a radio set — marvelous selectivity, unusual sensitivity, greater distance, beautiful tone. Automatic volume control; self-contained aerial. Before you buy a radio —see the Aetna!
“Aristocrat” R.C.A. Licensed Radio Tubes at 1-3 off Regular Prices
Bring your old tubes to Wal-green’s for an exacting meter test free of charge.
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354 Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Blds. South Bend, Ind.
Tube	• List Walgreen
No.	Price	Price
216 ............. 65c	44c
224A .......... 1.20	80c
245 ............. 75c	50c
227 .............  70c	47c
Other Tubes at Similar Loiv Prices!
Walgreen
DRUG STORE
208 N. MICHIGAN ST. L. Newman, Mgr.
April 13, 1 9 3 4
Seventeen
“It’s toasted”
We like to tell about the finer tobaccos in Luckies —the choicest Turkish and domestic, and only the mild, clean center leaves—they taste better —then “It’s toasted’’ —for throat protection. But we’re just as proud of
the way Luckies are made. They’re so round and firm, so free from loose ends. That’s , why Luckies always “keep in condition’’ —do not dry out. Luckies are always— in all-ways! — kind to your throat.
'/-Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat
NOTthe top leaves—they 're under-developed — they are harshl
Only the Center Leaves—these are the Mildest Leaves	They taste better
Copyright 1034, The American Tobacco Coiupimy.
NOT the bottom leaves—they ’re inferior in. quality—coarse and sandy I
Phone -Office 4-6661
Residence 3-4041
X-RAY
DR. E. S. LUCAS
DENTIST
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indian*
Established 30 Years
L.EMDNTREE5 sJ V
OPTOMETRISTS 222^ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
Now If Your Eyes
Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
April N.D. ‘Alumnus’
Released Last Week
The April issue of The Notre Dame Alumnus, official alumni publication, made its appearance last Saturday. The issue contains in full the much-discussed tribute of Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., to the late Father Hudson. The entire article is reprinted from America for March 3, 1934.
“Go West Young Man,” is the title of an interesting account of the trip of James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary-Treasurer. Mr. Armstrong discusses his experiences which occupied the better part of six weeks. The itinerary of the trip included Buffalo, Syracuse, Utica, Albany, Springfield, Boston, Providence, Waterbury, Bridgeport, New York City, Newark, Scranton, Allentown, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. Written in the easy humor of the editor the article is highly entertaining and informal.
“Comment,” the editorial column, discusses the relative cost of a Notre Dame education compared with that of one at a State institution and at privately controlled institutions.
An account of the testimonial dinner tendered Coach Elmer Layden by the Notre Dame Club of the TriCities is given by Arthur L. Himbert,. ’32, Secretary, Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities. It was Elmer’s first appearance in his home city since he was elevated to the position of athletic director and head football coach at Notre Dame. Some 600 men and boys attended the banquet.
Announcement of the recipient of the Laetare Medal for 1934 is made and a brief summary of the life of Mrs. Genevieve Brady, to whom the medal has been awarded, feature this issue.
A Better Position
You Can Get It
Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dollars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. G-ood positions are available now in every state. They will soon be filled.
(Teachers address Dept. T. All others Dept. S.)
CONTINENTAL TEACHERS AGENCY, Inc.
1850 Downing St.	Denver, Colo.
Covers the ENTIRE United States
School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at our expense, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours.
Another article appears concerning the commencement exercises and Frank Walker, ’09, commencement speak er.
Joe Petritz’ page on Athletics contains the announcement of the National Catholic Track Meet to be held here. Also, Petritz discusses the spring sports card.
The issue carries the usual columns devoted to the activities and whereabouts of the alumni in order of their class dates.
Elections Are Held For
N. D. Military Club
To bring about a revival of interest in the Military Club activities at Notre Dame the Club held elections immediately before Easter, March 22. Since the school year is drawing fastly to a close, the Club does not expect to plan anything important this spring. The Rifle team and Fencing team, originated by the Military Club, are pursuing their programs independently. The interhall shooting matches, under the supervision of Captain MacGrath of the Rifle team, have been postponed until some near future date.
The results of the elections for the Military Club were: Commandant, Harold H. May; Aide-to-Command-ant, Salvatore Costa; Finance Officer, Arthur Korzeneski; Adjutant, Maher; Provost Marshall, James Byrne.
Economics Seminar
Next Tuesday evening, April 17, at 6:30, members of the Economics Seminar will convene in the Law Building for the purpose of hearing a paper to be delivered by Charles McNichols on the topic, “Manchuria.”
John T. Corrigan, recently elected chairman of the group, will preside.
Twenty
The Scholastic
Piano, Courtesy ol Win. Knabe & Company
No better tobacco grows than is usedin old golds. And they are pure. (No artificial flavoring)
“ ‘You're an Old Smoothie. Duke!’ Smoothness is everything, in a hoofer, a crooner, radio announcer; or cigarette! “No doubt the other brands
AMERICA’S Srrv&^LQSt CIGARETTE
Tune in on Ted Fio-Kito’s sensational Hollywood Orchestra every Wednesday night—Columbia Chain
YOU RE AN OLD SMOOTHIE

apoleon said to Wellington after the Iron Duke out-foxed him at Waterloo?

use good tobacco; Napoleon used good ammunition, too. But it’s the way tobacco is put together in OLD GOLD . . . that's the rhythm of it! ....At least mv taste says so.”
— 'what it means
— to store
70 million dollars ISSS worth ol tobacco
51
Ill

—	miles of warehouses
© 1934. Liggett & Myzxs Tobacco Co.

Everything that Science knows about is used in making Chesterfields.
One thing we do is to buy mild, ripe tobaccos and then lock up these tobaccos in modem storage warehouses to age and mellow like rare wines.
It takes about 3 years to age the tobaccos for your Chesterfield, for Time does something to tobacco that neither man nor machine can do.
It means something to keep 70 million dollars worth of tobacco in storage. It means just this:
We do everything possible to make Chesterfield the cigarette that’s milder, the cigarette that tastes better.

the cigarette that’s MILDER the cigarette that TASTES BETTER