
Nobie ^bante
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 82
September 22, 1944
No. 10
CIVIE
V-12
ROTC
Weekends
Gathered for the daily session on “shoes and ships, and sealing wax and cabbages and kings."
—Photo bu H<11<111<I
^he ^Notre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
The Genius of the
Federal Constitution
BY CLARENCE E. MANION
Editor’s note: This article was written especially for the SCHOLASTIC by Dean Manion in commemoration of Constitution Week.
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON	AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Marines Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON -DICK MURPHY -BOB O'TOOLE -
Managing Editor
Sports Editor - Circulation Promotion
COLUMN ISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS
JIM CASEY -	-
JIM HECK -	-
EMMETT HASSETT BLAIR NATTKEMPER PETE BROWN	-
HARRY LEBIEN	-
ARNIE SKLARE -
- Observations
Know Your Navy The Green Banner ■	- Introducing
The College Parade Man About the Campus • Pressbox Splinters - The Periscope
The Gabby Gizmo
CONTRIBUTORS
DON MURPHY jack McCarthy JOHN BUTLER TOM DINGES JIM CAREY DICK GORMAN JACK CAHILL DICK MELLETT JOHN MORRIS TOM McNALLY JACK MILES JAMES KEENAN GEORGE DESPOT
GEORGE KRAUSER R. L. VOSBERG RONALD BYERSMITHTOM SHANAHAN JOHN FEENEY BILL LESSARD HARRY SEIMONSMA JIM FOY
GREG HALPIN ROBERT MOLNAR GENE DIAMOND BILL BYINGTON D. NUECHTERLEIN JOE HAMMOND S. B. STOCKWELL I. S. HAMEL A. E. FUSS
J. KLOCKENKEMPER ART WAGNER L. HERGSTEIN C. STONEBARGER BILL OVER JIM SOMMER AL KOHN GUY WILSON GEORGE NUTIL
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
This is Constitution Week. On Sept. 17, 157 years ago, the famous Philadelphia Convention adopted the Constitution of the United States and sent it to the States for ratification. The convention adjourned in an atmosphere of gloom. After four months of labored deliberations, few of its members were sanguine about the work they had accomplished. The Constitution was full of compromises. Thirteen of the 55 original delegates had left the convention in disgust. Three of those who remained to the end refused to put their names to the document. Disturbed by the prevailing pessimism, delegate Benjamin Franklin gave the convention a “pep talk” in support of his motion that the Constitution be adopted.
“The older I grow,” he said, (and Franklin was 81 at the time), the more apt I am to doubt my own judgment and to pay more respect to the judgment of others.* * * I agree to this constitution with all its faults, if there are such, because there is no form of government but what may be a blessing to the people if well administered * * * and can only end in despotism as other forms have done when the people shall become so corrupted as to need despotic government, being incapable of any other. I hope therefore that we shall act heartily and uhanimously in recommending the constitution and turn our future thoughts and endeavors to the means of having it well administered.”
The motion was carried, but as the delegates approached the table to sign their names, Franklin gave added evidence of his conviction that the constitution would succeed. On the chair which George Washington occupied as chairman of the Convention, there was a poorly painted half disk of a sun. Franklin now pointed to the painting and observed:
“Painters have found it difficult to-distinguish in their art a rising sun. Often in the course of the sessions and the viscissitudes of my hopes and fears as to its issue, I have looked at that (sun) behind the President without being able to tell whether it was rising or setting. But now at length I	I
have the happiness to know that it is a rising and not a	s
setting sun.”	«
And so it was. Bitterly debated throughout the country ; for the ensuing ten months the Constitution was ratified by ; the requisite number of states by the end of June, 1788. It ■ then became the “Supreme Law of the Land” and the “more perfect union” was secure.
In spite of the remarkable epoch of history which opened ? with the establishment of the Constitution, the great docu-	j
ment represented, not the beginning, but the end of an era.	t
The Philadelphia Convention climaxed a period of debate, development, trial and error in the making of Constitutions, | State and Federal, that had begun with the Declaration of	|
Independence in 1776. From July 4, 1776 down to September	t
17,1787, the American people had driven forward relentlessly toward the goal of effective but definitely limited government. & In the course of that struggle they were frequently threatened with anarchy because of their blood-sealed determination &■
(Continued on page 17)	.	g"
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 82
SEPTEMBER 22. 1944
No. 10
November Navy Training Quota Revealed
Movie of University
Mode in Technicolor
Announcement has been made by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, that a colored moving picture of the University is now being filmed, and will be released sometime in December.
When released the picture will be available for alumni meetings, high school showings, veterans hospitals and luncheon clubs throughout the country. Showing campus scenes, classrooms, laboratories, and activities of students, the film will reach friends of Notre Dame from coast to coast who have never had the opportunity, to visit or tour the campus.
Accompanying the 30 minute picture will be the story of Notre Dame related by a narrator. Richard Sullivan, author and professor of English at Notre Dame, will write the script. Other members of the picture story committee include the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C.; J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations; and James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary. The committee is also making plans for an additional sound track in Spanish to be used in Latin and South American countries.
Beginning with the founding of the University by the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., in 1842, the narrator will sketch the story of Notre Dame as the camera picks up campus spots of historical significance. The picture will dwell largely on present-day phases of University life but will include shots of the various Navy programs now in progress at Notre Dame. It will be a historical record of the part that Notre Dame is playing in World War II.
Mr. Charles T. Chapman of Evanston, Ill., is cameraman for the project. Former ace newsreel cameraman and reporter, he recently completed the stories of campus life at Indiana, Michigan and Kentucky universities.
For Love of Country
More Notre Dame men have given “the
last full measure and Country.
of devotion” for God
*131 Captain
1 Francis William Pieri,’40, 203 West Spruce Street, Mahoney City, Pa., killed in action in France on Aug. 22, according to a War Dept, telegram received by his wife. Captain Pierie was serv-ing with the Army Engineers at the time of his death.
Ensign John Franklin Sprague, * ex. ’43,’ Box 358 Sunnyside,
Washington, failed to return to his base after a submarine patrol flight on August 9, 1944. For his gallantry in action he received the Silver Star medal.
*133
Lieut. Edward D. McKim, US-MC, was killed in action July
26, in the South Pacific. Ed was a member of the Class of ’43, and made his
home in Omaha, Neb., where he now is survived by his wife and baby.
*134
gust 22, from his
Lieutenant James J. Ferry, ’41, killed in action in France, Au-according to a letter received father.
*135 Corporal Ambrose B. Clancy, **** ex ’46, of Ridgewood, Queens, N. Y., killed in France on July 15.
Missing in action is Lieut. Daniel Michael O’Connell, ex ’46, 1921 Edmondson. Avenue, Baltimore. Md..At the time of his disappearance Dan was a bombardier on a B-24. Reported captured is 2nd Lieut. Robert Marsh Grant, ex ’43, 309 East Pokagon St., South Bend. Bob is a prisoner of war in Germany.
—Harry Siemonsma
Navy V-12 students assigned to continue studies at the University of Notre Dame after Nov. 1, following the previously announced 40% Navy cutback, will number 1107, according to announcement by the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Father O’Donnell, revealed the enrollment quota today following receipt of a letter from Capt. A. S. Adams, USN, (Ret.), director of administration division training.
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C.
Navy V-12 trainees to be enrolled at Notre Dame for the November semester, include 386 in the basic quota, 98 premedical students and 376 engineering students. Two hundred and forty-seven trainees in the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps will also be stationed at the University.
Cutback in the Navy program will terminate the Marine detachment of the V-12 unit stationed at Notre Dame since July 1, 1943.
3
Club on Inter-American Affairs Organized;
Students to Gather for Informal Discussions
BY GEORGE DESPOT
A group of students from North and South America gathered in Science Hall last Friday evening to form a new campus organization, the Inter - American Affairs club-
The purpose of this organization is the study and discussion of relations between the North and South American countries in order to gain an insight on the problems which exist between the two. The members will present a series of talks and informal discussions dealing with these existing problems, highlighting possible solutions.
A large number of students attended the initial meeting, a sign of the interest that exists among the students of this University in the problems of internationalism. It is encouraging to those who worked hard to get the club organized that students here at the University show such interest; it is such interest that is the beginning of a real understanding of some fundamental problems governed by differences in social cus-
Servers Have Picnic
Forty Notre Dame civilian Massservers were treated to a picnic last Sunday as a reward for their faithfulness in serving the early morning Masses.
The group, accompanied by a number of C.S.C. Brothers, journeyed to Eagle Lake in southern Michigan. Football was the pastime before lunch while boating and swimming occupied the afternoon.
Excellent fcod and pop, in more than “comfortable” quantities, were furnished by the Brothers and greatly enjoyed by all.
Brother Boniface, C.S.C., sacristan of Sacred Heart Church, was in charge of the outing and certainly merited the
toms, economic stability, religious life, and cultural background.
The meeting was held in an informal manner and Mr. Joseph Menez presided as temporary chairman of the club. Brief talks were given by many of the members in which they expressed their opinions and views on the future of the club. These talks were followed by each member rising in turn and introducing himself to the group.
Officers Chosen
The election of officers for the duration of the semester was then held and as a result Mr. Joseph Menez was elected president, Mr. John O’Hara, vice-president, and Mr. Harold Berliner, secretary. An interesting feature of the election was the unanimous vote which Jose Menez garnered in winning the presidency.
The members have decided that although a constitution was not necessary, by-laws should be set up. A committee of three was immediately appointed to plan a fundamental set of laws for the club. Those placed on the committee were Enrique R. Lulli, John O’Hara and Larry Romagosa. The work of the committee will be centered around two problems, the limiting of membership, and the tenure of office. The results of their work will be placed before the members at the next meeting and they will discuss the proposed laws and vote on them.
As a highlight of the next meeting, the president, Mr.* Menez, plans to have Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C. deliver a talk on “A Look at Latin America,” illustrated with pictures.
hearty thanks given him by the boys. Others on the picnic included Brother Justin, Brother Ewald, and Brother Columba.—John Feeney
Pep Rally, Sept. 27
Wednesday night, Sept. 27, at 7:15 the Notre Dame Band will assemble in front of the Main Building and march to the fieldhouse, where a rally for the Pitt game will be held.
These rallies have always been a big part of Notre Dame life, and with the support of all the students, they again can typify the famous “Notre Dame Spirit.”
Retter Addresses Group
The Economic Roundtable was addressed last Friday evening, by James Retter who spoke on World Union. James Dugan, civilian engineer was chairman for the evening.
Mr. Retter pointed out the need for an organization to insure peace and economic stability. He stressed the fact that the United States more than any other nation needed such an organization for they stood to lose the greatest amount.
It was shown that the external problems of a government are the primary issues involved in securing peace. This necessitated either League or Union as a solution. History was called upon to verify the fact that only Union has succeeded in the past.
Mr. Retter concluded that Union was the only feasible answer to the needs of the world and suggested a Union as formulated by Clarence Streit. He proposed it be started with 15 democracies who would have overwhelming economic and military power. By manifesting its power it could diminish the prospect of war to an infinitesimally diminutive possibility. By its free trade and simplification of communications it would lead us to prosperity and economic security. Any other plan, Mr. Retter said, would culminate in autocracy and slavery.
Ci vies Dance at St. Marys
The Student Activities Council will sponsor a dance for civilians only, next Sunday from two o’clock until five at St. Mary’s. Music will be provided by Ted Tannehill and his all civilian orchestra.
Last Sunday an introductory dance was held under the chairmanship of Dick Murphy, Commerce senior, and the large crowd that turned out attested to its success. Sunday’s dance was also the occasion of the first appearance of the new dance band under the direction of Ted Tannehill, who promises to provide new and better music on successive Sundays.
Last Sunday’s dance was open to all who came, but next week’s affair will be restricted to civilians, as arranged with St. Mary’s through the Student Council. Reason for the restriction is to keep the numbers down and provide enough dancing space in the Convocation Hall.
Glee Club Plans Trips
With the addition of several new numbers to its repertoire, the Glee club will soon, be prepared to perform concerts out of town. The best possibility in the immediate future is a trip to Chicago to sing at one of the girl’s colleges.
4
Outline New Policy in Picking Trainee Officers
By AL BROTEN
Chuck Cavallo's Band is Star-Studded Group; Civilian Week-end Plans Progress
BY BOB O'TOOLE
In a memorandum issued recently to the men of the Notre Dame V-12 unit, Comdr. Walter S. Gabel, executive officer, outlined the new policy for the appointment of trainee officers and non-commissioned officers. The “new deal” is now in effect on the station.	,
Comdr. Gabel, in presenting the policy, commented as follows: “This policy is established to effect an adequate control of the unit by trainee officers and to give a maximum number of trainees experience in military command and administration.”
The trainee non-commissioned officers, who include squad leaders, platoon leaders, and chief petty officers, are in the future to be appointed by the barracks officers. The latter are Lt. Collins, Dillon Hall; Lt. (jg) Lamron, Alumni Hall; Lt. (jg) Brewbaker, Zahm Hall; and Warrant Officer Banashek, Cavanaugh Hall. Any trainee is eligible for these appointments.
Comdr. Gabel, as the executive officer, will appoint all platoon commanders, commanders, battalion officers, and regimental officers. From men who have completed one semester in the V-12 program the platoon commanders will be selected. Company commanders must fulfill the two requirements of having served as platoon commanders and of having completed not less than two semesters in the program.
The highest ranking trainee officers of the unit, which include regimental and battalion officers, are to be appointed from men who have served as company commanders and who have had not less than three semesters in the program.
Under the new plan, trainee officers and non-commissioned officers will ordinarily serve for a term of one-half a semester. As a result, the change and advancement of these officers will take effect at the beginning and at the middle of semesters. Men not selected for another assignment then return to the ranks, although they remain eligible for higher offices.
❖ The four men who during recent ❖ ♦I* reviews have been the color bear- *»• ••• ers and guards for the regiment are ♦♦♦
a quartet of strong men from Com- *2* ❖ pany G, Alumni Hall. They are Bob ❖ ❖ Walsh, Floyd Magnusson, Phil . ❖
Hines, and Roger Chapin.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Jim Better, junior in engineering, will head the decorations committee for the Student Council Autumn Ball in the Bockne Memorial Oct. 6. General Chairman Jim Casey named Better this week along with Barney Slater, architecture junior, as chairman of the patron’s committee.
Besides the committee announcements, Casey divulged more information on the
This will be only part of the week-end.
band of the evening, Chuck Cavallo and his Douglas Airs. The band is replete with men who formerly played with bands well known in radio and recording circles, hence has arranged many of its numbers in the styles of big name bands. “Echoes of Jerry Wald, Clyde McCoy, Henry Busse, Eddie Duchin, Budy Vallee, Vaughn Monroe and Lawrence Welk will resound across the campus when Cavallo and his men take over the bandstand at the ‘Bock’ Memorial,” Casey said.
Pianist-leader Cavallo gained national recognition for himself when he led a band over an NBC hook-up for the Gren-
nan Cake Corporation. He also appeared.</Mr.Clynes has been a member of with Lawrence Welk, Gus Arnheim ah#^7?^^ Dame varsity golf team for
Ted Fiorito, starring at the piano, ac-cordian and organ.
Gene Yates, lead sax man, started out with Budy Vallee as one of the Connecticut Yankees, held a seat in Eddy Du-chin’s reed section, then helped Jackie Heller up the road to the big time, while Tony Kupka, who has first call on trumpet rides in the band, played a lot of
horn for Clyde McCoy, Jack Bussell and Steven Leonard.
Hal Edwards, who will spend the evening holding up the bass, spent some time slapping the big fiddle for Vaughn Monroe and Jerry Wald, and Fred Beid, second in the four-man sax section, had a turn with Phil Levant and Bobbie
Samos.
Matching notes in the trumpet section will be Cliff Beinhardt, who picked up the Johnny Jones style while with that outfit, and Marvin Wetzel, experienced in the Henry Busse-Harold Stokes-Phil Levant technique. '
Vocals for the evening are to be handled by Marian Bardtke, just out of Lindenwood College in Missouri, who, like the rest of the members of the band, is a Douglas employee. Because of their vital war work, the boys in the band can rarely meet requests for outside jobs. The bulk of their activities are restricted within the company gates at meal times and off-periods.	.
“That’s the line - up,” Casey said. “Eleven men and a girl, ready to go, Oct. 6 at the Bockne Memorial.”
Bid Chairman Dick Ames announced
the addition of Bob Warrick, Carroll Hall, to his committee, and he wishes to point out that the price on the bid is $2.90, the price of the week-end minus football tickets. However, no dance bids can be sold without the accompanying football tickets.
Clynes Elected President
At a regular meeting of the Economic Boundtable held Friday evening, Sept. 15, officers for the coming semester and the remainder of the current semester were elected.
junior economics major Y. was elected president.
Jim Clynes, from Ithaca, N.
past two seasons, is a member of
Bookmen and is vice president of Glee Club.
the the the the
Michael Garry, junior commerce
stu-
dent of Fairmont, Minn., was chosen as secretary and Louis Barsotti, junior economics major from Memphis, Tenn, was elected treasurer. Mr. Garry is also pro- gram chairman of the Commerce Forum.
S
Where Notre Dame's Scientists are Born
BY ROBERT MOLNAR
The College of Science, now under the deanship of Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, was established as a distinct unit of the University in 1865. Prior to that year the various sciences had been taught as part of the program in Arts and Letters. In 1865 a carefully planned program in general science was formulated, and subsequently, as the facilities improved, more specialized programs were added, leading to the degree of bachelor of science in botany, in zoology, in chemistry, in physics, in mathematics, and in pharmacy. The Department of Pharmacy was discontinued in June, 1939. Each of these' programs represents a stage in the development of the work of the College of Science.
In 1883 Science Hall was built, and the departments of the college and the science museum were transferred to the new building. Although Science Hall was enlarged considerably in 1924, the facilities at present are used almost exclusively by the Departments of Mathematics and Physics; the museum specimens are being stored, awaiting more complete display space. The scientific museum was begun about the middle of the last century and has been amplified by numerous gifts through the years. A separate building for the Department of Chemistry was erected in 1918.
Now enrolled in the College of Science are about 575 students, which number includes approximately 427 service students. The larger portion of students
Constant Experiment and Research are Carried on
now enrolled in the College of Science are following the curriculum of the Navy for deck officer training. A considerable number of students, service and civilian, are following the pre-med-ical program, which, in peace-time operation, attracts the largest number of students in the College. The remaining students are following special programs in the sciences. At the present time, the four departments in the College of Science offer programs of courses leading to the degrees of bachelor of science in chemistry, physics, biology and mathematics.
Department of Chemistry
The Department of Chemistry, headed by Dr. Andrew J. Boyle, offers excellent facilities to the prospective teacher of chemistry and to the student who intends to become a professional chemist in the field of production or in that of research. It provides also a considerable number of elective courses for juniors and seniors to enable the several groups of students in the department to meet their various needs. The entire program of courses offered for the degree of bachelor of science in chemistry is based upon the recommendations of the American Chemical Society and is intended to provide adequate chemical training for a professional career or for entrance to graduate schools of recognized training.
Department of Physics
The theoretical instruction and labora
tory practice given in the Department of Physics aims to give the student a broad view of the important principles underlying physical phenomena and to train him to record accurately and to interpret carefully. Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., is head of the Department of Physics. In addition to the programs of courses for the degrees of bachelor of science in physics and chemistry, both departments offer graduate courses leading to the degree of master of science and doctor of philosophy.	•
Department of Biology
The Department of Biology offers instruction to the student who wishes to specialize in biological science or who looks forward to the teaching of biology in high school or in college, and to the general student who wishes to know the fundamental facts and principles of the animate world. The premedical student is offered valuable foundation courses in the fields of zoology, botany, bacteriology, and physiology. In 1936 a new Biology Building was built in which are housed the lecture rooms, offices and laboratories for this department, also the biology libraries and herbaria. Dr. Theodor K. Just is head of the department and is also editor of the American Midland Naturalist, a journal outstanding in the field of biology. This journal is edited and published at the University.
This department also offers courses toward the master’s degree in botany and zoology. Research toward the degree of philosophy is possible in botany, only, in which field the department is exceptionally well equipped. The laboratory facilities are adequate and two extensive libraries in the field of botany are available to the graduate students. The Greene and the Nieuwland botanical libraries together provide some 10,000 volumes, many of which are rare or out of print. In connection with the Greene collection is a herbarium of 100,000 moounted botanical specimens, and the Nieuwland herbarium contains about 50.000 specimens.
Department of Mathematics
The Department of Mathematics, with Dr. Karl Menger as head, offers four kinds of courses: 1) The courses necessary for freshmen and sophomores in the College of Science and the College of Engineering—those for students of engineering being carefully adapted to their particular needs; 2) Intermediate (Continued on page 19)
Monthly Inspection Splendid Exhibition
Hal McIntyre to Play for Naval ROTC Ball;
Band to be Aired CoasMo-Coast Over CBS
BY BILL BYINGTON
Last Saturday, Sept. 16, at approximately one hour and 29 minutes past noon, V-12ers carefully hung their polishing rags and damp cloths behind their loocker doors and stood back to admire many hours’ labor. Decks glistened, sinks gleamed, shoes sparkled—in fact, the whole room looked somewhat respectable for a change. Satisfied with this, trainees busily combed stray hairs, adjusted neckerchiefs in the proper place, and flicked stray bits of lint from shoulders. Ominous sounds issued from the passageway, a mumble of voices and a scuffling of feet, and suddenly gold braid appeared in the doorway.
Gathering together all possible bits of energy, the trainee C.O. snarled, “Ah-TENNN-HUP!” and then the nasty work began. Bunks were poked and shoved, sly fingers were run behind and within desks and lockers, and expert eyes peered deep into the medicine cabinet. Resignedly, the inspecting officer gave up the search for vagrant smudges and ugly blobs of dust, turned on his heel, and sped onward to less fortunate trainees.
A hastily-smoked cigarette, and a stealthy 30 minutes of sack time proved quite entertaining after the severe drain on the nerves. Feeling quite chipper ' again, trainees were horribly disconcerted to hear loud shouts from down the hall. “Fall out for parade. All men, fall out!”
All men fell out. Grouping together roughly into companies, they stood carefully at attention while waiting for the necessary orders to begin their hike. The bell-like tones of the battalion commander’s voice sounded discordantly, and the march was begun.
Through the tall grass behind the engineering building and over the dusty trails surrounding the stadium marched the swabbies and gyrenes, not knowing whether to follow the drum beat, its echo, or the foul shouts of the company commander. At any rate, a semblance of cadence was preserved by those who had plugged their ears and were simply guessing.
‘ Once on the drill field, it was easy. Following the man ahead of you is really never difficult—only for the man out in front. Snappy salutes and winsome eyes rights were delivered to the reviewing officers, and clever maneuvers were held (Continued on page 16)
Hal McIntyre and his orchestra— “America’s Newest and Grandest Band” —have been signed by the Naval ROTC to play for their Ball, Friday, Oct. 6. Featuring the vocal refrains of Al Nobel, Ruth Gaylor and Johnny Turnbull, McIntyre becomes a new high in Notre Dame social affairs.
Maestro Hal McIntyre
As a further demonstration of prestige, the NROTC Ball will be on a coast-to-coast hookup over CBS from 11:05 to 11:30 (CWT) broadcasting the music of McIntyre and company.
Having made his first picture “Hey Rookie!” the band spent a six weeks sojourn at the Hurricane Club on Broadway. McIntyre is slated for a second picture as soon as his bookings make him available. The studio showings of “Hey Rookie” so impressed the movie big-wigs that they were all for putting him to work in another picture as soon as he completed the first one—but prior commitments made that impossible.
Voted Best By Colleges
During his one night stand here, McIntyre will feature many of the band’s famous arrangements which have proven so successful on Victor-Bluebird records.
McIntyre’s music makers were recently selected by- 80-odd college editors voting in the Fifth Annual College Poll sponsored by Billboard magazine, the Bible of Show Business, as the best new band of the year. Shortly thereafter, the readers of The Orchestra World magazine also selected McIntyre as the outstanding bandleader of the year. In each case, the polls confirmed the fact that nation-wide audiences had placed their firm mark of approval on the McIntyre brand of music.
No band has ever left the Glen Island Casino with as much assurance of future success as did Hal McIntyre’s, and among those that played the spot are Glen Gray, Glenn Miller, Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey, Larry Clinton, Charlie Spivak and Claude Thornhill.
Today’s brightest star on music’s horizon is a young and personable saxophonist and bandleader who’s wowed them at the Century Room of the Hotel Commodore, the famous Glen Island Casino, in theatres, on one-night stands, and whose Victor records have taken their place among the country’s top sellers.
In 1936, heading an eight piece band, he was contacted by Benny Goodman and sat in with the music master for ten nights. Benny told him that he had real talent and suggested that he join a fellow named Glenn Miller who was forming a new band in New York. He took the tip and became the first fellow that Miller hired. He roomed with Miller for five years and in 1941, Glenn suggested that he had an unlimited future and that he should start his own band—and thus the McIntyre band came into being. There are enough hardships, frustration, setbacks and heartbreaks to make any-
Vocalist Al Nobel
one wonder how a band ever does click. However, Glenn certainly proved that there’s no limit to success.
Ball Plans Taking Shape
As the weeks roll by, co-chairmen for the RO. Ball, Herb Daiker and Bill Grant are trying in earnest to produce a week-end that will be an “unforgettable” in the minds and memories of the RO cadets. Decorations, still a secret, are coming along nicely with the other details of the affair.
7
OBSERVATIONS
BY LIEUTENANT S. L. BEATTY, USNR
1.	Marine Corps Unit at Cornell U-:
The V-12 Naval Training Program at Cornell University, where the engineering officer candidates from the Notre Dame V-12 Marine Corps Unit will be transferred on 1 November, has a new officer in charge: Captain Wilson Strad-ley, USMCR. He was a member of the First Marine Division, first ashore at Guadalcanal, which received a Presidential unit citation; in New Britain he commanded a regimental weapons company. He is a graduate of Williams College in 1938, and of the University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1941.
2.	After Thoughts: From a nearby Naval training station, a recent V-12’er writes under date of 14 September: “We are 14 V-12’s against 96 ex civilians. We are running the company so far. We expected a four-week company, but drew a 12-week job. Fortunately, I qualified for one of the service schools after making
BLUE BARRON HEADLINES WEEK-END MANEUVERS
“Music of Yesterday and Today” styled the Blue Barron way, now directed by “Tiny” Wolf since Blue entered the army late in 1943, will come to the Navy Drill Hall on Sept. 29, through arrangements with Music Corporation of America.
In order to maintain the smooth dance music and distinctive showmanship which made the Barron orchestra popular from
“Music of Yesterday and Today Styled the Blue Barron Way."
coast to coast, “Tiny,” 350 pound vocalist and comedian who had long been with the band, was selected to direct and carry on the policies Blue formulated. Another Barron is still at the. helm,
good scores on the placement tests, but we won’t know what we get until the week before we leave.... They always say that experience is the best teacher, and now I am convinced. I have some advice for any V-12 or V-12 (a) who is even thinking of getting out of V-12. Any man who is trying to get out of V-12 will regret it.” This letter comes from an intelligent man who could have done better while in V-12.
3.	Flotsam: OPA made available to naval personnel on leave 72 hours or more a special gasoline ration of one gallon for each day of leave up to a maximum of 30 gallons.... Military personnel traveling at their own expense upon discharge, retirement or release from active duty in the armed forces, and who are not entitled to travel on transportation requests, may obtain specially reduced one-way fares under a new arrangement which became effective
however, since Clarissa, Blue’s younger sister, .is traveling with the crew as manager.
“Music of Yesterday and Today” has long been noted for its mellow sweetness with a touch of the nostalgic, and has been met with enthusiastic approval in the nation’s leading theatres, ballrooms and hotels, among them the Edison Hotel, New York City, Oriental Theater, Chicago. Barron’s music has also graced many network radio programs, including the Coca Cola Spotlight show and the War Manpower Commission’s Sunday Serenade.
Then the desire to get back in the band business first hand became too much for him, and he organized his own orchestra. Blue picked his men carefully, and built his music library around his theory of combining swing with sweetness, smoothness and showmanship. While broadcasting from a Cleveland night club soon afterward, he was heard by the owner of the Edison and Lincoln Hotels in New York City who immediately telephoned him to come East on a most attractive contract.
Featured with Blue Barron’s music is the baritone voice of Cliff Grass, the “Three Blue Notes,” a vocal trio of the boys in the band, and the Barron Glee Club, composed of the entire orchestra.
1 September. The tickets are sold at the rate of about 1% cents a mile, are gocd for travel in coaches only, and authorize the usual checking and stop-over privileges, but are sold only from place of discharge, retirement, or an intermediate point, to home or place of enlistment or induction, or place of employment. Tickets are issued only upon presentation of “Identification Discharge Certificate,” a supply of which forms have been forwarded to commandants of naval districts.
4.	Special Use for Calculus: Plans for post-graduate training in 1945 for regular Navy and Reserve officers in a number of fields have been announced. The ten openings for Naval Reserve officers . all require differential and integral calculus. The courses, to run from seven months to two and a half years, null include aerology, aeronautics, communications, ordnance, radio engineering, Naval construction and architecture. For the communications billet the minimum requirement in mathematics is schooling through quadratics. Several of the best assignments to duty for deck candidates depend upon the amount of college mathematics completed.
5.	Increased Naval Personnel Authorized: The personnel strength of the Navy is now more than nine times what it was when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor, and, under a recently authorized increase, can go up another 11% by the end of next June, to a total of 3,389,000. The authorized increases are for enlisted personnel needed, for the most part, to man new amphibious craft and auxiliary vessels going into commission next year. There is no increase in the number of officers and officer candidates previously authorized. Secretary Forrestal said on this subject: “While the war in the Pacific is by no means approaching an end, it has been possible to strike at Japan’s inner defenses and to bring the war to the doorstep of the enemy sooner than expected. Additional personnel are essential. ... in that theater. Men who might not have been needed until late next year must now be drawn into service between October 1944 and July 1945.... The end of hostilities in Europe will provide no measurable relief to the Navy’s personnel problem.... The Pacific war has progressed so rapidly that personnel which may be released from the European theater can not be counted on definitely for transfer to the Pacific before the peak of personnel requirements in that area will have been reached. A substantial number of personnel on duty in Europe will be immediately engaged in the task of transporting military forces. Twelve thousand and five hundred miles of ocean separate Europe from Guam.”
4
THE BARRACKS BRAWL
Many familiar faces, only bright and shiny this time, showed themselves at the Zahm-Cavanaugh Barracks Dance last week, an affair, which was really, awfully pleasant. Lately, the Marines aren’t too frequently seen around town on Saturday nights, but we did have a decent representation at this brawl. Some of those gyrenes seen gliding around the basketball floor with sweet bits of saddle shoes and sweaters for partners, were: Claire Hansen, Al Kohn, John Luns-mann, Bob Lutticken, Freddie Matthies, Bill Morrison, Bill Nelligan, George Nutil, Harry Smith, Larry Smith, George Stavridis, Bob Snider, and Dale Wares. There may have been others, but the dance floor was pretty dark and I could not see much. However, there appeared to be considerable activity out on the roof-top where everybody hurried between dances “just for a quick smoke.”
MR. BANASHEK SCORES
Warrant Officer Stephen Banashek is the proud papa in the Marine Detachment this week. Mrs. B. presented him with his second daughter, Victoria Marie, last Friday noon. “We would have liked a boy,” says Mr. Banashek, “but I guess we can make woman reservists out of the girls.” Congratulations to the parents, and if the girls are anything like their-dad, the USMC’s loss will be the women marine’s gain.
SWABBIES CAN JITTERBUG (Or: The Gizmo Retaliates)
For months in the South Pacific The battles have been terrific, Wave after wave of brave gyrenes Have faced the Japs “celestial scenes.”
While the Marines are slashing a landing. Cursing, sweating, knives a bandying, The bluejackets cringe back, their ships to hug. Saying: “Well, we can jitterbug!”
All thru the blood-filled nite Gallant Marines move in to fight, “Gung-ho,” they scream, and storm the hill, Let the Japs try what they will!”
The swabbies have a feeling naughty. And hide their fear by being haughty, “Those darn Marines sure think they’re hot, Doing things a swabbie cannot,
But as I once told a guy over a mug:
Swabbies can always jitterbug!”
And so his jealous swabbie
Developed the lowly hobby
Of undermining, ly any means Traditions of the United States Marines.
At length this jealousy took form From all he saw that battle morn
Service Center Has Busy Week-end; "Slap-Happy Hour" Scores Heavily with Trainees
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN
For Saturday evening dancing, Myron Walz and his dance band will appear on the stage at the Service Men’s Center ballroom tomorrow evening, Sept. 23, between 2000 and 2300. Featured as vocalist with the band will be Miss Pat Chapman.
Miss Geraldine Toepp, one of the vicepresidents of the Center, has been instrumental in obtaining this added attraction for the servicemen.
Highlighting last week’s activities at the Center was the “Slaphappy Hour” company from Notre Dame, featuring the music of the V-12 Commanders. The dance band, under the direction of Dutch Crask, played for dancing Sunday afternoon. Shortly after 1500, Don Spinney and Richard Hoag with their “Slap-happy” cast presented several of the features which have characterized their Wednesday night productions on the University campus.
It was an experience for the refined young ladies of the Service Men’s Center to glimpse the antics of Commander Gabel’s boys as they presented their weird bits of entertainment. Seated in the front row of the improvised “auditorium” were Comdr, and Mrs. Gabel and Lt. and Mrs. Collips. Scattered throughout the audience were other members of Notre Dame’s ship’s company. Flitting to and fro like a guardian angel was Chief Broderick, the little man who has supervised the series of programs, since they were begun in the V-12 unit last winter.
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, director of the
And all he could do—this swabbie lug— Was wriggle his shoulders, and roll back the rug.
Giving his shoulders a feminine shrug,
Look to heaven, and begin chug-a-lug,	‘
Screaming: “I’M A SWABJOCKIE JITTERBUG!”
BIG TRIP
Could the nea:r-by presence of a certain lovely librarian, and her mother who came out to the campus especially to see the Marines march to noon chow, have had any connection whatever with Harry Le Bien’s so clumsily tripping up the steps to the chow-hall, while everyone looked and laughed?—Some say that that “ghost of a writer” has a secret craving for the librarian, and is crazy to ask her to the V-12 Ball. To Hairy we say, “You’d better come in for a landing!”
department of music at Notre Dame, and Chief Scharf, supervising, were on hand to present the V-12 glee club. However, because of the small attendance of singers present, the audience did not get the opportunity to hear one of the Unit’s up-and-coming organizations.
A word of credit should go to Seaman Jim Paris, who during the show carried chairs out for the benefit of the young hostesses. Mr. Spinney and Mr. Hoag were even heard to remark jealously that perhaps Seaman Paris was getting more attention than they were up on the stage.
The show in its presented form was aimed directly at the midshipmen who had been unknowingly caught in the “auditorium.” They were given no chance at a comeback. Others who were the source of the quipping attack were the hostesses, telephone booth orators, and the Japs. Frank Kelly with his six full stripes read a “typical” noon muster announcement.
*♦* *•* *♦* *2*	❖ *2*	*5* *5* &
❖ VILLAGERS' CLUB FORMED ❖ — ❖
All off-campus students living in South Bend or vicinity are welcome ❖
$ to join the Villager's club at the next meeting when officers will be elected. the constitution will be adopted, committees appointed, and plans for the
‘J* future activities will be made. The •I* meeting will be held at 7:00, Friday ❖ evening. Sept. 27, Room 1 in the ❖ •I* basement of the Law Building.
9
StereH, Hasten, Groves. Roberts. Vaci. Gorman. Trave Win Boxing Championships
BY JACK McGRANE ’	“Scholastic" Sports Writer
ML spc
Sgt. Joe Santos’ last gift to Notre Dame before his departure with the Marine Corps Detachment at the end of the semester, turned out to te something that was every bit true Irish spirit. Seven new boxing champions were crowned Wednesday night in the fieldhouse before a crowd of 2,000 interested spectators. This second set of campus bouts within the year has really been a boon to Notre Dame sporting circles. Every contestant, winner and loser alike, produced the necessary courage to be called truly one of the “Fighting Irish.”
127 lb.—Gene Stere'.t (St. Ed’s) decisioned Tim Crowe (Alumni).
The first round was fairly evenly contested with both trying to feel each other out. In the second bracket, these two light-footed lightweights scrapped it up in the closing minute, each landing solid body blows. With the bout on an even keel going into the last round, Sterett became a determined glover and pounded his way into the 127 pound class crown.
135 lb.—Jack Hasten (Walsh) beat Tom Nowlen (Alumni).
Nowlen, wha had come a long way since the Bengals last spring, employed plenty of technique in the opening stanza but Hasten traded him punch for
punch. By pounding power, Hasten added points to his efforts in the second round, Nowlen trying to slip in a few face jabs when he fuond opportunities. Although. Nowlen went beserk with flying fists in the final frame, Hasten’s first two rounds found him copping the title in his class.
145 lb.—John Groves (Dillon) outpointed Lou Kontros (Zahm).
First round technique was used by both boxers, neither putting himself in a position to take a chance. The second stanza action saw the word “fight” literally defined as solid body blows come from both Groves and Kontros, the former getting in some solid taps to the head. In the deciding round Groves landed some convincing punches and took home the belt.
155 lb.—Frank Roberts (Dillon) t.k.o’d Bob Blair (Cavanaugh).
The pugilistic action was fast and furious right from the start—it definitely looked like the bout of the evening. Roberts made his presence known in the second frame, giving the 155 lb. Bengals’ champ, Bob Blair, plenty of pounding and floored him twice. Yessir, this was the Navy’s night to howl as Frank Roberts blasted the Marine with hard rights galore—it was Roberts in a TKO in the third. (Turn to page 16)
Students Pick Army, N r Georgia Tech as Teo
BY PAI \
Last year during the football season 3 the Scholastic held a student poll each -week, which met with great success both with the readers and with those who gave their predictions. This coming season the student poll will again be active. = A question will be asked each week con- 3 cerning each game, and students in all ? branches of campus life will be asked to 3 give their views.	3
‘	E
The question this week: “Which game : do you believe will be the toughest for । the Irish this coming season and why?” has been proposed, and after tabulating , the answers, it takes no expert to see ' that the Irish have a hard season ahead. ' The answers centered around four ' games, Army, Navy, Great Lakes and 1 Georgia Tech. The Army and Navy 1 games take preference with almost an equal amount of votes; a total of more than half of all the votes. Great Lakes . and Georgia Tech run a close third and. fourth place respectively.	, ’
Ten cf the finalists who were in Wednesday night's fisticuff action include. Standing: Dick Gorman, Bob Vaci, Jack Hasten, Lou Kontros, Sgt. Joe Santos, instructor, Frank Roberts, Tom Nowlen and John Trave. Kneeling: Dave McKeen, Bob Blair and Nick Canzone.	'
Here are some of the views of the stu-,-
dents:
Bob O’Tocls, Chicago, Civilian, Jun-f ' ior, picks the Army saying, “The insti-f : tution of the four-year eligibility rule by) 1 West Point and Annapolis makes these- 1 two games the toughest on the schedule,'*, with Army the greatest obstacle to Irish! _ success. Army backs, Sensanbaugher,!. ‘ Davis, Kenna, Minor, and Lombardo will^, s
be hard to stop even without much of a| ' line in front, and Army generally comes;; up with a good forward wall.”	| .
Bob Brown, Sioux City, V-12 NavyJ;
Junior, picks Army too—“The tilt with I the cadets of West Point will be theF hardest game. Four good reasons are|$“ their back-field men, Davis, Kenna, Lom-K bardo, and Sensanbaugher.”
• fen
John Johnson, Pleasant Ridge, Mich.,£_'ti NROTC Junior: “I have never seen suchj-Jt an array of backs in my life—that is^u except Notre Dame’s team of last year.”M
Bob Woodhouse, Grand Rapids, Mich.|2j Civilian, Junior, says, “The new ruling^ -allowing players four years of varsitj&se competition will leave both Army andfe^ Navy with well seasoned teams. These ex^^y perienced teams will provide our stiffest^..
10

Managers--Behind the Scenes Burden-Bearers
—Are a Main Cog in Athletic Machine
N y, Great Lakes, and 'e<is to Beat This Season
By JACK MILES “Scholastic" Sports Writer
PAX
VOOD
son ich oth .’ho eave, on-all
to
me for fl” ing see ad.
>ur ind ivy
opposition in my opinion, with the Army :he strongest team.”
Robert Tewksbury, V-12 Navy, Lynn, Mass., Junior: “Picking the toughest ’a me on the schedule this year isn’t such i simple matter—all the opposition is plenty tough. Navy looms as the nation’s oowerhouse; the midshipmen pack the reaviest of armament both fore and aft. Power in depth, all shipshape, and out :o blast the Notre Dame jinx, Navy ooms ominous."
John Cauley, New Hartford, N. Y., Civilian, Junior: “The Navy game be-:ause it’s on Navy’s home ground and ;he Middies are in excellent shape and t’s the week after some of our V-12’s nay be transferred and unable to play.”
an ore kes md.
Dan Long, Cleveland, Ohio, ROTC, Tumor: “Navy, because of that new •uling giving Navy added advantage regarding eligibility. Navy is the team o watch.”
: Richard Smith, Plainfield, Ill., V-12 f Marine, Sophomore, says: “Navy, be-
sti-5 by( esep ile,', ishl er,^ rill'J f ag
S' ies;
vy,k ithl
:ause the Navy has practically the same :eam as last year- and Notre Dame has ost a lot of good men. Navy has that all mportant experience.”
Tom Bergin, Watertown, N. Y., Civil-an, Senior: “I think our toughest game .vill be a toss up between the Army and Navy. Both these teams are nearly up :o pre-war standards and haxe exper-enced men returning again this year to make the opposition even stronger.”
James Retter, Pittsburgh, Pa., Civil-
ian, Junior: “I believe the Great Lakes
:heF .
,„„Pgame will be our most difficult. Great irer
Lakes has one of the finest teams in the
Fcountry and will certainly be trying for
^ national honors. But our Notre Dame :h-»^?team will be thinking of last year, and ichgthey will be captained by a fellow'who isF§will lead them to victory—Pat Filley.”
L* fxl
|'3 Morgan Cartier, V-12 Navy, .Grand ^'^Rapids, Mich., Junior: “Georgia Tech ”^?will undoubtedly give us a big scare. Add l^^vexperience to deception and you have n ^Georgia Tech. This game played at Tech ^K^will give us plenty of headaches but still iSWwe will come through.”
The Notre Dame football teams are famed the world over. Great stars have sported the Gold and Blue and brought glory to Notre Dame. But behind these teams is an indispensable organization, the Managers’ Staff.
This organization, started by the late Knute Rockne, operates on a system that is copied by many colleges. As a freshman, you are one of the many freshman managers who perform various functions at the whim of the head manager. The sophomore managers are a smaller, more select group who have much the same duties as the freshman, but usually not as rigorous. The junior managers generally are about three in number, and have much of the “whitecollar” work. From their midst comes the senior manager. He is the business; the money man; the boss. Because of the business-training managers receive, they are often in demand by large firms and corporations.
John Grail in Charge
The war has altered this system somewhat. Tall, bespectacled Johnny Graif, a junior, handles the head manager’s job. Johnny, who calls Mankato, Minn., home, does most of the typing (practice notices, letters to other coaches, etc.). Some people think that when the Irish go on a trip, they just arrive automatically. This matter, however, becomes quite a headache to Mr. Graif. He is responsible for getting the players excused from classes, holding the train tickets, checking on hotel reservations, securing transportation to and from the stadium, and doling out spending money to the team. The scholarly-looking Graif considers this experience a boon in his studies. He is majoring in Business Administration.
His roommate, Ted Rademaker, is the associate manager in charge of equipment. He works with equipment head McAllister, and is responsible to him. Ted is also a junior, hailing from Peru, Ind. His schedule on trips differs greatly from that of the head manager. He leaves with the equipment, the day before the team entrains. Upon reaching his destination, he engages a truck to carry the equipment to the stadium. The day of the game, he lays the uniforms out, then settles back and waits for the
team. Finally, he is responsible for getting the equipment back to Notre Dame. The tall, blond Hoosier is majoring in Accounting.
More Always Welcome
The other' associate is another junior. He is Ernie Rauscher, who is probably best remembered as one of the 127-pound finalists in last Spring’s Bengal Bouts. He assists the other managers in their work, does personnel work, and types many of the official communiques. Bloomfield, N. J., claims him as a native son. Ernie is a student in- the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in English.
More freshmen managers are needed. If you are interested in making trips with the team, seeing the top elevens in the country play football, and picking up valuable business experience besides, drop in and see Johnny Graif in St. Edward’s Hall. There are great possibilities, and you’ll never regret it.
Valiant Senior Manager
£

Inexperience—Obstacle in ND's '44 Card
BY GEORGE KRAUSER
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
In eight days Coach Ed McKeever will trot out the 1944 version of the Irish against the Pittsburgh eleven on the . Panther’s home field. It won’t be the same team that last year carried Notre Dame to the top of the football world, but rather, a squad that is young and inexperienced. However, it will be a Blue and Gold eleven with eight weeks of practice and one endowed with worlds of fight—the one factor so characteristic of all Notre Dame teams.
Underneath this inexperienced surface lies the. raw material that furnishes the possibilities of a top-notch team. But the Irish face a tough schedule and meet the very tough military academies, Navy and Army, in traditional battles. “The teams we are playing are tougher than last year, and our squad is weaker,’’ commented Coach McKeever.
Scrimmages Stressed In Practice Tuneups
For the past week, scrimmaging and working out of plays have been keynoted, and next week scrimmages will continue with defensive work being stressed. With only a short time remaining before the first outbreak of pigskin hostilities, the battle for starting positions has narrowed down to some 30 possibilities.
Starting with the ends, five candidates have stood out as potential starters. Bill “Zeke” O’Connor, 6'4", 203 pounds, from St. Michael’s, New York, is the No. one left end candidate. An excellent pass snatcher, “Zeke” promises to be one of the frequent targets for aerials from the Irish quarters. At the right flank position, Bob Skoglund, 195 pounder from Chicago, is the foremost of the prospects. Other flankers who might snare the opening calls are Mike Davlin, a 16 year old 180 pounder from Omaha, Neb., Joe Kelly, six foot six incher from Akron, Ohio, and Joe Cash, who was just released from the armed service and who is a former Irish gridder of two years back.
Tackles Experienced
The most experience gridmen are vying for the tackle berths, with four players returning from last year’s squad. At the left tackle berth is George Sullivan, a member of last year’s “two first teams” and a 201 pound V-12’er from East Walpole, Mass. A bulwark on defense and an important cog in the of
fensive machinery, George promises to be one of the outstanding linemen of the year. Towering 6'7" into the ozone and tipping the beams at 227 pounds, John “Spook” Adams looms as the starter at right tackle. With an addition of 15 pounds to his towering frame, “Tree” should be even harder for the opponents to handle. Pete Berezney, 6’2", 220 pounds, and a brilliant man on defense, is a very definite bidder for this allimportant post. Mike Manzo and Ken Schuster, both 214 pounders, round out the tackle.prospects.
“We are counting on Filley for the first game,” drawled Ed McKeever and with that statement the left guard spot is capably filled. For Pat Filley, last year’s captain and this year’s leader of the Irish, now recovered from his knee operations, is not only an All-American, but his presence “perks up the squad,” as the Irish mentor pointed out. John Mastrangelo and Fred Rovai, a couple of 205 pounders, George Martz, transferred from center, Jim Dailer, and George Ci-bula, a member of last year’s squad and only recently discharged from the Army
He was sent here for the psychological effect.
constitute the pigskinners who are battling for the guard posts.
At the pivot position of the “T,” Johnny Ray is currently heading the list. An aggressive, stocky, 182 pounder, Johnny was switched from center to end, but now he is back at center again and provides the possibility of a second South Bender in the lineup, Filley being the other. Another top-notch center is Art Statuto, rangy V-12’er from Saugus, Mass. Others in the running are Ralph Stewart and Dick Bernhart.
Dancewicz Fast, Hard Worker
In the backfield starting with the main works of the “T,” the quarterback spot, Frank Dancewicz, the fastest man on the squad and one of the hardest workers, is currently holding the starting role. Frank, understudy to Angelo Bertelli and John Lu jack on the ’43 squad, has experience and is a good defensive player also. Outstanding, too, to date is the towering 210 pound Joe Gasparella, freshman star from Vandergrift, Pa. His long arms give the impression that he is throwing down to his receivers and (Continued on page 19)
11
By PETE BROWN
It’s about time someone got around to introducing Bob Steuber to Buck Newsom. Both have had about the same experiences. Since Newsom has come to the major leagues, he has traveled from city to city so often that the railroad porters have gotten to call him “Joe.” At present he is displaying his talents for Connie Mack’s Athletics. Steuber was an AllAmerican back at Missouri 1942. Before being called by the Navy in the fall of 1943 he played a few pro games with the Chicago Bears. His first stop in the Navy’s flying program was DePauw. Here he led all the nation’s backs in scoring. Next stop was Marquette where he won a letter for indoor track. At Iowa Pre-flight he competed in track and baseball. At present he is in the backfield of Ottumwa Naval Air Station. Well anyway Mr. Newsom, I would like to have you meet A/C Robert Steuber.
James S. Kearns, Notre Dame alumnus and Chicago Sun sports writer, has a busy week-end to look forward to. He covers the Great Lakes-Purdue game at Great Lakes Saturday afternoon. That night he is going to cover the Michigan-Marquette game at Milwaukee. Oh, for the life of a football writer.
The football annual magazines have had rough going this year. It is next to impossible to prepare in advance anything like a reasonably accurate forecast of man power for any particular team. And even the schedules of some colleges were incomplete when they went to press. Maybe they can get together with the draft boards and the Navy and figure out some solution. •
Byron Nelson has pulled off in a class by himself as far as golf is concerned. Willie Hoppe, the billiard artist, is the only other figure who comes to mind, who has dominated his field. Hoppe has been in the lead a great many more years than Nelson can remember. In fact he has run out of opponents. There are still plenty of good golfers left, so Nelson will not reach that point for some time.
We were always under the impression that it took ability and skill to make the major-leagues. The Chicago White Sox disproved this last week in St. Louis. During a rally one of their players batted out of order and cost the Sox a run.	’
Cross-Country Team Faces Autumn Season Minus Services of Experienced Runners
BY JACK McGRANE
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
An incontestable sign that autumn is imminent is the sight of thinly-clad young men leaping over the leaf-covered walks around the campus. As if in confirmation of this, Coach Elvin R. Handy announced today that the annual University cross-country championships will be held Sunday morning, Oct. 1 over the five-mile campus course.
Inter-hall medals will be awarded for the first nine places—gold, silver and bronze for the three trios to cross the finish line. The outcome of this race will determine somewhat definitely the makeup of the teams which will represent Notre Dame in October and November meets.
“Doc” Handy’s 200-Mile Club, a plan for rounding his runners into shape, has reached the 150-mile mark with all agreed that the first 100 miles were the hardest. Each candidate for the squad has been running an average of 25 miles a week for the last six weeks, building up an endurance and reserve that will carry him through the fall, winter and spring campaigns.
Graduation and transfer' of Naval trainees have deprived Coach Handy of almost his entire team—the aggregate which captured second place honors in the National Collsgiate championships at Milwaukee in June. The unexpected or-
NROTC Wins Swim Meet;
Start Deck Football
The NROTC’s energetic swimming team under the guidance of Lt. (jg) S. J. Jablonski, the unit’s athletic officer, came out of temporary retirement last week and annexed their first pool crown of the semester at the expense of Carroll Hall. The score of 50-25, which found the ROs losing but one event, showed good evidence of their all - around strength.
Results:
50-yd. free style: Flach, (RO); Sinca-vich, (C); Stevning, (C).
75-yd. breast stroke: Anderson, (RO); Jordan, (C); Kartman, (RO).
100-yd. crawl: Erkins, (RO); Cassidy, (RO); King, (C).
75-yd. backstroke: Buckley, (C); Slamin, (RO); Trave, (C).
75-yd. individual medley: Champion, (RO); Mulhern, (RO); McDuffe, (C).
ders which sent Frank Martin, N.C.A.A. two-mile titlist away from Notre Dame, meant not only the loss of the captainelect but also of a sorely needed pacesetter for the hill-and-dalers.
No Collegiate Experience
Not one of the members of the squad has had previous collegiate experience at the five-mile route, consequently Doc has. had to start patiently at the bottom again. “But they have great spirit,” he commented, “and are willing to work hard. I’m quite confident that they’ll go a long way because they are determined.”
The nucleus of the cross-country team around which Handy will build this year is composed of civilian students Steve Provost, Tom McGuire, R. W. Culver and L. J. Sutter; Marine privates Smith and Stanpay; and Seamen Ken Muening, R. E. Prosche and D. R. Osborn. Other men who show promise of success and upon whom their coach is depending for a well-balanced unit are civilians Donnelly, Matthews, McShane and Reardon and Marine R. M. Engelbrecht. '
The schedule for this fall has not been definitely drawn-up, but tentative plans call for dual meets with Wheaton College, Purdue, Wisconsin and Great Lakes, as well as the open meets. The Indiana State, The National Servicemen’s and the N.C.A.A. championships.
Diving: Griffin, Jim, (RO); Garbarini, (C); Champion, (RO).
150-yd. medley relay; ROTC (Griffin, Anderson, Mulhern); Carroll.
200-yd. relay: ROTC (Flach, Erkins, Champion, Slamin); Carroll.
High scorer for the evening was Dave Champion of the NROTC who totalled eight tallies. Right behind him were teammates Jim Griffin, Rudy Anderson, Bob Erkins and Bill Flach with seven each while Carroll’s top-man was Frank Buckley who got six. .
The Naval organization in Walsh Hall is eager for more competition and any local aggregate that feels the urge of competition is welcome to contact Lieut. Jablonski.
NROTC Continues Athletics ’
After completing a successful softball season that found the third deck north gaining the laurels, Dennis “Gabby”’ Hartnett, commissioner of unit athletics, (Continued on page 19)
la
THE KEYHOLE KID OF KOMPANY “H"
Co. H is home for the wolf patrol. Charter members are Bob (24 more hours liberty) Zablekis, J. J. (you can’t kid me, I’m from Chicago) Wren, B. J. (gimme your demerit card) Kenis and Marty (gorilla) Wendell. This group is very brave. Last Saturday night, accompanied by a dozen stalwarts (average weight: 98), they sat on Central side and yelled for John Adams. Lieut. Beatty is accredited by them for instilling within themselves such courage—they heeded his admonition not to be merely men, but Gentle-men.
The greatest guy in the world lives in 206 Alumni. Drop around sometime and find out about “Me and Halsey,” as narrated by G. S., “I’m on the ball,” Murphy.
B. E. Albert is a schloomp. He goes out with a’ local belle (not necessarily English-speaking), and spends the evening talking about his true love in Bloomington. If Marilyn reads this she’ll learn that he doesn’t tell all, all-the. time.
M. F. McNamara VI is worried. Dolores is coming from New York for the regimental shin-dig. As the date approaches, Jane’s affections cool. This is a direct proportion.
Healy wants a date for the Ball but can’t get enough character witnesses. She wants 13 and a certified chaperone. Remember the Boy Scout motto, “Be Prepared.” This advice is also intended for Wetterstrom.
Tully had to call twice for a date for the ball. And him with the prettiest legs on the campus too. He even surpasses the “body” of our wonderful (boiled eggs again) chow (synonymous with “mess”) hall. You fleet men—stop rushing.
Notre Dame can again be national football champs. All that has to be done is make the rest of the team as good as Sam Gorbacz thinks he is.
❖
AWARDS TO
Zimmerman for letting one girl keep him all the time.
J. W. Wood for being the most persistent suitor. Who is this Hugh?
Chief Hutnick for being “duty-happy.” Isn’t the Lakes as nice as Notre Dame?
J. L. Fitzgerald for going out with a girl. R. L. Conaty for going out. W. C. Moran for going.
SIGNS OF THE TIMES
Civilians in Zahm Hall looking at rooms for next semester.
People buying football tickets at the ticket office in Breen-Phillips.
The growth in the V-12 Ship’s Company, due to the large number leaving.
Foggy mornings for calisthenics.
Lists of guys leaving for Midshipman’s School.
Tempos Fugit? Only four weeks till finals.
INCIDENT OF THE WEEK
“Red” Lockwood of Alumni received a letter from his girl last week, but she got her signals mixed and inclosed in Red’s envelope another guy’s message. Still blushing, he returned the letter to her with an appropriate reply. He’s still wondering what the guy that got his letter is thinking.
Harumph!!! Lieutenant, I'm afraid you are taking this inspection business too seriously....
La Raza Gains Volleyball Crown; Plan New League
LaRaza Club, which has been most active in campus athletic activities, since the club’s formation, brought home the bacon in the campus volleyball tourney recently winning in the best thres out of five from the Marines, 15-8, 14-16, 15-9 and 15-8.
The type of game played by the La Raza boys was one of strategy, utilizing-all three hits in order to set-up the ball for a spike. Most of their- points were scored in this manner. The Marines, although possessing potentialities of a winning team, failed to combat with the spirit shown by the winners. Interestingly enough, in league play, each club had won 11 and lost one, each league loss having come at the hands of each other. It was only fitting that these two teams were to meet in the playoffs.
The interest shiwn in the league, conducted by Mr. Gil Burdick of the physical education department, has prompted Mr. Burdick to formulate plans for an indoor season of some length, comprising a league that will contain all the teams who are eager to enter the competition.
Playoff Lineups: LaRaza—Romagosa, Smith, Duarte, Villa, Roual, Ricker.
Marines: Popadowski, Mansfield, Petersen, Newgard, Kelly, Hansen.
Interhall. Open Event
Net Champs Undecided
After several weeks of keen competition, Zahm and Walsh have championed their respective leagues, and are ready to vie in the fight for the Interhall Tennis crown.
In league I, the R.O.’s of Walsh far outdistanced the other contenders, Saint Ed’s, Alumni, and Sorin, in the race for the tops. Zahm and the Faculty headed League II, by virtue of downing Dillon and Breen-Phillips in the scramble for the top. However, since the tournament had for its main purpose intra-mural competition, the Faculty has deferred to Zahm; and Zahm is hailed as the league’s best.
When the two teams file out on the courts, they will represent the best tennis players of their respective halls. Captain Tom Mulhern of the Walsh outfit will lead his teammates, Bill Moore, Tim Babb, and Bill Bracken, against the Zahmbies. Ron Bontsima and Dave Caplan, co-captains, and Jim Schneider will form the Zahm aggregation.
This week will also see the winner of the long-postponed “Open Event Tournament.” The “man - about - the - courts,” Charley Samson, will most likely meet Jerry Evert in-the final tussle.
—Jim Carey
14
MXiinxmxxxxxxiimxmxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxrxxxxTTXP ! ►
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY .
MXIIIillllllliixiillllllllllllllXTXTnXimTTXHXTimiKk
SWING-SHIFT SUNDAY
Well, we trotted over to St. Mary’s, last Sunday, along with 3,000 others. By the time we got there, the carpets were worn down to a pity. We were amazed at the crowd that went over from the campus here—but no more so than at the crowd (quality, you understand) we found there waiting for us. Competition was keen. The Notre Dame Civilian band played all afternoon, and was shown the door at five o’clock—not that their music was not appreciated; but rather because they weren’t scheduled for the dinner hour (Union regulations, you understand!). Everyone was happy about the affair. The St. Mary’s crowd in charge of destroying wall-flowers did a land-office business of introducing everyone to everyone else. This week, however, the crowd from the campus will be limited to civilians (Egad! what a field day for you, Edgar!) The floor show goes on at two o’clock, and if you’re smart, you’ll be there and participate. No reason at all why we can’t have a very pleasant afternoon, and possibly arrange a few other pleasant afternoons in the near future. But then, Edgar, that’s up to you.
LOOKING AHEAD
According to latest reports from committeemen, the Civilian Dance and weekend activities for October 6 are living up in a most favorable manner. Indeed, it promises to surpass the highly enjoyable
M X X
Rockne Building fracas of August. And that’s going some, because the Lawyers really put on a party. We understand that tickets are still available. And with the game the following day, followed by the Victory Dance, the campus returns to a week-end such as it has not seen for a long, long time. A word to the wise will be sufficient—don’t miss out on a phase of Notre Dame life equalled by no one elsewhere.
IN RETROSPECT
We felt a little lonesome, last Sunday, as we wandered through St. Mary’s, and failed to catch a glimpse of a number of those whom we had come to identify as part of the life over there. We refer especially to the Juniors who are absent from the “Rock,” this year for one reason or another, and more or less closely associated with the NROTC whom they tolerated with great patience, because they were such pleasant people (not the NROTC, you glunk; the girls, of course). Anyway, the Pfaffs are gone; so is Pat Lawless (weep, Mr. Caron!); so is Candy Hart, and Jody Weisenberger, and ever so many other people who were pleasant to meet. Ah, well, even our good friend Barbara has gone off to Rosemont for a smattering of the East. We’re wondering if they miss us—what do you think? But Frank Kent is happy, as usual. And so are a number of other people who are very easily pleased.
even to hang your hat.______What’s this about Harry Ryan selecting dancing partners to suit himself?___Bill (“Call me ‘Arch’ ”) Waddington has been very modest of late regarding the prowess of that famous horse, Harriet Sue; or is he waiting for a rainy day?... If the Scholastic appears a bit enthusiastic and optimistic this issue you can put down that several scrawny scribes finally got to the point where they were working on a full stomach. Yessir, believe it or not the Faculty advisor popped, the other night; blew the whole staff to big steaks, and sent the crowd home with sharp minds, and sharpened pencils. For the remainder of this term,' there should be no difficulty about making deadlines.___
We hesitate to say anything about the table manners of the crowd; the few violations could easily be laid to the fact that steak was a new experience for the staff. To keep everyone confined to Kis own plate was considered quite an accomplishment. One thing was fairly obvious — their appetites were certainly better than their writing... We notice that Jules Cattie is very happy, these days, and that he has big plans for one of the coming dances. It’s nothing short of amazing how bright Bernice has made him the past weeks.___And just what do Bernice Haubrich and Mary King find so interesting about Walsh Hall? Oh, if they only moved about the campus and met some of the more intellectual type. Oh, we say, it’s their loss. In fact, we’re more than a little interested ourselves, but we hesitate to put up any formidable opposition or competition. Some day, when we’re gone, some people will be sorry. There, we’ve said it. And anyway, we like to associate with nice people, which is, of course, the basis of our interest in the present instance.
Who says it's going to be a tough season for the Irish!
BACK HOME AGAIN
It was good to run into some of the old crowd from the campus, the other day—especially Jim Schmid, Orve Coli-ani, and Jim Torrence. And not the least of the crowd of alumni was Joe Murnane of Commerce Forum fame. They just dropped in, we are told, to take advantage of their graduate, status. You know —the Blarney Room, etc., etc. Now they are all captains of industry, engaged in the pursuit of making a living (mind you!) and full of advice to the younger and inexperienced set such as us. Well, we listened, and invited them back again sometime. After all, what else could we do?
HERE AND THERE
A passing observation: Rosie’s is returning to normal; you can’t find a place
»/>. f" MIX 7m! VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B-B, (G)-C-B6
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ninc-Vitamin Tablet Contains— AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “O’ as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B-” as 40 ozs. Raw Green Be_
AS MUCH “Be” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as % lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS-=™»150
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
ON SALE AT THE BOOKSTORE
IS
Scannell Announces Mat
Tourney for October 4
Notre Dame’s wrestling championships will be staged Oct. 4, according to Mr. John Scannell, head of the physical education program, who announced the coming event. There are plenty of entries in all of the weight classes and they are training daily for the right to claim mat crowns in their respective divisions.
The wrestling program is a further effort by the physical education department to co-ordinate campus athletic activities, having just successfully completed the Summer Interhall Boxing Championships. In charge of tutoring the wrestlers are Chief Broderick and Specialist Durdach, both physical training instructors in the V-12 program on the campus.
INSPECTION
(Continued from page 7) to see which company could beat the others out and get back first. A new and confusing plan for aligning the companies was helpful to those who like to hide behind something in public.
Finally the thing was over. Everyone was quite pleased with it, in one way or another. Captain Barry and Father O’Donnell, who had drifted around Alumni Hall to inspect, and the drill field to review, seemed to be satisfied with the proceedings by their wide smiles. Those who participated gave vent to their pleasure by various song-and-dance routines in the showers. Chiefs and NCO’s grouped together to make plans for celebration. Mr. Banashek mopped his brow. Commander Gabel, rising to the situation, announced his enthusiasm as follows:
“The review was a splendid exhibition and a great credit to all the V-12 Unit. I want to compliment the regimental commander, all trainee officers, the band, and the trainees.” Perhaps it wasn’t so bad after all, fellows.
LOST—On Campus. Ring setting; Black onyx, with Diamond center. Return to No. 6, Carroll Hall. Reward.

GIFTS for All Occasions
E W E L E R
126 N. Michigan Street
FINE WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING
BOXING BOUTS (Continued from page 10)
165 lb.—Bob Vaci (Alumni) won over Ralph Deem (Alumni).
It was strictly barter in the first round —give and take on an even basis. Vaci took a little edge in the second stanza but Deem still persisted, warding off the roundhousers that Vaci threw. Vaci still looked best in the third and although he was momentarily floored by Deem in the closing seconds, Vaci got the decision.
175 lb.—Dick Gorman (Carroll) decisioned Dave McKeen (Walsh).
McKeen’s aggressiveness in the opening bracket found his opponent unaware to cope with his style. Gorman wanted points in the’ second and immediately sent McKeen to the mat for a short count and took the round. With both boxers tiring, the third frame was a struggle for survival with Gorman leading the way and taking the match. .
Heavyweight—John Trave (Carroll) beat Nick Canzone (Cavanaugh).
Big John Trave who fights without the aid of shoes on his feet,' had to reach . down to hit Canzone — but the latter could dish it out equally well. Body blows featured the second stanza as Canzone was reaching up to hit his opponent in
the face. With no subordination of fistic action in the closing frame, both boys went to it. Only a judges’s decision was able to name the winner—Trave.
When Shopping for Gifts visit
ELLSWORTH'S
Indiana's Oldest Department Store
112 Years Young
“THE BEST-KNOWN VEHICLES IN AMERICA”
What’s the best known vehicle on your college campus? You will probably agree it’s the Railway Express truck. And one of the best-liked men is the dependable Expressman who drives that truck.
There’s a good reason why these trucks are on the campus so frequently. It’s to serve your shipping needs. Express Service is a strong, direct link with home.
Railway Express and its coordinated Air Express Division are carrying a substantial shipping load these busy days. You can help die Expressman and his vehicle do their job quicker and’better by observing three simple steps: Wrap your laundry or other packages securely ... address each clearly... ship them early. We know "A shipment started right is half-way there.”
NATION-WIDE
RAIL-AIR SERVICE
16
THE CONSTITUTION (Continued from page 2) to avoid what we now call “dictatorship.” With the adoption of the Constitution of the United States the American pattern of governmental limitation was successfully completed. It is therefore impossible to understand arid to appreciate our Federal Constitution by confining bur efforts simply to a study of its provisions. The Constitution of the United States has meaning only in the perspective of those years when it was in the womb of that American revolutionary spirit from which it eventually emerged. In that time the several State Constitutions, one after another, sought to chain and harness the terrifying and tyrannical giant that in the estimation and experience of revolutionary America, all government was constantly threatening to become. By 1787 each of the original states felt that it had finally accomplished this Herculean task for the purposes and within the boundaries of its jurisdiction. All states recognized that in their practically disunited condition they were vulnerable to attack from abroad but they were nevertheless determined not to procure a “more perfect union” in the form of a new tyranny.
There was then but one common denominator for American political opinion :All government must be drastically limited. This was the revolutionary genius of simplification. Unlimited government is tyranny and the American revolutionaries knew it well from first hand experience. Thus the nature and purpose of every American Constitution had been to shackle government and all of its divisions and agencies against the . inherent impulse and tendency of government to become the master of, instead of servant to the people.
The first provisions of all state constitutions reiterated either literally or in substance those provisions of the Declaration of Independence with reference to the inalienable God-given rights of man 'and followed with a long series of things
''Spirit of Victory”
FOOTBALL NEWS
25c per Copy
A WEEKLY FOOTBALL NEWSPAPER Schedules - Pictures - Comments Accumulative Scores - Predictions $5.00 lor Air Mail Service
flr\ For 10 Weeks J) (JU Starting Sept. 30th 25c Per Copy on Newsstands
SEND ORDERS TO
THE FOOTBALL NEWS
161 WEST NINE MILE ROAD
DETROIT 20	MICH.
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company, its twenty-one associated operating telephone companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, and Western Electric Company, continue to face unprecedented demands for telephone communication.
Never before in the country’s history has there been so much evidence of the indispensable part telephone service plays in the life of the nation. It makes a direct contribution to the effectiveness of every part of the war effort.
The sense of responsibility which telephone people call the “spirit of service” is in this war the “spirit of victory.” The men and women of the Bell System, in whom this spirit lives,may be relied upon to do their utmost.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War”
17
which the government was not to do. Consequently, when the Federal Constitution was publicized it met with a storm of disapproval because one of these so-called “bills of rights” was not included in its provisions. Ratification was secured by general agreement that the first business of the new Federal Government would be the amendment of the Constitution by the addition of a specific bill of rights. This pledge was literally kept. The last provisions of that Federal Bill of Rights concisely reiterates the determination of the American people to keep the new Federal Government safely within its specifically limited field of operations. Those provisions (the 9th and 10th Amendments) read as follows:
Article IX.
“The enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.”
Article X.
“The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively or to the people.”
The great virtue of the Constitution of the United States lies in its entire consistency with the basic native American political principle, namely, that the freedom of the people is anchored in such strict and positive limitations as are placed upon the people’s government. The Federal Constitution orders and integrates an intricate system of checks, balances, and jurisdictional divisions. That system was precisely calculated to keep American government forever in its place. The framers and ratifiers of the Federal Constitution understood that government is not a source of blessings but merely a watchman hired to guard the life and liberty and property of the citizen. Outside of America this was revolutionary political theory in 1787 and it remains discredited with “orthodox” political scientists throughout the world today. Nevertheless it is the genius of our American Constitutional system of which the Constitution of the United States is the heart and center.
Never in the world’s history has any system of constitutional government worked so well for so long. It has reconciled the freedom and dignity of God-made man with the problems and difficulties of an orderly society. It deserves a better understanding and a more vigilant defense.
Glee Club Presents
Unusual Concert
On Wednesday evening, Sept. 13, about 40 members of the Glee Club, led by its director, Daniel H. Pedtke, journeyed to Healthwin Sanitarium, where they gave a concert for all the patients.
It was not a concert in the ordinary sense of the word, but rather a series of four concerts which were given in the
four different wings of the sanitarium to more than 200 bed-ridden patients. The Glee Club was formed into two lines in each of the corridors, and attendants opened all the bedroom doors so that the sound of their voices might reach each patient. The concert consisted of both classical and popular numbers.
City Councilman George F. Hull, arranged the date and furnished transportation.
ft
h
a
JOSIE and JIM'S
fUNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
CAFE
PLACE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, acting head of the Department of Politics, is coauthor with Samuel B. Pettengill of the new book For Americans Only. To date, over 100,000 copies have been run.
18
a 4 X
X x X X X X
*
X
fa fa X
X
X X
KXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXfi
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
50uthnshor[
NROTC WINS SWIM MEET (Continued from page 13) has announced that inter-deck touch football will soon begin. The ROs, who fielded a regular eleven last year that played outside competition, has been forced to forego a similar procedure this year due to the academic schedules of the individuals in the unit. There would be too much of a limitation on practice time which would be a great obstacle in successfully putting a proficient team on the gridiron. However, if all things go well, there will be an NROTC cage squad that will play local engagements such as did last year’s hardcourt brigade.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-566!
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M. D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D. D. s.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2S74
WHERE SCIENTISTS ARE BORN (Continued from page 6) courses, for students of science and engineering and fox- graduate students who have not gone beyond the elementary courses of mathematics; 3) Graduate courses in various fields of classical and modern mathematics, with introduction of the student to the original research done at Notre Dame; and, 4) A seminar in connection with the research of mathematics being done at the University. For students interested in mathematics as preparation for certain branches of the military service special courses in trigonometry, navigation, ballistics, and the elements of statistics are offered as needed.
The College of Science is recognized by the American Medical Association as an accredited pre-medical school. The pre-medical curriculum has been designed to provide the proper spiritual, scientific, and social background for the pre-medical and pre-dental student.
INEXPERIENCE—OBSTACLE (Continued from page 12) natural skill stamps him as a future Bertelli. Other candidates are Ed Clasby and Roger Cadieux, both inexperienced. A number of halfbacks have shown some strong possibilities of a great running attack for the Irish. Headed by Bob Kelly, hard-driving, piston-legged speedster from Chicago, the right halfback role is pretty secure for 18-5 pound Bob. In the tailback or left half position is George Terlep, 160 pound speedster, who is a wonderful broken field runner. Battling with George is “Chick” Mag-gioli, 184 pound Marine, who also is a speedy back. Steve Nemeth, Frank Rug-gerio and Art Fitzgerald, a newcomer to the top ranking backs, round out the potential starters at the halves.
Three gridders are currently battling for the fullback post. Elmer Angsman, swift 194 pounder from Chicago, is one of the hardest driving of the Irish runners. Rudy Krall, 193 pounds, and a V-12ei- from Gary, Ind., is a good defensive back and with John Corbisiero, who joined the squad last week, furnish the top competition for the bucking back post.
Graduate Elected Prexy
Eric H. Huguenard of South Bend, Ind., graduate of the College of Law of the University was elected president of the Indiana Bar Association at a meeting held in Indianapolis last week.
Graduate in the class of 1922, Mf. Huguenard began teaching Corporation Law at the University in 1928 and remained on the faculty until 1932. He is chairman of the Alien Enemy Hearing Board of northern Indiana.
IIIHUll
I BUY WITH CONFIDENCE £
i	at	j
i South Bend’s Leading Jeweler =
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan. =
X
..................................................a
Campus Centenary Publications
E Notre Dame—100 Years___________________$4.00 E
: Collected Poems of	|
i Charles L. O'Donnell___________________$2.50 |
... at the Bookstore
QniiiitaaaaiaaiaattaiiaiiiaatiaaaiaaitaaaitiiaiiaaaaaaaaiataataaaaattaaiaaaaaaQ
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. ..TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
19
you’ll enjoy BING CROSBY in "GOING MY WAY". . . ms latest paramount picture.
on old friend...and that’s how
l*ve fe t about Chesterfield ever
Copyright 1944, Liggett & Myexs Tobacco Co.
Ihere’s no friend like
since I first sang for them
several years ago
<5^, Millions know Chesterfields
always Satisfy... They're Cooler, Milder and
Better-Tasting. More smokers are finding this
out every day... so next time, do justice to
\ your taste
ask for Chesterfield's RIGHT
COMBINATION WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS