Notre Dame Archives 607 Hesburgh Library Notre Dame IN 46656 
,.-,:~.-.~.. ..'_.-_:.··_.,_t._:.:,;.,.r ::
-.·.f.-.::.:.·.•.-.•.·...:_<..·.1.,.·.t,:.,.·.:_;.:.:.:·:···~ ...~.:.-_'..'._·.. .. 
';::_'.::_.·;:t1tf};\ ...,",~"'',, .. 
, 
. . . .. ,·y,,;%t/i@ 

·I,}, 1aci·ngwifi:iff1.1tuie,1 
----,~TMR~~r~ L<>.~~"~~t~i~(.~{si"~i~,1,j
.. ,·, ·.,-............. -... INPcREPARATIONFORlllFE.,,,,,_, 


, -,, -----t\i1!!i~';'tfl~,,1,1~1 
, :;.:. -~,_.: 
.. -· ' 

!i~¥ji1! :ii¥{' 
\/:/ 


';fI.\ 
PRESORTED STANDARD 
U.S. Postage PAID 
Notre Dame, IN PenilitNo.2 




' -· 
' _ _ · 
RESPONDTO:GRIFFIN.4~@ND.EDU .I 
-·····•-·-·~-~-~--··----•---~ __,___--.,.____. 

Helpless -and loving it? 
We listened hopefully as the bus pushed southward from Dublin Inter­national Airport toward the city center. My friend and I were expect­ing the bus driver to start sputtering the names of suburbs and districts. However, the bus simply pulled up to stops, people confid6ntly got on and off, and it continued its trip, almost mechanically. The driver remained quiet. Meanwhile, we stared out the windows, our luggage in piles on our laps, excited and confused. It became perfectly clear that we had no idea where we were going. All I really knew of Dublin were historical images and place names out of songs. Now we were heading down the wrong side of a mysterious road. So we waited until something looked familiar. Well, nothing ever looked familiar, and we ended up staying on the bus all the way to the end of its route. When we finally maneuvered our bags down the steep black steps, we found ourselves along a street behind a bus terminal. We looked up· and down the street, at the terminal and finally at
look for 
ISSUE 7 each other. Our bags dropped as we dug through our pockets for the city 
on 
map we had picked up before leaving. 
DEC6 
But as we had been the last passengers off the bus, the driver soori·fol­lowed. The old red-faced Irishman approached us, laughing. I'm sure it wasn't hard to tell that we had no idea where we were. He asked us where we wanted to go. "Dublin, City Centre," I replied. He laughed again, in­forming us that we had already found it. 
That Saturday morning was the beginning of a stressful week of search­ing. Getting a job and finding an apartment upon arrival seemed such h simple process when we were back on the shores of America, but standing there helpless in a pub-filled city, we felt quite unprepared. 
With this week's cover story, Scholastic hopes to help ease your journey from college to wherever you plan to go after these four years. Working with the Career Center to prepare for the future is likely the best way to assure you won't need to depend on some guy who's heartily laughing at you as he's providing direction. 
Now hiring 
In the coming weeks, Scholastic will be interviewing students to fill some positions opening up next semester. Everyone -whether you've written for us before or not -is encouraged to apply for the following positions: departments editor, photography editor, assistant photography editor and assistant entertainment editor. Please call us at 1-7569 or e-mail at scholast@nd.edu with any questions, or just stop by our office in the base­ment of South Dining Hall to pick up an application. 
Have a safe Thanksgiving. 



µ_In 
Michael P. Griffin, Editor 
Vol. 143, No. 06 • 15 NOV 2001 

SCHOLaSTIC 
r· Editor in ChiefI Michael P. Griffin 

Managing Editor Matthew Barr 
Associate Editor 
Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor 
Sarah Childress 
News 
Matthew C. Ziegler, editor Jeffrey Drocco, assistant Katie Freddoso, assistant 
Campus Life 
Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor 
Kristin A. Kramer, assistant 
Sports 
Gerard J. Meskill, editor 
David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment 
Kathleen Corte, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant 
Departments 
Cristin E. Fenzel, editor 
Design 
Crissy Manary, editor Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Brendan Condon Eric Doversberger 
. Ryan Greeenberg 
Photography 
Katherine A. Foster, editor 
Graphic Arts Michael M. delaRosa, editor Maryn Necel 
Copy 
Adam M. Aroian, editor 
'Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant Cecilia Hadley Sequel Harding Aaron Trulley 
Distribution 
Felisia Johns, manager 
Advertising 
Jessica B. Polish, manager 
Kyle Zuaro, assistant 
Online 
Jamie L. Moran, manager 
Marketing 
Kristen D'Arcy, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Morit11rus 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright© 2001. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume 
; liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All 
! correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Jenny Wahoske-Timberlake is the offical office anthrax carrier. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date: Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates 
i available on request. The opinions expressed in 
. Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the 
I 
'--' University of Notre Dame or the student body. 

2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The Spirit of New York is Dead 
Consider yourself lucky, says one recent ND grad, to still be a student right now 
Iwanted to say thank you for creating the September 11 memorial issue of 
Scholastic. 
New York has always been my home, and it's where I chose to live and work after graduation. You can't go into publishing unless you head to New York-"Center of the Universe" as it tends to be. And now I regret choosing or even being raised in New York during and post September 11. I need not address what happened on the 11th, but more so what has come to be after it. It's practically impossible to ignore the unceasing sirens, subway shutdowns, National Guardsmen and road blockades everywhere. I work down the block from NBC studios, and I consequently wonder how safe my mail is, considering it's filtered through the same midtown post office. 
I used to love my city. The streams of sunlight barely make it through the impressive feats of architecture commonly referred to as skyscrapers as you wander or rush or purposefully walk down the street to one of many offices, coffee shops, bars, take-out joints, shops -alone, or with a friend, a co-worker, a parent or a stranger.You see an ironic clash of cultures as you make your way from the shady comers of the East Village, to the artistic mecca of the West Village, to the power-hungry silverreflective towers ofWall Street, to the way-too-crowded midtown businesses, ·to the Hollywood­romanticized Upper West and East sides. 
It's the city where you never have to eat at McDonald's because there are too many other, more unique options. Where you never dress like anyone else because there are too many boutiques and thrift stores to match outfits. Where your confusing choice ofwhat to do isn't for lack of opportunity but for abundance. And where you should find beauty in a sidewalk, a park bench or a fruit stand. I miss seeing this city. I miss living in this city. But I no longer see it nor do I want to live in it. I see something darker, more sinister, more vulnerable and more frightening. Our esteemed mayor would like us to move on with our lives. Our restaurants, boutiques, theaters, sidewalks and storefronts are all, for the most part, still standing. But the same spirit that has been burning throughout all ofAmerica is practically non­existent in what was once one of the most spirited cities in the world. 
"But you can't run away," I have been told. True. Our problem is bigger than New York. It's bigger than America. But, if I can't run away, I can wish to be somewhere more friendly, less threatening, less of a constant reminder of what has happened, what is still happening and the horrors of what may be to come. 
The reaso"n I am writing to you is in part to thank you for dedicating your first issue of the year to those who lost their lives or their spirits on September 11, but also, as an ND alum, to let you know thatit' s extraordinarily difficult to be away from Notre Dame at a time like this. At work, my manager and I await to hear word of our potential transfer to our sister office in a small town in New Jersey. I have just registered to take graphic design classes at Fairfield University in small­town Connecticut. These two states border my home in suburban Westchester,N.Y. Two states that are not as exciting, not as fulfilling and not where I want to be, but where I will wind up in a month. Since September 11, I keep wishing that I could be a student at ND right now. That I was not supposed to be the class of 2000, but perhaps the class of 2003 or 2004. I could feel more comfortable surrounded by a community that once provided a feeling of security through so many other personal trials. Sure, it would be one hell of a trip home for breaks (seeing as though I no longer want to fly, I'm thinking that I'd be taking that 14-hour road trip for every major holiday). But barring that one problem, I envy those who can still call ND home for a while .. Sure, anthrax can tum up anywhere. A bomb can explode anywhere. But Notre Dame lends itself to a sense ofaid, comfort, spirit, security and community. And I do not find that here in New York.-I miss my dorm. I miss my roommate. I miss walking to class and not commuting on NYC public transportation. I miss having the option not to move to NYC after graduation. I miss the comfort of being surrounded by friends while living through a ridiculously difficult time. I miss the ability to still see beauty where I live. 
I don't know why I have written as much as I have. Perhaps it's because this is the first time I have tried to put anything into words. Re-reading this letter, I feel ungrateful. I did not lose my life, a loved one or my job. But I did lose my city, my spirit and my willingness to discover what is good here. So, I tum to thoughts ofcollege, ofa campus 
... The same spirit that has been burning throughout all of America is practically non-existent in what was once one of the most spirited cities in the world . ... 
that is surrounded in natural beauty, of a community that is composed ofscholars and the faithful, and of a time when my biggest worry was getting the next deadline of the yearbook shipped out to our publishing company. 
Take from this what you will. I just had to say thank you, and try to embrace a clear picture of beauty, a shared sense of community or a balanced maturity somewhere on campus. I promise I'll keep looking for it here. But in the meantime, my thoughts are with the grotto, the lakes, Stonehenge and the sunsets over South Quad. 
-Alison Main '00 2000 Dome Editor 

Opinions expressed in this letter are those ofthe mtthor and not necessarily those of Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTICLETTER TO THE EDITOR 3 

I 
7 

4 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 
"Oh, so that's Christopher Columbus on top of the dome." 
I37 Years Ago
-Tennessee fan, ) after viewing the Main Building's Columbus murals Way Harsh 
> 
According to a story in the March 6, 1964 issue ofNotre Danie Scholastic, at · "Perhaps Mario and Luigi had a past troubled with drug· one time Notre Dame sophomores were addiction," · · · subjected to "Sophomore Interviews." _:_ film prof~ssor, explaining the abundance . ·The re·sults of the in:ierv1ews often were 
of mushrooms in Super Mario Land 
retained in students' permanent records for "use in future appraisals of students for professional and graduate studies." 
"Daddy already cut mommy's penis off, and, if I'm not good, The story railed against the demoralizing he'll cut mine off too." 
effects of the comments contained in the 
> 
-English professor, 
"student profiles" interviewers produced. 
explaining Freudian theory 
These included: 
The student is apparently a mental cripple and, at least, is not visibly capable 
"He went to Iowa, where he became a fanatic of corn." 
of the type of work involved in the aca­
-government professor, 
demic situation. 
explaining Khrushchev's affection for Midwestern grains 
> ... doesn't deserv_e to live . ... certainly shouldn't be in college . ... won't ever make the honor role [sic] . ... should drop out of school to stop "Soccer is an exercise in futility." wasting your parents' money, your time .:._ overheard student 
and our time.
> 
I wonder if they had TCEs back then as well. 
-Cristin Fenzel and Cecilia Hadley 

took over from him after that. 
What's your typical cut? Do you have a target time? 
The majority are Dorner cuts -you know, those short crew cuts? I allow 15 minutes, but I can do it in 10. · 
Do you cut any famous heads around campus? 
I'd love to cut one of the major sports 
· coaches, like football or basketball, but they don't come here, although some of the minor sports coaches do. 
What's up with all these pictures on the walls? 
That's my hobby. I was just so impressed with the school that I would just walk around and take pictures. It's hard not to. 
How much does your standard cut cost? 
Eleven dollars for a haircut, $6 for a beard trim. 
Do your fingers get itchy when you see a guy walk by with long hair? 
No, actually I get a little jealous! My dad always cut my hair because I was the barber's son and I had to look like one, and then I am a barber, so I wouldn't feel right having a ponytail. 

Vl(ho cuts your hair? 
I do, except when I want it done right; then I go _over to the Salon. They're my friends over there. 
We hear that you've got a lot of loyal clients. What's someone got to do to get an appointment with you? 
Just come in two or three days beforehand and put your name in the book. I'm here from 9 to 5, riding the clippers. I call myself a "clipper jockey" because that's just what I do. 

Who's your dream haircut? 
Jon Gruden. No, I can't say that. Ah, I'll 
just go ahead and say it-Jon Gruden. I'd 
also love to cut BobStoops [head coach of · the Oklahoma football team]. 
-Kristin Kramer 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 

IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 
... WEB DARTING No more of the soothing DART guy's voice. We'll miss him so dearly. The ... spring ... semester ... code ... is .... 
t 
THANKSGIVING 
This year there are lots of things 
for which we can be thankful ­
like the end of Davie's face 
sullying Notre Dame Stadium. 
... MIDNIGHT DRUM CIRCLE There is nothing better than loud drum cadences at midnight on the main quad -unless you live in Sorin and have to take the LSAT in the morning. 
t 
LAST HOME FOOTBALL 

GAME 
For once we're actually looking 
forward to spending our Saturdays 
in the library. At least there you 
can't be cited for tailgating. 
i 
DINE WITH THE DEANS 
Does anyone actually do this? 
IDomelights COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 

NOTEBOOK 
THE CD REVIEW 


Love and Theft 
LABEL: Sony/Columbia RELEASE DATE: 11 SEPT 2001 
I 

Farty-three albums later, Bob Dylan has returned to his Minnesota musical roots, employing soul-driven blues, twangy bluegrass and swing. After dabbling in other genres during the 1980s, Dylan has decided to stick with what he does best: a dedica­tion to evocative lyrics backed up by an im­pressive band. Those who have criticized him of late for being a b'umed-out folkster will retract those comments after listening to his remarkable new album, wve and Theft. With music reminiscent ofhis early days as "Freewheelin' Bob Dylan," Dylan returns to the folk sound that brought him his origi­nal fame. This self-taught musician first demonstrated his talents at age 21 with clas­sic tunes such as "Don't Think Twice, It's All Right" and "Blowin' in the Wind." His ceaseless need for change and travel is ex­hibited on this new. albuni in "Mississippi," in which he sings, "You're the reason I'm. traveling on." Dylan's voice resonates with the memories ofa traveler, an original beat­nik who still remembers his days ofdeprav­ity and debauchery. Noticeably missing from the album is Dylan's definitive harmonica. Thoughts of Dylan bring to mind the musician's solo on 

Story by Joanne Davidson 
stage with a guitar on his shoulder and a harmonica to his mouth. With Love and . Theft, Dylan's lyrics and the strength of the band, which includes guitarist Charlie Sex­ton, quickly cause the listener to forget about the lack of harmonica. Instead, lyrics and 
musical range form the core of the album. The album's diversity is especially appar­. th "Hi h W:
ent m e song g a­ter," which utilizes a banjo 
in the background. Further into the album, "Floater (Too Much to Ask)" reso­
nates with Louis Arm­strong's style. 
. If lki yotu I e 
eariiy
Bob Dylan ... 
You'll Jove his latest =a=/b"""'u___m___•___ 
From the beginning ofwve and Theft, the listener is in for a blissful musical experi­ence that will touch all ranges of emotion, from the highest elation to the lowest mis­ery. The second track, "Mississippi," falls somewhere in between the emotional ex­tremes, bringing the listener to a meditative state with Dylan's thoughtful lyrics. 
Although he claims he has "been feeling like a stranger that nobody sees," Bob Dylan returns to the spotlight with this tremendous and inspired new albu~; . 


Source: The Career Center. Reporting rate for the Class of 2000 was 87.4 percent. 

According to the Career Center's most recent Annual Future 
Plans Survey, the average salary for a 2000 Notre Dame 
graduate was $39,541. Here is the average salary breakdown 
by college: 

-Arts and Letters: $34,402 
-Architecture: $34,841 
-Science: $36,598 
-Business: $43,243 

-Engineering: $48,883 
6 



The OIT has made changes in its leadership, but is the Notre Dame network still headed for disaster? 
By Jared Rizzi 

LOCK DOWN Users are often unaware of how to protect themselves on the network. 
>> 
messy domain is Gordon Wishon, Notre Dame's chief information officer, associate vice president of information technologies and associate provost. Notre Dame re­cruited Wishon in mid-August ·from Georgia Tech, where he · held a similar position in net­
work administration. That 
school requires every student 
to own a computer to enable 
faculty to make course ma­
terial available online. The 
impetus for Georgia Tech's 
computer systems upgrade 
was the 1996 Olympic 
Games in Atlanta: The campus served as 
the Olympic Village and needed a com­
munications infrastructure that could ac­
commodate athletes, coaches, media and 
Olympic officials. Notre Dame has never 
had such an incentive to upgrade its net­
work. 
Wishon says his new challenge at Notre 
Dame is to create a computing strategy 
that assumes effective use of network fa­
cilities by all members of the community. 
But there are two impediments to this pro­
cess. First, the university is playing catch­
up, rewiring old buildings for modern use. 
But an even more immediate problem is 
the threat of computer violence wreaked 
upon any entity, including students, via 
Notre Dame's network. The environment 
at Notre Dame is diametrically opposed 
to everything a secure network needs. Of 
course, there is no perfectly secure com­
puting environment, but the collegiate 
norms of file sharing and open attitudes 
toward information create many access 
points for trouble. 
Scully says that he does not believe 
"that Notre Dame is unique with security 
problems regarding information technol­
ogy, ... [but] we as a university have not 
spent the resources we need to, to protect 
from invasion and viruses." So, Wishon 
faces a daunting task: protecting an im­
mense network that is far behind in tak­
ing the precautions it should have taken 
long ago. Both Scully and Wishon now 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
feel that the administration is taking the initial steps to prepare to deal with this complex problem. Wishon acknowledges that there are gaps in the security system, but he is hopeful that he can correct them. 
But this will be no easy task. Currently there is no university document directly addressing network security. With con­stant new problems and 2,000 new com­puters each year, new technologies make advancement difficult. In addition, Wishon notes that with hacking on the rise, "it does not take a rocket scientist to expose a known vulnerability." Notre Dame's network is vulnerable to anyone who wishes to corrupt or misuse the sys­tem, even the most juvenile computer amateurs. And while Notre Dame may be comparable to other universities, Wishon admits that "in absolute terms, we're not very good." He says that "we're neither well-organized nor equipped yet to deal with the variety of threats." 
Some of the problems with Notre Dame's network security can be traced to lax funding. "We needed to change our leadership ... The shortcomings in the program weren't keeping up with the de­mand," says Scully. "We needed, need, and will invest more funds." Yet there is hope. Wishon has put in a request for ad­ditional money to accelerate his plans. "I feel optimistic that I will receive approval to take immediate action," he says. "This is a priority for me, certainly, and [for] the university administration." Both Scully and Wishon are confident that new funds will be allocated soon. The OIT's annual budget currently hovers around $15.2 million; Wishon has requested ap­proximately $750,000 for network-secu­rity issues alone. This includes disaster­relief funds as well as the initial moneys to establish what he hopes will be the fu­ture of systems administration on campus. Further increases, according to Scully, are part of a four-to five-year improvement . plan costing about $30 million. 

Scully also talks of the need for a whole new mainframe system -hardware and software. The university is dealing with what Scully calls a "significant deferred­maintenance problem." The university is worried about antiquated hardware and in­compatible software, but in the future it hopes to engage in wireless communica­tions, make online video available in all classrooms and other introduce other technologies. These are unfathomable with the campus's dated network. 
This need for new technology is insepa­rable from the problem of security, which brings its own questions. In every case, the balance must exist between users' freedoms and personal and general secu­rity. But what is an appropriate balance? Making file_ sharing more difficult or im­possible has been dismissed because of the benefits file sharing creates. Elec­tronic firewalls can help, but they often 

impede off-campus users from accessing 
information, and they can prevent legiti­
mate users from accessing certain infor­
mation. These quandaries are not the norm 
in the corporate world, where information 
is not shared because of its value. Wishon 
points to these differences as a major rea­
son for security problems on college cam­
puses. 
According to Wishon, the problem be­
gins with computer vendors. Operating 
systems simply are not made with the 
quality control needed to prevent virus 
and hacker vulnerabilities. Major operat­
ing systems, like Microsoft's Windows, 
Apple's Mac OS and Linux, all contain 
design flaws that put users at risk. Fur­
ther, many o_f the machines on campus 
utilize default settings, which are not al­
ways conducive to a safe computing en­
vironment. Default co11figurations often 
leave vulnerabilities exposed, and Wishon 
feels that Notre Dame needs to "have con­
versations with our vendor partners to 
close holes in operating systems before 
they appear on college campuses, and 
even in homes." With such a wide variety 
of computing systems, Notre Dame's net­
work requires multi-level solutions. Then 
there is the technology. Wishon feels that 
"this is more of a journey that has no real 
endpoint because of the pace at which 
technology is changing." He says, "As we 
close one security hole, new technology 
comes along." 
What does this mean from a user's per­
spective? Should they assume that since 
technology keeps changing, they can 
never hope to have a reliable system? 
Even though approximately 90 percent of 
students bring their own computer to cam­
pus, there is a significant ignorance of the 
appropriate actions to take against vulner­
ability at the desktop level. 
Wishon suggests the creation of an Of­fice oflnformation Security, reporting di­rectly to him, responsible for developing Notre Dame's defenses against network vulnerabilities. Such an office could rec­ommend policy changes, highlight secu­rity matters, regulate network access, monitor specific security incidents and ·assess vulnerabilities that exist on the network. This entity also would be re­sponsible for developing an education­and-awareness program for computing safety. By setting the guidelines for use and executing these standards, Wishon hopes that such an office could handle the needs of Notre Dame's information infra­
structure. His long-term plans include 
policy changes involving student and fac­
ulty education for effective computer use. 
Personnel within this group would be re­
sponsible for targeting incidents and in­
trusions and well as serve as the primary 
investigators for computer forensics in the 
case of computer crime. 
Wishon knows that the technology side of the problem is just as complex as the administrative."The key to success in many cases comes down to the more-ef­fective administration of individual com­puters and servers across campus," he says. However, the OIT also is pursuing the acquisition of a device for the cam­pus network "border" capable of inspect­ing incoming data for viruses. There are many other options, such as scanning technology to search for weaknesses in the network and intrusion-detection sys­tems that sound an alarm when there is a belligerent entity.on the system. However, . all of these options are costly and require large staffs to monitor and analyze the information obtained. Over time, the in­creased budget would allow for such an 
office. 
In all of these pursuits, Wishon recog­

nizes and appreciates student efforts to 
understand and cooperate in network se­
curity. He realizes the student awareness 
that has spearheaded this issue to the ad­
ministration. He puts the students on no­
tice: "There are going to be big changes 
with my arrival here. There will be reor-
WAKE-UP CALL 

I\ 
Last spring, Scholastic

I\ 
revealed problems with network security at ND. 

· 
DON'T BLINK 
Constant changes in 
technology require 
constant vigilance in 
order to maintain 
security. 
ganization, a restructuring, and refocus­ing of the Office oflnformation Technolo­gies." Scully also is optimistic. "We have the right leadership now," he says. "[Wishon] is looking for additional tal­ent to help run his plans." 
This comes as news to many students, most of whom avoid the OIT unless they have a significant computer problem. But will new structures for security infringe upon students' freedoms? Will programs scanning e-mail compromise privacy? When will these changes be made? How will they affect the individual user? Good intention aside, the quality of service still is on the same shaky foundation that it was on a year ago, even ifWishon's paint job is better. For example, on the critical topic of Web registration for classes, Wishon admits that "we [at the OIT] just cross our fingers and hope that nothing goes wrong." 
One cannot deny that the gears of change are turning. Wishon is proactive and knowledgeable, and his experience has qualified him as one of the best in his field. It also seems that the administra­tion has acknowledged the problem and wants to work with _students and faculty to create an effective solution. It might take another year's time for the OIT to come up with a definitive plan as to what they intend to do, how they intend to do it and how they're going to pay for it. Until then, users should keep their fingers crossed, too. . 

• • .,I 
DANROBER 
For many Notre Dame students, bi­cycles are a staple of college life. Whether riding their own bikes 
from class to class or nearly being run down by others', Domers take this form of transportation for granted. Yet for many students, biking at Notre Dame has a downside: bicycle thefts. They are on the rise this school year, but apprehensions by the Notre Dame Security-Police Depart­ment are down. Is anything being done to stop this? 
It doesn't seem so, many students complain. Sophomore 
Keenan resi-~ dent Charlie <. '"'·.. · 
. ~ 
Longanecker, ' whose bike ~ll'll:.;::::~-;: was stolen in mid-Septem­ber, blames 



C'Dt=C IA/Ut=t=I IAI' 

•• 11

I
II Ir • • I 

>> Dude, where's my bike? 
the NDSPD's lack of results in appre­hending thiefs on its inactivity: "After searching around Keenan and Stanford and looking all over campus, I called campus security," he says. "I gave them my registration and serial number, and I · 
haven't heard from them in months." 
NDSPD Assistant Director Chuck 
Hurley admits that "bicycle theft 
is a continuing problem for us." 
This especially is true, he says, 
in the first and last months of 
the schocil year, when the 
weather is warm. Indee~, 
South Bend's arctic climate 
might beat the police for 
best theft deterrent during 
the winter months. Recent 
events confirm Hurley's 
observations: There 
were 36 
reported 
bicycle 
thefts in 
Septem­
ber 2001, the most since the 37 thefts re­ported in May 2000. This is the reversal of a downward trend in bicycle-theft rates during the 2000-01 school year: Only 18 bicycles were reported stolen in May 2001. 
It is impossible to sterotype bike thieves, which makes it hard for security to spot them on campus. According to Hurley, some students bring a cheap, old bike to school and hope to steal a nicer bike sometime during the school year. More often, however, the culprits of bike theft are local 14-to 16-year-old kids. They often use bolt cutters to break stu­dents' bike locks. Professional, adult bi­cycle thieves are rare at Notre Dame, since a pedestrian campus makes it diffi­cult for someone to drive up and load a truck with bikes. 
Although most bike thieves are ama­teurs, apprehension rates by the NDSPD have been markedly low. Since January 2000, more than 360 bikes have been re­ported stolen, yet only 18 juvenile arrests and one adult arrest have been made in connection with these thefts. This is a five-percent apprehension rate. But most of these arrests hap­pened last year -in the first 10 months of 2001, there have been 131 stolen-bike reports butjust_one arrest, a 0.7-percent rate. What are the reasons behind this increased theft rate and de­creased apprehension rate? Rex Rakow, director of 

10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
the NDSPD, warns that "we can't draw inferences just based on statistics." Al­though theft has increased, he says that "there are more bikes on the Notre Dame campus than ever before." One would assume that the more bikes there are on campus, the more bike thefts will occur. 
Rakow cites an additional reason for the trends: The current bike racks are in­sufficient to accomodate the increasing number of bikes. More bicycles are parked free-standing; thus, they are easier to steal. 
Another cause for the increase, accord­ing to Hurley, is that bicycle-theft appre­hensions tend to come in bunches, since many bicycle thieves work in groups. Once one apprehension is made, theft tends to decline, since thieves are spooked into behaying -at least for a while. It comes as no surprise, then, that the re­cent lack of apprehensions has emboldened bicycle thieves. 
Rakow says that the low apprehension rate results from a lack of vigilance. Most apprehensions come when the crime is wit­
. nessed, and it's hard to track down eyewit­nesses -if they even exist -to bike thefts. He encourages stu­dents to keep a keen eye on areas where bi­cycles are stored and 
note any suspicious activity. According to a rep­
resentativ e of the South Bend Police Department's detec­tive bureau who refused to give his name, recent legal developments have made it more difficult for the SBPD to track down and apprehend bicycle thieves. Accord-· ing to the source, under the former legal system, it was easier to match bikes with their owners, and this resulted in many arrests. But popular discontent with the high arrest rate for such a seemingly trivial crime led to the end of this system. The new system makes it much more difficult for the police, the source says. Now, the SBPD _must rely on serial numbers, which many bicycle owners do not record or remem­ber. Many thieves scratch out serial numbers or strip the bikes for parts, which further exacer­bates attempts to track down the stolen merchandise. 
Since apprehending bikes thieves is so difficult, the NDSPD recommends two major steps to prevent bike theft. First, Hurley suggests the use of a U­type lock, which he says is al­most impenetrable to the bolt cutters many bike thieves often use. The other important procedure is to register the bi-

cycle with the NDSPD. If a stolen bike is registered, or if a student at least knows its serial number, a theft report can be filed with the National Crime Information Center. This enables any police depart­
ment in the country to trace a bike stolen 
from campus. Hurley recalls the story of 
one bicycle that was found by police in Arizona and was subse­quently returned to cam­pus because it had ·been registered. Longanecker, whose bicycle was registered, wishes that he could be so lucky. "I feel like 
. [the NDSPD] gets hun­dreds of theft reports a day and just tosses them in a pile," he says. "It seems like people are taking bikes. left and right -there ought to be something they can do about it." Given the current situa­tion, however, students can do little more than register their bikes, buy a good lock and pray that bike thieves pass their Huffys by. · D 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 


Football season is winding down, DART.has reasserted itself as every student's worst nightmare and seniors are finally facing the question that fam­ily, friends and professors have been ~sk­
. ing them since the beginning of the sum­mer: "So, what are you doing after gradu­ation?" Some have the luxury of the pat­ented response ofgraduate, medical or law school, but others are searching for a job in an economy whose downswing has been exacerbated by the attacks of Sep­tember 11. Yet Lee Svete believes that Notre Dame's Career Center, which he directs, is up to the challenge. "It could very well be the most competitive job market since 1991," he says. "We're go­
._ing to have our challenges, but we're going to come out of it a lot better than a Michigan State or Indiana Univer­sity." · 
Svete is facing these challenges using a combination of resources that have been in development since spring 1999, when Vice President for Student Affairs the Rev. Mark Poorman appointed the 16-year vet­eran ofmanaging higher-education career placement at Colgate and St. Lawrence universities to Notre Dame's struggling center. "I had two problems that we needed to solve, one internal and one external," Svete says. "Externally, 'How do we bring more employers in?' Internally, 'How do we bring more students in?'" 
The first step in solving these problems was to re-centralize a service that had-suf­fered as a result of an increasing number of students turning to their colleges for direction. "You saw the College of Busi­ness, the school of architecture and the school of engineering start their own in­dependentjob fairs," Svete says. "We were supposed to be a centralized service, but we were quickly becoming a distributive one." In response, Svete asked the colleges to co-sponsor their events, and both the center and the fairs benefited from the partnership. Svete says, "We utilized tech-
The Career Center has improved its services to encompass all students' needs in the job search 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 13 


nology, people power, natural resources and space management to make these fairs stronger, to get more employers here and [to] actually create two new career fairs that never existed before: the College of Science and the College ofArts and Letters." 
Svete also immediately faced a disorganized resume-sublnis­sion system. Prior to his appointment, business majors predomi­nated the center, and students were charged $25 to build a re­sume-which were all paper. Students would print out resumes, put them in bins in Hesburgh Library and wait to be contacted for an interview. This messy process often resulted in lost re­sumes, application-status confusion and long walks to and from "I have worked with students in nearly every profession, and we are probably the most aggressive center in the country to de­velop employers. If they have jobs, I will fly them here, and I guarantee there are not too many people doing this on a consis­tent basis." 
Individual counseling sessions also are offered as not all re­cruiters, such as government agencies and publishing houses, are registered on Go IRISH. (See Looking Elsewhere on page 16.) Students do not need an appointment if they visit between the hours of 1 :30 and 4:00 p.m. on weekdays, and the center is open until 7:00 p.m. three days a week. "Student Government 
helped us with that," Svete says. ''We won the Irish Clover award for student service our first year when I was director, and so it is obvious that the new improvements have been well-received." 
Over the past few years the center has capitalized on a strong economy and was able to grow easily and make many new contacts. "Now that we are facing a cutback in recruit­ing with the failure of dot-com companies as well as an approaching recession, we are utilizing our alumni connec­tions and allowing students to spend time with alums in their areas of interest," Svete says. 
Irish Online, which has a section devoted to alumni net­working, is the new program behind the Career Center's recently acquired ability to access Notre Dame's complete alumni base. It is now easier for students to link up with alumni and spend a day at work with them, an experience with dual benefits. First, students can confirm or reject ca­reer goals, and they can build their resumes. Second, ac­
I.".!_ 
a~ 
, • ~.:'._•;·~,:.'.,_-,:_::·,·,· 
~ 
}~
I 
~'{ ~-~-l... 
1I ,." 
i 
~ 
'._,__;_: 
-:;;,
•)t
~•
J 
~1
I 
),,·~ 
'-~­
1 
J,, 
. c.1~-.q_{/ cording to Svete, if "the alum is impressed with a student, 
[he] can take [a] resume to human resources and put it on NETWORKING Since the Career Center's move to Flanner Hall, it has been the top of a stack of 500 and say, 'Please take a look at this able to expand its online resources with their firstfloor computer cluster. Students d h h d · h d I · can use resume building programs and utilize Go !RISH from this location. stu endt;, '~Sor sd e spent a ay.':-'I~t me11, an_ knwas v~ry Ihm­
the library. Svete and others worked hard to improve this sys-tern, eventually replacing it with Go IRISH. This paperless re­cruitment system allows students to review jobs and internship descriptions, locate employers by career field and geographic preference, upload resumes and sign-up for interviews -all online. Svete says that during the launch of Go IRISH, "we ba­sically lived here." He adds, "There were a few times when I didn'tgohomeforthreedays;wedidn'tseeourfalnilies,butwe got it turned around, and we have come a long way." 
Svete and Go IRISH have strengthened the Career Center's programs exponentially in the nearly three years since appoint­ment. "We found that in 1998 only 19 percent of the student population was utilizing the Career Center," he says. "Now 86 percent of the student population utilizes our services." In raw numbers, the student registration wfth the center has grown from 2,000 to 6,000. Also, students can use Go IRISH to reconfirm interview times, increasing reliability. "We went from having 280 Inissed interviews to 65 no-shows in just two years," Svete says. "Students and employers are both happier, and our num­bers of interviews and recruiters have quadrupled." (See Oppor­.tunities to Go on page 13.) 
The Career Center has worked very hard to pull in more re­
cruiters to cater to this increase in registered students. Svete says, 
presse . tu ents approve. t s rea y mce owmg t at 
there are so many alumni out there who are more than will­ing to help ND students learn more about a job or industry, find a job or secure an internship," says junior fimmce and account­ing major Julie Babonas. 
Babonas and 13 other students attended an investment-bank­ing and financial-services tour in Chicago over fall break, visit­ing such firms as Goldman Sachs, Salomon Sinith Barney, Mor­gan Stanley Dean Witter, William Blair and Robert Baird. Says Babonas: "The experience was really valuable .... Each firm presented us with an overview of the industry, what life is like in their firm and what positions they have available." Students on the trip met primarily with alumni, and they report that this com­monality made it easier to talk to them and say that the alums gave good career advice and interview tips. Babonas says that this made the trip truly beneficial. "We were able to ex­perience what the industry is really like and meet people who will probably be able to help us if we need a future contact," she says. 
The Chicago tour is not the only program that allows students to view the business world firsthand; the Career Center has been setting up career tours in all regions of the country. Since 51 percent of Notre Dame students do not remain in the Midwest following graduation, this has become essential, and the center's efforts have not gone unnoticed. "The Career Center has im­
. . 
li-it?~:h.: ~&~t+1~1~ttW.~::if.t.fi;zl~~.ts~~~~:~ti&'t-'!s.~~fr~~:e-_ ,-:r ~~iE;~#~zs~...JM,~~if~:!?· :..&~t:-~~n,~~--~~.fC.ix;*".;ft..~~r,,~~fi:i~w~~ ~,;~~??~i~wt .• =·,~· 14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 



proved in providing more opportunities outside of the Midwest area, which is good for someone not from the Midwest," says senior finance and government major Angelyn Guanajuato, who is from Del Rio, Texas. "I hope that they continue to work in providing ND students with national opportunities." 
Perhaps the most large-scale improvement the center has been the creation of the New York Metro Link Career Consortium, which was developed in conjunction with Yale University, Duke University and the University of Richmond. Held on February 26, 2001, the career fair was designed to assist students inter­ested in pursuing careers in advertising, publishing, public rela­tions, law, fashion and communications in the New York metro­politan area. Svete is proud to say that of the schools involved in the partnership, only Notre Dame sent students to the fair all expenses paid. This was also the case with the Chicago trip. 
Despite all of these improvements, some Notre Dame students -especially those in the College of Arts and Letters -feel ex­cluded from the use of the Career Center's resources. "I can see why Arts and Letters majors feel the way they do," says senior Colleen Flood, an American studies and CAPP double major who attended the Chicago tour. "Arts and Letters majors are constantly hitting a sort of brick wall where companies will limit their searches to business majors, and it can be very frustrating." Discrepancies in the dates ofthe career fairs also have been ques­tioned. Some wonder why the business and engineering career fairs are held in September while the Arts and Letters Career fair does not occur until late March. 
According to Svete, this mainly is due to the hiring schedules of the companies involved. "Publishing, advertising and even the CIA hire within six to 12 weeks of graduation because they 

OPPORTUNI 
With the creation of Go IRISH, the job search gets convenient 
Hours of waiting by the telephone and mailbox, endless stacks of paper, long walks to Flanner Hall -fortunately, thanks to Go IRISH, Notre Dame students who want to take advantage of Career Center resources no longer have to endure any of these. Go IRISH (Internet Recruiting and Interview-Scheduling Hotlink) is a Web-based system powered by Experience.com Inc. that allows students to search through job opportunities, find upcoming information sessions and career fairs, and post their resumes and cover letters for more than 2,000 employers. According to Allison Keller, a counselor at the Career Center, Go IRISH received 3 million hits, registered 6,000 students and helped set up an astonishing 14,000 on-campus interviews during the 2000-01 academic year. Use of Go IRISH can begin when a student opens an account on the system, which is accomplished by filling out a small card with one's name, birthday and e-mail address. These cards can be obtained by attending a Career Center workshop or by scheduling an appointment with a career counselor. From there, students can create a profile through the Web site consisting of basic personal and academic information along with descriptions of future plans. The Career Center uses these profiles to send targeted e-mails concerning interviews, information sessions and so on specific to their areas of interest. After uploading their resumes to Go IRISH, students can schedule job interviews by searching though the Go 
_., 

IRISH database for specific companies, job titles, regions and fields. Go IRISH users also can enter their major f': or degree into the system to browse a list of companies that are interested in hiring students with their background. ,, After finding an employer, students get dates of upcoming information sessions, job descriptions, application requirements and contact information. 
"Resume books" also are available to students. These databases are divided into categories by areas of interest and allow students to post their resumes accordingly. Employers then can browse the books and contact attractive candidates. Once the student has contacted possible employers (or vice versa) to express interest in an interview, students can use Go IRISH to monitor employer decisions. 
To maintain and improve the system, Keller says that the Career Center is "always looking to develop relationships with a variety of employers." While opportunities for business and engineering majors always have been numerous, the center has made great strides in recent years in making connections for Arts and Letters and science students. Thanks to Go IRISH, such connections have become increasingly easy to maintain. 
Accordfng to Keller, students should begin using Go IRISH as soon as possible. As early as freshman year, students can open an account, create a profile and familiarize themselves with the general workings of the system. To accomplish this, 15-minute appointments with career counselors are available from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and daily walk-in hours are from 1 :30 to 4 p.m. Students encouraged to search for internships after sophomore year and for professions once they become seniors. {j 
· While Go IRISH doesn't eliminate the anxiety of internship and job searching, it certainly ameliorates the --· ~ process. This new technology, paired with the intelligence and drive of the typical Domer, could spring many ND if graduates to places that they never imagined. 

••,_; :_:: ":~?:·, .·-,~•::..l,~~#:; ':':[f."·) :,::;_;:.,:..-:: ~--:: ·-:7':} ii,>:,.:,:.~;:'.:~ 

,;,;,m -fr•W•,_;:'l)'t{h"""r :.>f ~s,.,z~ 1!h#8'!~·,.,-'-'S:::S;,~\ ,A•·•'fv·;~$,:,.,:>-,-,-:Oi'C',1\J\:-'-:~·,y, :;,:,;_.>,":)>'"(' ;?,•,,:,t;'.: ...~:,•,>.;c,,,v,-\';£\V-.·" r i.i-'" '"":Sx,&f, .,\"-" 'f• _,J''. :.-~ 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 
ii:: ,,·., 
If 


.
j. 

cannot predict their hiring needs until that time," he says. He concedes that Arts and Letters majors might have a more diffi­cult time finding interviews; however, he stresses that they are just as qualified for many jobs in business and that companies are interested in them. For example, Goldman Sachs's top ana­lyst last year was a 1999 American studies graduate. That six out of the 14 students selected for the Chicago tour were Arts and Letters majors says a lot. "Each firm [on the tour] stressed that a finance background was not necessary," Babonas says. "They will teach you what you need to know; each firm said they were looking for people that would fit well within the orga­nization, regardless of their undergrad major." 
A company that recruits exclusively at the Arts and Letters Career Fair is McKinsey & Co., a strategy-consulting firm that works on international high-importance strategic issues for some ofthe largest companies in the world. Geno Fernandez, currently an engagement manager at McKinsey, was a '97 Notre Dame graduate in philosophy, theology and classics. "Students directly out of college are generally hired as analysts, a job that requires a lot of face time with the client," he says. "We are looking for well-rounded, intelligent students who can communicate .... We are open to [Arts and Letters majors] because we know the type of person we want can be found in any major -science, engi­neering, liberal arts or business." 
Obviously, the perception that Arts and Letters students can't compete with business majors doesn't seem to be true. This is not to say, however, that O'Shaggers can dismiss the amount of time they should spend trying to find a career. "Ifyou are, say, a philo major, we might need to write more cover letters and do more research to be prepared, and it may be three times the amount of work," Svete says. "It is not difficult, but it is time­consuming. Students are bright, they can figure it out, but they just have to devote time to it." 
This time is admittedly difficult for many students to find. Svete says: "I think we are stich a well-rounded university that it is difficult to create time. You are challenged academically, are expected to be in community service and many of you were stu­dent leaders since high school. Those three elements and a little bit of sleep takes up 99 percent of your time." He contends that students should treat finding a job like an independent study, carving out time to devote to career searching. 
Students who have had some success with the center concur. 
"I do feel like I have to put in extra work," Flood says. "The 
CAPP major will open a lot of doors to jobs in the information­
technology field, butI know I'm not looking at that. I constantly letter, they know how to use Go IRISH," he says. "They can come to the table with a greater awareness." 
Many other students, even those planning on attending gradu­ate, medical or law school, can benefit from the center. "I had one appointment with Anita Rees, a career counselor, for my resume," says senior peace studies and government major Eden Essex, who plans to apply to law school. "It was extremely helpful -her advice for pulling together my resume was excellent. She was very attentive, diligent and followed up with me to make sure I was happy with the finished product." This year the Ca­reer Center set up panels for students applying to grad schools and for students facing the challenges of medical-school inter­views. The latter drew more than 100 students. 
So, with services abounding, why do many students choose not to attend Career Center workshops? Why don't they try to meet with counselors? The most common answers to these ques­tions are students' feelings of uncertainty and, often, a sense of not belonging. "I think you feel out of place when you are just browsing in the Career Center," Flood says. ''The center is great if you know what you want, but otherwise it doesn't seem to know what to do with you." 
Svete acknowledges this difficulty, especially in the Arts and Letters area. "It is true that Arts and Letters majors must do more groundwork because they often don't know what they want to do, and their academic major is not necessarily what they end up doing in their careers," he says. "For example, I'm a history major, and I am now directing the Career Center .... I've been there, No one wanted to interview me when I was on campus, so you just have to work hard." 
The center is con~nuing in its quest to make finding a job easier for the entire Notre Dame community, not just undergrads. "Our efforts for graduate students-our comprehensive career service -is just beginning," Svete says. "We are building a site on Go IRISH for graduate students, and the first graduate-stu­dent career fair will be held in the next year." The center also is looking into services for alumni. "We are also going to have a job-posting board for alums, so when they coni:e out of medical school or law school, they can jump on Irish Online and find jobs and positions just for ND alums," Svete says. 
The Career Center makes the challenge of finding a job a lot easier, and the only way students can find out what it has to offer is by trekking over to Flanner Hall. The most important thing any student -senior or freshman -can do is visit the center. "They have an amazing amount ofresources and many different contacts and connections," Babonas says. "Once you get to the Career Cen­
-•:c: c c,.; c. > H·c,.•,wcF•<mY ••«•<·c•-·-•·-¥.'""·•·-· y ··••c.-•"•"w••"• --.. ·•-.,,,, ,,,<-. · ~,,..:·•·•-"'•..---•·••.-•,___,_, -. ••--. .,_"'•-·;;.;, •~, 

, ;· •,..... 
EAD 
Array of internships gives students a crack at the real world 
0nee upon a time the summer was about hanging out, having fun and making some cold cash on the side. Increasingly, however, Notre Dame students are using their summers as spring­boards for post-graduate career opportunities through internships. While the type of internship can vary widely, ranging from cor­porate to non-profit to service-oriented, they bring benefits to both students' resumes and their educations. "It's becoming a very important component of a student's education," says Robin Sullivan, internship coordinator for the Career Center. "I tell stu­dents that it's a building process that you can't skip. It makes the transition much easier, to quote the real world." Internships allow students to preview a potential career and make connections within the field for the future. "Especially when you're in the College ofBusiness, an internship is a good way to preview your major without making a commitment, and it's a good way to get your foot in the door with a company and make connections," says Lindsay Wing, a senior accounting major who worked as an audit intern last summer with PricewaterhouseCoopers. Notre Dame's Washington program allows students to attend classes and intern for 20 to 25 hours a week in Washington. Ac­cording to program director John Erikson, it strives to match students' placements with their interests. "Sometimes students come here thinking they want to do one thing, have an intern­ship in it, discover they don't like it and switch mid-semester to another internship," he says. "Students can actualize what they're learning in classes and tangibly figure out what they want to do during their careers." Senior government major Maureen McCulloh initially chose to intern at a non-profit organization for her semester in Wash­ington, but switched early on when she found the organization had misrepresented some ofits views. "I also realize.d that being in Washington, I really wanted to do something directly govern­ment-oriented," she says. "So I went to our program director and he helped me to secure an internship with Congressman [Pe­ter J.] Visclosky [D-Ind.].'! While students from the colleges of Business and Engineer­ing generaily have the highest rates of participation in summer internships, these opportunities allow Arts and Letters students to get business experience. PLS major Paul Schofield, for ex­ample, spent the summer writing Web text and recruiting bro­chures for a Manhattan consulting firm. "I decided that ifI wanted to work in the corporate world after graduation, I should use my summer to gain some experience," he says. "My experience didn't relate to my schoolwork, but was rather more oriented toward educating me about what I might do after college.'' The corporate and governmental spheres are not the only places 
SEARCHING Two students seek last-minute tips from a career counselor before approaching recruiters at the 2001 Business Forum. 
where students can find internships. The Summer Service Project Internship program, run by the Center for Social Concerns, pro­vides a wholly different experience, but one that program direc­tor Sue Cunningham argues is equally marketable. Roughly 190 students participate each summer volunteer at sites -ranging from homeless shelters to AIDS hospices -all over the coun­try. "Having this on their transcript and resume gives them the heads-up over anyone who has not gone outside their field or classroom," Cunningham says. "It's a very important part of the educational process . . . recognizing the different issues that plague so many people. That doesn't mean you have to be a social worker. It means you're an educated person and you know how to vote and which organizations you might want to donate your money to.'' 
Senior Colleen Clarke's participation in an SSP during the summer after her sophomore year lead to her interest in gaining an internship in Washington the following summer. Her direct experience working in a home for abused and neglected chil­dren for eight weeks led to an interest in child-welfare policy. "I decided that an internship [in Washington] would allow me to see what I experienced working with the children from a differ­ent angle," she says. Clarke's concentration in the Hesburgh Pro­gram in Public Service provided her with the funding and con­tacts to secure an internship with the Child Welfare League of America. "I was primarily a research intern, although I was able to do some lobbying work on Capitol Hill for the league," she says. 
Cunningham also recommends the Accion internships that the CSC runs for junior business majors. A micro-lending organiza­tion serving those without a credit history, Accion has several sites across the United States, most of which are connected to a local bank. "Most [business majors] think they have to go to a Big Five firm," Cunningham says, "but ifyou go to one ofthese, you're hands-on in everything: helping people set up their books, account, credit lines, etc." 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 



While the assertive action needed to get an internship might be useful down the road for job searches, it can also deter some students from cashing in on this invaluable experience. So, in a move to make more internship resources readily available to stu­dents, the Career Center has begun consolidating the_multiple internship opportunities currently available around campus. The colleges of Business and Engineering, for example, both hold career and internship fairs at which students can learn about the Career Center and Go IRISH. Likewise, several departments within the College of Arts and Letters coordinate their own in­ternships, and the Career Center is beginning to get on board. The Career Center also offers The Odyssey-a quarterly Intern­ship newsletter mailed to Notre Dame students -online re­sources, specific internship descriptions with application dead­lines and feedback from former interns. 
The Internet potentially is the most valuable resource for pro­spective interns. The Career Center utilizes two databases for the coordination of internship information: The ND Intern Cen­ter -a database of 100 schools nationwide that can be useful for students looking to spend their summer in a specific part of the country -and Go IRISH. "I found the Career Center very 
\: 
useful," says Wmg, whose interview with PricewaterhouseCoop­ers was set up online. "I set myself up on Go IRISH and had them review my resume. In my experience, a lot ofpeople use it because it's really helpful, and it's difficult to make contacts sometimes." 
The Career Center is also looking to expand into the local sector. "Typically our office has been focused on the summer," Sullivan says. "We're looking at spring and fall internships now in the local business arena so we can utilize what we have here." International internships are another possibility that the center can help students look into. 

An important opportunity for Notre Dame students could be Career Center Director Lee Svete's proposal to create an intern­ship endowment of $15 million to $20 million, thus yielding $150,000 to $200,000 to spend each year. ''That's 200 intern­ships we wouldn't normally have," he says. "I can send you to the Mayo Clinic and have you do an internship without having 
. to worry about living away from home, having money to live on and doing your internship in Rochester [Minn.]" 
Despite the Career Center's work, many students have used personal contacts to instigate the interview process. Senior chemi­cal-engineering major Johnny Kutney did not use the Career Center to obtain his summer job with a small engineering-con­sulting firm. He says that although "they [the Career Center] have a lot of resources which can be helpful, ... you have to be aggressive and get out there in front of the companies." 
Perhaps the most valuable internship resource the Career Cen­ter provides is knowledge what one needs to get to the inter­view. "It is easy to say, 'I know how to write my resume' or, 'I know where to look to apply,' but the people at the Career Cen­ter spend their lives doing these things," Schofield says. "They know how to write a resume and fmd a job better than you do." 
''The value [ ofinternships] to the student is self-development," Sullivan says. "It is a different kind oflearning -by observing what those around you are modeling and by skill-building. The importance of internships is huge. It's out of control. It's not going to go away." -Kristin Kramer 
So, you get all set up on Go IRISH, your upload your resume and you are now searching for the career of your dreams -only now you discover that there is not a single job on Go !RISH that interests you. Or, maybe you want to work in Albuquerque. Traditionally, specific companies recruit at Notre Dame, and those companies are usually larger financial service firms based in the Midwest and Northeast. "If you are interested in small­to medium-sized companies, an industry that has limited opportunities, or a specific geographic location then your job search must extend beyond Go IRISH," says career counselor Paul Reynolds. Here are some tips to make tt1e search a whole lot easier. 
N~pw your options. It_ is imp?rtant to focus on _a f:;o:ipn_ageable number of mdustnes and geographic 
locations. A good place to start is a self-assessment session with a counselor in the Career Center. You have to know what you're looking for before you start the search. 
U~~Jhe Career Center. L_ocate~ on the first floor of @17!~nner Hall, there are directories, computers and ~unselors there to help you with your job search. 
Su~phe Web. With hundreds of job-hunting sites, the @.lpt'efnet is a valuable resource. Some the career center @1Toommends include Monster.com, Rileyguide.com, Vault.com and Wetfeet.com. General searches on Yahoo 
_ and Google also can be worthwhile. 
All mithe family. Notre Dame boasts one o·f the largest Cilf;4iliPs of active alumni. There is an alumni club in just ~trout every corner of the globe. Contact a club or attend 
one of the Career Center's alumni-networking sessions. Before contacting a club, meet with a career counselor to help you with the letters and follow-up. 

ffy and contact. Once you find a company that ould like to work at, get a name. Call up human rces or the specific department and ask to whom you send a job inquiry. This makes sure your cover letter and resume get to the right desk. _ 
Be persistent. In these slow economic times, ·the job 
ma_, tis small, but there are companies still hiring. Just ·" looking and _it will all work out If you have hausted all possible resources in a certain direction, 
it might be time to change tactics, and, once again, meeting with a career counselor can help. 
-Crissy Manary 


18 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 



r 
To Love and to Serve 


Father Bill Lies returns to Notre Dame, bringing years of experience with him 
MICHELLEOTTO 
Which of the Lies (pronounced lease) brothers did you see walk ing across South Quad last week? Was it the Rev. Jim Lies, who in recent years has been rector of Zahm Hall, or was it the Rev. Bill Lies, a resident priest in Alumni Hall? If you answered Father Bill, you're probably right, be­cause it's his tum to hang around Notre Dame for a while. The Rev. William Lies, CSC, has often been mistaken for his twin brother around a concentration in Latin America. He has a diverse background in political sciences and Latin American studies, particularly with an emphasis in religion and poli­tics. 

Largely as a result of this experience, he has been chosen as a candidate to take over the executive directorship of the Center for Social Concerns next year while the Rev. Don McNeill -the cur­rent director -pursues other projects. "I will follow in the rather large footsteps of Father Don," he says, "which won't be easy, as he's a formidable character around here and has done an amaz­
ing job of devel­oping the center through the years." Bill Lies describes the job as "a great posi­tion for me. . . . It excites me to put the CSC at the heart of my apos­tolic life, as well as making it part of the focus of my academic and in­tellectual pur­

HELPING HAND The Rev. Bill Lies made the decision to enter the priesthood after working with the underpriviledged in Chicago after his college graduation. His experience in service has led to his being named a candidate to replace Rev. Don McNeil! as executive director of the Center for Social Concerns. 
campus because since the mid-l 980s, one of the Lies brothers almost constantly has been on campus. "We have literally traded places four or five times," Father Bill says. "Some people joke that there is re­ally just one of us. The mix-ups go both ways. Thankfully, it doesn't bother us, be­cause if it did, we would both be total psycho basket-cases." 
Bill Lies returned to campus this year as a guest scholar at the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, working on scholarly writings and his dissertation for his doctorate in comparative politics with suits," 
Bill Lies's long­
standing passion 
for volunteer ser­
vice makes him an 

ideal candidate for this job. His extensive volunteerism drew him to the priesthood. Despite strong ties with the church growing up, he says, he didn't really consider the priesthood dur­ing his college years at St. John's Uni­versity in Minnesota, his home state. Af­ter graduation, however, he had a few ex­periences that he often describes as "for­mative." They guided him to his deci­sion to become a priest. 
Right out of college, Bill Lies spent a year working at the House of Connec­tions, an adult-education center that works primarily with African-Americans and Latinos on the near-west side of Chicago. There he taught classes, focusing on such adult-education programs as high-school equivalency and English as a second lan­guage. A few years after his Chicago ex­perience, Lies evaluated his chosen path. "I knew that my faith was central and de­cided that if I didn't look into the priest­hood, given what my priorities were, I would be doing myself, and God, a dis­service," he says. "By sheer grace, this is the path God had in mind for me." 
While on the Notre Dame campus for the first time -during his candidate year with the Congregation of the Holy Cross -Bill Lies began to form ties to the CSC through the Community of International Lay Apostolate, where he worked with students and helped organize serv~ce events. Shortly thereafter, he began work on his masters of divinity degree. While pursuing this degree, Lies traveled to Chile for a year and a half, where he says he "experienced the Latin American cul­ture and reality: the poverty, the people, political situations, everything." He worked in Povlacion, a poor sector of Santiago, and particularly in Collegio Andacollo, a Holy Cross-sponsored K-12 school. He taught in the elementary grades and helped in campus ministry, all the while doing his own studies at the Catholic University of Chile. 
Eventually he had to leave Chile and return to Notre Dame, where he finished his degree. And after spending nine years in both California and Pittsburgh, Bill-Lies is back on campus, in Alumni Hall. "The guys in Alumni are great, and, because I'm on the first floor hallway, I see a lot ofthem as they wander by," he says. "Unfortunately, I don't get to spend as much time there as l'dlike;I'mmostly researching and writ­ing." 
Although he hasn't had much time to make new friends, Bill Lies doesn't have to worry about being lonely. "I, of course, am running into 'friends'.that I've never seen before at all, because they think I'm Jim," Bill Lies says. "But that's OK with me.... It's half the fun!" . 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 19 




that people say when they don't think anyone's listening. The Gipp would like to pass along two such tidbits for your delight. The first: 
Overheard at a recent home game, uttered by two young women attired in SMC gear: Girl 1: "You are such a slut. You had sex with that guy for some dope!" Girl 2: "Man, I was just taking one for the team. You smoked it, too." 
The second quote is, as the tipster himself suspected, "too foul to print," so allow the Gipper to merely suggest its contents. A young woman attendee of Boston College was at a 
bar the night before the ND-BC game, doing plenty of what people do in bars, and decided that she needed a good pick­up line to grab a young man's attention. She was successful. Let's just say, the Gipper will never think of a Wiffle-ball bat again without calling to mind this woman's colossal boast. If you're hav­ing trouble figuring this one out, maybe that's for the best. 
Well, Gipplings, that's about it for this issue. Before going, though, the Gipp would like to ask you for help in overturning an_oppressive administra­tive precepi. You see, Gipp fans, the Gipper is almost 107 years old, and he is having a bit of trouble coaxing his aging manhood back into its old "Wiffle-baU bat" glory days. To his great delight, he received a Viagra of­fer in his e-mailbox last week with the claim that "in less than 5 minutes you can complete the on-line consultation 
and in many cases have the medication in 24 hours." Unfortunately, after he built up his courage and clicked on the link, the Gipper was met with a distressing message: Users of the ca,npus network are banned from visiting the provider's site. 
Looks· like the OIT has been cutting straight to the jugular with this new security initiative; 
Happy Thanksgiving, everyone. Remem­ber your old Uncle Gipp once the gravy is flowing and the underthings are showing. . 





Junior Justin Ratcliffe is a versatile weapon in the Irish backfield, splitting time between the two fullback slots, as well serving as the center of the defense. He came to Notre Dame after a highly decorated high-school career that included play­ing for the U.S. under-18 national team. As an Irish player, Ratcliffe has been a constant, appearing in all but six games since joining the team in 1999. 
I chose to come to Notre Dame be­cause: it was the best academic school on my list of schools. I didn't want to go to an established soccer school and be just another player. I wanted to go to a program in the early stages and help it build. 
I prepare for a game by: doing what Coach Clark calls the "wee" things ­get a good night's sleep, a good meal and get mentally and physically prepared for the game. 
My most memorable experience at Notre Dame is: this past Saturday night, when we hosted our first playoff game and beat Georgetown, 1-0. 
The biggest difference between Coach Clark and former Coach Apple is: that a good coach needs to not only be knowl­edgeable of the game, but also have a way with 18-to 21-year-olds, and Coach Clark has that understanding. 
The most satisfying game of the year was: when we went to Indiana Univer­sity. We were 6-4, and we battled them and beat them at home when they were sixth in the country. 
The final score of the Big East semifi­nal Saturday against Saint John's will 
be: in our favor, if we do everything we can possible right. 
The winner of the 2002 World Cup will be: Argentina. France has a team, but Argentina has looked really good in the qualifiers. 
After graduation, I hope to: play soc­cer. Hopefully it will be an option. Ifnot, I'll fall back on accounting. 
If I could play another sport, it would be: football, just because I played when I was young, and it's a fun sport, maybe just a little too brutal. 
The hardest class I've taken at Notre Dame is: Theology 200. The class is taught from a Catholic perspective, and I'm not Catholic, so it's a little harder. 
-Gerard Meskill 


Jerry's Jabber 
The men's soccer team secured its first Big East semifinal berth since 1997, defeating Georgetown 1-0 on Alumni Field last Satur­day. M Chad Riley scored his first goal of the season, which stood as the game­winner. The Irish face St. John's in Storrs, Conn. on Friday.... The women's soccer team won its seventh consecutive Big East title on Sunday, edg­ing West Virginia, 2-1. M Randi Scheller scored the winning goal on a rebound after M Mia Sarkesian's header clanged off the crossbar. The Irish host their NCAA Tournament first-round matchup against Eastern Illinois on Friday.... The Irish fencing team defeated host Penn State en route to a first­place finish at the Penn State Open last Saturday and Sunday. Ozren Debic, Jan Viviani, Alicja Kryc­zalo and Carianne McCul­lough all won their individ­ual events at the competi­tion.... Last week, the men's basketball team concluded its perfect pre­season with a 95-70 vict­ory over the EA Sports Midwest All-Stars. F David Graves scored 26 points and freshman PG Chris Thomas added 16 points in the victory. The Irish open the season on Friday at home against New Hampshire.... Irish volley­ball clinched its third straight Big East title last Saturday, defeating Seton Hall 3-0. Kristy Kreher and Kim Fletcher led the Irish attack, each contrib­uting 11 kills. The victory was Notre Dame's 19th straight at the Joyce Cen­ter and fifth overall this season. The Irish next take the court on Saturday in the Big East Championships in Pittsburgh. 
0 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 





Just last month, the only things baseball fans associated with the word "contraction" were birthing pangs. But times, they are a-changin'. Don't let Commissioner Bud Selig fool you into thinking contraction is for the good of the game. Contraction is good for only one thing: lining owners' pockets. 

On November 4, America was treated to one of its rare and truly great occa­sions. The 2001 World Series advanced to a seventh game. We saw two amazing come­backs in Games 4 and 5 by the New York Yankees, both coming by way ofa long ball with two outs in the ninth inning. We were treated to see one of the game's best pitch­ers, Randy Johnson, throw in Game 7 de­spite having started Game 6. We saw a dramatic comeback by the Diamondbacks in the ninth inning to dethrone the three­time champion Yankees. And then, just 48 hours after one of the game's greatest battles reminded us of those forgotten days when baseball was pure, puppet master Bud Selig pulled up the curtain, reminding everyone that so long as he is pulling the strings, the game can never again be great. 
Selig, baseball's commissioner, marched to the podium and spoke on behalf of all the owners, a collective of which he is -unethi­cally -still a member. The "unbiased" head ofbaseball and 35-percent owner ofthe Mil­waukee Brewers announced that owners would vote whether or not to excise two teams from Major League Baseball. In that vote, baseball's owners almost unanimously decided that two teams would be eliminated. For the good of the game, that is. Or sq they say. 
Although the victims have not been se­lected yet, the most likely choices are the Montreal Expos and the Minnesota Twins. The Expos have drawn baseball's smallest crowds for several years now and are an obvious choice. On the other hand, the Twins are likely to go because billionaire owner Jim Pohlad cannot get the community to fund a new ballpark, and he refuses to stretch a hand into one of his own deep, deep pockets. But then, this isn'tsurprising, considering the man made his fortune by collecting debts during the Great Depression. And so, because oftheir owner's greediness, the Twins likely will be eliminated. These same Twins are the team that won the World Series in 1987 and 1991. The same team that looked down at the rest of the American League Central for much ofthe 2001 season. 
And it makes me sick. 
But the owners, especially the one pretend­ing to be a commissioner, aren't the only ones to blame. You don't need to look any farther than your own favorite club to find the rest. Men are earning obscene salaries to play a game for a living. Alex Rodriguez is slated to make $252 million to fulfill his contract with the Texas Rangers. The dead-last Rangers. 

Afterjust one year, that.contract doesn't look all that great. But fortunately for Rangers' owner Thomas 0. Hicks, he doesn't need to worry. After all, it's Rangers' fans that pay Rodriguez's salary, and a little bit extra for Mr. Hicks himself. And each year, some teams win and some teams lose. And each year some owners and players win, and all fans lose. 
And then there's contraction. In the most disgusting act oflustful greed since the lock­out of 1994, baseball owners renewed their war with the players' association just as the latest labor contract expires. This time, they aren't going to stop baseball games every­where for a limited time, though. Instead, they want to stop baseball games in two cities forever. Selig claims that contraction is neces­sary because baseball has expanded too quickly and too many venues are losing money. This would be a plausible argument, except that Montreal and Minnesota aren't exactly new­comers, and the Twins turned a mild profit last year, which I'm sure went directly from the ticket gates to Pohlad's pocket. 
Truth be told, contraction has nothing to do with failed expansion or lost revenue. If that were the case, baseball's owners would be in no rush to push teams out the door and would _ instead use 2002 to make sure that contraction is properly negotiated, aptly aimed at teams that need the boot, and implemented smoothly so as not to bump any elbows. Surprise! The owners don't give a damn about doing things smoothly, because contraction has nothing to do with improving baseball. The labor contract's up, and the owners are flexing their muscles in yet another attempt to control the MLB Player's Association. 
Alas, Selig, the owners and the players alike have proven once and for all that baseball -the game -is dead. All hail baseball the corporation, where the fiercest battles are fought by men in suits in a court­room, not men in uniforms on a diamond, and where the only people with any say are those on a panel, not those in the stands. . 


SPORT: FOOTBALL OPPONENT:NAVY WHERE: NOTRE DAME STADIUM WHEN:SATURDAY,NOVEMBER 17, 2:30 PM It's safe to say the Irish have not played up to their potential this year. Luckily, their opponent Saturday is winless Navy, a team that doesn't even have poten­tial. The Irish take their 38th straight from the Mid-. shipmen, 21-17. 
-Gerard Meskill 
Sports Editor The season is in shambles, but the Irish still are talented enough to handle Navy, which doesn't have the athletes to compete on either side of the ball. The team emphatically ends its string of tough losses, win­ning 41-6. 

-David Murray 
Assistant Sports Editor This weekend, seniors tailgate for their final home football Saturday as students. The party will be complete as the Irish demolish the Midshipmen, 
48-21. 
-Michael Griffin Editor in Chief 

22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 

? 


SCHOL8STIC 
w a n t s y O U 
Now accepting applications for: Departments Editor Photo Editor Assistant Photo Editor Assistant Entertainment Editor 
I Pick up an application in the basement of South Dining Hall or call , -7569 for more information. 
* Only students need apply. 

Can youth and tenacity lead the Irish as they enter the post-Riley-Ivey-Siemon era? 

BRENDANBARKER 
Ayear ago, expectations ran high for the Notre Dame women's basketball team. Led by Naismith College Basketball Player of the Year Ruth Riley and senior point guard Niele Ivey, the Irish glided to a 34-2 record and captured the national championship in dramatic fashion by beating Purdue last April in St. Louis, 68-66. During their ascent to the top, Riley & Co. generated tremendous levels of excitement around campus as students, faculty and admin­istrators became swept up in a frenzy of support for the Irish women. But the team faces a new challenge this year. After graduating Riley, Ivey and three-year starter Kelley Siemon, coach Muffet McGraw must incorporate a new group of players to the team, including a freshmen class that produced three Pa­rade All-Americans. Without the triuin-, virate of Riley, Ivey and Siemon, most of the leadership responsibilities will fall on junior guard Alicia Ratay and the team's lone senior, Erika Haney. "Since our team is so young, it's so important for someone with some experience to lead the team on the court," says junior guard Monique Hernandez. Last year, Ratay set the NCAA three­point field-goal percentage mark by con­necting on 54.7 percent of her attempts from beyond the arc. She will be pushed into the role of key player in Riley's ab­sence, For the second consecutive year, she has been selected as a preseason can­didate for Naismith College Basketball Player of the Year Award. After averag­ing 12.9 points and 5.1 rebounds per game and earning third-team all-Big East honors last season, Ratay will shoulder much of the scoring and leadership bur­den this year. "We're expecting Alicia Ratay to be our go-to player," McGraw says. "I think she's somebody that we obviously need to shoot the ball a lot." 
Ratay has benefited from Riley's presence for the past two years as de­fenses have focused on stopping Riley at the low post. This allows Notre Dame to utilize an inside-outside game, with Ratay nailing open looks at the top of the perimeter. With defenses now ex-
The team's success will depend on how quickly the younger players come into their own. 
pected to key in on the sharpshooter, McGraw says that Ratay will need to work harder this year in order to be the scorer the Irish need. "I think that other defenses have got to focus on stopping her," she says. "She's the best shooter in the country. They' re not going to give her any open looks, so she's going to have to work harder to come off screens and we've got to work harder to get her open." 
Senior guard/forward Erika Haney is the only other returning starter from the national championship squad. As the team's only senior, Haney must play a larger leadership role than in past sea­sons. After averaging 11.0 points and 
5.7 rebounds per game last year, she also is ready to step into her new role. 
Haney is an excellent player at both ends .of the court. With the ability to drive to the basket and pull up for the jumper, she is difficult to defend, a trait of which McGraw hopes to take full ad­vantage. "Erika has some skills that nobody else on the team has," says McGraw. "She has the ability to slash to the basket, and she's also a really good rebounder." 
A team, however, is not made up of two players. The team's success will depend on how quickly the younger players come into their own. Sophomore point guard Le'Tania Severe will be asked to step up her play. Ivey played nearly all the point-guard minutes last season, and her departure creates a great void in that posi­tion. Severe missed a large portion of last season due to injuries, but she is ready to step into the place Ivey vacated. McGraw is con­fident that the transition will be relatively easy. She says: "Severe is going to be the leader of the 
team at the point guard position .... It's a tough spot to fill because Niele Ivey was the point guard for five years, and it will be difficult to replace her leadership and all the other things that she did. It's such a critical position. But I feel a lot better about the point guard spot with Le'Tania." , 
Severe will not handle the point-guard duties alone, though. Fellow sophomore Jeneka Joyce also will have some of the ball-handling responsibilities. Joyce is an excellent compliment to Severe, accord­ing to McGraw. "Jeneka is going to be the backup point guard," she says. "She's a good leader and an intelligent player. I think she compliments Le'Tania well. Le'Tania's a great athlete who can drive it, and J~neka's more of a three-point shooter." McGraw envisions Severe and Joyce combining to fulfill the point-guard responsibilities in a way that will create. match-up problems for opponents. "I think they'll share the point, but they'll also play together some," she says. "It's just a matter of what we need in each par­ticular game." 
>> 

24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


All-American from Washington, also will>> start and be an immediate contributor. 
"Jackie and Teresa are going to be playing 
While Ratay and Haney will provide a lot of minutes for us," McGraw says. · the Irish with some familiar faces in the "Those two are playing very well." 
backcourt, the frontcourt will be consid-With such a high turnover in players, the 
erably different. Junior center Amanda atmosphere surrounding the team this sea­
Barksdale is the only player on the ros-son is starkly different from the champi­
ter who had any SPORTSINFORMATION-MATTCASHORE onship expecta­
playing time down tions that hounded 
low for Notre last year's squad. 
Dame last season. Last season's edi-
Barksdale played tion entered the 
well during last year as one of the 
season's stretch elite teams in the 
run, but she has country. After sus­
been hampered by \ taining the losses 
injuries so far this · of three starters, 
season. "We really however, the Irish 
miss her out . fell to 14th in the 
there," McGraw preseason coaches' 
says. "We need poll. Some might 
that presence in . view this season as 
the lane, that shot­a rebuilding year. 
blocking ability. : Indeed, there will 
We're really anx­be some learning 
ious for her to get pains for this 
back." Without • group, particularly 
Riley, Barksdale on the defensive 
also will be asked side of the ball. · 
to do more on the "Right now 
offensive end of we're on a learning 
the court, but it is curve, especially 
unlikely that any 
on defense," 
HANGIN' TOUGH Senior forward Erika
single presence on McGraw says.
Haney stays in triple-threat position during 
the court will 
'!We've got a lot of
last year's national championship season. As 
match Riley's 
the Irish gear up for another run at the title, 
high-school defen­numbers from last 
Haney, the only senior on the Irish squad, 
sive players out 
will provide invaluable leadership. 
season. "We're 
there, but this is a going to have to 
different level of 
have a team effort play. So as soon as 
to replace what she did for us," McGraw they understand how to play better defense 
says. "I don't think any one person is we'll be a better team." 
going to be able to come in and do But the Irish are unwilling to accept this 
[that]." season as a rebuilding year, and they ex­
Enter two nationally regarded fresh­pect nothing less than their best effort. "Our 
men, Jackie Batteast and Teresa Borton. No. 1 goal is to play to our potential, to 
Batteast was a first-team Parade All­play as a cohesive unit, and as a team," 
American a year ago, coming out of Ratay says. McGraw agrees: "We're an ex­
Washington High School in South Bend. tremely balanced team," she says. "We've 
Leading this talented group offreshmen, never really had the kind of depth that we 
she will be expected to play a major role have now. We're not going to rely on one 
for the Irish in filling the void left by person, although we certainly expect Ali­
Riley. Borton, a second-team Parade cia to be doing a lot of scoring for us. But we've got a lot of people that can help her. In the past, we've relied heavily on Ruth. But this year we have the ability to play more people. We don't have to worry about protecting some­one from trouble like we did with Ruth, and we don't have to worry about someone getting tired like we did with Niele." 

The Irish will need that balance in a talented Big East Conference that in­cludes preseason No. 1 and defending Big East champion Connecticut, which held the nation's top billing last year until Notre Dame defeated it in the Fi­nal Four to advance to the champion­ship game against Purdue. Notre Dame also will face other tough Big East op­ponents such as Boston College, Georgetown, Villanova and Virginia Tech. 
"We're picked to finish second, but to even come in the top five in the con­ference will be hard with so many good teams," Hernandez says. "I don't think any game will be easy this year." 
But Notre Dame's toughest opposition might not be on the schedule, though. The unparalleled success of last year's championship team leaves a large shadow over the Joyce Center. The pres­sure of living up to the standard of the Riley-and-Ivey-era Irish is a lot to ask of anyone. But McGraw believes that her team will not be affected by any ghosts of the past. "I feel that we're a whole new team, in a whole new era," she says. "Ifwe had more returning play­ers then maybe it would be different, but we don't talk about last year very much. I don't knowhow the players feel about it but we try not to bring it up at all." 
The Irish are ready to look toward the future and continue to build on last year's championship, rather than be distracted by it. And with another strong freshmen class and a solid core of returning players, they come into this season bent on hanging another championship flag in the Joyce Cen­ter. . 
Gerard Meskill contributed to this story. 



;  .  '  .  ~  .  '  . ­ - ~  -- 
-~  - 
~  
: .  26 ,SCHOl.:ASTIC~PORTS  .  . .  
-.':.  - '  ~ ' .  - ~  .  ..  _. '  -- .  "' . ....  '  




The Wizard of Oz 
ND fencer makes a name for himself in South Bend and beyond 
DAVIDMURRAY 
Unless you are a member or a close supporter of the Notre Dame fenc­ing team, you probably have never heard the name Ozren Debic -but with a stellar summer full of notable fencing accom­plishments, this junior foilist's name could soon become as familiar to the Irish commu­nity as it is in the fencing world. Since the end of last season, the talented Debic has displayed his ability at a number of tournaments. The most notable of these was the World Championships in Nimes, France. Competing with the best fencers in the world, including a number of representatives from the 2000 Olympics, Debic managed an out­standing 24th-place finish. The Croatian na­tive finished higher than all of his fellow coun­trymen and all American competitors, and he placed only one spot below the 2000 Olym­pic gold medalist, Korean Young-Ho Kim. Prior to fencing in the World Championships several weeks ago, Debic competed in the Mediterranean Games in Tunis, Tunisia, and in the University Gaines in Beijing. Debic enjoyed success in both of these competitions as well, placing fifth in the Mediterranean Games and 28th in the University Games. In the preliminary round of the World Championships, Debic lost only one bout. This earned him an automatic bid in the sec­ond round, where he fenced against Ukraine's Alexei Bryzgalov. Though Debic felt that he had control of the match, Bryzgalov capital­ized on some of his mistakes and took a 14-9 lead-and the 15th point is the match. Debic calmly fought his way back, scoring the six consecutive touches necessary to win the match and advance to the round of 32. Unfortunately, his run ended there, as he was eliminated 15-10 by Italy's Salvatore Sanzo, the eventual champion of the tourna­ment. Though Debic had suffered defeat by a rather large margin to the highly touted Sanzo in their first confrontation several years ago, the Domer was not apprehensive about fac­ing him again. "I went into the bout not ex­pecting· too much of it," Debic says. ''I was feeling good. I wasjust trying to do my best and see how far I could go." 
Irish fencing coach Yves Auriol was in Nimes to watch Debic com­pete at the World Championships, and he was impressed by what he saw. "Croatia is not really a big fencing country, so he is by far the biggest fencer for the country," Auriol says. "He is really a good ' fencer at the international level. The big fencing countries realize that he is a n:al challenge for them. I thinkitwas a great perfonnance." 
Debic feels that the tournaments in which he competed during the last offseason have been instru­mental in building his confidence as well as in providing him with valuable experience. "In the first two years that! was at Notre Dame, 

EN GARDE This summer, Ozren Debic competed against the world's best on his way to a stellar 24th-place finish at the World Championships. 
I didn't attend a lot of World Cups or go to a lot of tournaments," he says. "When I did, they didn't go too well, so I wasn't re­ally sure how good I was. This offseason, I gained a lot of confidence and enthusiasm." 
As a result, Debic says that his next goal is to qualify for the 2004 Olympics in Athens. "It will basically depend on how well I do over the next two seasons," he says. "The hardest part for me will be to qualify because fencing is a team event, and in the European zone, with all of the other big fencing coun­tries, for someone from Croatia to qualify [is very difficult]." 
Debic has come a long way since he began fencing in his hometown of Zagreb, Croatia when he was 11 years old. After seeing a tele­vision segment on the sport, he decided to beginfencing in the gym across the street from his house. After about five months of prac­tice, Debic entered his first tournament, the under-14 national championship of Croatia, and he earned a fifth-place finish. Within a year of learning the sport, he won the open championship of Zagreb. This would be the first of many victories in his career. Overall, he has collected more than 35 medals in his 11 years of fencing and has garnered more than a dozen first-place finishes. 
Debic first considered attending Notre Dame after one of his good fencing friends came to the school to do chemistry research. 

The friend eventually became an assistant coach for the Irish fencing program and urged Debic to consider coming to South Bend. ''I didn't even look at any other colleges," Debic says. "It was the one college that I felt I knew enoughabout, soIdecidedthat!wouldgo there." 
Debic joined the Irish fencing team in the fall of 1999, and his presence only has helped an already-strong program. One year ago, the Irishcombinedmen's andwomen'sfencing team finished third overall at the NCAA Champion­ship Tournament The stellar fencing of Debic was one of the key components in the team's strong perfonnance last season. He competed with a fracture in his foot and still mustered a fifth-place finish: The previous year, a healthy Debic placed second in the same event 
"He's a natural fencer," Auriol says. "He is very fast, quick, strong, and he is proving that besides training at this level, he is a very good student. At Notre Dame, we stress that a lot. Sometimes he's missing a week or two, but he manages tokeephis grades up. He's a greatkid" 
There can be no doubting that Debic's fenc­ing future is promising. Despite the disadvan­tage of fencing for a relatively weak Croatian national team, his dream of fencing before a large international crowd in the Olympics might very well become reality. But for now, he will focus his talents on dazzling the Irish faithful back in South Bend. . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27 


,... / 

ALEXANDRAGIERAK 
You've been there: You've been in the middle of a heated 
argument when, from out of nowhere, someone throws a 
. verbal punch that leaves you silent, exposed and hurt. Your automatic response is to shrink back. But playwright Lanford Wil­son encourages the members of his audience to bring their deepest feelings into the light, to accept their imperfections and to hold nothing back. 
. "Make it as personal as you can," he writes. "Believe me, you can't imagine a feeling everyone hasn't had. Make it personal, tell the truth, and then write 'burn this' on it." 
Wilson puts these lines in the mouth of a character from his 1987 play Bum This, a production of which senior FIT major Kathleen Lane will direct here at Notre Dame. Personal it is, and controver­sial as well, but it is more truthful and thought-provoking than any­thing else. 
The title stems from the actions of Wilson himself, who would write the words "bum this" at the top ofhis own preliminary scripts to remind himself not to hold anything back in his writing. Think­ing that no one else would read his work allowed Wilson to write more ,openly. In Burn This, Wilson sets out to tell a realistic story about'honest characters learning not to hide their imperfections. 
The play follows the self-discovery and growth of a New York dancer and choreographer, Anna (Tara Magnani), after the death of her gay roommate Robby. While she and her other roommate Larry! (Steve Hoeplinger), who is also homosexual, cope with Robby's death, Anna's romantic life takes an unexpected turn when Robby's older brother, Pale (Sean Nelson), comes into the picture and makes her reconsider her current relationship with Burton (Chas Grundy). 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
Stu 
•.,, ._ 

-
Although the characters, setting and basic situation invite 
comparisons to Rent, the similarities end there. Unlike the mu­
sical, Wilson's play 1s not plot-driven. There is no major con­
flict, instead there is a series of confrontations between the char­
acters. "Burn This is a play about people," Hoeplinger says. 
"There aren't any extraordinary special effects. There's no great 
moral theme." 
"The play just deals with how people live and love," he adds. 
"Specifically, how four people cope when a friend or relative dies." 
Lane brings the one-time Broadway play to campus as a final 
project for her advanced-directing class, an elective, independent­
study course that requires the student to choose, research and ulti­
mately direct a play at the Washington Hall lab theater. Although 
students are not required to do an advanced-directing final, Lane 
chose to take the class as she would like to pursue a directing career 
after graduation. 
The purpose of the task is for the student to put the production 
together on her own, but visiting professor Tony Lawton does serve 
as Lane's faculty advisor for the project. "I meet with him periodi­
cally, and he comes to some of the rehearsals," Lane says. "We 
discuss how things are going and he gives me advice on how I can 
improve the show. Once the show is over, he will grade my direct­
ing." 
Lane read through many scripts before finally choosing Burn This. 
"I prefer drama, with some humor," she says. "Burn This had the 
dry, sarcastic wit I was looking for." She also was attracted by the 
truth she saw in the script. One doesn't have to be an artist living in 
a New York loft to relate to the struggles of the characters in Burn 
This. "I think everyone feels the conflict of what they think they 
want versus what they actually want at some time," Lane says. "It's 
about an argument between your brain and your gut. I think this 
show portrays that feeling while still making the characters likable 
to the audience." 
The realistically imperfect characters of Burn This particularly 
drew Lane to the play. "Burn This is a funny, honest show that 
portrays people as fallible, emotional people, not some shiny, happy, 
unrealistic group," Lane says. "It shows that no matter how messed 
up our lives are, and how much we screw up, things can still work 
out, and life goes on." 
"All the characters are pretty flawed individuals, just like our­
selves," Hoeplinger adds. But this didn't make the actors' jobs any 
easier. Magnani, a junior, has to step in the shoes of the 32-year-old 
Anna, a dancer who is at a transition point oflife. To prepare for the 
role, Magnani spent fall break taking classes at the Broadway Dance 
Theater in New York. The lessons allowed her to "feel what kind of 
life" her character leads. 
Other cast members have the challenge of portraying characters 
with controversial lifestyles and habits. For example, Nelson's char­
acter Pale is a trash-talking cocaine addict. "[Pale is] not who I am, 
but something new," Nelson says. "He gives me room to expand 
my acting range." 
Wilson wanted Burn This to display real characters in real situa­. tions. To do this, he treats homosexuality and explicit language as 
accepted aspects of daily life. This up-front depiction has sparked 
controversy with some audiences, but Lane does not expect such a 
reaction at Notre Dame. "Some ofBum This is controversial, but over­
all I think it will be well-received," she says. "Our audience, for the 
most part, will probably be other people who are involved in theater 
and they are always willing to offer an objective point of view." 
Audiences also should not focus on the controversial nature of · the play. Lane says: "This show really isn't about the controversy or the jokes, it's about basic human emotion. The rest is window dressing." 
Wilson puts his cast of artists in an abandoned lower Manhattan loft, a typical home for New York's struggling bohemians. As Wil­son writes in the stage directions, "It is the sort of place that you would kill for or wouldn't be caught dead in." The character Pale gives his own frank impression of Anne and Larry's apartment: "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's supposed to be arty. Look at it--:-you should make automobile parts here." 
The set design is one of the most unique aspects of Lane's rendition of Burn This. The lab theater works as Anne and Larry's loft, and the audience sits in the center, surrounded by the action. Lane wanted the audience to experience Burn This in an up-front manner. "I want the audience to feel like Burn This is a very honest, realistic look at life," Lane says. "It's not always perfect, it's usually messy and emotional, and you can't always control it." Putting the audience in the middle of the action allows its members to enter the realm of personal con­frontation that the play addresses. 
The lab theater environment presented a challenge for set de­signer Chris Sinnott. "My hardest task in designing this set was to emphasize the architecture of the room," Sinnott says, "which I hope I'v.e accomplished by placing the audience in the middle of the room, sitting on the floor, where they may become envel­oped by the set and the 
show." He and lighting designer Stephanie Buffa worked with the architec­ture of the Washington Hall lab to evoke the de­sired atmosphere. "The setting described in the script is that of a New York industrial room that has been converted into a loft," Sinnott says. "As luck would have it, the architecture of the lab theatre has something of that quality to it already." 
So, there you are, seated in the middle of Anne and Larry's loft. You cannot es­cape the cutting insults nor 


the uncomfortable honesty, but you know them all too well. You nurture bruises and bandage wounds along with the characters and see the love heal but leave a scar. You experience Wilson's personal writings spared fro'm the flames, and walk away from Bum This as you would from a fight, stronger than you were before. 
"I want the audience to relate to what we show them and go away thinking about it," Lane says. "A really good show leaves you think­ing about it long after the lights go down." 0 
Pe1fonnances ofBum This will be held on November 16 and 17 at Washington Hall in the Lab Theater (back ofWashington Hall). Doors open 7p.m., curtain at 7:30 p.m. The show is free. 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 




Double Dipping 
Do-it-yourself dining at Mishawaka's only fondue restaurant 
KATHLEENCORTE 
The waitress sets a silver contraption like a Bunsen burner on our table and lights a fire in front of our eyes. She carefully positions a silver vat filled with peanut oil on top of the flame, hands us skewers and leaves us with a plate of raw vegetables and a bowl of dipping batter to make our own meal. "You guys do all the cooking," G~no Van Vynckt, co-owner of the restaurant Fondue, told us as we scooted into our cushioned booths at the beginning of the 
meal. Most people go out to eat to avoid cooking, but at a fondue restaurant, doing it yourself is what brings you there. 
Located on the third floor of the historic 100 Center in Mishawaka, Fondue lives up to its claim as "Michiana's most unique dining experi­ence." The restaurant origi­nally opened in 1983 as Fonda-U-Fondue, but the owners closed after several years of business. VanVynckt and his parents, who own the 100 Center building, received so many calls asking about the closed fondue restaurant that they reopened it them­selves in January 2000. 
All entrees at Fondue start with a tradi­tional cheese fondue appetizer, which consists ofthree different cheeses blended with white wine and spices. Along with the dish of hot cheese comes a basket filled with assorted bread cubes and apple wedges. Apples dipped in cheese sauce might sound strange, but they turned out to be a surprisingly good combination. 
The second round is where the cooking begins. Entree choices include scallops, shrimp, beef tenderloin, chicken and a vegetarian ,selection. We chose the veg­etarian medley and found ourselves spear­ing fresh mushrooms, onions rings, broc­coli and potatoes, soaking them in the thick batter and then gently lowering each piece into the peanut oil. The waitress also left us with six different dipping sauces, from barbeque to horseradish and honey mustard to sweet-and-sour sauce. After a few minutes, we each reached for our skewers (color~coded, to avoid confusion) and pulled out the glistening, golden-brown pieces. , 
Entree prices range from $15.95 per person for the vegetarian medley to $24.95 for the gourmet combination (a sampler with each different kind of meat), but Fondue also offers items that are a talgic center. The building is all that's left of the now-defunct Kamm and Schellinger Brewing Company, which was destroyed by a fire in 1950. Today, the building is the home of several restau­rants and shops. 
But Fondue will not be upstairs for long. VanVynckt plans to move the res­taurant, which has become crowded as its popularity grows, downstairs in the spring of 2002. Plans for extended hours, per­haps including a lunch menu, are in the works as well. 
The regular dinner menu also will un­


dergo a change, with the addition of vegetable broth as an alternative to the cooking oil used for fry­ing. "The broth to me is a tastier, more-healthy ap­proach to fonduing," VanVynckt says. 
Fondue will open any night of the week to host special parties of over 20 people. The restaurant al­ready has been the scene of several wedding rehearsals -as well as a few wedding proposals-and VanVynckt suggests the locale for up­coming graduation parties. 

DO YOU FONDUE? Seniors Jacki Kiefer and Kat Corte sample apple slices 
As ap. added bonus, stu­

and bread cubes dipped in three-cheese fondue. 
dents receive a 20-percent 
better fit for the student budget. The cheese-and-chocolate combination ($13.95 per person) is a good introduc­tion to the fondue experience, beginning with the cheese fondue appetizer and fol­lowed by a salad. Like all other meals, the finale is a pot of dark chocolate, coated with orange liquor that the wait­ress lights at the table. The chocolate is accompanied by marshmallows, which can be toasted in the flame, and a platter ofpound cake, strawberries, cherries and other fruits that can be dipped into the chocolate sauce after the flame dies out. 
Fondue is a surprisingly romantic res­taurant in the otherwise country-ish, nos-
discount off any entree when they present their student IDs on Wednesday and Thursday nights at the res­taurant. 
We left Fondue three hours after we ar­rived, surprisingly full and eager to come back with all of our friends. Who knew that cooking your own food· could be so much fun? 
Located at 100 North Center in 

· Mishawaka, Fondue is open Wednesday­Thursday from 5 to 9 p.m. and Friday­Saturday from 5 to JOp.m. For reserva­tions or directions, call (219) 257-1792 or log on through the Internet at www.JOOcenter.com. 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

THERE Is A WAY. 

Tom Eckert, C.S.C. 


2003 Ordination Class 

www.nd.edu/-vocation 




Going His Own Way 
With the help of friends, former Percy Hill drummer Aaron Katz finds his voice 
I 
.I 

CARRIESWEENEY 
Fans ofPercy Hill, a New Hampshire­based jam band that has been around since the mid-1990s, have been feel­ing a little uneasy as of late. The chat mom on the band's Web site is filled with worried questions that have gone largely unan­swered: "When are the guys going to per­form again? Are they even still together?" With the release of his first solo album, Simplest Warrio1; former Percy Hill drum­mer Aaron Katz hopes to provide his own response to such questions. The CD is a mixture of reworked Percy Hill tunes and new originals, most of which are edgier and tighter than the long jams associated with Percy Hill. Even with these changes, how­ever, Katz remains true to his roots, and to understand his current sound is to understand where he's come from. The band Percy Hill has undergone sev­eral confusing evolutions since its origina­tion in 1993 at the University ofNew Hamp­shire, but it has always managed to resusci­tate its sound somehow. In its original six­man incarnation, the band debuted its first album, Setting the Boat Adrift ( 1994 ), and it followed up with 1996's Straight On Ti! Morning and Double Feature. But in 1997, four of the six band members quit, leaving music critics and the group's loyal fans alike certain that the band was done. Katz joined the band at this point, after being recruited, along with John Leccese, by remaining band members Nate Wilson and Joe Farrell. In 1999 the new Percy Hill released Color In Bloom, which critics warmly received as a skillful, polished and focused album. However, the success was not enough to keep the group together, and, in 2000, it .disbanded again. "People were going in different directions," Katz says. "After Percy Hill was on the road for two years, we decided to take a break, and right now, [we] have no plans for the future." }:QUQwing the breakup, Katz_worked with the band Earth Suits Off. "In that group, I focused more on guitar," Katz says, "but that band broke up when the drummer left to do different stuff." 
32 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

COURTESY OF PERCY HILL BREAKING AWAY After the band Percy Hill (above) dissolved, drummer Aaron Katz (second from right) wandered the music scene for a while, finally forming the Aaron Katz Band. 
From the remnants ofPercy Hill and Earth Suits Off, Katz started his own band, which . consists ofLeccese (bass and vocals),Andy Gallagher (saxophone and keyboard), Josh Pryor (guitar) and Pete Koeplin (drums). The Aaron Katz Band was born. 
It released Simplest Warrior last fall. "Re­cording Simplest Warrior was totally differ­ent than my previous experience," Katz says. "With Percy Hill, we did our album in a re­cording studio, whereas this one was produced in a friend's bedroom, using a computer, and so we pretty much did it all on our own. We also recorded the live drum tracks in the local high school's band room, so the whole expe­rience was pretty personal." 
Katz used the album as an opportunity to explore his own singing and songwriting skills. More than just a talented drummer, he contributed to more than half the songs on Percy Hill's Color in Bloom, and his voice has been described as reminiscent of Sting and Paul Simon. Katz has been exploring his new roles since September, when the group began touring the east coast to pro­mote Simplest Warrior, performing at clubs and colleges throughout New York, Massa­chusetts, Maine and New Hampshire. He's now heading west, stopping in Ann Arbor, Mich.; Chicago; and St. Louis before com­ing to Notre Dame. "I've never been to Notre Dame, so we're actually excited to get there," Katz says, who admits that his knowl­edge of the school begins and ends with the football team. 
After the repeated disintegration and re­incarnations ofhis recent bands, Katz is feel­ing pretty content and philosophical. He is eager to spread his new sound. "Right now,. we're just focusing on this album," he says. "We just got an RV, so we're committed to some road work and getting out and touring a lot." 
With or without Percy Hill, count on Katz to keep showing up on the music scene. "My goal in life is to always write and always be creative," he says. "I always want to be in there, making music, recording and getting songs on paper." 
Aaron Katz will pe1form on November 16 from 8 to JO p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Notre Dame's Danielle Rose Skorich will open the concert at 7 p.m. An optional $3 donation will benefit Catholic Relief Ser­vices for Afghan refugees in Pakistan. 


You'll Go Down in (Alternate) History 
Ask "What if?" and watch the events unfold 
TIS story is 791 words long. Let's say you read at a rate 
f 27 5 words per minute. That means it will take you about 
three minutes to read it. Right after you finish reading, you head over to the library to catch up on some reserve reading. While crossing St. Joseph's Drive, you're hit by a truck deliver­ing gummy bears to the Huddle. Your leg is broken. Ifyou'd ar­rived a millisecond earlier, you would have escaped unscathed. 
If only this story had been a few words shorter. Welcome, my friends, to the world of alternate history. Alternate history is, according to Alternatehistory.com, "the exercise of looking at the past and asking 'What if?'" What ifsome event had gone differently? How might the world have been changed immedi­ately, and how might it be different in the long run? 
The most commonly asked alternate history questions are such things as, "What if the Nazis had won World War II?" and, "What if the South had won the American Civil War?" But any event can begin an alternate-history timeline. For ex­ample, your unfortunate run-in with the candy truck means you'll be on crutches for a few months. Because you now travel to class in a golf cart, you miss a chance encounter with your future spouse on the way to DeBartolo. Had you met, you would have eventually produced a child who might have grown up to become Dictator of the World. I just might have broken your leg with this column, but I have saved humanity from your cruel, tyrannical offspring! 
Ifthis intrigues you, consider getting in touch with freshman Matt Alderman, an alternate-history aficionado who currently is trying to set up an alternate history discussion on campus. Alderman says he got into alternate history because he always has been interested in "things that didn't quite make the cut." 
"I'd read about things, like these elaborate plans people had to divide up the Ottoman Empire that didn't pan out for some reason, and wonder why not," he says. Alderman believes the most interesting scenarios are produced by amateur alternate historians. He is part of a thriving e-community ofsuch histori­f).ns, who post their questions and timelines on the Internet for discussion and critique. One site (http://home.hiwaay.net/-billfl/ altlines.html) even receives alternate-history newspaper head­lines from a variety of contributors and posts them under the flag The Neiuw Amsterdamme Times, whose slogan is "All the News That Might Have Been." Many of the postings are hu­morous. A sampling: 
AZTECS, MAYANS CLASH 
Mayans win third straight Super Bowl championship 41-17. 
COLUMBUS RETURNS FROM SUCCESSFUL VOY­
AGE WEST TO CHINA 
"It was a bit farther than we thought, but we found a few islands along the way where we picked up supplies. No new continents though." 
BOSTON TEA PARTY 
Saturday 4 p.m. -admission $1.50. 

HOWARD STERN BLASTS OBSCENITY 
"No place in society," he says ofdecision to ban shock-rock­ers Tipper and the Gorefests from White House 
Alderman reads "tons and tons" of real history. This is im­portant, he says, because "when you consider one 'what if,' you sometimes have to consider six or seven others." He says, "History doesn't go in a straight line -it goes in forks." An in-depth knowledge ofthe ''forks" in real history is key to mak-· ing an alternative timeline nuanced and plausible. 
With his love ofhistory, extensive knowledge ofhistory and flair for writing about history, Alderman is, ofcourse, an archi­tecture major. Delve deeper into the philosophical implications of alternate history, and you'll find the two areas are not unre­lated. "They say the American Indians would plan their actions imagining the repercussions seven generations into the future," he says. "I've learned [that] a lot ofthought ofthat nature goes on when you're designing buildings." (As one of my fellow editors recently pointed out, Stepan Center's designers must've missed that day in architecture school.) 
There are other deeper implications of alternate history as well, such as the idea that one person's life really can make a difference, for good or bad. Every individual action is some­how part ofthe intricate web ofworld events. Ofcourse, infus­ing your daily routine with this type of thinking will drive you nuts. That's why Alderman tries to restrain analysis of the in­numerable repercussions of his actions to when he's making really big decisions. In the interest ofmy own sanity, this is the strategy I'm going to adopt right now. This column could be shorter; it could be longer. The possibilities are infinite, so I might as well live for the moment. And at the moment, I'm quite hungry. I think I'll go to the Huddle for some gummy bears. . 
E-mail Alderman at malderma@nd.edu to find out about his alternate-history discussion group. 

SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 33 


Away-Message Madness 
Don't be caught idle without one! 
MEGHANGOWAN 
Iam writing this column today because I feel compelled to <::all a complacent student body to action. I have observed you ignoring a brilliant form of self-expression available to most all of you today, and every day. You might now be thor­oughly confused and wondering what I am referring to. I speak of AOL Instant Messenger, and more specifically, away mes­
sages. I am addicted to away messages. Seriously. I spend many an hour on IM. But, unlike the rest of you, I don't usually converse with my old high-school friends, current college friends housed in other dorms, my friends down the hall or even my roommate seated at the desk next to mine. (I talce the last one back -I did this once, and it was fun.) No, I rarely type messages to anyone. IfI do ven­ture to begin a conversation, I am usually thoroughly confused by the process, become uninterested and go feed another of my ad­dictions: consumption of Diet Coke. I spend most of my hours on IM making -you guessed it (or didn't, I cannot really be sure with you all) -away messages. Ifyou don't mind, at this point 
in this story I am going to be quite conceited. My away mes­sages are great. They are bril­liant, fabulous, glowing ex­·amples of college humor, bea­cons in a whirling sea of pro­foundly dull away messages. If you are ready to admit that you are among this dull and boring group and are looking for simple 
guidelines about which "types" of messages you should shy away 
from, here they are: 
1. 
Abstain from making any references to your current state of being (~.g., "napping"). 

2. 
Avoid bland references to your impending failure on any test everyone else is taking (e.g., "Studying so I don't fail Chem!!!!"). Your complaining about your own sad state is obvious and better left unsaid. 


3. Some important advice for those wily individuals who attempt 
to add "spice" to their away messages with profanity: This rarely adds anything to the overall cleverness of the message. 
4. 
Another disturbing trend I have observed is away messages expressing love to boyfriends or girlfriends. Please realize that no one wants to read these. If it is necessary for you to express love constantly to your better half, write an e-mail, or, better yet, talk to your schnookums. 

5. 
I have also encountered a four-page away message that relates "great high-school memories." This person actually changes it weekly. This should scare you. 


I feel compelled to share with you what to do to combat these 
; 
· j J 
•~ 
·:.• •....·:"..;···•.:.•:··.._:..j
-
(1. 

.~ > ; j seebs2**: "Even though you1 may have to pee really, really · <. · :..•; badly, sometimes the bathroom 
is just too far. So you suffer." 

seebs2**: ''Watching the sun­rise is a beautiful thin·g. Except when you. are trying to write a paper, and you find yourself do­ing everything else but writing that paper. Here's to the nap I will be taking when I get home to­day." 
away-message problems. Learn from observation: See the light at the end of this very dark tunnel of bad away mes­sages and rage against the dy­ing of this light. I will now share with you, my reading public, a few of the brilliant away messages I have seen over the past few months. 
:::~le;I:~!fle~~e~l~::~dg;:n:l;l
peop e 1ee pnv1 ege to ca my friends. 

Ry***: "Put your damn pants back on." 
LeslieAn***: "Hove.'' eliz******: "I am not a 'study slut.' I don't know what that means, 
but I know I could not be it because it involves the word 'study.' " ***nd83: "I'll bust your ass Mr. Short Pants.'' ***082: "Pirates Only.'' 
Now that you have been witness to greatness, go forth and change the away-message world. Rebel against the voice in your head screaming at you to cling to AOL Instant Messenger normalcy. D 

Submit an BOO-word story for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 


• 
DC. 
COMING DISTRACTIONS . . 
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL 

~~"-~~~'--~_..,_... ~~~~........_c...._~-----'---'-'--=----'I 
EDITOR'S CHOICE 

LECTURES 
• Thu 15 Author Nicholas delBanco, 
7:00 PM, Hospitality Room, Reckers.




Oh, Scrap It 
• Thu 15 Donald Bullough,"Twenty­

The ND Crafting Corner folks had better thank their lucky stars that I'll be busy this Friday night searching for a theater that's playing Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. I am a scrapbooking machine! Craft-store employees shudder at the mere mention of my name. Their supplies would be wiped out in half an hour, tops. Since I won't be there hogging the scissors, why not head over yourself? Feel like you ODed on male composers at last week's campus concerts? Check out the Notre Dame Trio this Sunday. Faculty members Carolyn Plummer (vio­lin), Karan Buranskas (cello) and Maria Stablein (piano) will perform works by Clara Schumann, Amy Beach and Fanny Mendelssohn. 
-Cristin Fenzel 
SPORTS 
• 
Thu 15 Swimming: ND men vs. Western Ontario, 7:00 PM, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

• 
Fri 16 Swimming: ND men vs. Texas Christian University, .,­

7:00 PM, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

• 
Fri 16 Basketball: ND men vs. New Hampshire, 

9:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Fri 16 Swimming: ND women at Minnesota Invitational, All Day, Minneapolis, Minn. 

• 
Fri 16 and Sat 17 


Hockey: ND vs. Western Michigan, 
• Sat 17 Football: ND vs. Navy, 2:30 PM, 
Notre Dame Stadium. \ • Sun 18 Basketball: ND women vs.
L 
Valparaiso, 1 :00 PM, Joyce r:' -.-. · \ Center. ..~f~l~')jl Ii •Mon 19 Basketball: ND men
_ 
· · · · · 
•:1l/// ~· vs. Cornell, 7:30 PM, Joyce 
', ·.. · . Center. . • Mon 26 Basketball: ND ': · women vs. Army, 7:00 PM, \ Joyce Center. 
., • Wed 28 Basketball: ND men vs. i Army, 7:30 PM, Joyce Center. 
( 
f> 
1 
. \ 
Tony Fisher scores 


7:05 PM, Kalamazoo, a touchdown Mich. against Nebraska. 
THE WEEKENDER 
What: Les Miserables 
When: Thu 15 at 7:00 PM, Fri 16 and Sat 17 at 7:30 PM 
Where: Morris Performing Arts Center 
Cheapest Seats: $20 
For Tickets: Stop by the Broadway Theatre League Box Office, located at 120 
W. LaSalle Ave., or call 234-4044, or toll-free (877) 315-1234. 
Five Years With Alcuin," 4:00 PM, Medieval Institute Reading Room, 715 Hesburgh Library. 
CINEMA 
• 
Thu 15 Girlfight, 7:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

• 
Thurs 15 The Score and The Usual Suspects, 10:00 PM, 101 and 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 16 and Sat 17 The Score and The Usual Suspects, 7:30 and 10:00 PM, 101 and 155 De Bartolo. 

• 
Tue 20 La Sentinelle (from France), 


7:00 and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. 
• Tue 27 Crows (from Poland), 7:00 and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. 
• 
Thu 29 Into the Arms of Strangers: Stories on the Kindertransport, 7:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

• 
Thu 29 Clueless and Legally Blonde, 


10:00 PM, 101 and 155 DeBartolo. 
STUDENT LIFE 
• 
Thurs 15 Culture Fest, 6:30 PM, LaFortune Ballroom. 

• 
Fri 16 Scrapbooking at ND Crafting Corner, 9:00 PM, Dooley Room, LaFortune. 

• 
Fri 16 WVFI Benefit Show, 7:00 PM, LaFortune Ballroom. 


THE ARTS 
• 
Fri 16 Pranita Jaim, Classical Indian Dance Demonstration, 11 :45 PM, · Annenburg Auditorium. 

• 
Sun 18 Faculty Chamber Music Concert: Notre Dame Trio, 2:00 PM, Annenburg Auditorium. 

• 
Sun 18 Notre Dame Brass Ensemble Fall Concert, 8:00 PM, Basilica. 



Post your event in Scholastic's Coming Distractions. 
Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail your submissions to Cristin Penzel at cfenzel@nd.edu. 
*All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval. 
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35 
by Christian Dallavis 


Experience in Learning 

Christian Dallavis graduated from Notre Dame in 1997 with a double major in Englisli and Japanese. As a member ofthe ACE program, he taught middle-school English and high­school theater in Biloxi, Miss. He currently is the associate-director of 
the ACE program. 
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 
"Iwould call that changing the world." -Bono 
Two weeks ago I stood in front of the Basilica and 
the biggest rock star in the world walked up to me, introduced himself, and thanked me for doing ACE. He told me that the Alliance for Catholic Education is "an inspiration" and said it was "a pleasure and a blessing to spend some time" with ACE teachers. Later that night, Bono stood on a stage before a crowd of thousands and announced that, in his opinion, ACE is "changing the world." 
I thought it was ridiculous at first. This certainly wasn't why I joined ACE four years ago. I didn't have such lofty ambitions -I just wante'd to see if I really wanted to be a teacher. I didn't want to change my major and go through a lengthy certi­fication process, and I thought ACE provided a good way for me to get some quick experience and determine whether teaching was the job for me. ACE had so many other benefits that ap­pealed to me as well. I could get a free master's degree. I could get an AmeriCorps voucher to chip away at my student loans. I could live with other people with similar inter­ests in an interesting and different culture. I could learn to grow in my faith. I could do something that I felt good about. I could combine a full-time job with full-time graduate school and call the whole 
thing "service." Where else could I get all of these things? 
So I joined ACE, along with 60 other people, all of whom had their own ambitions and motiva­tions. I'm pretty sure none of us jumped into ACE with the sole ambition of changing the world. 
In short, I guess I joined ACE because I wanted to try my hand at teaching, and I quickly discov­ered that there were so many better reasons to join the program -reasons that had never occurred to me when I applied. When I reflect on my ACE experience now, I can see that I learned far more than I ever expected. I learned what it means to serve. I learned how good it feels when you see a child figure something out. I learned a lot about humility. I learned that fifth-graders will throw up if you make them do relay races involving Hershey bars, free throws and grape Kool-Aid. I learned that students will not remember the subject mat­ter nearly as much as they remember how the teacher acts, both inside and outside the classroom. I learned what it means to be a role model. I learned how to manage a room full of angry 12-year-olds, and how to get them excited about memorizing link­ing verbs. I learned how to calm angry parents. I learned how to lead a prayer. I learned how to re­late to a child whose parent died. I learned how to juggle a full-time graduate course load with a full­time teaching position while coaching 34 varsity and JV soccer players on the side. I learned how to keep a gradebook. I learned how to cook. I learned when to tease the girls I lived with and when to leave them alone. I learned how tQ ask for help. And ultimately I discovered, much to my surprise, that teachers are able to change the world pro­foundly, without even realizing it. 
After ACE, I had the opportunity to go to Bangladesh with three other guys from my class, and we taught English to teachers and seminarians for a year. It wasn't until I was in the middle of my year in Bangladesh that I realized how well ACE had prepared me for life abroad. Since I've been back I've been working for ACE and spending a lot of time working with ACE graduates. In my in­teractions with ACE graduates, I hear a common refrain: Being an ACE teacher prepares you for any­thing. All these experiences, all that we had learned over two years -these lessons prepared us to do just about anything. I lived with five other ACE members in Biloxi, and now we're spread-across the country. One of them is in medical school in Ohio, one is a salesman in Chicago, another is in his first year of law school at Georgetown, one is getting her Ph.D. in biology at Michigan, and the other one still is teach~ ing at his ACE school in Mississippi. 
It's hard to imagine that a teacher in a small Catho­lic school in the South could change the world in any real way. But when I think about it, and I consider how much I've changed as a result of being in ACE, and when I think about how well ACE has prepared me for life beyond ACE, I can start to understand what Bono's getting at. And when I look at the scope of the program, a strong sense of being a part of something far bigger than myself gives me some perspective. For me, ACE changed the world by changing me, and · I tried to pass some of that on to my students. When I consider that over the past eight years, more than 500 ACE teachers have taught more than 40,000 students, and that these teachers have all grown in the same ways I did, I get excited and proud that, in a 
very real sense, Bono is right. 
ACE changed the world by changing me, and I tried to pass some of that on to my students. 











