HOW THE STARS GOT
a
ftp
SO MANY OF OUR FRIENDS LIKE CAMELS BEST
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!
MARGE and GOWER CHAMPION met as schoolkids at dancing school. Their paths criss-crossed for years as each sought a career. Finally, Gower, back from Service, “teamed up” with Marge. After months of rehearsal, they were a sensation in TV, movies and stage.
They are now Mr. and Mrs.
cy
I
THAT WE TRIED THEM.
CAMELS'MILDNESS AND FLAVOR SUIT US JUST RIGHT! /	ff
WHY DONT YOU TRY CAMELS?
।	-K>r/WLMESS and RAVOR
AMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE
THAN ANY OTHER. CIGARETTE I
Notre Dame Men Have Made Gilbert’s Their No. 1 BRAND NAME Store
The names
behind the name
jpOR 38 years the
name Gilbert’s has been backed by hundreds of nationally known brand names .. . names that, by their lone; association with Gilbert’s have come to symbolize the quality and complete satisfaction you always expect at this store.
FAMOUS BRAND NAMES that are known to be “Trademarks of Quality”
^GILBERT'S
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
February 12, 1954
Want to travel and study abroad?
Still Water, But Not So Deep
Parker-Winlfrrowd Inc.
Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Visit the countries of your choice .. . study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.
nans troniD aiauait
RESTRING WITH
STANDS UP in your racket • Moisture Immune e Lasting Liveliness
STANDS OUT in play
• Harder Smashes e Better Git and Spin
A A A > ERASED RACKETSTRING
:e o'
COSTS LESS than gut
APPROX. STRMGNG COST: Pro-Fected Braid....$6.00 Multi-Ply Braid.$5.00
At tennis shops and •porting goods stores.

I find myself only partially in agreement with opinions expressed in the Jan. 15 “Back Page” column. But, let’s for now, not resort to inane recriminations over sociological and economical considerations. By the by, let’s penetrate more deeply than the APPEARANCE of Notre Dame and its students.
Has it ever occurred to you men what influence you might bear on this situation? As such prominent spokesmen, through such an influential medium, it should be of great concern. The mode of dress is plainly an external expression of the conformity and intellectual inertia that permeates this place. A good bit of the blame for this reprehensible situation goes to you for your dull, unimaginative writing. It is unnecessary to single out any one edition or any particular column. It goes on from week to week. A noteworthy sample appears this week in the leaden remark, “No column last week, but there is one this week,” supposedly offered as a sophisticated witticism.
This school has much that others lack, but, by the same token, Notre Dame students miss a lot that is good college-type life that other schools have. One such is what this situation paints to: a buoyancy and keenness in the school atmosphere, usually well placed by the campus papers and radio. (Please, please don’t point to the bedraggled example of the screeching mob pandemonium of football rallies and satisfy yourself that I’m wrong because you’ll be utterly smashing my basic presupposition: that you are capable of level headed thinking.) Of course, at other schools this is supple-mentarily aided by a much gayer and more resourceful social life than here. (I know. You have all sorts of retorts here, too, bless your little minds.)
Apparently, it goes without noting that the latter, as the saying has it, is bigger than both of us and will probably remain the same for many classes hence. However, as regards the former, the field is open. This should serve to impress upon you men the magnitude of the need, the opportunity, and the challenge for a bit .of journalistic acumen. I feel quite sure it is possible and would not only be ravenously welcomed but, its effect would be far reaching and would certainly yield no harm.
So, let’s not jump so quickly and thoughtlessly on the more superficial (Continued on Page 32)
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailored made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
hrker-Winterrewd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115i/2-1171/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS

The Scholastic
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
Notre Dame football will continue . . .
Slippin’ the Clue
Remember back in the dear, dim past when the last issue of the Scholastic came out, we proposed a question to oui-public? It concerned the Irish all-opponent football team in 1949, and ran something like this: “What major league baseball player of the past season was selected on that opponent team?” No one has hit the nail on its proverbial head yet,
so we’ll slip you a clue, Lou.
CLUE NUMBER ONE: It wasn’t Joe DiMaggio. (There will be anothei- helpful hint next WEEK, .if nobody’s lightbulb has lit up by then.)
Signs of the Times
The Freshman branch of the YCS, apparently overwhelmed by the enormity of the occasion, passed out some signs in the freshman halls during exam week for the yearlings to hang on their gates. The signs were rather remarkable works of art, with the words “I’M STUDYING” printed in bold black type on a yellow background.	,
A pretty good idea, we thought. ’Course the fledglings couldn’t hang them up on their swinging doors before they had .initiated a few minor changes, which included the erasure of the STU from STUDYING and the addition of FOR A CHANGE underneath the original message. Rather remarkable works of art in their own respect.
Football Is A Word
There may be something to reports of a de-emphasis on football after all. This conclusion was arrived at after your ever-alert reporter perceived definite tendencies toward a new rage on campus —Scrabble.
Now Scrabble, like football, is a game. And in Scrabble, as .in football, the one scoring the most points wins the game. In fact, when it comes right down to it, about the only noticeable difference between the two is that in football you kick extra points and in Scrabble this is strictly taboo.
Scrabble does hold one great big advantage over football, too. It helps you .increase your word-power. You start out by forming simple words like “dog” and “cat” and, the first thing you know, you have progressed onward to much bigger words such as “dogs” and “cats.” No
telling where your vocabulary will end up if you stay at this new-fangled game long enough.
Never Bet Against ND, the Yankees, or the Murphys
A noted philosopher once remarked: “There are three types of Irishmen—the high, the low, and the Murphys.” Be this as it may, the old namesake still has a commanding lead around campus with no less than 28 fellow-Murphys listed in the 1953-54 version of the Student Directory.
This is a decrease of five over the number which saturated the campus last year, but one consolation lies in the fact that eight freshmen entered this year to help replenish the ranks.
Another consolation is that the Kellys, who gave the Murphys a run for their money last year, appear to have faded in the stretch and have decreased to 17, relinquishing second place to the Sullivans. But the Sullivans, with 20 numbered in their ranks, don’t appear to be serious contenders at the present.
Say, you know we’d better be careful or we’re liable to be investigated by the NCAA for recruiting.
Toujours L'Amour
The University of Laval Le Carabin came up with a pretty good one the other day:
“—Certainement, j’ai une ‘job’ pour vous.
Balayez le magasin.
—Mais, monsieur, je suis un univer-sitaire!
—Je regrette, mais c’est la ‘job’ la plus facile que j’ai.”
Confidentially, we don’t get it.
Bottom of the Week
. . . without Frank Leahy.
Conference Will Examine Current Labor Conflicts
A conference on collective bargaining and arbitration, sponsored jointly by the Department of Economics, College of Law, and the American Arbitration Association, will be held here Friday, Feb. 26. More than 500 representatives of labor, management, education, and the legal profession are expected at the annual convention.
Highlights of this year’s session will be a discussion of President Eisenhower’s proposed amendments to the Taft-Hartley Law, a practice collective bargaining session, and a panel discussion on recent trends in labor arbitration.
James J. Spillane, regional director of the Federal Mediation Service in Chicago, will serve as moderator for the practice collective bargaining session which will consider seniority, union security, grievances, and other issues.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Mam St. J.M.S. Bldg.
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates 228 So. Michigan St.
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquete and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
February 12, 1954
of your	eye
FEBRUARY 12
STUDENT CENTER (9 p.m. to 1 a.m.)—The Mardi Gras Ball opens the gala weekend festivities with Ray McKinley and his orchestra providing the danceable music. Those fortunate enough to possess one of the scarce ducats are granted car permissions and 2 a.m. deadline.
AVON (ends tomorrow)—If you’ve stayed away from Saadia (A-l) thus far, you’d be wise to persevere one more day. It’s a desert drama featuring a complicated love triangle with Rita Gam as the apex.
PALACE (through Feb. 17)—Ginger Rogers, William Holden and Paul Douglas perform humorously in Forever Female (B). The co-pic, Captain Scarlett, should be ignored.
COLFAX (through Feb. 17)—Martin & Lewis are still around in Damon Runyon’s Money From Home (A-l).
GRANADA (through Feb. 18)—We have another full week to put up with King of the Khyber Rifles (A-2).
FIELDHOUSE (3:30 p.m.)—ND fencers try to get back to their winning ways against Detroit.
FEBRUARY 13
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30 and 3:35 p.m.)—Dream Wife (A-2), with Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr is supposed to be funny.
DRILL HALL (7 to 11 p.m.)—The start of the Mardi Gras carnival. Plenty of opportunity to spend your father’s hard-earned money.
Why not call Western Union now and give us your messages for
Valentine's Day
Sunday, Feb. 14
Soy "Be my special Valentine" by telegraphing flowers. Your own florist will send them for you — anywhere.

WESTERN UNION
105 N. Main Si. Telephone 3-6101
FEBRUARY 14
WASHINGTON HALL (2 and 7:45 p.m.)—Dream Wife back for an encore.
AVON (through Feb. 16)—Decameron Nights (B), based on Boccaccio’s famous tales, gives you three stories in one. Joan Fontaine and Louis Jordan are the big names.
RIVER PARK (through Feb. 17)—Back for a second visit is Take the High Ground (A-2). The Girl Who Had Everything (A-2) is here for the third time, and by now she must have lost it ALL.
FEBRUARY 15
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—Leaving their rough-house tactics in Chicago, where they can get away with them, DePaul’s Blue Demons put themselves at the mercy of Johnny Jordan and his Irish.
DRILL HALL (7 to 11 p.m.)—Carnival continues.
FEBRUARY 16
DRILL HALL (7 to 11 p.m.)—Last night of the Mardi Gras featured by the grand drawing.
FEBRUARY 17
AVON (a week)—Jivaro (A-2) is guaranteed not to tax the movie-goers’ intelligence. The name comes from an Indian tribe in South America which specializes in the fine art of shrinking the heads of intruders. Rhonda Fleming and Fernando Lamas are the leading performers.-
FEBRUARY 18
PALACE (through Feb. 20)—Sins of Jezabel (B), with Paulette Goddard, is a story they should have left in the Bible. Man From Cairo is even worse.
RIVER PARK (through Feb. 20)—Yep, here they are again, this time in The Stooge (A-l).
STATE (one day only)—South of Rio Grande, starring Bevo Francis, and Daniel Boone PLUS three cartoons!
6
The Scholastic
Scholastic
Vol. 95. February 12, 1954 No. 15.
Founded 1867
Leahy's Resignation: The Strain Takes a Toll
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
?	Managing Editor
LAWRENCE J. BREHL a Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER .............  ......News
FRED C. ECKART ...................Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS .........Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy ROBERT B. FROLICHER ___________ Sports
JERRY D. BAIER ___________ Advertising
B. JERRY CAMPBELL ..........Circulation BOB FOWLER_________Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE______Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Clifford Carlson, , Dick Colgan, Paul Clemens, Dave Cohen, Dick Connelly, Mark Connelly, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Jack Flynn, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jim Healey, Jerrold Hilton, Ellis Joseph, Robert Kaufman, John Mannion, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles Mc-* Kendrick, Ronald Michaud, Roy Moxley, Francis J Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry t O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Ken Woodward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John “ Cywinski, Dave Davin, Dave Kilkeary, John Phelan, and Bob Ruhl.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association^ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.	'
Frank Leahy’s resignation from position as head coach of football at Notre Dame came as a surprise to many, perhaps, only because of its untimeliness.
Ever since he collapsed at halftime of the Georgia Tech game last October 24, it was evident that the strain had marked Leahy’s days at Notre Dame. Most people around the campus, at least, hoped that Mr. Leahy would' be able to finish, one or two more seasons. But—as he said, and as his doctors have advised—he can’t make it.
The shock, like something that follows a disaster, has gripped everyone. We’ve lost the Old Master . . . the man who perennially made pessimistic remarks about not being “able to make a first down all season,” then came up with a team of national championship calibre practically every time. As newly-appointed coach Terry Brennan put it recently: “We’ve lost a great man.”
What makes Leahy a great man? His coaching record here is impressive— one of the best in the history of football and rivaling even that of the immortal Knute Rockne. He had 87 victories, eleven losses, and nine ties during his elevenyear tenure here. He won four national championships and had six unbeaten teams.
The record, however, serves only as a witness to his greatness. Proof lies in the tremendous influence he had over his players, the student body, and everyone he has ever met. Frank Leahy loves Notre Dame. When he coached football here, his players felt it. It showed up on the playing field Saturday after Saturday. At practice, he was a perfectionist. When a play unfolded, Leahy followed it down the field, pointing out blocks and directing tackles as he ran. When a player made a mistake in a game, he never forgot it again. He had his own halftime technique in the locker room, too. He didn’t throw too much color into his speeches when the going got rough. He appealed to a player’s personal confidence: reminded him of the “obligation” he had to the students and to Notre Dame. They rarely disappointed him.
Off the playing field, his warmth and sincerity won for him the same respect and admiration. After his last formal speech at the Morris Inn recently, the last hand that he shook belonged to Ser-
geant Leni Krulewitz, of the South Bend police force—the “patron cop” who knows Leahy and all of his players personally. Red-eyed, like many of the other pressmen who had gathered to hear his parting address, Leni remarked: “He was the best friend I had.”
OUR COVER: Everyone knows him, no one will forget him—Frank Leahy. Scholastic's editors have tried, in this issue, to make up for what they lost in timeliness by offering something which other newspapers and magazines didn’t —the highlights of Leahy’s entire life history. Our special thanks go to Mr. Ken Murphy, who worked night and day ever since the resignation was announced, to meet the deadline.
IL this were any other place but Notre Dame, perhaps we could be contented with merely enumerating and gloating over the results that a coach such as Frank Leahy had produced. But because this is Notre Dame, and because Frank Leahy isn’t just a figure here, or just a coach with a salary, his absence hurts. He is a part of Notre Dame.
We’re reminded of the prophetic phone call that Joe Dierickx, the stadium caretaker, made to his wife one afternoon in February of 1941 after Leahy had returned to start in as head coach at Notre Dame: “Mary,” Dierickx said, “he looks like another Knute Rockne.”
February 12, 1954
7

Mechanical Engineers Electrical Engineers Aeronautical Engineers Metallurgical Engineers
American industry today presents the greatest field ever open to engineering students. And we honestly believe that no opportunities are more rewarding than those offered at
HHIILTOt STAOALII
Division of
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORP.
WINDSOR LOCKS, CONNECTICUT
Here you'll have a good starting salary and excellent chance for advancement. You'll work in an atmosphere that challenges every facet of your training and imagination, associating with an exceptionally high calibre engineering staff, many of whom have gained world-wide recognition for their contributions to aeronautical science.
We offer the opportunity to use your complete education on the development of not just one product but many:

Jet Fuel Controls
Jet Engine Starters
Hydraulic Pumps
Cockpit Air Conditioning Systems Turbine Engine Propellers Piston Engine Propellers, and other products still in the early stages of development
Our modern plant is ideally located, midway between Hartford, Conn., and Springfield, Mass., the center of an area rich in cultural and recreational advantages.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE Will BE HERE FOR INFORMAL INTERVIEWS:
He'll be glad to answer questions and tell you more about the opportunities in our growing organization. No lengthy application to fill out — just come in and get acquainted.
GET YOUR COPY OF "YOU AND YOUR FUTURE"
An interesting new booklet that contains all the facts about our Hamilton Standard organization and products.
February 19 — Placement Office
Contact Mr. W. R. Dooley
The Scholastic
ne Scholastic
♦

Volume 95, Number 15
Notre Dome, Indiana
SHARON LANNAN	JOANNE GRIFFITH
Queen and Princess Add to Carnival Spirit Tonight at Ball
Mardi Gras Ball Initiates Festivities Tonight; Carnival Opens at Drill Hall Tomorrow Night
February 12, 1954
More "Wide-Open" Ball, Brennan Says
By BOB FROLICHER
Notre Dame will play a more “wide-open” brand of football than in the past, newly-appointed head coach Terry Brennan disclosed in an exclusive Scholastic interview recently.
Anothei- change will also take place next fall, the new coach said, to set the freshmen players aside from the varsity and also bring back the former B-squad. The freshmen will be handled by a full-time coach who will stick with fundamentals more than anything else. The freshman coach will receive help from student coaches. The B-squad will be used as Irish opponents directed from scouting reports, and if at all possible, Brennan hopes to work in a schedule for them.
Brennan was appointed to the post on Monday, Feb. 1, by University officials after the resignation of former head Frank Leahy. Leahy headed the Irish for 11 seasons and posted one of the best records of modern football coaches.
Festival portals will open wide tonight as the annual Mardi Gras .initiates the five-day pre-Lenten celebration—the Mardi Gras Festival. Reigning as queen and princess for the gala ball tonight will be Misses Sharon Lannan, escorted by Bill Reynolds, ball chairman, and Joanne Griffith, the date of Joe Madigan, general Mardi Gras chairman. Miss Lannan, a resident of Chicago, is presently a senior at Barat College. Miss Griffith, a native of Manhattan, Kans., is a sophomore at St. Mary’s.
The Ball, tonight in the Student Center, will feature the danceable rhythm of Ray McKinley and his “most versatile band in the land” from 9 till 1. Peggy Barrett will be the featured soloist. McKinley, himself a master drummer, boasts the best dance band in America according to Look and Downbeat magazines. The theme this yeai- will be the “Irish Village.”
Tomorrow will see the carnival open with its many gala attractions. The Navy Drill Hall will be the center of attraction from 7 to 11 every evening, except Sunday. Many and varied booths will be open for the enjoyment of the fun-seekers. The booths will be oper
ated by the many campus clubs and organizations, and will be in competition for attractiveness and money earned.
The St. Mary’s girls will have no booth this year as they have had in the past, but .instead will feature a nightly vaudeville show. This added attraction will have a chorus line as a component of the performance. The show will be put on three or four times each night of the carnival in the Drill Hall. The price has not been determined.
The final event of the Mardi Gras will take place Tuesday evening with the grand drawing foi' the winners of the cars and the “millionaire vacation.” A 1954 Chrysler sedan will be presented to the winner. The lucky student winner will receive a fully equipped 1954 Ford Victoria.
The vacation includes a 10-day allexpense pair vacation to Miami Beach during the Easter recess. To be eligible for the latter drawing, books must be turned in by Feb. 15. Additional books are still available.
The carnival is sponsored by the Student Senate. The proceeds will be distributed between the Campus Charity Chest and the Student Center.
The new coach will cany four varsity coaches, two for the line and two for the backfield. Two former Irish assistants of last season, John Druze, end coach, and Bill Earley, backfield coach, have already been retained by Brennan.
COACH BRENNAN
Football Vogue—“Wide-Open”
February 12, 1954
9
Price, Bergin, Malone Assume Head Positions In Chemistry, Bus. Ad., Marketing Departments
The appointment of three department heads was announced recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. They are Dr. Charles C. Price, chemistry; Thomas P. Bergin, business administration; and John R. Malone, marketing.
Dr. Price was head of the Department of Chemistry from 1946 to 1952, but resigned the post in September of that year to campaign as the Democratic nominee for U. S. Representative from Indiana’s Third Congressional District. He continued, however, to teach in the department.
In his new post Professor Bergin relieves Assistant Dean Edmund Smith of the College of Commerce who also had been serving as acting head of the Department of Business Administration. Professor Malone succeeds Prof. Wesley Bender who relinquished his duties as head of the Department of Marketing to devote his full time to teaching.
Price, a native of Passaic, N. J., joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1946 after- teaching at the University of Illinois for ten years. In 1946 he received the American Chemical Society Award in Pure Chemistry. As a result of research conducted at Notre Dame, Price was designated as Indiana’s “Outstanding Young Man of the Year” for 1949 by the Indiana Junior Chamber of Commerce. His recent researches have included study of polymer systems related to new types of synthetic rubber and resins, the synthesis of compounds useful as drugs against malaria and as vitamins, the isolation of compounds from human red blood cells, and the mechanisms of chemical reactions of organic compounds. Dr. Price received his Ph.D. at Harvard University in 1936.
Bergin, who has served as assistant head of the Department of Business Administration for three years, is a native of Watertown, N. Y. He was graduated from Notre Dame’s College of Commerce in 1945 and received his master’s degree in economics two years later at the University of Vermont. A specialist in statistics, he is currently a candidate for a doctorate at Syracuse University. At Notre Dame he is chairman of two lecture series in the College of Commerce and is vice-president of the Lay Faculty Club.
Malone, a native of Toledo, Ohio, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1952, serving as assistant professor of business administration and director of the University’s Foremanship Development Program. In this training program, foremen of South Bend area industries study
basic economics, human and labor relations and written and oral communications during 15 weekly evening sessions on the campus. Malone, who has specialized in production and marketing, was graduated from the Notre Dame College of Commerce in 1942. He studied industrial administration at the Harvard School of Business in 1943 and received his master’s degree in business administration at Harvard in 1946. Malone served as the director of the Summer Outdoor Advertising Workshop at Notre Dame in 1953.
J. EDGAR HOOVER
Notre Dame’s ‘‘Patriot of the Year”
Seniors Name Hoover For Patriotism Award
J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has been named “Patriot of the Year” by Notre Dame’s Senior Class, it was announced recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Father Hesburgh said that the veteran Justice Department official will be the first recipient of a new patriotism award inaugurated by Notre Dame to honor “the outstanding patriot of the year who exemplifies the American ideals of justice, personal integrity and service to country.”
In notifying Hoover of his selection, Father Hesburgh paid tribute to the FBI director as “a man who has devoted his life to the highest type of public service.” Responding, Hoover expressed his appreciation to the University of
Notre Dame and its student body “for this heartening expression of confidence.” Arrangements for the award presentation have not yet been completed.
Notre Dame’s senior class, representing every state in the Union, voted to honor Hoover in a recent poll conducted on the campus. The names of more than a score of prominent Americans figured in the balloting.
J. Edgar Hoover, a native of Washington, D. C., was educated at George Washington University. He entered the Department of Justice in 1917 and was named to his present post of Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in May, 1924. Hoover received the Medal of Merit from the President of the United States on March 8, 1946. He was awarded an honorary degree by the University of Notre Dame in 1942. A member of the Presbyterian Church, Hoover has been honored by a number of colleges and national organizations for his 30 years of service in behalf of American freedom and security.
Senate's Daley Advances Plan To Eliminate School's Posters
Joe Daley, secretary of the Student Senate, has approached the Senate in conjunction with the Campus Club Committee with a plan to alleviate the crowded condition of the bulletin boards on campus. A trial period was granted during which time an activities calendar compiled weekly by the Committee will be posted on the bulletin boards. The J trial period granted by the Senate will run from Feb. 15 to March 5. The Activities Calendar will be posted on Monday of each week and will list all activities for that week.
It was emphasized that no posters are to be placed on bulletin boards during x the trial period. All publicity will be included free of charge in the Activities Calendar- and must be in by Thursday of the week preceding the event. All exceptions must be cleared by the Campus Club Committee.
The Senate decided upon this experi- * ment after receiving many complaints from both students and rectors about the overcrowded condition of the bulletin boards on campus.	,
Tom Field, new Senate president, in ’ his first report to the Senate, outlined what he hoped to accomplish this semes- * ter. Foremost on this list is his desire for a more efficient system of public relations to inform the student body in regard to Senate activities. He also expressed a desire to acquaint the student body and the senators with a more detailed account of Senate finances.
10
The Scholastic
Architecture School's Saenz Wins Award
For Design of Three-Level 'Model' Home
1 A 21-year-old Notre Dame student 3 from Colombia recently was named the • winner of the Indianapolis Home Show architectural competition for 1954. Jaime Saenz, who will receive his architecture degree at the University in June, will be awarded a $500 prize for his de-5 sign of a three-level home.
'' In announcing the award, Clair W. Ditchy, president of the American Institute of Architects, said that Saenz’s de-t sign was chosen “for its simplicity and directness—a fresh approach in the mat-- ter of design. It is remarkably free i from cliches,” he said. Ditchy was one » of the judges in the national competi-?. tion which is held annually to create interest in and further the development of < small home design.
Saenz’s design was selected from 189 entries representing 22 states and 24 S colleges and universities. More than 40 ■ ;-< professional architects also entered the ; f competition. In addition to the cash prize, Saenz’s design will be considered for construction as the model home and :	center of attraction at the Indianapolis
. <-> Home Show next year. His sketch also ; A will be featured in a book of 50 designs / selected from the annual competition.
The prize-winning house .is of splitlevel design and makes judicious use of ’ the variations in floor levels. Three bed-: . rooms and a bath are on the upper level, effectively separated from the activity area. The intermediate level consists of an entrance hall, dining room, kitchen -Sf and utility room. The living room and 1terrace are on the lower level.
J The problem for the 1954 competition | called for a one-story, two-story or split-| level design, with or without basement, | to contain not more than 1,600 square feet of floor space. Specifications called 1 for three bedrooms, suitable space for living including a utility room, one full t bath and a half bath, and a two-car garage or carport. Weatherwise, the ' limitations imposed required the architect to allow for midwestern weather r with a prevailing summer wind from the southwest.
Saenz, whose home is in Cali, Colombia, entered Notre Dame’s architecture school in September, 1949. He became interested in attending Notre Dame through a cousin who was an alumnus * of the University. A three-year English course in prep school helped him overcome the language difficulty involved in studying in a foreign country. Soon after arriving at Notre Dame, Saenz joined the LaRaza Club, an organization of approximately 60 Latin-American students at the University. He also went
out for the tennis team and won a monogram in 1951.
However, the bulk of Saenz’s time is taken up with his architecture studies. He is particularly interested in city planning. After his graduation in June, Saenz plans to go to Bogota, capital of Colombia, where he will join an architectural firm. His sister, Norma, formerly attended St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame, Ind., and now is living with their parents in Cali where Mr. Saenz is in business.
JAIME SAENZ
Home Design Wins $500 Prize
’Winter Fantasy' Sets Motif For Science Ball
The local pre-Lenten social season will fade into history with “A Winter Fantasy” at the annual Science Ball, Friday, Feb. 26. The dance will be held in the La Fortune Student Center from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
The men of the College of Science have signed Dick Carleton and his orchestra to supply the music for their annual ball. It is the same band that played at the Engineers’ Ball.
Ticket sales opened Monday and continued Tuesday and Wednesday. Kim Hewson, who is in charge of tickets, has announced that the remaining tickets that are available to students outside of the College of Science, are on sale in either 39 Sorin or 388 Dillon. The price of the bids is $3.75.
Car permissions as well as 2 o’clock permissions will be available for those who attend the dance.
Bill Tunnell, who is in charge of dec
orations, expects to have the Student Center looking like the “dreams of winter.”
The committee of the ball and Dean Baldinger are expecting that the tradition of a large faculty turnout for the dance will be continued this year.
Co-chairmen John Queenan and John Doherty have announced that plans have been made for the entire weekend. An open house and other festivities are planned for Saturday afternoon.
Parents-SonWeekend Set For March 20-21
The second annual Junior Class Par-ents-Son weekend will get underway here March 20 and 21. The purpose of this weekend is to acquaint parents with student life at the University. The Par-ents-Son weekend is a Junior Class activity planned in conjunction with the University.
During their stay at Notre Dame, the parents will be given an opportunity to see classes in session Saturday morning, and they will eat in the Dining Hall on Saturday afternoon under the actual student dining conditions. Then Saturday afternoon they will have the opportunity to meet faculty members of the various colleges.
Saturday evening parents and sons will be guests of Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, at a formal dinner. Afterwards, an open house for parents and sons will be held in the Student Center with University officials present.
“The parents of every junior will receive notice of the weekend by the end of the month, and at that time they will be given the opportunity to make hotel res-ei-vations in the Morris Inn,” said Jim Sherer, general chairman of the weekend.
The committee in charge of the weekend consists of Jim Sherer, general chairman and president of the Junior Class; Frank Conklin, vice-president; Jim Ehret, secretaiy; and Jerry Hughes, treasurer.
‘DOME’ PHOTOGRAPHERS
Several, photographers are needed by the Dome immediately to handle pictures for the yearbook. Payment is made on a per picture basis. Darkroom facilities are available.
Those who are interested may contact Editor Al Suwalsky at 407 Walsh Hall for an interview as soon as possible. Samples should be taken to the interview.
February 12, 1954
11
THE
f
FRANK LEAHY
ERA
Perhaps there had been an inkling of	“One of the great coaches in the history
what was coming back as early as October	By KEN MURPHY of football . . . his loss leaves a void in our
*■ 17, although no one realized it at the time.	ranks that cannot be filled,” uttered Bud
It had been here at Notre Dame Stadium	Wilkinson of Oklahoma, who now has the
1	that Pitt had given the Irish such a tough game before final-
ly bowing out. Afterwards Coach Frank Leahy had been quoted: “It’s been a long, hard afternoon.”
Then, hard on the heels of this inconspicuous statement, had come the coach’s collapse between halves of the Georgia ’ Tech game on the following Saturday . . . and the nation ' knew that Frank Leahy was a sick man.
\	And yet, through a grim determination—the same grim
determination which had brought him from the Dakota prairies to the height of football coaching fame—Leahy was
'	back with his team two weeks later at Philadelphia against
Penn. That had been another hard game, and at the con-r elusion Leahy said: “I’ve never been so tired and completely exhausted in my life.”
Somehow he managed to last out the season, but the picture of him in the papers toward the end of the campaign showed a tired man—old at the age of 46.
It should have been expected, and yet, that radio bulletin at 4:30 pan. on Sunday, January 31st, which told of the * resignation of Coach Frank Leahy, stunned the nation. The story rated the front page in newspapers across the country and grabbed off the headlines in most of them.
“It certainly came as a great surprise to me,” said Coach Earl Blaik of Army, whose teams had been perennial challengers to Notre Dame’s national ranking. “The college coaching profession has certainly lost one of its most capable and colorful members.” • I *
February 12, 1954	•	13
best record among active coaches.
The rest of them were unanimous in their reactions . . . “great loss to intercollegiate football” . . . “best coach of his generation.”
Eighty-seven times in his eleven seasons of coaching Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, Frank Leahy’s teams had won the good fight. Only eleven times had they been defeated; and on nine other occasions had they been held to ties. Six seasons they were unbeaten; four times they were national champions. Leahy himself had been singled out for individual honors as “Coach of the Week” on innumerable occasions, as “Coach of the Year” four times, and as “Football Man of the Year” at the conclusion of the 1949 season.
The local reaction to the resignation was summed up by grizzled old Joe Dierickx, Stadium caretaker and brother-inlaw of Rockne, on the next morning. Standing in the middle of his workshop in the bottom of the Stadium, amid the dusty, discolored photos and newspaper clippings of great Irish teams of bygone eras, he muttered: “It was different with Rock—he was killed. But the reaction is the same— the same stunned atmosphere.”
The baptismal records in St. Patrick’s Church, O’Neill, Nebraska, show that on August 27, 1907, a son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Frank Leahy—one of eight children whom Leahy’s father tried to support on the meager earnings of a restaurant keeper. Some have intimated that Leahy fits romantically into the Notre Dame picture since his forebears
High School and earned letters there for three seasons.
Even when' he was a 13-year-old eighth grader at Winner High School Frank managed to get into the biggame of the year with Gregory, although it was more of a foxy sense of bartering than any ability on his part that saw him enter the fray.
Soon after play started the official dashed over to one of the Winner guards and ordered him off the field for unnecessary roughness. The astonished boy protested, “But I didn’t do anything!” “Be gone,” bellowed the official firmly. The replacement happened to be a resourceful little shaver named Frank Leahy. It seems the official was a suitor of Frank’s attractive sister and Frank
Leahy bore a striking resemblance to
Rockne during his playing days.
Leahy, third from right in bottom row, as bat-boy for Winner semi-pro nine in 1923.
were also pioneers and Irish. His grandmothers were Torpeys and O’Boyles; his mother was a Kane.
Shortly after Frank’s birth the family moved from Nebraska, but the new homestead at Winner, South Dakota, was not yet ready and Frank, just a babe-in-anns, spent part of the Winter in a tent near Roundup, Montana.
One Chicagoan, who spent most of his early years in Winner, recalls vividly Pa Leahy: “Leahy’s father was a broth of a lad if ever you saw one,” he relates. “He had the power of two men and the courage of ten. All you had to do to get the man started was to stand about a block off and shout ‘I can beat any Leahy in the state of South Dakota.’ He would come after his challenger with a whoop and a holler.
“But no one ever dared stand him in battle. He had beaten too many scoundrels in his day—and so the citizens knew better. He was one of the finest men in the community—and a champion all the way. His boy, Frank, must be that way, too.”
Young Frank, a stripling, built muscles by lugging sack loads of grain and flour from his father’s produce center out to the wagons in the street. By the time he was 16, Frank had become an expert rider and roper and, with another lad, shepherded 12 head of horses 150 miles through the Badlands on one occasion. He also worked at a trading-post, where he learned the Indian language.
That same year the Leahy family moved to Omaha, Nebraska. Frank, natural athlete with great coordination and perfect timing, had starred in all sports at Winner
j	Before the Southern California game in 1941 (the first sellout in the
I Stadium’s history), Leahy received a desperate last-minute call for help [ from eight friends who needed beds for the night.
f	Leahy decided to phone the infirmary and ask the mother superior if
i she had any room.
“Sister,” he said, “this is Frank Leahy. I’m one of the football coaches here. Could you do me two favors?”
;	The nun apparently said she’d try.
Leahy continued, “Sister, I’d like three or four touchdown plays for tomorrow’s game, and I’d like eight beds in the infirmary for friends of Notre Dame who can’t find lodging.”
He got the beds, but the mother superior was fresh out of touchdown ; plays at the moment. As it turned out, Leahy’s own plays worked out well enough. The Irish won, 20-18.
14
The Scholastic
The Old Master was a stickler for the fundamentals of football. Nothing held him down.
While line coach at Fordham, Leahy was casting a watchful eye on burly Alex Wojciechowits, center at Fordham during a portion of the 1933-39 period when the then-tall Leahy was a Ram assistant.
During one practice session, Leahy was driving the center to a shadow. It began to get the best of Wojciechowits so on the next play he gave him the shoulder. Leahy’s lip was cut and a front tooth knocked loose. The burly middle man prepared himself for a real tongue lashing and wanted to apologize.
In his usual manner, Leahy merely turned his head, spit out the tooth and told Wojciecho-wits quietly: “Now there you go again, Alex. You didn t use your feet right. Come on now, try to do it like this.’’
had promised that, for a slight consideration, he would help the official along with his courting by whispering the man’s praises into his sister’s ear.
Frank’s early interest in football was undoubtedly prompted by his oldest brother, Gene, who ranks as one of the greatest centers in the history of Creighton University. Gene won All-American recognition there in 1917-18-19.
Frank’s coach at Winner, incidentally, was Earl Walsh, monogram winner at Notre Dame in 1920 and 1921, whose career entwines strangely with Frank’s.
When the family moved to Omaha, Frank transferred to Omaha Central High School where he again starred in his three favorite sports—football, basketball and baseball. In football, however, he was moved into the line from his familiar halfback position by George Schmidt, former Nebraska star, who was coaching the Omaha eleven.
Schmidt decided that the husky blond youngster had enough weight for the line and used him at tackle. At the other tackle was Ed “Blue” Howell, later an All-American at Nebraska.
It was while at Omaha that an event occurred which shaped the entire life of Frank Leahy. Football coach Knute Rockne of Notre Dame—an institution which by that time had become synonymous with gridiron supremacy — stopped in Omaha on one of his speak-
February 12, 1954
Newsreel Cameras hummed and newspaper men swarmed at Leahy’s opening practice session on March 12, 1941.
ing tours. Frank listened in awe to the magnetic voice and actually shook the Rock’s hand after the talk. That night his mind was made up. “I’m going to Notre Dame,” he told his coach.
Frank had been good enough to consider a career in .the ring, however. Like Rockne—his idol by then—Frank had picked up a few dollars here and there in Omaha and surrounding towns by appearing on boxing cards under an assumed name.
Professional promoters made him flattering offers, and he even became a sparring partner for Ace Hudkins, middle and welterweight contender. Hudkins met Frank while working out in a gym and was so impressed by the lad’s ability that he hired him for a sparmate. Hudkins declares: “He had a real wallop and a left hand that was a beauty. I think he could have gone a long way as a boxer.”
Leahy arrived on the campus in the fall of 1927 with a definite inferiority complex —Notre Dame was big league and he was just a prairie kid. He was one of several hundred students who enrolled at the University each Fall. He busied himself his first few days with getting oriented and keeping an anxious eye out for the opening of freshman football practice.
Tommy Mills, Rockne’s chief assistant, handled the yearlings and the name Leahy was just another in a huge group among which Mills was to find football players. Although he was battling- for the center spot on the third or fourth string freshman team, Leahy’s 180 pounds of Irish brawn soon attracted attention and he was good enough to win the Frank E. Hering Medal for proficiency in center-passing.
Although the Rockne system frowned on second-year men, the 1928 team produced Rockne’s worst season at Notre Dame with five wins and four losses. Consequently Frank managed to get into action in two or three games.
Glancing through the press clippings of that season we find:
“There’s a fellow named ‘Moon’ Mullins from South Pasadena, Calif., among the sophomores. He carries the ball in one paw as if it had a handle. The question is, can he gallop against smart competition? ‘
“There’s also a little Italian quarterback named Carideo from Mount Vernon,
15
Leahy’s Playing Career Ended By One Play
N. Y., who will press all the quarterback candidates when he gets underway. Rockne likes him.”
The only mention of Leahy in the review of the Irish prospects occurs in this paragraph near the end of the article: “The third team at present consists of Kerjez and Vik, ends; Twomey and Mahoney, tackles; Cassidy and Bond, guards; Leahy, center; Carideo, quarterback; Mullins and Montroy, halfbacks; Covington, fullback.”
Came the Fall of 1929 and this time Frank was important enough to rate two lines in the pre-season review of the Irish. One of 119 candidates, he rated this mention: “Rockne seems to have filled his two line vacancies with Leahy and Cannon.” He did manage to hold the first-string job on Rockne’s undefeated national champions of 1929, playing most of the season with one arm protected by a cast. It is legend that, before one of the games, Rockne visited the infirmary to see how his starting tackle was getting on. Leahy held out his arm and moved it around to show his coach that it was okay. Of course, it was the wrong arm that Frank held out, keeping the injured one under the covers, but he stalled in the next game.
There is one man at Notre Dame who is largely responsible for Frank Leahy being the choice to succeed Elmer Layden as head coach. He is the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, ex-president of the University. Maybe you’d call it luck and maybe not, but there is an interesting story in that connection.
The football team was
in Washington, D. C., Leahy diagrams play with prior to their second game of the season with Navy in 1929. Leahy visited a seminary where young men were studying for the priesthood and Frank struck up a conversation with a student slightly older than the rest, whose name was John Cavanaugh. They liked each other. The next day Leahy was hurt in the game and he was taken to a bus to await transfer to the hotel. John Cavanaugh appeared, saying he thought he’d come out to see how Frank was getting on. He stayed with Leahy until it was time for him to leave, passing up the rest of the game.
A few years later Frank was line coach at Fordham. He received a letter from John Cavanaugh saying he was coming to New York for a visit. He had been ordained into the priesthood in the meantime and was a prefect of a residence hall at Notre Dame. Frank and the charming. Mrs. Leahy entertained the young priest, and they became fast friends.
Time marches on. . . . Leahy becomes a famous coach at Boston College. . . . Elmer Layden resigns to join the professional ranks. . . . Father John Cavanaugh has become vice-president of Notre Dame and has much to say about
Ed
who should be Layden’s successor.
But we’re getting ahead of our story.
Frank Leahy, a monogram-winner on the 1929 Notre Dame squad, had a rather unhappy senior year, at least as far as football was concerned.
Two days before the opening of the 1930 campaign— Rockne’s last—Rock called a halt to a practice session, and then, as the squad was leaving the field, he suddenly called it back for one more play. That decision ended Leahy’s playing career forever. The 1930 Football Review reports: “In making a long, diving tackle over the prostrate forms of two of his varsity mates, Leahy injured a membrane on his leg, the ailment known as ‘periostitis’ set in . . .”
But Dame Luck, although ending his playing career at its height, helped develop the qualities of courage, fortitude and aggressiveness which have made Leahy’s coaching career such a phenomenal one.
He went out to practice regularly and watched the coaches handle their various groups of linemen and backs. Leahy sat beside Rockne on the bench at home games and even accompanied the team on road trips after his injury. When h? could help he did so, but most of the time he spent listening and absorbing the information which Rockne and his staff pounded into the Irish gridders. He learned it, too. Rockne later declared :
“That fellow Leahy could pick up more football knowledge in a short period than any man I ever coached.”
Krause, then ass’t. coach.	Frank’s closest friend
—beside his roommate, Johnny “ One - Play ” O’Brien—was “Spike” McAdams, well-known Chicago fight referee, who was a brilliant boxer at Notre Dame, and who often sparred with him, despite the difference in size. McAdams was a lightweight. Frank spent much time at the McAdams home in Chicago, and, as they sat in front of the fireplace one Wintry night, Leahy remarked meditatively:
“Gee, Spike, I’d like to have a house like this with a big fireplace, and a flock of kids.”
The courage of the youngster who dreamed such dreams won the quick admiration of Rockne, himself a man who had to fight his way to the front from obscurity. Rock knew that Leahy was not financially able to secure treatment for his injured knee, and he realized that the game leg would be a handicap should Leahy decide to go into the coaching profession.
In December of 1930, Rockne was ordered to go back to the Mayo Clinic for further treatment on his leg and it gave him an opportunity to do something for the boy he admired so much.
“Frank,” he said to Leahy one day, “I need company at
7<(!
The Scholastic
Coaching, Brooklyn Girl, Weaknesses in ’35
Mayo’s. I want you to come up with me and have your knee taken care of.”
To say that Leahy was overwhelmed is putting it mildly. Three years of contact with the great coach hadn’t lessened the awe with which he regarded his boyhood idol—and here he was being invited to share a room with him. He accepted so quickly that it left even Rockne a trifle dizzy.
At the Mayo Clinic, an operation on Leahy’s knee made it as good as new. But more important than that, for almost two weeks he spent hour upon hour absorbing football knowledge and the philosophy of coaching and life from Knute Rockne himself—the man whose shoes he was to fill so capably at Notre Dame.
It was one of the most gracious and kindly acts in Rockne’s whole remarkable career. Describing those days at the clinic, Leahy says:
“Rock knew I was brooding about the leg injury, and he thought he could bolster my spirits by having some famous physicians see if something couldn’t be done to repair the damage. He realized I was finished as a football player, but he wanted to put my mind at ease. I didn’t realize what he really was doing until several years later.”
“At the clinic we had a big room with beds on either side of the window. Rockne did practically all the talking during the time we were there.” After a while, the nurses began to hear Rockne asking his pupil questions like this: “It’s third down, four to go, and you’re on the enemy’s 35-yard line; you’re losing 12-6 and there’s only two minutes to play. What do you do?”
“It was during that period that I decided to go in for coaching,” Leahy recalls. “When I told Rock of my choice, he said: ‘Frank, I think you’re doing the right thing. I’m going to start work on getting you a job as soon as we get back to school.’ ”
Returning to the campus after his stay in the Mayo Clinic with Frank Leahy, Rockne looked around for a spot which would give the youngster a chance to display his talents. He finally found one—with a man who had helped coach Leahy while Frank was at Notre Dame.
He was Tommy Mills, who had been given the head coaching job at Georgetown University in 1930. On Rockne’s recommendation Mills hired Leahy as his line coach for the 1931 season—the start of a career which was meteoric in its ascendancy.
And then came March 31. . . . Leahy stood-in the office of Knute Rockne, the office which he was to occupy ten years hence, tears rolling down his cheeks ... a bashful kid who had just heard the sad news that his famous coach, the
Notre Dame Under Rockne and Leahy
KNUTE ROCKNE
Year	IF	L	T
1918..............   3	1	2
1919................. 9	0	0**
1920................. 9	0	0**
1921 10	1	0**
1922................. 8	1	1
1923................. 9	1	0
1924................ 10	0	0*
1925................. 7	2	1
1926................ 9	1	0
1927...............  7	1	1
1928..............   5	4	0
1929................. 9	0	0*
1930.................10	0	0*
TOTAL: 13 years, 105 wins. 12 losses, 3 ties.
Pct. 898 (excluding ties)
WESTERN CHAMPIONSHIPS: Rockne 3.
UNDEFEATED TEAMS: Leahy, 6; Rockne, 5.
UNDEFEATED AND UNTIED:
Leahy, 2; Rockne, 5
man he worshipped as only a kid can worship a great athletic idol . . . had been killed in an airplane accident an hour or two before.
In June of 1931 Frank graduated and received his degree. He spent the Summer at the boys’ camp in Clearwater Lake, Wis., established by Cardinal Mundelein, and in September went to Washington for the start of his coaching career.
It was rather a tough start, that season at Georgetown. Handicapped by lack of material, Mills and Leahy did what they could, but the season’s record showed five defeats, one tie and only four wins. But one of the best games the Hoyas played was against Jimmy Crowley’s Michigan State eleven, . losing 6 to 0, after a terrific battle. The Georgetown line	i
impressed Crowley, and, although Leahy grieved like all	j
coaches do after a defeat, it reminded Crowley that there was a young man named Frank Leahy in the coaching business.
During the Summer of 1932 there was a strong report that Crowley was to get the coaching job at Iowa. Leahy went to East Lansing to see Crowley and did the best job of selling himself that he probably ever did. After his third visit, Crowley finally told him: “O.K. You’re hired. You’re my line coach starting in September.”
The 1932 season at Michigan State was one of the most successful in the school’s history. Losing only to Michigan — which won the Big Ten championship without a defeat — the Spartans took the rest of their games in impressive fashion. One of their victims was Fordham, the 19-13 defeat being one of the two losses administered to Fordham that season. Their other loss, oddly enough, was a 3 to 0 loss to Boston College.
When Maj. Frank Cavanaugh, veteran Fordham coach, retired aftei- the 1932 season because of ill health, the New York school didn’t hesitate about where to go for a coach. It headed directly to East Lansing for Jimmy Crowley. He had the name, the personality, the record, and a couple of pretty good assistants—Frank Leahy and Glenn Carberry. Both went to New York with their boss.
An addition to the staff there was Earl Walsh, Frank’s old high school coach, who had played his last season at Notre Dame when Crowley was a freshman. It was a reunion that Frank had no little part in, for he had never forgotten the help given him by Walsh at his boyhood Winner home.
Those were glorious years at Fordham. Success came to Leahy both in football and in private life. He met a Brooklyn girl named Florence Reilly and they were married on July 4, 1935.
FRANK LEAHY
Year	IF	L	T
1941.............  8	0	1
1942	  7	2	2
1943_....~.......  9	1	0*
1944_____________ (in seta-ice)
1945........... (in sen-ice)
1946_____________ 8	0	1*
1947 9	0	0*
1948______________9	0	1
1949.10	0	0*
1950..___________ 4	4	1
1951 7	2	I
1952.____________ 7	2	1
1953—___________   9	0	1
TOTAL: 11 years, 87 wins, 11 losses. 9 ties.
Pct. .888 (excluding ties)
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS: Leahy, 4; Rockne, 3.
*National championships.
**Western championships.
February 12, 1954
Frank tells the story about an old Irish friend of his father-in-law, who almost broke up the wedding. In great alarm the old Irishman confided to the girl’s father: “Don’t you let her marry that football coaching fellow. I happen to know he’s already married and has a couple of youngsters.” The problem was quickly solved, however, when it was found that the old Irishman had confused Leahy with Layden.
Florence, called “Floss” by her husband, has had eight children—five “lads” and three “lassies.” With her husband away five nights a week during the football season, and frequently absent in the off-season responding to pleas for personal appearances sent out by Notre Dame alumni clubs throughout the country, Mrs. Leahy has spent her spare time at her hobby — compiling scrap books containing articles about her husband and his teams. She’s also a rabid fan and sees all the home games.
Mrs. Leahy “Shrewd Psychologist"
Apparently she’s as shrewd a psychologist in family life as her husband is in dressing room pep talks. Frank says: “When I, come home after a tie or a loss she never talks about the game.”
One legend concerning Leahy’s pessimism has it that, one day while Mrs. Leahy was shopping in a store with the Leahy children, one of them began to sob. “Hush darling,” she murmured, “you’re just like father!”
After marrying, Frank needed more money, so he spent his mornings knocking on business doors around New York. He finally made a connection with the U. S. Rubber Company selling basketball shoes, a relationship which he still retains. As he does with everything he undertakes, Frank also applied himself conscientiously to this job—even took a course in practipedics, the study of the foot.
Most important of all, however, Leahy turned out two of the greatest forward walls in the history of college football in 1936 and 1937—the famous “seven blocks of granite.” Johnny Druze, who has been here every one of the eleven years as assistant coach with Leahy, was captain of the undefeated 1937 Rams.
TOP LEFT: Lt. Commander Frank Leahy is pictured on board ship during his ten-months of Pacific duty in World War II.
CENTER LEFT: Leahy with Billy Conn, shortly after the latter was kayoed by Joe Louis in 13th round.
LEFT BOTTOM: The Master with his quartet of '49 All-Americans. Standing —Bob Williams, Leahy, Jim Martin. Kneeling—Emil Sitko and Leon Hart.
The Scholastic
Frank Leahy accomplished two other- things during his half dozen years at Fordham. First, he blossomed forth as an accomplished public speaker after making a study of public speaking and proper breathing. He has even coached > his assistants along these lines so they will not lose their voices during practice sessions.
*	Secondly, fellow football men came to recognize his abil-
ity, and he was in great demand at coaching schools across the country. He lectured with such notables as Matty Bell, Jock Sutherland, Eddie Anderson, Carl Snavely, Bernie Bierman, Noble Kizer and “Dutch” Myer. It was Snavely’s rec-♦ ommendation, incidentally, which was instrumental in Leahy landing the Boston College job.
v	On January 28, 1939, the headlines of the Boston papers
screamed: “Unknown Leahy Signed.” Wire coverage on the story read: Frank Leahy, line coach at Fordham, today became the new head football coach at Boston College, succeeding Gilmour Dobie who resigned.
>- Criticism from the Boston public was long and loud over the signing of an unknown to succeed the great Gil (Gloomy * Gil) Dobie. For 36 years the lean, dour Scot had been one of football’s legendary figures—his teams had won more games than those of any other coach.
t But before Leahy had been at his new post a month, he had won a “good press.’’ He was calling sports writers by > their first names within an hour after he met them and was asking about the health of their families before they left.
1	Leahy, like Dobie, was a family-man too—he and his
wife had two children by now—yet Frank tore himself away from the fireside to fulfill the demands of alumni groups and student committees for personal appearances. At Boston College he worked an average of twelve hours a day, about h four of them on the practice field and the rest at other duties. He considered speech-making one of those duties. Sometimes he saw his family only a few hours a week.
Leahy Had “Story-book Success" at Boston College
“I came to Boston College to succeed and not to fail,” said Leahy when he took over the job. His story-book success in just two short years is a matter of record. His two * Eagle teams lost two games—both in 1939. One defeat was administered by Florida, 7 to 0, on one of Boston’s rare “off days.” That game, by the way, was the only one he has ever told any of his teams they would win. Possibly this is the basis for Leahy’s renowned pessimism.
The other loss was to Jess Neely’s Clemson team in the '	1939 Cotton Bowl. That score was 6 to 3. It should have
- been 26 to 3. The Eagle squad hadn’t been able to get outside to practice for a month and was sadly out of shape. ’	Leahy was in Atlanta in January of 1941 following his
team’s 19 to 13 victory over Tennessee in the Sugar Bowl. Reports circulated there at the mid-winter jamboree of the - Atlanta touchdown club that he was going to the professional Detroit Lions as head coach.
7- But Leahy decided to remain at Boston College. On the day that he signed a new five-year contract, John Curley, ~ graduate manager of athletics, said: “If Notre Dame ever asks you back, Frank, we’ll be happy to hand you your release.”
I	When the announcement came that Elmei- Layden had
resigned at Notre Dame to accept a five-year contract as p	president of the National Football League, Leahy’s name
I	immediately cropped up on a list of potential successors
which included Clipper Smith of Villanova, Jimmy Crowley, Leahy’s old coach- at State and at Fordham, Buck Shaw of Santa Clara, Harry Stuhldreher of Wisconsin, Frank Thomas of Alabama, and Gus Dorais of Detroit.
Within another week, February 4 to be exact, the phone rang in his Waban, Mass., home. It was the Rev. T. Hugh
February 12, 1954	•
An Early Practice Session on Cartier Held.
Leahy in 1952 with Mamie and Ike.
19
A 12-14 hour day didn’t
leave much time for lunch.
Ass’t. Coach Miller jots notes as Leahy diagnoses the action
Mrs. Leahy and Family greet the coach as he arrives home
at night.

O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. A week later he met Father Frank Cavanaugh (brother of Father John Cavanaugh) in Albany, N. Y., to discuss terms. On February 15 Fi-ank Leahy signed a contract as head football coach and athletic director at the University of Notre Dame . . . and an era commenced which was to rival that of Knute Rockne. .
The arrival of Leahy at South Bend caused some more muttering from grandstand quarterbacks, but it wasn’t nearly so loud or noticeable as that which had greeted his arrival in Boston. The campus reaction to Leahy’s appointment, which burst as unexpectedly on the nation as did his resignation, was a remarkable thing, however. The more than 3,000 students were, without noticeable exception, overjoyed at the coming of Leahy and there was even some loose talk along the snowswept walks of the campus of an immediate return to the great days of the Irish.
A few days after his arrival Leahy was standing in the Fieldhouse, thoughtfully digging a toe of his shoe into the black soil, and said: “We’ll practice in here when there is bad weather, and there will be bad weather.” Then, with a surge of reminiscence, he exclaimed: “Just think, many a time I’ve raked the pebbles and scraps of paper out of this place.”
He had brought his staff of assistants along with him when he transferred and, looking at the South Bend Tribune, we read: “Leahy, with aides Joe McArdle of Lowell and effervescent Johnny Druze, is making it a threesome in a suite of rooms at the Hotel Oliver in town. Not one of ’em can cook worth a darn and they’re all vigorous trenchermen, so the dining room is getting quite a play. Mrs. Leahy won’t move in until September. McKeever and family settled down in a furnished apartment not four blocks from the campus. ‘It’s snug—too snug,’ declared McKeever. He’s looking for something bigger.”
During Spring practice Leahy shifted no fewer than 14 men to new positions, four of them first string men. Center Wally Ziemba had been a second string right tackle; Bernie Crimmins, who had won monograms the two previous years as a fullback and a halfback, was shifted to right guard; fullback Owen (Dippy) Evans was moved from left halfback, and Harry Wright moved from fullback to quarterback.
And there was a change in formations, too. Leahy, at the
While on submarine duty in the South Pacific, Leahy went with a group of Naval personnel to inspect a tiny island on which few outsiders had ever set foot.
The black, savage-looking horde that met the landing party was enough to scare any well-meaning visitor, but much to the relief of Leahy and his group, the natives were extremely hospitable.
When the inspection was over, the King had the children assemble and sing songs for the departing visitors. After several weird but lusty renditions, the native interpreter waved his arms for silence and proudly announced to the Americans that the next number would be, “American song . . . learn from Victrola."
A half-hundred, fuzzy-headed, naked urchins drew deep breaths and awaited their leader's cue. And then thousands of miles from the Golden Dome on this wind-swept, God-forsaken Pacific atoll came the familiar refrain:
“Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame . . .”
Scoreboard in closing seconds of game tells the story of greatest comeback ever staged by one of Leahy’s squads.
NOTRE DAME
IOWA PENALTY I DOWN J
YARDS TO GO
time, ran about a third of his plays from the T and when not operating from the T, had the Irish running from the regular Notre Dame box.
Only a scoreless tie with Army on November 1 kept Notre Dame from having a perfect record in its first season under Frank Leahy, as Arizona, Indiana, Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech, Illinois, Navy, Northwestern, and Southern Cal went down to defeat.
After watching Sid Luckman and the Chicago Bears win over the College AllStars with their smooth-operating T-formation attack in August of ’41, Leahy definitely decided the T was for Notre Dame. He then set out to learn the mystery of it. All through the pro football season he haunted Wrigley Field, watching the dazzling performances of the Bears and the razzle-dazzle of Luckman.
In February of ’42 Leahy and McArdle spent hours on end in hotel rooms and, later, in an empty office on Sixth Avenue, as Luckman demonstrated the various pivots that make up the T—the mousetrap, the crossover, the reverse, the counter-pivot, the forward pass.
From Luckman the Irish coach journeyed West to see George Halas, ownercoach of the Bears. Halas gave him more instructions on the basic principles of the T and sent him on to the Bear line coach, former Notre Dame star- Hunk Anderson. In a Detroit hotel room Anderson and Leahy spent days on the T in relation to line play. Leahy’s last jaunt, just before Spring drills in ’42, took him to Maryland, where he indulged in hour-after-hour of skull sessions with the thin, graying master of the T, Clark Shaughnessy.
When Leahy announced that the T was to be used at Notre Dame, the statement met with a wave of disbelief and outrage. How could he think of casting aside the tried-and-true Notre Dame shift which was as respected and loved (Continued on page 30)
Wear begins to tell on the coach’s face as he talks with one of the boys on the bench during last game against Southern Methodist.
MYSTERY
Before semester vacation Student Senate President Jim Richards pleaded before the Senators for an “extra buck” to finance second semester activities. He appeared on WNDU to further his cause after unfavorable campus comment. For two weeks he carried the fight. Records of the Senate show, however, that Richards himself never came through with that “extra buck.” He left Notre Dame and moved on to Georgetown’s Graduate School.
Morgenthau Treats UN In 'Review of Politics*
Although the effectiveness of the United Nations is greatly hampered by the “cold war,” the U.N. has “political potentialities for good” which should not be discounted off-hand, according to Prof. Hans Morgenthau writing in the current issue of Notre Dame’s Review of Politics.
“The conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union has prevented the United Nations from becoming the international government of the great powers which the Charter’ intended it to be,” Professor Morgenthau observes. An authority on international relations at the University of Chicago, Morgenthau says that the East-West struggle “has paralyzed the Security Council” so that political issues which it would have handled in former years are referred to the General Assembly.
Tracing the gradual transformation of the United Nations, Professor Morgenthau claims that its charter was based on three assumptions which no longer exist. “First, that the great powers, acting in unison, would deal with any threat of peace and security regardless of its source. Second, that their combined wisdom and strength would be sufficient to meet all such threats without resort to war. Third, that no such threat would emanate from one of the great powers themselves.” Professor Morgenthau concludes that the great powers themselves now constitute the greatest threat to world peace.
Whereas the United Nations once took for granted unity among the great powers, Professor Morgenthau says, the U.N. today takes disunity between the two super-powers for granted and “concerns itself with the coordination of resources and policies among its members for the purpose of the efficient waging of the ‘cold war.’ ”
22
University's '53 Gifts Rise Above $2 Million
The University of Notre Dame received a total of $2,170,851.13 in gifts and grants during 1953, it was reported here recently by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation.
Father Cavanaugh told the directors of the University’s alunmi association that a record number of Notre Dame alumni contributed financial support to their alma mater during the past year. A total of $364,323.03 was given to Notre Dame by 9,184 of its living, nonclergy alumni, Father Cavanaugh said.
The former Notre Dame president noted that 47.7% of the University’s graduates participated in the 1953 alumni fund, an increase of 7.4% over the previous year. He said that Notre Dame’s 47.7% alumni participation compares with a national average of 18% as reported in a survey of 270 colleges and universities to the American Alumni Council in 1952.
Faculty Development 1954 Project
Father Cavanaugh itemized other sources of University support during 1953 as non-alumni contributions, $462,340.92; research grants and fellowships, $602,734.18; and gifts in kind, $41.453.00. Included in the overall figure was $700,000 in committed pledges representing three capital gifts, he said.
During 1954, Father Cavanaugh said all unrestricted gifts to the University will be devoted to faculty development. In one phase of a comprehensive faculty development program, corporations are being invited to underwrite the addition of 45 distinguished professors to the Notre Dame faculty.
John H. Neeson, Jr., Philadelphia attorney and retiring president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, presided at the semi-annual board of directors meeting on the campus.
WASHINGTON DAY EXERCISES
The program will be held Monday, Feb. 22 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Classes will assemble according to colleges in the Fieldhouse at 7:30 p.m. Suits and ties will be worn by all those except R.O.T.C. members who will wear their uniforms. Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, “Patriot of the Year,” will deliver the principal address if his schedule will permit.
I
------------------------------------------ H
NEWS DEADLINE	p
b
Deadline	for all news	copy	'i
submitted to Scholastic is 7:30	‘ j
p.m. Sunday	in the office in	Farley	|
Hall. This includes all copy from student organizations, faculty members, and campus clubs.
Stories may also be given to News Editor Paul Fullmer at 415 Badin Hall.
All those connected with campus publicity are urged to keep in 5 contact with Scholastic in order to make campus coverage complete. Contact may also be made by phoning Scholastic’s extension 555 after 7:30 p.m. on Sunday.
Fr. Sheehan Writes Article on Marriage
“Only a college senior would claim that he fully understands women and can pick the perfect wife without anyone’s help,” according to Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., head of the Department of Biology. “Most men realize that only God understands women perfectly. After all, He made them,” Father Sheehan observes.
Writing on “When You Marry” in the Jan. 30 issue of The Ave Maria, Father Sheehan declares that psychological differences as well as similarities between the sexes figure significantly in the success or failure of many marriages.
“The characteristics of husband and wife should be different but not antagonistic,” Father Sheehan says. “Each should bring some special contribution to the marriage. When united together in marriage, man and woman form a partnership which is complementary, mutually helpful.”
Acknowledging the psychological differences of the two sexes, the Notre Dame priest-scientist nevertheless deplores an over-emphasis of them. “When we compare . . . the psychology of man and that of woman, we tend to overemphasize the differences and ignore the similarities,” Father Sheehan ■writes. “In a marriage, understanding these similarities is just as important as recognizing the differences.”
The Church usually advises a reasonably long courtship, Father Sheehan notes, because “both parties need time to judge the other’s psychological gifts and shortcomings.” It is of the utmost importance, he concludes, ‘“for young men and women to choose their partner wisely and to give serious thought to qualities, other .than, a beautiful face-and -attractive figure or a handsome brow and powerful physique.”
The Scholastic
Casper Presents Recital
Richard Casper, student pianist, will present a recital at 8:15 next Thursday evening in Washington Hall. Casper is being sponsored by the Department of Music in conjunction with the Concert and Lecture Series. There will be no admission charge.
Faculty Valentine Dance
Members of the Notre Dame Lay Faculty Club will entertain their wives at a Valentine Dance tonight in the Morris Inn. Harlan Hogan and his orchestra will provide the music for dancing from 9 until midnight in the ballroom which will feature a Valentine motif.
Co-chairmen of the dance are Professors John FitzGerald and Alex Petraus-kas; Fred Beckman is in charge of decorations; and Edward Fischer is handling publicity.
Senior Ball Decorations Proceed
An air of mystery surrounds the decorations for the Senior Ball, which is to be held May 14. Although LeRoy Baz-any, chairman of the decorations committee, admits that the ball will be set to an Austrian motif, entailing a complete Austrian village from the town hall to the street cafes, the special center of attraction is still .undisclosed.
Work on the decorations for the Drill Hall has already begun. Those desiring to work on committees are urged to contact any chairman. Painters are especially needed.
History Lecture Speakers
Prof. Charles E. Parnell, of the Department of Modern Languages, and Prof. William 0. Shanahan, of the Department of History, will be the next speakers in the current history lecture series. Their talks will be delivered in the Rockne Lounge next Wednesday evening at 7:45.
Based on a general theme of “History and Literature,” Professor Parnell’s topic is “Von Ranke: A Confident Literary Historian.” Professor Shanahan will speak on “Literature in the 20th Century Home.”
Student Leo Zawistowski will act as discussion chairman, while William Nie-mec .will lead student discussion.
Freshman Lecture on Studying
The Blue Circle Freshman Academic Orientation Committee is sponsoring a lecture by Mr. Edward Quinn, head of
the Department of Guidance and Testing, on study habits, note-taking, and underlining. His talk will be delivered Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium, and will be followed by a question-and-answer period on the topics included in Mr. Quinn’s lecture. Although primarily designed for freshmen, other students are invited to attend the session.
Press Club Elects Officers
The Junior Class members of the Press Club recently elected a vice-president and treasurer. Jim Sherer and Paul Fullmer tied in the balloting for vice-president, and Tom and Dave Cohen tied for the treasurer’s spot. It was decided to have co-officers for these positions. Dick Gerbracht and Ken Murphy had previously been named president and secretary, respectively.
Stryker Will Address Law Students
Mr. Lloyd Paul Stryker, noted trial lawyer, will address law students and faculty members next Tuesday at 11:30 a.m. in the Law Auditorium. Mr. Stryker’s topic will deal with the art of advocacy, and will be concerned with the trial of law suits. All students are invited.
Tuesday evening Mr. Stryker will be guest of the Student Law Association at a smoker in the Morris Inn. Law students and those who .intend to enter the College of Law in September are invited. Mr. Stryker will answer any questions the students may have.
Mr. Stryker, considered to be one of the great trial lawyers of our time, was born in Chicago, educated at Hamilton College, received his degree in law from the New York Law School, and was admitted to the New York Bar in 1909. After an extensive career in the public service as judge and assistant district attorney he was engaged in general trial counsel work in New York City.
Mr. Stryker has also written numerous legal and biographical works, including Andreiv Jackson, A Study in Courage and The Art of Advocacy, which will be published soon.
Nugent Addresses AIEE-ASME
Mr. Edward L. Nugent, director of the design engineering department of Detroit Edison, recently addressed a joint meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers on the topic, “Nuclear Power Plants.”
After a brief introduction to his talk in which he explained that the purpose of the Dow-Detroit Edison nuclear power project was to bring atomic power into use in the field of electric power generation, Mr. Nugent showed the General Electric Co. film, ‘A' Is for Atom.
Mr. Nugent continued his talk with a comparison of today’s natural resources with our potential resources of atomic power and explained how the natural resources could be made to last much longer if atomic power could be used for commercial purposes. Using slides, he then contrasted today’s power plants with a plant using atomic power.
According to Mr. Nugent, the problems that still must be overcome are government restrictions, site location, and disposal of radioactive by-product ma-terial.
India Assoc. Presents Talks
The India Association of Notre Dame presented a talk by Dr. C. C. Price, entitled “Can We Improve on the UN?” in the Nieuwland ’ Science Hall this afternoon. Movies on the UN and India were also shown.
N.D. In National Bridge Tourney
Notre Dame is one of the 172 colleges and universities throughout the U.S. which will compete this month in the 1954 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament.
Between Feb. 17-21, more than 4,000 men and women undergraduates will play on their own campuses the hands which have been prepared and mailed to them. These hands will then be scored by Geoffrey Mott-Smith, author and contract bridge authority, who will determine campus, regional and national winners.
Charles Stimming, James Klink, John Fish, and Oswald Jacoby, Jr., were the 1953 campus winners. These four also tied for third place nationally.
Directing the tournament here will be Prof. John Turley. Play will be held next Thursday at 6:45 p.m. in the Student Center.
‘SCHOLASTIC’ OPENINGS
There are openings on the news staff of the Scholastic for experienced writers. Anyone, especially freshmen, interested in writing or copy reading should contact News Editor Paul Fullmer at Scholastic’s office in the basement of Farley Hall on either Sunday or Wednesday evenings at 7:30 p.m.
February 12, 1954
Seniors Learn ‘All About Marriage’ at ’54 Institute
List Schedule of Top Speakers
February 23 marks the beginning of the annual Marriage Institute. For six years the Department of Religion has staged the Institute. This year the Senior Class will join with the Department in presenting the weekly sessions of marriage talks, which will run until April 6.
The seven informal Tuesday evening meetings will feature lectures and discussions on every phase of marriage and give the senior an excellent chance to speak with experts on various topics. All sessions 'will be held at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Tickets for the series will be on sale for 50 cents Monday and Tuesday in the Dining Hall.
The Marriage Institute—officially “An Institute on Christian Marriage”—attempts to give every Notre Dame man an opportunity to learn how to live to the fullest as a husband and father. The institute is held once during each academic year and its attendance is limited to graduate students, senior undergraduates, and married students.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, has always been one of the most popular speakers. He will again present his talk on •‘Courtship” at the opening session on Feb. 23.
The theme of his past talks has been the importance of choosing the right girl, ; and the winning and deepening of the love leading to marriage.
c	In his studies and teaching, Father
i Hesburgh has specialized in the subjects
of Christian marriage, Catholic action, and in the theology of the modern period of the Church.
On March 2 Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will head the second program with an address on “Sex Morality.”
Father Sheedy served as head of the Department of Religion from 1950 to 1952. He is also the author of The Christian Virtues, a text book on Catholic morals, as well as a number of newspaper and magazine articles.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe will be the first laymen to address the 1954 Marriage Institute.
Since marriage is not only a natural institute but also the layman’s great sacrament, an effoit is made to secure competent and interesting lay persons. Priests are only used to discuss topics of which they would have a better knowledge, such as marriage laws and the moral problems of marriage.
Mr. and Mrs. Strubbe will talk on “Family Structure, Male and Female Psychology” on Tuesday, March 9. At present Mr. Strubbe is the director of the Department of Public Relations at St. Xavier College. Both were pioneer members of the Christian Family movement and are lay speakers in the preCana conferences.
On March 16 Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., and Dr. John J. Kane will treat “Canon Law on Marriage” and “Ten
sions of Mixed Marriage,” respectively. Father Nealy has taught at Notre Dame since 1949 after extensive theological studies. He was an army chaplain during World War II and has had extensive experience with the problems of young-married people.
Dr. Kane, head of the Department of Sociology, has specialized on the family, races and ethnic group relationships, (Continued on Page 29)
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C.
DR. JOHN J. KANE	REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, C.S.C.
24
The
Scholastic

Scholastic Sports
Jordanmen Face Demons Monday
IRISH WIN NO. 12
McGinn Readies, Bertrand Rebounds
Revengeful DePaul Hopes to Square Series; ND-Butler Clash at Indianapolis Wednesday
By BOB RUHL
Still smarting from their defeat at the hands of the Irish last weekend, Coach Ray Meyer’s revenge-minded DePaul Demons invade the fieldhouse Monday night to tangle with Johnny Jordan’s sixth-ranked quintet.
The Demons, sporting a 9-6 record, look for a resounding upset over the Irish, who were befuddled by DePaul’s sagging-wall defense throughout the first half of last week’s thriller. Notre Dame gradually found the answer to the puzzling picket line and brought home a neat 59-53 prize.
Demon guard Jim Lamkin, a 5-9 ball of fire on the hardwood, paced his club with 18 points in the first Irish tussle. The scrappy little playmaker scored when it counted, and tossed in 12 points
in the last half to keep DePaul in contention all the way to the whistle.
Lamkin gets help from Sophomore Ron Sobieszczyk who has been pounding the nets at a 14 point clip. Center Ken Jasky (6-5), forward Frank Blum (6-4), and guard Ted Curran (6-2) complete the lineup.
Although DePaul has nine wins, most of these came over minor league opposition. The Demons fell before such major teams as Kentucky, Holy Cross, Fordham and Illinois twice. Holy Cross, the only common opponent, wrecked the Demons, but lost 83-61 to the Irish.
Last year the two quintets split in their two games. Notre Dame moved into the Windy City and suffered an 8356 loss, and the Blue Demons journeyed
In+erhall Cagers Open Second Round Action
With the teams seeded and re-bracketed from last semester’s play, Ernie Szekely’s .interhall basketball league is in full swing. Four clubs have been added since the close of last semester to bring the total to 44.
Early favorites in the race are the Old College five led by Jimmy Walden and Pat Hart; the Toledo club, with Tom McHugh as their top point-maker; and the Milwaukee club with dependable scorers Don Zech and Andy Carrao.
Other entries who are looked upon to give these three a run for the top spot are the Kentucky club, Texas club, Minnesota club, Cincinnati club, West Virginia club, Dillon, Walsh and Breen-Phillips halls.
The initial round has already been completed with Toledo defeating A.S.C.E., 46-31. Off Campus forfeited to the Generation club, thereby droppingout of the league; Old College racked the Chern Engineers, 21-8. Zahm routed Kansas City, 45-17, and Milwaukee took Lyons .into camp, 39-32.
JORDANMEN FIGHT ALL THE WAY TO DOWN DEPAUL, 59-53
Camera Catches What Officials Missed; Defender Overdoes Job
February 12, 1954
to the fieldhouse to absorb a 95-67 shellacking at the hands of the Irish.
On Wednesday the Jordanmen will tangle with Butler in a return match at Indianapolis. The Irish won earlier this season, 95-58. The winner of the game will receive the Al Feeney Memorial trophy. The trophy is non-retiring and will be presented to the winner of the game at Indianapolis.
Coach Hinkle’s squad is built around three experienced players: guards Jim Crosley and Harry Porter, and forward Keith Greve. Greve and Crosley ranked one-two in scoring last season. Greve averaged 17.1 points a game and missed “Buckshot” O’Brien’s all-time season mark of 420 by just 26 points. Crosley averaged 12.3.
The remaining starters include Bob Reed and John Mustain. Reed is a three-year veteran. Mustain, who is only a sophomore, lacks the necessary experience. He was a member of Ed Dittle’s Kentucky All-Stars in 1952.
After a two-week layoff due to final exams, Notre Dame’s basketball Irish loosened up at the expense of the Butler Bulldogs, 95-58. The Irish lost no time with Jordan’s fast breaking five, tearing into the Butler defense. ND poured through 51 points in the first half.
Guards Jack Stephens and Bill Sullivan piloted their Irish teammates by setting up plays and adding 14 and 12 points respectively to the ND total. “Sully” in his last couple of outings has been gaining extra confidence and has been a valuable asset particularly on defense.
Captain Dick Rosenthal fired the high-powered attack throughout the first period to give the Irish the edge after ten (Continued on page 28)
BILL SULLIVAN Steady Improvement Strengthens Irish
Annual Bengal Bouts Scheduled For March 11; Novice Matches Uncover Promising Prospects
Workouts are continuing daily in the boxing room of the fieldhouse as prospective competitors in Notre Dame’s 24th annual Bengal Bouts are rounding into shape for the University’s open championships, highlight of the year’s fistic activities here.
The Bouts will begin on March 11 in the fieldhouse with preliminaries continuing until March 13. Semi-finals are scheduled for March 15, and the climax will come on March 17 as the University celebrates St. Patrick’s Day.
Veterans Back Again
“Old Timers” who will be competing again this year include Tom Magill, 127-pounder and last year’s champ in that class; Ed Sama, holder of the 1953 175-1b. crown, who will compete in the middle weight division this year; and Lee Getschow, light heavyweight champ three years ago.
Heavyweight Joe Bush, a finalist in 1952, will return to action this year. Joe will be attempting to equal brother Jack’s accomplishment of winning the heavy title two years ago, but he will find plenty of competition in Walt Cabral, winner of this year’s novice heavyweight contest.
Several experienced boxers will be competing for the 175-lb. crown, including Pat Cannon, winner of the Father Ryan trophy for all-round ability up to the semi-finals last year. Others in the same class include George Mernin and Larry Ash, finalist in 1952.
Jim Curtin, 167-lb.; John Mulvaney, 157-lb.; Tom McCabe, 147-lb.; Sal Pro-faci, Jon Tyson, and Alex Freda, all 142-1b.; and Pat Lally, 135-lb. are other promising old timers.
Many Promising Boxers
Promising athletes competing in the Bengals for the first time include Harry Higa, winner of the featherweight title in the pre-Christmas novice tourney; Tom Queally, welterweight novice champ this year; J.im Roth, who swept all four of his bouts in taking the 172-lb. novice title before Christmas; and George Hubbard, this year’s light heavyweight novice champ.
Other first-time contenders include heavyweight, Bob Kelly; Mike Mulrooney, novice finalist in the light heavyweight class; Bob McGrath, 165-lb.; Bill Rankin and Mike Taylor, 155-pounders;
and lightweights, Sam Brennan and j Marty Mullarkey.	4
Mr. Napolitano, director, said that approximately 55 athletes are working out now, but he hopes for a total of 75 contenders in the tournament. He emphasizes that there is still time for any-one interested in competing in this year’s Bengal Bouts to report from 4 to 6 p.m. daily to the boxing room in the fieldhouse. The director said that some good material was uncovered in the novice tournament, but that many of the promising contenders have failed to report "* for the Bengal Bouts.	,
Proceeds from this boxing classic, a Notre Dame tradition for nearly a quarter of a century, go to the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminary which maintains missions in Bengal, India. In ad-dition, a Bengal Bout award is presented annually to some outstanding figure < in the boxing world.
ND Weigkt-Lifters Topple Marines in Letter Contest
The Notre Dame weight-lifting team led by Charles Meyer, middleweight, recently defeated the Barstow, California Marine Base, 36-18, in a letter meet. The Irish lifters who were last year’s national champions racked up an impressive victory.
The Marines started strong taking a first in the 123 lb. class with Joe Valdez’s 325 total, but the Irish came back in the 132 lb. division as John Strickroot grabbed top honors. The Marines were not to be outdone as George Otott, the Gyrenes top man, totaled an impressive 590. Otott is a former ND lifter.
However, Meyer’s fabulous total of 710 in the 165 lb. class was too much for the Marines. Meyer who weighs only 165 lbs. pressed 200 pounds, snatch 220 and clean and jerked 290. The Irish went on to capture first place in the light-heavyweight division with Dick Campbell’s 577% total, middle heavyweight with Lee Dilion’s 630 point total and heavyweight total of 677% by Walt Bernard.
The weight-lifters will meet a strong CCNY Feb. 14. They will also tackle Ohio State on Feb. 22. The Irish team has received an invitation to the National Championships to be held in New York, April 3, but as yet no definite plans have been set.
26
The Scholastic

Erie Club Bowls Best Performance of Year
The second position week of the season, Jan. 17, saw the leaders of both the Blue and Gold Leagues strengthen their holds on first place. Both the Cleveland and K of C clubs took three of a possible foui- points from the second place Met and Pittsburgh clubs. The losses dropped the Met club to third place and the Pittsburgh club to fifth.
The best performances of the year, both team and individual, were turned in by the Erie club on Jan. 17, as they took four points from the A.I.E.E. club. Paul Pfohl of the Erie club rolled a 596 series, high for the year, and Wally Clarke rolled a 584 series, good enough to tie for third highest of the season. The team also set a high series mark for the season, 2934, and hit a 1009 single game, also a high mark for the season. The Erie club also hit a 991 series on the same day, which equalled the previous high set by the Met club. The eleventh place Air Cadet club matched Erie’s 1009 single game score.
While the K of C continued their runaway in the Gold League, last Sunday saw the Blue League race remain as tight as ever. Both the first place Cleveland and third place Met clubs each swept four points, and the second place Erie club took three points. John Aquilla’s 561 series sparked the Cleveland team’s sweep.
The school team traveled to DePaul last Saturday losing their match, three games to two. Notre Dame’s bowlers also lost their first match of the season to Valparaiso by a three to two count. The DePaul match was a heartbreaker for Notre Dame, who rolled a 945 in the final game, only to be beaten by DePaul’s 953. The brightest spot in the day was -Wally Clarke’s 979 series for five games, and Buz Velotta’s 917. Paul Pfohl threw a 202 and a 199 in Notre Dame’s losing effort.
- Stoddard Downs Don Donius .	In Campus Handball Tourney
I	In the recent pre-exam campus singles
handball tournament, senior John Stoddard of Alumni captured the winner’s laurels by defeating sophomore Don Donius of Lyons. The scores of the three final games were: 21-9, 10-21, 21-
T	15.
Stoddard’s skill on the handball courts 1	with	stinging serves and low-cut returns
I	were	too much for Donius to overcome.
’	In	advancing to the finals Stoddard
won two straight games from frosh Rog
Schmidt of Zahm, while Donius took two out of three games from sophomore Bob Walters of Zahm.
This tourney serves as a warmup for the larger singles event which begins later this month. Definite dates for this tourney have not been announced as yet, but information on it will be posted on the Rockne Memorial bulletin board this Monday.
Swedish Gymnasts Perform In ND Fieldhouse Exhibition
On Tuesday, Feb. 8, the world-famous Swedish gymnasts, coached by Eric Linden, presented an hour-long exhibition before a near capacity crowd in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
The Swedish troupe consisted of Wil-
SWEDES GIVE SPECTACULAR SHOW
liam Thoresson, Boye Stattin, Lennart Lundgren, Arne Carlson, Anders Lindh, Kurtz Wilartz, Staffan Karlsson, Hellmut Fohnisch, Rune Ericksson, Nils Sfoberg, Lennant Malmlin, Ake Jansson, and Arne Lind. Thoresson was the 1952 Olympic calisthenics champion and gold medal winner. Stattin was the 1952-53 Swedish champion.
The exhibition began with the Notre Dame gymnasts giving a trampoline demonstration. The Irish squad included: Evie Hatch, Dan Healy, Rocco Tan-none, Dave Engels and Neil Vasconcel-los. The Swedish team started out with team exercises which consisted of calisthenics of balance and precision unison of the entire group. Thoresson thrilled the crowd by showing them some of the form which earned him the 1952 Olympic title.
The entire team performed individual
Fencers Face Detroit In Fourth Start Today
This afternoon the Notre Dame fencers play host to the Titans of Detroit in the fieldhouse. The “Motor City” team, bolstered by returning lettermen in each weapon, are out to break an Irish jinx the ND fencers hold over them. In the past nine years Detroit has only beaten the Irish swordsmen once as against Notre Dame’s eight victories. The lone win came in 1949.
Detroit, under the tutelage of Coach Dick Perry, out-dueled Case Technical of Cleveland, 16-11. Case, also an Irish opponent, fell prey to Notre Dame on Jan. 16, 17-10. This afternoon’s match, originally scheduled for tonight, was changed at the request of the visitors because of forthcoming frays. Coach Walter Langford of Notre Dame will probably start his regular line-up in each division.
Over the past three weeks Notre Dame has fenced twice, winning one and dropping the second. Case tasted defeat at the hands of the Irish in the fieldhouse. Then, after the two week examination layoff,- Notre Dame traveled to Madison, Wis., only to be turned back by the Badgers, 14-13.
Against Case, Coach Langford, using 22 out of a possible 27 men, established a new Notre Dame record for number of men used. The Irish were led by Rod Duff and John McGinn in the epee with two wins each. Notre Dame won the epee, 6-3, and with Dick Hull’s double victory in the foil, were dominant, 7-2, in that bout. Only in the sabre did Case have the edge, and this a very slim one, 5-4. Bill Bishop of the Clevelanders took two out of three in this weapon, but this score was reversed in the foil.
In Madison, Wis., last Saturday, the visiting Irish dropped their second match in 17 starts. Captain Duff won all three of his bouts in the epee to give Notre Dame a 6-3 win in this division. However, Wisconsin, led by Captain Chuck Kortier in the sabre, won 6-3 in that weapon. In the foils, Badger Co-captain Jack Heiden won two bouts and helped bring home a narrow 5-4 triumph.
Notre Dame’s season record is now two wins, Iowa and Case, and one defeat, Wisconsin.
exercises on both the parallel and horizontal bars, and displayed split-second timing in their speed-tumbling. The. Swedes ended their performance with * individual and group jumps over the ' high table.	-
February 12, 1954
by Bob Frolicher
DICK ROSENTHAL
Captain Sets Torrid Pace
Basketball
(Continued from page 26)
minutes. Joe Bertrand blazed away for 14 points in the third quarter and a game-total of 26.
In their last game before the semester break, the Jordanmen coasted home to a 97-74 victory over Purdue. It was the sixth straight Irish win of the season and their seventh in a row over the Boilermakers.
Notre Dame’s attack was spearheaded by Capt. Dick Rosenthal, Junior Stephens and Joe Bertrand, who scored 48 points between them. Bertrand again took top honors with 25 points, 16 of them in the third period.
Purdue, with a squad of sophomores and juniors, managed early leads of 6-4 and 9-7, but fell behind at 13-11 on a long set shot by John Fannon. After intermission Purdue was steadily deflated until a flurry of Irish tallies buried Purdue’s hopes of coming back.
After failing to score a basket on their first 13 attempts against DePaul last Saturday, the Irish fought back to gain a 59-53 victory. An eight-point splurge by Dick Rosenthal in the third quarter put the Irish ahead, 42-36, and the six points proved to be the winning margin.
The Old Master Steps Down
On Sunday, January 31, Frank Leahy handed in his resignation as head coach of Notre Dame football due to ill health. Two days later Leahy made a farewell speech to reporters and students. In the loss of Leahy Notre Dame suffered one of her greatest losses in recent years. With him went the honor of being the country’s best present-day coach. The accomplishments of Leahy while at the helm of the Irish go hand-in-hand with the days of the “Rock” to form the greatest era of football in modern history.
Leahy was not only a football coach, and he was more than a strategist. The mention of his name alone commanded the utmost respect from all. He came to Notre Dame in 1941, accepting a job that required a lot of time and energy and with a tradition before him that meant he had to produce. Now he has left as coach, but in his 11 years he has more than done his share to keep the Irish where they will always be.
Reporters and the NCAA alike constantly criticized Leahy for the various strategy he used year after year, but they will have to search high and low before they find a man who did more for the game than Leahy. There
were people who second-guessed Leahy, but you will always find such people. If these sports enthusiasts will just stop for a minute and think, they will have to agree that Leahy was not only one of Notre Dame’s greatest but one of the country’s greatest.
Leahy has always been a part of Notre Dame and will continue to remain a part of Notre Dame. He has left physically, but he has not left the hearts of those to whom Notre Dame, with or without football, is near and dear. You can’t salute a man like Leahy for the work he has done because the respect he has gained will profit for years to come. But we can hail him for the success he has already achieved.
Hardwood Five Marches On
The Notre Dame basketball five is on the way to their second straight successful season. The Irish scored an impressive win over their last opponent, Michigan State, 74-71. After taking an early lead over the Spartans, the Jordanmen fell behind in the second quarter and were deadlocked at half. Sparked by the outstanding performance of Captain Dick Rosenthal the Irish gradually fought their way to the top. “Rosie” pumped 26 markers through the hoops. The Irish captain has been playing spectacular ball to date. He is far ahead of his scoring pace last year. After fourteen games in ’53, Rosenthal had scored 223 points for a 15.9 average. At the same time this season he has a 267-point total on 90 fielders and 87 free throws.
After his performance last Saturday in Chicago Stadium, Rosenthal surpassed the previous three-year total of 973 set by former ND star, Leroy Leslie. If he continues the pace he could well overtake the four-year record of 1065 held by Kevin O’Shea.
The other two members of the big three, forward Joe Bertrand and guard Junior Stephens are also well over last year’s average at the same stage. Bertrand sports a 17.6 mark compared to a previous 14.5, while Stephens boasts of a 16.1 average, better than his 13.3 last season. Over-all team balance from the starting five throughout the season has proved the valuable factor in many close games for the Irish this season.
Irish Score Impressive Win
Led by Captain Dick Rosenthal and Joe Bertrand, the Irish scored one of their most impressive wins of the season Tuesday, downing Michigan State, 74-71 at Lansing. Rosenthal’s rebounding off both boards against his taller opponents and his 24 points proved a deciding factor for the Irish. Bertrand followed closely behind with 21 markers.
The Irish wasted little time in pulling in front of the Spartans in the first quarter. Notre Dame started fast and their scoring punch gave them the lead after the first ten minutes. However, in the second quarter the table was reversed with Michigan State pulling ahead of the Irish.
The second half started off with the lead frequently changing hands. The Spartans then pulled ahead and held a five-point edge. Notre Dame again came back to tie it up, and for a while not more than one or two points separated the two teams. Notre Dame forged back in front once again, only to have State tie it up at 67-all. Then came the all important tip-in by Irish guard Bill Wei-man to put the Fighting Irish out in front again, this time for good.
The Spartans were paced by their sophomore sensation, Julius McCoy who grabbed scoring honors for the night with 29 points. McCoy was a thorn in the side of the Irish all evening.
28
The Scholastic
Squires Tops Three Marks in 880 and Mile As Track Squad Drops Opener to Missouri
Three meet records fell last week as / Notre Dame opened its indoor track season with a 59-45 loss to the Missouri Tigers. Oddly enough all three marks were set by the Irish although a Tiger cinderman gained a tie in the pole vault. 1 Sophomore Bill Squires took individus al honors, and was the only double winner of the day in capturing both the mile and the 880-yd. run in his debut as a varsity Irish trackman. Squires set a new mark in the mile, breaking the tape at 4:16.8. This clipped the old meet _ record of 4:21.1 set by Jack Alexander in 1952 and missed the gym record by >	:0.6 held by Greg Rice, formerly of
Notre Dame. Squires then came back later to set a new fieldhouse record, , streaking off the 880 in 1:55. This is the best Notre Dame time in history. , The other meet record came with Jim Harrington sailing over the pole at 14 ■ feet % inch. Harrington, however, was held to a first-place tie for honors by Missouri’s captain, Frank Dickey, who cleared the same height for the best jump of his college career.
The Irish split first place capturing six of the twelve events, but a lack of “ depth, especially in the usually strong hurdles division, was the main cause of the loss. The only race Notre Dame swept one-two was the mile run with Al Schoenig following Squires across the tape. The Tigers finished one-two in both the 60-yd. high hurdles and the ’	440-yd. run, and grabbed first and third
in the two-mile run and the 60-yd. low *	hurdles.
Other Irish wins were: Bernie Allard
BILL SQUIRES Three Records in Debut
in the high jump with a leap of 6'3"; Al Pestrichella in the 60-yd. dash with the time of :06.4; Tony Genovese in the broad jump with a leap of 21 feet, 4% inches.
Despite a surprising loss to the Missouri Tigers last Saturday, Coach Alex Wilson’s track squad has high hopes for the 32nd annual Michigan State Relays at East Lansing, tomorrow.
Some 20 schools, including both Big Ten and independent powers, will be represented. It is expected that records will fall with the top-flight competition.
Swimmers Tangle in Annual Interhall Novelty Relay Meet
The annual interhall swimming relay meet will be held next Wednesday in the Rockne Memorial pool. It will be the first novelty match of the year.
The meet will include: 200-yard crawl relay, four men, 50 yards each; the 220-yard back crawl relay, four men, 50 yards each; 150-yard sweat shirt relay, six men, 25 yards each; 150-yard medley relay, three men, 50 yards each; 150-yard butt relay, six men, 25 yards each; 200-yard breast stroke relay, four men, 50 yards each; the 150-yard ping pong relay, six men, 25 yards each, and the 300-yard obstacle relay, six men, 50 yards each.
It has been pointed out by Mr. Burdick, director of the meet, that the contestants must swim for the hall of which they are a permanent resident. A complete list of the entrants must be handed in the day before the meet. Fifteen gold medals will be awarded to the swimming team.
A regular interhall swimming meet will follow within the next couple of weeks.
ND Grapplers Host Avondale Tomorrow in Opening Match
The Notre Dame Wrestling Club will undertake their first match of the season tomorrow when they host Avondale Park of Chicago. This is the only home match of the schedule, but others may be added.
Matches with Wheaton on Feb. 20 and the University of Chicago on Feb. 27 are two road contests that have been slated to date.
Mr. Fallon, who handles the matmen, has at present about 30 men participating in the workouts. The team will be
built around returning* seniors Bill Stanley, Joe Marguet, Ed Sarna, and Joe Belfiore. Senior footballer, Bob Taylor, a heavyweight, has been impressive tn recent practices. Terry Crowley, a freshman, has also shown promise. Mr. Fallon needs men in the 125-135 lb. class as the squad is now undermanned in this division.
Marriage Institute
(Continued from Page 24) and inter-religious tensions. He is the author of Marriage and the Family: a Catholic Approach.
Again on March 23 two speakers will, collaborate to fully cover the topic of the evening, “Psychiatry in Marriage.” Dr. Robert McCready will talk on the “Doctor’s Point of View” while Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., past dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will assist in the question and answer period following the lecture.
Dr. McCready has given pre-Cana talks for six years and is active in organizing these conferences throughout the Chicago area. Father Cavanaugh is the author of many articles and acted as President of Notre Dame during the summer of 1945.
Rev. Thomas McDonough, assistant chaplain at the Calvert Club at the University of Chicago, will speak on “Spirituality in Marriage” on March 30. Father McDonough has also been active in pre-Cana conferences for five years.
Burkes Give Final Talk
Mr. and Mrs. William M. Burke will conclude this year’s Marriage Institute ; on April 6 with an informal discussion on “Success in Marriage.” Following the Burkes’ talk, a movie on reproduction will be shown.
Mr. Burke joined the faculty in 1949 and is a specialist on American literature. He married Miss Eleanor Dunn in 1940 and they now have three children.
Speakers will be allowed approximately one hour to cover their topics and another half hour will be devoted to discussion. If any questions or problems remain after this limit, the speakers will remain to answer them after the official dismissal.
The practical aim of the Institute is to have all Notre Dame men echo the sentiments of former football coach Frank Leahy, “I am the luckiest Irishman living in America because God made it possible for me to become a Notre Dame man, and because of the finest lady I have ever known outside of my own mother, my wife.”
February 12, 1954
29
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
Pizza Spaghetti Ravioli	Chicken
Chops Steaks
Open on Sunday Nights
You're always welcome at . . .
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
128 W. Washington
and Shop We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
Frank Leahy Era
(Continued from page 21) as the man who perfected it, Knute Rockne?
The only answer Leahy gave at the time was to work himself into a physical wreck to get the T down as pat as possible before the opening game, but all the while he knew in his heart that Rock would have liked the change. As Frank once said, “Rock’s system of football didn’t stand still. It changed and developed each year.”
Called Staff Meetings at 5:15 a.m.
He called his coaching staff together at 5:15 every morning to study diagrams and movies. The quarterbacks, Bertelli and his young understudy, Johnny Lu-jack, spent long hours in Leahy’s office poring over chalkmarks on a blackboard. Leahy worked 14 hours, then 18 hours a day. His health began to fail. He got severe pains in the back of his head and neck. He was suffering from spinal arthritis, caused, more than anything else, by tension and overwork.
The Irish opened against Wisconsin, a team which they should have beaten easily, but four first-stringers were injured and the game ended in a 7-all tie. The T is a formation which requires split-second ball handling, speed, and confidence which Leahy’s green, overanxious kids completely lacked. The following week, against a stronger Georgia Tech team, the Irish were beaten 13 to 6. Now the wolves really were howling for a reversion to the old Notre Dame shift.
Leahy never saw the first successful results of the year he had spent trying to master the T. He was ordered to the hospital by the heads of the school, backed up by his wife and his first lieutenant, Ed McKeever. On a bed in the Mayo Clinic, not far from where he had once shared a room with Rockne, he heard a radio announcer describe the clicking of the T as his team ran down Stanford, 27-G.
Something He Enjoys More Than Winning
Even more than a win, Leahy enjoys watching a perfectly-executed play. This was demonstrated in the last game of the 1943 season, in which Great Lakes scored on a long pass-play in the final 35 seconds to defeat Notre Dame 19-14 and end the dreams of an unbeaten season.
Leahy entered the dressing room after the game and told his dejected players: “You can feel proud of the way you played. You happened to be beaten by one of the most splendidly executed plays I have ever seen. I have no criticism to make of you for this game.”
Notre Dame, despite the loss, gained the national championship that season.
On April 29, 1944, Leahy was commissioned in the Navy and was sworn in at Chicago on May 19. After an eight- » week indoctrination course at Princeton, he was assigned to the Pacific Submarine i Command as a rehabilitation officer. In this capacity Frank was concerned with installing and supervising the recreational facilities of the major submarine bases in the Pacific area.	j.
After 10 months in the Pacific Leahy returned to the States, where he was as- 1 signed to the St. Mary’s navy pre-flight school as a battalion officer. He was discharged from there on November 15, 1945, with the rank of lieutenant.
Leahy picked up where he had left off in his first season back at the Irish helm, guiding his team through an undefeated season to the national championship— his second in a row. Only another scoreless tie with Army, in a titanic struggle of football powerhouses, kept the Irish from a clean sweep.
In August of 1947, after recovering from a recurrence of the arthritic attack which forced him to miss the season’s finale against Southern Cal the previous year, Leahy guided the Chicago AllStars to a 16-0 victory over the National Football League Champion Chicago Bears.
First Perfect Record Since Rockne
Then came another national championship in the Fall of that year as Notre Dame went through the season unbeaten and untied in nine games—the first perfect record since Rockne’s last year.
This season marked the termination of the famed Army series and, although Leahy isn’t too well-noted for inspiring pep talks, he gave what was probably the shortest, yet most devastating in the long history of the game. He walked into the tension-charged dressing room and said simply, “Army is waiting.”
“He said that,” a player recalled later, “and I was in such a hurry to get out there I felt like running through the wall.”
The ’48 and ’49 seasons came and went, and still Notre Dame hadn’t been beaten. In ’49 they went through ten games without being beaten or tied and at the conclusion of the season the Football Writers Association of America voted Frank Leahy football’s Man of the Year. He also edged out Casey Stengel for the title “Sports Man of the Year.”
In February of ’49 Frank was relieved of his duties as athletic director by the appointment of Ed “Moose” Krause to that post. At the same time Leahy replied to rumors that he was considering giving up coaching with the following statement: “I have no thought of quitting. . . . But you never know when a
The Scholastic
30
man’s health may go bad on him. I was sickly in 1942. If that condition comes back, I would ask for my release.”
During this season Leahy came up 4 with another of his famed innovations— the “straight” huddle. The year before it ) had been the double-quarterback. Under the new setup, the three running backs and ends lined up in a straight line, with the tackles, guards and center in front * of them. Thus they faced the Notre t Dame quarterback and the opposing team. “The team that controls the ball usually wins the game,” Leahy said, in j explaining the change. This way the signal only had to be called once; moreover, with the quarterback facing away from the opponents, there was no danger of detection, so the team could stand closer to the line of scrimmage and con-v sequently go into action quicker.
Win String Broken at 39
As the 1950 season got underway the - Irish had gone 38 straight games without defeat since Frank Leahy’s return, f But in the second game of the season the string was snapped at 39 by a fired-up Purdue team, 28-14.
The final season’s record stood at 4-4-1 that year—the only poor season Frank Leahy had as a coach at Notre Dame. But then, even Rockne was granted one > poor season back in ’28.
The Irish mentor started from scratch the next season, taking a bunch of green kids and bringing them along through two 7-2-1 years in ’51 and ’52, before finally moulding them into the great undefeated team of the past season.
It is characteristic of Frank Leahy that the first visitor to reach his hospital ’ room after his collapse at the Georgia Tech game found him sitting up in bed saying: “I’ve always told the boys never to quit in the second half, and now I’ve let them down.”
That is why he would have never resigned in 1950 or 1951 or 1952 ... he •	would never have quit while losing.
.	Leahy Demanded Perfection
He never allowed cursing on the football field. He demanded perfection, but was not a tyrant. He never asked a player to do anything that he would not get down and do himself.
When Notre Dame won, it was always the players and assistant coaches who had made victory possible — if Notre Dame lost he inevitably heaped the entire responsibility for defeat upon himself.
At a pep rally on March 12, 1941, prior to Leahy’s initial practice session with the Notre Dame team, he expressed his gratitude at being able to “return to try to pay a part of the unpayable debt we owe to our great foster mother— Notre Dame.”
The debt’s just about cancelled, Coach.
A wonderful way to earn full college credit and enjoy a thrilling trip through Europe or around the worM
Roam abroad in leisurely fashion seeing all the famous sights and cities ... study at an accredited university from 2 to 6 weeks in an educational center such as London, Paris, Rome. You can do both in one glorious trip on a university-sponsored tour via TWA—world leader in educational air travel. Thousands of students and teachers have taken these trips in the past five years, enjoying a fun-filled jaunt while earning full college credit. You can take a tour dealing with a special field such as music, art, languages — attend the World Educational Conference in Geneva... arrange a visit to the Orient.
The cost in time and money is surprisingly small. Youll speed to Europe overnight via TWA. And thrifty TWA Sky Tourist fares stretch your budget. Mail the coupon today I
Sly the finest..
TUKS KMUJUtUttt
1 am interested in:
University credits □
Resident study al a foreign university □
Special countries or areas □
(Specify)_______________
John H. Furbay, Ph-D., Director TWA Air World Tours cx-re 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me information on the Flying Educational Tours being offered in 1954.
Name Position,.________________________________________________________
Addre >>_______________________________________________________________
City Zone
State Phone No.
February 12, 1954
31
Letters
will conduct
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS on campus
February 18 and 19
Boeing has many positions open for graduating and graduate students. These opportunities are in all branches of engineering (ae, ce, ee, me and related fields). Also needed are physicists and mathematicians with advanced degrees.
Fields of activity include design, research, and production. Your choice of location: Seattle, Washington or Wichita, Kansas.
A group meeting, first day of campus visit, will precede personal interviews. Details of openings, nature of assignments, company projects, etc., will be explained. Married students are invited to bring their wives.
Come and learn about these excellent opportunities with an outstanding engineering organization—designers and builders of the B-47 and B-52 multi-jet bombers, America’s first jet transport and the bomarc F-99 pilotless aircraft project.
PLACEMENT OFFICE

Seattle
Wichita
(Continued from Page 4) things. After all, who really worries about the APPEARANCE of Notre Dame? Let’s show concern over Notre Dame and the appearance will reflect the calibre of the concern. Come now, men! Let’s not turn this over to your unrefreshing wrath because, it’s a fact, lately, at your best, you’ve been about as inventive as a P.T.A. gazette.
William N. Jackson
201 Alumni
University Theater to Present 'The Lady's Not For Burning' *,
The third production of the Univer- , j sity Theater this season will be Chisto-pher Fry’s hit play, The Lady’s Not for Burning. The performance dates will be M March 18-21.
After opening in London, the play ran / on Broadway during the 1951 season.
Chosen by the University Theatei* be- -cause of its adaptability to student production, The Lady’s Not for Burning is a three-act comedy, set in 16th Century England. A girl who is to be burned as a witch and a man who wants to be hung, highlight the play. Pamela Brown and John Gielgud starred in the Broadway -performance.
Cast Tryouts Scheduled
Christopher Fry, the playwright, is noted for the blank verse which he uses in his poetic dramas. Othei’ plays writ- , ten by Fry are Venus Observed and A Phoenix Too Frequent.	,
Tryouts for the cast will be held next Monday in Washington Hall. Professor John Tumpane of the Department of Speech will moderate the sessions at 4 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.	*
Budding Barristers Will Vie In 2nd Round of Moot Court
Sixteen budding barristers will pre- — sent their cases before impartial judges, as the fifth annual Dean’s Competition -Moot Court moves into the second round j quarter-finals Tuesday in the Law Auditorium.
Survivors of the first round eliminations held last November, these Law School juniors will argue points of law before the South Bend area attorneys r and members of the Law School faculty. The cases will include arguments concerning admissible and substantive evi- । dence, administrative law, and real property.
32
The Scholastic
BRUCE MARSHALL SPEAKS HERE
Mr. Bruce Marshall, noted * Catholic British author, will tell “How to Write a Best-Seller" * Tuesday in the Student Center at 4:30 p.m.
Mr. Marshall is the author of several best-sellers, including The World, The Flesh, and Father l	Smith—a Book of the Month
Club selection.
This is the first presentation of the Student Senate Lecture Series.
Arrow Sports Shirts Hailed Inter-Collegiate Champs!
ND Designated Local Center For Law School Test Feb. 20
Notre Dame has been designated as a testing center for the nationwide law school admission test on Feb. 20, April 10, and Aug. 7, Edward R. Quinn, head of the Department of Guidance and Testing, announced recently.
College upperclassmen, who are interested in studying law, should find out from the law school of their choice if they should take the test and on what date, Mr. Quinn said. The test is prepared and administered four times a year by the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J.
Mr. Quinn emphasized that applications to take the test must be in the Princeton office not later than ten days prior to the testing date chosen. These application blanks are available directly from the Educational Testing Service or from Notre Dame’s Department of Guidance and Testing.
Annual One-Act Play Festival Will Be Staged Here April 3
The University Theater announced this week that the annual Catholic One-Act Play Festival will be held at the University of Notre Dame on April 3.
Ten schools and community theater groups have been invited to enter the play competition. Last Spring the festival took place at St. Mary-of-the-Woods College. The plays will be given in Washington Hall, and all performances are open to the public.
The participating groups will be: Notre Dame; St. John’s Drama Club of Whiting; the Catholic Theater Guild of Indianapolis; Marian College, Indianapolis; St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame; and St. Francis College, Fort Wayne. The remaining participants are: St. Mary-of-the-Woods College; St. Joseph’s College, Rensselaer; the Catholic Theater Guild of Evansville; and the Catholic Theater Guild of Richmond.
February 12, 1954
Once again, Arrow sports shirts have beat out all competition and won the title of campus champions. Winners on two counts . . . style and comfort . . . these champion sports shirts are now available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW
TRADE® MARK
--- SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SRORTSWIAR —
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STRffT Open evenings until 9 o’dock
33
by Gordon Bergquist
There are fewer men about whom it is harder to write than Frank Leahy. It is hard to write about a man that you know so well. By this I do not even mean to imply that I knew him personally or was an intimate friend. I think that in four years here my total physical contact with the man amounted to a surprised “Hello” as we passed each other on one of the walks.
But a person could not live long at Notre Dame and not be aware of the presence of this man. You listened to rumors that floated around about what “Frank” thought about this,
what he was going to do about that, or what he had up his sleeve for the next
game or season.
The Idea of Frank Leahy
You listened to the brief remarks of the players about their coach and you drew from them a picture. You were exposed to stories of past glories and future plans. From all of this you drew your own conclusions; you erected in youi- own mind the idea of Frank Leahy. And this idea stayed with you through your life at Notre Dame and even after.
The mere fact that you are a Notre Dame man does not automatically entail an obligation to like Frank Leahy. There are undoubtedly many who do not like him; even violently dislike him—and for a number of reasons. Some may have personally met the man and disliked him; that is their privilege. Some may dislike him because he is a Catholic or because he is a representative of Notre Dame. A good many may dislike him, and probably do, because he has consistently managed to beat teams with which they have some real or fancied attachment.
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop. by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our “Pizza and Spaghetti” The Real Italian Way We Also Have Home-Made Chili Just the Way You Lake It!
713 E. LASALLE
As I have said before, like and dislike of Frank Leahy is a personal privilege, but it would take a very small man indeed, not to admit the admiration and respect that is due him. You may disagree with him on any subject, and with perfect right, but you must admire, you must respect the man.
Leahy: Man and Coach
You must admire and respect Frank Leahy on two counts: as a man and as a coach. You must admire him for having the firmness of conviction to stand up and say or do what he thinks is right. You must respect him for his devotion to his school and to his players. I very seriously doubt if one, two, or three years from now you will find Frank Leahy as the author of a certain type of magazine article which might be entitled, “The Truth about Notre Dame” or “I Was Given a Dirty Deal.” It would be impossible for him to do this because he has too great a faith in his university and what she is and what she stands for.
If there is any one thing that marks out Leahy the man, it is his sincerity. When he predicts that his team will not make a first down in ten games, he is sincere. It may be due to many things but I have a suspicion that it stems from a deep sense of humility or possibly from a feeling of inadequacy in the face of the tremendous job he held.
And finally, anyone who stood in the rain outside the locker-room after the
• loss to Purdue in 1950, will never forget it. You may, even then, not have liked what he said, but you could not help but
admire and respect him for what he said and the way he said it.
And secondly, you must admire him as a football coach; the reason is simple—he vans. I have no doubt that the raw football material that comes to Notre Dame is no better nor no worse than that which appears every Fall at a number of other major football powers. But something happens to those players between the time they enroll and the time they play for Notre Dame. It’s coaching, desire, spirit, call it what you want or any combination of things you want. But whatever it is, it is directly attributable to Frank Leahy.
Has “Something Extra”
There are probably even other coaches who are as good technically as Frank Leahy—that is, who have the ability to set up an offense or a defense or teach the mechanics of blocking and tackling. But again Frank Leahy has a little something extra. Perhaps it is that he catches a little of the spirit and youth of his players; undoubtedly, he does catch something of the spirit that is Notre Dame.
Notre Dame has a habit of winning games that it is not supposed to, and only rarely does Notre Dame lose a game that it should have won. The answer is in the fact that the players play for Notre Dame and that they are coached by Frank Leahy. The two are together. If you want to understand the last eleven years of Notre Dame football, you must take both those things into account.
“Not Unethical”
The winningness of Frank Leahy is a good reason why he may be disliked by many; few men like to admit that someone in their own field is smarter than they are. Perhaps some even dislike him enough to accuse him of being unethical! And if there is one thing that Frank Leahy, the man and the coach, is not, it is unethical. He could not be the man that he is, if he were. He would be a living lie.
Perhaps all this makes it sound as though Frank Leahy had just died, rather than retired. In a strict sense, Frank Leahy, the coach, is dead;-Frank Leahy, the man, still lives. And Notre Dame and Notre Dame football has not heard nor seen the last of Francis W. Leahy.
34
The Scholastic
HTJGrEEES Cooperative Fellowship Program for
MASTER
OF
Purpose
Eligibility
The Hughes Cooperative Fellowship Program has been established to enable outstanding graduates to pursue work for the Master of Science degree while employed in industry and making significant contributions to important mil-itary projects.
< Eligible for consideration are students who will receive the B.S_degree during the coming year and members of the Armed Services being honorably separated and holding B.S. degrees. In either case the field of the B.S. degree must be: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
PHYSICS, OR
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
The awards will be made to applicants who have evidenced outstanding ability and some degree of creativeness. They must also possess traits enabling them to work well with others.
Recipients will earn five-eighths ofanor-mal salary each year. This salary will be determined by the individual’s qualifications and experience, and will reflect current salary practices in the electronics industry. Salary growth will be on the same basis as for full-time members of the scientific-engineering staff. Recipients will also be eligible for health, accident and life insurance benefits, as well as other privileges accruing to full-time staff members.
Salaries
Citizenship
r Applicants must be United States citizens for whom appropriate security clearance can be obtained, as their work in the Hughes Laboratories may be related to National Defense projects.
Universities
Program
Applicants must be able to meet the requirements for admission to graduate standing at the University of California at Los Angeles or the University of Southern California.
Participants will be employed at Hughes full time in the summer and 25 hours a week during the university year while pursuing half-time graduate work.
Tuition, admission fee, and required books at either the University of California at Los Angeles or the University of Southern California, covering the numberofunits required to earn anM. S. degree, will be provided.
For those residing outside the Southern California area, actual travel and moving expenses to this area will be allowed up to 10 percent of the full starting annual salary.
If a sufficient number of qualified candidates present themselves, as many as 100 Fellowships will be awarded each year.
Candidates will be selected by the Committee for Graduate Study of Hughes Research and Development Laboratories.
Application forms should be obtained immediately. Completed applications must be accompanied by detailed college transcripts.
Address correspondence to COMMITTEE FOR GRADUATE STUDY

Sponsorship
Travel
Expenses
Number of Awards
Selection of Candidates
Application Procedure
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
Culver City, Los Angeles County, California
J h \ 4
O’
Copyright IM, Lscght & Myikj Tomcco Co.
CHESTERFIELD
FROM
smokers by the thousands now changing to
Chesterfield
... enjoying the one cigarette that’s highest in quality, low in nicotine And remember, only Chesterfield has this proven record with smokers. No adverse effects to the nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. Both these statements . are a matter of record.	—
movies—on the stage—wherever
I am—you ll see me enjoying my
Chesterfields—best for me,
best for you.
Starring in the Broadway Hit

Tea and Sympathy