NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, July 2, 1892.	No. 43.
Vol. XXV.
Valedictory.
BY NICHOLAS J. SINNOTT.
Enchanting, indeed, is the spell cast o’er us in early manhood by the charms and promises of the fascinating voice of the future. Though the attractions may be most captivating, and seemingly bright prospects spur us on, still when the very first step towards the realization of our fondest hopes means the sudden severance from familiar scenes, the parting, perhaps forever, of associates endeared by years of friendship, the mind hesitates, and instinctively we shrink from the course that may soon make the friends of to-day the recollections of yesterday; for there are feelings of affection inborn in the heart that will, under circumstances like the present, assert themselves, and betray our gentler nature, despite the most stoical efforts of human pride.
Such are the feelings that render the Class of , ’92 loath to part from surroundings, the remembrance of which will ever cause our retrospect to cheer us when saddened by a research.into the mysteries and doubts of to-morrow. Such, too, are the feelings awakened by memory in the graduate of other days, when they impel him to leave, for a time, the “ madding crowd,” and return to these sacred confines, rich in the recollections of all the charms of his youth, that he may again clasp the gentle hand which guided his faltering steps, and hear once more that voice whose precepts time has taught him to prize so highly.
Hitherto we little suspected that the coveted reward of our labors would be seized with so much regret. For, resting in the sweet seclusion
of our college home, our fancy seldom prompted us to probe the future beyond this desired day. Here were centred all our hopes; the future was left to the future; such phrases as the “ stern reality,” “ the trials and hardships of life,” had no fright for us. We trusted that if we selected wisely from the weapons offered for the battle of life all would be well. And when enrolled in the ranks of those who have preceded us, enriched with Notre Dame’s choicest gifts, we knew that they would impart to us the energy and enthusiasm which have enabled them to mould the life of our country, whether at the wheels of commerce, in legislative halls, or clad in the insignia of a heavenly trust. These being our prospects, it was but natural that, with an ardent fancy, born of most pleasing anticipations, we were wont to depict this as a day of triumph, to be unmarred by even the faintest cloud of care or regret. Alas! the delusion! Deceived as to what the fitful future would unfold, perhaps ignoring the time irrevocably passing, the days were anxiously counted, the hour impatiently yearned for to free us from the thoughtlessly styled class routine or thraldom.
How unlike such a forecast is the present! No longer forward but backward are we borne; no longer in the reliance on the future, but in the reminiscences of the past do we find more cheer. As we hurriedly review events which were epochsin our college days, incidents are recalled, once of no great moment; but as we view them through the lowering shades that seem to dim the already moistening, eye and leave no solace save in memory, we feel too well— “the truth the poet sings, that a sorrow’s crown of sorrow is remembering happier things.”
Yes, the eventful hour approaches; our once eager wishes are about to be fulfilled. But the
720
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fancied sketch of unmingled joy is.changed, and our prize is not without its pain; for ties knit by years of association refuse to be severed. Sentiments which may have been dormant now move us, and too late we discover that “the hours we pass with happy prospects in view are more pleasing than those crowned with fruition.”
In this somewhat hypocritical age we often see that expressions of this nature are insincere. Demanded by a meaningless formality, such remarks seem rather designed to afford greater scope'to display “the cheap jewelry of rhetoric,” .or the manifold graces of the speaker. But there are in the breast of man emotions whose attempted description would only expose the poverty of our language. What refinement of diction can picture our thoughts when that immortal song “Home, Sweet Home” is heard? Wreathed words but inadequately define the thoughts that swelled the breast of Webster when he spoke so feelingly of the institution^ which brought forth his latent powers, saying: “It is, sir, as I have said, a small college, and yet there are those who love it.” “At this point the orator’s lips quivered, his voice choked, and his eyes filled with tears.” Artful periods seem flat when they strive to reflect the thoughts which suffused his eyes with tears as he uttered . this short sentence, and proceeded to state his indebtedness to his college. The knowledge of . a similar debt of gratitude due to true devotion has produced in the Class of ’92 like thoughts which language cannot express. Our actions, henceforth can alone be the true standard to measure our appreciation for those whose counsel we have sought, and who deem us worthy to combat for ourselves.
' A cruel custom decrees that the farewell to the gladsome days and passing cares of our college career must also be a; welcome, though reluctant, to the exacting duties of real life. : Our farewell must part us from all that cause “the smiles, the tears of boyhood’s years,” but only the tears, we trust, of fancied pangs, which memory may enlist as a panacea of griefs to come.	.
Fellow-students, successors of the Class of ’92, it has been our good fortune to reach that-enviable goal towards which you are trending. You, doubtless, rejoice that this day brings you nearer to the expected pleasures of graduation. But do not let the hopes you entertain of following in our footsteps. hide the sacrifice their fulfilment must cost. Remember, your aspirations of to-day were ours a year ago; our sad thoughts of to-day may be yours a year hence;
for, “as you seize the flower, its bloom is shed.” With this caution, farewell!
Classmates, our paths have long blended in one. To-day they must diverge and leave the youthful “ haunts of memory, images and precious thoughts.” “That shall not die and cannot be destroyed.” But whether we seek southern lands, Atlantic shores or western strands, there is a most sacred duty incumbent on us to remain true to the trust here imposed. Let us ever be solicitous that we prove ourselves worthy of these treasured laurels. Let us always honor, by a loyal fidelity to their teaching, those who to-day honor us, and may their maxims be the golden guides to beckon us on till we reach the port of eternity, there to anchor in safety and rest. Farewell!
Reverend Fathers and members of the Faculty, mindful of your indefatigable zeal always evinced for our welfare,' mindful that you have lavished upon us, without stint, the fruits of long years of study and investigation, and that whatever success we may wrest from a world jealous of its favors must be accredited, not so much to our energy as to your encouragement, we are compelled to refrain from reiterating the oft-repeated professions of love and esteem, sadly conscious of our utter inability to transfer from the heart to the lips the ineffable gratitude engendered by your kindness.
Fellow-students, classmates, members of the Faculty,
“ Farewell! a word that must be, and hath been— A sound which makes us linger;—yet, farewell! ”
O Notre Dame!
“Fare thee well! and if forever, Still forever, fare thee well! ”
A New Legend of Faustus *
BY FREDERIC E. NEEF, ’92.
HEN I consider how ambition’s slave, With aspiration’s light-rigged sails unfurled, Unmindful of religion’s Pharos-light, Steers onward through the stormy sea of life Until his ship is dashed against the rocks, A thousand visions rise before my mind: Quaint German castles ivy-overgrown, Romantic forests on the Vosges’ slopes, Bring back to me a tale of darker days When mystic and unholy Faustus lived. Deep schooled in science, master-like in art, . He felt how shallow was, his toil-earned lore, , And longed to catch .a glimpse behind the veil .. That hides from man the spirit radiant shore.
* Class Poem, ’92, read on Tuesday, June 21,	-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Could no voice still the callings of his heart?
Were there no hands to tear the veil apart That he might see what none had seen before? Ah, yes! perhaps. ’Tis said the white-robed priests Of Mona’s oak-encircled solitudes, Learned to commune with ghostly messengers, And baffled reason with their borrowed craft. Perhaps some hidden parchment could reveal How those dumb-mouthed mortals learned to lisp The spirit language made for spirit lips?
So Faustus’ thoughts tossed on his restless mind, As waves are tossed upon the troubled sea. But while he still looked for a guiding light, There flashed on him the oft-recurring thought, Might there not be a lore-filled scroll concealed Among the relics of his ancestry?
There was a musty casket in his room,	‘
Most rudely carved, and bound in brazen ribs;
And ’round it shades of mystery had crept, For no anointed hand had opened it Since the dim days of Woden’s hallowed heaths. And Faustus, in the morning of his life, Had stood before his dying father’s couch To hear the words he muttered as he held This time-worn heirloom of his accestors • Up in his withered arms.
It made his young blood chill to hear the tale;
And, with his father’s hand in his, he swore That he would never break the sacred bond.
But time had wrought a change;
And Faustus, in the noontide of his life, Forgot his virtue and his boyish fears; He sought the fellowship of reckless youths; Their merry laughs drowned out all loneliness. Yet, pleasure often poisons while it soothes: ' Refreshing is the shade of Upas-trees, But deadly are their dews.
And so it happened that one winter night, Disgusted with the writ of Persia’s priests And dragging mind-worn through age-yellowed scrolls—
The pagan rites of Babylon and Ind— He roused himself as from a feverish dream, And shrieked a curse that rent the slumbering air; And from the empty corridors of night The echo mocked him with his father’s name.
With one dull stroke he broke the casket bands And in the hands that made him perjurer He*lifted out a book in metal clasped—
.» The long-sought volume of forbidden lore.
Ophidian charms and necromantic signs	:
Were writ in blood upon its shrivelled leaves;
With penetrating eyes he searched each page Until the oil-exhausted lamp went out, And morn began to steal across the sky.
Day after day the patient toiler worked;
His ashen brow betrayed anxiety;
His deep-sunk eyes the curse of sleepless nights;
And care was gnawing at the roots of life, Until one morn, when autumn’s dreary winds Drove falling leaves into the brooks and vales, Filled with the bitter hemlock of:despair, .He threw, aside the undeciphered book That barred out friends and stole away his health. •
And so he sat down-hearted in his room, When some one knocked. It was a traveller; And Faustus prone to hospitality Bade him come in and drink' of cheering wines, That his commission might be easier told. . '
The stranger sat and drained the sparkling glass, His slate-gray hair hung in dishevelled locks And cast a shadow o’er his grayer eyes;
There was a look of wisdom on his face, And in his short and well-told narrative Naught seemed to be reflected but the truth.
“ My path leads homeward o’er the snowy Alps Into the land of flaming suns,” quoth he,
“ But I was feared by all the hamlets ’round, And found no friend among that simple race. Because I bear the stamp of sorcerer, Did fathers tell their sons to fly from me And mothers hush their children with my name; And here I am, a weary wanderer,
’ Who seeks a friend from those who know him not.
“ There stands the cottage where I passed the night Amid the over-ripening fields of wheat Wind-rocked into a sea of golden waves. • There dwells the peasant who wound ’round your name A story that might reach around the world, And pointed out the road that brought me here, But bade me to avoid this lonely place—	.
Ah, how alike the webs that fortune weaves . With the fast-flying shuttle of our lives!
“ You call me friend! No, call me not a friend, Alas! that friendship’s task is difficult: Like heavy mail it weighs upon our backs, Yet it protects us from our enemies.
Much have I done that mortals should not do;
Much have I learned that mortals should not know; And ne’er forget, you who now seek my craft, The art I practised was hell’s jugglery;
My stakes were souls, and human bones my dice: You cannot subjugate the unseen world Until you pledge your soul as I have done.”
While Faustus listened to the stranger’s tale, The long-unheeded words his father spoke Before he died, came wandering by like ghosts, That raised their shadowy arms and said “Beware!” But Faustus hearkened to no warning voice; -His heart was stubborn as Lofoden’s cliffs That stand unmoved through drifting centuries Against the whirling waters of the sea.
Unholy books had paved the. road to ruin.
Like meteors his vain hopes flashed and fell And even.now a quick, delusive light	.
Burst through the labyrinthine cryptogram, . As Faustus paged it for his learned guest.	.
Strange that he never saw so well before: The Druid symbols and their keys profane Stood out as letters hewed in porphyry.
He read. ’Twas written as the seer had said. It seemed to Faustus but a golden chance To satisfy his infinite desire.	-
Could he mot drain the old man’s learned brain, . Disguised beneath the mask of fellowship, • And then out-wit him with his sorcery?	.
f
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
722
He took a quill, and with unsteady stroke He wrote in his own blood a document That pledged him to the barter of his soul. . Why does the fool ask for this worthless writ? What can a mortal do with human souls?
Thought Faustus: ere the twentieth year has waned To claim the payment of the wondrous debt He will regret the bargain he now makes;
But it will be too late then to regret, For I’ll be free and grope through mysteries In eagle-flight beyond the mortal ken.
The stranger took the script and said no word; But Faustus, waking from his wonder dreams, Began to fear a weird solicitude.
Sometimes he saw queer shadows floating by, And would have ta’en his blood-sealed promise back; But no. The visitor turned to the door, And, as its hinges yielded at his hand, Foiled Faustus saw his grinning face unmasked. O God! it was the Arch-fiend, not a man!
And hissing flames burst from the groaning earth As down he sank ’midst curses from the cursed That wafted upwards on the winds of hell;
And, like the mocking echo of the hills, The distance rang with his triumphant voice:
“ I am a prophet from the evil world....”
There Faustus lay outstretched upon the floor Unconscious through affright, and ghastly pale, ’Twould seem as though the stroke of Ukko’s sword Had dashed a marble column to the earth So dumb and cold and motionless was he.
But, in a while, the mists moved from his eyes, And through the glistening window-panes he saw The ruby sun sink from the yellow sky.
’Twas not the recollection of a dream, But the remembrance of realities _ That never after ceased to haunt his mind. . The autumn fled; the still, sad winter came, With songs of sorrow sped-the seasons round, While Faustus dwelt in all his misery. He sought the merry comrades of his youth, But their enjoyments brought him bitterness. • Ofttimes he wandered lonely in the vale, As to the churchyard praying peasants bore The body of a friend most dear to them.
O God, how calm must be the sleep of death For him whose life is pure and undefiled! •
Alas! there is no peace for the accursed! He who had bartered out his soul to hell To bring the arch-fiend into servitude For one score years of wanton, fleeting life, Had greater wealth than southern breezes bring On argosies of gold and precious stones.
Through his black art, one summer morn revealed His dreary home changed to a paradise And all the peasants marvelled, whence it came. ,
His cottage was half-hidden in the trees, Wild roses intermeshed the latticed porch; . A garden rustled with rich foliage, Long arbors tempted with their blushing grapes And fountains pictured rainbows in the sun: . Still Faustus could not live contented there;
■ Each day brought nearer the unchanging goal—	;
A charioteer who rolls through Eden lands, And sees his unchecked steed dash madly down Steep slopes into a yawning gulf below.
The season came and then the dreaded day: Anon as in eclipses shadows move, So swept towards him the dismal hour of death. The night was brightly lighted by the stars As ancient Sais at the Feast of Lamps, While in the cottage Faustus was alone.	"
With an uneasy step he groped his way Into the chamber where his father died; The hoarse voice of the antique horologue
' Called out the midnight hour. Like hell-bound winds
Each stroke burst o’er his tempest-beaten soul. Fired with a flame of fever, his whole mind Was filled with dreams delirious of his doom, And at his heart he felt a fearful weight, The tightening grasp of some mysterious hand. His frightful shrieks aroused the neighborhood, But no one dared to help the cursed man.
. When morning dawned upon the mist-topped hills The peasants sought the unfrequented place, And silently interred a bleeding corpse....
The whispering groves were dark and desolate; Forsaken was the necromancer’s home,
' Weird tales were told of nightly visitors,
# But no one mourned the strange magicians fate. O tell me now, you who have heard my tale, What true enjoyments don life’s dreary night Without religion’s brilliant Hesper-light? What is a life that leads but to our doom— A rocket’s flash and then a deeper gloom. Grim Faustus fell, and with him fell his works; For even rocks must fall into decay.
So is ambition crushed beyond its spheres; Unblest is he who toils for vanity, And would encompass, with his finite mind, The infinite Creator’s mysteries.	-
For him the melancholy autumn comes When he must wither as the fallen leaves, And with him perish all his earthliness.
- Notre Dame.'
AN INSTITUTION OF LEARNING FOUNDED FIFTY YEARS AGO.	. ‘
The Forty-eighth Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind., took place on June 21. Apropos of these exercises Willis George Emerson, in an article published in the Chicago Post, gives the history of this famous institution of learning.
Fifty years ago an idea took possession of a young priest in northern Indiana. That idea was to found a great institution of learning, an educational centre. That man was Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C. A visit to Notre Dame must be made in order to appreciate the work of a half’century that has resulted from this idea. After alighting from the train at South Bend,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a fifteen minutes’ ride brings the visitor into a beautiful avenue skirted on either side with stately shade trees, forming an arcade cool and refreshing in the hottest days. This is the entrance drive to the famous College of Notre Dame. It terminates in front of the college grounds, consisting of numerous buildings, stately and magnificent, which would attract the attention of the most casual observer even in our largest cities. The avenue itself is almost, if not quite, one mile in length. To the right of the entrance to the grounds is located the post office, which was established in 1851, through the political influence of Henry Clay; to the left of the entrance is the porter’s lodge.
The Congregation of the Holy Cross took possession of the grounds at Notre Dame in 1841. The Superior of the Congregation in America at that time was Very Rev. Edward Sorin, and he commenced the great work of erecting an educational edifice that doubtless will live as long as our common country. The first students of this institution of learning were taught in a log farm house in the then primeval forest. About that time a charter was issued to the institution, granting it university privileges, by the legislature of Indiana. The wild forest gradually gave way before the hum of industry mingled with the voice of prayer. The name and place which formerly had been known as St. Mary’s was changed to Notre Dame du Lac ( Our Lady of the Lake), which as the years run on, has been shortened to Notre Dame.
If the day is full of sunshine the visitor will see a stately white-haired man, with long, flowing beard, like the spotless snow, riding slowly along in a modest carriage. This is Very Rev. Edward Sorin. The year 1891 rounded his half century’s work and his contemplation of the fruits of his labor certainly cannot be otherwise than gratifying.
The main building is centrally located and the dimensions are 155 by 320 feet. It is five stories in height and surmounted by a* magnificent gilt dome which forms the pedestal of a colossal statue representing the Blessed Virgin Mary, the head of which is encircled by a crown of twelve electric stars, while at the feet twenty-four electric lights form a beautiful crescent. The height of the statue from the ground is 200 feet. The New World has not furnished a grander monument to the Mother of our Lord and Master than this one. The effect which it produces, with its far-reaching splendor and glittering dome by day and also by night, when lighted by electricity, fills the beholder with a feeling of awe and reverence.
To the east of the main building is St. Edward’s Hall, the College of Music and the Hall of Science, all stately edifices. Still farther to the east are similar buildings, being the gymnasium for Seniors, Juniors and Minims. West of the main building is the church, manual labor school and the residence of Father Sorin, the founder of this magnificent institution of learning and
the Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, while farther west is the Professed House for the religious, the seminary, and to the south lies the farm, with its workshops, stables, etc. In the distance, in a westerly direction, may be seen St. Mary’s Academy, an institution of learning for young ladies. The Church of the Sacred Heart, as it now stands, is almost the perfection of grandeur and completeness. Fifty years ago Father Sorin found, on coming to this spot of the then wilderness, a log building upon the banks of St. Mary’s Lake. The beautiful and magnificent structure of to-day is indicative of the continued progress and prosperity that has marked his life’s work. The present structure is 270 feet long and 114 feet wide, built in the form of a Latin cross. The church consists of a nave, aisles and transepts, with the chancel and seven apsidel chapels, all being beautified by frescoing in the highest style of the art. Its clustered columns are of a serpentine marble with capitals of golden oakleaves between which mischievously peep sculptured cherubs. The ceiling of the nave is covered with pictures of angels on a blue field studded with golden stars. The magnificent pipe organ is of Gothic structure and rosewood finish. It is 40 feet high 12 feet deep and contains 2,041 pipes.	..
In the sacristy of the church are many valuable relics. Among them are pieces of the true cross, a piece of the manger from the stable where our Saviour was born, a section of his garment and also a piece of the veil and girdle of His Mother. A great crucifix seven feet high will especially attract the attention of the visitor; also an ostensorium.which is over four feet high, both of beaten gold and silver. It was a present from Napoleon III. .
Leaving the church and entering the main building, the visitor’s attention is at once attracted by the magnificent paintings and frescos illustrating the life of the great discoverer, Columbus. A noted Italian artist, Luigi Gregori, was employed constantly for seventeen years in decorating, frescoing and painting the numerous buildings at Notre Dame. In the vestibule life-size, full-length portraits of Christopher Columbus and Queen Isabella appear on the right and left. They are certainly a most fitting introduction to the magnificent historic scenes and paintings which follow. The series commences with Columbus begging his bread at the door of the monastery. On the opposite wall is a painting representing his departure with the caravels on their adventurous journey, with Columbus kneeling in the foreground receiving the blessing of a friendly monk who already had befriended Columbus in many ways. Following this is perhaps the most attractive painting of the series, and, at the same time,lone of the smallest, representing the mutiny at sea, in which the discontented crew are threatening the life of Columbus. The violence of the mutineers as depicted in their
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
faces, and'the angry whitecaps of the waves, make a strong contrast with the calm and peaceful countenance of Columbus. Then follows a picture representing the discovery of land, with the leaders of the mutiny on bended knees suing for pardon. The next painting' represents the 14th day of October, 1492, when Columbus landed and took possession of the New World, planting the cross on the shore, with awe-stricken Indians in the background looking, with amazement on the supposed pale-face gods of the sea. Directly opposite this painting on the other side of the hall is the most massive one of all the group. It represents Columbus on his triumphant return, presenting the aborigines and sample products of the New World to Ferdinand and Isabella, who are enthroned under a canopy and surrounded by numerous court officials and an immense throng of spectators. Following this transitory scene of splendor we see another proof of the inconsistency of fickle fortune; Columbus appears in chains fastened to the rugged wood of a prison floor. It represents him the victim of successful treachery, while two of the Indians whom he had brought from the New World stand by, a look of amazement clouding tbeir uncultured brow at the perfidy of the white man. After this comes the last scene in this great hallway, which is a representation of the great discoverer’s death as he is receiving the blessing of religion. His chains hang by his bedside, they having served their purpose, while above him on the prison walls are the rude charts made by his own hands of his great discoveries.
We next find ourselves in the rotunda, on whose checkered tiles we may stand and gaze upward 200 feet into the concavity of the dome, which is decorated most appropriately by the same talented artist. Indeed the superb paintings and artistic effects of this great dome seems to us to be the crowning effort of the artist’s workmanship.
On the right side of the hallway of the main building and close to the main entrance is the suite of apartments occupied by Rev. Thomas E.Walsh.C.S.C., President of the University.
Space forbids a detailed account of what is to be seen in the library, or in St. Cecilia’s Hall and numerous other buildings, especially the Hall of Science.
Just to the north of the grounds is a beautiful sheet of water known as St. Joseph’s Lake. Here at this time of the year the boat crews are training for the coming regatta. The lake itself is a beautiful body of water, with an era of about twenty-three acres, surrounded by magnificent groves, whose thick foliage casts its reflection deep into the waters, forming a most attractive feature of the college grounds. To the west is another body of water known as St. Mary’s Lake, the area of which is about twenty-four acres. These two lakes, each possessing its own peculiar interest, form one of the finest features in the landscape of Notre
Dame. They are supplied entirely from springs and their transparent waters wash the pebbled shores and clean, white sand that borders these lakes around, while beneath the surface are multitudes of fish of every variety.
Surely this is a great institution of learning. It has won for itself a place among the great educational institutions of the United States and of the world. Its thousands of graduates are scattered up and down the earth, not only in every state and territory of the union, but in foreign lands as well, each a living advertisement of the superior merit of this institution.
Examination Averages.
{No Average under 60 is published^ '
SORIN HALL.
T. Coady, 64; J. Combe, 86; C. Dechant, 87; A. Dacey, 87; J. Fitzgerald, 85; M. Hannin, 86; M. Howard, 70; M. Joslyn, 90; G. Lancaster, 87; R. Langan, 87; J. McAuliff, 84; J. McKee, 89; E. Maurus, 97; H. Murphy, 91; F. Carney, 79; H. Carroll, 64; J. Flannery, 88; M. Quinlan, 91; C. Scherrer, 82; E. Scherrer, 85; V. Vurpillat, 81.
.	BROWNSON HALL.
E. Ahlrichs, 88; T. Ansberry, 85; F. Arts, 78; J. Breen, 70; V. Brennan, 69; J. Brady, 87; L. Baldwin, 69; E. W. Brown, 87; T. Brady, 73; F. Bolton, 83; E. J.Brown, 77; J. Cullen, 87; E. Chassaing, 92; R. Corcoran, 71; A. Corry, 93; P. Crawley, 80; M. Cassidy, 80; G. Carter, 79; Wm. Correll, 89; J. Chilcote, 85; W. Cummings, 86; T. Caffrey, 71; W. Castenado, 71; E. Crilly, 71; F. Cummings, 74; L. Conroy, 73; J.Cherhart, 73; P. Coady, 84; C. Colby, 74; J. Carrey, 61; J. Doheny, 85; N. Dinkel, 79; L. Davis, 81; F. Dunford, 71; J. Devanny, 80; E. Damskey, 80; J. Egan, 83; W. Ellwanger, 72; H. Femeding,64; A. Funke, 60; T. Flynn, 81; T. Foley,88; R. Frizzelle, 71; J. Flannigan, 78; J. Fardy, 63; L. Griffin, 66; R. Herman, 64; D. Heneghan, 84; R.Healy, 76; R.Harris, 88; F.Hesse, 84; J. Holland, 72; E. Harris, 81; J. Henley, 84; P. Houlihan, 84; R. Heer, 87; E. Hagan, 81; E. Hoepe, 77; F. Hennessy, 76; P. Jacobs, 88; E. Jewett, 83; F. Kilkenny, 81; E. Krost, 83; F. Klee-kamp, 71; F. M. Keough,8i;-F.C. Keough,81; W.A. Kennedy, 81; E. Kelly, 77; A. Karasynski, 75; E. Krembs, 74; C. Kintzele, 73; W. Kennedy, 94; J. Kearns, 93; J. Kearney, 96; C. Kunert, 95; A. Libert, 84; C. Mitchell, 89; M. McFadden, 81; W. Moxley, 76; D. Murphy, 98; F. Murphy, 83; J. McVean, 78; E. McGonigle, 87; E. Mitchell, 71; A. Magnus, 75; E. McErlain, 82; E. Markhoff, 89; F. McKee, 87; J. McCarrick, 71; G. McDonnell, 90; M. McCullough, 86; J. McDermott, 77; J. Murray. 88; J. Marmon, 81; P. Maynes, 73; F. Maisen, 82; C. Mooney, 76; F. Nockels, 81; A. Nester, 69; E. Newton, 66; J. O’Connor, 86; H. O’Donnell, 86; H. Oide, 68; J. D. O’Shea, 88; R. Palmer, 90; G. Pulskamp, 91; D. Phillips, 90; G. Perkins, 77; M. Perry, 76; C. Patier, 86; T. Quinlan, 79; M. Ryan, 67; J. Ryan, 64; G. Ryan, 87; P. Ragan, 85; C. Roby, 70; J. Raney, 84; L. Riordan, 77; L. Sherman, 73; F. Schillo, 80; J. Stanton, 88; J. Schopp ,99; A. Stace, 91; W. Thayne, 79; L. Thome, 84; G. Tivnen, 74; L. Vinez, 86; A. Vurpillat,-74; R. Whitehead, 84; W. Wilkin, 73; E. Welsh, 61; C. Zeitler, 76; A. Zeller, 77.
.	CARROLL HALL.
G. Ashford, 82; H. Bauer, 76; G. Bixby, 80; S. Barbour, 78; L. Baldauf, 91; E. Ball, 91; J. Brown, 86; G. Brown, 67; E. Brennan, 70; O. Bergland, 89; H. Bearss, 78; W. Bachrach, 80; W. Bates, 85; D. Casey, go; B. Corry^ 77; G. Covert, 70; T. Curran, 68; R. Connell,63; C. Cullen, 82; P. Carpenter, 66; J. Corcoran, 70; H. Cheney, 70; P. Dion, 75; M. Dix, 83; T. DuBois, 68; A. DeLormier, 75; D. Duncombe,69; T. Dillon, 79; W.Dillman, 75; J.Delany, 86; J. Dempsey, 84; F. Dempsey, 70; S. Dixon, 68; E. Dorsey, 71; W. Evans, 80; C. Fleming, 83; T. Finnerty, 60; A. Funke, 80; G. Funke, 60; S. Ford, 71; W. Ford, 63; W.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
725
Foster, 75; C. Fitzgerald, 88; J. Feehan, 69; C. Falk, 75; J. Girsch, 80; F. Grote, 76; L. Gibson, 75; N. Gibson, 72; G. Gilbert, 88; W. Gerlach, 81; A. Gillam, 79; L. Garfias, 73; W. Girardin, 70; G. Gemer, 91; W. Gerdes, 78; F. Hill, 70; G. Hagan, 89; D. Hilger, 75; T. Hoban, 70; H. Hargrave, 62; J. Hagus, 75; J. Hittson, 67; L. Healy, Si; W. Hamilton, 68; J. Hack, 73; J. Harrington, 76; J. H. Janssen, 64; G Johnson, 75; M. Joseph, 76; S. Kauffmann, 73; W. Kreicker, 74; A. Kindler,69; L. Kraber, 73; R.Kin-neavy, 77; W. Kegler, 87; A. Kegler, 76; J. Kirker, 79; H. Keough, 68; M. Levi, 62; G. Lee, 62; G. Lowrey, 60; N. Luther, 62; W. Lawlor, 66; R. Lane, 73; A. Leonard, 70; W. Mills, 78; H. Martin, 70; H. Mitchell, 87;*J. Miller, go; W. Miller, 68; C. Meyers, 84; J. Marre, 76; W. Marr, 86; H. Miles, 82; R. Mahon, 65; T. Moss, 66; E. Major, 78; C.McPhee,63; C. McCarthy, 81; K. McLeod, 68; D. Madalie,62; W.Nichols,67; H. Nichols, 75; E.O’Connor, 69; F. O’Brien. 81; F. O’Rourke, 80; W. O’Neill, 78; B. Oliver, 71; J.'ONeill, 71; J. Payne, 60; G. Peake, 85; C. Pope, 73; H. Reedy, 60; J. Rend, 78; F. Reilly, 73; C. Ryan, 75; A. Rupel, 69; F. Rogers, 75; J. Ratterman, 78; A. Renesch, 71; A. Rumely, 82; W. Sullivan, 87; B. Sed-wick, 81; E. Strauss, 91; E. Sparks, 78; F. Scholer, 79; L. Stone, 71; G. Sweet, 83; R. Slevin, 84; P.Stephens, 71; E. Smith, 90; D. Thornton, 71; E. Thome, 74; O. Tong, 77; C. Teeter, 78; F. Thom, 87; J. Tobin, 68; F. Todd, 76; J. Tong, 69; H. Vorhang, 60; V. Washburne, 74; S. Walker, 95; B. Weaver,81; E. White, 64; N. Weitzel, 83; B. Weitzel, 80; P. Wellington, 63; H. Wells, 72; F. Wagner, 70; F. Wensinger,65; S. Warner, 88; J. Winder, 71; J. Yeager, 88; C. Zoehrlaut, 60; G. Zoehrlaut, 79.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
J. Ayers, 70; W. Ahem, 89; L. Abrahams, 69; G. Abrahams, 68; R. Brown, 98; T.Bums, 76; W. Blumenthal, 99; R. Berthelet, 95; V. Berthelet, 96; R. Ball, 92; W. Bopp, 93; G. Bourgeois, 78; F. Cornell, 95; F. Curtm, 89; J. Cony, 80; E. Christ, 94; E. Chapoton, 85; J. Curry, 76; A. Coquil-lard, 86; J. Coquillard, 85; W. Crandall, 86; F. Croke, 90; F.Cross, 89; H. Durand, 99; W. Durand, 84; D. DuBrul, 80; E. Dugas, 90; L. Donnell, 98; S. Donnell, 94; W. Emerson, 80; F. Emerson, 86; S. Elliott, 89; A. Everest, 90; G. Egan, 98; W. Finnerty, 96; L. Fossick, 82; J. Freeman, ' ■ 89; B. Freemann, 90; N. Freeman, 89; E. Furthmann, 75;
C. Furthmann, 99; C. Girsch 89; W. Gavin, 99; E. Gilbert, 85; C. Graf, 89; W. Hoffman, 94: G. Howard, 80; F. Holbrook, 93; A. Hilger, 95; J. Healy, 80; Roy Higgins, 80; Ralph Higgins, 82; H. Hathaway, 94; A. Hartman, 90; H. Jones, 96; E. Jonquet, 89; G. Kinney, 89; C. Krollman, 93; C. Kem, 84; S. Keeler, 90; G. Keeler-80; E. King, 89; E. Kuehl, 85; W. LaMoure, 94; E. LaMoure, 92; H. Londoner, 99; J. Lawton, 76; M. Lysle, 84; C. Langley, 90; E. Langevin, 79; A. Lonergan, 78; L. Loughran, 76; T. Lowrey, 99; R. McPhee, 94; R. McIntyre, 82; Eugene McCarthy, 90; Emmet McCarthy, 80; G. McCarthy, 82; R. McCarthy, 94; W. McGushin, 86; D. McAlister, 98; J. McGinley, 92; R. Morris, 76; F. Morris, 78; B. Morrison, 97;'J. Maternes, 89; R. Ninneman, 90; C. Nichols, go; H. O’Neill, 80; W. O’Brien, 93; D. Oatman, g2; H. Pollitz, 80; W. Pollitz, 82; J. Pieser, 86; N. Pratt, 96; F. Platts, g2; R. Pursell, go; G. Peck, g4; F. Ransome, g5; F. Repscher, 8g; W. Rose, g4; G. Scherrer, g4; W. Scherrer, 95; E. Swan, 86; F. Stuckhart, 8g; L. Trankle, gg; F. Trankle, g8; P. Trujillo, 95; B. White, go; L. Wilson, 92; F. Wolf, 99; J. Westover, 90; D. Wilcox, 90; J. Westheimer, 92.
Books and Periodicals.
A School History of the United States. Abridged and Compiled from the most Reliable Sources. Benziger Brothers.
This book, while concise, contains all the important events of United States History. It will be found accurate, impartial and interesting; simple in plan, clear in language, and Catholic in tone. Questions follow at the foot of each page, thus doing away with the annoyance
to teachers of continual reference to other parts of the book. The pronunciation of foreign and difficult proper names is given in parenthesis. It is hoped that this History will be extensively adopted by Catholic Schools, for the needs of which it has been specially prepared.
—The frontispiece and opening article of the July Sz. Nicholas describe an interesting incident that occurred last year during the French celebration of the taking of the Bastile. Two American boys take it upon themselves to replace by a new one a flag which some other Americans had placed on Lafayette’s tomb upon the preceding Fourth of July. Afterwards they drive about Paris in a carriage decorated with the French and American banners. When President Carnot passed their carriage one of the boys saluted him, and the President bowed to the flag. It is told by the writer, Victor Mapes, as a true story, and certainly is well placed at the beginning of a July number.
—Scribner's Magazine for July contains a striking article about the “Poor in Chicago,” by Joseph Kirkland (the author of those very realistic novels of Western life, “Zury” and “theMcVeys”). Mr. Kirkland takesan optimistic view of the conditions of poverty in that city, asserting that “how the other have lives in Chicago is pretty much as it chooses,” because sobriety and industry will give to any able-bodied man a comfortable living and a good chance for his children. The illustrations have been made from life by an artist who spent a month or more among these people. The Historic Moment this month is “The Resumption of Specie Payment,” by John K. Upton, ex-Assistant Secretary of the Treasury and a high officer in that department at the time Resumption was effected. The number is particularly rich in ’illustration—the paper on “ The Art of Ravenna,” by the Blashfields, being one of unusual artistic merit.
—The July Century is sufficiently summery in its contents, the opening paper being a readable and authentic account of the great French landscape-painter Daubigny, with illustrations from his own work, portraits of himself, and pictures of his favorite haunts. There is a good deal of fiction in the number, including the last chapters of Dr. Weir Mitchell’s “ Characteristics,” and also of the striking “Naulahka,” by Messrs. Kipling and Balestier. The second instalment of “The Chatelaine of La Trinite” is given and the third instalment of Mrs. Mary Hallock Foote’s story of “The Chosen Valley,” which is being read with peculiar interest in the West. There are also short stories by Maurice Thompson, Charles Belmont Davis (a brother of Richard Harding Davis), and George Wharton Edwards. Mr. Van Brunt’s article on “The Architecture at the World’s Columbian Exposition” contains the most carefully prepared pictures yet made of the buildings at Chicago.
^6	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MffWseMWC.
Notre Dame, Jwly 2. 1892.
tberj) ^aturtaa during ©run Stmt at N. B. Snibwsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, In d.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC now enters upon the twenty-sixth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin, we are glad to say, continues to improve in health at Nantucket, Mass. He will remain there for a couple of weeks longer and, we all hope, make the amelioration permanent.
—The following plank in the Democratic platform will commend itself by reason of its bold stand for individual liberty and noble statement of one true principle in regard to the question of education:
“Freedom of education being an essential of civil and religious liberty, as well as a necessity for the development of intelligence, must not be interfered with under any pretext whatever. We are opposed to State interference with parental rights and rights of conscience in the education of children, as an infringement of the fundamental Democratic doctrine that the largest individual liberty consistent with the rights of others insures the highest type of American citizenship and the best government.”	‘
—:--------------------
—Without making study, indeed, the predominant occupation of- vacation hours, one should not lay it aside entirely. Only the reverse of college life takes place. At college study predominates, but it is not perpetually on the programme. In vacation, enjoyment, rest predominate, but at intervals must give way to study; for only in this wise can the equilibrium of mental and physical forces be maintained, and a normal state of health preserved—or, if lost, regained.
Pleasure, relaxation and rest are first on the programme for vacation. That enjoyment should be sought in innocent, harmless and lawful diversions need not here be suggested. It is an egregious error for some to suppose that the deeper they dive into dissipation, the more corrupted associations they form, the more unlawful pleasures they indulge in, the happier will vacation be spent. In medio stat virtus is true, not only of works, but also of pleasures; for
unrestrained participation in the unlawful leaves just the same hurtful effects upon the bodily organism and mental faculties as does overwork in other matters. On smooth waters, we advance gently; but too near a precipice, we are in danger of being hurriedly drawn along with the current, and fall into the surging mass below;' if up the stream we venture too near the falling wafers, we are apt to be swallowed up in the deep abyss.
Without inclining, therefore, to either extreme —either excessive relaxation or deep-rooted intellectual torpor, one has always at disposal a variety of innocent diversions, calculated to almost realize the ideal of a well-spent vacation. Travel is, perhaps, one of the most useful, instructive and exhilarating of diversions. We learn, but at the same time we recreate and amuse ourselves. The idea of travel is correlative with that of seeing many novel and interesting objects—objects grand and noble. As we dash along with lightning speed o’er an extended plain, or pleasantly row along the channel of some historic and romantic stream, or slowly cross broad rivers, or move along some steep mountain with yawning precipice ’neath our feet, we unconsciously store our minds with images of the beautiful, grand and sublime, and create, so to speak, within us a desire to . know and love the All-Powerful. Travel enlarges the compass of the mind, strengthens the powers of observation, exhibits in living forms objects about us of which we heard and read much, creates lofty desires, and makes us acquainted with the outside world in all its aspects—social, political and moral. But in this diversion, more than in any other, dangers threaten the good and the innocent. Morality is generally the loser: wicked associates and intriguing seducers watch the paths of the guileless and endeavor to entrap them and rob them of innocence and virtue. Indeed to many it is the cause of utter ruin to their moral character. In the enjoyment of travel one must proceed with caution; for what is. medicine to one, is poison to another.
Those who hail vacation with the most enthusiastic applause generally get weary of it ere it scarce has dawned upon them; but to him who is aware of the necessity and object of vacation—who knows how to derive practical knowledge even from mere diversions—to him shall the coming two months be a mine of instruction, happiness and pleasure; the more so as he is in the company of those he loves. Our best wishes are with all those who have left for home for a two months’ vacation.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
727
Very Rev. Provincial Oorby.
Sunday, June 26, the Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C., entertained the members of the Community at a dinner given in Carroll Hall dining-room. At the close, of the dinner, the Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., in one of his neat speeches, complimented Provincial Corby on his able administration of the affairs of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and wished him, on behalf of all who were present, many years of successful continuance in the same office and many glad returns of the same occasion— the feast of his patron saint, St. William. Father Corby, in response, thanked the Reverend speaker and the other members of the community, not only for the kind wishes which all had joined in offering to him, but also for the hearty cooperation that had served to crown his labors with success. The following brief sketch will be of interest to friends of Notre Dame:
Father Corby was born at Detroit, in the State of Michigan, on the 2d of October, 1833. Up to the year 1849, the sixteenth of his age, he received all the educational advantages which the common schools at that time afforded. From 1848 to 1853
Very Rev. William Corby,
Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States.
he assisted his father in business, and during that time, under his father’s experienced training, laid the foundation of that self-control and forbearance which have enabled him for years past to fill the onerous position of President of Notre Dame.
In 1853 Father Corby was sent by his father to Notre Dame, with two younger brothers, to continue their education. In 1854, prompted by a desire to lead a more perfect life in the seclusion of some religious retreat, he entered
the Congregation of Holy Cross, and prosecuted his studies with vigor, under the direction of experienced teachers, till 1858, when he made his religious profession as a member of the Congregation, and was appointed Prefect of Discipline in the University.
In addition to the duties thus imposed upon him, he continued to study theology with persevering energy, until i860, when he was raised to the dignity of the Priesthood. He was then employed as a Professor in the University until July of the following year, when he was appointed Director of the Manual Labor School at Notre Dame, with the additional duty of attending the mission of South Bend, at that time too small to have a resident pastor. Father Corby entered upon the discharge of his twofold duty with the same earnestness that he would have exhibited had he known that this would be his occupation for life. But he was called to a different field of usefulness. Chaplains were wanted for the army, and Father Corby, filled with the spirit of patriotism as well as zeal for the spiritual welfare of his fellowman, offered himself as a volunteer for that post. In December’61 he received from the Governor of New York a commission as Chaplain in one of the New York regiments, with the rank of a cavalry officer. His regiment formed part of the “Army of the
Potomac,” and Father Corby accompanied it, through heat and cold, through storm and sunshine, through victory and reverse, for three years. In August, 1866, he was raised to the position of President of the University and Local Superior at Notre Dame.
In 1886 he was elected to the office of Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States—a position which he has since held to the benefit of the Community at large and each individual member. Ad multos annos!
728
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A TRANSLATION FROM THE LATIN.*
BY L. M’GRISKIN, A. M.
The shores of Spain are quickly growing dim, And Hercules’ pillars seem in clouds to swim; A pale light gleams across the dreaded deep, When all his comrades lay them down to sleep. Columbus prays upon the deck alone, And sees his vessels fly o’er waves unknown. Heaven’s image only now appears in view, When frightful monsters terrify his crew; Their weary limbs, with many a care opprest, Hunger devours, and courage leaves their breast; E’en Hope deserts them on the watery track, And home and country seem to call them back; Their Native Land, with many a sigh and tear, Cries o’er the waves, and bids her children hear:
" What madness, sons, has driven your ships Across the sea in vain?
What god permits your cursed steps To tempt the raging main?
“ Stop, stop, ye bold! return again To where your fathers dwell, For Atlas’ Ruler orders thus
Or drives your skiffs to hell!
“ And let your leader long beware Of laying sinful hand
On lands unknown—or change the fate Of his own native land.”
Those threatening words the trembling sailors hear And horror fills their minds with reverent fear. What shall they do?—their country disobey, Or help the hero on his hopeless way?
They doubt, they fear, but rage at last prevails, And all the crew their leader thus assails:
“ When shall your dreams,” they cry, “come to an end?”	-
Unmoved he stands, nor anxious to defend. “ What do you hope for now? the dream is o’er,
Too much delay, and too much toil we bore; To faithless leader and to treacherous wave Our lives we trusted but to find a grave.
Could you not find us graves at home in Spain? ” Smiling, Columbus speaks, nor speaks in vain:
‘	“ My friends, I did not wish to make
This voyage all for Spain’s reward, I wished to give, for Jesus’ sake,
New men and nations to the Lord.
“ Three days I only ask of you; Already land I see is near, Go—Christ shall give us safety too, His cross is triumph—never fear! ”
* The original appeared in the Scholastic of June 11, and was published in connection with the Columbian Centenary at Commencement.
As zephyr calms the stormy cloud, his voice Assuages wrath, and makes them all rejoice. And now three times the sun his course has made Across the wave, dispersing every shade, When lo! a boy exclaims upon the mast:
“Land! Land”! and all in wonder stand aghast;
“ Land! Land”! the shores resound—in glad surprise They look, but cannot satiate their eyes, And all the ships are filled with tears and cries! Before Columbus then the sailors kneel, And ask his pardon too with reverent zeal.
To'heaven he lifts his palms, and thus he prays: “ O happy day! the happiest of our days, Forever memorable, dear to time and fame, And fitted too to celebrate God’s name!
Hail, verdant land! I bless thy saving sod, Already rich in all the gifts of God!
O Spain, what fruits of life this land insures If only right and justice shall be yours!
But if the mother grows corrupt with gold Her children’s crimes forever shall be told! A greater, better race shall soon arise In love of God, and love of Freedom, wise. Columbia! peace and virtue on you smile, May art and genius flourish on your soil! May all the peoples join in bonds of love, And both worlds worship the great God above!”
Personal.
—A most welcome visitor during Commencement week was Dr. Deegan of Chicago.
—J. W. Montgomery (Com’l), ’71, is successfully conducting a wholesale fruit business in San Francisco.
—F.W. Montgomery (Com’l), ’75, is the chief book-keeper with the City Water Company of Los Angeles, Cal. ‘
—H. B. Montgomery (Com’l), ’68, is the-efficient cashier of a wholesale jewelry establishment on Kearney St., San Francisco.
—John C. Larkin, ’84, who was an Alternate Delegate to the Chicago Convention, paid his Alma Mater a visit on his return home last week.
—Among the latest arrivals from the mission houses of the Community are: Mr. T. Corbett, Bro. Theodore, Bro. Remigius, Bro. Simeon, Bro. Benjamin, Bro. Barnabas.
—Homer P. Brelsford, ’91, is meeting with great and well-merited success in the practice of the law at Eastland, Texas. The Eastland Chronicle says that he “stood one of the finest examinations of any young man that ever applied at this bar for license to practise law.” Mr. Brelsford’s many friends at Notre Dame congratulate him upon his success.
—One of the most interesting and touching ceremonies of last Decoration Day was the unveiling of a monument to the Rev. John F. Fitz-harris, ’70, in Calvary Cemetery, Brooklyn, N.Y. Father Fitzharris was the founder and first pastor of St. Veronica’s Church, in Christopher street, New York city. He was an old soldier, having
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
7^9
served through the war in the Sixteenth Pennsylvania, going in as a private and coming out of the service a captain. He entered the University in 1867, and followed a three years’ course of classics. He took holy orders at St. Joseph’s Seminary, Troy, on May 30,1874. He founded St. Veronica’s in 1889, and died on Sept. 30, 1891.
—Thomas F. Gallagher, ’77, has won the honors of the ermine in the practice of his profession. The Fitchburg ( Mass.) Sentinel says of him:
“ Thomas F. Gallagher, who was nominated by Gov. Russell on Wednesday as successor to the late Judge T. K. Ware, was born in Lynn, Dec. 27,1855, attended the public schools in Lynn in his boyhood, and was graduated from the Notre Dame University, Ind. He studied law in the office of W. D. Northend at Salem, was admitted to the bar in October, 1878, and practised in Lynn until Dec. 15, 1881, when he came to this city and opened a law office. In 1883 and ’84, when Col. E. P. Loring was state senator, Mr. Gallagher was clerk pro tern, of the police court. In September, 1886, he formed a partnership with the late John W. Walsh, which continued until Mr. Walsh's death in 1887. Mr. Gallagher has been a close student of the law, and is very popular with his fellow-citizens. Inquiries among leading Republicans show conclusively that there will be no opposition to Mr. Gallagher’s confirmation.”
Local Items.
—Vol. XXV. estfini.
1 —The place looks deserted.
—What are you doing now?
—Lend me your umbrella, please.
—What are the wild waves saying?
—Thursday was an ideal “rec” day.
—Next Monday is the Fourth of July.
—The Index to Vol. XXV. will soon be ready.
—Rev. A. M. Kirsch is as busy as ever with photography.
—There are twenty-five Minims summering at Notre Dame.
—The spire on the church is gradually assuming proportions.
—We heard from Master Herbert Martin during the week.
—The clerk of the weather respecteth neither prince nor people.
—B. L. intends getting some bicycles and supplies during vacation.
—It didn’t rain on Thursday; probably old Boreas does not care now.
—The annual retreat of the Community will open next Saturday evening.
—The remaining Princes enliven the surroundings by their merry laughter.
—Several picnics are on the tapis and will, in time, receive due consideration.
—The stereotype plant. in the Ave Maria office is now in successful operation.
—Rev. Father Stoffel’s school children enjoyed a picnic to Notre Dame on last Tuesday.
—We succeeded admirably this week in compelling one of our localists to attend to his duty.
—Our Eastern correspondent has failed to send us that whale story. Where, oh, where can he be?
—It is amusing to see some of the older members of the Faculty trying to learn to ride a “bike.”
—It is a laborious task to write spicy apothegms when one is actually forced to do some witty writing.
—Bros. Paul and Emmanuel were in the World’s Fair City last week and report a pleasant time.
—Michael says that the librarian of Watertown causes the present fair weather by his cheerful countenance.
—We are pleased to see that the genial Prefect of Discipline has recovered from his recent illness and is with us again.
—We regret that the heading designed for the Class poem was not received in time to permit its insertion in this number.
—A game of ball was played between the mission Brothers and the members of the Seminary on last Thursday afternoon.
—We have not heard from our friend John in some time. He has probably gone to remonstrate with the clerk of the weather.
—Chris. Fitzgerald is assisting the corresponding corps on the Ave Maria at present. Casey? Well, he only turns up at meal time.
—We notice some improvements in Carroll gym; but it is so pleasant to anticipate, we forbear mentioning the details at present.
—Now doth the sturdy yeoman exclaim in jubilation as he beholds fiery Phcebus bestowing rich gifts of sunshine upon the children of Ceres.
—Masters A. Regan, C. Fitzgerald, W. Cree-don, D. Casey and J. Hittson are the only representatives of Carroll Hall who are staying here at present.
—The gentlemanly officers <rf the L. S. .& M. S. RR. have the thanks of the students for the travelling facilities afforded them during Commencement time.
—The recent rains have filled the lakes to overflowing. Considerable injury was done to the Niles’ road by the outlet from St. Mary’s Lake to the St. Joseph’s River.
—It is rumored that the typos and denizens of the Printing Office are to have a grand picnic in the near future. A great time is expected. All (!) are cordially invited to attend.
—Since Master C. Regan came into possession of that rifle, bull frogs, fish, etc., have rather a precarious existence. B. H. even acknowledges having hit one side of the ice house.
—Workmen are busily engaged in erecting a
730	NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
porch along the west wall of the Infirmarybuilding. It will add greatly to the beauty of the structure and prove decidedly useful.
—Those who take so much pleasure in applying their pedal extremities to Freak should remember that by so doing they interfere with that gentleman’s study of the life of Marcus Aurelius.
—Our corpulent weather-prophet has spoken truly for once. Nothing more cheering can be imagined than a furtive glance at his beaming countenance when he speaks of his great achievement in veracity.
—Bro. Valerian started 190,000 stamps to their destination this week, which were collected by the students during the past year. Harry Wells, of French Lick, Ind., has the thanks of the collector for favors received.
—It may be said in truth that no mortal was ever given a heartier welcome on his return to his friends than Thomas Henry, who received the other day most profuse congratulations from his affectionate confreres.
—It may be agreeable news to some people to learn that the young gentleman known as the last of the Irish Counts has lately been promoted to a position which brings him into close contact with the interior well-being of his fellowmen.
—The centenary poem, on “Columbus” has been published in neat card-board leaflets tastefully bound by the Tribune office in South Bend. One of the features of the Commencement exercises was the distribution of the poem among the visitors.
—We acknowledge the receipt of Commencement invitations from Georgetown University; Academy of Holy Cross, Washington; Academy of the Sacred Heart, near Fort Wayne; College of the Sacred Heart, Watertown; St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame; Dominican Academy, New Orleans.
—Careful attention will be given next year to the post-graduate course of the Law Department. It will be well attended. Lectures will be given regularly, and the exercises cannot fail to be highly interesting and instructive for those who wish to qualify themselves speedily for the actual practice of the profession.
—The. Ave Maria begins another semi-annual volume to-day, and appears in a complete new dress of type. It is another evidence of the marked prosperity attending Our Lady’s journal, and we hope that its successful career may long continue and constantly extend its influence for good.	x
—Bro. Columbkille, our expert carpenter, is engaged at present in building a porch for the front of the Novitiate. Like every other piece of work that Bro. Columbkille undertakes, it will bespeak the wonderful skill of the maker, and contribute vastly to enhance the beautiful* appearance of the Novices’ home. t ,
—Our weather-prophets are at their wits’ ends. Such a continued succession of “umbrella days” was never seen in the memory of the “Old Settler.” “Sign days” are nowhere. The boss prophet who used to foretell the number of rains for the next “quarter” has resigned his position and gone to meet the old man.
—Far-famed Notre Dame has honored itself in conferring the degree of Doctor of Laws on the illustrious author of “Notes on Ingersoll.” This graceful act on the part of a great university will give intense pleasure to Father Lambert’s countless friends, who are not confined to any race or creed—a pleasure all the more solid, in that the degree is so conspicuously well deserved.—Union and Times.
—We hear that a “boomlet” has been started here lately, in the shape of another paper. After strutting about for some time under the classic name of The Rooster, it has “come off the perch,” and assumed the more modest title of The Symposium. The editors are many men of much mind, and mean to make it a ’owling success. We were promised another paper, to be called the Chronicle; but this, as yet, has failed to materialize.
—Any one desirous of beholding nature in her most beautiful appearance should pay a visit to Bro. Julian’s flower-garden at the Novitiate. Flora’s prettiest children may be seen there dressed in their most charming robes. Lilies, tulips, roses, heliotropes, and such a vast number of other flowers that only a horticulturist, like Bro. Julian, could be expected to know;, their names, adorn the romantic premises of the Novitiate, and are the admiration of visitors to that beautiful spot.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., celebrated his patronal festival on Wednesday last, at St. Joseph’s Farm. Very Rev. Father Provincial, Rev. President Walsh, and many others of the clergy from Notre Dame, assembled to greet the distinguished missionary and partake of the bounteous repast prepared in honor of the occasion. Speeches of congratulation were made by Fathers Provincial and Walsh, to which Father Cooney eloquently responded. We join with his numerous friends in wishing him ad multos annos.	■ <
—A crack base-ball team was organized for the vacation season on Monday last. Following are the names and positions of the players: B. Caesaire, Captain and Centre field; Omer, pitcher; Lewis, catcher; Canice, istbase; Kieran, 2d base; Malachy, 3d base; L. O’Toole, short stop; F. Carraciola, left field; Finbar, right field. They promise to furnish plenty of excitement, and claim that the pennant will be theirs. They wish to hear from any nine in the vicinity that can lift a bat, muff a ball or move around a diamond. _
—Locals being rather scarce, the reporter was compelled to leave his sanctum in search of a few. He first met B. Paul who was very busy
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	731
packing (empty) jars that were labelled “ Moxie Nerve Food,” in which, it is known, he is very much interested. He seemed at first rather uncommunicative, but responded to questions as follows: “Yes, I was in Chicago last week.” “No, I did not go to see the World’s Fair grounds.” “Yes, of course I took in the Derby.” “That was a false report that I wore my derby on that occasion.” “No, nothing new.” “Yes, I did have some trouble in getting my table to make connections for six o’clock breakfast, but they are all right now.” B. Lawrence was so busy mending bicycles that he had no time to be interviewed. B. Albius was seen wending his way around the gym in a comfortable linen duster. B. Hugh, who was found in the gymnasium busy making some new handball alleys, answered thus: “Yes, it is true we defeated the Seminary six games of handball- out of seven played.” “Yes, we are equally as good in base and football; you will see before vacation is over.” “Well, it is 12 o’clock, we had better go to dinner.”
—From the Texas Volunteer we clip the following complimentary notice of the Hurth Rifles of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas:
“Although composed exclusively of college boys, and not two years organized, the Hurth Rifles have frequently distinguished themselves in public by their martial bearing, their superior skill in military tactics, and their gentlemanly deportment on all occasions. The esprit de corps of the company is admirable, and might be copied with advantage by older military organizations. A year ago this volunteer company took part in the drill at the Williamson county fair at Taylor, and on San \ Jacinto day this year they gave an exhibition drill at San Marcos that elicited the warmest encomiums from those who witnessed it. On the 25th of March, at the earnest solicitation of the ladies in charge of an entertainment at the opera house in this city, for the benefit of the World’s Fair, the Rifles again kindly volunteered their services, and gave one of their characteristic exhibition drills on the stage at the opera house to a delighted audience. The practice drills at the college have also, from time to time, attracted a good deal of attention from the faculty, students and visitors. .On the 19th of March, a grand military drill and dress parade on the college campus was arranged by Company A of the Hurth Rifles, under the command of Captain .Kelly; Company B, under the command of Captain Frank Fowley; the Governor's Guard, of Austin, commanded by Captain Roberdeau, and the Capital City Cavalry Company, Captain Wilson. The weather was delightful and the notice previously published in the daily papers brought out a large number of visitors from the city, all of whom, especially the ladies, enjoyed the affair im-. mensely and spoke of it with unstinted praise.”
Premiums.
. SORIN HALL.
Ahlrichs, A.—1st Premium in Moral Philosophy; Premium in 1st Latin; 2d Premium in Astronomy; 1st Premium in Literary Criticism; istPremium in Geology; 1st Premium in 1st Greek.	-
Bachrach, B.—Mention in Belles-Lettres.
Brady, J.— 2d Premium in Astronomy; Mention in Analytical Mechanics; 2d Premium in Descriptive Geometry.	.'
Chute, L. P.—1st Premium for Piano.
Combe, J. K.—3d Premium in Geology; Mention in Comparative Anatomy and Pharmaceutical Botany.
Carney, F.—4th Premium in English Literature; Mention in Botany; 3d Premium in English History.
DuBrul, E -Mention in Belles-Lettres.
Dechant, C. B.—Mention in Calculus; 2d Premi im in Literary Criticism; Mention in Geology; 3d Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in 2d Physics; 1st Premium in 2d Chemistry.
Dacy, A. E.—3d Premium in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in Literary Criticism; 3d Premium in 2d rhysics; Premium in 2d German.
Fitzgerald, J.—4th Premium in Botany. ' ’	'
Fitzgibbon, J.—2d Premium in Moral Philosophy; 3dPremium in 4th Latin; Mention in Astronomy; 1st Premium in Belles-Lettres; 1st Premium in Geology. .
Flannery, J.—1st Premium in Surveying; 3d Premium in Botany; Premium in French; 2d Premium in Industrial ‘ Drawing; 2d Premium in Analytical Geometry.
Gillon, C.—3d Premium in Astronomy; Mention in Analytical Mechanics; 1st Premium in Analytical Chemistry; 3d Premium in General Physics; 1st Premium in Engineering Drawing.
Hannin, M.—Mention in Calculus; 4th Premium in General Physics; Mention in 3d French; 1st Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Joslyn, M.—2d Premium in General Physics; Premium in 2d French; 2d Premium in Calculus; 1st Premium in Literary Criticism; 2d Premium in Mineralogy; 2d Premium in Metallurgy; 3d Premium in Geology; 4th Premium in Botany; istPremium in 2d Physics; 2d Premium in 2d Chemistry.
Langan, R.—3d Premium in Church History.
Murphy, P.—2d Premium in Logic; Mention in Civil Engineering; 3d Premium in Astroromy; istPremium in Descriptive Geometry; Mention in Analytical Chemistry, 3d Premium in General Physics.
McAuliff, J.—1st Premium in Literary Criticism; Mention in 2d Chemistry.	.	'
McGrath, J. J.—Mention in Moral Philosophy. ’
Monan h, L.—4th Premium in Church History; Mention in Literary Criticism.
Murphy, H.—3d Prem um in Logic; 2d Premium in Belles-Lettres; Premium for Vocal Music.
Maurus, E.—1st Premium in 2d Chemistry; 1st Premium in 4th Latin; istPremium in Calculus; 2d Premium in Literary Criticism; Premium in 2d French; 2d Premium in Geology; 1st Premium in Metallurgy; 1st Premium in ' ineralogy; 2d Premium in 2d Physics.
Neef, F.—1st Premium in Logic; 3d Premium in Astronomy; 2d Premium in Descriptive Geometry; 2d • Premi im in Analytical Chemistry.
O’Neill, H.—Mention in Moral Philosophy; Mention' in Belles-Lettres.	'
< >’Brien, W.—Mention in Analytical Mechanics.
Quinlan, M.—Mention in • ogic; 1st Premium in Literary Criticism; 4th Premium in Botany; Mention in:2d Chemistry; 2d Premium in 2d Latin.
Rothert, O.—2d Premium in Logic; Mention in Analytical Mechanics; 2d Premium in Descriptive Geometry; 2d Premium in 1st Physics.	'
Schaack, E.—Mention in- Comparative Anatomy and Pharmaceutical Botany; Premium for Vocal Music. "
Sullivan, O.—Mention in Logic; Premium in Civil Engineering; 1st Premium in Astronomy; Premium in Analytical Mechanics; Mention in Analytical Chemistry; 1st Premium in 1st Physics; 1st Premium in Engineering Drawing.	'	'
Scherrer, C.—2d Premium in Mineralogy.	.
Scherrer, E.—Mention in Analytical Geometry.
Sinnott, N.—2d Premium in Moral Philosophy; Mention in Astronomy; 2d Premium in Botany; 3d Premium in 2d Physics; Premium for Vocal Music.
Vurpiilat, V.—2d Premium in Mineralogy; Mention in Geology; 2d Premium in Comparative Anatomy; 2d Premium in Pharmaceutical Botany.
BROWNSON HALL.	.
Ahlrichs, E.—Mention in 3d Latin; Mention in 5th Greek; Mention in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in English Literature; .2d Premium in Physiology; 2d Premium in English History.
Arts, F. H.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d
TP
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in English Composition.
Breen, J. R.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in Advanced Arithmetic..
Brennan, V—Mention for Violin.
Brady, J. A.—3d Premium in 7th Latin; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; Mention in 4th German; 2d Premium in Ancient History.
Baldwin, L J.—Mention in Sth Latin
Brown, E. W.—3d Premium in English History.
Bolton, F. H.—3d Premium in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in English Literature, Premium in 3d French; 3d Premium in English History.
Brown, E. J—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Reading.
Cullen, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Chassaing, E.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in English Composition; ist Premium for Violin; 3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Corcoran, R.—3d Premium in 7th Latin; Mention in Modern History.
Corry, A.—2d Premium in ist Geometry; 4th Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in Modern History; Mention in Physiology; ist Premium in Zoology; ist Premium in ist Algebra.
Crawley, P.—2d Premium in 4th Greek; Mention in 3d German.
Correll, W.—Mention in Church History; 2d Premium in Surveying; Mention in Botany; Mention in 2d Physics; ist Premium in industrial Drawing; Mention in French; ist Premium in Analytical Geometry.
Chilcote, J.—2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Phonography; ist Premium in Telegraphy.
Cummings, W.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in English Literature; Mention in ist German.
Caffery, T.—Mention in Penmanship.
Crilly, E.—4th Premium in English Literature; ist Premium in Phj'siology.
Cameron, C.—Premium in 2d Grammar.
Cummings, T.—ist Premium in Phonography.
Conroy, L.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Cherhart,J.—Mention inj2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Coady, P.—ist Premium in Phonography.
Colby, C.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 3d Chidester, A.—2d Premium in Rhetoric.
Grammar.
Doheny, J.—Mention in Church History; 3d Premium in English Literature; Mention in English History; Premium in Elocution.
Dinkel, N. S.—Mention in Trigonometry; Mention in Modern History; Mention in 1st Algebra. •
Davis, L.—2d Premium in Metallurgy.
,Devanney. J.—Mention in Surveying; 2d Premium in English Literature; 3d Premium in Analytical Geometry; Premium in Elocution.
Damskey, E.—ist Premium for Piano.
Ellwanger, W.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Funke, A.—Mention in Modern History; ist Premium; in Phonography.
Flynn, T.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Foley, T.—Mention in Penmanship; 2d Premium in
Advanced Arithmetic. .	. ,
Frizzelle, R.—Mention in 7th Latin.	.	,
Flanigan, J.—3d Premium in.English Literature; 2d Premium in 4th German. ■	,
Heneghan, D.—Mention in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in English Composition.	.
Healy, R. E.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in English Literature; Mention in Physiology.
Harris, R.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Grammar;- 3d Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist History; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Hesse, F.—ist. Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in-2d Grammar; ist Premium ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist History; Mention in Christian Doertine; 2d Premium in ist Reading. -	‘	\
Harris, E.—Mention in English Composition; 3d Premium in Penmanship; Mention in Advanced Arithmetic.
Holland, J.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Hagan, E.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Reading.
Hoepe, E.—Mention in Penmanship; ist Premium in. 2d German.
Hennessy, F.—2d Premium in English Composition.
Jacobs, P.—Mention in Penmanship; ist Premium in Mechanical Drawing; Mention 2d German; ist Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Jewett, E.—Mention in 3d French.
Kilkenny, F.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in Orthography; ist Premium in Phonography.	'
Krost, E.—Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention in 3d German; Mention in Penmanship.
Keough, F.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Physiology; Mention in Zoology.
Kennedy, W.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Kelly, E.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in Penmanship; 2d Premium in Orthography.
Krembs, E.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Algebra; Mention in Sth Latin; Mention in ist German.
Kintzele, C.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Kennedy, W. A.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Geometry; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra; ist Premium in 4th German; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; ist Premium in Modern History.	'
Kunert, C.—3d Premium in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra; 4th Premium in English Literature; ist Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Kearns, J.—ist Premium in Church History; Mention in 5th Greek; Mention in Trigonometry; 3d Premium in Modern History.
Kearney, J.—ist Premium in Botany; ist Premium in Artistic Drawing; ist Premium in General Biology; ist Premium in Cytology.
Libert, A.—2d Premium in Arithmetic; 3d Premium in	’
2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine. ,
Lindeke, W.—2d Premium for Piano; Mention in 2d Algebra.	.
Mitchell, C. S.—3d, Premium in English Literature; Mention in 2d Physics; Mention in 2d Chemistry; ist Premium in Industrial Drawing; Mention in 3d French.
McFadden, M.—4th Premium in Rhetoric.	.
Monarch, W.—2d Premium in English Composition;
3d Premium in Reading; 2d Premium in Orthography;
2d Premium in Phonography.
Moxley, W.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist History.
Murphy, D.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 5th Latin; ist Premium in 6th Greek; ist Premium in English Literature; ist Premium in Trigonometry.	.	.
Murphy,T.—2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist History; 3d, Premium in ist Orthography.
. McVean, J.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention
in 4th Algebra.	.
McGonigle, E. A.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine;
ist Premium in Industrial Drawing; 2d Premium in Phonography.	-
Mitchell, E.—Mention in 6th Latin.
Magnus, A.—Mention in ist Arithmetic.
Markhoff, E.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic.
McKee, F.—2d Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in 4th German, 2d Premium in Phonography. .
Mattingly, H.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 7th'Latin; 2d Premiurii in 2d Geometry; 4th Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in Phonography;	’
McCarrick, J.—Mention in Algebra. .	.
McDonnell, G.—2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping;
Premium for Piano.	" •	‘
McCullough, M.—Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium'in Christian Doctrine. .	<
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC., /	733
Murray, J.—3d Premium in Physiology; Mention in 4th German. .
McDermott, J.—Mention in Rhetoric.
Marmon, J.—1st Premium in Phonography.
Maisen, F.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st History;	.
Nockles, F.—1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping, * Nester, A.—1st Premium in Phonography. .
Newton, E.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic. 2
O'Connor, J.—Mention in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in English Composition; Mention in Ancient History.
O’Donnell, H.—2d Premium in Church History; 2d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium for English Literature; Premium in Elocution.	.
O’Shea. J.—1 st’Premium in Ancient History; Mention in 2d Latin. ’	'
Palmer, R.—4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in 2d Algebra; 3d Premium in English Literature; 2d Premium in Industrial Drawing; Mention in French.
Powers, F.—1st Premium in Comparative Anatomy and Pharmaceutical Botany.* .
Pulskamp, G.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in English Composition; 1st Premium in ■ st German; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Phillips, D.—Mention in 5th Latin; Mention in ist Geometry; Mention in 2d Algebra; 1st Premium in English Literature; 3d Premium in Modern History; 2d Premium in Physiology; Mention 1st German.
Perkins, G.—2d Premium in Reading. .	-
Perry, M.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 3d Grammar.
Patier, C.—Mention in 1st Arithmetic; Mention in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in ist History; Mention in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in Reading; ist Pre-Phonograpy.
Quinlan, T.—2d Premium for Piano.
Ryan, M.—Mention in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in English Literature.
I Ryan, J.—Mention in 5th Latin; Mention in 6th Greek; ist Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in Ancient History.	•
. Ryan, G.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 3d Grammar.
Rudd, C.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine. . Raney, .W.—Mention in English Literature. ’ Riordan, L.—Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Schillo, F.—2d Premium in English Literature; Mentionin 2d Chemistry; Premium for Vocal Music; Mention in Analytical Geometry.
Stanton, J.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Phonography.
Schopp, J.—ist Premium in 3d Latin; ist premium in 4th Greek; ist Premium in English Literature. .
Stace, A.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; ist Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in Ancient Hi-tory.
Thayne, W.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Thome, L.—2d Premium in Christian' Doctrine; ist Premium in ist Book Keeping; 2d Premium in Penmanship. .	’	. ; ,
Vinez, L.—5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 5th Latin; Mention in ist Geometry; Mention in 2d Algebra; ist Premium in Rhetoric; Mention in Modern History; ist Premium in Physiology.
Vurpillat, A.—Mention in ist History.
Whitehead, R.—ist Premium in 5th Latin; 2d Premium in 6th Greek; 4th Premium in English Literature; 3d Premium in 4th Algebra. .	.
Wilkin, W.—Mention in ist Arithmetic.	,
Welsh, E.—Mention in Christian Doctrine. .
Zeitler, C.—ist Premium in English Composition.
Zeitler, A.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; istPre-mium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d German.
CARROLL HALL.	.
Ashford, G.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra; Mention in Penmanship; Mention in 8th Latin; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in-Ancient History. -
Bates, E.—Premium in ist Book-Keeping.
Bauer, H.^3d Premium.in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Bixby, G.—Premiumlinjzd Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium ini st. Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Reading.	:	’
Barbour, S.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 3d Grammar; Mention in 1st Reading.	-
Baldauf, L.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar; ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in ist Orthography;. 2d Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in 4th German;.	’	-
’ Ball, E.—ist Premium in, ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium for Piano; ist Preminm .in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist.History; Mention in'Rhetoric; ist Pre--■mium in Advanced .Arithmetic; ist.Premium in ist Orthography.	-
Brown, J.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic.	'
Brown, G.—3d Premium in 4th Grammar.
Byrnes, M.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in 2d Geography ; 3d Premium in 2d History; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine. .	;	.	.	.
Brennan, E.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Bergland, O.—2d Premium for Piano; Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Telegraphy; ist Premium in Type-Writing;:.ist Premium in Phonography; 2d Premium in Penmanship; Mention in.ist Arithmetic.
Bearss, H.—ist .Premium in 4th.Grammar; Mention in Penmanship; Mention in Phonography; 5th Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium insist Reading.
Bachrach, W.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Orthography.
Casey, D.—Mention in 4th Latin;, Mention in. 6th Greek; Mention in Trigonometry; ist Premium in English Literature; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Covert, G.—3d_Pre’mium in Christian Doctrine. ’ Curran, T.—Mention in ist Orthography. .	.
Cullen,’C.—4th Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in ist Orth igraphy; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Corcoran, J .—3d Premium in Penmanship.
Cheney, H. —4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Dion,' P.-^—3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Dix, M.—Mention in 4th Algebra; Mention' in Sth Latin; 3d Premium in Ancient History..
DeLormier,-A.—3d Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in 7th Latin.	... -	.	.
Duncombe, D.—2d Premium' in 12d. Book-Keeping; Mention in ist Arithmetic; Mention in ist'Reading. .
Dillon, T.—ist Premium in 2d Gram nar; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; 5th Premium in ist Reading..
Dillman, W.—Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; Mention in ist Arithmetic.	.	.
Delaney, J.—Mention in 7th Latin; Mention in Surveying; 3d Premium in Botany.; 2d Premium in Analytical Geometry; 3d Premium in English History.
Dempsey, J.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine. -	.
Dempsey, F.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Dixon, S.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.	’
Dorsey, E.—Mention in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Reading.	. ..
Evans, W.—Mention in 4th Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Fleming, C.—2d Premium for Piano; Mention in Penmanship.
Funke, A.—Mention in 2d Algebra.
Ford, S.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.	,
Fitzgerald, C.—ist Premium in Surveying; 4th Premium in English Literature; 2d Premium in Industrial Drawing; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Pre-, mium in Analytical Geometry,	.
Falk, C. Mention in Penmanship. .
Girsch, J.—2d Premium in ist Geography; 2d Pre- .. mium in ist History; Mention in Penmanship. .. , Grote, F.—ist Premium in 8th Lain; 4th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.	.
Gibson, L.—3d Premium in ist Grammar.	•
734
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Gilbert, G.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; Mention in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic. -	,
Gibson, H.—4th Premium in ist Reading.
Gerlach, W.—2d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in Type-Writing; ist Premium in Phonography.
Gillam, A.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in ist Reading; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Garfias, L.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; Mention for Violin; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Gerner, G.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in Penmanship; Mention in 2d German; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Gerdes, W.-—ist Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d German.
Hill, F.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Hagan, G.—3d Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in 1st Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st Reading- ’
Hilger, D.—Mention in Penmanship; Mention in 1st Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st Reading.
Hagus, J.—2d Premium for Piano.
Healy, L.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium
- in 4th Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Pre. mium in 2d History; 4th Premium in 1st Reading; 1 st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Hamilton, W.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium for Piano; Mention in 1st Reading.
•	Hack, J—3d Premium in 4th Algebra; ist Premium
in Penmanship.	,
Harding, A.—4th Premium in 2d Reading.
Johnson, G.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar;' Mention in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Kauffman, S.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium for Piano. '	.	•	.	-
Kreicker, W.—2d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in ■ 2d Book-Keeping,	.	.
.	Kraber, L.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar.	.
Kenrieavy, R.—Mention in 1st Grammar; Mention in 7th Latin; Mention in Christian Doctrine; dention in , Advanced Arithmetic.	'
Kegler, W.—2d . Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in ist Orthog-:	raphy; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium
in 1st Arithmetic. - -
!	Kegler, A.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar; Mention in
i 2d Book-Keeping;: Mention in Christian Doctrine. ■ i	Kerker, J;—Mention in Penmanship.
’	Levi, M.—3d Premium in 2d Geography; Mention in
, 2d History; 3d Premium in 1st Reading.
>	Lowrey, G.—4th Premium in Penmanship.
, .	Lawler,’W.—Mention in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in.
2d Orthography; Mention in 2d Geography. ’
Lane, R.—4th Premium in 4th Algebra; Mention in : , Penmanship; Mention in 8th Latin.	.
1	Leonard, A.—ist Premium in 1st Orthography.
'	Mi'ls, W.—4th Premium in 4th Algebra; Mention in
English Composition; 1st Premium in 8th Latin; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Mitchell, H.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 1st Premium in-ist Geometry; 4th Premium in Rhetoric; Mention in :	Modern History; 2d Premium in 1st Algebra; Mention
■ in Physiology; 2d Premium in Zoology; 3d Premium in I Christian Doctrine
I	Miller, J.—Mention in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in
। ist German; 2d Premium in Christian Doetnne; 2d Pre-| mium in ist Arithmetic^	.
1	Miller, W.— st Premium in 3d .Arithmetic; Mention .
in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Pre-
t mium for instrumental Drrwing. .
|	Meyers.C.—1 st Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 2d
I . Book-Keeping; ist Premium in 3d German; 4th Premium | in ist Arithmetic.	’	'
|	Marre, J.—4th Premium in ist Reading. . /
Miles, H.—3d Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in Orthography; ist Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Marr, W.—ist Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Mahon, R.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in ist Geography; Mention in 1st History; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Moss, T.—Mention in ist Reading.
Major, E.—Mention in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Reading.
McCarthy, C.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
McLeod, K.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; Mention in 2d Orthography.
Nichols, H.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar; Mention in ist Orthography.	.
O’Connor, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d History; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine	.
O’Rourke, F.—3d Premium in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
O’Neill, W.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in istReading; 3d Premium in istOrthography.
Oliver, B.—Mention in ist Grammar.
O’Neill, J.—Premium in Elocution.
Peake, G.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 8th Latin; 4thuPremium in ist Arithmetic.
Pope, C.—3d Premium for Violin.
Rupel, A.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Renesch, A.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; Mention for Violin; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Rumely, A.—Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in Industrial Drawing; Mention in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in istOrthography; 2d Premium in istReading.
Regan, A.—2d Premium in Christian Doertine.
Reedy, H.—Mention in ist Orthography; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Rend, J.—Mention in 6th Latin; ist Premium in Artistic Drawing; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Sullivan, W.—Mention in 3d Algebia; ist Premium in Phonography; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Strauss, E.—ist Premium in 7th Latin; ist Premium in 4th Algebra; Mention in English Composition; ist Premium in 3d German; 3d Premium in Ancient History/
Sparks, E.—Mention in 2d Grammar; Men ion in 4th German; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Sedwick, B.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in ist History. *- Shimp, A.—4th Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist History; 4th Premium in ist Orthography.
Scholer, F.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium for Piano; Mention in ist Orthography; Mention in Penmanship.
Stone, L.—3d Premium in Penmanship.
Sweet, G.—4th Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium for Violin.
Slevin, R.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; Mention in 2d Geometry; ist Premium in Artistic Drawing; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine. :
Scheuerman, J.—3d Premium in penmanship. -
Stephens, P.—ist Premium for Violin; Premium in Elocution.	.	•
Smith, E.—ist Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in Phonography; 1st Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Thornton, D.—ist Premium for Piano.
Thome, E.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine. ■
Tong, O.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Orthography.
Tong, J.—Mention in 6th Latin.	.	.
Teeter, C.—Mention in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium for Piano.
Thorn, F.—Mention in ist Geometry.	’ -
Tobin, J.—Mention in 2d Reading; Mention in 2d Orthography.	.	.	.
Todd, F.—ist Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 2d History.	•	’ .
Vorhang, H.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; Mention in 2d Geography. .	‘	■ ■ . » ..
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Walker, S.—2d Premium in 4th Latin; 1st Premium in 6th Greek; 3d Premium in 1st Geometry; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 1st Premium in Modern History; 1st Pre. mium in Christian Doctrine.	-
Washburn, V.—1st Premium for Piano.
Weaver, B.—1st Premi im in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 4th German.
White, E.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Weitzel, N.—1st Premium in 6th Latin; Mention in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in 4th German.
Weitzel, B.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar.	’
Wellington, P.—2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium in Sth Latin; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Warner, S.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.	•
Yeager, J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography; Premium for Piano; 1st Premium in 2d Catechism.
Zoehrlaut, G.—2d Premium for Piano.
st. edward’s hall.
Ayers, J.—2d Premium in 2d Reading ; 6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography. .
Ahern, W.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 5th Reading. .	- '
Abrahams, G.—6th Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 5th Premium in 4th Reading. .	.
Abrahams, L.—5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 5th Reading.	,
Brown, R.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar ; 1st Premium 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Geography ; Premium for Penmanship.	5	-	,
Burns, T.—4th Premium in Arithmetic ; 6th Premium in 1st Grammar ; 3d Premium in 4th Reading ; 3d Premium in tst Orthography.	'
Blummenthal, W.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ;2d \ Premium in 1st Grammar ; 3d Premium in 1st Reading.
Berthelet, R.—1 st Premium in 2d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; Premium for Violin.	-
Berthelet, V.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography. •
Ball, R —2d Premium in 3d Reading 54th Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Geography.
Bopp, W.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Bourgeois, G.—2d Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.	-
Cornell, F.—1st Premium in Vocal Music ; 1st Premium in 1st Reading ; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 1st Geography.	.	'	r
Curtin, F.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 3d Pre-• mium in 2d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 4th Premium in 2d Geography.
Corry, J.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography ; 2d Premium* in 4th Reading; 3d Premium’in 4th Christian Doctrine.	,
Christ, E.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography ; Premium in Piano ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography.
Chapoton, E.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 2d Geography ; 4th Premium in 2d Reading. -
Curry, J.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 4th Reading.
Crandall, W.—1st Premium in 3d Reading ; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar ; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Coquillard, A.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Oi thography ; 3d Premium in 4th Geography.
Coquillard J.—1 st Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 5th Reading.	•.
Croke, F.—1st Premium in 4th Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Cross, F.—ist Premium in 4th Orthography ; ist Pre
mium in 4th Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Durand, H.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; ist Premium in 1st Grammar ; 1st Premium for Piano ; 3d Pre- -mium in Reading.	-
Durand, W.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 1st
Premium in 5th Reading ; 1st Premium in 5th Orthography.	-
Dugas, E.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 4th Reading ; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Du Brul, D.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Donnell, L.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 2d Reading. •
Donnell, S.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 4th Geography.	- •
Emerson, W.— 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 4th Geography ; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Emerson, F.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 5th Peading ; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography.	-	-
Everest, A.—1st Premium in 3d Reading ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium* in 4th Geography; Premium for Penmanship. •-
Elliot, S.—3d Premium in 3d Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 1st Premium for Piano ; 5th Premium in 4th Geography.	-	.
Egan, G.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 1st Premium 5th Reading ; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography.
Finnerty, W.—ist Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.	.
Fossick, L.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Freeman, J.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 3d Premium in 1st Reading ; 2d Premium in 1st Geography."
Freeman, B.—ist Premium in 4th- Reading; 2d Pre--mium in 4th Orthography ; 2d. Premium in 4th Arith- -metic.	;	.
Freeman, N.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; ist
Premium in 5th Reading ; Premium for Piano. -
Furthmann, E.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 6th
Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Geography.	'
Furthmann, C.—1 st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ;• 1st
Premium in 1st Grammar ; 2d Premium in ist Geography ;.ist Premium for Piano. '
Girsch, C.—2d Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in ist Reading."
Gavin, W.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; ist Premium in 2d Orthography ; ist Premium in 2d, Geography.	. -
Gilbert, E.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; Premium for Penmanship.; Premium for Piano.	"
Graf, C.—ist Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium for Vocal Music ; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic ; 5th Premium in ist Grammar.
Hoffman, W.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 3d ' Premium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 4th Geography	. '
Howard, G.—4th Premium in -4th Arithmetic ; 5th .
Premium in 4th Reading.	•
Holbrook, F.—ist Premium in "2d Orthography; 2d
Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; 1st Premium in 2d Reading.
Hilger, A.—ist Premium in 2d: Geography ; ist Pre-miunv in 2d Grammar ; ist Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Healy, J.—2d Premium in id Grammar ; 3d Premium: in 2d Orthography.	'
Higgins, Roy.—ist Premium irt 5th Arithmetic ;- 2d* - -
Premium in 5th Reading; ist Premium in 5th Orthography.	'
Higgins, Ralph.—ad Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 3d
Premium in 5th Reading ; 3d Premium in 5th Orthography.	•	'	.
Hathaway, H.—2d Premium in ist Reading ; ist Pre
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mium for Penma nship ; 2d Premium for Piano ; 3d Premium in 1 st Arithmetic.
Hartman, A.—4th Premium in 4th Reading ; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Jones, H.—5th Premium in 2d Reading ; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Jonquet, E.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 6th Premium in 1 st Grammar ; 5th Premium in 1 st Geography.
Kinney, G.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 4th Premium for Geography ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Krollman, C.—3d Premium in 1st Reading ; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar ; Premium for Piano.
Kern, C.—4th Premium in 2d Orthography ; 2d Pre. mium in 2d Penmanship ; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Keeler, S.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; Premium for Penmanship.
Keeler, G.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 5th Reading.
King, E.—3d Premium for Piano ; 1st Premium in 1st Reading ; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography.
Kuehl, E.—6th Premium in 2d Reading ; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; Premium for Penmanship.
La Moure, W.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; Premium for Piano ; 3d . Premium in 1st Reading ; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.	...
La Moure, E.—1st Premium in 4th Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Londoner, H.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 2d Geography ; 1st Premium in 2d Orthog-, raphy ; 1st P remium in Reading.
Lawton, J.—2d Premium in 5th Orthography; 5th Premium for Penmanship.
Lysle, M.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 4th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography.	’
Langley, C.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Langevin, E.—5th Premium in Reading.
Lonergan, A.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 4th
Premium in 1st Reading.
Loughran, L.—4th Premium in 4th Orthography ; 4th-Premium in 4th Reading ; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic. ‘
Lowrey, T.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar ; 4th Premium in 1st Reading ; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.
McPhee, R.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography ; 1st Premium in 4th Geography ; 2d Premium in 3d .Grammar ; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
McIntyre, R.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.	<	.
McCarthy, Eug.—2d Premium-in 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 5th Premium for Reading. .
McCarthy, Emmet.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 5th Reading ; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography.-
McCarthy, G-—4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 5th Reading ; 3d Premium in 5th Orthography.	.
- McCarthy, R.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 1st Premi-»m in 4th Reading; 1st Premium: in 4th Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthog' aphy. '
McAllister, D.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar ; 1st Premium in 2d Geography ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthog-. raphy ; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic. .
McGinley, J.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography ; 1 st Premium in U. S. History ; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; Premium for. Piano.	..	.
Maternes, J;—rst Premium for -Piano ; . 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 5th Premium in 1st Grammar ; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Morris, F.—2d-Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Morris, R.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading ;. 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Morrison, B.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
McGushin, W.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 5th Reading ; 1st Premium in 5th Orthography.
Ninneman, R.—2d Premium in 4th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading.
Nichols, C.—1 st Premium in 4th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography ; Premium for Christian Doctrine.
O’Neill, H.—4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography ; 4th Premium in 5th Penmanship.
O’Brien, W.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Oatman, D.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography.
Pollitz, H.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 3d Pre-
mium in 5th Reading. _
Pollitz, W.—Premium for Good Conduct.
Pieser, J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Reading ; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Pratt, N—1st Premium in 4th Orthography ; 2d Premium in 4th Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Platt, F.—3d Premium in 2d Reading ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Pursell, R.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 4th Reading ; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography
Peck, G.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 1st Pre mium in 4th Orthography ; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Ransome, F.—1st Premium in 1st Reading ; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography ; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 1st Geography.
Repscher, F.-—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 3d Reading ; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography .; ’ 3d Premium in 4th Geography.	/
Rose, W.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar ; Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; 3d Premium in 2d Reading ; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Scherrer, G.—2d.Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine ; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Scherrer, W.—1st Premium in 3d Reading ; 1st Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine;
' 2d Premium in 3d Orthography.
Swan, E.—1 st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 5th Reading ; 1st Premium in 5th Orthography.
Stuckhart, F.—1st Premium in 3d Reading ; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography ; 4th Premium in 4th Geography.
Trujillo, P.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 3d Premium for Piano ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Trankle, L.—1st Premium in xst Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 1st Reading ; 2d Premium in 1st Geography ; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Trankle, F. —1st Premium in 3rd Arithmetic.; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography ; Premium for Penmanship ; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
White, B.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Wolf, F.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Reading ; Premium for Piano; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography.'
Wilson, L.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th. Premium in 2d Reading.
Westover, T.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.	-
Westheimer, J.—5th Premium in 4th Orthography ;
5th Premium in 4th Geography.	.
Wilcox, D.—2d Premium in 1 st Orthography ; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 1 st Geography. ;	...	;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	hi
St. Mapy’s fiGadeBHy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The absence of Very Rev. Father General from the closing exercises was a source of regret to the pupils—who hold in loving remembrance his former words of kindly encouragement,— as well as to his many friends, to whom his presence in the past was ever a pleasure. Their prayers and good wishes follow him to the seashore, whither he has gone in search of health, whence they earnestly hope he will soon return restored to his old-time vigor.
—Attending the Commencement exercises were many pupils of former years, among whom were Mrs. Hammond, ’56; Mrs. M. W. Ryan, ’73; Mrs. J. H. Amburg, ’73; Miss M. Brady,’75; Miss N. Brady, ’88; MissA. Donnelly, ’89; Miss N. Kearns, ’88; Miss M. Clifford, ’89; Miss C. Dempsey, ’90; Miss N. Morse, ’91; Miss M. Sullivan, ’88; Miss C. Moran, ’89; Miss H. Nester, Marquette, Mich.; Miss L. Hutchinson, Chicago, Ill.; Miss Alice Caren, Columbus, O.
—Among the guests present at the Commencement were: Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson, Columbus, Ohio; Rev. E. Griffin, Rev. H. McShane, Rev. E. Kelly, Chicago; Rev. R. Foster, Joliet, Ill.; Rev. J. O’Reilly, Danville, Ill.; Rev. D. Duehmig, Avilla, Ind.; Rev. D. J. Spillard, South Bend; Very Rev. W. Corby, Rev. P. P. Cooney, Rev. P. Klein, Rev. J. Kirsch, Rev. L. J. . L’Etourneau, Rev. J. Scherer, C.S.C.; Rev. M.J. ' Byrne, East Chicago; Rev. S.Yenn,Goshen, Ind.; Rev. J. O’Brien, Oshkosh, Wis.; Rev. M. Brennan, Denver, Colo.; Professors Egan, Hoynes, Ewing, McCue and Zahm of Notre Dame University.
The Thirty-Seventh Annual Commencement.
The eager longings, happy anticipations and varied interests of many young hearts were brought to a focal point on the occasion of the Commencement exercises of St. Mary’s Academy for the year ’91-92, which occurred on Monday and Tuesday, June 20 and 21. The large audience in attendance was a fair test of the seating capacity of St. Angela’s Hall, whose commodious and elegant interior was a subject of favorable comment to all present. As the pupils entered from the right and l^ft of the stage, they came forward to the semicircular front, keeping time to the harmonious notes of the grand entrance march. Having recognized the audience by a graceful courtesy, they passed noiselessly to their places, where, clad in filmy white, they made an animated picture, while over the-windows in the rear of the stage, fell in graceful festoons, the colors that send a
thrill of pleasure to every patriotic American heart—the “red, white and blue” of our national flag. The programme was as follows:
MONDAY, JUNE 20, 3 O’CLOCK P. M.
Chorus—“ Jubilate .Deo ”................Diabelli
Vocal Class, accompanied by Miss S. Ludwig.
Essay—“Near to the Heart of Nature”........
Miss E. Adelsperger.
Essay—“ The Might of Gentleness,” Miss M. Fitzpatrick Fantasia in F—Chopin................Miss E. Field
Essay—“ Lehren aus der Vergangenheit,” Miss S. Ludwig Vocal Solo—“The Eri-King”...............Schubert
Miss E. Field, accompanied by Miss C. Gibbons;
Essay—“The String O’erstretched Breaks, and Music Dies.”........................Miss S. Wile
Essay—“Noble Hearts are Self-reliant,” Miss L. Nickel Sonata—Apassionata—Beethoven......Miss E. Nester
Essay—“Le lis est notre sceptre...Miss E. Dennison " Robin Adair	Harmonized for four voices—D. Buck
Misses Wile, E. Field, C. Gibbons, M. Hughes.
Essay—“Laurel-Crowned Women.......Miss L. Griffith
“Toccata and Fugue” in D Minor.........J. S. Bach
Miss S. Ludwig.
Essay—“ We are Heirs of all Past Ages—Miss E. Nester Vocal Solo—“ Che Gioja—Mattei.....Miss R. Bassett
Poem—“ The Shell Sings of the Sea ”.Miss K. Morse
Fantasia di Bravura, d’apres la Tarantelle de la “Muette de Portici”—Aziber-Liszt, Miss C. Gibbons
Chorus—“God is Great,” from “ The Creation,”—Haydn Vocal Class.
TUESDAY, JUNE 21, II O’CLOCK A. M.
GRAND ENTRANCE OF THE PUPILS.
Jubelmarsch..............................E. Tinel
Pianos—Misses C. Gibbons, A. Tormey, S. Ludwig, Klingberg, Nickel, A. Ryan, E.-Field, Marrinan.
Harps—Misses E. Nester, C. Sena.
Chorus—“Spring Song”................f. Nentwich
Vocal Class, accompanied by Miss S. Ludwig.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS, JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Harp Solo—Fantasia—“Der Freischutz”........Weber
Miss E^Nester.
Aria.................................-L-	Venzano
Miss S. Wile. Piano accompaniment, Miss Gibbons.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS IN PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
Recitation—“ Queretora’s Bells ”....Miss R. Bero
Violin Solo—“ Fantasie de Concert—Faust ”...
...........Gounod-Alard—Miss G. Bogart
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS, SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
“ Twenty Minutes at the Commissioners,” Miss Farwell and Juniors.
“ Miserere,” from “Trovatore”.............Verdi
Misses S. Wile, Bassett, E. Field, Gibbons. M. Smyth, Dieffenbacher. Carpenter, Gage, L. Clifford, H.
Hutchinson, S. Klingberg, M. Hughes.
“ Concert Allegro,” for four Pianos....Schumann
Misses Gibbons, Ludwig, Nester, E. Field.
Solo and Chorus—“ Hear my Prayer ”..Mendelssohn
Soloists—Misses S. Wile, E. Field.
Chorus—Vocal Class.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Academic Department.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Conservatory of Music.
Distribution of Crowns of Honor in the Senior, Prepara-torv and Junior Departments.
“ Home, Sweet Home,” arranged by D. Buck, Vocal Class Valedictory.........................Miss	H. Nacey
Closing Remarks.........Right Rev. J. A. Watterson
Retiring March, from “Leonore Symphony”.....Raff
Misses Thirds, Dempsey. D. Davis, Haitz, Doble, M. Smyth, Fitzpatrick, Wurzburg.
The programme ‘of Monday afternoon was a pleasing combination of musical and literary numbers, the latter consisting chiefly of the essays of the Graduates, the poem by Miss

73$
*
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Morse meriting special mention for its singular beauty of diction. The French essay, read by Miss Dennison, was given with a purity of accent not often heard from American lips. Miss Ludwig, who read the German essay, was equally at home in the utterance of its vigorous sentences, while Miss Bero sustained her reputation as a graceful elocutionist by her effective rendering of the recitation “Queretora’s Bells.” ‘‘Twenty Minutes at the Commissioners,” by Miss Farwell and the Juniors, gave the audience an opportunity to unbend from the staid dignity of their attention and indulge in a laugh. Then followed the distribution of rewards in the form of medals and crowns of honor for months of earnest effort in the performance of the various duties that make up the sum of a schoolgirl’s life.
The gold medals and diplomas awarded the members of the Graduating Class were received from the hands of Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson, the young ladies thus honored being as follows: Miss E. Adelsperger, South Bend, Ind.; Miss M. Fitzpatrick, Chicago, Ill.; Miss L. Griffith, St. Paul, Minn.; Miss E. Nester, Marquette, Mich.; Miss L. Nickel, South Bend, Ind.; Miss K. Morse, Omaha, Neb.; Miss S. Wile, Laporte, Ind. Those receiving graduating medals in the Conservatory of Music were: Miss C. Gibbons, Keokuk, Iowa; Miss S. Ludwig, Evansville, Ind.; and Miss E. Nester, Marquette, Mich.
As the members of the vocal class grouped themselves for the final chorus, the large number of “crowned heads” among them formed a pleasing tableau, while the stirring rendition of “Home, Sweet Home!” appealed to every heart. This chorus, in four parts and sung without accompaniment, was given with a sweetness and pathos not often heard, to the perfect interpretation of which, perhaps, the thought of speedy restoration to home and friends lent an added grace.
The valedictorian, Miss Helen Nacey, then read her farewell words to teachers, classmates and friends. Valedictories are, by their nature, written in a minor key, and rightly, since “partings at best are underlaid with tears”; but in the present address, the bird of hope and high aims sang sweetly above the sadness born. of coming separation.
At its close then came forward the orator of' the day, Rt. Rev. J. A. Watterson, of Columbus, Ohio. After speaking in terms of commendation of the entertainment witnessed, the Bishop likened it to a musical and literary banquet distinguished by the delicacy and variety of the viands.
While repudiating the idea of regarding attendance at such exercises in the light of an infliction, he declared it to be the duty of prelates to lend to them the encouragement of their presence. To the Sisters, who form so large a portion of the teaching body, was paid a high tribute, showing that the generous heart of the Bishop recognizes the life of labor and self-forgetfulness entailed upon those who embrace the career of a religious; and his words, which had in them the ring of sincerity, will not soon be forgotten.
THE MUSIC AT COMMENCEMENT.
Monday, Concert Day, at 3 o’clock p. m. the exercises were opened by the chorus “Jubilate Deo,” rendered by the whole vocal department. It was most effective, giving at the very outset all praise and gratitude to God. With such sentiments, no wonder it expressed music’s greatest charm, “reality.”
Chopin’s beautiful “Fantasia” in F Moll was replete in interest throughout. Every thought embodied in its various styles was made clear by the most exact phrasing. This choice mor-ceau was well played by Miss Edna Field, an undergraduate, who gave full assurance of the perfection with which her gifts will be crowned by another year at St. Mary’s. Her next number was Schubert’s difficult song “ The Eri-King.” In this descriptive work she showed unusual tact. The sudden changes of its varied emotional powers in the expression of the father’s tender care for his child, the alluring, illusive tones of the Eri-King, the caresses and promises of his daughters, the fear of the child, the terrible foreboding of its father,— all culminating in those thrilling words, “is dead.” Such a song needs no words of praise, for then the heart keeps silence.
The great sonata “Apassionata Sonata” (Opus 57), by Beethoven, has been repeatedly styled the one descriptive of the composer’s life. And musicians claim to hear in its fitful changes the hopes, sorrows and disappointments of unrecognized genius. This, humanly speaking, may be true; but who has ever reached the depth of a creative genius, or scanned the unknown inner life of such souls? Music speaks therein untrammelled by accents of earthly imagination. Sorrows are but mists which fade and flee before the sunlit music soul whose aspirations and emotions dwell in God’s space, where tone-vibrations ever produce joys earth can never understand. Therefore the great tonepoets, Bach, Handel, Haydn, Beethoven, and others, are felt, but not understood: Such were the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
739
thoughts that flitted through the brain as we listened to this great composition. On account of the heat and the length of the day’s programme, Miss Nester selected parts only from each movement. “Allegro Assai,” “Andante con moto,” “Allegro, ma non troppo,” and
. “Presto”—the whole of which she had thoroughly studied—the workings of which she' actualized by her faithful rendition.
A traditional and charming song, “Robin Adair,” harmonized in quartette form by Dudley Buck, without accompaniment, .was a delightful change in the reajm of sound, and was sung in perfect accord by the Misses S. Wile, E. Field, C. Gibbons and M. Hughes. Needless to say this number was heartily greeted by all lovers of vocal harmony.
The next instrumental solo—“Toccata” and “Fugue” in D minor, was played by Miss Ludwig. When she struck the first energetic chords and short thematic passages one could almost feel that old Bach was here, and would speak as only such a master can. The “Toccata” was but a prelude to the “Fugue” announced by four-strong, mysterious notes. Massive in its strict “form” and noble conception, it dashed forward in its headlong path, and, like an avalanche, carried along the mazy, intricate beauties . of undergrowth, glistening with finest ideal fancies. Then appeared the sudden close—a quiet cadence, with the ancient lowered seventh (so strange to modern ears) which lulled to rest this mighty outburst from the mind of the grand Bach. Those who heard Miss Ludwig last year marked at once her wonderful progress. Now she should aspire to the Advanced Course was the unanimous opinion of the artistic portion among the large audience.
Miss Rose Bassett’s vocal solo, “Che Gioja,” by T. Mattei, was bright, and showed to advantage the elasticity and capabilities of her real soprano register. This song gave pleasure to all, but especially to those who take an interest in voice-culture. The “Fantasia di Bravura,” is partly from the famous Tarantelle in one of Auber’s best operas “Massienallo,” or “The Dumb Girl of Portici,” arranged by Liszt when in youthful vigor; and he seems to revel in mirroring such real melodies, introducing several of the fine chorus airs. The doppio closing movement was grand and brilliant in its everincreasing power and difficulty. Miss Gibbons gave the lighter phrases in her own piquant manner, and then attacked vigorously the monstrous powerful strains: it was to “Do, or Die!” She complied with the exactions of her piece, and evoked the hearty applause of the critics.
The chorus “God is Great” closed this eventful day. This subject, grand in itself, was indeed made grand to human intelligence in its classic details as revealed by music’s powers. The name of Joseph Haydn as the composer is enough to stamp and explain this outpouring of reverence to the Almighty. Long reign this inspired work of Haydn! May that one sentence sustain the young vocalists in life’s after-trials— “God is Great”!
TUESDAY, JUNE 21.
The march which accompanied the entrance of the pupils was the “Jubelmarsch.” It was entirely new to the auditors as it had been specially secured from Germany for the first Commencement held in St. Angela’s Hall. It gave forth|majestic sounds from four new pianos, touched by the trained fingers of the Misses C. Gibbons, A. Tormey, S. Ludwig, S. Klingberg, L. Nickel, A. Ryan, E. Field and M. Marrinan, with the harps of the Misses Nester and Sena. No pedal marred the clear-cut harmonies, nor hid the effect of runs and measured cadences. Therefore the real work was heard. At times a simple Alpine melody was introduced among the more ponderous martial strains, making gay the heavy, massive character of this splendid march.
The whole vocal department next took the stage for the grand chorus, “Spring Time.” As sung by this large class of vocal culture, it seemed akin to a lovely bouquet of flowers in sound, offered to the guests. The effect was enhanced by the joyful tones and happy countenances of the young singers, especially when their eyes met those of beloved parents, saying plainly: “This fragrant flower is for you, for you.” Miss Ludwig was concordant with the theme subject, binding i together by the colored hues of her accompaniment.	-
Miss Nester’s harp solo presented airs from Carl von Weber’s opera—“Der Freischutz”— arranged for this classic instrument by Felix Godefroide. This very difficult piece was truthfully executed, commencing with first motive from the overture, by an enharmonic tremolo and harmonics throwing in graceful arpeggios, which can be shaded in their waving motion only on the harp. Then the distant horns, and huntsmen’s chorus, approaching imperceptibly until the full blast of horns and voices are heard; when, retreating again, the galloping became faint in a skilful diminuendo. At this point the villagers’ rejoicings and merry dance occur, ending with an enharmonic scale up, and down in double thirds, closing in full chords. The skilled work and artistic touch of Miss
74°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i
I
Nester declared in plain terms the Gold Medal for harp was deservedly won.
Then followed a vocal solo, “Aria,” by Ven-zano, with violin obligato, played by Miss Bogart, and piano accompaniment by Miss Gibbons. This aria showed Miss Wile’s most brilliant execution, and with her able accompanists formed an ensemble of sweet concerted sounds. Miss Wile has a good voice which she uses discreetly, and her singing is always within the limits of fine taste; her trill excellent. All these qualities combined bring true vocalization, and, in time, to herself the perfection of a fascinating singer. Of Miss Bogart we may only express satisfaction. Her own violin solo gave more scope to virtuosity; and the “Faust” (Alard’s beautiful arrangement) brought to light her skilled management of her violin— the most difficult of stringed instruments,— and marked rapid improvement since last year under the guidance of her artistic teacher, Prof. Seidel, so well known in Chicago and elsewhere as a highly accomplished violinist and successful teacher. Miss Gibbon’s appreciative piano part sustained and gave courage to the timid but gifted Miss Bogart.
The Graduates’ final instrumental effort was yet to come, and a flutter of anxious curiosity was visible on the part of parents and ex-graduates present as to how these would compare with those of other years. “ Concerto Allegro ” was the simple title by Robert Schumann. The first sentence made doubt fly away. These pupils understood the master of our own century, who, faithful to the teachings of the old masters, has built on their foundation a structure of modern ornamented grandeur. A hush fell on the listeners as the low, pleading tones, played together, proved that the great work of a giant mind would be really interpreted. Miss Field took the first solo, brilliantly, yet marked by the Schumann stamp; a short ensemble phrase riveted attention in the next movement, Miss Nester taking up the thread running through the previous motive. Her finished expression was simply beautiful; the orchestral notes played by Miss Field on another piano added greatly to the impression the auditor must have experienced of being on fairy ground, when a grand tutti dispelled the idea—we. were still in Schumann’s mighty grasp. Then Miss Ludwig began her solo in low, fumbling sounds, indicative of the approaching impetuous melodic movement; Miss Nester took the orchestral parts, ever keeping the first subject deftly woven through Miss Ludwig’s fiery execution. Then another tutti, separating this idea by a change,
bringing more sunlight simply by a transition of key tonic to D Major. Miss Gibbons in her solo skimmed over the keyboard so lightly
'making difficulties appear most easy. A short tutti broke in, Miss Field playing a charming cadenza. Here Miss Ludwig brought in the first melody which floated above her light underwork of softest arpeggios, which Miss Gibbons caught and transferred on her piano. Few could note the change, the low, rippling sounds of both being so alike. Miss Ludwig joined in the final sweet tremulous chord passage, through which was heard the orchestral theme played by the Misses Nester and Field, terminating this lovely passage in strong arpeggios. Then the closing tutti rushed upward like a charge of cavalry, ending in one sweeping mass of sound throughout the keyboard. Suddenly there sprang a light, breezy run taken alternately by each, and flying through the four pianos, when all rushed back again, stopping on one chord. A rest, and the whole tonic harmony resounded from end to end, closing this triumphal composition, so well translated by the music graduates of 1892.
Mendelssohn’s “Hear my Prayer” was the final chorus, soloists, the Misses S. Wile and E. Field. The slow movement was sublime in its contrite petitions, and the crescendo chorus, ‘ “ O for the Wings of a Dove,” rose above earth; and the final “rest” became lost in ecstatic joy. This exquisite number earned the impulsive applause of St. Mary’s patrons. The march for retiring was taken from J. Raff’s “Leonore” Symphony in E dur. Its noble strains were in keeping with the occasion, and every movement was carefully rendered by the Misses Thirds, E. Dempsey, D. Davis, A. Haitz, M. Smyth, R. Doble, M. Fitzpatrick and A. Wurzburg.
IN THE ART DEPARTMENT.
The importance of cultivating the artistic talents as a factor of that product, a refined-education, has long been recognized at St. Mary’s; hence the careful training bestowed upon those who have by nature an aptitude for handling the pencil or brush. This was evinced by the truly creditable display in pencil, water-colors and oil, this year adorning the walls of St. Luke’s Studio. Especially noteworthy among the oil exhibits was the picture of St. Peter and St. John, copied with marked talent from one of the celebrated Arundel chro-mos. The drapery falling around the figures with much grace showed a delicate appreciation on the part of the worker, while by the same pupil, was a fruit piece of luscious peaches whose
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
741
lovely bloom seemed to speak of their tempting > ripeness. On a black panel, thus bringing out ; their warm red tints, were a cluster of autumn leaves, while near by was a profusion of day lilies, their pale lavender bells and pendent
, stamens being well reproduced. Pencillings ' met the eye on every side, showing various degrees of talent and skill in execution. Shells and blocks, singly and in groups, tested the patience and talent of the young artists, while the numerous outdoor views of various build. ings proved that the sketching of objects at a distance is not one of the lost arts. Pencilled work of marked excellence were a group of blocks, admirably well drawn and shaded, a tray holding ink bottles and pen, and a collection of fancifully shaped and beautiful shells,, whose perfection of finish indicate no ordinary artistic talent. To these may be added copies from small casts, fancy heads, sketches from life, and a whole conservatory, so to speak, of every variety of flower and vine. A study in water-colors was represented by a crystal vase holding a cluster of tulips, some in bud, others in full bloom; a few were of snowy purity, while others beautifully blended pink and white in
‘ their glossy petals.
. In one corner of the studio, the visitor paused before a large frame in which were arranged several water-color studies, all executed with a delicacy of touch that would reflect credit upon a professional artist. In the centre of this collection was a plate holding slices of cake, and near by a tiny glass half filled with ruby wine, and so natural was it that one almost fancied he could detect the bouquet of the latter. Directly above this was a shell holding an assortment of confectionary also executed with much truth. Here, too, were apples large, round and rosy, in close proximity to smooth, ripe pears and downy peaches, the whole forming a collection that was greeted with many a smile
; of approval. Among the heads was that of an Italian boy, whose rich, olive complexion and dark, liquid eyes spoke of that land of poetry and art. Upon the curling clusters of his black locks was set, with careless grace, a jaunty hat, while his bright-hued jacket gave the dash of color necessary to complete the picture. Two panels in water-colors also challenged admiration, one .representing a cluster of leaves blushing into vivid hues at the touch of the frost-king, the other, a branch from the beautiful mountain ash, amid whose feathery leaves nestled the brilliant scarlet berries.
The rainbow-like effects produced by the display in the ornamental needlework depart
ment attracted many visitors, where even the most artistic taste was gratified. Here the peculiarly feminine art of needlework held full sway, and in view of the fine specimens exhibited, the secret of its fascination was revealed. It cannot but be productive of pleasure to watch these objects take beautiful form under the nimble fingers of the workers, and while the eye is educated as to shape and color, the taste is refined by daily contact with the thousand dainty trifles that contribute so much to make home attractive. He who supposes geometrical figures to be devoid of ornament .would be disabused of that idea by a glance at the numerous sofa pillows on exhibition square, circular or triangular in form, and made up in gold, lavender, pale blue or pink silk, each covered with the still popular Roman embroidery. Several mantel drapes of misty boltingcloth also attracted attention, on the thin surface of which were scattered, as if thrown thereon, wild roses, morning glories and purple pansies. Elegant centre-pieces of damask, doilies lovely in tjieir dainty embroidery of violets, daisies and forget-me-nots were much admired, while the color effects displayed in the plumage of the tropical birds were startling in the vividness with which they were reproduced.
Valedictory.
BY HELEN NACEY.	'
Within the artist’s shaded studio, A block of Parian marble stands untouched; Its whiteness gleaming forth from hangings dark, More deeply red against the marble cube,— As glows the stainless snowy iceberg ’neath The glory of far Norway’s midnight sun.
Pale yellow, here and there, lights up a vein Whereon, mayhap, the sun had warmly smiled, While yet the marble formed upon the earth.
And as it gleams within the darkened room Devoid of life, it speaks, but as doth speak The earth—of unknown ages past, and naught Of him, God’s image, in whose bosom breathes An inspiration bidding him to carve, Until he finds the angel prisoned deep Within the snowy marble’s close embrace. Obeying, lo! the stone takes life and shape; And as we gaze upon the statue’s grace, The thought arises—whence hath come this form, This witching tenderness of mould, so like Our highest dreams of beauty incarnate? Was it impressed upon the marble depths, When o’er the Isle of Paros lightly trod . The Grecian heroes in the golden age,— Impressed to sleep until awaked by him, The artist, ’neath whose touch the statue breathed? And as the image fair within the block, • ■
• So in each soul there lies a noble aim, That duty bids us. ever strive to reach. . More beautiful than Parian'stone, our soul;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Than marble purer, veined with gold fire-tried In furnace of a Sacrifice Divine.
’Tis marble from Heaven’s quarries, and it bears The royal mark of immortality.
But as the block, however white and fair, Avails not, while if hides the form of grace, So in our heart the thought infused by God, Tho’ bathed in roseate light of truth and love, Lies cold and passive till we give it shape. Unformed, unmodelled by the touch of time, Its pinions folded in the snowy block, It waits the hand of purpose strong to break Its fetters and to wake its heart to life.
Stern duty, life’s most faithful handmaid, speaks To bid us shape the thought that hides within Our heart. All things around take voice and sing As sings the marble’s spirt to the soul Of him whose thrilling touch may set it free:
“ The rough-hewn marble, white and cold, That waits thy hands
A prisoner in its bonds doth hold, That life demands.
“An angel e’en as brightly fair, As in thy mind
Awakens tender longings e’er To see its kind.
“ From dreams and idle fancies rise, Such is God’s will;
.And shape the thought that dormant lies Warm life instil.
“ Swift break the fetters from its wings, Bid it to soar, Where with God’s name the welkin rings For evermore.”
And we who stand before the open door That leads from school-life to the world beyond, Who soon shall see how vain the shimmering web Whereon we wove the brightest tints of hope,— Now hear the voice of duty bidding us To shape the latent purposes that lie Within our heart; and as she speaks, we see The world, not as we dreamed it, as it is;
And in its light the web of fancy fades, E’en as the frost elves steal away before The winter sunlight. But they live in memory; And so from out the “burning bush” of hopes That ne’er fulfilment shall enjoy, the voice Speaks louder than before, commanding us To shape the thoughts that lie within the soul. In each young heart there rests a noble aim, An aim, God-given, which must achievement find, Tho’ varied be the walks wherein we toil. Some would be artists; others dream of homes Made blessed by true affection’s cheering ray; And others dream of violet-crowns of fame, Such as fair Sappho wore, to move earth’s hearts To God and love, as Vestals round the shrine Of poetry; and some would poems live, Unwritten poems, breathing love and praise To God by lives in His dear presence spent.
But one sweet thought finds echo in each heart, The thought inspired by deeds of those who are As lilies in the hands of God—a thought In whose meet shaping, none, ah! none may fail. It claims our hearts’ pure gold, and fain would prove A gratitude sincere, sincere expressed. -To-day we can but shape our thoughts in words And tears; and yet upon the heights of years
To come, our deeds shall frame in useful lives Our grateful love, the thought which blends this hour With grief at parting from our school-life home.
To you. Right Reverend Bishop, we present Our greetings warm and true; your presence here Adds honor to the honors we enjoy At our beloved Alma Maters hands.
We thank you, and we humbly ask you now To bless our class, that we of ninety-two May worthy prove, and ne’er betray our trust— A trust that Christian education gives.
Along tlie mystic glow of time, full oft With reverence and love, our hearts shall frame Sweet thoughts of him, the saintly patriarch, Our Very Reverend Father General, Whose blessing and whose smile to us have been Like gleams of radiance falling softly through A veil, dividing earth and those whose souls Dwell ever in the glory of the Throne.
And with the thoughts of every early dawn, Spent in the home that bears our Mother’s name, Shall rise a memory of the Sacrifice, The “ Clean Oblation ” offered unto God By Him who broke the “ Bread of Life ” to us, Our chaplain, whose devoted, tireless zeal Has taught us even more than words how best To serve our God.
And, Mothers, unto you We turn, and yet the thoughts that fain would shape Themselves find voice alone in grateful prayer. To you and all our teachers who have made Each day bear fruit of knowledge, would that we • Might frame a meet return of gifts bestowed! Our tongue is bound by e’en the very ties That should our hearts’ acknowledgment evoke. We feel that yours should be the word “farewell,” For with the promise of your prayers for us, We go with hope, e’en though ’tis with regret, As, tearfully, we say to each adieu!
Dear school-friends, classmates, let us ere we part, Give thought once more to those bright years we spent At loved St. Mary’s, years when sympathy •And unity of purpose bound our hearts Together. Ah! how oft our thoughts shall dwell On youthful days, and on this parting hour, So fraught with memories that wake regrets; In spirit we shall visit that dear shrine, Loreto Chapel—sweetest spot of all— Where childish burdens ever grew more light. The halo of its sanctuary lamp Shall cast its radiance o’er our life, and we Shall see in its soft glow if we have shaped Our thoughts aright. And with our Mother’s smile Upon us now, oh, let us pledge our love To her and to our Alma Mater dear, As fronTour grateful hearts there rise the words Dear teachers, classmates, friends, a fond farewell!
We part to-day, But not for aye;	.
A hope gleams out from future skies, Which softly tells	•
That our farewells
Shall unto Heaven’s kingdom rise, To bless our way, If we each day, But shape the thought that in us lies.