
THE EARS HAVE IT
Vail W. Pischke
CAMPUS DRIVE FOR RED CROSS +
On Tuesday evening, Nov. 24, the S. A. C will canvass the halls for donations to the Red Cross Drive for "Overseas Kits," Ladies of the Red Cross Chapter in South Bend procure the materials and make the kits. Each kit is then filled with a sewing set, writing paper, envelopes, shoe-shine kit, cigarettes, soap, mirror, pencil, cards, and reading material. The kit is presented to a man in the service at the moment he embarks for foreign service. It is earnestly recommended that you give the S.A.C. men your generous support in this particular phase of war work, mindful that, before many months, you yourself may be on the receiving end of this patriotic endeavor.
Big time radio hit N.D.’s campus studios this week when Bill Stern (Saturday, 9:00-9:15) machine-gunned his unusual sports show to the entire nation from the third floor of the Engineering building. Stern is topped by only two other shows in nation-wide popularity polls — by Walter Winchell and Amos’n Andy. The ironical part. of the
whole thing is that this NBC show was broadcast from a CBS outlet . . . it’s a dark secret and gabbsters of the campus radio department wouldn’t like to broadcast Saturday’s deal to Bob Barker, WSBT manager—he might take all that beautiful studio equipment away!
Authorized Navy Uniform Tailors
AdLer-Rochester Tadarad
PREPARE FOR THE HOLIDAYS
with
Shetlands! Tweeds and Flannels
by
Custom made or ready to wear Suits, Sport Coats and Topcoats
FULL DRESS AND TUXEDOS FOR RENT
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115^2 - । IT1/^ N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver
BOB KUIPERS 114 Alumni
CAPTAIN GEORGE MURPHY 130 Alumni
EDDIE DORE 238 Alumni
According to one of the highest officials in CBS radio, television is now ready for world-wide use and will be produced on a mass production scale r" after the duration. Since EM will be almost automatically incorporated into these television sets, your present set is scheduled for the junk heap within two or three years. And after I dropped all that dough into that two-tuber, too!
‘Timer Sanctum” thoughts: (Sunday,.
7:30) Raymond, the screwball host, could >-sell a lot of “3 in 1” oil with that squeaky door monologue of his, couldn’t he? Ray could open the program with the opening of the creaking door, close it swiftly and silently with a distinct click at the end of the show, and quib in with: “You see, my shivering friends, it’s the result of Harry Nicodemus’ drippy oil—wouldn’t it work just ducky on your door?
Huuuuh?”
Radio gag of the week: Phil Baker on “Take It Or Leave It”: ‘My drafted nephew writes that the Army says it will make a new man of him. He’s glad, too, because it’s certainly wearing out the old one!”
Best bet for ’ special events on local broadcasting for this week: the Junior , Promsters give us Mitchell Ayres on WSBT from 11:05-11:30 p.m. from the Palais Royale in South Bend. A big blow for Joe Flynn, “Scat” Davis’ announcer last Saturday night, by the way—show started a little early, but we caught it anyhow.	„
Local campus notes: Views and previews (Saturday, 12:30) will sport “Scrap” Young, N.D. trainer, tomorrow. . . . Watch for a campus dramatic spot to pop up on your listening schedule soon—it’ll keep directors Jerry Fortier and Herold Johnson plenty busy.	~
2
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
HORRORS OF WAR DEPT.
At Northeastern University, Boston, some of the boys haven’t been getting the signals straight. Their Junior* Prom is just around the corner, but some of those who had purchased bids early are already in khaki, and unable to go. Refunds are in order, the Prom committee has decided, but they’re going to stick the draftees for the cost of the Prom favor, as a reminder of what the final bill could have been.
No special service to E.R.C. men either. This is a hard war!
SIGNS OF THE TIMES
A “sole and stalwart plumberess” is a female fullback on the Mount Allison University, Canada, Engineers’ football team. In a recent game she was the only player to last the 60 minutes.
Harry Nicodemus could use her.
NOT OLD MASCARA
The stag at eve had drunk his fill, But midnight saw him drinking still. The only stag in all the bunch, .
While others danced, he hit the punch.
—The Oredigger
COASTAL OFFENSE
It appeared in “Letters to the Icebox” in The Daily Californian.
“To the Editor: Girls, maybe the shortage of manpower available for dates . around campus is not due to men being - called to the battle fronts as much as to lack of finances. With prices on the up, only shipyard workers can afford to lead the gay social life of today.
“There are still plenty of men in the Enlisted Reserve around here with plenty of potentialities, but no money. We are healthy, but not wealthy. If we revive the custom of going ‘Dutch,’ we will be willing to talk turkey.”
At last reports the Icebox was still cold, and so was the turkey.'
spy NEST
Here’s news for the International Relations club. The Navy has started an intensified course in Japanese at the University of Colorado. Applicant must be between the ages of 20 and 30, have a college degree and six months experience in Japanese or Chinese. Enrollees join Class V-4 and receive $125 to $142 per month from the first day of instruction.
RUSSIAN LULLABY
Tuition is free in the 58 universities in the U.S.S.R., and students are paid according to how well they do. Each student is guaranteed a job by the government and given 10,000 rubles upon graduation.
And two sugars with your coffee!
SCRAP
As far as we know Iowa State College is right on top in the scrap drive. They have 165 tons collected to date, and 26 of them are in the form of a locomotive.
We’d like to do it ourselves, but where does one get a locomotive to give away these days?
MOUNTAIN MUSIC
A man was driving through Vermont and stopped for gas up in the mountains. He said to the old man at the pump. “Great man, this MacArthur.” “Who?” “General MacArthur — you know — the war.” “What war?” (One-second pause.)
“Well, I’ll tell you, chum, never mind about the gas; just give me four new tires.”
—Skidmore News
W.P.B.
Priorities have cut into a new field— school rings. The seniors at Boston University have been promised rings, but the usual synthetic ruby stone is covered by the W.P.B. writ, and a cheap substitute will have to last the war out. Then, for a small additional charge, the boys can get the real thing*, and the rings will be like new, if the gold plate hasn’t worn off.
LIFE CAN BE BEAUTIFUL
Wheaton College, over Chicago way, keeps the stop sign on smoking, dancing, dramatics, drinking, and theater and movie attendance. Still it is the fastest growing college in America today.
Maybe they hold bank night in the chapel!
ALL THAT MEAT....
Statistics (we don’t know whose) show that the average student cramming for exams loses two pounds in weight. By simple mathematics it has been determined that 2,250,000 lbs. of college flesh will vanish during a session of final exams.
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Daniel Downey._______Managing	Editor
Ted Weber._____________Campus	Editor
Bill Reynolds__________Sports	Editor
Robert Dunne___________Admin.	Editor
Robert Lonergan___________Promotion
Walter Krawiec____________Art	Editor
Al Schaefer_______Staff Photographer Gail Fitch, Jr____........Advertising Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to Editor, 151 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame. Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.	.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Prom Tonight____________5
Campus Commandos__________7
.How Band Formations Are Planned.. 9
ADMINISTRATION	.
Centennial Program on Air____I I
Tully, New Lay Trustee_:__;__12
SPORTS
Irish Favored Over Wildcats .... 14-15
Walsh vs. Dillon in Stadium ......_,..16
FEATURES
The Ears Have It______....________:^2
College Parade _______._____: 3
The Week ___________J________
Telescope_________________-T ~	7=
Pressbox Splinters__-_____	:l 7
Short Shots____________________.. .22
Introducing_________.„..I: - •'
Strictly Instrumental "	- -'T ’ 27. J
.	'	- '	3 '
THE WEEK
JACK WOEL.FLE
TOP OF WEEK
Pretty cheer leaders.
LA DE DA
That music idea in the dining halls is good. We should have it all the time. A different record could be played during each course. For instance, in honor of the soup: Sicanee River; when we have cabbage: Yesterday’s Gardenias; for mystery balls: Shh, It’s a Military Secret; sometimes we have turkey: Flamingo; and when we have that delicious chicken salad: I Guess I’ll Be on My Way, or maybe later on in the evening, or early morning: Blues in the Night. . . . Perhaps the most famous words in the band are: “Guide right.” The trouble is that everyone who is supposed to be guiding right is looking to his left to see that his neighbor is guiding right. Understand? No? . . . Charlie Lyden says the nice way to ask your girl friend for a smoke is: “How about a drag on the fag, bag?”
THEY'LL DO IT EVERY TIME
- Oswald relaxes in the well upholstered seat of old no. 31 of the Indiana Cab Co. Oswald is returning from a Victory . dance. Beside him, giggling merrily, sits his St. Mary’s girl friend, Matilda, who is coyly spittin’ peach pits out the open window. The cab pulls up before the entrance. The meter reads $1.00. Oswald reaches into his pocket and fingers one of the two crisp dollar bills. At least he’ll have a dollar left, he thinks to himself. The cab rolls another foot and a half. The meter pops over to $1.05. Oswald walks home jingling nine dimes and a nickel. Oswald mutters as he trips over the wire fence in Potowatomie woods. Oswald is angry.
PROM TIME
Again this weekend it’s a case of beauty and the beast. The Junior Prom is once again upon us and so are the fair representatives of 48 states,—, well, 3 anyway. As usual, the St. Mary’s girls are preparing for a big. weekend. Most of them are going to Chicago. As a special treat the Prom-goers will occupy - seats behind the goal posts. Oh you lucky people! Mitchell Ayres, who, incidentally absorbed most of Glenn Miller’s old band, had the following to say about this evening’s dance: “I wiiz robbed.” Maybe taken advantage of Mitch, but
not robbed. Lucrecia Candeebah arrived on all fours in high spirits. It seems she hitch-hiked all the way from Elephant Corners aboard a beer truck. With car driving sanctioned this weekend the campus should take on a Harvard appearance. Having seen some of the heaps the boys are driving this weekend, however, (we mean the cars, not the girls), it will most likely look like a salvaging station for the scrap drive.
DING DONG
THE WITCH AIN'T DEAD
No, we aren’t calling the girls from the Bock names. Perhaps we dedicate too much space to our neighbors, but fellows, they deserve the best.
Last Friday, the official St. Mary’s publication, Chimes, made its autumn appearance. In it were many delightful little stories of life at the Bock. In one charming piece, “Dalua In Polly-Wog,” there appeared this clever little poem:
“Ta-ta-woof! ta-ta-woof!
Slide swish; slide swish	.
Beware o’ Tish
Ta-ta-woof! ta-ta-woof!”
There is also a book review in Chimes. Two of the books reviewed were, Bibi, The Baker’s Horse, and Inga of Porcupine Mine. Said Miss Pfaff, the reviewer: “These books are of special interest to us of St. Mary’s—.” Some day we must talk these matters over with Jane and Mary Louise. Frankly, we don’t get it!
On the editorial page was this little appeal for contributions to Chimes: “In each Saint Mary’s girl there is some- -thing beautiful, something wise, something golden that should be shared.” Why hasn’t someone told us these things long ago?
CHOICE FRUIT
Perhaps the biggest and choicest of bananas was handed to the Notre Dame band with the compliments of the Michigan band last Saturday. Having agreed on splitting the before-game and between-halves time, they hogged the field both times refusing to let the N.D. band do its stuff. It’s easy to be a champion when you refuse competition.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Pretty bad cheer leaders.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 77
NOVEMBER 20, 1942
No. 7
PROM GOERS DANCE AT PALAIS TONITE: ' GAME, "V" DANCE, WIND UP WEEK-END
World’s Largest Crystal Ball is Central Decoration
Jim Cunningham
OPAdministration’s extension of the gas-by-coupon order was the signal this week for a rush of shiny blue coupes, green, and black sedans from nearby cities to Notre Dame and vicinity where juniors — and not a few seniors — will spend this week-end showing hometown girls the Grotto, Rosie’s, the midshipmen, the Palais Royale, and the stadium.
Tonight’s tradition - breaking junior prom with its football week-end car privilege promises to set a record for size and gayety, with over 450 couples dancing, and with what ornament chairman Leo Lardie, Niagara Falls Welshman, calls, “The World’s Largest Crystal Ball,” as part of the decorations.
Lardie’s giant mirrored ball hung in the main dining room of Chicago’s Congress hotel until Gen. Arnold’s airmen took over, and decivilianized the big hotel’s decorations. River Forest, Ill.,
Guest of Honor: Miss Becky Abbett, Fort Wayne. Ind. and Franklin College.
B.T.O. Frank Vignola put over the deal that brought the sphere to the Prom.
Built around the theme, “Serenade in Blue and Gold,” the complete decor lay-out will be a novel arrangement of drifting, colored lights, and fancy draperies, and committeemen promise it will be sensational at the very least.
President Dick Doermer and his 100th junior class break precedent by holding their affair on a football weekend, while Notre Dame’s historical bluebook tells of past proms given during mid-winter, when juniors and guests tea-danced on Saturday afternoon instead of sitting under a blanket in a big stadium.
The added attraction of the grid battle with Northwestern’s Wildcats—who would rather beat Notre Dame than win a conference title—gives this week-end such color that most upperclassmen will remember - it longer than they do last week’s Michigan merriment.
General Chairman James Louis Meagher, varsity cageman, and fourth floor Walsh hallman from Valparaiso, Ind., sat long hours at the conference table with University ticket manager Robert Cahill, and finally grabbed off a choice end zone section for the prom goers and guests. Says Meagher, “It will give the girls an. excellent opportunity to study the T formation.”
Many a headache and hurried trip to Chicago came to Prexy Doermer, Chairman Meagher, and Music5 Committee Head Vignola, before they beat the nation’s bandpower shortage. Ready to bid
Mitchell Ayres and his orchestra, playing at the Palais Royale for the Junior Prom, will be heard over WSBT tonight from 10:05 to 10:30.
S1200 for a topranker, could find none with open .schedules, settled for outfit in §750 class.
Mitchell Ayres has a versatile group that has played at such haunts of N.D. • men as Frank Daly’s Meadowbrook, Boston’s Totem Pole, New York’s Paramount theatre, the West Coast’s Casa Manana, and large theatres in Indianapolis, Cleveland, Chicago, Philadelphia, and Milwaukee.	■
Leader Ayres, a Columbia university graduate, calls his style, “fashions in music,” - and from his big library can draw anything from “Mr. Five by Ten,” to the “Blue Danube Waltz.” Youthful, pretty Meredith Blake sings sweet tunes, and baritone Johnny Bond handles both ballads and faster stuff.	.
After spaghetti at Rosie’s, or fish at the Oliver, promites will drive to the fieldhouse for the “Decorations” pep rally and “we’ll win tomorrow” speeches. They’ll find the halls decorated with the traditonal bunting, big shields,. and plywood wildcats.
The Palais’ glass doors will swing inward at nine o’clock, crowds will gather, and for one hour the rushing cabs, laughter, white ties, sweeping formats, and bright marquee lights will give a premier-like appearance to Colfax ave-
Prom Queen: Miss Floy Terstegge. Louisville. Ky. and St. Mary's College. .
5
nue. Couples coming after ten will have to talk their way past Mr. McAuliffe.
Vail Pischke and his radio club will air 15 minutes of Prom music starting at 11:00, over WSBT. Dancers will rest tired feet and drink cokes in the Palais’ big balcony. Flower salesmen report orchids going fast, with gardenias and camellias next in order.
Guests will attend from 32 states, and more than 50 colleges and universities will be represented, with St. Mary’s sending the largest single delegation. The nation’s accelerated work and academic programs, coupled with transportation shortages, are reported to have sent a record number of upperclassmen across the road.
Both hotels and private homes will house the feminine importations. The hotel’s rent-ceiling dodge, three-night rule has brought many complaints, and sent most students seeking the residence rooms.
Only prom fact still secret are the favors ordered by co-chairmen, Chicagoans Stratte Coorlas and James Platt, of the favors committee. Programs committee chairmen Artie Hoffman and Jack Watters promise something fancy.
Assisting hard working General Chairman Meagher—who has done everything from sign making to contract signing— have also been Cavanaugh men, Frank Stumpf and Frank Curran, in charge of tickets, Bob Faught and Jim O’Dea, patrons inviters, and Bernie Finucane, and Joe Van Dyke, arrangement chairmen.
The Ayres baton will call a halt to dancing at 1 a.m., tomorrow morning, the “world’s largest crystal ball will stop revolving,” N.D. men and drags will dash for cars and last minute snacks, and the men will use the watchman’s pencil at 2 a.m.
Saturday the cheering thousands will shout their battle cry in the stadium. Two anonymous committee members suggested shifting the prom section every quarter so that the Fighting Irish would always be. driving toward the beautiful prom dates. The idea was given up as impractical, and the two committee men were accused of being optimistic (concerning the dates).	.
When the game is over and upperclassmen have succeeded in pulling their dates out of sight of the midshipmen, the couples will attend the “Player of the Day” program in Washington hall, and vote for the day’s hero.
Student Commission’s victory dance in the Progress Club will end Saturday’s activities. Music by Veet Cappello and the Cavaliers, refreshments by Coca Cola,
and back on the campus by 12:00. Sunday the cars will be returned to dad’s garage, Minnie will be kissed good-bye, and upperclassmen will sleep in Monday morning.
Left to right: Dick Doermer, junior class prexy; Frank Vignola, vice-president; Jim Meagher, Prom chairman.
Glee Club Octet Sings
For Bill Stern Broadcast
Eight members of the Notre Dame Glee Club were directed by Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke in singing the Colgate theme song on Bill Stern’s Saturday night sports review last week in the campus studios. Members of the Octet were Bill Scully, Bill Cullen, Jim Maddigan, Bill Murrin, Kevin O’Toole, Jim Treacy, Dick Murray and Herb Clark.
The NBC sports program, commanding an audience of some 22 million, third highest of 15 minute radio shows, was presented from the Notre Dame studios at 9 o’clock Saturday night. Bill Stern, nationally known football play-by-play announcer, introduced Frank Leahy to the radio audience. Coach Leahy gave a short resume of the Michigan - Notre Dame game.
The studio audience was composed largely of members of the local radio club who were invited to attend the broadcast. Several people from town completed the guest list. Besides Don Elder, Chicago radio announcer, technicians, extras and writers accompanied Bill Stern for the broadcast. Each week, the sports announcer covers some important collegiate football game, giving his radio program, from that particular college or university.	'	;: . . /
Student Council Promotes
Red Cross Service Kits
The student council, under President Walter Jones, has undertaken a new job which will promote student participation in the war effort. Beginning Tuesday, Nov. 24, a special drive will be conducted to urge students to purchase Red Cross Personal Kits for service men overseas. Each student councilman will canvass his hall, getting subscriptions for the kits.
A single kit, containing everything from cigarettes to shoe polish, sells for one dollar. In addition to this price, however, donations by students will be accepted and will go to the general Red Cross Fund. A purchase of the kit entitles a student to the honor of having his name and address attached to a kit, so that when a service man fighting in some remote part of the globe receives it he will know by whom it was donated.
The program for promotion of these sales among students is in the hands of sophomore Jerry Witzman, councilman from St. Edward’s hall. The single night for intensive canvassing will be Tuesday. Contribute your dollar to your hall representative and send a kit overseas!
Creighton Miller Wins Player of Day Award
Although the Fighting Irish as a team were unable to continue their domination over Michigan, the Miller clan in the person of Creighton Eugene Miller carried on the tradition of outstanding play against the Wolverines started by Harry “Red” Miller in 1909. As a result, Creighton became the fourth winner of the Met Club Player of the Day award, selection being made last Saturday in the post-game rally in Washington Hall.
It was not only one of the toughest games the campus has seen in years; the pre-game activities reached a high for recent years when students left a blazing “M” in Brownson Field to swarm downtown and rally in the streets of South Bend.
Students eating in the West Hall began really to feel the spirit Friday noon . when the “Victory March” and the “Hike Song”: swung out over the public address system. “Praise the Lord” was added to the concert list Friday evening. The presence of the Michigan band in the hall Saturday noon failed to stop the recordings or the student cheering.
Notre Dame were happy before the game; Michigan men after the game. In fact, about the only disgruntled gentleman was a very sad-faced rooter who muttered, sadly enough, “I’m for Purdue.”	.
6
Campus Commando Raids Flourish;
Alumni, Dillon in Mutual Blitz
DAVE CONDON
With a world-wide conflict raging, there have’been many rumors of internal trouble here at Notre Dame. Many freshmen believed fifth columnists were at work in the kitchen (until someone informed them that the food had always been that way), and rival publications Scrip and Scholastic waged bitter wars for control of the newstands, only to lose out in the end to the daily Religious Bulletin.
But these things are trifling compared to the civil war now engulfing the campus. It seems that the Alumni hall reserves, anxious to end the war, offered their services to Smiling Jack and Little Orphan Annie. Smiling Jack, busy on a Nazi submarine with a smiling Jill, referred the. matter to his files, but Little Orphan Annie took time off from sinking U-boats, selling war bonds and col--lecting scrap, to organize Alumni hall into “Daddy Warbucks Chapter No. 1 of the Orphan Annie Commandos.”
The Daddy Warbucks chapter took matters in their own Lands and determined to end sabotage here on the campus. They scattered land mines among the breakfast .buns and posted a 24-hour guard at chapter headquarters in the Oliver Coffee Shop. There they planned the strategy of capturing Dillon hall, figuring to strike like the Chicago Bears and then scatter like raked leaves.
That is where the strategy went afoul. A St Mary’s student, working her way through school by firing the furnace at the Oliver, was listening through a radiator and over-heard. Being engaged to seven Dillon students, she immediately sent smoke-signals and informed them of the plot.
Dillon immediately took action. They recalled their branch of the Tom Mix straight-shooters who had been guarding the caf to determine who was rustling beef and serving the hide for steaks. This Straight-shooter group went to work and merged with a rival faction, the Dillon Gene Autry Club. They organized a posse and threatened to use any Alumni senior they caught as honor guest at a neck-tie party.
Then the Commandos went to work. With a message of personal well-wishes from Eleanor Roosevelt, they captured the bus line in a quick sortie, disguising themselves as tires and gas ration blanks. Dillon was quick to come back from
this defeat and won control of the post office without bloodshed. This cut Alumni off from all communications with the outside world and was the worst defeat the present seniors suffered since they lost their razors as freshmen. And the post office, like the razors, undoubtedly will not be replaced by the seniors.
In the raid on the post office the Dillon straight-shooters confiscated 27 sets of Charles Atlas “I’ll Make You Strong” pamphlets which were being mailed to the seniors. This gain, however, was nullified when a commando raid on the China Plate resulted in the destruction of a consignment of Wheaties destined for Dillon.
Both sides immediately called up reserves and Alumni asked the support of the Sorin Superman club. Dillon, floating a blonde issue, has announced that due to rationing and an Alumni blockade of the “Cafe,” it will be necessary to discontinue tea hour for the duration.
And there matters stand at this hour. Newspapers dispatched Brenda Starr and Jane Arden down to cover’the story for the Assassinated press, and at pres-
ent there are rumors of a great Naval battle going on in the Rockne Memorial. From a non-partisan standpoint it looks as if the battle of the Huddle may decide things, and the event is expected to take a sudden change after last night’s radio speech, in which the editor of Static, in a dramatic speech from the ruins of Stalingrad, called for the drafting of 18-19 year old youths of Notre Dame to meet the drastic man-power shortage at St. Mary’s. In making the speech, the editress said, “I can sympathize with the Alumni Commandos and the Dillon Straight-shooters, but it is my earnest wish that this flower of American youth would quit its destruction on the Notre Dame campus, and come over to St. Mary’s, where, even with so many of our students working for Bendix, there is peril enough for all.”
So watch the Scholastic next week to see if Dillon and Alumni sign a truce for the benefit of the Bendix extension school.
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo
After a well-earned “vacation,” we’re back again to telescope the events of the coming seven days.
FRIDAY, Nov. 20: The return of Telescope!; Pacemaker and Commodore jammed with arriving Prom-guests;
. Pre-Northwestern game pep meeting in the Field House, 7:30; The event of the week: The Junior Prom to the strains (and I do mean strained) tunes of Mitchell Ayres at the Palais Royale, 9 to 1; unlucky freshmen and sophomores must be content with broadcast of the affair by Vail Pischke over WSBT, 10:30-11; Prom-goers in their halls by 2 (aan., of course); if your car has been registered with the P. of D., it’s yours. for the weekend.
SATURDAY, Nov. 21: Northwestem-N.D. thriller at stadium, 2 pan.; Student Commission Victory Dance, Progress Club, 8:30-11:30; Campus movie: 6:40 and 8:30.
SUNDAY, Nov. 22: Inter-hall football championship game in the stadium between Walsh-hallers and Dillon-ites; a few end zone seats still available; Gladys and Genevieve, Sibyl and Suzy spend a tear-jerking after-noon of train-riding home.
MONDAY, Nov. 23: Student-Professor informal meeting in the Rockne Lounge, 7:30; Mr. Ervin, guest professor; all invited.
TUESDAY, Nov. 24: Red Cross Drive.
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 25: Movies of Saturday’s game in Engineering Auditorium; “History of Notre Dame,” written by Prof. Richard Sullivan, coast-to-coast over NBC, 10:30-11 p.m.
THURSDAY, Nov. 26: Thanksgiving Day; “A hundred years ago today—Centennial Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 10 a.m.; sermon by Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen; choir composed of Moreau members and N.D. Glee Club; broadcast over NBC, 10:30-11 (C.W.T.)
This Sunday's issues of the Chicago "Herald - American" and the Chicago "Sun" will carry pictures and stories of student life on the Notre Dame campus. Students may procure copies at the Caf.
7
New "Dome" Scheduled for Dec. 16;
Scoop: Last Annual for Duration!
Kelly Cook, hard working editor of the “Dome,” announced that the campus annual is, at present, right on schedule and, barring late war contracts which have priority ratings, the yearbook will make its appearance before the Christmas vacation. But just in case the presses are held up the books will be mailed to students. The entire publication, with the exception of the Junior Prom and the last football games, is now in the hands of the Peerless Press, and from there it will go to Chicago to be bound. The complete book will be at the binders on Dec. 6, and should be ready for distribution ten days later.
The Board of Publications has officially announced that this will be the last Dome for the duration of the war. Priorities and scarcities make it difficult to obtain labor, paper, and metals. Then, too, because students will be graduating every four months, requiring a complete new staff every semester, together with the difficult task of compiling a book in that amount of time, the University feels that the work must cease for the present. In its stead tentative plans call for an addition of from 50 to 100 pages to the Scholastic covering graduate’s pictures and activities of the previous semester. A special staff will probably be appointed to compile this section.
This year’s Dome contains a limited
Formations look easy — but....
number of 200 pages, but due to a heavier bond of paper, it will be about as thick as last year’s. The war meant a reduction by one-third of the 1942 December Dome, covering the May and September semesters, and the space usually alloted to faculty and junior class portraits was dropped. Most of the club section was also eliminated, and only • those organizations were pictured which were open to all students, or which were considering some specially relevant problem, as, for example, the Latin American group. The book will contain color photos and lithographed shots, and the copy has been set-up in a stunning new modern type.
The theme of the December Dome carries out the University’s centennial-year, and the life of a student at Notre Dame during the war years.
Editor Cook was left with the unfinished art work of the book when Mr. Francis J. Hanley, assistant professor of art, left to join the Navy. Since that time the editor has done a fine job in completing that section, in addition to his other work. Department heads on the Dome staff include: Edward Meagher, copy editor; John Morris, picture editor; James Gibbons, sports editor; William Binet, art editor; - Gerry Hogue, managing editor; and William Boss, campus editor.
Band Spends Many Hours
On Different Formations
They march in checkered pattern, 100 of them, down the field. A gun barks, the even lines scatter, and suddenly the formation of a dog appears, or U.N.D., or Irish. Saturday after Saturday the band marches out on the field at half time playing spirited songs and going into novel and intricate formations. Many of the students wonder just how these formations are conceived, planned, and carried out.
Five nights a week, from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. the band rehearses the coming week’s program. The first night is usually spent distributing music and rehearsing’ it. Tuesday or Wednesday night the band is lined up in marching formation and the plans for the formation are distributed.
The band is 13 men deep and 8 men wide. The rows from front to rear are given letters, the first row having the letter A, the last row having the letter M. The lines across are given numbers, the line on the extreme left being 1, the line on the extreme right being eight. Therefore each man in the band has a permanent position and a permanent letter-number.
The band is shown on the individual pieces of paper that are passed out, in marching formation, with each man rep-resenteid by-a square. The finished formation is superimposed on the marching one, with each man represented by a circle. A line is drawn from the square, the man’s marching position, to the circle, his position in the formation. The following formation is then superimposed on the first formation on another sheet of paper. The first formation is indicated by squares and the second by circles. The lines are drawn again from square to circle to show the path to be followed. Understand?
Mr. Hope, the director, figures out the formations to scale. When lined up on the field each row is 2% yards apart, every other row standing on a yard marker. Ralph Thorsen, the field marshal, stands in the middle row of the band and carries a blank cartridge pistol. It is his job to watch the yard markers as the band marches down the field. As his - row reaches the 50 yard marker he fires the gun. Each man in the band then moves to his designated position. Sometimes the signal to go into formation is given by the drum major. Only if the band is playing and it is difficult to hear the drum major’s whistle is the gun shot used. Other times the signal to go into formation might be the first or last note of a song.
The formations are so arranged that the sections of the band are split up to
8
the very minimum. Therefore the tubas are usually located together as are the trumpets, clarinets, etc. The Army game was especially difficult because there were 11 different formations.
Remember the next time the band is marching down the field that a lot of work and worry go into making those Saturday shows a success. A lot of little things run through the men’s heads : “Remember to stop between the 30 and 35 . . . march to top of yard marker . . . change from Ann to Arbor on second r line of Victor’s March . . . about face on first whistle . . . mark time on second whistle . . . kick leg on halt . . . play, pick up note . . . guide right, guide right, guide right, right, right, right. . . .”
—Jack Woelfle
Forum Members Visit the First National Bank
Members of the Notre Dame Commerce Forum toured the First National Bank and Trust company in South Bend yesterday. The tourists met in front of the bank at 2:30 Thursday afternoon. Gail Fitch, Oak Park, Ill., is president of the Forum and Dean McCarthy of the commerce school is faculty moderator.
N. D. Student Commission
Sponsors Last "V" Dance
The domination of the Indiana Club as locale for the customary game-eve- ‘ ning victory dance was broken this week with the announcement that the Northwestern dance will be held in the Progress Club, 601 W. Colfax avenue. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Commission, this will be the last in the series of fall victory dances.
Once again “Veet” Capello and his Cavaliers will furnish the music and as usual the dancing will last from 8:30 to 11:30. Tickets, information and dates are being supplied by Louis Kurtz, 345 Alumni, chairman of the commission, and his assistant, Jack Terry, 158 Dillon.
THE COVER
' The gentleman on the cover this week, busily engaged in fixing his tie, is Paul Lally, a Walsh Hall junior from Milford, Mass. Paul consented to pose for staff photographer Al Schaeffer, observing that-he. could use the practice for the real thing tonight. Like most jun-
iors, nothing short of a third front could stop Paul from escorting his St. Mary’s girl to the Prom tonight.
OPERETTA "PATIENCE" HAS DOUBLE CAST; WILL RUN FIVE NIGHTS, BEGINS NOV. 30
Gilbert and Sullivan are here to stay. When the Notre Dame Savoyards present their new attraction, “Patience,” in
Washington Hall it will be the fourth operetta by the two famous composers to be staged in a series at Notre Dame. Like the former presentations, “Patience” ■will run 5 nights, beginning Monday, Nov. 30th, for stu-
MR. cecil birder dents, faculty and guests; Tuesday and Wednesday, for the Navy and Campus N. R. O. T. C.; and Thursday and Friday for the University.
The increased number of students try- ■ ing out for parts this semester necessitated two casts, according to Mr. Cecil Birder, head of the department of speech, and director of the Savoyards. This is the first time that interest in student dramatics has been so great that alternates for parts have been chosen.
To enable those who attend the performances of “Patience” to appreciate more fully the story and music of the operetta, the Savoyards are ordering several hundred authentic libretti containing the entire story of “Patience” with words and music. These libretti will be sold to any student or faculty member for a small fee.
Another addition to the usual performance will be the presence of two easels in the lobby of Washington Hall containing pictures of former Gilbert and Sullivan hits staged on the campus. Preparation of the easels is in the hands of Robert Beck, a junior architect student, also in the cast of the operetta.
The musical accompaniment will be furnished by the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra, under the preparation of Director Frederic Ingersoll. Mr. H. B. Hope, director of the University Band, will play the French, horn in the orchestra for the operetta. Edward Cashman, Walsh Hall junior, will be at the piano.
The operetta “Patience” is a mild satire on the aesthetic cult pervading Europe and England in the days of Wilde and Swinburne. Lasting one hour and forty minutes, the two acts are filled with catchy tunes, the most popular of which is “The Legend of the Magnet and the Chum,” well known from recordings of the Harvard Glee Club.
The cast of characters:
Colonel Coverley—Owen Denley and W. Nolan Sheehan.
Major Murgatroyd—Herbert Clark and William Murrin.
Lieutenant the Duke of Dunstable— William Brady and Gerald O’Reilly.
Reginald Bunthome — Mflenko Zoro-vich and Louis Colleran.
Archibald Grosvenor — Kevin O’Toole and Bernard Slater.
Solicitor—William Murrin
The Lady Angelo—Agnes Haney.
The Lady Saphir—Barbara Nelson.
The Lady Ella—Elizabeth Norris.
The Lady Jane—June Anderson.
Patience, a dairymaid—Mary Frances Kabel.
Rapturous Maidens: Patricia Chapman, Benita Guthrie, Martha Jean Holmes, Marilyn Nelson, Ann Witt, Marie Manuszak, and Evelyn Hosier. -
Dragoon Guards: Tenors: Tom Bremer, Louis Colleran, Robert Geachmend, Timothy Kelley, Gerald O’Reilly, Alfred Ortiz, W. Nolan Sheehan, Bernard Slater, Frank Tenczar, John Walsh; Bases: Robert Beck, Raymond Clark, William Curtin, Warren Dana, Francis Haley, Eugene Keasey, George Nesbit, James Monaghan, James Mustagh, John Newell, Thomas Nolan, Thomas Schreiber, John Van Benton and Morris Wagner.
Commerce Forum Passes
Pre-Season Bond Quota
Gail Fitch, president of the Commerce Foru.m, was in a jovial mood when interviewed last Sunday by a Scholastic reporter, and no wonder! The day before, at the Michigan game, he and fellow members of the Commerce Forum had not only broken all previous daily records for the sale of War Stamps, Bonds, Corsages, and Buttonieres with a total of $400, but had also reached and surpassed the goal of §1000 the Forum members had set for themselves at the beginning of the season.
The Forum, however, is not yet satisfied. It has set itself a new goal of §1500 which will probably be reached next Saturday at the Northwestern game. The reason for this display of optimism is obvious. The game is going to be held the weekend of the Junior Prom and, of course, will be attended by all the Prom men and their guests; consequently Fitch expects to sell corsages or buttonieres to every Prom guest.
Although sales have increased with every game, Fitch said that the student body has not been cooperating in the drive nearly as much as had been hoped.
9
Digby Says Sinkwich is
Better Than Bertelli
This week the Scholastic presents another of the series of father and son features on the Notre Dame football season. This week’s guests are Fred Digby, Sports Editor, New Orleans Item, and Noel Digby, Dillon Hall sophomore.
Mr. Digby has been sports editor of the New Orleans Item for nearly 20 years. In this time he has served as a member of Grantland Rice’s All-America Board and as a member of the Hall of Fame Board. He is also one of the organizers of the Sugar Bowl festivities.
Noel, a contributor to Scrip and the Dome, is in the Arts and Letters School. He came to Notre Dame from Jesuit High school in New Orleans. The questions asked by Noel and answered by his father pertain to the Michigan game which Mr. Digby made the long trip north to see.
Digby Sr. and Digby Jr.
What did you think of the game in general?
It was a great spectacle—one of the most thrilling games I’ve ever seen. Notre Dame made some mistakes and paid for them in touchdowns, but they fought to the end in a fine display of the oft-mentioned Notre Dame spirit.
Of the Southern passers you’ve seen to date this season, which, if any, can compare with or surpass Bertelli. ‘ *
Frankie Sinkwich is a better passer than Bertelli. Lou Thomas of Tulane is his equal. So is Alvin Dark of L.S.U. Sinkwich has a greater variety, of passes, throws long and short ones, lobs and bullets either when set, leaping or running.
What do you think of the Irish running attack?
It’s plenty potent. Considering the size and skill of the Michigan line, I think the Irish did exceptionally well, to get three touchdowns.
What in your estimation was the thing that pointed to a Michigan win?
Michigan’s backs. They were like General Grant tanks. Kuzma and Weise ♦ - -
couldn’t be stopped, and Robinson, White, and Ceithaml did their share to rip and . tear the N.D. line.
Again the old question: how do the two Mid-West teams, Notre Dame and Michigan, size up with our southern teams?
Michigan would have beaten either Georgia or Alabama the day I saw those two teams play in Atlanta. So would Notre Dame.
Irish Harriers Face
National Competition
Bill Carey
The trophy room of the Notre Dame cross-country team is once again . well stocked with the pelts of beaten foes. Undefeated in dual meets with Loyola, Illinois, and Navy Pier this season, the Irish have salted away their second Loyola Invitation title and placed in the top flight Indiana State meet.
Tomorrow our “hill and dalers” will match strides with the nation’s best plodders in the N.C.A.A. Championships at East Lansing, the home of Michigan State. From the East have come the Rhode Island State harriers, fresh from N.C.4A triumph. Big Ten and Indiana State Champs, Indiana U., will be favored. Several other outstanding teams will add a spirited tang to the competition.
Last year over the flat, four-mile Lansing course, N.D. copped sixth place. With a veteran club, sparked by last year’s standouts, they should better this showing by some three or four places. At Indianapolis, earlier this autumn they trounced Purdue, fifth finisher in the last Nationals.
The team is balanced and possesses in Hunter and Maloney, a one-two lethal punch that is hard to beat. The Hoosiers from Bloomington, however, have a quintet that finished within the first ten at the I.C.A.A.
The -battle for individual honors will be as equally brilliant as the tussle for
Tony Maloney
team title. Ollie Hunter, Notre Dame j satellite, has shown his fleet heels to all ? comers and in the process has smashed 3 marks set by the immortal Greg Rice. J Ollie should romp home a winner, as usual. Most serious contender, however, | will be Fred Wilt, Indiana flash who is । defending champ. Boasting a belt of vic- j tory scalps, the Hoosier is going to be the | man to beat. Tony Maloney, N.D.’s number j two man, has been one of the steadiest j runners in the Middle West. An outstand- = . ing distance man and a hearty competi- ■ tor, Tony should not be overlooked. Bob Nichols from Rhode Island has cleaned up the East and will attempt to sweep the West with his accustomed ease. Ivy League star, Leroy Schawttzkopf, is an- i other contender.	'
An unexpected injury to Don Currie has upset Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy’s well-set plans. Don was a consistent scorer from his number four spot, but an impromptu introduction of 16-pound J shot to his big toe had dire conse- | quences. Bob Crowley will take Sopho- 1 more Currie’s place, rounding, out a quin- ; tet of Hunter, Maloney, Frank Conforti, and Walt Brehmer that will answer the starting gun.
Prexy Herzog Conducts
Servers' Club Meeting
President Bill Herzog conducted the October Servers’ Club meeting in the Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church. He briefly outlined the Club’s plans for the current semester, and then called upon Brother Boniface, sacristan, and club advisor, who gave a short talk on the purpose of the club. Brother also expressed his intention for recruiting new members for the club, and asked all those interested in joining to see him in the Church any Sunday after Mass. Other officers are: Bob McAuliffe, vice president and Jack Denniston, secretary.
McBride, Chemistry Teacher, Leaves for War Work
Notre Dame lost another faculty mem- ■ ber to the war effort with the release of John Patrick McBride, graduate assistant in chemistry. This is the 30th faculty member in the war program.
Mr. McBride, a graduate of Carroll College, Montana, in 1940, came to Notre Dame and received his master of science degree in August, 1941. In addition to teaching and laboratory work, he was continuing research in the kinetics of halogen additions to clefins and had hoped to receive his degree of doctor of philosophy next May.
While the place and nature of Mr. McBride’s new work are not revealed, the urgency of the research program is indicated by his summons in mid-semester.
10
■ -	"	—	11— im i» —	■	.	■	_	_	.	.	■	■	■	■■
> x > AamuuAifuMxMi NewA,	,	,	,	,
Ml	.mi	_	_	_	_	.. —	—	।	■	■	■■	.	._	-' _—	■■;	— i— —	-	- .ii	.	■	■	... jet.
' Radio Programs Mark Centenary Week;
5 Monsignor Sheen Will Preach the Sermon
l
<1^
t
I
T !
* J*
k
Formal opening of the University of Notre Dame centennial celebration will take place next Wednesday and Thursday in anticipation of Founder’s Day, Friday, Nov. 26. This eventful Founder’s Day will mark for Notre Dame a century of progress.
Two nation-wide radio programs will be featured as an important part of the celebration. The first will take place Wednesday night, the 100th anniversary of the arrival of Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University, at the site of the present campus. A dramatization of the story of Notre Dame will be presented on the network of the National Broadcasting Company from 10:30 to 11:00, Central War Time.
The script for this great drama has been written by one of Notre ’ Dame’s ewn professors, Mr. Richard T. Sullivan, popular novelist and prominent short story writer. Special music for the script was written by Mr. Daniel H. Ped-tke, head of the department of music at Notre Dame.
On Thursday morning, Thanksgiving Day, the blue network will carry the sermon of Rt. Rev. Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, D.D., outstanding Catholic orator from Catholic University, to be delivered from Sacred Heart Church, 10:30 to 11:00, Central War Time. This sermon will be a part of the solemn high Mass of thanksgiving commemorating the University’s founding. At this Mass, the combined voices of Moreau Seminary and the Notre Dame Glee Club will sing. The two units will be directed by Rev. George C. Hager, C.S.C., director of the Moreau Choir. At the organ will be Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, director of the Glee Club.
Following this Mass, the epic unveiling of the Centenary plaque will take place by Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., bishop of the diocese of Indianapolis. The plaque, designed and sculptured by Eugene Kormendi, Budapest artist and sculptor, ■will rest in the vestibule of Sacred Heart Church. After this, there will be a procession to the monument of the founders and the site of the old Log Chapel.. Here special prayers will be offered for Father Sorin and his founding companions by Father Cousineau, Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Other events commemorating Notre
Dame’s founding will take place throughout the year. Included among these will be a series of meetings of national and regional societies, a gala music festival, a reunion of Sisters of various orders and congregations, and many conferences on current affairs.
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, D.D.
Gurian Traces Nazi Rise
At Student-Prof. Meeting
“A few years ago, nobody would have believed that the conquests which Hitler has made could ever happen.” It was Dr. Gurian addressing a large group of students and faculty members in the Rockne Lounge last Monday night. He was discussing “Hitler’s Methods of Expansion.”
Dr. Gurian divided Hitler’s expansion into four periods. The first period was characterized by a supposed desire on Hitler’s part for peace. During this period, he concluded the Reich’s concordat with the Vatican and a non-aggression pact with Poland. This period ended in 1936 with the abandonment of the treaty of Locarno.
In 1936 Hitler abandoned the guise of a man bent only on rectifying a wrong and assumed the role of protector of German minorities. “German rearmament continues at top speed; the balance
of power shifts openly now. Italy comes over to the German side.” The third period begins when open expansion is begun. “Austria is taken over.... in the name of the principle of national self determination the Sudetangerman territories were claimed and obtained with the help of England and France. After the war starts a new period opens—Germany was not only fighting for Lebensraum, but for a ‘new order.’ This ‘new order’ will be imposed by conquest on all Europe. Who is against the ‘new order’ is not only against Germany, but against Europe, even against a sound political organization of the world.__Germany will organize a new world, his world, which will be imposed upon the world by a German military victory, which I am sure, will never happen.”
Within Germany, Dr. Gurian said, Hitler was preparing for an efficient war in times of peace. He wanted to create the impression in Germany and abroad that the Nazi regime wanted peace. This impression was reinforced by the attitude of France and England, who did not make a serious attempt to stop Hitler, thus allowing him to increase his military might.
In discussing Hitler’s means of preparing dr expansion outside of Germany, Dr. Gurian related six important methods and policies which Hitler adopted. First, he made good use of the universal opposition to war which resulted from the first World War. Secondly, he used the complex which existed throughout the world that Germany had been wronged by the Versailles treaty and that this injustice was the cause of almost all serious evils in the world.
Thirdly, Hitler represented himself in Germany and abroad as the only bulwark against Communism, and thus gained the good will of many tired groups and cliques who desired only the retention of their position. Fourthly, Hitler made good use of the impression that he was a madman, a fanatic, who would soon fall and disappear. Fifthly, “England and France defeated each other. There were in England politicians who believed that it was necessary to balance the all-too-great French influence in Europe and her military power by Germany.' These wrong balance-of-power ideas were supplemented by the belief that in extreme cases Hitler could be deflected towards Russia. And in France the will to power had vanished... she was willing to make any concession demanded by England.”
11
Sixthly, Hitler used the differences within the borders of his opponents. He supported pacifists, used the liberties af-. forded the people in democracies, and accused all who sought to stop him of “war-mongering.”
In summing up these considerations, Dr. Gurian said that Hitler first wanted time for rearmament; then he would use his military prowess to threaten war, offering the alternative of minor concessions. He really wanted a succession of Munichs; that was his ideal. “World War after all was a risk.”—Al Sommer, Jr.
Next Week Will Bring
Navy Ball Announcement
N.R.O.T.C. students had a peculiar, expectant look on their faces this week as they awaited announcement of definite plans for the second annual Naval Ball to be held in early December. Frank “Tex” Crowley told a Scholastic reporter that definite details would be announced next week.
Almost certain was the fact that the Rockne Memorial, site of the first Naval Ball last winter, will not be used for this dance. Dance chairmen have asked for suggestions through the unit’s magazine, the Irish Pennant. Suggestions included in the last issue were a dinner preceding the dance and hold the Ball in a down-
' town club.
Art Future is Bright
Says Professor Sessler
With the Old World art centers under Nazi domination America has become the “Land of Opportunity” for the artist, and the prospect that American art may come into its own appears very bright, is the opinion of Professor Stanley S. Sessler, head of the department of art at the University of Notre Dame and president of the Midwestern College Art Conference.
“America is the outstanding democracy of the world today,” he said, “where people still have the Four Freedoms. The marvelous art historical background of many European countries, such as France and the Netherlands, has been brought about by a freedom of expression in painting and sculpture, which, under Hitler, is going to be stifled and bear the stamp of Nazi domination.”
“The artist will lose his identity as an individual,” Prof. Sessler warned and pointed out that glorification of the Reich and the feuhrer will undoubtedly be the most important themes to challenge the artist’s imagination.
“I have seen some of the art sponsored under the Nazi regime, he continued. “It
12
is weak, humble, and certainly not individual.” According to Professor Sessler, religion is taboo; and paganism stains their art. He referred to the German artist as becoming a “yes-man,” “Art must be independent and democratic; this can not be expected under the Nazi setup,” he said.
However, coincident with this drop in European art standards, he said, the progress in American art during the past 15 or 20 years has raised it to a high level.
“Until recently there had really never been an American art,” said Professor Sessler, “but we are becoming more national in our various art expressions.” The inferiority complex in American art went out with the realization that we had schools in America that ranked favorably with European institutions. “A European art education has lost much of its importance and glamour,” he stated.
“American artists have ceased imitating the French masters,” he went on, “but have developed a healthier, more vigorous type of art. It is on the basis of this characteristic that we can hope for leadership.”	*
“Many old world artists have come to this country as the ‘Land of Opportunity’ in art. Art must have freedom; in such a favorable environment as America affords, the artist can be his natural, individual personality and make his sincere, uninfluenced contribution to society.”
Professor Nims Receives
Prize for Poem Series
Announcement is made in the November issue of Poetry magazine of the award of the annual Harriet Monroe Lyric Prize of one hundred dollars to John Frederick Nims, instructor in English at the University of Notre Dame, for a series of “Five Poems” in the January issue of Poetry and a series of “Five Poems” in the July issue of the magazine.
The prize, given to an author showing outstanding achievement or definite promise in a poem or group of poems published in Poetry during this, its 30th anniversary year, is the sixth annual award sponsored by Mrs. James Herbert Mitchell of Chicago.
Nims, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1939, was selected by a jury of awards made up of editors of the publication and the advisory committee.
Mr. Nims is an active member of the Holyrood Chapter of the Catholic Poetry Society of America, composed of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s faculty members.
John C. Tully Elected	|
Member of Lay Trustees
John C. Tully, La Grange, Ill., banker, outstanding Catholic layman of the Archdiocese of Chicago, has been elected > a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre
Lay Trustee John C. Tully
Dame, to fill the unexpired term of the late Angus D. McDonald, president of the Southern Pacific Railroad. Both were elected alumni members of the board. The new trustee was announced by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, after the regular fall meeting of the board, held on Nov. 13.
Mr. Tully is president of the LaGrange National Bank. He was formerly president of the Bremer-Tully Mfg. Co., Chicago radio manufacturers.
When a Catholic book shop in Chicago was about to close, Mr. Tully financed its continuance as the Thomas More' Book Shop, a non-profit Catholic literary center in Chicago’s loop which has kept a strong interest in this field.
One of Mr. Tully’s three daughters, Mary Louise, was a student in Holland when that country was occupied by the Germans, but escaped to this country safely, and is at present a member of a newly formed religious community.
Mr. Tully has been active in the Notre Dame Club of Chicago and the National Catholic Alumni Federation. He was a roommate at Notre Dame of Most Rev. John F. . O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of Notre Dame, now auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy diocese.
mi-	—	....... . ■ । ■ - . .1- - — —, " ■ — i- - - -  ■ . -■ ■ usv
z ,	, y Nawf at Nolte. dbame ,	,	,	*
mi- ■	■	.	...	... - -	,i	।	- -	■ — "7	-	■	■ -	-	- -	' ~ *16^
EDITORIALLY SPEAKING
Lieutenant (j.g.) E. C. Dollard
We hear much of the confusion existing in the American mind today and there certainly is every reason for it. The very people, who are demanding an end to the confusion, are often the ones who cause it. For example, take a look at recent statements in the press. A senator declares our fleet is whipped in the Pacific. A leading writer scorns those who feel a great debt to Russia. The fact that the Navy successfully convoyed the largest expeditionary force ever to be transported in a single operation, gives way on page one to a story unfit to print about a Hollywood actor. And yet the same writers and politicians are shaking their heads over the confusion of the American mind.
As a simple test, this writer took seven statements of well known Americans and typed them. Then we asked three friends to choose which statements were made by Americans and which by the enemy. The three friends didn’t know who originally made the statements, but they unanimously agreed that four of them were made by the enemy. Herr Goebbels would smile if he knew how successful his attack had been.
Words are the weapons that defeated France. They are the rivets in our ring of steel around Democracy and the enemy knows it. We must be careful how we use them and temper them always with the basic American measuring- stick called “horse sense.” Perhaps this idea is best summed up in the words of Coach Frank Leahy, who said, “games are won only when every man on the team keeps his eye on the ball.”
The same is true in war. We will nun only if every man strives earnestly to keep his eye on the ball. A man is not confused when his only goal is victory at an j7 price.
* * +
THE FO'C'S'LE
A survivor of the U. S. cruiser, Astoria, is a recent addition to ship’s company at the Navy School. He is Manuel F. Gomes, 27, of Hollister, Calif. Gomes enlisted in the regular Navy October 9, 1939, and spent 22 months aboard the ill-fated cruiser ... he believes, as do most Navy men, that when “you’re number’s up” ... in other words there isn’t much use in worrying- about what’s coming. He relates:
“Two shells, one a five-inch and the other a three-inch, tore into a sick bay during the battle. Both of them were duds. If they had been live ones I’d be looking for a harp.
“Then there was the fireman, second class, on board, who came down with an attack of appendicitis on the afternoon of August 8, during general quarters. We rushed him to sick bay and he was operated on.
.“During the fight, in the early morning hours of the ninth he was lying in his bunk until the abandon ship ordei-was given. He crawled down from his bunk onto the stretcher and we started with him toward top side.
“We got him as far as the laddei- leading from officers’ country (quarters). There we found that the ladder had been twisted from shell fire. By juggling and twisting and balancing, we finally managed to get him to the fo’c’s’le.
“He was lowered to the deck of a destroyer that came along side to take off the wounded. I saw him a week later and he was up and around doing fine. His number certainly wasn’t ‘up.’ ”
Further details of the last fight of the Astoria could not be given by Gomes because of censorship restrictions.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Blackie,” the friendly, little dog, who has been tagging" along when the men fall in for formations is recuperating in a South Bend veterinarian hospital.
“Blackie” came down recently with eye trouble (no doubt from watching" so intently for midshipmen coming from the mess hall with food scraps).
Midshipmen in the Second Battalion took up a collection for “Blackie,” according to Lieut, (j.g.) Joe Kirby, and the pooch was sent to the veterinarian.
Visitor: Where’s Howard Hall?
Midshipman: I don’t know where you could find him, sir, but if you’ll ask the quartermaster he might be able to tell you.
Black, Howell, Zimmer
Receive Navy Promotions
Lieutenants Thompson Black and William S. Howell of the campus Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps have been advanced in rank and now rank as lieutenant commanders. Lieutenant (jg) C. J. Zimmer has been promoted to lieutenant DE-V(G), U.S.N.R.
Both of the new lieutenants commanders were graduated from Annapolis in the Class of 1933 and both were on sea duty when transferred to the campus unit. Lieutenant Zimmer was graduated from the Naval Academy in 1938 and served on the U. S. S. Lexington until 1940 when his commission was revoked because of defective vision. In March, 1942, he was recommissioned • a reserve officer, lieutenant (j.g.) and assigned to Notre Dame.	.
Ensign A. E. Coryn, a graduate of the Academy in 1939, has been assigned to the campus unit as an instructor in Seamanship and Naval Administration. He also serves as assistant procurement officer under Lieutenant Commander Black for enlistments in the V-l program. As a midshipman in 1936 he was on the U.S.S. Oklahoma when it evacuated refugees from Balboa, Spain. As the result of physical disability he was released to civilian life but returned to service in April of 1942.
N.R.O.T.C. Students Issue
Navy Day “Irish Pennant"
Freshman cadets outnumber sophomores on the staff of the latest issue of the Irish Pennant, publication of the campus N.R.O.T.C. unit. Arriving on Navy Day, the issue emphasizes this holiday in its article and the original covei- design by Louis Borghi, sophomore from Union City, N. J.
The unit’s rifle team is making plans for the winter's schedule of matches. They open with Pennsylvania and in the next semester will meet Marquette, Tulane, Virginia, Michigan, Oklahoma and Northwestern. Two of these meets will be triangular. Captain of the team is Paul Rooney. Sophomores from last year’s squad include Charley- Seghers, John Zwicker, Bob Bobbett, Pete Belmont, Chuck Montrie, and Don Finelli. Freshmen prospects include J. D. Brozo, T. D. Mahar, and R. G. Clark.
Color company competition will start this month with a cross-country run as the first event. It is being planned by Chief Specialist Jablonski, who also supervises the physical fitness program of the unit.	•
Joseph A. Conerty, Jr. is editor in chief with Vincent Bitterm, Louis Borgi, Alan Guard, Charles Lyden, and John Smith composing the staff. Nine freshmen and four sophomores contributed to the October issue.
» B
VICTORY TRADITION FAVORS IRISH IN TOMORROW'S GAME WITH N. U.
DON MURPHY
Do you remember Chuck Sweeney, and Bill Hofer? How about Juzwik in that 7-6er? What’s your guess on the shining light of the game with Northwestern in the stadium? There always is one you know, win or lose.
The tradition of victories, potential ability and seasonal records all favor the fighting Irish Saturday, but when the boys from South Bend and Evanston get together, it is usually one touchdown or even a single point which decides the outcome. Previous records are thrown out the middle window of the press box just before the kick-off.
Just for an example: in 1936, Northwestern went into the Notre Dame battle with the Big Ten title sewed up and were meeting a team which had dropped games to Navy and Pittsburgh. They stopped counting, however, after Notre Dame took a 26-0 lead. Then in 1935,- the Laydenites took a powerful Ohio State team to camp, but dropped its contest to the Purple.
Northwestern has had its troubles this year, but who hasn’t? First off they lost most of their backfield material when they passed out the diplomas. DeCorre-vont, Clawson, Kruger, and Erdlitz, not
.... and tackle like this....
to mention linemen like Baumann, Zorich, and Johnson all left. About the only man they have with any real experience in the backfield is a fellow named Otto Graham.
The game could possibly develop into a passing contest between Bertelli and Graham. It could also develop into a ground game with Ed Hirsch, who had a little fun against the Irish last year, and some one of the shifty Notre Dame backs. The Purple ends, Bud Hasse and Bob Motl, are one of the best pairs of flankers in the Mid-West and it should be a battle to the finish to see whethei-Dove, Murphy, Limont, and Yonaker can keep their heads high against these two.
Coach Lynn Waldorf had the misfortune of opening against the Seahawks. His boys bounced back, however, when Elmer Pick beat Texas •with a field goal. But since then, they have lost to Purdue, Illinois, Michigan, Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. They nearly beat the Badgers but the others were not so close. It all adds up to Northwestern’s last chance to avenge themselves for one of the poorest seasons in her history.
On the other hand, the Irish, usually one of the strongest teams in the country against Big Ten opponents, have had the misfortune to play the three teams which will probably finish one-two-three in the western conference race. They have a record of one, one, and one. This also adds up to a game in which the Irish must avenge themselves for a comparatively poor season in the Big Ten ranks. When the Irish were beaten by a great Georgia Tech team, they turned on the power against a good Stanford team and went on to win five straight. Now, they have been beaten by a great Michigan outfit. Can they turn on the power against Graham and company?
By the same token, Northwestern was humiliated by a supposedly great Iowa Preflight team. Then they beat a fairly decent Texas aggregation. Last week they were nosed out by one of the Western Conference prides. Will they bounce back again?
So, with the honor of the Big Ten at stake (from both angles), with vengeance in their hearts, and with the tradition of the past Notre Dame-Northwestern epics to consider, the near capacity crowd should see a thriller in the last of the home games of the Notre Dame centennial year.
Notre Dame will wit
PROBABQ
NOTRE DAME
Dove ___________________
Rymkus _________________U ‘
McBride- _______________
Ziemba _________________
Wright ___________________________hj tj
Neff _______________________........ Rf.
Murphy (Capt.)____________________Rf
Bertelli _________________________C
Livingstone ________________ Ashbaugh__________________________£
Clatt ____________________________I ’'
Time—2:00 (CWT). Place—Notre Da ste Probable attendance—35,000.	"
Officials: Referee—Fred Gardner (Cc ]). | Field judge—Lloyd Larson (Wisconsin)?!.
14
DISMAL SEASON FOR WILDCATS MEANS NOTHING IN TOMORROW'S TILT
EDDIE SALKOWE
Sports Editor "Daily Northwestern"
The Cavaliers will play tomorrow night for the Victory Dance at the Progress Club. Bids are $1.10 and the affair is sponsored by the Student Commission. For bids or dates see Lou Kurtz in Alumni Hail or Jack Terry in Dillon Hall.
Lr
NORTHWESTERN
_________ Motl
KJ
R
____ Kapter ____ App Burke (Capt.) ____ Vincent ____ Hasse ____ Kean ____ Graham ____ Buffmire ____ Hirsch
)a
Stadium.
£ I). Umpire—Fred Winters (Cedar Rapids). L man—Her Steger (Michigan).
It’s been a pretty dismal season for Lynn Waldorf and his Wildcats and for that reason Notre Dame’s high-flying team might already realize that they are not in for any set-up on Nov. 21. The fact NU has had a bad season won’t mean a thing when they face the Irish, for this is the one big game on their schedule that they want to win more than any other one—more than Minnesota, Ohio State or the rest.
“What,” you might ask, “does Northwestern have to make this game interesting?”
And the answer is as follows:
They have a fine triple-threat in Otto Graham who you have doubtless heard of and whom you saw last year at Dyche stadium while Paul Lillis and the rest of the Irish were administering a 7 to 6 setback on Pappy’s team. Otto is the leading offensive star in the Big Ten, mainly on account of his passing skill, but the Waukegan junior can run, too. His passing arm, by the way, will afford a good comparison with your own “Accurate Angelo” Bertelli for the second year in a row.
Besides Otto we have “Buckets” Hirsch a stocky junior of the Bob Westfall type, at fullback; Nick Vodick, our leading scorer and a product of South Bend, at right half; and Dud Kean, a 165-pound junior from Minnesota, at quarterback. Durable Don Buffmire will alternate with either Vodick or Graham and might even start at either right or left half.
In the line watch Alex Kapter at right guard, who prepped with Graham at Waukegan and is our standout lineman. You might also watch big Ray Vincent at right tackle and Bob Motl, a fine end. These two have been consistently good all season. The rest of the starters are Captain Nick Burke at left guard, Bill
Ivy, a big sophomore at left tackle, and Bud Hasse’at right end.
The breaks so far this season haven’t been too favorable to Northwestern, but that’s not the only reason we’ve lost games and so many of them. The team is famed for their slow starts, a fact which usually permits the opponents to build up a comfortable lead before the Wildcats realize that 2 pan. has come and gone. And the Northwestern ground game has been ridiculously weak so far, which accounts for our big average gain in the air. Some afternoon (and it had better be soon) the backs may begin to move.	.
That Notre Dame has a fine team we have taken as a matter of course since early October. That they have good men in Bertelli, Clatt, Wright etc., bears out your good reputation in Evanston. And that NU will have to play 60 minutes of good ball, instead of 30 or 40, in order to win the game, is another known fact. Northwestern respects Notre Dame but has not conceded the game to them yet.
There you have the story from our comer. Practically the only thing we’ll venture to predict in this crazy season is that Northwestern will make a fight out of it, and a dam good one at that.
.... block like this....
15
» > > > y Ao/te 2b<UMe Si^mIa. , , , , ,
—^—■^^—	11 ■ —■^—« ■ —IRW
Interhall Championship Game Pits Walsh Against Dillon in the Stadium
BILL WADDINGTON
It’s not the Rose Bowl, but it’s Notre Dame’s Interhall interpretation of it, at least that will be the picture when undefeated Walsh takes on Dillon, another unconquered foe, in the season’s heavyweight finale in the stadium this Sunday.
Both squads have been prepping for this battle with plenty of enthusiasm and spirit. Both have played grade A ball throughout the schedule and Sunday’s game, should be proof enough of that fact.
Bill Cuddigan, player-coach of Dillon, expressed strong optimism for his squad in the great classic. “They’ll be lucky to score cause we’ve got some pretty big fellows,” were Cuddigan’s words concerning victory. He shyed away from any other comment as he voiced: “Walsh isn’t coming out for an afternoon tea.”
Dillon Defensively Strong
The Dillon line, which is a conglomeration of huskies, will average about 185, while the Walsh contestants have to satisfy their wants with meager 162, but a spirited and fighting 162 at that.
Coach Cuddigan’s men have amassed a sizeable amount of points this season as their 14 point average indicates. Their defensive strength has hampered the goalward approach of theii' opposition to a diminishing degree. Six Dillonites tilt the scales beyond the 200 mark, which should give good indication of their stalwart defensive maneuvers.
Their attack will be a combination of both groundwork and aerials, having excelled in them throughout the season. Oppenheim will be on the tossing end of the pigskin with good receivers in Mahoney and Horning. The running attack will be varied and elusive, thus no candidate is nominated for priority honors.
Walsh Equally Strong
Walsh too will use a varied combination in their strategy on Sunday. Their line is potentially strong and spirited which makes up for the Dillon weight advantage in this department.
In the employ of the backfield there will be Jerry “Brains” Lane, who works
this position almost without substitute services. Yoklavitch, Mahoney, and Baum make up the totality of the starters back of the line.
' Lane, who gave his comments in behalf of Bill “Red” Murphy, the coach, expressed that a low-scoring contest should result as both teams will be defensively strong. He further stated that the club just once getting the ball over the goal line might easily be victors. .
Walsh will instigate three types of formations in Sunday’s tilt, the “T,” from which they often run plays, or a “T” shifting into the Notre Dame Box. The other type, seldom used is the “College of Pacific spread.”
Following are the probable starting line-ups and reserves:
WALSH	DILLON
Murphy ______________LE.----------- Horning
Lardie ______________ LT____________ Pojman
Dunn _________________LG______________ Ames
Metzler ______________G.____________ O’Neal
Doyle ____-__________RG.____________ Milliman
Guldan ______________RT O’Shaughnessy
Ley _________________RE___________ Mitchell
Lane ________________QB------------- Murphy
Yaklovitch __________LH.__________ Cuddigan
Mahoney- RH________________________ Griffin
Baum ----------------FB---------- Oppenheim
Walsh reserves: Eiyls, Huff, Murphy; tackles, Zeigler, Malloy, Vignola, Dacey; guards, Englert, Bowling; center, Carpenter; hacks, Dowling, Platt, Daly.
Dillon reserves: Ends, Dreier, Atkinson, Mahoney ; tackles, Rohan; guards, Bailey; center, Dwyer; hacks, Alexander, Hoban, White, Thomas.
EXTRA
Bob Cahill, manager of the ticket office, this week announced that the student ticket sale for the Great Lakes game in Chicago will open on Monday, Nov. 23. Sideline tickets are available to students at 50 cents plus tax making a total of 90 cents. The tickets will be distributed at the Athletic offices on presentation of student Athletic Books, anytime between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. The regular procedure will be followed in distributing the tickets.
Full Stadium Watches
Michigan Vanquish Irish
After waiting for 33 years mighty Michigan returned to the gridiron wars with the Fighting Irish and gained for themselves revenge > for the 1909 Irish win. The powerful Michigan iron man line and ‘ a fast moving, hard hitting backfield outplayed a hard fighting Irish team in a 32-20
victory before some 57,000 people.
The Irish opened the contest on a fast note when Bob Livingstone raced from the N.D. 35 through the Michigan team and on the touchdown trail. The run was what every Irish fan has waited for all season except that Bob stepped out of ” bounds on the 50-yard line. However, the Irish carried on and scored a few minutes later after an exchange of punts. A pass from Bertelli to Dove did the trick and “Bert” added one more point for good measure.
After a sensational return of the kickoff by Tom Kuzma, Michigan started moving. Kuzma and Paul White took turns battering the Irish line until they reached the 1-yard line from where Captain George Ceithaml bored through for the score. Jim Brieske, substitute center, added the extra point. * The first quarter ended on a sour note for the Irish when Livingstone fumbled . on the Irish 36 and Elmer Madar quieted the elusive ball for Michigan. In a few plays the ball was on the Irish 3 where Brieske came in again to kick a field goal, only he didn’t. Don Robinson fooled ; 57,011 people and ran around the Irish right end for a touchdown. Brieske failed . to further the humiliation.
Notre Dame came right back again • and scored on a short run by Creighton . Miller just a few plays after Captain Murphy recovered a fumbled punt by A Tom Kuzma on Michigan’s 13-yard line. Bertelli added the extra point that gave the Irish the lead when the first half . > ended.
The second half opened ■with the Irish ' kicking off to the Wolverines who put on a sustained drive that terminated when Paul White plowed over the Irish for the marker. Brieske came in the game again and added the extra point.	, Ao
Creighton Miller fumbled the kickoff .
16
“RED” LONERGAN
ALL-HALL LINEUP
- With the interhall football season practically at an end it comes time to pick an All Star squad. The squad that Commissioner Commissa chose goes something like this.
Left end—Lou Homing of Dillon, a tall rangy pass snatcher, and probably the league’s best defensive end.
Left tackle—Bob Degenhart of Alumni, a two hundred pound bone crushing tackle who was the reason for Alumni’s stellar defensive play.
Left guard—Bill Dunn was Walsh’s captain and probably the league’s most colorful lineman. He was also the finest place kicker in the circuit.	.
Center—Bob Callahan of Breen-Phillips had this position cinched early in the season and has never left a bit of doubt as to the choice. He has averaged about 35 yards a boot, and he possesses unbelievable speed for his size.
Kight guard—Breen-Phillips also holds down this position with Bob Logan who was devastating to all punters, which can be substantiated by the records which show that in two cases his blocking of punts was the turning point in these games.
Right tackle—Tony Pojman was one of the league’s finest blockers, and a bearcat on defense. He was a varsity candidate last spring.
Right end—Bob Breska of Sorin hall definitely gets the nod here, for he makes a fine imitation of Don Hutson. He was leading scorer on the league’s highest scoring outfit. Bob, a fast and dangerous runner after he gets the ball, is a constant threat to any defense.
On the backs, instead of naming them position for position, Vince has decided to name the four best backs, they are: Don Finelli of N.R.O.T.C., a little dynamo; he reminds one of a whirling dervish with his churning and spirited running. He is also a dangerous left handed passer. Bob Casey, Cavanaugh’s fullback, was their most consistent player, always good for those few extra yards. He was a fine punter and on defense he played end to give his team extra defensive strength. Bob Madden of Sorin is considered by all who have seen him as the University’s finest passer. He is extremely dangerous on short button hook passes, and his long ones make you think of Cecil Isbell. His 50-yard pass to Breska was the season’s finest play; it was a shame that Mr. Leahy wasn’t present to see that one. Pat Yoklavich of Walsh is considered the best all-around back in interhall football. Whenever he’s coming your way he is a definite problem, a problem that few teams could solve in time. He is a definite money player, taking advantage of every break.	-
Honorable mention goes to: Ends—Quinlan of Cavanaugh, and Mahoney of Dillon. Tackles—Lardie of Walsh, and Fretague of Sorin. Guards—Lewis of Sorin and Casey of Cavanaugh. Center—McDonald of Cavanaugh. Backs—Ryan of Sorin, Ghigliotti of N.R.O.T.C., Oppenheim of Dillon, Baker of Alumni, Hardigan of Breen-Phillips, and Baum of Walsh.
It was largely due to the coaches’ hard work that injuries were kept at a new low and the interest at a new high. The coaches of the respective halls are Cuddigan of Dillon, Topez of Breen Phillips, Buono of Alumni, Florence of St. Edwards, Murphy of Walsh, Ahearn of Walsh, C.P.O. Jablonski of N.R.O.T.C., and Dudley of Sorin.
If things work out all right, this selected All-Star squad will be pitted against the Purdue “B” squad in what should be a tussle worth witnessing. The tentative date wqiuld be Thanksgiving day. The squad will be in the expert hands of Vince Commisa and Bud Dudley. Again Vince, “orchids to you” for the great job you have done out there every afternoon.
way when Bertelli and John Yonaker got together to put the Irish in scoring territory again. From the 14-yard line where the ball had been placed by Bertelli, Yonaker, Clatt, and brother Tom, Creighton Miller romped over the goal line to score. “Bert” kicked the extra point and the Irish spirit hit the upgrade. But the efforts of some 15 lads in maize and blue put the damper on the green and gold clad Irish spirit by hanging on to the ball most of the remaining nine minutes of the game.
and the Wolves took the ball on the 25-yard line. The driving runs of White and Bob Wiese set the ball on the Irish 2-yard line. Tom Kuzma dove over the Irish line on the next play for the score. Again Brieske failed to do any more damage.	.
The ball exchanged hands a few times
"It ain’t so much the hours — it’s the
WOIK . . "
You said it, Butch — driving to Chicago is just plain woilc. That's why so many people prefer to ride the South Shore Line. It's the carefree, sensible way to go. No traffic congestion. No driving jitters. And when you get there, no parking problems.
Next time you go to Chicago, ride the South Shore and relax! For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3 III.
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates
before White intercepted a Bertelli pass on the Irish 25. In five plays Tom Kuzma again crossed the Irish goal stripe and again Brieske failed to convert. The third quarter ended at this point with the Wolverines far ahead in the lead after the three touchdown splurge.
The initiative again came the Irish
17
18
Three Titles at Stake Over Week-end;
Dillon Seeks to Retain Hall Laurels
At least three titles will be at stake this week-end as the last home game of the campus brings the Wildcats of Northwestern to Notre Dame. The annual Decorations Day contest to determine the best decorated hall will open Friday afternoon with Dillon as defending champions. The second title on the line will bejjecided by late Sunday afternoon when either Dillon or Walsh will reign as champions of the inter-hall heavyweight football league. Third and most important contest to be. decided will take place in Notre Dame’s brick-buff stadium tomorrow afternoon when the Irish attempt to bounce back into the win column and the Wildcats will attempt to redeem a rather sorry Reason.
Dillon, with her architects and engineers cooperating, will attempt to retain her decorations’ title with a Notre Dame player climbing over a Wildcat. Other halls are expected to enter strong bids for the crown, some of them having been at work since late in October. Absent from this year’s contest, of course, will be Morrissey, Howard, Lyons, and Badin, now housing midshipmen.
The influx of Chicago and Northwestern fans is expected to start early Friday evening and-continue on Saturday. The rivalry, one of the strongest in the midWest, should attract one of the largest home crowds of the season.
The Notre Dame marching band, which last week matched formations with the famed Michigan outfit, will have the field to themselves and will probably put on an even bigger show than they did in New York when they used 11 formations. The band will not only play at half-time but are planning pre-game' marching. Among the formations will be a special salute to Junior Prom-ites and their guests occupying the reserved seats in the end-zone section of the stadium.
Plans for the pep rally were still in the f ormulative stage early this week but a traditional Notre Dame-Northwestern rally was planned. The band will lead the students from evening Benediction to the rally at approximately 7:20 this evening.
Whether or not the glee-club concerts in Dillon-Alumni courts will be revived was problematical. Successful for the first two home games this year, they were discontinued after the Stanford game.
The Victory dance on Saturday evening will swing to the Progress Club on Colfax avenue where the Student Commission will act as sponsors.
The Scholastic has learned that the Northwestern band will probably not attend the game but that a sizable student representation will be on hand.
Early Fencing Meets
Planned for December
Through the efforts of Coach Walter Langford, the Notre Dame fencing squad will definitely have competition before the Christmas holidays. Forced ^by the unpleasant prospect of starting the regular post - Christ -mas season with his three stars, Captain Jim Mad
igan, Herb Melton, and Angel Gonzalez, graduated, the coach has arranged to meet Ohio State on Dec. 5 at Columbus, and Purdue on Dec. 7 or 8 at Lafayette. At least one home contest is expected to become a reality within the next week.
Going through their paces every afternoon the varsity is rapidly rounding into shape. Two juniors, Gene Slevin and Dave Roney, and soph Ventura Gonzalez are quickly coming up to varsity standards.
This week also marked the inauguration of interhall fencing practice. The interhall schedule is not expected to start until after Christmas, but practice matches in December will give them some competitive experience.
*	Sriarik
MEDICO
HUEIO SMOKING
GENUINE FILTERS FOR MEDICO PACKED ONLYIN THIS RED A BUCK BOX

Leonard Paces Freshmen
In Cross-Country Meet
The Notre Dame freshman harriers had their first inter-team test last Sunday trotting over three and six-tenths miles. Bill Leonard paced the 12-man field to finish in 18 minutes and 49 seconds. Frank Martin and Bob Dillon crossed the line shortly after in 19:12 and 20:00 respectively.
The first six men will be awarded medals if the priority men give them the nod. “Doc” Handy, coach of the hill and dalers, stated that he was well pleased with the performance of the frosh and gave the fellows a well deserved ten day vacation. The indoor track season is scheduled to start around Dec. 1.
Other finishers in order and their times: Lesme, 20:16; Rooney, 20:37; Finneran, 21:02; Finneral, 22:00; Mins-tretta 22:22; Wohlrab, 23:51; McCoy, 23:52; McNulty, 24:14; and Burns, . 24:43.
Jim Clark Debunks Myths Before Round - Tablers
Jim Clark, Walsh hall junior, was student speaker at the last week’s Economic Round Table Meeting and spoke on the topic, “Myths of History.” In his paper he especially assailed the theory that ammunition makers start war. The dinner meeting was again held at the Blake Gardens. Mr. M. A. Fitzsimons of the University history department was the faculty guest for the meeting. Announcement was made of a membership meeting planned for this week.
66 Baffle Fitter ThrittsSmokers
USEDIN MEDICO PIPES, CIGAR, AND CIGARETTE HOLDERS
New York—The scientific, absorbent filter has contributed mightily to the smoking pleasure of millions of men and women who have switched to Medico Filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke must travel through 66 “baffles” before reaching the mouth. Flakes and slugs are trapped; and the smoke is whirl-cooled as it winds its way through the filter.
19
FOR ALL EVENTS
Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
South Bend’s Leading BARBER SHOP
100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse)
8 TO 6 WEEK DAYS; 8 TO 8 SATURDAYS
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.
South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS .
406-408 Tower .Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS	•
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
■	825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. ' M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Interhall All-Star Team
Seeks Thanksgiving Game
Bill Waddington
Plans were well under way this week for a game to be staged Thanksgiving Day which would pit the interhall allstars against an outside aggregation, possibly some college “B” team.
Vince Connnissa, who heads the heavyweight football league, was going forward with the plans late this week but the official sanction was yet unconfirmed, that is, for an outside team to play. .
There will be, nevertheless, a contest in which Coinmisa’s all-stars would meet the inter-hall champs if the possibilities of playing an outsider have to be abandoned.
The All-Stars have been drilling for the past week but still in all, the short time in which to prepare would necessitate a good passing attack on which the Notre Dame stars could base their strategy. Running plays would take quite some time to perfect, and since the Dillon and Walsh boys selected for the allstar squad are still prepping with their respective squads for Sunday’s championship battle, their entry to all-star practice would be quite limited.
Commisa, who will coach the stars, has selected a large group of boys who have stood out in season play and placed them on the coveted roster.
The squad follows: ends, Breska, Mahoney, Homing, Quinlan; guards, Kerrigan, Logan, Lewes, Casey; tackles, Poj-man, Degenhart, Florence, Fretage, Desmet, Rice; centers Metzler, Callahan, McDonald; quarterbacks, Kremer, Lane; left halves, Ghigliotti, Oppenheimer, Madden, Yokavitch; right halves, Baker, Cud-digan; fullbacks, Baum, Ryan.
The squad in itself will comprise plenty of defensive power in the line, and their offensive punch is looked upon with equal gravity of manner.	.
From what has been displayed in the scheduled contests this season, this is. undoubtedly a star-studded lineup. All the boys have met with severe competition this fall and know how to take the bumps and bruises. Their condition is quite pleasing to Commisa, and he expects plenty of spirit and fight to spark the club between now and the rising curtain, Thanksgiving Day in the stadium.
If an outside team is secured, there is _ a strong possibility that the contest will develop into a charity affair, very likely with one or both of the services to benefit.
be your Santa's gift bag.
Don't forget to buy: MOTHER that end table; DAD that shirt and tie; SISTER Virginia that sweater; little sister Alice that doll; BROTHER Bill that football; and don't forget to buy HER that string of beads.
For the Navy man, and busy student— call, write' or see Joan Navarre, your personal shopper at ’ Wyman's.
Phone: 3-5101
WYMAN'S
DEPARTMENT STORE On Michigan at Washington Next to the Bank
20
21
FIGHTING WORDS delivered by Western Electric Radio
In the skies, Army planes fly and fight with radio command sets. On the ground, radio rides into battle in tanks — field telephones, wire and switchboards coordinate far-flung operations. At sea, radio, battle announcing systems and telephones transmit orders and reports.
Sixty years as manufacturer for the Bell System gave Western Electric the "know how” and facilities to turn out such specialized wartime equipment to "keep ’em in contact.”
Western Electric
ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS
SHORT SHOTS from SPORT SPOTS BILL REYNOLDS
Each of last year’s big- three undefeated and untied teams have been beaten three times this season—Duke, Duquesne, and Minnesota. . . . The first roster of the Iowa Naval Pre-Flight school listed some 70 men. The latest roster showed but 38 men on the squad and many of these were not among the original 70. . . . Among recent Seahawk graduation losses were: Matt Bolger, Judd Ringer, Howard Hanson, and Frank Szalay. . . . The Great Lakes Naval Station team is certainly coming up fast. In nine days ' they played three games scoring 99 points (an average of 11 per day over the nine day period) while holding their opponents scoreless. . . .
Watch the winner of the Georgia-Georgia Tech clash next week. The team that comes out on top will probably gain the mythical national championship, and is almost a sure bet to meet Boston College in the Sugar Bowl game on New ‘ Year’s Day. . . . Incidentally, watch this week’s Georgia-Auburn game and the Georgia Tech-Florida game. (Tech beat Auburn, 15-0 and in case you’ve forgotten, Georgia beat Florida, 75-0). ...
Among the players on the 1918 Great Lakes team were George Halas, Jimmy Conzehnan, and Paddy Driscoll. ...	'
When Minnesota and Wisconsin meet tomorrow they will be resuming, for the 53rd consecutive time, the oldest football rivalry in the middle west. It is also one of the oldest rivalries in the nation, starting back in 1890. . . . Minnesota has won 31 times, Wisconsin, 15, and five games have been stalemates. Only one time has there been a scoreless tie. . . .
Last Saturday Michigan did more than 1 beat Notre Dame ... It was the first time since 1916 that a team has scored as many as five touchdowns against the Irish. . . . Army did it then, 30-10. . . . Wisconsin and Purdue are the only other teams that have scored as many as five touchdowns against N.D. since 1900. ...	"
The Badgers doing so twice . . . winning 54-0 in 1900, and 58-0. in 1904. Purdue won 36-0 in 1904 also. . . . The Irish got even with Michigan for beating them in the first football game they played by winning their first intercollegiate baseball game, 6-4, from the Wolverines. ...	"
Incidentally, Notre Dame lost her first basketball game . . . losing to a team listed in the records as “ First Begi-ment.” ...
22
INTRODUCING
JACK DENNISTON
There are boys who don’t make the headlines, but nevertheless have been
of noble asset to the Fighting Irish foot
J. J. PEASENELLI
ball team for the last three years. They are the fellows who battle the first stringers during the week in practice sessions. We intend to bring you “inside,” into the life of three such Irish grid-ders.
John Joseph Peasenelli, reserve halfback, born on March 2, 1920, in Rochester, Pa., is the youngest of three brothers. An older brother, Joseph, starred for Carnegie Tech in 1933-34. John attended St. Cecilia’s grammar school and Rochester high. For two years at that school, Peasenelli paced the local gridmen and received wpial state honors. Johnny holds the distinction for being the only freshman to make the varsity squad at Rochester; and to add further to his prestige he caught a forward pass in his freshman year in one of the big games, and the man covering him spun him around and John started for the wrong goal. After a 20-yard jaunt toward the enemy goal, John realized his error, reversed his field and scampered through the entire team for a touchdown. Well, his fame spread throughout western Pennsylvania, and it wasn’t long before Peasenelli was finishing his high school at Stamford, Conn., high. In his Stamford senior year he captained the team and led in scoring, plus being named allstate and making Jimmy Powers, New York News’ All-American High School eleven. Johnny played basketball and ran the dashes on the track squad for four years.
He had always wanted to come to Notre Dame and it was finally through Walter Kennedy, former editor of the Scholastic, that John entered Notre
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Dame. Kennedy also sent George Rassas and Walt O’Meara to Notre Dame. The Iowa Seahawk game this year was the longest Johnny has played in intercollegiate competition. And we all know, Johnny almost went through the big Seahawk team for a touchdown.
At present John is athletic director of
DO YOU DIG IT?
Submitted by Mr. Charles Conroy Houston, Texas
the kitchen and raid the ice-box for PepsiCola. And that’s a treat in any language!
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it, you get $10. If we don’t, you get a rejection slip. Mail slang to College Department, Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N. Y.
Breen-Phillips hall. This summer he was in charge of boxing and started his new game of Tether Ball among the faculty. He is interested in any outdoor sport; and loves to make up new athletic games; and enjoys working and teaching the younger fellows the inside of the many sports he is acquainted with. His music favorite is Vaughn Monroe and his favorite dish is Jeane Pierne’s (his girl friend) mother’s Italian sausage. He is awaiting a Navy reserve appointment and will probably go into the service immediately after graduation with a B.S. degree in -Physical Education this December.
r better
Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers from coast to coast.
13
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” . . . Michigan at Washington
It's Adlers for Arrows!
You'll find Arrow formal shirts and a huge selection of Arrow whites and patterned at Adler’s — a collar style for every man.
Arrow Gordon Is B. S. 0. C*
spot iu campus popularity Gordon Oxford shirt—with
regular and button-down collars. Gordon fits you perfectly, because it is cut on the Mitoga form-fit pattern. What’s more,’ it can’t shrink more than a
microscopic 1%, for it hears the Sanforized label. All for just a slight fee — $2.50.
Arrow ties arc swell bosom companions for Arrow shirts! SI up.
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES . COLLARS • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR. SPORT SHIRTS
John Francis Lanahan, senior reserve
center from Jacksonville, Fla., was born
in that city on Aug. 21, 1921. Just to
.T. F. LANAHAN
add to the confusion of “21’s”: John was 21 his last birthday, and he wears 21 on his jersey. He has one brother and one sister. His brother Dennis J. was a center for Loyola University in New Orleans in ’36.
John attended St. Joseph’s Academy and \ Immaculate Conception High school in Jacksonville. At “I. C.” he was an allcounty tackle and played against such standouts as Jimmy Nelson, Alabama, and John Hannock and Al Faulkner, both of Georgia Tech. Lanahan played basketball and captained that team for two years, and was placed on the Catholic All-State team. He points out the AllState nomination as his greatest high school thrill. He was also first baseman ’
on the high school nine. Besides all this he took part in the school’s dramatic presentations and quite often was cast in the plays as the hero.
John is best known for his swimming feats. He was a life guard for five years -on the Florida beach and boasts of eight rescues among which was a rescue of a woman. He had to give her artificial respiration for. 20 minutes before she revived. The doctor said he couldn’t have v done any better and gave all credit to Lanahan for being a competent life guard. He also served as a swimming instructor at the Jacksonville Naval Base for a year.
It has been his mother’s ambition for her son, John, to come to Notre Dame; so ' Johnny headed north in ’39. His biggest thrill from football was playing most of the Army game in his sophomore year. ... He still remembers that game, for he rates Hank Mazur and “Red” Evans as the best back and lineman he has faced. Also in his soph year he was on the ' gym team; and last year a member of the famous St. Ed’s A.C. interhall basketball team. This summer he made the volleyball All-Star- team because his roommate Vince “Commissioner” Com-misa was soft hearted and placed the bronzed Jacksonviller on the All-Star " unit. He also served as life guard at St. Joe’s lake during the summer semester.
John’s idol is his father. The “Rebel” goes in for the classical music and he likes the compositions of Wagner best. He, as all true Southerners, names fried -chicken as his favorite dish. He has enlisted in the Marine Reserve and probably will be called into service after graduation in December when he receives his B.S. degree in physical education.
24
Lawrence Patrick Sullivan, reserve right tackle, was born in Brockton, Mass., on Nov. 2, 1919. Larry has one brother and one sister who preceded him to Winthrop grammar school. Larry went on to Brockton high where he played guard and end for four years on a team that was state champion for two straight years. Lou Montgomery and Henry Wor-onicy and a few other of the Boston College boys played with this 6' 1", 215-pound giant. His bulky frame was useful as a defense man on the hockey team. He won All-State honors as a hockey stalwart. He finished out his senior year at Brockton by catching on the baseball team that won the state championship.
He prepped a year at Tilton (N.H.) Prep where as a tackle he intercepted a pass and rambled 60 yards for a touchdown and his greatest thrill from high school football.
HEADQUARTERS FOR ARMY AND NAVY SHOES
.’6^
Custom and Normal
Treds $g-50
@ 'Dcuqfai Shoes
W. L. DOUGLAS f SHOE CO., BROCKTON. MASS.
The Eton A military typeshoein rich brown
leather Comfortable plain toe; strap and buckle, styled for a nation at war. No. 4538
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Open Monday Evenings until S:30
Larry always wanted to come to Notre Dame, and upon the persuasion of Fred Solari, a 1935 Irish center, he came to the University. His biggest thrill here came from playing in the Navy game as a sophomore. Gene Flathmann, big exMiddie tackle, is the best lineman Sullivan has faced, while Billy Hillenbrand, the Indiana U. speedster is the top back he has played against.
His idol is Knute Rockne. He plugs the hometown Lieut. Eddie Duchin, a Brockton lad, as his favorite musician. Now Vaughn Monroe is top “jiver” for Larry. Sullivan would like to go into the coaching field or the shoe business after graduation this December with a B.S. degree in Physical Education, but he has enlisted in the Marine Corps Reserve and will be called to service some time next March.
The Commander
Black Plain toe Navy type oxford. First choice with Navy men for 24-hour comfort.
No. 4035
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
jb. fauebuf
SWING HIGH
Little Willie hanged his sister;
She was dead before they missed her. Everything went okey-doke, But sister couldn’t take a choke.
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
FOR VICTORY! BUY WAR SAVINGS STAMPS AND BONDS
Toilet Articles Supplies
Wrestling and Gymnastics
Underway in Memorial
Expected to slip into the campus athletic spotlight when things have been rounded into shape will be three inside winter -sports—wrestling, volleyball and gymnastics. Rockne Memorial is the scene of the wrestling and gynmastics while volleyball sessions will be staged on the frosh hardwood in the field house.
Wrestling activities have already begun under the direction of Bud Biittner. Each Monday, Wednesday and Friday afternoon at 4:15 o’clock the matmen
“The Coke’s in”
“That’s the happy greeting heard today when a new supply of Coke arrives at a cooler. Folks wait for it... wait because the only thing like Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola itself. Customers smile and start moving up to pause and be refreshed.
“There’s a cheerful spirit about this way of accepting wartime restrictions. Morale is high.’’
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
swing into action in the light apparatus room at the Rockne. Definite plans for elimination contests will be announced when the program has gained enough momentum.
Volleyball competition will be staged and carried out on an elimination basis this semester and leagues will be formed. Each hall may enter any number of teams and after this week of practice rounds, the sessions will move forward in earnest. At present Cavanaugh Hall is putting in a fine effort and has the beginning of a smart team lined up. St. Ed’s also is itching for the fun to start. As was stated before, these volley
ball matches will be conducted on Tuesday and Thursday nights of each week at 7:30 and 8:15.
Gymnastics, conducted in the heavy apparatus room of the Memorial, have also started under* the direction of Mr. Maxwell, assistant director of physical education. The revival of this old sport seems to be popular and initial workouts are rounding into shape.—J. D. Usina
Students Invited to See New Aquinas Library
Notre Dame students have been invited to visit the newly formed Aquinas Library and Book Shop at 110 E. LaSalle Street, South Bend. The formal opening of the library took place last Sunday afternoon.
This Catholic intellectual center brings a wide selection of books by modern authors for the general public and includes facilities for rental books and reading rooms.
Plans will be announced in the future for book reviews, lecture series in languages, art appreciation and creative writing. A fine selection of pamphlets, religious articles, greeting cards and objects of art are also offered by this organization which has as purpose the promotion of good literature.
Vacation Dates Remain
As Formerly Announced
An official announcement by Rev. John Lane, C.S.C., Assistant Director of Studies, as to the extent of Christmas vacation has once more squelched student rumors.
As previously announced in all classes, examinations for the present semester will be on Thursday and Friday, Dec. 17th and 18th, with commencement exercises on Sunday afternoon, Dec. 20th. The start of the January semester remains the same as announced in the 1942 catalogue. Registration will take place Wednesday and Thursday, Jan. 20th and 21st, and classes will begin at 8 a.m., Jan. 22nd.
CURB SERVICE AND DELIVERY WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN* Special Prices to Students and V-7!
American Shoe Service New, Modern Repair Shop AU work guaranteed
Phone 2-4830	613 N. Michigan
(Two blocks South of Bridge)
26
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Xmas Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Interhall Swimming Meet
Tommy Mills again reminded the prospective Johnny Weismullers of their chances of winning medals for themselves. The interhall swim meet scheduled for Dec. 9-10 is moving up fast. There will be eight events with medals going to the first three men in each event. Mr. Mills believes that the boys still have plenty of time to get in condition.
O'Dea, Downey Present Two Wrangler Papers
Two juniors, Dan Downey of West Palm Beach, Fla., and James O’Dea of Lowell, Mass., highlighted the recent Wrangler meetings with papers on postwar problems. Last night Downey presented the steps that must be taken towards a permanent peace after this war and a week ago O’Dea outlined the postwar economic organization of the world. Downey maintained that certain attitudes on the part of most citizens must be broken down before any definite steps can be taken. He included in these attitudes the feeling of intense patriotism, a lack of faith in world peace, and the fallacy of believing in excessive armaments. He pointed out the necessity of having a world court with sanctions and said that good will, justice, and charity were necessary for all nations.
O’Dea’s far-reaching economic organization of the world included a free trade provision and international cooperation. In rebuttal, he said that he was attempting to present a long-range view of the problem and answered members’ criticisms by pointing out that they did not realize the intent of his paper.
With one week out for Thanksgiving, the Wranglers will resume their meeting in December with Lyle Joyce as speaker.
^p ^p ^p ^p	i^p	^p ^p
STRICTLY INSTRUMENTAL
Frank King
•*«	♦♦♦	^p ^p	*2
Stew Bad. I always thought that Woelfle was a little more-on-the-ball than that clutching-at-the-straw attempt at humor in last Friday’s Week indicated.
Why don’t you keep trying to be funny and leave music and its correlatives to “them as knows it?” (You’ll undoubtedly be in need of gags next week so why don’t you say, “Sure, I’ll leave music to them as knows it, but who knows it?” No charge, Jack). The brilliant observation in last Friday’s Week that all the members of the Cavaliers are also members of the marching band is right— about 70% right. You seem to have forgotten three very important people. Mike Zorovich, guitarist. . . who may not play with the Cavaliers but pray tell, why does he sit on the bandstand at every job and play the same song that the Cavaliers play? Henry Kane, male vocalist has had his name in the roster for the past few months. Lenore Frohmader . . . girl vocalist. If she’s in the marching band, I’m going to start my French horn lessons again.
Dropped up to see Johnny Messner at the McAlpin when I was in New York. Walked in at 11:30, walked out 11:35. . . . swell band. Harry James, currently building up the excess profits at the Lincoln Hotel has the A-l band in the country. His saxes had the old bounce and played together like machines. His brass is perfect, and even the violins are good the way he uses them. As for Harry, if he keeps practicing, he’ll soon take over Gabe’s job for good. -
For all the members of the “Down with the Ink Spots Club of America” there is joy on the record front. Glenn Miller made a swell reoerd before he left for the army called “Juke Box Saturday Night.” The record opens with some nice warbling by Tex Benecke and this is followed by Billy May’s excellent imitation of Harry James’ theme Ciribiribin.
Leading in the rumor department: Count Basie is soon to be offered a commission ir£ the army much after the fashion of Glenn Miller, Kay Kyser, et al. It is significant that the government is quick to recognize that the Negroes are just as deserving of these lush jobs for the duration as the white maestros are. It took a war to make our leaders recognize that all men are really equal.
HOLD THAT HAIRLIME!
Baima tai aadal m-caaa itatai •• yw*M, aifanaa taatatan. Lal
W WMW	*!•
MriM fail tai tola ...teat ta iaai caaaa «i raeadUf faMiaat Aw aaamtnatian. Traateanb *1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN S SHOP
413 City NatfMuJ Bank Bldg-
GIFTS
Beautiful and practical gifts of leather . . . easy to mail to the brother or friend in service.
Mail them nowl
HansARintzsch
138 N. Michigan
IT IS NOT TOO LATE; MEET THE GANG AT.THE
SUNNY ITALY for
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under the new ’ management of Leonard and Bob
Sunny Italy Cafe
601 N. Niles Avenue Phone 3-0678
27
LIBRARY
i
NOTRE DAME, PW.
ROSALIND RUSSELL now starring in the new Columbia picture rMY SlSTER ElLEEN ’
Copj right 19-42. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.