w mra dote
SCHOLASTIC
hot (wus news mom
COACH JOHN P. NICHOLSON —Leads His Men into Marquette
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
U. THEATER OPENS SATURDAY DEBATERS SET FOR TOURNEY BENGAL BOUTS. MARCH 19
LAYDEN BOOMS WINTER SPORTS BASKETEERS IN NEW YORK BOXING CLASSES SET
THE WEEK COLLEGE PARADE INTRODUCING
FEBRUARY 12. 1937
"The Voice of Experience
the man with the million dollar throat
J
insists on a light smoke
THE FINEST TOBACCOS— “THE CREAM OF THE CROP”
FRIEND AND COUNSELOR TO MILLIONS OF RADIO LISTENERS
"My voice is my career. It has inspired more than five million people to confide in me their personal problems. During 25 years, first on the lecture platform and then on the air, 1 have never missed a single engagement because of my throat. 1 am a steady smoker, and because my throat and voice are vital to my career I insist upon a light smoke. In Luckies I find a light smoke plus the enjoyment of fine tobacco . . . and that’s ivhy Lucky Strikes have been my choice for 14 years.”
An independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke.
"The Voice of Experience” verifies the wisdom of this preference, and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process "It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat.
A Light Smoke "It’s Toasted”-Your Throat Protection
AGAINST IRRITATION—AGAINST COUGH
Copyright 1937, The American Tobacco Company
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
February 12, 193/
No. 15
4 0TH WASHINGTON DAY EXERCISES SCHEDULED
| CURTAIN RISES TOMORROW NIGHT FOR FIRST SHOWING OF "WHISTLING IN THE DARK." GRIPPING DRAMA OF GANGDOM
Carrying on a tradition born in 1897, Charles Meyers, senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Elgin, Illinois, will deliver the annual
Orator Charles Meyers “On this hallowed (/round. . .”
Washington Birthday oration from the stage of Washington Hall on Monday, February 22.
The traditional Senior Flag, given to the University by the graduates of each year, will be presented by R. Parker Sullivan of Lexington, Kentucky, president of the class of 1937.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will formally accept the gift from the class.
The faculty and graduating seniors will parade in academic caps and gowns on the morning of the affair. The cap and gown committee in charge of these arrangements is headed by Lloyd Stolich. Caps and gowns will be distributed from the Walsh Hall Dome offices beginning at 9:00 a.m. Sunday, Feb. 21. Those yet uncalled for will be given out starting at 7:00 a.m. Monday.
The University Band will furnish music during the actual birthday program according to arrangements completed this week by the general committee. The committee is working under Ned Joyce, chairman, and is composed of Vincent Murphy of Evanston, Ill., John Kaiser of Eau Claire, Wis., and Bernard Neizer of Fort Wayne, Ind.
Actual starting time of the exercises, details of assembly and other arrangements will be announced in The Scholastic of February 19.
By Richard Riley
The large green curtain in Washington Hall will part at exactly 8:15 p.m. tomorrow evening to give Notre Dame first nighters the premiere campus theatrical production of the year, “Whistling in the Dark.” The performance will be repeated at the same time Sunday evening.
Sixty-Five Guests Join Pharmacy Students At Dinner Party
•
The staff of teachers in the Department of Pharmacy, students enrolled in the department, and 65 guests attended the dinner party given jointly by the South Bend Pharmacy club and the Department of Pharmacy at the University, which was held last week in the Lay Faculty dining hall.
Leading the list of notable speakers was Lawrence W. Baldinger, head of the Department of Pharmacy here, who gave an evaluation of the lives of the professional pharmacists.
Other interesting figures who spoke were Albert Knobel, president of the South Bend Pharmacy club; Henry B. Froning, head of the Department of Chemistry; A. J. Dougherty, distinguished president of the Indiana Pharmaceutical Association; and 0. E. Russell, member of the Indiana State Board of Pharmacy.
Bernard A. Marty, a senior in the College of Science from Decatui-, Ill., and president of the Pharmacy club here, was toastmaster of the affair. Honored guests at the dinner were the Hon. Edward C. Went, mayor of Mishawaka, Ind., and the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science.
The second portion of the affair, held in Chemistry Hall, was featured by a talk on “Bacteriology as Applied to Pharmacist” which was given by Robert F. Ervin, one-time president of the Pharmacy club and now a graduate student in pharmacy.
Unique in the annals of the club were the novel contests conducted at the close of the meeting. Prizes were awarded in four contests: “Ad” contest, slogan contest, common name contest, crude drug contest.
This play, written by Lawrence Gross and Edward Charles Carpenter, was first presented at the Ethel Barrymore Theater in New York City. The production was especially well received by both the critics and the audience. In its original presen-
• Prof. Frank Kelly
Build scenery for Whistlers.
tation, such theatrical and cinema stars as Ernest Truex, Claire Trevor and Edward Arnold played the parts of the major characters.
In this interpretation of the play, the part of the leading character, Wallace Porter, will be played by John Brassell. Frank Ciolino will take the part of Toby Van Buren, Porter’s fiancee. The Boss of the gangsters, Jake Dillon, will be George McDermott.
Other supporting parts in the cast include Slim Scanlon, played by Jack Scott; Herman Lefkowitz played by James Brown; Joe Salvatore represented by Fructuoso Barredda; and Charlie Shaw played by George Morris. Paul Lenihan will take the other feminine part, that of Hilda, a dope addict.
The story contains plenty of thrills with considerable humor woven into
(Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
DEBATERS PREPARE TO DEFEND OLD LAURELS IN MANCHESTER TOURNEY; BRAME. FITCH.
OSBORN AND DUGGAN TO ENTER
'RETURN TO DOGMAS' SHEED URGES IN TWO LECTURES
By Harold A. Williams
Working to duplicate or better their position of last year, when they placed second, the University’s “B” debating team went through a week of intensive practice in preparation for the state tournament at Manchester College, North Manchester, Indiana, on February 26 and 27.
Mr. William J. Coyne, associate professor of speech and debating coach, has named the following “B” team for the tournament: Affirmative: Frank Brame and Redman Duggan; Negative: Charles Osborn, and Frank Fitch. Brame, Duggan and Osborn, are Juniors; Fitch a sophomore.
Besides Notre Dame, 14 other schools will participate in the tournament. They are: Purdue, Indiana,
Debater Charles Osborn Seeks Affirmative Scalps.
Butler, Franklin, DePauw, Indiana State Normal, Earlham, Valparaiso, Ball State Teachers, Indiana Central Goshen, Wabash, Hanover, and Manchester.
The Varsity debating team will open its season with a non-decision meet with St. Xavier’s college of Louisville, Ky., on Feb. 28.
Enter Mid-West Tourney
Following the St. Xavier debate the Varsity team will participate in the Mid-West Invitational tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, March 4 and 5. On March 18 and 19 at the University of Wisconsin the team will take part in the Delta Sigma Rho tournament.
Individual debates have been scheduled with the University of Florida, University of Alabama, and Michigan State College. Two other schools have been tentatively scheduled but their names have not yet been revealed.
o
James W. Linn Selected To Speak At Press Club Banquet
•
The annual Press club banquet will be held on Thursday evening, March 4, in the Faculty dining hall. Announcement of the exact date for the banquet was made early this week by Professor John M. Cooney, head of the University department of Journalism.
James Weber Linn, associate professor of English, at the University of Chicago -will be the principal speaker of the evening. Mr. Linn, nephew of the late Jane Adams of Hull House, has been interested in newspaper work for a number of years and has had several articles appearing in the Chicago Daily News recently. Mr. Linn is a recognized authority in English composition, having published an interesting and enlightening book on this subject, The Essentials of English Composition.
Several other men prominent in the literary and newspaper field are being considered as speakers on this program but no definite announcement has yet been made concerning this matter. However, the entire program is expected to be completed in a few days.
The tentative price for this year’s dinner has been set at one dollar a plate. This is a slight reduction from last year’s dinner and should encourage more students to attend.
Missourians Plan First Communion Breakfast
Plans for their first Communion Breakfast will be discussed by the members of the Missouri club at the next meeting slated to be held in the near future.
This affair, according to Edward J. Reardon, president, is to be held in conduction with the recently reorganized Texas club, and it is to be the first of a series of social events scheduled for the second semester.
A dearth of Catholic writers, artists, and philosophers during the past several hundred years is the result of a “state of siege” in which all the vitality of the Church has been bent to her defense rather than to artistic development.
This was the message given by Francis Sheed, famous Catholic lecturer* and writer, in a series of two lectures in Washington Hall on Monday and Tuesday nights. Mr. Sheed’s topic was “Theology and the Writer.”
“A closer relationship between theology and the layman is necessary to relieve this unfortunate situation,” Mr. Sheed declared. “Apologetics
Publisher Francis Sheed “Leave state of siege. . .”
alone is no remedy because it attempts to prove and defend truths rather than explain them thoroughly. Apologetics is a skeleton of the structure.”
Catholic writers are handicapped by an incomplete view of life, Mr. Sheed maintained. He pointed out that many Catholic writers know the essence and proofs of Catholic- philosophy but have not yet acquired in their writings a "totality of outlook.”
A thorough knowledge of the Bible was advocated in the lecture. Mr. Sheed pointed out that too often Catholics neglect the biblical study in the pursuit of catechistic studies. In illustrating this point and its relation to writers, Mr. Sheed pointed out that out of thirteen prominent English Catholic •writers twelve are converts, Hiliare Belloc being the sole exception.
“Now is the time,” urged Mr. Sheed, “to come out of the ‘state of siege’ and open all the doctrines of the Church. Let every Catholic have the well-rounded view of his religion that can be provided only by the dogmas themselves. Then Catholic artists will regain their position in the field of achievement.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
BENGAL BOUTS SCHEDULED FOR MARCH 19; PROCEEDS OF SIXTH ANNUAL SHOW
WILL GO FOR MISSION WORK
Friday night, March 19 at 8:00 o’clock, the gong will ring sending the cream of University boxers into action for the Sixth Annual Bengal Boxing Show sponsored by The Scholastic.
Since the spring of 1932 the Bengal Bouts have been under the direction
of The Scholastic and have always been a high spot in the winter sport program. Interest has grown to such an extent that last year’s bouts were fought before a crowd that jammed every available seat.
The first show was under the direction of Neil Hurley and was featured by the famous Perrone-Heitz battleroyal. It was here that Jerry DuWan, an Indiana boy, was crowned the first heavyweight champion of the Bengal series.
Editors Edmund Stephan and Jim Kearns sponsored shows in 1933 and 1934. With steadily increasing popularity and long entry lists, these bouts presented Max Marek, sensational Golden Gloves battler to University spectators. Marek is now a ranking heavyweight in professional circles.
Last year the bouts hit a new high. With several C.Y.O. battlers on the card, and the colorful wrestling fiasco of Conner and Tancredi, the bouts drew record attendance.
This year’s program is already underway and promises to outstrip anything of the past. Boxers are already working out daily in the fieldhouse under the tutelage of Frank Schiavone. Afternoon and evening classes have been necessary to accommodate the group interested in boxing.
James “Shadow” Hack, whose exhibition last year drew gales of applause, will again turn his nimble wit to fisticuffs. This year he will probably battle an unknown opponent in what should be a three-round laugh riot.
Worthy successors to Conner and Tancredi are turning up in scores and will be ready for the spotlight on March 19.
Tickets will go on sale several days ahead of the bouts. Twenty-five cents, the traditional price for the show, will again prevail.
Patricians Meet
Matthew Bruccoli, president of the Patricians, presided at the club’s first meeting of the new semester held Monday.
The photographing of the members has been arranged and their individual pictures will appear in the Dome, the University’s year book.
ANNOUNCE EXTENSIVE LENTEN SERVICES
SCHEDULE
Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., is to preach the Wednesday sermons during Lent, which began Wednesday, February 10, according to an announcement this week by the prefect of religion, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. For his topics Father Burke has chosen “Mortal Sin,” “Purity,” “Missing Mass,” and the “Passion.”
Rather than arrange a complicated schedule for the Lenten period, Father1 Cavanaugh has left most of the practices up to the individual, so the services will be simple.
Friday night’s Way of the Cross will be held in the main church at 7:30 p.m. for Carroll and Brownson halls. In other halls, it will be held according to the discretion of the rectors.
As usual, benediction will be held in the main church on Sundays at 7:00 and 7:30, except for the third Sunday of the month, when Mass of the Exposition will be said at 9:00 o’clock.
Mass will be said and communion distributed every morning in the basement chapel. Confessions will also be heard there every evening after supper.
Devotions during Holy Week are
CATHOLIC EDITORS TO CONVENE IN
MILWAUKEE
•
Under the joint auspices of the Catholic School Press association and the Marquette School of Journalism, the National Catholic Press Educational Congress will convene in Milwaukee, Wis., Feb. 20 for a three day session.
The Congress will be addressed by prominent Catholic writers, editors, educators, historians, philosophers, and sociologists. Notre Dame will be represented by Paul E. Foley, editor of The Scholastic.
“The Catholic Press and the Modem Problem” is to be the general topic for discussion at the various forums to be held in the Marquette University High school.
Among the distinguished persons to address the Congress on this subject are Dr. Paul Hanley Furfey, acting head of the department of sociology at the Catholic University of America and author of Fire on Earth; Dr. Ross Hoffman, professor of history at New York university who wrote Restoration and the Will to Freedom; and the Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., national director of the Sodality of Our Lady and a well-known Catholic pamphleteer. .
Other outstanding speakers will be Dr. Anton J. Pegis, member of the department of philosophy at Marquette university and the Rev. Raphael C. McCarthy, S.J., president of Marquette university.
Dr. Edward A. Fitzpatrick, dean of the graduate school; Dr. William M. Larners, director of the school of speech; the Rev. Raphael N. Hamilton, S.J., regent of the College of Journalism at Marquette; and the Rev. James A. Magner of Quigley Preparatory Seminary have been named as chairmen of the general sessions.
His Grace the Most Reverend Samuel A. Stritch, archbishop of Milwaukee, will preach the sermon at the Press Congress Mass scheduled to be held at Gesu Church on Sunday, Feb. 21.
being arranged by the superior of the Community House, instead of the prefect of religion, because so few students will be present at the time. Nothing definite has been plannd yet.
Tuesday evening, Father O’Hara, president of the University, preached at the 7:00 and 7:30 o’clock services. At 7:30 the Forty Hours Devotion was brought to a close with procession of the Blessed Sacrament and Benediction.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE HEARS DICK FLOOD AND O'DONNELL
•
The greater part of the first regular meeting in the new semester of the Academy of Science held Monday was devoted to the reading of papers on selected scientific theories. “Theories in .Embryology” was the title of an essay presented by Richard Flood. The aim of this paper was to give a historical account of the embryological branch of biology.
Flood said: “A hard struggle was necessary before the present theory of embryology — all life progresses from a relatively simple organism to a relatively complex organism—was accepted by scientists.”
A second paper entitled “Chromosomes in Relation to Haemophilia” was given by Hugh O’Donnell. This paper was based on genetics and the Mendelian Law, and was illustrated by cases taken from actual record that the disease was of a hereditary character.
In an election held at the close of the meeting, Larry Burnett was placed on the executive committee.
"Not The Work of America's Best Artists" Says Prof. Jacques of Second Art Display
By Fred Sisk
“Although supposed to represent the best American artists, the second group, like the first group, represents a clique from New York.” Such was the assertion of Prof. Emil Jacques, of the University art department, regarding his opinion of the second in the Living Art series of pictures which are on display in the University library.
These pictures are being dis-Pbof. Emil Jacques played widely throughout the country in an effort to stimulate appreciation for contemporary art, and to also offer to the general public pictures by well-known artists at a reasonable price. The first group of 12 pictures of this collection were displayed a few weeks ago in the University library, and this week a new group of 12 additional pictures are being exhibited. In all, there are to be 48 pictures to be shown in this collection.
In addition, Professor Jacques said that there are many better known American artists whose work has not
Federal Radio Control Viewed in Second
N.D. "Lawyer"
The Notre Dame Lawyer, the quarterly law review, will make its second appearance of the year, early next week. As in the first issue, there ■will once again be a distinguished group of contributors.
“Federal Control of Defamation by Radio” will again be ably conducted by Mr. Joseph E. Keller, administrative assistant to Fayette H. Brown of the Federal Communications Commission.
Professor Clarence Manion will discuss “Two Preambles: A Distinction Between Form and Substance.”
“Uniform State Legislation Through Interstate Compacts” is contributed by Mr. Herbert Feible-man, of Miami, Fla. Mr. Feibleman is a prominent attorney there, and is associate editor of the Commercial Law Journal, and the Florida Bar Journal. He has also contributed to many of the outstanding law periodicals throughout the country.
Student contributions include a dis-(Continued on Page 8)
been included in the first two groups of pictures, but he went on to say, “The pictures don’t represent the best in American art, but the exhibitors of the collection of pictures may not want to give the best pictures at the beginning.”
Probably the outstanding picture in the present group of -12 pictures is “The Kid” by Isabel Bishop. The features which make it the best work are the color and figure used by the artist and also that the picture represents a well-constructed piece of work.
The best artist represented in the present collection is Alexander Brook, whose picture “My Wife” is included in the display.
Those pictures to criticize are: “Autumn Leaves” by Georgia O’Keeffe, which is merely a study of leaves and has no artistic value other than this; a picture “Fire Eater” by Franklin Watkins is not as good as it might be, because the figure in the painting is too dim and lacks true , identity; “Outdoor Circus” by Lucile Blanch is rather childish and shows no real craftsmanship; and “The Village Church” by Emil Ganso, a quite well-known American artist, is not an accomplished work of art, but only an indication of skill.
THREE NEW BOOKMEN CHOSEN FROM TEN CANDIDATES
From a list of ten applicants, the Bookmen, campus literary club, selected three new members, during their regular semi-monthly meeting
Bookman Harold Williams Peers at new members.
in the former library of the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
The announcement of the three new members will be made next week following a careful investigation of the applicant’s record by the membership committee.
Each of the ten applicants appeared singly before the club for questioning by the members on his current and past reading among contemporary authors. After the questioning the applicant was asked to deliver a short, informal talk on some phase of modern literature of particular interest to himself. After the last applicant had spoken the club discussed and tentatively appointed three as new members; final appointment resting on the findings of the membership committee under the direction of Hal Williams, chairman.
At the meeting, Bob McGrath, president of the club, gave a short resume of the club activities during the past semester and outlined the plans for the coming half year. Plans for guest speakers were discussed and faculty members chosen for talks at future meetings. Announcement of these speakers will be made next week in The Scholastic.
A, S. M. Hears Engineer
Mr. R. G. McElwee, foundry engineer of the Vanadium Corporation, of America, spoke on the subject of “Cast Iron” at the regular meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals held last Wednesday evening in the Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Thoroughly qualified to discuss this important subject with authority, Mr. McElwee treated malleable iron as a commercial product and spoke of the methods commonly used for melting, casting and annealing it.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937	7
CRAFT UNION DOOMED BUCKLEY TELLS LAY FACULTY
A prediction that the industrial union will soon supplant the craft union in this country was voiced Monday evening by Louis F. Buckley,
associate professor
Professor Buckley
of economics, in his paper read before the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty club at its monthly dinner - meeting in the Morningside hotel, South Bend. “The Organized Labor Movement in the United
States” was the title of Professor Buckley’s paper.
“Machines have discounted skills in trades to the point where skills are no longer so important a factor in industry,” Professor Buckley said. “Industrial organization is, therefore, a natural thing in the modem industrial world; it is bound to come. The industrial union is more closely in touch with modem development.”
Professor Buckley traced the history of organized labor, and compared briefly the closed shop, the open shop and the union shop. He condemned the so-called racketeering in labor unions, but insisted that, very often, such racketeering merely reflects the employers’ policy of hiring thugs to break strikes.
“Collective bargaining is essential in a democratic form of government,” the speaker said in closing. “If we admit, on the one hand, that a man has the right to choose his rulers and make his laws, then we cannot, on the other hand, deny him the right to have some voice in determining the conditions under which he works for his livelihood.”
In the lengthy discussion which followed his paper, Professor Buck-ley defended the sit-down strike as being a necessary extension of the right to picket. He said that, in many cases, strikers could control their rights to their job only by a sit-down policy.
Smoker Soon
At the meeting of the Detroit Club last Wednesday night, President Ruen disclosed the fact that the club was to have a smoker in the near future.
Throughout the meeting plans for the affair were discussed. At the conclusion, the date of the event was still in doubt.
Lawyer's Duty Stressed By Marquette Dean
Taking “Duty of the Present Lawyer” as his topic, Mr. Francis X. Swietlik, dean of the Law School of Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis., addressed members of the Law club and Law faculty last Monday afternoon in the law auditorium.
Dean Swietlik pointed out that every era has problems to settle, and the problems of the present lawyer is that of natural rights in regard to definition and preservation of office. Dean Swietlik commented on the proposed enlargement of the Supreme Court and said that it is permissible because it isn’t a violation of constitutional principles and is only a change in form.
FOUR PROGRAMS ARE ADDED TO RADIO SCHEDULE
•
By Robert McClain
Four new programs have been added to the regular campus broadcasts emanating from the Campus Studio, in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. The new broadcasts will be supplemented to the regular radio schedule the latter part of February.
The first of the new programs will be a series of faculty lectures delivered Wednesday evenings from 7:00-7:15. Reverend Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., assistant professor of sociology, inaugurated the series Wednesday evening with a discussion on current social problems. Next week, Mr. R. Gartland, instructor of economics in the College of Arts and Letters, will deliver the second address of the series, followed by Mr. Henry C. Staunton, professor of English.
Under the direction of Prof. Joseph L. Apodaca, assistant professor of economics, the Economic Round Table Conference will broadcast current economic problems. Members of this program will be composed chiefly of economic majors. This program will be limited to a quarter-hour broad-»cast.
The “Notre Dame Playhouse of the Air” will dramatize the play, “The Last Dinner,” the latter part of this month. Selection of the cast will begin the first of next week. The new dramatic presentation will be on the air for a half-hour. The first of a series of plays, “The Facts in the Case of Monsieur Valdemar,” presented last November was received favorably.
DILLON WILL BATTLE MORRISSEY FOR DEBATE CROWN
•
After surviving ten weeks of interhall debating on the campus without a single defeat, both the Dillon and Morrissey teams will “wrangle to the finish” before the student body at St. Mary’s College, next Wednesday
Coach James Nerney Tutors yes men.
night, Feb. 17. The victor will- become the interhall debating champion of Notre Dame for ’36-’37.
Dillon, winner in the junior-senior division, will try its best to prove that “the extension of consumers’ cooperatives would contribute to public welfare,” while the Morrissey squad, champion of the freshman-sophomore division, will endeavor to demonstrate that just the opposite is true.
Edward McDonough, of Parkersburg, W. Va.; Thomas Funk, of Anderson, Ind.; and Richard Foley, of Detroit, Mich., make up the affirmative Dillon team coached by James K. Nerney, of Attleboro, Mass.
The negative Morrissey debaters, coached by Pierre de la Vergne, of New Orleans, La., are: Thomas P. Mulligan, of Cleveland Heights, 0.; Maurice J. Murphy, of Sumner, Iowa; and John J. Wintermeyer of Kitchener, Ont.
In the early debates, the affirmative side seemed to have the edge on the negative until Freshman, negative, beat Cavanaugh. By now both sides of the question have been thoroughly explored, and each team seems to have a 50-50 chance of winning.
As both teams have been unbeaten, Chairman George Morris believes that the final debate next Wednesday will be highly interesting.
The judge has not been chosen.
Nov. 9, 1901—The Sorinites gave a smoker last Saturday night, and celebrated the arrival of the new piano.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
ANSON WEEKS PLAYS TO SIX HUNDRED
AT '37 PROM
•
With three hundred couples dancing to the music of Anson Weeks and Iris orchestra, the most colorful Junior Prom in years passed in review last Friday night at the Palais Royale.
Anson Weeks was all that his advance publicity had promised, and his smart rhythms and distinctive style were enough to satisfy even the dance aristocrat.
The high spot of the evening was the debut of the Prom song, a waltz entitled “Never Say Good-Bye,” a great number written by George Sauter and featured by the orchestra.
The decorations were another feature of the Prom. Blue and gold streamers, strung from the chandelier, formed a canopy over the entire floor, and other streamers covered the walls. The whole set-up and arrangements were directed by the decoration committee under Chairman Tom Radigan.
The Tea Dance, held at the Columbia Club on Saturday afternoon, "was attended by over three hundred couples who danced to the rhythms of Andy Reidel in the afternoon and attended the Notre Dame - Illinois basketball game that night.
Yearbook On Schedule Radigan Declares
Pointing out that the senior and junior pictures have been completed and work begun on the faculty section this week, Thomas J. Radigan, editor of the Dome, announced that the work on the annual publication is progressing on schedule.
Photographing of campus organizations will begin on Monday, February 15, it was declared. Presidents of campus groups are urged to contact Ed Kilrain, 281 Dillon hall, to arrange date of the picture-taking.
Radigan said that the only drawback thus far has been the lack of student co-operation in submitting snapshots of campus life to the Dome’s snapshot editor, John Cottingham, 217 Dillon hall. The offer to all students to turn in any snapshots meriting publication is still open.
New "Lawyer"
(Continued from Page 6)
cussion of recent decisions by Guy McMichael and Anthony Brick. William Fish and Archibald Graham will handle the book reviews. Editors, Arthur Gregory, James Levi, and Guy McMichael will continue their feature: “The American Law Institute’s Restatement of the Law of Agency with Annotations to the Indiana Decisions.
“Double-Dip” Quinn—man of many pursuits, many smiles, many friends, and many chins. We present the only man in history to win a club presidency unanimously — and even without a manager. Only Newton, New Jersey, with the aid of Newton high school and a strong hand, could have produced this combination—and all in one person — Joseph Patrick Quinn.
Quinn has never been known to scowl—it is more than possible that he is physically unable to wrinkle at all—but he manages the best known smile on the campus. He resents
. “Baby Face” as any upstanding “Joseph Patrick” should—even if he does only “upstand” to a bare four feet plus nine.
Fashion plate—half-barrel style— is Quinn’s avocation. Has a passion for sock of variegated stripes, plaids and sundry other hues. Often looks like a fire in a pin-wheel store. He wears that gabardine with a rollicking flourish; some say it’s a Shirley Temple model—our guess is Cecile Dionne.
Barring strong tail winds Quinn will be graduated from the College of Commerce in June. His average is not for publication, but Joe rarely looks worried. He is the pride and joy of every class he enters—“Little ray of sunshine.”
Under the “Iron Hand of Quinn” the Jersey Club has bounded to the lead in campus organizations.- . . . “Little Dynamo” pulled a coup d’ etat when he worked out a student-alumni plan that runs like clock-work.
Rating: Probably the best known, most universally liked lad on the campus (Old Infirmary included).
VILLAGERS ARRANGE 1937 BASKETBALL TESTIMONIAL
By F. G. Barreda
Gathering to formulate further
plans for the annual Notre Dame Tes
timonial Banquet, the Villagers Club held their monthly dinner-meeting in the Columbia Athletic Club on Mon
day, Feb. 8.
As yet, no definite date has been marked for the banquet. This affair, sponsored annually by the townboys, will be held shortly after the close of the basketball season. Mean-
John Lechner while the preliminary preparations are being carefully made to insure its usual success.
During the course of the business meeting, President Ted Prekowitz announced that a vacancy had occurred in the officer’s staff through the withdrawal of James Beaudway, vice-president of the club. James Lahey, Commerce 3, was unanimously elected to fill Beaudway’s post.
Lahey was also named chairman of the committee which will handle the joint meeting of the Villagers with the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club to be held early in March.
In undertaking tthe successful outcome of the basketball banquet, president Prekowitz announced his staff of committees that are to work with him and John Lechner, junior in the College of Law, who was appointed general chairman by the president.
Committees appointed for the banquet are as follows:
Executive committee: Harry Poulin, chairman, Richard Garam, Paul Howard, and Lawrence Eby. Ticket committee: James Lahey, chairman, John Johannes, Richard Ganser, and Frank Wukovits. Publicity committee: Matthew Mclnerny, chairman, Hanford Orvis, Frederick Mendez, and Eugene Kochanowski.
Program committee: Jack Moulder, chairman, William Mclnerny, Robert Rodibaugh, and Edwin Stack. Reception committee: Jerome Claeys, Melville Mix, Peter Nemeth, Jr., and Edward Stack. Dinner committee: Hugo Winterrowd, chairman, Richard Barbier, Edward Delehanty, and George Laure.
The speaker committee will be composed of William Rieke, chairman, Don Walsh, Robert Gibbens, and Donald O’Neill.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, .FEBRUARY 12, 1937
THE WEEK
By John A. Gillespie
PRESIDENT SKETCHES WORKING SCOPE OF VINCENTIANS
Post-Exam Madness
Verdi’s opera, “Il Trovatore,” never had as illustrious a set of mob players as it had Friday night at the Granada theatre. Approximately 25 (count ’em) 25 Notre Dame men gave of their talents to a pirate scene. They waved tin swords, sported picturesque costumes, and generally conducted themselves in the approved Captain Blood manner. None of them was paid, but we suppose the glory of appearing in public more than made up for any lack of money. For many it was a debut and if you detected an amateurish parry here and there, blame it on stage fright. Anyhow, it was a clever way to crash the gate.
*	* V
Pace-Setter
Each time we think about this story we have to take a brisk walk in the open air; it’s a bit too fantastic for our prosaic mind. See what you can do with it: a senior received a bulletin grade of 100 in Roofs and Bridges. That there should be a course like that is sufficiently odd to lift the eyebrows; but that anybody could get 100 in it! Now pull yourselves together and assimilate this: the same man has an average of 96 in five of his six classes last semester. People like that make college so difficult for us plain folk.
*	* V
Dead Tubes
Let’s play newspaper in the library. In the basement of the book house, in the south end, connecting the two class rooms, there are two telephones and a radio. The purpose of the gadget is to provide students of news editing a chance to take stories over the wire. The professor stands in one room and barks out orders to the nervous novice on the other end of the hook-up. Reception is of the “marbles-in-the-mouth” type. Weird shouts of “Who’s on the rim?” and “Copy” are distinctly at variance with the sedateness of the floor above. The only drawback to the radio is that we can’t get Benny Goodman’s programs.
Sportsmen, All
Having started on engineering and radio themes, we can’t resist commenting on Bank Night. It’s hardly
possible that anybody doesn’t know the system, but for the uninitiated we devote what we hope will be at least two hundred words. Entirely aside from the constitutionality of the device, it has, with its error-free electrical clock and formidable judges much that is dramatic. Even though we held no ticket and had no chance of snagging six hundred dollars, we thrilled at the calmness of the small boy who picked the numbers. A fellow next to us muttered that the lad was supporting a large family with his work, but we ignored him. When the winning ticket had been announced, the Palace master of ceremonies made connections with the Colfax comedy king and the second hand began to move. Unless the holder of the lucky digit showed his joyous face in three minutes, there would be another drawing next week. As the hand reached 60 seconds, our M.C. suavely jibed his associate jester and the two exchanged the brightest of humor. Then, as two minutes elapsed, they became frantic and whistled at each other and made cutting remarks. Clang went the bell and a thousand sighs rose to the ceiling. The winner had lost, if you’ll pardon the paradox. Swarms of disgruntled men and women left the theatre, caring nothing for the feature picture. They had paid their money just for the drawing, and as they streamed up the aisles, they whispered about the forthcoming Bingo game at a local church.
£ $
How to Prevent Worry
There has been nothing like it since the chain letter craze in the fall of ’35. We mean the current addiction to Margaret Mitchell’s Gone With The Wind. Inquiries about the novel are as common as “Didja pass everything?” or “How was the Prom?” The average conversation is bound to yield a question such as “Has Atlanta fallen yet?” or “Is Scarlett married?” For every copy of the book there are ten readers. And, following campus opinion, Clark Gable and Katharine Hepburn are cinches for the parts of Rhett Butler and Scarlett O’Hara in the screen adaptation. One of the varsity football men told us that he used to read the story before each game so he could get his mind off the impending struggle. He didn’t elaborate on the effect, but we feel sure that he liked to think that the members of the opposing team were Yankee soldiers and he, suh, had to cut them down to save'the old South.
During its three and one-half years of existence, the St. Vincent de Paul Society, social service organization at the University, has handled over 450 cases of social work, it was announced this week by Joseph Drolla, president.
Relief aid to the poor and needy of South Bend and vicinity is granted not only in material relief, i.e.,
Rev. Raymond W. Murray Adviser in charity work.
food and clothing, but also in more or less intangible services such as counsel in budget planning, it was pointed out.
This group, which is one of the largest and most active organizations on the campus, works in cooperation and under the advice of the Department of Sociology headed by the Rev.
"Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C.
Drolla declared that the people contacted by the society have been pleased with the suggestions given and have cooperated whole-heartedly with them, and as a result most of the social case work’ has turned out successfully.
The society will concentrate its future activities, it was announced, to a continuation of relief work as well as assistance to the parishioners of St. Augustine’s Parish, South Bend, in their attempt to firmly establish a Negro parish.
Rochester Club To Dine Next Sunday
Plans for a banquet were discussed and completed by the Rochester club during its last meeting Monday, Feb. 8.
The banquet, the first event of the new semester for the eastern club, will be held Sunday, Feb. 14, at the Rose-Marie tea room, at 7:00 p.m. Mr. Maxwell and Mr. Cordaro, faculty advisors, will be present at the banquet. Donald Sconfietti will preside.
10	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
CALENDAR
Friday, February 12
Lincoln’s Birthday; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Fencing, Varsity vs. Ohio State, Columbus, Ohio.
Organized adoration, Benediction 5:00 p.m.
Saturday, February 13
Track meet, Varsity vs. Marquette U., Milwaukee, Wis.; “Whistling, in the Dark,” Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m.; Basketball, Varsity vs. New York U., Madison Square Garden, New York City; Fencing, Varsity vs. Cincinnati U., Cincinnati, Ohio.
Organized adoration, Benediction 5:00 p.m.
Sunday, February 14
St. Valentine’s Day; Student Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall; Initiation, Knights of Columbus, Jefferson Plaza, South Bend, 2:00 p.m.; University Theater, season’s debut, “Whistling in the Dark,” Washington hall, 8:15 p.m.
Monday, February 15
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Meeting, S.A.C., basement, of library, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Servers’ club, viist to art gallery in library; Basketball, Varsity vs. Canisius College, Buffalo, New York.
Organized adoration, Benediction 5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, February 16
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Meeting, Patricians, Law building, 7:45 p.m.
Organized adoration, Benediction 5:00 p.m.
Wednesday, February 17
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Concert, Heidelberg Singers, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Debate Interhall championship, Dillon vs. Morrissey, St. Mary’s College.
Organized adoration, Benediction 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, February 18
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.;; Meeting, Spanish club, 7:45 p.m.
Organized adoration, Benediction 5:00 p.m.
Pan-American Shows
Carrying on a precedent of former years, the Spanish club, cultural language group at the University, will again sponsor travelogue movies of Latin American countries in Washington hall, it was decided this week.
At the last meeting of the group papers were read by Paul Sheedy, Buffalo, N. Y., and John Shaw, Tulsa, Okla. Thursday, February 18, was set as the date of the next meeting.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Stadium Dormitories
Since 1933 the “under the seats area” of Ohio State University’s football stadium has been given over to dormitories in which students may have eating and sleeping quarters for $3.25 a week. All together about 300 students have taken up residence in this gridiron bowl and engineers estimate that if all the space available were utilized for this purpose the stadium could amply accommodate 2,000 students.
The present occupants live under a cooperative plan by which they pay $125 a year while a special committee handles the necessary purchasing with all the students sharing the work. On Saturdays when the stadium is being used for football the majority of these residents work in the bowl at such tasks as selling programs, taking tickets or handling the parking.
We Can’t Help Noticing—
That there is more than a little truth to that Mother Goose parody which .runs:
“To college, to college, to get a diploma ;
Home again, home again, still in a coma.”
That an early first semester prediction of ours to the effect that traditional fraternity hazing and “Hell Week” periods would undoubtedly suffer considerable curtailment this year has already come true. And we also said that one of the principal agencies bringing about this curtailment would be the collegiate press— and it has.
That in the paper of the school across the road from us there’s an exchange column bearing the same caption that heads this particular weekly journalistic effort. We don’t object to the similarity in the least for it means another source of material, but we would like to know how its creator manages to get it placed on the front page. In fact we are downright envious of her success in doing so for this column on the slightest provocation is apt to be relegated to a position among the advertisements.
That one cannot help musing a bit after thumbing through The Presidio, monthly publication of the inmates of the Iowa State prison. A neat little magazine turned out in surroundings hardly conducive to the thought content shown in it is perhaps the best way to sum it up.
That, although it’s admittedly late to mention it, we would like to go on record as saying that sports editors
Father O'Connell Takes Sociology Post
The appointment of Rev. John P. O’Connell, C.S.C., as chairman of the Administrative Committee of the Graduate Curriculum in Social Work is listed among the changes for next year recently announced in the new University Bulletin, now on press.
In addition to having received the degree of Master of Science in Social Work from the Catholic University Washington, D.C., Father O’Connell has had practical experience in social case work in Milwuakee, Wis., and Washington, D.C.
During the past year Father O’Connell has been teaching classes in Social Pathology, but he will take over one of his duties, the problem of selecting students for next year’s classes in social work, at once.
Judging from the number of applications already received, the Department of Sociology predicts that next year’s enrollment in social work will break all previous records.
Father O’Connell is replacing the Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., author of several textbooks on sociology, who will henceforth devote all of his attention to the Department of Sociology which he heads.
Charles Welsh Elected To Lead Chemists
Charles Welsh, junior chemical engineer from Mahanoy City, Pa., was elected this week to succeed Joseph McIntosh as president of the Chemists’ Club.
Thomas Gillespie, Jr., of Indianapolis, Ind., was chosen vice-president, Winfred Schulte, Yorba Linda, Cal., was made secretary-treasurer, and William Metrailer, Little Rock, Ark., member-at-large, completed the roster of officers.
Mr. Ronald Rich, instructor in chemistry, was re-elected as Faculty Adviser of the club, a position he fulled last year and this.
of at least a dozen college publications with which we are familiar have better scores for predicting last year’s gridiron results than a number of nationally known professional forecasters. In saying this we must add that we have eliminated such influencing factors as school loyalty and traditional rivalries.
Here and There
Harvard with an endowment ©f $131,099,000, Yale with $94,557,000. Chicago with $65,389,000, Rochester with $53,962,000 and Columbia with $38,952,000 are the five heaviest endowed educational institutions in the United States. ... Generally speaking, the cost of an education in the East is higher than one on the West Coast while in the Middle West it is lowest of all.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937	11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
THE VOICE OF VICTOR
Music news of the winter contains many arguments about the value of the electrical guitar. Is it a menace or requisite to dance bands? George Hall, in his semi-monthly release of band information, says that it is indispensable for soft, sweet melodies because it reaches higher notes and tone controls than are otherwise possible. The college band is warned, however, against adding a guitar until the basic pieces are coordinating smoothly. The instrument can become very tiresome and should be used only as a gap and bridge.
Arnold Johnson, a veteran maestro of radio, stage, and screen, has organized a 15-piece band which includes alumni from the units of Hal Kemp, Casa Loma, Vincent Lopez, and Benny Goodman. They are engaged in an east side hotel.
The return of Johnny Hamp is the most interesting news among the Victor recordings lately. His band has improved tremendously and, along with the prolific Tommy Dorsey, the releases are notable. Fats Waller is making too many ordinary records; he would do well to seek quality instead of quantity.
Mr. Ghost Goes to Toivn; Lookin’ Around Corners For You—By Tommy Dorsey.
With his trombone muffled Tommy introduces a queer time with a beautiful trend of thought (musically). Clarinets and brass play the melody very softly, except in the release where some volume is inserted to characterize the ghost going to town. After an overflow of drum breaks the ad-libbed trumpet chorus increases the merit of the record. The composition ends appropriately with a light touch. One of Tommy’s best.
Fittingly enough, Dorsey again works on the introduction, which is instrumentally complete. The Three Esquires handle the lyrics correctly and satisfyingly. The most original section occurs when the tenor sax displays versatility in a stinging swing. (25509)
To Love You And To Lose You; Long As You Got Your Health—Ray Noble.
A clever arrangement, done very well in the Noble manner. Muted brass, clarinets in the low register and high strings go together to procure the Noble effects. An oboe is
used in the release with accented and pushed beats. Howard Barrie’s singing is resonant and his phrasing is free from mechanical defects. Sweet tune fans will want it.
Ray swings one, but only on a commercial basis. A trio of girls and masculine voices take the greater part of the record and vocalize collectively. Then from nowhere comes a fine clarinet solo. (25504)
Never Should Have Told You; You Can Tell She Comes From Dixie— Benny Goodman.
Off to a typical Goodman start— brass in unison. Saxes carry the melody which can be swung only gently. Benny’s clarinet shows his conception in the release. Margaret McCrae is above average, but where is Helen Ward?	,
This is more like the band we like. The introduction is full with that indefinable progression. Goodman takes the first chorus with sax figures in the background and Jesse Stacy’s piano makes the rhythm complete. Miss McCrae still lacks warmth, but if you like straight, pleasant vocals, she does them. After the singing the brass picks up and carries on to the end forcefully, embellished occasionally by the clarinet. (25500)
Mr. Ghost Goes To Town; The Goona Goo—Johnny Hamp.
There is an interesting comparison
“Shirley Temple? Who’s SHE divorcin’?”
between the Dorsey and Hamp methods of taking the phantom to the city, and, surprisingly, the Hamp aggregation does not suffer. They are smart enough to do the first chorus straight, since the tune is so good; fast drumming is an advantage; tenor sax and clarinet are excellent. An open trumpet and a trombone alternate in wrapping the package neatly.	.
A jungle-like drum opens the show. Jayne Whitney sings nicely backed by a soft, effective male chorus. Again a hot trumpet is featured. Although both times are torrid, they are individuated enough to make each worth - while. (B - 6746 - A; B -6746-B)
You're Laughing At Me; I’ve Got My Love To Keep Me Warm—Shep Fields.
The bubble effect, which may become tiresome, is succeeded by a chorus full of piano and trumpet. Bob Goday’s voice blends excellently with the orchestra. It' is a Berlin tune arid survives the welter of odd effects by Shep’s crew. The piano does the best job.
For a change a string introduction. Another good Berlin number from, “On The Avenue.” Goday’s singing is clear and rich. Lyrics that are different and commendable accordion breaks combine to form a fair disc. (B-6769-A; B-6769-B).
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during’ the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor. 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY...................... Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER...................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie The Week
Anthony F. O'Boyle____________________________College Parade
Joseph Rotondo____________________________In The Juggler Vein
Neros Staff
Louis DaPra___________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams_________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Moncoven______________________________Frank Reilly
Richard Riley_____________________________Robert McClain
George Haithcock_____________________  Vincent	de Coursey
Frederick Sisk_______________________________________John	Callaghan
Thomas Marker_____________________________James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes------------------------------Graham Starr
Vincent W. Hartnett]________________________Literary Editors
Harold A. Williams J
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe-----------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride---------------------------Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby_____________________:_______John Clifford
Charles Callahan----------------------William A. Donnelly
’ Arch Gott-------------------------------James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger_______________________________________Art Editor
William R. Dooley, '26---------------------------Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	February 12. 1937	No. 15
WINTER SPORTS ...
ATHLETIC Director Elmer F. Layden this week announces an ambitious and complete program of winter sports for student competition. Not organized highly specialized teams—but general student or intramural activity.
Director Layden has apparently thought out his program from every conceivable angle. Sports of every possible category have been considered. Indoors the program is to start with bowling, billiards, and handball. It may be elaborated to include such neglected items as ping-pong, chess, and checkers—possibly even bridge will have its adherents.
Outdoors the program is most ambitious and most desirable. Director Layden stated this week that plans are underway for the construction of a combination ski and toboggan slide. Nothing could prove more popular.
Many Eastern schools, notably Dartmouth, and Vermont, have intensified activity in these strictly winter sports. Of course the vagaries of weather enter into the scheme, but Notre Dame usually has sufficient winter to provide at least a few weeks of snow.
Ice skating, hockey, speed skating, and fancy skating are all considered in Mr. Layden’s proposal. These latter activities, of course, will necessarily be deferred until the ice is in proper condition.	.
The encouraging point about the whole program is the fact that it shows genuine interest in student wants and student needs. Cramped as the University admittedly is for gymnasium facilities and space, it is only logical that the program should seek to develop those activities which do not require gymnasium floors, or coaching facilities.
For several winters organized activity in this direction has been at a low ebb. Usually the Bengal Bouts and the S.A.C. swim meet were about the sum total of effort.
Under the new system, much of the work will be handled directly by students—through the S.A.C. the manager’s organization and The Scholastic. This, too, is a healthy situation. Students have wailed for something to do—here is a full fledged, well conceived, nicely organized program simply waiting cooperation and live interest.
Mr. Layden is to be complimented and thanked for his efforts and his intelligent approach to a real problem in student welfare.
BOO-HOO ...
THIS should be a dull week-end for the “Brotherhood of Booers”—the basketball team is away, the track team journeys to Milwaukee, the fencers are duelling in Columbus and Cincinnati—in fact everyone is away. Such a calamitous state of affairs for Bill Boo and Sam Squawk.
Possibly something could be arranged whereby the Brotherhood could gather along the lake shore some quiet evening, or possibly invade the vacant stadium, and “boo” to their little heart’s content. After all, to hear one’s self boo is the real objective.
There should be no cause to embarrass athletes by booing at their opponents—let’s just boo one another.
The Brotherhood hit a new high for a few minutes during the Illinois game. The patented “Boo Barometer” went up lustily—my it was fine! So rough and ready, so fog-hornish and bellowing. Like stray calves.
. Several new members nearly qualified for the Grand Award in the blood-thirsty division. Such gleeful shouts when knees crack on hard-wood, when slaps echo from bare shoulders—the exhibition sounded like a Roman circus.
▼ '
HEADLINERS...
WITH slightly over a month more remaining before the gong sounds, fighters who will battle in the Bengal Bouts are already skipping ropes, tramping around tracks and slugging sand bags. From the looks of the first few aspirants, this year’s show should be one of the best in years.
A worried spectator from last year’s show wrote in this week earnestly begging that the Bengal Bouts contain some more humor of the “Conner-Tancredi type.” Those in charge assure prospective spectators that no stone is being left unturned—one never knows what might be found under a stone.
Preparations include the staging of at least two feature performances—“Right off the Midway.” Negotiations are also pending for some head-liner in the sport world to act as honorary referee of the Bouts. ■
As usual it will be the biggest quarter’s worth either side of the Rockies.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
13
Jim and Sally »
By William Cullen Fay
Sally Thompson married Jim Blake last June. In the beginning Jim thought he was marrying Sally, but as things turned out Sally really married Jim.
Jim is one of my best friends. We lived next door to one another for years; played together; even went to the same school, the little state normal college on the edge of Rawley, which is our home town. After graduation Jim went to work in the assembly division of Overland Auto, the one industry that keeps Rawley going. I joined up with Overland myself, only I was upstairs in the sales office where Sally Thompson worked.
Sally was beautiful. She must have been. Girls seldom impress me, but even I thought her pretty. I don’t know how Jim happened to meet her, but one Friday night we were sitting on my front porch when he asked me if I knew a girl named Sally Thompson. “Sure,” I answered. “She’s personal secretary to old G. D. Corbett up in sales department.”
“Well, I’m taking her dancing- at the Coronado Club, Saturday night,” replied Jim. It all began as simply as that.
I didn’t see Jim again until after church on Sunday. “How was the dancing?” I asked.
“Great!” he answered. “She’s a smooth girl. We’re going for a ride tonight.” That was September fifteenth.
Jim fell hard for Sally. I could tell that from the way he kept bobbing up in the sales office almost every afternoon. Even a rising young manager of the assembly division isn’t needed much in the sales office, and I don’t think Jim had been there more than twice before he met Sally.
On the nineteenth of November when Sally came to work wearing a big diamond I went downstairs to Assemblage to congratulate Jim. “Thanks, Eddie,” he replied, “and I want you to be best-man.”
“When’s the big day,” I asked.
“Sometime before Christmas. Just a quiet wedding in the college chapel. Then we’ll go to New York for the honeymoon. Of course, this is unofficial. I haven’t talked things over with Sally yet, but I think she’ll agree. She’s a pretty reasonable kid.”
Eddie and I made the same streetcar the next morning. “All set for the Christmas honeymoon in New York?” I asked.
“No, I think we’ll have to put the wedding off until June,” he replied. “Sally seems set on being a June bride. I guess Christmas would be rushing things a little, anv-how.”
I didn’t see much of Jim during the winter. He and Sally were busy furnishing a flat they had picked out on Fourteenth street. Every time we did meet he’d tell me about some new chair they had bought, or the design of the living-room rug. I suppose all people are alike when they are engaged.
Along about the second week in May Jim phoned me. “I’ll call for you in ten minutes,” he said. “We’re going to the tailors.”
“What d’ya mean we’re going to the tailors,” I asked.
“Don’t argue,” he shouted. “Sally says she is only going to be married once and she is going to be married in a big church with plenty of people around, so I’m going down to the tailors and get some morning clothes, and if you want to be the best man you’d better come along, too.”
We went to the tailors. In addition to the morning clothes I had a brown gabardine made-up, and I had a tough time paying for it later on. Walking back to my place Jim suddenly turned to me and shouted, “But I’ll be damned if we’re going to St. Augustine for our honey- . moon.”
“St. Augustine? I thought you were going to New York.”
“Sally wants palm trees and soft breezes,” replied Jim bitterly. “She wants a June wedding and she’s getting it. . . . She wants a big church and she’s getting that . . . now she wants palm trees instead of Broadway. . . . Well, she’s not going to get palm trees. I’m going to win one argument before we get married.”
Jim and Sally were married June 8, at St. John’s Cathedral, the biggest church in town, and there were plenty of people around. After the ceremony they drove off in a new Overland Coupe, the gift of the company.
I received a card about a week later. The card was from Jim and Sally. They had scribbled, “Having a fine time—wish you were with us,” and the card was postmarked St. Augustine.
The Crossroad
By John F. Reback
“Hello, John,” said Joe.
“Hello,” John said.
The streetcar was a quarter of a mile away. John was waiting for the car. Joe had just arrived. Now he waited too.
“Going to town?” asked Joe.
“Yeah. I’ve got to buy a jacket and some things.”
Aftei- a while Joe said: “I think I’ll See a show.”
' The streetcar came. They got on and sat down next to each other.
“You’re a chemistry major, aren’t you?” Joe remarked.
John nodded affirmation.
“What do you intend to do when you get out?”
“Research,” John replied.
“You’ve got to know your stuff to do research,” said Joe.
(Continued on Page 21)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
ATHLETICS
LAYDEN STARTS UNIVERSITY WINTER SPORTS INCLUDES HANDBALL, BOWLING. SKATING. TOBAGANNING AND SKIING
Director of Athletics, Elmer Layden, announced plans this week, for an extensive and intensive program of University winter sports, embracing all angles of winter athletic activity both indoor and outdoor.
The proposed plan, taking effect immediately, will start out with tournaments in handball, bowling, and billiards and pool, under the direction of the S.A.C. Further activities that have been plannd include ice skating races, hockey games, ski competition, plans for building a combination ski jump and toboggan slide on the golf course are now being completed, and possibly a cross-country ski or snow shoe competition.
Ambitious Plan Proposed
Layden’s proposed sports program is the most extensive program that has ever been put into operation at Notre Dame. Because of the usual lethargy that hangs over the campus during the winter months in regard to competitive interhall sports, and because of the crowded conditions in the field house, it is hoped that this plan will receive the full support of the student body. A sport or activity for every student on the campus is planned with no charge for entry in any activity. The entire program will be run by the Athletic Department in conjunction with the S.A.C., the Knights of Columbus, and The Scholastic.
The handball, bowling, and billiard and pool tournaments will start as soon as all entries have been received. Entry sheets for each tournament are posted on the respective hall bulletin boards, and the student merely has to fill in his name, put the time of his free periods down, and state what experience he has had in the sport that he wishes to enter. These entries will be collected early next week, and pairings will be drawn up and presented on large boards placed in Walsh Hall Rec for the bowling men, Brown Rec for the billiard and pool men, and in the manager’s office in the gym for the handball players. The day-by-day standings of the men will be kept on these boards.
There will be doubles and singles
competition in each of the three sports. Trophies furnished by the Athletic Department, will be awarded the winners and runners-up in both the singles and double events. The trophies will probably be miniature silver figures that null become the permanent possessions of the winners.
Snow Hoped For
Weather permitting, the outdoor activities will be started at the earliest date possible. There will undoubtedly be more snow on the campus and more cold weather so that the entire program will be carried in next week’s Scholastic.
Elmer F. Layden
Goal—every student competing.
Anyone is eligible to enter the tournaments. The entry lists are on the hall bulletin boards now, and will remain there until Monday when the entries will be closed. It is hoped that all students will enter some phase of the proposed sports program.
Nov. 8, 1902 — The Varsity won last Saturday’s game with the Doctors at Columbus, Ohio, but only after the hardest kind of a struggle.
TRACK TEAM TO MEET MARQUETTE OUTFIT TOMORROW NIGHT
•
The first road trip of the current indoor track season will find the Notre Dame track team journeying to Milwaukee to battle the Hilltoppers from Marquette tomorrow night on the latter’s home floor. This meet will be the only home meet of the indoor season foi* Marquette.
Notre Dame, in a comeback role after its 60 to 20 setback at the hands of Indiana last week, will find the going anything but easy against Coach Conrad M. Jenning’s. crew of Hilltoppers. Both Marquette and Notre Dame suffered heavy graduation losses; but Marquette by its 62-33 win over Chicago last week indicated that this year’s team is a strong as, if not stronger than, last year’s aggregation.
Marquette’s strongest point and Notre Dame weakest is the high jump. Two of Marquette’s jumpers, Edward Burke and Ward Cuff, are of cham-. pionship caliber. Burke is the colored sophomore who created a sensation when, last year as a freshman, he tied the world’s indoor record. Cuff was varsity jumper for the last two seasons and has been doing well over 6 feet.
Additional strength in the sprints and distance funs give Marquette a well-rounded team. In the dashes Ned Sengpiel and Johnny Callahan will give Notre Dame’s Jordan and Clifford “a run for their money.” Marquette’s trio of distance runners, Miller, Sterbenk, and Mueller, are all men of excetional ability.
The greatest Notre Dame strength lies in the shotput and pole vault. Levicki and Famonville will represent the Irish in the shot put; and Langton, Gibbs, and McCarthy will perform for them in the pole vault. A good share of the Irish points should be piled up in these two events.
' The loss of Bill Mahoney with a badly wrenched knee is Coach Nicholson’s chief source of worry. Mahoney was counted on for points in the high and low hurdles, and was expected to run with the mile relay team. His injury will keep him from competition for some time. The rest of the squad are still fighting the effects of the flu and colds and will not be in top form. As “Nick” expressed it, “The outlook is not too optimistic.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
15
CAGERS CLASH WITH CANISIUS. MONDAY AT BUFFALO
By John Cackley
Notre Dame will play one of the “dark horses” on their schedule Monday night, when they tangle with Canisius College in Buffalo, N. Y. The situation is a “natural” for a setback to the Irish. Coach George Keogan’s men had two extremely tough contests with Purdue and Illinois, respectively, last week, while tomorrow night they meet N. Y. U. in Madison Square Garden. Captain Ray Meyers and his mates will undoubtedly sooner or later begin to feel the strain—and it may be with Canisius.
Director of Athletics Elmer Layden selected no breather’ for Notre Dame when he signed up the Griffins on the winter sports calendar. It marks the first time that basketball relations have existed between the two schools. Canisius is rumored to be ready for the Irish invasion, and a victory over the Gold and Blue would greatly .enhance the prestige of Seeback’s quintet in intercollegiate circles.
The Griffins have been experiencing a fast pace this year, losing only
New Irish Handball Team Ties Chicago, 2-2;
In First Intercollegiate Wall Meeting
Something new in Notre Dame intercollegiate sport was held here last Saturday when the Irish tied the Maroons from Chicago in a handball meet. This was the first time Notre Dame had ever participated in such an event, so another sport has been added to the record books. Unpublicized and unheralded, the team began in a promising manner showing many possibilities of greatness. Notre Dame captured one singles and the doubles, while Chicago won the other two singles to make the result a 2-2 deadlock.
Undei- their competent coach, Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., the boys of the Irish squad have emerged as a well organized team. In the opening match, Jack Darcy (N.D) took the measure of George Kogler (Chi.) 21-15, 21-10. The second match featured Bill Fallon of Notre Dame and Jack Gilbert of Chicago, Illinois A.A.U. champion. Gilbert proved to be more experienced and slammed his way to a 21-3, 21-5 victory.
Things speeded up in the third match between Harry Adler (Chi.) and John Claire (N.D.) After plenty
FIGHTERS BEGIN REAL TRAINING FOR BOUTS SCHIAVONE STARTS EVENING CLASSES
IN GYMNASIUM FOR NOVICES
• .
This week saw a large part of the men who are aiming at the coveted University Boxing Championships get down to the serious business of training for the fistic event of the Notre Dame sports calendar, the Bengal Bouts, to be held Friday night, March 19.	•
one game, and that being to Stanford’s Pacific Coast champions by a margin of ten points. Nebraska, Niagara, and St. Thomas (Scranton, Pa.) are included in the def eater list of the Canisius hoopsters.
Led by Captain Neil O’Donnell the Irish opponents will present an imposing lineup. O’Donnell, who towers 6 feet 6% inches, can be used either at forward or center. The other forward position will be ably taken care of by Szur, the team’s leading scorer, who received an All America halfback rating the past fall on the gridiron.
Paul Nowak will in all probability find an aggressive foe in Dudzick, 6 foot 10 inch pivot man. The latter is reputed to be the tallest participant at that post in college basketball. Raiman and Cavanaugh are slated to handle the guard duties in addition to checking the scoring opportunities of Moir and Meyer.
of fast-breaking volleys the Chicago boy came through to nose out Claire 21-15, 21-20. The doubles provided the best contest of the day when Fred Mundee, varsity football center, and John Clifford teamed up against Adler and Gilbert. of Chicago. The match began in the first game as if the Chicago boys were to walk off with an easy victory, and they won it 21-15. But suddenly Clifford and Mundee hit their stride and from then on to the finish of the three games it was truly a battle royal. Clifford plays a lightning fast ball which is very deceptive, while Mundee is an expert at placing shots from impossible angles. They took the second game rather handily from Chicago, 21-16, and only the deciding game remained. Gilbert and Adler tried to take the game but were trimmed by an eleventh hour rally of Mundee and Clifford who finished it up 21-20.
At the present there are plans in formation for the continuance of a season in handball, but nothing definite has been settled. A return meet at Chicago is contemplated as a possibility.
Every day this past week a group of boxers has been faithfully practicing down in the equipment room under the watchful eye of Frank Schiavone, trainer of the Bengal boxers. Schiavone wishes to announce that he would like all students interested in boxing to work out in the equipment room from 3:30 to 5:50 p.m. in the afternoons. He will not conduct a class in boxing at this time but will conduct it three nights a week from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. for those beginners who wish to learn the fundamentals of the sport and for those who wish to polish up on the correct boxing form.
The night sessions promise to be entertaining as well as instructive. Schiavone will stage impromptu bouts among his pupils on a basis of interhall competition and will start the nucleus of boxing teams within the halls.
It is planned this year to emhasize the interhall aspect of the competition and to acclaim an unofficial interhall championship team on the night of the finals.
On the basis of other years’ results a freshman hall will probably be proclaimed interhall champion but the upperclassmen this year are expected to put in an exceptionally strong bid for interhall championship honors. The sophomores especially promise to present well balanced teams on the night of the finals. Three of the returning four champions are sophomores and will undoubtedly give good account of themselves on the big night.
The Scholastic wishes to urge all freshmen out for the bouts. We repeat again, no experience is necessary. Join the boxing classes; you are not obliged to enter the bouts if you take instruction from Schiavone. If you want to learn anything about the fistic sport come out any afternoon to the equipment room of the gymnasium and see Frank Schiavone, the instructor.
Such luminaries of last year’s bouts as Phil Dahar, heavyweight champion, Harry Marr, runner-up in the light heavy cless, Vince Dollard, another runner-up in the light heavy class and Bill Ryan, heavyweight, were seen in the equipment room getting into shape for the big night of March 19, this week.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
INTRODUCING By Gene Vaslett
OPENING TRACK MEET LOST BY IRISH
TO INDIANA
A few weeks ago we mentioned the peanut situation in regard to Johnny Moir; this week we dwell on party No. 2 of the Notre Dame peanut shortage, Paul Nowak, the 6' 4" center of the Notre Dame cage team.
Paul is the realization of another one of these “local boy makes good” stories. We might add it’s a case of “local boy makes good in a big way” and we’re not referring to Paul’s size although that has undoubtedly had something to do with his making good in the large way. He’s a South Bend boy and the idol of the west side of town. So much so an idol that a local merchant on the west side has an almost life size oil portrait of Paul in full basketball regalia hanging in his place of business. We imagine that the Nowak family probably patronizes this place of business rather regularly.
That famous metro-p o 1 i t a n high school, SouthBend Central, turned out the Nowak’s
pride and joy a few years ago. It didn’t “turn him out” in the true sense of the word but merely turned him over to Notre Dame for further conditioning before he’s finally let loose on the West Side. Notre Dame, in general, turned him over to George Keogan, in particular, and George turned him into an AllAmerican center in his first year on the Varsity.
But we’re a little ahead of ourselves. While at Central Paul was captain of the basketball team in his senior year. In one of the early sason games of that year Paul went to bat and scored all the points of the game for Central. Incidentally, Central won the game. That year Paul was chosen as a member of the All-Sectional team of Northern Indiana, and Central fans looked forward to a great career for their star at Notre Dame.	,
However in his freshman year on the squad Paul didn’t do so well. He didn’t seem to click with the other boys, and Keogan didn’t expect much of him as the boy entered his sophomore year, but Paul turned the tables on the dope-sters and showed them just how that center position should be played. He even displaced Co-Captain Marty Peters, a good ball player if anyone should ask you, and won an All-Aremican rating from Bill Corum in the bargain.
He found himself in his sophomore year and started to click along with Johnny Moir. He didn’t break any scoring records as Moir did, but ranked second to the Scot in the scoring column as he rang the bell for 161 points for the season.
This year he had some hard luck to start off with. He had a rather slow ■recovery from an appendicitis operation, and was not ready for the first few games this year. Then it took him quite a while to get into condition, but he finally hit his regular form in the great Syracuse battle and since then, against Pennsylvania, Purdue, and Illinois we’ve seen the old Paul Nowak in there winning games for Notre Dame. Thus far this year he has scored 95 points, and it looks as though he’ll break his record of last year if he keeps up his present practice of averaging 10 points a game.
His special side-kick is Johnny Moir. The two of them decided to room together this semester in Howard, and it has been rumored that peanuts are flowing plentifully in that section of the junior hall.
(Continued on Page 18)
By Fred Digby
Winning but three first places out of ten, the Irish thinlies lost their first dual meet of the current track season to the Indiana Hoosiers, 60 to 26.
While the Hoosiers were taking the measure of the Notre Dame squad, three meet records were broken, and a fourth was tied. The Irish veteran shot putter, John Levicki, put the shot 48 feet, 2U inches to head the Irish list of individual performances. Harold Langton cleared the bar at 12 feet, 6 inches in the pole vault to tie the old meet rcord.
Aside from these performances and Cavanaugh’s easy win in the half mile, the Hoosiers dominated the meet and copped every first place plus numerous second and third positions.
Indiana’s James Smith loped around the course in the two mile run to set another meet record of 9 minutes, 33.5 seconds. Don Lash, • national champion and Olympic team member, set the pace in the first part of the race, but dropped out after' five laps. Smith, who had followed on Lash’s heels, then took up the pace and stayed in front for the remainder of the race, leading his teammate, Deckard, to the tape by about half a lap.
The third meet record was broken by the Indiana relay team composed of Elliott, Richardson, Chadwick, and Collier, which covered the mile course in 3 minutes, 28.8 seconds.
The Indiana Hoosiers, a very well balanced team, were strong in every event, and this accounted for the high margin of victory. They made a clean sweep in the high jump with Tuthill, Kuzman, and Baldwin finishing in that order. The only events in which they did not win at least two places were the shot put and the pole vault. In the former the Irish took first and second places, and in the latter first and third.
Don Lash followed his teammate, Trutt, to the tape in the mile run, obviously saving himself for the Wanamaker Mile, that was held in New York the following night.
The meet summary follows:
POLE VAULT: Won by Langton (ND) ; Shoemaker (Ind.), second; Gibbs (ND), third. Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.
SHOT PUT: Won by Levicki (ND) ; Fay-monville (ND), second; Wise (Ind.), third. Distance, 48 feet, 2(4 inches. .
(Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
17
Fencing Team. Back In Stride, Embarks For Columbus and Cincinnati Contests
Back in the winning form again, the kind they displayed while going through the ’35 and ’36 seasons undefeated, the Notre Dame varsity fencers journey to Columbus next Friday to oppose the Ohio State fencers, and then on Saturday they will have an oppox-tunity to obtain first-hand information on the flood situation, when they go south to meet the University of Cincinnati foilsmen.
Ohio State has one of the strongest teams in intercollegiate ranks. The members are veteran fencers, and are especially strong in the foils and sabres. The club is composed of Captain Schwab, giant sabre fencer; Marvin Amster, senior foil man; Pierce Noble, Bob Tickell, and Bill Chaikin.
To date, the Ohio State team’s record includes 10-7 victories over Purdue and Virginia Military Institute,
Cagers Make Annual New York Appearance Saturday in Garden Against New York U.
Coach Keogan’s highly geared aggregation of basketeers will be far afield Saturday night as they line up against New York University before a capacity crowd in Madison Square Garden. Although the Irish will be approximately 800 miles from their home campus they will have more than their share of supporters as they attempt to gain the edge in the series of annual meetings inaugurated three years ago.
Both teams have experienced somewhat similar fates of fortune during the present season. The Irish were handicapped earliei* in the season by the loss of Nowak due to an operation, and the absence of Moir who was forced to the sidelines with a broken jaw sustained in an early contest. N.Y.U. had to worry along without the services of Irwin Witty who has been ineligible until recently. Attacks of influenza prevented both Schulman and Terjesen, veterans of last year’s quintet, from reaching top form. But when the two teams face each other tomorrow evening each will be at full strength. .
In the matter of losses both Notre Dame and the Violets have dropped three contests, though the Irish have twelve games marked up on the right side of the ledger as compared to nine for the Metropolitan lads. The •Violet’s first defeat came at the hands of Georgetown, a 46-40 setback. Manhattan then upset the dope by downing the New Yorkers by a sevenpoint margin. The third defeat was inflicted by Ohio State 39-32.
Any attempt to name the easterners starting lineup would be a guess.
and an 8%-8% deadlock with Chicago.
Not much data is available concerning this year’s Cincinnati aggregation. They have, however, according to reports from the Cincinnati camp, the same calibre of opposition which has always tested Notre Dame to the limit in the past. Two years ago, Coach de Landero s men defeated a snappy Cincinnati outfit 9%-7%, while last year the score was even closer, with Notre Dame winning, 9-8.
Coach de Landero stated that the results of the two meets will depend upon Notre Dame’s strength in the foils, and in their ability to take at least two points in the sabre, and two. more in the epee. As usual, Captain Telmo de Landero, Jack McAuliffe, and Bob Seco are expected to carry the force of the Irish attack.
Witty was dropped from the ineligible list only a week, and it is doubtful if Coach Cann will break up a playing unit to insert him. Carnevale has been operating at the center post during Terjesen’s sickness, but Ter-
. Tom Wukovits
He stopped Boiidreau.
jesen is likely to take the jumping position against the Irish in an effort to curb Nowak. However it is almost certain that Carnevale will be in the starting lineup, probably at forward, as he is the team’s leading scorer, having collected 95 points in eleven games. Schulman will start at one of the guards and will most likely be given the task of guarding Moir. Tarlow and Boardman also are sure bets to see action before the forty minutes are up.
It is expected that Keogan will stick to the same lineup he has employed against Purdue and Illinois. Captain Ray Meyers and Moir at for-
FENCERS WIN SECOND FROM WASHINGTON WITH EASE
. •
By Mark J. Mitchell
Winnin'g by the comfortable margin of four points, the Notre Dame fencing team continued in their victorious stride against Washington University of St. Louis last Saturday in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. The final score was 10% to 6%. It was the second successive victory for the Irish swordsmen in as many weeks, although they had previously dropped the first two meets of the season.
Led by Captain Telmo deLandero and Jack McAuliffe, Notre Dame made a clean sweep of the foils, and won the epee 2% to 1%. The Bears took the sabre 3 to 1. It is notable that this was the first victory for the Irish in the epee since the sport was organized here, their best previous effort having been a 2-2 tie.
The epee was run off first. Willman of Washington tied McAuliffe 3-3, and beat Seco 3-2. Seco then came back to drub Slonin 3-0, and deLandero cinched the event with a 3-2 decision over Slonin also.	•
In the foils, Jack McAuliffe thoroughly trounced three of the Bears, Abrams, by a score of 5 to 2, Slonin 5-1, and Willman 5-2. Bob Seco beat Abrams and Slonin 5-3 and 5-1 respectively. Then Telmo deLandero beat Slonin 5-2 and Willman 5-0 to score an Irish slam in the event.
With the meet safely in the bag, Coach deLandero decided to use some of his younger sabre men, in order to give them some experience. Sal Scarlata lost to Shotliff 3-5. Jack Zerbst dropped his first bout against Abrams 4-5, but turned around and beat Shotliff 6-5. This was the only Irish point scored in the sabre. Jim Graham, in his second intercollegiate fight, lost to Abrams 2-5, ending the event and the meet.
wards, Nowak at center, and Wukovits and Brown in the backcourt has been the combination which has worked most effectively in the last few contests. The hard playing sophomore, Ed Sadowski, will be ready to jump into the battle at any time.
The Keoganmen have not dropped a tilt since they were defeated by Pitt. Since that time they have come along at a fast clip holding decisions over two previously undefeated teams, Syracuse and University of Pennsylvania. The Illinois encounter Saturday night took much out of the Irish players, but they have had a week in which to work up to perfection for the dazzling N.Y.U. offense and should be in fine _shape for tomorrow’s meeting.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By cy STROKER
By far the best and fairest official at Notre Dame basketball games is Referee Lane, who officiated at both the Purdue and the Illinois games last week. In all the time that he has been working the Irish games, we have never been able to detect any unfairness on his part, any evidence of favoritism, any mistaken decision. His work at both of the above games stand out as a striking example of first-class refereeing. And yet you, the students at a school that is supposed to be noted for its fair play in sports; you, the blase men-about-town; you, who ought to know better, insist on making a public exhibition of youi* small-time smartness every time a decision goes against the Irish.
Last week THE SCHOLASTIC carried an editorial, the purpose of which was to shame you out of your second childhood. But the editorial must have been too subtle for you to catch on. The very next night, at the Illinois games, a roar of barnyard noises, intended, we suspect, to attract the attention of the Prom guests more than to protest any unfair decision, greeted Lane’s attempts to keep the game under control. We doubt if such grade-school antics make a favorable impression on the feminine mind. But if they do, may we suggest that you confine your would-be ■ wit to an all-feminine audience so that the Notre Dame captain will not have to apologize to visiting players for the boos and hisses.that accompany their foul-shooting?
▼
We like the atmosphere that surrounds Coach Nicholson’s track meets,— it’s like an informal party. Everyone seems to know everyone else. Everyone applauds Adolph’s perspiring efforts to satisfy his top-row customers. Everyone is intensely interested in the outcome of every event but no one gets too excited about it. Least excited of all is Nick himself who strolls around in his perennial double-breasted blue serge suit, and who can tell you before the meets ever start, ’tis said, not only how his men are going to place but what their time will be. We know one runner who just about killed himself in practice trying to better the time that Nick told him he would run; only to find out when he came in, drooling all over* his chin and with his tongue hanging out a mile, that he had hit the predicted time right on the nose.
From the appearance of the track team in the Indiana meet, it seems that Nick will have to do some hustling if he wants to preserve his record. But don’t worry too much,—he usually winds up his season with a considerable balance on the debit side.
One of our most outstanding predecessors, Jim Kearns, who edited The Scholastic in 1933-34 and who is now on the staff of the Chicago Daily News, has come upon misfortune. After covering all the big football games hereabouts during the fall, he went out to California to write about some last-of-the-season games. Now he is writing articles about Hollywood—and incidentally geeting himself a fine tan—while waiting for the baseball stories to break. Poor fellow. Some fellows never seem to strike it lucky.
Introducing —(Continued from Page 16)
Johnny tells a story of Paul that bears repeating.
It happened last year when the team went down to Indianapolis to defeat the Butler outfit. They have a paper down there called the Morning Star that’s sold by newshawks on street corners every morning. The morning after the game John and Paul came walking out of the hotel where the team was staying, and one of the kid newshawks came running up with some papers shouting Morning Star, Morning Star” Our Paul looked down at the kid, patted him on the head and said, “Good morning, sonny!”
PROM ALMOST HALTS INTERHALL PLAY
SUNDAY
•
By John F. Clifford
The Junior Prom week-end raised havoc with interhall basketball last Sunday morning, as the fourth round of the tournament saw many postponements in the scheduled games. The Brownson and Carroll teams retained a firm grasp on first position, while Howard, the third party in the triple tie for first in the heavy group, had its game postponed.
One of the most decisive and withering defeats of the season was inflicted upon the Off Campus five by Carroll Hall. Allowing but two field goals, one in each half, the domesters humbled the South Bend team 24-4. St. Ed’s evened its running score to two wins and two losses so far this year in swamping Freshman.
Though Schmitz of Badin was the high scorer in the Badin-Brownson game with eight points, the more consistent and dependable shooting of the Brownson team enabled them to win, 22-10. The Old Infirmary moved up to a tie for second place by defeating Cavanaugh Hall.
Sorin Hall moved up a notch by its 33 to 19 defeat of Lyons. Heineman and Gallagher, with 22 points, helped along the Sorin cause commendably. In defeating Morrissey, Alumni created a tie for second place in Group II of the heavy division.
The two games in the Lightweight division were really thrillers. Brownson and Badin fought a nip and tuck battle and the former emerged on top by an 18-17 decision.
Sorin played for the first time in the Light division, but was credited with it fourth loss. All the other-games were postponed.
Results:
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Group 1—St. Ed’s. 31, Freshman 8 ; Carroll 24, Off Campus 4; Brownson 22, Badin 10; Old Infirmary 12, Cavanaugh 8.
Group 2—Sorin 33, Lyons 19; Alumni 23, Morrissey 18.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Group 1—Brownson 18, Badin 17.
Group 2—Lyons 16, Sorin 10.
Past-Lenten Tea Dance Tops La Paia Plans
Telmo deLandero, captain of the varsity fencing squad and president of the La Raza Club, the classical Spanish organization of the campus, has called a meeting for Wednesday of next week.
President deLandero intends to present tentative plans for a post-Lenten tea dance. The affair will be open to campus students, and deLandero expects to present a dance orchestra that specializes in dance numbers of a tango tempo.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
19
ON DOWN THE LINE
By Mike Crowe
There are 625 registered amateur hockey teams in Canada alone. With this many teams, it is estimated that there are 20,000 players registered in the dominion.
GEORGE RENSA, Sox catcher, has certainly been around the. circuit. Rensa has been with thirteen teams in his tours from the minors to the majors and back again.
The famous GUEPE twins of Marquette’s Golden Avalanche served the nuptial Mass when TRAINER ED ROZMARYNOSKI of Marquette university athletic teams was married to Josephine Curley, February 6.
BOB SHAWKEY, former pitcher and manager of the New York Yankees, is one of the richest ex-baseball players living. He owns a half million shares in a gold mine at Shaw-key, Quebec, and they are valued at a dollar a share.
CAPTAIN BUZZ BUIVID of Marquette has an added honor. The great passer made 18 all-American first teams—the latest being the allBoy Scout all-American.
During the winter months, BILLY HERMAN, who might be a holdout this spring, operates a filling station in his home town, New Albany, Indiana. ’
JULES BENDER, one of Long Island University’s’brightest net stars, scored 195 points in his team’s first 21 games to be considered the East’s leading scorer.
For consistency, CECIL TRAVIS, Washington Senator outfielder and infielder, must be recognized. In his three seasons as a major leaguer, Travis has hit 310, 318, and 319.
During the off season, RIP COLLINS conducts a sports column for a local paper in his home town, Rochester, New York.
Because of the congested conditions in the MICHIGAN STATE college gymnasium, the backs and ends of the football team are getting their winter* training in a barn.
On September 3, 1936 LOU AMBERS fought fifteen bruising rounds to become the lightweight champion of the world. That’s history. Here is something that few people know about Ambers though. At the celebration after the fight Thursday night changed into Friday morning; Ambers refused to eat or drink after midnight because he was making the Nine First Fridays.	.
ILLINOIS CAGERS FALL BEFORE IRISH NETMEN IN BATTLE BEFORE CAPACITY CROWD MOIR, NOWAK, SHINE
After an amazingly alert and aggressive Notre Dame basketball team had tumbled Illinois from a premature lead, it moved smoothly ahead to pile up a safe margin of its own and then successfully, if not quite skillfully, stalled during the closing minutes of the game to take a 41-33 victory from the Big Ten leaders. The game avenged an early season
Capt. Ray Meyer Revenge was sweet.
walloping by the Orange and Blue and left Pittsburgh as the only team on the schedule thus far that the Irish have not defeated.
Johnny Moir, who has scored 88 points in the last five games, relied on the law of averages when he piled up a 19 point lead total last Saturday night. The scampering Scot attempted 30 assaults on the basket and successfully slipped in eight sinkers. Captain Bob Riegel, all-conference center, scored two fouls in the first half and five field goals in the second to lead his team in scoring.
Illinois counted first when Louie Boudreau intercepted a pass and dribbled down the floor to drop in an easy one, and the Orange and Blue had moved ahead to a 5-0 lead before Johnny Moir finally flipped in a pair of foul shots to break the ice for Notre Dame. Then, after Combes had popped another' one for the Ulini, Moir added another charity. chuck, and Nowak tossed in the first two-pointer for the Irish with a pretty one-handed shot over Riegel’s outstretched arms. The teams moved ahead evenly after that until the Irish finally caught Illinois at 13-13 and continued putting in the points until they led 26-13 at half-time.
Moir opened the second half by dropping in a bucket that Earl Brown had set for him with a perfect pass (Continued on Page 20)
GYM TEAM PRACTICES FOR EXHIBITIONS THIS MONTH
With resounding thuds and quavers of the gymnasium rafters, the University gym team, under the guidance of Mr. John Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education, is gradually assuming the form that has made it a popular exhibition group wherever it has performed. It is the purpose of this group to demonstrate the type of work carried on in the regular curriculum of the Physical Education Department.
The team has performed before the high schools of the state, the Notre Dame alumni clubs of this locality, and various fraternal orders throughout the Mid-West. The usual program consists of drills with wands and Indian clubs, stunts on the high horizontal bar and the parallel bars, and tumbling. Elephant vaulting, which is a means of scaling the parallel bars with the help of a spring board, is also a part of the team’s routine.
A few weeks ago the Notre Dame gymnasts gave an exhibition before the students of the Coldwater, Michigan high school. The Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus of Chicago have also enthusiastically received the Notre Dame group in the past month.
No definite dates have as yet been fixed for the remaining engagements on the schedule, but the following are expected to see the team perform during the balance of the season: the South Bend high schools, Fort Wayne high schools, Knights of Columbus of Chicago Heights, and Culver* Military Academy.
This year’s team is captained by Don Hennessey, a veteran member of the squad. The personnel will be made up of Larry Danbom, Phil Walker, Frank Maxwell, Pat McCarty, Andy Puplis, Phil Galetta, Joe Sternad, Ed Broscoe, Gene Ely, John Collins, Joe Moore, Hubert Gallagher, and Joe Kuharick.
’ Jan. 18,’ 1902—All those desiring to have their lungs, back, arms or legs tested should call on Mr. Weiss, Director of gymnastics. This testing is necessary before one enters the gymnastic class.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
"SCOOP" BY REPORTER GETS 34 IRISHMEN MAD WHEN HE PREDICTS NOTRE DAME SYSTEM "ANTIQUATED AND OUTMODED"
By Fred Digby
Once upon a time there was a reporter. This reporter had a scoop. A scoop is something that catches the other papers napping.
There were also 34 head coaches. These 34 head coaches were all Fighting Irishmen. It seems that this one reporter was strictly anti - Notre Dame. By writing and declaring definitely that the Notre Dame system was a thing of the past, antiquated, outmoded, and incapable of coping with newer systems, this one reporter caught the other papers napping. This was the scoop.
Someone smarter than the reporter said that he was very foolish to go so far on the limb. But the reporter was quite sure that he was safe.
It seems that this scoop drifted around to the 34 head coaches who were Fighting Irishmen. This was, as you can see, a terrible state of affairs. Imagine using a system that was no longer any good. They were befuddled to say the least, until someone suggested that maybe the reporter didn’t know what he was talking about. The 34 head coaches, all of the Fighting Irishmen, decided to find out the truth once and for all.
Out on the West Coast, two head coaches; Buck Shaw, and Jim Phelan by name, began the experiment. As a result Jim Phelan’s Washington team, using the antiquated system which was really no good, was unable to do anything but play its way into the Rose Bowl to compete for the mythical national championship. True, it didn’t win, but nevertheless it was good enough to win the invitation to the Bowl as the best team on the West Coast even if it did use the Notre Dame system.
Buck Shaw had a pretty good season himself, and seeing that Jim had matters on the coast well in hand decided to take his team South and see what they had to offer. In the Sugar-Bowl his Santa Clara Broncos beat the South’s best, Louisiana State University.
Thus West Coast matters were taken care of. In the South Frank Thomas at Alabama volunteered to take care of his section of the country. Result—an unbeaten team, the only major unbeaten team in the country.
In one Bowl game the Fighting Irishmen had to pit their teams against each other, one reason being that there was a scarcity of better teams. Jack Meagher at Auburn, who decided that he might add to the
prestige gained for the system by Frank Thomas, took his boys to the Havana Bowl. When he arrived he found another Notre Dame man, Maurice Smith there, ready and waiting with his Villanova squad.
In the East Jim Crowley for one decided to hold on to the Notre Dame system, in spite of what the reporter had said. The best he and Iris four Notre Dame assistants could do was to produce one of the best Eastern teams.
Then there’s Duquesne in the MidWest who played well enough for John “Clipper” Smith to receive the invite to the Orange Bowl where they whipped Mississippi State University.
Here on the home grounds Elmer Layden and his eight assistants worked hard with the old system and produced one of the country’s best. Good enough at least to lick Northwestern, champions of the Big Ten, who had •whipped Minnesota, which team has reigned supreme in football circles for quite a while now.
The Notre Dame men stopped their reviewing here to see what the Notre Dame system had accomplished. There are five Bowl games — with teams selected from the best squads available — and five teams coached by Notre Dame men played in these bowls. Besides, the home school had just defeated the team that beat the team which everyone said was the best team in the country.
The Irishmen were quite satisfied.
While these major battles were going on the rest of the 34 head coaches were doing quite well by themselves. It seems that there are Notre Dame coaches throughout the country, heading football activities at numerous colleges. Whether in the East, West, North, or South, one is always liable to stumble over’ a few Notre Dame coaches. Slip Madigan, Tom Lieb, Harry Mehre, Noble Kizer, Harry Stuhldreher, Chet Wynne, Bud Gebert, Gus Dorais, Robert Matthews, George Vik — these and many others are all Fighting Irishmen.
There are Notre Dame men coaching, either in college, high school, or independent athletics, all the major sports. They number approximately 114.
So it seems that maybe the Notre Dame men did pretty well for themselves even if they did use the antiquated Notre Dame system.
The reporter, by the way, is still in hiding. The other papers are willing to submit to any more scooping provided he is the scooper.
From The Files Of "The Scholastic"
Feb. 15, 1890—Why is Indiana like like a cranky old man? Both are subject to sudden changes of temperature.
There was a “bear” dance on the lawn last Tuesday; two walking beggars attended by two bears entertained the boys with a dance and wrestling match. The hat was passed around.
The following officers have been appointed for the Sorin Cadets: Chas. Connors, 1st Sargent; P. Stephens 2d Sargent. Under the management of Captain Prudhomme the Cadets are making rapid progress in their tactics. They will be a valuable addition to the dress parade this spring.
Feb. 22, 1890—Winter- began Feb. 20.
The spring building will, no doubt, be inaugurated by the erection of the new shops for the Manual Labor-School. The summer months may then be devoted wholly to the addition to Sorin Hall.
The crowing of roosters disturbs late sleepers in Sorin. Our friend John wants to know if those roosters can’t be choked off and let the quiet denizens of Sorin Hall have a good night’s rest.
Feb. 16, 1895—Some joker in Carroll Hall received a valentine last Thursday. He is in hiding now.
The Treasurer of the Hand-Ball association has offered a reward to anyone who will give him a clue to the hand-ball lost three weeks ago.
The muskets belonging to Co. B barracks have thawed out, and the members of the company are correspondingly happy.
Irish Down lllini
(Continued from Page 19)
to the basket. Tommy Wukovits immediately followed with a left-handed thriller, and Captain Ray Meyer took a pass from Johnny Moir to put in another and make the score 32-16.
After Vopicka had scored for the lllini, Captain Bob Riegel went on a one-man scoring spree so that, during the next ten minutes, the score was Riegel—10, Notre Dame—5. Notre Dame apparently tried to stall by throwing the ball away instead of shooting, but after Illinois had brought the score up to 37-32, the Irish defense tightened. The clinching basket came when Wukovits, sneaking behind the Illinois defense, took a pass from Nowak on an out-
of- bounds play and dropped in the final points of the game.
Notre Dame	G F P
Moir, f-c	8 3 1
Meyer, f	3 11
Sadowski, f	Oil
Nowak, c	2 13
Brown, g	10 2
Wukovits, g	3 0 2
Jordan, g	010
17 7 10
Illinois G F P
Boudreau, 12 2 0
Nisbet, f 0 0 0
Vopicka. f 111
Riegel, c 5 2 1
Henry, g 112
Combes, g 4 12
Wardley, g 0 0 3
13 7 9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
21
The Cross Road
(Continued from Page 11)
“Yeah. It takes more than good marks to do research.”
They were silent for a moment. Then John stirred, looked at Joe, and said: “You’re an engineer, aren’t you?”
“Yeah, chem engineer.”
“You have to he alert to be an engineer.”
“You have to be alert all right. Accurate, too.”
“Yeah. Accurate and alert,” John agreed.
Neither spoke for a long time.
John looked out the window opposite at the houses the street car passed. The snow that had fallen four days ago was partly melted. What remained was mixed with mud. It made the streets and sidewalks look very dirty.
Joe slowly read the advertising placards mounted in the car. One of them proclaimed: “Fifty Million Customers Head the Street Car Ads Daily.” I wonder if they counted me, he thought.
After a time Joe inquired: “Going home for the holidays?”
“No. I’ve got some experiments I want to do,” came the response.
“Oh,” said Joe; then he ventured, a bit shyly: “I got a letter from the girl friend, and she says: ‘What do you want from Santa besides me ?’ ”
“Yeah?” John grinned.
“Yeah,” Joe warmed; “I’m going to write and tell her: ‘Don’t be so egotistical!’ ”
“Yeah?” John smiled vaguely.
They were quiet again. Then Joe suggested: “What do you do for recreation?”
“Read.”
“Who?”
“Oh, Burroughs, Conrad, Hemingway . . .”
“Do you like Hemingway?”
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrist* and Mfg. Optician*
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
“He’s all right. Except he likes to pretend that life’s drab.”
“You don’t think life is drab?” asked Joe.
“No. I don’t think life is drab,” John said.
The car stopped. They were in town.
“I’ve got to buy a jacket and some things,” John explained.
“I think I’ll see a show.” Joe responded mechanically. He seemed lost in thought.
They got off the street car.
“So long,” John said.
“So long, John,” answered Joe.
For a while he stood with his hands in his pockets looking after John. He looked at the ground. Then he slowly turned and walked up the street toward the “Palace.” After a little way he looked up. The window certainly had a novel Christmas display.
Secret ingredient dissolves sediment left in a pen by ordinary inks.
THROW YOUR BLOTTERS AWAY
And write with Parker Qufnfe the pen-cleaning ink that dries ON PAPER 31% faster than old-style inks. Always rich, brilliant— never watery. 15c and 25c at any store selling ink.
Made by TheParkerPen Co., Janesville, IFis.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222)£ South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
He lengthened his stride. Soon afterward he began to whistle softly to himself. . . .
“Hello, Bright Eyes!” He smiled broadly at the girl in the ticket booth. “What’s on today?”
“ ‘The Red-Headed Blond,’ ” she retorted fluently.
His smile broadened. “Yeah?” Well make it one in the balcony anyway,” he said.
He disappeared into the theater.
STOP worrying about Chicago Traffic Ride the SOUTH SHORE Line
Speeding is legal on the South Shore Line . . . there’s always a green light for the fast electric trains. Go the fast, safe way --- via South Shore Line — and pocket the savings.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937

Indiana Track Meet
(Continued from Page 16)
60-YARD DASH: Won by .Collier (Ind.); Elliott (Ind.), second; Clifford (ND), third. Time. 6.3 seconds.
MILE RUN: Won by Trutt (Ind.) : Lash (Ind.), second: Rice (ND), third. Time, 4 minutes, 26.4 seconds.
60-YARD HIGH HURDLES: Won by Neely (Ind.) ; Warman (Ind.), second; Morsan (ND), third. Time. S seconds.
To Star in Your School Work BACK YOUR BRAINS WITH THE ALL-STAR PEN
6UARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT
Oe-cls $2 51
It Lets You SEE When to Refill
—hence won’t run dry in classes or exams
Yes, thousands of students start to rate higher when they replace their old ''blind-barrel” pens with this new Parker Vacumatic.
This is because it is people who are capable of rating high who go for this Pen in a big way, and because it is this kina of Pen—and only this kind—that can bring out the best that is in them. '
Its Scratch-Proof Point of Platinum and Solid Gold writes like a zephyr. Unlike pens that hide the ink within the barrel, this laminated Pearl Beauty lets you SEE Days Ahead when it’s running low. When held to the light it shows the ENTIRE Ink Supply—holds 102% More Ink than old-style.
It’s the pen that received more votes than any other TWO makes of Pens COMBINED when 30 College Papers asked 4,699 students "Which pen do you own?” It was awarded ny the All-America Board - of Football to 90 nominees for the All-America Team of 1936.
Go at once to any good store selling pens and try this revolutionary invention. Identify the genuine Parker Vacumatic by this smart ARROW Clip,—this holds this Pen low and SAFE in the pocket. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
Cleans Your Pen As It Writes Get Parker Quink, the new quick-drying ink. Dissolves sediment left by pen-dogging inks. Makes your pen—a Parker or any other—work like a charm. 15c and 25c.
440-YARD DASH: Won by Miller (Ind.) ; Sheehan (ND), second; Marker (Ind.) third. Time, 52.2.
TWO-MILE RUN: Won by Smith (Ind.) : Deckard (Ind.), second; Gott (ND), third. Time, 9 minutes. 33.5 seconds.
880-YARD RUN: Won by Cavanaugh (ND) ; Applegate (Ind.), second; Trutt (Ind.), third. Time. 2 minutes, 1.7 seconds.
HIGH JUMP: Won by Tuthill, (Ind.) : Kuzman (Ind.), second: Baldwin (Ind.), third. Heisrht, 6 feet.
MILE RELAY: Won by Indiana (Elliot. Richardson, Chadwick, Collier). Time, 3 minutes, 28.8 seconds.	•
(Less than actual sizal

e-Si.-e SiC
U. Theater Opening
(Continued from Page 3)
its intriguing sequence. The story concerns itself with a popular writer of “crime” novels. While he and his fiiancee are looking for a quiet home in the country, they stumble upon a vacant dwelling which later proves to be a hideaway for a notorious band of criminals.
After several drinks of an intoxicating nature, Porter boasts of his ability to concoct murders that defy detection. The criminals hit upon the idea of having him plan the murder of their arch enemy, the Crime Commissioner. If he fails, the forfeit will be his life and that of his fiancee.
He shows his captors how to kill their enemy and then digs up another plot to prevent them from carrying out their plans. The means used are very exciting, filled with melodrama, and present a novel use of the radio.
The scene is laid in an apartment house in a suburb of New York City. The entire action takes place in- the single room used by the gang as a hideout. The stage arrangements have been under the supervision of Professor Frank Kelly, head of the University Speech department.
Following six weeks of rehearsals, the play has attained a high degree of perfection, and Professor A. L. Doyle, in charge of the production assures the student body of an excellent performance. No means have been spared that this play may continue to uphold the high standards established by productions of former years.
The following men have been appointed to take charge of the stage and lighting effects during the play:
Alfred A. Sniadowski, head stage manager; John M. Powers and Frank J. Geary, assistants.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, FEBRUARY 12, 1937
FAMOUS CHORISTERS TO PERFORM HERE
FEB. 17
•
One of the features of the Washington Hall program for the year will be the presentation of the internationally famous Heidelberg Singers, February 17.
This group of men singers provided one of the high spots of the Chicago World’s Fair and received much notice for their well blended voices. The organization is made up of trained soloists in Chicago who band together in song to produce concerts such as will be heard here.
The repertoire of the group ranges from the famous drinking song of the spot from which they derive their name to the more serious choral arias from the operas. The biggest part of the songs, of course, will be made up of selections from the musical comedy and operetta stage, and with these notable voices to present them, the event should be a notable one.
Nov. 12, 1898 — Mr. Daniel Mahoney has just completed his new song, “How Teddy Saved the Day.” Those who wish a copy should apply to him at once, as the number1 is limited.
MAX ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner'
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
ARROW. . . selected by Men for Men
From Arrow shirts right down to ties, handkerchiefs and trunks . . . we're headquarters for Arrow merchandise.
Ellswnrtlj’s
/ new edition of Trump
Buy this best seller for genuine shirt satisfaction. Arrow’s new trump has everything — a new soft collar in a durable fabric that will actually outwear the shirt — and that’s a long, long time. The body is Mitoga cut and tailored in the Arrow way. In white broadcloth — all sizes. . . . Two dollars.
Mitoga^tailored to jit	Sanforized Shrunk
Vrom tobacco farm to shipping ; room... at every stage in the • making of Chesterfield Ciga* i rettes —Job Number One is j to see that Chesterfields are made to Satisfy.
In the fields ... at the auction markets . . . and in the storage warehouses...Job Number One is to see that Chesterfield tobaccos are MILD and RIPE.
In the Blending Department Job Number One is to "weld” our home-grown tobaccos with aromatic Turkish to the exact Chesterfield formula.
In the Cutting and Making Departments Job Number One is to cut the. tobacco into long clean shreds and roll it in pure cigarette paper.
Chesterfields are made to give you the things you enjoy in a cigarette refreshing mildness... pleasing taste and aroma. They Satisfy.
, Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.