
Are you the Rambler type *
Like to have fun? Like a car that’s fun? A car that’s got everything including personality—at prices that don’t break the bank? Then move into the driver’s seat of a Rambler, because you are the Rambler type.
And how about those Rambler seats and interiors? Just wonderful—envied by owners whose cars cost twice as much. Plush, comfortable Airliner Reclining Bucket Seats adjust individually for leg room and seat-back angle. The new Lounge-Tilt Seat adjusts hydraulically for knee height—low-cost options. And you’re sur-
rounded by expensive new fabrics and upholstery.
But don’t just sit there—drive a Rambler. Try the exciting new way to drive—the E-Stick noclutch-pedal transmission. Noclutch driving at a fraction, of the usual cost! Most of the convenience of an automatic, but with slick-shift economy (a moderately priced option)!
And Rambler quality does not just stop with its trim good looks and its responsive handling. More guarantees than any other American car insure you a more troublefree, more service-free car. More
solid safety features, too—like Double-Safety Brake System, standard. Tandem master cylinders, one for front brakes, the other for rear. If one should be damaged, the other still works and they’re self-adjusting.
See your Rambler dealer soon —he has a surprise for you, for Ramblers are priced lower than you would expect, much lower than cars that have far less to offer. Very big on economy, of course.
tRAMBLER
World Standard of Compact Car Excellence

College Queens make great discovery in New York!
Of course, they loved the city—the fun and the excitement. But they also learned about diamond rings—discovered there is a way to be sure of the diamond you buy. They saw how Artcarved guarantees every diamond in writing for color, cut, clarity and carat weight. They were impressed by the proof of value offered by Artcarved’s nationally-advertised Permanent Value Plan, backed by the quality reputation of this 110 year old firm. And, they were most delighted with Artcarved’s magnificent assortment of award-winning styles.
Visit your local Artcarved jeweler and see all the wonderful Artcarved styles, including those selected as the “10 best” by the College Queens. He’ll tell you why Artcarved is the diamond you’ll be sure of and proud of all die rest of your life.
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
—WWWI..1 Wil . .	...
-Mill I-	■L
Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet.............. $ 60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $425.00
Bride’s Circlet.............. $ 30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) ' AND LAY-A-WAY
AVAILABLE TO NOTRE DAME MEN
★
121 W. WASHINGTON
CE 4-1311 a
Artcarved
Three of the ten loveliest Artcarved styles
THE WARM AND WELCOME WAY TO SAY, "MERRY CHRISTMAS!"
4
The Scholastic
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY .. .
PAY	PAY	PAY
1/3	1/3	1/3
IN JUNE	IN JULY IN AUGUST
No Carrying Charge
Get what you need for gifts, or for yourself, at the Campus Shop before you go home, and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay nothing now . . . pay one-third in June . . . one-third in July . . . and one-third in August. No carrying charge, of course. So, get that new suit, topcoat or tuxedo . . . new hat, shoes or haberdashery ... a new Pendleton robe, shirt or Topsman jacket and enjoy the festive occasions during the holidays ahead.
Merry Christmas to you all... from ...
On the Campus—Notre Dame
December 15, 1961
COVER: This week's cover portrays the traditional spirit of the last minute rush before Christmas vacation: theses, term papers, math 103-X, biology, tests, and if time, maybe even packing.
—Pat Saxe
ESTABLISHED 1818
7 >>437
University Suits, $65 to $80- Topcoats, $80 Skiwear, jrom $11* Outerwear, jrom $30
'346”Suits, $90 to $ 105 • Topcoats, jrom $95
Tweed Sport Jackets, $65 to $75
Button-down Oxford Shirts, $5.75 and $6.25
5®
during the Christmas holidays, visit OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
AND OUR "346" DEPARTMENT
These two fine departments have everything for today’s undergraduate... from new unfinished worsted suits to traditionally correct evening wear.. .all reflecting our distinctive styling, quality and taste. University sizes 35 to 42, "346” sizes 36 to 46.
lien's Furnishings, ®ats ^boes
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. HEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
&








REPERCUSSIONS
DEMAND FOR ACTION Editor:
For four years I’ve crossed the Dixie Highway to date girls from SMC, or attend rehearsals or lectures, and for four years I’ve had to dodge . cars speeding at about 50 m.p.h. We all know of the unfortunate death of a Notre Dame student on the Dixie. I’m just so mad at the fact that we could have prevented this accident, but didn’t. Now it’s time to act. After a fellow student has died on the highway, it’s time to act. How ironical. After a tragic death in our midst, the flare for some kind of protection is again sounding out to the people and the students. Last year it was the death of Tony Champaign on the SMC boulevard, hit by a car while he was pedaling his bicycle back to ND. Tony was a personal friend of mine; I deplored his death the same as I deplore this death of another fellow student. The fact of the matter is, what are we going to do about it?
We need a solution to this problem (either in the form of a bridge, tunnel, or stoplight or some feasible “out”) even more than we need a fabulous new library, activities building, fieldhouse, or a newly coated golden dome. And for what it’s worth, I as a graduate will give nary a penny to the University until we get this solution. I hope other members of the class of ’62 will back this up.
Gregory Weismantel 9 Sorin Hall
OF POETRY Editor:
I was delighted to see the Scholastic giving some space to poetry and the reading of it. This is a rare event in its own right and I hope it is one more sign (among several apparent in this and recent issues) of the maturing of the magazine. That it gave this space after its allotment to news, movies, painting and drama hardly matters, so long as poetry precedes sports, which (nicely) it just did. Michael Murray would be a fine choice for poetry critic throughout the year I would think.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second das* mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. ruolished weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC !* printed at the Ave Maria Pres*. The subscrip* tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
6
However I wish Mr. Murray had turned his extraordinary intelligence and sensitivity more to the challenge of the evening (the presentation of new poems many of which have appeared in the best publications we have) and less to the easy and predictable assessment of Father Rose-liep’s comments on his poems and his exposition of them, which Mr. Murray found wanting before he found the poems wanting. The need for such comment and exposition in the first place ought to be given some attention. So far as I can see our desire
to have poets do this with their work (and ordinarily to follow a reading with a question period as well) is simply to cover our embarassment at being in the presence of a poem. We can suppose we listened to comment and exposition, which is more tolerable than art. I believe Mr. Murray successfully resisted the experience of having to deal with the artist.
Otherwise he would not have listened so irrevocably to Fr. Roseliep’s proffered understandings of his own poems—the “symbolic explanations," the use of “Christ as . . . deus ex
machina,” etc., and the tracing of the poems to “students I have had in class” or “my father” or “my mother.” Mr. Murray particularly deplores the use of the latter. What would he do with Da Vinci who put both his mother and foster mother into a single painting? Why students or parents, or anyone else for whom one has feelings of love (or hate) is not a fit subject for art I would like to hear? What of Cummings’ use of his father, Picasso of his sister, Melville of his wife, Milton of his friend ?
(Continued on page 27)
DRIVING TO FLORIDA OVER THE HOLIDAYS? or to Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Georgia?
We'll pay you up to $30.00!
All you have to do is tow an empty U-Haul Trailer on your return trip North. You will be paid immediately when the trailer is turned in. There are no strings attached and nothing to send in. Payment schedule is as follows:
1. Closed type trailers (7' long & under) $16.00 2. Closed type trailers (S’ to Iff long) $24.00 3. Closed type trailers (4 wheel, 12’ long) $30.00
Phone the U-Haul Co. offices in: Miami ME 5-1026, Tampa 872-0884, Orlando CH 1-9555, W. Palm Beach 965-0558, Atlanta, Ga. 378-4546 or present this ad to any U-Haul Dealer in the states listed above. You’ll find U-Haul Dealers listed in the yellow pages of the telephone book under “TRAILERS - RENTAL.”
Attention U-Haul Dealers in Florida, Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Georgia:
The bearer of this ad is authorized by the U-Haul Co. Traffic Dept, to pick up any van model trailer not reserved with a cash deposit
Instructions For
Hook-Up Dealer:
1.	Fill out a One-Way Rental Contract Leave the rental charges column blank.
2.	Write the words “HaulAway” across the face of the contract and give the “Pink" and “Yellow” copies to the driver. He is to keep this Haul-Away ad and turn it in to the Receiving Dealer.
3.	Your Rental Company will pay you $1.00 for making this hook-up.
4.	Fill in:
Trailer #-------------------
Your Code #--------------
City_--------------------—
State-----------------------
5.	Ask the driver what city he came from. Dispatch the trailer to an AAA Dealer in that city.
Driver Is To Turn
Trailer In At:
Name
Code No.
Address
City
State
Instructions For
Receiving Dealer:
Check the payment schedule above and pay driver accordingly. Deduct the amount paid out from your next Monday Report. Send this ad and the yellow contract copy with your report as proof of payment.
Complete the Following Information:
Amt. Paid Driver
Dealer’s Signature
Driver’s Signature
Dealer's Code No.	~
This offer expires January 15, 1962
10
December 15, 1961
7
On Campus Max Shulman
(Author of “Barefoot Boy With Cheek”, “The Many Lores of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
FROM SEA TO SHINING SEA
America is a great country. America’s cities are full of houses. America’s forests are full of trees. America’s rivers are full of water. But it is not houses and trees and water that make America great; it is curiosity—the constant quest to find answers—.the endless, restless “Why?” “Why?” “Why?”.
Therefore, when I was told that Marlboro was a top seller at colleges from USC to Yale, I was not content merely to accept this gratifying fact, I had to find out why.
I hied myself to campuses in every sector of this mighty land. First, I went to the Ivy League—dressed, of course, in an appropriate costume: a skull-and-bones in one hand, a triangle in the other, a mask-and-wig on my head, a hasty pudding in my chops. “Sir,” I cried, seizing an Ivy Leaguer by the lapels, which is no mean task considering the narrowness of Ivy League lapels, but, I, fortunately, happen to have little tiny hands; in fact, I spent the last war working in a small arms plant where, I am proud to say, I was awarded a Navy “E” for excellence and won many friends —“Sir,” I cried, seizing an Ivy Leaguer by the lapels, “how come Marlboro is your favorite filter cigarette?”
“I’m glad you asked that question, Shorty,” he replied. “Marlboro is my favorite filter cigarette because it is the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste.”
“Oh, thank you, sir!” I cried and ran posthaste to several campuses in the Big Ten, wearing, of course, the appropriate costume: a plaid Mackinaw, birling boots, a Kodiak bear and frost-bitten ears.
Spying an apple-cheeked young coed, I tugged my forelock and said, “Excuse me, miss, but how come Marlboro is your
* * *
And you will also find another winner from the makers of Marlboro—the king-size, unfiltered Philip Morris Commander, made by a new process to bring you new mildness, Have a Commander. Welcome aboard.
8
favorite filter cigarette?”
“I’m glad you asked that question, Shorty,” she replied. “Marlboro is my favorite filter cigarette because the flavor is flavorful, the flip-top box flips and the soft-pack is soft.”
“Oh, thank you, apple-cheeked young coed,” I cried and bobbed a curtsey and sped as fast as my little fat legs would carry me to several campuses in the Southwest, wearing, of course, the appropriate costume: chaps, canteen, and several oil leases. Spying a group of undergraduates singing “Strawberry Roan,” I removed my hat and said, “Excuse me, friends, but why is Marlboro your favorite filter cigarette?”
“We are glad you asked that question, Shorty,” they replied. “Marlboro is our favorite filter cigarette because we, native
sons and daughters of the wide open spaces, want a cigarette that is frank and forthright and honest. We want, in short, Marlboro.”
Oh, thank you, all,” I cried and, donning a muu muu, I set sail for Hawaii, because in Hawaii as in every state where Old Glory flies, Marlboro is the leading seller in flip-top box. On campus, off campus, in all fifty states, wherever people smoke for pleasure in this great land of ours, you will find Marlboro.
S 1961 Mai Shulman
GLANCES
John Bellairs gives us “a Baedeker of sorts,” telling about that village across Angela Blvd, and how it came to be. From the May 8, 1959, Scholastic . . . page 9.
Tonight’s concert featuring the Brothers Four; ND’s new computing center, and other items of note . . . page 11.
That red Corvette you’ve been seeing around the campus is only one feature of the Mardi Gras celebration being planned for early March .. . see page 14.
A bridge that never was, and the role of that old devil red tape in projects to span the Dixie .. . page 15.
For the latest on Senate happenings it’s Art Graham’s column on . . . page 15.
Plus, here’s the dope on the semester break ski trip to Caberfae, also on . . . page 15.
Academic scholarships and the problem of financing them; one of the University’s biggest growing pains and how it is being dealt with... page 16.
The annual series of Marriage Institute lectures for seniors, to begin early in Lent, is now being arranged; see who, what, when ... on page 17.
Local entertainment through midJanuary, surveyed by John McGuire’s “In and Around Town” . . . page 20.
Relive those golden moments at last year’s ski trip or get your first glimpse at what it’s really like; a photo feature . . . page 21.
A taste of the University Art Gallery’s exhibition of Peruvian sculpture . . . page 22.
Last Monday night’s poetry reading session at St. Mary’s reviewed . . • page 23.
President Hesburgh, long a member of the national President’s committee on Civil Rights, offers a few words on this same subject . . . page 24.
The basketball season thus far and a preview of things to come in the near future . . . page 29.
Regular senior eager Armand Reo is featured, with his own comments, on . . . page 30.
Our regular sports column, ‘‘As We See It” . . . page 30.
— And “Voice in the Crowd” . • • page 31.
A Active letter from a modern Catholic educator, constructed by Maurice Callahan in reply to ReV-Tom Brennan’s Forum article of NoV-17 ... page 38.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame

IVol. 103 No. 9
Dec. 15, 1961 —
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
THOMAS WEISS
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE,
Ken Arnold, Joe Caspar, Pete Clark, Jim Wyrsch.
newj staff—John Buckley, Vince De Coursey, Dick Maher, Ted Pinto, Steve Stopp, Steve Stuecheli, Don Whorton.
features editor
TOM HOOBLER
features staff—Carl Wiedemann, R. E. McGowan, Brian Barnes, Tom Cullen, John Pesto, Matt Cosgrove.
sports editor
JOHN BECHTOLD Bob Chiappinelli, Terry Wolkerstorfer.
sports staff—J.C. Higgins, Frank Hinchey, Dave Fuyi, Bob Schefling, Tom Kiener, Joe Kyan.
copy editor
PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN, Patrick Saxe, Robert Sojnovsky.
Photography—Brian Beck, Wes Clark.
layout editor
STEVE PODLAS
business manager
JAY WARD,
Art Berry, Bob Buckley, Tom Dalutn.
ad salesmen—George McGuire, Rich Rogge-veen, Phil Tomber.
circulation manager
JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisors
DONALD COSTELLO JOSEPH HOFFMAN, C.S.C.
A THIN EDGE: Currently it is quite fashionable on college campuses, as well as in much of the American press, to ululate in self-righteousness at the activities of the “radical right.” Terms as “witch-hunting,” “militarist,” “fascist,” etc., form a kind of unreflective litany of anathema. However, this eagerness to blast the ill-advised activities of the “Birchers” and “McCarthyites” leads to a pre-rational condemnation of any attempt to formulate an intelligent actively anti-Communist position. Amidst the ballyhoo deploring the “excesses” of anti-Communism, the necessity for an honest confrontation of the problem is all but forgotten.
It is refreshing to see, then, that there is a growing number of intelligent college students who are not willing to join the popular chorus and who are discerning enough not to abandon an actively anti-Communist position merely because of the excesses of the over-publicized Welch-type lunatic fringe. Over the Thanksgiving holiday, a group of students, including a few from Notre Dame, met here to organize a new educational organization, the Student AntiCommunist Council. The Council, composed of both liberals and conservatives, seeks to inaugurate a program of educational activities, speeches, symposia, distribution of books and literature, all oriented to the promotion of a better knowledge of Communism among American college students.
In our opinion, there is a real need for an organization which, while eschewing the antics of those popular whipping boys of the press, yet recognizes the ominous reality of the international Communist conspiracy and tries to keep students aware of it. It remains to be seen, however, whether such a group can successfully navigate between the Scylla of left-wing hostility and the Charybdis of the Internal Menace bloodhounds.
A NEEDED REVISION: The following letter to the Scholastic deals with a problem of such general interest that it is reprinted here in the hope that it will be given the attention it deserves.
Editor:
The 1961-62 Student Guide provides that “for campus students, permission will be granted to acquire” a car for special events — subj'ect to the Directive of the Dean
I of Students (Rule 4).
I	The directive pertaining to the most recent campus dance concerning this matter
j reads as follows: “Car permissions for those attending the Military Ball will extend from Friday noon, November 17, 1961 to 12:00 noon on Saturday, November 18, 1961.”
However, it has become painfully evident to some students that this “pennission” is equivalent to granting a Sahara nomad permission to take a noonday swim when there is no water available within a thousand miles.
In past years, local car rental agencies have been willing to reserve automobiles during the above mentioned hours. Upon analysis of the economics involved, these agencies have realized that it has not been profitable to reserve automobiles for student use, on a noon-to-noon basis, thus depriving themselves of potential income from the rental of these automobiles for the 48-hour period from Friday morning to i	Saturday night. As a result, they will no longer reserve cars for students in advance,
j	They will only rent to students if cars are available at noon on Friday.
|	Thus, if no change is made, it seems highly unlikely that students will be able
j to rent cars from the agencies for future dances.	_
J	Don Maus, 169 Dillon
j	Harry Rutemiller, 173 Dillon
I	■	.
|	A QUESTION OF IDENTITY: Readers of today’s Scholastic may or may not
’	have noticed the addition of a new name to the masthead — that of Father
j	Joseph Hoffman as a second faculty advisor. Though the implications of the
|	change in policy are as yet unclear insofar as they relate to the Scholastic’s
j	present position, insofar as they relate to the University as a whole they are
4 too apparent.
J While we cannot deny our chagrin at this possible giving and taking away I of editorial freedom, we feel that, on a larger scale, there is a need for a clearer } differentiation between these two elements coexisting within the institutional I framework of Notre Dame. This is not to say that Notre Dame is divided into | two opposing camps; rather is it to say that, within the institutional framework J of Notre Dame, there are, in fact, these two separate elements. Arriving at ] an understanding of what specific relation one should bear to the other is a I task whose performance requires the intelligent co-operation of each segment j of the University. Such a differentiation — such an understanding would help I considerably to define the objects of Notre Dame.
I	— W. <& Z.
I
nJ w® irw	rf (prf
Must tomorrow's travelers resort to howdahs and camel litters in order to get about? Not so, say our Ford Motor Company scientists.
First—aside from the unlikely depletion of our natural sources of gasoline—the prospects for higher-efficiency internal combustion engines are excellent.
Second, while gasoline still appears the best conceivable automotive fuel, our scientists are studying the outlook for new energy sources for cars. Among intriguing possibilities: new energy conversion systems using degraded fuels, or fuels synthesized from low-cost power produced by nuclear fusion. Magneto-hydrodynamic generators and solid-state thermoelectric and electrochemical converters offer other possibilities.
This is all part of a broad quest for fundamental knowledge, earning Ford its place of leadership through scientific research and engineering.
MOTOR COMPANY The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD • THE FARM • INDUSTRY • AND THE AGE OF SPACE
The Scholastic
10
a baedeker
of sorts
by JOHN BELLAIRS
In my callow (this is not a misprint of either sallow or tallow) youth, four years ago this month, I was waiting to be admitted to this Cathedral of Learning. In the months prior to my acceptance, my mail consisted mainly of Gilbert’s blotters and browser cards (which entitle one to a free pluck at the material of an Ivy League suit). However, in the midst of this torrent of commercialism, I found a soothing oasis in the form of the “Facts for Freshmen” manual, which introduced me to campus life in a tone of carefree and mischievous humor usually found only in the pages of “The Hardy Boys at Miserly Old Mr. Crimp’s Farm.” The one fault I can find in this journalistic touchstone is its peripheral and sparse treatment of the metropolis which lies at our feet as an ermine-covered footstool rests at the feet of an enthroned empress — South Bend. I have decided, therefore, to call upon the Handmaid of the Muses (who comes in twice a week to clean the room) to give me the power to aptly present South Bend to the unwary freshman. Here, then, is the Official Bellairs Guide to South Bend and Environs with Appropriate Remarks and Snappy Dialogue.
A GUIDE TO SOUTH BEND
History: In 1751, a deserter from the French and Indian Army named Beeg Pierre LeBourgeois wandered lost and hungry by the southernmost bend of the St. Joseph River (known to the local Indians as Ummeukke-blaha or Brown-Water-With-Smell-That-Kills). At this place he met a group of Indians who lived on the shores of the river as part of a three-year ordeal required by the tribe of all those who sought manhood. Pierre was taken in by the kindly (and by then somewhat demented) aborigines, on condition that he play a hand of chemin-de-fer with them to see who would get the land on which they were camped. Pierre lost, and when he found himself in possession of this vast tract of wooded marshland he decided to found South Bend out of sheer boredom. The human detritus of wagon trains and scalping parties
December 15, 1961
gradually gathered at this rude frontier town, which slowly grew to be a rude Midwestern town of some size. In the 1850’s this city was the storm center for a violent dispute between Illinois and Ohio over the possession of Indiana. Illinois said that if Ohio did not take Indiana it (Ohio) would not be allowed to be carved out of the Northwest Territory. Ohio kicked its foot petulantly (quite a sight in those days) and refused. Eventually the Hoosier State was forced to fend for itself since its sister states would not adopt it, but it got even by becoming the most thoroughly Midwestern state in the country — mainly due to South Bend’s gem-like mediocrity.
General Information: South Bend, pop. 115,900 (except during football week ends and pea-shucking bees) lies (sullenly, one might imagine) in the elbow-bend of the St. Joe River as undigested food lies at the bottom of one’s stomach. It contains the Flimset Bundle Factory (their motto: When bigger bundles are bumb — bibber blubbers — oh, well), the Collapsible Thumbtack Works, and the Adobe Land Flattening Works.
GUIDE TO SHOPS AND NIGHT LIFE:
Many places have become known to students for their wide assortment of wares, courteous and prompt service, and all-around nice attitude. Among these are:
The Old-Traditional Candy Shoppe, whose fine assortment of expensively-packaged jellybeans has delighted N.D. students from the time of the Gipper to the present. Students have long thrilled to the Old-World charm which is reflected in the attitude of the delightfully surly manager and the quaintly inefficient clerks. The high point of the year at this approved “hang-out” is the raffling off of a 634 pound brown sugar statue of Knute Rockne which glows in the dark (until eaten).
The Crotchety Notions Shop, operated by Miss Wenceslava Bozny, who has for years sold those little things which one wouli not expect to find in a store, among them being rug-hook
ing hooks, Balaclava helmets, and Victorian lampshades. In Miss Bozny’s shop I marveled at my inability to buy anything worthwhile and at the sweet old lady’s inability to speak anything but East Latvian. But that is part of the charm of a cosmopolitan city.
The Oat Room, a plush but popular restaurant, has been a favorite dining place for years. The red damask upholstery and crystal chandeliers are pleasantly set off by the overalls-clad patrons who staunchly refuse to shed their badge of honest toil. At an adjacent table, for instance, one may find Farmer Fodderbin munching a chaw of Mail Pouch while snapping his galluses in time with the music of the organist. These folks, with their air of soil-rooted sturdiness, give a homey quality to any fancy eating place.
It was at this very restaurant that I overheard a fascinating dialogue which brought home to me the steellike discipline and unflinching morality of the city’s restaurateurs. Allow me to reconstruct this scene.
Place: The Oat Room Cocktail Lounge.
Time: 7 p.m.
(Enter a youngish salesman from Poughkeepsie, N.Y., carrying his briefcase. He sits at a table and a waitress demurely approaches. Her tone of voice is like that of a flophouse keeper turning out some deadbeats.)
Waitress: I-D, BUDDY!
Salesman (tremulously): Well, here’s my draft card and my. . . .
Waitress (same tone, a little lower) : I mean yer Noter Dame I-D, kid.
Salesman (flinching): But I’m not a student here. I. . . .
Waitress (sarcastically): Just passing through? From New York? You gotta do better than that, kid, now either. ...
Salesman (on the point of tears): Please, Madam. . . .
And so it went. But it is a comfort to know that youthful drinkers are being thwarted. . .
11
Bright futures in data transmission at W. E.
New engineers with initiative who can meet Western Electric’s high standards are offered many exciting career opportunities with our company in data processing development work as it relates to communications.
For example. Western’s engineers—working closely with BellTelephone Laboratories—have solved development and manufacturing problems connected with the Bell System’s new DATA-PHONE Data set (made by Western Electric). DATA-PHONE service lets business machines, such as computers, “speak” to each other in a language of numbers and symbols over existing telephone communication networks. This represents a tremendous boon to business; and consequently.it is estimated that some day there may be more machine talk than people talk using telephone Unes.
Of course, data communications is only one of many rewarding career areas that await you at Western Electric. Here are just a few of the others: electronic switching , . . solid state electronic devices . . . microwave radio relay... computer-programmed production Unes ... solar cells ... optical masers ... futuristic telephones.
We need high-caliber, forward-thinking engineers now to help us transform these plans into realities or to work with us in scores of other key communications areas. Your future, the future of Western Electric, and the future of America’s communications—could well depend on your first career connection.
Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will receive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Relations, Western Electric Company, Room 6106, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric Interview when our college representatives visit your campus.
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.-, Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers In 33 cities and Installation headquarters In 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
12
The Scholastic
BROTHERS FOUR ON CAMPUS
Tonight at 8 p.m. the Social Commission of Notre Dame brings the Brothers Four to the Fieldhouse for two and a half hours of folk entertainment. Tickets may be purchased at the door for $2 a head.
In the concert tonight such songs as “St. James Infirmary,” “Riders in the Sky,” “This Land is my Land,” and “Goodnight Irene" will be heard.
Composed of Bob Flick on bass fiddle, John Paine on banjo and guitar, Mike Kirkland also on banjo and guitar, and Dick Foley on guitar,
BOB FLICK, MIKE KIRKLAND, DICK FOLEY, AND JOHN PAINE
the Brothers Four have been appearing professionally for about two years now. Since their college days at the University of Washington in Seattle, the group has cut three nest selling albums for Columbia records: The Brothers Four Song Book, Roamin’ with the Brothers IV7, and The Brothers Four. They also have received acclaim for their many campus concerts and night club bookings. Greenfields was the biggest seller for the quartet and is indicative of their unique style.
Prior to the formation of the vocal December 15, 1961
group Dick Foley, tenor lead on “Greenfields,” dabled in electrical engineering and arranged and composed what eventually became the quartets repertoire. Bob Flick, baritone, was in TV direction and management as well as an officer in the college activities club. John Paine barritone, majored in Russian, toured Russia and the Far East, and hoped to enter the diplomatic corps. Mike Kirkland, tenor, entered the University of Washington as a pre-medical student on an academic and football scholarship.
COMPUTING CENTER PLANNED
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh announced this week the plans for the establishment of a $3,000,000 Computing Center at Notre Dame. The project has been accelerated by a gift of $1,000,000 from the Sperry-Rand Corporation. The building, which will be erected on a new campus quadrangle near the $8,000,000 Memorial Library, will house a Remington Rand UNTVAC 1107 thin-film memory computer system with related peripheral equipment.
Education and research will be
aided in the colleges of Science, Engineering, Liberal Arts, and Business Administration by the new facility which is scheduled for completion in the fall of 1962. Graduate and undergraduate courses in computer science and technology will be further developed at Notre Dame. It is expected that the combination of these courses and the Computing Center will make the University one of the nation’s . leading institutions in the field of computer education.
The Computing Center will contain the computer system as well as administrative offices and personnel facilities. It will be a particularly valuable asset in Notre Dame’s extensive research complex, which has increased tenfold in the past decade — to $3,000,000 annually. The Computing Center’s contribution to the research of Notre Dame’s Radiation Laboratory, which is investigating the effects of radiation on chemical, physical, and biological systems will be most important. A new $2,200,000 building for the Radiation Laboratory will be constructed soon at Notre Dame by the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission.
The UNIVAC 1107 makes 250,000 additions and subtractions each second. It is the first computing system made available using the new thin magnetic film memory which is accessed more than 1,000,000 times per second in normal operation. The system also utilizes two large banks of core memory each with a capacity of 32,768 words which are accessed up to 500,000 times per second. A peripheral mass-storage drum-memory stores up to 4,718,892 characters and numbers.
ENGINEERS READY OPEN HOUSE
The theme of the 1962 Engineering Open House, March 30, 31, and April 1, will be “New Developments in Engineering."
The Industrial Show, in the Student Activities Building now under construction, will house exhibits contributed by industrial engineering firms.
The open house program will feature a prominent speaker and the presentation of awards to students chosen outstanding engineers of the year. The engineering facilities, including the labs and computer center, will be open for inspection. Also included in the weekend is the traditional chariot race on Cartier Field.
Two weeks prior to the open house, an expanded auto show will demonstrate the engineering involved in. automobile design and manufacture.
The officers of the open house are (Continued on page 16)
13
PRE - LENTEN
The 1962 Mardi Gras was officially launched last Sunday with the arrival of Fanny and Felix — the Roaring Twenties characters who will symbolize the Mardi Gras spirit. The preparations are swinging into high gear for the five-day weekend next March. Under the direction of General Chairman Jim Smith, the Mardi Gras 1962 committee has promised the most active weekend ever held on this campus.
The high point of Notre Dame’s social season, Mardi Gras is recognized by the booking agents as one of the three largest college weekends in the country, matched only by Dartmouth’s Winter Carnival and Army-Navy Week at the service academies. Its reputation has led Life magazine to express interest in this year’s Mardi Gras.
The pre-Lenten celebration has traditionally been a money raising activity for charity, making contributions a little less difficult by returning a good time for each expenditure. Funds from this year’s goal of $40,000 will go for maintenance of the Student Center, scholarships, and subsidies for student government activities and the Campus Charity Chest.
Friday afternoon, early-arriving dates will be entertained from two till five at a free reception in the Rathskeller. Refreshments and music will enhance the visitors’ introduction to Notre Dame.
The weekend gets into full swing with the Mardi Gras Ball on Friday night, March 2. Duke Ellington will provide the music for the dance in the North Dining Hall. Two entrances will enable the largest dance crowd to arrive without the delay of previous years. Once inside, the gay atmosphere will be maintained with party masks, clown attendants, and “champagne” (non-alcoholic, unfortunately). Because of the demand for tickets, an impartial lottery system will be used.
The weekend picks up its pace with the big name concert on Saturday afternoon in the Fieldhouse. Ray Anthony, with his big band and the Bookends, will provide the entertainment, straight from Las Vegas. Those who get their tickets before the concert will be admitted to a free informal dance in the Student Center, starting at 11 a.m.
The high point for the many hardworking students will come right
after the concert when the Carnival opens. The best designs have been chosen from those submitted by campus clubs to transform the new Stepan Student Activities Center into old New Orleans. More and different games will provide a wide choice of ways to lose money — or make it,
MARDI GRAS STUDENT PRIZE Are they from St. Mary’s?
maybe. . . .The Carnival will continue Saturday night, Monday March 5, and will close with the drawing for the Raffle on Tuesday, the sixth.
The Raffle is the major source of income and hence one of the most important parts of the weekend. The first prize this year is a blue 1962 Cadillac coupe with a gray interior. Incentives for student salesmen include a red 1962 Corvette — black interior, three speed transmission, 250 engine, and radio — as first prize in a separate Notre Dame student drawing, $2.50 profit on each book sold, and prizes for halls selling their assigned quotas. In a drawing for St. Mary’s sales girls the first prize is a trip for two to Bermuda. The chances are $1.00 each, with ten to a book. Ten-book sellers will receive, as usual, free bids to the Ball.
If that Corvette out by Father Sorin is not sufficient incentive, a brief consideration of the profit for individuals and halls, as well as the benefits to Notre Dame, student government, and charity, both financial and prestigious — all resulting from Mardi Gras — should demonstrate the importance of strong support for all aspects of Mardi Gras 1962.
— Peter Clark
14
The Scholastic
RED TAPE: THE
BIGGEST BRIDGE
The death of Donald Bertling on Nov. 18 brought attention once more to the problem of pedestrians crossing the Dixie Highway at the entrance to St. Mary’s.
After the accident, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., offered to pay the cost of constructing a footbridge there; but this was rejected by the Indiana State Highway Commission because the state constitution forbids such a use of funds from a religious community.
Highway Commission Chairman Donald Cohen met with Notre Dame, St. Mary’s, and civic officials late in November to discuss safety measures at the crossing. As a result of that meeting, a stop light was installed and a speed limit of 30 miles per hour set between Angela Avenue and the Roseland City Limits.
Discussion on the bridge was dropped. Cohen said, however, that the Commission is studying the problem and is not immediately dismissing the possibility of a bridge. Two study groups have been set up within the Commission, one to consider the technical aspects of building the bridge and the other to make a new study of the traffic conditions surrounding the crossing. Their reports are due at a second meeting on Jan. 5. At this time additional measures will be discussed. A safety system with a traffic island and more lights has been suggested.
With the revival of the problem, a Student Senate committee was set up under Jack Tate and Dave Ellis. They are publicizing the traffic problem and working for the construction of the bridge. For the future they Plan a Student awareness program, which would set up a Safety Council m freshman and sophomore halls, include safety talks in freshman orientation, and require all bicycles on campus to be equipped with safety equipment. The other members of this committee are Tom Bishop, Jack Walker, Kevin Hart, and Tim Haidin-ger.
YCS RETREAT
The mid-semester closed retreat at the Trappist Abbey of Gethsemane from Friday, Jan. 26, to Sunday, Jan. 28, has several openings for any student, professor, or priest so inclined. Inquiries should be directed to the Office of the VicePresident for Student Affairs or 330 Dillon Hall.
/bit
REWARDS
A handsome plaque was on display in the Senate chamber Monday night. It was awarded to Notre Dame by the National Student Association for second place in their yearly student government ratings.
Strange that such a plaque should find its way to a campus where the Student Senate is considered by some a joke, Senate members lack sufficient pride to
buy and wear Senate pins, and a not infrequent question is. “What good is the Student Senate?”
The Senate is at a natural disadvantage. We somehow expect to find a group of Philosopher Kings, keen intellects, dynamic leaders; instead we find the guy down the hall or that fellow in English class. We hear of the ridiculous stand of an individual Senator and credit the whole body with being muddle-headed.
We take for granted the routine functions of the Senate, are ignorant of the functions which don’t directly affect us, and look for spectacular plans and projects. We see nothing and conclude that the Senate is useless.
This column is by nature critical. It does presuppose, however, that the Senate is a useful and a necessary organization; an organization that should take itself seriously and that should be taken seriously.
Monday night, Tom Schlereth, Student Body Treasurer, presented a complete and intelligible statement of the Senate’s present financial condition. This statement raised some pointed questions.
How do you account for a loss of $579.35 by the social commission on Activities Day? The commission can’t account for it since all expenses were paid in cash, no checks and no receipts were retained. If part of this money made its way to individual pockets, it was the Senate’s fault for not exercising proper control. Since then, Schlereth has instituted an accounting system which has been very effective.
Second question: How do you justify a banquet held by the academic commission for themselves costing $62, unbudgeted for, and unapproved by the cabinet? Academic Commissioner Jack Forrest defended himself: “We are not throwing these things every week. People on the academic
ON TO CABERFAE!
This will be the cry of hardy souls when the third annual skiing trip is held between semesters. Leaving on Thursday, Jan. 25, after the last exams, the group will manage to get four full days of skiing in before returning Monday night, Jan. 29.
A private lake will provide the occasion for ice skating, and, for those who have not yet collapsed, a bowling party is planned. A Saturday night party with live music will be held in the armory, followed by another party Sunday afternoon.
Two hundred guys and two hundred gals will make the trip as part of the Notre Dame Ski Club. Thirteen motels have been reserved for accommodations. The basic cost for the weekend is $38.00 which includes the bus party there, transportation at Caberfae, Michigan, meals (breakfast and dinner), motel for four nights and ski instruction at any level. Skis, accessories, and tow fees are extra, raising the total cost to $62.
Reservations for the trip can be made in room 2B of the Student Center from 3 to 9 p.m. daily from Jan. 4 to 17.
The trip is being handled by the Notre Dame Ski Club. The board of directors for the. trip include the representatives from all girls’ schools which are connected with the Notre Dame Ski Club and student representatives from Notre Dame. They will be in charge of insurance, buses, and accommodations.
At present, the Notre Dame Ski Team is part of the Ski Club. Last year, in its first year of competition, Notre Dame took fourth place out of eleven participating schools in the Collegiate Midwest Championship held at Houghton, Michigan, Jim Sechsen of Notre Dame was the Midwest’s champion jumper.
This year, the ski team will participate in three meets, including the Alpine Championship in Houghton January 27-28 and the Midwest Collegiate Championship in Duluth.
Officers of the Ski Club are President Jerry Keefe, Vice President Jack Dow, Treasurer Bob Moran, and Secretary Joe Murphy. The ski team captain is John Turner.
commission get no reward.”
Earl Linehan asked SBP Chris Buckley who approves banquets. Buckley said the cabinet should approve them. Forrest said, “Excuse me, Mr. Buckley, but I asked you a week beforehand if we could have this banquet and you said yes.” Buckley said, “We didn’t realize the expense would be so high.” ■
December 15, 1961
15
CONFLICT OF MONEY AND EDUCATION
One of the major goals of the current $18,000,000 campaign is a $2,000,000 fund for student aid. This fund will be used to supplement the present program of university scholarships, loans, and student employment, under which 140 students a year are receiving scholarships assistance.
The need for additional funds is indicated by the estimated 120 superior students who must be denied aid each year. Scholarship applications are increasing at a rate of 30 percent each year to a high of 675 this year. Rev. Roman Ladewski, C.S.C., Assistant Director of Admissions, estimates: “If this trend continues, Notre Dame may next year expect to lose as many as 175 genius 'ghosts’...”
The special student aid fund will increase the number of scholarships financed by the University. At present, 105 of the 140 awarded are financed by outside sources. Under a Notre Dame Foundation program encouraging the establishment of corporate and private funds to be administered by the school, this supply has increased by four new awards each year. Other outside sources, which administer their own awards, include the National Merit Foundation, General Motors Corporation, and the Navy ROTC program. These, with various local and national scholarships, provide assistance to approximately 100 students each year.
The most common source of financial aid to students today is the Defense Education Act, which offers long term, low interest loans to those
REV. JAMES E. MORAN, C.S.C. “Lost within shadow of Golden Dome.”
16
qualified. Most of the cost is borne by the Federal Government, but one tenth of each loan must come from Notre Dame. Short term, low interest loans for emergency debts are supplied by the John Morrissey student Loan Fund, administered by the Student Government.
One traditional source of help remains: student employment. From Father Sorin, who used student help in constructing the Main Building, to the present day, students have worked their way through school. Student jobs today range from the heads of student organizations, such as the Dome, Scholastic, and Student Center crews, to work in the libraries and dining halls. However, the present wages are not sufficient to completely finance the school year.
Castaldi, Senior Accountant, Merits Haskin-Sells Award
The $500 Haskin and Sells Foundation cash award has been presented to David Castaldi, senior accounting major from Warsaw, Ind. Consideration for the prize was based on accounting average, general average, average in English courses, extracurricular activities, and moral character.
Castaldi’s 5.504 cummulative average ranks him first in the College of Commerce. Among his extracurricular accomplishments, he is a member of the Student Senate, chairman of the Finance Forum, and a distinguished military student in AROTC.
The award, sponsored by one of the nation’s largest accounting firms, Haskin and Sells, is an annual presentation in seventy universities across the country. A panel headed by Assistant Commerce Dean Thomas Murphy and Prof. Ray Powell, head of the Accounting Department, selected the Notre Dame wanner.
Presentation of the award came at a pre-Thanksgiving banquet of the Accounting Club. At that time David Bertrand, president of the Club, announced that the group would sponsor a field trip to Detroit in March and would feature Chief Justice Frederick Landis of the Indiana Supreme Court at its annual banquet.
THE GREEN DOOR
The first social event of 1962 will be the grand opening of "the green door” cabaret with a Saturday night party in the Student Center from 8 'til 11 on January 13. Tickets will be sold at the door.
News and Notes
(Continued from page 13)
Denny McMahon, general chairman; John Wagner, executive coordinator; Pete Clark, industrial show; Bill O’Connor, auto show; Al Cairns, publicity; and Dave Cleary,programs.
SPEAKERS SOUGHT FOR CONTEST
Masters of oratory and local demagogues are once again invited to compete in the annual Breen Oratorical Contest, to be held in LaFortune Student Center January 8 and 9.
The first place winner will receive a gold medal valued at $75. Those aspiring to receive this award must recite an eight to ten minute prepared speech during the preliminary round on the eighth. The top seven speakers will then be asked to return for the finals on the ninth. The medal will be awarded to the best of these seven. The competition for this award is conducted by Prof. Leonard Sommer of the Department of Communication Arts, with the judging done by members of this same department. All undergraduate students are eligible to enter this contest,’’with the exception of previous medal winners.
The Breen Medal for Oratory was founded by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the class of 1877, and is presented annually to the student who excels in oratory.
ND STUDIES CATHOLIC SCHOOLS
Notre Dame has been selected to administer a grant of $350,000 from the Carnegie Corporation for a study of Catholic elementary and secondary education in the United States. The study will examine the Catholic schools’ administration, number and training of teachers, quality of academic goals, and physical facilities.
Catholic parochial schools educate more than 5,000,000 children today. A recent report states that the enrollment in these schools has increased more than 6 times since 1900, whereas the student enrollment in public schools has increased only 2.3 times.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.; Dr. George N. Shuster, Assistant to Notre Dame’s president and former president of Hunter College; and Msgr. Frederick G. Hochwalt, executive secretary of the National Catholic Education Association, will form the policy and guidance committee for the study.
The Scholastic
WALT WILLINHNGANZ, JOHN LANG,
Tentative speakers for the Marriage Institute of 1962, sponsored by and for the senior class, have been announced by General Chairman Fred Springsteel.
Presenting the first of five talks to be held Wednesdays of Lent will be Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., °n “Courtship and Marriage.” The remaining speakers are: Mr. and Mrs. John Drish, of Evanston, Hl., on “Personal Growth Through Marriage"; Rev. Walter Imbiorski, from Chicago’s Cana Conference, “Marriage is Holy”; pr. Louis B. Leone, of Evanston, “Plain Talk on Marriage”; and Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Christin, Jr., of the Notre Dame English Department, “The Great Romance.” The order of the talks is not definite.
Working with chairman Springsteel, AB math major, are: John Lang, science math major, tickets; Walt Willinhnganz, science major, special arrangements; and Phil Yawman, in the General Program, publicity.
The Marriage Institute, was initiated by the Theology Department and the Senior Class in 1955 to give insights into the problems, responsibilities, and rewards of marriage.
Tickets will be sold in senior halls, With the help of the Blue Circle, and
December 15, 1961
FRED SPRINGSTEEL, AND PHIL YAWMAN
at the Catholic Action Office in La-Fortune Student Center to off-campus students and engaged underclassmen.
The Marriage Institute Certificate will be given to those who attend all five lectures. This certificate often excuses the recipient from parochial Pre-Cana conferences in dioceses requiring such instruction.
Not this: a student who studies drowsily no matter how much sleep he gets.
This! Perspicacious... sharp! N6Doz keeps you awake and alert—safely!
If you find studying sometimes soporific (and who doesn’t?) the word
to remember is NoDoz®. NoDoz alerts you with a safe and accurate
amount of caffeine—the same refreshing stimulant in coffee and tea. Yet non-habit-forming NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable.
So to keep perspicacious during study and
exams—and while driving, too— always keep NoDoz in proximity.
Ths safe stay awake tablet — available everywhere. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist •
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
•	WATCHES	• DIAMONDS
•	RADIOS	• SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing ★ SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 S. Michigan St. Phone AT 7-3630
N ABICHT CAFETERIA
★
1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria ★ , FREE PARKING
1
4. r'LiXLsrf
17
FOR ALL MEN AND WOMEN, INCLUDING TEENAGERS;
Straight from a major clinical study comes “The Dermatologists Report” to caution about:
SHAVING AND
HIGHLIGHTS FROM
“THE DERMATOLOGISTS’ REPORT’
This medical study on shaving and its effects on the skin answers important questions about:
1.	Shaving instruments: Which gives greatest skin protection?
2.	Rashes, acne, ingrown hair: Which shaving instrument is more advantageous when these skin problems are present?
3.	Moles and other skin growths: How dangerous are repeated nicks, cuts, and irritations?
4.	Women and shaving: Does shaving cause coarse, profuse hair growth?
5.	Close shaving: Which electric shaver shaves closest without irritation?
For the first time, an exhaustive medical study has been made of electric and blade shaving. This 12-month study employed close to 1000 shaving devices to evaluate how these shaving methods bear on many troublesome— and sometimes potentially serious—skin diseases.
The scientific validity of this study is evidenced by the fact that it was conducted and supervised by three skin specialists—doctors of medicine—who are associated with the dermatology departments of medical schools and hospitals of the highest repute. Equally important, the study disclosed so much new information on shaving
18
and skin disorders that the research was recently reported in a leading national medical journal.
FIVE FRANK ANSWERS
TO FIVE IMPORTANT QUESTIONS
1.	Shaving instruments: Which gives the greatest skin protection?
According to the physicians’ observations, electric shavers remove 75% to 93% less skin cells than other methods tested and cause no cuts and few nicks.
Moreover, complaints of after-shave burning occur 1/7 as often following the use of the most effective electric shaver. The doctors also found that most shaving-induced skin rashes do not occur when shavers with adjustable comb-like rollers are used.
2.	Rashes, acne, ingrown hair: Which shaving instrument is more advantageous when skin problems are present?
The most striking advantages of electric shavers were reported in treating patients suffering from eczema, in-grown hairs, bacterial infections, and many other skin ailments. In fact, the doctors agreed that when an electric shaver is used as an adjunct to treatment, many common diseases of the skin—aggravated by irritation-can be expected to improve. The most satisfactory shaving instrument to use in the presence of skin disease is, according to the doctors, an electric shaver with adjustable comb-like rollers.
Teenage Acne. The doctors reported that acne patients under their care—whose skin diseases were aggravated by shaving irritation—improved when they used electric shavers with adjustable comb-like rollers. When adjusted
The Scholastic
SKIN PROTECTION
to prevent cutting eruptions, the roller combs reduce the likelihood of scarring.
3.	Moles and other skin growths: How dangerous are repeated nicks, cuts, and irritations?
The physicians sounded a warning about shaving among both men and women who have pigmented moles on the skin. Such moles, they cautioned, should never be irritated by repeated nickings.
Such irritation from shaving is greatly reduced when an electric shaver is used.
4.	Women and shaving: Does shaving cause coarse, profuse hair growth?
According to this study, women, including teenagers, need not fear that shaving causes coarse or profuse hair
to grow on the legs or underarm areas—a common, erroneous belief.
Among women, the report adds, electric shavers caused no frank cuts on the legs or underarm areas.
5.	Close shaving: Which electric shaver shaves closest without irritation?
Photographs taken several hours after shaving indicated that the difference in beard length was almost negligible following shaving with a blade and some electric shavers, allowing both methods adequate break-in period.
At the conclusion of their yearlong study of shaving, the physicians agreed that electric shavers with adjustable comb-like rollers provide the greatest combination of close shave with the least irritation.
A MESSAGE FROM SPERRY RAND REGARDING “THE DERMATOLOGISTS’ REPORT”
There are thousands of people who are satisfied with their present method of shaving.
However, serious consideration should be given to the findings of “The Dermatologists’ Report,” especially its conclusion that electric shavers with adjustable comblike rollers—exclusive with Remington® Lektronic™, Roll-A-Matic® and Lady Remington Shavers—provide the greatest combination of close shave with the least irritation.
NOTE: This study was supported by a grant to a medical research organization by the Remington Rand Division of Sperry Rand Corporation. The grant is consistent with this company's interest in medical research.
December 15, 1961
That Remington Shavers—with exclusive adjustable comb-like rollers—proved to be superior to other instruments tested was coincidental to the ethical, impartial methods of the study.
Several makes of electric shavers are on the market. Of these, Remington is by far the largest-selling—and has the greatest combination of shaving advantages.
Try a Remington Shaver. You will find the Remington Roll-A-Matic, the Lady Remington and the new cordless Lektronic available at most dealers on Free Home Trial.
If you would like more information about “The Dermatologists’ Report,” your doctor may obtain it by writing to Box 3583, New York 17, New York.
©1961 BY SPERRY RAND CORPORATION
19
Since very few of us will be in South Bend after tomorrow I thought it would be ridiculous to write up the usual fare presented in this column and so, as a special holiday treat, I have compiled a listing of entertainment that will take place in a few of our larger cities. Most of us, I should think, come from places near the cities listed and, even if you don’t, chances are the hinterland theaters will be showing the same features. Save, of course, for staged productions . . . But then you probably won’t care anyway.
And ... A WORD TO THE WISE ... If you are interested in a staged performance (particularly in the big cities mentioned below) it might be advisable to send for tickets now, or call for them as soon as you can after you get home. Many shows are already listed as being sold out. In that case, last minute cancellations are sometimes a recourse (and, believe me, it often works).
Boston. On stage: Advise and Consent with Farley Granger and Chester Morris and the Mazowsze (the hundredfold Polish dance group). Both were in South Bend during the fall. But, SMC’ers might want to take in the former in Boston, Mecca of liberalism. Boston movies will feature West Side Story and King of Kings. The above two seem to be the big attraction now and are in almost every major city. There must be more copies of these two than there are of the King James bible.
Chicago. The Windy City will feature The Egg within its windy loop. Though that sounds more appropriate for Easter. Other traditional spice includes Gypsy, Bye Bye Birdie, Sound of Music, and Night of the Iguana (by Tennessee Williams). The first three are excellent. I know nothing of the last except that Williams wrote it. That probably would give a good indication that it is some kind of provoker.
King of Kings is the major picture offered. Perhaps they’ll be kind and get more in for homebound students and movie-loving holidayers. Who knows.
Detroit Bye Bye Birdie is playing on stage at the new Fisher Theater. How many companies of that show do they have? But Detroit hasn’t a variety of theaters. So, it’ll probably be off to the movies, you Detroiters. You’ll have to refer to the Free Press for Drive-In schedules .. . but the downtown theaters will feature King of Kings, A Majority of One, and El Cid. The last is particularly well reviewed: a spectacular, I think they called it, with Charlton Heston and Sophia Loren.
Los Angeles. Under the Yum Yum Tree, The Miracle Worker, A Far Country, The Fantasticks and Five Finger Exercise are being offered on stage in L.A. Take your choice. It’s either that or the beach. There is a beach even at this time of year, isn’t there? Or, I almost forgot, the movies: El Cid, The Truth. But the stage fare — and the beaches — are good enough to warrant forgetting movies. So forget it.
New Orleans. That city of the Mardi Gras in the deep South hasn’t as much to offer now as they will in a couple of months. Critic’s Choice and the New Orleans Symphony are on stage. Fanny, Gina, and Mr. Sardonicus ... are on the silver screen. But while L.A. has its beaches N.O. has its bayous. Mumbali?
New York. The Big City. And there are plenty of big things to do. No beaches (save the St. George Hotel) so indoor recreation might be advisable. When not sitting in front of the fire ... or going to the Met Club Dance . . . the Metropolitans on our campus might be interested in one of the twenty-seven (Continued on page 26)
20
spring.”
Going Down
Going Up
MONTHLY EXHIBIT
ANCIENT PERUVIAN ART
From December 20 to January 28, the University Art Gallery will feature an exhibition of ancient Peruvian art. The collection was loaned to the Gallery by the Art Institute of Chicago. Mr. Allen Wardwell, the Curator of Primitive Arts at the Art Institute gives here a brief introduction to and explanation of the art which will be shown.
When the great history of ancient Peruvian art was suddenly interrupted by Pizarro and his followers in 1532, an aesthetic decline had already begun. This was undoubtedly due to the influence of the authoritarian rule of the Inca civilization which succeeded in spreading its influence from Chile to Southern Ecuador. The earlier tradition of figured vase painting and ceramic sculpture had given way to strict geometric design and simple pottery shapes. The art of weaving continued to flourish up to and even after the conquest, but here tco a formality is found which is in contrast to the more spontaneous styles of the earlier periods.
It is with the actual florescence of Peruvian art that most of this exhibition is concerned. A chronology of the north and south coast pottery styles, the Mochica and the Nazca, is immediately apparent. In the south the Nazca artist concentrated on abstract polychrome painting often representing strange animal forms or anthropomorphic beings. What little sculpture was created is very simplified.
NAZCA II, SOUTH COAST PERU, 200-300 A.D.
The Mochicans in the north produced pottery which was often sculptured in forms to represent such things as aspects of their daily lives, methods of their warfare and portraits of their rulers, which give us a good look at the way they lived. The later styles of Chimu, lea and Inca are summarily shown in this exhibition, and it can be understood w’hat is meant by the aesthetic decline mentioned above, even though some fine artistic expressions occur during these later times.
Besides being great ceramicists, the artists of ancient Peru were expert
NEW AQUISniON
MEDIEVAL SCULPTURE TO NOTRE DAME
This sculptured head of a Saint, carved in limestone and believed to date from the 13th century, has been given to the Art Gallery at Notre Dame. Mrs. Lester Wolfe of New York presented the medieval sculpture which is said to have been originally from Spain.
weavers. Extremely fine loom woven embroideries and tapestries were produced from the earliest times, well before the birth of Christ, and a high standard of accomplishment was maintained up to the time of Pizarro. Other technical achievements included fine goldsmith work, stone carving and the delicate arts of shell inlay and feather mosaic. This exhibition, entirely drawn from the extensive holdings of the Art Institute of Chicago, brings with it ample evidence of the high degree of civilization and culture attained by these people.
— Allen Wardwell
While the subject of the elongated stone head is not certainly known, some believe that it represents a prophet. The ancient work of sculp' ture will be on display in the University Gallery later in the winter, after inspection and treatment by a museum conservator.
22
The Scholastic
'In Town'
(Continued from page 20)
stage productions on Broadway and the dozen or so off. Let me recommend just a few: The Unsinkable Molly Brown, Mary-Mary, Yves Montand, Camelot, and How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying. The others which I didn’t mention are tremendous (for the most part), too.
West Side Story and King of Kings as well as Ghosts (by Ibsen) are on the screen.
Radio City (in addition to its lavish Christmas show) has Flower Drum Song (with Nancy Kwan and James Shegeta) under its big chandelier.
San Francisco. In the city of hills: The Collossus of Rhodes, Erotica, This Earth is Mine, and La Dolce Vita (yet) are all on the screen. Les Paul and Mary Ford are singing about Robert Hall at the Fairmont Hotel. Better to watch the sun set over the Golden Gate.
South Bend. The metropolis has on its agenda (for those who are about for one reason or another) The Sign of Jonah at SMC. (Our favorite.) The night of the eighteenth. It’s about down to perfection, I understand. The Morris Civic will show A Thurber Carnival just after we get back. Very good.
On the screen: Claudelle Inglish, White Christmas, Teenage Millionaire, and La Dolce Vita (which any day should change to Bed of Grass). I’ll see you in January, South Bend.
Washington, D. C. A double feature on stage: The American Deceiver and Shall We Tell Caroline. Besides j which there will be a special show by i the National Symphony: the Nut-j cracker. Excellent, if you get the , chance.
West Side Story and Don Quixote are on screen.
<	. If I didn’t get around to your
I	Clty . . . don’t panic. It’s still there
j as big and as beautiful as ever. ■ tKS e^^er that the shows were much j the same as the above mentioned or else I couldn’t get my grubby hands ! °n your hometown paper. In either case you’ll be much too interested in your girls to care about any real en-ertainment. Worry about movies hen you get back here in the New ear. Seasons Greetings . . . and God less You . , . Everyone!
I	John McGuire
j December 15, 1961
WITH A CERTAIN PEACE
It may seem strange that amidst the race through exams and toward Christmas two young poets were quietly smuggled into Saint Mary’s Little Theatre for a poetry reading which was a real occasion of joy. But this is exactly what happened last Monday night. Robert Bly and Donald Hall, who were rightly heralded as two of the leading young poets in America today, read their works that night with a certain peace and beauty which is rarely encountered. After the reading I had the opportunity of interviewing both men.
Donald Hall, who has published two books of poetry to date—Dark Houses and Exiles and Marriages—said that he started to write at the age of twelve. At that time he dreamed of the symmetry and perfection of poetry “as a machine to make people act, to make people cry." He thought of himself as a master craftsman. Form then seemed to be of absolute importance.
It was only much later that he came to the realization that he had been “afraid of all that was not intellectually clear. Traditional forms restricted my imagination. My life and feeling were so lost.” Donald Hall discovered that his fear of the obscure had been in reality a fear of images that “killed me and murdered me, a fear of myself and of making that journey” (the water journey to the musk ox). This journey to the ox is one of the poet’s favorite images and one which dominates a very wonderful poem of his. Although he declined comment on the significance of this journey, it seemed clearly to imply man’s acceptance of his own dark beauty.
His reading companion, Robert Bly, is a friend of old. They met at Harvard about twelve years ago and have been strong friends ever since. Mr. Bly, the editor of The Sixties, a magazine of poetry and opinion, has been writing since high school. He is passionately interested in poetry and seems willing to talk forever on the subject
“America,” he said, “does not have a poetry which is deep enough or wide enough or intense enough to provide a channel for the young poets.” Speaking of this literary tradition which is so narrow, he passed over “clowns like Whittier and Longfellow” and said that “Whitman is the greatest American poet. But students are taught to hate him." Robert Bly echoed his friend in deploring the accentuation of form in poetry. He said that the forms which were typical of
Shakespeare’s sonnets expressed a sense of order which was then to be found in a rigid society. “But our experience has changed too much."
The poet must be himself, must be an American in today’s America. “I respect William Carlos Williams for this. He’s not great, but he has the courage to begin again.” “I don’t believe in ‘man’; I don’t believe in universal poetry,” Mr. Bly said, decrying the impersonalization of art. “Too many people want to write great poems. We need people who will write good poems that are utterly honest.” In this context he once again referred to Shakespeare as a poet of his time, saying that Macbeth can be seen as “nothing but a Scot who is too big for his boots.”
The need for courage and freshness in poetic art founded in a strong literary tradition seems to be the dominant interest of Mr. Bly. This interest is reflected in translations of foreign
poets which he has published in The Sixties. As he said, “My purpose in bringing in these poets was to widen our background.”
Robert Bly’s poems are acutely conscious of American mythology personified in such figures as Grant, Columbus, J. P. Morgan and DeSoto. He is “utterly honest” and unquestionably an American of today’s America. His art, which he claims tn be “born out of laziness and silence” is rich and fresh and possessed of a calm inner beauty.
Both men gave wonderful readings. They evinced through their work the greatest sense of promise for modem American poetry. The evening was a very great success and a real occasion of joy.
Gordon Quinlan
23
REPORT
The United States Commission on Civil Rights recently issued the last volume of its five-volume second report to Congress. The President of Notre Dame, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., wrote what Commonweal called a “brilliant separate, statement” as a corollary to the regular report. Several publications, including Time Magazine and the New York Times, gave favorable mention to both the Commission report and Father Hesburgh’s appended remarks. The Times editorial said in part: “Father Hesburgh did more to clarify the essential tenets of the way of life we espouse — but do not always practice — than a libraryful of civics texts . . . (He) has done more than write a footnote to another Government report. He has pointed a glowing road toward human betterment and decency.”
Because of the nationwide publicity and acclaim given the report, the Scholastic is printing the complete text of Father Hesburgh’s statement.
This is not the usual minority statement to express a difference of opinion. Despite our wide diversity of backgrounds, all of the six Commissioners are in very substantial agreement regarding this report and its recommendations. It has occurred to me, having been a member of the Commission since its inception, that the Commission is becoming, more and more, a kind of national conscience in the matter of civil rights. As a conscience, its effectiveness depends quite completely upon whether it is heard, and whether the Nation and national leaders act accordingly.
I am filing this personal statement because of a personal conviction that Federal action alone will never completely solve the problem of civil rights. Federal action is essential, but not adequate, to the ultimate solution. In the nature of the problem, no single citizen can disengage himself from the facts of this report or its call to action. Leadership must come from the President and the Congress, of course, but leadership must also be as
24
widespread as the problem itself, which belongs to each one of us. May I then say just a few words about what the Commission Report, as a conscience, seems to be saying. I claim no special wisdom. This is just one man’s extra step beyond the facts of the report and its recommendations.
To anyone who reads this report on the present status of civil rights in America there must come mixed emotions — some joy and satisfaction at the demonstrable progress that the past few years have seen, and a deep frustration at the seemingly senseless and stubborn pockets of resistance that remain all across our land. Then comes the really significant question: Why?
To ask why is to become philosophical, even theological, about the matter. Why does America, the foremost bastion of democracy, demonstrate at home so much bitter evidence of the utter disregard for human dignity that we are contesting on so many fronts abroad? Americans might well wonder how we can legitimately combat communism when we practice so widely its central folly: utter disregard for the God-given spiritual rights, freedom, and dignity of every human person. This sacredness of the human person is the central theological and phil?' sophical fact that differentiates us from the communistic belief that man is merely material and temporal, devoid of inherent inalienable rights and, therefore, a thing to be manipulated, used, or abused for political or economic purposes, without personal freedom or dignity, defenseless before the state and the blind laws of economic determinism.
It is not enough to reject this inhuman communistic doctrine. We must demonstrate that we have something better to propose in its stead, and that this something works better, and is better for all mankind, here and everywhere. The most depressing fact about this report is its endless tale of how our magnificent theory of the nature and destiny of man is not working here. Inherent
The Scholastic
ON CIVIL RIGHTS
by THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C.
in the depressing story is the implication that it is not working because we really do not believe in man’s inner dignity and rightful aspiration to equality — unless he happens to be a white man.
Some white men in very recent years have kicked, beaten, or shot a Negro to death and have not even been indicted because of a jury’s prejudice or a legal technicality, while “among these rights are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”
The pursuit of happiness means many good things in America: equal opportunity to better one’s self by a good education; equal opportunity to exercise political freedom and responsibility through the vote; equal opportunity to work and progress economically as all other Americans do; and equal opportunity to live in decent housing in a decent neighborhood as befits one’s means and quality as a person. If the pursuit of happiness does not mean at least these things to Americans reading this report, then they have not recognized the splendor of the American dream or the promise of the American Constitution.
Now read the pages. They are filled with a record of people, again good, intelligent people, working with all their energy and talent to make a travesty of this dream and this promise. These people who are trying to pervert our Western ideal of the dignity, the freedom, and the rights of every human person are not Communists. They are Americans, but white Americans denying what they enjoy, and I trust cherish, to Negro Americans.
Some of the sorry efforts are crude: like the reign of terror to deter Negroes from registering and voting (vol. 1, pp. 163-64), or the application of double standards in the matter: one for whites and the other for Negroes (vol. 1, pp. 86, 161-62). Other efforts are heartless: denying the Negro American decent schooling on all levels — even industrial and agricultural training — which means another long generation of menial jobs and wasted talents and blighted hopes, all to America’s loss (vol. 2, pp. 79-98; ■vol. 3, pp. 97-101). Still other efforts are sentimental: a way of life, right or wrong, is more important than what happens to other human beings and to our country in the process. Perhaps we could establish a stronger alliance against these outrages if we were to meditate more deeply on the true import of our Christian heritage. Could we not agree that the central test of a Christian Is a simple affirmative response to the most exalted command mankind has ever received: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and thy whole soul, and thy whole mind, and thy neighbor as thyself.” No Ration here of a white neighbor. There was another similar statement, “Whatsoever you did (good or evil) ,° one of these, my least brethren, you did it to Me.” We believe these truths or we do not. And what we do, how act, means more than what we say. At least, the ^ommunists admit that they do not believe as we do. At least they thus avoid hypocrisy.
Lest I seem to be unduly harsh on the South, let me bderline another story often repeated in these pages, Lich is a specialty of the North and East and West, here is the sophisticated approach of the financial community which says its concern in financing housing is J/W economic as though this might somehow cancel t the moral dimension of what their lack of moral
Secern her 15, 1961
concern causes to happen to human beings, fathers, mothers and children, not Martians, but Americans, who live in blighted neighborhoods with no hope of the most elemental physical well-being without which human dignity and decent lives become impossible. Then there are the unspoken, but very effective conspiracies of builders, real estate brokers, and good neighbors who are downright arrogant in preserving the blessings of democracy for their own white selves alone (vol. 4, pp. 2-3, 122-26).
Well, if the report says anything it demonstrates that we are reaping the effects of our many discriminatory practices. We spend billions of dollars trying to convince the uncommitted nations of the world (about 90 per cent nonwhite) that our way of life is better than communism, and then wipe out all the good effects by not even practicing “our way” in our own homeland. We are all excited about Communist subversion at home while we perpetuate a much worse and studied subversion of our own Constitution that corrodes the Nation at its core and central being — the ideal of equal opportunity for all. What can we expect for the future, if one-tenth (and predictably at the end of this century, one-fifth) of our population are second-rate citizens, getting a second-rate education, living in second-rate houses in second-rate neighborhoods, doing all of the second-rate jobs for second-rate pay, and often enough getting second-rate justice. What can we expect if this continues? I suspect that we will have a fifth of the Nation being second-rate citizens, and the rest of us can hardly be expected to be classed first-rate by the rest of the world in allowing this, especially while we continue to profess a strong belief in equal rights and equal opportunity.
Personally, I don’t care if the United States gets the first man on the moon, if while this is happening on a crash basis we dawdle along here on our comer of the earth, nursing our prejudices, flouting our magnificent Constitution, ignoring the central moral problem of our times, and appearing hypocrites to all the world.
This is one problem that needs more than money. Basically, it needs the conviction of every corner of America. We have the opportunity in our time to make the dream of America come true as never before in our history. We have the challenge to make the promise of our splendid Constitution a reality for all the world to see. If it is not done in our day, we do not deserve either the leadership of the free world or God’s help in victory over the inhuman philosophy of communism. Even more fundamentally than this, we should as a Nation take this stand for human dignity and make it work, because it is right and any other stance is as wrong, as un-American, as false to the whole Judeo-Christian tradition of the West as anything can be.
Maybe more constructive action will come sooner if we allow ourselves the unfashionable and unsophisticated taste of moral indignation: when known murderers go untried and unpunished with the studied connivances of their fellow citizens (vol. 5, ch. 3); when brutal fear is forced even upon women and children in America (vol. 5, ch. 3); when economic reprisals are used to prevent qualified American citizens from voting, but they are not exempted from paying taxes and serving in the Armed Forces (vol. 1, pp. 91-97); when little children are stoned
25
by a vicious mob because they dare to go to a decent school long denied them {The New Orleans School Crisis* p. 16); when people are intimidated, embarrassed, and jailed because they presume to eat in a public place with other people (see vol. 1,
OPPORTUNITIES
FOR EE, ME, PHYSICS
AND MATH MAJORS
AS FIELD SERVICE ENGINEERS
IN THE MISSILE SYSTEMS FIELD
AC, the Electronics Division of General Motors, presently has positions available for Electrical Engineers, Mechanical Engineers, Physics and Math majors to work as Field Service Engineers on missile systems. You will work on AC's all-inertial guidance system utilizing digital computers for the TITAN II missile.
When you join us you will be given a three-month training course that includes these interesting subjects:
WEAPONS SYSTEMS • THEORY OF GYROS • THEORY OF OPERATION OF GYROS IN A STABILIZED PLATFORM • STABILIZATION AND MEASUREMENT LOOPS OF A PLATFORM • THEORY OF OPERATION OF ERECTION LOOPS • THEORY OF AIRBORNE DIGITAL COMPUTERS • OVERALL SYSTEM CONCEPTS
Following this training period you will be responsible for installation and check-out of the guidance system for the TITAN II. Assignments will include positions at military installations or in Milwaukee.
Contact your College Placement Office regarding a General Motors-AC campus interview or send the form below to Mr. G. F. Raasch, Director of Scientific and Professional Employment, Dept. 5753, 7929 South Howell, Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
AC SPARK PLUG
THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS MILWAUKEE • LOS ANGELES • BOSTON
AChiever Inertial Guidance Systems far the TITAN II, THOU and MACS missiles . . . Bombing Navigational Systems for the B-S2C&D and B-47 aircraft ... AChleverfone mobile radiotelephones
j------------------------------------------------।
•	For more information regarding Field Service Engineering opportunities I
|	with AC, send this form to:	I
I	Mr. G. F. Raasch	•
|	Dept. 5753, AC Spark Plug Division	■
I	Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin	|
|	NAME I
I	STREET._____________________________________ ।
| CITY AND STATE___________________ .	_______ |
•	SCHOOL_____________________________________  I
| DEGREE AVAILABILITY DATE_____________________ !
I________________________________________________!
p. 4; vol. 5, ch. 3); when a place for homes becomes, by neighborhood action, an empty park because Americans think they will be contaminated by Americans (vol. 4, pp. 133-34); when Negro Americans help pay for a new hospital and then are told there
is no place in it for them (vol. 4, j p. 84); when, God help us, even at	• i
’ death Negro Americans cannot lay at | rest alongside of other Americans	j
(California Hearings, p. 704).	I
You may think by now that I have | taken considerable license with the | mandate of our Commission “to ap- 1 praise.” Perhaps I have, and if these	I
remarks seem intemperate, the facts j that support them are all between the j covers of this report, and in other ‘ publications of the Commission.	i
I believe, as my fellow Commissioners do, that report should be objective and factual. But, unless there	!
is some fire, most governmental re-	i
ports remain unread, even by those	:
to whom they are addressed: in this	j
case, the President and the Congress.	j
I have no illusions of this report	)
climbing high on the bestseller list,	;
because much of what it says is un-	j
pleasant, unpopular, and to sensitive	i
people, a real thorn in the conscience.	j
My words then are simply to say that	j
I have a deep and abiding faith in my	j
fellow Americans: in their innate	i
fairness, in their generosity, in their	j
consummate good will. My conviction	:
is that they simply do not realize the	■
dimensions of this problem of civil rights, its explosive implications for ! the present and future of our beloved America. If somehow the message, j plain and factual, of this report might reach our people, I believe they would ’ see how much the problem needs the : concern and attention of every American — North, South, East, and West. If this were to happen, then the problem would be well on its way to a solution. But without the personal concern of all Americans, the problem of civil rights is well nigh insoluble in our times. If so, not just Negro Americans, but all of us, and all the world, will be the losers.
* Report of the Louisiana State Advisory Committee to the Commission on Civil Rights.
FROSH COP CURRAN TROPHY
Thomas Hildner and Charles Hannan, freshmen from Keenan Hall, returned the Patrick Curran Memorial Trophy to the freshman quad by outtalking a team from Morrissey in the finals of the Thirty-second Annual Interhall Debate Tournament. L*st year’s winner was a combination team from Morrissey and Howard. Sixteen two-man teams competed in the four preliminary rounds; and the two top teams were chosen on the basis o won-lost records and speaker points.
Hildner was also named the best speaker in the tournament, with Mar Korb of Morrissey the runner-up.
The Scholastic
26
'Repercussions'
(Continued from page 7)
The fact is it is the image of mother, father, student one writes about, not the persons themselves (if one is making an art work), and this is where it becomes important to the audience, for we all share these images to a certain extent and have to deal with them in ourselves. The image of the student is a particularly complex and interesting one (especially in the work of a priest) and Mr. Murray would have done well to have reflected on this instead of dismissing such subject matter as trivial. Poets have always had fathers and mothers but it has only been in our own time that numbers of poets have given a great deal of energy and feeling to students, as members of faculties, so that there is something to be discovered here. For example there are fine poems by Theodore Roethke, Ivor Winters and others on this subject which could be compared with those of Father Roseliep. There is a story by Trilling, a play by Ionesco, etc.
I think Mr. Murray made the mistake of allowing the poet to have the last word about his own poems (in his introductions) and then criticized that word, allowing it to color his own readings of the poems instead of approaching them freshly. After all the artist is entitled only to the first word (based on the fact we can be sure he has, unlike many critics, read every word in his poem). An artist’s understanding of his own work may well be as mediocre as that of any other teacher. He has no real need to understand them, for he wrote them. Indeed the poem of which the poet has a complete understanding is naturally a bad poem. Compelled to say something about his poems, Er. Roseliep perhaps talks no better than most and speaks from a predictably theological rationale. So what? The poems are there to be read and in Father Roseliep's case, though he is not the greatest poet in the world, his work at its best is sufficiently more rich than the personality of the Poet himself or the personality of any one member of the audience (including myself and perhaps Mr. Murray) as to be able to draw us all into it and toward each other by the characteristic disturbing (and calming) Metamorphoses of art.
John Logan
The General Program of Liberal Education
GRAND SLAM Editor:
In your Nov. 17 issue in “Kibitzer’s Korner” you mention that in the first
illustrated hand “East-West have a slam in hearts between them only losing a club trick to North’s king.” I assert they have a grand slam in hearts.
South can lead whatever it wishes and East-West will win the trick. East-West then plays a trump, South’s king falling to West’s ace.
(Continued on page 36)
RELAX
IN A MAN’S WORLD
POUCH PACK KEEPS TOBACCO
FRESHER!
WITH
SIR WALTER RALEIGH Pipe smokers appreciate Sir Walter Raleigh’s choice Kentucky Burley —extra aged for flavor and mildness. Now kept 44% fresher in the pouch pack. So relax and get away from your cares with Sir Walter Raleigh—the quality pipe tobacco!

December 15, 1961
27
campus favorite in all 50 states!
It’s a top seller at colleges from U.S.C. to Yale and 1st in the Flip-Top box in every single state
If you think you’re seeing more Marlboro men lately, you re right. More than 25,000 smokers all over the country are switching to Marlboro every month!
You’ll know why when you try them.
Marlboro is the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste.
The secret of the flavor is the famous Marlboro recipe from Richmond, Virginia ... and the pure white Selectrate filter that goes with it.
Try Marlboro and judge for yourself.
On or off campus, you get a lot to like.
Flip-Top box or King-size pack.
28
The Scholastic
IRISH FIVE MEETS SPARTANS SATURDAY
by TOM KISTNER
Tomorrow night Coach Johnny Jordan’s Fighting Irish will invade East Lansing hoping for their third win in five games.
The opposing Spartans of Michigan State are desperately trying to recover from a 7-17 season last year, which, however, included a win over the Irish in the Fieldhouse.
Art Schwarm, 6-1 Spartan guard, is the only senior and the smallest man on the team; he had a 15.1 point average last year and is a fine defensive player.
Dick Hall and 6'3" Pete Gent, a sophomore, will be the forwards. Hall, a 6'4" junior, averaged 16.2 last season.
Center Ted Williams (6'7") and 6-2 guard Jack Larners round out the starting lineup.
The Irish have won two of four, winning against Bellarmine and Northwestern, and then dropping two to underdogs Creighton and Nebraska. Notre Dame was unimpressive in an opening 71-52 win over Bellarmine, but found a more suitable opponent in Northwestern. The second half of the Wildcat game was classic see-saw basketball, with the lead changing hands constantly until Northwestern stalled through the final five minutes of regulation time and over four minutes of the overtime session. Down 57-56 with three seconds left in the overtime, the Irish took time out. Schnurr then passed the ball inbounds to Reo who lobbed the ball upcourt
JOHN ANDREOLI: 27 POINTS
December 15, 1961
LIKE, WHAT’S HAPPENING?
to Matthews; Matthews’ lay-up as the buzzer sounded was good, and the Irish won, 58-57.
The next two games were less encouraging. In Omaha Civic Auditorium, scrappy Creighton downed the Irish, 73-71, on a 35-foot set shot by Chuck Officer with six seconds left. Junior John Andreoli, playing alternately forward and guard, led the Green with 27 points, while Karl Roesler scored 20 and Armand Reo pulled down 16 rebounds.
Nebraska managed a repeat performance, winning 65-61 after Reo and Dearie fouled out.
After their journey to East Lansing, the Irish will return home to a desolate campus to meet New York University in the Fieldhouse Monday night. Despite the loss of Ray Pap-rocky in last year’s point shaving scandal, the New Yorkers will bring a strong squad to South Bend. Captain Al Filardi, a rough but effective 6-6, and 6-6^ Harold Hairston will team with 6-3 Tom Boose on the front line, while senior Mark Reiner and sophy Barry Kramer handle the back-court chores. Reiner averaged 10.3 last season.
After a short break for Christmas, the Irish meet the Billikens of St. Louis University in St. Louis on De
cember 27. Billiken strong men will be Tommy Kieffer, a 6-3 senior who plays both forward and guard, and Don Reid, a 6-4 forward who excels at rebounding. Bill Nordmann (6-7), and 6-8 sophomore Gerry Garrison give St. Louis height, and backcourt veterans like Dave Harris and George Latinovich should give the Irish fits.
Kentucky Coach Adolph Rupp will start sensational sophomore Cotton Nash (6-5) when the Irish move into Louisville. Other Kentucky starters will include Larry Pursiful and Carroll Burchett.
In their final three games over the holidays, the Irish take on three more formidable foes: Indiana, North Carolina, and Butler, playing the Hoosiers in Fort Wayne, the Tarheels in Charlotte, and Butler in South Bend.
After four straight road games, Notre Dame will return to the friendly confines of the Fieldhouse and the cheering of just-returned students to play Butler on January 9. Butler lacks height and will have to rely on the experience of men like Jerry Williams, and sophomore Jeff Blue.
On the whole, the three-plus weeks between December 15 and January 9 can spell nothing but trouble for the Irish, who play five of seven tough games on the road.
29
by BOB CHIAPPINELLI
Joseph I. O’Neill, of Midland, Texas, is Notre Dame’s representative on the 1961 Sports Illustrated, Silver Anniversary AU - American team. Mr. O’Neill, a native of Philadelphia, was an end and a punting speciaUst on the 1935 and 1936 teams coached by Elmer Layden.
Mr. O’NeiU entered the business
JOSEPH O’NEILL
world in 1938 with the E. I. DuPont Company. Since then he has scored numerous successes, especiaUy in the independent oU business in Texas, where he is now a director of Texas Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association, the Texas In-
dependent Producers and Royalty Owners Association, and the Independent Petroleum Association of America.
In 1956 Mr. O’NeiU was elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and was appointed to the University’s Board of Lay Trustees in 1957.
He and the 24 other recipients (including Oklahoma coach Bud Wilkinson and Green Bay Packer mentor Vince Lombardi) received trophies in the shape of silver goal posts at the National FootbaU Hall of Fame Dinner in New York.
* ♦ *
Notre Dame once again leads the league in Extension Magazine’s AllCatholic, All-American selections for 1961. Guard Nick Buoniconti and halfback Angie Dabiero were selected in the magazine’s fourteenth annual poU. Detroit quarterback Jerry Gross, Purdue end Jack Elwell, Boilermaker guard Stan Szczurek, Minnesota end Tom Hall, Boston College fullback Harry Crump, and Texas center Dave Kristynik are some of the other top choices. * * *
Buoniconti has also been named to Pittsburgh University’s AU-Opponent team, along with end Les Traver of the Irish. This is the second year in a row for Nick on the Pitt AU-Opponent team. In the same press release Pittsburgh’s Sports Publicity Director, Beano Cook, picked the toughest “team” on the Panthers’ schedule — Ernie Davis.
IRISH CAPTAIN:
NO VACATION
by ARMAND REO as told to TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
BasicaUy, there’s no reason why Notre Dame shouldn’t have a strong basketball team this season. We have good depth — three starters back, four seniors starting, and seven or eight tested players — although our sophomores are stiU a question mark. And our height should be another strong point, because our forward line averages about 6'6”.
As far as our problems go, rebounding could be our main weakness; it’s been very eratic, hot and cold, so far, and we’U definitely have to improve.
In our favor, though, is the fact that we’ve got four almost equal guards — Eddie Schnurr, Tom Finnegan, John Andreoli, and John Matthews — who can be platooned if necessary.
Beating Northwestern gave us confidence, a real shot in the arm, but losing those close ones to Creighton and Nebraska hurt us a lot psychologically.
Actually, although I think we should have a good year, it’s still too early to tell. But by early January we’ll know: over Christmas vacation we play Michigan State, NYU, St.
THE STARTING FIVE?
ARMAND REO
Louis, Kentucky, Indiana, and North Carolina, and play Butler right after school starts in January. December is always a big month for us, and this year is no exception. If we can split those games and play .500 ball up to that point, there’s no reason we shouldn’t have a good season, because we’ll be in good shape.
This year we have a big disadvantage in playing a small home schedule. We only play seven home games while the students are at school, and if you don’t think playing 16 games without that great cheering hurts, you should make a road trip with us. There’s really a difference.
On the whole this Christmas isn’t going to be much of a vacation for the basketball team. But a successful vacation could be the key to a successful season.
30
The Scholastic
CROSS-COUNTRY
With the completion, on Nov. 27, of his most dismal cross-country season since being at Notre Dame, Head Coach Alex Wilson turns to what he hopes will be a brighter indoor track campaign. Though the first meet will not be held until February, Wilson feels his group will need every bit of that time for preparation, especially since Christmas vacation and semester exams take a sizable cut out of the training period.
Wilson says prospects for the coming season are the best they have been in several years — just the opposite of what he said two and a half months ago concerning the cross-country season. At least two men will return to most events, thus providing a fair amount of that factor, depth, which is so essential in track and field.
The cross-country team had depth, or rather bulk, but all of it was without experience. Of the first five men on the squad, Frank Carver, Tom Dempsey, Bob Latsko, Ray Wherley, and Kevin Walsh, only one Was in that group a year ago, and even he slipped to a weak second place for the ’61 season. The team lost three dual meets to the Chicago Track Club, Indiana, and Michigan State; it finished fourth in its own invitational, third in the Indiana Big State meet, and fourth in the Central Collegiate Conference race.
Only two varsity runners represented this. school in the last two meets of the season. Despite impossible weather conditions, Carver ran Well in the IC-4A’s in New York, and Picked up a ninth place. But both he and Dempsey, the team captain, ran poorly in the NCAA championships on Nov. 27. Dempsey also finished out of the money in the lC-4A’s a week earlier.
Carver’s claim to distinction came earlier in the year. Following up on two straight wins in the beginning of the campaign, he set a Burke Golf Course record of 19:32.5 in the ND Invitational on Oct. 20. At this point H looked as if the team might develop into something, since the next four ND finishers cut at least a minute off their previous season’s-best times. Such was not the case, however, as Michigan State handled the Gold and Blue quite readily in a dual meet the Very next week.
A safe conclusion to draw from this s that Wilson will not be building his "’mter claymen around the distance rbnners. Rather, he plans to con-Centrate on the hurdles and weight events.
Voice in the Crowd
Football with its weekends of good cheer, has departed from South Bend for another year, leaving only basketball and some relatively minor sports to occupy the sports-minded student for the remainder of the year. It is a shame that, with this being the case, efforts have been made to take away top-flight basketball games from the Notre Dame fieldhouse. One of the most unattractive home slates in many a year has been arranged for this season. Out of 23 games, the Irish play only nine home games. Such fine teams as Kentucky, Bradley, and St. Louis are met on either neutral or away floors. Maybe this could not be prevented because of the poor reputation of the Irish fieldhouse and the poor gate prospects. However, it seems that the remaining nine games could at least have featured some highly-ranked quintets. Two of the top attractions on this meager schedule are games with two of the top independent powers in the East, New York University and St. Johns. However, both of these fine games will be witnessed by sparse crowds, because the NYU game will be played the first Tuesday of Christmas vacation, while the St. Johns “rematch” will be fought during semester break.
THRILLING BUT . . .
Coach Johnny Jordan presented his hoopsters to a surprisingly large crowd, considering the quality of the opposition, at the fieldhouse on December 1. The Irish played as if they were playing their first game, not just of the season, but still whipped handily some “team” which wore shirts with Bellarmine on the fronts (whatever that means). This was a typical opening game with both clubs trying to develop their timing during the game.
On the following Monday night, Notre Dame played a team which came from Northwestern but surely felt like Syracuse alumni after the game. In the most exciting game seen on the Irish floor since last season’s unbelievable St. Johns skirmish, John Matthews pushed in a layup as the clock ran out in the first period of overtime to give Notre Dame a 58-57 victory. Captain Armand Reo paced the club with his key jump shots and rebounds.
The performance of the Irish against Creighton and Nebraska revealed that this year’s team is, unfortunately, not one of the better teams of the Jordan era. Creighton, with one of their finest clubs in many years, constantly outfought the Irish on the boards in winning on a last second shot, 73-71. The Nebraska game was a repeat of this as the Comhuskers overcame an Irish lead and won in another last minute thriller, 65-61. The only bright spot for the Irish was the emergence of junior John Andreoli as a top-flight performer. Andreoli scored 27 points against Creighton and played a fine game against Nebraska.
There are many deficiences that separate the Irish from the achievement of ranked status. Notre Dame has to receive much more rebounding from Karl Roesler and John Dearie, to supplement that of Reo, than the team was able to get in the first four games of the season. Notre Dame also needs someone to take the place of last year’s captain Bill Crosby, who was a wizard on defense and the top playmaker on the team. No one appears ready to take Crosby’s place at this time. Another weakness may be remedied if Andreoli develops into the outside shooter that the Irish have lacked in their initial engagements. Added to these problems is the fact that Notre Dame’s holiday schedule is the toughest in history. The Irish will battle NYU, St. Louis, Kentucky, Indiana, and Michigan State during the two-week Christmas vacation. It is hoped that during these rough games the Irish will find the spark that has been lacking in their attack so far this season. If they don’t, it could be another long winter at Notre Dame.
— John Bechtold
J. C. Higgins
December 15, 1961
31
Aftermath:
ELECTED: On December 12, by the 1961 football monogram winners, Mike Lind, as Captain of the 1962 Notre Dame Football Team. Lind’s election was confirmed by the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics and was announced Tuesday evening by Athletic Director Edward W. Krause at the Annual Football Banquet of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley.
Lind, who succeeds Co-Captains Norb Roy and Nick Buoniconti, the leaders of the 1961 squad, is an AB English major from Chicago’s Calumet High School. Though shackled by injuries throughout his career, Lind has started in both his sophomore and junior seasons, carrying the ball 87 times for 450 yards this season, and a 5.2-yard average. He also scored four touchdowns, caught four passes, and was credited with 31 unassisted tackles as a comer linebacker.
MIKE LIND: “32” IN ’62
DRAFTED: By the National Football League—Joe Carollo by the Los Angeles Rams and Bob Bill by the New York Giants, on the second round; Mike Lind, by the San Francisco 49ers as a future choice, on the fifth round; John Powers, by the Pittsburgh Steelers, on the ninth round; Joe Perkowski, by the Chicago Bears, on the thirteenth round.
By the American Football League —Nick Buoniconti, by the Boston Patriots; Joe Carollo, by the Dallas Texans; Bob Bill, by the San Diego Chargers.
SIGNED: By the Los Angeles Rams, Joe Carollo; by the New York 32
Giants, Bob Bill; by the Pittsburgh Steelers, John Powers; by the Los Angeles Rams, defensive halfback Clay Schulz.
HONORED: All-Americans—Nick Buoniconti, Football News, first team; team; ABC-TV, second team; Central Press Association, first team; Sporting News, second team; American Football Coaches Association, second team; Extension Magazine, All-Catholic All-America, first team. Angelo Dabiero, American Football Coaches Association, third team; United Press International, honorable mention; Extension, All-Catholic All-America, first team. Les Traver, United Press International, honorable mention; Mike Lind, United Press International, honorable mention; Bob Bill, ABC-TV, second team.
All-Midwest — Chicago American: Nick Buoniconti and Angelo Dabiero, first team.
PICKED: To appear in post-season all-star games — In the East-West Shrine game, Nick Buoniconti, Joe Carollo, and Angelo Dabiero, for the East; in the North-South game, George Sefcik, for the North; and in the All-American Bowl, Norb Roy. Les Traver and Bob Bill had also been slated for all-star performances before their late-season injuries.
RUMORED: Nick Buoniconti will sign with the Boston Patriots over the holidays. . .. Les Traver has been approached by the New York Giants, and will sign if his knee responds to treatment. . . .
MARRIED: In Donora, Pa., on July 3, 1961. Irish halfback Angelo Dabiero to Miss Patricia Lou Dobecki of South Bend.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
DRAFTEES: CAROLLO AND BILL
INTERHALL
FOOTBALL
Last month Alumni Hall dramatically wrested the President’s Cup away ' from its usual resting place in Dillon ! Hall. Facing Father Broestl’s array of '\ Dillon talent, Alumni could only tie their opponents. But they	were	;
awarded the victory by virtue of first down totals, tallying just one	more	।
than Dillon.	j
Alumni turned back Breen-Phillips
in the championship game 26-0. Hop- • ing for an upset, the freshmen champs were hopelessly outclassed.
In a game played at the Stadium, Alumni scored four times while holding the freshmen scoreless.	i
Breen-Phillips earned the right	to	j
challenge Alumni by edging sophomore winner Zahm 14-8.	!
Slick Bucky O’Conner, Alumni’s offensive leader from his right half slot, was voted the league’s most valuable player. He scored five touchdowns in the six games played. These include the all important score that sank Dillon and also two against Breen-Phillips.
BASKETBALL
At 6:00 p.m. on Jan. 4 interhall basketball play gets underway. The league is split into two separate divisions, hall and club teams. These divisions are further separated into six team league. The winner of each league plays round-robin tournament deciding the hall and club championship. Then these two clubs vie for the campus crown. Last year the Ski Club was campus champion while Dillon lead the hall squads.
There are 29 clubs entered by all the residence halls. Only Sorin, Fisher, and Howard failed to field teams this year. Stanford leads all halls in participation with five teams.
BOXING
Each Fall Nappy Napolitano and his helpers stage a novice boxing class for inexperienced pugilists. The boxers end this initial training period with a tournament matching off according to weights.
Last week the fighters went at it for three two-minute rounds. Each man was clad in regular ring regalia with the addition of a sparring helmet for further protection.
The winners and their weights classes were: Keating (137 pounds) J Brannigan (145 pounds); O’Donnell (153 pounds); Guameri (157 pounds) 1 Howard (160 pounds); Houllihan (165 pounds); Griffin (180 pounds), Schellhauner (heavyweight).
The Scholastic
WRESTLING
Head Wrestling Coach Thomas Fallon said that the 1961-62 Notre Dame wrestlers are “one of the best little teams we’ve had in years.” The team is predominantly a sophomore one and therefore inexperienced. However, when these youngsters gain that needed experience they will provide Fallon with a strong nucleus for several seasons to come.
Fallon expressed pleasure over the fine turnout for the team this season and said that interest in wrestling has been on the upswing since the sport’s inauguration at Notre Dame five years ago.
In addition to inexperience, the varsity unit has been hurt with injuries. Among the injured are Ruppe Rodgers from South Bend and Fred Morelli from Chicago.
Along with Dave Ames, a 167-junior from Dixon, Hl., the captain of the current Irish wrestlers, seven other athletes comprise the varsity
squad. These remaining seven are Dick Martin, a 123-pound junior from Pittsburgh; Scott Carroll, a 130-pound junior from Abiquiu, New Mexico; Larry Bunchek, a senior from South Bend who weighs in at 137 pounds; Jack Barry, a 147-pound sophomore from Cuming, N.Y.; Bob Toth, a sophomore from Cleveland, Ohio, who weighs 157 pounds; John Gibbons, a 177-pound sophomore from Williamsport, Pa.; and the heavyweight Dennis Leinhart, a sophomore from Ridgewood, N.J. Ed Rutkowski, a junior who weighs 210 pounds, will wrestle in the heavyweight division during the second semester.
The Irish wrestlers face a tough schedule this season, which includes several matches with Big Ten colleges.
Two tourneys are scheduled for Notre Dame this year. The Wheaton Invitational Tournament will be held at Wheaton, Hl., on Feb. 16. The Interstate Invitational Championships for outstanding individuals, held on March 9 in Cleveland, will cap the season for the ND wrestlers.
ICE SKATES
SKIS
SKI CLOTHING ★
RECO SPORTING GOODS 113 N. Main St.

FAMILY
SKIING CENTER
HOLIDAY
SKI RESORT
Traverse City, Mich.
Ski night and day. 13 runs. T-bar lift, tows. Snow-maker, Sno-pack-er. Lodge, food. Excel, lent accommodations nearby. Special ski club ‘nd family rates.
Free	HOLIDAY—BOX SOB
Brochure	Traverse City, Mich.
Writes	/1 Windsor 6-5035 or 7-5075
D
SIC FLICS
KING
IGAI^ETTES
“What’ll it be, Miss Porter, the Dekes or us?”
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES! AGED MILD. BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
ecember 15, 1961



33
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pizza
•
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
Sheraton Hotels . Student-Facuity Discounts Heap ^fine news for smart Buck*/
Students, faculty and other members of college tribe get plenty good service at plenty low rates. All because Sheraton’s special rates help Buck travel very long way. If you’re hunting for travel bargains — you’ll find Sheraton Hotels the best place to stay.
Generous group rates arranged for teams, clubs and other college groups on the move.
Get these discounts at any of Sheraton’s 61 hotels in the U.S. A., Hawaii and Canada. Just present your Sheraton Student I.D. Card or Faculty Guest Card when you register. To get your Sheraton card or make reservations, contact your Sheraton campus representative:
SOCCER
Notre Dame’s surprising soccer team ended its initial season with a strong stand in defeat against Ball State’s undefeated hooters last November 15. A last period mixup in defensive signals gave the Ball Staters the break they needed to snap a 1-1 tie and wrap up their schedule unbeaten.
Notre Dame took an early lead in the contest on freshman Herman Puentes’ goal, set up with a long lead pass by Joe Echelle. However, Ball State tied the game up on a second period comer kick and the two teams battled evenly on the muddy field until late in the fourth quarter, when Ball State scored.
The Irish thus finished their season with a 3-2 record, a remarkable accomplishment for a first-year team. Since only two starters, Captain Joe Echelle and Charlie Wong, will graduate in June, next year’s team should be better than its predecessor.
The list of nine returning starters is headed by Bob Dubois, next year’s captain, Herman Puentes, Pete Aizu-pitis, John Poelker and John Makanju. The schedule for next year has not been worked out yet.

on Life Savers:
Tis sweeter far to me!”
from TAe Rime of the Ancient Mariner, part VII
SWIMMING
A twelve-meet schedule, the swimming team’s toughest since it attained varsity status, faces the Notre Dame mermen in the ’61-’62 season. Despite many graduation losses, the swimmers will have ten monogram winners on the squad.
Leading the returnees are co-cap-tains, Joseph Bracco and David Witch-ger— both breast strokers. Monogram winners returning in the dashes are Robert Lieb, John Macleod and Bill Vasu, while in the distance events John Clark and Ray Stefani will also be back. Jim Greever will lead the backstrokers and Tony Devine and Larry Temple will head the Irish divers.
Hit hardest by graduation is the butterfly event in which the departed veteran, Tony Haske, starred last year. Several other lettermen have completed their education, among them: Gene Witchger, freestyler and last year’s captain; Chris Lund, Frank Dinger, and Bill Cronin, all freestylers; and Les Duffy, the team’s number two backstroker. These men also had much to do with recent Irish success in the relay events, and re-(Continued on page 35)
34
The Scholastic
Fencing for '61 -’62
The swashbuckling men of Notre Dame open their season this week with hopes of national ranking. Although suffering a somewhat disappointing season last year, the Notre Dame fencing team will be back at full strength for this season’s competition.
The 31-man roster is headed by four returning lettermen: Dan Kenney and Tom Shipp, co-captains; Tom Dwyer, and Mike Bishko. Co-captain Kenney will make his bid for national honors this year in the epee division, while the other co-captain, Tom Shipp, stands as one of the best sabre men Notre Dame has had in recent years. The aggressive twosome of Tom Dwyer and Mike Bishko forms the bulwark of the foil division.
Foil-men Ed Barton, Mike Zwettler, Ron Nasher; sabre-men, Leonard McCue, Sam Crimone, Ralph Dematteis, Mike Connor, Will Kennedy and John Mulhern; and epee-men John Ricci, John Wagner, Steve Dreher and Dick Marks form the solid depth of this year’s fencing team.
This year, Michael A. DeCicco, former assistant to coach Walter Langford, has taken over the head coaching job. Says Coach DeCicco, “It appears at this time that we may have a team which will show just a bit more balance, and with the competition in all three weapons, I feel certain that we will improve our standing over last year.”
The fine nucleus of lettermen and outstanding sophs and juniors makes the ND fencing team one of the best in years. First potential Irish victim this year will be Wayne of Detroit tomorrow.
Classified Advertising
WANTED—Student to drive a 1961 Chevrolet Impala to Tacoma or Fort Lewis, Washington over Christmas vacation. Will deliver car to campus on day you. wish to leave for vacation. For further information call Mrs. Russell Scribner, 2000 E. Jackson, Elkhart, Indiana, JA 2-4089. Call collect.
THE MONEY QUESTION
A Solution to the World’s Problems
Wealth, Virtual Wealth and Debt. By Frederick Soddy......... $4.50
Economic Tribulation. By Vincent Cartwright Vickers......... $2.00
The Struggle for World Power. By George Knupffer............ $2.50
Citadels of Chaos. By Cornelius C. Veith.................... $2.50
Money: The Decisive Factor. By Allhusen & Holloway.......... $2.00
God and the Goldsmiths. By R. McNair Wilson................. $3.95
Rulers of Russia. By Rev. Denis Fahey....................... $1.00
Money Manipulation and Social Order. By Rev. Denis Fahey..... $2.00
Order from:
OMNI PUBLICATIONS
Swimming
(Continued from page 34)
Placements for them will be hard to find. ■.,	' :	/ •'
Swiming coach Dennis Stark feels that the leading sophomore candidates are Charles Blanchard of Cleveland, a versatile young man who is Proficient in several strokes; Al Wey-Htan of Philadelphia, a freestyler; and Pat Flynn and Bob Manning, two backstrokers from the Chicago area.
The schedule, which starts with an ®Way meet with the University of western Ontario tonight, will run through mid-March, with the swimmers facing many of the better teams ln the neighboring states.
December 15, 1961
P.O. BOX 216	HAWTHORNE, CALIF.
Write for free brochure listing other interesting titles dealing with the money question and its impact on history.
RAH! RAH!
ALBRIGHTS
MODEL 22AW
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5’9* specify 23’ frames. Men under 5’9" specify 21" frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!1.
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988
35
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD EXIT ON U.S. 31
• Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38 LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
‘RWTURBOW
\OPTOM«TIU»T
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
’Repercussions'
(Continued from page 27) West leads the diamond jack. Whether North puts in the queen or not makes no difference, since East will have three winning diamonds anyway. The key to the perfect game is the discarding of West’s three clubs on East’s club ace and winning diamonds. Then with the spade ace and a spadetrump, diamond-trump crossfire the rest is quite evident, after East’s club nine is ruffed by West.
Gyula Balogh 229 Cavanaugh
QUESTIONABLE CHARITY Editor:
The events of Saturday, Nov. 18, have begun to be forgotten but nevertheless there is a lasting point to be made.
In the second half of the Syracuse game, quarterback Dave Sarette suffered an injury in front of our student section. There were a few students (must we admit that they were Notre
Dame students?) who seemed to take genuine joy in seeing the player injured. This would not have been so bad, but they proceeded to express their feelings with loud comments that they thought were extremely amusing.
Notre Dame enthusiasm often expresses itself in various plays on words regarding the fate of the opposing team, but must they be carried to a literal end? Apparently these select few characters would enjoy seeing it happen, judging from their reactions on this occasion.
Fortunately there are no more home games this year at which this attitude can be expressed. But it remains a duty of the student body — each and every one of us — to be our brother’s keeper at any school activity, so as to prevent further ill reflections on that spirit established long before any of us were thought of, the spirit of Notre Dame.
William L. Staudenheimer 208 Lyons
Cool, clean Old Spice After Shave lotion always gets you off to a fast, smooth start. Feels just as good between shaves as i* does after shaving. Rotes A-OK with dates 1.00 and 1.75 plus ta<.
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
S H U l_TQ N
36
The Scholastic
& Which is most © Do you buy cigarettes important to you in soft pack or box?
There's actually more rich-flavor leaf in L&M than even in some unfiltered cigarettes. You get more body in the blend, more flavor in the smoke, more taste through the filter. So expect more, get Lots More from L&M. And remember—with L&M’s modern filter, only pure white touches your lips.
HERE'S HOW 1029 STUDENTS AT 100 COLLEGES VOTED!
xoq jo jjOBd ui ue oabh
%l£........xog
%69......Wd jpg
%9l.......3ouaai||O}u|
%S9..........MlPuosJOd	A
%6I.............sxooi
%69..........on
%IE..........soa
FORUM
A Hypothetical Reply ...
i
What Newman Forgot
Dear Father Brennan:
• As a representative of a not unusual American Catholic University, I would like to take issue with your recent disparagement of Catholic education. There are several flaws in your thinking which are neatly concealed beneath the emotive tenor of your argument. Perhaps, in my position, I am privy to the complementary data you lack, so permit me an unpatronizing clarification of the truth.
You are bound to some hazy, anachronistic notions which simply have no relevance to a pluralistic, industrialized society in the mid-twentieth century. Our problem is one of meditation: we must channel the faith to society by adapting our students to the precise demands of the times. We must produce men and women who will fit into the complex structure of our society, before we can expect them to have any effect on the rest of the community.
Generally, our elementary and secondary schools, together with a pervasive Catholic home life, have drilled and impressed our children with Catholic heritage and dogma, and the fundaments of Catholic action. They realize the primary imperatives of the faith — the alternative is hell. Consequently, our purpose in a Catholic university is to satisfy what I would call the existential imperatives of the circumstances in which we find ourselves — whether we like it or not.
We must train our students in the practical requisites of their chosen fields. The university is no longer a
38
sacrosanct cloister catering to an aristocratic elite. Your esoteric values would be nice table-talk at the club or the K.C. bacchanal, but, after all, of what use would they be at the bargaining table, the operating table, or the research table? We live in a competitive democracy, in which a man’s earning power is determined by his contribution to the technical problems of the continental machine into which he is bom.
Unfortunately, success is not possible for our students unless they are equipped to serve the productive monolith in some capacity. This requires a knowedge of technique and organization if they are to increase the efficiency and output of the economy. You are obviously possessed of the fatuous prospect of somehow altering the direction of our society, of transforming it from without. Who can understand your medieval disputations today? How can anyone respond to such useless abstractions?
We must, in a sense, become means to the infinite fabrication of things. This is the spirit of democratic compromise. If the Russians outproduce us, our chances of persuading the world of the right order of life are lost, and we must accept the Apocalypse which would inevitably ensue upon such lack of vision. God would surely abominate the failure of his creatures to remold the substance of His creation. Our conquest of nature, and the organizational and social techniques necessitated by such a co-operative attack, is the true realm of human creativity and freedom. Is not
by Maurice Callahan
our impression on matter the true reflection of God’s impression on us?
What we must do depends upon the practical demands of our existential situation: emancipation from natural discomforts and elimination of social conflicts. Only by co-operating in the solution of these problems will a Catholic university serve society — which is evidently its purpose. The Christian intelligence is the result of God’s grace — let’s not pretend to something outside human capabilities.
I hope I have enlightened you. You must certainly see that if we keep our students in the faith, while stuffing them with useful vocational data and formulae, we have honored our responsibility before God and man. Any questions they may raise concerning the ultimate meaning and probems of existence will be answered in their job-situations. Such are the unfathomable ways of Providence. And on their deathbeds the meaning of Christ’s redemptive action will finally be revealed to them they will realize, in retrospect, that they were participating in it all along, for what else could have driven them । so determinetely to their end? Were | not the transcendent values, and God Himself, implied in their actions, although they never had time to reflect on these things? And will not assurance of earning the sight of Goa verify the automatic course of their lives, as, exhausted, they willingly accept the respite of death? Such is the logic of an educational representative, Father Brennan, who must justify the modern ways of God and education to pre-modem men.
The Scholastic
from abstract ideas...fundamental knowledge at Esso Research
The deformed unit sphere — a new three dimensional concept—has recently enabled Esso Research scientists to demonstrate completely the correlation between elasticity and flow birefringence of certain viscoelastic liquids.
When such liquids, for ©sample hydrocarbon solutions of linear polymers, undergo shear, they can be “stretched’.’ many times farther than rubber. Deformational mechanics predict that when viscoelastic liquids are stressed, they behave as though a unit sphere of the liquid is deformed into a triaxial ellipsoid. The existence of this ellipsoid has been demonstrated by optical birefringence measurements of a flowing
solution in all three directions in space. These measurements permitted calculation of the dimensions of the ellipsoid which were found to agree completely with theory.
Flow birefringence thus becomes a convenient and accurate method of determining elasticity.
I n con tinuing studies, measuremen ts are being made of normal stresses, another unusual property of viscoelastic liquids. These are internal pressures exerted perpendicular to the direction of flow. Although development of these normal stresses can be predicted accurately by theory, it is difficult to predict just how and where they will
appear in a given apparatus.
The illustration shows a simple demonstration of normal stresses in a viscoelastic liquid which is being stirred by an impeller. The normal stresses force the liquid up the stirring rod.
Greater understanding of the properties of viscoelastic liquids may be of great value in such widely divergent fields as lubrication, the forming of plastics, and treatment of certain diseases.
...adapted from a scientist's notes at
Esso Research and Engineering Company
(P.O. Box 45B, Linden. New Jersey)
Scientific affiliate of
Humble Qil & Refining Company