"...and don’t forget to
keep kissable"
W,,H Old Golds
The marriage ceremony doesn’t demand it. But the Newlyweds who take OLD GOLDS as their wedded
NO "ARTIFICIAL FLAVORS" TO TAINT
choice in cigarettes are showing a nice consideration for each other.
For OLD GOLD is a pure-tobacco cigarette ... 100% natural-flavored. Free of those * greasy flavorings that bum into clinging, staining, and breath-tainting vapors.
To prolong that honeymoon charm, smoke pure-tobacco OLD GOLDS. No throat rasp, no smoker’s cough can come from their clean, sun-ripened, nature-flavored tobaccos. And they leave no objectionable odors either on your breath or clothing, or in the room.
NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD
© P. Lorillard Co., Inc.
THE BREATH ... OR STAIN THE TEETH

November 20, 1931
One
HURRY UP!
pick your own 1931 All-American Football Team
WIN
NEW CLOTHES FREE
AH you need is football brains and speed. Get your official ballot now! Just ask for this ballot at Spiro’s Store—contest closes Nov. 25th.
Ten first prizes; each to consist of one Hart Schaffner & Marx day suit, one evening suit (with dinner jacket or tailcoat) and one overcoat.	’
Fifty second prizes, each to consist of a choice between any overcoat.
Winners will receive certificates honorable at Sam’l Spiro & Co. The winners will pay nothing for the clothes they win.
Get the dope at Spiro’s now and tune in Thursday, 9 p. m. Hear about the 19 3 1 All-American football contest.
Station WBBM, Chicago.
Sami Spiro & Co.
Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
NEW MAJESTIC
EASY TERMS
With New Spray-Shield
Tube
’ Multi Mu Tube Pentode Tube and Tone Control $44.50 COMPLETE
See and Hear it at
JIM BAKER’S
Room 243, Baden Hall
BLOCK*KUHL
bafadCORNER MICHIGAN STREET AND COLFAX AVENUE

The Perfect Gift
A Photograph by WHITE STUDIO
The girl, the folks at home, the relatives, the room-mate, campus friends, friends at home,—there are many who would keenly appreciate your portrait.
REASONABLE PRICES
PROMPT DELIVERY
See White’s Display of Photographs in Walsh Hall Basement.
Two
The Scholastic
Jesse Harper, Athletic Director
November 20, 1931
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for moding at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
NEIL C. HURLEY....................................Editor-in-Chief
HENRY B. ASWAN..........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors
WILLIAM W. CORR JAMES CARMODY MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ JOSEPH LOPKER WILLIAM BLIND
News Staff
EDMUND STEPHAN.............News Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL.. .Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY JOSEPH DEGNAN PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA THOMAS HILLS BERNARD COUSINO ROY SCHOLZ	MITCHELL TACKLEY
JOHN McELLIGOT JAMES McCRALEY
Department Editors
PAUL J. HALLINAN.............The	Week
JOHN PICK...............College Parade
LOUIS E. BRENNAN........Book Reviews
JOHN CONLEY.............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON..........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN.............Music	and Drama
Sports Staff
JAMES S. KEARNS. T. EDWARD CAREY JAMES E. McFEELY JOSEPH BORDA WILLIAM DREUX
......Sports Editor IRVING B. HALPER
JOSEPH KURTH WILLIAM O’GOODY JOHN LYNCH
EDMUND MORIARTY
Desk Editors
GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN...........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass't. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR.......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
NOVEMBER 20, 1931.
Number 8.
SUMMARY	COMING EVENTS
NEWS
Howard Jones says he expects tough game in article written for Scholastic___________________________ 5
Juggler maintains place as best college publication- 6
Students asked to furnish money for home team
dressing room in Rockne Memorial__________________ 7
Father Miltner has paper read in connection with National Education week__________________________ 8
FEATURES
John Ryan expects much of “Gold in the Hills,” to be presented by the University Theater----------12
John Perone’s entire name given in “A Man About the Campus”_____________________________________13
“Ye good old days” at N. D. described by Tighe Woods __________________________________________14
Notre Dame 0, Southern California 0; by William W. Corr_________________________________________15
EDITORIALS
Notre Dame’s Father Nieuwland; The Trajans of California______________________________________19
SPORTS
Notre Dame to play U. S. C. Trojans before capacity crowd_______________________________________ 5
Navy falls before N. D. as 25th victim in 26 starts--20
Fighting Irish snap Penn winning streak______________21
Walsh to play St. Edward’s for Interhall grid crown Sunday_______________________________________22
FRIDAY, November 20—Meeting, editorial board of the Scholastic, Publications office, 6:30 p. m.—News and Sports staff meeting, 222 Main Building, 7:00 p. m.— Ushers’ Club dance, K. of C. ballroom, 8:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, November 21—Football, Notre Dame vs. University of Southern California, Notre Dame stadium, 1:30 p. m.—St. Joe Valley Club dance, Palais Royale ballroom, 9:00 p. m.—Movie, Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Monogram Club dance, K. of C. ballroom, 8:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, November 22—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, November 23—French Club meeting, Room 1, Main Building, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, November 24 — Economics Seminar, Law Building, 7:00 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, November 25—Army special train, leaves N. Y. C. depot, 4:20 p. m.—Spanish Club meeting, 7:30 p. m., Walsh hall.
THURSDAY, November 26 — Thanksgiving Day, no classes, o o o
NOTICE!
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday there will be no issue of the Scholastic next week. The next issue will therefore appear on December 4.
Four	The Scholastic
♦ TEE WEEK ♦
By Walter Johnson
//F^OUTHERN California vs. Notre Dame” will bring some fifty thousand fans to the campus tomorrow. Crowds . . . mulling and pushing, yet good natured . . . expectant, tense, yet surprisingly carefree . . . betting . . . laughing . . . cheering. Thousands of cars will block the highways . . . expensive, colorful clothes (barring a repetition of the Northwestern disaster) will brighten up the stands. Impressed students . . . staring enviously at the unburdened, unrestricted, unworrying mass. Crowded restaurants . . . hotel rooms at a premium . . . theaters
filled . . . taxies working overtime. Hectic activity . . . half celebrating . . . the rest submerging regret. It’s a big day when Notre Dame plays the Trojans . . . and football is one industry which knows no depression!
Stocks are still hitting “new lows”—fearful prognostications concerning the extent of the w. k. depression during next winter are being hurled at us from all sides, by all authorities . . . and even the most optimistic will de little more than mumble a few vague references to the proverbial corner. Still, sixty thousand paid four dollars each ... to stand in the rain at Soldiers’ field a few weeks ago . . . forty-five thousand more attended the Pitt game . . . Army-Navy tickets range from six to ten dollars . . . and can’t be purchased at any price! Swope and Ford would probably give their right arms to know why.
o o o
PAGE MR. ARROW
REVIOUS classifications of the “homo Sapiens” are unquestionably better . . . more inclusive, more whimsical, more apt. Lamb’s immortal borrowers and lenders . . . Abe Martin’s “those who do and those who don’t . . . race, size, creed ... ad infinitum.
Let us suggest, as a criterion, collars . . . notice them one day. Cleanliness is, of course, a certain indication. But any more so than fit? Shape . . . texture . . . neatness? Add clasps . . . pins . . . tabs. To style . . . long points, button ends, wing . . . narrow, rounded, starched. Flannel . . . gray, thick and wrinkled . . . linen . . . white, or figured . . . “dickie” front, with macthing cuffs. Each has its meaning, and immediately classifies the wearers.
And they? He men . . . rough and crude, but unaware . that they are a few years behind . . . careful, almost meticulous dressers . . . wolves, with their ultra and just a little too fashionable raiment . . . the clean but careless . . . and then our typical student, a composite of all four .. . with his (let us hope) four changes a week. All of which doesn’t do very much to relieve the unemployment situation in Kokomo.
FOR THE PESSIMIST
' ROM an article in Harpers Weekly, the following: . . . “It is a gloomy moment in history. Not for many years . . . has there been so much grave and deep apprehension, never has the future seemed so incalculable as at this time. In our country there is universal commercial prostration and panic, and thousands of our poorest fellow citizens are turned out against the approach of winter without employment, and without the prospect of it.
In France the political caldron seeths and bubbles with uncertainty; Russia hangs, as usual, like a cloud . . . upon the horizon of Europe; while the energies, resources and influence of the British Empire are sorely tried, and are yet to be tried more sorely in coping with . . . disturbed conditions in China.”
Oh, yes . . . this excerpt is from the issue of October 10, 1857! Which reminds us of that old one . . . “Dya think it’s going to stop raining?” .. . “Well, it always has.”
o o o
SWAN SONG
ATURDAY . . . regardless of victory or defeat . . . one wonders, will it be a blue or a red letter day for certain members of the 1931 squad? Army, perhaps the most important game of the schedule, remains . . . but tomorrow virtually ends a number of college football careers. Five varsity players, letter men, make their last appearances in Notre Dame stadium . . . fighting just as hard, as keenly tuned to the game as ever . . , yet, how do they feel . . . glad it’s almost over . . . or sorry?
Relieved? No more responsibility, worry, even fear . . . no more afternoons of practice . . . through with hours of blocking . . . tackling . . . falling. Glad of the opportunity to study ... to enjoy a normal existence. Or does the knowledge that soon “He’s a man” will no longer be followed by their name . . . that their publicity will now go to others, sport writers having forgotten them . . . that it’s the last sacrifice for “the old school,” the last fight, shoulder to shoulder with teammates . . . cause a certain amount of regret? . . . One. wonders.
November 20, 1931
Five
U. S. C. HERE TOMORROW
SULLIVAN AWARDS TO BE MADE IN JANUARY
Coast Champions Seek to Upset N.D.;
Capacity Crowd to See Grid Classic
Three Scholarships Valued At $250 Each Go To Winners.
The Reverend William M. Molony, C.S.C., chairman of the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes, announced last week that the Roger C. Sullivan scholarships for the current scholastic year will be awarded in January. The young men who make application for the prizes must have been students during the school year 1930-1931, since the semester grades of that year will be used to determine which young man has shown the greatest improvement in his academic work during the year. To be eligible for the prizes, the applicant must have entered either the sophomore, junior or senior class of the current year without a condition or failure.
Application for a scholarship prize '	must be made in writing before De-
cember 20, to the chairman of the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes. The scholarships follow:
-(1) A scholarship of §250 will be ' awarded to the student applicant in • - the present sophomore class whose . grades, in comparison with those of , ' other sophomore applicants, show the greatest improvement in his studies during the second semester when compared with the first semester of the school year 1930-1931.
(2)	A scholarship of $250 will be awarded to the student applicant in the present junior class whose grades, in comparison with those of other junior applicants, show the greatest improvement in his studies during the second semester when compared with the first semester of the school year 1930-1931. r
(3)	A scholarship of $250 will be awarded to the student applicant in the present senior class whose grades, in comparison with those of other • senior applicants, show the greatest improvement in his studies during the second semester when compared with the first semester of the school year 1930-1931.
Howard Jones Gives N.D. Edge In Grid Battle
By Howard Jones
Head Coach, University of Southern Calfornia Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Enroute to South Bend, Nov. 18.— Last year, after defeating California and Stanford, Southern California’s
Howard Jones
“. . . Hunk’s men have the the edge.” two major coast rivals, for the first time during the same season we thought we had a pretty fair team. But after Notre Dame’s great undefeated eleven gave my squad the worst beating since 1925, you have to have a truly great team to be able to cope with the Irish attack.
The game Saturday, consequently, will be no exception. We have played tough contests this year with St. Mary’s, a squad which beat us in the opening contest of the season by a 13 to 7 score, California and Stanford, but the word tough assumes only relative significance when the potency of the Notre Dame team is considered.
We expect our hardest battle with Notre Dame, as other elevens have expected for the last three years, and I believe that Hunk Anderson’s men will have the edge on us before game time. However, we expect to put up a fight and hope to make the contest more interesting than last year.
Five Blue and Gold Veterans In Final Home Appearance;
Close Game Expected.
By James S. Kearns
The annual renewal of the Battle of the Century is coming up. Tomorrow afternoon the Trojans of Southern California and the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame will launch a two-hour program of big league football at its best. Some 55,000 spectators are expected to polish the redwood seats of Notre Dame stadium as a passive part of the classic.
Thrills, surprises, possibly a little mayhem, and surely a deal of pageantry will feature this outstanding attraction on the transplanted sod of Cartier field. There will even be a more solemn note for tomorrow afternoon will be the final home appearance of five great Notre Dame gridders. Captain Tommy Yarr, Marchy Schwartz, Nordy Hoffman, Al Culver, and Bernie Leahy are soon to fill their niches in the hall of Notre Dame immortals. None of them have played in a losing game.
Howard Jones may change that record for them. The Trojans are coming east with the admitted notion of toppling Notre Dame. The world at large seems to be stroking its chin and wondering if possibly the West Coast champions aren’t just about the team to put over that unusual coup.
Backed by six consecutive wins and with a record that is marred only by a six-point loss to St. Mary’s in the season’s opener, the Los Angeles aggregation looms more formidable than any team that the Blue and Gold have faced thus far. They boast a group of seven two-year veterans who are determined to stop the Notre Dame machine that has rolled them under the past two seasons.
As is the wont of Southern California teams, the squad has a few outstanding ball-carriers. Shaver and Orv Mohler at quarterback and Jim (Continued on Page 29)
Six
The Scholastic
FUND FOR ROCKNE MEMORIAL DRIVE slow -iwraMWir here TO BE GATHERED FROM STUDENT BODY si"yBy * D- g™* Gi™ i» Movie Form At Colfax.
Father Eugene Burke Urges Generous Support of Campaign Sponsored by the S. A. C.
By Granger Weil
Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C. delivered the speech before a combined meeting of the Student Activities council and the Blue Circle Monday evening, which initiated the drive for funds from the students of Notre Dame to be used in furnishing the home team dressing room of the proposed Rockne Memorial field house.
B. W. Dickenson, general chairman of the national drive, Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, and John Kramer, president of the S. A. C., were the other speakers. The campaign will begin immediately and close November 25.
“It would be too bad if the students did not take part in this drive,” said Father Burke. He suggested that the students owed this much to Notre Dame, and gave as an illustration in support of this, the example of a former student, John F. Cushing, who, even when he gave the $300,000 engineering building, felt that this was not in a slight degree paying back what he owed the University.
He talked of the spirit that grows up among the students and of how Rockne helped to develop this spirit, how he appreciated its value, and of how the world looked up to him for this.
The spirit our fellows take away from here, the memory, the inspiration go but the thing itself never. This, a contribution to the world, makes people remember Rock,” he continued.
Father Burke told of how the idea of a memorial in Chicago had been thought of, but of how the alumni and faculty had protested, that here at Notre Dame was the place for it, where “Rock” had lived.
Notre Dame men would profit by it for generations to come, he said, and it would be too bad if it went up with nothing to represent the present student body, who would all want something in the memorial to point at as theirs.
“It is up to the Notre Dame men at school,” Father Burke concluded,
“men who will never get anything from it are working hard; you boys thing from every student here.”
Kramer who spoke next, told of the plan to equip the dressing room.
Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
“. . . Notre Dame men will do their share.’’
will, with the exception of the seniors, and there ought to be some-He urged that the men make it known to their parents that their contributions would be welcome.
Father Murch emphasized the .fact that through the students, people be reached whom it would be impossible to touch in any other way.
A brief outline of the plan of the campaign for funds for the memorial was given by Dickenson, and he showed that a contribution from every man at Notre Dame would be of great help to those in charge of the general campaign.
The campaign on the campus is to be carried on in the form of interhall competition. Committees have been formed for the canvassing of the halls, each with a captain in charge. Some method of indicating to the students the progress of the campaign will be placed on the campus.
“Touchdown” the movie version of the college story “Stadium” written by Francis Wallace, Notre Dame alumnus, makes its initial appearance in South Bend tomorrow at the Colfax theater.
Heralded as considerably more characteristic of collegiate life than the much-acclaimed “Spirit of Notre Dame,” “Touchdown” has in its cast such gridiron notables as Tom Lieb, Manfred Vezie of Notre Dame, George Dye and Marger Apsit of U. S. C. and Roy Riegels of the University of California, in addition to the well-known actors, Richard Arlen and Jack Oakie.
According to Mae Tinee,, moving picture critic of the Chicago Tribune “Touchdown” is the finest college movie in years.
Press Club Hears Huston
Macready Huston, editor of the South Bend News-Times, spoke to the Press club at their regular meeting last Tuesday evening in the journalism room of the library.
The club charm, selected by a committee, was presented to the members. The following men acted on the committee: Bill Corr, Vince Fletcher, Arthur Himbert, Kermit Escudier, Neil Hurley, Bill Flynn, Larry Dunda, and Bernie Cusano. The price of the charm is $3.50 and orders placed now will be filled before Christmas.
No Sorin-Corby Battle
The Sorin-Corby football game that was scheduled for this Sunday was called on Wednesday because of a conflicting date for the interhall championship.
A dime admission charge will also be made at this new game, but instead of going to the Bengal mission fund, it will help defray the expenses of the interhall sport.
The cancellation of the game was made by Jesse Harper, director of athletics, after a consultation with John Frederick, in charge of interhall athletics.
November 20, 1931
Seven
FR0SHHEARDR.BERTEL1NG
‘Common Sense Hygiene/ Subject of Fifth Convocation.
FUNNY FELLOW LAUGHS AT HOLLYWOOD IN MOST OUTSTANDING JUGGLER NUMBER
John B. Bertling, M.D., well known South Bend physician and local Knights of Columbus physical examiner, Wednesday delivered the fifth of a series of convocation lectures to the freshmen in the A. B. school. The subject was“ Common Sense Hygiene.”
He was introduced by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
“We do not only cure, we prevent.” This, according to Dr. Bertling, is the . motto of the medical profession today. The subject of hygiene covers every field of industry. In any factory, shop, or place where a group of men work together, new methods are continually being tried out. Every element in the work of physicians strives to discover how life can be saved.
The doctor then changed the course of his talk to personal hygiene. He described the various diseases of the skin which are caused by vital organisms and explained that in recent years scientists have found out that all diseases are caused by these.
He then gave a few pointers on eating. He said that he had lunched in the students’ dining hall at the noon repast and had watched them • consume a full meal in less than twenty minutes. “Eat slowly,” he advised. “The elephant is the slowest eater in the animal kingdom, and we find that he lives the longest, while a carnivorous animal, such as the dog, chews his food in a great hurry and consequently lives but a short time.” According to Dr. Bertling, humans can live a good deal longer and be freer from diseases of the stomach, if their diet is made proper by reserving a large place on the menu for vegetables.
In conclusion, Doctor Bertling addressed some words of advice to those who have intentions of following a medical career. “Never enter it with the idea that you are going to become rich or famous or with any worldly view in mind as few have succeeded in amassing a fortune or have gained a world-wide reputation. Enter it with the idea that you may be able to do your fellow-men some good.”
Real Humor, Fine Art Work, New Supplement Receive Critic’s Commendation
By John E. Ryan
Funny Fellow Gorman, who in his first issue of the year made a hit with his Autumn Number of the Juggler, has carried on, for the Hollywood Number is second in time, but
Editor Robert Gorman Who scores hit with second “Juggler” edition.
certainly not in quality, to his auspicious beginning. The Juggler of the past has carried on a satirical warfare with the campus tradition that nothing funny can be expected to appear within its pages, but with the present edition of the campus humorists that antagonism seems to have been discouraged. The Juggler continues to be funny, setting a pace for collegiate publications that few others will dare to challenge.
Oshe To Speak Here
Honorable Marcellus M. Oshe, of Chicago, has been engaged to address the students of the law school on the evening of December 3 in the auditorium of the new law building.
Judge Oshe is a prominent Chicago judicial and is affiliated with the Title and Trust company of that city. He will speak on conveyancing and abstracting.
The sprightly cover, with its melodramatic scene, opens the art work of the issue in good style. Then comes the frontispiece, a somewhat robust lass with the saving feature of the prettiest face that Joe Lopker has done of late. Frank Conboy does a caricature of Joan Crawford in line with the Juggler’s attitude toward Hollywood, and the art staff, all in all, appears to be one of the best in the collegiate field.
But the glory of the Hollywood Number, as we have intimated, is the fact that it is funny. The “Phonyplay Magazine” is a splendid take-off on the sort of reading matter that sends tired girls to Hollywood to seek theii- fortunes. The story of Gretchen, the “Hotcha of Old Heidelburg,” and Mitzi Greeni’s account of her life in the land of Kleig lights and perspiring directors, have the touch of the Funny Fellow’s second in command, Paul J. Hallinan. The Picture Puzzle contest will keep the campus guessing until Christmas—at least.
A notable feature of this issue of the Juggler is the addition of a measure of verse, long missing from its pages. The magazine is now well rounded out, and if the quality of humor in the following numbers be not strained, it should merit consideration with the best that is produced in the fie Id of collegiate humor this year. The SCHOLASTIC abandons its attitude of feigned contempt for its junior publication, so obvious in years past, and hopes to share the spotlight on the undergraduate stage.
Screen Star Visits
Charles Butterworth, star of the New York success, “Sweet Adeline,” featured comedian in several motion pictures during the last year, and a former student of the University, will arrive in South Bend tonight to attend the Southern California game.
Mr. Butterworth was last seen in South Bend in a picture starring John Barrymore.
Eight'
The Scholastic
FATHER HILTNER WRITES ON LIBERAL EDUCATION
Article Is Contribution To Recent Education Week.
An article, which had as its subject the ends of a liberal art education, written by the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C. made its appearance recently in connection with National
Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C.
“. . . Every man can make himself more perfect.”
Education week which was observed throughout the United States from November 8 to 15. Father Miltner’s work gives an impressive evaluation of liberal learning and points out the essential nature of such training. Parts of his paper run as follows:
“At the outset let us say that the aim of the liberal art college is simply to teach young people how to make of themselves the best possible men and women.”
“No man is perfect, but every man can make himself more perfect. That is the very reason he is a man at all. An animal is born fully educated. He is not, in the proper sense, capable of education. But a man does not inherit an education, even though he is heir to all the preserved wisdom and learning of bygone years. True, he can make all this his own if he will. For, being a man, and not an animal, he has powers which when developed, and because he can develop them, will enable him to profit by all the fruits and all the failures, all the triumphs and all the blunders of the life-labors of the race. And this is liberal education.”
“Shakespeare says in one of his plays, “AU the world’s a stage, and
(Continued on Page 10)
Campus Opinions
Question: “What team do you think would make the most suitable opponent for Southern California in the annual Tournament of Roses game to be played on the Pacific coast Neiv Year's day?”
Harold V. Pohlmeyer, Howard hall, junior: “I think that Harvard is the most suitable opponent for Southern California in the Tourament of Roses game due to the difficult schedule they have played. Tulane is also undefeated, but it has not met as many strong teams as has Harvard. Northwestern eliminated itself by its poor showing against Indiana last Saturday.”
Raymond Naber, Howard hall, junior : “This is difficult to answer as the selection can only be based upon comparative records. Harvard in the east, being still undefeated, seems to be the logical choice at the present time. Tennessee and Tulane in the south are also undefeated as yet, but I believe Harvard has the edge if the decision is made on the comparison of schedules.”
Francis J. O’Keefe, Howard hall, junior: “I think Harvard would be a suitable opponent for Southern California, as their hard, consistent play this year has been one of the highlights of the season. The fact that Northwestern has already scheduled a post-season game would eliminate it from possible selection, I believe.”
Christopher Aloysius Reilly, Howard hall, junior: “It is to the best of my knowledge on reviewing the records of the eastern teams that Pittsburgh would be the most suitable opponent of Southern California in the Tournament of Roses game for the very fact that it has one of the strongest lines in the east and is as yet the only team capable of scoriiig against Notre Dame.”
James Tobin, Howard hall, junior: “Because of Pittsburgh’s victory over the Army last Saturday I feel it would be the logical team to oppose Southern California in the Tournament of Roses game. Harvard in the east and Tulane in the south both have good teams, but neither has played the caliber of opponents that Pittsburgh has encountered.”
SPECTATORS HEAR TALK
Hallinan Evaluates Caricature; New Members Are Elected.
Paul Hallinan, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the Spectators at the regular weekly meeting last Thursday evening on the subject, “Is Caricature Art?” After discussing the various types of caricature and showing pictures of such, the speaker went on to show that caricature provokes aesthetic response since it appeals to the imagination, embodies beauty, in an analogous sense of the term, and is, after a fashion, a reproduction of nature. Hallinan therefore claimed that one might justifiably say that caricature was art.
The talk excited considerable discussion which shaped itself principally around the question of whether art is more subjective than objective and vice versa. Although no definite agreement was effected on this point it was decided that caricature is best studied objectively. The statement that caricature creates aesthetic response was called into question by several of those present, on the grounds that the reaction one received from an exaggerated drawing is quite comparable with that which one gets from almost anything incongruous or ridiculous. The speaker stood his ground, however, with the result that in the end the question was still unsettled in the minds of many.
Edmund A. Stephan, president of the club, announced at the meeting that out of the applications recently received for membership in the Spectators two have been accepted. The new members are Walter Johnson, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and Patrick Corcoran, sophomore in the College of Science.
Cotillion Is Successful
Three hundred and twenty-five couples, one half of which were sophomores and guests, attended the cotillion of 1931 held at the Palais Royale ballroom Friday evening, November 6. Herbie Kay’s orchestra furnished the music in a pleasantly decorated setting.
A separate section was reserved at the Penn game for cotillion-goers and their guests. Approximately a hundred couples attended.
. a-
Nine
November 20, 1931
BAND TO PLAY AT GAME
New Formations Featured By Casasanta’s Musicians.
With the closing of the home football season here at the University the Notre Dame band of eighty pieces will present a novel program most fitting for the occasion. The musicians, under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, will present a twelve minute show in the form of a pageant.
The plan of the program includes new features in the line of maneuvering. At the close of the first half of the game, four of the bandsmen will appear at the north entrance of the field with a herald of trumpets announcing the opening of the show.
The band will march out into the field playing the school song of the University of Southern California, “Cardinal and Gold.” They will form the letters “S. C.” After playing the “Hike” song, “Killarney,” and the “Victory” march, the people in the stands will be requested to stand at attention for the playing of “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” in memory of the late Knute Rockne.
After the formations and the tribute to Rockne, the bandsmen will march to their seats in the stands and with a flourish of trumpets, the show will be brought to a close.
Wisdom By Wave-length
By N. S. F. A. Service.
Men and women from all parts of the country are now taking a half hour a week to attend classes of the University of the Air. Radio courses on psychology and economics are given each week by distinguished authorities on a nation-wide network under the auspices of the Advisory Council on Radio Education. After the first lecture a week ago, more than ten thousand listeners had purchased the 25-cent “listeners’ notebook” published by the University of Chicago Press. Judging by their letters, these adult students welcome the opportunity to brush up on these rapidly changing sciences.
When the radio first became popular, particular stress was laid on its prospective value for educational uses. Although these predictions have not so far materialized; it is hoped that this new move will make radio education popular.
Student Would Like to See N. D.
Have Rifle Team
To the Editor of the Scholastic :
Sir: May I take advantage of the opportunity offered by your columns to suggest that the University inaugurate a rifle team this year? A Notre Dame rifle team would work in, I believe, with the minor sports program outlined in the last issue of the Scholastic. Following are my reasons:
1)	Practically every college or university in the country the size of Notre Dame has a rifle team.
2.	Target practice is the only sport for which Congress makes an annual appropriation.
3)	The cost of equipment for a rifle team to represent Notre Dame in collegiate competition is very small ($225). This investment would be permanent as with proper care this equipment would never need replacement. The only cost for succeeding years would be ammunition and the government will furnish a certain amount of that per year. That which the University would buy costs less than one-half cent a round.
4)	Most intercollegiate matches are conducted through the mail and by interchange of targets, thus eliminating the cost of transportation for the team.
5)	This would be a new field for Notre Dame to conquer.
Respectfully,
J. Ben Begrer.
Konop to Attend Law Meet
Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law at Notre Dame, will represent the University at a meeting of the committee of the Indiana Bar association to be held in Indianapolis, Saturday, November 28. Dean Konop is a member of the committee.
At this meeting important matters pertaining to legal education in the state of Indiana will be discussed. The special session of the committee was called by chairman Benjamin F. Long, a prominent attorney of Logansport, Ind.	'
The committee is made up of members of the Indiana Bar association.
TWO HUNDRED PLAN TO MAKE ARMY TRIP
Plans Complete For Special R. R. Excursion.
Definite plans for the student trip to the Army game in New York, November 28, were completed during the past week by the officers of the Metropolitan and New Jersey clubs. The round-trip railroad rate, without pullman accommodations, will come to $20.05.
The train will leave South Bend, Wednesday, November 25, at 4:20 p. m. over the New York Central lines, arriving in New York City Thursday noon. The special will depart from Gotham at midnight, Saturday, pulling into South Bend early Sunday evening.
Railroad tickets may be obtained from George Rohrs, 117 Alumni hall or from Sal Bontempo, 2 Lyons hall. Those stubs, numbering from 100 to 199 entitle the student making the trip to the purchase of a ticket for the game, if he presents said stub to the A. A. office between the hours of nine and eleven, Monday,- November 23.	*
All stubs, which are simply receipts for the payment of railroad fare, must be handed in at room 2, Lyons hall, Tuesday, in order that they may be exchanged for the regular railroad ticket.
Approximately two hundred students will make the trip east with the team. All who intend to do so must present their railroad ticket to the Prefect of Discipline, sometime next week, before the journey.
Alumnus Enters Novitiate
John Paul Lynch,- an alumnus of Notre Dame, a member of the 1925 graduating class, has returned to the University from his home in Geneva, N. Y., and has entered the novitiate. Lynch began his study for the priesthood about two weeks ago.
Soon after receiving his degree from the College of Arts and Letters here, he entered the Fordham Law school and was graduated. He was affiliated with the Baldwin, Hutchins and Todd Company of New York City.
Ten
The Scholastic
STUDENT MANAGERS TO DIRECT STADIUM CROWD
Charles Weiss Heads Staff To Direct 50,000 Fans.
Notre Dame’s personnel of 800 men, directed by Charles Weiss, senior manager and a corps of assistants headed by Charles Spangenberg is in readiness to seat the 55,000 expected to attend the Notre DameSouthern California gridiron tussle Saturday, the largest crowd ever to witness an Irish home contest.
With the exception of 30 inspectors, the entire personnel is selected from a large list of South Bend men and boys who donate their services as ushers in exchange foi' free ducats ot the games. Two hundred gatemen are paid to work, and these, too are South Bend residents.
Including Saturday’s crowd an approximate 150,000 people will have been ushered to their places luring the four home games with a degree of minimum confusion, that speaks highly of the Notre Dame system which is recognized throughout the country as one of the most efficient.
The stadium itself is in structure one of the most advanced types in the nation, and the construction of the gates, and alertness of gatemen has made it particularly difficult for “Crashers” to demonstrate their skill at Notre Dame.
Practically every day since the opening of the stadium, Weiss and his assistants have spent upwards of three hours in their headquarters in the stadium, handling the voluminous correspondence, arranging details, and otherwise planning for the efficient seating of the football fans.
John Grams, senior football manager, is president of the Ushers club, while Weiss is secretary-treasurer of the group. Two officers elected by the men are Andy Daily, vice-president, and Patrick Tumock, marshall. The club is an honorary group of men who have served in the stadium personnel group.
NOTICE! .
Due to the Thanksgiving holiday next week, there will be no issue of the “Scholastic” on Friday. The next date of publication will be Dec. 4th.
ANTI-TUBERCULOSIS DRIVE TO OPEN AT GAME TOMORROW
The annual St. Joseph County Anti-Tuberculosis League drive will get under way tomorrow in front of the stadium at the Southern California game. A number of high school girls will be stationed at the several gates of the stadium to sell health buttons for ten cents apiece. Greater contribution is left to the personal discretion of the giver.
This drive is conducted locally for the purpose of purchasing milk for underweight school children whose parents are unable to supply this necessity. Through a similar campaign last year the league was enabled to purchase almost three thousand dollars worth of milk for the school children of South Bend.
Probably no other charitable plea is more deserving of greater financial response than is a drive of this kind where the benefit of the child is involved. With the cooperation afforded the league by both the University and the many high school aides, it is hoped that this year’s return will far surpass that of all previous efforts.
“Catalyzer” November Issue
Makes Campus Appearance
The November issue of the Catalyzer, edited by the Chemist’s club and published by the Department of Chemistry, made its appearance last . week.
The main article was written by George E. Ludwig, B.S. in Chemical Engineering, ’25. Its title is “Dehydration of Manufactured Gas.” Mr. Ludwig is now associated with the Grand Rapids Gas and Light Company, Grand Rapids, Mich. He is also president of the Notre Dame club of Grand Rapids.
The editorial, entitled “Synthetic Rubber,” deals with the story of the developemnt of synthetic rubber, told in the terms of the chemist.
The meetings and activities of the Chemists’ club, the Pharmacy club, the Academy of Science, the Engineers’ club, the Notre Dame group of the American Society for Steel Treating and the St. Joseph Valleysection of the American Chemical Society are reported in this issue. There is also included the regular column called “Ramblin’ ’Round Chemistry Hall” and the usual page of “Personals.”
INTERHALL DEBATING SEASON TO OPEN SOON
Fifty Candidates Appear For First Meeting.
Interhall debating swung past the first stage this week when a group of fifty candidates presented themselves at the freshman meeting in the jour
nalism room of the library, last Monday noon.
James B . O’S h aughnessy, chairman of the activity, presided over the frosh as he divided them into their respective halls and introduced the coaches, chosen from the membership of the Wranglers, honorary forensic s o -ciety of the University.
J. B. O’Shaughnessy Debating Chairman
Since the first general gathering last Monday, numerous conferences between the candidates and the coaches have taken place in the various halls.
Actual competition is scheduled to get under way within two weeks, and the entire season will be completed before Christmas.
“Participation in interhall debating,” said Neil C. Hurley, president of the organization this week, “will fulfill one of the requirements for admission into the Wranglers. After a man has completed this activity there remains but a qualitative average of 85 percent and the matter of selection by the club.”
Each member of the Wranglers is coaching a hall team, while all of the freshman dormitories are participating in the activity.
<
What Price Longevity?
By N. S. F. A. Service.
Among the many significant statements made by the late Thomas A. Edison was: “The more mental apparatus is worked, the longer will the normal person live. Retiring from an active mental life is a dangerous thing.” One fears for the longevity of college students if Mr. Edison is right.
November 20, 1931
Eleven
UNIVERSITY PLAYERS TO GIVE 1890 DRAMA
Immortal Jack Dalton and Our Nell To Be Resurrected.
“There’s dirty work afoot!” The University Theater will take the students of Notre Dame on a trip to the “bowery” on the evenings of December 13 and 14 in that irresistable three-act melodrama, entitled “Gold in the Hills” or “The Dead Sister’s Secret.” The scene will be Washington Hall.
Once more that melodramatic archvillain, Richard Murgatroyd will be heard issuing his “curses on you all,” this time the victims being no other than Jack Dalton and Our Nell. Memoirs of the typical 1820 “meller-drammer” will be in the minds of all who witness this show.
“Gold in the Hills,” by J. Frank Davis, is something new and different in the line of material for a university production. To quote the author, “while it is a burlesque in the sense that the melodrama contains all the absurdities of a plot, situation, and language of the nineteenth century thrillers, it is not a burlesque and is ■ performed with heroic seriousness as it might be played by a repertoire company in 1890.”
The play embodies all the well-known melodramatic phrases from “under this flannel shirt beats an honest heart,” to the villain’s “curses on you all.” As is told to the audience in the prologue, the production is an attempt “to take you back to the nineteenth century, to 1890 or thereabout, when the bustles had but just gone out and the whole world was singing “Sweet Marie.”
Professor Frank Kelly, head of the department of speech and drama, and director of the show, announced yesterday that Richard Murgatroyd is developing a truly villainous sneer and the fair heroine her saintly smile.	-
Thirty students will comprise the complete cast. As yet no names have been announced but rehearsals have been going on throughout the week, and Mr. Kelly reports that the production of “Gold in the Hills” promises to be one of the outstanding ones to be given by the University players.
“LE CERCLE FRANCAIS,” NEW NAME SELECTED BY FRENCH CLUB
The changing of the name of the French club to “Le Cercle Franeais” and the election of officers were the principal points of business undertaken at the first formal meeting of the club held Monday evening. Reverend Francis T. Maher, C.S.C. was elected honorary president, and Jules de la Vergne, active president.
Other officers elected were: William B. Dreux, first vice-president; Samuel Ferrari, second vice-president; and Paul H. LaFramboise, historian.
Plans for future meetings which were made included the promise of Professor Benjamin Du Bois faculty organizer of the club, to invite prominent Frenchmen to speak to the club. Novelty acts and short plays will be featured at meetings.
The club is open to all students who are in their second year of college French, and to others who are interested in the study of French and who have some knowledge of that language.
Professor Wall Lectures At Nazareth College
Mr. William F. Wall, member of the educational department of the University of Notre Dame, spoke to the faculty and student body of Nazareth College, Nazareth, Michigan, on November 10. The subject of Mr. Wall’s speech was “The Preparation For Catholic Action Through the Study of School Subjects.”
The degree of Ph. B. was conferred upon Mr. Wall by the University of Notre Dame in 1917. He has been a member of the faculty of his Alma Mater since 1927.
Christinas Cards On Sale
A complete line of Christmas cards are now’ on display, according to Oliver Powers and M. Kelly Powers, appointed by the faculty concession committee to supervise their sale on the campus.
Cards can be obtained at 35 Sorin hall or 330 Walsh, or a salesman w’ill call at your room if you leave a note at either of the above addresses.
Only salesmen with letters from these two concessionaires are authorized to promote the sale of Christmas cards.
BIG PEP RALLY OF THE SEASON HELD TONIGHT
Father O’Donnell Heads List of Prominent Speakers.
Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. President of the University, will head a list of well-known men who will be speakers at the biggest pep rally of the year to be held tonight. Other speakers on the program will include Jesse Harper, director of athletics; Heartly “Hunk” Anderson, senior football coach; Jack Chevigny, junior coach; Arch Ward and Warren Brown, well-known sports writers of Chicago papers; and Tim Galvin, alumnus. The affair will be sponsored by the Student Activities Council and the Blue Circle.-
Headed by the band the student body -will make a march of the campus to end up at the gymnasium.
Folio-wing a plan initiated two years ago before the game with Southern California, the spirit of the rally will be added to by hall competition for a silver loving cup offered by the S. A. C. for the hall having the best banner pertaining to the game. The contenders must carry their banner in front of their group to the gym, where a committee chosen from the faculty will judge the winner.
Clarence Manion, professor in the College of Law, will introduce the speakers in the gymnasium, a thing which he has done for many years at the big pep meeting of the year. John Kramer, president of the S. A. C., will have charge of the meeting and will introduce Professor Manion.
Members of the Blue Circle will direct the parade around the halls and will carry flares. They have been requested by John Perone, chairman, to be present at the Dining hall at 5:15 p. m. to have dinner. Perone has had an active paid: in planning the rally.
An effort was made by those in charge to have Howard Jones, coach of the Southern California team, present at the meeting, but word was received from him that it would be necessary for him to be with his men in Chicago.
The team will be present in the balcony of the gymnasium, and Kramer has requested that every man be at the meet to show them the support they can expect from the student body.
Tzvelve
The Scholastic
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
ACCLAIM N. D. PROJECT
University Probation Course Is Favorably Received.
The announcement that the University Theatre will soon begin work on the melodrama, “Gold in the Hills,” the first of the productions of the year, is good news to those who have any interest in the stage. The play itself is a good one, and coming at this time should be one of the most popular of the year. It contains all the absurdities of plot, situation and language of the nineteenth century “thrillers.” Every device of melodramatic art has been used in the writing of the play.
❖
Jack Dalton, “a son of the soil,” is the hero of the play. Opposite him is the wretched “Nellie,” who suffers the customary ups and downs. The play rollicks along with all the dash of the real old “meler,” from the Prologue to the final act.
❖
Nothing has been missed in the writing of the play. Many of the songs of the Nineties, including “A Bird in a Gilded Cage,” “The Sidewalks of New York,” and others are used in the scene laid in the beer garden of “Big Mike” Slattery.
No “Specialists” For Frosh
By N. S. F. ’A. Service.
New York, Nov. 17. — Columbia University undergraduates have recently voiced their grievance over the practice of handing over the freshman and sophomore classes to young instructors with “specialized interests.” The critics hold that underclassmen need the stimulus of older and experienced teachers more than the guidance of young specialists in a single field. This criticism brings to light the value of the new plans for teacher training in which the student is given a well balanced training, including actual laboratory experience as well as classroom work. It also shows the timeliness of the new tutorial system and house plans fast becoming popular in this country.
Two philanthropic summer school students at Columbia university dug deep into their pockets and together gave two cents to the university for the advancement of the study of music, philosophy, history and religion.
Richard Murgatroyd is just the sort of villain that children point at. When Richard snarls at Nellie she almost flies out the window. But Nellie has faith in Jack Dalton, and Richard has a difficult time of it.
❖
Though no selections have been definitely made in regard to the personnel of the cast, Professor Frank Kelly is working on the organization and will take up active work on the production in the near future. Assisted by Production Manager Fred Eisenmann, he will begin the casting as soon as possible so that rehearsals may begin immediately after Thanksgiving.
❖
At the meeting of the students interested in dramatics, held in Washington hall a short time ago, Professor Kelly outlined the work for the year. The response was encouraging and would seem to indicate that a season of achievement is in store for the University Theatre. Further announcements in regard to the casting of the play, and the decision of a definite date for the presentation, will be forthcoming.
Seasoned To Taste
By N. S. F. A. Service.
New York, Nov. 16.—Latin has been shorn of its worst terrors after many years as the chief ally—in fiction at least—of the hard-headed schoolmaster. A revised plan of instruction is now being tried in many schools, according to Professor W. L. Carr of Teachers College, Columbia University, in which less emphasis is being placed on grammar and more on bringing back to life, through the medium of the language, the dead days of the old Romans. This revolution in methods, he believes, may easily help blaze the trail that will lead to changes in the teaching of other admittedly difficult subjects.
To take the students and alumni of the University of Southern California to their football clash with the University of California, several boats were hired, and three official trains were engaged. Every modern convenience was afforded the enthusiasts, including music and dancing in specially outfitted cars.
Within the last week letters from various sources, received by the department of sociology, have indicated that the probation work course recently established at Notre Dame, is making a very favorable impression. The director of the Probation System of the United States Department of Justice has requested that Notre Dame students be allowed to work under the direction of United States probation officers during the summer months.
In a forthcoming book, “The Organization of Mental Hygiene in the Community,” published by the Commonwealth Fund, the Notre Dame course is described in considerable detail as an example of one of the few existing projects attempting to inject into the training of workers with delinquents some knowledge of social case work and mental hygiene.
It is encouraging to note that Harvard university has just announced a graduate course for training prison officers. The Notre Dame course, established in 1929, is generally recognized as the first important attempt to train college men for the correctional field. The first class graduated last June and all have been placed in the social work field.
Brother Ephrem Gets Post
Brother Ephrem, C.S.C., has been ■recently appointed treasurer of the University. For the past three years he has acted as president of Holy Cross college, New Orleans.
The new treasurer has served many years in an executive capacity. Previous to his position in New Orleans, Brother Ephrem was the first principal of Reitz Memorial High school in Evansville, Indiana. For a number of years he was principal of Cathedral High school in Indianapolis, one of the largest Catholic secondary schools in the Middle West. In all, the new treasurer, who has A. B. and A. M. degrees from Notre Dame, has spent twenty successful years of teaching.
He succeeded Brother Florence, C.S.C. who has again taken up teaching. .
November 20, 1931
Thirteen
LAY TRUSTEES IN SESSION
A Man About the Campus»»John Perone
Nature of Annual Gathering Not To Be Revealed.
By Edward O’Brien
The board of lay trustees of the University convened Tuesday at 11 o’clock Tuesday in the administration building for its annual fall meeting.
At the office of the Reverend - Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, it was said that the meeting was “not at all routine” but that no statement would be released as to its nature. The trustees have responsibility for the handling of endowment funs and their investment.
The lay board is composed of: A. R. Erskine, South Bend, president; Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Mich.; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago; Frank E. Hering, South Bend; John F. Cushing, Chicago; Angus P. McDonald, New York; George M. Anson, Merrill, Wis.; Clement Mitchell, Chicago; Frank C. Walker, New York; Edward N. Hurley, Chicago; Miles W. O’Brien, South Bend; James J. Phelan, Boston; Mathew J. Carney, New York; Edward J. Doyle, Chicago; C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Miss., and Fred J. Fisher, Detroit.
Barnard Sets Precedent
By N. S. F. A. Service.
New York, Nov. 18—A petition favoring world-wide disarmament was sent yesterday to Senator William E. Borah, chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, by 650 Barnard College students. This is the first time that a student body in America has sent a formal declaration of opinion regarding the policy of the United States government in international affairs to a Senate committee.
Directory Is On Sale
The Official Student Directory for 1931-1932 is now on sale at the cafe-eteria news-stand, it was announced this wek by Mr. Robert B. Riordan, registrar. The directory is priced at 25 cents this years, a 50 percent reduction over last year’s price.
Prof. Riley’s Mother Ill
Professor Philip H. Riley of the Department of. Foreign Languages has been called east to the bedside of his mother who is seriously ill and is not expected to live.
Giovanni Pippinni Andrea Phillippi Antonii Mattarazzia Perone lives in 315 Corby. Now these names, when juggled around in the correct manner, mean simply, “Constable of Naples” — or something like that. But the individual to whom they have been attached is none other than John Perone, Blue Circle president, entertainer and student.
❖
The Constable is a likeable sort of fellow. Friendliness is one of his foremost virtues. And when Johnny sees you on the campus, he’ll call you by name and not merely grunt at you either. You’ll smile despite yourself, too, if he takes a notion to make you do so. Snobbishness is as remote from Johnny Perone as is hair from “Bushy” Graham’s head. But enough of this and let’s see what the lad does with himself.
His Blue Circle activities take a good part of his time. He has been just recently elected to the position of president of the organization but he thoroughly understands the work. In an informal way, this is what John told me about his duties:
❖
“It seems as though the Blue Circle has been subjected to much harsh and adverse criticism this year, even more so than in the past. I suppose an organization of this kind, whose functions are not well-known to the student body, is frequently a’ target for critics. I realize that the work is not always fully appreciated. The cooperation of the students is absolutely essential to the success of the group, however. The members of the. Blue Circle have pledged their whole-hearted cooperation and it is this fact which keeps me from stuttering as I say that this year should be a Blue Circle banner year. Up to the present, our efforts have been' rewarded and I only hope that this will continue.”
❖
John is an electrical engineer. He seems to dote on Dr. Caparo’s synchronizing, dehypothesizing, relenti-sizing, alternate current problems. And more power to him. Hydraulic controllers in design keep him busy and perhaps he can use this knowledge when he goes to work for the
American Telephone and Telegraph company as he would like to do after leaving Notre Dame.
“If A. T. & T. won’t have me,” sighs the constable, “then I’ll go into business for myself, fixing doorbells, and if that doesn’t prove prosperous, I’ll go over to Italy and join Mussolini’s drum corps.”
Constable Perone is also an excellent entertainer. He works best with a ukelele, that is, he worked best with one until his instrument was demolished during a “session” in Corby. The gathering was in Perone’s room and he was attempting to do a back flip after tossing the “uke” into the air.
The idea was to: catch the instrument as it fell but someone doused the lights while Johnny was in midair; there was a splintering crash. The “uke” just isn’t now although some small particles may still be embedded in him. It was his four-hundred and sixty-third attempt, too, the others having been successful.
He has another idea, too, this one along scientific lines. It seems that his room mate, “Bushy” Graham, is embarrassed every time he removes his hat. From the fullness of his heart, Johnny is devoting much time and energy in developing a formula for a synthetic hair-restorer just to help his friend “Bushy” along.
Give him a deck of cards and he’ll make Blackstone look sick. The cards vanish to be suddenly jerked from his head, legs and pockets. Another thing, he can chew and smoke a cigarette at the same time, deriving pleasure from both. He defies any Harvard man to try that trick without becoming “putridly” ill.
❖
John is a pianist of noteworthy ability in that he can devise musical novelties to accompany his comedy skits. A good example of this was seen when he was master of ceremonies at the dance after the Pennsylvania game. There are many stunts in his repertoire including a “Duck Hunting” scene and “Radio Announcer.” So if A. T. & T. won’t have him, perhaps he’ll be another Walter (Virginia Judge) Kelly or even an Eddie Cantor.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
The Cells Were Locked and The Lights Went Out; 1860
LAWYER OUT NEXT WEEK
Many Notables Contribute To Quarterly Publication.
By Tighe Woods
Can you imagine the pandemonium that would break loose if an official University Bulletin should appear on the campus, stating that the Christmas vacation would be limited to three days ? Think of the campus club Christmas dances that would have to be cancelled, and signing in at twelve on New Year’s eve! That was the situation at Notre Dame in the Sixties, and no one thought of griping. Even if they did they wouldn’t get much of a chance because strict silence had to be preserved going to and from all classes and visiting in private rooms was strictly prohibited.
There were some good times in those days when sophomores could twirl a mean mustachio and the seniors rode their bicycles to Bertrand one Sunday a month. And how feminine hearts fluttered and missed a beat when they came riding. How they did come! Forty of them, heads low, backs liunched over handlebars and legs pumping madly. Old Dobbin would shy and rear in his traces and farmers would mutter, “ ’At’s ’em crazy students again!”
Wednesday, Big Day
There were no classes on Wednesday morning and at ten o’clock the whole student body would line up at the treasurer’s window to get their weekly allowance. The Gold Coasters were allowed fifty cents and what an orgy of spending would start then. Solid bunches of humanity would storm the candy store demanding refreshments. Blocks and blocks of rock candy were sold and some of the more reckless ones would buy as many as three glasses of lemonade.
Notre Dame did not have her famous football teams in those days but an old undergraduate manual shows that the students were encouraged to do something besides study all day. “Two ball alleys, two ten pin alleys, three gymnastic apparatuses, lately built with much ingenuity and skill, together with a variety of the latest add most interesting games, viz.: Foot-ball, cricket, etc., tend alike by their judicious use to invigorate the body and recreate the mind.” Football was a minor sport though; ■
there was probably only three or four of them west of the Alleghenies at that time and cricket was the sport of gentlemen. The Cricket club, consisting of twenty-two esteemed mem-
bers, always received honorable mention, along with the Philharmonic Society, in the annual commencement program.
“And Don’t Forget the Ears”
The personal appearance of the students was well looked after. No “cords” or- hobnailed shoes, no sir, “Each student must be provided with six shirts, six pairs of stockings, six pocket handkerchiefs, six towels, a knife and fork, a table and teaspoon, a hat and cap, two suits of clothes, an overcoat, a pair of shoes and of boots, for winter; and three suits of clothing and two pairs of shoes for summer.” And as for bathing,—none of this free will stuff, “In winter, on Saturday at. 4 o’clock p. m., the students must wash their feet. In summer this regulation is rendered unnecessary by the rule which requires the students to bathe in common twice a week in St. Joseph’s Lake.”
Raise Tuition
In 1860 the future of Notre Dame was threatened by one of those crises that have been arising ever since Father Sorin was ready to build the Log Chapel and discovered that one of the Brothers had left the hammer in Niles, Michigan, Notre Dame decided to raise her rates! From the first term of the new school up until this eventful year, board, washing and tuition had been one hundred and twenty-five dollars for the whole year, but in 1860 the total was raised to one hundred and thirty-five dollars. Long and loud was the storm of protest, but a compromise was reached when the faculty decided to include bed and bedding, doctors fees and medicine in the sum total, and once again the little college nestled down to quiet, peaceful existence among her lakes. And -that kindly, gentle man who named her Notre Dame, lifted his eyes from his breviary and dreamed his dreams.
The Lawyer, the quarterly publication of the Notre Dame College of Law, will make its initial appearance on the campus this year during the early part of next week. The November issue of this year will be released two weeks in advance of the dedicatory issue of last year.
Contained in this issue of the Lawyer are several articles written by notables in the field of law. Judge William M. Cain has written an article entitled “Sensational Prosecutions and Reversals.”
Professor John W. Curron of the College of Law at De Paul University, contributes an article called “Trusts for Masses.” Professor W. F. Roemer of the English department at Notre Dame, wrote “Ethical Basis on International Law.”
One of the main features of the publication is the contribution of Attorney Lenn J. Oare of South Bend. The article titled “The Genesis of Bar Examinations in Indiana” and treats the work taken up at the last state legislature in Indiana. It is of interest to all law students because of its current importance.
The Lawyer is published in November, January, March and May. At present the publication has a circulation of five hundred and is distributed among the leading law schools of the country and can be found in the offices of various attorneys as well as in libraries.
Edward C. Massa is editor-in-chief of the magazine and is to be complimented for the splendid work brought out by the Lazvyer. Joseph A. Moran heads the managerial staff. Other members of the staffs include: John A. Bitter, advertising manager Harry A. Busscher, assistant editor; Joseph F. Deeb, assistant business manager;John V. Leddy, Thaddeus J. Morawski, Henry Pratt, Joseph E. Talbot, Malcolm E. Trombley, Edward Barrett, Walter Bernard, Leo Cook, Norbert Christman, Edward England, David Ferguson, John Fetzer, William Glass, Leo Hodel, Francis Hoffman, Lawrence Johnson, Philip Konop, George Landgraves, Daniel Lenciovi, Francis Marley, Robert Markland, Marchmount Schwartz, and William Sullivan.
November 20, 1931
Fifteen
N. D. JEWELRY ON SALE
Complete Line Available At 211 Walsh Hall.
Pre-Game Dope Must Lie;
Scores Show Both Will Win
Official campus jewelry, either monogrammed or not, is now on sale at room 211 in Walsh hall, according to an announcement made this week by Edward J. Kelly, authorized holder of the jewelry concession, together with Robert Leppert.
A complete supply of compacts, rings, bracelets, cigarette lighters and cases, together with an assortment of bracelets and other feminine and masculine apparel is on display daily.
Six-thirty o’clock until seven-thirty is the best time to inspect the jewelry, according to Kelly, but all that is necessary is that you leave your room number under the door and a salesman will call at your room.
Kelly further warned freshmen today that several bogus salesmen are making the rounds of the first-year halls with unauthorized jewelry, which in most cases is inferior to that of the campus concessionaire. All official jewelry salesmen are equipped with a letter from either Kelly or Leppert.
A stock of dance programs and faors, also within the. scope of the jewelry concession, are likewise available. Club presidents are asked to get in touch with Kelly as soon as possible. ’
Streb Receives Commission
Robert C. Streb, a senior in the College of Commerce, has been ordered to appear before the board of officers for this district to receive a commission in the field artillery reserve. A number of other students who have had previous military training have become interested in the reserve corps, and are also preparing themselves for commissions in this branch of the national service.
Spanish Club Meets
The regular weekly meeting of the Spanish club was held November 18, at 7:30 in the K. of C. Council rooms.
The very interesting program of the meeting included talks by Reverend Francis J. Maher, C.S.C., Professor Pedro de Landero, Anthony W. Crowley, Loras Jane, and Antonio R. Diaz.
By William W. Corr
Some of you might like to read this for some enjoyment. It will show to the student that comparative scores mean little and to others, who are
completely normal, it will prove nothing, unless—but why go into the personality of the author.
If you think that the home team has any possible chance tomorrow you’re crazy. Just look at the figures which prove the superiority of the invaders from the Pacific coast. Look up the record books for a confirmation of these scores. Southern California beat Oregon, 53-0. Oregon beat Washington, 13-0 and Washington played Stanford to a scoreless tie. Stanford beat Minnesota, 13-0 and then Minnesota took Iowa into camp by a score of 34-0. Southern California is therefore 113 points better than the men from the tall corn region.
But Nebraska beat Iowa, 7-0 and the boys from Los Angeles are only 106 points superior to the Corn-huskers. Nebraska scored a 13-0
victory over Oklahoma and then
Oklahoma took Rice to the tune of
19-0.
a 1-p have
Rice held Texas Christian to pint victory so the Californians
now 137 points on
the credit
side of the ledger.
Texas Christian beat State! by a field goal,
Louisiana and then Mississippi
Louisiana swamped the
Aggies by 31 points. But the Aggies
lost to North Carolina State by a 60 score. North Carolina State was good! enough to trim Duke, 14-0. When Duke went north they beat
Villa
nova by three touchdowns. De-and Villanova couldn’t score in
troit their
battle so that we now see the
figurss that prove Southern Cal is 197 points better than Detroit.
Detroit beat West Virginia, 9-7 and then the coal-miners beat Wash-ingt<n and Lee, 19-0. .Virginia then
took the generals into camp by an 18-0 tally. Virginia couldn’t score the necessary point after touchdown in their battle with Maryland so Maryland won, 7-6. That would be small comfort though had not Maryland beaten Navy, 6-0. At that rate Navy would fall before Southern Cal by 241 points. And poor Notre Dame could only score 20 points last Saturday. Southern Cal, 221; Notre Dame, 0 ? ? ?
The local patriots can pick up heart, however, if they look at the rest of the figures. Notre. Dame is 13 points better than Pittsburgh, the only team to score against the Fighting Irish this fall. Pittsburgh beat West Virginia, 34-0. West Virginia beat Duquesne, 14-6 and Duquesne and Georgetown played a scoreless tie. Georgetown beat Lebanon Valley by 25 points. Lebanon was one point better Muhlenberg. Muhlenberg trimmed Juniata, 19-7 so Juniata would fall before the Ramblers by 93 points. Dickinson beat Juniata by one touchdown and then Ursi-nus eked out one-point victories over Dickinson and Franklin and Marshall.
When Penn trimmed Franklin and Marshall by a 14-0 score they made themselves susceptible to a 73-point Notre Dame victory. Penn was able to beat Georgia Tech, 13-12 so that Notre Dame is 74 points better than the Ramblin’ Wrecks. But Mississippi is two points better than Georgia Tech since Tulane’s Green Wave rolled up 33 points against Tech but only 31 over Mississippi.
When Colgate trimmed Mississippi by 27-0 they cut the N. D. credit to a mere 45 points. But last Saturday Colgate took Syracuse out of the undefeated class by a 21-7 score. Syracuse had previously beaten Michigan State by five points (15-10).
Ripon was the victim of Michigan State’s field day. Since Notre Dame was 64 points better than the men from East Lansing, the Hoosiers could take Ripon 164-0. Wouldn’t you get tired? Minnesota cut the local credit by 30 points when they opened the season, and won a doubleheader from Ripon and North Dakota State. But in the second half they won only by 13-7 and this six-point victory over the Dakotans gave (Continued on Page 31)
Sixteen
Bro. Leopold, “ Notre Dame’s Cornerstone,” Still on Job
Back when grandad was a college boy and sporting his first pair of peg-top trousers about the campus, Brother Leopold came to Notre Dame.
Today, after 65 years of service to the University, Brother Leopold still puts in his six hours a day. You’ll see him, rake in hand, around the Holy Cross Novitiate grounds, methodically cleaning up old leaves, piling them in little heaps, and then energetically shoveling them into his old wooden wheelbarrow. If you’re
not in any hurry, drop over and say, “Hello.” You’ll find the Brother just as responsive, and surely as cheerful, as he was in the days when he ruled over the campus candy store.
Brother was born in Germany
Brother Leopold saw his first stein of beer in Germany in 1838. When he had attained the age of ten years, his education was cut short when his parents brought him, with his brothers and sisters, to America. The family settled at Reading, Pa., but later moved to Harrisburg. There his brother entered the priesthood and he was implored to do the same. But Leopold was more inclined toward the Religious; therefore all persuasion proved useless. On September 3, 1866, the University of Notre Dame welcomed him as a Brother.
At that time Father Sorin was the only priest here. The moment Brother Leopold arrived, therefore, Father Sorin sent for him. Their marked difference in stature was apparent when the founder, towering over the slighter form of the new arrival, demanded in a booming voice, “What hobby have you,—what can you do?” Brother Leopold answered he was a printer and was just about to plead inadequacy for the position on account of poor health, when the good Father, almost weeping for joy, clapped a large hand on his shoulder and declared a miracle had occurred. It seems he had a great devotion to the Blessed Virgin and desired to start
a periodical in her honor. Up to then his project had been delayed due to tehe lack of a printer; he had never ceased praying that God would send him one.
Became a Printer
Against such circumstances, all excuses Brother Leopold could offer proved to be of no avail. They were all waved aside, as too trivial to be considered, by Father Sorin, who proceeded to carry out his brain-child with great enthusiasm. Enthusiasm that was shared by few.
Mother Angelus, the founder of St. Mary’s College, was selected to edit the first volume, 30,000 copies of which were distributed the following May, over the entire United States. The fact that the Ave Maria was an instantaneous success stands witness to the perseverance and courage of Brother Leopold, who, though in ill health, supervised the whole work.
Shortly after he was replaced as University typesetter, Brother Leopold was made assistant postmaster. This chore left him with some spare time during the day, so when the postmaster’s brother requested his service in running the Brownson “rec” candy store, he assented. In two years he had charge of both the Brownson and the Minims’ stores.
Then Ran a Candy Store
Brother Leopold was relieved of his duties as musical director in 1903, due to lack of interest in the subject on the part of the students. He ran the two candy stores, however, for 40 years, until superseded by the cafe in 1922. At that time he retired to his present quarters, to indulge in less strenuous, but still useful, activities.
He considers his vocation, as well he might, the most important thing in his life. He has a title which, while self-bestowed, nevertheless characterizes him perfectly. Modestly and with a slight, reminiscent chuckle, he refers to himself as “the cornerstone of Notre Dame.” There is a world of meaning in those four words.
Students are paid to attend the universities of Russia, but only those in sympathy with the government are granted the privilege.
' £
€
The Scholastic
ALUMNI LETTER READ AS PRESIDENTS MEET
Armstrong Urges Co-operation of Students and Alumni.
An explanation of relations regarding social affairs between alumni and campus organizations was made st a meeting of the Presidents’ club held in the north room of the Library
Charles Hitzelberger President of the Prexies
building Sunday morning at 10:30 o’clock. Charles Hitzelberger presided.
The main objective of this meeting was to read a letter from James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni association.
Armstrong’s letter follows in past: “During past years there have been several misunderstandings between these two groups, especially, where lack of preparation in regard to social functions during vacational periods resulting in last minute notices of the affair with an urgent request bordering on a demand to make up impending deficits.
“Many of the alumni are giving students aid in the form of scholarships and these must necessarily derive their revenue from the aid received from funds that are taken in at such holiday affairs. This provides basis for conflicts unless a definite understanding exists. The only solution is the co-operation between the two groups mentioned, that is, bringing about more harmony between them, by establishing a definite understanding between them.”
The remainder of the discussion	j
was taken up with the methods for = planning Christmas dances.	;

November 20, 1931
Seventeen
COLLEGE IALAII
Americana
The Daily Trojan suggests if anybody criticizes you for mispronouncing Notre Dame as though is were spelled “Noter Dame,” just laugh and make a remark about ignorance being refreshing, for Father O’Donnell who was visiting Los Angeles, has announced that the name of the university has been Anglicized and that it is now as incorrect to pronounce “Dame” as “Dom” as it is to speak of a “bawth” on the farm.
Just Playing
“Look at your neighbor’s paper, compare your answers, change your seat if you wish; cheat in any way you can, provided you do not talk,” were the instructions given at the beginning of a class period at the University of Texas. Elated students needed no urging and with complacent expressions, they carefully copied each others answers and willingly exchanged papers for purposes of comparison.
However, the above situaton took place in the psychology class and so—“it did not count.”
Ha, Ha!
At the University of Washington, one instructor met another loafing on the steps of one of the classroom buildings. When asked the reason for his inaction, he replied that he was giving his class an examination. “But aren’t you afraid they will cheat?” he was asked. “No, I fooled them,” was the reply. “I turned in their grades yesterday.”
Ten Years After
Dr. Donald A. Laird, head of the Colgate Psychology Laboratory upholds the “dull debutante” in preference to the peppy party girl, as a life partner. He asserts that the vivacious personality type often changes into a dull and uninteresting person after five or ten years. But he expects that the peppy type wll still be the popular choice and is backed by that eminent philosopher, Andrew Gump, who observes that “love is not only blind, but also deaf, dumb, and insane.”
Freshmen Beware!
Love, intoxication, and faculty intelligence are the reason for freshmen flunking out of school, says a dean at Nebraska university.
Students
Swarthmore college grants a yearly prize to the student who, during the college year, collects the best personal library. Quality, not size, is the determining element in awarding the prize.
What a Man!
Here’s a new campus racket: A Harvard grad- ’ uate was arrested last week with 1,804 books worth $25,000. They had been stolen from the university library.
Chicken
On threat of using the lie detector for finding the five valuable books missing from the University of Chicago, the books were returned and eight missing from the previous semester were also brought back.
Even Here
Pools were formed at Northwestern University, students guessing the number of times a professor uses his pet words or phrases. All of which reminds us of a class here in which students gamble on the number of books a professor is going to pull out of his brief case. It is reported that the number “18” was the winner recently.
Who’ll Tell Him?
“In the course of our distracted lives we often fail to realize that there are some fellows who live near us and yet are far from the annoyance of human folly: This was brought home to us only the other day by a letter from a Jesuit novice of our acquaintance in which he seriously desired to know what Empress Eugenies were. We would not dare attempt a descriptive definition of the atrocities here, but may we remark in passing that we envy his ignorance?
Psychologically Depressing
A columnist at South Carolina picked out eleven names of football players over the country and grouped them in one fantastic team. How would you like to have a squad like this opposing you? — Savage, Thrasher, Leer, Hammer, Knuckles, Slay, Stab, Mock, Anger, and Bledsoe.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
♦ THE WINK ♦_
Jack Glokey and a famous cast, The perfect football play at last! And we reply, “There ain’t none!”
Magnificent direction, true;
A gridiron epic screened for you.
This only’s true, “There ain’t none!”
A classic of the grand old game, Of thrilling runs, undying fame. We still maintain, “There ain’t none!”
Though cameras crank and pigskins fly, And men for Rutgers do or die, It’s still our cry, “There ain’t none!” ARMBO.
Quick Winks
Vince O’Neill is the self-appointed medic in Corby . . . the speculation in Army tickets . . . which reminds us of the gateman at Pitt last year who wouldn’t let Rock past the gate . . . selling programs is the newest moneymaker . . . Frank Reilly’s going to Army on the proceeds of six hours’ work . . . it’ll be a melodrama this time for Prof. Kelly’s boys . . . there was strong competition for the part of the bartender . . . they tell me Bob Greer’s that way in South Bend . . . are we copying the Juggler or are they stealing our stuff?
Surprise
Surprised, my dears, you have no idea. For here we had just about talked ourselves into thinking that old pal Pigeon, the nasty cinic, was none other than Jim Gleason, when Myron Crawford received an outstanding vote among the school that was almost unanimous.
There’s lots out for that prom bid, but no one has had conclusive evidence as yet.
Who Is He?
The Juggler says Albert and Corr and Cullinan and Carmody. It’s hard to say, but this is certain. Corr hasn’t the perseverance; Cullinan lacks the ambition; and Carmody would just as soon play bridge, thank you. Albert is about the best bet. Every remark he makes is sharply pointed. Here is a sample:
Birdie Whispers
Thoughts While Thinking
Wonder why the sophomore class officers burned all of the ticket stubs to the Cotillion? . . . and if there were no complimentary ducats how did it happen that all of the committee chairmen had their cardboards in numerical order?
I wonder why John Kramer went around to the Scholastic staff this week asking members to keep his name out of this column? . . . and why Leslie Raddatz was so anxious that John Pick’s signature should not be cut? . . . Ha!
The latest addition to the philanthropists is Clayton Duerr, who invited someone down for the week-end, but then came in at the short angle of the ever-present triangle . . . and to a radio crooner!
I’d like to find out all of the lads who get on Corby’s lawn before each home game and play touch-ball for the ’ edification of the visitors. They never see a football for the rest of the week. Ha!
Wonder if that lad ever found out ... I mean the one whose girl asked Ed Seward to the tea-dance . . . Funny thing, too, the way that John Conley was forced to type that assignment to get that Wednesday date.
Morrissey comes in for much attention this week . . . Wonder who put the gray cat in Jack Hayes room t’ other night . . . and if Fisher will beat out Shields on that Corbett deal ...
Jim (Hermit) Higgins is taking a ride on that date last week . . . Corby never forgets . . . Cooper has it bad ... I mean that case of mail exchange with whose little gal? ...
—The Stool Pigeon.
Lemmonier Says:
“Honest, Prof, I guess they’re the same ’cause we studied all the stuff together. Goodbye.
—Armbo.
November 20, 1931
Nineteen
EDITED’/ PACE
NOTRE DAME’S FATHER NIEUWLAND
(Reprinted from the News-Sentinel, November 7, 1931.)
As the result of an Indiana savant’s discovery, Indiana may some day displace Ohio as the tire and rubber state.
For coal and limestone, according to dispatches describing the new process developed by that brilliant master-chemist, Father Julius A. Nieuwland, of Notre Dame, are the materials from which synthetic rubber will be made by the Du Pont people. And Indiana’s large coal deposits, her vast limestone resources, would seem to point to Hoosierdom as the premier potential rubber producer under the Nieuwland system.
For more than a quarter of a century, Father Nieuwland, sworn to poverty by the vows of his order of the Holy Cross, has labored earnestly, quietly and painstakingly to develop the basic compounds for the manufacture of synthetic rubber.
And now it appears that what Thomas A. Edison failed to do has actually been done in a little, out-of-the-way laboratory high up in one of the halls of Notre Dame, above the clamor of football crowds and beyond the understanding of the layman.
The comparatively few persons—even among chemists—who have been privileged to chat with Father Nieuwland, in his modest, almost austere quarters at Notre Dame, have recognized in him a genius of the rarest ability.
It is to be noted, in conclusion, that when the hour of Father Nieuwland’s passing shall arrive, he who succeeded at a great task where Edison failed will not, in all probability, receive more than a tiny fraction of the publicity which marked the close of Edison’s career. Certainly, there will be no ugly ruction over his will. He will probably pass as quietly and modestly as he worked. But those who really know the story of American chemistry will chronicle his labors in immortal pages—as contributions by one of the most scholarly researchers ever to stand credited to America.
THE TROJANS OF CALIFORNIA
Tomorrow afternoon, for the first time in Notre Dame’s athletic history, a football team from the Far West will charge onto the time-honored and tradition-coated turf of Cartier Field.
The new setting for this, the sixth renewal of the warfare between the Fighting Irish and the Trojans, makes an unmistakable addition to the fitness and glamor of the struggle. It is almost the opening of a new era. Certainly it is the climax of an existing one.
Notre Dame—all of it—is glad and proud of the opportunity to welcome Coach Howard Jones and his players to Notre Dame. It is proud of the new home of its football team and of the team itself.
But above all of that Notre Dame is proud of its share in the growing tradition and rivalry of its games with Southern California.
For five seasons this newest of the famed gridiron rivalries has grown by tremendous stages. Through three heart-breaking one-point defeats, coupled with the stimulus of two decisive margins of victory, the spirit of the game has mounted impressively. Always it has been a friendly spirit.
It is because of this friendly relationship, this mutual respect and admiration, that Notre Dame men today are proud that Southern California has come east for another game with the Blue and Gold team. The fostering of such feelings between individuals, schools, and sections of the country, is one of the finest byproducts of football.
As all Notre Dame says “Welcome” to the invaders from Los Angeles, the entire institution feels a confidence that justifies the greeting. Not a sureness of victory, but rather of a well-played, hard-fought game.
And even more than that, a confidence that the campus of Notre Dame and the new cast of Fighting Irish are fit successors to the outmoded factors that have collaborated in the establishing of the tradition she shares with Southern California.
T wenty
The Scholastic
SPCKTS
N.	D. Coasts Over Navy, 20 to 0
Schwartz Leads Second Period Drive; D. S. C. IN FINAL DRILL Linemen Toy With Middie Offensive AT STAGG FIELD TODAY
Blue and Gold Takes Game In Stride Despite Stubborn
Navy Defensive Stand.
Bjt T. Edward Carey
For a Notre Dame team to be beaten by another team using the Notre Dame system would be a paradox or something. Some say it would be a miracle. And although they were unwilling to run up a score on a team coached by an old Notre Dame star, Edgar (Rip) Miller, the Fighting Irish were also unwilling to blemish a three year winning streak for the sake of the alumni, and consequently defeated Navy 20-0 in a quiet, orderly game before 62,000 spectators in Baltimore last Saturday.
Notre Dame’s first team scored three touchdowns in the second quarter and were then sent to the showers. The second team, often called the shock troops because the first team absorbs all the enemy’s shock for them, finished the game. It can be said to the Navy’s credit that they were the only team, with the exception of Northwestern, to hold the shock troops scoreless this year. There was nothing of the spirit of martyrdom about the Navy team; they were in there to fight from start to finish, and a trio of sailor gentlemen named Harbold, Bryan, and Chung Hoon, respectively, fought a little harder than the Fighting Irish expected from a team so obviously their inferiors. In fact the Harbold person smacked the Notre Dame backs with so much enthusiasm and regularity that after a while they stayed away from his territory completely.
“Marchy” Schwartz scored Notre Dame’s first touchdown and was responsible for both of the other ones. Shortly after the second quarter be
gan, Jaskwhich, the Notre Dame quarterback, who recently kicked an inferiority complex in the face and began to play big time football, returned a Navy punt to the 33-yard
Marchmont Schwartz
Who continues to shine for the Fighting Irish.
line. Banas, subbing for the injured Melinkovich, gained ten and seven yards in two tries. Schwartz then showed the populace what one of his non-stop flight is like and the score was 6-0. Jaskwhich added another point with a placement.
Navy kicked off to Notre Dame and two minuted later saw its mistake. The Fighting Irish marched from their own 30 to the sailors’ 45. Then Schwartz dropped back to his own 30 again and threw a long pass which Murphy gathered on Navy’s (Continued on Page 27)
Trojans Plan To Arrive Here Late Tomorrow Morning.
A determined, well trained, and physically fit squad of Southern California Trojans landed in Chicago this morning at 10:30. At the final stage of their cross-country trek for their battle with Notre Dame tomorrow, the Los Angeles contingent seemed to be in the best of shape.
Accompanying the thirty-five members of the squad were head coach Howard Jones and a staff of assistants and handlers. Two physicians, three assistant coaches, the athletic director, and a pair of managers completed the staff.
The Coast champions started theii-long journey Tuesday evening. Leaving Los Angeles on a special train, they made their first stop at Tucson Wednesday morning. Continuing eastward they halted for another practice session Thursday afternoon in Hutchinson, Kansas.
The final drill before game time was slated for this afternoon at Stagg field, Chicago. The entire U. S. C. -party will be quartered over night at -the Windemere hotel in Chicago. The -trip to South Bend is scheduled for „ tomorrow morning with the arrival timed for 11:30.
The complete list of the U. S. C. roster: left ends—Sparling, E. Clarke, Bigs; left tackles — Brown, Hall, Plashn; left guards—Baker, Rosenberg, F. Williamson, Gentry; centers —Capt. S. Williamson, Youel, Nerene; right guards—Stevens, Dye, Black; right tackles—Smith, Erskine, Tatsch; right ends—Arbelbide, Palmer, Norris; quarterbacks — Shaver, Mohler, , Griffiths, Brouse; left halves—Mallory, G. Clarke, McNeish, Tipton; right halves — Pinkert, Fay, Hammack; fullbacks—Musick, Barber.
November 20, 1901
Twenty-one
Here's One Combination, Trojans!
Left to right in' the
line: Mahony, Konzak Hoffman, Capt. Yarr, Greeney, Culver, Kosky.
Backfield: Sheeketski, Melinkovich, Jaskwhich, Schwartz.
Ramblers Snap Pennsylvania Winning Streak
An undefeated and overconfident Pennsylvania football team was « crushed by an aroused group of Fighting Irishmen, thirty-six of them to be exact, 49-0 at Notre Dame stadium, November 7, before 35,000 avid spectators who came to > see the slaughter. “We fear Notre ;	Dame less than we did Lafayette.”
•	It was with those words that Coach Harvey Harman spelled the defeat of his team. Last year the Fighting Irish were ired by something or other and trounced the Red and Blue team, 60-20. This year the Notre Dame boys didn’t like being classed with
•	Lafayette. f
Notre Dame’s seven touchdowns were all the \ result of magnificent team play by a perfect football machine, and the fact that each touchdown was scored by a different player attests to the variety of attack. * Schwartz, of course, starred for the Fighting Irish, running and passing to three touchdowns. He scored first on a 16-yard dash in the first quarter. Sheeketski scored the next one on a 46-yard dash. Schwartz then passed 40 yard to Jaskwhich for an-4* other touchdown.
Host got the next one on a short pass from Koken, and then Koken got one for himself on an 18-yard gallop. Leonard and Cronin both scored on short plunges in the final quarter. Jaskwhich kicked three of the extra points, Murphy two, and Koken and Labome one each.
Notre Dame gained 390 yards from scrimmage to Penn’s 30, and scored eighteen first downs to three for Penn. The Pennsylvanians never got
Tomorrow's Lineups
Notre Dame	So. California
Kosky .........L.	E....... Sparling
Culver ........L.	T......... Brown
Harris ........L. G.......... Baker
Yarr (c) ......C....‘Williamson (c)
Hoffmann ......R. G........ Stevens
Kurth .........R.	T........ Smith
Devore ........R. E............ Arbelbide Jaskwhich .....................Q. B. Shaver
Schwartz ......L. H........ Mallory
Sheeketski . ...R. H. Einckert Banas .......................F.	B. Musick
Officials — Frank Birch (Earlham), referee; Gillette, umpire; Barker, field judge: Jay Wyatt (Missouri), head linesman.
within Notre Dame’s 35-yard line. Brancheau and Schwartz scored touchdowns for Notre Dame that were nullified by penalties.
Summaries:
Notre Dame (49)	Penn (0)
Kosky ..............L.	E........... Tanseer
Culver .............L.	T.......... Sokolis
Harriss ............L.	G........ Yablonski
Yarr ................C............ Robinson
Hoffmann ...........R.	G........ Gilberson
Kurth ..............R.	T........ Colehower
Mahoney.............R. E........... Burnett
Jaskwhich ..........Q.	B......... Graupner
Schwartz ........  .L.	H............ Munger
Sheeketski .........R.	H............. Gette
Melinkovich ........F. B............ Perina
Notre Dame ................14	7 14 14—19
Penn ...................... 0	0 0 0— 0
Touchdowns — Schwartz. Sheeketski, Jask
which, Host, Koken. Leonard. Cronin. Points after touchdown—Jaskwhich. 3; Murphy, 2 ; Koken, Laborne.
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Host for Kosky, Culver for Krause. Wunsch for Harriss, Gorman for Yarr. Pierce for Hoffmann. Kozac for Kurth, Devore for Mahony. Murphy for Jaskwhich, Leahy for Melinkovich, Millheam for Sheeketski, Koken for Schwartz. Yarr for Murphy. Cronin for Brancheau. Leonard for Leahy, Pivarnik for Pierce. Laborne for Koken. Foley for Vejar.
Penn: Yablonski for Gibberson, Jordan for Robinson. McCaffrey for Wilson. Bainbridge for McCaffrey, Kellett for Smith, Masavage for Perina. Lewis for Gehe. Onderdonk for Munger, Collis for Graupner, Smith for Graupner, Trerekola for Jordan.
Ticenty-two
The Scholastic
INTERHKLL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
Walsh vs. St. Edward’s! That is the lineup for the championship game to be played in the stadium, Sunday afternoon. The kick-off will be at 2:30. Walsh won their place by going through the schedule unbeaten although they were tied twice. St. Edward’s were beaten once, but in the playoff Wednesday afternoon against Badin, the team that had previously beaten them, they emerged victorious.
The game Sunday should be of much interest. The teams concerned are two of the strongest teams ever to fight it out for the interhall crown, which incidentally will carry with it this year gold footballs for the individual players. They are to be given to the winning team by Livingston’s.
The end play should be especially interesting to watch. In Jane and Captain Ben Mikes, Walsh has one of the best pair of wingmen in interhall circles. However, the ends on
the Minim’s eleven are also more than fair. Carpenter and Rickard have played steady ball all year and should give a good account for themselves Sunday afternoon.
The backfields of both teams are also strong. In Mike Crawford, Walsh has probably the smartest quarterback of the year. Behrman, Law and McCarthy, the men he leads in the offense, are all fine ball toters, especially Law, who has been an AU-Interhall choice for two years. The Saints’ backleld, while not as flashy, is composed of men who have slowly but surely compiled touchdowns in every game but one.
The probable lineups:
St. Edward’s	Walsh
Carpenter .......L.	E............Mikes
Crowe ...........L.	T.......... Nugent
Miller ..........L.	G......... Bresson
Andrews ...........C............ Meade
O’Brien .........R.	G......... Holbach
Jahr ............R.	T.......... McCann
Rickard .........R-	E............ Jane
Piantnik ........Q-B.......... Crawford
Shinkowitz......L. H........... Behrman
Moloney .........R-	H.............. Law
Newbold .........F-	B........ McCarthy
St. Edward’s 6, Badin 0
Led by their hard plunging fullback, Newbold, who plunged his way into scoring position, St. Edward’s won the playoff for the Group I title from Badin, 6 to 0, Wednesday afternoon.
The first few moments of the game gave the impression that it was going to be a complete routing of Badin. Soon after the kick-off, St. Edward’s got possession of the ball in mid-field. Newbold then plunged for three first downs and the ball rested on Badin’s 12-yard line when Scanlon was sent into the Badin lineup to check the sophomores, and he threw Shinkowitz on the first for a ten-yard loss. Two plays later he again threw Shinkowitz for a loss, and Badin gained possession of the ball, then punted out of danged.
Badin came close to tallying in the second quarter when Slattery, Badin center, intercepted a pass on the St. Edward’s 15-yard line. However the St. Edward’s line held and the half soon ended.
The lone score came late in the third quarter when after an exchange. of punts St. Edward’s held the ball on their opponent’s 45-yard
0.	A. CLARK’S Restaurant 104-106 N. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST AND MOST RELIABLE EATING HOUSE.
Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
❖ * ❖
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
♦ ♦ ♦
WE HAVE NO KEY
Welcome, California!
Saturday and Sunday
Palais Royale
featuring
FRANKIE TICK and His Recording Band 25c admission — Park Plan
New Policy for Sunday’s, Admission 10c
From 8 to 9 p. m. Thereafter Regular Admission 25c
FRIDAY NIGHT Notre Dame Club of St Joseph Valley Dance — Admission $1 per person
November 20, 1931
Twenty-three
line. Newbold on two plunges made first down on the 32, and on the next play drove to the 12-yard line. Again it was Newbold through the line, this time he was stopped just six yards from the goal, and Shinko-witz skirted the end on the next play for the touchdown. Shinkowitz’s kick for the extra point was blocked by Scanlon and Coughlin.
The last quarter was played with a moon shining and even this didn’t afford enough light to enable the teams to do much. Scanlon, who played one of the best defensive games evei* seen in interhall was the outstanding man on the field. Time after time he saved his team from further scores being marked against them by breaking through the opposing line and snagging the ball carriers behind the line. Coughlin, Badin right tackle, was another tower in the fighting Badin defense. Gough was the bright spot in’ the loser’s offense.
It was impossible to pick out the St. Edward’s individual stars: there were too many. There was Carpenter, end; O’Brien, guard, the interhall Bert Metzger; Andrews, center; Jahr and Crowe at tackles; and Newbold and Shinkowitz, not to mention
Final Interhall Standings				
Group 1	w	L	T PTS.	
St. Edwards.		6	1	0	12
Badin			5	2	0	10
Lyons 			4	2	0	8
Morrissey 			3	3	0	6
Corby			2	4	0	4
Dillon			1	5	0	2
Sophomore			1	5	0	2
Results for Nov. 15-		—Lyons 3, Mor-		
rissey 0; St.	Edward’s 28, Corby			0;
Badin 13, Dillon 2;		Sophomore,		no
game. Nov.	18 — St. Edward’s			6,
Badin 0.				
Group 2	w	L	T PTS.	
Walsh			4	0	2	10
Alumni			2	0	4	8
Carroll			3	1	2	8
Off-Campus _		2	2	2	6
Howard			1	4	1	3
Brownson			0	2	4	4
Freshman 			0	3	3	3
Results foi	• Nov. 15 —		-Alumni	0,
Walsh 0; Freshman 0,		Off-Campus		0;
Brownson 7, game.	^Toward	7;	Carroll,	no
Moloney and Piantnik in the backfield.
Walsh and Alumni halls played a scoreless tie last Sunday morning on old Cartier field.
Walsh 0, Alumni 0
The game was marked with vicious tackling and hard blocking on the part of both sides. Neither team made much headway in the first half and the play was confined mostly to the middle of the field.
At the outset of the last period, however, Walsh finally opened up with the hard running attack which has swept all opponents aside the past two years. With McCarthy and Murphy carrying the brunt of the attack they succeeded in carrying the ball down to Alumni’s twenty-yard stripe where they lost the ball on downs.
An exchange of punts proved advantageous to Alumni with Oscar Danes finally blocking a hostile kick on the 15-yard line. Cashier tried a drop kick from this point, but it went wide of its mark and the game ended.
The play of Mikes, Murphy, and
(Continued on Page 30)
you ARE ONLY AS DRESSED UP AS YOUR SHOES MAKE YOU
No matter where you go or what you do you are not dressed properly for the occasion unless you are correctly shod. Knowing this, well dressed college men in forty-eight states and eighteen foreign countries have turned toFriendly Five Shoes to solve their foot problems. They have found in them shoes that are styled for every occasion and withal having a comfort and quality usually found only in shoes selling for a higher price.
You too will like Friendly Fives. So drop in and be fitted in a smart pair. And keep the $5 change for other things.
FRIENDLY FIVE SHOES
SIZES 3 to 15 . WIDTHS AAAA to EEEE
-	ALL STYLES 3 .
Baldwin Shoe Company
Home of Friendly Five Shoes 110 W. Wayne St.	South Bend, Ind.
Never parched, never toasted
Camels are FRESH
in nature’s own mild way!
IEvERYONE knows now that Camels are the fresh cigarette.
If inquiry went deeper, it would reveal that Camels are the natural moisture cigarette.
That’s important, because in handling fine to* baccos, when you process out natural moisture, you sacrifice freshness and flavor too.
Camel smokers needn’t worry about that, because Camels are blended of fine Turkish and mild Domestic tobaccos that are never subjected to violent process-
ing. They need no parching or toasting to make them smooth, palatable, cool.
That’s why the Camel Humidor Pack is such a boon to Camel smokers—it preserves the freshness, flavor, natural moisture, fragrance that are in this fine cigarette to start with.
Camels are fresh in nature’s own mild way, and if you want to see what that means in unalloyed smoke* enjoyment, switch to them for just one day — then leave them, if you can!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company’s Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY Winston-Salem, N. C,
CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton Downey, Tony Wons, and Camel Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard, every night except Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System
PRINCE ALBERT QUARTER HOUR, Alice Joy, “Old Hunch,” and Prince Albert Orchestra, direction Paul Van Loan, every night except Sunday, N. B. C. Red Network
See local paper for time
t^AMELS^
Made FRESH— Kept FRESH
Don*t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of Camels after you open it. The Camel Humidor Pack is protection against perfume and powder odors, dust and germs. In offices and homes, even in the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor Pack delivers fresh Camels and keeps them right until the last one has been smoked
Q 1931, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
CAMEL HUMIDOR
PACK
FRESH
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING—
JOE KURTH
The scene of Joe Kurth’s first triumph was the Notre Dame stadium when the Southern Methodist team attempted to pass its way around the Irish in the opening tiff last season. And now Joe, who is himself a Californian, is all set to tie into the Trojans as the Westerners start against the Notre Dame boys tomorrow.
McManmon started the Southern Methodist game with the shock troops. On the first play following the. entry of the regulars into the melee, Dick Donoghue, the first string right tackle, was injured and was relieved by Joseph James Kurth, who played a bang-up game to convince the coaches that he was the man for the job.
One of the tackles which will long remain in the memory of those who witnessed the hair-raising contest against the Mustangs was the one which Kurth handed Mason, the fleet-of-foot gentleman from the plains of Texas. Joe hit him hard. It was then that the remainder of Notre Dame’s opponents for the season be-
Joe Kurth
Veteran right tackle
gan to get set for the big Wisconsin lad.
Remaining at his position at right tackle with the regulars throughout the entire 1930 season, Kurth was outstanding in his defensive work. The Northwestern boys can well remember the devastating work of the brawny boy who tips the beam at approximately 200 pounds and who uses his six feet, one and one-half inches to advantage.
Kurth, a native of Madison, Wis., but who now resides in Los Angeles, came to Notre Dame after a year at the University of Wisconsin. Joe did not progress so well at the Badger school and later came to South Bend because of his desire to play under Tom Lieb, the man from whom he had taken his grid lessons at Wisconsin.
As a playei* at East High school in Madison, Joe’s career was not without glory. Chosen as all-city guard for one year and all-city tackle for two seasons, to Kurth was also given the distinction of being the athlete with the highest scholastic average. And he still wears the watch which was the award for the last named achievement.
In addition to his other interests Joe has 110 hours of solo flying be-
WHAT PRICE THE GLORY OF THE NAVY AS THEY SAIL THE SEVEN SEAS OF THE COCK-EYED WORLD LOVING, FIGHTING AND WINNING.
Wm. Boyd - Robert Armstrong - James Gleason - Ginger Rogers and thousands of fighting gobs supplied through the courtesy of the United States Navy “SUICIDE FLEET” With a great big booming, flag-waving, weeping, laughing climax that	RKO
will lift you up and leave you up if you’re man, woman or child. Pathe Picture
I Doors Open 12:45 Phone 4-1825
Pat Patterson
Fc^uring -“Charlie Cadet”
Written by Paul Fogarty, N. D.-’17
a
November 20, 1931
Twenty-seven
hind him. After learning something of the business from a friend in high school, Kurth spent the summer of 1927 ferrying planes from a factory in Wichita to his home town.
Acting in the capacity of property man at the Universal studios in California last summer, Joe also found time to do a bit of swimming and track work in order to keep in trim for this football business. Next summer he hopes to grab off a job in Yellowstone National park.
Although he is majoring in journalism on the campus, Kurth has expressed his desire to coach and to supplement his work with writing on the side. He is at present a member of the Scholastic sports staff, and is co-publisher of the Football Review.
Joe has one more year of football competition remaining. The reader can get a more detailed summary of Kurth’s gridiron activities by watching No. 66 when the wearer lines up against Howard Jones’ Trojans in the stadium tomorrow afternoon.
In the first seven games of the year Notre Dame has made 114 first downs and 2,543 yards from scrimmage. The opponents’ totals show 23 first downs and 486 yards from scrimmage.
N. D. COASTS OVER MIDDIES
(Continued from Page 20)
23-yard line. Schwartz made a first down in two tries; Banas went nine yards to a point one yard distant from the Navy goal, and on the next play carried it over. Murphy’s try for the extra point was blocked.
Notre Dame scored another touchdown the next time they got possession of the ball. Aided by a penalty, the South Bend team penetrated to the Navy 33-yard line. At this point Koken, who replaced Schwartz, dropped back and passed to Murphy who trotted across the goal line. This time Murphy’s placement was good. Coach Anderson then sent in another team and the game continued on more even terms.
The only time Navy got into Notre Dame’s side of the field was when the team changed goals. The Navy team made only two first downs to eighteen for Notre Dame, and was outgained over ten yards to one.
Notre Dame	Naw (0)
Kosky .............L.	E........... Smith
Krause ............L.	T.......... McCrea
Harriss ...........L.	G........ Thompson
Yarr (c) ...........C........... Harbold
Hoffmann ..........R.	G....... Underwood
Kurth .............R.	T........... Bryan
Mahony ............R.	E............ Pray
Jaskwieh ..........Q.	B........... Davis
Schwartz ..........L.	H......Chung Hoon
Sheeketski ........R.	H........ Tschirgi
Melinkovitch ......F. B.......... Hurley
Touchdowns—Schwartz, Banas. Murphy.
Point after touchdown—Jaskwhich (placement) ; Murphy (placement).
Substitutions—Navy: Ready for Thompson. Stannard for Underwood, Kane for Bryan. Samuels for Tschirgi, Waybright for Hurley, Elliott for Pray, Murray for Smith. Brooks for Harbold, Becht for Davis.
Notre Dame: Harriss for Greeney. Host for Kosky, Banas for Melinkovich, Krause for Culver, Pierce for Hoffmann. Kozac for Kurth. Millheam for Sheeketski, Koken for Schwartz. Murphy for Jaskwhich, Foley for Murphy, Alexander for Gorman. Gorman for Yarr. Pivarouik for Pierce. Laborne for Koken. Cronin for Millheam, Leahy for Leonard, Leonard for Banas.	’
Referee, D. W. Very (Penn State). Umpire, C. J. McCarthy (Philadelphia). Head linesman, M. J. Thompson (Georgetown). Field judge, F. R. Wallace (Washington College).-
Coaches—Heartly (Hunk) Anderson, Notre Dame: Edgar (Rip) Miller. Navy.
The Human Interest Side of Football!
Here’s what all the yelling’s about! The first authentic film romance-drama of football life. As real as the referee’s whistle. As human as the roaring glory that turns weaklings into lusty heroes.
“TOUCHDOWN
Paramount’s Outstanding Thrill Hit—
RICHARD ARLEN PEGGY SHANNON
JACK OAKIE
CHAS. STARRETT
Jack Oakie scores a big hit in “Touchdown,” so much so that critics everywhere predict he will be back to stardom in no time at all!
STARTS SATURDAY
A PUBLIX THEATRE

Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By Edmund
WELCOME TROJANS
The advent of Howard Jones and his Trojan touchdown machine to the campus is one that has been looked forward to more than any other contest this year. This view is justified by the fact that Southern California, in recent years, has been one of Notre Dame’s most respected and bitter rivals, and no matter what the outcome, the game is always one of the most colorful of the season.
Howard Jones has built up another great combination this year, and despite an early season defeat at the hands of St. Mary’s, the Trojans loom as the outstanding eleven on the Pacific coast. In almost every game
CLICQUOT
Times that try men's souls call for the fizzing sparkle and mellower, smoother flavor of Clicquot Club. What a drink when throats go dry! What a drink when they don't! What a drink any time . . . . . . any place!
L. Moriarty
this great team has run up overwhelming scores over seemingly strong opponents, and Notre Dame’s true strength will be tested to the utmost tomorrow.
Watch for the opening offensive thrust! The first three minutes should be the most interesting of the game. Each team will be attempting to get the jump on the other, and both elevens will be keyed to a fighting pitch long before the opening whistle is blown for the kickoff. It will be like the old story of the referee forgetting to have a ball on hand to begin the game. He called for a few minutes’ postponement until one could be secured. At this announce
ment one of the players piped out: “Why worry about the ball; let’s start the game.”
Just a little advice — be in your seat for the opening kickoff. Those first three minutes are going to be good.
AMONG THOSE PRESENT
When the All-American roll call is taken for this year, it’s going to be funny if some of these mid-western stars are omitted. Here at Notre Dame we might follow in the steps of a very ingenious scribe, who last year picked the whole Blue and Gold line-up from end to end, for his selection. We are in agreement with him, but feel that there are others right here in this section of the country who are deserving of high mention.
Jimmy Crowley has two sweet players in Bob Monnett and Abe Eliowitz. Just ask a few Michigan players who battled against them last Saturday. Then there is the pride of Northwestern, a Mr. Rentner, and in a Mr. Riley and a Mr. Olsen, he has two worthy cohorts.
These are just a few of the outstanding men in the middle west, and if there is not a predominance of candidates for mythical honors from this section of the country, we’ll miss our guess.
THE DOPE BUCKET
Due to the number of major upsets throughout the country in games played last Saturday, maybe it is better that we enjoyed a little vacation last week. As is, the season’s average is not so bad inasmuch as
DUKE UNIVERSITY School of Medicine
DURHAM, N. C.
Applications for admission to the first and third year medical classes entering October 1, 1932, should be sent as soon as possible, and will be considered in the order of receipt. The entrance qualifications are intelligence, character, two years of college work and the requirements for grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
Clicquot Club GINGER ALES (Sale, Qrij ~ §olden - Sec ^Jkree favorite ^flavors on any Campus
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
Any intelligent person may earn money corresponding for newspapers; all or . spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Hea-~ cock. 548 Dun Building, Buffalo, N. Y.
November 20, 1931
Twenty-nine
our forecasts have resulted in ninety-four wins, fifteen losses, and five ties.
THE FORECASTS
Notre Dame 20, South. California 0
Northwestern 26, Iowa 0
Michigan 14, Minnesota 7
Ohio State 20, Illinois 6
Purdue 13, Indiana 7
Wisconsin 19, Chicago 0
Army 34, Ursinus 0
Southern Methodist 20, Navy 0
Harvard 14, Yale 7
Tulane 33, Sewanee 0
Michigan State 25, Detroit 13
Marquette 27, Creighton 0
Holy Cross 26, Loyola 0
Georgia 21, Auburn 7
Florida 13, Georgia Tech 6
Fordham 20, Bucknell 0
Stanford 13, California 6
THANKSGIVING DAY GAMES
New York U. 20, Carnegie Tech 7
Colgate 14, Brown 0
Syracuse 13, Columbia 6
Cornell 14, Pennsylvania 6
Tennessee 21, Kentucky 0
Pittsburgh 19, Nebraska 0
St. Marys 13, Oregon 6
Vanderbilt 20, Alabama 14
U.S.C. MEETS NOTRE DAME
(Continued from Page 5)
Musick at full are men to be watched to-morrow. Then there is Ernie Pinckert, making his last bid to be on the long end of a score with Notre Dame. Captain Stan Williamson will be at center and the great Garrett Arbelbide at end. Both of these men will be making their third start against the Ramblers.
The Notre Dame side of the situation presents another picture. Marshalling one of the greatest offensives in Notre Dame history, the squad looks to be the equal of any opposition. Injuries will undoubtedly impair the strength of the Anderson eleven. Bill Pierce and Melinko-
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR Round Trip Excursion sboeuntdh “Chicago THANKSGIVING WEEK-END, NOV. 25-30 Leave South Bend station, Michigan and ^^B LaSalle streets, any train Wednesday, Nov.
25, or Thursday, Nov. 26. Returning on any train up to and including midnight train, ^^^B Monday, Nov. 30. For information phone South Bend 3-3111, or our representative, Chas. Woods, 222 Lyons Hall.
:5O%sehoRE
vich are doubtful quantities. Pierce seems destined for an invalid’s post for the rest of the year. Mike Koken, too, is a bit under par and the reserve strength may be doubted as a result.
However, Notre Dame has a long victory chain to preserve. Back in the fall of 1928 the Trojans handed the Fighting Irish their most recent defeat and the only one ever administered by the coast school. Since that day Notre Dame has marched to two national championships and twenty-five victories in twenty-six starts. The standoff with Northwestern in the mud and rain of Soldier field is the only missing link.
Aside from the spirited rivalry between the two schools, the game tomorrow will mark the meeting of two outstanding brands of football. Southern California employs a complex repertoire involving line shifts, single and double wingbacks, and balanced and unbalanced line play. In the five previous meetings, the orthodox balanced line and backfieldend shift system of Notre Dame has scored four victories. Tomorrowpromises one of the greatest of all the clashes. There is no pre-game advantage.	.
The record of		previous		Notre	
Dame-U. S.	C. games:				
1926—Notre	Dame,	13; U.	S.	C.,	12.
1927—Notre	Dame,	7; U.	S.	c.,	6.
1928—U. S.	C., 27;	Notre	Dame,		14.
1929—Notre	Dame,	13; U.	S.	c.,	12.
1930—Notre	Dame,	27; U.	S.	c„	0.
A Food Treat for Your Guests
Dine at
Varesio’s
Restaurant
EXTRAORDINARY
Spaghetti with chicken and mushrooms
❖
Chicken
en casserole
Steak
with mushrooms
Fresh vegetables served with meats ❖
Fixed price dinner or a, la carte
*
Phone Niles-1381 for Reservations
Varesio’s
1202 So. Third St.
Niles, Michigan
On the Oltl Dixie Highway, Next to the Mushroom Farm
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 23)
McCann, shone for Walsh, while Ackerman, Cashier, and Danes, played well for the juniors.
Lyons 3, Morrissey 0
Standing but five yards in from the side line and on his opponent’s 25-yard line, Bud Carney, stellar Lyons hall halfback, drop-kicked a field goal squarely between the uprights to gain a victory for his team over their neighbors, Morrissey, and gain the mythical championship of the “West End” of the Campus, 3 to 0, Sunday morning.
The fray was a nip and tuck affair from beginning to end, with the last quarter taking on too much of that grudge aspect when both teams began to play a bit rougher than was necessary.
Pahlman gave the Lyons rooters something to cheer about in the first quarter, when on a spinner through right guard, he scampered from midfield to Morrissey’s 30-yard marker.
The game was largely a matter of Morrissey holding the favored Lyon’s team. Morrissey fought as light teams have a habit of doing against bigger teams. Morrow, end, and O’Neil, guard, were especially ag
gressive. Some of the aggressiveness was too much the referee thought, in the last quarter and both Morrow and Fitzmaurice, Lyons substitute, were expelled from the gridiron on the last play of the game.
Connelly, on an end-around play which culminated in a pass to Carney, played well. Sandura, end, played his usual steady game. Carney and Pahlman shone in the victor’s backfield.
Freshman 0, Off-Campus 0
Freshman hall squeezed a moral victory out of Off-Campus Sunday afternoon, although the game ended in a scoreless tie.
Off-Campus opened the game with a passing spree which placed the ball on the Freshman 12-yard line. The frosh held, however, and at the end of the first half were in the midst of a running game which had netted them four consecutive first downs. In the third quarter Shea, Freshman back, ran 50 yards along the side line only to be downed by Off-Campus 20 yards from the goal. In the fourth quarter Sammy Nigro, Off-Campus quarterback, intercepted a Freshman pass in an unprotected area and ran 40 yards to the Fresh
man ten-yard line before- he was brought down by two frosh. After being held for three downs, an attempted drop-kick failed when a defender snatched the low flying ball and carried it out of dangerous territory.
The Frosh were successful with end runs in many instances. Their prowess was due to a great extent to the interference and tackling by Foss and Scott in the line. Chadwick and McAvoy played well in the Freshman backfield. Murphy and Nigro were outstanding in the Off-Campus lineup.
Brownson 7, Howard 7
Brownson and Howard halls fought to a 7-7 tie last Sunday afternoon before a large crowd on old Cartier field.
Both teams played a cautious defensive game for the first quarter, and it was not until the second period that either team got a break. With but a minte of this quarter remaining, Brownson threw a pass which was intercepted by O’Neil, fleet Howard halfback, who scurried 30 yards to a touchdown. Wallace converted to give the juniors a seven to nothing lead.
SURPLUS STOCK
Men’s High Grade
Florsheim $10 Oxfords
$4.85
Tan calf—Built-in arch support.
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men’s Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
November 20, 1931
Thirty-one
Brownson evened, matters up in the third quarter when Al Lawton converted a blocked punt into a score. Malloy, hefty fullback, plunged over for the extra point.
G. Harrison, guard, J. Beltz, center, Wauffie, guard, and O’Neil, half, were the outstanding players for Howard, while the work of Jack Morley, Al Lawton, and O’Brien, was for Brownson.
St. Edward's 28, Corby 0
By routing Corby, 28-0, St. Edward’s stayed in the race for the championship of, Group I. The St. Edward’s team played alert defensive ball, handling the Corby team so ruthlessly that Corby needed a few more than their three substitutes. The scoring splurge was stretched out over all four periods.
Late in the first quarter, Carpenter, left end of St. Edward’s team, blocked a Corby punt. Rickard, right end, scooped up the ball and sprinted 50 yards for the marker. Shinkowitz kicked the goal, making the score 7-0.
During the second quarter a pass by St. Edward’s was grounded in the end zone; Corby put the ball in play
on their own 20-yard line. A fumble on the first play was recovered by St. Edward’s in the end zone, adding another six points to the score. Shinkowitz place-kicked the extra point.
In the third quarter the juniors unleased an aerial attack in an attempt to even matters. Each thrust was thwarted by the alert St. Edward’s backs and rushing ends, until one pass was intercepted by Carpenter on Corby’s 25-yard line. Shinkowitz raced around right end to cross the goal line after eluding two prospective tacklers. “Schink” added the twenty-first point by a kick from placement.
A short time later it was Shinkowitz again who scooted around right end for 20 yards and another score. He also booted the extra point to lift the total score to 28-0.
The passing combination of St. Edward’s, Pamossan to Carpenter, functioned almost perfectly. At one time these two connected for a gain of 50 yards. Newbold, plunging fullback, and Shinkowitz, a clever broken field runner, were outstanding in the backfield, while Rickard held down his wing post exceptionally well. Corby presented no spectacular athlete, although Perone played well throughout the game.
PRE-GAME FIGURES LIE
(Continued from Page 15)
Notre Dame a lead of 140 points which was again cut by North Dakota which trimmed their state school by 20-12.
Notre Dame now has a lead of 132 points which they hold by virtue of a tie between Oregon and North Dakota. Oregon beat Washington, 130 and then Washington took Babe Hollingberry’s boys by 12-0. But the state school trimmed U. C. L. A. by 13 points. You all remember the upset of a short time ago when the boys from Los Angeles trimmed the Galloping Gaels of St. Mary’s by 12-0. It was St. Mary’s that tripped up the Southern Californians on the first day of the season and now the Ramblers will be seen to be 188 points superior to the Wampus Wizards of Southern California.
We are not going to make any predictions on the dope examined but we still think — see “Splinters” and get the official dope. If we wanted to work harder we might have made our prediction appear logical. Five N. D. scores to one for Southern Cal. does seem illogical but-----.
Hello Men!
Smith s Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Bind.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Music and Dancing
at
ROBERTSON’S
Grill and Tea Room
each
Wednesday 12-2 o’clock
and
Saturday 6-8 o’clock
A popular and -delightful place for the boys to entertain.
Sixth Floor
Robertson Brothers Company
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
Student representative wanted for our Popular Loose Leaf Memory Book.
For particulars address
INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS Dept. 3 Kansas City, Mo.
On Down the Line
JULES LADOUMEUE of France
ran a mile in 4:09 2-5 eclipsing the great Nurmi’s record of 4:10 2-5 . . . LORD BURGHLEY the English nobleman who won the 400 meter hurdles in the last Olympic games is now a member of the English House of Commons ... In the last two
George L. Miller 103 North Main St. South Bend, Indiana
V
Special for
Saturday
$48 Suits $22.39 $55 Suits 26.69 $60 Susts 28.89 $65 Suits 31.89
si
Imported and Domestic Men’s Wear
years of the Michigan-Michigan State game not a point has been scored by either team . . . The FORWARD PASS was introduced into Canadian football this year and has completely revolutionized the game there . . .
V
FRIDAY THE 13th was an unlucky day for Walter Hagen for on his way to an exhibition match at Little Rock, Ark. he smashed up his car and later lost the match . . .
HENRI COCHET, a member of the French Davis Cup team, has taken up aviation . . . ILLINOIS and CHICAGO who in previous years were the chief contenders for the Big Ten title battled last Saturday for the cellar position . . . There are eight undefeated and untied teams left in ■ the country . . .
V	'
JOHN BALL won the British Open Golf championship six times: the first in 1888 and the last in 1912 . . . The CINCINNATI REDS baseball team achieved at least one record for they played before the smallest crowd ever known in Major League contests which consisted of 276 paid admissions . . . JERRY DALRYMPLE had thoughts of bumming his way around the world before he went to Tulane and became an All-American . . . 128 COLLEGES all over the
country intend to participate in postseason charity games ...	■
V
RED CARNEY of Lyons made a 45-yard drop kick which was the margin of victory in the Morrissey-Lyons interhall game . . - There will be a TRIPLE-HEADER in Washington when three of the District of Columbia football teams play an AllAlabama team with each Washington team playing two ten-minutes quarters .. . BUNNY AUSTIN, a mem-her of the English Davis Cup team, lost - a tennis match, the result , of wluch was a love match . . • ' . /	.
The smoke you like... is
the smoke she likes for you!
"I like to see a man smoke a pipe!”
You’ve heard your own girl say it,
perhaps. You’re sure to hear it wherever
girls get together.
They puff away at our cigarettes. But they like to see us have a go at the “strong,silentman’s smoke”—a companionable, time-proven pipe.
There is some-
She likes you to smoke thing satisfying
a pipe
about a pipe. It’s a
' slow, reflective, hard-thinking smoke —or a calm, relaxing, restful smoke. The hunter’s smoke, the fisherman’s smoke, the engineer’s smoke—a man’s smoke, through and through.
And pipe smokers who know their fine tobaccos tell you there’s no blend quite like the fine z" selected burleys of Edgeworth — the favorite tobacco in 42 out of 50 leading colleges.
Do try Edgeworth. Perhaps you will like it as well as	*•
most men seem	A p£pe *
to. Edgeworth is at your dealer’s. Or send for free sample if you wish. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d Street, Richmond. Va.
£
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth PlugSlice. AH sizes, 15^ pocket package to £1.50 pound humidor tin.
4
In Which an Ancient
Prejudice Is Exposed
Many, many years ago colleges began publishing papers. To cover the cost of these publications they decided to enlist the help of storekeepers thereabouts. In true char* itable fashion these storekeepers consented to help by paying for space containing various announcements pertaining to their business. “Donations to a good cause” they called it, and so a stigma on college publication advertising got its start.
<• ❖ ❖
But the real status of the college publication has changed. A glance through this magazine will show that some of the most successful names in business believe this stigma no longer exists. They appreciate the actual advertising “pull” of a magazine contacting EVERY student in a university of over three thousand.
❖ ❖
It is to those who still consider us a “worthy cause” that this message is directed. We ask that you throw away your old prejudices and investigate our claims with an open mind. Call us at 3-1121 and a courteous representative will call and give you details. And when you decide to take space in the Scholastic, debit “Advertising” and not “Charity.”
The advertising manager
SCHOLASTIC
The Board of Publications
Administration Building Notre Dame -	-	-	* Indiana
© 1951. Liggett Sc Myers Tobacco Co.
Let’s talk Straight from the Shoulder
WHAT you want in a cigarette is taste. You want mildness ... smoothness ... and satisfying pleasure when you smoke.
All right then . . . get this straight.
PICK UP a package. Note its clean appearance ... free from heavy inks. It’s moisture-proof, too.
And three big factories at Richmond, Durham and San Francisco—operating under the strictest sanitary standards
CHESTERFIELD pays top prices... yes, and a premium for the ripest, mellowest, sweetesttasting leaf that grows.
The curing and conditioning is done by specialists . . . men carefully trained in handling these fine tobaccos. • • •
IN BLENDING, also, Chesterfields are different
. . . Instead of merely mixing the tobaccos together . . . we cross-blend them. It’s like making a new and better-tasting kind of tobacco. 'That’s how we get that Chesterfieldflavor. Milder ... and a more pleasing aroma.
Cigarette paper? Only the purest that’s made .is good enough for Chesterfield.
Good ... they’re got to be good. Because they’re made that way. And most important of all . . . you can taste this goodness in the cigarette. You can tell it in the smoke.
Light up, Mister! Try Chesterfield.
Let the cigarette do its own talking. You’ll get the whole thrilling story, in just two words . . /’They Satisfy”!