Career opportunities
with Continental
Positions in technical and non-technical fields
Continental Can Company, established in 1905, is one of the nation’s 50 largest corporations. It operates 65 plants in the U. S., Canada and Cuba, 17 field research offices and 63 sales offices. Continental does business in every important processing or manufacturing section of the country.
Continental Makes Opportunities. Continental is not only growing in its original field, but entering others. In addition to cans, it now makes paper containers, steel and fibre drums, crowns (bottle caps) and cork products, laminated plastics and aircraft parts. It maintains comprehensive laboratory research programs to improve present packaging and processing methods and explore new ones.
Continental Makes Managers. Continental welcomes college graduates not merely to fill immediate needs, but as material for future leadership positions. Regular two-year training programs have been set up for many positions. These take new people into numerous departments on a definite schedule and are supplemented with weeks or months of formal instruction and on-the-job training. It is Company policy to prepare each college trainee for ultimate management responsibilities.
Company Openings. The Continental representative coming to this campus will be glad to discuss starting salaries, training and potential futures for graduating seniors, particularly in the following fields:
PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT. Engineering degree required, with major in mechanical, industrial, management or electrical fields preferred. Two-year training course leads to supervisory position in preparation for plant management.
EQUIPMENT DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT. Requires a degree in mechanical engineering and courses in design, mechanics and mathematics. Training includes assigned problems under experienced engineers, frequent observation trips.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Requires a degree in mechanical, chemical, electrical or metallurgical engineering, chemistry’ or physics. Training includes supervised execution of assignment and preparation of reports, experiences with varied types of materials, methods and containers.
SALES. College degree in Liberal Arts, Business Administration (Commerce) or Engineering required. Two-year training course includes scheduled rotation in Company departments, two months of classroom study. Sales experience then prepares for a management position.
ACCOUNTING. Requires a bachelor’s degree in general accounting and elements of cost accounting. Planned training at the plant level is preparation for advancement to supervisory positions in the accounting division.
INTERVIEWS APRIL 16
SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR AN APPOINTMENT
CONTINENTAL^CAN COMPANY
Continental Can Building—100 East 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.
MAKERS OF: TIN CANS, FIBRE DRUMS, PAPER CONTAINERS, STEEL PAILS ANO DRUMS, CAPS AND CORK, LAMINATED PLASTICS, AIRPLANE PARTS AND DECOWARE.
A Note of Thanks
Editor:
The task of gathering debate teams and coaches from around the country and organizing them into a tournament of the highest quality is no easy one. And when one receives praise upon the completion of such a mission successfully he is gratified, but he also realizes that such thanks must be passed on to those who justly earned it. Saturday I received such praise at the close of the first annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament. Will you allow me to relay it, at least in general terms, for I am in fear of overlooking someone.
First of all, to the University administration for its consent and cooperation; to the organs of publicity—administrative, student and local; to the very wonderful staff of the Morris inn who smiled through last-minute changes and who sincerely made all the guests at home .“on the campus,” may I relay the praise of our visitors. Also to all members of the faculty, department heads and deans and professors—too
numerous to mention by name but without whose help in securing rooms, judges, and countless other necessities we could never have succeeded—my thanks.
Special thanks are extended to the Alumni office and to those particular alumni who donated the outstanding Bolger memorial trophy.
Particular thanks also to all departments who worked overtime to print, mimeograph, and prepare materials; to the members of the debate squad who gave countless hours acting as hosts,-timekeepers, and statisticians; and a particular vote of thanks to the entire student body whose courtesy and friendliness was praised by all who visited. And a special laurel to Professor Leonard Sommer whose advice was invaluable.
I sincerely hope that I have overlooked no one! You may rest assured that the visitors enjoyed themselves, and that I shall always remember your cheerfully-offered assistance.
A. C. DeCrane
President, Debate Team =•>=
To the students:
Say fellows! What about a few more “Hello’s” on our campus! Why reserve greetings for your roommate, or even for those in your hall!
Let’s make it a habit. Some say it takes courage; you may be met by a stoney stare, but I bet there are no more than five such types among our 5,000.
And let’s include the faculty. The Blue Circle fellows are all for it. Each can do his bit to improve the present situation.
Sincerely,
Tom Collins
Editor:
We feel that something should be said publicly about Chicago Nocturne, the one-act play presented by the Notre Dame Speech Department last Friday night.
Since there was only a handful of students present, we fear that this excellent presentation will go unnoticed, and suggest that it be put on again for the benefit of the 4950 men who neglected to attend.
Pat Jones
Paul Berrettini
NO EXTRA CHARGE! for all Airline Reservations and Tickets MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE LaSalle Hotel - 2-2253; 3-1181
you’re well-dressed... well fitted in a Him Fkbmh
Yes, you're well-dressed and well-fitted in a Hickey-Freeman spring suit from Gilbert's. L •
Style-conscious men choose Hickey-Freeman and Gilbert's for the newest cut, color and fabric. All Sizes.

813-817 S. Michigan.	Open Every Evening Till 9
March 27, 1953
Arrow Gordon Dover Seen As Campus Favorite For ’53
Button-Down Oxford Classic Overwhelming Favorite Of College Crowd
All signs point to a big year on campus for Arrow Gordon Dover—the neat, button-down Oxford so many-young men prefer. Available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW SHIRTS
-------------------
— SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS —
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Vol. 94 March 27, 1953 No. 20
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate oi postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ..............News
FRED C. ECKART ________Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ... Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE _______Features
JOHN F. SAND ................  Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ... Ass't. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ..........Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bosse, Dick Callaghan, Jerry Campbell, Irv Carrig, Doug Cole, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Tom Hartzell, Jim Mason, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywiniski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine. FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Maliason, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue,’ New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The football season is still a long way off, but already the Irish are in preparation. The new ban on free substitution makes Spring practice more important than ever for Coach Leahy and his gridders. Irish prospects for ’53 are treated on page 13.
—Photo by Dana Weithers
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
VACATION LIBRARY HOURS
April 1, 2, 6, 7—
8 a.m. to 5 p.m. April 3—
8 a.m. to 11 a.m. April 4, 5—
closed all day
Top of the Week
Six hundred bids for the senior ball . . .
■
Signs of Spring
There are usually two reliable ways to tell when Spring has come to the campus. In the first place, the water level in Badin Bog begins to recede a little. And the second sign is when the Fine Arts majors come down out of their musty little attic in the Main Building and begin drawing from nature.
First they will run about trying to find a spot unshaded by the local timber, so they can get their suntan started. Then after correctly propping up their sketchbooks, they begin sloshing away with their watercolors until they are happily wet and artistic looking. The sloshing goes busily on until the Master Painter begins to encounter certain distractions common to all nature painters. A self-imposed Spring Fever may set in and leave the artist gazing melancholically at a magnolia bud for a few hours. Or perhaps a wet, green caterpillar will begin traveling up his trouser leg (in this case pegged trousers are especially functional, as they prohibit such visits). Or the artist may find a Campus Critic looking over his shoulder.
“What’cha doin’ there, fella?”
“Trying to sketch that tree over there.”
“Not doing very good, are ya?” Silence.
“Say, you’re not taking this painting stuff for credit, are you?”
“Yes, I am. Now please go away.”
“Gosh all Friday,” says the Critic, walking away, “this looks easier - than that letter-writing course in the Commerce school catalogue.”	■
Now to an A.B. major, most of whose classes are in the Main Building, the Fine Arts Department’s migration to the great out-of-doors is significant for another reason. It means the horrible abolishment of the Main Buildin’s sole vestige of beauty, because when the art boys move outside to draw trees, tulips and such they don’t need models any more. No more pretty models bouncing up and down the stairs between the class breaks to lighten your- heart and make the next class
seem almost bearable. It’s really very sad.
, ■
It Happens Every Spring
As the Marriage Institute talks terminated last night, and the jokes told therein were salted away till next year, Brother Conan began rubbing his hands in glee. He knew the orders for miniature class rings would begin pouring in any day now.
Every year it happens the same way. The seniors go to the lecture series and come out feeling like they ought to be grizzled old veterans of marital life. Simultaneously, the pressure from across the Dixie begins, and pretty
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot €ream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
POOK PAUL felt down under when his girl said, "Your sloppy hair kangaruins our friendship. Never pouch your arms around me again until you high tail it to a toilet goods counter for some Wildroot Cream-Oil. Contains Lanolin. Non-
alcholic. Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Grooms the hair. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Get it or you’ll kangaroo the day!” Sheedy tried Wildroot Cream-Oil and now all the girls are hopped up about him. Better reach in your pocket for 29^ and buy Wildroot CreamOil in either bottle or tube. You kangarong cause it puts real punch into your social life. Ask for it on your hair at any barber shop too, and get a jump ahead of all the other guys!
CMMSMHt
■uwmm u
100M
Si
* of 131 So. Hams Hill Rd., Williamsville,N.Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
soon the grizzled veteran starts an intrigue to discover trueheart’s ring size. Trueheart coyly pretends she doesn’t know about the intrigue and makes remarks to our grizzled veteran like, “Can you imagine that a tiny thing like me would have a big, old size 6J4 ring finger?” The grizzled veteran then smiles proudly to himself and goes to the bookstore the next day to complete the cycle.
The trail from the Marriage lectures to the Bookstore jewelry counter is short and unmistakable.
■ ,
Bottom of the Week
. . . just weren’t enough to go around.
March 27, 1953
5
u
Setter Comes to Point Over Underwear!
“ARF!” says Ossified J. Slurp, noted grill-hound. "Yes, it’s ARF-ul to remember how uncomfortable my grill-sitting was before I switched to Jockey brand Underwear! In my set, you know, squirming is taboo., .why, we often don’t even blink for an hour!” y?5.college men choose Jockey comfort/
Yes, for the grill...the class-room...and everywhere around the campus - -. snug-fitting, tailored-to-fit Jockey brand Underwear gives you extra comfort, because...
13 separate contoured pieces are carefully crafted into one smooth-fitting garment.
Newly-developed heat resistant rubber in waistband outlasts other leading brands.
Nobelt® strip rubber in leg openings eliminates sag or bind around the legs.
Unique Jockey front opening never gaps.
all underwear gives you coverage but
^GILBERT'S
Has the Largest Selection of
COOPERS
JOCKEY
UNDERWEAR
of all styles in
South Bend
Shorts .... $1.20 up
T-Shirt....$1.25 Sleeveless
Undershirt = . $L00
Your best buy in underwear is Coopers from
Albert?
813-817 S. Michigan St. Open Every Evening till 9
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 20
MARCH 27, 1953
ND Goal: New Blood-Letting Record
Leaders Stress That Parental Permission Must Be Given Within One Month of Donation
Shooting for a new intercollegiate blood-letting record, leaders of the 1953 Notre Dame blood drive will continue canvassing the halls this weekend and after* Easter in search of more than 3000 pledges to give blood.
The drive started last week, when it was announced that the Red Cross will take the blood May 4-8, but the goal has not yet been reached. The managers stressed the necessity of early pledging, for an intricate schedule, cognizant of class periods and the May 9 Senior Ball, must be worked out and presented to the Red Cross some time before the donation dates.
Harvard has claimed to have broken Notre Dame’s intercollegiate record of last year, and the drive’s leaders hope to put ND back on top. “It can be done,” they said, “if everyone will do his part.”
The student leaders who, following last year’s practice, prefer to remain anonymous, also emphasized that the parental permission slips for those under 21 years of age must be signed within one month of the date of donation.
“The Red Cross is very strict in its enforcement of this rule,” said one, “and students were rejected last year because their permission slips had been signed too early. Therefore it is imperative that parents sign the releases after April 8.”
Anyone between the ages of 18 and 59, inclusive, is eligible to donate a pint of blood. Those undei* 21, however, must have a signed parental permission card, and forms for this purpose are handed out with the pledge cards.
Because last year’s record 3018
pledges flooded the available facilities of the Red Cross, and only approximately 1900 pints could be taken, provisions are being made this year to take care of more than 3000 donors.
“That does not necessarily mean that 3000 pints of blood will be taken,” said Blair Bronstad, executive director of the St. Joseph County Red Cross chapter. “There are always a certain number of rejections for medical reasons.”
Last year the rejection rate was exceptionally low at Notre Dame, and Bronstad indicated that the 1952 mark could be bettered by almost 1000 pints if more than 3000 students sign the pledges.
The blood taken will be used both for wounded servicemen in Korea and for polio victims in the United States. In the latter case a blood fraction known as “gamma globulin” will be utilized.
Only recently, gamma globulin has been found effective in preventing the paralyzing effects of polio, if administered early enough. The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis esti-
(Continued on page 16)
ND STUDENTS BLEEDING TO A RECORD LAST APRIL
All Say It Was Completely Painless, Completely Satisfying
March 27, 1953
Mobsters, Co-eds, and Secretaries Practice Paces For 'Brute Farce' Production May 3-7
BY PAUL LA FRENIERE
For the past two weeks in Washington Hall, the student musical cast of 75 strong has been going through its paces in preparation for the May 3 opening of Brute Farce.
Quite an array of both campus and off-campus talent, portraying everything from a kidnapped football team to some pretty co-eds and secretaries, was found on the practice set in ND’s opera house the other evening.
There was Walt Swift, script-writer and director of the five-day musical, busying himself with the cueing of the Scene 13 principals. On a nearby piano, Geary Becker and Bob Rossiter, who collaborated on the writing of some 15 tunes for the production, pondered over a musical score.
A pair of characters, Bill Santoro and Hildegarde Vargyas,- recently seen in Vile Bodies, were brushing up on some lines for their next stage appearance-
Martin and Frank Brennan, Joe Sas-sano, and Fred lonata gave forth with their impersonations of four gangsters, while Jerry Boehling nodded approval of Wilma Burke’s rendition of “Face to Face With Love.” The latter two
DIRECTOR SWIFT INSTRUCTS CHARGES “A Little Bit of Everything”
play the leading roles.
Scene 13 was having competition too; a plaintive melody emanated from an adjoining room and another group had found a vacated piano on which they began to pound out a bouncey harmony.
Others noticed ambling about during an abbreviated stay were Jeannine Berner, Gayle Bauer, and Mary Jane Paden from across the lake; besides these, local thespians like John Cam-pagnone, Kevin Begley, John Maher, Jim Kinnane, and Bill Conroy were also present.
Men behind the scenes include orchestration director, Pat Tobin; business manager, Lester Zaczek; and David Hayes, in charge of designing and erecting the scenery.
The Lettermen of Don Gels will take care of the musical background, and the entire production is under the dual supervision of Mr. John Tumpane and Mr. Michael Casey.
With another month of rehearsals still to come, Brute Farce, the third annual ND student musical, is working hard towards providing 16 scenes of first-rate entertainment for the Washington Hall patrons on May 3-7.
Irish Group to Stage Plays Here April 8
The Dublin Players, a traveling company of actors from Ireland’s famous Abbey and Gate Theatres, will appear in Washington Hall on Wednesday, April 8, at 8:15 p.m.
The Players will present two one-act plays by one of Ireland’s most gifted playwrights, John M. Synge.
Tickets for the performance will be sold in Washington Hall lobby Monday and Tuesday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., and from 5 to 7 p.m. Tickets will also be on sale from 9 a.m. until 8:15 p.m. on the day of the performance.
. Student prices are 75, 50, and 25 cents; prices to the public are $1.50, $1, and 50 cents.
Nora O’Mahony, who appeared in a leading role in the Dublin Players’ recent performance on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” television program, will portray Maurya, a mother who loses all her sons to the sea, in Riders to the Sea-
Others in the cast are: Helena Carroll, daughter of playwright Paul Vincent Carroll; Alex Dignam, who is familiar to American audiences for his performance in the movie version of Tales of Hoffman; and Paula Byrne.
Miss O’Mahony and Mr. Dignam return to combine their talent with those of Eric Ferguson and Ronald Ibbs, founder and mainstay of the group, in the second play, The Shadozv of the Glen.
The stage company has been touring American cities from coast to coast presenting prominent Irish and English classics as well as modern plays. They have been called “one of the foremost acting companies of our time” by Eddie Dowling, famous Broadway produceractor.
April 15 Deadline Announced For Stanford Science Entries
Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C., has announced that papers for the Leland V. Stanford Prize in Science and Engineering must. be submitted to deans of the respective colleges by April 15.
The prize of $100, contributed by Mr. Leland V. Stanford of New York City, is presented to the student who writes the best essay of not more than a thousand words on the subject “Liberal Education in Relation to Technical Education.”
Students from either the College of Engineering or of the College of Science are eligible for the award.
8
The Scholastic
Senior Ball Bid Sales Set All -Time Record
ND Concert Bond Will Depart For Nine-State 4000-Mile Southland Good Will Tour April 3
Demand proved a little too much for supply as the seniors grabbed up the 610 available Senior Ball bids well within three hours. This number set a new all-time high for Notre Dame class dances, surpassing last year’s record of 581 for the Ball.
All available rooms in the Morris Inn for the May 8 weekend were quickly taken, even though an extra bloc of 15 rooms was released to raise the total to 65. Approximately 150 guests will be housed at the Inn. Rooms at the Oliver Hotel and in private homes are still available.
Also quick to go were the 100 tickets for the Senior Ball Communion Breakfast, to be held May 10 at the Morris Inn.
Most of the bids vanished shortly after sales opened at noon March 18. In fact, the line of seniors began forming at 10 a.m. Sales were halted at 1:30 to allow those with classes through the noon hour to purchase their bids that evening.
Typical of the seniors’ determination to assure themselves a bid was Larry “I’ll Wait” Pridmore, who arrived at the Walsh Hall counter just as afternoon sales closed. Larry entrenched himself at the head of the line and was still there when sales resumed at
SENIORS MOB DINING HALL LOBBY IN SCRAMBLE FOR BIDS Three Hours Later, A Record Sellout '
Director Robert O’Brien’s Notre Dame Concert Band will depart, 48 strong, for their southern tour on the morning of April 3.
The 4000-mile jaunt, which is the most lengthy in the seven-year history of Notre Dame’s band tours, will carry
6 p.m. Needless to say, he got his bid, Sales were conducted in the basements of Walsh and the Dining Hall. Assisting Ticket Chairman Tom Hamilton were John Dwyer, Jim Ronan, Jim Buckley, Jerry Kelly, Phil Clemens, and Howie Scribner.
Room reservations and breakfast tickets were handled by Hotel Chairman Clair Trinkley and Entertainment Heads Dick Harvey and Walt Stuhl-dreher, with help from John Vuono, Jack Cahill, and Gerard Keeley.
With bid sales out of the way, the committee is now concentrating on decorations for the May 8 formal. Walsh’s basement is the scene of construction of several oriental objects to match the Senior Ball theme of “Shangri-La: An Evening in Paradise.” Meanwhile, a group of student engineers is tackling the problem of fitting tables, decorations, and over 600 couples into the not-so-big-after-all Drill Hall.
the musical contingent to nine states and 12 leading cities. After presenting 21 concerts, the tour will end April 22 in the Notre Dame Drill Hall.
The band, which will be sponsored during its trip by various civic organizations along with their projects, “will endeavor to spread good will and create a lasting impression upon its first southern audience,” O’Brien said. The tour will be a non-profit affair with-any surplus being released to the University.	■*
Director O’Brien reported that some difficulty was experienced in completing a desired number of engagements, however. Only a single date in Charleston, S-. C-, is open at present.
Two concerts each will be given in El Dorado and Texarkana, Ark.; Biloxi, Miss.; Macon, Ga.; Orlando, Fla.; Columbia, S. C.; and Linton, Ind.
Alexandria, La.; Montgomery, Ala., Brunswick, Ga.’, and Knoxville, Tenn., will be hosts to only one concert. An additional presentation will be given for the benefit of the airmen at Kessler Air Force Base in Biloxi, Miss.
Upon returning, a recording session on RCA label will be held in Washington Hall.
The program will be introduced by an increasing drum roll, which will accompany the first stage of the concert. Then will come the soft selection, Notre Dame Oar Mother, followed by Notre Dame’s traditional Hike Song highlighted by downstage brass.
Sam Zerilla will head a list of six soloists with his trumpet version of The Cardinal of Venice. Zerilla is the only Freshman soloist on the tour. Another feature attraction will be Don Gels’ five-piece Dixieland Band.
Secretary of the Band, John Giam-bruno, reports that classical, semi-classical, and modem selections will give the program a Bach to dixieland variety.
An array of educational and entertaining selections distinguish the program. Such numbers as Overture to Tannhauser, the ultra modem and yet unpublished work of Prelude and Fugue, and Victor Herbert’s favorites are included.
One of the finest current arrangements of Lady of Spain, John Philip Sousa’s thundering Stars and Stripes Forever, and Casey Jones’ Fantasy are among the other colorful selections. The southland’s pride, Dixie, will be included, of course.
March 27, 1953
First on the agenda was registration. Here Pennsylvania's Team signs up, with Carl Gunderson and Pete Leeding officiating.
Bolger Trophy Takes Eas
Text by TOA' Photos by DAM/
Visitors to the Morris Inn last week
Mundelein Draws Its First Opponent. Notre Dame’s Chas. Doherty in Action.
end may have been surprised at the bustle in its lobby. Congregating there were students and professors from many of the country’s leading educational institutions, for the Inn was headquarters for the first annual University of Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament.
Most of the nation’s better debate teams were represented at the tournament, which lasted all day Friday and Saturday. The final round proved the best team to be Charles Buchanan and David Horlacher of Dartmouth College, one of several Eastern schools which took part. This pail- returned to New Hampshire with the beautiful Rev. William A. Bolger Memorial Trophy and individual certificates of merit for their efforts.
Dartmouth will keep the trophy until next year’s tournament when it will again go to the top team. The first school to send three winning teams to this highly competitive tournament will retain the trophy permanently.
The outstanding individual debater of the contest and winner of a personal trophy was Denison Ray of Alabama Polytechnical Institute. With 160 points out of a possible 180, he edged out William Linsley of Bradley and Midshipman David Watkins of the Naval Academy.
All of the top ten speakers received individual certificates of merit. Representing Notre Dame in this group was William Hank, who took seventh place
'RE
J /
!.
Below: Father Norton congratulates Dartnu
Below: Dartmouth faces Western Michigan in prelims.
tern Trip to Dartmouth
GODFREY
< WEITHERS
with 148 points.
Prof. Leonard Sommer, Notre Dame debate coach for the past several years, was in charge of the tournament. He was assisted by Al DeCrane, debate captain, who acted as tournament manager, and the entire debate squad. Several members of the Notre Dame faculty acted as judges for the preliminary rounds.
The tourney’s topic was the national one for the 1952-53 debate season, “Resolved that the Congress of the United States Should Enact a Compulsory Fair Employment Practices Law.” Most of the debates centered around the problem of discrimination in employment especially as it exists in the South.
It was on the basis of the preliminary rounds that the individual performers were decided and four teams with the best won-lost record—Dartmouth, Bradley, U. S. Military Academy, and U. S. Naval Academy—went into the semi-finals. Notre Dame’s team of William Hank and Charles Doherty tied for third place with five other teams but were edged out of the semifinals by Bradley and Navy with higher point totals.
From the next to final debate, Bradley emerged as victor over Army and Dartmouth ovei- Navy. The finals late Saturday afternoon in the Law Auditorium determined Dartmouth as the winner of the Father Bolger trophy. The first four schools also received bronze plaques which they can keep permanently.
action.
luncheon.
>uth winners Buchanan and Herlacher.
Below: Bradley’s finalists (left), Navy and Army semi-finalists pose with plaque awards, while Dartmouth's winners flank trophy.
Jaycees' Michiana Sports, Hobby Show Opens Glee Club Trek East
Three-Day Drill Hall, Fieldhouse Run Tonight Starts This Tuesday
The Third Annual Michiana Sports, Hobby, and Travel Show, sponsored by the South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce, will open tonight and continue through Sunday in the Fieldhouse and Drill Hall.
Over 85 merchants of the area have exhibits of their merchandise at the show. Groups such as the Boy Scouts, the Michiana Amateur Radio League, and the Indiana State Conservation Department also have booths.
The presentation of five' ribbons for the Jaycees Fine Arts Project will be made at the Art Exhibit in the Drill Hall. Over 25 pieces of art are on display.
One of the main features of this year’s show is the showing of the Studebaker Sports Car, which is one of .the sensations of the automotive world at the present time.
Another feature this year is the bicycle guessing contest. It consists of a bicycle, equipped with a sealed speedometer, that will be kept running during the hours of the show. Each person will be given a slip of paper on which to write his estimate of the speedometer reading when the bicycle is stopped Sunday night. The prize in the men’s division is an outboard motor.
The Impact of Nationalism on Modern History
Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology by Hans Kohn
Now Ready. $6.25.
The fascinating story of Pan-Slavism, from its beginnings after the Napoleonic Wars to its climax in and after World War II, is told here for the first time in English. All the problems which the West faces today with Russia and its Slav satellites were discussed throughout the nineteenth century and emerge in the present book as issues with a long past in cultural traditions and national attitudes.
The generally overlooked sources into which the book delves will help the English-reading public gain a better understanding o"f the complex relationship between Russia and Europe and among the Slav nations themselves. “Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology” is the sixth in the series on International Studies sponsored by the Committee on International Relations. Coming in May: “Soviet Imperialism: Its Origins and Tactics.”	-
On Sale at the Bookstore
University of Notre Dame Press
A vaudeville type show—consisting of a trained seal act, a trapeze act and clowns; of tumbling and the trampoline—will be staged all three days of the show. Music will be furnished by Toni Rulli and his Society Orchestra, with Jack Norris as vocalist.
The Notre Dame fencing team and Barney Van Lue, bait caster supreme, will give exhibitions during the show. There will also be special entertainment supplied by local talent.
The show was originated three years ago, for the entertainment of the people of the area. The entire pro-.ceeds of the show are used to finance the different youth and civic projects sponsored by the Jaycees during the year.
This year’s show is headed by Cochairmen Milton Brook and George Lehr. Al Cotner is in charge of publicity.
Notre Dame students can secure the special student tickets from the various campus salesmen for 30 cents, instead of the adult price of 70 cents. These special tickets cannot be bought at the door.
The exhibits will be open from 6 until 11 p.m. today, and from 1 to 11 p.m. tomorrow and Sunday.
The world-famous Notre Dame Glee Club will embark on a 13-day 2800-mile trip through the Eastern half of the United States beginning Tuesday.
This year’s trek will be highlighted by an Easter Sunday spotlight appearance on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” TV network show.
The singing Irish will make eight concert appearances in three states as they wend their way back to the campus on April 12.
Conductor Pedtke will present a wide variety of the tested Glee Club numbers for Ed Sullivan to select for actual TV presentation. Among those which have been readied for the occasion are such all-time favorites as: Hallelujah Amen, De Glory Road, When Johnny Comes Marchin’ Home Again, The Divine Praise, and You're in the Army Noiv. The traditional Notre Dame Victory March will be the opening salute.
Gene Gorski, John Noland, and Gene Fanning will be used as soloists. They will be the bellwethers of a traveling squad of some 36 to 40 members, including nine warblers from, each of the four voice ranges—bass, baritone, first tenor, and second tenor.
Mr. Pedtke has stated that “I hope all our students will tune in the program and give the Glee Club the same moral support that is accorded the other organizations here at Notre Dame. I know our boys are ready and anxious to perform before this nationwide audience, and I am confident that they will do a fine job. Their performance will be a credit to themselves, the students, and to Notre Dame.”
After the Sullivan show, the Glee Club will pack their gear and move over to Summit, N. J., where they will be featured in a music festival at the Oratory Boys’ School.
Tuesday evening the songsters invade Pennsylvania and will be featured in Allentown’s Rockne Auditorium. Connecticut’s capitol city, Hartford, will be the scene of the Wednesday night presentation.
Schenectady, N. Y., will be the recipient of the nocturnal visit of the Glee Club on Thursday. Buffalo will be the site of Friday’s performance.
The exhausting week of singing will be completed in Carnegie, Pa., on Saturday evening, April 11, with the eighth concert in as many nights. The group will swing back to campus the following day.
12
The Scholastic
Irish Sweat Through Spring Sessions
ND Nine Off on Southern Trip Monday; Eleven Away Games Scheduled For 12 Days
BY ERWIN ALFONSUS
Seeking to improve last year’s record of 12 wins and 8 losses, the 1953 edition of the Notre Dame baseball team embarks Monday on a trip through the grapefruit circuit. They open their season Monday night under the lights against the Naval Air Station squad at the air base in Memphis, Tennessee. The following day they face Memphis State College in a day game at Memphis.
Arkansas State College, perennially a powerhouse in baseball, provides the opposition for the Irish on April 1 and 2 with a night game scheduled for the naval air base field at Memphis, and a day game slated at Jonesboro, Tennessee. On the 3rd of April a night game will be played against the Bradley Braves at the Memphis naval air base, and the University of Mississippi, a threat in the southern conference, will be their opponents the following day.
The Irish nine winds up its southern
jaunt with a day and a night game against the Naval Air Station on April 5 and 6.
Coach Jake Kline has not officially named his traveling squad as yet, but a tentative list can be given. Joe Ridge, captain and centerfielder, heads the list of outfield candidates. The veteran outfielder is seeking to improve upon his noteworthy batting average of .323 gained last season. Mark Tremblay appears a logical choice to patrol the right field garden, and Dave Costigan, a good all-around ballplayer, seems to be the No. 1 man in left field.
As for the infield, lanky Dick Rosenthal, the basketballer, is the choice at the initial sack; Dick Colloton, the team’s leading hittei- last year at .340 and a seasoned veteran, holds down the second base slot, while Hal Reilly, normally a third baseman, has filled in capably at shortstop to complete the (Continued on page 15)
Captain Penza Leads Group of 79 Hopefuls
BY WARREN ASHBAUGH
Coach Frank Leahy’s 1953 football squad officially opened the spring training slate of 20 sessions with a two-hour scrimmage last Saturday. The opening scrimmage was preceded by the traditional picture-taking Friday.
Leahy was greeted by a group of 79 members which included 24 monogram winners and the nucleus of last year’s freshman team, which is considered one of the best in years.
Next year’s list of lettermen will include 12 seniors and as many juniors. The seniors are Captain Don Penza, All-American John Lattner, Neil Worden, Joe Bush, Art Hunter, Fred Man-gialardi, Menil Mavraides, Tom McHugh, Fran Paterra, Paul Reynolds, Jim Schrader, and Fred Poehler. Next yeai-’s juniors are Tom Carey, Ralph Guglielmi, Gene Carrabine, Joe Heap, Jack Lee, Paul Matz, Sam Palumbo, Bob Ready, Dan Shannon, Dick Szymanski, Fred Varrichione, and Walt Cabral.
Lost from last season’s team are
‘No. 45 OFF RIGHT TACKLE ... SET DOWN—1-2-3-4!”
Irish Run Through Spring Practice Scrimmage as Line Coach McBride Directs Action
March 27, 1953
13
THANKS A MILLION
We wish to express a million thanks to all the members of the Notre Dame student body who supported the Irish basketballers throughout the regular season, and especially those who made the trips to Fort Wayne and Chicago to help cheer on our team in the NCAA tourney. We also wish to show our appreciation for the 75-odd telegrams sent by the students congratulating us on our fine season.
Sincerely, Johnny Jordan and team.
Captain Jack Alessandrini, Dave Flood, Virgil Bardash, Al Kohanowich, Tom Murphy, Bob O’Neil, Tom Seaman, Jim Weithman, Jack Whelan, and Ed Buzckiewicz.
Despite these losses Coach Leahy diverted from his usual pessimistic prediction by saying, “This team could be as good as last year’s.” However, he was quick to point out that this year’s schedule is much harder. “Pitt and Iowa had the best freshman teams in the schools’ histories and Southern California should be much better. And everyone knows Georgia Tech has one of the best teams in the country,” he said.
Friday’s meeting was marked with the pageantry which is typical of Notre Dame football. Cameramen from all parts of rhe country were on hand to snap Dick Szymanski, wearing No. 19, and Joe Bush, wearing No. 53, signifying 1953 and Walt Cabral, whose No. 65 stood for the 65th Irish season. Afterward the Irish, led by Captain Don Penza, came charging through a huge paper sign into the busy photographer’s lenses.
Concerning the NCAA’s new substitution rule, Coach Leahy was unusually optimistic ... he didn’t care for it. He is highly in favor of the two-platoon system for a number of reasons. He said, “The old system gave more boys a chance to play longer. It holds down the number of serious injuries.”
Leahy went further to explain “that under Notre Dame’s strict academic regulations he was lucky if he got an hour and a half of scrimmage time in each night in the Fall. The old way made it easier teaching one phase of the game to two groups.”
“Now we have to try and teach everyone everything. However, it is as hard on everyone else as it is on Notre Dame,” he said.
Irish Fencing Trio Represents Notre Dome In NCAA Tourney; lllini Snap Irish String
BY BOB O’MALLEY
Philadelphia is the scene tonight and tomorrow night as a trio of Notre Dame’s spectacular fencers run up against a hundred of the nation’s best from 35 schools in the NCAA championships. Representing the Irish in this meet are Capt. Jack Mooney, Gerry Finney, and John McGinn. With only one man eligible in each weapon, these three were chosen over a host of teammates.
Mooney, senior from Cleveland, was a real leader throughout the year and finished up with an individual record of 27-9. Competing in the foil, he was
'Captain Joe'
The 1953 edition of Jake Kline’s Fighting Irish baseball team will be led by centerfielder Joe Ridge. Captain Joe has been a fixture in center field for the Irish ever since his sophomore year when he finished fourth in hitting and sparkled afield for the Klinemen. Joe hails from Margerita in the Canal Zone where he was an all sports star at Balboa High School. A political science major, Joe will serve a hitch
CAPT. JOE RIDGE
An Outfield by Himself
in the Marine Corps after graduation.
Statistics from 1952 point out the 6-foot, 175-pound star’s versatility. He led the team in R.B.I.’s, runs scored and finished second in hitting with a highly respectable average of .323. In addition to his fancy stickwork, Joe is regarded as the number one fielder of the Notre Dame picket line.
especially outstanding when the chips were down in the Illinois contest as he swept three matches without a defeat.
Finney is a junior from Grosse Pointe, Mich., and was the outstanding performer in the sabre. His 28-5 record was tops on the squad and was compiled against the best the Midwest had to offer.
In the epee division, where there were more than a few aces, competition for a bid to the nationals was extremely keen, John McGinn got the nod by a slight margin over Rod Duff. McGinn put together a 26-10 record, including a fine performance in the loss to Illinois. John dropped his first match but bounced back to take the next two with a fine exhibition of courage and skill.
The highest Notre Dame has finished in the nationals was a sixth place effort in 1950, better than any midwestern team has ever done.
Last Saturday night in the Fieldhouse the unbeaten records of two fencing giants met head on, and Illinois kept theirs intact with a stirring 14-13 defeat of Coach Walter Langford’s Irish. It was undoubtedly the hardest-fought meet of this or perhaps any other year as the issue was in doubt until the last point of the final match between ND’s Pat Mulrooney and Illinois’ Bell.
As expected, the meet was a duel to the end. Notre Dame copped the epee, 5-4 on some great work by John McGinn, Dave McBride, and Rod Duff. McGinn and McBride scored double victories while Duff grabbed a single win.
Illinois took the foil by the same close 5-4 score. Capt. Jack Mooney accounted for three of the wins with a sterling performance but received little help from his teammates. Dick Hull registered the remaining point in this event.
The sabre division was the decisive one in the meet. With the score tied at 9-9, the Irish lost a 5-4 decision and the match. Jim Hurley and Tony Man-dolini sparkled with this weapon as each racked up a double win but it wasn’t quite enough to stem the tide.
Notre Dame thus completed one of its most successful campaigns in years. With only Mooney, Hurley, McBride, and Pat Mulrooney leaving from the team which closed with a 13-1 record, the stage seems set for another outstanding edition next season.
14
The Scholastic
i
Springer Goes 13'6" In Cleveland K of C's
The 13th Annual Knights of Columbus Meet at Cleveland last Friday drew together some of the country’s best indoor track stars. Notre Dame’s representatives included Capt. Ed Powell, vaulters Jim Harrington and Joe Springer, and Freshman high jumper Bernie Allard who competed unattached. These boys competed against such outstanding world record holders as Harrison Dillard, Bob Richards, Don Laz, and Lt. Ken Kiesner.
Springer tied for third place behind Richards and Laz. Springer cleared 13 feet 6 inches. Harrington had a bad night in the pole vault as he only climbed 13 feet. Last week, at Milwaukee, he had cleared 14 feet for third place behind Richards and Laz. A badly swollen ankle kept Ed Powell out of action. Bernie Allard, a freshman from Fresno, California, missed three tries at 6 feet 7 inches and finished in fourth place with a height of 6 feet 5% inches.
Tomorrow night an aggregation of great stars will compete against one another at the Daily News Relays in Chicago. Several Irish stars will be entrants. Powell, Harvey Newquist, and Allard are tentative representatives, while Harrington and Springer will surely be there. A two-mile relay team will also represent Notre Dame.
fans and as a result pay the biggest out baseball as a competitive sport,
DICK GIEDUN
One of the Best
Baseball
(Continued from page 13) keystone combination. Replacing Reilly at third base and rounding out the infield is Len LeRose, a senior. John Allan, a utility infielder, also should see considerable action.
Dick Farrell and Dick Gaberick share the catching assignment, while Jack Alessandrini will double as a catcher and as an outfielder.
Nine pitchers complete the 20-man squad. Likely to see mound duty for the Irish this season are Jim Dalton, Stan Konopka, Jim Pavis, Jim Gibbons, John Reynolds, and Jerry Donnelly. Others include Bob O’Neil, Joe Moresco, and Ron Mottl.
Notre Dame does not play at home until April 13 when the Irish entertain the University of Iowa in a two-day series. Prior to that they engage two Big Ten foes, the Hoosiers of Indiana and the Ohio State Buckeyes. Against O.S.U. they will face one of the Big Ten’s top hurlers in the person of Paul Ebert, sophomore basketball ace.
By Jack Sand
Baseball—Weak Sister of Major College Sports
Baseball at Notre Dame has taken a definite back seat on the sports agenda mainly because football and basketball dominate the athletic scene practically all year round. But Notre Dame is no exception . . . since most universities have to contend with the same problem. Everyone connected with Notre Dame knows that football and basketball draw the most
bills. But that by no means rules since Coach Jake Kline’s Fighting Irish are just as eager to win as anyone. They proved that last season with a 12-8 record against the stiffest opposition in the midwest.
Not So Weak After All
This season they face the same rough schedule with a team that is essentially the same as last season, but whose foi-tunes are none the less predictable. The loss of Tom Bujnowski, last year’s ironman hurler, and shortstop Harry Durkin is probably the most serious blow to Kline’s hopes for another season comparable to that of 1949 when Notre Dame engaged in the NCAA playoffs. That year, via the big stick of first sacker Dick Gied-lin, the Irish compiled one of their best records, winning 18 and losing six. In the NCAA tourney they advanced to the quarterfinals only to lose to Wake Forest.
Giedlin, who signed with the Detroit Tigers two years ago for a substantial purse, will therefore be the 48th major leaguer to come from Notre Dame if he makes the grade. The latest Irish addition to the big time was outfielder Jack Mayo, now a Philadelphia Philly. Perhaps the two best known ball players ever to come out of ND was old Adrian “Cap” Anson and Roger Bresnahan. Anson, a former star with the Chicago Cubs, supposedly taught the game of baseball to ND students back in 1887. He now resides in the Hall of Fame at Cooperstown, N. Y. Bresnahan, the other all-time great was formerly a catcher for the New York Giants and the Chicago Cubs. Others' worth mentioning are pitchers Ed Ruelback, Richard “Red” Smith and Ed Hanyzewski, all former Cubs.
Everybody Hits
This coming Monday night when the Irish open up against the Naval Air Station at Memphis, you probably won’t notice any big-league material at first glance ... so wait awhile. Before the next issue of the Scholastic hits your door the Klinemen will have 15 games under their belt and by that time we’ll be able to see the .300 hitters of last year’s club, Dick Colloton (.340), Capt. Joe Ridge (.323), and Dave Costigan (.301) also batting over .300 this year. We may even see a few others like Mark Tremblay, Hal Reilly or Dick Rosenthal swatting away at the select circle. College baseball may be the weak sister, but a .300 hitter is a .300 hitter especially in the eyes of the big league scouts, who are gradually turning their heads to the college crop as their chief source of big league timber.
March 27, 1953
15
Freshmen Sign Kirk For May I 'Serenade1
Bob Kirk and his orchestra, currently playing at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago, has been selected to play for the annual Freshman Frolic on May 1, it was announced .this week by Chairman Nick Mavigliano.
The Rockne Memorial gym, traditional site of the dance, will be decorated in a seaside motif to blend with the theme of the dance, “Serenade in the Sea.”
Highlighting the weekend will be the Freshman Frolic on Friday night. Hours of the dance are from 9 to 1, with 2 a.m. residence permissions for dance-goers. Car permissions from 12 noon Friday to 2 a.m. Saturday morning have been granted. Dress is optional with tuxedos preferred.
Only 500 tickets at $5 per couple, including bid and favor, will be sold on a first come, first served basis. No reservations can be made. Tickets will go on sale Monday and Tuesday, April 13 and 14, at 5:30 p.m. in the dining hall lobby.
Hotel reservations chairman Tom Caplet has arranged for 33 rooms at the Morris Inn, with additional accommodations available at downtown hotels and in private homes set aside for the weekend guests.
Blind dates may be secured through Jack Casey at the time of the bid purchase.
On Saturday afternoon, freshmen and their dates will attend the Varsity-Old Timers football game at the Stadium.
Sunday morning after Mass, 90 couples will attend a Conununion •Breakfast at the Morris Inn. Don McNeill of “Breakfast Club” fame will act as emcee. Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl, C.S.C., and Edward “Moose” Krause will be the guest speakers. Tom McNeill, managing the affair, has announced that only 90 tickets are available. Tickets at $3 a couple will be handled along with hotel reservations at the time of bid purchase.
Other chairmen of committees include Dave Granger, business; Mike Kiley, tickets; Walt Peeney, refreshments; Bob Morsches, decorations; and Bob Hilger, publicity.
Blood Drive
(Continued from page 7) mates that one million units of gamma globulin will be needed to combat polio during the “summer season.” Approximately one pint of blood is needed to produce one unit of the substance.
A new vaccine against polio is being
developed, but it definitely will not be ready this summer. Consequently, the Red Cross is placing great emphasis on the need for gamma globulin this Spring, along with its plea for blood for the Korean wounded.
The greater part of the blood taken here will be sent to the Office of Defense Mobilization, via Fort Wayne, within 72 hours after being drawn. It will then be sent to Korea as whole blood or processed and sent as plasma.
Whole blood is more effective, but can only be preserved for 21 days, so a reserve of plasma must be kept on hand.
Some casualties need as many as 13 ' pints of plasma, according to the Red
Cross.
MEN OF ’54
TRAINING FOR INDUSTRIAL CAREERS
Opportunities for summer employment in or near your home town National Carbon Company, manufacturer of dry cells and flashlights, carbon and graphite electrodes and anodes, impervious graphite, brushes for motors and generators, arc carbons and a wide variety of other industrial carbon products offers summer employment to ’54 B.S. and M.S. graduates:
CHEMISTS PHYSICISTS • ENGINEERS
Ceramic • Chemical • Civil • Electrical Industrial • Mechanical • and
’54 graduates in Business Administration
leading to interesting, rewarding careers following graduation in research, process and product development, quality control, production and methods engineering, sales and sales engineering.
Accptance of summer employment does not imply any obligation on the part of either the Company or the individual with respect to permanent position following graduation but does provide excellent opportunity for mutual exploration of advantages of a career with well established company.
Call in person or write to
THE SUPERINTENDENT
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY A Division of
Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
AT ANY OF THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS:
CLEVELAND, OHIO Cleveland Works Edgewater Works
Madison Ave. at West 117th St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Chemway Rd.
GREENVILLE, N. C.
East 14th & Cotanche Sts.
ASHEBORO, N. C.
Highway 49
FREMONT, OHIO 1501 West State Street BENNINGTON, VERMONT 401 Gage Street
WHY NOT DROP IN DURING YOUR .
SPRING VACATION AND GET ACQUAINTED
Products: “Eveready” Flashlights, “Eveready” Dry Batteries, “Prestone” Anti-freeze, “Trek” Anti-freeze, “Acheson” and “National” Electric Furnace'Electrodes, “Karbate” Impervious Graphite, “National” Carbon Brushes, “National” Projector Carbons and a wide^variety of “National” Industrial Carbon and Graphite Products for all Industry.
Speakers' Bureau Members Slate Discussion at Barat
Notre Dame’s Speakers’ Bureau will be host to the Forensic Club of Barat College of Lake Forest, Ill., for an informal discussion tomorrow at 3 p.m.
Subject of the discussion will be “The Matter of Meeting and Selecting a Mate Outside an Organized Catholic Educational Institution.”
The discussion group will consist of 15 speakers from each school. The group will be divided into four individual groups. Two of the groups will be led by Barat speakers while the other two will be directed by Notre Dame speakers.
COLUMBIA, Tenn.
Santa Fe, Pike
NIAGARA FALLS, NEW YORK
Elizabeth St. at Buffalo Ave.
FOSTORIA, OHIO
E. Tiffin & Town Streets
ST. ALBANS, VERMONT
Swanton Rd.
RED OAK, IOWA
1205 West First St.	x
CLARKSBURG, WEST VIRGINIA Philippi, Pike
16
The Scholastic
Villagers Announce Site For Annual Spring Dance April 4
The South Bend Country Club will be the scene of the annual Villagers’ Club Spring Dance to be held on April 4.
Soft strains of current hits will be provided by Walter Hubbard and his orchestra to Easter-Eve party goers. Semi-formal attire without corsages has been announced by the committee.
The Villagers have arranged for refreshments before midnight for those not desiring to break their Easter fast.
Bids will sell for $3.80 and may be purchased from any member of the Villagers’ Club.
Mathes Plans All-Beethoven Concert Here Monday Night
Professor Carl Mathes, director of piano in the Department of Music, will present an all-Beethoven concert Monday evening at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall.
Mathes is a rarity among pianists, capable of performing all 32 of the piano sonatas from memory in concert. This feat he accomplished a number of times on the European concert stage in a series of seven programs.
It is Mr. Mathes’ ambition to perform this monumental task once more in his lifetime. The Department of Music is considering sponsoring such a program during the next school year.
Ready for “a big time” this winter?
CANOE TRIPS
into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.85 to S5.40 per person per day. For free information write,
CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, BILL ROM, Box C, Ely, Minnesota
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JMS. Bldg.
Go Greyhound
now ABOUT m DANCING?
Don’t let poor dancing ruin a good party for you. Come to Arthur Murray’s now and learn all the latest steps. You’ll find it’s quick and easy to learn the Arthur Murray Way. So be sure of popularity... enroll at Ar-thurMurray’s.
WILL YOU ACCEPT A
TRIAL LESSON?
Buy a Round-Trip Ticket and fave an Extra 10% Each Way-SOUTH BEND to:
Destination	One-Way
Cleveland, O. -...........  „$	5.95
Toledo, O....................  3.60
Pittsburgh, Pa................ 8.85
Philadelphia,	Pa............. 16.25
Muskegon, Mich...............  3.40
Detroit, Mich. ..............  4.45
Ann Arbor, Mich. ...........   3.90
Grand Rapids, Mich........... 3.00 Sault St. Marie .............  11.70
Chicago, III.................. 2.10
Bloomington, III.............  4.35
Destination	One-Way
Effingham, III_____________$ 5.00
Hammond, Ind............... 1.75
Milwaukee, Wis. ___________  3.65
Madison, Wis. ______________ 4.55
Minneapolis, Minn. _________ 9.40
Duluth, Minn. ___________   12.15
Davenport, Iowa ____________ 5.30
Sioux City, Iowa .........  12.80
New York ________________   17.90
Washington, D. C.  _________ 14.60
Des Moines, Iowa ___________ 9.10
Add U.S. Tax to all fares.
There’s a similar low Greyhound fare to YOUR hometown—Ask us for it!
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
117 Western Ave. Phone 7-6541
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St. Call 2-3339 for appointment
March 27, 1953
GREYHOUND
By Paul Zalecki
merce have to attend the Bishop O’Hara seminar, and Saturday the ROTC students take part in South Bend’s celebration of Armed Forces Day.
As the old saying goes, enough is enough and too much is plenty, and I guess this is about enough for now.
Compared to Christmas, the Easter holiday comes at a good time. Instead of chopping the school year off a few weeks before finals, it divides the semester almost perfectly in two.
Still Easter vacation is deceiving. Much as it is anticipated as the one big break in the second semester, it is only one week long. And even those few days cannot be observed as an ordinary holiday inasmuch as it is Lent.
In view of this fact, perhaps it would be preferable to have a spring vacation at some time other than the last few days of Lent. Holy Week certainly could be observed just as well, if not better, at school. Such a change would provide a full week of vacationing.
Scheduling Vacations
Of course the University must have their reasons for having the vacation when it is. Scheduling vacations undoubtedly is not a simple' process, and Easter provides a convenient, traditional date with which to work when planning the school year.
By a strange coincidence pink slips come out only two days before Easter vacation. It somewhat reminds one of the beginning lines in TAe Tale of Two Cities: it was the best of times; it was the worst of times.
During the early part of next month, many seniors have to take comprehensive examinations. The comps, whether written or oral, are a clever device for finding out what a student has forgotten in his major. They also help to keep the senior on the straight and narrow path of study during the final semester.
The seniors are not the only ones with problems. The underclassmen too have some worries of their own. The second week of April they have to preregister for the fall semester.
Class Dances
It admittedly is difficult trying to decide what courses to take and who are the best teachers. What really complicates matters is arranging a schedule with no Saturday classes and no eight o’clocks.
Outside of these purely routine matters of examinations and preregistra
tion, there are some other, more enjoyable, activities coming up in the near’ future, especially the Junior Prom and the Senior Ball. These two dances should be the high point of the year for their respective classes. Right now, though, they probably are little more than headaches, especially for the dance committees and for the students who could not get tickets.
Apparently the rumor that tickets for the senior dance never had sold out failed to impress the present class. Filled with memories of last year’s rapid sell-out and mad scramble forbids, they lined up well in advance of the sales time in the basements of the Dining Hall and Walsh Hall.
Some 450 tickets did not last long at the noon sale. There were plenty of students who were fearful of being left out when the final 150 went on sale in the evening.
It is unfortunate that the Senior Ball is limited to 600 couples and that some of the seniors were unsuccessful in obtaining bids for their own dance. It looks like we need a larger dance floor or a smaller class.
Party Platform
This problem would be a good point for the underclassmen to take up when they start campaigning for class office. After all, every party needs a platform.
In reference to the elections, it is hard to imagine that they will top last year’s when there were numerous new offices and an unusual number of candidates. That ten students ran for senior class president must have been some kind of a record. Last year moreover was probably one of the few times that two elections were held.
All in all, there will be quite a bit taking place during the next two months. In fact, to judge from the comments of some seniors there is just a little too much. As things now stand, the week-end of the Senior Ball in particular is overloaded with activities.
An away baseball game and a heme track meet are scheduled for that week-end. In addition, Friday afternoon seniors in the College of Com-
"The House of Jazz”
LOR RECORDS TRY
o RICORD BAR
Line Of
JAZZ ■ DIXIELAND ■ POPULAR CLASSICAL • BLUES On All Three Speeds
Mall un.\uhrre In the Country I rec Catalogs
412 So. Mich. South Bend. Ind.
SHRIMP IN THE BASKET $1 with all the trimmings
B-M HAMBURGERS 25^ with or without
Complete Home-cooked Meals at all times
BOWL-MOR GRILL Across from South Shore
D*R.WTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
—OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring In The Pieces”
— EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	4-5777
[health I SPOT I
[SHOES
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
18
The Scholastic
I
Assignment: Accuracy
Solution: Subminiatu riza tio n
Typical Sylvania subminiature tube long, pencil thin—heart of vital electronic equipment.
Sylvania-Engineered, Capsule-Sized Radio Tubes Add Deadly Electronic Accuracy to Gun Fire
“Needed: a high-performance radio tube—rugged enough to meet battle conditions — small enough for compact military equipment.”
A tough job? — YES. But typical of Sylvania’s advanced, Antal engineering assignments whose solutions unlock doors to the future.
Finding answers to such problems is the basis of Sylvania’s continuing growth and leadership. If that’s the kind of engineering you’re looking for— we’re looking for you!
For information on Sylvania’s program for graduating engineers—see your Placement Office today—or tvrite Supervisor of Technical Employment........


inalUll^u
S YIAANIA
Syliania Electric Products. lnc.,y^^ 1740 Broadnay. /Vew York 19. N. Y.
LIGHTING • RADIO • ELECTRONICS • TELEVISION
NOW... 10 Months Scientific Evidence For Chesterfield
A MEDICAL SPECIALIST is making regular bimonthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After ten months, the medical specialist reports that he observed ...
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
MUCH MILDER CHESTERFIELD ISBEHTOaYOU
Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
First and Only Premium Quality Cigarette in Both Regular and
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE