	Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.	
Vol XVI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 21, 1883.	No. 41.
Liberty and Authority*
ALUMNI ORATION,
Delivered at the 39th Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame,
BY JOHN G. EWING, ’77, LANCASTER, OHIO.
Gentlemen of the Alumni:
“ There are two things,” said a monk of old, “ for which the faithful ought to resist, even to the shedding of blood—justice and liberty.”
And well may it be said there can, in the varied range of man’s intellectual wealth, nowhere be found two words, the true meaning and value of which have been more persistently obscured, or the use and application of which have been more constantly an evil and abuse. Well may we say with Madam Roland: “ Oh Liberty, what crimes are committed in thy name! Oh Justice, what injustice thy sacred robes do shield 1 ” And it behooves us to look well to it, that we so teach, that all men may know what is of them required to possess and retain the gracious gift of true liberty; and what, when that true liberty shall reign amongst us, justice may command them to abstain from, and what to perform. Loyalty and obedience are words that sound harsh, uninviting and strange in the ears of the present generation ; yet they form the true and perfect complement of liberty and justice. And until men will return once more to the paths their fathers trod, and, listening to the dictates of sound, practical morals, learn, and learning practise the virtues of loyalty and obedience, they may look to it to see in this world the travesty of tine and perfect liberty and Christian justice. Until they so do, we may expect to hear the Babel of modern thought prescribing by its thousand tongues, its thousand panaceas for the ills of social and political life; and we may look to see the peoples, to their own dire loss and humiliation, attempt to put in practice its false and pernicious theories.
In all truth, gentlemen, does it well befit us to renew in our minds, the true and correct principles of liberty and authority, as taught us by Christian morals: morals, by the rules-of which, . we hope and trust that our lives will be sacredly trained and perfected, and, living by which, we may look to the reward of faithful servants. Jus-
ice—the awarding to every one his due—to God, homage and adoration; to the State, loyalty and obedience; to our neighbor, charity and loving kindness. Justice, the sound of whose name awakes the Christian soul to battle; the maxims and dictates of which make man more than the beasts of the field, who know no duty higher than -that of life. Liberty, the right of freedom from unlawful and man-imposed restraint—that right which every man possesses; that every one of us can claim as from God, to enable us to perform our duties; to render even and true justice to all. In the code of Christian morals alone can we look for guidance as to the bounds of true liberty; there only can we find what true justice demands of us.
Man was placed on this earth for the attainment of an end. The all-wise and all-loving God has imprinted deep in his soul the vision of the desired goal. Not for material gain and wealth;- not-for worldly fame and honor; not for the glittering baubles of pleasure’s realm; not even for the tranquil pleasures and the quiet delights of a cultured mind do men seek. They instinctively look and long for something far beyond and above all these. Good and perfect as they may be in their kind, they form not man’s end, neither should they be his chief aim. They are fleeting, and last but for a time, while he has within him the consciousness-of immortality. His pilgrimage here must be so undergone that hereafter he may reach to happiness. True religion teaches us the wished-for end; true philosophy confirms it. Seek ye first the Kingdom of God. Seek ye the true and the good; and follow and strive to reach thereto. Each one stands equal in this pursuit; each and all have the right to run, and, running, win the prize. - This earth of ours was made for the children of Adam—for the individual man; and all there is and all that may be extant upon it, simply is and may be because necessary for him—because subservient to the object that alone is to him great and lasting—his end.
We hold these truths to be self-evident “that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted.” So declared the fathers of this nation; and, as they declared, so do we hold. Life, that we may exist arid be; liberty, that we may perform those duties that justice requires; and with them and conse
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
quent of them the power and opportunity to pursue and attain happiness. These are the Godgiven rights of all men. They are the inheritance of every child of Adam.
In all things of this universe, order and harmony reign supreme. If men would give to this life that harmony "and that order which are to it essential, and so would move onward, in peace and security, to their hist and common end, they must lean and depend one upon another; and so leaning, they form the bond of social unify. Society is man’s natural element. He is born a social being; his heart yearns for intercourse with his fellows; his faculties need this intercourse for their development; yea, if naught else could prove man’s social nature, his birth, his physical frame considered with reference to the external world, show forth his dependence on his fellow-man.
But that society may exist, governments are necessary. Order and security for man require them. For the protection of life and liberty, that all may be secured in their rights, governments must and do exist. Starting from the family of Adam do we trace them in history. The authority that the father of old possessed in the family; similai' authority to-day resides in the State: authority to rule and govern alb men that live under its" sway in justice and in right, as long as they are on this earth of ours.	.
From the family has arisen the tribe, from the tribe the commonwealth. As men increased on the earth, they separated into tribes and nations. By the peaceful union of families and tribes; by emigration and colonization; by conquest and by revolt, have the nations of the earth arisen. The authority their governments possessed was but the unfolding of the patrice pot estas. As from God came the authority of the father, so from God came the authority of the rulers of tribes and nations. So, in fact, do we find the origin of all governments to be, and so in theory we hold their authority to be derived. .	.
Little matters it whether the rulers, of this earth are one or many; whether the power they wield is supreme and absolute, or whether they listen to and obey the voice of the nation declared by its representatives; whether they look to 'princely dignity and long-inherited power, as the title to their place, or whether they are the elected rulers of the nation. But much and specially does it concern us that the authority wielded comes from God, and has nd mere human . origin.'
“Be? subject of necessity, not only for wrath but also for conscience sake.. For he that re-sisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God.” For “All power is from God.” So runs the. moral code, as revealed to us by religion and. confirmed by sound reason.? To government lawfully established do we owe loyal obedience. To - its behests we must bow, and to its commands we must conform. It is necessary for the existence of , social life, and therefore to it must man, by the law of his nature, render obedience. And to it do -we so render obedience, not as bowing our knees
and bending our necks to the rule of man and to his'petty and brief authority, but as in it recognizing the agent of God, and in its authority, His authority. “For to none do we bend the knee but. to God alone.” We recognize in no man —or no collection of men—authority to bind their fellows—saving the fact that we acknowledge the authority God-given to protect and secure men, that governments possess—and without this power that is in them as from God, to no man do we owe obedience. Were it otherwise, the divine right of revolution would be for us inevitably exalted into a cardinal maxim of ethics. The right of the strong arm alone would hold the nations in obedience, would alone bind the subject—and by the might that the State asserts and proves its commission to control, by that same might could men under its sway overthrow its power and assert their rule. Government would be to us but tyranny, for no men and no body of men can, lawfully, of themselves. assert or exercise aught of power over us. What, then, is to hinder the full rule and sway of the despot, the perfect adoption of Oriental servility? The State is supreme, its power is from God, and there is naught superior to it.	.
Until the light of truth was shed abroad through the world by Christianity, no answer was or could be returned hereto. The olden world fallen' from the primitive knowledge and virtue of our first parents, acknowledging nd power superior tothat of force, recognizing no authority above and beyond the temporal, gave no answer save that of passive servitude or blind, unreasoningrevolt. To it Caesar was Dives, the god of this world. To him did his subjects bow in servile homage. And, to the eternal disgrace of the race, in these latter days, do we see the same theory arise; and.not only possess defenders, butx having nations the practical embodiment of its most pernicious principles.	_
Christianity first laid down the limits imposed .. on rulers; the bounds beyond which they could not pass. It first called to them to be mindful of the end for which they exist in this world; and, mindful thereof, to be by it governed. As Sheldon Amos • says, in his “Science of Politics”: “ The conscious application of a moral test in the region of politics, not by a few of the more highly-trained minds, but by the general and intuitive apprehensions of the multitude at large, is a growth and attainment coeval with the appearance of what may be characteristically called Christian States.”
Governments are subject to the moral code, and by it they must be, and they are. judged. Servile is that mind and sunk from its high estate, that proclaims the people God, or the king .God, by placing people or ruler above and beyond the rule and sway of morals. Subservient to morals, are 'all men and all institutions and societies of men. In the light of moral obligation and responsibility, governments must look to the end for which they have a place in the economy of man. They are instituted and formed that they, may protect men in the discharge of their duties; that

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	643
they may give order, and security and peace; that life and liberty may be preserved to us and that we may be guarded in our pursuit of happiness— of happiness, physical, intellectual, and moral, of the perfect happiness of the true man. Over this, pursuit government cannot lawfully cast impediments, neither can it place restraints upon it. The right to acquire and possess those material things of this world which are necessary for our physical '' existence and pleasure is inalienable; the right to labor for and enjoy the fruits of the cultured mind, and to train in this pursuit and guide therein our-children, is alike ours; but above all and beyond all, the right to seek our moral happiness in the _ worship of God and in the observance, of the laws of morals, according- to the dictates of a free conscience, is our highest and our greatest right.
These rights all men possess. They are both inherent and inalienable; and for the sake of protection t to them have governments a place in the economyof man. Over them no government has jurisdiction; in our enjoyment of them no government can lawfully interfere., They are necessary to us in our seeking after our end; and for them we can contend even ' to the shedding of blood. ..
Far be it from me to defend the unlimited right ______________	o of revolt. To oppose or resist lawful authority is the greatest crime that man can commit. To overthrow and supplant the existing government of a
I nation is but too often the gravest and most weighty of offences. But as not every revolution, *■ by which name men designate successful rebellion, is morally defensible ; so not every rebellion-is to be condemned as morally wrong. When the tyranny of governments becomes unbearable, when the respectful and earnest appeals for redress and for award of true justice are rejected and unheeded; when the rights that to men should be sacredly held and guarded as dearer than life, are disregarded and the disregard works to them loss and palpable injustice, then may we applaud and approve the efforts of the outraged to redress, by the strong arm, their wrong; and they that fall in such a contest and falling, fail, though the world may brand them as traitors and as rebels, are to us as the unrewarded and yet greater honored heroes of a. noble cause.
For when the governments, passing beyond the . commission that they hold, tamper with the rights of their subjects, then and there is their authority naught. Then and there is their power but that of mere brute force, and no longer to be obeyed and reverenced than the dictates of prudence may require.
r Then is revolt against them no revolt because there their, authority does not- extend. ..
To the Church of. Christ do we owe our deliverance from the servitude of the olden world; to the Church of Christ do we owe the assertion . and defence of the rights of the peoples against ; the tyranny of the rulers. To her do we owe the i origin and acceptance of that philosophical maxim ! which holds that.governments are instituted for t	the sake of the people, and the defence and pro-
I	tectiori of their rights. Since the days when the
1= rulers of this earth turned from the guidance , of
Christian rule; since they strove first to" subject and then to reject the protector of the rights of man, have the nations departed from the correct and saving paths of true liberty and justice. In. practice and. in.action.they have at times returned to the only true and proper rule; but, in theory/ they have clung to the servile doctrine of the supremacy of the temporal, to that doctrine which would .force us to acknowledge power as mangiven and by force imposed.	.
They have rejected those pure and exalted teachings of true wisdom and morals, for which’ the brave and true of the Christian world have suffered and have fought, for which the Pontiffs of Christ’s Church have faced a world, for which they contended against the lust for power of monarchs and of peoples. They scorn to-day to listen to the prophetical warnings of a Leo; and, unwitting thereof, they continue in their willful adherence in their error.	.	-
When the waters of disaffection, of sedition, of revolt break over their feet; when the mutterings of outraged peoples, now estranged from the guid- : ance of true moral teachings by their selfish work, sound in their startled ears, presaging the coming storm; when the outraged rise to the despair of putting words into actions; when communistic outbursts, socialistic agitations, nihilistic revolts overwhelm the lands, turning peoples against their rulers, turning the poor, the outcast, the oppressed against the institutions and the authority of social order, then only do they remember the warnings given of old, and remembering, call for aid. But with order and peace, with success and prosperity returns the desire for license, for freedom from all restraint, and again-the nations forsake-the leader who conducted them through the days of anarchy and of revolt.	,
Cast your eyes abroad over the lands, examples are not far found in the seeking; neither do they number few.' Hardly can we find, if find we can, a nation that has not a long and often bloody roll, to answer to, of violations of the rights of the subject.. Time and occasion favoring, long could we tell of the encroachments that in many lands and in many ages, have been made upon the rights of the subject. But the tale can at least be told of-some of modern days, that are near and most pertinent to us.
When governments usurp the rights of the parent, and attempt to enforce the compulsory attendance of children in the schools of the State, when ’ they assume the place of teacher to the youth of the nation, they tread where their feet will soon walk on the way that leads to national decay and death. They begin a work that will end in the effacing from the minds of the young, the future men and women of the nation, all respect and regard for lawful authority and guidance; all aversion to wrong-doing; all desire and regard for the maintenance of truth for the sake thereof; and all love of and constancy in virtue, for the delight therein to be found. They will raise up a nation, materialistic and without moral guidance; a race of seekers solely for the material things of life. Therefore do we protest daily,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
not only against the mere robbery perpetrated on the means of the citizen by unjust and unequal taxation, but against the still greater robbery from us of our God-given rights over which governments have no control. We exclaim against the slavery of those who will submit to such robbery of their rights; we warn them of the dangerous encroachments they allow the State to make; and we bid them look to it that in the future days they may suffer greater.
When governments step in and attempt to dissolve the bond of marriage, which all civilized nations have concurred in declaring with Christ indissoluble, they may look to it to see the future cursed with worse than Mormon degradation. When in my beloved State in many counties, rural in population, the number of divorces to marriages are grown as high as i in 6, truly the evil day is at hand. Men, to-day, of all and of every shade of belief are realizing the value of the warnings of Mother Church, and it is but yesterday that the Convocation of the P. E. Church for Southern Ohio, called the attention of its people to the alarming growth of this curse of divorce, and urged upon the legislature to strive to restrain the evil. The marriage-tie loosened, the family is destroyed; the family destroyed, the State is among the breakers.
Turn to the repeated interferences with the rights of conscience in every lands. Thank God, we are not now in the days when the authorities of Virginia, after expelling Lord Baltimore—the founder of the first colony in this broad land that adopted the principle of civil equality and equal rights for all men—from their midst as a papist, could write to the Privy Council, begging no Roman Catholic be allowed to come among them. “Among the many blessings and favors for which we are bound to bless God, and which the colony has received from His most gracious Majesty, there is none whereby it hath been made more happy than in the freedom of our religion which we have enjoyed, and that no papists have been suffered to settle their abode amongst us.” Those days are gone, but still even here, in free America, the granting to the inmates of State institutions the rites of their Church by the Legislature of Ohio raised a storm of bigotry such as swept a party from power; and to-day the Legislature of New York refuses to place upon its statute books the legislative endorsement of our inalienable rights.
In other lands we see the feelings of Christen-, dom aroused by the most flagrant violations and infringements of religious liberty. There do .we witness the expulsion from their homes of innocent men and women—successors in their work of those who civilized the modern world, and who preserved for us the blessings of ancient learning and gave us the greater blessing of Christianity— solely because they choose to worship and serve God as their consciences dictated, and to rear the youth entrusted to their charge in secular learning, and in. that, learning that has conquered and civilized the. barbarian world. Yet, forsooth, they must be branded as enemies of the State and corrupters of
the youthful mind. There do we see the imposition of fines, of imprisonment, of penal servitude and consequent death on those, who, obedient subjects, in all things temporal, of the state, in things spiritual, strive to minister to their flocks the consoling rites of Holy Church; aye, even on the professors of the faith do we see the impositions of like severities. Lastly and finally, there do we see the sacrilegious hands of the State placed in robbery, called confiscation., upon those monuments of Christian learning, charity and piety, that our fathers of old reared for their temporal and eternal gain: thus see we them, in utter disregard and violation of the rights of the subject, wrested from their possessors and turned to purposes alien from those their noble founders did desire.
Truly have the rulers of this earth sown the wind, and now they shall reap the whirlwind. The nations have at their bidding thrown over the belief in authority in morals, and to-day they are casting by all regard for authority of states and governments. The communist and the nihilist stand to-day the terror and the curse of civilization. Many and great are the evils of which they may well complain; and the rulers tremble as they see the account that is demanded of them. While little is the sympathy we can entertain for the most of modern governments; less is that which we can extend to those who, by unlawful and secret means, strive to subvert and supplant them. The public tone of the modern European world is such as no true man can approve. It is but the old pagan notion of the temporal supremacy which recognizes in the individual no right which the nation must respect. Whether the rule is that of autocratic Czar or of the Republic that gaily flaunts the banner of that liberty which it can and will never practise, the rights of the subject are in nowise considered. The right of force or of the majority of -numbers to rule despotically and in all things, is a cardinal maxim.
Thankful may we be that in our land, the spirit of liberty breathes. Though too often our people applaud in other lands.deeds and actions of which in ours they would be the first opposers, yet, at least, the theoretical grounds upon which our nation is founded, hold the state but as a minister to, and protector of, the rights of the individual. Here, the rights of minorities are guarded and defended; and the claim of majorities to deprive them of these rights is in principle never admitted. Still much here is to be learned and much here is to be remedied in practice before government recognizes its proper sphere. While in theory our people hold and recognize the independence of the subject, in the domain of conscience, from control of the state, and while our fundamental law. sacredly declares the state in. religion as incapable, yet in practice there still occur violations of which we must complain. Yet thankful may we be that this people of ours is one that is keenly alive to violation.'of right—is even hasty and headstrong in its desire to remedy injustice. The evils of which.we may complain here are such, as come from the adoption—not J in defiance of right, but in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
$45
no desire, to do good and remedy evil—of crude and inconsiderate theories.
The governments of this earth must again listen and take heed to the voice of the teacher of Christianity, as he summoned them—as did his predecessors of old—to be subservient to the rule of morals. They must submit to the acknowledgment of their error, and bow to the dictates of a sound morality and to its rule submit their laws. Then may they see the peoples again return to the reverence and loyalty the fathers practised towards authority, then may they see them offer to the state that obedience and patriotic regard which to it is due.
Grand and glorious is the sphere of government, and its powers are in nowise feeble or circumscribed ! It has the duty to maintain justice between man and man; to combine men into one living body; to develop, strengthen and maintain individual liberty; to protect each and all, even the meanest and the lowest with the force and majesty of the law; to define and protect the right of property; to foster science and art and to advance civilization. After religion, it is God’s best blessing to man, and greatest good upon him bestowed.
But let it carefully abstain from attacking the liberties and rights of the subject—let it not fall into the tyranny, either of the despot or of the mob. Let it respect the subject, and protect and maintain him in his pursuit after happiness, and not infringe and violate his right to the quest thereof. For we hold these truths to be self-evident, “ that all men are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted.”
I have endeavored, brethren, thus briefly to unfold the teachings of a pure and perfect morality on the theme of liberty and authority. The subject is such as would require deeper and more studied thought, and greater time to develop than has been granted to your orator to bestow. But it is one of such transcendant importance that I deemed it not unfitting to address you upon it. The times are out of joint. Epochs may be found in which vice has been more flagrant, more intense and more universal; but never has virtue been so enervated and timid. I deny not the existence of, much good in this world of ours: good that shows itself in many acts, even heroic, of private virtue. It is not'to such I would allude when I speak of the weakness and timidity of virtue. It is the virtue of public life and of public men. Among those who appear on the scenes of public life,- how few can be considered as men of honesty and virtue in their official dealings! And how seldom, in the long tale of corruption and time-serving which the world now tells, do we hear of the honest, manly protest and stand for the truth and for public virtue!
We live, gentlemen, in an age of compromises, of concessions, of failures, of base compliance with everything that bears the appearance of strength. Little do men now know the secret of
true courage; the joy of sacrifice for truth’s sake, and for principle; the delight of danger encountered in a holy cause.
Ours is it, gentlemen, as Alumni of our'dear Alma Materto strive in the world, as we tread our diverse paths, to inculcate the correct and saving principles -which in our youthful days she taught us. Ours is it to stand shoulder to shoulder with those who strive in the contest with error and evil. To aid them by our mental and moral efforts, by the logic of our words and the logic of our actions. So that we may trust in this fair land of ours never to see our liberties weakened or destroyed; never to see true justice vanish from our midst; never to see the loyalty which we now hold toward our country and the obedience we now render her laws, lose their control over our minds and hearts. “But he that will love life,and see good days, let him do good, and seek after peace and pursue it.”
Commencement Week.
Monday.
The exercises of the 39th Annual Commence- . ment were opened on Monday evening, by the ‘ ' members of the Euglossian Association, who ap-pearedin an “Oratorical Contest.” It was held in the Rotunda of the College before a large and appreciative audience. The programme included a choice variety of original essays, declamations and recitations interspersed with music by the Or- ■ chestra and vocalists.
Precisely at eight o’clock, the Orchestra introduced the exercises with Schumann’s beautiful “Traumerei” which it executed with its.usual " skill and brilliancy. On more than one occasion during the year we have spoken of the great excellence of the Orchestra, as manifested when ap-' ' pearing at any public entertainment. As a body, . it has, this year, been superior to any similar organization at Notre Dame for many years. This is due, of course, in a great measure to the fact that the leading members are trained musicians, but no little credit must be given to the able and correct . leadership of Prof. Paul.
When the Orchestra had concluded, Mr. J. j._ Solon stepped forward and spoke at some length . upon the subject of “ State Sovereignty.” . His speech was a forcible plea for the maintenance of. State rights and no doubt he found many sympathizers among the audience. As a piece of oratory, it was an excellent production, delivered -with a fire and energy, which enforced applause ' from the- auditors. Mr. Solon has a good voice, and on this occasion gave evidence of the careful training to which he had been subject during the , -year. The next piece on the programme was musical and was given hy a, double quartette from ‘ the Orpheonic Club. The selection was Foster’s . “ . beautiful song—“ Dreaming the Happy£ Hours
646
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Away.” This piece was rendered several times during the year and always met with the approval of the audience, but on this occasion our vocalists surpassed themselves. The applause which greeted them at the conclusion was loud and prolonged, and were an encore permitted they would certainly have been given one. Mr. J. R. Marlette delivered a recitation entitled “ The Handsomest of all—Mother.” .	It was given with great feeling and power of expres-
sion. Mr. T. J. Flynn’s selection was Longfellow’s exquisite poem—“Day is Done”—which he recited -with good, clear articulation and appropriate modulation of voice. “ Bernardo del Carpio,” presented by Mr. J. P. O’Neill, is a piece which calls for great dramatic force and action, but Mr. O’Neill was fully equal to the occasion and actualized, his subject remarkably well.	'
The “ gem ” of the evening, in the musical line, was the next number—a flute solo, by Mr Delano C. Saviers, with orchestral accompaniment. His selection was a beautiful movement from Les Diamants de la Couronne^ arranged as a fantasie. Mr. Saviers, though young in years, displays great musical ability, and a perfect master}7 over his favorite instrument. His great skill, correctness and taste were shown in the wonderful facility with which the many difficult variations were executed. This number received, as it deserved, great applause; an encore was demanded, which Mr. Saviers gracefully acknowledged, but, according to rule, declined. Messrs. W. J. McCarthy and E. A. Otis followed in recitations, which were -well delivered. That of Mr. McCarthy was presented with that ease and gracefulness of manner, and distinctness of articulation, for which he is so well known at Notre Dame; Mr. Otis’ selection called for greater fire and force of expression, and greater action, which he gave in style, befitting his subject. Masters Johnson and Schott then sang the beautiful duo from “Norma.” It was given with a sweetness of voice and correctness of tone that elicited the admiration of all present. Master. Johnson showed the careful training to which he had during the year subjected his rich soprano voice, while Master Schott showed perfect control over a fine alto voice.
Mr. C. A. Tinley’s oration on “National Greatness ” was a marked feature of the evening exercises. It was delivered with great force and eloquence. Mr. D. C. Saviers displayed to advantage . his literary and elocutionary accomplishments in his recitation of “The Gladiator.” Mr. A. F. Zahm’s humoristic production imparted- a pleasing variety to the programme, and called forth rounds of applause. The closing number was the famous scene from Richard III, in which Richard recounts to Glarence the fearful phantoms, and dreams that haunted him during the night. The king was well presented by Mr. W. S. Cleary, with great . power of voice, and intense and appropriate expres-siom Mri J. B. O’Reilly appeared , as Clarence, and though his character called for little declama* tion, yet- in his collected manner, in the. firmness • . "arid/correct modulation of. voice, he showed the .; power that lay behindj and.which, should the occa
sion demand, would at once be called into action, as many among the audience knew had been done in his representation of « Macbeth.”
And thus ended the Euglossian Entertainment, which, as well expressed' by President Walsh, in his closing remarks, was -the crowning of the series of pleasing and instructive soirees which they have given the students of Notre Dame. Needless to say that it redounds to the credit of the careful and energetic director and instructor, Prof. J. A. Lyons.	"
Tuesday.
Tuesday evening witnessed the presentation of the great feature of the Commencement exer©
cises—the
Greek Play
produced by the Greek classes of the University. Numerous invitations had been sent out by the Hellenists, and in response thereto they were greeted by an appreciative audience,-and one unusually large, considering the early period in the week.
7.30, p. m.,on Tuesday, found Washington Hall in the Academy of Music, filled to its capacity with a bright array of visitors, awaiting, with eager expectancy, the rise of the curtain which was to reveal to their delighted gaze, scenes of old Greece, its manners and customs as portrayed by the master hand of its first of dramatists. Rt. Rev. Dr. Watterson, Bishop of Columbus, occupied the seat of honor, and on either side were Vcry Rev. Father . General, Mgr. Benoit, V. G. of Fort Wayne,.Rev. President Walsh, Very Rev. Father Granger, and others of the clergy. After an ; introductory piece—a selection from II Trova- j tore—by the University Band, Mr. Elmer A. Otis . • appeared before the curtain, and in behalf of the students read an address of welcome to Bishop Watterson, and dedicated to his Lordship the exercises of the evening. When he had concluded, Mr. George E. Clarke delivered an address introductory to the play. He spoke of the aid which the stage at Notre Dame is made to give to the class and lecture-room, and the lessons which the plays as represented are made to teach, finally describing the argument of the Play which was to be . produced. The speech was well delivered, though ; we must say that the extract from “Julius Cassar ” f seemed somewhat out of place. . The curtain was . then rung up and the Play began. The argument of the	-	,	.
'	' ANTIGONE
of Sophocles was described at length to our read- -ers in a. .previous number of the Scholastic. The following brief summarv will serve to give an idea of the plot and salient features of the play.
Eteocles and Polyneikes, sons of the unfortu- _ ate CEdipus, having an equal claim to the king-. dom of Thebes, agreed to reign year by year al- ' ternately; but Eteocles broke. the contract, and piaintained himself in possession. Polyneikes, in re-yenge,. raised “an army of Argians and- attacked Thebes. After great slaughter on both sides,theArgians were repulsed. Both brothers were slain by
.	—’	,	_	-	-	) fl
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
647
each other, in single combat. The kingdom now fell to their uncle Creon, who issued an edict forbidding all rights of sepulture to Polyneikes, as a traitor, and pronouncing death upon any who should dare to bury him. Notwithstanding the penalty attending the inhuman decree, Antigone, Polyneikes’ sister, could not be deterred from bestowing the last rites upon the body of her unfortunate brother. Being detected in the act, she was sentenced by the tyrant, her uncle, to imprisonment in a cave, there to perish with' hunger. Hiemon, son of Creon, the betrothed husband of Antigone, failing to persuade his father to arrest the cruel mandate, slew himself.. Creon’s wife, Eurydike, in a fit of frenzy at the death of her son, put an end to her existence, leaving the unnatural tyrant to a fruitless remorse for his rigor and injustice.
This brief argument may serve to show that the drama abounds in passages which call into exercise great dramatic force and action. The following was the .
Cast of Characters:
Antigone...............................F.	A. Quinn
Ismene..............................W.	J. O’Connor
Creon........................;........A. F. Zahm
Hiemon...............................M.	E. Donohue
Teiresias.........................................J. J.	Molloy-
Guard................................... W.	S.	Cleary
First Messenger...................................N. H.	Ewing
Second Messenger..................................T. E.	Steele
Eurydike............................ F.	W. Gallagher
Choragos...............................  M.	T.	Burns
Herald.....t.........................S.	J. Dickerson
Mythermeneus......................................J. R.	Peters
Attendants on Antigone,	j	‘ -I'
0	(	F. R. Johnson
Attendants on Ismene,	5	Geo. H. Schaeffer
(Jos. S. Courtney
Attendants on Creon,
Attendants on Eurydike, “Helikiotes” with Hiemon
{J. M. Livingston i Eugene A. Dillon ‘	( H. D. Hibbeler
{J. A. Devine ................G. H. Smith
Boy Attendant on Teiresias..
Sentinels with Phylax,
.....W. D. Henry fW. W. Gray I R. Fitzgerald ; J. A. McIntyre (^C. Kaufman
'J. F. Fendrich’ Jos. F. Kahman * T. F. Ryan -
J. F. Nester
Old Men:
“ Threnetie” for Antigone,
Chorus of Theban
M. T.	Burns,	.
E. A. Otis,	W. H. Arnold,
M. S. Foote,	H. G. Foote,
L. G. Gibert,	'	E. I. Wile,
J. W. Guthrie,	A. P. Coll,
1. P. Keller,	F. E. Kuhn,
J. P. O’Neill,	W-. E. Ruger,
J. F. G.rever,	J. M. Murphy,
D. C; Saviers,	J- J- Gallagher.
The characters in the drama were all well taken, and with such expression, voice and action, as almost to obviate the necessity of a libretto, at least for one acquainted,with the plot. The music of the choruses was the composition of B. Anselm, Prof, of Vocal Music; it was well rendered, and formed a leading feature of the representation. . The^cos-tumes were designed by Signor Luigi Gregori, Professor of Historical Painting, and were both beautiful and appropriate, " ’
The play was a great success, as evidenced by the attention, of the audience from beginning to end. Too much praise cannot be given to all who took part. The roles were carefully memorized, and enacted with becoming spirit; and without a break the drama proceeded until the close. The last act was a beautiful tableau, representing the chorus surrounding the dead Antigone, Hsemon, . and Creon, with appropriate music by the chorus.
When all-was over, Bishop Watterson arose and addressed the performers; congratulating them on the success of their efforts, thanking.them fortheir dedicatory address, and admonishing them to continue ever to be an honor tortheir Alma Mater.
The Class of ’83 may well feel proud of their work. They have rivalled ’82 in their drama, and though the latter have the credit of produ cing the first Greek play in the West,-yet ’83 has the distinction of publishing the first Greek libretto— a work entirely their own, the type-setting of the Greek having been done by the Professor and ' members of the class during their free hours. We cannot forbear saying that the principal credit is due to the untiring energy and painstaking care of Rev. Father Stoffel, Professor of Greek.
Wednesday.	..
We have been obliged, owing rto the long list ’ of premiums, to defer until our next issue a detailed account of all the proceedings on Wednesday.
At 8 a. m. the Alumni Mass was celebrated-by Rev. President Walsh, with Rev. James J. Quinn, ’82, as deacon, and Rev. John P. Quinn as. subdeacon. At 9.30 the corner-stone of New Science Hall was laid, with appropriate ceremonies, by Rt. Rev. Bishop . Watterson.	-
At 10.30 the boat-race came off on St. Joseph’s . Lake, and resulted in an easy victory for the “ Whites,” owing to an accident which occurred to the boat of the “ Blues,” early in the race. Athletic sports were the order of the afternoon. _	"
At 6.30 the exercises of the evening were held in Washington Hall, according to the following programme:	,
Grand Opening March................-N. D. U- C. B.
Overture, Lustspiel..................Orchestra
Oration of the Alumni..............John G- Ewing
" DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Flute Solo—“ Les Diamants de la Couronne ” D. C- Saviers -	Accompanied by Orchestra.
IVth Act Julius Ciesar........ C. A. Tinley, G. E. Clarke
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Operetta...Orpheonic Society and University Orchestra (Arranged by Bro. Anselm, C. S. C-, Director.)
Music..............-.........-.......Orchestra
Essay....... A......... .v.......W. J. 'McCarthy
Oration.......................... — - -RP. O’Neill
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—SENIOR DEPARTMENT. Music................’— .....-.....N. D. U. C. B.
THE ORATION OF THE ALUMNI,
by Mr. John G., Ewing,’77, of Lancaster, Ohio, was a scholarly production. We are glad to be able to present it to our readers^ Mr. Ewing took for his theme	.
“LIBERTY-AND AUTHORITY,”	_
and with characteristic force and eloquence presented his subject. His speech was received with great applause.	-	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WE SCHOtJSIK
Notre Dame, June 21, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends hat have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
at the bidding and with the blessing of their Alma, Mater, to do their duty in the work for which they had prepared themselves. For others—and the greater number—to-day does but mark the beginning of a period of rest, after which to return and continue and perfect the work of preparation upon which they have entered. For all, the day has its lessons which have been brought home to their minds and hearts by those vet erans in life’s warfare, who, themselves having arone forth from classic halls of learning, know so well the advice best suited to those leaving college,
O	0	7
as well as to those contemplating a return to engage further in the quest of knowledge.
We, of the Scholastic, do most heartily wish all and each of the Class of ’83 a God-speed in the pursuits in which they are about to engage. And as we have reached the term' of our year’s work, we express our heartfelt thanks to all who have, interested themselves in the success of our little journal and have in any way co-operated with us in our labors. And to all who now go forth from Notre Dame, we would say; as you will never forget your Alma Mater, think, too, of her Scholastic. Amid the busy cares of life, it will be a pleasing reminder of your college days, and will often serve to arouse fond recollections of many an incident of a youthful and happy period. And so,
Good-by!
Our Staff.
Geo. E. Clarke, ’83.
Albert F. Zahm, ’83.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
Wm. H. Arnold, ’83.
R. M. Anderson, ’83.
J. Larkin (Law),’83.
—The next number of the Scholastic will appear on the 28th inst. It will contain reports of the exercises on Thursday, with the Valedictory and Oration of the Day ; also full reports of the proceedings on Wednesday which were unavoidably crowded out of this number.
—We return our sincere thanks to the excellent typos and the printers generally for the kindty interest taken in the preparation and issuing of this special number. We take this opportunity also to express our gratitude for the many. kind offices which we have experienced at the hands of the good inmates of the Printing-office on more than one occasion during the year just passed.
—’83’s Commencement Day has at length come. For not a few it is a veritable commencement, . inasmuch as it marks the beginning of their.career in that great battle of life in which each and everyone must, in some way or another engage. And, indeed, their college life was but the periQd of preparation for this great day—the day upon which, Tully, equipped, they go forth,
Gregori’s New Mural Painting.
“ The Planting of the Cross.”
Beautiful is Notre Dame! The stately avenues leading to her gates, her crystal fountains sparkling in the summer sun, her velvet sward and myriad flowerets, her lakes encircled by primeval trees, her silent walks and shady dells awaken the sense of the beautiful in every heart. But these arc mainly natural beauties; within her walls, classic with the learning of an American half century,• we find enjoyment in the highest forms of art. Prof. Gregori, as we all know, is engaged upon a series of historical paintings taken from scenes in the life of Christopher Columbus. Of these, we are confident, none will prove of more interest and merit than the one lately exposed to-view which pictures the formal taking possession of the new Continent. For the benefit of the many friends of Notre Dame who, cannot be with us at Commencement we will attempt a brief description of the historical scene presented in this work of art.	-	.	'	'	„
- . At noon, on Friday, Oct. 12, 1492, Columbus and his fellow voyagers landed on the Island of San Salvador. The Voyage for all had been a trying one. The great admiral himself had suffered acutely. Many of his officers had turned against him, and the great number of sailors had begun to. despair of ever returning to Spain. But when land was discovered, what varying- emotions
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
649
must have taken possession of their souls! The life-dream of the great Columbus was realized; his officers saw themselves in the near future governors and princes; and the common sailors, lately the outcasts of society, found themselves secure and the future opening more brightly than j they had ever dared to hope. They found the coun-1 try inhabited by strange but harmless savages who । regarded them .with wonder and admiration.
The picture, then, though it has other beauties, J	seems to us peculiarly interesting as a study of ex-
|	pressions. In the foreground stands the great
|	Columbus, clad in a scarlet mantle. His hat is
1	lying at his feet, and by him stands the huge
■	cross he has just erected. His face is turned in
’	thankful joy to heaven, while his lips mayhap
:	are murmuring the beautiful prayer he has made
so famous. Behind him wave the standard of the cross, and the joined ensigns of Aragon and Castile. At his feet is the workman who has hewn the rude cross from the virgin forest: near him, ensigns in hand, are the Pinzons, brothers and fellow-commanders under Columbus; and by himself, a little further on is Amerigo Vespuci, whose name the great Continent was one day to bear. In the distance is the Green Ocean and the high masts of the three illustrious vessels. Soldiers and.sailors are hurrying to the front and gazing with admiring wonder on their famous captain. On either side, the natives are congregated in positions suited to their varying expressions. They are evidently timid and inclined to fly, but are fascinated to the spot by the wonders that encompass them. They are a simple, ignorant people, with none of the energy of the. MoundBuilders, with none of the grand civilization of the Aztecs, with none of the deep religious feeling which sees in nature the direct manifestation of the Deity and prepares a submissive people for a God-taught Hiawatha. We have referred to the painting as a study of expressions. We recognize at once the lofty piety of Columbus, the sim-pie reverence of the sailors, the fearful curiosity of the natives, and the miserable envy of those whose petty fears and hates cause them to hope . the expedition may prove disastrous. There are besides minor touches that anyone will recognize as wonderfully true to nature. The expression on the boy who, axe in hand, is at the feet of Columbus; the cavalier, who is ready to restrain any cries from the natives at his side, and the moving crowd of Spaniards who are hurrying from the sea-shore, are prominent examples. The grouping is remarkably well done, and the prospect, as in the companion pictures, is all that could be desired. More of the painting we are.not competent to say, except to notice the great thought it recalls to our mind. The historical exactness of Professor Gregori has always added to the charm of his work; and he has moreover ever seized upon the most striking events in the life of his illustrious hero. For . it should be remembered, and may the painter and the poet proclaim it throughout the land, that' the discoverer of America was a Roman Catholic; that he came first of all as a missionary of the
Catholic Church, and, at his landing, above the flag of any nation or the arms of any king, proudly floated (God be thanked !)-the ensign of the Cross.
' T. E. S.
Memory and Understanding’-
ll has been said that the faculty' of memory is not unlike the stomach in some particulars. Whatever is received by it becomes useful only after.it has passed through a process of digestion and been assimilated. And, in like manner, the facts received by the memory must be assimilated by the understanding. Many distinguished men afford examples that vindicate the correctness of this view. Not long since, one of our most noted' orators stated that he never memorized as many as 100 words of any poem, speech, or literary production. He declared it to be practically impossible for him to do so.
On the other hand, many comparatively obscure men, and persons distinguished by no special, freshness or strength of original thought, memorize with comparative ease, and recite page after page of the poems and dramatic writings that they have read. Actors are particularly endowed in this direction, and yet they exhibit no special brilliancy or power when off the stage. In connection with the pursuits of every-day life, and in emergencies calling for the exhibition of vigor and depth of thought, the great majority of them are commonplace enough. Impartial observation leaves no doubt that inability to memorize readily should not be regarded as an indication of mental obtuseness. In fact, great originality appears to be incompatible with dependence upon memory. Those who make it a practice to repeat what others say can seldom hope to have noteworthy sayings as-' cribed to themselves.	'
The great authors and orators of antiquity, as well as those who have since distinguished them-” selves in new lines of thought, manifest peculiar warmth in expression and originality in their views. Thev exhibit vigor of intellect and thoroughness of acquaintance with the subjects they discuss. Besides, they very seldom reproduce the opinions of others. They have but very few quotations. They do not appear to have had in their respective fields forerunners of merit from whom they could consistently or profitably' quote. But that does not. detract from the interest and value of. their productions. As a matter of fact, a person may’- have’a memory as well stored with quotations as was that of Burton, the noted “ crank,” who wrote the “ Anatomy of Melancholy,” and yet exhibit surprising narrowness and poverty of original thought. He may be totally wanting in the fervor of independent thought and originality. It may be accepted as a rule that those who are most quoted from’as authorities in the elucidation of principles, thoughts ’ and opinions, quoted least from their own contemporaries and forerunners.	. .	?
In this connection it may bg. well .to. radd that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
many teachers go too far in requiring students to memorize their lessons rather than understand them. Learners should be directed to habits of thought rather than to an actor-like readiness to memorize for parrot-like purposes of utterance. The most successful instructors undertake to teach thoroughly at first the facts’ and principles that constitute the basis of an education; and upon these they subsequently build, training the memory,1 the imagination, and the reasoning faculty. They seek not only to teach, but also to train the mind to the reception of instruction.
They seek to put a check upon discursive mental habits,' and make the mind assimilate and retain the instruction imparted to it. “To educate,” according to Plato, “ consists in giving to the body and the soul all the perfection of which they are susceptible.” Education also consists in drawing out the fullest possible manifestation of the powers of the- mind and developing its resources. And to do this it is essential that habits of thought and ability to understand should be cultivated and encouraged rather than ability to memorize dry and comparatively unimportant rules and principles. Less attention should be given to overburdening the memory with indigestible facts than to teaching how to think, understand, and reason. A ready memory is less important than -a vigorous and profound understanding.
Local Items.
—Good-by!'
—'Rah! 'Rail! 'Rah! Nostra Domina.
—Numerous visitors throng the premises.
—The weather is all that could be desired.
—The Greek play was a complete success.
—Cleary surpassed himself in Richard III.
—The Rotunda was tastefully decorated for the contest.	-
—The “Blues” shipped a rudder, and so Jost the race.
—Shickey and his men have been kept busy this week.
—The carpenters are busy on the wood-work of the Dome.
—Several diplomas and medals have been granted for Elocution.	-
• —The St. Cecilia Philomathean diplomas are the'finest we have seen.
.—The teachers of the young “Princes” wish their pupils a happy vacation.
—We have been obliged to let the “Personals” go over until the next number.	'
—An unusually large number of old boys are in attendance at Commencement.	,
—The “ Grotto of Lourdes,” near the Presbytery, has been beautifully fixed up.
—The “ Princes” regret that this is Commencement day. No chance for .“rec!”	:
—The new tableau of the “old boys” in the St. Cecilians’ room is a fine work of art. , ; '
—Our Advice to Next Year’s Staff:— Go for that cement walk, and you’ll be happy.
—The Knights of St. Edward fitted up St. Cecilia Hall in grand style for their closing meeting.
—The Juniors’ refectory was ornamented with rich hangings on the occasion of the Alumni Banquet.
:—Col. Elmer Otis, U. S. A., has the thanks of the Juniors for kind donations to their readingroom.
—The St. Cecilians return thanks to B. Simon,-steward, and B. Bruno, refectorian, for favors received.
—The Euglossian^Philomathean, Philopatrian, Sorin, and Temperance Societies wore beautiful badges.
—Master Charles Porter, of the Junior department, has our thanks for kind assistance during the Commencement.
.—Gregori’s new Mural painting is an object of admiration to the numerous visitors. A critique appears in our editorial columns.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson delivered a fine discourse at the laying of the corner-stone of Science Hall, yesterday morning.
—The presence of such a large number of visitors encouraged our baseballists to put in their best work and give a good game.
—The St. Cecilians and Philopatrians were photographed on Monday last, from the steps of the College, by Bonney, of South Bend.
—We regret that fuller reports of yesterday’s proceedings could not be inserted in this issue, but next week’s number will make up for the deficiency.
—The fifth and last game of ball for the championship yesterday afternoon, resulted in a well-earned victory for the “ Whites.” Score, 14 to 11.
—The Sorin badges were tastefully gotten up. The President of the Knights' of St. Edward deserves credit for the good taste displayed in the selection.
----The fourth game of ball in the championship series was played Tuesday- afternoon, on the Seniors’ Campus, and was won by the « Whites.” Score 17 to 20.
—Lost:—A valuable onyx stone, ornamented with a golden R and diamond setting. The finder will please return to Father Maher, and will be . suitably rewarded. -
—Thanks to the President, Professors and students of the University of King’s College, “Windsor,. N. S., for a kind invitation to a converzatione in Convocation Hall, Wednesday, June 27th.
—Several of‘the young Princes will pass their vacation at Notre Dame. They will have two hours’ class every day. The rest of the time they will be free to enjoy themselves as they please.
—One of the paintings in the Columbus.series which Sig. Gregori has just finished is “The Dis-covery of Land.” It is the generous donation of Prof. J. A. Lyons, who in this has given another -evidence of the interest which he has ever, taken in all that concerns Notre Dame.	_
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The examinations closed Tuesday at noon. In the afternoon, about four o’clock, the averages were read in the Rotunda of the College, with appropriate remarks by Rev. President Walsh. Lack of space obliges us to defer the publication of the examination averages to our next issue.
—On Tuesday afternoon, at five o’clock, Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson administered the Sacrament of Confirmation to a class of twenty-five. The assistant priests were Rev. Fathers ‘Walsh, Franciscus, and McNamara. After the ceremony, the Bishop delivered a beautiful and impressive discourse on the Sacrament.
—Very Rev. Father General has given his young Princes a beautiful little Crib which was presented to him by a Carmelite nun in Paris. The Princes have placed the precious souvenir in their study-hall near the beautiful statue of the Holy -Infant which their beloved Patron also brought them from Paris a few years ago.
—The closing meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic -Association was held on Tuesday the 19th, in St. Edward’s Hall. The president complimented the members on the progress they had made in debating, declaiming, etc., but, above all, in the regularity* with which the meetings were attended, and the decorum which marked their conduct during the entire vear.
—The libretto of the Antigone has been dedicated to Very Rev. Father Sorin. The dedication bears the following inscription taken from the Antigone:	.
rt Y,lp	bd/.'/.mm^ sbz/.sia.'S TzZ>tn .
- aYaitia 7j ti ~pb<? -aidwz -arp'.:
. “ What can be
A nobler prize of honor for the son
Than a sire’s glory, or for sire than son ? ”
—--Very Rev. Father General addressed the 83 -young Princes in St. Edward’s Hall, on Tuesday. The subject of his discourse was the manner in which he wished his Minims to' conduct themselves during vacation. The good advice of the Very Rev. speaker made a deep impression upon his youthful hearers. .The Princes wish their loving Patron an affectionate good-by until next September.	-
—In preparing to produce the Antigone, the students of Notre Dame procured the necessary Greek type and cases, and set up the matter of. the text themselves. As a means of making them familiar with the language, we have no doubt this exercise was worth months of study. Besides that, it was a good introduction to the business of typesetting, which, if need be, they can turn to account hereafter.—-Ypsilanti Sentinel.	-	.
—Father General presided at the examination of the Minims. The board of examiners consisted - of Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Fathers Granger, Fninciscus and Giles. There .were also, present Professor Gregori, Mr. J. Fenlon, and a number . of the parents and friends, of’ the .Minims. Al- though the examination is al ways, rather, a severe ordeal, the“Princes” answered with an ease and
intelligence which showed that they had well employed the ten months that they have* spent at Notre Dame.
—On Sunday a. m., the long-talked of game by. the Hardly Ables ” against the “ Hobbledehoys ” came off with great eclat, immediately after breakfast. In addition to the list already given, Messrs. Dolan and Steele constituted the first club. The “ Hobbledehoys” were-captained by Otis Spencer, and included Messrs. Delgado, Branigan, Saviers. and other crack players of the yard. At the close of the first inning, the “Hobs” were far ahead, and no doubt was entertained of their success; but in the second inning, by the substitution of McIntyre or Larkin as pitcher, and the retirement of the centrefielder, the “Hardly Ables” commenced a brilliant run, which left the score at the close of the 5th inning 9 to 7. McIntyre is about to issue a pamphlet entitled “ How to Score Batters, or, What I Know About Pitching.”- Gallagher, umpire. Time, 1.30.	.
■ —The Annual Picnic of the Senior department-came off on Thursday last, and proved to be an immense success. The students, one-hundred and fifty strong, marched in procession from the College to the neighboring woods where all spent a delightful day. Rev. Father Toohey presided at the grand dinner, which consisted of all the delicacies of the season. Cigars and lemonade were distributed in the greatest profusion during the en- • tire day, and at five o’clock a supper (or rather a second dinner) with ice-cream, strawberries, etc., was served. The day was delightfully pleasant iir the wood, though we understand at the College it seemed very sultry. About eight o’clock all returned in the greatest good humor. Bro. Paul, of course, deserves the lion’s share of praise for making the-day-so signal a success; but he received no little aid from his lieutenants, Messrs. Morse and O’Neill. The thanks of the students are also due to Bro. Emmanuel for a box of lemons which proved a grateful and not inexpensive present. Messrs. J. B. O’Reilly, H. Morse, W. Ruger, S. . Pillars, F. Grever, F. Monaghan, J. Gallagher, M. Thompson, and W. Muhlke made an efficient com-mitte of arrangements, and by their efforts added not a little to the pleasure of the occasion.
—-Last Sunday, about 135 Juniors, accompanied by their Prefects, enjoyed a very pleasant trip to St. Joseph’s Farm. The day was a beautiful one, and never did a party of boys enjoy themselves , more than on this occasion, as. evidenced by the laughing, joking, and singing carried on during-the journey. The roads were good and not dusty, .and as for the scenery, it is needless to speak, as everyone has heard of the beautiful hills, valleys, ’ rivulets, etc., of Northern Indiana. The conveyances arrived on the picnic grounds at 10.30 a. m., and preparations were- at once made for fishing, and hunting expeditions, which were entered into , with great zest. At 1 p. m., a sumptuous dinner was served up by the kind Sisters, and -'everybody partook heartily of the feast set before .them. ' Unfortunately for all, at about three o’clock it be
■652	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gan to rain, and preparations were made for a start home. On the way everyone got drenched, thus somewhat dampening the pleasure of the day; . still the trip was very much enjoyed by all, and a well-satisfied set of boys returned home. A vote of thanks was tendered to Rev. Father Walsh, Bros. Leander, Lawrence and Thomas.
—The twenty-fifth annual banquet of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association at Notre Dame University took place June 12th, with the President of the Association, Prof. J. A. Lyons, in charge. Many invited guests were present, among them members of the University, Faculty, students of the Senior department. Rev. Father Giles, of Brooklyn, N. Y.; Rev. Father O’Brien, of St. Louis; Bev. Father Oechtering, of Mishawaka. Col. ex-Mayor Tong, Rev. Father Hagerty, and Mr. Aaron Jones. Very Rev. Father General Sorin, who had just returned from his fortieth trip over the . seas, presided at the banquet. The room was neatly decorated for the occasion. The tables were laden with good things, which were discussed by the large company with great relish. An hour spent in this pleasurable manner was followed by a season of after-dinner speeches, in response to a number of toasts offered by Prof. Lyons, acting as toastmaster, with two members of the society as assistants. The speeches were all excellent and received by the students with every manifestation of delight, each one being applauded to the echo. Following this, one of the lads confronting Prof. Lyons began reading a poetical address. This being out of the usual order of things, the Professor endeavored to look stern, and waived his hand authoritatively toward the reader as if to put a stop to the proceedings. But the young man paid no heed to the Professor’s signals of warning, and kept on with his address, at the eJose of which three others of the society stepped forward and presented Prof. Lyons with a beautiful silver service, in honor of the event. The Professor was completely overcome by the surprise, and.ventured only to thank the boys briefly for the gift, saying he would finish his speech of acknowledgment at some future time.—Chicago Times.
Premiums.
•	SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Anderson, R. M.—Accessit in General Physics; Premium in Mechanics.
Armijo, J. C.—Accessit for Violin.
Ashford, T.—2d Premium.in 1 st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th German; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 1 st Accessit in 1st United States History; Accessit in Elocution; 2d Premium in
■ Penmanship. ~	■
Arnold W. H.—1st Accessit in Moral Philosophy.
Austin, H. L.—Premium in Elocution.
Black, T. P.—Accessit in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Penmanship; 1 st Accessit in Artistic Drawing.
Bailey, E.—4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Brady, J. J-—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in ist Book-Keeping.	.
Burns, M. T.—ist Accessit in 2d Greek; Premium in 'Elocution.	.
Burk, J.—2d Premium in 2d Algebra; 4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Burk, V.—2d Accessit in 2d Geometry.	'
Buchanan, E.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; 1st Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in 3d .Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d BookKeeping; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Banigan, J. J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Carroll, J. T.—2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Carroll, C. E.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Ac-cessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Cleary, W. S.—Premium in 3d Greek; istPiemium in English Literature; 2d Accessit in Criticism; 3d Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.	,
Clarke, G- E.—2d Accessit in 2d Latin; 2d Accessit in Logic.
Coghlin, A.—Premium in ist Geometry; ist Premium in Modern History; ist Premium in Ancient History; 2d Premium in English Literature; 3d Accessit in Botany; ist Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Coghlin, W.—ist Accessit in Rhetoric.
Conway, J.—ist Accessit in 6th Latin; 2d Accessit in Zoology; Premium in Junior Course of Law; Premium in Elocution.
Celia, L.—ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in istUnited States History; ist Premium in Phonography.
Campbell, W.—3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Accessit in Telegraphy.
Clements, G.—ist Accessit in ist Orthography.
Chelini, E. V.—5th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Coll, A.—Premium in Elocution.
Delaney, Jno.—5th Premium in Penmanship.
Donohoe, M. J.—Premium in Moral Philosophy; Premium in Mineralogj’; Accessit in Mechanics.
Drover, H.—3d Accessit in ist Grammar; ist Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Delgado, H.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium in English Translation; 2d Accessit in Artistic Drawing.
Dickerson, S. J-—3d Accessit in ist Algebra; ist Accessit in 4th Latin: ist Accessit in 3d Greek; ist Accessit in English Literature; Accessit for Flute.
Eisenhauer, J.—Premium for Violin: ist Premium in Penmanship.	’
Ewing, N. H.—Premium in 2d Latin; Premium in 2d Greek; 2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; Premium in Logic: Premium in Criticism: 2d Accessit in Botany; ist Premium in 2d Physics; ist Accessit in 2d Chemistry.
Fitzgerald, H.—Premium in Elocution.
Flynn, T.—2d Premium in Modern History: Premium in Elocution; ist Accessit in 3d German.
Flynn, J.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Fenlon, T.—2d Accessit in ist Algebra; ist Accessit in 5th Latin; ist Accessit in Trigonometry.
Fenlon, E.—ist Accessit in ist Algebra; 2d Accessit in Trigonometry; Premium in'Vocal Music; Premium in 2d French; 3d Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Fenton, J.—2d Accessit in ist Orthography; 3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in Christian Doctrine. .
Fleming, R. E.—Premium in 5th Latin; Premium in Mineralogy.
Farrell, J. E.—ist Accessit in Modern History; ist Accessit in English Literature. .
Freese, F.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic.	'
Freeman, J.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d German. , '
Gallagher, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Gray, W. W.—Premium in'3d Latin; 2d Accessit in 6th Greek; 2d Accessit in General -Geometry and Calculus; 2d Premium in 2d Physics;-2d Premium in 2d Chemistry.
Grever, F.—Premium in Physiology; 4th Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution; ist Premium in Rhetoric. .	.	.
Golonski, A.—Premium in Telegraphy
Guthrie, J.—ist Accessit in 4th German; ist Accessit in Modern History; 2d Accessit in Surveying; Accessit in Elocution; ist Premium in Phonography; 2d Accessit in Christian Doctrine. .	. -
/ Godfrey, F.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; ist Accessit
in 2d Orthography.	.	:
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Grout, A.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Galernean, P.—ist Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Pre--mium in 2d Arithmetic.
Garrett, C.—ist Accessit in ist Grammar.	,
Heffernan, Jno.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; ist Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; Premium in Telegraphy; ist Accessit in Phonography.
Heffernan, Jas.—2d Premium in Modern History; ist Premium in Ancient History.
Harris, E.—3d Accessit in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Jones, A.—Accessit in Elocution.
Johnston, W. H.—2d /Yccessit in English Literature; 2d Premium in Surveying; Premium in Astronomy; ist Accessit in Zoology.
Kleiber, Jno.—3d Accessitin ist Grammar; ist Accessit in ist Arithmetic; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 8th Latin.
Keller, J. P.—4th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist United States History; ist Accessit in English Composition; ist Premium in Vocal Music; ist Premium in Penmanship.
Kolars, C. C.—Premium in 5th Latin; ist Premium in Surveying; Premium in Trigonometry; Premium in Junior Course of Law; Premium in Elocution; ist Accessit in Christian Doctrine.	‘
Kohler, A.—2d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Kuhn, F. E.—2d Premium in Ancient History; ist Accessit in Geology; Accessit in General Physics; 4th Accessit in Vocal Music.
Kavanagh, L.—2d Premium in ist United States History.
•	Keegan, W. P.—2d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Kaufmann, C.—ist Accessit in ist Reading; ist Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in Vocal Music; ist Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Larkin, J. C.—2d Accessit in Mental Philosophy.
Lally, T. B.—Premium in Elocution; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Murphy, J. M.—2d Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Molloy, Jno.—2d Accessit in ist Greek; 2d Accessit in
■ Moral Philosophy,
McCarthy, W. J.—Premium in Mental Philosophy; 3d
Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.	■
McCarthy, W. H.—2d Accessit in ist Geometry; ist Premium in Ancient History; Premium in Botany; 3d Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
McCabe, J. J.—ist Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Monoghan, F.—Accessit in Telegraphy. -McErlaine, G.—Accessit in Phonography.
Marlett, J.—Premium for Violin; Premium in Elocution.
Muhlke, W.—ist Premium in Phonography.
Mullen, E.—2d Accessit in Special Arithmetic; ist Accessit in 2d German; 2d Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Murdock, C.—2d Premium in ist Algebra; Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Christian Doctrine.	,
Murdock, S.—3d Accessit in Vocal Music; Accessit for Piano.
McIntyre, Jno.—ist Premium in 4th Latin; ist Accessit in General Geometry and Calculus; ist Accessit in Mineralogy; ist Accessit in 2d Physics; 2d Premium in 2d Chemistry; 3d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Magoffin, J. W.—Premium in Spanish; Premium in Vocal Music.	.
Morse, H.—2d Accessit in Ancient History; Accessit in Elocution.
McNamara, T.—3d Accessit in ist Orthography; 2d Accessit in ist Grammar.
McNamara, J.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit. in ist Geography.	.
Morris, P. R.—ist, Accessit in.2d Grammar.
Martin, W.—Premium, in 2d Orthography.
Mathers, L.—3d Accessit in Trigonometry.
Noble, H.—Premium in Elocution.	.
Neeson, J.—Accessit in Telegraphy.	•
Newman, R.—4th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 4th Algebra.
Ott, E.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premi-in ist,Geography; 4th Premium in ist United States History; 2d Premium in 2d'Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
O’Dea, M.—ist Premium in ist Grammar: 3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Bookkeeping; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Orchard, W. C.—4th Accessit in ist Arithmetic4th.Premium in ist Geography; 3d Accessit in ist United States History.
O’Connor Wm.J.—Premium in ist Latin; 2d Accessit in ist Greek ist Accessit in French. -
O’Neil, J. P.—Premium in English History; 2d Premium in Ancient History; 2d Accessit in Geology; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; ist Accessit in ist Christian DocL
Otis, E. A.—Premium in 3d Latin; ist Accessit in 6th Greek; Premium in General Geometry and Calculus; ist Premium in .id Physics; ist Premium in 2d Chemistry'; Premium in Elocution.	"
O’Reilly, J.—ist Premium in 6th Latin; ist Accessit in Physiology,	-
Porter, H.-ist Accessit in Modern History; ist Accessit in Surveying; Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Parrott, R.—4th Accessit in ist Geography.
Pillars, S.—3d Accessit in Vocal Music; 2’d Accessit in Penmanship; Accessit in Telegraphy.	'
Peters, J.—ist Accessit in Vocal Music.
Quinn, F.—ist Accessit in ist Latin; ist Accessitin ist Greek; 2d Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Rogers, J.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in ist Grammar;.4th. Premium in ist Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in ist BookKeeping.
Ruger, W.—4th Accessit in ist Geography; Accessit for Piano; Accessit in Telegraphy.
Ryan, W.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in Penmanship.
Rudge; J. E.—ist Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Steele, T. E.—ist Accssit in 2d Latin; 2d Accessit in in 2d Greek; ist Accessit in Logic; ist Accessit in Criticism; 2d Accessit in Astronomy; 2d Premium in 2d Physics; ist Accessit in 2d Chemistry.
Scholfield, B.—ist Accessit in ist Arithmetic;. Accessit in Elocution.	.
Spencer, O. B.—Premium in Elocution; ist Premium in Penmanship.
Smith; C. L.—4th Accessit in ist Arithmetic.
Smith, G. H.—3d Accessit in Ancient History; 2d Premium in 4th Latin; Premium in 6th Greek; Accessit iii Elocution.
Saviers, D. C.—Premium for Flute; Premium in Elocution; zst Accessit in ist Geometry; 2d Accessit in 3d German ; Premium in Zoology; 2d Premium in Ancient History; ist Accessit in Botany.	.
Solon,. J.—2d Accessit in 4th Latin.
Tinley, C.—ist Accessit in Astronomy; ist Accessit inMental Philosophy; 3d Premium in ist Christian Doct.
Twohig, J.—4th Accessit in ist Grammar; 4th Accesit ' in ist United States Hi.-tory.
Witwer, E.—4th Accessit in ist Grammar; 3d Premiumin ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in. 3d Algebra; ist Accessit in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 2d' Accessitin ist United States History; 2d Accessitm Vocal Music.
.Whalen, W.—2d Premium in ist . Grammar; ist Premiumin ist Arithmetic;.3d Accessit in 4th German; 2d. Premium in ist Book-Keeping.
Whitman, H.—Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in 8th Latin; ist Premium in Phonography. ’	.
Wall, A. J.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Premium in 5th.German.	,
Warren, W.—4th Accessit in istGrammar; 3d Accessit in ist Geography; 5th Premium in ist Book-keeping;.3d; Premium in ist United-States. History; ad Premium. .in Penmanship.	.	.
654	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Wheatly, F.—3d Accession 2d Geometry; Premium in Telegraphy.
Wendel, A.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Yrisarri, E. 1st Premium in 2d Algebra; Premium in Elocution; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Zahm, A.—2d Accessit in 1st Latin; Premium in 1st Greek; Premium in Geology; Premium in General Physics.
Zahnle, J.—2d Premium in Artistic Drawing.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Armijo, D.—Premium in 3d Geography.
Arnold, B.—3d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 4th Grammar; Accessit in Vocal Music: 1st Accessit in 5th German.
Adler, A.—Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Bauerinan, E.—2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Brice, F.—5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Browne, A.—2d Accessit in 6th Latin'; 2d Accessit in Rhetoric; Premium for Public Reading.
Berthelet, W.—3d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 6th Accessit in 3d German; 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading; Premium in-Telegraphy.	,
Bacon, W.—1 st.Accessit in 4th Algebra; 3d Accessit in 1 st Book-Keeping; 1st Accessit in Special Arithmetic.
Bush, J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in Elocution; Accessit in Penmanship. -
Brewster, A.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; xst Accessit in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in United States History.	.
Braunsdorf, W.—3d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Curtis, F.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography; 2d Accessit in 1st United States History; xst Premium in 5th German.	' -	.'
Crawford, J.—2d Accessit in Vocal Music.
Cassily, T.—5th Premium in Penmanship.
Courtney, Joseph—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st German; 1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in yth Latin; 1st Accessit in English Composition; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium in Penmanship; Accessit for Public Reading; Premium in German.
Cavaroc, C.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar;. 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Premium in French; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine. .
Cain, L.—4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Geography. -
Droste, C.—4th Premium in Penmanship.
Danielson, F.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.	-
. Dupke, C.—3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic. . -
Devereux, R.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
Dolan, M.—3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 1 st Accessit in Rhetoric; 1st Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doc- ‘ trine.	.	.	.
Dorenberg, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.	-
De Haven, G.—Accessit in Penmanship; Accessit in Phonography. .
Dunn, H.—1 st Accessit in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution; rst Premium in Penmanship. .	'
Dillon, E.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1 st Accessit in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in United States History;. 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Accessit in 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; Accessit in Vocal Music. _	• ' , ' - ' ’•	. - -r-	*■ ’ ~	.
D wenger, J.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar?	.'
Duffin, C.—1st Accessit in 3d'Grammar^ xst Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.	' .	..	..
Devine, J.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar ; 4th Premium in Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution.	.
Darling, C.—5th Accessit in 3d Grammar;;2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Accessit in Elocution. £-;\
Dennis, W.—2d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 1st Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.	-	-	7
Dennis, J.—2d Accessit in^th Grammar.- ; . - '	:
.Eisenhauer, A.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine;
Foote, M.—1st Accessit'in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in Architectural Drawing; 4th Premium in Vocal Music; 1st Accessit for Public Reading.
Foster, C.—3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography; 5th .Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in xst Christian Doctrine.
Foote, H.—Premium for Violin; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Premium for Public Reading. _
Fehr, F.—2d Accessit in Architectural Drawing.
Fishel, F.—Premium in 2d Geometry; Accessit in Elocution; 1st Premium in Penmanship.	.
Gibert, L.—2d Premium in French; Premium in Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution.	-
Grothaus,J.—3d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar.	"
Gerlach, E.—2d Premium in Penmanship; Premium in German.	-
Hagerty, J.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; xst Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in 1 st Arithmetic; 1 st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Reading; 2d Accessit in istGeog.; 3d Accessit in U. S. History; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Henry, J.—1 st Accessit in 1st Geography; Accessit in Elocution.	-
.Henry, W.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; xst Premium in 1st Geography; xst Accessit in Vocal Music; Accessit • in Elocution. '
Hess, H.—xst Premium in xst Orthography; 1st Ac-cessit in xst Grammar; xst Premium in xst Geography; 2d Premium in U. S. Historj ; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Herman, J.—xstPremium in 4th Grammar; xst Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Halligan, J.—xstPremium in xst Grammar; 5th Accessit in xst Arithmetic; xst Premium in xst Geography; 3d Premium in. xst Christian Doctrine; xst Premium in United Statesx History; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium' in Penmanship.
Hannavin, W.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Accessit for Piano; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Premium in xst Christian Doctrine.
Holbrook, E.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in xst Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Hagen, P.—4th Accessit in,3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship. -	■
Howard, A.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Hagenbarth, F.—Accessit in Elocution; xst Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
. .Hetz, W.—xst Premium in 2d. Orthography; Accessit in Penmanship.	.
Handy, F.—xst Accessit in 2d Orthography; 3d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Johnson, F.—Accessit for Violin; xst Premium in Vocal Music.	,	’
Jeannot, W.-—2d Accessit in English Composition; 2d Accessit in Sth Latin; Accessit for Public Reading; Premium in French. ,	- ,	.
Kahmann, J.—2d Premium in xst German; Accessit in Penmanship; Premium in German Translation.
Kerndt, C.—2d. Accessit in xst Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 6th Accessit in xst Arithmetic; 3d ■ Premium- in Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in xst German; xst Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; 5th Premium in Penmanship.	.	’
Kengel, F.—3d Accessit in xst Grammar; Accessit for Guitar.	,	.	'
.Keegan, J.—xst Premium in 7th Latin.
Kelly, J.—xst Premium in, 3d Grammar; xst Accessit ; in 2d Arithmetic; xst Accessit.in United States History;
2d Accessit in Vocal. Music.1 .	.. - - -	•
Kelly, M.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar; xstPremium in 4th Arithmetic; xst Accessit in 3d Geography; xst Accessit in 2d Penmanship. . .	;	'	-
Leffingwell, R-—xst Premium in 3d Arithmetic. -
Ludwig, C.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography. •
. McCawley, D.—5th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in Telegraphy^ - .	.. -	'
Mug, W.—5th Premium’in xst Arithmetic; xst Premium in xst Algebra;. xst Premium" in xst Geometry; xst Pre; mium in English Composition; Premium in 3d German;
Premium for Guitar. . ,	. .	. \	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:	655
McGrath, T.—Accessit in Telegraphy.	.
McGrath, J.—Accessit in Elocution.
Mason, C.—3d Accessit in 4th Algebra; Accessit for ..Violin. -	'	-	.	.
Metz, H.—4th Accessit in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
Murphy, W.—1 st. Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Pre-’ mium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in United States History; ist Premium in 5th German.
McGordon, J.—Accessit in Phonography.
McDonnell, J.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Accessit in Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; ist Premium in United States History; 4th Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; Accessit in Elocution. '	.
Mulkern, W.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in United States History; 3d Accessit in 3d Algebra; 3d Accessit in Vocal music.	■
Major, A.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d French; 2d Accessit in 5th German.
McGill, F.—2d Accessit in 3d Geography f 1 st Premium in 1st Reading.
Miller, O.—Accessit for Piano.	-
Nester, J.—5th Premium in Penmanship.
O’Connor, D.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Accessit for Piano; 2d Premium in rst Reading; 2d Premium in Phonography, 3d Class.
O’Connor, M.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; Accessit in Elocution; 4th Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.	• •
O’Donnell, J. V.—1st Premium in 4th German; 2d Accessit in French.	.	'
Ohneck, P.—3d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic: 1st Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; Accessit in Elocution.
Porter, C.—2d Accessit in Modern History; 2d.Accessit in 5th Latin; Accessit for Piano; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Accessit for Public Reading.
Ruppe. J.—3d Accessit in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Ryan, J.—2d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Reach, D.—1st Accessit in 1st Orthography; 3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 1st Premium in United States History; ist Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading.	-
Ryan, F.—1st Accessit in Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution.
Schott, W.—ist Premium.in 1st German; 3d Accessit in 7th Latin; Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in 2d French; 2d Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine; Premium in German.
Schillo, A.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d German; Accessit for Piano; 2d Premium in Penmanship.	.	’
Smith, J.—2d Premium in 1 st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Premium in 2d Geometry; Premium in 2d French.
Seegers, G.—1st Accessit in 2d Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in Architectural Drawing. .
Shannon, Louis—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d German; 2d Premium in 6th Latin; 1st ikccessit in Christian Doctrine.
Stark, B.—1st Accessit in 2d Orthography.	.
Schaefer, G.—2d Premium in Architectural Drawing; Premium for Piano; 1st Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Premium in Phonography; Accessit for Public Reading.
Taylor, D.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in. 1st Book-Keeping; Premium' in Elocution; 2d Premium in-Public Course Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium for Public Reading.	’	, -
Terrazas, A.—2d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 4th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Geography. .
Violette, J.—2d Accessit in 1 st Geography; 2d Premium in 5th German.	.
- Warner, A.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Wagoner, J.—2d Accessit in 3d Algebra; 2d Accessit in 7th Latin. ‘	_
Wile, E.—2d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 3d Accessit in
2d Grammar; 3d Accessit’in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution; Accessit sin Phonography.	7-
Waixel, S.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar. -Wright, W.—2d Accessit in 3d. Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Penmanship.'	-	. .
Weber, F.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic;' 1st Accessit in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Warren, P.—1st Accessit in 1st Orthography; 3d Ac’ cessit in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 1st Geography; 3d.Premium in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.	_
Wallace, B.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d. Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Ac--cessit in Ancient History; 1st Premium in Sth Latin. '
Walsh, T.—2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1 st Orthography. -
Zeigler, C-—2d Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Accessit in 1st United States History; istPreminm in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 8th Latin. '
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	'
Ackerman, H. J.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d United States History; Premium for Piano.
Adams, E.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 6th Reading; 4th Premium in 6th Orthography. -
Anglin, J.—3d Premium in 4th Geography; 4th Premi- . um in 3d Christian Doctrine.	’ -
-Beall, J. S.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Premium in German; 1st Accessit in 3d Reading.
Bunker, I. L.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship, 5th Accessit in 3d Geography.
Chaves, J. E.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar; 6th Premium in 6th Latin; Premi--um in Vocal Music.	-
Colwell, W. H.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in 3d Reading.
Cain, C.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d United States History; . 3d Accessit in German.	,
Cummings, M.—7th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Pre- , mium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in German; 1st Accessit in 1 st Reading.	.
Costigan, G.—1st Premium in ist Arithmetic; 5th Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Reading; 2d Accessit in Vocal Music. *
Costigan, E.—ist Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography; ist Accessit in 3d Penmanship! =
Coad, J. F. A.—2d Premium in 4th Geography; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Devereux, J. P.—5th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 7th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Premium in German.	■
Devine, W. P.—5th Premium in ist Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in Vocal Music; ist Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.	'
Devine, A.— ist Premium in 7th Reading; 2d Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 7th Orthography. .
Delaplane, C. E.—2d Premium in 3d United States History; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.	• J
Dirksmeyer/H.—ist Premium in 3d United States History; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in German.	.	x- . _
Dungan, L. P.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 6th Premium in 6th Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.	-	- ■
Fix, C.—3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d.Accessit in German. '
Hopkins, J. A.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; 5th Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Christian . Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Geography. - -
Hynes, H.—ist Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Orthography; 3d Premium in-4th Christian Doctrine. -	.	"
Harris, C.—5th Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 6th Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in German. ~	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC -
Huestis, G.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic: 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Accessit in 3d Penmanship.
Johnson, P. P.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar j-^th Premium in 1 st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Geography.
Kelly, J. A.—1st Premium in 1st Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in 1st Reading.
Kraus, J.—7th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 1st Christian Doct.; 4th Premium in German; 3d Accessit in Vocal Music.
Kellner, F.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 6th Reading; 2d Accessit in German; Accessit in Vocal Music.
Keefe, P.—2d Premium in 7th Reading; 3d Premium in 7th Orthography'.
Luther, J. N.—2d Premium in 3d United States History; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Reading.
Landenwich, G.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in German.
Lare, Geo.—4th Premium in 6th Reading: 6th Premium in 6th Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Lindsey, B. B.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Accessit in 1 st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Lindsey, C. A.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Accessit in Vocal Music.
Masi, W. M.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; Premium in Vocal Music.
Moss, W. R.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in German; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 6th Latin.
Morrison, R. G.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Reading; 4th Premium in 1st Orthgraphy; Premium in French.
Metz, C.—1st Premium in German; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 9th Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in United States History'.
McGordon, C.—6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Sth Premium in 1st Penmanship; 6th Premium in 1st Orthogra-. phy; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
McPhee, W. P.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in Vocal Music.
McGrath, J. J.—1st Premium-in 1st Reading; Sth Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in Vocal Music.
McGuire, W.—5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography.
McGrath, J.—Sth Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Orthography'; 6th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Vocal Music.
McGrath, E.—1 st Premium in 3d Christian Doct.; 4th Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Accessit in 3d Penmanship.
McNaughton, W.—4th Premium in 7th Reading; 5 th Premium in 3d Penmanship; Sth Premium in 7th Arithmetic.
McKey, F.—4thPremium in 6th Reading; 6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.	'
Mullen, F. J.—5th Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th
Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.	.
Mullen, A. B.—4th Premium in 6th Reading; 6th Premium in 5th Geography'.
Nester, F. P.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Accessit in' German; 2d Accessit in United States History.
Noonan, F.—1st Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Geography.
Nusbaum; L.—6th Premium in 7th Reading.
Otis, F; I.—5thPremium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 1st Geography'.
Otis, A. J.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
, Papin, R. V.—4th Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in 1st Penmanship; -Premium in Vocal Music.
Prindiville, W.—3d.Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Sth Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d. Accessit in 1 st Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in German.. .'	,
Prindiville, D.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th
Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.	•	’
Quinlin, C.—1st Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 5th Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Roberts, A;—1st Premium in 5th Orthography; 4th Premium in 5th Reading; 6th Premium in 6th Geography.
Rebori, V.—1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d Geography; Accessit in Vocal Music.	'	*
Sommer, 0.—1st Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; Accessit in German. "
Spencer, C.—rst Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in German.
Schmitz, H.—5th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in 1st Penmanship; 4th Premium in German.
Studebaker, J.—5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Accessit in German.
Stamm, F.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in German; 2d Accessit in United States History.
Stamm, G.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d United States History; 1st Accessit in German; 2\.c-cessit in Vocal Music.
Stange. W.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in German; Accessit in Vocal Music. ’
Stewart, A.—6th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in German; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography'.
Sbicker, J.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Penmanship.	’
Schmauss, E.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 6th Premium in rst Geography; 4th Accessit in German; Premium in Vocal Music.
Smith, C.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 5th Orthography.
Thomas, E.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic;' 7th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 1st Penmanship.
Thomlinson, W.—1st Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 5th Orthography.
Thomlinson, C.—3d Premium in 6th Orthography; 7th Premium in 6th Reading.
Walsh, W. J.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Accessit in German. -
Walsh, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography'; 4th Accessit in German.
Welch, W.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Pre; mium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Geography -ist Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine. '	'
Wright, J.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine: Premium in French.	.
Warner, J.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d German; 4th Accessit in 2d Reading.
Whitney;, F. S.—1st Premium, in 3d Orthography; 2d Accessitin4th Arithmetic; 4th Accessitin 2d United States History.	.	-
Young, L. E.—7th Premium in 1st Arithmetic;-6th Accessit in 1st Penmanship; Sth Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.. .	•
Young, C.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
For the Dome.
. / - _ -____________________: • , Old Friends__________________    :..........   $200.00
An Old Friend.......!............................   50
T. M. Howard, New Carlisle, Ind................. 25.00
A Friend, Chicago, Ill.........................  25.00
A pious Carmelite Sister........................ 20.00
W. S. Rogers, South Bend, Ind..’.....;.......... 10.00
Joseph Mulligan, Notre Dame, Ind................ 10.00
H. G. Beemer, South Bend, Ind....	;...........	5.00
Donations from Various Sources............   if .00