THE NCTDE DAME
scholastic
NEWS
McCormack's Singing to Feature Universal Night . . . "Journey's End" Shows for Last Time Tonight . . . Ruetz to Chairman Monogram Ball . . . Politicians Prep for Vote War... The Week ... Man About... College Parade.
SPORTS
Klinemen Meet Chicago Maroons Easter Saturday ... Netmen Open Against Northwestern . . . Golfers at Detroit . . . Thinlies Prep for Quadrangular Relays... Splinters ... Introducing — Brushing Up.
JOHN McCORMACK
World Famous Tenor to Sing for Alumni
April 8. 1938
Enjoy The Post Tonight
I left Arkansas to
FLY A FIGHTING PLANE IN SPAIN •
Meet Myra, a devastating little creature! Formerly of West Freedom, now very much of New York. With all her glibness and new-found charm she just can’t understand why her first husband took to drink, why her second seems so interested in that firm-faced Lindsay girl...
You Don’t Really Live Till You’re Here
whatplayersca^ —nc articleisenoug^-into the book? H^^primed for operm*^

► Here is the remarkable story of an American who, aided by a fake passport and a fake name, “Francisco Gomez Trejo,’’enlisted his services as a fightingplane pilot for the Loyalist forces in Spain. He tells you about other American war-birds he found there, how he was trained, what kind of planes he used, and how, instructed by Russian flyers, he went into action against the enemy. For a thrilling and completely bunkless account of air-fighting in Spain, turn to page 5 of your Post this week. First of four articles.
Some Still Live by F. G. TINKER, JR.
“Ben’s so cryptic!
He says we think New York's just
40 RESTAURANTS
5 NIGHTCLUBS
...for Fans to BOH c©NSIWmE
by STEPHEN VINCENT BENET
HI QAa MCM TENSION, an exciting new novel by William Wis-nWV. ter Haines ... DAN’L COME TO JUDGMENT, a short story by Ben Ames Williams .. .THE UFE AND LOVE OF TWO ROMANTIC OYSTERS, as told by Frank Sullivan in The Ugly Molluak ^articles, editorials, cartoons. Post Scripts—all in the Post, out today.
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188 
Vol. 71	April 8, 1938	No. 22
KEENAN SPEAKS AT HOYNES BANQUET
•
The annual memorial banquet in the honor of the late Colonel William James Hoynes whose labors of a lifetime were devoted to the development of the law school at Notre Dame was held in the Bronzewood room at the Hotel La Salle last night.
In acknowledgement of his efforts the first law building was named in his honor “Hoynes Hall.” Since his death in the month of March, 1933, the students in the Notre Dame College of Law have sponsored this annual memorial banquet. The active administration of this affair has been in the hands of the Law club. Col. Hoynes had always shown an unselfish interest in his students and labored unceasingly to promote their welfare. He was well known to the law students for his cheery, kindly paternal way, which endeared him to all who knew him.
The principal speaker at the banquet was the Hon. Joseph B. Keenan, assistant United States attorney general.
Clarence “Pat” Manion, member of the faculty of the law school, delivered the eulogy on Colonel Hoynes. His address was followed immediately by that of Maurice F. Quinn, a senior lawyer, who called to mind the sudden death of Judge William M. Cain, a short time ago. Mr. Quinn paid tribute to the deceased judge in a very touching address.
Gathered together to honor Colonel Hoynes on this occasion were many prominent jurists from the northern part of Indiana and from the city of Chicago. Representing Chicago were Judge Philip D. Sullivan and John P. w McGoorty, the latter a member of the Notre Dame faculty, the successor of the late Judge Cain. Also present were many outstanding members of the St. Joseph Valley Bar association and the members of the Notre Dame faculty of the College of Law.
The chairman of the banquet was Thomas G. Proctor, senior lawyer, who was assisted by the following members of the Notre Dame Law club: Joseph Shapero, John P. Daley, John E. Murphy, Joseph A. Canale, George B. Morris, Francis J. Breen, Frank Kelly, Robert LeMere, Prial Curran, H. Weakley, J. McMahon, W. Langley, J. Lechner, L. Tieman, (Continued on Page 18)
UNIVERSAL N.D. NIGHT BROADCAST FROM HERE, WASHINGTON, AND HOLLYWOOD
By George Haitncock
Twenty thousand alumni and old students of the University of Notre Dame together with thousands of radio fans throughout the United States will observe the 15th annual Universal Notre Dame night in unison on April 25 by means of coordinated radio programs. The key program of the evening
Thomas Proctor
Lawyers nibbled on steak.
Maginnis Honored in New Appointment
Mr. Charles D. Maginnis, president of the American Institute of Architects, has been named by President Roosevelt to be chairman of the United States delegation to the International Congress of Architects to be held in this country next year.
Mr. Maginnis was the recipient of the Laetare Medal in 1924. For the past ten years he has been supervising architect at Notre Dame. Campus buildings of his design include the University Infirmary, Law Building, and Alumni, Dillon, Cavanaugh, and Zahm Halls.
Dooley to Convention
William R. Dooley, assistant alumni secretary as well as graduate manager of publications, was in Columbus, Ohio, last week for the annual convention of the American Alumni Council, the national organization of alumni secretaries and associated workers. James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, had also expected to attend the convention but was kept in South Bend by illness in his family.
will emanate from the local campus ’ studio, Hollywood, Calif., and Washington, D. C., reaching all sections of the country through the National Broadcasting Company hookup from 9:15 o’clock C.S.T., to 9:45 o’clock. In addition there are independent broadcasts scheduled from various sections of the country where 100 local Notre Dame Alumni Clubs will gather to observe the annual event.
The national program will be opened from the University campus studio with the playing of the “Victory March” by the Notre Dame Band, under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta. The Glee Club will then sing “Notre Dame, Our Mother.”
At the completion of the song the program will be picked up in Washington, D. C., where Mr. William Cotter, president of the Alumni Association, will introduce the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.,, president of the University, who will address alumni and friends listening from every state of the union. -
From Washington the program comes back to the campus as the Notre Dame Little Symphony Orchestra, conducted, by Prof. Daniel Pedtke, will play the symphonic poem by Sibelius, “Finlandia.” .
John McCormack, famed Irish tenor, will complete the coast-to-coast hookup and add a touch of Irish melody with a song from Hollywood, Calif. Back on the campus again and the Glee Club will sing the Notre Dame “Hike Song,” and then turn the microphone over to Athletic Director Elmer Layden, who will give the anxious alumni throughout the country a bit of the lowdown on the “status quo” of the 1938 Fighting Irish machine.
The Symphony Orchestra comes back for another piece, “The Flight of the Bumble Bee,” and Arthur Davidson, senior in Science, will render a piano solo “Etude in G Flat.”
C1 o s i n g announcements will be made over the Notre Dame Glee .Club
(Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
'JOURNEY'S END11 MAKES SECOND APPEARANCE TONIGHT; WELL RECEIVED THURSDAY
By Graham Starr
Robert C. Sherriff’s great war drama, “Journey’s End,” will be presented by the University Players under the direction of Mr. Thomas E. Mills, assistant professor of speech, in Washington hall tonight at 8:00 o’clock. The first scheduled performance of the two night stand was given yesterday evening.
First full length student production on the campus this schoolyear, the play is a story of the emotions and tempers of soldiers in a dugout during a battle, and the three days preceding. The setting, a rough English dugout, was built under the direction of Mr. Frank Kelly who produced the play here eight years ago, after making special trips to New York to study scenery and action of the Broadway companies.
The action centers around Captain Stanhope, a young English officer who finally turns to drink to keep his mind off the horrors of war, and Raleigh, a second lieutenant fresh from Oxford who is in love with Stanhope’s sister.
Tragedy of the play is relieved by the humor of two Cockney soldiers.
The cast, selected from the student body, is as follows:
Captain Stanhope, Gerald G. Hogan; Lieutenant Osborne, George J. McDermott; Trotter, William P. Arnold; Hibbert, Robert T. Browne; Raleigh, Ray Sadlier; the Colonel, Vernon Witkowski.
Company Sergeant - Major, Robert Blake; Private Mason, John Coppinger; Captain Hardy, Vincent Doyle; German soldier, Harold Sitt; a runner, Tom Liston; and two privates, William Mulvey, and John Curry.
Although produced with an entire male cast, the female figure of Madge Raleigh is ever in the mind of the audience.
In 1930, the play scored a big hit, and the Scholastic devoted an entire page to its review. At that time the drama had successfully closed a 36-week engagement at Henry Miller’s Theatre, New York City.
Mr. Albert L. Doyle, associate professor of speech, took the part of Stanhope in 1930, and according to the Scholastic, “Al Doyle gave forth the impression so decidedly that he was reeling drunk that many of those occupying the front seats still swear that they could smell the liquor on his breath.”
The present cast has worked several weeks on the vehicle, and should present a good performance tonight.
NOTICE
The barber shop will be open on Monday and Tuesday night until 8 o’clock. It will be open all week except Good Friday from noon until 3:00.
Professor Albert L. Doyle The front rows were impressed.
Pena's "La Fuente" is Given to University
At a meeting f the Spanish Club held Thursday evening, President Charles A. Kolp outlined definite plans for the remaining social events of the club.
The Spanish Club recently purchased a painting entitled “La Fuente,” (The Fountain) from Alfonso Pena, contemporary Mexican artist whose collection of water color paintings were recently exhibited at Notre Dame where they were favorably received. The painting shows that a great deal of thought was devoted to its composition and technique. As a result, it is very individualistic in style. Unlike the paintings of Rivera and Orozco which capture the sombre life of Mexico, Senor Pena’s work colorfully illustrates the brighter and more hopeful side of the peon’s life.
The painting was given to Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, in behalf of the Spanish Club, and will be added to the rest of the University’s art collection in the Library.
Clevelanders Active
It may be spring but the spring fever hasn’t descended upon the Cleveland club and its president, Tom Mulligan. At the meeting April 1, he announced that the plans for the Easter formal were completed.
This affair promises to be one of the social high spots of the year. It will be held in Guild Hall in Cleveland at the Medical Arts building. A nom-
N. D. DEBATERS MEET PRINCETON TEAM
•
Notre Dame’s crack debating team met the best that Princton University had to offer last night in the auditorium of St. Mary’s College. The proposition debated upon was: “Resolved, that the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce compulsory arbitration of all industrial disputes.”
The members of the Princeton team were John Van Has and J. Harlan Cleveland; the Irish were represented by Charles Osborn and Thomas Mulligan. Princeton took the affirmative; Notre Dame the negative.
The proposition proved to be dynamic, and its timeliness made it doubly effective. The affirmative propounded that the ultimate goal of all the laboring classes in America could and would be reached by intelligent legislation which would force powerful industrial magnates to arbitrate and engage in collective bargaining with their employees. This legislation, they felt, would eliminate unnecessary and futile strikes which do endless harm to all and good to none. This progressive step would be a milestone in the pages of American history.
The negative pointed out that such compulsory arbitration was thouogh-ly against the principles of democratic peoples; it would be the first step towards anarchy and dictatorship. The danger of a prejudiced board was illustrated. The threat of powerful organizations usurping liberties was pointed out, and also was the fact that the American business would suffer at the hands of strong arm labor leaders.
inal sum of $5.00 per couple will be charged for the affair. All arrangements are in charge of the Notre Dame Alumni of Cleveland.
Bucky Ryan was delegated to take care of the arrangements for a club picnic to be held after Easter. The faculty is yet to be consulted and the plans are in the preliminary stages.
President Mulligan recently conferred with a representative of the New York Central railroad in an endeavor to get special rates for the Easter holidays. If 25 persons can be found who could leave on one train the fare will be appreciably reduced. Those members interested should see Mulligan in 107 Sorin.
A golf tournament is under way which will be completed before Easter. The club’s newly organized softball team won its first game over a strong team from Lyons Hall Sunday afternoon.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	5
TO PRESENT TALK ON X-RAYS TO A. S. M.
•
Mr. Edward C. Mahin, professor of metallurgy will conduct the April meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals. Following a dinner to be given at 6:30 p.m. in the University dining hall, Wednesday, April 13, a technical session will be held in the audi
Prof. E. C. Mahin
His boys are active.
torium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. The technical session will be held at 8:00 p.m.
An address on the subject “Industrial Applications of X-rays,” will be delivered by Dr. Kent R. Van Horn, research metallurgist of the Aluminum Company of America.
Dr. Van Horn is a graduate of Case School of Applied Science. He did post-graduate work at Yale university where he held a Sterling fellowship in Metallurgy. He is a member of many American and foreign metallurgical societies as well as of societies in other fields of science. His work is outstanding in his field of research and many of his reports have appeared in several scientific journals.
The American Society of Metals welcomes the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company as a new sustaining member of the Notre Dame Chapter.
The annual business meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter will be held on May 11, at which time Dr. V. N. Krivobok, professor of metallurgy in Carnegie Institute of Technology, will speak on the subject, “Corrosionresisting Alloys.”
Italian Club Meeting
Fifty members of the Italian Club convened yesterday evening in the Badin Recreation Room. Plans were made for a dinner to be held at “Rosie’s,” a restaurant in South Bend. The meeting began at eight o’clock.
Reverend Albert Schlitzer, C.S.C., gave an address on Italian affairs, following the discussion. A student paper, prepared and presented by Al Pacetta, then entertained the club.
TO HOLD MONOGRAM BALL AT COLUMBIA A. C. APRIL 22. JOE RUETZ IS CHAIRMAN
By Robert Sheppard
There will be soft lights and sweet music at the Columbia Athletic Club from 9:00 to 12:00 on the evening of April 22 when the Monogram men hold their annual dance. The members of the “beef trust chorus” will swing their partners to the music of “The Modemaires.” The price for the tickets has _________________________been set at $2.00 and all juniors and ” seniors are invited to attend. Tickets will go on sale in the basement of the Dining Hall during the week previous to the dance.
"Be Logical" Howatt Tells Engineers
•
Mr. John Howatt, chief engineer of the Chicago Board of Education and past president of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, delivered an address before members of the Notre Dame Engineers Club, at their last meeting, March 30. The subject of. .his talk was “The Need of Better Expression by Engineers.”
Following an introduction by Richard Carrigan, vice-president of the Engineers Club, Mr. Howatt pointed out that “Engineers, if they are what their title implies, must be logical thinkers.” He further asserted that the young engineer had better remember his five rules' for good oral expression, namely: “Speak to your audience slowly and clearly; know your subject; arrange your thoughts in an orderly manner and in proper sequence; learn to be exact and accurate, and do not leave your audience guessing at your meaning. They are not mind readers.”
Engineer Howatt believes that every engineering course should carry four years of English as a requirement, and that in connection with the course of study, lectures .and demonstrations of the correct use of English should be included.
At the conclusion of his talk, Daniel Cochran, senior electrical engineering student, presented a paper on “Sound Tracks or Talking Pictures.”
Tentative plans have been arranged by the club to present on April 11, Mr. H. W. Black, Fort Wayne branch manager of the International Harvester Company, who will speak on “Principles of Construction of Diesel Engines.” This talk will be illustrated by motion pictures. On April 27th, a representative of the General Motors Corporation will address the club members. Arrangements were discussed at the Wednesday meeting for the annual engineers picnic which is to be held later on this semester.
Met Bosses Work I?I
The Metropolitan Club of New York held a meeting Tuesday evening, and the business revolved around railroad rates, plane rates, and roller skating.
Joseph Ruetz has been appointed general chairman of the dance by Paul Nowak, president of the club. Dance committees appointed are as follows:
Ticket committee: Dennis Emanuel, chairman; Thomas Jordan, and Wal-
Joe “Truckin’” Ruetz There will be siting.
ter Marshall; publicity committee, John Donnelly, chairman; William Condon, and Harold Langton; patron committee, Ray Meyer, chairman, John Braddock, and Charles O’Reilly.
Decorations committee. James Mulhern, chairman, Edward Sniadowski, and Charles Borowski; program committee, Pat McCarty, chairman, John Moir, and John Goncher.
Military Club Meets
At the third meeting of the recently organized Military Club, Major Robert B. Riordan, faculty advisor of the club, spoke on “The Five-Paragraph Field Order.” Joseph A. Callahan spoke on “Scouting and Patrolling.”
The first draft of the constitution of the club was then referred to committee for revision. It will be put to an open vote at some meeting in the early future.
Further plans were discussed for the club’s participation in the annual Memorial Day exercises of the University.
Club policies as to carrying on military tradition at the University were also discussed.
b
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPRING THAWS OUT POLITICAL AMBITIONS AS PARTIES ENVISION PATRONAGE PLUMS
By Richard Leahy
Election Day! The annual party line will get under way with the campus politicians in top form. This year’s clash between rival parties holds no little interest among the local aspirants to political fame and fortune. The primaries are scheduled for Thursday, April 28 and already the campaign meetings of the campus bosses are gaining mo- ,_____________________________________________________ mentum.	v
It is necessary that the candidates for office must be ok’d by Reverend James Trahey, C.S.C., and the ticket submitted to John R. Kelley, at 423 Walsh Hall, by Monday, April 25.
By the time April 28 rolls around, the “Donkeys,” “Roosters,” and “The Little Man With the Hammer and Sickle” will have their voters’ enthusiasm at a high pitch.
The caf is the convention hall, meetings being held before and after every meal. As usual the whisper campaign, the adds and predictions are finding their way around the halls. Campaign literature,- pro and con, will probably be distributed after the vacation. No one has tried “sky writing,” not that we would suggest it to a high flying politician, hut this is the only form of propaganda that has never yet been attempted.
It will be of special interest to watch the newly organized freshman party in power. The present sophomore class officers predict another sweep with their machine, while as yet the juniors have not decided who is going to present the “Stars and Stripes” on Washington’s birthday in 1939.
The final election of class officers will take place the second week of May. Both primary and final elections will be held in the basement of the dining hall.
May 1 Award Deadline
All applications for Scholarships and Prizes must be made to the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes not later than May 1st. These applications must be mailed to the Committee and addressed to the Comptroller’s Office. Regular application blanks can be secured from the Comptroller’s Office, and applications must be made on these.
Successful applicants for Scholarships will be notified not later than August 1st. The winners of prizes will receive their awards at Commencement. A list of the various Scholarships and the qualifications necessary to attain them can be found in the University Bulletin.
Each department of the University chooses its own winners. Reverend James McDonald, C.S.C., is Chairman of the Committee.
Knight William Fish Heads picnic committee.
K, of C. Exemplification To Be Held May 1
•
It was announced today by Grand Knight James L. Quinn that the formal exemplification of the second and third degrees of the Knights of Columbus will take place on Sunday, May 1. At that time, Mr. Ray T. Miller, former mayor of Cleveland and a member of the supreme board of directors will give the principal address. Mr. Miller is a graduate of Notre Dame and a brother of Don Miller a member of the famous Four Horsemen.
He will be accompanied by Mr. Timothy P. Galvin, also a member of the supreme board of directors and a classmate of Mr. Miller. Both of these eminent gentlemen were members of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus. These degrees will be conferred on 60 candidates, representing 32 states of the Union.
Professor Stephen C. Bocskey of the College of Science addressed the members of the council at the regular business meeting which was held last Tuesday night. William Fish, chairman of the annual picnic, announced that the site selected for the affair is Dewey Lake.
There will be an exemplification of the first degree April 12. Any student desirous of admission into the order should see Financial Secretary George Morris in the K. of C. Chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall.
MANY SUBJECTS AT ART EXHIBIT
The Aqua-Chromatic Exhibition on display in the University Library emphasized a variety of subject matter and composition now achieved by skillful use of water-colors. Not all the picture are first rank — overplay of blacks, greys, and browns deadened the tone of some — but all revealed imagination in subject and technique.
“Rain” by Clyde Singer . . . rain, two nuns, one stray cat, one umbrella .. . with the cat not getting much of the umbrella . . . “Girl with Jug” by Stephen Biai Foglein . . . lively figure work with delicate greens and blues weaving a filagree tropical background . . . “Water Lilies” by Dell M. Rindy . . . skillful blending of blues and purples make a shimmering bed for white lilies . . . “Boats for Rent” by Florence K. Tomlimson . . . noble sweep and curve of vivid red and blue boat hulls . . . fine detail work in boathouse achieved with whites and greys_“Petoskey Pond” by Ethel Spears . . . whirligig of figures on winter scene . . . skating, sleighing, skiing . . . best shot tiny girl skate - pushing baby carriage mounted on runners . . . “Low Time” by Thomas J. Peters . . . dripping dock piles, moss-clung . . . “Serenity” by Sister Immaculee . . . flower pot, candlestick, and Our Lady of Notre Dame . . . purity of outline emphasized by rich reds and greens . . . “Fishtown, Leland, Michigan”. . . . reeling, rotting buildings . . . slanted, sodden boats, dirty sails . . . “Sonata” by Margery Ryerson . . . little girl on a big stool before a big piano . . . and a languid clock . . . “R. R. No. 2” by George Maxwell Goodsell . . . battered mailbox nailed to a tree , . . empty. . . “Fortune’s Rocks, Maine,” by Harold M. Young . . . sentinel rocks in a white swirl of water . . . rocks and water and deep blue sky . . . “The Hill Farms” by Susanne Trible . . . looping road, lonely farm, lush fields . . . quiet. . .
Washington Tour
Approximately 25 students of the University will make the bi-annual tour of Washington under the sponsorship of Professor Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Politics. The trip, extending from April 16 to 20, will include Arlington, Va., Mt. Vernon, and Alexandria as well as the principal points of Washington.
Reservations are still open, and those planning to make the tour are requested to make their payments to the representative of the Pennsylvania railroad in room 104, Commerce Building, at 4:15 p.m., Monday, April 11.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
RICHARD REID TALKS ON NEWSPAPERS
•
From April 24 to 29, Mr. Richard Reid, lawyer, and editor, will deliver • a series of lectures the general title of which is, “The Morals of Newspapers.” Besides his work as editor of the Bulletin, Mr. Reid has contributed to many publications including America, Commonweal and The Ecclesiastical Review.
A movement was started to counteract the bigotry against the Cath-
Editor Richard Reid
His topic: Newspaper Morality.
olic Church that prevailed in the South. The organization formed to do this later became known as the Georgia Catholic Laymen’s association. Mr. Reid was appointed director of publicity and in 1919 became editor of the Bulletin, the publication of the association.
Mr. Reid is a graduate of Holy Cross college and holds a law degree from Fordham university. He has often been engaged as a lecturer and although professedly a mild mannered man, he is a successful and persuasive public speaker. In recognition of his outstanding work as a Catholic layman, the University of Notre Dame conferred upon him, in 1936, the Laetare Medal.
The lectures will start on Sunday evening and continue until Friday. However, there will be no lecture on Monday evening as the Universal Notre Dame Night program is scheduled for that time. The lectures are to be given in the following order; “The Development, Purpose and Influence of Newspapers”; “The Ethics of Newspapers”; “The Difficulties of Newspapers”; “Shortcomings of Newspapers” and finally “The Remedies.”	'
Anecdotes of "Swish," the Comet, or
"My Very Good Friend the Mailman Says..."
By F. G.
“Swish!” — a name that has become legion from the gaping gargoyles of the Alumni penthouses to the primeval cardboard partitions of Freshman Hall. Its very utterance is enough to make your blood tingle with supreme ecstacy, to tickle those hardened arteries into the rhythmic throb of the “Dipsy Doodle,” to warm the latent cockles of your hairy heart. In fact, it reaches down to the strings of your pericardium—and—and pulls them. “Swish!” Was ever a more appropriate name captioned to Uncle Sammy’s official distributor of the campus mails?
“For neither snow, nor sleet, nor hail, nor slop, nor slush, nor our own dear Indiana weather, can stay ‘Swish’ from pursuing his destined course.” Not even Alice Faye. The mail must go through! Of course they’ll tell you different all along the line, the Herbert Marshalls of Dillon and the Ben Blues of Badin, that the mail never comes around.
“That ain’t my fault!” rises ‘Swish’ in protest. “If the dames back home don’t sacrifice an intermission between dates in order to send you guys a billet-doux, then speculate on the St. Mary’s market for the local talent.” And with that bit of blatant blab, “Swish” is away in a flash— with a flash!
Coach Nicholson of the Irish track wars loitered around Howard Hall one rainy morning to button-hole prospects for his squad of thinlyclads. As he leisurely scaled the stony steps of the first floor, his attention was turned to a “typhoonical” noise at the other end of the hall. Louder and louder became the confusion. Nick’s thoughts turned to the “Hurricane” —and Dorothy Lamour. Then—swish! It was the mailman! Like a bat out of hell! Automatically Nick reached for his time clock. Thirty seconds sped by. Again—swish!
“Wow!” gulped Nick. “Four floors in half a minute—and the guy had galoshes on!”
Then there’s smuggish Jim Prather, the Illinois farmer boy who claims
N.D. to Send Nominees
The University of Notre Dame has been named one of several universities invited to send nominees for 12 scholarships offered by the Institute of Public Affairs, it was announced here by Dr. Charles G. Maphis, director of the Institute. The Institute will hold its twelfth meeting at the
Barreda
the exclusive honor of being the only 4-H man who can milk a cow to the tune of “Snake Charmer” and feed contented milk to stray cats at the same time. Jim isn’t the boasting type. He likes to receive mail every day.
It was his life’s joy to meet “Tessie” (as she is familiarly called by the Bulletin) during the Christmas holidays. Tess used to work her fingers to the bone and her pencil to the eraser in writing Jim an epistle every day. Then a South Bend lassie stepped into Jim’s life, complications arose back home, and the engagement and all that was broken with Tess.
Jim doesn’t get those daily letters anymore. As we said before, Jim isn’t the boasting type. He likes to receive the Bulletin every day.
Many a story is told about “Swish” and the kind of mail he deposits in our domiciles. The tortured college lad may not receive a genuine letter for a period of two weeks. “Swish” then pops up at the door and runs his fingers through an enormous pile of -sorrespondence. He finally finds the correct “one-and-only” and flips it into the room.
“For me?” is the joyful realization.
Then: “Dear Joe Rut: This card is to inform you that book so-and-so is waiting for you at the library. With loads of love, the Librarian.” Or better still: “Dear Sir: Congratulations! Here is an excellent chance to win $50,000. All you have to do is find the twins in the enclosed picture.” And then maybe: “Atention, Mr. Bugs: Here is an excellent opportunity of getting a high school education for only one cent a day!”
That’s the kind of mail we get. The folks forget the weekly check and Tess forgets our address, as “Swish” stampedes along the mail lanes. Martyrs, that’s what we are. All we can do is fold our arms, keep the door open, peel an eye into the hallway, and say:
“Watch the ‘Swish’ go by!”
University of - Virginia from July 3 to 17.
The scholarship awards will be made by a committee of Institute officials, who will pick the winners from the list of nominees sent by the universities invited to participate. Winners will not be announced until after May 1.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DR. MERMENS TO JOIN POLITICS FACULTY
Dr. Ferdinand Aloys Karl Hermens, of the Catholic University of America, will join the faculty of the University of Notre Dame for the schoolyear of 1938-39 as an associate professor of politics, it was announced recently.
Dr. Hermens is now completing his third year as assistant professor of economics at Catholic University. A recognized authority in the field of political science, Dr. Hermens was sent to Europe in 1937 by the Guggenheim Foundation to make a study of European electoral systems.
His views on the question of proportional representation in national legislative bodies were the cause of debate in the French Chamber of Deputies at one time. He bases his theory of representative government on the doctrine of rule solely by the majority.
Dr. Hermens received his doctorate from the University of Bonn, Germany, in 1930, two years after obtaining his diploma in economics there. Later he studied at the University of Rome, and the School of Economics, London.	.
He is a well-known contributor to Commonweal as well as several German, French and Swiss periodicals.
Crooks to Sing May 6
Richards Crooks, leading tenor of the Metropolitan Opera Association, will give a concert in the Notre Dame gymnasium on Friday, May 6. The appearance of Mr. Crooks will climax a program of festivities marking the local observance of Music Week, May 1 to 7.
In a recent radio poll the famous opera singer was selected as the most popular tenor of classic repertoire on the air. Equally acclaimed abroad Mr. Crooks has appeared in concerts and recitals in England, Germany, France, Hungary, and the Scandinavian countries. He is known to radio listeners as the star of the Firestone Hour and for his guest performances on the Ford and General Motors programs.
South Bend women and musical organizations are cooperating with University officials in rounding out the plans for the gala event. The appearance of the famous tenor in connection with Music Week activities of South Bend and Notre Dame will mark one of the most important musical events in the history of the University and of the city.
/----------------
Man About the Campus
X________________
Our man this week comes from way up in Portland, Maine. His name is John Raymond Kelley, the proud possessor of one of the warmest and most amusing personalities on the campus. He also sports a wide - spread forehead which he blames on the shortness of the bed in Freshman Hall. He says that he aggravates it by shaving high.
If you want to hear about one of the outstanding athletes at Portland High and St. John’s Prep, just ask him. During his years at the latter he met the one-and-only in nearby Danvers. Now he calls her his “Rosebud” and corresponds with her faithfully. Present plans call for a public showing the first week-end in May. The only thing he holds against her
is that she is Irish. Denies his affiliation to that race by the explanation that his lineal ancestors were Jersey Dutch and Mohican Indian.
Every summer he trains for a few weeks, hooking beef at Cudahy’s. Other jobs which have taken his time are peddling papers and setting up pins in the Home-town “Y.” He spent a few hours in the Walsh Hall alleys a couple of weeks ago just for practice.
John is an accountant major, but the only success on figures has been during the winter while skating. He really gets around despite his ample depth and width. Later he intends to wind up with his father in the insurance line.
Has been a member of the glee club for two years and on the S.A.C. for three years. As chairman of elections he may be able to do somebody some good in the near future. Likes to sing most any time but the real favorite is “McSolly’s Twins.” He is now busy rehearsing for the Monogram Show again.
STUDENTS FORECAST FRANCO WIN
•
General Francisco Franco’s eastward thrust to the Mediterranean to cut off Barcelona from the rest of Loyalist Spain is near completion, and apparently the end of the two-year death struggle is close at hand.
The Scholastic has interviewed the following students to learn their reactions to the recent developments in war-torn Spain:
Walter Desel, Brownson: “I think that Franco will succeed in the Spanish civil war, and I am sure that this victory will be one of the greatest triumphs for the Catholic Church.”
Bob Schmidt, Carroll: “I am anxious to know what sort of government the nationalists will set up when they win, which I am confident they will in the near future.”
John Braddock, Sorin: “Apparently it is only a matter of time now until Franco will reach the Mediterranean, thus cutting off Barcelona from the greater part of Red Spain. Then, perhaps, a once glorious Spain will make a fresh comeback under a civilized regime.”
John Flanagan, Zahm: “If Franco wins it will be for the better good of all the Christians in Spain, provided that the Reichsfuehrer Hitler does not dominate them.”
John Curran, Freshman: “Franco has been showing signs of victory. He should control Spain, if he can keep pressure at important points. Franco is fighting for free rights, and Spain will be better off if he wins, and he will inevitably be victorious. However, his association with Europe’s soldier suit dictators is bound to have some effect on Spain’s future political life.”
Walter Dray, Morrissey: “It is my belief that the Nationalists will soon be masters of all Spain, and that Spain will soon undergo a process of moral and political reconstruction.”
Joseph Thornburg, Sorin: “Franco seems to be the man for the position, but fall practice will tell the story.”
Bookmen Discuss Mann
The Bookmen met in the Law building Friday evening to hear Frank Cunningham and Jim Gorman speak on The Magic Mountain, a book by Thomas Mann. Suggestions were made for the Bookmen keys, the official insignia of the club.
A membership drive will be instituted the latter part of April, especially to secure new members from the present Freshmen and Sophomore classes. The annual club banquet will be held May 19.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
COMMERCE MEN VISIT LOCAL FACTORY
President Charles Brosius and a large number of members of the Commerce Forum were the guests of Wilson Brothers Tuesday afternoon on a tour of the local plant in South Bend.	.
Arriving at the plant by special streetcars provided for the occasion by the club they were met by Mr. Haphazard. In contrast to his name
Charles Brosius
Conducts “rubberneck” tour.
he conducted a thorough tour of the plant employing 3,000 workers. The members were informed that Wilson and Company send their dry goods products over the whole world. Among the principal wonders seen tvas the ability of three employees to turn out 50,000 ties in one day, the cutting of 75 thicknesses of shirt material at one time and the new type buttonless shirts being manufactured. The climax of the afternoon’s entertainment was reached as Mr. Haphazard endeavored to demonstrate the difference between a tie of inferior quality such as one worn by a Notre Dame brethren present and those made by Wilson Brothers. Fortunately for the N. D. man Mr. Haphazard failed in his attempt to point out the tie’s weakness.
At the last meeting the club heard Mr. George Neuman talk on the Martime Commission. The speaker outlined the present situation in the Merchant Marine. He advocated an increase in the present Merchant Marine which would help the nation in peace and war.
President Brosius wished to announce to all those members who took the Commerce Forum trip to Chicago on March 10 that cuts in all classes missed at the time would be cancelled. After a conference with the Reverend James Trahey, C.S.C., he was informed that cuts in other classes than those in the commerce school will be cancelled also.
THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
Play magazine
The Mr. Spaeight that was here— in case you don’t remember, he was the actor who gave a talk on the play “Thomas a Becket” — arrived early the day of his lecture. Having a fewT hours to kill, he wandered over to the library to get something to read. He asked the chap in charge of the periodicals for a “play magazine of any sort.” The chap in charge, without hesitating a moment, went into the file room and returned with a copy of Health and Recreation.
Attention: Seniors
This is too late to be of any help to the English Majors who handed their theses in yesterday, but it might be just what some of the history and sociology majors are looking for. The following notice was slipped under our door a few days ago:
“To the students of N.D.U.:
“Are you interested in buying your Senior thesis? I will gauarantee a mark of 86% or you needn’t pay me. A fellow at Princeton received a grade of 98%—the highest in the school’s history—for a thesis I wrote for him. I have a list of the men who have benefited by my work; their marks have ranged from 100% to 86%. I’ve yet to go below an 86% 1 If I do, you don’t have to pay me. Pass this way—save time!”
Fees range from $5.00 to $15.00.
There was no identification on the notice other than a South Bend telephone number. We called the number several times Tuesday, but we could not get an answer.
Watcher
A friend of ours who patrols Michigan Street regularly four or five afternoons a week reports that he noticed a fellow standing in front of Walgreen’s last Sunday watching passersby through a pair of binoculars.
Magazine rack
It’s traditional for The Week, along about this time, to comment on the caf’s magazine rack. In the past the comments were aimed at the pulp magazines that covered three-fourths of the display space. Last year The Week discovered that the faculty members were the chief purchasers of the pulps, and not long after the expose the pulps disappeared.
This year, having no pulps to comment on, The Week must find something else. First of all, we counted all the magazines and found they added up to 48. We included all the magazines from the Ave Maria to
Who’s Who in Baseball, but omitted such publications as The World’s Almanac and the Southern Cal-Notre Dame football program (still 25c).
The magazines that made the biggest impression on us were: McCalls, Pictorial Review, House and Garden, Vogue, Woman’s Home Companion, and the Ladies Home Journal. We asked the fellow in charge of the stand, a very nice chap by the name of Robert Schmelzle, who bought these women’s magazines. He seemed a bit surprised at the question. He paused to straighten a copy of the Financial World and then said, “Why the students, of course. They like the stories.” We couldn’t think of anything to say to that so we changed the subject.
Colliers and the Saturday Evening Post, we found out, are the favorites, running neck and neck just about, averaging close to 200 copies a week. Reader’s Digest is in third place with 100 copies or so a month. Travel, Asia, Better English, Your Life, FurField and Game, Hunter, Trader and Trapper, and Deep-River Jim’s Wilderness Trail Book, sell about the same: two or three copies a month. Health Digest, with an imposing picture of a sinewy he-man in leopard skin on the cover is purchased regularly by two Phy-Ed men and one small fellow from Walsh who weighs about 102 pounds.
So much for the caf magazine rack until next year.
Assignment
Frank Reppenhagen, editor of the Dome, had a very important rush assignment to be executed. He picked out a member of one the sections, a veritable dynamo we are told, and sent him hustling out to Highland Cemetery, way out on the northwest end of town, to get a picture of Rock’s grave. The fellow had quite a time finding the grave ;had to ask two watchmen and four grave diggers for directions. When he did find it, he spent half an hour conscientiously getting the proper distance, the right light, and the perfect focus. Just before he snapped the picture he discovered that there was no film in the camera.
•
Spring’s officially here
What do we care if it snows, sleets, freezes, or rains? We know that Spring is here because the University has officially acknowledged it in the traditional way: Cold cuts were served Sunday night, and Monday the gardeners started to resurface the main quad.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Music Notes
By Paul R. Locher
Few success stories can parallel the rise of the New York Philharmonic Symphony Society. Ninety-six years ago a small amateurish orchestra was obliged to seat their audience on pews in a bare lecture room borrowed for the occasion, but today 110 fine musicians, under a brilliant young conductor, entrance five million families throughout the nation every Sunday afternoon.
The year 1842 marked a display of extravagance and ostentation which found expression in every possible form. Virtuosi and odd personalities packed the public into Castle Garden, to the despair of Ureli Corelli Hill, who had received a cultural training in music from the European school. As an expression of rebellion he organized and conducted a small orchestra of his own, featuring Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony in his initial concert: Beethoven, who was then but a name to New York.
These dignified performances attracted the patronage of New York society, especially when the noted actor, Edwin Booth, was persuaded to read the poem “Manfred” to Schumann’s famous music. A period of depression was followed by reorganization under Theodore Thomas, at that time the greatest figure in American music. He was followed by a succession of brilliant men such as Anton Seidl, Victor Herbert, Felix Weingartner, Richard Strauss and Josef Stransky.
The Philharmonic seemed independent of financial circumstance when Joseph Pulitzer left an enormous trust fund for the continuance of the orchestra. With the income from this fund, the Philharmonic gained preeminence in American music under such conductors as Wililam Mengel-berg, Wilhelm Furtwaengler and Arturo Toscanini. But in 1929, with the trust fund dissipated by the depression, the orchestra again suffered under adverse financial conditions. However, the orchestra had been broadcasting over the Columbia networks for four years on Sunday afternoon, and a radio appeal brought enough contributions to weather the depression.	•
—And now, on this coming Sunday afternoon, the Philharmonic under the baton of youthful John Barbirolli, will present as featured soloist the talented American composer-pianist, Abram Chasins, who will play his own Concerto No. 2, in F Sharp minor.
Mr. Chasins also conducts a very interesting program on Saturday mornings at eleven, over the NBC-red
ST. RITA'S BOY WIHS WRANGLER CONTEST
Thomas Tierney, a senior in St. Rita’s High school, Chicago, won the fourth annual Wrangler - sponsored Notre Dame Catholic Oratorical contest last Sunday afternoon. In his oration he urged the youth of the nation to take a firm stand against Communism.
Second place in the contest went to John Lipinski, 1017 Western ave-
Professor Frank Moran Tells speakers about speech.
nue, South Bend. A student at Central Catholic High school, Lipinski automatically gained the title of champion of the Indiana orators.
Kilmont Kerr, of St. Mary’s High school, Fort Wayne, was voted third among the largest number of contestants ever to enter the meet. Nineteen high schools, representing two states and 13 cities, participated in the event.	•
Joseph P. McNamara, Indiana deputy attorney - general, Notre Dame alumnus, and former Wrangler, donated a large silver loving cup which was awarded the winning high school. A trophy was also given to the Indiana school whose orator finished first in the contest. Individuals in the first three places were given medals.
Frank Parks, assisted by Al Funk, was chairman of the contest.
At the banquet in honor of the contestants, Saturday, April 2, Professor Frank Moran of the department of English delivered the principal address. He stressed the importance of good speech and the logical thinking it develops in his talk.
network. His procedure is to play numbers from master composers, with appropriate comment in understandable terms. Still in his early thirties, and the composer of more than eighty musical compositions, Chasins very wisely refuses to become hemmed within the boundaries of music alone. “Everything in the world interests me,” he once said, “and if I had to devote all of my time and interest to music, I would consider my life misspent.”
* College Parade )
By John A. Callaghan
Purty Purtry
School days, school days, Dear newfangled school days; Fencing, eurythmics, and plastic art, Taught with the aid of a Binet chart; I was a lad with a low I.Q., You were a maid with a minus two, Just what we learned we never knew, But that is the newfangled way.
—Exchange.
—o—
Story of the Week
The headline:
DOHERTY SKIPS WITH ENDOWMENT FUND
The lead:
“In what may turn out to be the greatest manhunt in history, local, county, and state police in 48 states last night began a gigantic search for “Honest Bob” Doherty, erstwhile president of Carnegie Tech and former convict, who disappeared from the campus late yesterday afternoon with $2,674,829.29 of the Carnegie Endowment Fund.
The date:
“April 1, 1938.”
—o—
Jotting*
The Loyolan quips: a bachelor is either a man who looks before he leaps and stays where he is, or one who thinks a lot about marriage, and the more he thinks about it, the less he thinks about it. . . The greatest waterpower known to man is still woman’s tears. . . Marriage is just like eating a mushroom—you never know if you are safe until too late... Book review: Webster’s Dictionary, a splendid vocabulary but a little plotless. . . Then there was the correspondence school that tried to be just like a college. Everything went allright— until they had a rally and tried to mail a bonfire to each student.
—o—
Comprehensive Tests
A new type of comprehensive test appears on the campus of Brown university. Special examinations to show the students just what intellectual resources they have to use in facing the world outside will be given next month when the university tries a unique experiment with "comprehensive inventory” tests. President Henry Wriston explained that in broad terms the tests will attempt to measure “what the students know today, rather than what they have known— what they have retained and have available as current resources.” The tests will measure what seniors have learned ‘ from extra-curricular activities and from social and cultural contacts on and off the campus.
_____________THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC____II
4 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
No Goon Bait
“One raw hamburger, please.” The request brought startled glances from the girls behind the cafeteria counter and then the timid question from one —“A r-a-w hamburger?” Students waiting for civilized Wimpy - food edged away and one remarked, “That baby is certainly no vegetarian.” The lad who wanted the raw meat, paid for it, and then oblivious to the questioning stares, sat down at a table. He carefully removed the meat from the bag, his mouth opened, and eyes began to pop. Tense, and waiting for the kill, all heads were turned his way. Then a clucking noise emitted from the opened mouth, the head bent down and everyone strained toward him. The clucking noice continued, however, and the hamburger was still intact. Then up from under the table emerged a little black-and-white head, jaws were opened and the meat was dropped in. Disappointment registered on all faces when the lad was heard saying, “There you are, boy — that’ll tickle your doggy palate,” and he reached down to pat a little stray mutt happily wagging its tail. “Heck,” said a bystander, “I thought it was going to be the payoff on an election bet or something.”
Mice and Men
• In Amarillo, Texas, a prison guard discovered a beetle crawling toward a solitary confinement cell. On its back were tied a cigarette and a match. Investigation showed that the prisoner had been receiving cigarettes in this manner for some time.
It doesn’t take long for ideas like this to catch on. Over in Lyons sub the boys are training little titmice for their own purposes. They have the little animals trained to haul some pretty heavy stuff and just for experiment tried them out on a can full of water. The mice came through in great style. The next step is to introduce the mice down at Matt’s. They will be kept there in a cage and when a phone call comes in from one of the boys a can of water or something can be tied on their backs and they’ll trot up to Lyons. In this way the boys won’t be inconvenienced if they shouldn’t feel well — or something.
Chameleons
With graduation hovering around, (tentative for many on comprehen-sives taken Thursday) the annual
question of “What did we get out of the four years?” is popping up. A few lads have answered “Not much.” “Such dissatisfaction cannot be.” said a few more and they set about to do something about it. Trial offer coupons and subscription blanks have been sent out to different companies. The result has been a flood of law books, Audubon bird editions, and stuff like, “The Beauty Unobserved Around Us.” All this has gone to make life miserable for the mailmen and for the unsuspecting recipients who get a healthy bill for goods delivered. Ed Mattingly, a chemical engineer in good- standing, has received a batch of paper-backed volumes titled “Supreme Court Decisions” and he has them dog-eared trying to find out whether or not the
“McGutski has certainly changed since going to Notre Dame”
law can make him pay for the books since he didn't order them. Another Walshite has received a box of fifty cigars. Enclosed was a note that he could smoke some twenty and if not satisfied could send the rest back and there would be no charges. He carefully smoked the twenty, after getting over the surprise of receiving them, intending to send the rest back. However, friends got into the box and the fifty have gone — so now what? No one has sent phy-ed majors “Music Appreciation” as yet, but Brother Postoffice may be putting a tag on it right now. With that happy thought — pleasant dreams to you high-bar artists. There’s nothing like a treatise on “Carmen” to rest one after a strenuous session of handstanding.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C_________Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT__________________Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA FRA.......................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Week
John Callaghan College Parade
John F. Clifford_____________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy__________________________________In the Juggler Vein
Neus Staff
Vincent DeCoursey_____________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock_____________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard_____________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller_______________________________Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey_________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay___________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman_____________________________Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli Sports Editor
Frederick Digby______________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto------------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson_________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff
Art Staff
George Elmore___________________________________Ari Editor
Tom Powers______________________________________Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
Vol. 71	April 8, 1938	No. 22
"The Other Scourge"
UNFAMILIAR to most American Catholics is the great Catholic organ of France, Le Temp Present. The greatest minds of the Catholic modern renascence serve it in editorial positions. Such names as Jacques Maritain, Mauriac, Marcel, P. Henri Simon, dot its pages. They are regular contributors and editors of this great paper which is fearless like very few papers are.
It is unique in its stand on European questions. Clearly and courageously it voices the opinions of Catholics in regard to political developments. When its own country, France, is wrong, or has blundered, fearlessly, Le Temp Present comes out and says so.
The issue of March 18th reached this campus a few days ago. It was devoted almost exclusively to the latest dictatorial treachery, the annexation of Austria. In a front page editorial entitled “Treachery of Europe” P. Henri Simon says in part:
“March 12, 1938 will go down in the history of Europe as a shameful and ominous date; and I add with a shrinking of heart, that it leaves a spot on the integrity of the country. In the eyes of the world the Germany of Hitler commits a disgraceful crime; Italy is a silent partner to it, while France and England are cowards.
“Two great countries stand idle while a small courageous, Christian and Catholic nation is stripped of its independence. Two other great countries merely make weak diplomatic protests, and allow an act to be committed which is not only an offense against man’s rights but the most flagrant and most dangerous break of European order that could be accomplished.
“The knell which sounds for compressed Austria is not only heavy and indicative of death; it carries an omen for all of Europe, for the Europe that is decaying and betraying itself.”
Simon goes on to tell of Hitler’s correspondence with Il Duce in which he attempts to justify his action by saying that “I have decided that peace and order should be established in my country (Austria).”
The Frenchman goes on to say, “Has Mussolini lost reason or is he getting something in the Mediterranean? For after all, the annexation of Austria would annihilate Italy’s victory in 1918.”
“We wish that all Christians would feel that Communism is not the only menace to the Gospels as well as the independence of the Churches. We also wish that the French patriots and the English pacifists would take precaution of the dangers that menace their peace and clear conscience of words and acts that they must save.”
“What does France do when this crime is taking place? It meddles in politics. It does the lowest and most unintelligent thing in politics — it changes its Minister. It amuses itself with financial calculations, lawyers quibble, etc.”
“For three days anguished England looked at France. If France would have had a government courageous enough to say the word, the German troops wouldn’t have dared trespass the Austrian frontiers. But France didn’t have such a government.”
He writes of a proposed plan to stop Hitler by which the government of France would have been united by a union of the two great political parties, one of which is the Communistic party.
“I understand that since this union was difficult, it was perilous, hard and offensive to introduce into the designs of the government some men who have freed the liberty of their minds, the nobleness of heart, and the rectitude of their French conscience at the point of approving the frenzied judiciary hoaxes of Moscow—the other scourge of Europe. We should not exclude those men who composed this national society; we should only exclude the traitors and I do not say that the million who voted Communistic are traitors and should be used as common fodder the day of general mobilization. So therefore I would be alarmed to see France in the hands of a Communistic government or inspired by Communists in order to do the work of Moscow. The Communists could be represented in a government of truce that speaks in behalf of the entire nation; in order to give confidence to the entire nation and in order to act for the public safety of all.
“The harm would have been less, in any case, than to throw any power between the heads of a party government of a group of tired out politicians, who haven’t enough breath to speak with all the grandeur of the voice of France. A drama is being played where the minutes are counted, where character and decision are required and France begs for men and action.”
Courageous words, these! Courageous for a French Catholic editor, who sees a great world crisis arising because of the sinister workings of Nazism, Communism, and Fascism.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Food for Fight B
A stimulating book is the annual Sheed and Ward Survey. It is a crosssection of Catholic thought in the fields of politics, controversy, and literature that throws one into a fighting mood. As one reads these short, vital chapters from great contemporary writers one realizes that the Catholic Cause is not confined to seminary classrooms nor to the stricken countries of Spain, Russia, and Germany. The fight is being waged right next to us. But we are so close and familiar with its results and so ready to blindly o. k. anything that comes our way—as seems to be the custom today—that we sit idly, uselessly by. Perhaps if we were placed on some unworldly pinnacle where we could observe just what people are thinking today, we would realize that our own people are walking into a tragedy almost as complete as the one that has engulfed the Russian people.
It happened suddenly in Russia. It has been happening gradually in the western world for three hundred years, as is clearly pointed out by Karl Adam in “Christ in the Modern World,” a chapter from his book, Christ and the Western Mind. Adam puts the history of the western world in this inevitable manner: “In the morning of its youth it shouted enthusiastically, ‘Osanna to the son of David’: as the day declined, the cry was heard, ‘Crucifige’.” The cry of “Crucifige” began with the Reformers, Calvin and Luther. The Catholic concept of the One Truth leading the men whom He created to Himself through His instrumentality, the Church, was exploded. The Catholics were in error. What was substituted is a subject of history. The universal belief and faith in God was lost to the western world. God became a matter of convenience. His crucifixion in the guise of a movement of disbelief was re-enacted all over again. The roots of modernism took hold, a natural outgrowth of individual reason unaided by faith and belief. As Karl Adam points out, two great principles' sprang up, encouraged by the new “scientific” theologians. Those principles are in full force today. Just look around and see if you can’t recognize them. They are, first, an attitude of a priori unbelief.
A man exclaims, “I don’t believe there is a God until you show me a God. Until I know there is a God I won’t bother my brains worrying about one.” Faith and belief are no more than superstitions to this man.
He knows only what he has experienced. An analogy in the terms of his experience would be the only way of proving this a priori unbeliever that there is a God. But since the transcendental attributes of God could never be known to men in terms of experience or analogy, especially to men who believe only what they experience, it is not difficult to understand why he is an unbeliever.
The second and more devastating principle is an absolute exclusion of faith. It is complementary in effect to a priori unbelief. An unbeliever naturally has no time for matters of faith. Contrary to what the so-called scientists maintain, faith has a definite function: it is an aid to natural reason, which, added to reason, lights the way to transcendental truths which form the basis of man’s belief in God. Without faith, those truths are screened off. It can readily be seen, then, why a man without faith calls truths about God superstitions: as far as his knowledge of them is concerned, they are superstitions. A man without faith cannot have a correct concept of Christ. He pulls artificial blinds down about him and all that is left is what he sees. “Seeing is believing.” There is truth in nothing else. That is a fair statement of modern intellectuality. Its consequences, as Adam writes, are, “In its hands not only was Christ deprived of his Divinity, but even His humanity was completely secularized and conceived in terms of relativity.”
“More and more is the Western mind drifting away from Christ.” In its cradle days it was, “Osanna to the Son of David.” Then Luther came along and said, “You are not the Christ they say you are.” Today the Association for Free Thinking and Cremation, founded in 1927 with a half-million charter members shouts, “Christ, you are a myth.” And, mind you, that association wasn’t founded in Russia.
In another part of the same edition of the Sheed and Ward Survey, the 1934 book, Waldemar Gurian, now professor of politics at Notre Dame, gives a remarkably simple analysis of Lenin’s character. It is taken from his book, Bolshevism: Theory and Practice. Strangely enough, Lenin’s character is summed up by the title of the book: a unity of theory and practice, a rare combination indeed to be found amongst Russian revolutionaries, who are noted for their isolated idealism and love of debate.
Lenin was an inspired idealist and, at the same time, thoroughly, almost bitterly, practical. He wanted action. He started a revolution. He learned as his revolution and administration wore on. Regardless of what might happen, the cause must go on, thought Lenin. Matters of morality and humanity had nothing to do with it. There was the Marxian theory and there was its application. The natural result, he thought, would be social justice. That was about all there was to Lenin’s logic. -Any destruction of life, property, and institutions consequent to the furtherance of Communism was just so much to be done. Everything was justified in the light of the end achieved. That was Lenin. Nothing mysterious about him, though it is easy to see why he gained the reputation of a heartless machine. A man with a purpose, a single minded man who had the abso- • lute support of a single minded people.
Doctor Dietrich Von Hildebrand in a chapter on the psychology of Impurity from In Defence of Purity says that there are two kinds of pure men. There is the innocent man who carefully avoids all matters involving sex and who prides himself on being free from its clutches, yet who is ever conscious of its lurking presence. Then there is the genuinely pure man who lives a radiant, full life without this fear and apprehension of sex. Of course, the second type of purity is the more desirable. It seems as though a man in the first category is just over the borderline. It wouldn’t take much, under the proper circumstances, to push him across.
Alfred Noyes, great English poet, was forty-seven years old when he was converted in 1927. He experienced the tail-end of the great scare pseudo-philosophers Spencer and Darwin threw into the people of Europe who were not quite sure of just why they believed in God. Noyes has a chapter entitled “The Agnostic Dawn” from his book, The Unknown God, included in the 1934 Sheed and Ward Survey. He vividly describes the terrible effect of Spencer’s teachings.
Self-analysts who are unsatisfied with their analysis will probably find the right answer in Dr. Rudolph Allers’ The Psychology of Character. A chapter entitled “The Psychology of Neurosis” was impetus enough to send this writer running over to the library after it.
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
•M	■	=a—..	1 "■	—	. .. ...	-Mm
KLINEMEN TOUR MIDWEST TO OPEN SCHEDULE; MEET WESTERN STATE, MAROONS, BUCKEYES
By Andrew F. Wilson
The Notre Dame baseball team will spend its Easter vacation on a tour
of the Middle West; for after opening its season April 14 against Western State at Kalamazoo, it moves to Chicago April 16, and then to Columbus for two games with Ohio State Apri 18 and 19. It then plays its first home games
April 25 and 26 against Iowa.
In last year’s competition, Chicago, which finished ninth in the Big Ten, split two games with the Irish, losing 16-9 and winning 9-2. Iowa, which finished eighth in the Conference, also split with Notre Dame, winning 6-1 and losing 3-2. Notre Dame piled up its biggest score of the year against the Buckeyes of Ohio State—22-3— in the only game the two played together. Ohio State last year tied with Wisconsin for third in the Big Ten.
Chicago has 12 men back from last year’s squad, with veterans in every position, and it is expected that they will have a team no better and no worse than last year’s nine. Ohio State should be the best of Notre Dame’s early opponents, but the Buckeyes have had little luck against the Irish since they made up a nine-run deficit in the last two innings of a game at Columbus in 1935 to win, 10-9. Iowa on the other hand has trimmed the Irish in two out of three games over the last two years, and perhaps will give the men in blue and gold their toughest battles.
The present Hawkeye squad is supposed to be a light-hitting outfit, in need of one more good pitcher to make it a consistently winning team. Veteran outfielder Artie Manush last year was the only .300 hitter on the squad. Howard Miller and left-hander Ken Reid are the only veteran pitchers returning, with Harold Haub the best of the sophomores. For relief, regular shortstop and Captain Eddie Kadell and last year’s regular third baseman Emil Sulek will have to be used. The infielders are two deep at every position, and the outfielders, though poor on hitting with the exception of Manush, are numerous and defensively very efficient. The catcher’s position is still a question-mark, with football and basketball star Nile Kinnick pressing last year’s substitute Wendell Winders for the starting job.
The Irish, with a 1937 record of twelve won and five lost, will prob- . ably be as good and perhaps better this year. Nine monogram winners.
(Continued on Page 18)
Ennio Arboit No. 1 Irish hurler.
SCRIMMAGE FEATURE OF GRID SESSIONS
By Red Digby
Long scrimmages this afternoon and tomorrow will top off the fourth week of spring practice for the Fighting Irish hopefuls. These two skirmishes should be the best of the spring season to date for the Irish are now rounding into form.
During the past week they have concentrated mainly on blocking with long drills in this department of play every afternoon. Up to the present the blocking in the scrimmages has been rather poor.
Last Saturday in the scrimmage which closed the third week of practice, the« reserves beat the varsity squad 6 to 0 in an hour’s tussle. Taking advantage of the recovery by Harry Zuendel of a punt blocked by “Bing” Binkowski, the reserves scored from the ten yard line on a plunge by Johnny McMahon. Up to this point the scrimmage had been a nip and tuck affair with neither team having a decided edge.
The first team backfield was composed of Sitko at quarter, Stephenson at left half and Zontini at right, and Ed Simonich at full. Simonich was injured during the scrimmage, and (Continued on Page 18)
(' ■>
Brushing Up
By Nick Lamberto
Revenge: Jack Doyle, the betting commissioner, bet 25 to 1 against Bobby Jones’ winning the Master’s tournament at Atlanta and even money that Bobby wouldn’t finish higher than fifth . . . Doyle lost a fortune betting against Jones when Bobby was in his heyday.
Suggestion: The dining hall management might find that sarcastic Hal “The Week” Williams, the black sheep of the Scholastic staff, could be “bought off” with a couple of caf books. (Not that he’s open to bribery or anything like that. . . .)
Collusions?: Referee Frank Lane was guest speaker at Xavier University’s basketball banquet last week.
Fight of the year: Blasting Barney Ross, the welterweight whiz, against Homicide Henry Armstrong, the sable hued slammer.
RamBULings: Ed Sadowski, center on Seton Hall College basketball team, was named on the All-Metropolitan team picked by New York sport writers . . . (any relation, Sid?). Al Vande Weghe of Princeton swam the 100-yard backstroke in 1:02 for a new world’s record at the national intercollegiate. . . . His teammate and captain-elect, Dick Hough, broke the breaststroke record of 1:07.6 a few minutes later. Coach Frank Thomas of Alabama is grooming Charlie Boswell to fill the shoes of All-American Joe Gilgrow. Brooklyn’s Daffy Dodgers made 15 errors in one grapefruit league game. The St. Louis Browns were leading the citrous circuit at the last report. The Oklahoma Aggies won the National Intercollegiate wrestling championship at Penn State last week. Horace Bell, Minnesota’s goal kicking Negro guard, is said to be great shakes as a boxer . . . ((how about that, “white hope” Joe Race?) Bob Shea, astute senior journalist, has added the pingpong championship of St. Mary’s (across-the-road) to his many laurels.
Note to “dieters” and dieticians: Umpire Bill McGowan lost 45 pounds this spring with a celery diet. (If the shot fits etc.)
Fashion note: Joe Louis is setting the Easter parade pace with a salmon-pink suit striped with red, blue, and tan. Bob Mullen (Alumni) is showing the rest of the English (Continued on Page 18)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IS
IRISH NETMEN OPEN AGAINST WILDCATS
QUADRANGULAR RELAYS TO TEST TRACKMEN; IRISH TO MEET MIDWEST'S FINEST
By Bill Donnelly
Official practice got under way for the 1938 candidates for the Notre Dame tennis team, as Coach de Lan-dero called out his men last week. While many of the boys had been limbering up for the past few weeks in between cold snaps, the pressure wasn’t on. From now on until the gun sounds intensive practice will be the order of the day. During the past week most of the doubles candidates were paired off and told to go to it in an effort to build up a strong doubles department. Captain Ed Kil-rain opposed Wild Bill Arnold; Gregory vs. Simon; Reppenhagen vs. Wolf; Converse vs. Bowler; Fay vs. Rogers; Metrailer vs. Waters; and Dempsey vs. Lewis.
Captain Eddie Kilrain and Bill Arnold, the only seniors on the team, are helping to dispel the air of uncertainty surrounding the prospects for a new season, by their fine doubles work. Arnold, possessor of a blistering and accurate backhand, is a polished player. Kilrain, an energetic and forceful player, is especially adept at net play. This doubles team is expected to bring in its share of victories.
At the number one spot will be Bill Fay, classy sophomore who last year won the school tournament, and the year before, the freshman tournament.
The first meet is with Northwestern on April 22nd, but the Easter vacation will throw a monkey-wrench into any plans for a well-regulated group of practice sessions up to that date. No doubt the team members will lug their racquets to the home grounds with them to make up for any loss of effectiveness through inactivity.
If the doubles can be sufficiently sparked by Kilrain and Arnold, Coach de Landero ventures the proposal that this year will see Notre Dame with a winning tennis team for a change. This seems to imply that the singles will be well taken care of—but we’ll wait and see. -
Faculty Golf Tourney
With the largest entry list in its history, the annual faculty golf tournament is under way, according to an announcement this week by Professor David L. Campbell, chairman of the committee in charge.
Sixty men had entered the event on last Wednesday, with the probability that there would be at least six more by Saturday. All entrants have been urged by Professor Campbell to play the qualifying rounds in April so that match play can begin promptly on May 1.	,
The Notre Dame track team will open the outdoor season two weeks from tomorrow with the Quadrangular Relays at Bloomington, Ind. It will attempt to continue the high standard it set for the indoor season during which it received Coach John P. Nicholson’s acclaim as the greatest track team Notre . Dame ever had. ----------------------------------
Netman Gregory Love and lobs again.
GOLF TEAM TO OPEN AGAINST DETROIT
By Eddie Huff
Notre Dame’s varsity club swingers are not shooting par golf with Miss Fortune. The team that finished runner-up to Princeton’s champions at Oakmont (Pa.) in the national in-tercollegiates last June is completely disbanded.
Captain Lou Fehlig was graduated; Bud Donovan, Al Maihles, and Gene Milbourn, captain-elect, have left school for sundry reasons. Bill Castleman, remaining team member, is spending time within the resident rule following a semester’s transfer to Portland U.
But that is not all. Notre Dame goes to Detroit on April 18 to open the season against Detroit U. A number of surprises await the Fighting Irish swing-men. Even with the loss of three lettermen from last year’s (Continued on Page 20)
Indiana, Michigan, Ohio State, and Notre Dame, the four teams taking part in the Quadrangular Relays, are probably the four strongest collegiate track teams east of the Rocky Mountains. At the Butler Relays last March Notre Dame finished behind Ohio State, Indiana, and Michigan in the mile, two mile, and four mile relays, and behind Michigan and Indiana in the distance medley relay. Ohio State didn’t enter a team in the latter event. Also at Butler, Indiana set new fieldhouse records in both the distance medley and the four mile relays, while in the two mile relay the first three teams averaged less than 1:57 a man.
The relay events at Bloomington will include the half mile, the mile, the two mile, the four mile, and the distance medley relays. There will be a special 100-yard dash, a special high hurdle race, and competition in all of the field events including the broad jump, high jump, pole vault, shot put, discus, and javelin. Special events will count 5-3-2-1, while relay events will count double.
Since the Chicago Daily News meet, Greg Rice has been bothered by a sore side that has prevented him from practicing, but he seems to be recovering and probably will be in shape to compete in the relays. John Francis is back in form after a week’s vacation between seasons, and Bill Faymonville is rapidly approaching the form which made him one of the leading discus tossers in the country last year.
The cold weather over last weekend and the snow later this week set practice behind schedule, but intensive work through the Easter vacation should put the team in shape. Despite the record of the previous meeting of the four teams, and despite the fact that Notre Dame seems to be stronger in dual meets and big meets than in relay meets, the Irish should do very well in the Quad-rangulara Relays.
Snow Discomfits
Softball on Badin Bog has been temporarily discontinued because of Walsh Hallers inability to use snowshoes for patrolling the outfield.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
By Mark J. Mitchell
One week from tomorrow, the Notre Dame baseball team opens its season against a strong team from the University of Chicago. From all appearances, the 1938 schedule is about the toughest one ever to be faced by any Irish baseball team. And the one person who more than anyone else will bear the brunt of this heavy schedule is Chuck Borowski. Aside from the ability of the pitch-
ing staff, the success or failure of the 1938 team depends mainly on-the number of base hits in Borowski’s bat.
And should you see a broad-shouldered fellow walking about the campus, intently scrutinizing the ground one of these days, it will in all probability be Borowski. For that is how he gets his base hits, not by looking at the ground, of course, but by picking up every button which he sees unattached to somebody’s clothing. It’s just a superstition, one of many indulged in by every ball player from major leaguers to sandlotters.
Borowski is a senior and this year’s captain of baseball. He came to Notre Dame from Central High in South Bend where he took part in three major sports, football, basketball, and baseball. For two years here he played basketball, and even stuck out for football three. One of the biggest moments he experienced in any kind of athletics was the touchdown he scored against Wisconsin two years ago. It was the only touchdown he ever scored any time in organized competition.	-
, But baseball seems always to have been his first love. For he spent more time swinging at horsehide than doing anything else. His batting averages for
.	(Continued on Page 22)
FROSH FENCERS LOOK GOOD IN TOURNEY
•
Twelve swordsmen, the cream of last fall’s crop of 67, competed last week in the Freshman Fencing tourney and thereby focussed the spotlight on the men who will form the nucleus of the varsity for the next few years. Competition was close in both sabre and foil with several dexterous parriers being unearthed, especially Michelson, Garrity, Gaither, and Schlafly.	,	'
The sabre tournament was successfully corailed by Michelson who won all his four bouts. Finishing second was Garrity with a total of two victories and two losses, while Reynolds placed third, winning one bout and losing three.
Before the foil tourney could be decided, two preliminary round-robin poules were engaged in by all of the fencers. In Poule I, Michelson won four and lost none. Boss won three and lost one; Schoo won two and lost two; Merdsinski won one and lost three; and Bonder brought up the rear guard. In Poule II, Schlafly swept his four bouts; Gaither and O’Donnell split their four matches two and two; and McNamee and Corbett won one apiece out of four.
The finals brought all the stylists together in a battle of thrusts and parrys, which pleased Coach de Lan-dero no end’ as the fur was flying thick and fast. Gaither and Schlafly finished in a dead-heat each getting four for five which is a winning average in any sport. But in points Gaither managed to edge out Schlafly by the margin of one single digit. Boss finished in the money with three victories and two defeats, with Michelson gaining fourth, by winning two out of five. Schoo and O’Donnell finished in a tie for fifth at one one victory and four losses apiece.
As a result of these enlightening contests in sabre and foil Coach de Landero sees prospects better than fair for his next effort in the fencing line. With a smile from Lady Luck when the June finals come around, Mr. de Landero is counting on seeing all his new fencers back and rarin’ to go when the bell sounds some time in the fall.
Borfho/omew on Radio
Paul C. Bartholomew, associate professor of Politics, is broadcasting a series of politico-news commentaries over the local WSBT-WFAM station every Saturday evening at 5:45.
In last week’s discussion, Mr. Bartholomew, who has been teaching the principles of American government for a decade, reviewed the current “Reorganization Bill” that was passed by the United States Senate last week.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
INDOOR SPORTS END IN HOT FINISH
With heated competition that defied the weather outdoors, the gentlemen who take their exercise indoors brought the annual Winter Sports tournament to a close Tuesday evening when McCabe of Alumni finally conquered Kerrigan of Brownson in a billiard match that had a large gallery digging its heels in the floor of Brownson Rec. It was a tough fight for the upperclassman, who gained his ticket to the finals by defeating Lawler, also of Brownson. Kerrigan had won from Kilrain, also of Alumni, in the semi-finals.
Aside from the billiards, ping-pong and bowling presented an equal amount of rivalry. Sixty-four contestants began the long grind of table-tennis matches that finally saw a freshman, Heckler of Zahm, conquer the Howard Strong-arm, Gillespie. In the doubles Heckler again found the top berth playing with another Zahmite, Greene, against the Alumni team of Touscany and Try. The ping-pongers in Carroll Rec, who once numbered 72, gradually dropped off the line until the title rested between Garab and McLeod. Garab, who lives off the campus, came through in the end, and with a fellow South Bender, Sommerer, batted to an impressive win over Veeneman and Veeneman in the finals of the doubles.
It is Ted Trescer who stands supreme among the hardwood men following his conquest of George Fer-rick. Trescer was first, representing Sorin, while Ferrick placed second, coming from Zahm. Third place went to De Hayes of Dillon. The doubles finale featured the team of Schnorr from Morrissey, and Guerin of Badin, who rolled to a championship before a sizeable audience in Walsh Rec.
In the Handball Palace, things are not as yet finished. Trentacoste of Sorin, having wrested a victory from McCormick of Walsh, is still waiting to play in the finals against Byrne of Brownson, Metrailer of Howard, or Jerry Clifford of Walsh. These last two gentlemen have not yet decided a semi-finalist, and there the play is stopped. The doubles, 22 of them, are still in the early rounds.
All in all this year’s competition has been among the most exciting at Notre Dame, with ping-pong making a very auspicious debut. Congratulations to the winners, condolences to the losers! Congratulations, too, to Condon, Fisher, Mulhern, and Donnelly who did a fine job of supervising the tourneys.
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John F. Gifford
BIG IRISH LEAGUE
These robust, red-blooded Irishmen from Notre Dame have been playing baseball almost as long as they have been at their favorite game of football. But the Rocknes and the Laydens and the Andersons and the Crowleys and the Millers have achieved most of the glory that has been heaped on the shoulders of Notre Dame’s greats in the field of sports. For this reason few have ever stopped to consider that maybe some of the athletes of old Cartier Field achieved immortality in Sportsdom via the baseball diamond.
. v
It was on April 21, 1892 that the Notre Dame nine received its baptism of fire. Michigan, the same team that acquainted the Irish with their first game of football several years before, was the first team played and received a 6-4 lacing in return for introducing the game as an intercollegiate sport on the Irish campus. Since that year Notre Dame has sent forth her baseball luminaries each Spring to reestablish her reputation of producing some of the greatest names in baseball history. The first and foremost of these is Adrian C. “Pop” Anson. When “Pop” played the game here it was called “Rounders”— this was in 1867. “Pop” was one of the oldest stars in the game, playing for 22 years (a feat bettered only by Eddie Collins, Ty Cobb and Jimmy Wallace.) He started his pro career with the Chicago Cubs. And for twenty years he batted over .300. Only Ty Cobb has done better.
V
Joe Birmingham, a former hard-hitting Cleveland player, and one of the greatest left fielders of all time, is another famous Notre Dame man who went big in baseball. There are scores of others. Roger Bresnahan was a famous Giant catcher, most widely remembered, perhaps, as the battery mate of the immortal Christy Mathewson. Bresnahan also managed the Toledo “Mud Hens.” Al« Bergman was once owned by the Cleveland Indians.
V
The 1909 team was the best producer of big league material in Irish history. Five members of this nine achieved stardom in the majors: Billy Burke, once of the Boston Red Sox, and one of the youngest pitchers in the majors when he entered professional ball at nineteen, Bert Daniels of the old New York Yankees; Ed McDonough of the Philadelphia Nationals, and the Scanlan brothers, who also were purchased by Philadelphia. Mike Powers was headed for the title of the best catcher of all-time until his untimely death ended a truly great career behind the bat as backstop for the Athletics. Ed Reulbach, a Monogram winner at Notre Dame, pitched for the Boston Nationals after graduation. He is numbered among the best in the National League, being the leading pitcher in 1905 by winning 24 and dropping 7.
V
A great battery combination at Notre Dame was the Norwood Gibson-Phil O’Neil duet. Gibson joined the Boston Red Sox and for four years was the best hurler in the American league. O’Neil entered the employ of the Cincinnati Reds. Fred “Cy” Williams, an old Chicago Cub slugger, led the National League in home runs in 1920 and 1923.
V
One could go on indefinitely . . . John DuBuc of the Tigers, Muss Ferrell of the Red Sox, Wilbur (Dolly) Gray of the White Sox, Bob Lynch of the Phillies, John “Red” Murray, an old Giant star, Alex McCarthy of the Pirates, Bill McGill of the Cubs, Tom Quigley of the Pirates, John (Dusty) Rhodes of Cincinnati, Arthur Schafer of the Giants’ pennant-winners, Rufus Waldorf of the Cubs, Francis Shaughnessey of Washington, and James Walsh of Detroit. More recently we find the Walsh brothers, Ed and Bob, sons of “Big Ed” Walsh of the old Chicago White Sox. Billy Sullivan handled a mighty stick for the Cleveland Indians a few seasons back and did a neat job as catcher. At present Bill is owned by the lowly St. Louis Browns. Bill left Notre Dame and joined the Milwaukee Club of the American Association under option to the White Sox. His father, Bill, Sr., caught the fast ones for Big Ed Walsh when both were in their prime. (Continued on Page 18)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
KLINEMEN OPEN
(Continued from Page 14) eight of last year’s substitutes, and seven promising sophomores will be on hand for the hard 19-game schedule. Coach “Jake” Kline has refused to commit himself on the starting line-up, and only Al Kovzelove, veteran catcher, Joe Nardone, outfielder, and “Chuck” Borowski, captain-outfielder are fairly certain of being included on it.
SPRING FOOTBALL
(Continued from Page 14)
the freshman fullback, Peipul, took over his position. The former’s injury, a back sprain, will keep him out of practice until after the Easter holidays.
In the first string line were Kerr and Arboit at ends, Kell and HoIIen-doner at the tackle posts, McGoldrick and Bossu at guards, and Longhi at center.
In the second scrimmage between the freshman and another team of reserves, neither team was able to score though both threatened at one time or another.
By far the most spectacular run of the afternoon was made in the third scrimmage period by Sweeney Tuck. Tuck intercepted a pass near his own goal line and ran 100 yards to a touchdown. This was the only other score of the afternoon.
There will probably be a number of changes made in the various lineups for this afternoon’s and tomorrow’s scrimmages.
BRUSHING UP
(Continued from Page 14) majors the way with a “chip-chocolate” creation. Ed Bartnett (Alumni), son of the New York Sun’s Bartnett, caters to bright red-checked lumber-jack shirts.
Quotable Quote: Fritz Crisler says his Michigan football teams will play “wide open football but not razzle-dazzle.”
Irony: The six-man football rules committee picked the first six-man All-American team — the team had ten men on it.
LAW BANQUET HONORS
(Continued from Page 3)
John DeMots, J. McGlyn, C. Brown, J. R. Burke, E. J. Hummer, Rex E. Weaver, Lee Moorman, William R. Bowes, S. Minella, F. Smith, and A. Sniadowski.
The president of the Law club is Louis Vettel, of Ashtabula, Ohio.
ITS SPRINGTIME .... Let's GO Someplace I
• You can do that Spring Fever a lot of good with a little change of scenery. A hike through the Dunes perhaps .... or a few hours in Chicago—they’re both practically on your doorstep via South Shore Line. It’s easy on the pocketbook, too. It’s the cheapest, fastest transportation you can use.
SPLINTERS — (Continued from Page 17)
Getting down to our own generation of Irish baseball stars we can’t neglect Frankie Gaul, Vic Mettler, Joe Beach and Andy Pitney. When not coaching the backfield candidates at John Carroll in Cleveland, Gaul, captain of the 1936 nine, is associated with the Cubs. Andy Pilney and Vic Mettler are members of the Indianapolis club, while Joe Beach is under option to the New Orleans nine. Coach Jake Kline, captain and third sacker of the 1917 team, was offered try-outs with the Pirates but disregarded the lucrative offers of professional ball to serve his country overseas. When he returned home he followed an engineering career.
THE SAFEST
MOST DEPENDABLE WAY TO CHICAGO

Took for yournwwe
here -
STANDARD . CARBURETOR STEMBITER . IMPERIAL .
25-50^ pipes that they can get more pipepleasure if they buy this honey-cured briar for $1. We’ve increased production 8 times because so many men find Yello-Bole better. Starts sweet, stays sweet. 500 styles.
VOUR dealer now *• has this big assortment of 1938 Yello-Bole styles — see it today. Yello-Bote was made to convince smokers of
SPECIAL DISPLAY
No. A950
$1.00 $1.25 $1.25
$1.50
LLO-BOLE
•EG. U. S. PAT. OFT.
Nineteen
SWORDSMEN WIND UP SUCCESSFUL YEAR
•
Sabre man succeeded sabre man last week, as the lettermen of the Notre Dame fencing squad unanimously named Salvatore Paul Scar-lata, Science junior, of Lodi, New Jersey, to take over the post just vacated by Jack Zerbst as captain of the Irish swordsmen. The election took place at the annual banquet tendered the fencing squad by the University Athletic Association a week ago last evening in the dining halls.
Scarlata is no stranger to fencing fans hereabouts. He first attracted attention last year when he took part in his first varsity competition as a member of Coach Pedro de Landero’s sabre unit.
Professor de Landero must have smiled a pretty satisfied smile as he returned from St. Louis a week ago last Sunday with his fencing team, stabbing out a victory over Washington University. The night before not only marked the completion of the fifth year of fencing as a recognized sport at Notre Dame but it was also the sixth straight win for the Blue and Gold swordsmen this year, and the seventh victory in nine starts.
The duelists, headed by Captain Jack Zerbst, opened their season by losing to a strong Purdue aggregation, by a score of 15-12. They came back in their next meet, however, to take over Detroit, 12% -4%. The second and last defeat of the season came a week later at the hands of Chicago, known for its great teams. Then came the first victory in a string that was to extend down through the last meet of the season. First to fall before the Irish blades was Ohio State, followed by Lawrence Tech, which could garner only & points to 12 for the Irish. Coach de Landero’s charges gained revenge in the next battle as Purdue came out on the short end of a 17-10 score. From then on, Notre Dame didn’t experience too much trouble, taking in succession, Wisconsin (14%-12%), Cincinnati (12-5), and Washington (136).
Heaviest losses for the squad will occur in the ranks of the foilmen, when Vic Mercado and Pierre de la Vergne will leave to take their sheepskins in June. The sabremen, although they lose only one man, will have a huge gap when Captain Jack Zerbst graduates this year. Returning sabremen are: Captain-elect Sal Scarlata, Johnny Gavan; in the epee Coach de Landero will have: Charlie Colgan, Jim Graham, Harold Guerin, and Al McEnearney; veterans in the foils will be Joe Leising and Bob Sayia.
Twenty
GOLFERS AT DETROIT
(Continued, from Page 15)
squad, the Titans are exuberant over the “finest” golf prospects in the history of the school.
Four lettermen have come back: Jim Dingeman, Dick Coleman, Bob Temple and Carl Collett. These holdovers will be topped by the sophomore, Bob Babbish, Michigan open title holder and ex-state amateur champion.
Surprise number two: the match will be Notre Dame’s first, but Detroit will have met Purdue and Indiana before attacking the Irish.
Third surprise: One of* Notre Dame’s coaches of last season, Al Watrous, Detroit professional, has been “proselytized” to Detroit U.
Before the opener Notre Dame’s eight-man squad will be selected from Capt. Tom Sheehan, George Nolan, Charles Bennett, retainers; Phil Donohue, Costello, interhall champ; Hagen, Schaller, and Bertsch, sophomores, and Tiernan a junior.
Nolan tied the once-record card of 70 for the William J. Burke-Univer-sity course last season, but sophomore Donahue came along to equal the sub-par 67 recorded by the nationally - known pro, Horton Smith, two years ago.
The home-season opener presents Ohio State on April 25, but Notre Dame meets Chicago U. in the Windy City on April 22 before that.
Notre Dame’s golfers never have experienced a losing season, and although the deal seems to be stacked against the Irish for the ’38 campaign, the varsity will be in its favorite position of fighting the long odds.
Detroit, Chicago, and Ohio State never have defeated Notre Dame at golf: Detroit has been beaten in eight matches, Chicago has bowed to the Irish five times, and the Bucks have finished on the short end in two fairway engagements.
The New Palm Beach Suits
They’re smarter, cooler, better than ever before. The latest in men’s sport backs and lounge models. The newest stripes, checks, plaids and solid colors. The smartest whites... and the brand new Airtones. Smart for campus and classroom...smart for Saturday night dates...smart for all next summer. Easy to wash and clean...shapely forever... and marvelous values at
TOBIN says:
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE 110 North Main Street Lunch	Billiards
See them at your favorite clothier today, while selections are at their best. And be sure he shows you the new Palm Beach Evening Formal at $20, and the handsome Palm Beach slacks at $5.50.
FROM THE GtNUIHt CLOTH
IF IT BEARS THIS LABEL— IT’S GENUINE PALM BEACH
GOODALL COMPANY* CINCINNATI
Let your body breathe in Palm Beach
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
CHICAGOANS HEAR ? O'GRADY TALK
•
Minutes of the last meeting and manners of the present one were dismissed in the same breath by the members of the Chicago Club last Tuesday evening. Mr. Daniel C. O’Grady, associate professor of philosophy, was the speaker* of the evening, and had chosen the topic “The Ludicrous; Its Causes and Effects.” Mr. O’Grady began his talk in a very amusing fashion and the members of this cosmopolitan club apparently enjoyed it very much. When Mr. O’Grady had exhausted his repertoire of more obvious jokes, he made the mistake of assuming that this cultured gathering would appreciate a more subtle kind of humor. His error was soon apparent when the “polite” conversations of the members grew in volume until Mr. O’Grady could no longer be heard. The speaker showed remarkable poise and patience for a number of minutes, but was finally forced to ask the “gentlemen” pres- I ent if they could still hear him.
President John Buckley did his best to thank Mr. O’Grady for his kindness in addressing the club, but his attempted words of thanks were drowned out by the roar of these polished young men rushing for refreshments.
The bored politicians were also tortured by announcements of future club activities. They allowed their embarrassed president to inform them that their Easter dance would be held in the Grand Ballroom of the Knickerbocker Hotel on April 18. Jack Russel and his orchestra will supply the music, and the “Four Nighthawks,” a quartette, will fill in at the intermissions. President Buckley also announced plans for a baseball team, the spring golf tournament, and the annual elections. These three events will receive consideration, though the speakers will probably be not so fortunate, at future meetings.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN OPTOMETRIST Successor To Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8211
Skate Party Wows!
•
Gene Kiefer, in charge of the Buffalo Club’s roller skating party at Playland Park on Monday evening, April 4, announces that the evening was a splendid success. Although this was the first roller skating party in University history, it will undoubtedly stir up campus interest in skating, and according to the Buffalo enthusiasts, make such parties a permanent social activity of the school.
Carl Netherton and Darrwin Dei-pert presented a skating feature as the Rocket Rollers, and delighted the audience on wheels by their expert tricks. Norman Anderson won the chair sitting contest. Frank Mc-Hough skimmed across the finish line the winner of the five-lap race.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses. >
Intelligent service ’
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind.
INTRODUCING — (Continued from Page 16)
two years of college competition attest that this time was well-used. In 1936 he batted .339 and last year his .375 led the Klinemen in hitting.
Not a switch-hitter, he bats and throws right-handed. Opponents who know his throwing arm do not trifle with it. In one game two years ago, he completed two double plays from the outfield.
His hitting is rather the punching type than the slugging. There are lots of base hits which in the long ran do more damage than home runs. At one time last year he established some kind of a record by reaching first base safely twenty consecutive times. There is not much arithmetic involved in figuring that this represents on the average about five consecutive perfect days at bat.
In talking about the college pitchers he has faced, he rates Irving Cherry of Illinois, now with the Chicago Cubs, the greatest. Blackman of Iowa, at present under contract to the Cincinnati Reds, ranks right up near Cherry in Borowski’s estimation.	.
This husky blond senior who fashions base hits out of buttons, has majored
ARROW X
To complement these shirts Arrow has created Broadtone ties — square design or stripe. $1.50
AS SEEN IN THE MAY Esquiie
Shirts and Ties that harmonize
Bring yourself up-to-date with an Arrow Broadtone Striped shirt, which reflects the current style trend toward pastel colors in fine shirtings. Like all Arrow shirts, these are endowed with the famous Arrow collar. Mitoga tailored to fit... Sanforized-shrunk. $2*75 each
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
in Business Administration. But he hopes to be able to sell some of those hits before he has to settle down and cash in on his education. The recipient of more than one offer from major league clubs, he is waiting until he has a degree safely tucked away before considering professional baseball. Then if they want him, it will be a lot of fun playing baseball—and .getting paid for it.
UNIVERSAL N.D. NIGHT (Continued from Page 3)
singing, “When Irish Backs Go Marching By.”
According to tentative plans the broadcast will resemble the Varsity Show hour of last winter and will take place in the gymnasium. If plans carry through, members of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association and students will take an active part in the broadcast.
The Universal Notre Dame Night custom originated in 1923 to satisfy requests of alumni for such an annual reunion because many of them find it impossible to return to the campus during Commencement week.
CULTURAL TOUR of
IRELAND
with Prof. PATRICK JOSEPH LENNOX of Catholic University—graduate of Dublin University, author of “The Glories of Ireland” and many other books.
From the south coast, Bantry Bay and Parknasilla to Killarney and the Lakes, the Land of Saints and Scholars, the Ancient Kingdoms, Dublin, Belfast and North Ireland . . . returning via the Shakespeare Country and London. A tour principally by motor . . . with an inspiring leader who will bring out to the fullest its richness in beauty and legendary lore. Sail Tourist Class July 2, 44 days, only $695.	.
Certain colleges grant academic credits for many of our “University Tours” . . . for Booklet 15-AB write to 587 Fifth Ave., ' New York.
AMERICAN INSTITUTE of EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Chemists Plan Year
Extensive plans have been laid for a round of interesting events for the members of the Notre Dame Chemists Club for the remainder of the school year.
As a result of their March elections the following members were chosen to fill their respective offices. They are as follows: Thomas Armel, president; Charles O’Shinski, vice-president; Jack Doyle, secretary-treasurer; Frank Pfaff, member-at-large. The honorary president and faculty
sponsor of the organization is Dr/ Lawrence H. Baldinger.
Included in the spring activities for the remainder of the semester will be ping-pong and bridge tournaments, a baseball tournament between teams representing each of the four year’s classes, the graduates and faculty team, and a team composed of premedical students. A club picnic under the leadership of Edward Stroh is scheduled for the latter part of April.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
lanetz
First for refreshing mildness first for pleasing taste and aroma that smokers like -only cigarette about which smokers say “They Satisfy”
The mild ripe tobaccos—home-grown and aromatic Turkish —and the pure cigarette paper ^ed in Chesterfields are the best ingredients a cigarette can have. They Satisfy.
frtekly Radio Features Grace Moore
WHITEMAN k Deems Taylor A Paul Douglas
Cww« w tarn, . My,„	Co
4!