^he SNotre Q)ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON	AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Marines Associate Editor, Navy
Nobie SotUfA...
Victory March
Rally sons of Notre Dame, Sing her glory, and sound her fame, Raise her Gold and Blue, And cheer with voices true. Rah! Rah! for Notre Dame We will fight in every game Strong of heart and true to her name. We will ne'er forget her And we'll cheer her ever. Loyal to Notre Dame.
Chorus: Cheer, cheer for Old Notre Dame Wake up the echoes cheering her name. Send the volley cheer on high. Shake down the thunder from the sky. What tho the odds be great or small. Old Notre Dame will win over all. While her loyal sons are marching. Onward to Victory.
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN -	-	- Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	-	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY -	-	-	- Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE	-	-	-	Promotion
COLUMN ISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -	-	-
LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -JIM HECK -EMMETT HASSETT BLAIR NATTKEMPER PETE BROWN HARRY LEBIEN ARNIE SKLARE
CONTRIBUTORS
When Irish Backs Go Marching By
Chorus:
And when those Irish backs go marching by The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game. Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes smashing through. They'll sweep the foemen's ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
Hike Song
The march is on
Chorus:
DON MURPHY jack McCarthy JOHN BUTLER TOM DINGES JIM CAREY DICK GORMAN JACK CAHILL DICK MELLETT JOHN MORRIS TOM McNALLY JACK MILES JAMES KEENAN GEORGE DESPOT
GEORGE KRAUSER RONALD BYERSMITH JOHN FEENEY HARRY SEIMONSMA GREG HALPIN ROBERT MOLNAR GENE DIAMOND BILL BYINGTON D. NUECHTERLEIN JOE HAMMOND S. B. STOCKWELL J. S. HAMEL A. E. FUSS
Observations Know Your Navy The Green Banner - Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters The Periscope The Gabby Gizmo
R. L. VOSBERG TOM SHANAHAN BILL LESSARD JIM FOY
J. KLOCKENKEMPER ART WAGNER L. BERGSTEIN C. STONEBARGER BILL OVER JIM SOMMER AL KOHN GUY WILSON GEORGE NUTIL
No brain or brawn. Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry, A grim defy. Of hard attack let loose again.
Hark to the cheering Songs rising high. Hark to the roar. As her ranks go marching by! Shoulder to shoulder.
O it's a hike, hike, hike to victory. The call to rise and strike,	.
For Notre Dame men are winning. When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike.
Chanting her glorious name. Bum high your fires. And swing along for Notre Dame.
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Down the Line
On down the line! beside the glory of her name
On down the line! beneath the colors of an ancient fame. On down the line! another day for her proclaim;
Old Gold and Blue—you're going through!
Go down the line for Notre Dame!
Notre Dame. Our Mother
Notre Dame, our Mother Tender, strong and true Proudly in the heavens. Gleams the gold and blue Glory's mantle cloaks thee
Golden is thy fame. And our hearts forever. Praise thee, Notre Dame And our hearts forever. Love thee, Notre Dame
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct, 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 82
OCTOBER 6, 1944
No. 12
Father J. Lane to Direct Veterans' Office
The Last Full Measure...
Notre Dame casualties revealed during the week are:
*137 Lt. William Mason Fox, ex. ’38, 318 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Indiana, killed in action on February 6, 1944, in a bombing raid over Italy. Recently his wife received the Air Medal with five bronze
Oak Leaf Clusters on behalf of her hero husband.
^-1^0 Ens. Paul Joseph Kashmer, ’43, 52 E. Lincoln Way, La Porte, Indiana, killed during action in the Anzio landing, last February 7. He received the Silver Star posthumously.
'£'190 Lt. William Russell Wright, ex.
’42, 128 E. South St., South Bend, Indiana, previously reported missing, was killed in action in southern France on March 11, according to a war department telegram received by his wife. Bill was a co-pilot on a Liberator’ bomber. He had served overseas since December, 1943.
^-V^A Lt. Thomas Joseph Sengon, ex.
I1"* »39} 539 Raub St., Easton, Pa., died on July 1, 1944. The cause of his death is not known.
'A'lAl James Grant, ex. ’46, 87 "Jefferson Highway, St. Paul, Minnesota, killed in France—no details available.
Lt. John Philip Denney, Jr., >42, 7253 Euclid Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, killed at sea September
* * * * * ❖ * ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
❖ TRAFFIC REGULATION ❖
♦	ft The Brownson Study Hall has recently been converted into Uni- V
❖	versity offices. Under no condition
❖	is the new Administration Building *•*
•	Ji to be used by undergraduates as * an exit or entrance to classrooms V
❖	located in the Main Building. *♦*
<S>	Prefect of Discipline $
❖ ❖
»;• ♦♦♦	*•*	& i' i'
13, during the hurricane in the Atlantic when his destroyer, the Warrington, sank.
Missing over Germany since September 12, 1944, is Lt. Ora Alfred Spaid, Jr., 126 Pennsylvania Avenue, South Bend, Indiana. A navigator on a bomber, he has served overseas since July 1, 1944.
Lt. Robert Eugene Fitzpatrick, ex. ’45, 1112 Cedar St., Lawrenceville, Illinois, previously reported missing in action over Germany May 27,- 1944, is a prisoner of war in Germany since July 12, 1944.
All are asked to remember these and all the other Notre Dame casualties in their prayers.—Harry Simonsma
Pep Rally Tonight
Tonight at 7:15, the old walls of the Notre Dame fieldhouse will resound once more with the tingling notes of the Victory March as the students stage a sparkling Pep Rally for tomorrow’s game with Tulane. Assembling at Washington Hall, the band will parade around the campus and gather the enthusiasts before they march into the fieldhouse.
Buzz Hassett, in charge of festivities, has announced that Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and faculty chairman in control of athletics, will be present to give the keynote address at the rally, welcoming Tulane to the campus.
If “Monk” Simons, Green Wave mentor, arrives in time for the rally, he will be on hand to enlighten the crowd on the long-awaited contest, and you can be sure that you will hear from genial Coach Ed McKeever and Captain Pat Filley.
Last Wednesday, the student body headed by Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., gave the team a rousing send-off before they embarked to conquer the Pitt Panther.
This week, a bigger and noisier rally is in order for a winning spirit for the Tulane tussle.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C., president of the University, announced today the appointment of Rev. John J. Lane,
C. S. C., as director of the recently established Office of Veterans Affairs.
Father Lane, who has been, assistant director of studies since 1941, will be assisted by
Rev. John I- Lane C.S.C. members of an Advisory Board. Board members include the Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., registrar; Rev. J-A. Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline; John Donnelly, director of students accounts; and the following academic deans: Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Graduate School; James E. McCarthy, Commerce; R. J. Schubmehl, Engineering; Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Arts and Letters; Lawrence J. Bal-dinger, Science; and Clarence E. Manion, Law.
Scope of the Office of Veterans Affairs includes four major points: 1. Advising students previous to arrival as to procedures for admission, applications, acceptable credits, and educational assistance under the Veterans Rehabilitation Act and the G. I. Bill. 2. Placing students in academic curriculum according to ability. 3. Counseling in academic matters after enrollment. 4. Cooperating with the Alumni Placement Bureau when student has completed studies.
According to the recently established bureau, more than five hundred inquiries have been received to date from men in service. In answer to the most persistent inquiry concerning space availability at Notre Dame after the war, the Office of Veterans Affairs is keeping a record of boys who write for information to place them on the priority list.
Although no change in standards or credits for degrees will be made, it has
(Continued on page 18)
3
Civilian Week-end Activities Start Tonight
Arrangements Completed for the Biggest Civilian Social Event of the Semester.
High point of social activities of Notre Dame’s civilian students will be reached this evening when Chuck Cavallo and his Douglas Airs swing into action at the Student Council’s Autumn Ball, feature of the civilian week-end. Semi-formal is the rule for the evening, with the lads in street suits and the lasses in formals. Reason for the informal attire of the boys is, of course, the wartime formal clothes restrictions.
Festivites will get underway at seven o’clock when the whole campus gathers • for the pre-Tulane game rally. This rally, first of the home season, should see a re-birth of the famous Notre Dame spirit, especially after the overwhelming defeat of Pittsburgh, which opened the ’44 season for the Irish. Rev. John Cavanaugh, vice-president of the university, will be among the speakers of the evening.
All paths will lead to the Rockne Memorial after nine o’clock, when Ca-allo strikes the first chord of the evening’s dancing. Decorations Chairman Jim Retter and his crew have been hard at work knocking the “Rock” into shape for the affair, and they say that the decorations will be simple but effective.
Special guests for the evening are Miss Marguerite E. Varga, of Pittsburgh, and South Bend guest of General Chairman James Casey, and Jeannette Roberts of St. Mary’s and South Bend, guest of Council President Harry Berliner.
Patrons of this evening’s dance are: Captain and Mrs. J. Richard Barry,-Lieutenant and Mrs. James J. Collins, Mr. and Mrs. Daniel H. Pedtke, Mr. and Mrs. Rufus W. Rauch, Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Mr. and Mrs.
BY BOB O'TOOLE
Miss Marguerite Varga
Francesco Montana, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Kormendi, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Skeeler, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Schubmehl, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence E. Manion, Mr. and Mrs. Paul C. Bartholomew, and Mr. and Mrs. James E. McCarthy. ’
Students are advised that they must get to the dance by ten o’clock, for no one will be admitted after that time. Chairman Jim Casey discarded all plans for a program in favor of a full evening of dancing. Ball-goers have been given two o’clock permissions by the Prefect of Discipline, and the usual ban against cars has been relaxed for this evening.
Tomorrow afternoon will find the week
enders and their guests in a special section of the stadium for the Notre Dame-Tulane game, and it promises to be a good one. Tulane is regarded as second only to Georgia Tech in the South and is yet untried in an actual game. The Irish will enter the contest favored to win, but from the first kickoff to the final gun it will be anybody’s ball game.
Saturday night the scene of the weekend activities will shift to the Indiana Club, where St. Ed’s hall is sponsoring a Victory dance. This dance is open to all on the campus, and bids are $1.20. It will run from 8:00 until 11:00.
Soap and Candy Bars for Italian Children
In response to a request from Major John V. Hinkel, former SCHOLASTIC editor, and now with the U. S. Army in the Rome area, the members of the SCHOLASTIC staff are conducting- a drive among the students for the collection of soap and candy bars to be given to the children of Italy at a Christmas party to be sponsored by Major Hinkel.
Since the army entered Italy, the army caravans have been besieged by the young Italians begging for candy and soap. The Yanks have exhausted all available supplies of these items, but the demand is undiminished.
The request from students is small, but to these freedom-loving people who have been so long under the heel of a fascist rule, these items mean a great deal.
You can cooperate by leaving either soap or candy bars with Miss Varga in the publications office in the east wing of the Main Building, before Oct. 15.
Program for the Student Council Week-end
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6:
Pep Rally — Notre Dame Fieldhouse, 7 to 8 p. m.
Semi-formal Dance — Rockne Memorial, 9 'til 1
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7:	.
Football — NOTRE DAME vs. TULANE, 2:30 p.m.
Campus-wide Victory Dance, Indiana Club, 8:00-11:00. Bids $1.20.
G/ee Club Concert
The Glee Club will present its first campus concert of the present semester in Washington Hall next Thursday night at 8:00. This semester has seen the club grow to the present number of forty voices, and the program will be highlighted by the solo piano work of Ted Tannehill.
As yet the exact program for the club and Mr. Tannehill is not complete, but posters will appear on all hall bulletin boards early in the week.
4
NAVAL ROTC BALL TONIGHT
The apex of the summer semester will be realized tonight as the NROTC Ball holds forth in all its splendor when Maestro Hal McIntyre and his celebrated orchestra give out with the sweet refrains from the Service Mens’ Center in downtown South Bend. The high spot of the evening will be the nationwide broadcast over CBS featuring McIntyre's music from 11:05 to 11:30 (CWT).
With the dance most paramount, the ROs will also have the advantage of a pep rally tonight as a prelude to the game. The rally will commence at 7:15 in order to accommodate the Ball-goers. On the morrow, the first meeting of Notre Dame’s “Fighting Irish” against Tulane’s “Green Wave” will be witnessed by the cadets and their dates from between the 40 and 50 yard stripe on the east side of the field. Saturday night, the trainees are invited to attend the Notre Dame Victory Dance at the Indiana Club, ducats being available at the door for $1.20. Sunday will be given over to fond farewells for those who might be importing their dates from other locales.
Co-Queens
Twin queens for the event will be Miss June Barnum of New Hartford, N. Y., who will be guest of Chairman Herb Daiker, and Miss Agnes Culhane of Erie, Pa., who will be escorted by Chairman Bill Grant. Guest of honor will be Miss Lee Waggener of Ferndale, Mich., guest of Cadet Battalion Commander John J. L. Johnson.
Miss June Barnum
Among the guests at the affair will be, Capt. James R. Barry, Commandant of the station, and numerous South Bend people who are special friends of the NROTC.
The Unit itself which numbers approximately 183 will be in almost full attendance, a tribute to the boys who have planned such an elaborate time for the cadets. The theme, while being nautical, will be an added note of originality. The souvenir program will be the most cherished article of the week-end —that is, if a quick look means anything.
Lieut. Coryn in Charge
With Lt. A. E. Coryn as overseer of a brigade of anxious workers, the event
Miss Lee Waggener
I
should prove to be every bit of the word “successful.” Co-chairmen for the weekend are Herb Daiker and Bill Grant. Rudy Anderson and Dick Bateman are arranging the appropriate setting and decorations, divulging no hints until curtain time. Handling the invitation and program committee are Dave Champion and Ed Stroot. George “Mickey” Finn works with the band while John Caron takes care of special events. Bill Waddington completes the list in the capacity of publicity chairman.
With payday arranged for yesterday, the ROs are now well supplied with the necessary “greens” to see them successfully through the week-end. With places to go and things to do, neither Miss Hometown or Miss Local will find room
Miss Mary Agnes Culhane
for disappointment. A continual path of merriment is planned for the trainees and their guests . so the swabbies of Walsh should find it a hard time trying to throw in a spare moment.
Besides the co-queens and guest of honor, the guests of the remainder of the committee are Miss Virginia Hildebrand of Souh Bend who will be escorted by Dave Champion; Miss Patricia Mehring who will be the week-end guest of Ed Stroot; Miss Beau Quinn of Brooklyn, N. Y., will be escorted by Rudy Anderson; Dick Bateman will have Miss Jean Schmidt of Grosse Pointe, Mich.; John Caron will escort Miss Betty Landing of South Bend; Bill Waddington will have as his guest for the affair Miss June Haubrich of Jersey City, N. J.;‘ and completing the list is Miss Mirth Tippy of South Bend who will be escorted by George Finn.
♦J>	*•* **• **•	*♦• *•••$*•••*••*♦•❖ ♦J1
❖	❖
& Friday night—1915—Pap Rally
♦*’ (Fieldhouse)	❖
• ❖ Friday night—2100	to	0100—Ball	❖
❖	(Service Center)
Saturday morning—0230—Room
❖	Check (Walsh)	❖
’«• Saturday afternoon—1430—Notre
❖	Dame vs. Tulane (Stadium)	❖
❖	Saturday night—2000—Victory Dance ♦ ❖ (Indiana Club)	❖
❖	Sunday morning—all morning—	❖
& Church	❖
❖ Sunday afternoon—Au Revoir
❖	♦

5
1.	Summary of Orders for Second Semester Regular V-12 Men: 132 men in their second semester of the prescribed curricula of V-12 will be transferred on 1 November as indicated; they are the men who entered without advanced standing and did not fail any first semester course.
NROTC . . .32 (20 General and 12 Engineering, all to remain at Notre Dame).
Aeronautical Engineering .... 3 (remaining at Notre Dame).
Supply . . . 7 (2 to Dartmouth and 5 to Pennsylvania).
Civil Engineering . . - (to Yale University).
Electrical Engineering (Power) . . 1 (to Columbia University)
Electrical Engineering (Communications) ... 3 (to Illinois Institute of Technology).
Mechanical Engineering .... 11 (3 to Illinois Institute of Technology; 1 to University of Illinois; 7 to University of Wisconsin).
Deck ... 69	(46 to Central
Missouri State College; 23 to Missouri Valley College).
Pre-Medical ... 2 (remaining at Notre Dame).
Aerology ... 2 (Massachusetts Institute of Technology).
The 90 other men in the second semester, irregular because of entering this July with advanced standing or because of failing a course the first term, will remain at Notre Dame, and have been classified as irregular deck, or deck with supply duty preference, pre-medical, pre-dental, or engineering specialist, according to their qualifications and their previous classification by the Bureau of Naval Personnel when they entered V-12. All classifications, regular and irregular, will soon be posted on barracks bulletin boards.
2.	Fort Schuyler for Midshipmen One Term: The facilities at Fort Schuyler in the Bronx will be used for only one term for the training of Reserve Midshipmen beginning 6 November 1944. Asbury Park, N. J., will continue to be used for interim training of candidates awaiting assignment to a midshipmen’s school.
6
3.	Emergency Medical and Hospital Expenses: Under decision of the Assistant Comptroller General of the United States 27 June 1944, the Navy Department may now defray expenses for emergency medical and hospital treatment of enlisted personnel of the Navy and the Marine Corps obtained from civilian sources while on leave or liberty where it is impracticable to obtain treatment from naval or other Government facilities. This decision is retroactive to 28 April 1942. The decision does not include officers.
4.	Academic Refresher Units foi-Midshipmen Candidates from Enlisted Sources: At three institutions Navy Academic Refresher (NAR) Units have been established to prepare enlisted selectees for successful participation in midshipmen schools through refresher work and reorientation to study habits. Scheduled quota to the pre-V-7 NAR units is 150 to 180 each four weeks for a term of instruction 8 to 16 weeks in length, depending upon the needs of the individual student. The curriculum includes mathematics, physics, English, and physical training. The NAR Units are at Colgate University, Hamilton, N. Y., University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, and Rensselaer Institute, Troy, N. Y. Similar units are being established at eight other institutions to prepare for V-5 Pre-Flight Schools enlisted selectees who are aviation cadets; the course for them varies from 8 to 24 weeks, according to individual needs, and is under the direction of the Bureau of Aeronautics.
— BEAT TULANE —
Villagers Clubs to
Elect New Officers
On Friday, September 29, the Notre Dame Villagers Club held its second meeting in the process of reorganization. At this meeting the constitution was ratified and plans for a meeting October 11 were formulated. Election of officers will be held on that date, and plans for the coming semester will be discussed. All students from South Bend residing at home are asked to attend. Therefore, if you are interested in unifying the South Bend students, you will be welcome in Room 1 of the Law Building at 7 P. M., Wednesday, October 11.
Alfred E. Smith, Laetare Medalist, Dies in N. Y.
The Honorable Alfred Emmanuel Smith, 1929 Laetare Medalist, died in New York City October 4.
Mr. Smith, because of his long and honorable public career, was one of the best known and most colorful figures on the American domestic scene. His entire
Alfred E. Smith
life was spent in New York City, save for the eight years he lived in Albany, as governor of the State of New York. As the recipient of but a parochial school education, he fought his way up from the humble assistant truck driver to the highest position within the gift of the citizens of New York. As the popular choice for President on the Democratic ticket in 1928, he became the most outstanding exponent of the American way of life. His presidential campaign revealed one of the most gallant fights in American political history against terrific odds. The entire nation is familiar with his record as a statesman and with his courageous conduct, and at no time was there ever a charge proven against his civic and moral righteousness.
Mr. Smith received the Laetare Medal awarded by the University of Notre Dame from the hands of the late Cardinal Hayes, in the Hotel Plaza, May 5, 1929. He was the 48th recipient of the award.
V-12 Week-end "Highly Successful11; All Features Enjoyed by Trainees and Guests
on the Navy parade grounds. Accompanied by the V-12 military band, the entire regiment marched in review before the people of South Bend, and the guests of the trainees.
BY JOE THORNTON ''Scholastic” Associate Editor
The curtain has fallen on the fourth V-12 week-end at the University of Notre Dame. Every semester since the conception of the V-12 here, there has been a V-12 Ball; every semester the occasions have been increasing in scope and magnitude.
The week-end began on Friday evening, September 29, at 2100 in the navy drill hall. Through planning and a maximum of hard work on the part of seamen Madden, Bevington, and Marks, was made possible the complete transformation of the drill hall. No longer was it a simple structure.of stone and wood and iron, but it had taken on the appearance of a man-of-war on the high seas, complete with 16 inch guns, gangways, and a bridge.
Music for the ball was furnished by Blue Barron’s orchestra under the direction of “Tiny” Wolfe, and during the course of the evening music was broadcast to the nation, being carried through the facilities of WSBT of South Bend.
Dance programs of tan leather with the Navy or Marine Corps crest embossed on the cover, were presented to each couple attending the ball. Fruit punch provided refreshments. The general chairmanship of the ball was held by Seaman Nelson Boswell, under the over-all direction of the V-12 Executive
Committee. Over 125 trainees partici
pated actively in the production.
The week-end did not end with the grand ball, and on Saturday afternoon a review of the V-12 regiment was held
Marine Quartet
Schultz, Moon, Velgrath, Canzana
Three complete showings of the two-thousand foot moving picture, “The V-12 at Notre Dame”, were presented in the Engineering Auditorium to large audiences of trainees and their guests. This moving picture has been taken by Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C.
Saturday evening at 2000 the curtain
V-12 men and their guests listen to Blue Barron's Band.
went up on “Anything Goes,” an all V-12 show. The drill hall was now decorated as an old barn, with hay, corn stalks, and hay racks. Under the general direction of Seaman Jack Schneider and Marine Private Bill Over, the show was presented with Seaman Art Fuss as master-of-ceremonies. Stage management was under the super-vision of Private Tom Shay. Following the show, all chairs were removed and an informal dance was in progress. The V-12 dance band, “The Commanders”, under the baton of Seaman “Dutch” Crask, provided music for the occasion.
Kegs of cider were rolled out, and ' cider and doughnuts were served from hay wagon counters. The dance ended at 2300.
The Council of Churches of South Bend had made arrangements for special services to be given Sunday morning, and churches of every denomination welcomed .
(Continued on page 16)
7
Whence Come the Guardians of Rights...
Oldest Catholic Law School in the United States Continues Its Progress
BY ROBERT MOLNAR
The College of Law, an outgrowth of a course in law established at the University in 1869, is the oldest Catholic law school in the United States. At the present time, it is under the deanship of Mr. Clarence E. Manion, Ph.M., J.D. In the reorganization of the University in 1905, the Department of Law was given the status of a college, and since then it has enjoyed a steady growth.
Since 1919, the College of Law has had a building of its own. In that year it was moved from a wing of Sorin hall to Hoynes hall, named in honor of the late Col. William James Hoynes, whose labors of a lifetime were devoted to the development of the law school at Notre Dame. In September of 1930, the College was transferred to a new building, a three-story structure of Gothic type and up-to-date construction. This building ■ 157 feet long and 104 feet wide, has an assembly hall for 350 persons, eight classrooms, four seminar rooms, a courtroom, a discussion room, and a library reading room, 50 by 100 feet, with a working library of 16,214 volumes, readily accessible to the students, additional stock-room for 25,C00 volumes, and offices for the dean, the librarian, the members of the faculty, and the Notre Dame Lawyer, the quarterly review of the Law school. This new building, erected at a cost of more than §400,000, is at the entrance to the campus.
The law library, under the charge of a special and full-time librarian, consists of State reports and statutes, the Reports of the United States Supreme Court, the United States Statutes, Federal Cases, both series of the Federal Reporter, the National Reporter System, complete sets of the Select Case System, the more important law reviews, and the standard textbooks, treatises, and encyclopoedias. The library has, from time to time, been augmented by substantial gifts of books from friends of the University.
The Notre Dame Lawyer, founded in the fall of 1925, is primarily a student publication, edited and managed by the students of the College of Law. Members of the faculty act as advisers to the student board of editors. The magazine, published quarterly within the schoolyear, contains articles by jurists, lawyers, and professors of law, reviews of
recent cases by the students of the College, and reviews of current publications.
The Law club, primarily an organization of the law students, has charge of all the social and extra-curricular activities of the college. Lectures by prominent judges and lawyers are arranged
Clarence E. Manion, J.D.
for and delivered under its auspices. The South Bend committee of the American Bar Association holds a meeting every month with the senior members of the Law club- at the court house of St. Joseph County. At these meetings, court dockets are examined and explained, and the mechanical features and routine operations incidental to the trial of law-suits, probate of estates, the recording of instruments, execution sales, and the like are illustrated by court and county officials by reference to actual public records.
There is a special branch of the College of Law which is a combination program of the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Law, and also a combination of the College of Commerce and the College of Law. These programs are so arranged that the student taking the course receives the degree of Bachelor of Arts or the degree of Bachelor of Science in Commerce at the end of his fifth year of studies, and then receives
the degree of Bachelor of Laws at the completion of his course, which is the end of his sixth year.
At the present time there are only 35 students enrolled in the College of Law, but, according to Dean Manion, “the prospects for enrollment for the coming semester look better now than they have in past years. Furthermore, even though the enrollment has dropped from 105 students in pre-Pearl Harbor days to the present enrollment, Notre Dame has had a much smaller shrinkage than any other law school in the country.’’
It is the aim of the College of Law to give its students a thorough preparation for the practice of law in any state of the Union. The case method of instruction is employed. By the study, comparison, and discussion of selected cases, the principles of law are considered with reference both to their history and to their application in contemporary practice. The classroom lectures and discussions are supplemented by collateral reading and by systematic training in procedure in the practice court of the college. In this court the students receive training in the preparation of cases for trial and briefs on appeals. Each candidate for a degree in law is required to conduct the complete procedure of at least one case, from the service of process to final determination on appeal..
The College of Law is a member of the Association of American Law Schools, an organization of eighty-nine law schools, including the leading university schools of the country, and is rated as approved by the Council of Legal Education of the American Bar Association.
K. of C. Open Meeting
The Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus will have an open social meeting on next Friday night in the Law auditorium at 7:30. At this meeting a football motion picture will be shown and refreshments will be served. All students over 18 years of age, and practical Catholics will be eligible to attend.
8
ON THE BALL
Only a few of the more tired swab-bies, and practically all of the Marines have by this time recovered from the V-12 Ball weekend. Some enjoyed Blue Barron’s music, others, not so much; most everybody liked the way the girl friend looked at the formal, and on the other hand, three or four blind-dates were disastrous; but the over-all opinion is that the weekend was great and that a marvelous time was enjoyed. It was all lots of fun, but for the Gizmo and about ten other’ happy Gyrenes, the best part of the weekend was the clean-up EPD detail at 2400 Saturday. Ohhhhhh! Gosh!!	-
GLIB GYRENE
And there’s the story of a certain lad from these here parts who went for a real joy-ride last weekend. From first hand recounting, it seems this gyrene was feeling extremely happy, and on encountering a city steam roller perched atop a hill, decided to release the brake and investigate the free-wheeling theory. It was an exciting ride all the way down, we are told, until the machine got out of control and landed in somebody’s front parlor. So glib a salesman was the Marine, and so friendly was the man whose quiet evening at home was disturbed when the roller knocked his newspaper out of his hands, that the man ended up by towing the roller back up the hill with his car, with the Marine still in the saddle, and decided to forget the whole incident! Now there’s a story for the books!
FAREWELL ELEGY TO MY ROOMIE, WEENIE SLOYER
My roomie has flunked, And the Major de-bunked, His plans to do much better.
Now he’s going away To ’Dago they say, And I’ll only have his letter.
So long, little Weenie, • With the eyes so gleamy,
And the heart so carefree and gay.
I’ll have you no more, We’ll meet on Tokyo’s shore, On that happy victory day!
So, adieu, little Weenie, With the pants too seamy, And the talented key-board fingers.
Best luck, dear old sock, We’ll miss you at the Rock, Your memory still lingers.
You tried to study, zvith your cheeks so ruddy, .
You tried, but to no avail.
We knew tvhat it meant, when on your desk ivas sent,
.4 notice from MacHale.
Noiv it’s done lad, I guess you’re stuck, But remember Weenie, we tvish you “Best of luck!”
WITH APOLOGIES
In the scurrying around before the last issue there was a slip-up on copy. The cartoon below was printed, but without the accompanying caption. Feel-
"Do I Get College Credit For This, Sir?".
ing that the pungent humor may have been missed in last week’s issue, and realizing full well that V-12ers spend many hours on just such “intellectual” pursuits, we are running it again. You’ll
just have to guess what the blacked-out sign on the door reads!
❖
ON THE TULANE SIDE?
This idea of men from many diiferent colleges coming together to study under the V-12 program at some entirely new university is really excellent; but sometimes it presents difficult problems of divided loyalties between the alma mater and the other college. As former Illini in the past have had to choose, and as men from Georgia Tech have had to decide, as transfers from Minnesota and Wisconsin have had to elect in the past, so will Major Jones have to make the decision at the N.D.-Tulane game this Saturday. On which side will he choose to sit?
H. S. Principals to Hear
Cunninaham, Beatty
A meeting of the Northern Indiana High School Principals will be held on the campus tomorrow. Saturday, under the chairmanship of Mr. Leo F. Kuntz, of the College of Law.
On the program tomorrow morning, from 10 to 12, Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., will talk to the group on Charter Education; and Lieutenant S. L. Beatty, USNR will talk on Guidance: Pre-War and Post-War.
About forty principals are expected to attend this meeting which will be followed by the Tulane-Notre Dame game that afternoon. All those in attendance will be taken to the game. Mr. H. R. Beabout, principal of the Lincoln High School, Plymouth, Indiana, is president of the group.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
❖	❖
❖ "SCHOLASTIC" POSITIONS ♦ ❖ ---------------- ❖ ❖ A number of positions on the
SCHOLASTIC staff are now held by ♦ ❖ Seniors, and will be available to ♦ ❖ those interested in journalism at the
beginning of the next term. The posi- ♦ ❖ tions include columnists, re-write ♦ •I* men, and reporters, as well as feat- ♦ •*» ure writers. Columns available in- ♦ ❖ elude' "The Green Banner," "Man ♦ ❖ About The Campus," "College Pa- ♦ ❖ rade," etc. Applicants for these col- ♦ •h umns. and for other SCHOLASTIC ♦ ❖ positions, should call at the Publica- ♦ ❖ tions Office, Main Building, within ♦ ❖ the next two weeks. Only depend- ♦ ❖ able men, with good class averages, ♦ ❖ need apply.	♦
❖	Board of Publications ♦
♦
9
ZEKE O'CONNOR
GEORGE SULLIVAN
JOHN MASTRANGELO
JOI HAY
Southern Hopefuls Have a 58-0 Triumph to Consider When They Buck Irish Tomorrow
BY BILL WADDINGTON "Scholastic" Sports Editor
The boys from the Crescent City are coming not th ward this week to put on their version of a football ‘"Mardigras” but in the light of the work negotiated last week by Ed McKeever’s charges against Pittsburgh, it looks as though the lads from the Gulf will merely be amiable visitors.
Wearing the blue and gold jerseys for the first time since the Georgia Tech set-back two seasons ago, the Irish hope that there will be no repeat performance * because of the change in equipment. A gang of Ramblin’ Wrecks did plenty of damage to an Irish schedule a few years back and Tulane, another southern aggregate, is set on spoiling another Fighting Irish billing that is off to more than a flying start.
After displaying an assorted attack of aerials and running plays against Clark Shaughnessy’s Panthers at the Smoky City last week, the Irish came out a bit bruised but what is more, a 58-0 triumph resulted, a. fairly good criterion that there is plenty of padded potency running around the Cartier field turf on week-days. Tulane, like Pitt remains in obscurity as to their possibilities. This is their first tussle of the season and also the first time in grid history that they have ever met the boys from Notre Dame.
Monk Simons, the Green Wave’s mentor, is undoubtedly intent on a victory, something that will serve as the epur to a Notre Dame-Tulane annual contest rather than the two year-home-and-home series that now prevails on the books. He does have fourteen lettermen back from last year’s squad which split even in a half dozen games. If the comparison boys care to speculate a bit, they will
probably be interested in this wee bit of good tidings. While Notre Dame defeated the Georgia Te’ch eleven, 55-13 last year, the same Techmen squelched Tulane, 33-0. And with the locals off to a grand and glorious beginning, and Tulane having the semblance of almost the same unit that represented the southern institution for the ’43 card, there may be something to crow about.
With the disappearance of Irish skepticism last week, it seems almost inevitable that the nation will be riding the Blue and Gold bandwagon for this encounter. George Sullivan and John Adams will be the tackles all season, and good ones at that, unless something else like unto a mountain comes along to take their place. Fred Rovai, for a beginner, looked all right as did John Mastrangelo. But don’t forget, the whole squad of thirty-five that made the trip, got to see action, and the best prospects have officially unveiled their talents to McKeever and company. Their may be some changes this week, some due to discoveries and others to necessity.
Bob Skoglund, who broke a molar right in half, had to have the tooth extracted during the week and the swelling may cause him to be sidelined when the team takes the field against Tulane. But there is a good newcomer to take his jflace if such a change is necessitated in the person of Tom Guthrie. Zeke O’Connor can hardly be pushed out of his spot both on offensive and defensive, merits. Although Ralph Stewart got the starting nod at Pitt, he will probably relinquish his post to Johnny Ray who substituted for him and played remarkably well as a line-backer. Then there (Continued on page 13)
TULANE Lineup
Molloy L.E. Schneider L.T.
Igleheart L.G.
Hofman C.
Bourgeois R.G.
Roseman R.T. Olson R.E. Finley Q.B.
W. Jones L.H.B.
Renfroe R.H.B.
Robinson F.B.
CHICK MAGGIOLO
ELMER 1SMA
IC
JOI SAY
FRED ROVAI
JOHN ADAMS
BOB SKOGLUND
APT. FILLEY
NOTRE DAME
O'Connor
Tulane's "Green Wave"»Plenty Experienced;
Put on First '44 Grid Exhibition Tomorrow
L.E.
Sullivan
L.T.
Mastrangelo-L.G.
Ray C.
Rovai
R.G.
Adams.
R..T.
Skoglund R.E.
Dancewicz
Q.B.
Maggioli
L.H.B.
Kelly R.H.B.
Angsman F.B.
BY ABE SILVER "Tulane
Hullabaloo" Sports Editor
BOB KELLY
NEW ORLEANS, OCT. 6.—In preparation for the 1944 season’s opening gridiron tussle with the mighty “Fightin’ Irish” of Notre Dame, the highly touted Tulane Green Wave have had daily intrasquad scrimmages and contact workouts. As the pre-game training season nears its close, practice should taper and will be confined to polishing up on offensive plays. The Greenies’ head coach, Claude “Little Monk” Simons, seems to be well pleased with the progress of his team, as all of the Wavemen are looking forward to this all important contest.
At present, the starting pair of ends for the Greenies will be Ray Olsen and Sam Mulloy. Olsen is the only returning letterman at the terminal post, and was All Southeastern Conference last season. Ray is a New Orleans lad, weighing about 185 and is 6ft. 2in. lall. He is a great defensive player, and as a pass snatcher, he’s dynamite.
The two possible starters at the tackle spots will be Fred Roseman and Leroy Schneider. Roseman is a returning letterman, the only one on the Wave squad as a tackle. Fred, who is pretty close to a 200 pounder, is a Lou siana lad, playing his second season with the Tulane varsity. Schneider, a transfer student from the University of Maryland, is one of the most promising tackles that Line Coach Charlie Rucker has. Leroy is about the heaviest player on the Green Wave team, weighing some 225 pounds. He is a very powerful blocker on offense.
The Greenies are very strong at the guard positions as two very capable lettermen are back this season to start in the Tulane lineup. Gaston “Boogie”
Bourgeois, the 'baby’ of the Wave squad, earned All Southern Conference honors as a Freshman last year, and was only 16 years old at the time. Elliot “Ike” Igleheart will be the other possible starting guard for the Green Wave. “Ike” was out most of last season due to injuries, nevertheless he did manage to earn his “T”.	■
At center, the Greenies will start the shortest and lightest pivot man in the entire football history at Tulane. This former University of Tennessee lad weighs only 155 pounds and is just 5 ft. 7 in. tall. Tris “wonder boy” is Edwin Hofman, who was a star guard at the Memphis Central High School a few years ago. This year, the- Greenies were minus returning centers, so, little Ed tried out for the job and is there to stay. Ed is one of the hardest tacklers on the squad. He put Joe Renfroe out of commission for a few days in one of the recent scrimmages.
Tulane’s backfield appears to be one of the strongest college ball carrying aggregations. The starting Wave signal caller will be Leonard Finley, a very smart player and a rugged blocker. At left half will be W. A. “Dub” Jones, a triple threater, the Wave’s top ball carrier weighing 185. “Joltin’ Joe” Renfroe will start at right half for the Wave. Joe is playing his third year with the Tulane team. Renfroe is also an All Southeastern Conference player and will be counted on to do a great deal of the Greenies’ offensive duties. At the fullback post will be Harry “Hurricane” Robinson, former University of Vanderbilt star. Harry weighs about 185 and runs as fast as any half back on the squad.
11
Student Poll Shows Notre Dome Favored Over
Tulane by 15 Points; "Game Will Not Be Easy'
The Shillelagh
BY PAUL WOOD
In spite of the one-sided score over Pittsburgh, the campus predictors are conservative this week. The student poll shows that a margin of at most 15 points will separate Tulane and Notre Dame; a few believe that Tulane will come out victorious. The average score predicted is Notre Dame 27, Tulane 12. One significant feature of the poll is the fact that no one believes it will be an easy game.
John Arcadi, civilian junior from Whittier, Calif., predicted the score of last week’s encounter to be 52-6, thereby earning the honor of being the guest interviewee this week. John says:
“Although it has been pointed out that Tulane has the power-house of the South, with a potentially impregnable line, I believe it will be cracked tomorrow. With one inspiring victory under our belts and lessons learned from last Saturday’s encounter fresh in our minds, it seems obvious that Notre Dame will come through again. The combination of Dancewicz and Kelly with our super line will make a score of 39-13 m our favor.”
John Parchem, civilian senior from Grosse Pointe, Mich.: “I think this game may be termed critical. Tulane have most of their lettermen back from last season and they had a good second team last year. This plus the fact that I think Notre Dame played over their heads against Pittsburgh will make this game very close. However the Irish have the knack of winning close ones. Notre Dame 26; Tulane 20.” ■ 1 ~
J. P. Stokes, Midshipman from DaKalb, Miss: “Tulane—They have the material to win and are heavier than Notre Dame boys. Especially the linemen. Score: 13-6 favor of Tulane.”
Jim Black, Marine V-12 sophomore from Akron, Ohio: “I am not much of a follower of Tulane but they are rated pretty strong down South. By their past record, where they have won by large scores, I pick N. D. by at least 35-12.”
Dan Meaney, Navy V-12 junior from Corpus Christi, Texas: “Notre Dame 27 —Tulane; 14.- Judging from the Pittsburgh score, N. D. should have an easy time winning until it hits Army.”
Jim Cooper, Marine V-12 junior from Newark, Ohio:- “Although. Tulane is supposed to-be the great team of the South this year, in my mind will still be inferior to N. D. This is N. D.’s first
home game of the season and due to last week’s performance I like N. D. 32-6.”
Richard Deeb, Civilian senior from St. Petersburg, Fla.: “The N. D. players that were considered green have pretty well gotten over their fright since the Pitt game. This game should test Notre Dame’s defense, but we’ll win: 26--13.
Ralph Valva, civilian from Brooklyn, N. Y.: N. D. 41—Tulane 6. Too much power for Tulane to cope with. This game should test N. D.’s defensive strength.”
H. C. Wilkins, Midshipman from Pine Blott, Ark: “The score will be, Tulane 14 and N. D. 12. I’m probably prejudiced because I’m from the South, but Tulane has a lot of material. They’ve lost a couple of good ends, and a fullback is injured. But there are a lot of lettermen back, and some new trainees that are pretty fair. The game will be close, and a tie won’t surprise me, but* it won’t be a runaway like the Pitt game. Tulane has the power, all they need is some spirit, and the first blow.”
Bill Meier, civilian junior from Kenosha, Wise: “Last week’s score may sway my opinion, but Notre Dame is playing on its home field and we look like we are packed three deep in every position. So we ought to win by 40 to 0. This is Tulane’s first game, and one game has given us a lot of confidence. Look for a break during the game where the new kickoff will give us the ball unexpectedly. Our coaching staff is one of the best in the country and we may be sure that they will have plenty of tricks up their sleeves.”
R. H. Szarzynski, Navy V-12 sophomore from Chicago: “N. D. 33 - Tulane 6. It should be a sad opener for Tulane because the Irish showed fine team work and plenty of polish last Saturday. Tulane will also be handicapped by recent injuries, and I doubt whether they will be able to hold off very well.”
Phil Martin, civilian from Santee, Calif., who saw the Notre Dame team in action last week, says: “Notre Dame will win 13-6. The team should have ironed out their weak points in their defense during the week, but Tulane will have the power to put over at least one touchdown. Meanwhile the Notre Dame offense, which ran wild at Pittsburgh, will meet stiff opposition and will not get any break, as it did in the Pitt game. Therefore, the total score will be lower than expected.”
The 56th season opened last Saturday.
The question now is whether the Irish depantherized the Panther, or whether the Panther was depantherized before the Irish arrived.
Clark Shaughnessy claims that the Panther still has some claws. It may be that he wasn’t wearing his best claws at home. After the dressing down the lads gave him, it will take some dressing up to put him on the road looking fit. I still think Clark’s kids will beat some of them.
I hope the Notre Dame boys take that one the right way. Woudn’t it be awful if it went right to their heads? I don’t think they’re that kind of a team. But they had better listen to the coaches and not the back-patters. After all, they did make some mistakes. The Shillelagh wont fall unless there’s a reason.
Bob' Kelly looks like he’ll do all right. What do you think? '
George Sullivan is a natural. He stops ’em like Gehringer used to scoop ’em.
Big John Adams will take good care of the right tackle job.
Pete Berezney is coming along. Don’t overlook Schuster.
Just to have Pat Filley around is a -lot. To have him in there is great.
Mike didn’t get better than a close draw with the Panther. Nine to go, Mike.
Tulane is a very good team, so they say. Don’t ask me who said so. Just believe it. If you don’t, you’ll be sorry.
Scrap Young looked happy. After all, Scrap has run on and off that same field when the Irish were having trouble.
Boley Dancewicz played a great game. Keep your eye on the kid from Lynn.
Whoever said Rovai is tough might have something. Let you know later.
Johnny Ray seems to like football.
■ Stewart and Stauto and Schreiber are coming along.
Zeke O’Connor should make a very good end. I’m still trying to find out if he’s tough.
Skoglund has some things his big brother Len had a lot of.
Maggioli and Nemeth and Terlep and Angsman will be a lot of help.
Corbisiero has the makings. Don’t overlook him.
Joe Gasparella looked good against Pitt. Stay in there, Joe.
(Continued on page 16)
12
Muening Wins X-Country Run; Wheaton Here Sat.
As a result of his victory in the University Cross - Country championships, Seaman Ken Muening won the number one berth on the team to face Wheaton College tomorrow on the local paths. The run will begin at 11:00 a.m. on Brownson Field and will cover the 3.6 mile course.
Muening was followed across the finish line last Sunday morning by Bill Tully, Steve Provost, Roger Wheeler, Tom McGuire, Frank McCarthy, Fred Nise, DeVerle Osborn, and Bob Colver. Seven of these men will be chosen by Coach Handy to start against the Wheaton hill-and-dalers.
The schedule for the October-Novem
ber season:
Oct. 7—Wheaton College ............... Here
Oct. 14—Purdue ....................... Here
Oct. 21—Wisconsin ..................  -Here
Nov. 4—Milwaukee State Teachers Invitational ____________Milwaukee
Nov. 11—Great Lakes ..............Great Lakes
Nov. 18—Indiana State Championships ..............Bloomington
Nov. 25—National Collegiate A. A............East Lansing, Mich
The Milwaukee State Teachers Invitational and the N.C.A.A. meets are still in the tentative stages, but it is expected that arrangements will soon be completed.—Jack McGrane
IRISH FACE TULANE (Continued from page 10) is always the question of just when Pat Filley will be ready to go the distance.
The veneer of doubt no longer prevails with regard to the backfield. Bob Kelly showed what a genuine Irishman can do when he wants to play football. His substitutes, Frank Ruggerio and Steve Nemeth did remarkably well in his stead, but still no Kelly. Chick Maggioli, George Terlep, and Art Fitzgerald handled the left halting duties well. This week, the added strength at that post will come from Nunz Marino who became eligible this week. Elmer Angs-man, Rudy Krall and John Corbisiero should develop into carriers of capability.
The “T” formation never works efficiently without a good quarterback, so it’s said in sporting circles. But the Irish have no fear of diminishing returns in this category. In Frank Dancewicz, they have not only a passer of grandiose caliber, but a runner and blocker of equal note. His understudy, the young and clever Joe Gasparella, is further assurance of expert field-generalship. Then there’s Ed Clasby, new, but aggressive and willing to learn.	.
Irish Find Little Trouble Penetrating Pitt Defense--Roll Up 58-0 Score in First Win
. BY GEORGE KRAUSER "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Displaying an overwhelming burst of offensive power, the Irish of Notre Dame raised the curtain on their 1944 pigskin season by steam-rolling to a 58-0 victory over the Pitt Panthers. The Irish juggernaut started slowly punching over a lone tally in the first period, but by halftime it had built up a 19-0 advantage. In the third period complete havoc was wrought on Pitt as the Blue and Gold counted four times and then in the last 15 minutes the touchdown total surged to nine as the final 58-0 count was tabulated.
For six minutes the Red and White held the Notre Dame backs in check, but then the Irish began to march. Starting on their own 20, three first downs were racked and the ball advanced to the Pitt 36. Then “Boley” Dancewicz faded back and uncorked an aerial to Bob Kelly, who grabbed the pigskin on the Panther 20 and raced into the end zone for the first tally. Kelly failed to convert and no further scoring developed as the period ended.
Kelly Tallies Again and Again
On the first play of the second quarter, Elmer Angsman pounced on Mike Sprock’s fumble on the Panther 13, and a few plays later Kelly completely out-faked the Pitt safety to snag “Boley’s” pass for the second tally. Later in the period Dancewicz intercepted Buddy Freeze’s pass and started the Irish on an 81 yard touchdown march which was culminated as Bob Kelly smashed center from five yards out. Kelly converted this time to up the halftime lead to 19-0.
The third period was only one minute old when the Irish lightning struck again. The sensational Kelly tore through right tackle and with Sullivan and Angsman
Dr. Gurion to Address
Bookmen Open Meeting
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, of the department of political science, will speak before an open meeting of the Bookmen on Thursday, Oct. 12 in the Rockne Memorial lounge at 8:00 p.m. The students and faculty have been extended an invitation by Richard Ames, Bookmen president.
making the key block, Bob traveled 85 yards to register his fourth TD of the day. Kelly converted and brought the Notre Dame and the Kelly point total to 26 as the Chi flyer retired for the day.
Continuing with the same relentless fury, the Irish touchdown machine rolled up three more markers. George Terlep intercepted a Pitt forward—this time on the Panther 24. After advancing to the 9, “Boley” pitched a strike to “Zeke” O’Connor in the end zone and Terlep converted. Steve Nemeth’s recovery of a Pitt fumble paved the way for the next marker. With the oval on the Irish 36, Gasparella uncorked a 40 yard heave to Terlep who gathered in the pigskin on the Panther 25 and went the remaining distance to the goal. Tom Guthrie recovered a fumble on the Pitt 17 and after advancing to the 1, Gasparella sneaked over to bring the count to 45-0. The eighth tally was made by Steve Nemeth from the one foot line after a 56 yard march. Art Fitzgerald intercepted a Panther desperation heave to set up the last score. The marker came as Gasparella hit Mark Limont in the end zone from 22 yards out.
Statistics on the Game:
RUSHING	Tries	Total Yds.	Average
Fitzgerald	1	13	13.
Kelly	11	137	12.5
Corbisiero	2	23	11.5
Maggioli	s	42	5’5
Ruggerio	2	9	4.5
Krall	1	4	4.
Nemeth	13	46	3.5
Dancewicz	3	10	3.3
Terlep	6	13	2.2
Angsman	9	17	1.9
Gasparella	3	3	1.0
	—	— -	—
	58	317	.	5.45
PASSES Tried	Compl. Incompl. Intei-c. Yards		
Dancewicz 11	5	6	0	92
Gasparella 6	3	2	1	89 '
—	—	— • —	—
17	S	8	1.	181
The SCHOLASTIC extends sympathy to Dan Hanley of the Notre Dame Athletic Association on the death of his sister, Miss Margaret Hanley, of Houghton, Michigan.
13
EXCERPTS FROM THE EXPERTS
BY JOHN FEENEY
Another bolt of Irish lightning has been unloosed from Notre Dame and will be able to meet any and all comers on equal if not superior terms—that’s the consensus of opinion of the sportswriters who witnessed Notre Dame’s surprisingly simple runaway from the befuddled Pitt Panthers by the even more surprising margin of 58-0.
Here presented are the comments which appeared in some of the nation’s leading papers:
Harry Keck, Sports Editor,
Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph:
“Lightning struck the Pitt football team and stunned more than 50,000 spectators at the Stadium yesterday as the Notre Dame football team staged a track meet at the expense of the Panthers to roll up a 58-0 margin in a game which was expected to be close.”
Wilfred Smith, Chicago Tribune:
“Sure, and it was a great day today for the Kellys. And it was a great day for all the other followers of the Irish in this crowd of 55,000 as the Notre Dame lads, led by Chicago’s Bob Kelly, who scored the first four touchdowns, smothered a hapless Pittsburgh team, 58 to 0, in the opening game of a campaign to defend the national college football championship.”
Jim Kearns, Chicago Sun:
“Everybody here saw Kelly today as Notre Dame’s newest football team utterly crushed the University of Pittsburgh Panthers by a score of 58-0 in the opening game of the Fighting Irish season. Kelly is apple-cheeked Robert Joseph Kelly, 19-year-old Irish sophomore right halfback from Chicago. The “everybody” who saw him included 55,000 customers in the stands and a squad of Pitt footballers whose collapse was started and speeded and all but sealed by Robert himself as he scored Notre Dame’s first 26 points in less than 32 minutes of action.”
United Press:
“Notre Dame opened its drive for a second consecutive national football championship today by crushing an inept Pittsburgh Panther team, 58-0, before 50,000 disappointed fans at Pitt Stadium. The Irish could do no wrong as they scored through the air and along the ground with equal ease, turning virtually every Panther mistake into a touchdown.”
Associated Press:
“Notre Dame’s Irish, striking with
14
unexpected speed and power, today served notice they’ll again be very much in the running for the mythical national collegiate title they won last year as they smothered the University of Pittsburgh’s Panthers under a barrage of aerials and a varied running attack, 58-0.”	'
Dan Desmond,
Chicago Herald-American:
“Notre Dame struck straight and mercilessly today at Pittsburgh’s most embarrassing weakness, protection against passes, and pulled out with a 58 to 0 victory that startled the 50,000 spectators. The Irish attack, once it got into motion, was devastating and versatile. On the ground and in the air, they piled up the amazing total of 622 net yards gained.”
Jim Costin, Sports Editor,
South Bend Tribune:
“The 1944 Notre Dame football team, about which so many of us were feeling so sad because it was made up of practically nothing but boys of no previous college experience, exploded all over the Pitt stadium before 55,000 astonished fans this afternoon to hand the Panthers a 58 to 0 lacing.”
Chester Smith, Sports Editor,
Pittsburgh Press:
“Robert Joseph Kelly, pink-cheeked, piano-legged sophomore from Flossmoor, Hl., whose cherubic smile belies the blitz he packs in his feet, turned up with Notre Dame’s football team at the Stadium yesterday and put on as eye-filling a one-man show as Pittsburgh has ever seen. It wasn’t so much that Kelly was the indispensable man, for the young and hungry eleven that is carrying on in the place of the 1943 collegiate champions scored 32 points without him— but the fact remains that ‘Bobbing Bob’ accounted for the first 26 in the 58-0 thrashing that was dealt out to Pitt before an awed crowd of 50,000 fans.”
— BEAT TULANE —
"Irish Pennant" Flash...
Lt. (jg) S. J. Jablonski, USNR, athletic officer of the Naval ROTC, has been detached from the Notre Dame unit with orders to report to Camp Farragut, Idaho, according to the Irish Pennant, mouthpiece of Walsh Hall.
Prior to his detachment, Lt. Jablonski had aided in the conducting of the V-12 swimming program, especially in the training of non-swimmers in the Rockne Memorial.
Wrestling Tournament Goes Into Finals
Amateurish grunts and groans were to have been on exhibit in the Old Gymnasium last Wednesday at 1930 as the finals of the University wrestling tournament were scheduled.
Supervising the -entire tournament was Dr. John Scannell, head of the Physical Education department of the University. Whipping the men into shape with words of advice and encouragement was Chief John Broderick, wrestling instructor. Specialist 3/c John Dur-dach assisted in the instruction and prevented the Chief from using his cap pistol on any of the participants.
Scheduled to battle it out for the heavyweight “crown” were Mike Mo-rang of Dillon hall and Art Archer of Zahm. Morang had defeated Jack Sanders of St. Edward’s in the semifinals; whereas, Archer had drawn a bye.
In the 175-pound division, it was Carl Gobel of Zahm versus D. E. Mowery of Cavanaugh. Gobel, in the semis, had won the decision over Gerald Sawtelle, Alumni’s representative. Mowery drew the bye.
Paired off in a clash for the crown of the 165-poundsters were T. A. Harrington of Walsh hall and R. A. Stasiewicz of Cavanaugh. In the semifinal bout, the “R.O.” had won over Sheldon Fell~an, Dillon hall. Stasiewicz garnered the bye.
Warren Meyer, Dillon, had defeated J. V. Michaud, and C. Q. Steinbach of Cavanaugh outsmarted Harold Wismann of Dillon to enter the finals. Meyer and Steinbach were matched in the 155-pound class.
It took three series of bouts to decide the finalists in the 145-pound division with Ken Zike of Dillon hall and G. J. Norini of Cavanaugh coming out on top. In the preliminaries Norini dumped L. J. Kontras of Zahm, R. L. Wollam of Walsh topped R. M. Wheeley of Zahm, and Zike decisioned J. A. Stoker of Dillon. Norini drew the bye in the semifinals and sat by while Zike defeated Wollam.
The 135-pound clash was between J. A. Hasten of Walsh hall and P. G. Stav-ridis of Cavanaugh. Hasten had defeated C. A. Clinard of Dillon in the semifinals while Stavridis drew the bye.
Gene Diamond of Dillon hall and John Whitacre of Dillon were the only two men entered in the 128-pound division, so they automatically were declared the finalists.
NEWS FLASH. . . .
The winners of the wrestling matches were: Art Archer, D. E. Mowery, T. A. Harrington, C. Q. Steinbach, G. J. Norini, P. G. Stavridis, and Gene Diamond.

3XXXXXXXX&XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXZ
| THE GREEN BANNER
LBY JIM CASEY
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxzxxxxxxzxxxxxxxxzxxxxzxzxxxzxxxxxxxxxxxxx
some years to come. . . . And now down to Rosie’s to see which glunks invited guests, and whether or not the girl friends brought enough lunch in the shoe box for both parties.
THIS IS THE NIGHT
Come seven o’clock, and you will see the local society sec, th±ee hundred strong, with gals on tneir aims, swarming over to the gym to hear and see the i^otre Dame Spirit enkindled. There will be a galaxy of notables on hand. There will be the ROTC too, and their best girl friends. And over in the hail, manning the books, will be the V-12, exhausted from last week's maneuvers, and probably a little late on assignments. About eight o’clock, the gals will retire to the downtown section for formats and that touch of glamor that transforms them into queens for an evening, anyway. Murph and Hany Ryan and Sadowski, and Hassett will retire to Sorin for a shave and their next door neighbor’s wardrobe. Then off to the Rockne, lately transformed into a land of enchantment (we hope), while the ROTC skip lightly to the Servicemen’s Center and the spacious and delightful environment created by Hal McIntyre and his ensemble. Tomorrow will find the gay young blades whooping it up again on the 50-yard line. All signs point to a very pleasant week-end. And, if you don’t mind, let us temper your enthusiasm with the sober reminders of Saturday eight o’clock classes, and exams just around the corner. (There, we’ve virtually spoiled the whole affair already!)
REMEMBER WHEN—
We all sat peacefully in the dining hall and waited to be served. Then from the other end of the table came the booming command, “Milk down!” .... Glunks used to go in and out of the halls about the campus here, crash into groups at every gathering, and make themselves generally obnoxious by insisting that we accept handfuls of cigarettes as samples (Honestly!) And we used to get annoyed if we didn’t get our particular-brands. Honestly, it’s the truth! Then, after getting rid of them another group would descend upon us with an avalanche of chewing gum, absolutely free!! Honestly, it’s the truth we’re telling you!
BIG BLOWS FOR
The pep rally and the Fighting Irish spirit that welcomed the team home, last Sunday evening.. . . The Navy V-12 and V-7 bands for their sprightly and fre
quent rendition of the Victory March. . . . The V-12 on their successful weekend, and taste in feminine pulchritude. . . . The Review, last Saturday afternoon. ... St. Mary’s and a pleasant Sunday afternoon at the “Rock.” . . . The team!
DERBY DAY
According to the Associated Press, communiques from the front (i. e., No Man’s Land, better known as The Tower across the Dixie), chairmen of the various committees, and rumors in general, dance visitors and guests to the campus this week-end will come from the most interesting places. As near as we could gather, contingents from the following points will be represented in the following quotas:
Mundelein, 25; Barat, 10; The Woods, 10; Rosary, 10; U. S. S. Walsh, vj.
Stephens, 10; South Bend (unattached), 10; Northwestern, 5; Sweet-briar on the St. Joe (enrollment, 422), 425.
Barat will send its intellectuals; Northwestern, its beauties; Mundelein, its personalities; Stephens, its youthful genius; Rosary, its femininity; South Bend, its culture; the U. S. S. Walsh will add color and wit; Sweetbriar on the St. Joe, will monopolize all the busses.
HERE AND THERE
Tonight and tomorrow, you’ll hear them all over the place shouting: “Get your program; get your program here. Names, numbers, and draft status of all the players. Ye can’t enjoy the game without a program!!” .... The sun-tan set closes a successful season on the Rockne Roof; and, picking up towels and mats, moves inside and downstairs to the synthetic environment of the “lamp.” . . . Mike Mozier and his “campus sextet” have begun the autumnal task of gathering leaves. Don’t get in their way —you’ll find yourself hoisted in a van and off to the local dump—which might, in some cases, be a good thing, and a considerable improvement on the local scene. . . . Said Mary Minges to Jeanne Rockne: “I should like very much to go South, oh, very far South, this winter.” Said Jeanne: “Oh, wonderful; see if you can get reservations for me, too!” . . . No changes are contemplated in personnel in the Director of Studies Offices for
FOOTBALL NEWS I
25c per Copy	9
A WEEKLY FOOTBALL NEWSPAPER Schedules - Pictures - Comments Accumulative Scores - Predictions S5.00 for Air Mail Service
2/1 zi For 10 Weeks
• UU Starting Sept. 30th 25c Per Copy on Newsstands
SEND ORDERS TO
THE FOOTBALL NEWS 161 WEST NINE MILE ROAD DETROIT 20	MICH.
»/>. J" NIX
7ml	VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B-B, (G)-C-B6 E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will .Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ninc-Vitamin Tablet Contains—
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk
AS MUCH “IF as 1 lb. of Butter
AS MUCH “C”
as 2 ozs. Orange Juice
AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage
AS MUCH W’
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans AS MUCH “B«” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS
ON SALE AT THE BOOKSTORE
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
15
Victory Dance
The first Victory Dance of 1944 will he held tomorrow evening at the Indiana Club. The dance will start at 8:00 P.M. sharp and end at 11.
This dance is part of the big Chilian week-end to celebrate the opening of the
Home season. However, it is open to all NROTC and V-12. They are cordially invited to attend and are assured a good time.
The affair is being sponsored by St. Edward’s Hall, which is a slight departure from the usual N. D. procedure. Chris Cochrane is General Chairman with many capable assistants. Paul - Ragan has managed to obtain Myron Walz, considered the best of the available local bands. Another item worthy of attention is that Stags will NOT b2 permitted.
Bids are $1.20 and may be purchased from hall representatives. Tickets are also limited to the capacity of the Indiana Club.
V-12 WEEKEND (Continued from page 7)
the members of the V-12 unit and their guests for the week-end.
Through the co-operation of the University the buildings on the campus were opened Sunday, for the inspection of all those interested. The navy also opened the navy barracks so that everyone could view the living quarters of members of this unit.
Sightseeing on the campus, and inspection of the barracks took the greater part of Sunday afternoon, but for the further entertainment of the trainee and his guest a tea dance was held in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel, Sunday afternoon, from 1430 until 1700. Music for the dance was furnished by Myron Walz and his orchestra, and the dance was open to any member of the V-12 Unit. Thus was concluded the fourth annual V-12 ball.
THE SHILLELAGH (Continued from page 12)
Mastrangelo is getting the knack of it.
Tom Guthrie has everything that a little experience will help.
Fitzgerald and Fallon look like a couple of good Celts.
There are some other boys I’ll tell you about later in the season. Keep your eyes on all of them. Anybody’s liable to do it.
That coaching staff must have had something to do with the way those kids put out. There’s an outfit—I mean Ed, and Hughie, and Adam, and Clem, and Wally, and Jake.
Those southern teams in the early weeks of the season have a habit of spoiling records. Do you remember Georgia Tech in the second game, two years ago? Castleberry and Stuff. It did happen here. It shouldn’t, but it might. It won’t if you listen and learn, and then—Beat Tulane!
GIFTS for All Occasions
126 N. Michigan Street
FINE WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING

Have a “Coke”=Welcome back
... or giving a returned soldier a taste of home
There’s an easy way to make a soldier on furlough feel right at home. It’s to offer him refreshing Coca-Cola. Have a “Coke" is always the hospitable thing to say. In many lands overseas, as in your own living room, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes, —has become a happy symbol of hospitality, at home as everywhere else.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
high-si^rr
“Coke”=Coca-Cola
It's natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That's why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
16
*Z4e Pe^Ucane.
By HARRY LE BEN

SUNDAY NIGHT SOLILOQUY
Ever come in on Sunday night from a big weekend and be dead tired having had only two hours sleep Saturday night and none since boy what a feeling and then you suddenly realize you have a big test Monday and you try to study but the book jumps and blurs and your eyes are red and blackcircled and when you get up on Monday at oh six fourteen people laugh and pinch you and say is it alive and you begin to wonder if not already and you just barely manage to get through Monday and then Tuesday comes even worse and the SCHOLASTIC man comes over and says well where the heck is your copy and you just laugh at him and think terrible thoughts like murder and torture and you finally tell him its beyond all possible human endurance and to please depart as your mind is like a thick hunk of concrete and it is very funny because you can sit back and look at your mind and talk to it and you say mind produce something but your- mind just grins and sits like a thick hunk of concrete boy what a feeling!
CONGRATULATIONS
To Company K for their softball victory. We should have reported this last week, but due to Ball preparations didn’t quite get around to it. Now a week later, it is still not too late to remind those bewildered boys in Cavanaugh of the incident. I’m still laughing at a marine who was offering two to one odds on the outcome of the contests, with the gyrenes favored, of course.
Good for another laugh was a little joke which this hoppie quoted which went something like: “forward to complete victory with the marines.” As any fool can plainly see they are carrying out this policy to the furthest extent possible. Their showing in the softball tournament was only a minor example. The way they stood up in the boxing bouts of several weeks backs is even better.
Your motto is all right, boys; but you have one slight trouble: You’re moving in the wrong direction.
ADVERTISEMENT
Due to the merging of the above named individual and the Naval Bureau of Personnel someone else will have to take over this coly-um next semester. If any of you feel the urge, and think you will still be here, I would appreciate it if you would contact me and maybe
S S pl pl H pl pl S pl pl 3 S
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
5OUTHSHORE
HXXXXXXXXXX
► ► ► ► X h N h N x X X
X X
X X X X
X
X
► x x
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxn
JOSIE and JIM'S
JINNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
X X X X
CATE
PLACE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxdI
17
we can make some arrangements. Of course there won’t be any marines left to write about, and all the “schloomps” will be gone; but the chow will still be as bad and you can “always” tell about that.
Anyhow, if you are interested, see me as soon as possible.
DA BRAWL
A Success
From the beginning to end the week' end was a series of smoothly working events. The highly polished exterior of the affair made it all seem so easy that • the tremendous amount of planning and work which made it all possible just didn’t seem to exist. Talk to one of the boys who worked over at the Drill Hall until 0500 the day before the dance for information on that subject.
Jack Boswell, Chairman of the Ball, of course, deserves a great deal of credit for providing the unifying and coordinating force which produced the final result. But the individual chairmen, who Jack claims really did all the work, deserve the highest praise too. Everything was done well, but outstanding in accomplishment was the decorations. Under the direction of Bill “Glacier” Bevington and his committee of: Otto Shander, Bob Waterhaut, Cliff Marks, Bob Englebrecht, Gene Diamond, Charles Border and John “Well-I-don’t-know-about-that” Madden, the decorations exceeded anything on any previous dance. Whether Bill and John move as slowly as people claim is doubtful when their handiwork is viewed.
A Tradition
This was the fourth Notre Dame V-12 Ball. I’m not going to quibble with you whether it was the best or not. There are many opinions both ways on the matter. Whatever it was, it was certainly the continuation of one of the finest traditions of the V-12 Unit here at Notre Dame. With the men in this Unit arriving and leaving so rapidly it is hard to continue such traditions. In more ways than one the Ball was a real accomplishment.
— BEAT TULANE —
VETERAN'S AFFAIRS
(Continued from page 3) been announced that pre-college, noncredit work may be offered in some fields as refresher and background courses for men returning to school. As in peacetime, students will be eligible to take up study for any degree for which they have the required academic background. Credit will be given servicemen for courses taken under the Armed Forces Institute or cooperating colleges.
Mica’s special insulating qualities are mighty important in communications equipment. No equivalent exists, so war’s huge demands caused a critical shortage.
Bell Telephone Laboratories’ scientists were assigned the task of somehow finding more mica. They found it—in the very considerable amounts of raw mica which visual inspection had rejected. By developing electrical apparatus to test the two most important electrical properties, they increased the usable amount of mica by half and so stretched current supplies of mica to fill all military needs.
In many such ways the Bell System is serving the nation, constantly meeting the needs of our fighting forces for dependable communications.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War”
18
By BLAIR NATTKEMPER
Herb Daiker and Bill Grant, co-chairmen of the Naval R.O.T.C. Ball this Friday evening- are very enthusiastic but also much bewildered over the prospects of the forthcoming weekend. “We started out with big ideas, then things began looking doubtful and BOOM, our dreams came true,” so stated Bill. “A big weekend with Hal McIntyre to top the festivities off.”
Herb is escorting Miss June Barnum from his hometown of Utica, New York so not to be out done, Bill will bring Miss Agnes Culhane from his home of Erie, Penna. These two girls will reign as co-queens of the Ball.
The Ball which will be held in the Service Mens Center in downtown South Bend, will have a treasure island theme. Jolly Rogers, all types cf fishes, pirate garb, and other nick nacks of the days of Long John Silver will adorn the walls of the huge dance floor. Instead of a bid, Herb who is really an artist at heart, has drawn a pirate map which shows the “doin’s” of the entire weekend. It begins with dinner at Rosies, the pep rally, the Ball, showing the girls around the campus, the game Saturday afternoon, the Victory Dance of Saturday evening, and finally sending them homeward bound Sunday. The map is also bedecked with mermaids, star fishes, skull and cross bones, King Neptune, anchors and star fishes.
The R.O’s and their girl-friends are going to have choice seats on the 45« yard line for the Tulane game and both Bill and Herb, along with Johnny Caron were having slight mathematical difficulties with seating arrangements and ticket money but before it was over, they turned up five dollars to the good. “We’ve been doing as much business as the athletic office,” Herb stated while sticking his head up from the maze of figures before him.
Both boys came to N. D. in Sept. ’42, and spent two semesters as civies; the whole R. 0. T. C. unit then went on active duty and both will graduate this coming February. Herb went to New Hartford High School where he won eight letters in football, basketball, baseball, and track. Bill went to Cathedral Prep in Erie where he played football and golf. Although Bill is a Commerce man and Herb an A.B., the navy has decided to transfer both into navy engineering starting this next semester.
Herb loves to ski and spends his spare time on Big Moose Lake hence his nickname “Big Mooser.” Bill brings out the golf sticks whenever he gets the chance and goes out and burns up the William J. Burke course in the low 80’s. Bill said that he knew quite a few persons who would doubt that, but it sounds good anyway. They both like big steaks, french fries, and, “thousands of other things that Notre Dame doesn’t have in the way of Food.”
This will be the biggest dance the R. 0. T. C.’s have ever had and one of the biggest N. D. has seen, for a long time. “We’re just praying for good weather and an Irish win, and we hope everything goes off as well as we expect it to.”
Forum Elects Donnelly
The election of officers of the Commerce Forum for the coming semester was held on Thursday evening, September 28, at the Forum social. Jim Donnelly was elected president. The other new officers include Frank Linehan, vice-president; Mike Garry, publicity director; and Paul Ragan, program chairman.
Plans for this semester’s Forum banquet were discussed at a regular meeting on Wednesday, October 4. The banquet is to be held on Wednesday evening, October 11, at the Hoffman hotel.
Co-President Tony Bristol high-lighted this meeting with his address on “Labor Unions in Politics.”
Alumnus Authors Book
Mr. Basil Rauch, of the class of “29” and brother of Mr. Rufus Rauch, professor of English at Notre Dame, has recently completed his book, “THE HISTORY OF THE NEW DEAL”. Additional books in progress include a second volume on the New Deal and a study of sectional foreign policy during the American Civil war. He is an instructor in History at Barnard College, at present on leave of absence for war service on the faculty of Annapolis.
Law Club Officers
Last Monday, the election of officers for the Law club was held.
Politics hit a new high as the various parties put forth their candidates. Ted Ryan, senior -from Seattle, Wash., was elected President; John Rinella, Senior from HL, Vice-president; Tom Bremer. Junior from Ohio, Sec.; and Ed. Merman, junior- from Mich., Treas.
The officers will remain in office for two semesters.
BUSINESS ANO SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR ANO SCALP. ..TREAT THE REAL CAUSE CF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Phone 4-1481
METHOD MEN'S SHOP
HARPER
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES ANO SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-S66!
702 J. M. S. BUILDING
SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-406 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2S74
19
CopjTifhr 1944. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.