
... 
¥~
·f(t s: 
' -~-· j~ 
"'~.ri
~ 
,£~-,,.. 
I 
{11 
,._ \(
"61 
u..;" i"" '° ,'.), 
... ""-... ...~.... 
~-~ 
f
,,• ": 
!f }-~
~.,,,.,e, 
.. :j 
~ t ,,; ><

WEATHER OR NOT ... 
~11i 
.. 'Jr 
),. ~}...~
here's a coat tailored for >, ~ ·~:1 
·:~.Jf 
.,._ "X"­
the man on the go ... ~, <· 
~ ~t 
... -" ~ -»?~ 
. ·. ~~~i~)~ 
' 



·-·· Alligator 


ISTORMWIND !
:c:\\~ 
..-,-~.-:;~\:'_,j 
All Weather Coat 
::. 
i 
,-vater repellent and fea­tures 100% wool plaid ..,,it zip-out liner, raglan shoul­der, slash pockets and neat fly front. Durable all cot­-:-: ::• ton shell in natural color. 
Sizes to fit all men. 
$26.95 
----s:::---__~
-::;:,.--­
~~~ 

· LB ER ' 
--~-­

UJ ho 
~-' d ' •
ti!!' t, 


! Ya 
FEBRUARY :. 
r 
, ' 

~ ' a;; ' ~¥ 
' $~.::,.,, ~~ 


~ "~ 
MARCH 
'~~~~ 
-
+ 
1 
SOME CAN'T BELIEVE IT! 
Your Campus Shop charge account is open. Choose your wardrobe now ,vhen you need it, and pay one-third in January, one-third in February and one-third in :Wiarch of 1964. No interest or carrying charge for this con­venience. Take advantage of your Campus Shop charge account soon. Stop in and select what you need, and simply charge it the Campus Shop way. 
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS 


Colleges are complicated and bewilder­ing places, filled with complicated and bewildering people. Today let us exam­ine one of the most complicated and be­wildering-yet fetching and lovable­of all campus figures. I refer, of course, to the dean of students. 
Policeman and confessor, shepherd and seer, warden and oracle, proconsul and pal-the dean of students is all of these. How, then, can we understand him? \Vell sir, perhaps the best way is to take an average day in the life of an average dean. Here, for example, is what hap­pened last Thursday to Dean Killjoy N. Damper of the Duluth College of Belles Lettres and Pemmican. 
At 6 a.m. he woke, dressed, lit a :Marlboro, and went up on the roof of his house to remove a statue 
of the Founder which had been placed there during the night by high-spirited un­dergr-.iduates. 
At 7 a.m. he lita :Marlboro and walked briskly to the 

· campus. (The Dean had not been driving his car since it had been placed on the roof of the girls dormitory by high-spirited undergrad­uates.) 
At 7 :45 a.m. he arrived on campus, lit a l\farlboro, 
and climbed the bell tower to remove his secretary who had been placed there during the night by high­spirited undergraduates. 
At 8 a.m. he reached his office, lit a :Marlboro, and met with E. Pluribus Ewbank, editor of the student news­paper. Young Ewbank had been writing a series of editorials urging the United States to annex Canada. When the edi­torials had evoked no response, he had taken matters into his own hands. Ac­companied by his society editor and two proofreaders, he had gone over the bor­der and conquered Manitoba. With great patience and several Marlboro Cigarettes, the Dean persuaded young Ewbank to give Manitoba back. Young Ewbank, however, insisted on keeping Winnipeg. 
At 9 a.m. the Dean lit a :Marlboro and met ,,;th Robert Penn Sigafoos, presi­dent of the local Sigma Chi chapter, who 
* 

came to report that the Deke house had been put on top of the Sigma Chi house during the night by high-spirited under­graduates. 
At 10 a.m. the Dean lit a Marlboro and went to umpire an intramural softball game on the roof of the law school where the campus baseball diamond had been placed during the night by high-spirited undergraduates. 
At 12 noon the Dean had a luncheon meeting ";th the pre:-..-y, the bursar, and the registrar, at the bottom of the cam­pus S\\;mming pool where the faculty dining room had been placed during the night by high-spirited undergraduates. l\forlboros were passed after luncheon, but not lighted, owing to dampness. 

At 2 p.m. back in his office, the Dean lit a Marlboro and received the Canadian Minister of War who said unless young Ewbank gave back Winnipeg, the Cana­dian army would march against the U.S. immediately. Young Ewbank was sum­moned and agreed to give back Winni­peg if he could have Moose Jaw. The Canadian Minister of War at first refused, butfinally consented after young Ewbank placed him on the roof of the metallurgy building. 
At 3 p.m. the Dean lit a Marlboro and met ";th a delegation from the student council who came to present him ";th a set of matched luggage in honor of his fifty years' service as dean of students. The Dean promptly packed the luggage ";th all his clothing and fled to Utica, 
New  York,  where  he  is  now  in  the  
aluminum si ding game.  © 1963 :\lax Shulman  
* *  

The makers of Marlboro, who sponsor this column, don't claim that Marlboro is the dean of filter cigarettes-but it's sure at the head of tlie class. Settle back with a Marlboro and see what a lot you get to like! 


SCHOLASTIC 
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame 

Vol. 105 October 4, 1963 No. 2 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vh·e Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 

Tom Hoobler 
editor 

Dick Stranger 
managing edit01· 

Brian Barnes 
business manager 

Mel Noel 
news editor 

Terry Wolkerstorfer 
sports editor 

James Devlin 
features editor 

Larry Sicking 
art editor 

Jack Pope, Joe Wilson 
copy 

Tom Keane 
circulation 

Tom Nahm 
advertising 

Brian Beck, Pat Ford 
photography 

John Anton, David Barrett, Jim Callero, Brian Jorgensen, Frank McConnell, Bill Smith, Mike Walusis 
contributors 

Frank O'Malley 
faculty advisor 

STAFF: Al Basso, Tom Bettag, Ray Burke, Jim Boland, Al Dudash, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Rick McQuaid, Carl Magel, Bill O'Grady, Bruce Palka, John Phillips, Jack Quine, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan, Gary Sabatte, Frank Smith, Steve Stuecheli, John Twohey, Joe Weiss, John Whelan. 
Cover photo by Dave Larsen 
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second chm mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Colle?.te Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertisin~ Service and by Don Spencer, College Magaunes Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weeklyduring the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip­tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 

OFFICE OPEN: 

Sunday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00; Mon­day, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:30­5:30; Saturday, not open. 
EDITORIALS 

M
R. MICHAEL Sexton's letter, printed in the September 27 issue of the SCHOLASTIC, ex­pressed a very definite fear that the character of Notre Dame will be lost if women are admitted to the University on an academic plane. The fear that Notre Dame will be nothing more than a "typical" coeducational institution is rather tenuously ad­vanced. We, too, are conscious of the heritage of our University and of its implicit dedication to Our Lady. We are not, however, of the opinion that this great tradition and dedication will be lost be­cause of progressivism. The dynamic University that we wish to maintain should fear far more the danger of slipping into a static and stagnant men­tality than it should fear pursuing changes and dis­covery which carry with them an element of risk, but which offer the opportunity for advancement and achievement in return. 
Rather than regarding heritage and dedication as an opiate on which we come to slavishly depend, let us regard it as a foundation on which to build; for it is in adopting the mood of vitality and faith that we can advance, improve, and grow. 

Response 

Considered in this light, there is little justifica­tion for the separation of men and women in an educational atmosphere that professes to be uni­versal. Denial of the fact that Notre Dame gradu­ates will encounter both men and women of dif­ferent background and, in many cases, of better preparation would be foolish. The important ques­tion is why should this meeting be delayed, par­ticularly in view of the fact that it is during the period of his formal education that a man is de­veloping and exposing his ideas and ideals to question? 
It has often been stated that the expanded op­portunities offered by the nearby presence of a large university is one of the attractive features of St. Mary's. Not denying the obvious, but rather emphasizing the importance this has for academic pursuits (particularly considering the recent com­pletion of the Memorial Library), this can only serve to benefit both institutions. It is doubtful that the excellent reputation that Harvard wields has gone "down in stature" because Radcliffe stu­dents are an integral part of the college's character. 


How come you always buy Keds Court Kings every Fall? Why can't you be like me and try new things-like KEDS' new 'WALKING TWEEDS'?? They're the AUTHENTIC Scottish 'Fannich' check, loomed by Guilford in washable wool, and EXCLUSIVE WITH KEDS ! ! Why don't you ever try new things, hm? 
l 
n 
d 

....:,.,:,{•"'
.,.-.1,.... .,.... 
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL*
.··Elm;'
.......................................... 
. t 
..,,.~!:.:~:?;:;.... 
:.•.... ,,•,•, ,•,,•,•. •...··· ,•,•.· ··••,•· ·········••,•· 
Welcome Notre Dame Men 
-:­

DIAMONDS 

Keepsake • Artcarved • Orange Blossom 
-:­


WATCHES 

Omega • Rolex • Longines • Wittnauer Patek Phillipe 
-:­


14K GOLD JEWELRY 

Charms • Bracelets • Pendants • Crosses Pins • Cultured Pearls 
-:­


FASHION JEWELRY 

Sterling and Gold Filled Charms Trifari • Monet • Eisenberg • Siamese 
-:­


REPAIR DEPARTMENT 
Fine Watch & Jewelry Repair Fully Guaranteed 
-:­

CREDIT AND LAYAWAY AVAILABLE 
-:­
Open Monday and Thursday till 8:30 P.M. 


121 W. Washington CE 4-1311 




NA:C"!:·" 

MICHIGAN AT COLFAX 
Phone: CE 2-5881 

NOTRE DAME MEN, buy lamps for your room at our reasonable prices NOW ! 
Student lamps-$3.95 to $10.95 

Desk and table lamps-$.3·.95 & $5.95 Floor lamps-$10.95 
Pick one up now at 


HANS-RINTZSCH 

luggage Shop 


The Scholastic 


Letters. • • 

TOUCHE 

Editor: 
Mr. Sexton's letter of last issue 
struck a resounding chord within me 
-a sour one. Am I to believe that 
such militant antifeminists still exist? 
'While all for woman retaining her 
natural role as helpmate, heart of the 
family, general inspiration, etc., I con­
tinue to believe in her mental libera­
tion, best accomplished by high-power 
education. 
There is a good deal to be said for separate educational complexes for men and women ; this is precisely why I am at Saint Mary's and why most of you are at Notre Dame. However this is not to say that there should be total segregation, no room for at least a token meeting of the minds or the free interchange of complementary attitudes and ideas. 
Mr. Ohala of the Dome was correct in assessing your campus need for the "fascinating, intuitive feminine mind," and I would be the first to admit our corresponding need for the lucid, analytic thinking characteristic of the masculine mentality. But your bastion of male supremacy would ap­parently harbor none of this spirit for fear that the somewhat charismatic albatross of tradition hanging about Mr. Sexton's (and many another) neck would fly away. 
As for the "distraction" offered by the female presence, I would only ask Mr. Sexton just what type of hermit existence he will lead in the big, bad outside world heavily populated by "sharp girls." When that curvaceous secretary sidles by his mythical desk, will he find it difficult to concentrate on the work for which his "segre­gated" education prepared him? 
Have no fear, Mr. Sexton; Notre Dame will never become coeduca­tional. It fears losing its identity. The most likely threat to that loss is Saint Mary's which upholds the status quo like a truncheon. The establishment of a Catholic counterpart to Harvard­Radcliff e, Brown-Pembroke, or Tufts­Jackson will not likely occur in these Indiana badlands. Sit tight, misogy­nists, you shall not be foiled (for a while at least). 
Respectfully, 
Rita Petretti 
Saint Mary's College 

SHY READER 
Editor: After the 1963 Notre Dame foot­ball team played such a tremendous game this afternoon, I cannot help hoping that the Notre Dame student body will respond with a full measure of genuine support for the remainder of the season. In the past, the student body has seemed more ready to judge the team on the basis of victory or loss alone, rather than the fighting spirit and effort with which the game has been played. This attitude has resulted in a lack of real support at the times when the team needs it most -when the score doesn't indicate the great effort expended. The performance this afternoon was one for every Notre Dame stu­dent to be proud of, and one that presages even greater success in the games to come. Congratulations to the team on a well-fought contest in which they played hard all sixty minutes! Name Withheld 

CORRECTION 
Editor: 
I wish to correct a statement in Mr. Sabatte's story in this week's SCHO­LASTIC which reads: "sailing in 1963 enjoyed the greatest success of any sport -club, minor or varsity -at Notre Dame." Last year, the Notre Dame ski team, a competitive off­shoot of the Ski Club, captained by John Turner, placed fifth in the Na­tional Collegiate Ski Championships at Alta, Utah; this skiing, for all in­tents and purposes, being done against the United States Olympic Ski Team. 
Yours truly, 
Jim Belanger 
Treasurer 
Notre Dame Ski Club 


THANKS 

Editor: 
During the confusion that took place in the Rathskeller at the Fall Open Hou·se, I lost a book. It was re­turned to me this week and I would like to express my appreciation to an upperclassman known to me as J.W.K. for sending it. 
Thank you very much. 
K. D. Nazareth College 


IN REPLY 

Editor: 
There is one note that genuinely needs be made on Michael Sexton's letter in your kickoff issue. 
Sexton's main argument says in ef­fect that those suggesting that Notre 
(Continued on page 28) 
15,000 POCKET BOOKS 
• 


GREETING CARDS 
• 

MONARCH REVIEW BOOKS keyed to your texts 
THE. BOOK SHOP 
Downtown 
130 N. Michigan 

WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS 








TOP 10 SALE 
WHIRLING DISC'S TOP 10 SPECIALS 
MFG.  MFG.  
SUG.  SUG.  
LIST  LIST  
PRICE  SALE  PRICE  SALE  
Peter, Paul & Mary--·················--·· 3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  
My Son, The Nut-Alan Sherman....____  3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  
Hollywood, My Way-Nancy Wilson .... -3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  
Shutdown-Various  Artists____  3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  
Surfin' U.S.A.-Beach Boys .... •-····-··--··-·---3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  

WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS ­
MFG.  MFG.  
SUG.  SUG.  
LIST  LIST  
PRICE  SALE  PRICE  SALE  
Moving-Peter, Paul & Mary_____·-····-­ 3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  
Those Lazy Days of Summer-Nat Cole 3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  
Sunnyside-Kingston  Trio_____  3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  
Trini Lopez At P.J.'s,______·-·-­ 3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  
Wipe  Out-Surfari.,______···-··  3.98  2.47  4.98  2.99  


214 S. MICHIGAN ST. -CE 3-4585 
WEEKDAY STORE HOURS: MON., THURS., FRI. -9:30 to 8:30; TUES., WED., SAT. -9:30 to 5:30 
October 4, 1963 

Tom Thomsen wanted challenging work 

T. R. Thomsen, 8.S.M.E., University of Nebraska, '58, came to Western Electric for several reasons. Important to him was the fact that our young engi­neers play vital roles right from the start, working on exciting engineering projects in communica­tions including: electronic switching, thin film cir­cuitry, microwave systems and optical masers. 
Western Electric's wide variety of challenging assignments appealed to Tom, as did the idea of advanced study through full-time graduate engi­neering training, numerous management courses and a company-paid Tuition Refund Plan. 
Tom knows, too, that we'll need thousands of experienced engineers for supervisory positions within the next few years. And he's getting the solid experience necessary to qualify. Right now, Tom is developing new and improved inspection and process control techniques to reduce manu­facturing costs of telephone switching equipment. Tom is sure that Western Electric is the right place for him. What about you? 
If you set the highest standards for yourself, enjoy a challenge, and have the qualifications we're looking for-we want to talk to you! Oppor­tunities for fast-moving career~ exist now tor elec­trical, mechanical and industrial engineers, and also for physical science, liberal arts and business majors. For more detailed information, get your copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. Or write: Western Electric Company, Room 6405, 222 Broad­way, New York 38, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for a personal interview when the Bell System recruiting team visits your campus. 
Western Electric MANUFACTURING AND suPPLY UNIT oF TH£ a£LL sYsT£M ® 
AN EQl)AL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities· Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U.S. Engineering Research Center. Princeton. N. J. • Teletype Corp., Skokie, Ill .• Little Rock. Ark.• Gen. Ha.• 195 Broadway, New York 

A ,~ -... ' -> •
=-=--•~ --"" . 
• ~ A ~,._ -... 

seniors, three juniors, and two soph­omores make up this year's commit­tee. They are: Seniors-Dave Ellis, Paul Tierney, and Jim Shay; Juniors -Doug Lovejoy, chairman; Tom Brejcha, and Mike Cook; Sophomores -Tom McManmon and Sam Parrett. This group hopes to initiate the honors system with next year's fresh­man class. The program tentatively would operate as follows: 
1. 
Only the incoming freshmen would participate fully in the pro­gram, i.e., only they would enjoy non­proctored exams. 

2. 
They would be briefed extensive­ly on the program during freshman orientation. 

3. 
Each subsequently incoming freshman class would enter into the program; thus by 1967 the entire student body would be participating. 


Several conditions will have to exist 
before the program can go into effect. 
First, there must be considerable dis­
cussion among the student body to 
determine what would be the ideal 
system. Also, the plan must subse­
quently be ratified by the student 
body in a formal referendum. 
After the plan is ratified, problems of another nature will arise. Upper­classmen as well as freshmen will have to cooperate if the plan is to be successful. Further, a satisfactory method must be found for reporting cheaters. This is essential to any honors system. 
Although an operating honors sys­tem is much closer to reality now, there is still much more to be ac­complished. 
• 
WITH the transfer of books to the new library, an unusual condition was created on campus -open space, an empty building. This condition has been quickly alleviated with a bit of departmental musical chairs. With the exception of a few art studios, the building that formerly housed the school library will be taken over completely by the architecture de­partment. This transfer will be made near the end of the first semester. The former architecture building will house the psychology department ­the newest addition to Notre Dame's curriculum. When the psychology de­partment will begin to function is uncertain, as no psychologists have yet arrived on campus. 

• 
FouR speakers were named re­cently for the annual Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lectures in the College of Business Administration. The lecture committee, chaired by Dr. Herbert 

E. 
Sim, has scheduled Richard A. Musgrave, Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton's 


• "THE 1963 Irish Homecoming Week­end will feature new events," accord­ing to Joe Spieler, the general chair­man. "The pep rally, bonfire, dance and coronation of the queen, Friday, November first, together with the parade, football game and concert on the second will be as much fun as an Irish festival." 
"Caed Mile Faile," which means in Gaelic "A Hundred Thousand Wel­comes,'' is the theme of the Home­coming Weekend and dance. The Stepan Center will be decorated in an Irish motif for the night. Seven hundred and fifty lucky Irishmen and their dates will see the coronation of the queen and dance to the romantic music of Peter Palmer's Orchestra. The dance lottery will be held on October 10. The total cost of the ticket is seven dollars payable at the lottery. 
Saturday morning a parade will file through the campus, finishing at the stadium for the Notre Dame-Navy game. Ending the day will be the New Christy Minstrels in concert. 
Groups interested in building floats or participating in the parade are asked to contact Dick D'Amico, 234 Dillon Hall. 
• TRYOUTS were held last week for the University Theater production of Friedrich Duerrenmatt's tragi­comedy, "The Visit." The American version, adapted from the German by Maurice Valency, emphasizes the tragic element more than the orig­inal. 
The play is presented in the expressionistic style. The staging reflects this, as it is representa­tional rather than realistic. 
The lead role of Anton Schill is played by David Clennon. The main 
October 4, 1963 
supporting cast and their roles are Aphrodite Pappas as Claire Zacha­naesian, Sean Griffin as the teacher, Al Dunn as the policeman, and Pete Flannery in the role of the burgo­master. 
The plot concerns the arrival of a wealthy woman at her native town and the manipulation of her riches to inflict revenge upon an unfaithful lover. 
• INITIALLY proposed in 1955, work on an honors system for the Univer­sity of Notre Dame actually began in 1958. At that time the Blue Circle was asked to investigate the feasibil­ity of an honor code here. Members of the Circle talked with teachers and students on campus; they also corre­sponded with various schools across the nation which already had imple­mented honor systems. Gathering of information was a two-year program conducted under Bill Scanlon's lead­ership. During 1960 and 1961, al­though the committee lingered on, work on the honors system dwindled almost to nothing. 
However, last year at the start of the second semester, Joe Kisslo and Ed Eck reorganized and rejuvenated work on the program, forming an eight-man committee. This committee met regularly for the rest of the semester to discuss various aspects of an honors system. 
Two guiding principles for any ac­ceptable code were agreed upon: 
1. 
The immediate aim of the program would be to eliminate the widespread cheating that exists on campus. 

2. 
The ultimate aim would be the development of the "whole man,'' the completely rounded individual, at the University of Notre Dame. Three 


Woodro,,1 Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, to give the first lecture on Thursday, October 10. His topic will be "Federal Tax Re­form." Mason Haire, Professor of Psychology and Research Associate at the Institute of Industrial Rela­tions, University of California, will speak Wednesday, November 13, on "Organization Theory and the Social Philosophy of Business." On Thurs­day, April 9, Richard N. Gardner, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Af­fairs, will speak on a topic yet to be announced. Andrew Barr, Chief Ac­countant, Securities and Exchange Commission, will deliver the final lec­ture Wednesday, April 29, on "The Role of the Accountant in the Ad­ministration of the Securities Act." 
Each lecturer will speak twice, once, in the afternoon, to students, faculty members, and the general public in the auditorium of the Me­morial Library, and again in the eve­ning, at a special faculty gathering in the Morris Inn. 
The series was established in 1949 by a grant from the Advisory Coun­cil of the College of Business Admin­istration. It honors the late John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., former pres­ident of the University and the first dean of the College of Business Ad­ministration. 
• THE LETTERJ\'IEN faced a difficult task last Friday night. Appearing in the second spot of the Social Commis­sion's sensational fall concert series, the popular vocal group drew an au­dience which was in a pep-rally mood in anticipation of the football season opener the next-day. Into this electric atmosphere stepped a threesome which has become famous for its relaxed and romantic style of croon­ing an old favorite. 
Ho we v e r, the Lettermen soon warmed up their audience. A solo, "Up The Lazy River," by Bob Enge­
~' 
The Lettermen, Last Friday Night 

mann started the spectators clapping 
their hands and snapping their fin­
gers. For the rest of the night, the 
Lettermen had the audience in their 
sweater pockets. 
Throughout the performance, each 
of the trio displayed his vocal magic 
by singing at least one solo. But their 
attempts at comedy were sometimes 
so corny that they drew moans from 
the audience. However, one of the 
lettered three, Jim Pike, often had 
the audience in uncontrollable laugh­
ter with his facial expressions a la 
Stan Laurel. Jim's rendition of "What 
Kind of Fool Am I?" also proved to 
be a show-stopper as it made the 
"Junior Dome" resound with tumul­
tuous applause. 
The Lettermen showed their versa­
tility by giving their impersonations 
of folk groups and, with tongue in 
cheek, of rock-'n'-roll. For their finale 
they presented a medley of songs 
from "West Side Story." Then in an 
encore they led the audience in the 
perennial number-one tune on the 
Notre Dame hit parade, the Victory 
March. 
• 
ELECTION fever is again descending on the Notre Dame campus. On Octo­ber 14, the student body will go to the polls to elect this year's version of the student senate and hall coun­cils. All candidates must pick up nomination blanks at the Blue Circle office located below the Huddle be­tween October 2 and October 10. Other election information can be obtained at the same time. The office will be open between 7 and 8 pm. 

• 
THE NOTRE DAME Young Republi­can Club has launched its third year of activity with many plans for what the club considers its "biggest year yet." The first general meeting of the club was held on September 26. 


Among previous year's activities to be continued is the faculty-and-guest­lecturer program. Previous promi­nent speakers have included Barry Goldwater, John Tower, Thruston Morton, and Walter Judd. The annual Lincoln Day Banquet will again be held in February; the club also will again participate during April in the yearly convention of the Midwest Federation of Young Republican Clubs. 
This year one of the club's mem­bers, Senior John Lyons, club co­chairman, has been elected to office in the local four-state region of the Federation. 
The club hopes to recruit students for a nonpartisan course in the me­chanics of grass-roots politics to be offered by the U.S. Chamber of Com­merce in South Bend. This Active Course in Practical Politics would consist of eight two-hour sessions and would be taught by qualified men. The club will not participate direct­ly, however, in what is expected to be the political highlight of the year, the Mock Political Convention, though they do hope to promote in­terest and awareness in it and have members participate as individuals. This election year the mock Republi­can convention will be held at Notre Dame on March second through the fifth. 
Professor Bernard P. Norling of the Notre Dame History Department, a long-time friend of the club, spoke at the first meeting. He warned against political indifference and en­couraged the members to learn some­thing about politics in practice and to form habits of political alertness. 
• JUDGE WILLIAM B. LAWLESS, of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, has been named a member of the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council. The Judge, N.D. Class of '44, presides over the Court's Eighth Ju­dicial District in Buffalo. Consisting of twenty-four judges, lawyers, and business executives, the Council met 

Rev. Astrik L. Gabriel Centrex 
last weekend with Dean Joseph O'Meara to review the Law School's progress. Oscar Derwin, former vice­president and general counsel of the Texaco Company, is the group's chairman. 
• 
STUDENTS not traveling to Purdue this Saturday can loosen up in the evening with the Nightlighters in La­Fortune Student Center. The informal dance will last from 8:30 to 11:30 and will be for couples only. Tickets will be on sale at the door Saturday, for $1.50 a couple. 

• 
NOTRE DAME will be without one of its most distinguished scholars this year. Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame since 1952, has a guest professor­ship at Harvard. He has been ap­pointed Charles Chauncey Stillman Guest Professor of Roman Catholic Studies for the 1963-64 school year. The administration has granted Fa­ther Gabriel a leave of absence to accept the Harvard post. 


Christopher Dawson, the noted British historian, was the first guest professor of the Charles Chauncey Stillman chair, which was established in 1957. Earlier this year 250 scholars came to the Harvard campus for a Roman Catholic-Protestant Colloqui­um through the resources of the Still­man Professorship. 
During his year at Harvard, Father Gabriel will teach a course on "Great Medieval Educators" and conduct a seminar on "Religious, Scholastic and Monastic Movements at the Univ. of Paris during the Fifteenth Cen­tury." Having written several books on the field, Father Gabriel is well qualified for the post. One of these, Medieval Paris, received the Thorlet Prize of the French Academy, which is given annually to the best work concerning French educational his­tory. 
Father Gabriel, born a native of Hungary and now a U.S. citizen, has been with the Notre Dame faculty since 1948. While at Harvard, he will continue as director of a project in which thirty thousand classical, medi­eval and Renaissance works at the Ambrosian Library are being micro­filmed for deposit at Notre Dame's recently completed Memorial Library. 

• CENTREX is our new telephone operator. She moved onto campus during the summer, giving Notre Dame "the most up-to-date telephone system available to private organiza­tions," according to Mr. Fred Free­man, of the Notre Dame Personnel Office. In effect, Centrex is many op­erators, since the new system con­nects outside calls directly to the campus extension without switch­board operators. Thus each campus phone, except those on the interhall system, becomes a private outside phone, available even to direct-dis­tance dialing. 
The decision to install the Centrex system was based largely on the ex­pense of adapting the old switch­board system to meet the needs of an expanding campus. An estimated twelve new switchboard positions would have been needed on the old system. Centrex presently has a sta­tion capacity of 1,125 phones, with room for equipment extending this capacity at least ten times. 
Among the improvements brought about by Centrex are an increase of telephones in the student dormitories, private phones for all administrative and academic personnel, and conver­sion of the entire Notre Dame phone system to all-number dialing. While the new system makes it easier to call our campus, however, lines to St. Mary's may be just as difficult as ever. 
• NOTRE DAME'S University Art Gal­lery in O'Shaughnessy Hall will pre­sent thirteen major exhibitions this year, according to Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., gallery director, and John Howett, curator. The shows will range from Baroque paintings to con­temporary sculpture, from Pennsyl­vania Dutch art to pictures by French children. 
From Oct. 6 to Nov. 10, the gallery will display the sculpture and draw­ings of John Flannagan, and from Oct. 13 to Nov. 24, the displays will include works of Waldemar Otto, Notre Dame's new sculptor-in-resi­dence. The show "Paintings by French Children" opens for twelve days beginning Oct. 7 . 
Enlarged photographs of contempo­rary collegiate architecture in Amer­ica will be on view at the gallery from Nov. 10 to Dec. 1, and an exhi­bition of American paintings on loan from the Whitney Museum is sched­uled from Nov. 17 to Dec. 22. On Dec. 1, "Prize-Winning Oils by Women Painters," a show featuring mod­ern American artists, opens a three­week engagement. 
Students may view Baroque paint­ings from Notre Dame's permanent collection from Jan. 1 to Feb. 23. The University's Lenten exhibition, "The Life of Christ: Drawings from the James Scholz Collection," opens Feb. 23 and closes April 5. 
Paintings by Italian artists of the Macchiaoli school can be seen at Notre Dame from Mar. 11 to Apr. 1, and the paintings of Robert Goodnough, a contemporary American artist, will be exhibited Apr. 12 to May 17. 
Starting April 8, the University will display selected works by senior art students. After May 24 and throughout the summer of 1964, works from the University's perma­nent collection, which recently toured the country under the auspices of !!le American Federation of Arts, will be shown. The University Gallery is open from 1 to 5 p.m. daily. 
October 4, 1963 


University News. This is not a new complaint at Xavier. An attempt was made last year to examine the store's financial records, but the figures were kept cloaked beneath "a black garb 
on otlier campuses 
Oil, HHLO. HV6'1 -wm, BfCAtJSf CHA\/6 A lil~ER. 1llA1 WAL/. "(OU Kmv HOW lll!M ~Ol/1,DNf I OA1f. f.lD, IWOtl'( BREAK' IT 1:HBAf:?~A%S Mf HElLO, 8£RtJARD? ,DiW A!J6Rt1 ! LfOU If. lli, 6€CA1,%. 1g CRV€1-. lv€ll IH THINK 
W€R€ -SUPPD5EC7 W C£R1A11Jiq I WA!JT 10 5€€ /180UT If. HALIB€ 
CALl-Ht LNiT W€t;K. 40[}, ~VT IF I BROK£ A !"LL CAU LtOU W~L1 S!IOVLO l CALL OATf Wl1H itllS ~OLf BACK IIJ FIVf qou rr lfOV mrr lrtu !AYJULO l{OU KIJ(Xv MlfJOTES. f 
CALL ME:! 00, CH I WOULO~JT mAJ< A ~AID MAYBf. NM UKE 1f1Af! VAT€ WlTH VOil ! ALL RIGII~ ffff; /30{ CALLS FIVf MIMIJT£S. 
ME! 
1M GLMJ I CAlhSH1 l{OI}, ~.L-1,fetJ.I 
HATt 10 00 1H~ 
BIJf rAA0 ASll1Pl,'1 
MISERABt.E LWf Ai 1lf DfFICt f,)JO I wotJOEREO If ~ C.OIJWNi PDS1'PDl!E 11Ull65~ 




• THE Omo UNIVERSITY Student Cabinet has decreed, "Thou Shalt Not Water Fight." Naturally all the cam­pus deans concurred with the deci­sion, stating that wet weaponry is expressly forbidden ·by housing stand­ards regulations. 
In the midst of all the chants of "Water Fights, No; Regulations, Si"; the Ohio U. Post came out with its uncensored retort: "The University is making a mountain out of a mole­hill. (It) seems to have two ways of identifying students; they are adults when they achieve high academic or leadership standards; they are teen­agers when they violate university regulations." 
College students cannot be treated as either, they claim. They must be treated as "college students who like to water fight, stuff telephone booths, smash pianos, and frolic in Florida." 
We feel that comments siding wUh either faction would be all wet.-Ed. 
• BRADLEY University is now joining the bandwagon on the "academic ex­cellence" kick. In addition to "beefing up" some of its regular courses, the department of studies has initiated a "Scholar's Program." A faculty com­mittee headed by Dr. Brune and working under the idea that the "well-rounded university s h o u 1 d 
feiffer 

t.1~. W'7 IS 0/AIJNf; NO, I CAl.lf ErGHf oow. IJOW, L{OtJ 5TOP 1ALr11J6 


above all interest students intel­lectually," has selected a certain above-average few and invited them to participate in a course of studies where the emphasis will be on qual­ity, not quantity. An integral part of the program will be the "colloquium," a non-credit course similar to our collegiate seminar. 
• 
THOl\'.IAS HOADLEY, Indiana county prosecutor, who last year brought charges against three University of Indiana students for belonging to the Indiana University branch of the Young Socialist Alliance, told a group at the recent N.S.A. congress that he doubted that Y.S.A. constituted a threat to the state of Indiana. Indiana has a state anti-communist law that protects against the danger of gov­ernment overthrow. Hoadley said that he had brought the charges against the Y.S.A. only to get the University of Indiana to withdraw its recogni­tion of the group -and in fact from any "totalitarian, fascist, communis­tic, or subversive" organization. He doubted that the people of Indiana wanted to "subsidize a group advo­cating the overthrow of the U. S. government." 

• 
THE OLD cry of "profiteer" aimed at university bookstores was taken up in a fall editorial in the Xavier 


of secrecy." The editorial proposes no action for this year. It claims that the students have been "bilked" for so long that they are conditioned to it. 
• THE XAVIER University News has been the medium for a heated ex­change of barbs between the boys of 
X.U. 
and students at nearby girls' col­leges. It all began last May when an ad­vice column in the paper cautioned a boy seeking a date at a local girls' col­lege to remember "personality is the most important thing." In fierce retal­iation, a girl wrote back her impression of X.U. "... immature boys throwing beer at each other ..." Concerned about this, the paper sent out a ques­tionnaire to selected girls asking them to essay on the rather terse generalization "Xavier men seem to be interested in nothing but sex and liquor." The four questionnaires that were returned unanimously voted "yes." However there was a tinge of hypocrisy in the letters that must have set the sex-and-liquor man at ease. One girl noted, after a long tirade, "Now that we know what you expect of girls, we shall stop develop­ing our personalities and start...." Said another girl, after vowing never again to date an X.U. student, "What really makes me mad is that these 

X.U. 
'men' cannot hold two beers. I really mean it." 


Vend'al'lli'i, the Search for Identity 
A FRATERNAL DIATRIBE IN ONE PART 
by James Morgan Callero 
Persons of the Diatribe 
Yahd, a perennial cynic of the cafe­
teria Dobie RitSe, a struggling young ioriter Harvard, a com,puter extension Professor X, a gentleman of the 
academy Shrahva Rangoona, a gentlewoman of the salon Fata Morgana, a girl possessed of vital concern 
G. G. Scuttlehauser, an incisive satyrist Baal, a subtle though pervasive prin­ciple Ja1nes Devil, an awfully intense boy, citizen of the world-at-large 
613034, a union of person and nature, a rational animal, alas-a feather­less biped 
together with 

a barmaid, several frugue dancers, a cool combo really blowing, some foreign technicians., 
and also 

centipedes, mugwwrnps, neoclassicists, slide rules, and the landlady 
A plushy bar, suburban landscape, shades of Oshubka Beach Park ­On Stage -a Cool Combo blowing mean. 
On the Dance Floor -spazzy kids dancing the Frugue -wild, primi­tive, vaguely erotic -primary mat­ter in search of substantial form. 
At the tables -ultra-suave couples in hyper-elegant evening attire, seated on red velvet cushions, and sipping pousse-cafes. 
613034 enters with a bevy of friends and admiring pre-adolescents. Hard on his heels the venerable Shrahva with her salon set. A Napoleonic Mugwump accosts them, inspects various papers, nods reluctant assent. They situate near the dance floor, around a long mahogany table. 
Shrahva: "Come now, James, you simply must tell us of your recent transoceanic voyage, your marvelous escapades, how you found yourself in Paris, how . . . " James Devil: "Oui. Bien. Je me trouve. . . . Oh, excuse me. But you see, I fell in love with Paris, I am a part of it now, in some mystical yet ultimately real ... I mean, I keep forgetting my Anglais, and ... " 
Harvard: "Excuse me, James, but Dobie, our struggling young writer friend, has been trying to inter­ject ... " 
Dobie Ruse: "I know what it is to suffer. You ma.l{e me suffer. Every artist must experience suffering, alienation, . . . " 
Yahd: "Drunkenness." 
Dobie RitSe: "Hahahaha ha! Mock me again. You're really on, Yahd! I love the way you mock me. Haha­haha ha!" 
Fata Morgana: "Be nice to everyone, please. Have you ever thought what a wonderful world this could be if everyone would just be nice to every­one? So please don't fight, don't mock, please? Just for me? Be nice? I like nice things." 
James Devil: "I think you're truly nice, Fata. You have somehow man­aged to see through to some basic reality and bring fruition and good­ness, even though life may be char­acterized as an ordered series of juxtaposed ironies heightened by para­dox, i.e., the attempt to superimpose one set of values upon another con­flicting set of values, with resultant conflagrations of the whole schema of mores and truths. I saw a nice movie once ..." 
Yahd: "I don't know what that means." 
Fata Morgana: "I don't either, but I just know it must be nice, Jim, be­cause you're nice. I like you a whole lot. You're genuine and concerned, and cute. What does your father do?" 
Barmaid: "Like to order now, folks?" 
G. G.: "Yes. We'll have a round of bumbles, please." 
Barmaid: "What are they? We don't have them. Tell me how to make them and I will. I am young and naive and pure and I want to learn what bumbles are. What are bum­bles?" 
James Devil: "Naive is a French word, you know. One of many I picked up in Paris this summer." 
Barmaid: "But what are bumbles?" 
Professor X: "We do not know what bumbles are, young lady. We do not know what anything really is. We can never know the thing-in-itself." 
613034: "True, but too modern a no­tion. Let's get back to the basics. Never let it be said that nonbeing is, for being is, nonbeing is not. One thing are thinking and being." 
Yahd: "Ontology should be seen and not heard." 
G. G.: "Bumbles are made of rye and cream soda and lemon juice and orange bitters. I created them my­self. I am also making a solid teak­wood checker set." 
Fata Morgana: "You're brilliant, G. G. And so inventive and vital and con­cerned and frightfully college. I find you very nice. What does your father do?" 
Dobie Ruse: "Egad! Who gives a grunt what anyone's father does? Can't you see I'm suffering?" 
Harvard: "Computing machines suf­fer, too. They're wonderful. Just like people, only smarter and better. I wish I were a computer, only then I couldn't dive for pearls. That's my hobby." 
Fata: "I like hobbies. Every boy should have one. Especially in col­lege." 
Shrahva: "Nonsense. College is for parties. I'm having one next week. I want everyone to come to my party. It's going to be very artsy, lots of profs and beer and f olkfesting. I live in Morley's old house. The one on Primrose Lane." · 
Barmaid: "No bumbles, just draught." 
Dobie Ruse: "We'll take some. I am (Continued on page 32) 
October 4, 1963 
June 30, 1963 
Our first day in Acora. We had been in Peru for two weeks, but it seem,ed almost another world up here in the smail adobe vill,ages of the Peruvian Andes: We went to Mass in a little vill,age about ten ·miles away where some Protestant 11iissionaries ha.d worked at one time. They were fine men and did a lot for the Indians there, but after them there was no one and nothing to build on. It was a strange contrast to Acora which has had a church and a priest since the 16th century. In fact, one of the Indians told us that Francisco Piz­zaro led his men under the now de­caying arch that served to support the front wall of the church. Most of the people at Mass were kids. It was held in a little adobe hut and an old chopping table served as the al,tar. The Indian catechist led the prayers and I served with one of the kids. On our way back Father Daniel 
Flavin told us that what we had seen icas a nii?wr miracle, for he had never gotten more than four or five to Sun­day Mass and about thirty or so had slwwn up today. 
That afternoon we went to a soccer game. "Dan" played in the compo 
bv, Fred Heroman 
The material above is quoted frorn 
the diary of Fred Heroman, a senior 
who spent last summer in Peru with 
the CILA. In the accompanying arti­
cle he describes the work and experi­
ences of his group. 

with them and just as it should have been his team lost. It was interesting to see that there were no teen-agers on any of the teams or men about the area. The jugadores (pl,ayers) were 18-25 or so, but all were married and supporting families. Even the little kids four Qr five years old seemed to have quite a load of 1·esponsibility that somehow keeps youth from being youth, at least by our standards. We even saw one little tot with a stick in his hand herding sheep across the pampa. 
The women here are very 1nuch be­low the men. They stay out of sight or at least off to the side. I thought it funny to see them laughing timidly behind a stone wal,l as they watched the soccer game. 
That night we had a good tal,k with "Dan." We discussed everything from theology to politics. I found him quite interesting and very active. I was, however, disappointed in a way to hear him describe how nominally Catholic the people are. It's a full­time job to combat the superstitions and misunderstandings that they come up with. Their conviction of faith seemed no deeper than that of a Mormon that I met back in Lima who, 
CILA: 

when I asked him why he was a Mormon replied, "Because I like the people." Until the educational level rises past the five years offered to the Indians, I don't suppose that it would really be too practical to offer them an intellectual conception of God and Cat1wlicism. Then, too, the gift of faith pl,ays an impo1-tant role in the work of the missionaries here. Father F7,avin told us the story of a girl who was dying and sent for him,. He heard her confession and gave her Communion and the last sacraments., but he noticed how nervous and upset she was. He began to question her to find out what her problem, was. She told him that she was out walking the other night near this well in town when a big black dog jumped out and bit her around the throat. Father Dan investigated further and found that there was an old superstition in Acora about the well and the demons living in it. There were some rocks nearby that were supposed to keep them in and Father threw them away. It raised quite a stir in the town but all is well now. It was almost unbe­lievable that these people were so primitive as to believe in such super­·stitions. 
SECOND SUMMER 


T
HAT WAS our first day in the Andes. There were nine of us working in groups in three such cities around Lake Titicaca near the south­ern border of Peru and Bolivia. We had fourteen other men from Notre Dame in the little Mexican town of Tacambo about 220 miles southwest of Mexico City. All of us are part of a student organization on campus, the Council of the International Lay Apostolate, whose concern is the role of the lay apostolate in the Church. 
The work we did in Mexico and Peru ranged from the daily task of passing out bread and milk, to the enormous undertaking of building three homes, complete with running water and toilets. The CILA members of the Mexican project had the satis­faction of providing three families with concrete-block homes with cement floors to replace the thatched huts and ground on which they previ­ously lived. The families received not only a new home, but were provided with a number of chickens to raise, the sale of whose eggs will more than double their annual income and pro­vide means of paying for their new homes. 
The work done by the groups was used primarily as an aid to get to know the people and the country. 

Some of us taught classes in the little com po schools; others worked at re­storing some of the ancient paintings found laying in the ruins of aban­doned churches. Pre-med students in the group worked in parish clinics or accompanied the priest on sick calls out into the compo. One fellow, Frank Krankowski, was called upon to de­liver a baby in the village. Two of us helped the fathers of the school chil­dren lay a foundation of boulders and adobe for a small eating room in the rural school. Two other men put a roof on the house of an elderly lady and installed a glass window in the adobe home of a cancer victim con­fined to bed. Several others secured paint and brushes, then painted the clinic in the little town of Sicuani. 
Although a great deal of our time was spent in work, more important was the fact that we had the oppor­tunity to meet and get to know the people that live in the two countries, everyone from the president and other political leaders, to the lowest Indian on the social scale. The Mexican group was given the opportunity for an extensive investigation of the "co­operatives" that are being set up throughout Mexico to help the poor lift themselves up. The Peruvian group met for three nights with a group of Communist students for dis­cussion of various issues and problems faced there and in other parts of the world. Businessmen and churchmen visited with the two groups, each bringing a different point of view from a different position in the society. In the end, this cross section of ex­perience and contact with the various groups of society helped paint a more complex, but certainly a truer, picture of what faced them and us as mem­bers, together, in the Mystical Body. 
This is the second year that C1LA has undertaken such work and we've found that the benefits for ourselves and the people there have been ex­tremely worthwhile. It's hard to measure the degree of success of such work because the most impor­tant achievements are intangible. One measure that could be seen in reality was the awareness of responsibilities. duties, and new-found hope displayed by the Mexican families who received the homes built by last year's Mexican group. The poverty and sickness, the superstition, the works, achievements, friendships, and love that we found have certainly touched each of us in a very human way and have aroused in us a greater comprehension of our role and duties in socic:y as Chris­tians. 
October 4, 1963 

Dr. Bartholomew originated the Notre Dame lliock Convention and has served as advisor for succeeding con­ventions. 
The MOCK 
THE QUADRENNIAL campus extrav­
aganza -the mock national political convention -will burst on the local scene in the next year. This event has become something of a campus tradition. It combines the features of the academic, the extra­curricular, and the social to make a unique, valuable, and interesting con­tribution to student life. Over the years dissenting voices have been raised, but none have challenged the value of and the interest generated by this activity. The convention has been accused of involving much labor (it does), of costing money (it does), and of disrupting the routine of cam­pus life (it does), but no one has said that it does not offer students an un­rivaled opportunity to learn by doing one segment of the game of politics, and this in an atmosphere where the mock becomes real, the "make be­lieve" deadly serious, and the whole an educational experience that most students will never again have an opportunity to gain. 
Today many colleges and universi­ties hold mock national conventions, but the Notre Dame convention takes its place as one of the oldest. It began in 1940 as a feature of American Government classes in the Depart­ment of Political Science. The first was held in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. By comparison with later conventions, this was a minor production, but the enthusiasm of that first meeting has never been exceeded. In 1944, when World War II had taken most of the students from the campus and left Navy per­sonnel in their stead, the convention was not held. However, it was re­instated in 1948 and the entire Uni­versity was invited to join in the first "big" convention, this time in the Navy Drill Hall. The response was tremendous. Students entered whole­heartedly into the spirit of the thing. Chemistry, physics, and accounting majors (as well as political science majors) who previously had only read of such things as caucuses and roll calls found themselves an integral part of the process. It was a huge success by any proper standards. 
When 1952 rolled around, the St. Mary's girls were invited to join, and the convention took on another as­pect -the year's biggest "mixer." The girls have been a regular part of the "big show" ever since. The year 1952 also saw the convention attract national attention, and prominent speakers began to appear before the meetings. Radio commentator Paul Harvey, then National Democratic Chairman Paul Butler, Mayor Richard Daley, and various members of Con­gress are among those who have graced the occasion. At the 1960 con­vention the keynote speaker was Sen­ator Frank Church, the man who two 
CONVENTION: 
A Course in Practical Politics 
by Paul C. Bartholomew 
The Scholastic 
months later was to fill the same role at the Democratic national conven­tion (which chose the same nominee for President as did the campus meeting). 
The mock conventions have alter­nated between Democratic and Re­publican meetings with the deter­mining factor being the practical situation existing at the time. The 1940 convention was Democratic be­cause the burning issue was the mat­ter of a third term for Franklin Roosevelt. As noted, no meeting was held in 1944, and then in 1948 a Re­publican meeting was held when Truman was a sure nominee, and this was repeated in 1952 in the midst of the bitter Taft-Eisenhower fight and the near certainty of the Stevenson nomination. The 1956 meeting was Democratic because Eisenhower was certain of the Republican nomination, and the 1960 meeting was also Dem­ocratic in the light of the impending fight over Kennedy. There seems to be no argument that the 1964 meet­ing will be Republican in the light of Kennedy's certain nomination. 
Over the years, enthusiastic co­operation has been received from "favorite son" candidates. Literature, badges, banners, and even money and advice have been forthcoming from the national headquarters of the var­ious candidates. The demonstrations on the floor in support of candidates have given ample evidence of this as well as of student ingenuity. On the campus, student leaders establish themselves as managers of the cam­paigns of these favorites. 

Beginning with the 1948 meeting the Academy of Political Science has been the sponsor of the mock conven­tion. Members of the Academy serve as a national party committee and perform the functions that such a committee carries out in the real­life drama of the regular conventions. This involves all of the preliminary arrangements, a truly tremendous and time-consuming job ranging all the way from securing the hall to registering delegates and selecting the keynote speaker. Since the Navy Drill Hall has made way for the new library, the site of the 1964 meeting probably will be the new Stepan Center. 
Experience proves that there is something about the convention at­mosphere that brings the student delegates to enter in all seriousness into the give-and-take of practical politics. Excitement and tempers sometimes get out of hand. More than once a band or the convention organist has been called upon to play the National Anthem to bring some semblance of order on the floor. Radio, television, and newspaper cov­erage has been excellent and has improved each year. 
The cosmopolitan makeup of the student body at Notre Dame, with men from all over the Union, gives a note of realism that is not present in many university mock conventions. Here the students can represent their home states and give expression to the sentiment prevalent there. This may account in part at least for the accuracy of the choices of this meet­ing. The convention has failed only once to name the ultimate nominee of the party. 
First activity for the convention began among the members of the Academy of Political Science last February. Now the activity will be stepped up; within the ne.'Ct four weeks the entire campus will gradu­ally be involved. Four committees will be chosen: a Delegation Commit­tee, which will have charge of the registration of the delegates; a Cam­paign Committee, which ,vill be a clearing house for those students wishing to be campaign managers on campus for the various candidates; a House Committee to arrange the physical facilities for the convention; and a Publicity Committee. 
Thus, with this great campus event approaching, now is the time for each student to begin to think just where he ,vill fit into this opportunity to learn politics by doing it. 
I 
I I 
! 
I I 
! 
; 


17
October 4, 1963 

BALDWIN ... the word is much more 
than the name of an author. It rings with an intensity rarely found in today's Americana. There is a tonal quality of the word itself which takes on a power seldom associated with a personal name; and then only after the passage of many years. The word is, however, not a symbol, or creed, it is a man's name. It is a powerful word; as "thunder" is a powerful word. It is a black word, as Jardinier is a green word. It is a man's name, a powerful, black man's name. 
Baldwin was born in Harlem, New York in 1924. A product of that city's public school system, he never went on to college. Leaving home at the age of 17, he went to earn his living in "the world of commerce and in­dustry" after an attempt at following his father's profession, that of a preacher. Writing all the time, he was able to secure a fellowship for a still unpublished novel. At 24, France beck­oned and during his time in that coun­try Go Tell It On the Mountain was born. From there, his recognition as a major literary figure fast became a 
fait accornpli. 
JAMES BA~! 
An explanation for this rapid rise to fame and this growing affinity every reader has for Baldwin is a difficult thing to pose and an even harder one to accept. 
It has been said that the true artist 
holds a mirror up to life. But the art­
ist must make this mirror. He must 
select a material that reflects. He must 
select a material that produces an 
image. He must, in fact, coat a trans­
parency with a black depth. In addi­
tion to reflecting, or rather, while re­
flecting, this mirror distorts. One 
might say that the incidence of this 
distortion is the criterion for passing 
judgment on the mirror. And the qual­
ity of the mirror that is judged is its 
validity. Baldwin, as every other good 
writer, has constructed a real image in 
his mirror (as opposed to an im,age 
of the real). 
The world which this man has cre­
ated is as many faceted as the man, 
or the world for that matter. It is the 
world of the Negro, it is the world of 
the American abroad. It is the world 
of the homosexual. It is a world of 
love and rejection, it is a world of hate 
and a world of acceptance. It is a 
world like many others. Itis the world 
of James Baldwin. It is a real world. 
One is very conscious of Baldwin's race in The Fire Next Tirne. In Equal in Paris, one is not aware that the author is anything, except an Ameri­can. The reason is that Baldwin is a Negro by accident and not on purpose. Baldwin is a man who happens to be a writer. An American writer who happens to be a Negro. He dislikes people who "like me because I'm a Negro, or those who find in the same accident grounds for contempt." The greatest distinction between Baldwin and any other Negro writer, is just that. He is not a Negro writer. 
Baldwin is a social critic. A man who perceives and senses deeply the plight of his race in our society. Further he sees the reason for the difficulty in changing it. He sees that: 
"Negro leaders have been created by the American scene, which there­after works against them at every point; and the best that they can hope for is ultimately to work themselves out of their jobs, to nag contemporary American leaders and the members of their own group until a bad situation becomes so complicated and so bad that it cannot be endured any longer. 
By Jim Clare 
It is like needling a blister until it 
bursts." 
He sees that many Negro leaders 
are unsatisfactory, that "their dra­
matic and publicized battles are bat­
tles with the wind." 
He sees that the Negro press is largely ineffectual, "has been accused of not helping matters much-as in­deed, it has not, nor do I see how it could have." Accused of creating a bad image for the Negro, of causing dis­sension within the ranks of some army of freedom-fighters, he is exercising the prerogative of any member of a system-criticism. Dissatisfied with existing circumstances, dissatisfied with attempts at rectification and of­fering no solution to the dilemma, he has earned the appellation of destroy­er. Actually Baldwin adopts the role of the benevolent, corrective parent and has a formula for all to follow which he has couched in a letter to his nephew: "We have not stopped trem­bling yet, but if we had not loved each other none of us would have sur­vived. And now you must survive be­cause we love you, and for the sake of your children and your children's children." 
Baldwin has a refreshing lucidity which pervades and personalizes all he says. Again to his nephew: 
"Please try to be clear, dear James, through the storm which rages about your youthful head today, about the reality which lies behind the words acceptance and integration. There is no reason for you to try to become like white people and there is no basis whatever for their impertinent as­sumption that they must accept you. The really terrible thing, old buddy, is that you must accept them. And I mean that very seriously. You must accept them and accept them with love. For these innocent people have no other hope. They are, in effect, still trapped in a history which they do not understand; and until they under­stand it, they cannot be released from it." 
This is a very difficult thing for him to say. He relates in Notes of a Na­tive Son, one of several incidents of undisguised hate of the white man in his early youth: 
"She did not ask me what I wanted, but repeated, as though she had learned it somewhere, 'We don't serve Negroes here.' She did not say it with the blunt, derisive hostility to which I had grown so accustomed, but, rather, with a note of apology in her voice, and fear. This made me colder and more murderous than ever. I felt I had to do something with my hands. I wanted her to come close enough for me to get her neck between my hands." It is very difficult. 

Baldwin (and I just realized that you can't say Mr. Baldwin and really mean it) has difficulty in establishing an identity. He speaks of a two-hun­dred-year-old ex-patriotism and the difficulty of having roots in a foreign soil. He calls himself a "bastard son of the West." The culture and back­ground of his country are not that of his and his ancestors'. There are how­ever, even fewer ties, if any at all, to the primitive Africa. With the excep­tion of American jazz, there is no body of music, literature, art, or folk­lore which he can call his own. Every­thing is borrowed or manufactured. Everything comes from the white. And this is so pitiable to Baldwin. Not because he does not want any­thing from the white man, or because he has any inherent distaste of any­thing connected with the white man; but rather because white to him is not a positive entity but rather an absence 0£ color and therefore an absence of depth, of reality. White is an anemic lack and fear of life. White is impo­tence. But fortunately, white is also white men. 
About now it appears that Baldwin is a Negro ioriter. In fact, he is. But he is not the impassioned, fanatical rac­ist. He has a calm, almost objectivity about integration which means: "that we, with love, shall force our brothers to see themselves as they are, to cease fleeing from reality and begin to change it." Unlike the Negro writer, Baldwin concerns himself with a host of other subjects quite divorced from racial significance. 
While religion appears to him as a product and instrument of emotion, he feels very deeply here, as else­where, that emotion is the path to intense consciousness of validity. That's a murky phrase but basically Baldwin's goal. 
"The church was very exciting. It took a long time for me to disengage myself from this excitement, and on the blindest, most visceral level, I never really have, and never will.... 
I have never seen anything to equal the fire and excitement that some­times, without warning, fill a church, causing the church ... to 'rock.' Noth­ing that has happened to me since equals the power and the glory that I sometimes felt when, in the middle of a sermon, I knew that I was some­how, by some miracle, really carrying, as they said, 'the Word'-when the church and I were one.'' 
Baldwin has the greatest respect for the emotions, they are always to be treated with the utmost of dignity. They represent that which makes us, not human, but real. As a youth in Harlem he had been accosted by both prostitutes and homosexuals whom he rejected because they repulsed him and his sense of decency. Later, how­ever, he became an overt homosexual. There seems to be yet a horror and excitement of the "unnatural" which is transmitted to the reader yet with a beauty and poignancy that belie any perversity. 
"The street he lived on was wide, respectable rather than elegant, and massive with fairly recent apartment buildings; the street ended in a small park. His room was in the back, on the ground floor of the last building on the street. We passed the vestibule and the elevator into a short, dark corridor which led to his room. The room was small, I only made out the outlines of clutter and disorder, there was the smell of the alcohol he burned in his stove. He locked the door be­hind us, and then for a moment, in the gloom, we simply stared at each other-with dismay, with relief, and breathing hard. I was trembling. I thought, if I do not open the door at once and get out of here, I am lost. But I knew I could not open the door, I knew it was too late; soon it was too late to do anything but moan. He pulled me against him, putting him­self into my arms as though he were giving me himself to carry, and slowly pulled me down with him to that bed. With everything in me screaming No! yet the sum of me sighed Yes." 
Power and beauty lend dignity to what is considered ugly. Emotion tempers reason. Balance of value is sought between love and hate; love and lust; lust and hate. A world of James Baldwin comes out of a mirror and it comes out real . . . valid. 
October ·4, 1963 
-----·-,
THE 

f ,., I I I ~ ' 

"' d· r7 
r-----1


-'-I t ; I j I _ _J I I --l I --, l 
I i , I

_r-J L------' 
,------: ; -~----J. I I c=-· L--' 

I I ~ l .. J ~ 
I ...........
RED 


Above, loft,· below, ground jf.oo-r,· right, cross section showing floor levels. 
BARN 
bv Dick Strano-er 
, b 
"5ocIAL LIFE at Notre Dame cer­
tainly leaves something to be de­sired." This is an oft-stated comment. It is not an overstatement nor is it false in any context. Simply because the situation has improved in the past few years does not mean that the problem has been solved. In an ef­fort to examine the problem and to come up with something which might ease the situation, I spoke to Father Charles McCarragher, Vice President for Student Affairs. 
"I think, a...'ld I'm not sure I'm far from wrong," he said, "that people want to take a date someplace where they can sit, talk, eat, and dance." 
Of course, in South Bend, there is no such place. It is generally ac­cepted that the run-of-the-mill places in town provide no atmosphere ac­ceptable to this kind of date. F.rankie's Giuseppe's, the Patio all have their own attractions and merits, but it is doubtful that in the atmosphere of these places one could have any tone of privacy or intimacy. They simply do not cater to this kind of clientele. This is not to argue about the services these places perform. It is rather -to point out that all available oppor­tunity for social contact with mem­bers of the opposite sex is limited and exposed. 
An analysis of social functions at Notre Dame can illustrate this. The first exposure the freshman has to 
girls from the area schools is gen­
erally at a picnic or mixer. From this he should take warning, for it is 
Dick Stranger, Managing Editor of 'THE SCHOLASTIC, presents an analysis of the need for improved campus .social facilities and explains the cur­rent solution. 


in this first meeting that the tone of social contact will be set for the dura­tion of his stay at the University. His first meetings have been in the close, intimate companionship of around 500 of his fellow classmen. 
Let us suppose that our freshman has met a girl and wishes to see her again. He makes a date for a Sunday afternoon mixer. Here again the pattern is repeated: numbers, noise, confusion, and no privacy what­soever. There is about as much chance to talk to the girl and to get to know her as there is for him to get a phone in his room. He can take a walk down by the lake. However, walking can get very tiresome and, as Fred will soon find out, very cold. 
But, let us not stop at this point. It would be cruel to abandon Fred at this point. After all, he still has Homecoming, Victory Dances, con­certs, plays, Mardi Gras, the Firesh­man Formal, as well as the various dances at St. Mary's, if he has laid his groundwork well. 
The situation is not restricted to Fred Freshman; it is the same for upperclassmen as well. The social con­tact I have described has a common­ality: all of it is flashy and massive. This is not too bad at first because it is, in most cases, a departure from what the student has known at home. The brassiness, the flash, the tempo of the entertainment is different and thus new to him. It is attractive. But this begins to wear off. He begins to look for new things to do, for new places to go where he can get away from his schoolwork, from the cam­pus, from his 6,0oo+ fellow students. 
Several opportunities present them­selves; South Bend has movies, but how many times can you see the same movie? Even the best begin to wear thin the third time you see them. There is Frankie's for comic relief, but here again, the unique becomes the common and begins to bore. Snobbery? I don't think so. Much of the problem is lessened if one goes out with a different girl every date because much of the novelty is in go­ing to new places with new people. This is not completely valid, however, when you consider the fact that few have this wide variety in dating. An­other point to consider is that after a certain period of dating, the chances are very good that your date has been to these places. They are no longer new, and, once again, what was once variety is now commonplace. 
One thing that does not seem to de­cline in popularity wherever there can be social contact with girls is the op­portunity to sit and talk. As long as there is this chance for informal ac­quaintance and an atmosphere which will promote it, there is little chance that this will become common. Since most dating is done on the formal level that we illustrated with Freddy, there is little chance to really get to know your date. She is a companion, an acquaintance, but she is not a per­son. There is little chance for ex­change of ideas. There is little op­portunity to talk. The normal social contact that one finds at home or at many of our colleges and universities is lacking merely because there are not the physical accommodations that would facilitate this. 
We've been speaking mostly of dat­ing girls from the South Bend area (St. Mary's, Holy Cross, etc.), but also to be considered are the weekend dates from out of town. To illustrate a common situation, let us examine a typical weekend. 

The dance, if there is to be one, will be held on Friday. This means sacrificing one of the big attractions and shows of the weekend -the pep rally. But this is a choice that has to be made. Let us say that you take your date to the dance. The next day she 111,ust see the campus even though she probably doesn't even have her eyes open from the night before. There is the game and. win or lose, it still takes up the afternoon. That night there is the Victory Dance (win or lose). It's the Communion break­fast on Sunday and the campus tour route again. Kiss her good-bye and reflect. 
What did you do? Dinner and the dance? You spent fifteen dollars if you're lucky. The game? Another ten. The Victory Da.nce? A dollar and a half. Cab fare? Figure five. Meals? Hope she was a light eater. Room? No less than ten. Tired? If you're not, you're superhuman. 
Expensive and wearing? Sure, but then that was the idea of the big weekend, wasn't it? See everything. Do everything. But suppose for a minute that you couldn't get a bid to the dance or it was one of those weekends that had no dance to offer. After the pep rally, what then? Instead of the Victory Dance, what? Chances are, after all the activity, you are tired. Like to have a coke or something to eat in a place with some atmosphere and privacy? Sounds great! Let's go; but where? 
The fact of the matter is that there is at the present time no such place in the area where you can go for a nice evening out that is not expensive, where you can dance if you want to, where you can get something to eat, 
October 4, 1963 
where you can sit and talk. There is no place that has that hard-to-come­by combination of informality and class (admittedly a hard-to-define word). Informality that rivals the television concept of the Western saloon can be found, as can formality that would please the most orthodox Mainline matron. We can have one or the other, but seemingly, not the combination that would be the most pleasing. 
The thing that has been proposed, in one form or another, for many years has been the idea of a student club. The idea has been punctuated from time to time by rumors of "beer on campus," or "a bar in the Raths­keller." But student support has been there, always strongly advocating the idea of a place on campus where you can have a beer in the evening, a place where you can sit and talk and bring a girl if you wish. Reaction has seemed unanimously in support of this. This, however, has been with that big appeal -a liquor license. The question before us, now that the application for a liquor license has been refused, is: should we support this program considering the proven need, even though there is no liquor license and very likely will be no chance for one at any time in the fu­ture. (We do not wish to color the issue of approval or disapproval by implying that there is a possibility that a license will be granted. We have it on high administrative au­thority that there is no hope that one can be obtained, for several reasons too complicated to go into at this time.) 
The architects' plans (prepared by Montana, Schultz, and Associates of South Bend) call for extensive re­modeling of the large red barn east of campus. The ground floor has an. area of 5,760 square feet. The plans call for this floor to be utilized main­ly for service functions; it is here that all food is to be prepared. There are tentative provisions for six meet­ing rooms. There is also a small din­ing room and rest rooms on the first floor. 
The second floor -the loft -holds the dance floor, covering half of the available floor space. The rest of the area is taken up with small tables and a service area for snacks. The plan is that on weekends there could be live music and there is a bandstand pro­vided for in the plans. During the week there could be piped-in music. 
The third level -the balcony -is little more than half the area of the second floor. Here are more tables and a food service area. There is provision here, as on the second level, for parti­tions to separate the vast floor area into booths around the walls. Adding a note of intimacy and privacy, these add appeal to the over-all plan. This balcony overlooks the dance floor. 
This would complete the structural remodeling of the interior, but there is much ground around the building which could be used as an outside dance floor, or, ,vith picnic tables and grills, could be used by a group who wanted to have some sort of a pic­nic or cookout. A group could get to­gether and fix themselves a picnic basket, buy some hamburger or steaks and broil them over charcoal. Bev­erages and water would be available from inside. Here is something that there is not even an approximation of in our area. 
(Continued on page 30) 


J'/,o/o b_1 !'at Ford 
From the Forge ... A Tempered Team 
T 
HE Badgers of Wisconsin may have been the forge in which a successful season of Notre Dame foot­ball was wrought. Before last Satur­day's game, the only certainty about Irish prospects for the 1963 season was that they were uncertain. 
Hugh Devore had not been head coach since 1945, Notre Dame's com­plex new offense -including the I formation -had not been tested un­der game conditions, and over half the players in the starting lineup were either entirely new to varsity play or new at their positions. Fullback Pete Duranko was playing his first college game, as were tackles Dick Arrington and John Meyer; Joe Far­rell, Jack Snow, and Jim Carroll were all at unfamiliar positions. 
But on Saturday, the raw material of the 1963 football team -the coach, offense, and players -were forged in the crucible of competition. Wis­consin, in its desperate struggle to win, probed every possible weakness in the Notre Dame defense; the new offense was tested against one of the stingiest defenses in the country and proved basically sound; and the line faced the onslaught of bigger and more experienced foes. 
Against Wisconsin, doubts were dis­pelled as the team's strengths and weaknesses became apparent. And perhaps more important, the team gained the confidence that can come only with experience, that can come only from playing well against one of the country's best teams. The Irish outplayed the Badgers decisively in the first half, with 103 yards rushing to Wisconsin's 56, 65 yards passing to Wisconsin's 44, and an 11 to five edge in first downs; in addition, the defense held the Badgers to one touchdown for nearly 59 minutes. In short, the game forged Notre Dame's raw ma­terials into a tempered unit. 
There has never been uncertainty about the left guard position, how­ever, for it is manned by Bob Leh­mann, a modest, pensive senior from Louisville. Lehmann plays his rela­tively inglorious guard spot with the determination and desire so charac­teristic of his whole approach to life. He tackles fiercely and often, blocks well and consistently, and pursues op­posing backs with the determination that has marked great Notre Dame linemen of the past. 
Lehmann's performance Saturday was so spectacular that frustrated Wisconsin spotters were reduced to muttering theological truths: "My God, he's all over the place." 
He is serious and straightfonvard when he speaks, and his incisive an­swers to questions reflect both a thorough knowledge of football theory and two years of experience as a col­lege player. Reflecting on the Wis­consin game, Lehmann commented, "Their superior depth made the differ­ence. It wasn't that they hit so hard, but they were bigger and more ex­perienced, so they could substitute more freely. By the fourth quarter we were just tired. 
"vVe learned a lot from our mis­takes, though, and we'll be Istronger at every position against Purdue. We should be able to substitute more, and this will take a lot of pressure off a few key players. 
"Last week, a few mistakes by in­experienced players or players who were new at their positions hurt us 
by John fVhelan 

badly. We should make fewer mis­takes in our second game, so I'm hopeful we'll be able to beat Purdue. I know the team will be up for the game." 
Lehmann feels that "Tomorrow's game will be won or lost in the line. I expect that Purdue will hit harder and be quicker than Wisconsin, even though they're smaller and less ex­perienced." 
The Boilermakers are strong at guard but will have to find replace­ments for starters lost at end and tackle. Their defense is notoriously strong and, in fact, they have not lost a game by as much as a touch­down since the middle of the 1960 season. The last ten Boilermaker de­feats have been by the slim cumula­tive margin of 29 points. 
In the backfield, Purdue has lost last season's top two rushers, but has fullback Gene Donaldson returning. Donaldson, who averaged 5.4 yards per carry in 1962, hits hard and could be the Big Ten's best fullback. Also returning in the backfield are alternat­ing senior quarterbacks Ron DiGravio and Gary Hogan. Both are fine passers and capable roll-out runners. 
Purdue, after losing 3-0 to Miami in its opener on a highly debatable call, will be ready to vent its wrath on the Irish. Purdue, however, will be facing a determined Notre Dame team, a team far more experienced than just a week ago, a team which gained confidence in playing one of the nation's top teams. Notre Dame's football future rests on more solid stuff than hope. As Captain Bob Leh­mann puts it, "There are no more question marks." 
October 4~ 1963 
Soccer 
Achieves Stature 

THREE YEARS AGO, senior Joe Echelle 
gathered a small group of stu­dents interested in playing soccer, a national sport for many of the group. Soccer at Notre Dame has enjoyed startling success in the years since. 
Echelle's coachless group compiled a 4-2 record in its first campaign, including a tremendous early season performance a g a i n st Washington University of St. Louis, which earned them an expense-paid return match at the St. Louis school last season. 
This weekend the Irish will again venture into the heart of American soccer country to face the St. Louis Billikens tonight, and the Bears of Washington University on Sunday afternoon. This time, the Irish will field an established soccer team, one which has toppled the best and is aiming for an at-large berth in the NCAA finals held at Rutgers during Thanksgiving vacation. 
In two years, the Notre Dame team has grown from an aggregation of foreign students interested in getting a little exercise into one of the top­ranked collegiate soccer teams in the country. The metamorphosis has been due primarily to the work of the team captains. 
Joe Echelle founded the club with a relatively small group of students, most from foreign countries, who had a great desire to play and a wealth of high-school experience. The team had no coach and played most of its games at home in order to save the cost of transportation. The '61 team voted Bob DuBois to succeed Echelle and DuBois promptly lifted the Irish into national prominence. 

DuBois added three games to the schedule, beat Washington and tied the undefeated national champions, St. Louis, in leading the squad to a 6-2-1 record. Five Irish starters were nominated by opposing coaches to the All-Midwest soccer team and DuBois became Notre Dame's first soccer All­American. 
John Poelker succeeded DuBois this season and has gotten the club off to an excellent start with victories over Calvin College, 2-1, and Purdue, 3-0. Tonight and Sunday, the Irish will face their toughest tests of the season, but Poelker will be out of action. During the Calvin game last Saturday, he cracked heads with left half Dan Delmonzo and was rushed to the hospital for 52 stitches over his left eye. He was back on the side­lines for Sunday's game, but won't be able to play for several weeks. 
The squad has grown in size from the small group gathered by Echelle to the sixty who now report regular­ly for practice. The freshman turn­out has been tremendous. Because the team is nonvarsity and hence not strictly governed by NCAA rules, the '63 starting squad boasts two frosh, Venezuelan Jose Telleria at right wing and Dave Lounsbury, a goalie from New York City. 
Poelker has a balanced schedule with five games at home and five others on the road. The approval of the Club Sports Constitution has cut down on the red tape caused by a road game and, hopefully, will better enable the team to meet expenses. A triumph over St. Louis tonight would guarantee a successful season and, perhaps, that much-sought NCAA 
bid. -JOE RYAN 
SCOREBOARD 

INTERHALL: Director of Interhall Athletics Dominic Napolitano reports that fourteen hall teams and one of off-campus students will play in the 1963 interhall football league. Napol­itano expects that more than five hun­dred players will draw equipment before the October 11 deadline. 
Play will be in two divisions : the first will include all halls on the fresh­man quadrangle, plus Zahm and St. Ed's; the other will include all re­maining halls and the off-campus team. Each division will play a round­robin schedule, and the winners will meet for the campus championship. First games will be played Sunday, October 13. 
SOCCER: Five different players scored for the Irish as they swept last weekend's games with Calvin and Purdue. Ken Colombo and Notre Dame's best, Hernon Puentes, com­bined to give the Irish a narrow, 2-1, victory over Calvin on Saturday. 
On Sunday, Herman Friedmann, Mariano Gonzales, and Hugh Dooner paced Notre Dame to a 3-0 whitewash of Purdue. 
This weekend, playing without Cap­tain John Poelker, who suffered a 52­stitch gash in his forehead on Satur­day, Notre Dame meets St. Louis University's Billikens, the defending national champions, and Washington University of St. Louis. 
LACROSSE: The embryo lacrosse team is already preparing for its in­itial season. The rough spring sched­ule includes two games against Deni­son, the defending champion of the Midwest Lacrosse Conference. 
Outdoor practices are now being held five days a week, with three field-house workouts and a skull ses­sion planned for each week of the winter. 
The season, and with it, lacrosse history for Notre Dame, begins April 4, against Ohio Wesleyan in Dela­ware, Ohio. 
GOLF: With 36 of 72 holes com­pleted, senior Skip Vaughan has a three-stroke lead in the Burke Open golf tournament. The leaders are Vaughan, 145; Jim Riniker, 148; Jim Tenbroeck, 149; Charlie McLaughlin, 150 ; Jerry Lefere and John Brandt, 151; and Mike O'Connell, Pat Dana­hy, and Bill Regnier, 152. The remain­ing 36 holes will be played Sunday. 
Voice in the Cromd 
BUT IF the Irish had lost their first combat engagement of the season, 
they had at least surrendered with honor." That was the com­
ment of Chicago Sun-Times writer Jack Griffin on last Saturday's 
Notre Dame-Wisconsin game, and it does not do full justice to the 
Notre Dame team. While the Irish did indeed lose with honor, one 
of the sources of this honor was the fact that they did not surrender. 
It was not a game which Notre Dame lost because of sloppy play 
or poor effort, but rather a game which Wisconsin won because of 
superior manpower and experience. It was a game which should 
have encouraged Notre Dame football fans everywhere. 
For despite some apparent weaknesses, Notre Dame played well 
against a team which could easily be the best it will face all season, 
and should profit considerably from the experience. 
For the first time since the early games of the 1961 season, the Irish were really hitting and hustling, giving an all-out effort for sixty minutes. The pursuit and gang-tackling displayed by Notre Dame on Saturday were far and away the best I've seen in four years, and the offensive line was charging and blocking well. 
Captain Bob Lehmann played an exceptional game at guard (see this week's feature stonJ), making 14 tackles, blocking effectively, and setting up a touchdown-saving interception with a great rush on Harold Brandt. Play like this is more effective inspiration to a team than any pep talk could possibly be. 
Other bright spots were the play of the entire end corps, including Jim Kelly, who made five catches and closed in on a bevy of all-time Notre Dame records; the play of Norm Nicola at center and Dick Arrington at tackle; and the backfield work of Joe Kantor, Jack Snow, Joe Farrell, and Tommy MacDonald. 
Some problems do face the 1963 Irish, however. Coach Hugh Devore and his staff were disappointed in the passing and play selection of the quarterbacks, the pass defense, and the punt coverage. "And," said Devore, "we were hurt by lack of depth in the interior line." 
Several times, Notre Dame's quarterbacks failed to exploit possible weaknesses in the Wisconsin defense; they tended to settle, instead, into a predictable offensive routine. On pass patterns they frequently had eyes for no one but Jim Kelly. True, there is a natural tendency to throw to your best receiver, but with two and three men on Kelly, it is foolish. Not only is there great risk of interception, but the heavy coverage on Kelly means reduced coverage on the flanker back and tight end, making them excellent secondary, if not primary, receivers. 
The pass defense, Devore felt, made some typical first-game mis­takes, but he also thought they played too conservatively: they played too deep and allowed the short completion, and they failed to play the receiver as well as the ball. "You can put the pressure on the officials," Devore said. "They won't call interference unless its pretty obvious, and you have to hit that man just as he's catching the ball." 
Experience ,vill eliminate many of these defensive mistakes, and both pass defense and kick coverage were stressed this week in preparation for the Purdue game. Several men have worked at quarter­back, and Frank Budka, Dan McGinn, and Sandy Bonvechio could all. see extensive action. 
In the line, Norm Nicola's excellent performance allowed Devore to move Jim Carroll back to guard and Nicola up to first team center. Depth is still a problem, but Notre Dame is unlikely to face a line as big or experienced as Wisconsin's again this season. 
Purdue, in fact, has the smallest and least experienced line of recent years. On the other hand, Purdue scouts have warned the team that Notre Dame is "much better than last season." The Irish are going to be big trouble for everybody, Purdue and Southern Cal in­cluded. I'll take Notre Dame by a touchdown. 
-TERRY WOLKERSTORFER 

WISCONSIN 
With the first home football weekend comes the Notre Dame spirit} in its endless variety of 1nanifestations. A few of the m,e11wrable scenes of the lVisconsin weekend} shot by SCHOLASTIC photographer Brian Beck} are repro­duced here. 
The Scholastic 

TYLER JR.'S PICKS OF THE WEEK 
MICHIGAN STATE AT SOUTHERN CAL: Just a year ago Duffy Daugherty said, "Our linemen are so big I had to get small backs to squeeze through between them." Duffy's backs are still small, but his huge linemen have graduated. The Trojans, out for re­venge after their upset loss to Okla­homa, should best the Spartans in the Game of the Week. 
NORTHWESTERN AT ILLINOIS: Indi­ana almost did the job on the Wild­cats last Saturday; Tommy Myers has been only partially effective, and the Illini should pull the Upset of the Week. 
ARMY AT MINNESOTA: The Cadets have Paul Dietzel, who has done every­thing but walk on water and beat Navy, but the Gophers have a bigger line and tougher defense. 
DUKE VS. MARYLAND at Richmond, Va.: Duke, even thou_gh rebuilding, is the class of the Atlantic Coast Confer­ence and should give Maryland an­other Shiner. 
LOUISIANA STATE AT GEORGIA TECH: Quarterback Billy Lothridge, a probable All-American, gives Tech a 
decisive advantage over the Bengals. MIAMI AT TULANE: The Sports Illus­trated jinx can only last so long, and George Mira will find the groove a_gainst Tulane tonight. 
-•­
OTHER GAMES: 

Pittsburgh over California 
Penn State over Rice 
Syracuse over Holy Cross 
Navy over Michigan 
UCLA over Stanford 
Air Force over Southern Methodist 
-•­

Last week: 8-4, 67%. 
it's invisible, 
man! 
It's incredible, incomparable, infallible! Code 10 for men, the new kind of hairdressing from Colgate-Palmolive. The new invisible way to groom a man's hair all day. Non-greasy Code 10 disappears in your hair, gives it the clean, manly look that inflames women, infuriates 


October 4, 1963 
Letters 
(Continued front page 1) 

Dame "go coed" ought to keep their mouths shut. This powerful conclu­sion is the result of the following frightening proposition: 
Notre Dame is good. If you don't like Notre Dame as is, get out! How often do we encounter this 

kind of "if it floats, it's a boat" think­ing. This fear of change or even the contemplation of change is absurd. I happen to share his feeling that Notre Dame ought not to go coed, but I am willing to admit that it is a prejudice formed out of habit. The kind of mechanistic thinking of Sexton pro­motes the stagnation which leads to decay. It seems more tenable that those willing to make proposals, no matter what their quality, have the best interests of the University in mind, for they seek to make a good University better. Fear of running something up the pole will produce no banners. Sexton's extreme enthusi­asm -typical of what many here would have us believe is that nebulous item, Notre Dame spirit -is a per­version of the true spirit of a progres­sive university. 
Sincerely yours, 
D. Hall 221 Badin 

Cleopatra, witll feminine 1uile, Said to Tony, "Let's barce down the Nile!" Wben she reached for an asp, Her belt lost its clasp, So she stapled it up Swin&line style. 
SWINGLINE 

STAPLER 
i . ' 

~ gee 
{rncluding 1000 staples} 
Larger size CUB Desk 
Stapler only $1,49 
llo lligger than a pack of gum 
• 
Unconditionally guaranteed! 

• 
Refills available anywhere!"' 

• 
Get it at any stationery, variety. or book store! 

• 
Send m your own Swinghne Fable. Prizes for those used. 


...S.-.~£. INC. LONG ISLAND CITY 1, N. Y. 
lo.'V ···""········ ........ • ••••• ••••• ••• 


The biggest pen bargains going are at the big fall Paper Mate Free Fill. Come in -choose the color and style Paper Mate pen you like best-get an extra refill free! 
available at 
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

PAYING JOBS IN EUROPE 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Oct. 2, 1963.-The American Stu­dent Information Service is accept­ing applications for summer jobs in Europe. Openings include office jobs, lifeguarding, factory work, shipboard work, child care work, resort and sales work. Wages range to $400 a month. 
ASIS also announced that resid­ual funds permit the first 4000 ap­plicants travel grants of $165 each. Interested students should write to Dept. 0, ASIS, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, requesting the ASIS 24-page prospectus with job selection and travel grant and job applications. Send $1 for the prospectus and airmail postage. The first 8000 inquiries receive a $1 credit toward the new book: Earn, Learn and Travel in Europe. 
RUBIN CLEANERS 
217 E. JEFFERSON 

Downtown-on the Bus Une 
* 

SerYing Notre Dame Men for OYer 40 Years! 
* 

• 
The Finest in Dry Cleaning 

• 
Expert Shirt Laundering 

• 
Complete Laundry Service 


Senate ... 
By way of introduction, a week late, the purpose of this column is to pro­vide weekly news coverage of Student Senate action, as well as to comment both on the issues involved and Senate efficiency in handling them. 
The meeting this past Monday lasted only two hours, and lacked last week's parliamentary tangles. This undeniably resulted from a more orderly approach to things on the part of the body, as well as fewer and more concise reports. 

From these reports, it was learned that a new grade conversion system ( essentially, Alternative II in last week's SCHOLASTIC) was adopted in principle by the administration, with details on Dean's List, drop-off point, etc., yet to be worked out. The Social Commission reported the return to a $2 charge for concerts, following a combined loss of $600 on last week's Victory Dance and Lettermen Con­cert. 
As for specific bills, removal of the Constitutional provision for a Fresh­man Class President was passed with­out debate. A new Transportation Policy passed with only meager Sen­ate consideration, establishing a chair­man to oversee transportation ar­rangements. It provides an equal share of loss or profit to Student Government on trips such as the Purdue Trip, when run by student organizations, and requires cabinet approval for trips run by individuals, as the Homecoming Date Plane. 
The Homecoming budget discussion indicated a strange paradox in Senate policy. The $4434 bill was passed as presented, although the Project Chair­man stated at first questioning that $300 could be cut. It seems singu­larly odd that a Senate $8200 in debt would not request at least some cuts. Certainly, rigid enforcement of an al­ready excessive budget is not sound fiscal policy, and does not fulfill Presi­dent Dave Ellis' promise of a "meat and potatoes" year. That $300 would have bought a lot of meat and po­tatoes. 
The Senate did appear more ef­fective this week -if rubber-stamp effectiveness is the goal. On the con­trary, smne analysis should accom­pany orderly discussion. Perhaps President Ellis' proposed study of parliamentary procedure by all Sen­ators will help the Senate to achieve the mean between confusion and pas­sivity. 
-AL DUDASH 


ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON'S CORRASABLE BOND 
Touch-type, hunt-and-peck, type with one hand tied 
behind your back-it's easy to turn out perfect papers 
on Corrasable. Because you can erase without a trace. 
Typing errors disappear like magic with just the flick of 
an ordinary pencil eraser. There's never a telltale erasure 
mark on Corrasable ·s special surface. 
Corrasable is available in light, :::;~"t"':<.-.""":-'. _ 
medium, heavy weights and OnionJ!}~e;~;§~::dSk. I . 100 h ~ !it-(:< -­
·m. n convement -s eet .-~:;.-~ ,!'!-::­
::-~-•.-:·'"1::'.!,i..e,"?:-r,i.">' ...

packets and 500-sheet ream y .. ~<{<~ .-".,-_­boxes. Only Eaton makes , :&~>.:::-:._._,·. ~~ · Corrasable. tf£!1':J!.~
~~-~..,~
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper · ~-::::. 
····~ 
EATON PAPER CORPORATION : E: PITTSFIELD. MASS.
........ 
BLOCK BROS. 
fewelers 

Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Students for over 40 Years. 
Featuring Fine* Diamonds ­Watches -Jewelry and Giftware. 
* 

CORNER MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON IN DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
Contact Lens Specidlist 
• 
Dr. T. R. Pilot 
Optometrist 
• 
EYES EXAMINED 
OfflCAL BEPAJBS 
GLASSES FITTED 
• 

212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874 
Diamonds, Wafc6es, 
Jewelry 
* 

J. Trethewey, Jeweler 
* 
Longines and Wittnauer Bulova -Elgin Hamilton 

106 N. Main St. * CE 2-1756 
~R.WTURIOW
~~,.,,.... 
GLASSES REPAIRED 
"Bring in the Pieces" 

ICONJQ~~SESI 
EYE EXAMINATION OIJVER HOTEL 207 W. Washington-Phone CE 4-ffl7 
29

October 4, 1963 

IVIEN I 
_) ,, ­
Here's deodorant P-rotection 
YOU CAN TRUST 
Old Spice Stick Deodorant ... fastest, neatest way to all­day, every day protection! Its the man's deodorant pre­ferred by men .•• ahsolutely dependable. Glides on smoothly, speedily .•. dries in record time. Old Spice Stick Deodorant -most convenient, most economical deodorant money can buy. 1.00 plus tax. 
~ _(c)UC{1 . ~ STICK ~ cJ~ ~ DEODORANT 
SHULTON 
·-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
YES, WE HAVE YOU ST. MARY'S GIRLS IN MIND 
This year The Scholastic is privileged to offer St. Mary's students a special reduced rate for subscriptions. So now for only $3.00, you can receive The Scholastic every week. Send your ~pus mailing add~ess plus $3.00 (cash or check) to Circulation Manager, The Scholastzc, Notre Dame, Indiana. Please hurry so you can receive our October 11 issue. You will receive the remaining 22 issues of this academic year including the Football Review. 
Barn 
(Continued from, page 21) 

I found reaction to be unanimously 
in support of the project. 
"Either you have the formal activi­
ties or you have nothing around this 
place fn the way of a social life." 
"There's no place to congregate." 
"It would definitely help." 
"People get tired of going down­
town." 
". . . would definitely serve a good 
purpose." 
"I think the school needs it." 
"It's too much trouble to have a 
date." 
"The present facilities aren't as 
good for informal dates as at many 
other universities." 
As Father McCarragher described 
' 

it, "It will be a flexible place to take .' 
care of what the students want." I 
questioned him about the $150,000 
projected cost and if the University 
could raise this sort of money. "We 
could," he said, "if it would fill what 
appears to be a real, serious gap in 
student social life." 
Father Hesburgh has been in favor of the club from the beginning. "He really favored such a project with the liquor license. When this was re­fused, he didn't know whether to go ahead or not. Before, he was well aware of the student support it would receive, but since the liquor license was refused he's not sure that there will be the necessary support. If it is found to be the case that the stu­dents want this, we'll go ahead. If they don't, it would be foolish." 
I wondered what the reaction would be to this proposal over at St. Mary's, both from the students and from the administration, so I talked to a num­ber of girls and to Sister Basil An­thony, the Dean of Women. The re­action I found was much the same as at Notre Dame. Their comments were very favorable, and the complaints were much the same as the students here voiced. 
"Everything around here is on a formal basis." 
" . too stilted." 
" lack of communication." 
" . no opportunity to express ideas." 
"You need a chance to know your date on a personal and private level -a knowledge which can better be found when there is a chance for informal and relaxed meeting." 
"What is needed is a place to talk." 
"Low lights and quiet music pro­vide an atmosphere of intimacy in which you can talk and be personal. A place of atmosphere like this would be so nice." 
"You know, I don't think that any of us here, in this group at least, think that you have to spend money to have a good time. Just a nice place to go where you could have a good time and be with your date would be very pleasant." 
Sister Basil Anthony's comment with regard to this as a place for dating was, "I think it would be very popular." 
As Father McCarragher said, if the 

students are not behind it, it would 
be of little benefit to go ahead and 
spend the money. To correctly ascer­
tain student opinion on this topic, 
Dave Ellis, Student Body President, 
plans to present the proposal to the 
student senate where he foresees ap­
proval. The motion for a student ref­
erendum must come from the senate. 
On the basis of the reaction to the 
referendum, the senate will make its 
recommendation of approval or dis­
approval. In Ellis' words, "If the ma­
jority are in favor we will recommend 
adoption of the proposal. The referen­
dum will be the big thing; the higher 
the percentage approving, the better 
the chance for getting the club." 
It is also part of Ellis' plan to set 

up a special senate committee to go 
over the blueprints and make recom­
mendations for changes in the tenta­
tive layout. Student government plans 
to arrange some sort of a bus shuttle 
service between St. Mary's and the 
Club for weekends. 
"I think it is a very good idea," Ellis said. "It's going to be the chance for Notre Dame students and for girls in this area, particularly St. Mary's, to have a more relaxed atmosphere for social get-togethers. It will be a place for students to go where they won't have to pay a large price ­a place where they can sit and drink Seven-Up (laughter). It's the type of spark needed in individual social re­lations. It might give the who!e social life of the community of Notre Dame a more natural tone." 
Ellis brought up an interesting point. "This is one of the first times the administration has evidenced ini­tiative to benefit social conditions that is contingent on student approval. This shows a real concern about the social conditions of student life." This is indeed a valid observation. 
As the issue now stands, there seems to be agreement on the inad­equacies of facilities for dating and on the question of the advisability of the progJ:am. It remains for the stu­dent body to support the proposal when it comes to a vote. This certain­ly should be one of the prime points of consideration of candidates for hall senators in the elections to be held on October 14. 

Majoring in the classics? Get lean, lithe Post-Grads in 65% DACRON* and 35% cotton. Solid-citizen pockets and regular belt loops make your old school try authentic ... $6.95. Other favorite fabrics $4.95 to $10.95. And get new torso­tapered h.i.s shirts $3.95 to $6.95. At stores flying h.i.s label. 
01 

know the answers ...h¦ i ® ¦S ~~~;:~;~'~ 
;;:~~~ 

Even if you are abeginner ... You'll 

Dance after 3 hours 
at the 

ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO 
You can go dancing after only three hours when you put yourself in the hands of an Arthur Murray teacher. 
At our gay studio parties, free to all students, you will thrill to the wonderful adventure of dancing the new steps in the Fox Trot, Cha-Cha, Twist, etc. You'll gain poise, develop your personality as you make new friends. 
Join the fun; accept a half-hour 
FREE 

Trial Lesson . . . . . . . . . . 
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO 120 East Wayne Street CE 2-3339 
Identity 
(Continued from, page 13) 
suffering. Sixy, what are you doing?" 
613034: "I'm transcending." 
Professor X: "But take heart. For if you are transcending, then you are." 
The Cool Combo returns from a break and unplugs the jukebox. They begin to play; couples resume their frugues. An old couple does the twist. 
G. G.: "The Frugueisln, but the Twist is Out. It's passe. It's grotesque. Must that couple retrospect on the dance floor? Old people ... " 

Harvard: "I happen to like old peo­ple." 
Fata Morgana: "Don't fight, men. Be nice. Think of something meaningful. Think of the school song." 
Dobie Ruse: "I'm going to write a short story. It's about this man who buys a go-cart. He gets his finger cut off by his go-cart. It's a tragedy." 
613034: "Woe to the man who has his mind cut off by a Descartes." 
Jam.es Devil: "But is the short story a valid form?" 
Ya1ul: "Have you ever read any?" 
613034: "Look at that girl dance. I think she has a distended notion of the Absolute." 
G. G.: "Being In is Out." 
FADEOUT ••• 

Computer center . . . 
Foreign technician: "Hans, pull switch 4." 
Machine: "Cogito ergo sum. Who made me? Am I loved? I want to major in English." 
Hans: "Aaa aaaaaaaaachh!" 
FADEOUT ..• 

Professor X is giving a transfigura­
.,. .. ,., 
··:>i 
:-._ ·-·:_·.;i 
._.,_ 8 
. 
··• 
.• .... ~ -~ 
-~ 
L 
,, 
ti! 
' 
~ 
.·,1 
.-·::i 
... 
. , 

MENNEN SPRAY DEODORANT. Best deodorant a man can use. For two g9od man's reasons. 
1. Mennen Spray gets through to the skin where a man perspires. 
2. Mennen Spray is concentrated. Delivers three times the anti­perspirant power of any other leading men's deodorant. Mennen Spray Deodorant ... in the handy squeeze bottle. Try it. C@1 
tion. His student grader is writing 
the script.... 
James Devil: "Moses and Alexis Co­
quillard are going to descend in fiery 
Studebakers. It will be so meaning­
ful." 
Dobie Ruse: "Only farms and suffer­ing are meaningful. I want to start a farm dedicated to Agricultural Ex­cellence. I must build a thirteen-story grain elevator capable of storing two­million ears of corn. Then I can at­tract husbandry enthusiasts from all over the country." 
Shrahva: "What of my salon?" 
613034: "Is Morley still in love with 
Mary Lou Ponti?" 
Yahd: "Pure Reason? I Kant imagine 
it!" Professor: "The Good is not." James Devil: "I really should take Rus­
sian this semester. How long can I ignore the Slavic masses at my door­step? They, too, would like to know what flicks to see." 
Dobie Ruse: "What if there is no 
Baal?" Fata Morgana: "I am afraid to even think that. It isn't nice." 
Shrahva: "I am afraid of spiders." 613034: "I fear rats." Yahd: "And I am terrified of white 
whales." James Devil: "I just drip Angst." Titters. Giggles. A large girl twists 
across the floor, screams, and turns into a centipede. Exudes garbage fumes like a frustrated envelope, eyes like bruised peaches. Shrahva falls asleep. Positivist Police empty the dance floor. Bridge players pick up their slide rules and go home. The lights are turned off; the Absolute proceeds triadically through historic Michiana; and computers fiddle while the world burns. 
ATTENTION SENIORS!! PLEASE NOTE WELL 
1. 
Please check your picture for the 1964 Dome 

2. 
If you haven't had your pic­ture taken, please have one in the Dome office by October 31 

3. 
Please check your activities list and make sure you have the three activities you want 


PLACE: Dome office (above the Huddle) WHEN: Oct. 7 through Oct. 31 TIME: Mon.-Thurs. 3:00-5:00 
Do it now! 

For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. For information about career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write to ·williamE. Blevins, Employment Manager. 
The (qUITABlE Life Assurance Society of the United States 
Home Office: 1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York 19, N. Y. ©1963 


5. Give it a try. 
Well, speaking off the top of my head, I might say stretch socks. 
I'm sure everyone would agree they've been useful. But isn't there something with a bit more social significance that comes to mind? 
There certainly is. There's Group Insurance, the principle of which is to help provide protection for those who need it most and can alford it least. Pioneered and developed by Equitable, it has proved most efficacious. Today, the working man and his familv enjov a broad spectrum of protection provided by Group Insurance. For that reason, I would most emphatically suggest its inclusion among the significant achiewments. But I still think the two-platoon system is pretty important. 




'ro• Hoobler . .. 
Tlie Last Word 


RUMORS ABOUT two major forthcom­ing events have been circulating around campus, and we've been trying to pin down some facts on them. As of Tuesday, the following informa­tion is available: Dr. Martin Luther King will speak in the Stepan Center at 7: 30 p.m. October 18. His appear­ance is sponsored by the Citizens Civic Planning Committee of South Bend. Tickets will be necessary for admission, but Dr. King expressed a wish that no charge be made for the tickets, so that anyone who wished would be able to attend. However, a donation for the tickets from those able to give one would be appreciated. Seats will be reserved in three sec­tions: for those donating over $5.00, for those donating over $3.00, and for those donating over $2.00. All pro­ceeds will go to the Southern Chris­tian Leadership Conference. Tickets may be available (we hadn't received them as of Tuesday) in the SCHOLAS­TIC office, south end of the Student Center, second floor. 
The second rumor was about the possibility of one of ABC-TV's "Hoote­nanny" programs originating from Notre Dame. Jim Walsh, the Social Commissioner of Student Government, informs us that Notre Dame is being considered for the program, but that no definite information is available as yet. 
THERE IS apparently a disparity be­tween administration decisions and practices at the University, at least regarding the selling and advertising of certain products. There are two kinds of products that student publica­tions are forbidden to accept adver­tising for: alcoholic beverages and drug products. This year, the defini­tion of drug products was expanded to include "stay-awake" pills such as No-Dos and Verv. However, the campus sale of the same products (in the Huddle) is continuing. 
SPEAKING OF the Huddle, our art editor has asked us to note that he is conducting a personal boycott against the Huddle jukebox until the volume is turned up to the level it was set at in previous years. This is a matter of personal taste, however, and we ourselves can hardly see how the women behind the counter can stand their other problems and distractions, as well as having rock-and-roll blar­ing at them all day. If they say turn it up, though, then we would agree with our art editor. We used to be able to hear the jukebox from our of­fice on the second floor of the Student Center. This year, we had to get a radio. 
WE ALSO HEARD dissatisfaction voiced about the new football uniforms. 
The uniforms reflect the modern trend (ZIP code, direct distance dial­ing, etc.) toward numerical identi­fication. The removal of the sham­rock from the helmet was the least popular change of all, both because the white-on-gold numbers that re­placed the shamrock are impossible to read from the stands, and because the uniform loses the distinctive iden­tification with the_ Irish. Maybe the shamrock could be placed on the front of the helmet, much as Wisconsin hel­mets have W's on the front. 
WHEN WE were on Jeff Biel's radio interview show last week, a listener called in and asked what we thought of the laundry's raising the price of washing a pair of pants from 25c to 35c. We checked later, and while prices have gone up, so has the amount the laundry allots each stu­dent to spend before charging him extra. Last year its was $1.83; this year, $2.25. So maybe that will com­pensate for the rise in prices. We hope to make a comparison, and publish more on this later. 
JusT AT press time, two important news items were released for publi­cation: 
On Wednesday, a special committee of the Academic Council announced a change in the method of converting averages from the 6-point to the 4­point system. The new method is the same as one of the two possibilities discussed by David Barrett in the Sep­tember 27 SCHOLASTIC: From Oto 2.0 in the 6 system, the average remains the same; 2.0 to 6.0, the conversion formula is 
Old Average
------+ 1 = New Average
2 

Honors on the new 4-point system will be as follows: 
3.75 -· maxima cum laude 
3.50 -magna cum laude 
3.25 -cum laude (dean's list) 
The second item is that beginning with the first Sunday in November, the Huddle will be open on Sundays. Last year David Ellis (now student body president) was chairman of a student government committee that made a proposal for keeping the Hud­dle open on Sundays. The principal problem at that time was in hiring enough personnel to allow all-week operation, but the University Council has decided to try the proposal on a temporary basis, from November un­til Christmas. If the Sunday revenue justifies the operation, the Huddle will be open on Sundays permanently. 

Q. 

Why buy a pen this good when you might just lose it? 
A. 

Parker won't let you lose it. If you do, it will be replaced* 
cp PARKER-At 75 years-Maker of the world's most wanted pens 


--=-----~--=.c-~=-;--~~-:--=~¢=-==--­


*SPECIAL REPLACEMENT OFFER 
If you buy a Parker 45 for $5 between now and October 31, 1963, it will be protected against loss for one full year at no extra cost. Just register its purchase by mailing one-half of the Parker 45 Registration Certificate to the insurance company listed on the certifi­cate. Then if the pen is lost, the insurance company will replace it at no charge. All you have to do is mail the other half of the certifi­cate, properly notarized, and describe how the pen was lost. 
Here's why this is such a good pen for a college student: 
It's "convertible". You can load it with a car­tridge if 4'.f.,-~ ... --d or you can replace the cartridge with this ingenious little "converter" ae 1::;;ic--~-4 and fill it from an ink bottle. Hard to run out of ink during an exam. 
Solid 14K gold point. You get a choice of seven widths from extra fine to extra broad. And if you damage a point, your dealer can replace it instantly. 
For only $5 you get: The pen, a "converter," a cartridge, and free exchange of any undam­aged point within 30 days of purchase. PLUS Parker's special replacement offer. This guar­antee against loss will be offered until Octo­ber 31st only, so better see your Parker dealer right away. 
p IC RALPH M 

• I 
·1 
-1 

SHOES BY JARMAN 

STA/VD/NG ON OUR OWN THREE FEET 
Research, !v1anufacturing and Operations form the solid base upon which GT&E has bu!lt its strength. Today, GT&Eis the largest of the 1nany Independent telephone co1npanies that supply a substantial share ofA1nerica's ever-growing con11nunications needs. By conducting our own research, 1nanufacturing our own con71nunications products andoperating our own telephone systen7, GT&E contnbutes to the co1n1nunications progress of the whole nation. 
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017 

GT&E SUBSIDIARIES· General Telephone Operating Companies m 32 states · General Telephoned'. Electronics Laboratories • General Telephone & Electronics lnterna:1ona1 · General Telephone Directory Co. · Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electrtc • Sylvania Electric Products 
:~ 
·i 

j
~-.-,·•·,-:~-•. ~, • ..,..,,-_-_._..,,.,°'--,,4,-,.-... :--:. __ __ • .,...,~.,.._.,-,,:::c;.,.::-: __ ••-.,-, ..... ,,..,=~,~~,,·;.s--.:;-,:w-r;. ,-·-""'?..:, 'I..."'°-:~.,·)~-"~"' -..._, _..,....._ ----~~ .,.,.,.._ ..___,,__ -------­
•."'"';._:---,~,:-.::,c.,,:.,,.,,-,,e-,c--._-:,,...,,-:-,_-r,.c.-,~-":-:._-;c-: ••c--,""'·~.-_.,-,..,,_.~_-e: . _-;_,"" --­



