
.91tJ1N81-W..L t10Ju 
-~gA'{S Wtvo-l: _ . ) ·•6<Jile.J _fariefal~­
_ ~ 
,o,awr a1a &r~fl 
-· 
•fri&\ . . 
. . ~t1,( ~ra.... SMC. ND·. 
. 

~--, 

. ' . f : ·. . .{-1·. 
·_-:' ...,¢ . . . 
. ..'

.1::.. 
~========::::::: 
-~-· 
-~ .. . . ,._·. 

~?·:.·.··.. 
. :·· . :.:· ... 
. -. . 

K .• 


,. ~-. ,.·
-~ ,: .. 

~p:~ 
,. . . .' ~ .· 
~ I •. 
. ' . . -.~ . 
.·. : .·. 

( :.-.. --::::::::~_~-__ ,,. :, . :_ :\:· :. . .<_:: . 
. ·---·:.--. ,_ ,. ' ·.,·· . ·· .. :·_:. 
. . 
-· .. 
. . ~ . . ' .:. 
. '' 
:-:~:: ~~·.-.::~:·. :. :·-.· '.;:_:~.: :: -~-· ..· __ ; ~--,~:: 
.. .• --.. 
. ·. . ·.. . . ·. ·\ -. 
. r 
. :. 

· . So this is .College?
~ ...,.·
·,

•f. . . ' •·. -.,·, .:
·;: 
:!·: 



Our Officer Selection Officers are looking for a few good college men-· maybe 3out of 100-who will make good Marine officers. If you're one of. them, we'll give you a chance to prove it during summer traini_11g at'Quan­tico, Virginia. · · 
Our program is Platoon Leaders Class, PLC. With ground, air and law · options. You might even qualify for up to $2,700 to help you through college .. · But if mon_ey is all you're looking for, don't waste your time. .· 
The challenge is leadership. If you want it, work for it. If you've got·it; · 
show us. It's one hell of a challenge. But we're looking for one_hell of a man.­


·•••••••••••••.Ill -­
O . CP1.74



Th II
I e annes k/J~~~ Please send me infor,'.i,ation on I
I Box 38901 ur. Marin_e_ Corps Platoon Leaders ·1: Los Angeles, California 90038 Class. (Please Print) · 
I Name__________________Age____ I
I Address_______________________ I 
City___________State ______.Zip____
I School__________________Class of ·. · 1 
I .Phone__________Social Security#________ I If you are asenior, check here for information on Officer Ca;didates Class[]. _ 

·-------------· 


Editor 
Keay _McNamara 
Art Director 
Jim Purvis : ~~; 
Production. Manager ..· :, Janet Cullen Assistant Editors . _ _ . . . . . 
Jim Gresser, Pat Roach;· Joe 'Runde; 
Sally Stanton, Jack Wenke · · Assistant. Art Directors , John Phelan, Toin Waldoch Sports Editor . Tom Gora··· 
Business .Manager Joe Meyer 
Circulation 
Frank Zaletel 
Faculty Advisor 
Frank O'Malley 
Staff 
Paul Bolduc, Kevin Dockrell, · Betsy Dwyer, . Leo J. Mulcahey,"Casey Pocius, Mary Siegel, Steve Shea,· Jean McQuillan, .Eileen. O'Grady, Tom Bursic, John Whalen, Katy Sullivan, Sean McLinden, Tara Carey, Jorge Lopez, Jack Hanzel, Fred Graver, Pat Fanning, Pat Dillon, Bill Murray, Frank Coughlin, , 
T. J. Clinton, Mark Luppino, John Moore, George Sibley, Craig Spengel, Pat Hanifin, Dave Dreyer, Tom. Paulius · · 
Art & Photography · Mike Budd, Ed Earle, Nan Smith, Joe Kus­pan, Bill Foglia, Bob McMahon, Ted Kerin 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC · are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational. Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year ·except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC · is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu­
. scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
copyright© 1974 Scholastic/ all rights reserved / none of the contents may be re­produced without permission 
Seholastie 
Volume llS, No. ll March 29, 1974 Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINERS 

8 Macheca and Lally -Off The Cuff -Talking about Student Affairs. 
16 High Crimes and Misdemeanors -Clearing the Air ·_about Impeachment. 
. .. 
. .. FEATURES 

4 The Way It Was -.. A journey into Notre Dame's history books. · · 
6 Confessions of An Assistant Rector ·_.·__. · The ~eas.ons for . caring. 13 -· The Rod· and the Staff -·. Father Griffin takes· a close 'look at life at N.D. 14 A Question . of Christianity . Some thoughts on: the propriety of rules. 
22 . Perspectives on Student Government.-'A few;glarices_ at a ·turbulent past. · 
24 The Pedagogy Blues·-•• The student as low .mati'oi1the 
totem pole. . •. . ... 
28 Collegiate Jazz Festival-Try it, ·you'll like it. 29 The Homecoming -,.The Walt~ns' it's not._·. 
... --REGULARS 

20 The. Week• in ·Distortion. 21 The C~o~ked Rook. 26 Coming Distractions.­30 .. The Last Word. 
lllustr?tions: Cover· illustration by-· Ted Kerin / Photo· on 4, illustration on 5 from Scholastic, 1929 / Photos on 9, 10 by Kerry McNamara / Photo on· 19 courtesy of The Observer and UPI / Illustration on 28 by Tom Paulius / Photo on 29 by Wayne Zwierzynski. ' 

This WWI N.D. is militarized. All students drill o~ the morning of Thursday, 'their free day. (Saturday is a class day.) Oriitwo Fridays of-each month.there is_a formal review before a colonel. :Notre Dame· boys who enter the service are given the rank of lieutenant im­
mediately. .•. , . . As for discipline, this freshman cannot, smoke a .
The ffay It ffas 
cigarette for if he is ·caught. with one; he'will be sent home. He is compelled to go. to Mass on Thursdays and Saturdays (and Sundays, of course). If he misses Mass he will get demerits -'-200 and he's campused. for 2 weeks, 1,000 and he's sent home. ' 
But there are luxuries -our student is waited on at meals by student waiters. As an 'uppe]:'classman he will be able to live in Walsh, known as "The Gold Coast," in which he may have his own suite with a sitting room, living room, bedroom and bath. . 

When we try to imagine the Notre Dame of the past, Contact with St. Mary's is practically nil until the our J?inds somehow always return to Knute Rockne 1920's. Our student has probably graduated without and visions of students lying prostrate in catatonic ever meeting a St. Mary's girl. (He may have never even 
prayer for football victory. We think vaguely of some seen a woman here -'-there are no women secretaries o"minous padre snapping his whip at trembling boys as here until the 1940's;) As the Roaring 20's roll in, he herds them into church for compulsory Mass. But, · Domers find that they can visit the girls across the 
what.was it really like to be a student at Notre Dame, road on Sunday afternoons between 4:00 -and 5:30 . say, 50 years ago? Let us very briefly look at the du . Punctually at 5:30 Sister comes arou~d clapping lier Lac of the late teens and early twenties -the years of hands signaling the time for leaving. The boys (men?) war and the. years when the nation soared in·its _own play games, hiding in the drapes, forcing Sister to hunt 
dreamworld of recklessness and abandon.· · for them and shoo them out. 
. Imagine the young Noter Doter of 1917 catching his·· first view of . this fair campus.. He steps. off the ' streetcar and faces the benevolent bronzed face of: F_a_ther Sorin. ,Straight _ahead is, of course, the Golden Dome and a few buildings to the left ·and right of it. There is no O'Shaughnessy Hall and there are huge barns where the South Dining Hall now, stands .. There is no Law School behind hfm for our present Psychology ..-· Building was once called Hoynes College of Law. · 
Our boy is a freshman and will probably live in" Corby Hall if he can afford a private room. If not, he . will live in the Administration Building. He will have a cubicle on the third floor with his own bed and chair;. · His study hall is on the second floor and the washroom 

..is in· the basement..And his shower is -BRRR -out­side! (Would one rather live off campus?) The high. school is also in the Administration Building and St;·­Edward's houses the 7th, 8th, and 9th graders whom Father Sorin has called the Little Princes. 
•. Soon our freshman finds that there is no over-­sleeping at Notre Dame. He is awakened at 6:.15 each morning because the University · believes, in military­school fashion, that a man should get up and "get his day going." Morning prayer is at 6:45 -classes begin at 8. At the end of the well-ordered day, there is night prayer. At.10 p.m~ the lights.go ?Ut. 

___:___::. 


The ,only approved place .to take a belle from St. 

Mary's· is to a · victory darice after a· football game. 
These dances are· held in South Bend at the Palace 
RoyaL · But Cinderella must be home before midnight 
or· she will, if not turn into a· pumpkin, be in · serious 
trouble: · . . . . In the 20's the ban on cigarettes has'vanished and compulsory Mass is only on Sundays arid Holy Days. Drinking is forbidden on campus under pain of expul­sion but 'some students manage to find their way . to homes in South Bend to partake of the Prohibition Special__:_ bathtub gin . . . The voice of student government is first raised in the forin ··oi.: the,:Student' Activities Committee. This committee pegins)ri.1922, and in '23 is·headed by a stu­dent ·named Johri Cavanaugh who later goes on to the priesthood and to the presidency of Notre'Dame. Be­cause students want more controf over. their' lives, they form the SAC ·but their• demands are far frorri;being as grandiose as parietal hours;. they wish for thingslike walkways which are not inundated withwater. Budt is made clear tothem that t:he'final authori(y-rests in the Administratiori arid. that Eini authority given them: is merely derivative: :'The' rules' they dr~w up 'mus{.be approved' by the University ancfthey are,' iri' essence, ··a: gratuity on the part of the,·Administration:·: The. stu­dents lash ciu1:··against·t:his·.dominance through a0:pam­phlet entitled."Revely" ·issued in i923 and slipped i.mdei; the door of. every student: It protests the authoritative rule of the Univers.ity arid the submissive·cooperation of 
·t1ie sAc: · · · · · · · ,.:, · · · 
Om/ achievement, of the SAC is the obtaining of a '·. Grid-Graph. Ori the days-of away games, students flock to the gyin at 50c a head to watch the game· on the 
. electrically lighted . board .· bearing the names of both -. 
MARCH 29, 1974 
teams and of the players. When a player gets the ball, his light comes on and the entire play may be followed by means of this marvellous device. There· are even cheers at half-time (no SMC cheerleaders,·· of course) . . . . and all through the.courtesy of Western Union-and the SAC. 
'A person very much influencing students at this time is, of course, the-great Knute Rockne.· Never be­fore has such a dynamic character graced this· campus. Much more than a football coach, he is an inspiration. Interhall athletes are strong, · and -Rockne sometimes comes out to referee interhall football games. It is often from these hall teams that varsity players are chosen. 
.Another 'man· of great influence is Father "John O'Hara. Coming to Notre Dame as a young priest full of. zeal, he. takes the position of Prefect of Religion. Pope Pius X has; come out ·strongly in favor of daily communion as an aid in living the Christian life and Father O'Hara implements this belief here. It isn't strange "for astudent to receive communion outside of Mass. Studerits>are frank in their admission of their 
. need for Christ in·their·lives/ they humbly admif their own·, weakneSSi '·. Father . O'Hara holds ·their trust· and resp'ect; he is their'·Father Confessor and they believe in him.' He is' deflriitive in his decision but not coercive. Believing ·that', reiigion' and. discipline· should be · kept completely separate, _he· would. never<report "a student 
who misbehaves .. ·. . . . .. In this brief remembrance lastly there is · the bull session -those late night talks in which friendships are formed, ideas experimented with and difficulties hashed out. In a school in which life is totally campus-oriented and totally male, buil sessions are the seeds of brother­hood. · And this is Notre Diu~e .... 
Con£essions of an Assistant Rector 
I once knew a child-man of twenty fragile years named Tom. · I ·met him one day in a shared smile. In this smile and others, one recognized a spontaneous sense of playfulness that is best represented by Zorba's dance on the beach. With him, one seemed able to penetrate the conventions of age and sterile roles. He enabled many people to rediscover the forgotten child within. In. a way, through Tom, I myself rediscovered a sense of play that was somehow left behind with my belief in Santa Claus: I found once again the myriad of wonders that can occupy a warm, slow-mov­ing afternoon by the lakes. One can only become acquainted with a flower, dazzling and arresting in its fertile· beauty, in merely one afternoon; friendship takes patience and time. .Tom could define the term tree; not from the dusty perspective of dictionaries, but from· the knowledge .of a swinger on branches. 
Yet, one sensed that beneath the smile lurked an omnipresent loneliness and a spirit that was· troubled. One sensed that he felt like a left-handed person living in a .right-handed world. As I found out later, Tom never felt that he was loved by. his parents. His father was remote, a veritable pater. absconditus. He. was submerged in his work, and the necessity to succeed expressed in terms of martinis and suburbia. His mother, due to this, was herself _lonely, for she thought that she had married · a • flesh-and-blood man.. So .s_he grasped Tom as the token of an all-too-infrequently· • celebrated communion.. Yet, ·Tom almost desperately wanted to be held and played with by his father; But work always, always, intervened like a demanding extra member of the family. The father, being a demanding man himself, ·seellled always to set the highest of . goals for Tom. Even at twelve, Tom felt as if he was struggling for a Nobel Prize. Achievement was as­sumed. Kind, -gentle, encouraging words were usually absent; o_n_e sensed that they were always the result of slips,never the manifest token of affection. · 
Tom came to Notre Dame .. He won through the debilitating loneliness often enshrined in hall life and he learned to dance. · · -· · 

There are several roles that are ascribed to the . position of Assistant (Associate) Rector. At one · extreme lies the conception of the Assistant (Associate) 
Rector as a sophisticated janitor and emergency prob­
lem solver. Both of these conceptions, in and of them­
selves, are debilitating. In the janitorial category one 
performs functions such· as unlocking doors and trying 
to accomplish physical hall improvements. Yet, to 
accept this as the role model is simply to confuse ends 
and means. The problem-solving model is closer to 
reality, at least in terins of my experience. All too 
often it seems that one spends most of one's time · 

quieting drunks, ending pimp wars ( even between 
halls) and occasionally talking to confused "heads,". 
the suicid_al and/or the depressed. While aU of these 
things are important, crucial for those who dare to 
publicly call themselves Christians, they lack the.. 
vision required to help to direct a hall to a common; 

accepted and articulated end. One is often too ,busy. 
responding to inanities such as water fights to even 
think about such things. The situation is like that 
of an excellent fire department which is terrific at 
putting out fires with a minimal loss of life and prop­

erty, but has no fire-prevention.program (or a shared 
understanding of why such a program is nece~sary). 
Another extreme position is orie that I have often 
heard voiced by undergraduates. It is to the effect 
that the Rector or Assistant (.Associate) Rector is the 

local agent of a far-removed, tyrannfoal . adminis­
tration. This view is often expressed in statements · 

such as"It's your hall/' Though such an understanding , 
provides a· readily acceptable basis for· discipline (from 
an.undergraduate poiri(of view), it actually represents 
a misunderstanding. Rules__are not'applied for their __ ­
own sake from a position of lofty, Zeus-like power; 
they are applied to particular flesh sand-blood -persons. 
The most important criterion of decision is the individual 
and not the pseudosanctity of an abstract principle. 
Thus, such a view really makes rule-enforcement more 
difficult, for it subtly subverts the principles upon·. 
which decisions are actually based, and it invites . 
misunderstanding. . Regardless though, this understand­
ing really ·represents an invited paternalism, and it.. : 
establishes an "us against them" mentality. On these 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


grounds, such an understanding must be rejected. 
Faculty colleagues suspect that I am merely mad for living on campus. Yet, it is important not only to tell them that they are wrong, but also to carefully articulate the reasons. To be a Rector or Assistant (Associate) Rector .is to stand for the human things while living in a hall in which ethics often does not proceed beyond calculated self-interest justified in terms of rights: One has the right to be a monster-a . crass manipulator of men/women for pleasure or profit-as long as he/she does not disturb the social peace in a major, visible way. Otherwise, it seems, all is permitted. One lives in the vortex of an unmiti­gated pleasure principle that is often driven by various passions to where its tyrannical whims burst forth. 
Yet, there are many stories of open-handed gener­osity, especially between roommates, which make the foregoing wane in comparison. I once knew a junior in Far:Iey who halfheartedly attempted suicide. Though Psych Services helped, it was really the manifest, gentle affection of his roommate that allowed him to win through the lonely, dark nights. Such things are more common than one would think, but they are often greatly overshadowed by the crude and crass aspects a,f hall life. 
To be an Assistant (Associate)· Rector or Rector is to stand open to other men and women as a public_ friend. It is to teach that the paradigm of human togetherness is not utility but generosity; not self­
.interest but a squandering of the self. It is to befriend men and women who need such a relationship to grow, to become, in a shining way, what they are. In the · nexus of such relationships, people challenge each other to strain -every nerve, to agonize, to live a life of manly/womanly excellence (virtus, arete). The limit­ing case is'to burn oneself out in the quest for such. manliness/womanHness: In the case of the bodily· excellences, thisis adequately represented by Pheidip­pides. At its best, an entire hall could conceivably · recognize this and begin to shine as some skyscrapers reflect the sun. Such a hope, perhaps· only realized in 
.. speech, keeps one· on campus. · 
Yet, such a life is most often difficult. One con­sequence is that many of one's relationships tend to be one-sided. To put it another way, there are many among us whose use of the word "friendship" refers to only a sense of pleasure or utility. Thus, one lives with the soul-filled tension of Philemon who discovered the eternal problem of a Christian living in a world which maintains other values. Thus, as much· as one is able, one strains to be an alter Christus. One attempts to be generous, especially to those who reject such generosity as ridiculous, absurd or disguised pater­nalism.· In a sense, one teaches in such actions that the Cross is truly the nexus of not only the relationship of God to man, but also of men to each other. Given the tragedy of all love-including the Divine:.-this is the most important teaching. 
There really is no reward for this except that in personal moments of forsakenness, strength comes; and one lives in a new way. One realizes that there are senses to the term "life" which are only hinted at by the best of poets. 
Tom learned to live because others loved him. He had friends who squandered themselves for the sake of the beauty which he denied was in his soul. Though he screamed and kicked, and shouted about free­dom and paternalism; he grew as they did. All of them, together, won through the pain, loneliness and suffering. Tom put his parents behind him, accepted and returned the friendship of others and began to shine as a man of the excellences. In many ways, he began to live the da·nce of Zorba on that beach. 
i•,.,>:::->;-'.~.,.;~.. ,~.'.:•. :.,:..•.-. •-~-•••,,:_:• ..>••:••:•:~ .r : ...,•~,,.-. •;.,h-~;:• '•-_:-i:~'<>~·:;ir .. After serving:'for four years as-an R,A; fri Far>_ '. lL.· )ey: Mich'ael Melo1y, was· iia/nied A~sistan{Rec~or · \ 'l ( .. ofHoward ·HalLthis pastJalZ: An''Instiuctor. in,'· ··c1 · 1<the Collegiat~ ·sem.inar Program>Mike',js. preseiit~ '.;:! 
t}Ji fi?tish~ng_ his d~<jt'<:>rd?,iis~er.ia:uonjor the'.G;ov~ :-:1 
[\_~t~:~litJ:t!~~:~t:__~~L?__{_~:~~.i:~~~-~~-}fr:);:J 
An Interview 
Macheca and Lally: Off the Cuff 
Scholastic: Do you feel that the social situation has im­edge, at least in terms of not allowing it. So we saw proved in any way since you took over? How do you that as something very necessary, -to have a rule that feel after almost a year in the Student Affairs Office? reflected what the actualities_ of the situation were. And 
then we felt that there are social events which involve l\lacheca: It'll:yary depending upon what your view­alcohol which are appropriate to a university campus point is, arid what your expectations.are of the social and appropriate to the kinds of residence halls, the situation. I would say that, depending on who you talk kinds of facilities, the kind of life-style that we have on to, they might feel that there has been an improvement this campus. That's what we began to work toward. or that there hasn't been. It also gets down to what Now what happened that caused a lot of-confusion was your expectations are with regard to social life. I would the whole Sorin incident. What people failed to realize like to feel that the University can make a commen­with it was that that whole .thing happened under the surate commitment to social life, and I don't mean just original rules, last·.year's rules, before the new rules parties, as.they have made to the kind of commitments could come out; and we were very much concerned that that Notre Dame makes; a commitment to excellence in we would have problems in the beginning of the year, academics and athletics. We can make commitments to because we wanted the SLC'.and the Administration of the social area as well, especially as part of the evolu­the University to have some sense. that what we were t_ion involving coeducation.: doing had some significance, that we weren't just mak­
ing a paperwork change, that. we weren't just changing Scholastic: Parties seem to really have posed a dilemma a rule: that nobody pays any_ attention to, but that this year. On-one hand, being that Notre Dame is such there was going to be a significant difference, and there a residential campus, we all acknowledge that parties was a reason to change the rule. So we had to, from are really in many ways the focus of campus life..On the standpoint of good faith1and mutual respect, try to _the other hand, they've also been a focus of a lot. of live within the existing rules, hopeful that the rule campus problems. Now at the beginning of the year, would be changed. But that original Sorin incident kind · there was a. fear. that the Office. of Student Affairs, in -of exacerbated the whole understanding and began an attempt to solve the p_roblems of parties, was going what a lot of.people refer to.as paranoia. to sort of put the damper completely on parties. There's some hope that there's a sort _of middle ground, and Lally: f thi~k we let the student~ know that we were I'm really not sure if we've quite figured out what the going to try something new/and_ we learned that very middle ground i~; _ ··-often your intentions can't be. conveyed just as weil as 
you tl!ink. The students bring a lot of goo_d -will and l\lacheca: Well, one of the things-there .was a suspi-a lot of needs to the whole social situation here, and in cion .. that .there would be changes made, Just because trying to be responsible from our end for the mainte­there _had been a reorganization Jn Student _Affairs. nance of the good order. of the University. and the And, interestingly enough, Father Lally and I, both, people in this community, we:ve, I think, failed some-' from the beginning, have emphasized the area of times to appreciate the.fact.that-we're not always _v.ery student responsibility in social activities; but with the well understood. I_ think t~ continuing dilemma is ~to emphasis on responsibility, not just freedom. Now, you bring the students to engage in and be concerned with had a situation .where there were abuses. There's no" our common problems,. to say to them not.."We· will question that there's a concern on this campt.is for the devise rules and standards·whe~eby your parties will be abuse of alcohol as a problem. Some people yoti talk to run" but instead to saY '.'Here are ·our concerns 'from will ~ay it's the biggest -problem we've got here, the our poinf of view·as. administrators.". Naturally our attitude toward alcohol and the insensitivity to it as a social concerns ·are going to be. different from the stu: potential personal problem, not justnecessarily as a dents'.· But we're _saying, "Would you help _us, solve community problem. So we felt that the rules that we these ·common kinds of problems" in.stead of saying, had made it very difficult for us to take any kind of an "Well, this is the package thaf we'r~ going to lay cm active role in-trying to improve the situation, because you and that you're going to have to live with." I think ­they said you couldn't do any of these things. So there _we've conveyed. some of that, but ~ also think that wasn't any way that you could get involved in a pro-·we've been misrepresented in terms of those concerns. gram that dealt with a problem that you don't acknowl~ ·· . Somebody has to be responsible for our concerns, or·r
' .. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


think the job will only be partially done. I don't find very often that students are lacking in good will, but I think t~ey're lacking in understanding, and in part that's our problem,.to convey our problems to them. _. 
tative or developmental model is lost to so many people Scholastic: So in other words the problem is one of because :they don't see what happens; There are many communication. Somewhere between discipline and af­cases you could cite -where you could see and under­firmation. your role as affirming gets lost. People. don't stand how you-got from point A to .point G, which · often see wliat you term the "rehabilitative" quality of would -be a final decision .. Most of our ·work, actually, your. discipline. For example, how is one "rehabilitated'' is done after a. decision is made; you work with some­by being-tossed out for a semester.. But we've heard body coming off a decision, especially if it's a tough from talking to other people that that rehabilitative decision, tough • on him. · You try to keep him· from -model·can and .does work in cases. becoming bitter, or you work with him to-show him 
that what you're doing is hopefully for his own good. l\lacheca.: _In a d!sciplinary case, you get into a very But these are the kinds of things that you.just cannot personal situation,· especially the way we've approached get out and airin public;,They're very personal kinds of disciplinary problems: We try to be as totally informed situations. It's . much like anybody. who's dealing in a as we can about the situation or the incident, about the developmental · relationship· where he, cares about an individual who's involved in that incident, and we look individual and would like to make him a better person to many different sources for our information. We may by virtue of always having someone to tell you that talk to other students. We've had cases where the presi­you've made a mistake when you have. Here hopefully dent of the hall has been involved, in terms of the in­we can work together to understand our strengths and vestigation as well as the adjudication of a problem. weaknesses. Also the R.A.'s and the Rector are brought into it._ So you get a situation where you're working with where a Lally: I've given a lot of thought to your question, be­person is, what his strengths and weaknesses are, and cause it puts you in ·a particular dilemma. That is, where he is in his own personal develop_ment..Now whatever punishment or penalty accrues to a particular the problem is, that you can't just go. shouting' those offense -is really coming. off a value stance on the part kinds of things.from forums or. talking publicly about of an educator or an administrator,· depending on how. an individual's ,.degree of maturity, :.or a ;problem he you want to sei? us_. We'd like to see ourselves as educa­has.with"·a1cohol or with drugs: or with his· emotional · tors. I don't·suspect that, at the given time that you life. Now· granted,. all cases don't wind up being so nail someone with a particular penalty; they're going to deeply personal that they get into these kinds of prob­be very grateful for it. That just isn't going to happen. lems.· But what· you're doing is · digging into an -indi­; : ; Most of our educational processes have _been ab­vidual's total being, and trying to make a decision that st~active, intellectual, overly theoretical, and have not takes this .into consideration as well as the-good order asked for_ any other investment: on_the part of the s_tt1~. of the University-and .the upholding of the rules and dent but :that he produces intellect\mlly~--What we're the behavioral expectations of this community. And the sayirig is:·that,·as-educators hereat Notre Dame, _some problem is that you .just ·can't make public comment, of the things that we feel are important· are going to . and that's where the relationship between the rehabili-' ·involve ·personal.investment, on our part•as well as the 
students'. And I think it's good that students hold ad~ 
_, 

.a': ministrators to the values they represent. In other words, I can't· just simply represent values to.you. I
; '. / ::j 

have. to· have inculcated those values in ·my _own· life. · Otherwise I've got no business;talking to.you. 
Scholastic: From a student point of view; there's a real problem with ·suspension,'if a record of it goes on the student's transcript.: It's the.kind ·of thing· that could 
..· \1 
< ~ 1 

, .~ : follow you for the rest of your life, especially when you apply for a job _or something. Once the suspension is .·: : .. over and the student is hopefully ·rehabilitated, is there a_ possibility of having the record of the ,suspension re­
. moved from the·.transcript? 
,9

Lally: Well, you know, Edward Kennedy, from what I understand, was suspended from Harvard for getting someone to take a Spanish exam one time. I think that's a matter of public record. But I don't think it need necessarily dog a man to the point.where any kind of success is just unwarranted. The flip side of living in a culture that lets you choose your own values is that it's a permissive culture that doesn't nail a man for the rest of his lifetime. You can't ask us to waive what a man did· here at this University. Now frankly, we very seldom suspend anybody. I don't know where anybody around this place thinks that all we do is boot. people out right, left, · sideways and·forwards. We're · engaged in many more rehabilitative models than suspending 

· people. Nobody has come around and asked us about those particular cases. I've been waiting for them to do it because I think we'll look pretty good.when we finally get around to having someone look into it. 

Scholastic: Well, then let me ask about:them. 
l\lacheca: But you can't really comment like that on cases. However, there is a possible situation,where some students might volunteer to have their cases put up as 

· study cases. We have one guy who has indicated that as a possibility; But we just don't know yet. We haven't ironed out all. the wrinkles. It's a very interesting case, though, and has a lot of positive things to say. But it's not sure yet. 
Scholastic: Do you see the possibility of making greater use of, say, the student judicial board or perhaps a sort of student court for disciplinary cases? , · 
Lally: Well, students are not given to levying the kinds of penalties that will uphold the values which we con­sider important. Students are very conscious of their rights and they ought to be. Sometimes you find your­self in an adversary position vis-a-vis the value being upheld with the students that students themselves are simply not willing to support. And I wouldn't expect them-to. IfI were a student and I were being judged by my peers, I would expect them to have more sympathy with my point of view than I would the guy upholding the values. And they didn'thire me to represent student views. They hired me, I hope, to uphold some values that they think are important. Now I can go easy on a guy when I think that there are a lot of factors in­volved which mitigate the circumstances. John and I have felt all the time that the bind isn't really with the number we let go, who are very many; but it's the:oc­casional guy that you feel you··have to go hard on,.for really important reasons. That's the crunch decision. Now we've waived more. guys tJ:irough this place, and established good relationships, I think, with goodly numbers of students that have come to our office. So we don't really feel that we're bad guys. If you can nail us on any single thing, it would be that we've been really too soft, as far as the values themselves go, I feel .that way, at least; deep down I feel that; · 

Scholastic: What values in particular are you talking about? 
Lally: I think the abuses students have for one another in terms of ripping. one another off; whether in terms of ripping students off of their reputations, the kind of rip-offs that accrue when someone is simply after financial· gain, • the kind of thing where students sell one-another defective stuff, or run a party that is, in fact, just a bilk-off; the kinds of things where students are not conscious of the particular rights of other stu­dents to want privacy, to want a. decent place to live; the kind of wanton destruction of property that really impinges upon students•·rights to live in a decent place; the attitude here that makes students cheat and do things that are pretty disreputable, though it's hard really to affix responsibility for that.· _ 
(Wliat we're really concerned with is) how the stu­dents treat one another, how.the Administration treats the students, and frankly> sometimes, how students treat the Administration:-I get pretty pissed off at being misinterpreted and misuderstood when the people involved don't really make:'a hell of a big effort to find out what I really had on my head. I think that's an in­justice. I think to. deal in 'caricatures, to deal in in­nuendoes, to misrepresent, is a worse sin in some in-. stances than going out and getting drunk, although I think going out and getting drunk isn't so great either. 
We could count ori the fingers of one hand the stuff that we've dealt with first semester that we'd call really serious stuff. 
l\lacheca: The biggest thing that lsee"is ·the selfishness of young people (now, of course, older people are selfish, too) where their actions are motivated by their own personalinterest, whether it's ripping off the tele­phone company, .. whether it's just.convenience because they want to. do it their way as opposed to a way that makes sense to a. community in which they live, arid even when it;s with_ regard. to other people, their physi-
THE. SCHOLASTIC 

•cal needs, ripping. off another individual in terms of interpersonal and intersexual relationships. This is what bothers me the most; and also the insensitivity to it. So what we're saying is that to make a mistake, to' do something ·urithinkingly and somewhat instinctively wh_ich_ is self-gratifying or _self-indulgent, or just plain selfish, you can do these kinds of things without realiz­ing it. And part of our job is to say, "Stop·and look at' what you're doing. What are you saying about yourself and your values by your actions?" And so, in confront­ing, r often use the analogy of the Knight of the; Mirrors in Man of LaMancha where the Knight con­fronted Don Quixote with "This is what you are" and .made hi~ see himself. I think what we're saying in ·our daily rap· sessions in the halls, what we feel we're all about and what kinds of Christians we are is one thing, but what our actions say about what we really are is where we really come to. the test. And the actions some­times result in bringing you up to this office. And when you come up -here to this office because of certain ac­tions, these actions are indicative of values. And that's. when we try t.~.-~orifront on a value ·basis. _ 
I'm married; I have a wife. I screw up and my wife says, "What are you doing?" I've got somebody who's going.to tell me when I'm not being·the kind of person she knows I should be, or that she knows I would want to be. But who's telling any of you what you're doing right ari(l wrong? Do your friends tell you? That's.on_e thing about the student peer group; they wilLnot con­front· each other on values, because what itrealiy gets· down to is that in many instances they don't care enough to get into that kind of a: hassle, _that they're going_to tell you when your values are slipping or_are less than what they should be. And that's why ,it's not an_easy thing to do. That's why our jobs are as .difficult. as they are, because we're confronting on values. We're t_elling people, _'iYou haven't gotten :your thing all to­gether· yet, even though you thought yo~ did." And' sometimes that's. hard to listen to. 
Lally: Se~, I think the thing that I understand in terms of values is that, for the value·to have some meaning for :you, it also has to involve some self-investment. And students are not conscious of'the ·fact that you really have to be self-invested Iri the value for -it to have any 'meaning. It's 'got to have 'some 'meanirig for you to invest ili'it, but you, in a sense, ,become what y01i-haye given ·yourself to. What :we :waritto do very often. is engage in a non-incarnational _model of educa­
.. tion which lets you just simply· reflect and intellec­tualize and-move .away from; the kind of involvement that says,·;"Yes,·I not only know what.the values are as far as being' represented, but I also invest in them. I become those values in a sense." And that's an im­portant p~rt.of this· thing because, in· a sense, '.the Uni­versity can .rio longer depend · on the family or the ' school to have given you any values. before you come here. Now, that's a surprising kind of.statement, but it ;·_ mirrors what's happened in the larger society that we live in. People come to' us with so many diffe-rent values , 
,_ 

that they simply say, "Well, I don't think there's any­thing wrong with running stark naked across the north quad." And when you listen to him, you become con-: viriced the guy's basically in _.good will~ And nobody doubts their good will; but they're wrong, they're really wrong. They're wrong because there are a lot of other people who have different sets of values and are of­fended by it. ·· · 
Scholastic: You read.my mind. I was just going to ask you about streaking; · · 
. . 

Lally: Well, the thing I feel about streaking is, I don't _want to overreact, but I'm not going to sit here and watch the whole neighborhood go goofy with a bunch of guys running aro1:md ·riaked. · 
l\lacheca.: The other thing with streaking is that it'~ not just ·an isolated thing, as Terry pointed -out. It is of­fensive to other people ·and it has, in some instances, become. very hurtful of other people. We've had some guys who have . chosen .. to act" out far. beyond the idea of just going from one building to another. Arid .that's not streaking, that's something else entirely. I have re­ports of actually obscene and indecent behavior on the part of guys streaking. And .they weren't necessarily streaking at the time. This· is a whoie ·different', thing than just streaking. Some people say that anyone.who streaks has some • basic inadequacies. I don't know whether I'd-go tliat:fai-, because there,are.the··join-in
kinds of mentalities. · · · · -·· ' · · · · 
.::-:~~:Part ~f our job is ·10 say, "stop and-look -.. . _at wh~t :•;ou're·· doi~g: -vJhat are you sayi·n~ . about yourself and your-values by -your ac:.. · tions?" ... 

Scholastic: It almost ·seems like. the cur~e~t ve~ion· of -swallowing goldfish. 
Lally: But there's a little larceny. involved in all that, at least in the one instance of streaking where I caught the streaker. The guy-did-it for one•simple reason; he did it for twenty-two dollars. Now, we talk.about rip­ping off the place but, in fact,> this is people· ripping off each other's .dignity for money.__ --, .· _ __ _ _ · Nothing would make me happier. than t<i°see people around here force each other to be conscious of_ set values and live according to them.•If the students could · do this all by themselves, God bless them. -I'd close up shop and go back· into -parish ministry or something. 
But since that isn't a reality, it's our job to try to get 
across that values are something we all can and must _share. · · 
lUacheca: Sexuality is another big thing we have to 
deal with. You can get-together with a group of seniors, 
and ask them how many times they've heard someone 
give a defense of monogamy or of pre-marital chastity,· 
and they'll probably say, "Never." But it's important to 
emphasize that we're talking about values, not rules. _And that's something we all have to share. 
Scholastic: Do you have any plans for changing or ex0 
panding the .Office of Student'Affairs? · 
l'\lacheca: Well, if you try to operate in a rehabilitative 
model that's something that takes an awful lot of time 
and wo'rk. So we're hoping to expand the 'office. We're 
presently interviewing with the hope of.finding a 
woman to hire as an Assistant Dean of Students. And 
she wouldn't just be here to handle women's cases. 
There's rio question that' a woman would provide us 
witha different outlook, perhaps a fresh approach. And 
naturally women on campus w.ould probably find a 
woman easier to relate to. 
' . We're also looking t;owa~d a closer working 'relations 

ship among the Student Affairs staff; between the Ad-. 
ministrators and theHector!i"and the R.A.'s, etc. We're 
looking for all involved ~o. share the commitment tc:i 
value-oriented education, because it's something that 
takes a lot of time and dedication. I can't overempha~ 
size, for example, the role of the R.A. in this whole thing. 
He's our link to the students. I've been having the hair 
staffs, one hall at a time, out to my home for. dinner, 
so that we can get to know each other aspeople.'Be­
cause that's so important if we're going to,work to-, 
gether well. If you _bring a caring dimension to disci-: 
pline, it takes a lot c;>f time. -· -.. 
Lally: Naturally, in interviewing for that new·Assistant Dean of Students, our primary ·concern is that it be: someone good,· someone w_e can work wen witli. We'd prefer that if be a woman for. a· riumber of ·reasons: It's ·not justtokeriism, though she will serve as sort of a symbol-of how we want to _be equally aUentive to the 
needs of the women on campus. ­
I think c:iur other biggest goal now is communica­

tion: We want to get across to the students just what 
we're doing and why; _ ­
l\lacheca: That's why we lookforward to interviews and things:.:Hke this. We want: to_ communicate with the students, to let them know what we're doing and· think­ing. We can't• really get .anywhere if no one around here understands what we're all about · : 
/': 
EARN UP TO. $1500. a school year hanging posters on campus in spare time. Send name, address; phone and school to: Coordinator of Campus .representa­tives, P.O. Box 606, Ann Arbor, MI 48107: Calf(313) · 662-5575. 




EXECUTIVE SUIT-E 


: .Before you choose a career, . . 'consi~er what's noi iii itfor ~oz_i· _ 
Decisions made in flophouses may not be covered by the financial editors, but they're at.least as important to the persons involved as those made in prestigious 
. offices. Perhaps helping with 'truly significant decisions is for you. A growing number ofyoung people today · ··' are ·more attracted by a Jifework than a lifestyle: Find 
. out about ihe good things that are happening around--. the country. Let us mail you our free newsletter· for ; · young people interested in social action and re)jgion. Just send name and address· fo Word One, Room49, • 221West Madison Street, Chicago,Illinois 6060_6...• 


_: THE ·.cLA·RE.TIANS-­
A Roman Catholic Community of Priests and Brothers~.· 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


-The.Rod 
and The· Staff 
Rev. Robert Griffin 

. As one _of the senior people working in the residence halls at Notre Dame, I have lived long enough to ·speak honestly about the doubts I have, or the misgivings I feel, in the affairs of God or of me~. In September, I wrote in a Scholastic article of my hopes for theyear; ·... of my belief that Notre Dame was at the point of a · · new kind of awareness of itself, and its responsibilities, as a Christian community. Now, in March, I am troubled by the way that things are going. Because I feel obliged to be honest, I take the risk ot' making a fool of myselfby commenting on situations I probably only half understand.-, But fools, as . well as the wise Socrates; can be silenced with a cup of hemlock. ·. 
·In my own beloved.Keenan; it has.been a peaceful year, t~anks to a fine.staff an,d hall residents I am proud of.. (K~nan Hall's president, Charlie Cardillo, must · · be the.best hall president since the founding of the University.)_Th~·year, in.many:ways,has been.one of· the best of my._ campus life. But I am aware, within the hall and outside it, of campus unrest over the loss . this year,cas last,.. of Jarge numbers.of juniors and' 
· seniors. who·.are being forced· off campus. As a rector who watched and waited for three years while his.hall . developed from a freshman dorm, to· a freshman-sopho~ more dorm; to a freshman-sophomore-junior dorm ,
. . ' ... -_ ,until that happy year when we had our first group of, . seniors living in Keenan :-as a rectorwho has under~ . gone.sm;h an experience, i cannoLwatch the forced de­parture of large groups of upperclassmen, who could . be setting a style and tone of leadership in the hall without a strong sense of resentment. I wish tha/the University would do something practi~al about this · sitm1tion, likebuilding a new dormitory. , . · . · · .~rw,thel' kin_dof restlessness I have felt centers ar()und .the office. of tl:ie Dean of Students. Mr. John Macheca·and..fr. Terry LaUy are dear, good men; and.· ~ co1:1nt both of them as friends; Terry, in fact,. i_s one · of my clos~st associates on campus. But I have been disturbed, as the -students have been disturbed . ' about tlie amount of decision-making that.goes· ' o_n in ._!heir ,()ffice. J\s a responsible priest with a. responsf ple .staff, I feel .that I can direct the merry-. ·; .ma~ng of mystudents at the parties they give without. help from thos~ zealous administrators, john a~d Terry.. . · . If I fail at this; I am willing to accept their admonish-: · me~t~. ~ I: faff co~sistently at this, I am willing to · ·· . surrender to them my job. · ·. · · . Moreover, i am aimoyed at the list of offenses, desig­nated as University Offenses, which should be referred_ 
MARCH '2_9, 1974 .· 
· · to the Dean of Students' office. Streaking, for example, was recently designated a University Offense. It didn't use to be a University Offense, and the rector could handle it. Now, each case of streaking should be referred to the :pean of Students. (Streakers of Keenan, the ten dollars we fined you wasn't.deterrent enough. We will renegotiate penalties in the morning.) 
If I knew there was more wisdom at work in the gray, grizzled heads of Dean Macheca and Terry Lally · than there w~s in the senile noggin of the rector of Keenan, consulting with his staff, I would be willing to see even such an ordinary pastime as breathing desig­nated as a University Offense; and would'insist that stu­dents settle under the Dome like hall fellows of the Dean's office. But I think that the Dean of Students for all his good will --and it is immense -is as capabie of error as the rest'of us. That is why a number of rectors, out of their own sense of p1:1storal responsibility and personal concern for offending students, feel that most forms of rule-breaking should be handled within the hall. They feel they must protect their students from forms of discipline that are less prudent or rehabilita­tive than they think their own to be. (This was the year, it was hoped, when there would be no us and them between the dorms and the Dome.) 
I regret being critical of the processes and decisions by which the Dean of Students' office must work; but 
. some tensions are· healthy tensions. For myself, I need to speak publicly about matters that I have been thinking and mentioning privately; I have such a healthy respect ?-nd admiration for the ways in which ··. Terry Lally and John Macheca have cared about students, ar1d h9w they have worked to help· them ­intervening _w,ith police departments;· for example,• ori. behalfof students who have land~d in.jail'-that I am tempted 1:0· be silent with·niy misgivings. But I-can~ not ahvays be exhor!ing studeritg'to· live the•godlier, more commuriaUife, without sometimes admitting to .·· them that the campus they live on is not paradise. 
_• There_ are_ other, more cosmic problems in cafup~s life than the ones I mention-here, but I don't wantto involve myself in a discussion of parietali . The' staff '·.' in'Keenari'fries to enforce theparietal'regulations. But 
· if, in addition tothe·'violation of the norms provided for women's visitation, students also engage in acts.of" sexual intimacy _(which I regard as unwise; and·poten: Hally self~harmful), quietly"and privately, behind ' closed doors, I don't see how any member of a hall ·, · · . staff, no matter how _deep his concern, cari 'prevent this mischief without behaving like a house detective. Speaking_for my~elf, I feel I wcmld makeavery poor . 
house detective. . . .· . . 
. I hope the' rumor isnot true th~t says the 's~Jrity·· forces are keeping a head c<>ilntof the pariefal violafo~ leaving the dormsbetween three o'clock and eight ·. o'clocl{ in .the morning .. r. don't lllind it so•m~i~h as my,· dog, Darby O'Gill, minds' .it. 'He-feels that such secret ·scrutinies are not orily·an. administrative .coinmeritary: on the efficiency of the hall staffs. and rectors· but also' 
._ . -.-. . . . ' ' . 

upori himselfas a watchdog·. -~ ' .. 
Darby wanted ~e to say:· if there are su6h k~pers . of the vigil,. gumshoeing around,· he never said he didn't love them. · The cocker spaniel is wise enough to know that'it pays_ to be nice to policemen. 

. Notre Dame has long J1eld to its . essential Catholi~ principles.and its ideal of:a Christian.community. But now, in the nanie of defending the principles of a Cath~ olic university; the administration· is violating the priri~ ciples of a Christian university.. This is the. clear im~ port of the recent Dillon Hall, affair, only the latest in a series of battles over the . administration's proper authority...·. The administration violated the. principles to which it is pledged in three ways: the rule' itself im­poses religious 'belief :by coercion; ... "the' _enforcement violates the human dignit:{ and the .Christian rights of the students; and such actions destroy ·the mutual trust essential for a Christian community: · · · · · · · 
It might be argued that the University; as a com­munity dedicated to certain . ideals,. can expel anyone for . refusing to accept. those·. ideals.· :it might even be argued. that in refusing them the ·person ·cuts· himself off from''tJ:ieCommunity and the University kmerely making it official. But our community has ~any_)ion­Catholic, and even non~Christian _members and tolerates considerable dissent -'as is proper for a· great univer­sity; Only. certain actions come under this "loveJt o'z. 
leave it;' philosophy. · · . · · · · 
. The distinctions_ between public and.private matters are .important here as well. Some say that premarital sex,. even behind locked. doors. and' between consenting adults, should be prohibited because of its ·effect ciii the spiritual quality of the _University~ But such arguments, which cari point to rio specific violation of another specific indiv:iduai•s specific rights leads too easily fo a state where ."everything not forbidden' is ·mandatory/' Of _course, the administrators should be concerned about these things, but their.concern should be expressed' by persuasive counselling,' not by coercive thciu..<shalt-riots; 
Certainly if being Christian means· beirig Christlilce;· this'· rule is ·not Christian. Vatican II recognized 
,, 

Christ's example in its .statement· on Religious Free­
dom: :"The truth cannot impose' itself ·except by virtue 
of its own truth, as it makes its entrance into the mind 
at once quietly and with power.-~-.-for of its very na­
ture the exercise of religion consists before all else· in 
those internal, voluntary,. and -free acts whereby man 
sets the course of his life toward God.· No: merely 
human power can either command or prohibit acts of 
this kind." This injunction applies not only to govern­
ments but to religious bodies as well which "ought at 
all times to refrain· from ·any manner of action which 
might· seem to carry ja hint' of coercion or persuasion 
that would be.dishonorable or unworthy...".The point · 
is brought· home in the document on education which 
affirms .the "sacred··right'; of youtli to::,•iweigh m~ral 
values with an upright conscience and to_ embrace them 
by personal choice.". Because this right rests on human 
nature· the Council pointed· out that i_t'•"contiriues _.to· · exist even iri those who do not live up 'to their obliga­tion of seeking the truth .'and adhering to it." _: · Not only.does the rule v.iolate•Christ's example0 and the pronouncements of ·the 'Council, it violates 'the. 
. administration'.~ own conimitriient stated·' in the: preface to the new judicial code that announces..that "a: Chris­tian community cannot f(?rce :moral con~ictioris 'o·n ·any_~. one. But it . can hope to establish a climate iii which those moral .. convictions, :" nourished · by · inteilecfoal .gr_owth, ·are developed in a Christian· way;" . Forced exile from this climate, .then, would hardly be:·coridu~ cive to moral' development. · · -~ ··:'.: · . . · · 
The'enforcement of this unchristian rule ls· also un.: 

Christian. -True; the Uriiver~ity . does have the legai 
right.·to enter our·rooms because'of the waiver we had 
to sign to get·'a room at all>According·to ·our room 
contracts "the University reserves : the right' f6 . . . ·. 
enter rooms without a· search warrant for the purpose
. . _.., -~ -. ··. . . .. . .' .' 
.THE SCHOLASTIC 

of maintaining security, discipline, and the orderly oper­ation of an educational institution." It is obvious that in an emergency, for instance, a fire when the student is away, a university official would have a legitimate right to· enter. 
But the waiver is much broader than. that, and it is interpreted by the same administrators who do : the entering. It is, in actuality, a legalization of arbitrary invasion of privacy. Further, the forced choice between the waiver of rights or the wilds of South Bend "might seem to. hint of coercion." · And since the only way to prove a-violation of the rule is to catch .people in the act, precisely this kind of enforcement · is essential if the rule is to mean anything. 
This enforcement again contradicts both Vatican II and the administration's,own declaration. The Coun­cil, in its document on the Church Today affirmed the "growing awareness of: the exalted dignity proper to the human person, since he stands· above all things, and his rights and· duties are inviolable. Therefore there must be made available to all men everything necessary for leading a life truly human such as ... the right to protection of privacy. : ..".The administration, in its preface to the ·code seems to agree, claiming to be "respectful of the individual's rights to human dignity and freedom," and saying that "Notre Dame is not in­tended to be a coercive place/' 
But it is not the· unchristian rule or its· unchristian enforcement iii.at is the most' damaging; it is the fact that· these are indirectly • contributing to ·the destruc­tion of'a Christian community at Notre Dame. The 
·_;J:.. 
preface to the code says it well: "It is this mutual love and service that give those of us at Notre Dame our shape and identify as a Christian community." Without it we are merely a mcib of people hanging on to an organizational skeleton. Yet there is little mutual love lost between the student body and the administration. The administrators may be men of integrity but a large segment of the students thinks they are arrogant oli­garchs. They point to such things as the handling of the Lewis HaU incident,. the railroading. of the new calendar (nearly stymied by a few dedicated students) and the suspending of the Dillon student, and say that the only way that the administration responds to them is to shaft them.... This is exaggerated, but it is diffi­cult to love someone you think is an arrogant oligarch. 
· Judging by its actions, for we have nothing else to judge it on; the administration has used unchristian methods to shore up what it must see as a failing min­istry. It has lost faith in its ability to persuade students of the truth so it resorts to unchristian coercion. It has lost faith· in the students so it must violate. their Chris­tian rights. It has lost faith in a Christian community so it runs the University as a not-so-benevolent dictator­ship. To preserve a narrow Catholicism it has started to sacrifice a broad Christianity.: Notre Dame has lasted many years ·and 'it will last many more. But if itlasts as aplace where a faithless administration perpetually contends with a sullen student body over shreds of prin­ciples, will it really be Notre Dame? ·· 
·pat hanifin 




~'High Crimes and Misd·emeanors'' 
If Richard Nixon were· to be removed from office through the process of impeachment, Gerald.Ford would ... 

become President of the United States. On the 15th of · ·' critical focus should. be, therefore, not on political ani-
April, 1970, Mr.. Ford, then a Congressman, proposed the impeachment of Supreme Court Associate Justice William 0. Douglas.. He made a speech on the floor of the House ofRepresentatives concerningits power.to impeach._ In his now-famous speech, he_defined an im­peachable offense as 
whatever. a majority of the House of Representa­
tives considers it~ to be at a given moment in his­
. . tory; ~· .. whatever . ~ . [the Senate] considers to 
. • be sufficiently serious to require removal of the 
. accused from office. .-. . , . . . . . . Few, if any, scholars would concur with this broadest of "broad" definitions. Fewer yet would adopt that nar­rowest of "narrow" views which requires an indictable offense for impeachment. What is an impeachable of­fense? 
· To· address ourselves to this question, we must first understand what an impeachment is and is not. · 

mus, for that is the nature of the beast, but on whether Congress is proceeding" within the limits of the Con-' stitution; Justice Story noted that ·impeachment .was 
. "a proceeding purely of a political.nature. It is not so much designed to punish an offender as to secure the state against gross..official misdemeanors:" 
The English Background , . 

American law, of course, is the child of English law. We take the concept and procedures of impeachm~nt from the English, too. But, here, the debt is owed ·to· Parliament; not the common law.and equity courts. . . , 
. The British recorded impeachment trials as early as the fourteenth century. The King, often the adver­sary of the Parliament, was unimpeachable. But, his ministers were not. Commons could showjts displeasure of the King's poHcies by impeaching those who carried them out. Parliament also used this weapon against the corrupt> (Francis Bacon, the-giant of the~philosophy of 
.Impeachment Itself . : science, was removed from the office of Lo.rd Chancellor The Oxford' English Dictionary .tells us that im-... of England in one such'proceeding.) ·..·. ,· . . 
peachment originally meant "to impede, to impair, .to fetter" or chain. The Second Edition Merriam-Webster New International Dicti'anary states tliaUt riow means an "accusation, a calling to account for some high crime or offense before a competent tribunal, an arraignment, especially of .a public officer ·for misconduct while in 

-office.".. The most common misunderstanding of the'word is that. it means "to remove from. office:". Clearly; it does not properly mean this. If one is' asked'«Do you think: Nixon should be impeached?" on·e is· actually being . asked if he should stand trial. Since our system of ·. . justice gives a presumption of innocence to the accused,. no pollster has any business asking if a party should be convicted. Courts •(including courts of impeachment)· decide if charges are borne out by the evidence. The :~ public and its oft-uninformed opinion do not~. An impeachment and impeachment trial are not ju­
~' . ":,_ . . . . . -' -·· 

But iri no· sense was a criminal offense required. The 'phrase "high crimes .and inisdemeanor" is not derived ,from the criminal law. It is parliamentary in origin. :Thus, Commons impeached government officials for pro­. curing offices for persons-unfit and un~orthy for. them, 
neglecting to safeguard the seas as a Great Admi.ral was. required, putting a seal on :an ignominious treaty, mis­leading the sovereign} These charges bear out Story's commentary. . _ ... 
. . One odd note was that any commoner or peer could• be impeached under the English procedure. He need not be. an official of the government. . . .. • ·;There have been no. impeachments in· the ·united Kingdom since 1806:: Why? The ·House of Commons . controls:the very tenure of the chief executive of niod~ : ern British governments; the Prime Minister. They can 
obtain hisresignation and those of his entire Cabinet by a simple:majority vote of "No Confidence."· 
dicial activities. That·is, they are devices designed ·to resolve an essentially political question: shall this per­son continue to hold this.office· to which he was elected or appointed? It uses a political forum:. the Congress. And, upon. conviction,·its sanction is· political: removal from office and disqualification from further office; The judicial coloring of the proceedings is genuine enough. The House of Representatives hands down the articles of impeachment while styling itself "the grand inquest of the nation." This is often described as being the 

1
"equivalent of an indictment" from.a.grand jury..-_The Senate then becomes "the high court of impeachment," 
l 
conducts a "trial" and renders a"verdict." Furthermore, the Chief Justice of the United States presides. But, regardless of the trappings, the process' forum, question and sanctions remain essentially political. "The 
1 
\
\i 
.THE SCHOL~STIC 
The American Constitution 
The word "impeachment" -is found in our Constitu­

tion seven times. Article I; Section 2, Clause 5: "The House of Representatives ... shall have the sole Po\Ver of Impeachment." 
Article I; Section 3, Clauses 6 and 7: 
"The .Senate shall have the sole Power to try all 'Impeachments. When · sitting for that Purpose, they shall be in Oath or Affirmation. When the President of the United States is tried, the Chief 
· Justice. shall preside: And no p'erson shall be con­victed'without the concurrence of two thirds of the Members· pr~sent. · "Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not ex­
. tend· further than to removal from Office, and· dis­qualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust. or Profit under the United States: but the 
. Party convicted shall nevertheless be. liable and subject. to,Indictment, Trial,. Judgment and. Punish­ment, acco,rding to Law." .. 

· · Article II; Section 2, Clause 1: "The_ President ... shall have Power to grant Re­. prieves and Pardons for Offenses against the United States, except:in cases of Impeachment.'' . ' 
Article II ; Section 4: . . . . "The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall. be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and • Conviction of, Treason, 
. Bribery; or other high Crimes ·arid Misdemeanors.'' 
.. •, -. . -. . . . ' . . 
,Article in, Section 2, Clause 3: "The Trial° of all Crimes, except in cases of Im­'Pe~chment, sha~l be·by jupr: ..." 

..(The re~mi~l of th~ Presid~ni arid tlie res~lt~nt sit­uation are mentioned s·everal other times.) . . 
.: Treason is defined in .the Constitution in Article III, Section 3. Bribery has a common law definition which generally coincides _\\'.ith the· popular·.. understanding. The , question centers on "or other . high Crimes. and 
-Misdemeanorii.,, We shall,approachthis in. three ·ways: analysis of. the -language. itself,: investigation. of·legis­lative 'intent" (which, h.ere, is the understanding of the Constitutional Convention of 1787), and areview of the precedents.._Iri:this situation, of course, ·precedents are those of Congressional impeachments and trials, rather 
.than:those of court decisions'. .--. . . 
"Hjgh Crimes arid Misdemeanors"· is a confounding phrase. Misdemeanors .is a class of. crimes, the other class being felonies. This suggests that "high crimes and high misdemeanors" was not the thought ·intended, for 
a misdemeanor is ·a minor crime by definition. A felony 
is a high crime, of course· and contrasts with a simple 
misdemeanor. In spite of the seeming logic of these observations, the history of our legal language turns them all on their collective head. Raoul Berger, the Harvard Law Profes­sor-, provides us with his scholarship on the matter in Impeachment: The Constitutional Problems (Harvard University Press, 1973). . 
At the time when .the phrase "high crimes and misdemeanors" is first met in the proceedings . . against the Earl of Suffolk in 1386, there was in fact no such crime as . a "misdemeanor." Lesser · crimes were prosecuted as . "trespasses" well into .the sixteenth century, and only then were. "tres­passes" supplanted by "misdemeanors" as a cate­gory of ordinary · crimes. As "trespasses" itself suggests, "misdemeanors" derived from ·torts or private wrongs; and Fitzjames Stephen· stated in 1863 that "prosecutions for misdemeanor are to the Crown what . actions for. wrongs are _to private persons." In addition, therefore, to the gap of 150 years that separates "misdemeanors" from "high misdemeanors," there is a sharp functi6n_aldivision between the two. "High crimes and misdeineanors"­were a category· of political crimes against the state, whereas "misdemeanors" described criminal sanctions for private wrongs. An intuitive sense of the difference is exhibited in .the development of English law, for though "misdemeanor'' entered into. the ordinary criminal law, it did not become the criterion of "high misdemeanor" in the par.; . liamentary law · of impeachment Nor did either "high crimes" or "high misdemeanors''. find their way into the general criminal law of England. As late as1757 Blackstone could say that "the first and principal_ [high misdemeanor]. ls the _mal-adniin.; ·istration of such high officers as are in the public trust and employment. This is usually punished by .the method of parlia.inentary_ impeachment." Other· high misdemeanors, he stated, are contempts against . the King's prerogative, _against his person and . government, against his title;. "not amouriting to . treason," ·in a ·word, "political crimes." Treason is plainly a upolitical". crime, an ·offense against the 
•. State; so too bribery of an officer attempts. to cor­
.. rupt admi~istration. of 'the State. Indeed, early in the common law bribery "was ·sometimes viewed as high treason." Later Hawkins referred to "great Bribes ... and ... other such like misdemeanors"; . and Parliament itself regarded· bribery as a"high crime and misdemeanor/' In addition to this iden­tification of bribery, first with "high treason" _and · 

.. then with.· "misdemeanor;" the association, as a: . . matter of ~6nstniction, of "other high ·crimes and .. misdei:neariors" with'"treason, bribery," which are 
unmistakably "political" crimes, lends them a sim­ilar connotation-under the maxim noscitur a sociis [the meaning of a word is or may be.known from the. accompanying words]. 
In sum, "high crimes and misdemeanors" appear to be words of art confined to impeachments, with­out roots· in the ordinary criminal law and which, so far as I could. discover, had no relation to whether an indictment would lie in the particular 
circumstance. . . . 
Legislative Intent: Framers of tne Constitution 
, The provisions for impeachment made in the Con­
stitution of the UnitedStates all find their purposes in our Anglo-American· history.· The respective. powers of the House and Sen~te'are the legacy of the prerogatives of Commons and the House of Lords. "Although English impeachments did not require an indictable crime they were nonetheless criminal proceedings because con­viction was punishable by death, imprisonment, or heavy fine." . (Berger, p. 67) The American approach was ·to "de-criminalize" the proceedings by sharply limiting the sanction to political consequences. Having done so, they could in good conscience allow for possible criminal indictment for the same actions without the double jeopardy (of .the Fifth Amendment) applying. The British monarch had once pardoned a. peer whom the House of Commons. had· impeached, but the Lords had not yet tried. To forestall any such ''mischief," the framers of the Constitution explicitly· forbad it in Article II. If they had riot, civil officers would be little• 
. concerned with. the prospect of impeachment, and the power of Congress. would be thus blunted. The sep­aration of the function ofaccrisers and the functions of jury makes obvious procedural sense. The two:thirds Senate-vote requirement lessens the prospect ofcapri­cious removal and of a faction's denial of the executive's mandate.. Currently, there is much concern that impeachment wiU somehow "destroy" the Presidency. But, clearly, the impeachment. process was. planned by the Coristitu­tiorial Fathers concurrently with their planning of the Presidency. and the Executive Branch. Furthermore, impeachment was, just as clearly, aimed specifically at the President. . The original draft was worded "the Executive is to be removable on impeachment and conviction (for) malpractice or neglect of duty." In .the debate of the Federal Convention· on the 20th of July, 1787, _Col. 
George Mason of Virginia, known as the· Father of the Bill of Rights, argued: . · 
No point is of more importance than that the right 
. of impeachment should:be continu~: Shaff. any man be above justice? Above all, shall· that man be above it who can.com'mit the extensive. injustice? When· greaCci:-imes [are]°'committed, tr am] for punishing the· principal ·as well :as.the coadjutors . . . Shall the man who has practiaed corruption and by.that ineans procured his appofntinerit in the first instance, be suffered to escape·punishment by
repeating his. guiU? -. . . .. . . _, 
Imp~achment was:provided for by i vote.of 8-2, but the impeachable offenses. were. redefined.' Treason and bribery were. grounds_ agreed to by all parties..Edmund Randolph suggested . adding "abusirig . his_ power." Col. 
Mason agai~ spoke: · -., · .·· · · · , : '· ·, .,_ 
. Treason as ·· defined in the Constitution, will not reach many· great dangerous offenses~ .. Attempts to subvert the Constitution may not be treason as 
above defined. . . . . . 

He moved to. insert ''or. maladministratidn" after the word "bribery.'1Madison countered, ;"So' vague a term will be equivalent to tem.ire during the pieasure of the Senate.'' Mason .withdrew the motion and ·substituted "high crimes a.nd. misdemeanors," borrowing from the English Parliamentary ~istory that lie knew so well. Use of this language implied acarry-over' of the English . concepts of the non-criminal nature .of the offenses required, the requirement of graveness. and seriousness of the offense; ancl)~e political ~atri~e of·tJ:ie process. . 
The: Precedents 
· . In-America.n.bistocy,;there have·been twelve'federal impeachments. Only.four personshave been'convicted and removed froni. office .. They ·were all federaijudges·. Of the other eight, some resigned before trial. The most famous impeachment is, of course; 'that. of ·President Andrew Johnson. But, his trial was such a shabby po~ litkal action that it provides· few legal· guidelines. It might be noted that none of the elev~n articles ·delivered against him involved ari offens·e against the Constitu­tion or laws of the United States, except, possibly, a violation of the Tenure of Office Act (later decla_red unconstitutional)'.· · . ' 
The first convicted judge was John Pickering. He was found to have been drunk on the bench and to have used profanity in the courtroom. The next convicted judge was W. H. Humphreys.· He was charged with acting as•judge·in a Confederate state -and was· tried by the Senate during the Civil War! These two cases provide little guidance·to us due to their uniqueness. The last two cases do give us some insight.


In 1912, Judge . Robert W. Archbald was impeached and convicted. He was charged with accepting money from wealthy parties (who did not have cases before him), speculating in the coal business, and accepting money solicited by his clerk from attorneys who prac­ticed. in his court. His conquct, though, was not seen as criminal ,but. rather "exceedingly reprehensible and in marked contrast with the high sense of judicial ethics and probity." It is clear that the Senate removed him for his unethical behavior. 
rn-1936, Judge Halstead L. Ritter was impeached, convicted and removed from the bench of the :federal district court in Southern Florida. Six of the seven articles of impeachment.adopted cited such offenses as splitting fees with a ·former· law..partner from a case in which Ritter gave judgment to the partner's client, collecting other forbidden fees, and notrepcfrting · this on his tax return. The Senate had a majority vote, but not the required two -thirds, on these six articles; On the last article, a conviction was had, 56 to 28, and Ritter was.removed from office..What did the seventh article charge? First, a restatement of the first six articles' charges. Second, the charge that: 
The reasonable and probable consequence of the actions or conduct of Halstead L. Ritter, hereunder specified or indicatec:J. in this article since he became judge of said court, as an individual or as such judge is to bring his court into scandal and disre­pute, to the prejudice of said court and public con­fidence in the administration of justice therein, and to the· prejudice of public respect for and confi­dence in the Federal judiciary, and to render him 
·"unfit to continue to serve as suchjudge. 

Judge Leon R. Yankwich wrote in a Georgetown Law Journal article in 1938 that· 
This ruling definitely lays down the principle that even though upon specific charges amounting to legal violations, the [Senate] finds the accused not guilty, it may nevertheless, find that his conduct in these very matters was such as to bring his office into disrepute and order his· removal upon .that ground. 
Conclusion· 
From an analysis of the language of the· Coristitu­

. tion in its legal and historical context, from a study of the drafters' stated intentions, and from a review of the Congressional precedents, we can see that "high crimes and misdemeanors": 
1. 
does not mean an indictable crime,· either felony or minor violations. ' 

2. 
does not give the Congress unlimited power of removal, Mr._ Ford notwithstanding, but rather, has a definitely delimiting meaning. 3~ does require a "political offense" which must be serious. This could include abuse of office, ne­glect of duty, unethical conduct bringing his office into disrespect, and violating the public trust. 



Copyright ©'Dennis _J.. Owens, 1974. PubUshed here with the permission ·of the author and the Notre Dame
Journal of Legisla~ion. . .. . . . . 
Dennis Oweris is a second-year· law student from Kansas City. A graduate of Rockhurst College, he has founded both the Haynes Reporter, the law school's yearbook and the Notre Dame Journal of Legislation. 

Week in Distortion 

I'm ~ick of writing Week in Di;tortion . . 
I'm also sick. Yeah, I know what you're thinking, but I have a cold and a: sore throat, and next year's rookie Week in Distortion writer was supposed to come up with his debut article but didn't. So, this week, you get to write Week. in. Distortion ·yourself. Just pick eleven digits from one to six and write your story by the numbers. Dice can be used to guarantee random­ness.. ' 
Here we go: 
1. 
Fifty naked, screaming students · 

2. 
Dean of Students John Macheca 

3. 
University Provost James T. Burtchaell 

4. 
SBP candidate Ray Capp 

5. 
· N.D. Security Chief J; Arthur Pears. · 6. Scholastic writer T. J. Clinton: 


1. streaked full speed through the Huddle yesterday. 
2.-. made headlines by ·announcing.. a '. new .unwritten University rule. 
· 3. plotted to replace th!? Holy Trinity. . 4, plastered the. campus with tasteless posters .. 
5. smashed down the door to a student's ·room late last night. _ 
6.' received a record number of obscene phone calls and bomb threats last week; : . 
1. 
Meanwhile, lost in the steam tunnels, ·· 

2. 
When contacted by reporters in the White House files 

3. 
Later, ori a'throne in St. Peter's Basilica ... . _· 

4. 
Afterward;, in a· smoke-filled i.a' Fortune retr~at. 

5. 
Simultaneously, at the St. Joseph County Jail· 

6. 
Somewhatlater, in the torch-lit. depths of the t:icience Q_uaiterly offices _: , . . . 


1. 
Father Flanigan, local energy czar 

2. 
the· mysterious. Brother Gorch 

3. 
R. ·Calhoun Kersten 4.-the latestheir to the Abowd publishing empire. 5.' hundreds of rioting coeds, looking for T.-J. Clinton 


6. noted scientist Mark Frisse . . . . 
1. 
played a Notre Dame Band record backwards arid . heard the following: . . . .· . . 

2. 
released a secret ·iist pf student's names with the comment 

3. 
sat in silence while a voicefrom heaven spoke, saying 

4. 
published an Obseruer editorial to the effect that 

5. 
received a message from outer space cl~iming that 6 .. said, in the voice-of Mercedes McCanmridge 


1. 
"Naked is_ beautiful."._ . . . _ 

2. 
''.We only·want to help·you, whether you want help ·. or not."-. · . . 

3. 
"l'ni only in search of a little power." ~,; 

4. 
"You gave him your body!'' . 5; IIThis is the New Age of Decadence." -, 


6. "This is my beloved Son, in whomTam·well pleased." 
1. 
Bystanders 

2. 
The St. Joseph County Police Force ·3, The men in th'e -:white jackets •._ · · · 


4. 
A noted administrator and his secretary 

5. 
Michael Carl-Goetz and-three.unidentified girls from St. Mary's , · · · . , 

6. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club .. 


-1; strove :vainly to, controlthe crowd 
2. 
were· nonplussed · · . 

3. 
rode the-elevators in the library all day 

4. 
had furi at spring football practice · .· 

5. 
skinny-dipped in .the Library reflecting pool 

6. 
sang the Victory. March 




1. 
in search of more excitement. 1. accosted passers-by on the South Quad. 

2. 
in a fruitless attempt to avoid Observer reporters. 

3. 
while waiting for something else to happen. 

4. 
which was a "clear and immirfont danger/' 

5. 
which brought tears to· the eyes of spectators. 

6. 
whic~ resulted in the loss of a football ticket; 


1. 
Finally, students expecting to move off campus 

2. 
To top ..the whole affair, the entire population of . ·Breen-Pnillips • . 

3. 
In conciusion, the entiz:e basketball team . 

4. 
At the close of the festival, _noted author Norman Mailer . 

5. 
In. addition, all the University trustees 

6. 
At the close of the Mass, Darby O'Gill,. Father Grif­fin's. pet. cock!:?r spaniel 


2. used the goalposts to smash down Mr. Macheca's 
door.· 3..vowed to replace Father Burtchaell. 
4. 
was (were) caught by the rector in violation of parietals. 

5. 
possessed by demons, left for Georgetown the next morning. 

6. 
decided to write a story for· the Scholastic on the .. matter. . . 


. Congratulations! 
You have just written your first campus news story! A few more tries and the Wall Street'Journal might let you write an article on Notre Dame.. 

. -. . . ; -~ 
··The·· Crooked R09}i. 
ANSWER TOLAST.PROBLEl\l • 
. . 

1;·Q-B3 (A mutate,· sixniates being changed by the key.) 
. . . , ·: -·, '. 

GEOFFREY "MOTT-SMITH 
Chess. Review ·-1935 


White mates ·in two moves 
SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE . 


Perspectives on 
/ 

Student Governrnent 
The' recent student body elections, focusing on the administration's actions against student rights, have re­vived the possibility of a return to the strong, rights­oriented student governments of the past. Yet everyone agrees that the radicalism of the Sixties is dead, leav­ing a void in the student strategy book. Still, a look at the crises and tactics of the past may suggest something for the future. 
Back in the "good old days" of 1960 students were carefully guided by the fatherly administration. Curfew was at 10.00 p.m., lights-out (no electricity was pro­vided) at 11:00, and morning Mass check three times a week at 7 :30 a.m. Coats and ties were required,. cars were forbidden, specified areas of South Bend were off­limits on pain of "grave penalty," and the student press was never to question the "wisdom of the administra­tion." The rules had been substantially the same for decades and the administration looked forward to many more such happy decades. 

The first cracks in the monolith came with the Great Corby Hall Riot when several hundred furious but disorganized students made an assault on a symbol of the not-so-benevolent paternalism. Early the next year 19 students, most Woodrow Wilson:·nominees, subtly threatened to release an 80-page critique of stu-· dent life to the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations. The administration loosened up slightly, dropping lights­out, compulsory Mass attendance, and off-limits areas. 
The next year, '62::'63, administration retrenchment produced the "winter of our discontent." Massive food fights were only for starters. SEP Kevin Hart's pro­posal for stay halls, with all four classes mixed to­gether, was supported by many administrators but re­jected by Hesburgh, who compared himself to Lincoln and spoke of moral courage. Meanwhile the Scholastic was taking an independent tack, even calling for a Chancellor-President system with Hesburgh as Chan~ cellor and a layman as President.. The. climax came when a student government committee drew up a "Declaration of Rights and Grievances" which de­nounced the administration policy of·in wco parentis (that has been around quite a· while) and called for 13 reforms including fre~dom of off-campus students to rent apartments, cars ~for seniors, 24 hours of ·elec­tricity in the halls, one or two priests in each hall solely for spiritual guidance, allowing women in hall lounges, a tripartite judicial board and abolishment of curfew. · . 
This document was· considered so radical that when the Scholastic tried to print it the magazine was sup­pressed for a while and forbidden to print anything controversial. All seven editors and ·the faculty advisor resigned in protest and a secret committee of·student government officers replied by passing out mimeo­graphed copies of the Declaration in the dark of night. With national attention focused on the battle both sides retreated; censorship was quietly dropped. 
After two relatively quiet years Lenny Joyce, the founder of ND's own SDS, began, the "great radical period" in the· elections of 1966. The Dunn-Fish contest 
__ had fallen.into trivialities so Joyce.organized the Popu-, !ar Frorit Party uniting the SDS with the YAF, and in a week-long moneyless campaign rolled up 30% of the vote, even after the right wing had split when it looked as if he would, win. Both opposing candidates adopted his "17 Theses"· which demanded. a . wide range of stti­den t rights and the creation of a student union to handle service projects. · Before the year's end the curfew was dropped,. o-c students could have cars and rent apartments, and rules· on women and ·liquor were tacitly relaxed. The new SEP, Jim Fish, began the stu~ dent union. 
In November of '67 Robert Sam Anson took over the dying Voice and resurrected it as the ·observer. The paper quickly gained a radical reputation and when, on the spur of the· mome!'}t, Anson 1,:eprinted a Berkeley­Barb article using the word "screw," another censorship crisis erupted. This time it was Fish's student govern­ment that wanted the muzzle but the attempt finally failed and the Observer went its merry way. · 



The '67 elections produced Chris Murphy whose ac­tion program fizzled when he took a full-time job as a traveling salesman for the University's money-raising project, SUMMA. He was followed by Richard Rossie with a strong program of willingness to confront the ad­ministration and alumni "in· any way necessary." The SLC began by passing the first parietal hours and re­laxed drinking provisions. (A few years before Hes­burgh had threatened to throw out 2000 students and 14 rectors before he would allow parietals.) Hesburgh announced the ('15-minute rule" in February of '69­. demonstr:~tors blocking free access would be given 15 
minutes.to disperse before ID's were collected. 
-The rule was used the following November during the term of Phil McKenna, who was elected on a plat­form of getting student equaHty in the University com­munity. Dow and CIA recruitment ·was : blocked and 15 minutes after a warning, ID's were collected from everyone in .sight, including one -student who wanted to be recruited. -Ten, students were suspended. The racial question became crucial as the University and the student government tried to decide how to deal with ·the influx of black students. 
. Dave Krashna became the first black.SEP and a 

mont_!i later the Cambodia. invasion and Kent State 
killings fueled the high point of student radicalism at 
Notre_ Dame. Over the pleas of Hesburgh, Krashna 
called a student strike, and classes, were replaced by 
demonstrations and teach-ins: The period was marked 
by disaffection with the University as well as the na­
tion: the Scholastic called for Hesburgh to ._ resign and 
be replaced by a younger man (one suggestion was 
Fr. Burtchaell) and a poll showed -a large segment of 
the graduating class felt that Notre Dame ~ad failed 
them socially and intellectually. 
The emotional peak of the days of rage could not be maintained for long, the '70~'71 year began the decline into apathy. The Princeton plan for a two-w~ek break at election time tolet students get into politics was de­feated; half the students did not even vote: But the de­bate did produce an interesting statement by Fr. Burt-cha.eUin a Scholastic interview: · 
I -view the recess as essentially a fall vacation which is conveniently scheduledto coincide with the period of peak political activity ... any decision of _this scope must be made by the entireUniversity, that is by the people who make up the University, botli faculty and students. It is up to theJndividual members of the University to vote for or against a fall vacation. · · · 

John Barkett won the narrowest election in recent memory on a platform of communication with the ad­ministration. He communicated quite well with the ad­ministration but hardly at all with the students. Wide­spread dissatisfaction with do-nothing pooh-bahs re­sulted in the election of unwilling King Kersten and the bread and circuses Oligarchy. His court saw itself as a service organization and student apathy continued, un­affected by the brief blowup over.the Lewis Hall inci­dent. 
Last year's elections were utter chaos, with three constitutions, two· general elections, 14 candidates, one non-candidate_ (Kersten), .and a brief period of martial law. Out of it all came H-Man Etienne. His term has been marred by administration attempts, particularly with the calendar and judicial rights, to return to the good.old. days of. in loco parentis. Except for a strong but losing battle organized by Academic Commissioner Chris Nedeau on the calendar, the Etienne regime has been generally inactive in mobilizing student support. 
But -the recent SBP _elections offer some· hope· of reversing the frend toward apathy and despair for change, Pat McLaughlin's election, based on_ emphasiz­ing student rights, offers some hope, -but the 'hope is darkened by the failure of half the student body to vote. 
Further tactics for change remain very much_ a questionmark. The governments from '66 to '.70 gained their biggest·reforms _by mobilizing a student· body, which while moderate compared to many others was far more radical than our present group is. Barring· ex­treme and unlikely reaction by the administration (it is _movingin small steps now) we will not see the chance for such tactics again. McLaughlin hopes to be able to work through the present political system; particularly the SLC, with faculty support for change. But the chief danger of this come-letsus-reason~together · approach is that the SBP may (as happened to Murphy and Bar~ kett) be cut off from his popular support and end by working for, rather than with the administration. What must somehow develop is a system of "creative ten­sion," of checks and balances, in which cooperation can exist along.with occasional political tangles to maintain a balance between separate parts of the same commu­nity. 
-pat hanifin 



-.••·: .. r'.;~,•..~ 

·····•·1 

J 
·..•.... >. ··••·· ago· \] 


,..,, · · il 
.. nes .·rJ 
!;,"'-'·' -.~ ;::\:•• ::,:·::<:· ~-~· ~_-,-. ._\!;·;_:>.·•.::·:· --.;-:i 
~.S221 's,'f,;J;.r. ·.~JL.,i:r., j}: f;jjj 
A few years ago, I read an essay entitled, "The Stu~ dent as Nigger." l forget the author's name; nor can I recall with precision the evidence -a marshalling of impressions. rendered• as fact -which indicted teach­ers as slaveholders and comforted students as the uni~ versity's most oppressed majority. Although few con­crete statements yield to memory, I remember reading . the piece with a profound sense of exhilaration~ There 
,was a whisper in the wind that a messiah might arrive 
bearinga system of deliverance, guaranteed to move 
the student beyond the reach of a ma.d professor's 
whimsy. I· discovered the essay while rebounding off 
a first-semester· sophomore-year paranoiac stroke ·dur­
ing which one of my teachers seemed fo reek sadistic 
pleasure from returning my .weekly papers bearing 
such epithets as "damn fool," "go·back to first grade," 
''.this is. the. worst yet." DamnaUon; demotion, and 
apocalypse came cheap that year.· It was the time of 
academic dread and what better medicine than to read 
"The Student as Nigger." The oppressed achieve a rush 
of pathetic righteousness when informed by an angry 
young writer that many_, others share similar agonies 
arid. the revolution ·is doubtless at hand. Indeed de­
Hveiance flashes like a mirage after every jeremiad be-. 
ginning with "a.nd furthermore ; . .'; · · · 
At this point, it is safe to assume that. the student academic revolution will not' see fruition before the Second Coming.. For if. students in the sixties waged a. revolution , in political consciousness. against. govern­mental policies in Vietnam, then their successfully recognized presence must be attributed to the reality of 
a 
. dearly . di.fferentiated opposition. The psychology of revolut.ion is always an extension of them~against-us. 

A. 
student revolution. in America, however, is. impossible for. the opposition falls under. the amorphous umbrella of 4ladminis.trative authorities." · Compiexity · mounts when tile autho~ities are both for.and against'. General­


ly, administrative action is calculated for the good of students. Confusion arises when the students might 
· hold diverse interpretations of the·good. Also a trans­formation of the oppressed lot of the student -::'-::-what­ever manifestation the oppression might assume -.--is unlikely insofar as students have a high levt?l of endur­ance. If students are often victims, they are also stoics, brought up to believe in the rainbow notion of future dividends. 
Nonetheless, essays like ".The Student as Nigger" are fun to read. Although such pieces are doomed to fail as tickets for revolution, they can indeed point, .with pro­found precision, to a.very real problem in our educa~ tional system which can only begin to be solved among the individuals involved; . No matter_ what policy an administration ·engenders ·and attempts to inculcate re­garding student life and academics, the measure of a university is the ability of teachers to educate students and the students' ability to educate themselves and one another. The classroom, after all, is the focal pointof academe. The question of whether a student is victim­ized depends largely upon the relationships which form between students and teachers. . . . . 
One need not look far to find negativity. There are always perverse teachers wh·o announce with· a stark businesslike demeanor fhe.virtual impossibility of any student to get higher than a "B" in a particular test or course; there. are the so-called educators to whom the education of students• isa necessary poison. enabling such scholars to continue uncovering buried truth so' that obscure 'ice cubes of knowledge might pa.ck frozen bookshelves in academic world which, for them; is arctic at best; and; there are, of course,· those· teachers who look upon stu_dents with disdain and disrespect, appar­ently. unable to divine a. kinship humanity.' 'Last year, a friend· of mine overheard a professor utter; "l'U kill a· freshman someday.". · · · · 
It is, however, a_n absurdity to wrail for any length of time against terrible teachers.. Like bad weather, they will always: be around.· Graduate schools will con­tinue to '.'turn out" a certain ratio of dilettantes. Bad teachers are as wides'pread as bad doctors are as wide­spread as bad a.uto mechanics and so on. Yet while 

. auto mechanics.'are a blight ins'o!ar as they simply do not know a· brake shoe from a horseshoe, college pro-



fessors, on the other hand, are awful not for lack. of knowledge. Ph.D.'s generally know their business. Grad­uate school comprehensives require a certain high aca­demic proficiency. Poor teachers, therefore, manifest their deficiency· by their inability to respect and com­municate to students. It is in such circumstances that . victimization occurs. A power game ensues; a student feels oppressed, beleaguered, and .withon'. recourse.· I have suffered such straits only a few times. I spent my freshman year elsewhere and escaped the crunch of calculus, science, modern language; literature and composition, lab, and psychology all in one semester. Even so, myJew agonizing courses were few too many. I recall feeling alienated, doubting my self-importance, experiencing a pervasive depression stemming from.my inability to please a professor who . criticized with a 
hammer rather than a handshake . 
Gratefully, the overwhelming_ :;,;:roportion of teachers 

that I have taken have been extremely fine, not merely 
by being "well-versed in their field" but, more important, 
by reaching out and touching the humanity of each stu­
dent. A teacher who• tyrannizes is not a teacher but a 
tyrant.. Teachers should lead students to discover new 
worlds· and, in so doing, learn· more about themselves 
not merely as scholars but as people. Somehow, the best 
teachers tend to "teach" themselves as individuals and 
are most successful when .the subject taught comple­
ments their personalities. In such cases, the students 
find that education· is most valuable in light of what 
remains after• the grade is received -:-that is, did a 
particular course make one a more sensitive, knowledge~ 
able human being; or, did the course merely fulfil a 
requirement;_ did classroom contact with a particular 
professor make an important contribution to a student's 
life as .an example of. the humane scholar to whom 
teaching is a vocation rather than a job; or, did· class­
room contact with a· teacher make a student cringe, 
grateful that a semester ·of boredom and drudgery is 
over?· · 
* * * 

_ It is inescapable. to conclude that the thrust of the twentieth century is•. toward · systemization,. ·machine­domination and computer organization.. Universities share the characteristics of the century. As the crunch for teaching positions grows tighter. and t~ghter, the 
vise on the teacher -a veritable yoke -grows in­creasingly constricting. The tension, inevitably, ·for the untenured professor is between devoting more time to teaching as an art or undercutting class preparation time by writing great scholarly tomes for publication to help assure tenure. Al~o, from a student perspec~ tive, personal. experience and the experience of. friends indicate that, for those intent upon entering graduate or law school,. such mechanical criteria as graduate or . law boards often become a debilitating bludgeon; they are no longer merely a measure of how well one re­sponds for three hours on an ·arbitrary set of·questions but, instead, become a profoundly important knife which can serve very easily to amputate -often undeservedly . -, a qualified student from the graduate or law school of his or her choice. The result in such cases is that three hours can undermine four years of excellence. Thus victimization -student or professor as ·oppressed -results when false or relatively unimportant criterion prohibits the more human elements to be the priority. · 
. And so,• as members. of· the university -or; more basically, members of human society _:_ the question boils down to the age-old problem of proper and pre­cise perspective. It is a question akin to gaining the world and losing the soul. In matters of apparent num­ber -a student is virtuous if he gets an "A-" or better, for example -:-it· would bid wen·for many. to look beyond the mesh of number arid see it all as fun­damental but relative. Numerical criteria are funda­mental · because knowledge is important; good marks should be a precise measure of academic achievement. This fundamental quality, however, bestows a responsi­bility on the teacher. to be fair. Number is relative, certai_nly, because a good life does not hinge totally on an "A" or a "C" but a student's outlook and self-esteem may. be profoundly. influenced by the spirit with which a teacher bestows a grade. 


SPEAKERS 
lUONDAY (1st): 
Ward-Phillips Lectures: Robert Scholes (Brown Univ.), "The Future of Fictional Criticism." Library Aud., 4 :15 p.m. Perspective Series: Anthony Quinton (New Col­lege, Oxford), New Biology Aud., 8:00 p.m. 
TUESDAY (2nd): 
Ward-Phillips Lectures: Robert Scholes (Brown Univ.), "A Genre Whose Time Has Come," Library Aud., 4 :15 p.m. "South Africa: Peaceful or Violent Change." Moderator: Prof. James Bellis (Sociology). Partici­pants: Prof. Alek Che-Mponda (Government), Prof. Cassidy, Prof. Peter Walshe (Government). 7:30-9:00 p.m., Black Cultural Arts Center, No. 2AA La Fortune. 
WEDNESDAY(3rd): 
Ward-Phillips Lectures: Robert Scholes (Brown Univ.), "Structural Fabulation," Library Aud./4:15 p.m; Perspective Series: Anthony Quinton (New College, 
·Oxford), New Biology Aud., 8:00 p.m. Music Forum: Dana Spencer. Little Theater (SMC), 4:30 p.m. ,"Reflections on Our Permanent Revolution," Little Theater, 8:00 p.m. ­
, "Frontiers of the Mind," (film), room N105 IUSB, noon. 
THURSDAY (4th): 
Ward-Phillips Lectures: Robert Scholes (Brown Univ.), "The Good Witch of the West," Library Aud., 4 :15 p.m. Collegiate Jazz Festival, Symposium. (Call 283­
. 3797 for details.) 
FRIDAY (5th): 
Ward-Phillips Lectures: Robert Scholes (Brown Univ.), discussion period, Library Aud., 4:15 p.m. , Perspective Series: _Anthony-Quinton (New Col­-lege, Oxford), Faculty Lounge (Library), 3:30 p.m. 
SUNDAY (7th) : . William Lattimer, South Bend Art Center Lecture Series. 
WEDNESDAY (10th) : "Multiply ... and Subdue the Earth," (film), room N105 IUSB, noon. 

l\lUSIC: SATURDAY (30th): 
Gary Bartz, "Black Perspective in Transition," An Experience in African Jazz.·Stepan C_tr., 8:30p.m.,
s2.oo; ·· ·-· · 
SUNDAY (31st): 
Rare Earth, ACC, 730 p.m. Tickets $5.50, $4.50, $3.50. St. Pierre Ruffin Club-sponsored concert, 4:00 p.m., Recital Hall, IUSB. 
WEDNESDAY (3rd) : ND Glee Club, David Isele, conductor. Washington Hali; 815 p.m., free. 
THURSDAY (4th): Student Recital: Aimee Beckman, soprano: Little Theater (SMC), 8:15·p.m. Spiritual Concert: Andrea Crouch and the Dis­ciples, Morris Civic, 7 :00 p.m. Tickets $4.50 in advance, $5.50 the day of the concert. 
FRIDAY (5th) : , · 
Gospel Concert,· Morris Civic; 7:30 p.m. Tickets ,· $4.00, $3.50. -Concert Series: · Barrington High School Concert 
Choir, Little Theater, 8:15 p.m. Collegiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Ctr. Friday nite, · $3.00; all sessions (Fri. nite; Sat. day, Sat. nite) 

$7.oo: 
,r 
SATURDAY (6th): . 
Collegiate Jazz Festival, Stepan Ctr. Saturday day session, $2.00; Saturday nite session, $4.00; all ses­-sions_ (FrLnite, both Sat.) $7.00. 
SUNDAY (7th): 
Choral Mass: SMC Collegiate Choir, Hol~.Cross Junior College. 
TUESDAY (9th): 
Madeleine Schotz, violinist, ~i,ttle Theater, 8 :15 p.in. 
FRIDAY (12th): 
Foghat, Morris Ci\'.ic, ·8:00 p.m. Tickets $5.00 in advance, $5.50 day of concert. 




Coming Distractions 
FILl\lS: 
l\lONDAY (1st) : "The· Godfather," Washington Hall, 7 :00 & 10:00 p.m., $1.00. International Film Festival: "Smiles of a Summer Night" (Bergman, 1955), 7:00 & 9:00 p.m., Engi­
. neering Aud., free. English subtitles. 

TUESDAY (2nd) : -"The Godfather,'' Washington Hall, _7 :00 & -10 :00 p.m., $1.00. 
FRIDAY (5th): "Two Lane Blacktop," Engineering Aud., 8 :00. & 10:00 p.m., $1.00. 
SATURDAY (6th): "Two Lane Blacktop," Engineering Aud., 8:00 & 10:00 p.m., $1.00. 

EXHIBITIONS: 
O'Shaughnessy Gallery: Dorothy Miner Memorial Exhibition: A Selection of Late Medieval a~d Renaissance Manuscripts from the McNear Collection. Through April 14. Todd Walker-Photography.. Through March ·31. Paul Jenkins, color field painting. Through April 14. Eastern Sculpture from the Collection of Lest_er Wolfe. Through April 14._ 
Radecki Galleries: 
Graphics of Leonard Baskin, Laus Pictorum. Through March 31. · Graphics _by Samuel Chamberlain, opens April 1, through April 30. 

YWCA Art.Gallery: Paintings by Anthony Lauck, CSC. Through April 30. 
South Bend Art Center: High School Art. Opens March 31, through April 21. Ross Brown--:-:-Sculpture. Opens March 31; through April 21. ­
l\loreau Gallery Upper l\loreau Gallery Hammes Gallery· 
Se.nior Comprehensive Shows, ·through April 1. Annual Faculty-Student Show, all media. Opens April 7, through April 30. _ 

l\loreau Photo Gallery: 
Edward Earle and Robert Kinca,id: Photographs and Serigraphs. · Opens April 6, through April 30. 

_OTHER DIVERSIONS: 
SUNDAY (31st) : "One .Man Show-Portraying Mark Twain," Wash~ ington Hall, 8:00 p.m. 
FRIDAY (5th): _ . . Harlem Globetrotters, ACC, 8 :00 p.m. ':['ickets $4.50 $3.50, $2.50.. : 


Starting on Thursday night next week and stretch­
ing into the wee hours on Sunday morning, one of the 
nation's most unique and best-respected college music 
festivals will be happening on the Notre Dame campus. 
For the sixteenth straight year, the Collegiate Jazz 
Festival will be bringing to Notre Dame some of the 
best amateur and professional jazz musicians in the 
country for more than twenty hours of the best jazz 
music you're likely to find. 
CJF '.74 will be the latest in a long line of festivals 
that have buiU a solid music :reputation: perennially re­
viewed in New York, Detroit, and Chi-town, and the 
subject of articles on the American Downbeat and 
British Melody-Maker magazines as well._. It· brings 
together the.best. . . . _ · · · · · 
. This year the twenty college bands. participating 
were chosen from nearly twice as many recorded audi­tions, and. include. groups that 0 have done professional work in the jazz.field:, The Judges are chosen. from the best professional .jazzmen _in the business, purposely chosen to bring in ·an realms of the diverse jazz spec­trum. This year they include such young talents· as sax . player Billy Harper and trombonist Bill '\Vatrous, and veteran ,drummer Roy Haynes, , whose credits include work with such greats as Miles Davis '.1nd John.Col­
trane. 
The weekend starts on Thursday night with a free 
jazz symposium in the library auditorium. . . a. perfect 
chance to become familiar with the kind of music that'll 
be played all weekend, if_ you aren'talready, and to 
hear the professionals talk about their trade. Then on 
Friday night the music. begins, with the college combos 
playing twenty-five-minute sets on Friday, night, Sat­
urday afternoon, and Saturday night. Late on Saturday 
night .the .judges .win present awards for the best solo 
and. combo performances, and .then .get fogether for 
what ought to be the highlight of the festival: an·.un­
rehearsed jam session of their own. . . . __ 
The atmosphere in Stepan Center ought _. to be a 
listener's dream. The ElectroVoice cmnpany has do~ 
nated a -custom-designed_ sound system that ought to 
make the sound·as· good or.better than any ·convo·con­
cert: Chain; for sitting and floor ·space' for blankets, .plus 
an invitation -to bring.whatever· you like ·10 help enjoy 
the evening, and to let the performers know when you 

like what they're doing, should make things good and . 
relaxed. In the. words of the Festival chairman; Ken 
Lee, <'You could be deaf and stiliha.ve a good time:" 
Tickets will be on sale between no_w and_festival time 
at the C.A.C. Student Union office· on fourth-floor La­
Fortune, _one to. four in the. afternoon;. and at Boogie 
Records 'and Pandora's.. Cost 'for the Thursday night 
symposium is free; Friday night session $3.00, Saturday .afternoon $2.00, and Saturday night (with.the Judges' Jam) $4~00. · A ticket for .the whole weekend·,·twenty hours ·of music/ costs· seven bucks (which ain't bad next to some other N.D. musical events). . . . . . · So put away your Elton John records for a little while nexfweekend and try.cmsame jazz. You might decide yot.i." like it. ­

.~pat ·roacli 




28 

The director calls it "a hilarious comedy" but it is sometimes difficult to see the humor in Harold Pinter's The Homecoming, being presented this weekend by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre. The work of Pinter is frequently placed in. the category of absurdist theatre, yet probably _"realist" is a. better term. It is this brutal realism that director Richard Bergman has maintained and perhaps even heightened. The ND-SMC production stresses the natural dimension of acting, giving full vent to the savage, yet always human, situa­tions of Pinter plays. The Homecoming tells of a son's return to his lower­class home after six years away teaching college. The play was. originally set in England, but Bergman has · "Americanized" it and the transition comes off rather well. Teddy, the eldest son, brings home with him his wife Ruth, whom his family has never met before. The family consists of his two brothers, Lenny and Joey, his uncle, Sam, and his father, Max. These four are locked in a circle of mutual hatred, presided over by Max, who wielding his cane, maintains his shaky disci­pline over Lenny and Joey, one a pimp and the other a small-time boxer and small-time stud. Their mother, called by Max "a stinking slutbitch" died several years . previously, after imparting to the boys "the moral code ·they live by." When Teddy brings his wife home with him they assume she's a whore, and as it turns out, she is. Max and his two youngest sons make passesat her while Teddy stands by disinterestedly. Eventually they make an arrangement with Ruth so that she stays; pay­ing her way "on her back" as Teddy leaves, returning to England and their children. · The play is plain and straightforward, with no frills, and derives its power from the interaction of the ch~racters. Max and his sons. are people of perversion forever clashing until they discover Ruth, a fixture for their home they can all agree upori.. On the way to the "happy" ending there is a lot of humor, most of it of a· fairly grim variety. It comes from Max's seeming 
conception of his·. wife as :-two women, one ·a ·saint and the.other a whore, and from Lenny's unctuous,patter, and fastly from uncle Sam's death, which is rendered 
as hilarious-by the other characters' reactions to it. 
. Max, played by Mark Swiney, is a· hateful old man whose by-play \vith Sam (Dan Dailey) is the hitof the show. Paul Kor_th as Lenny and .Chris Ceraso as Teddy give forceful presentations, as· do Cliff Fetters as. Joey arid Diana s·liaheen as Ruth; whose constant wig-. changing highlights_. her whoring 'syndrome. Coupled. with some incredibly funny directional touches added by Richard Bergman, the whole show is a potent mix­ture oi perversion and humor. Many thought from its title that The Homecoming was to. be the presentation of the pilot show for "The Waltons.'' Nothing could be · further from the truth. 
-george sibley 

THE HOMECOMING 

/ "Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!"· -Melville 
The time grows short. The persistent afternoon sun melts the unwek6me. snow, and thatlong-dreaded Mon­day morning now lurks in the offing-that morning when my musings will for the last time be hacked out on a typewriter and rushed down to the press. There is too much still to be said-too many people _to thank -too many last-minute protestations to be made. · 
Where to begin? I could go on for pages thanking people, but they all know who they are; and it is per~ haps more important that I take this last opportunity to speak in their name, to say one last time all the things we have stood for, all the hopes we have nour­ished and. the fears we have harbored. 

We have operated all year under the· assumption ,s that.our words can have meaning and effect; that, as Hannah Arendt said: 
f
L 
ii 
11 I 
r 
I ii cuss them with our fellows.
1. 
i 
We have spoken because we believe that it is our com­

i 
mon discourse, our conscious interchange of ideas, criti­

I 
cisms, fears and _hopes which brings us together. Nat­
urally this discourse is often not a pleasant one. But 
we are a community with many· unpleasant problems,

I 
pro_blems which must be dealt with in these pages. At a

I 
time where an overzealous administration, a complacent· faculty, ·and an apathetic student body combine· to· 11 create. a stale and unproductive mix; it is surprising· 
However much we are affected by the things of the world, however deeply they may stir and stimulate_ us, they become human for us only when we can dis­

11 .. 
and a bit ludicrous to discover an article on the front

r 
page of thE,: Wall Street Journal singing our praises as if we were some hot/ new municipal bond issue. 

I It is because the situation is such, because all is not well at Notre Dame, that we must continue to talk; to 
'! "call 'em ·as we see 'em," ·to stick our necks out. As I have said before, we have no assurance that our opin­ions \\'.ill be wise, our analyses trenchantor our critiques well founded. But if we were to keep silent for fear of
I error, we would have no right to be here. 

Our words Hke feeble arrows fly off into the world · around us, often to be lost, often to go unnoticed. But still we speak, still ·we implore, still we protest,· and still we hope-for we know that our discourse, however stunted, is what will ultimately draw us together in unity and understanding. 
Peace and farewell. 
kerry mcnamara · 
30 







FREE POSTER! 
The. Glenm~ry Home Missioners are looking for a few good men and women who believe in people. 
Share your life with the people of the South and Appalachia as a Priest, Brother or Sister. 
. 
Send for poster. 


. 
Send information a.bout Glenmary Home Missioners. · 


GLENMARY, Room 43, Box· 46404, Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 
NAME---,-------'------------­ADDRESS ___________CITY_______ 
AGE ____TELEPHONE._____________ 
_, ......,·-­

This isyourkey to unprecedented calculating capacity. OnlyHewlett-Packard offers it 
It lets you "speak" to your calculator with total consistency, because ·· it lets you load data into a 4-Register Stack;This means: (l)you always_. enter and process your data the same way; no matter what your problem; 
(2) you don't have to re-enter data; (3) you can see all intermediate data anytime. _· . ··· · . · ·_ 
Our HP-45 is one of two pre:programmed scientific pocket-sized computer calculators with this key. That's one reason it's the most pow~ erful pre-programmed pocket-sized scientific computer calculator. Here are three of many others: _ . ·• .·· · __ _ . ·• _·. · · . __ _· · 
I. It's pre-programmed to handle 44. arithmetic, trigonometric and logarithmic functions and data manipulation operations beyond. the basic four(+,-, x, +). . .• _ . -_-· ·. . . · 
2. It lets you store nine constants in its nine Addressable Memory. 
Registers, and it gives you a "LastX" Register for error correction or ·multiple operations on the same number: . · 
3. It displays. up to 10 significant digits in either fixed-decimal or ­scientific notation and automatica)ly positions the decimal point through-.· out its 200-decade range. , . _•. ·_·· · . ·_ -· .·.· · · . · _-·• · 
. · Our HP-35 is the other. It handles 22 functions;has one Addressable Memory Register arid also displays up to 10_ digits in either fixed-decimal. or scientific _notation. It's the second most powerful pre-programmed: . · pocket-sized scientific computer calculator. 
Both of these exceptional instruments are on display now; If you're ... looking for unprecedented. calculating capacity for your money, by all • means see and testthem. :­
. · · · • : . · · : · Hewlett-Packard makes the inost · ·. HEWLETT [hp] PACKARD. amancecl pocket-sized com_puter . • 'calwlators in the\\Olid. · 
. HAMMES NOTRE DAME. BOOKSTORE ' . UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME · .· '· NOTRE -DAME, IN. 46556 · . (219) 283-6316 '.: . 
9. A.M.-5 P.M.-·· MONDAY THRU FRIDAY -­



