
Jrenway Park. Madison Square Garden. ."Wrigley Field. The Los Angeles Colloseum... Cam.den Yards. 

STUDENT GOVFRNMENT
Soldier Field.
STUDENT GOVFRNMENT 

Notre D:ame Stadium. 
Welcome a friend into the House that Rockne Built with the Student Government Ticket Exchange. 
*The student exchanging a ticket must visit the Joyce Center Ticket Office at Gate One between 8:30 and 5:00 Tuesday through Thursday the week of the game for which the student requires a general admission ticket. 
* 
The student must present his or her own student ticket book, signed in ink in the designated area, and a corresponding Notre Dame student identification card. 

* 
The ticket for that week's game will then be removed from the ticket book and the student will be· given a general admission ticket for the same seat. The student must pay the difference between a student ticket and a general admission ticket-$15.00. · 

* 
Since there is a limit to the number of student tickets which may be exchanged for each game, the ticket office will exchange tickets on a first come-first served basis. Students are also limited to ex­changing only two tickets per season. 

* 
Restrictions regarding the resale of either student tickets or the exchanged tickets remain the same as in the past. 


Share the experience of the legendary Irish student secti<?n with a friend, and watch as Notre Dame 
' 

Vanquishes Vanderbilt Terminates Texas Undermines USC Nukes Navy 






SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 3 FOUNDED 1867 5EPIEM:BER14,1995 
CoVERSToRY 




GOOOAAALLL!!! 

With talented players and the spirit to match, Notre Dame's women's soccer team aims for the National Championship. 
...............-.................page18 
Domed Existence 

From SYRs to philosophy classes, author Kevin Coyne captures the ups and downs of life at Notre Dame in his newly­released book, Domers. 
................................page22 
The Work of God? 
Somecallit a cult Otherscriticizeitfor its secrecy, wealth and questionable recruiting practices. But members say that it's a legitimate Catholic organization for pious laypeople. SclwlastictakesalookatwhatOpusDeireally 
lS. 
FEATURES 

PlayingitSafe................................................................4 
by Shannon Lennard 
TheYoung andtheRestless...................~ ..........~~ ......11 
by Kate McShane 
TrueColors..........................................·........................12 
by Adrienne Corpuz 
Exc11Ses,Excuses.........................................................14 
by Arianne Westby 
BackintheBiueandGold ........................... -............16 
by Shannan Ball 
DEPARTMENTS From the Editor ...................................................... : .... 2 1.etters .......................................................................... 3 Campus Watch ............................................................. 10 Battling the Commcxiores .............. ·························~···· 15 Splinters from the Press Box ............................. : ........... 20 OpeningNight ................................................. ~'....•..:...21 OutofBounds ..................... -....... ; .................................. 24 OnOther Campuses .................................................... 25 CorningDistractions .................................................. 26 Week in Distortion ................................................... 27 Final Word ................................................................ 28 
1 



It Can Happen To You... 

As I sat down four nights ago to write this column, I was having a hard time relating to the off-campus crime story we are running this week. So far, life at Turtle Creek had been smooth sailing for my roommates and me. Although friends of ours had experienced problems with break-ins, vandalism and theft after only a month into the school year, the three of us were convinced that we were immune to such misfortunes. 
I always thought that something like that would never happen to me. But itcan. And it did. I wasn't careless, and I had done everything I was supposed to do in terms of safety measures. Or at least I thought I had. 
Monday night, my laundry was stolen from the inside of my fenced in "backyard" at Turtle Creek. Granted, only T-shirts were taken, which are replaceable. And I realize that friends ofmine have had more valuable possessions taken from their apartments. But that is not the point What is disturbing to me is that someone came into my home and took something that did not belong to him. And I was only a few feet away when the incident occurred. 
Problems with off-campus safety seem to increase each year. With a growing number of students moving outside of the dorms, safety is a concern that I believe the university must address. The story begins on page 4. 
This Week's Cover Story 

The controversy surrounding Opus Dei was first brought to attention on our campus a few weeks ago in the Observer. Since then, many have questioned its methods of recruitment and religious practices. On page 7, layout editor Steve Myers takes a deeper look at the mystery surrounding this Catholic organization. 
Theresa M Hennessey 
Managing Editor 

Cover photo of Opus Dei insignia by Stan Evans 
30YearsAgo... 
Thirtyyearsago,theroadleadingfromNotreDametoSaintMary'swasblacktopped. This may seem like no big deal to us, but at the time, it caused quite a stir. A number of students and alumni spoke out against this campus improvement. How well would this letter to the editor, in Scholastic's September 17, 1965, issue, go over ifit were printed today? 
Editor: 

I wasshockedwhen I visited the campuslastmonth asmyfamilywas passing through. 
Finally, Notre Dame has reached the height offoolishness. Someone has blacktopped 
the road from Notre Dame to Saint Mary's. 
Who uses that road anyway? Only three distinct groups. The few Notre Dame 
students who actually like Saint Mary's girls. 
Several nuns and priests who shouldn't mind the hardship ofa cinder path. 
And the final group, the horde of Saint Mary's girls who flock to the Notre Dame 
library every weekend afternoon and evening-ostensibly to study, though everyone 
knows all they want is a man. 

Thispaving ofthe road, which serves only those three groups, is therefore ridiculous. 
The money expendedon this road could have been better used to raisefaculty salaries, 
to recruit football players, or tofile lawsuit! against those who wouldtarnish the golden 
image ofthe University. 
Charles Halpert Chicago, Illinois 
-TMH 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 


Lay Off Lou 
Dear Editor: After reading last week's cover story, I realized that there are two views held on this campus regarding Lou Holtz. Some see him as one of the top coaches in the nation and a prominent character inNotre Dame's illustrious football history.· Other students believe he is overrated, past his prime, and should move on for the good of the university. This latter group feels that Notre Dame wins because of great talent, not great coaching. Now that Notre Dame has lost its dominance, many people are jumping on the bandwagon and calling for Lou's resignation. These Notre Dame "fans," who expect to win anational championship every year, should not be so judgemental of Coach Holtz. In his 10 years at Notre Dame, he has won a national championship, barely missed winning two others, and won nearly 80 percent of his games. So for those of you who want to boycott the Lou chant forever or just think he should retire, cut him some slack. This is the same coach who captured the 1988 title and could do no wrong in the students' eyes two years ago. Lou Holtz has a lot of coaching left in him and when he returns, and he will return, the students should welcome him back with a heartfelt "Lou!" 
John Vadaparampil, '98 


3 






Playing It Safe 
Life off campus poses new problems for students' security and well-being 
BY SHANNONLENNARD 
No parietals, big parties, private bath 
rooms-living off campus has its 
. advantages. But there are also some disadvantages to being off campus without campus security, lots ofneighbors and helpful rectors to watch out for danger. 
Already this year, residence break-ins, vandalized cars and stolen bicycles have been problems for a number of off-campus students. 
Chris Pelic and Ken Maverick, seniors living in Campus View, weren't even here a week before they were confronted with therealityoflivingoutsideofthe university's gates. On August 23, when Maverick was leaving for class, he saw a strange man lurkingaroundthecomplex. Unfortunately, the man noticed that Maverick did not lock the door on his way out. Anticipating an easy afternoon burglary, the intruder en­tered the apartment. 


At that time, Pelic was in his bedroom working on his computer. The intruder demandedmoney,and whenPelicexplained 
that he did not have any, the manbecameangry. Heforced · Pelic into his car and made him drive to an automated teller machine. "Looking back, I should have made a move once I was outside," saysPelic. "Iregretgettingin the car. It could have been a big mistake." 
Pelic withdrew $50, dropped the stranger off and drove, shaken but unharmed, back to his apartment. 
Senior Mike Blaes and his roommates were all in class when their house on East Mi­nor Street was burglarized on September5th. Theintruders entered the house through a window andas they wereleav­ing were discovered by the landlord. The burglars still managed to steal some small personalitems from thehouse. "After finding that someone hadrummaged through all our 
. belongings, Ifeltvery intense, not really violated, but both­ered that day. Now we worry about what we lost," says Blaes. 

Liza Nykiel, a senior living at Campus View, also has to worry about what she lost -her$600 bike. OnAugust27, she parked the bike and locked it, but it was missing when she got up the next morning. "The frightening thing is that whoever stole that bike was right outside our door on a Sunday night. Now we always lock our door, whetherornotanyoneisthere,"saysNykiel. 
SeniorAmy Gardnerwas alsoconfronted with· a shocking sight when she left her Turtle Creek apartment on August 28; the convertible top on her car had been slashed twice. Although nothing had been taken, the damage was difficult and expensive to repair. "Late at night it gets scary," she points out. ''They need better lighting in the court area." 
Problems off campus also occured be­fore school started, over the summer. Se­niorKate Good, forexample,alwayslocked the doors and turned on the alarm at the house on Notre Dame Avenue where she lived last summer. But that did not deter intrudersfrom breakinginto thehousewhile the students were away, "destroying every­thing," according to Good.. "When I re­turned, I found out that I had lost my bike, my clothes, my CDs," remembers Good. '.'I really underestimated the effect something like this could have on a person. Replacing everything is a hassle. And the whole thing is upsetting." 
Theft is not the only problem off-campus students must face. Walking back and forth from campus can also be dangerous. Rob Corley, a senior in Keenan Hall, echoes the frustration of other students who have been the targets of crime. Spending the summer at Notre Dame, he and four of his friends were returning to campus after a party on the night ofJ une 24. As he crossed Juniper 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 14, 1995 
Road by the East-Gate, Corley was hit by a 
car driven by a sober !~-year-old. The 
accident broke both of Corley' s legs, and he 
lost over half the blood in his body. · 
Corley, who is still recovering from his 

injuries, is now frustrated with the whole 
situation. He says, "It is so infuriating to be 
violated like that. The kid ran me down and 
acted without respect for me or any human 
life." 
As students come to recognize the poten­

tial dangers and try to protect themselves, 
Corporal Tom Williams, from the South 
Bend Police Crime Prevention unit, offers 
advice. "Check your locks to see ifthey 
work properly," he suggests. "Ifnot, com­
plain to the landlord. Keep the windows 
locked when you are not there." 
When students go out of town, they can 

call the South Bend Police Department and 
ask to be put on a list of addresses that 
officers survey for any outward sign of a problem. The police will check a residence three times daily, free of charge, to make · sure no one has tried to break in or disturb 
anything. 
Matt Schindler, one of theoff-cam­pus co-presidents, says he cannot do anything directly to help protect fel­low students, but does plan on asking securitytopresentpreventativesecu­. rity measures to students. Until then, Schindler stresses awareness when off campus around dusk or at night. "It is riot safe to walk, run or bike 
alone," he warns. 
Phillip Johnson ofNotre Dame Se­
curity agrees, adding, "When you are 
walking, jogging or biking, always 
wear reflective clothing." He also 
recommends removing any visible 
valuables before leaving a parked car. 
Involvement in a neighborhood 
watch program can be another way to 
improve conditions in particular ar­
eas of town, according to Williams. 
Pelle suggests this kind of watchful­
ness in student apartment complexes 
and says, "Some people just look out 
of place. If you see someone suspi­
cious, tell someone. People have to 
look out for each other." 0 

• 
Remove valuables from a parked car 

• 
Keep all windows shut 

• 
Stay in well-lit areas 

• 
Make the residence look occupied 

• 
Lock doors at all ~imes 



The 
or 
THE WAY. The founder of Opus Del, Josemaria Escriva, wrote spiritual guidebooks to aid his followers. 
BY STEVE MYERSEach morning as the a1ann clock sounded, Kim knew she had to get up immediately. She rose, knelt, kissed the floor and said "Serviam," Latin for "I_ will serve," and went to take a cold shower. Mentally preparing herself for the frigid water, she recited a passage from The Way, a spiritual guidebook writtenby thefounder of Opus Dei: "Your worst enemy is your­self,becauseyour flesh is weak and earthly, butyouhave tobestrongandheavenly. The center of gravity of your body is the world; your center of gravity must be heaven." In accordance with practices _of Opus Dei, Kim, a Notre Dame student whose name has been changed to protect her iden­tity, took cold showers and practiced the "heroic minute," the term for rising imme­diately out ofbed. These arejust two forms ofdisciplinepracticedby members ofOpus 


Opus Dei is part ofthe Catfwlic church. So why does it attract controversy and criticism wherever it is? 
Dei. Even though Kim was not officially a member of Opus Dei, she followed these customs at the encouragementof a member who knew she was considering joining the organization. 
Opus Dei, translated as ''The Work of God," is oneofthe mostcontroversial orga~ nizations in the Catholic Church, and has been beset by controversy since it was founded in 1928. Questionable recruiting practices and an attitude of secrecy and elitism have led many to call Opus Dei a cult 
ButOpus Deiisnotacult; itis a sanctioned lay organization of the Roman Catholic Church which is approved and supported by the pope. Deciding whetherOpus Dei is a cult within the Catholic Church remains a difficult task, largely due to the intentional low profile of the group and the spiritual nature of the controversy. 

''Like a coach"
0 pus Dei, -·which has more than 
77,000 members in over 80 coun 
:tries, was founded in 1928 by a Spanish priest named JoseMaria Escriva Escrivareportedlyfounded OpusDei when God gave him a vision of an organization devoted to sanctifying the lives ofordinary people through their daily work. 
The purpose ofthe organization, accord­ing toJ oeB ufill,acting directorof theSouth Bend center, is to "promote sanctity for ordinary laypeople" in both their profes­sionaland private lives. Members strivefor this sanctity through talks, meditations and reflections. 

Opus Dei operates one men's house, calledWindmoor, and one women's house, whichiscurrentlyunnamed,inSouthBend. Male and female members of Opus Dei conduct their activities separateJy. Windmoor serves as the South Bend center · ofOpus Dei activities and the contact point for thenationalorganization. Similarhouses exist across the country._ 
"Opus Deiin a senseislike a coach," says Bufill. "It gives you the means to live out fully your vocation as a layperson in the world. If you're a member of Opus Dei, your desk is your altar, and your profes­sional vocation is part of your Christian education. It's all wrapped up fu the same calling." 
Although service workcan play a part in fulfilling an individual's vocation, the fo­cus-is on building a personal relationship with God. 
Bufillemphasiz.edtheinformalityofOpus Dei. "Our founder liked to call Opus Dei a 'disorganized organization.' It's really a grassroots organization," he says. ''The apostolate of Opus Dei is done through friendship. Meetings basically consist of a bunch of guys sitting around talking." 

True Friendship? tance that is created after they become on occurs primarily between students," heItis precisely the emphasis on friendship strongly involved," he says. says. which has caused problems for Opus Inadditiontorecruitingpractices,Warner 
Dei, sparking accusations that mem­Recruiting says he has talked with people who have bers manipulate friendships in order to re­arner and Kim's accounts con had bad experiences with Opus Dei. "I've cruit new members. flict with statements by mem come across a number of people in my
W 
Kim had such an experience with amem­. bers of Opus Dei, who insist .seven years here, and previously, who have 
ber of the South Bern;! center of Opus Dei. that they are not interested in aggressive been adversely affected [by Opus Dei] or 
She struck up a friendship with a member recruiting.. JeffLangan, a graduate student who felt they were pursued too stronglyand 
and they started meeting weekly for lunch. in history who has been a member ofOpus didn't want to be a part of it 
"Wemetin theOakRoomand talked about Dei for about a year, denied that Opus Dei "Their vicar from Chicago has indicated 
my family and religion," says Kim. recruits members. on a number of occasions that he is willing 
The woman invited Kim to reflections "If we wanted 40 people to come each to talk to me or others. The conversation I 
with other female members of Opus Dei, week [for reflection] we could put an ad in had with him occurred about six months 
and Kim accepted. Kim says thatshedidn't the Observer or hang up fliers. But we ago. So he is aware that there have been 
know that members made acommitmentto don't," he says. some incidents, cases which have been dif­
Opus Dei or that her friend was celibate Bufill adds, "If our mission was to fill ficult," Warner says. 
until she asked her nine months later. Windmoor, we must not be doing a very Langan, however, denied that Opus Dei 
It was through talking to this woman that good job." pursues people against their will, and at­
Kim started seriously considering becom­When asked about striking up friend­tributes accusations of recruiting to misun­
ing a numerary, a celibate member ofOpus ships in order to gain members, Bufill says, derstandings. 
Dei. Other types ofmembers include mar­"Itis unfortunate that afriendship would be "We want to be friends with people and ried members called supernumeraries, as­used in that way, and it goes against the through our friendship help them getcloser sociates who are celibate and do not live at spirit of Opus Dei." to God. If you serve the church and serve the center and cooperators, who donate Warner believes that Opus Dei does in people, v~ationswillcome. IfGodrefuses .money and pray for the members. fact recruit new members. "I think that is a a vocation, then there is nothing I can do 
"I told [my friend] about my family, and very important part of their operation, to about it. Our founder said that it is difficult 
she would refer to that later, like when she recruit new members, and I think that they tojoinandeasytoleaveOpusDei,"hesays. 
would refer to what happened at a reflec­probably would feel a responsibility for He also says that to an extent it is neces­
tion. It got to the point that I realized Opus doing that. A lot of the recruiting that goes sary to build membership. 'Ifyoubelievein 
"I realized Opus Dei could be a substitute for my real family." 
Dei could be a substitute for my real fam­
ily," says Kim. 
"She definitely directed the conversation 
during our lunches," sheadds. Atonepoint, 
the memberchastisedKim fornot attending 
one of the reflections. 
"She told me that I did not truly want to 
go to the reflection and that I should be 
honest about that -when I in fact had too 
much work to do," says Kim. 
Towards the end of their relationship, 

when Kim missed a lunch meeting, the 
member left a message on her answering 
machine saying that she was "shocked and 
appalled" that Kim would do sµch a thing. 
Kim also says that after a friend of hers 

joined Opus Dei, he stopped talking to her. 
"I think Opus Dei changed him," she says. 
Fr. Warner, directorofCampus Ministry, 

is familiar with this phenomenon. 
"In some cases the relationships that 

peoplehave with theirfriends havechanged 
pretty dramatically once [the person] goes 
to the house [Windmoor]. There is a dis-

"It is difficult to join and easy to leave Opus Dei." 
"I've come across a number of people who felt they were pursued too strongly and didn,t want to be a part of it." 
what you're doing, you want others to join you." 
And according to Warner, "The Notre Dame student is the typical kind of person they would like to recruit The Notre Dame student has a religious depth, is very bright and able to make a commitment." 
Br. Bonaventure Scully, the rector of Keenan Hall, agrees. "They [Opus Dei] . always get pious, bright, naive kids ­people who are easily led," he says. 
Langan does admit that misunderstand­ings could be caused by members' actions. "Younger members, who don't have as much experience, could tend to be over­zealous," he says. 
''Everything about Opus Dei is quiet"
Recruiting. would. not be as much of an issue ifOpus Dei did not seem shrouded in secrecy, a standard criticismof the organization. ''Everything about Opus Dei is quiet," says Kim. Bufill explains that they have no need to advertise or become publicly active, be­cause the focus ofthe group is on its mem­bers' personal relationships with God. "Opus Dei isn' tinterested in public rela­tions. It's not on a crusade. Opus Dei is about helping individuals recognize their own responsibility to seek the Christian ideal and to help others to recognize their own responsibility," he says. "Opus Dei is a vocation; it's your own intimate, personal conviction that you feel. ... You join by having a vocation ... that this is what God is asking, this is for me.... It's not something you sign up for," he contin­ues. Langan explains this further, "We try not to invite people to things. That's not the way people are brought closer to God.· I'd share 

~ 

COACH. As acting director of the South Bend center, Joe Bufill guides members of Opus Dei in their faith. He also leads reflections for local professional men who are members of Opus Dei. · 
things with them that I've found helpful in my own spiritual growth. Ifin sharing this they develop an interest too, then that is fine," he says. "It would be secretive ifI didn't let friends know." · 
Some aspects of Opus Dei do seem de­liberately low-key, however. 
The men's house on Notre Dame Av­enue has asign thatreads "Windmoor," but · nothing that indicates that it is an Opus Dei center. The name has no significance to Opus Dei or Christianity in general; 
''The names of the houses cannot be obviously Catholic," says Kim. Native American words are often used to name the houses. She says she was toldby a member that "it's hard to be apostolic. if people know up front what you're about" 
And, according to Bufill, Opus Dei does not keep statistics of membership in the area. When asked how many members there are in South Bend, B ufill says that he is not exactly sure. He estimates that there are probably five or six members in the house, seven or eight married couples and anywhere from 20 to 40 cooperators. 


Too Wealthy? 
pus Dei gets. its operating m.oney 
from donations from these. coop 

erators and its members. The money is used to run the house and make donations to service projects and .foreign missions.
J Given the comfortable interior of the 
~ house, however, one may wonder exactly 
g-how much money goes back into the orga­
0 
nization. Across the country, Opus Dei centers tend to be attractive, well-furnished and nicely landscaped. Opponents ofOpus Dei charge that the organization puts too much money back into the organization. 
For instance, the headquarters in New York was purchased for five million dollars by the Woodlawn Foundation, a not-for­profit organization which . supports the apostolate of Opus Dei. And a.male high school in Chicago run by Opus Dei mein.:. bersrecentlyofferedninemilliondollarsfor a seminary north of the city. 
Opus Dei itself does not actually own either the men's· or the· women's houses in South Bend. They are legally owned by the AssociationforEducationDevelopmentarid the. Corporation . of Social and Education Department,respectively. Botharenot-for­profitfoundationsassociatedwithOpusDei. Another foundation associated with Opus Dei is the Woodlawn Foundation, through which many of Opus Dei's financial deal­ings are conducted. 
8 SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ.IN E • SEPTEMBER 14, 1995 

"Spiritual athletics"
But it is not the secrecy or the wealth of Opus Dei that draws the most attention. Rather, Opus Dei's em­phasis on personal sacrifice, such as morti~ fication, is a main reason opponents of the group label it a cult The founder writes in one of the spiritual guidebooks, "Unless you mortify yourself, you'll never be a prayerful soul. ... No ideal becomes a reality without sacrifice. Deny yourself. It is so beautiful to be a victim!" · Through small acts of denial, members try to sanctify all aspects of their lives. At meals, for instance, members may deny themselves dessert or butter. Cold showers are another form of mortification, as is the cilice, a wire band worn for one to two hours a day around a numerary's thigh, intended to cause discomfort. Langan explains that wearing a cilice is not encouraged for those who do not live in thecenter. Itisintendedforthcisewhowant to "live a greater spirit of penance," says B ufill. "The cilice is the icing on the cake," · Langan says. "It is the decoration, not the substance." The cilice is a sensitive topic, due to the amountofattentionitreceivesandpeople's reactions upon learning about it. According 
to Bufill, "People make too much of the cilice. Any athlete who takes a SPOrt seri­ously makes a sacrifice. It's SPiritual athlet­ics ... a minimal source of discomfort as an act of love for God." He adds, "The church throughout history has recommended·small corporal mortifications." 
W amer notes that "the goSPel talks about prayer and fasting as being ways in which we [Catholics] try to reSPond to our obliga­tion as religious people. Fastingisaformof mortification. ... Fasting comes from the scriptures, so that's a pretty solid source." 
He says, however, that the practice of wearing a cilice "wouldn't be my sense of what we [Holy Cross] do. I think their [Opus Dei's] focus is more internal." 
Langan explains, "Every family has cer­tain things that they do which if exposed in public would be easily misunderstood." 
direction. Langan explains that the answer 
could be as easy as "reading the text, but 
also something along with it, like an anti­
dote," likeningitto goingtoa pharmacy and 
asking the pharmacist for advice on what 
medications are appropriate. ·Growth and Controversy en asked about the abundance 
of negative press about Opus 
Dei, Langan says, "I get the 

sense that many of the people who have 
differences with Opus Dei have differences 
with some aspects of the Church." 
But this does not explain why Warner, a 
W
"Every family has certain things that they do which if exposed in public would be easily 


misunderstood." 
Living the Spirit of the Index
AnotherpracticeofOpusDei which draws criticism is the restrictions it places on potentially harmful 
reading material. Through the sixties, the Catholic Church published an index which listedworks which were inappropriate read­ing material for Catholics. 
"When the index was removed, the Church did not take away the obligation of Catholics to be selec­tive in their reading. Our founder asked Opus Dei members to live the spirit of the index without living the legalistic formal­ity of the index," says Langan. · 
Warner, however, disagrees that Catho­lics are obligated to be so selective in their reading. 'The index served a SPecific pur­pose in its own point in time, when the em­

phasis was more on protecting Catholics from culture and society. Part of what Vatican II did was to try to enter into culture and society to try to bring the power and light of the gospel into it" 
Ifa questionable book is required reading for a class, then an Opus Dei member is to asksomeone who is more knowledgeable, like the spiritual director of the center, for CSC priest, is concerned about Opus Dei. "Ifsomeone is searching for God's will in their life, or serious about their religious life, I think we have to treat these people with a particular reSPect Because what you're trying to do is seek God's grace in your life, and that's not easy to do,"hesays, but adds, "I'm bothered by the people who are affected negatively [by Opus Dei]." 

Kim, who considers herself to be a con­servative Catholic, says, "Ithink the spiritu­ality of Opus Dei is wonderful, like the emphasis on being an ordinary Christian, serving God and doing God's work. [But] I feel like I was deceived. I just want to be a good Catholic." 
Scully, who says that he has had "bad experiences" with Opus Dei, is concerned that those considering Opus Dei will not have enough information to make a well­informed decision. 
"I would warn students if they were go­ing to become members, be careful. Make your own choices, so that you know what you 're getting into. Ask questions, and do so freely. Any faith has to be freely cho­sen." 
The controversy surrounding Opus Dei is not likely to diminish, given its propen­sity for expansion in theUnited States. And as Opus Dei grows nationally and reaches more people, the residents of the house at 1121 North Notre Dame Avenue may re­ceive more attention, attention which they would rather not have. . 
Matthew Dull contributed to this article. 

--~ 
.ate•••·'*'*'~e,~,mt-.---'----------­
gipper.1@nd.edu 



CamRusWatch 
BY THE GIPPER 
year now, but also because many of them are Irish fans. The season has begun and they are unable to watch their beloved team march onward to, uh, mediocrity. 
They have asked Judge Ito if he would procure video tapes of the games from Notre Dame, and it has even been rumored that Judge Ito called the Athletic Depart­

. ment to request that no trial coverage be aired during the games so the jurors can watch. Commentating might be tough, though, whenNotreDameplaysUSC,OJ's alma mater. The Gipp could continue this commentary, but the bounds of good taste prevent him from doing so. Shocked? 
GET WITH THE PROGRAM: PARTII 
_The Gipp found this little tidbit an inter­esting example of the administration's way of sweeping an issue under the rug. As of now, theAlumni SeniorClub can no longer serve shots of hard alcohol because some,; one celebrating his 21st birthday had too many shots and busted his head open on a urinal. 
The Gipp can see the rationale: no more shots = no more abusive drinking. Who­ever heard of anyone getting stumbling drunk on just beer? The Gipp personally doesn'thaveaproblem with this newpolicy. "Excuse me, bartender, give me a Jack and Coke-'--hold the Coke." 
Well, Gipp fans, another column com~ to a close and .the Gipp must bid adieu. Again, keep the tips coming either through e-mailorintheScho/asticofficeonthethird floor of LaFortune. · 
A little advice: watch out for suspicious­looking security guards while tailgating and keep an eye out for any stray urinals. They can attack without warning .. 
. 
To be is to do.-Aristotle 
To do is to be.-Plato 
Do be do be do. -Frank Sinatra 
GET WITH THE PROGRAMIt seems that there are some new 
security guards who haven't yet gotten 
used to the idea that, when it comes to tailgating, all rules about alcohol consump­tion are out the window. The Gipp was informed that some thirsty and ambitious gentlemen from a certain spirited dorm decided to throw a little shindig before the Northwestern game. But the long arm of the law came by, checked IDs and made them abandon their copeous amounts of alcohol. 
The Gipp finds this completely unac­ceptable. Albeit, tailgating is a publicly accepted euphemism for abusive drinking; but at Notre Dame, it's not just tailgating, it's a sport It is a sport we do well. Let the boys play, officer. 
Unfortunately, the Gipp has to note that those same poor souls brilliantly loaded the remaining 24 cases onto a pickup truck and drove. them right through the guard gate, thereby losing the rest of their beloved amber nectar. Obviously, these are the productsofahighereducation. Their moms must be so proud. 

RUGBY, ANYONE? 
Anyone out there wanting to play rugby this year will have to be content to sit on the couch and try to find it on ESPN 2. A little bird told the Gipp that there is norugby club this yearbecause last year thejolly ol' chaps on the team threw a party at which "sub­human" acts occurred. The exact gory details about what happened at the party are shrouded in secrecy, known only by those 

Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 
who attended and Bill Kirk, the assistant vicepresident of studentaffairs, who gothis hands on a videotape of the evening. He took onelook at it and-viola! -no rugby club. 
Boys,boys, boys, have you learned noth­ing from Rob Lowe's candid camera esca­pade with Miss Not-of-Legal-Age? Never leave incriminating evidence lying around and never, ever, deliberately create it. 
WRONG TEAM, BUB 
The Gipp was in attendance at the Notre Dame victory at Purdue and was not the only one to notice the confused Purdue fan who chose not to watch his team lose, but instead toparadeinfrontof theNotre Dame fans waving a Northwestern sweatshirt. After the game, as the aforementioned Purdue fan sat outside waving the NU sweatshirt, one Notre Dame fan swiped the sweatshirtandran. Unfortunately,hedidn't do a neighbor check and was soon escorted away in handcuffs ,by a nearby Purdue security officer. 
Have no fear, Darners, because justice prevailed. The soon-to-be-jailed Irish fan covertly slipped the officer twenty bucks and just as quickly as the transaction oc­curred, theIrishperpetratorwasunmanacled and free to go, mucµ to the chagrin of the now sweatshirtless Purdue fan. Maybe now that Purdue fan can stop trying to live vicariously through Northwestern and face the reality that he is from Purdue, Purdue lost to Notre Dame and we are ahead of Northwestern in the polls. 



IRISH INFLUENCE 
Did you ever think that the OJ Simpson trial would be this close to a verdict? Well, the Gipp has been informed that the jurors have been getting restless, not only because they have been sequestered for close to a 
10 



The Young and the 
Junior Sean Hynes,a self­confessed soap opera 

Restless 
addict 

Notre Dame's male soap opera junkies confess all 

BY KATE MCSHANEJunior Ted Caron beams with enthusi­asm when he talks about his favorite male-bonding activity. "It's even bet­ter than talking sports. We kind of know what is going to happen, but we are kept in suspense." Caron isnotspeaking aboutplayingSega. tossingafootballortrying topickupwomen. Heistalkingabouthisdailyhabit-watch­ing soap operas. For many guys at Notre Dame, soap operasarenolongerjusta "girl thing." And these guys are no longer bashful about admitting that they, too, watch shows like Days ofOurLives and Melrose Place. "I'll admit it, I'm an out-of-the-closet soap watcher," says junior Matt Mahoney. How does this addiction start? "Istarted watching [soaps] randomly the spring se­mester of my freshman year," says junior Will Robinson. "I had a 12 p.m. class and a 3 p.m. class, so I needed something to do. Iflipped on the TV and the show caughtmy eye. I found myself wanting to know what happened next" Junior Dave Bucolo seems to have ac­quired his addiction by default. "I have nothing better to do at lunch time," he says. "Itis funny to see how silly theplots can be, but at the same time it is very addictive." While this may seem like a harmless form oflunch-time relaxation, many soap­addicts find that their habit is detrimental in other areas of their lives. "I overcame my addiction to Days when my grades started to sufferbecause I was watchingTVinstead ofstudying," admitsjunior Brian Paz. "But, soon enough, my girl friends cameoverone 
nightto watchMelrosePlace andsincethen I have watched it every week." 
Not all of these male soap opera junkies are able to catch their favorite show five days a week, so they must resort to other means of keeping up with the plots. Some rely on a VCR; others rely on fellow ad­dicts. "I can'twatch the soap on Tuesdays and Thursdays because I have class at that time," says Mahoney. "But my best friend also watches Days and is home during that time. Whenicomehomeintheafternoon,we sit down and have our little Days review session." 
Some guys watch soap operas for an 
"I don't understand how they waste time watching soaps when they can spend that same time playing Sega." -Chris Regan 
escape from everyday life. Some watch for the supernatural themes of Days of Our Lives and trulyfinditentertaining. And still others seem to appreciate the soaps for their finer qualities. 'The women on the show drive us nuts," says Caron. 'They're beau­tiful, andilove thecheesinessaspectofhow they talk to the camera." 
Friends,families and roommates ofthese men have different reactions to their habit "I don't understand how they waste time watching soaps when they can spend that same time playing Sega," says juniorChris Regan. Robinson's family has mixed feel­ings on the subject "My Dad hates the fact that I even watch the stuff, [but] my mom thinks I like it because she watched it when she was pregnant with ine." 
Many of these soap opera junkies claim that they were influenced by their families. "My brother, my mom and my grandma have been watching forever,'' says junior Mike Zinser, who has been watching Days ofOur Lives since birth. 
Roommates may mock their friends' be­havior because theyfear theaddiction could become contagious. "Myroommates leave the room when the shows come on," says Paz. 'They really don't appreciate them, and they don't want to get hooked." 
Therehavebeenconverts,however. "[My friends] that don't watch rip on me all the time and roll their eyes when the show comes on, butsometimes they sit down and startasking questions, tryingnotto beinter­ested, but I know they are,'' says Mahoney. 
Not all of the Notre Dame guys addicted to soaps are willing to admit it, and, like many bad habits, soap operawatching is an addiction that is difficult to rationalize. 
To all those closet watchers, you are not alone. Whether addicted to.the love, pas­sion and hatred on Melrose, or to the devil and exorcism on Days ofOur Lives, most junkies would never dream of missing an episode. 
But Caron disagrees. 'The beauty of the soap is that you can go for two weeks without watching it, and then when you watch it again, you can hop right back into the plot." 




BYADRIENNE CORPUZ 
,'Y:o.u better watch your back" ­
that was the verbal warning 
delivered to senior Mark Troske from students in the weight room. He hadn't started a fight. He hadn't even exchanged words with anyone. All he did spend time with Leslie Butler. 
Troske and his girlfriend, Butler, are like any other couple at Notre Dame. They eat together in tlie dininghall, go outtobars and see movies together. Yet unlike other couples at .Notre Dame, they often receive stares as they walk across South Quad. Why? Because at a predominately white university, they are an interracial couple. 
"It hasn't been bad enough to steer us away from dating," says B utlerof this extra attention. "ltjustmakesmequestionpeople onthiscampus." Butler,anAfricanAmeri­can, and Troske, a Caucasian, have been dating since December of their sophomore year. 
But Troske and Butler have had to deal with more than just stares. Several people have commented on their relationship, ac­cording to Butler. On one occasion, she was accused by another. African American fe­male of no~ knowing what she's doing. Another student told Troske that he was stealing Butler's heritage. 
Sarah (namehas been changed),an Asian PacificAmericansenior,canrelate to Troske and Butler's situation. She dated a person ofanotherraceforoveroneandahalfyears. Sarah recalls times when students asked her boyfriend why he didn't just date within his own race. 
''They were drawing unnecessary racial boundaries that we should be trying to get rid of as a whole," she says. "Comments like thathurtmore that any kind of physical pain. It's too bad that people don't under­stand that their words can devastate some­one." . 
Many interracial couples must also deal with the reactions offamily members. Re­
"Interracial dating can be.beautiful because you learn so much about another culture." 
sponses of parents vary. Chris Kolik is currently dating an Asian American stu­dent, and race is not an issue for his parents. But his girlfriend's parents would prefer that she date and eventually marry an Asian American male. 
Carl Victor Jackson, an African-Ameri­can sophomore, says that his parents origi­nally expressed a desire for him to marry an African American woman, but they have since changed their minds. "[My parents said] make sure you love the person and she loves you.. Don't marry a woman because she is black. Do it because you love her." 
than going to the undaries 
Troske's parents' reaction to the news 

that he had become involved in an interra­cial relationship was one of curiosity. He attributed their curiosity to the fact that he is from a rural town in South Dakota with a · primarily white population of about 76 people. Families from both sides have since unconditionally accepted the relationship. "My father has said hejust loves Leslie, and her mom says she loves me, too," Troske 
explains. 
"A parent's acceptance often depends on 
how many generations a family has lived in 
the United States," says Iris Outlaw, direc­
tor of Multicultural ,Student Affairs. "A 
third-generation family member is more 
likely tobe accepting ofinterracial relation­
ships than a first-generation member." 
"But if parents had a choice, they'd 
probably prefer for their child to marry 
within his or her own race," notes Brian 
Griffin, an African-American sophomore. 
''They have seen confusion andproblemsin 
the past and don't want their own children 
to experience it also." · 
While no official statistics on the number 
of interracial couples at Notre Dame exist, 
many speculate. Outlaw believes interra­
cial dating is veryprevalentatNotre Dame, 
although students disagree. Troske charac­
terizes interracial dating as "pretty rare" at 
Notre Dame, while Dennis Joyce, an Irish 
Americansophomorewhois datinganAsian 
American student, says that he felt thenum­
ber of interracial couples is "very few and 
far between." 
This feeling is especially strong when 


12 

looking at Notre Dame in comparison to 
other campuses. "[Notre Dame] is a con­
servative school and not as liberal as oth­
ers," says Troske. "Also, the percentage of . minorities on campus is very small." 
Joyce agrees, adding, "Notre Dame con­

sists of primarily middle and upper class 
white students who aren't used to going 
against what they consider 'normal.' It's 
basically their upbringing." 
This leads some students to see an even 

larger problem: "We need more diversity, 
even beyond that of ethnic diversity," says 
senior Maggie J aramilla. "And we need to 
welcome it, especially if we're expected to 
"' 
~ 
C: 
cii "' 
"People draw unnecessary racial boundaries. It's too bad people don't understand that their words can devastate someone." 

make it in the real world." 
Whetherornotinterracialdatingispreva­lent on campus is certainly a big issue, one that causes many to wonder how accepting Notre Dame really is. Jackson believes interracial dating is generally accepted at Notre Dame. "Even though it'saconserva­tiveschool,noonereallycares. They'retoo 
·concernedwithschoolworkandhavingfun." Yet he has noticed that some bias against interracial dating exists. 
"People notice it too much," says Jaramilla. "They aren't used to it here, and you stand out when you're an interracial couple because it's atypical." 
Students also point out that the types of interracial couples seems unbalanced. For example, there seem to be more mixes of African 
RISING ABOVE IT ALL. Many couples would find the stress of enduring rude comments and obvious stares too much to bear. But for Mark Troske and Leslie Butler (above), and many 
-others like them, the rewards of an Interracial retat.ionship 
. outweigh the trials. 

American males and Caucasian females than African American females and Cauca­sian males. Similarly, therearemorecom­binations of Asian American women and Caucasian men than vice versa. 
Outlaw attributes this phenomenon to stereotypes, particularly those portrayed by the media. She noted that African Ameri­can men are often exoticized infilms, while African American women do notreceiveas much publicity. For example, until recent years beauty queens have been character­ized as fair Caucasian women. 
"Therewas abreakthroughwhen Vanessa Williams was named Miss America." Out­law says. "But even so, Williams was still a very fair-skinned and European-looking woman." 
Outlaw also recognizes a similar phe­nomenon with Asian Americans. "Just look at the movies. Asian men are your waiters, geeks and computernerds." Asian American women, however, are often por­trayed as submissiv~ Madame Butterflies in war movies, according to Outlaw. 
The Office of Multicultural Student Af­fairshasestablishedagroup calledlnterrace to address the many issues surrounding interracial relationships. It is a discussion and support group on campus for people who are of biracial or multicultural heri­tage, or who are involved in an interracial relationship. 
Carrie Pugh, assistant director of Multicultural Student Affairs, described it as an"informal group," differing from other 
ethnic clubs. The 25 students andadministratorsinthegroup meet just once a month to dis­cuss issues, personal experi­ences and articles on the sub­ject. 
Despite the need for support groups like Interrace, interra­cial dating is not necessarily a negative experience. 
"Whenyou openyourmind, interracial dating can bebeau­tifulbecauseyoulearnsomuch about another cultural: song, dance, music, food and cus­toms," says Jaramilla. 
And while interracial couples may encounter preju­dice and tension, she believes that, "there is ·a beauty when people realize there's more to aperson thanjusttheircolor.''O 





-ii•i•i--l••iM'i------------------------­


Excuses, Excuses ... 
Scholastic sent a reporter to the Main Circle guard gate one Friday afternoon to find out the most foolproof ways to get on campus. Here is what she discovered: 
traffic control. Since Notre Dame 
guard booth, I ask several stu­is a pedestrian campus, their goal dents what they think the most is to keep us safe and avoid con­fool-proof excuses are. The re­gestion.Interestinglyenough, par­, sponses range from "I have to ents and students accompanied pick up a sheet cake" to "I have to by parents can get on campus pickupafriendoncrutches." Also, without any problem. As one it usually works to say you have to security officerputit, this campus do somethingforEducationalMe­belongs to the parents since they dia or that you're a dance com­pay to send their children here. missioner. But whatever yourI! Campus security is supposed to choice of excuse, confidence will be a benefit to the families and allow you access to campus more students, not an obstacle to easily than cockiness will. The struggle with upon each visit guards say that they can tell by the 
3:40 p.m. A few students try composureofthepeoplein thecar 
"PLEASE." A Notre Dame gate guard writes a pass for 
BY ARlANNE WESTBY

2:30 p.m. It was pleasant and sunny in South Bend when I ventured to the ominous booth on the outskirts of campus. Traffic was heavy because it was a football weekend, so 
people had to come up with even better excuses to gain access to campus. Like many Notre Dame students, I, too, have tried to get on campus for a variety of reasons, and I was never exactly sure what the criteria was for letting people through the gate. So, on a mission to discover the answer to this mystery, I went undercover as a gate guard. 
The guards at the Main Circle and the gate by Grace Hall have heard their share of creative excuses to get on campus. And for those ofyou who think that your chances of getting on campus are fairly random, you're probably right The security guards are the first to admit that the main selection criterion is their own intuition. 
3:15 p.m; A group of guys try to bring a carload of beer on campus using the excuse that they want to feed the ducks. 
Contrary to popular opinion, it's not the duty of the gate guard to prevent students from bringing alcohol on campus. According to the guards, their main concern is 
their hand at getting on campus temporary access to campus. bydressinginholyattire,namely, a priest's collar. The guard waves them through. During my shift in the guard booth, I pass some time talking to the guards who are eager to share their lists of creative excuses. One of the guards says that during the winter, a girl wanted to get on campus to drop off her fish because she was afraid it would freeze on the walk from D2. But perhaps the most reliable excuse is that you have to pick up 
something from your dorm, such as a stereo or luggage. Security doesn't have any way of verifying this excuse-and they don't really care. It's a little riskier to say you have something you need to drop off, because certain guards will check your trunk. For the most part, you just have to come up with an excuse that mandates close proximity to a campus building. 
4:10 p.m. A well-known football player shows a pass used by people who run concession stands on game days. The guard obviously does notconsiderthe fact that he might be a little too busy during the game to sell hot dogs. The guard admits to me, however, that even though he knew the pass didn't belong io the player, he couldn't deny him access to the campus since it was on the car he was driving. 
Most ofthe security guards are old veterans at their jobs, so they have a pretty good idea of what's legitimate and what's not The guards agree that if your excuse is good enough, they won't challenge you. But there are always the people who say they have anappointmentwithFr. Malloy or Fr. Hesburghata timewhen they are out of town on business. 
5:06 p.m. After my shift in the 
whetherornot they are telling the truth. 

The few hours that I spent in the guard gate provided me with a few funny stories to tell. I was happy to leave the job of campus security and traffic regulation to the experts, but I now have plenty of new excuses to try out the next time I wanted to drive onto campus. Come to think of it, I've been m_eaning to feed the ducks all semester with my friend who wears a priest's collar. . 
14 




Battling the Commodores Without the Commander 
Notre Dame looks to jump above .500 without Lou Holtz, in their first ever game against Vanderbilt 
BY JAKE SCHALLER
LouHoltzoften talksabouthow Notre Dame's schedule is even tougher than face value because every teain looks forward to playing the Irish. On most opponents' schedules, the Irish are the "big game." After Northwestern stole a victory right from under the nose of Touchdown Jesus, other struggling programs received extra incentive. The Vanderbilt Commodores visitNotre Damestadium this Saturdaywith even more reason for hope. While the Irish stumbled their way to an opening day loss, Vandy looked impressive, taking number 13 Ala­bama to the wire before losing 33-25. In addition, Vanderbilt had last week off, giv­ing them two weeks to prepare for their journey to South Bend. Notre Dame, mean­while, got nicked up in a battle with Purdue. Butit could be worse. "[ThePurdue] win was huge," quarterback Ron Powlus said. "We needed a win and we needed it now. An 0-2 start would have really hurt us." The Commodores, coming off a 5-6 sea­son, return a whopping 19 starters for new Head Coach Rod Dowhower. A former head coach of Stanford and the NFL's In­dianapolis Colts, Dowhower is trying to improve onrecentprogressmadeby former Head Coach Gerry DiNardo. 
Thebiggestchange Dowhowerhas made is switching from an option offense to a multiplesystems offense. In previous years, the Commodores relied almost completely on their ground attack. Last year, Vandy scored only twice through the air, with one of the touchdowns coming off a screen pass. That could be good news for Notre Dame's roughed up defense that yielded 478 yards to Purdue last week. 
LeadingDowhower'snewoffenseisjun­ior quarterback Ronnie Gordon. Last year, Gordon led the Commodores in total of­fense with 1,568 yards and in scoring, with 13 touchdowns. The inexperienced run­ning backs are led by 5-foot-7, 178-pound Jermaine Johnson, who gained 877 yards rushing last year, tops on the teain. 
Three starters and a letterman with expe­rience return to the offensive line, but they too will have to adjust Because of the new offense, they will be called on to pass block more than they did last year. 

Inconsistency reigns on the defense. Last year the Commodores yielded only 18.7 points per game in nine of their contests. In their other two, however, they gave up 42 and 65 points to Arkansas and Tennessee, respectively. Similarly,in theirgameagainst Arkansas, Vandy held the 'Hogs to only 10 points in the first three quarters, but then gave up 23 in the last stanza. Adding to defensive woes, linebacker Gerald Collins, last year's leading tackler and All-SEC selection is gone. 
But the Irish may have to worry about their own teain this Saturday. Notre Dame enters the game without the services of Head Coach Lou Holtz. With Holtz side­lined due to surgery, Defensive Coordina­tor Bob Davie will be the interim head coach. 
"We really can't control Coach.Holtz's situation," Davie said. "What we can con­trol is helping this football teain getfocused on Vanderbilt" . 

15 


After serving as CanadianAmbassador to Ireland, Michael Wadsworth returns to lead the fabled athletic program that he played/or in the sixties 



m 
::,. 
0 
"U., 
al 
a. 
~ 

Back in the Blue and Gold··· 
BY SHANNAN BALL

Fighting Irish. tackle. Am­
bassador to Ireland. Canadian citi­
zen. 

What do these titles have in common? Michael Wadsworth claims them all, and now addshis newest to the list head athletic director for Notre Dame. 
Thirty years after graduating from Notre Dame, Wadsworth has returned to his old stomping grounds to give something back to the school. 
He leans back in his chair, upholstered in fabric depicting scenes of Fighting Irish 
16 

football, and looks .out at the campus. He remarks that even afterbeingremoved from campus for so long, "It doesn't seem that · different." He pauses. "Well, I did need a map to get around. There had been so many physical changes, but there are the same values, the same kind of student body, the tradition ofloyalty to one another. I suspect Notre Dame has always been like that and always attracted the samekind of students." 
A compliment which weighs heavier 
considering he recently moved from Ire­
land to accept this position. While serving 
Wadsworth was asked, as a distinguished alum in Ireland, to help arrange and hostFr. Malloy andFr. Beauchamp' s receh~ visit to Ireland. Aftertheoriginalreunion ofschool andgraduate,Wadsworthremainedintouch with theNotreDameadministrators. While in South Bend for the Florida State football game, DickRosenthal, former head athletic director, asked Wadsworth to meet him for · breakfast. It was then.that he approached Wadsworth about becoming his successor. Theadministration followedRosenthal' s recommendation, believing-that his inter­
national reputation, previous Irish athletic 
experience, legal expertise and business 
sense made him the perfect candidate for 
the position of athletic dir~tor. 
"My wife and I looked at the job very 

carefully, and we came down to a few 
conclusions that made up our minds. One, 
we couldn't imagine working with finer 
people than they have in the administration. 
Also, thepurpose of auniversity, the devel­
opment ofyoung people, that meant a lot to 
us," he says. 
The athletic director explains as he leans 

forward in his chair, "Of course, I'm ner­
vous aboutnotdoing well, althoughI haven't 
lost any sleep over thejob. Not yet anyway. 
I was apprehensive about not being in­
volved in intercollegiate athletics for thirty 
years, but I wasn't involved in international 
diplomacy either. Apprehension is wh,at 
keeps us sharp." 
Although he has been removed from 

intercollegiate athletics for some time, 
Wadsworth understands the Notre Dame 
tradition and still has the build of a defen­
sive tackle. 
Hedescribes his athleticca­reer here as "a combination of ups and downs." In his first season of play, Notre Dame . won only two games and lost seven. Then Ara Parseghian 
came to Notre Dame. 
"Coach Parseghian's ar­

rival was a great experience 
for all Notre Dame students,. 
especially those who had the 
opportunity to play for him," 
he says, beaming with admi­
ration for the former coach. 
The team posted a record of 

9-1 that year, a turn around 
that Wadsworth attributes to 
Parseghian. 
"Itwas a startling example 

ofwhatleadershipcando,"he 
says, shaking his head almost 
in disbelief of the team that 
won two games one. season 
and captured the national 
championship the next. 
With theauthorifyofanatu-. 
ral born leader, Wadsworth 
relates his experiences from 
his time at Notre Dame to his 
current position. "In terms of 
current responsibilities at Notre Dame, that time was ofgreat impor­tance. Being in charge of the head coaches, the same qualities are equally important. It was awonderfullearningexperience, some­thing you always carry with you. You recognize not only leadership, but the ab­sence of it." 
The former tackle struggled with an in-· jury his junior and senior years but recov­ered enough to play.in the Canadian Foot­ballLeagueaftergtaduating. NamedRookie ofthe Year in 1966, he was a leader both on the field and off. He organized the league's first players' organization. Wadsworth also obtained a law degree and has since held a menagerie of occupations, from a color commentator for Canadian television and radio to a Canadian legislator. 
Hereturned to the United States, worked in business and earned a degree from the Harvard School of Business. Through ef­forts to maintain aconnection with his Irish roots, Wadsworth became acquainted with then Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. 
"He was aware that my wife and I had a been very interested in Ireland and encour­aged me to express interestin thepositionof ambassador," he explains. After a nomina­tion to theposition of CanadianAmbassador to Ireland, Wadsworth and his wife spent 
· the next five years in Dublin. 
He now faces a new set of challenges; perhaps the biggest will be the stadium renovation which is set to begin this No­vember. "It was afeta compli when I came here, so there wasn't much that I could do. Withoutit, there area lot of faithful alumni who can't come back, but we need to keep the traditions and loyalty alive." 
Wadsworth stresses the large effect the expansion will have on the university's future. "If we can accommodate more people and they will make donations, we can provide more aid to the students. That is important, because we want the best students, not those with the best pocket books. It will bring the highest caliber people to Notre Dame." 
Another significant occurrence during Wadsworth's tenure is the addition of all Irish sports, exceptfootball, to the BigEast Conference, which has taken effect in the 
past month. 
Although Rosenthal engi­neered the transition, Wadsworth has been respon­
. sible for its implementation. "I have great respect for the talent level in the Big East. I was also impressed with the leadership of the conference and the nature of the issues that we are dealing with," he says. "The Olympic sports, such as our women's soccer team,andthevolleyballteam will especiallybenefit. Over­all, I believe it will be posi­tive for the complete pro­gram." 
Wadsworth sums up his new position: "My job is to perpetuate what has been a fantastic · experience for people over all these years. I mustprotect the integrity and the reputation of the athletic departmentasit 's beenforged by so many people and to do that in a way where we can still compete at the highest levels and still have our fair amount of success." 0 




17 

' 
,! 
i 
; ' 

I I 

-






GOOOAAALLL! 
A year after losing in the NCAA Championship game, the Irish set their sights on theirfirst national title 
BYBRIANHnmLastfall, while the Notre Dame foot­ball team was mired in the depths of mediocrity, the women's soccer team provided the chase for the national championship that students here havecome to expectfrom Holtz and his troops. Again this year, as hopes for Irish football deflate like a cheap balloon, it will be Coach Chris Petrucelli' s powerful soccer squad thatwill put smiles back on people's faces -and just maybe a big #1 on top of Grace. Although the Notre Dame women's soc­cer team has experienced success before, it almost reached the pinnacle of the sport in 1994, breezing through its regular season undefeated. On the way to a school record 23 victories,the Irishpostedwins overeight top-twenty teams, including a 5-0 disman­tling of #6 Duke. But the highlight of the season, not to mention Notre Dame soccer history, came on October 2 when the Irish played to a scoreless draw with top-ranked and perennial national champion ·North Carolina. The tie ended the Tar Heels' 92 gamewinningstreak, thelongestinwomen's soccer history, and helped to propel the Irish to #1. The blue and gold bubble quickly burst on the Irish, however, in the NCAA tourna­ment. After disposing of George Mason, William & Mary and Portland in the first three rounds, Notre Dame ran into a re­venge-minded North Carolina team in the final. Although the Irish fought hard, the Tar Heels' experience shone through in their 5-0 victory. In 1995, then, there's nothing left for the women's soccer team but to write the '94 script all over again -but with a happy ending this time, of course. "Our goal is to win a national champion­ship," says Petrucelli. "That's what we think about; that's what we strive for. This 
18 


is not a team that is focused on individual awards or honors." 
Senior forward Michelle McCarthy ech­oes her coach's sentiments: "The national championship is our goal, and it's always been our goal. But this year winning it is more realistic than ever. Now we know whatit'sliketo bein the finals and weknow what it takes to get back there." 
The Irish not only have the necessary experience to win it all this year, they also haveamplefirepower. Petrucelliwelcomes back nine starters from the '94 team as well as a pair of veterans who missed all of last season with injuries. 
It all begins for the Irish in the net, where 1995 co-captain Jen Renola returns for her junior year as goalkeeper. Renola recorded nine solo shutouts and allowedjust 15 goals All-America honors. In her short Notre Dame career, she has a sparkling record of 42-4-1, including 16 solo shutouts. 
Renola's fellow co-captain, junior midfielder Ciridy Daws, just might be the bestplayerin the nation. Aftera spectacular freshman seasonin which sheeasilyeclipsed the Notre Dame record for points in a sea­son with 52, Daws struggled with a foot injury early in the '94 campaign before coming on strong and again earning con­sensus All-America honors. Already the school's career leader in assists, she is on track to capture even more Irish records. 
As dominant as Daws can be from the midfield, last year she might not have even been thebest midfielderon the team. Sopho­more Holly Manthei is coming off a rookie campaign in which she tallied 30 assists, the 
last season, helping her to gamer first-team second-highest single season total in SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 14, 1995 
women's college history. She finished sec­ond on the Irish squad with 48 total points. A second-team All-America choice, Manthei went on to play for the U.S. Na­tional Team in the Women's World Cup this summer, an experience that should. make her even better this season. 
Up front, Petrucelli has just one more yeartorelyontheseasonedforwardcombi­nation of seniors Rosella Guerrero and McCarthy. The duo has started a total of 127 games in three years with the Irish and has played a large role in the growth of the soccer program. In '94, Guerrero's 21 goals broke the Notre Dame single season record. For her efforts, Guerrero was named Midwestern Collegiate Conference player of the year. She is the school's all-time leading scorer. McCarthy, second on the team in goals and third in points last y~, can make opposing defenses look foolish with her tremendous dribbling ability. 
On defense, the Irish return all three starters from a year ago. Senior Ashley Scharff,a toweringpresenceon thebackline, enters her fourth year as starting sweeper. 
· Flanking her are junior Kate Fisher, a versa­tileplayer who has seen action at forward, midfielder and defender her first two years, and sophomore Kate Sobrero, who marks the best opposing forward each time out. Other major contributors to the national title chase in '95 will be senior midfielder 
Ragen Coyne, the program's first ever All-American in 1992, who returns from a stress fracture that sidelined her for all of last season; junior midfielder Stacia Masters, the first player off the bench in '94 who now moves into the starting lineup; and sophomore midfielder JulieMaund, whostarted23 games as a rookie. 
As has become tradition in his five years as head coach, Petrucelli once again landed one of the top freshmen classes in the nation to complementtheteam'sveteransand to help secure the future ofthe pro­gram. This year's class of five players includes Shannon Boxxand Monica Gerardo, both of whom earned Parade All-American hon­ors in high school and have fought their way into the starting lineup. 
Anotherrookie joins theIrishfold 

KEEP YOUR EYES ON THE BALL Senior Michelle this season, only she has about four McCarthy prepares to fire a shot. McCarthy tallied years and a good deal of name rec-. 18 goals with 11 assists last season. ognition on the other five. Fifth-year senior Christy Peters is attempting to schedule we can play. In particular, the make the difficult transition to soccer after tournament in Houston is a real quality one of the most successful volleyball ca­tournament It'll be like playing in theFinal reers in Notre Dame history. Her effort will Four, and that'swhywescheduledit," says make an interesting subplot in the '95 sea­Petrucelli. son. The Irish have yet to enter the meat of "Christy is incredible in the air; she's one their '95 schedule. In fact, their first two 
"Nothing less than a National Championship will do." -Senior Ragen Coyne 

ofthebestheaders I've ever seen," observes Petrucelli. "But she still needs to adjust to playing soccer. She just hasn't played that much in the past four or five years." 
If the Irish are to achieve their goal of winning the national.championship, they will have to survive a rigorous schedule, one thatincludesBigEastconferencegames as well as matchups against such soccer powersas Wisconsin, Stanford,Santa Clara, Dukeand, ofcourse.North Carolina. Notre f Dame plays the latter two opponents in-the ~ Houston Challenge Cup in mid-October. i Such a demanding slate is by no means an 
~ accident. "Our schedule has been planned to make usalittlebettereveryyear. Nowthatwe've got a very good team we're playing the best 
games against Big East foes Providence and St. John's hardly caused them to break a sweat. While the Irish racked up 16 goals in the two contests, their opponents man­aged a grand total ofzero. St. John's even failed to record a shot on goal in a 9-0 loss. Freshman Gerardo made a big collegiate · splash with four goalsin herfirst two games. 
Butas the Irish players cruise through the regular season, they will always keep the big picture in clear focus. 
''The expectations we have on ourselves and the expectations that come from the outside are so high," says Coyne. "Nothing less than a national championship will do." 
Adds McCarthy, "We have a lot to look forward to." 
Indeed they do. 


SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup ofthe week in sports September 5 to September 12 edited by Shannan Ball 
Men's Soccer Achieves Highest Ranking Ever 
The Fighting Irish men's soccer team has gone undefeated this season and as a result have grabbed a number six ranking in the ISAA poll. This is their first-ever appear­ance in the top 10 and highest ranking in Notre Dame history. _ In regular season play, not one opponent has scored a goal against the Irish. They shut out DePaul 8-0 and went on to trounce Valparaiso 7--0, scoring six goals in the second quarter. Their inaugural appear­ance in the Big East was successful in the form of a 3-0 victory over Syracuse. 
Notre Dame senior forward Bill Lanza has returned to the team after missing all of the 1994seasonduetoaninjury. Hehasn't missed a beat, scoring four goals and rack­ing up six assists. Lanza was also named Big East player of the week. 
Another big contributor for the Irish has been midfielder Josh Landman. Prior to this season, he hadplayed in only 10games. He started for the first time in his career against Valparaiso and made the event a memorable one by scoring two goals. 
TheIrish willlook to theseplayers as they put their success to the test on the road. They travel to seventh-ranked Rutgers and Seton Hall in the coming week where they will put their ranking on the line. 
Women's Soccer Rolling 

After their appearance in tlie national championship game against North Caro­lina last year, the Notre Dame women's soccer team made itknown that theyplan to return and capture the title. The road to becoming number one in the nation has been smooth so far, as the Irish havewon all four oftheir games and achieved a number two ranking behind the Tar Heels. 
This past week Notre Dame crushed In­diana 7-0, scoring four goals in 12 minutes ofthe first half. Freshman Monica Gerardo scored four goals, a single game record, in the contest. She went on to net the onlygoal scored when the Irish took on thirteenth­ranked Wisconsin. GoalkeeperJenRenola was forced to make several big saves in that game. To date, none of Notre Dame's opponents have recorded a goal against the Irish. 
Success has come to the Irish even in the absence of two-time first team All-Ameri­can Cindy Daws. She missed the first three games of the season due to pulled quadri­ceps and will be evaluated on a game by game basis. 
This weekend the Irish host the Adidas/ Notre Dame Invitational. -They will face an undefeated Michigan State squad on Fri­day, followed by a match-up with number three Stanford on Sunday. 
_ 

We Are ND: Talk about the Notre Dame family. Two Irish revelers left for Purdue with no money, no food, no beverages and most important, no tickets. Thanks to the kindness of a man in a luxury bus, the two juniors received food, drink and tickets -all for free. Quote of the Week: "Our defensive coordinator Bob Davie said it best. We're sort oflike the OJ. [Simpson] jury. We've been sequestered and everybody on the outside has their own opinions and voices them. But the only thing that matters is the people in the room. The only thing that matters to us is our people in the room." -Lou Holtz Schaller's Schot: The Irish start a bit shaky and seem unsure of themselves. Midway through the second quarter, however, the ground attack takes over. Kinder.Edwards and Autrey run over the Commodore defense, allowingPowlus more than enough time to pick away at the struggling Vanderbilt secondary. Mayes grabs two touchdowns, Mosely one andSollmanscoresonareverse.Alatedefensiveletdownmakesthescoreseemcloserthan it really was. Notre Dame 38 Vanderbilt 24 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SEPTEMBER 14, 1995 
li§iliiii•§i@ii§ii•1--------------------------'­

.Opening Night 
A sellout crowd attended the gala premiere ofRoy Cohn/Jack Smith 
BY MIKE KOGGELarge crowds had gathered at the Snite Museum by 6 p.m., and by 6:45p.m. the theater had sold out, prompting a second screening of the film. Roy Cohn/Jack Smith's South Bend pre­miere had lived up to its expectations of being an informative and provocative evening for all. Featuring keynote speakers and a ques­tion and answer session following the film, the gala premiere was organized to benefit the Gender Studies Program and their work with GLND/SMC, focusing on the prob­lems associated with "closeting" homo­sexuals both on the Nptre Dame campus and in a broader sense. Suraj Bose, an English graduate student andGLND/SMCmembersaid, "Iamreally glad this debate has not been allowed to die. This film event keeps the issue alive not only in the Notre Dame political arena, but extends itself to academic scrutiny." Starring Ron Vawter (Silence of the Lambs, Philadelphia), the film focused on the title characters, two notorious gay men whobothdiedofAIDSinthe 1980s. Vawter, who played both characters in his stage version, reprises the roles for the film ver-

FACES IN THE CROWD. The Annenberg Auditorium (lop) was packed on Friday night for the South Bend debut of Godmilow's (above) Roy Cohn/Jack Smith. 
sion: Roy Cohn, a New Ybrk District Attorney who vehemently denounced gay rights while remaining a homosexual him­self, and Jack Smith, an independent mm­maker who often dressed in drag while performingforaudiences in his home. While the film left the audience with mixed reac­tions, the focus of the evening remained­to bring about a greater acceptance of ho­mosexuality. 
Before the film began, Harold Attridge, dean ofthe College of Artsand Letters, said that "2000 years of Catholic traditions oc­casionally produce dilemmas." He went on to state that the film and its later discussion on gender/sexual studies would allow us, "to engage in contemporary culture," a cul­ture, according to Kathleen Biddick, direc­tor of the Gender Studies program, that has been slightly "closeted," 
Biddick also asked, "What does it mean to mandate an official closeting of [homo­sexuality]?" 
Director Jill Gcidmilow typified the com­mon theme by stating that the film proved the "self-destructive implications of mak­ing a distinction between public and private life." 
Despite the fact. that Monk Malloy and Patty O'Hara were not in attendance (Godmilow said they sent representatives), Randy Rutsky, assistant professor of Com-· munication and Theater, said "the second screening of the film suggests that people are supportive of GLND/SMC." 
Though the film may not have spoken to the entire audience, Godmilow's work leaves the door open for more debate and discussion about homosexuality at Notre Dame, an issue thatrefuses tobecloseted.O 
•i§liiiii•iiiJi§ii------------------__,_-----­
In his new book Domers, 
.journalist Kevin Coyne chronicles , 
,the life arid times ofa year

Domed 
at Notre Dame 

~tence• 
Theroarof thecrowdaftera big play, late-night walks around 
• the lakes, discussions about the Catholicchurch, thetriumphs and trag­edies of college life. From the timid, quick glances around theJ.A.C.C. dur­ing Freshman Orientation to the long, slowgazesduringgraduation, there are. some experiences universal to every­one who hasspenitimeatNotreDame. Kevin Coyne is no exception. 
Though he did not graduate from the 
university, Coyne.was on campus for 
the entire 1992-93 school year, ioam­
ingdormhallways,sittinginonclasses, 
attending administrative meetings, 
playing basketball and going to SYRs; 
Hecheered. Helaughed.He.observed. 
He cried. He listened. He learned. 
AndreadersofhisnewbookDomers: · 
AYearatNotreDamewilldo thesame. 
·Aimed at, and appropriate for, audi­ences both inside and outside the blan­ket of the golden dome, Domers takes a close look at what Notre Dame is really all about-its philosophy, its past and its present, and most ofall, its people. . 

Coyne· hits all the highlights cif a typical:year at the university. More importantly, he is right on target in capturingwhatmakesNotreDarneany­thingbuta typical university. "Under-. . . · . . . ·. · 
1 . all th . . u· al fl u· 1 WITH OPEN ARMS. Kevin Coyne looks beyond football Saturdays mhis new book, Domers, ymg e mstitu on •re ec on a about a year In the life of Notre Dame. · Notre Dame this year, the debate about · · · its character and its future, was the knowledge that the·next big He captures the expectations ofthe students, the concerns ofthe fund-raising campaign ... would finally push thetotal endowment faculty and the pressures plaguing the administration.. "Students, past the billion dollar mark....: an amount so huge, so far removed .as was their nature,cravedfreedom andpleasure; thepriests,as was 
fromSoriri'scash-poorbeginnings,thatitwashardnottowonder their job, gave them discipline and virtue," he notes. Coyne just what kind of school all that money might buy." · chronicles both the good and thebad to malceDomersa fair telling. 
22 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 14, 1995 

With his descriptive pen, Coyne portrays the mystique which 
envelops campus and lives in the spirit of those associated with 
Notre Dame. Domers are reminded of their own first football 
game, yet they are also invited for the first time behind the closed 
doors ofthepresidential conferenceroom. They attend class with 
philosophy professor Tom Morris discussing issues neverbefore 
considered and receive the first blow during Bengal Bouts. All 
the pleasures and pains, ups and downs, highs and lows oflife at 
Notre Dame. · 
Attimes, Coyne's chapters becomeheavy as he draws together 
seemingly separate issues. This element of the text parallels the 
number andvariations of activities and concerns goingon all over 
campus at any one time. With his engaging tone, revealing 
insights and clear writing style, however, Coyne successfully · 
shows the energy that pervades the university and the ties which 
The crowdsteamedoutofthe dorm, across the quad-''the women creepingcarefully alongthelcy walks that were treacherous totheirhlghheels-andintoSouth Dining HaHforthe traditionalMorrissey postdancebreakfast. 
e e e e e e e O O e e e O O O G O e O 0 
AlllsonMcCurdysatatthefrontofa large lecturehaHln DeBartolo that waspiteb.ed assteeplyasan anat:omytheaterin an old horrormovie. Loomingupbeforeherlikea craggybluemountain wastheentireNavy BOTCbattallon,allsittingstraightand attentiveln their dressrmHorms,gathered herefor the end-of-semesterchange-of­, commandceremony. 
bring unity to the community and to his book. 
'' 

As Coyne unfolds the story ofhis year atNotre Dame, he allows the voices ofothers to speak. As he relays the general infonnation, he relies on the experiences ofspecific individuals. Older students will find themselves smiling at forgotten names and events that come rushing back. Younger students will identify with observa­tions and anticipate the experiences. As Coyne writes about his conversations with students, rectors, administrators and faculty, readers gain anew perspective which enhances the collectiveNotre Dame experience. 
Domers is now a part of that collective experience. For those of us who are alumni, past or present, Coyne's work will serve as a yearbook of sorts -a collection of memories and a stimulus for conversation.· For the rest of the population, it will provide a look beyond the stadium on a football Saturday into the character of the University of Notre Dame and the lives ofall who call themselves Domers. 0 


SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 

..GANO BUDGET 

54533 Terrace Ln 
277-7744 
52577 US Rt.31 

277-1024 
23 



Voyeurists and Elvis Worshippers 
BY JOHN rnFRANCA 
. No Vacation 
For those ofyou whodidn'tknowit,Las Vegas offers more than gambling and Tom Jones performances (although not much can beat the latter for sheer entertainment value). This summer, the city was home to the Scrabble Superstars Showdown. For most of us, this event would bring back nightmares of third grade spelling bees marred by words like "Mississippi." For David Gibson, a teacher at Spartanburg Methodist and Converse Colleges, it was the opportunity to win $50,000. 
The mathematics professor won his sec­ond straight title with familiar words like qat, calypso and mucoids. Gibson said his math background helped him to think stra­tegically and defeat 53 of the world's best Scrabble players. But if any of you were thinking about spending your spring break in search of some world-class Scrabble competition, Gibson has some advice: "A Scrabble tournament is very, very tense. It's not a vacation." And I always thought Math teachers led boring lives; silly me. 
. Speaking ofMississippi 
The debate over the young and vibrant Elvis vs. the old and bloated King has long been over. Nonetheless, the University of Mississippi, which has held an annual con­ference on William Faulkner for 22 years, has found a new cultural icon to study. You guessed it, a conference on none other than the King of Rock and Roll. 
"This conference will put the University of Mississippi on a new cultural and aca­demic map," saidonedirectorof theconfer­ence. I must ask, though: will this map also havedirections to the siteoftheElvisPresley Sideburn Museum, The Blues Suede Shoe Symposium, or the place where Elvis first sung a song while sick with the flu? (All, of course, are highlights of any trip through the South.) 

. Beaten by BYU,Again 
ForthosestudentswhofindNotreDame's 
control over their private lives extreme, 
BYU' s rules make the Irish appear morally 
corrupt Students at the Church of Latter 
Day Saint's college are required to live a 
"chaste and virtuous" lifestyle (Sound a bit 
familiar)? 
Buthere'sthecatch: notonlyaretheynot 
allowed to engage in acts ofsin themselves, 
they are also not allowed to watch others do 
so. This is not meant to imply that voyeur­
ism is a popular pastime at BYU, although 
it maybe. Rather, toobtainlntemetaccess, 
students must agree not to "download por­
nography or other offensive material." 
Those who do face suspension. School 
officials check on students by patrolling 
accounts in useandlooking at lists of visited 
sites. Remember, Big Brother Brigham is 
Watching. 
· . High Grades Pay 
Theta Chi, a fraternity at the University of Idaho, has decided to pay students for earning high grades. The frat house, built nine years ago, still has a hefty mortgage. Theplan is intended to lure members to live in the house by giving them a possible refund on their rent The higher their grades are; thelargertherefund, witha4.0 earning a full return of what they paid in rent 
Suretoearnareputationforitsmembers study habits, Theta Chi probably won't be the wildest spot on campus. And it prob­ablywon'tremindanyoneofAnima/House ...unless, that is, youconsidera bookworm to be an animal. 
. And I thought you were supposedto do well in school 
While fraternity houses are encourag­ing students to earn top grades, Boward Community College is looking for stu­dents with Caverages. Edward W. Seese, a Fort Lauderdale businessman who died last March, left the college $4.5 million to provide the school with scholarships for students with averagegrades. Itseems that those students who worked hard during high school with the hopes of earning a college scholarship should have spent a little more time slacking off. 
Seese's lawyer explained, "He said the B'sand A's could get scholarships, but the C's would be left out in the cold." Well, what about those underachieving D andF students? Surely they deserve scholar­ships for their achievements, too. 


Coming
Distractions 
September 14 -September 21 
Field, Court & Alley 
Football 

• ND vs. Vanderbilt, Saturday, 1 :30 p.m., Stadium. 

Women's Soccer 

• 
ND vs. Michigan State, Friday, 7:30 p.m., Alumni Field. 

• 
ND vs. Stanford, Sunday, noon, Alumni Field. 




Cultural Connection 
Lectures and Seminars 

• 
Hospitality Lunch to benefit Dismas of Michiana, Thurs., 11-1 p.m., Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
Gender Studies Forum, Hesburgh Library Lounge, Thurs., 


12:15 p.m. 

• Lecture, Michael Dunbar, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Thurs., 7:30 p.m. 
Entertainment 

• 
Play, "The Maids," FISTAR performance, Club House, Saint Mary's College, Thurs., Fri., and Sat., 8 p.m. 

• 
Film, "Crumb," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Fri., 7:15 and 9:45 p.m. 

• 
Film, "Forget Paris," Cushing Auditorium, Fri. and Sat., 8 and 10:30 p.m. 




On the Silver Screen 
University Park West: 277-7336. 
• 
"Too Wong Foo," PG-13, 2:15, 4:40, 7:15, 9:45. 

• 
"Usual Suspects," R, 2:00, 4:30, 6:50, 9:20. 

• 
"The Prophecy," R, 2:30, 4:50, 7:00, 9:30. 


University Park East: 277-7336. • "Hackers," PG-13, 2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:20. • "Angus," PG-13, 2:15, 5:00, 7:20, 9:35. • "Clockers," R, 2:30, 5:30, 8:30. 
• 
"Desperado," R, 1:30, 4:15, 7:15, 9:40. • "Apollo 13," PG, 1:45, 4:35. 

• 
"The lie That-Binds," R, 7:30, 9:50. • "Mortal Kombat," PG-13, 2:10, 4:40. • "The Net," PG-13, 7:00, 9:30. 


Movies 10 

• "Braveheart," R, 1:15, 5:00, 9:00 
• 
"Lord of Illusions," R, 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. 

• 
"Babe," G, 1:05, 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:20. • "Clueless," PG-13, 7:25, 9:35. 

• 
''The Babysitters Club," PG, 1:30, 3;35, 5:25. 

• 
"A Walk in the Clouds," PG-13, 1:00, 3:20, 5:40, 7:55, 10:10. 

• 
"National Lampoon's Senior Trip," R, 12:55, 3:05, 5:10, 7:35, 9:45. 

• 
"Something to Talk About," R, 1:10, 3:25, 5:45, 8:00, 10:15. 

• 
"The Postman," PG, 1:45, 4:15, 7:10, 9:40. 

• 
"Dr. Jekyll and Ms. Hyde," PG-13, 7:30, 9:55. • "Bushwhacked," PG-13, 1:10, 3:25, 5:30. 

• 
"A Kid in King Arthur's Court," PG, 1:20, 3:30, 5:35, 7:40. 

• 
"Under Seige 2," R, 10:00. 






PIZZA! PIZZA! 
The results ofScholastic's first once-in-a-while pizza comparison test 
BY STEVE MYERS 
Is the comer of your room filled with peppers? Has the "cheese" sauce from Papa John's lost its magical ability to trans­form a plain old slice of pepperoni into a delightfulrollercoasterof palatable delight? 
Well, never fear. As Virgil led Dante throughHellandPurgatory,Scholasticwill lead you through the valley of the damned, where limp, soggy crusts litter the ground and people live in huts made of grease­saturated pizza boxes. We will show you the light, teach you how to participate in God's grace through quasi-Italian cuisine, help you make the Platonic ascent to the form of PIZZA, and improve your sex life. 
Well, notreally. Basically all we did was eat a bunch of different kinds of pizza one night We didn't even drink Sprite and eat saltinestocleanseourpalates. Actually, we cleansed our palates with the free liter of Diet Coke from Noble Roman's. 
Oh, sure, you think you've had pizza, but you haven't really had pizza until you've wiped the grease of six different brands from your grubby hands on a quest for the best local pizza. Which is what we did, purely out of our own benificence. 
And because we were hungry, but that is purely secondary. 
The contenders wefe Bruno's, Noble Roman's,PapaJohn's,fuzaHut,Eduaroo's and Domino's. Judging was based on de­livery service, cost (including a very small tip), technical merit (taste) and stylistic impression. We ordered a large half cheese, half random topping pizza from each estab­lishment. Technical merit was judged on a 17-point scale, based on how many times you have to call before you get through to Papa John's at 2 a.m. on a Saturday. 
Here are the results: 
Bruno's 
Cost $18. Estimated Delivery Time: 45 min.-1 hr. Actual Delivery Time: 49 min. 
TechnicalMerit: Big,excellentpizza. A bittoo much grease. Doughy crust except at edges. At least 15.85 out of 17. 
Artistic Impression: Nice culture lesson on the top of the box, explaining the colors of the Italian flag. Multiculturalism in real life. Noble Roman's 
Cost $8. 
Estimated Delivery Time:· 4045 min. 
Actual Delivery Time: 48 min. 
Technical Merit Wildly zesty, due to the pepper sprinkled over the entire pizza. Papery, yet limpy [sic] (apparently due to a grease bath). 6 out of 17. 
Artistic Impression: The judges resorted to dipping the slices in Papa John's psyche­delic butter sauce, which didn'treally help. Pizza Hut 
Cost $12. 
Estimated Delivery Time: 45 min. 
Actual Delivery Time: 38 min. 
Technical Merit Sorry, Ringo, but we didn'tgetthecheesecrust,andmaybethat's why it wasn't great 12 out of 17. 
Artisticlmpression: Stealth bacon, which was. hidden under the cheese, added excite­ment to the meal. Eduardo's 
Cost $19 (with generous $2 tip). 
Estimated Delivery Time: 1 hr. 15 min. 
Actual Delivery Time: 1 hr. 
Technical Merit Excellent deep dish pizza. Lotsa' cheese, good sauce, zesty, tangy, tasty. 15 out of 17 (marked down because it was not cut and impossible to eat with your hands). 
Artistic Impression: A carton so compli­catedandsecureitwould warmanengineer' s heart. Papa John's 
Cost: $12. Note: prices depend on alignment of planets at time of order. 
Estimated Delivery Time: 40 min. 
Actual Delivery Time: 36 min. 
Technical Merit: "It's ok." Some called it tangy, others described it as marginal. 13 outofl7. If Saturn is in the House of Libra, 13.5. 
Artistic Impression: Jalapeno peppers are a nice touch, and I know a guy who actually eats them. 
Domino's 
Cost $8. Estimated Delivery Time: 30-40 min. Actual Delivery Time: 20 min. TechnicalMerit: Aratherungreasypizza, 
with a decent layering of cheese and quality sauce. Not bad. 13 out of 17. Artistic Impression: None, but I don't blame them -they didn't have time. 
SPECIAL AWARDS II'Abundant Cheese Award: Bruno's. v'OriginalNameAward: PizzaHut Only name that doesn't end in 's. 
vAttempt to Disguise Mediocre Pizza withFree2-Liter Award: NobleRoman's. Nice try, Noble, but you're dealing with professionals. v'Efficiency Award: Domino's. Pretty good, pretty cheap, pretty fast 
v'Don't Get it Delivered Award: 
Eduardo's. Ifyou're up for deep dish, head outtoD-6. VWorstHo1dMusicAward: PapaJohn's. Country. HeyPapa-I'mstarving. Don't push me. v'Customer Service Award: (tie) Papa John's, who answered the phone with, "What do you want?", and pizza Hut, who hung up on me when! told her I wouldn'ttip the driver because she went to Northwest­ern. ll'Dorkiest Delivery Guy Award: Pizza Hut. He was so gloriously dorky, he should've had a halo around his head. . 
This is a hwnor column. The views ex­pressed in this colwnn are not necessarily the view ofthe eidorial staffofScholastic Magazine. In addition, the survey was conducted in a wholly unscientific and un­dependable manner. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 14, 1995 

Holding Out 
Jim Swartz is a · senior government major ·and an RA in Grace Hall. He is from East Amherst, New York. 
by Jim Swartz



For A Hero 
Cal Ripkin's perseveref!,Ce recalls an ethos alniostforgotten 
As CalRipken,Jr., took his victory lap around Camden YardsinBaltimoreon thathistoric 
"Maybe Calhas 

autumn evening, baseball fanatics were spellbound, awedby the feat that was finally accom­figured out how to plished; For 56 years, New York Yankee great Lou Gehrig's consecutive game record seemed as pris­findperspective-,while · tine and untouchable as any in professional sports; it took 13 seasonsforRipken to overtake theendurance fettered to the stressful record forMajor League Baseball. Theeventwas not 

__ aspects ofmodem

without the deserved accolades and media overkill, 
butin the sheer bedlam of the moment,itwas Ripken · 

life." 

who completed the streak with the same poise and 
respect with which he chased Gehrig for those 13 
seasons. 

Despite all ofthe modem day trappings of prof es-Yards. He should be lauded as a proponent of the sional athletics, Cal Ripken, Jr., has given us an sameindefatigabilityanddistinctionthatthisuniver­unparalleled example of perspective. It is perspec-sity claims as standards. tive, after all, that allows all ofus to exert our talents · · Of course, the numerical records of one major for the betterment of all, and, even for the Notre leaguebaseballplayerreallydonotmeanmuchinthe Dame community, it doesn't hurt to be reminded of big scheme ofthings. What is so astonishing, how­that once in a·while; · ever, is that Ripken does not claim that it does. When 
For some, it is Ripken's numbers that are so Ripkent.alks,interviewerslisten,andtheyinvariably inspiring: 2,131 consecutive games played; 3 errors hear a profession of reliance on family, dedication to . in 1990 setting the record for fewest by-a shortstop; human values and persistence. In this, we should 5consecutive years, from 1982 to 1987, thatRipken · take both faith and give acknowledgment. · playedeveryinning; the99.2%oftheOriolesinnings Even the members oftheNotreDame community that he has played since the start ofthe streak; a bare forget the more ethereal values that stand behind our 58 times that he left a game early during the run, and mission as human beings. Too often we chase the 
. the astounding 317 homerims that Ripken has hit, "records" -highpaying jobs, athletic invincibility, . setting another record for the most by a shortstop. and collegiate rankings. Maybe Cal has figured out Indeed, the statistics thatRipken posted since begin-how to find perspective while fettered to the stressful ning the assault on Gehrig's remarkable effort are aspects of modem life, as the longevity of his career testament to his excellence as a baseball player; has shown. Inany case, wehavefoundamodemday 
Beyond the numbers, though, lie the true reasons hero, one who has competed with the typeof dedica­
behindtheanomaly knownasCalRipken,Jr. Itis his tion to excellence that we all should strive towards. 
perseverance, dedication,reliabilityand class that set Finally, we have found elegance, competitiveness, 
him apart,from the pop idols that have emerged in ·longevity and tenacity, and as we looked on with 
professional sports. He is no more a high-priced admiration,hegaveusalittlebitofoptimism,atouch 
prima donna than Gehrig was, and the ideals that -ofexcitement and a hope for the continuance of_an 
Ripken has retained despite his surroundings should ethic of excellence. 
beapplaudedformorethanthe22minutesinCamden Thanks, Cal. 
Do You Want to Know 

What's Going On at Notre Dame? 
Subscribe to 




HOL 
TI 
MAGAZINE 


You'll find: 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
weekend events • off-the-wall college humor 

• 
and more! 




FOR ONLY $30 A YEAR 
r----------------------------------1 
! YES! i 
: ~iimll I 
: I want a yearlong subscription to !
! Scholastic Magazine.  :  
I  .  .  :  
: :  Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager  , l  
: :  Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune  I l  
:  Notre Dame, IN 46556  :  

L----------------------------------J 
FREE STUFF AT MEIJER 


Enter Scholastic's 

Call 1-7569 to enter Deadline: Saturday, September 16. Prize: $50 Meijer Gift Certificate 

~ " 
r 
I ' 
''~ I 
0) 
~ 
0 














