THE NCTCE I AHI
SOJOLBSTTC __________
LATEST AIR VIEW OF CAMPUS Rockne Memorial Inserted
In This Issue:
NEWS:
University Mourns Death of Judge Cain. . . . Name All-Star Debate Squads . . . Engineers to Swing It Tonight . . . The Week . . . College Parade . . . Man About.
SPORTS:
Track Season Opens Tonight . . . Pitt Cage Team Here Tomorrow . . . McGoldrick Football Captain . . . Introducing . . • Splinters.
February 4, 1938
Now Th Ths Post
sr ivAo Jnppeain May! a BLACKMAILER!"

Sir WiUiam almost choked over that one. Would his wife never take things seriously? Just because she’d once been a showgirl was no excuse. And then to give the bounder a fiver—1 “What’s the matter, darling,” asked Lady Julia, “wasn’t that enough?”.... It was plenty. Look what happened. (Look in the Post, on page 8.)
Good Old Julia	1
by MARGERY SHARP

] SHOULD I JUMP ?
Imagine yourself in a plane 5000 feet up. Suddenly the engine sputters, and dies. Should you bail out—or stick to the ship and risk a landing? That’s the question a flier has to answer time and again. Let an Army Air Corps pilot tell you how it feels to have to make that decision — especially at night, with a sea of blackness below.
by LT.
BEIRNE LAY, JR.
AND...$4,000,000 TO HOUSE 100 FAMILIES. Ralph F. Armstrong’s amazing case history of a Government project, Jersey Homesteads, Inc.... MAKING A KILLER CONFESS. Not so easy when you're an unarmed reporter, with a gun in your ribs and a “useless” debutante on your hands. Read Pipe Lines, a short story by Lew Dietz.... Correspondent Frank L. Kluckhohn tells you HOW MEXICO USES U. S. MONEY TO UNDERMINE U. S. INTERESTS.... Also, stories by Price Day and Richard Howells Watkins; serials, humor, cartoons.
1^rIrMEANsl^RrD)
BOYCOTT JAPAN
People love to join movements. Boycott Japan? “Sure,” they say. But what happens then? Embargo and boycott are equivalent to blockade — in fact, are blockade. And blockade means war. A writer who has studied the strategy behind American and Japanese diplomacy reports on the steps we are taking along a familiar road.
We Love a Crusade by GEORGE FIELDING ELIOT
THE SATURDAY |
EVENr~ ~ -
ju xn

’OST
'ranklia

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
4188
Vol. 71
February 4, 1938
No. 14
CLUB HOLDS BANQUET FOR VISITORS
By Frederick Sisk
The fact that it is almost heresy for a campus club to do something useful did not deter the St. Louis club from breaking away from a campus tradition as old as is Sorin Hall. What the St. Louis club did to shock presidents was to hold a luncheon in honor of the basketball players of St. Louis university last Tuesday.
The informal gathering took place at four o’clock in the faculty dining room. Thirty-five persons were present, including members of the Saint Louis team, Mr. Cecil Mullerleile, athletic director of the University of St. Louis; Mr. Edward Davidson, coach, and Brother Patrick, C.S.C., rector of Brownson Hall an alumnus of St. Louis U.
Jack Griffin, president of the St. Louis club opened the speeches by welcoming the visitors. Professor William J. Holton of the department of philosophy, served as toastmaster for the occasion. Rev. James A. Trahey, C.S.C., also gave a short address. .
The affair was a success both from the point of view of social importance, and from the determination that campus clubs can do things besides get their pictures taken for the Dome, or announce Christmas dance chairmen.
Forum Officers Meet
Meeting of the Commerce Forum’s officers was held Thursday of this week to form plans for the coming semester, it was announced this week by Charles Brosius, president.
The outstanding event of the Forum’s activities for the second semester will be the annual trip to Chicago, which will include a tour of some of the leading business establishments.
A social meeting of the entire Forum will be held sometime in the near future, at which time a prominent speaker will be present.
Numerous tours among the different industries of South Bend have been planned for the group at a later date in the semester.
FUNERAL SERVICES FOR JUDGE CAIN HELD YESTERDAY IN SACRED HEART CHURCH
By R. J. Anton
Honorable judge, admired teacher, loyal friend, beloved husband and father, was William M. Cain. Judge William Morley Cain died without warning last monday night following a heart attack at the home of his daughter, Mrs. A. R. Sears. The faculty and students of Notre Dame have united to extend their sincere sympathies to the immediate family of the deceased.
Judge William M. Cain
Requiescat.......
Make Several Additions To Teaching Staff
In the Department of Modern Languages Mr. William Schuyler of Chicago will take over the French classes previously conducted by Rev. Charles Doremus, C.S.C. Professor of French at Notre Dame for twenty-seven years, Father Doremus, one of the most popular members of the faculty on the campus, will take an extended leave of absence because of a recent illness.
Mr. Schuyler received his A.B. degree from Dartmouth in 1932. In 1934 he took his Master’s degree at the University of Chicago and since that time has been engaged in graduate work at the latter university.
Christopher Hollis, noted English economist and author, will arrive this week from England to begin his classes in the Department of Economics and for public lectures on monetary problems.
The funeral took place yesterday in Sacred Heart Church.
Bom in the year 1871, Judge Cain attended the University of Nebraska and took up the study of Law. He took his degree in the year 1894 and set up a modest practice in the same year. He continued this practice in the state of Nebraska for 35 years. During this time he served as county and prosecuting attorney of Butler county, Nebraska, for four years, and for one year was the city attorney of Fremont, Nebraska. Following this he served on the Supreme court of the same state.
In the year 1930 Judge Cain accepted the position of associate professor of law at Notre Dame. He had been very active here since that time, teaching many courses including “Equity and Criminal Law,” “Legal Ethics,” and conducting the practice court in the College of Law. He contributed many articles to various law publications. One of the more recent of these was a feature of the November issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer. The Judge was a member of the American, State of Nebraska, and St. Joseph County Bar associations. Recently he became a member of the University academic council, being elected to that post by the faculty of the Law school, and was a member of the South Bend Round Table.
Judge Cain was a favorite of the students both in and out of the classroom. Student friends and admirers joined the Law club in a visit to the residence last Tuesday night and'offered prayers. The judge was buried from Sacred Heart Church yesterday at 9:00 a.m. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., sang the requiem high mass and the Moreau Seminary Choir sang the liturgical responses. The attorney is survived by his wife, Mrs. Clara Delong Cain, and his two children, Mrs. A. R. Sears, and John M. Cain.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ENGINEERS STEAL AWAY FROM SLIDE RULES AS ANNUAL BALL MUSIC WHEEDLES
By John J. Kohn
There will be soft lights and sweet music at the Columbia Athletic Club tonight as the Engineers dance to the strains of Ted Nehring’s Indiana University orchestra.
There will be no distinction among the Engineers tonight. Once the dancing starts, a freshman civil will be on a .______________________________________________ plane with a senior chemical or a
junior aeronautical. Formulae will be forgotten for the evening. The laboratory will be as far away as the summer. Ray Fiedler, general chairman of the ball, assures all of a fine evening.
George Schlaudecker, president of the Engineers, has been working hard to insure success for the dance. The following committees have been appointed: In charge of music is Bill Mehring. Assisting Mehring is Don Duffy, Dick Hennessey and Charles Metzger.
John Poore, chairman of the ticket committee, was aided by Clark Keen, John Wilson and Walter Monacelli. Charles Welsh, chairman of the patrons committee, is assisted by John Ward, Melvin Lambrecht and Felix Toner.
Those who prepared the decorations are Chairman .Slyngstad with Frank Kirchman, Clayton Jordan and Dick Steuve. The publicity com-mitee for the dance is headed by Abe Zoss, Bob Reilly, John Goncher and Robert Witcher. The programs committee is headed by Frank Kesicke and his assistants are Lawrence Eby, John Berteling and Thomas Fitzgerald.
Marines Seek Members
Lieutenant-Colonel Roy C. Swink, of the United States Marine Corps, ■will arrive on the campus on Wednesday, Feb. 16, to interview applicants for Platoon leaders class of the Marine Corps. Lieut-Colonel Swink will conduct physical examinations for those desiring to apply for the Marine Corps.
Applicants accepted who live east of the Mississippi are to train at Quantico, Virginia; those who reside west of the Mississippi will report to the training base at San Diego, California.
Activities at the training bases will include close order drill, open order drill, scouting, patrolling, and target practice. Recreation facilities provide for boating, swimming, horseback riding, tennis, and trips to nearby points.
Students interested in the Marine Corps are urged to get in contact with Stan Partyka or Charles Bease-ley on the campus as soon as possible.
George Schlaudecker Forsakes test-ttubes for tails.
Corrosion Discussed At A. S. M. Gathering
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals will join with the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society for their monthly dinner-meeting Wednesday evening at 6:45 in the University dining hall. The technical session is to begin at 8:00 p. m. in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, with the main address being delivered by Dr. Frank N. Speller, director of the Department of Metallurgy and Research of the National Tube Company.
Dr. Speller, who will speak on “Corrosion of Metals,” was graduated from the University of Toronto with the degree of Bachelor of Applied Science and from the same institute he later received the honorary degree of Doctor of Science. As a chemist he was associated with the Carnegie Steel Company, and in 1902 he began his brilliant career with the National Tube Company. Since that time he has been closely identified with the study of corrosion and its prevention.
Dr. Speller’s address will cover a brief statement of the present status of corrosion problems, as well as review of the principles and of the factors involved in the corrosion of metals in water and in soil, with special reference to iron and steel. Members who have special problems to discuss are asked to present them in advance so that the speaker may give them particular consideration during the address.
HALL ENTERTAINMENT SCHEDULE SET
•
Washington Hall has been billed for the present semester with a kaleidoscopic program that will include Marionette plays, a concent by the Little Philharmonic Orchestra, demonstrations of psychic phenomena, excerpts from favorite operas, and lectures on the wonders of science. This latest announcement comes from Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., director of the educational entertainment program for Washington Hall. Several othei* concerts and lectures are pending, according to Father Carey, but no definite dates have been set for the engagements.
The Marionette Theatre of Martin and Olga Stevens will make its appearance in the hall next Thursday, Feb. 10, in a repertoire of exclusively adult entertainment. The Stevens have originated a novel idea in the entertainment scene: a theatre in which their players are sculptured, three-dimensional bodies caller marionettes. Personally controlled, a dozen figures project the play’s emotions on a professional stage complete with every theatrical facility. Special sound and lighting equipment, beautiful scenery, and music accompaniment, are under a staff of expert technical directors.
Under the conducting baton of George H. Shapiro, the Little Philharmonic Orchestra will present a concert of great symphonic works on Monday, Feb. 14. Mr. Shapiro has scored with enthusiastically responsive audiences in Europe and America and is acclaimed as a sensitive musician and a skillful conductor.
Dean Howard Higgins, of Emerson College, Boston, brings his actual demonstrations of alleged psychic phenomena to the hall on Monday, Feb. 28. In his illustrated demonstration-lecture Dean Higgins exposes the methods of mediums and fortune tellers in spirit vision, spirit slate writing, and other spirit forces. The program is more than entertaining—it is an excellent discussion of the psychology of suggestion.
On Wednesday, March 2, the Chamber Opera Company will present Leola Turner, Robert Long, and Raymond Koch, in “The Prodigal Son” by Debussy. This is a one-act opera which will be preceded by a short program of interesting songs, including solos and trios. Miss Turner has sung leading soprano roles with the Chicago Civic Opera Company and has been a featured star of the Cincinnati Opera.
“The Wonders of Science,” a lecture that carries universal appeal, will be given by Harry C. White on Wednesday, March 16. Mr. White,
(Continued on Page 5)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
LE MAITRE TO JOIN N. D. FACULTY SOON
•
Notre Dame is fortunate in being able to secure the services of Canon George Le Maitre, a distinguished Belgian scientist and priest. Professor Le Maitre will arrive in New York aboard the Normandie early in February. .
With the addition of Canon Le-Maitre to the faculty, Notre Dame can well claim the distinction of being foremost among the universities of the country in fields of mathematics and physics. The international symposium of mathematics to be held here on February 10 will be given added prestige by the presence of the great Belgian Abbe.
Canon Le Maitre’s work has been invaluable in the scientific world. The Belgian priest expounds the theory that the entire universe originated from one atom in which was conserved all energy. Le Maitre and Dr. Einstein have been friends for many years, and the young priest is rated in excellence with such men as Dr. Einstein, Sir Arthur Eddington, and Dr. De Sitter. Canon Le Maitre is but forty-two years old, and the youngest of the distingushed group of mathematicians.
In 1922 Canon Le Maitre went to Harvard to study with the aid of an endowment from the funds of the American Commission for the belief of Belgium. While professor at Louvain University, Belgium, he won the Francqui Prize of 500,000 Belgian francs (about $23,300). This famed prize is given annually to the Belgian who has brought honor to his country through advancement in science.
Canon Le Maitre reiterates de Sitter’s theory that, although the universe is expanding, clouds of matter known as nebulae are contracting forming the stars. Both say the earth is a result of one of such contractions of matter in the cataclysmic explosion of the universe.
The most accepted of the priest’s theories is that there is a constant total amount of energy in the universe, which is distributed in vehicles known in the Planck theory as “quanta." The “quanta” are always increasing in number.
HALL ENTERTAINMENT
(Continued from Page j) philosopher, scientist, and lecturer, was associated for more than 14 years with the Edison Lamp works of the General Electric Company and has addressed American and European audiences for the past 20 years. His demonstrations of miracles of the science of color chemistry and light are coupled with information philosophy, and inspiration.
WORLD FAMOUS MATHEMATICIANS TO ATTEND SYMPOSIUM HERE FEBRUARY 11, 12
By Frederick E. Sisk
Among the distinguished group of mathematicians who will convene here Feb. 11 and 12 will be Canon Georges Lemaitre, of the University of Louvain, Belgium, and Visiting Professor at the University of Notre Dame Dr. Lemaitre, a close friend of Dr. Albert Einstein, has become prominent as one
Registrar Riordan
His figures mount.
Enrollment For Final Term Equals First
“There will be a hundred percent enrollment quota because of incoming students,” announced Registrar Robert B. Riordan, the other day. Of this total amount approximately 70 are freshmen, while the remaining 30 will be students who have returned to Notre Dame after an absence of one or more semesters.
The complete enrollment at the beginning of the 1937-38 schoolyear was nearly 3,080 students. At present there have been 50 withdrawals from the University for numerous reasons, while 32 students are to complete their studies at the end of the first semester.
Little or no net change is expected in the registration when the final results are tabulated.
Travel Film Viewed
Members of the Notre Dame Camera Club witnessed a travelogue of Europe at their recent meeting Thursday night, Feb. 3. The pictures were taken and shown by Joseph Reynolds, junior in the College of Ai-ts and Letters, a member of the club.
Mr. Stanley Sessler, head of the art department and faculty moderator of the club, spoke briefly. It was announced by Frank Reppen-hagen, Dome editor, that all pictures taken for the Camera Club section for the yearbook should be submitted during the next few weeks. The pictures may be of any size, and prints by any member of the club are eli- • gible for a place in the annual.
A °f the world’s great authorities on science’s most abstruse investigations, the metrics of space, time, and matter, besides being the founder of the theory of the expanding universe.
Many of the country’s leading mathematicians will assemble to consider the symposium’s purpose: the consideration of the algebra of geometry and related subjects.
Dr. Edward V. Huntington of Harvard university will deliver a lecture oi popular interest in Washington Hall on the evening of the first day’s session. Dr. Huntington has chosen for his subject, “The Duplicity of Logic.”
Particularly noted as a statistician, and one of the first men in his field to deal with the method of postulates, Prof. Huntington is widely known for his application of mathematical thought to many practical phases of life. He became interested in tnfe Zenith Telepathy Tests, a weekly radio presentation on Sunday nights, a few months ago, and since then he has been investigating the mathematical problems involved. Scientifically known as extra-sensorial perceptions, from the results of his study he is convinced that pure coincidence cannot account for the amazing number of correct answers obtained. Politics has received his attention in a mathematical treatise he published concerning the problem of measuring the amount of inequality between two states in their representation in Congress.
Another Harvard man, Dr. Marshall H. Stone, professor of mathematics, will be the first speaker at the symposium, talking on “Boolean Algebra.”
Princeton’s contribution will be Dr. John von Neumann of the well-known Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton and a mathematician of wide repute. His topic will be “Continuous Geometry.” A third Harvard representative will be Garrett Birk-hoff, who has collaborated with Dr. von Neumann in the publication of several mathematical subjects, and he has chosen the subject “Partially Ordered Function Spaces.”
Dr. Oystein Ore will represent Yale University in the symposium. His topic will be “Structures and Their Applications.”
The University of Chicago is send-(Continued on Page 22)
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
McDonough, schmitz. funk selected on
WRANGLERS ALL-HALL DEBATE TEAM
VINCENTIANS START AIR TICKET SALE
By F. G. Barreda
The annual selection of the all-star interhall debate squad for the season just concluded was made by the members of the Wranglers at a recent meeting in the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend. The men honored on the first team were: Ed McDonough, Alumni; Al Schmitz, St. Edward’s; and Al Funk, Lyons. Second squad niches went to
Frank Parks, Dillon; Charles Colgan, $-------------------------------------
Howard; and Jerry Flynn, Morrissey.
Selection of these outstanding platform speakers was made by the Wrangler members who coached the various debate squads in the interhall league during the past season. Ed
Wrangler Frank Brane Once an All-Star Too.
McDonough, of Parkersburg, W. Va., the No. 1 man on the first string allstars, is the only repeater on the honor list, having earned a place last year as leader of the champion Dillon team. Al Schmitz represented St. Edward’s Hall, this season’s trophy winner in the final run-off of the interhall debating tournament.
During the meeting a discussion centered around a talk given by George Morris on “State vs. Private Aid in Juvenile Delinquency Prevention.” The proposals of the speaker were for a three-phase program: Education, Environment Correction, and Reconstruction, to be adopted by efficient state agencies backed by the forces of religion.
The custom of selecting an allstar team was revived last year by the Wranglers as a method of increasing interest among the students in interhall debating. Members receiving the honor mention at that time were Tom Mulligan, Frank Brame, and Ed McDonough.
As both the interhall and the University debating squads argue the pros and cons on the same question, .the revival of the mythical satellite debating teams was also brought about in an effort to provide expe-
Dramatists to Present Initial Show Soon
•
The First - Nighters are rushing down the aisles to their seats. The time is drawing near for the opening curtain of “Moonshine,” in the little theatre on the N.D. Campus! The lights are fading low, the rumbling voices of the First-Nighters soften to a low murmur, and—Curtain!
Professor Mills, director of the Dramatic Club has announced the opening program to be presented in Washington Hall. On Sunday evening, Feb. 27, three one-act plays will be presented for the entertainment and approval of the student body. Rehearsals have been going on during the past semester’ and the Dramatic Club is ready to present “Moonshine,” “Refund,” and “Dark of the Dawn.”
“Moonshine” is a one-act comedy involving two characters, a North Carolina hill-billy and a revenue officer. Its climax is snappy and surprising.
“Refund” is also a hilarious comedy and involves several characters.
The last of the one-act plays to be presented is “Dark of the Dawn,” a serious drama. This play presents a distinctive warlike atmosphere. It has as its setting a Pomeranian army camp and the time is during the Thirty-Years War.
Mr. Mills announced that a vaudeville program will be presented on the evening of March 17. He also issues a call for new talent. He asks anyone who feels that he has stage talent to see him.
rience for the eligible candidates of the University varsity debating team. The question for debate this year was: “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes.”
Defending the excess surplus tax, varsity debater Tom Mulligan, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, delivered the address at the Wranglers’ meeting Wednesday.
With the Washington’s birthday week-end just two weeks away, the Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society has announced the opening of the sale of special rate air tickets. The local
Wisconsin’s Itzin
Makes Irish Air Conscious.
conference has been appointed the official compus representative of the American Airlines in the sale of these excursion rate accommodations.
The Vincentian’s agency was announced before the Christmas vacation. The students who made use of the airline facilities at that time were enthused over the economies and comforts of this modem mode of travel. These same students found they could reach their respective destinations from four to five times faster than would have been possible using some other means of transportation. One student pointed out that when he had figured in the cost of meals and other incidental expenses incurred in train travel, he found that he had actually saved moiiey by flying.
Frank Itzin, executive secretary of the local conference, has compiled a few statistics illustrating the advantages of flying.
“If you were flying to Kansas City,” said Frank, “It would take you little more than two hours by plane. On the other hand, it would require at least ten hours to make the same trip on a first-class passenger train. The rates this year are the lowest in the history of this fine service. As an example of this Frank quoted the round trip fare from Chicago to Minneapolis as being $15.00.
“Besides this,” Frank went on, “American Airlines are offering a one and a half excursion fare. This means a saving of twenty-five cents on every dollar of the ordinary rates. We are even in a position to offer a free ticket to your wife, if you have one,” said Frank. This is possible under a “wife free” clause which has been introduced by all airlines.
Such services as a special car from the Palmer House to the Chicago airport, and free meals during the flight are included in the price of the ticket.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Music Notes
\________________________________/
By Paul R. Locher
From time to time in the history of this country, culture enthusiasts have conceived of a communal venture to encourage the development of music and the other fine arts. Most of these philanthropic ventures, unfortunately, have never developed beyond the dream stage, but at the present time there is one in particular which can point to its practical achievement of success — the Mac-Dowell Colony of Peterboro, New Hampshire.
Edward Alexander MacDowell, considered by many to be the finest composer America has produced, was never able to establish the colony for creative workers he planned, but his conception has been brought to a realization through the steady efforts of his seventy-year-old widow. Mrs. MacDowell, a very brilliant woman in her own right, has contributed more than §100,000 in actual funds toward the success of this colony, from the countless lectures and piano recitals she has given since her husband’s untimely death.
Among those who have found inspiration at Peterboro are Charles Wakefield Cadman, Henry Gilbert and Hans Barth. There have come Willa Cather, while she worked on Death Comes for the Archbishop, and Elinor Wylie, and Stephen Vincent Benet. Edwin Arlington Robinson, for many years in straightened circumstances, wrote much of his poetry there. Thornton Wilder, in such surroundings, gave the world his famous story, The Bridge of San Luis Rey, as did Carl Carmer with Stars Fell on Alabama.
Today after thirty-one years of its existence, the MacDowell Colony looks back to those who have enjoyed its creative atmosphere for participation in the third annual MacDowell Radio Festival. Other famous musicians have paid honor to the genius of its founder in arranging their programs, including Georges Enesco and the Philharmonic Symphony, who presented MacDowell’s symphonic poem, “Lancelot and Elaine,” as the opening number on their recent Sunday afternoon concert.
MacDowell had studied in Germany in his early youth, but he returned to America, where he found much original material for his composition. Among his finest works are those based on the native Indian melodies he loved so much. MacDowell was not a strict classicist, but he put in the old forms the freedom that modern standards allow. Indian melodies, he found, were excellent material for development.
Scholastic Meteorologist Forecasts Nothing But Rain, Sleet, Snow, Cold for Irish Campus
With apologies to Mr. Hal Williams who usually manages to cover some of the week for the Scholastic we hereby present the weekly weather report for Notre Dame, Indiana.
Monday: Sunrise 5:55 a.m.
Slight southern winds bringing heavy mist at 6:45 a.m. Slight rain
“I wish I was in Dixie!”
throughout the day and evening. We recommend high-top shoes with thick soles for that walk between classes.
Sunset 5:32 p.m.
Tuesday: Sunrise 5:53 a.m.
Intermittent rain. Moderate northwest wind. Rubbers should be worn and rain-coats will be comfortable.
Sunset 5:33 p.m.
Wednesday: Sunrise 5:51 a.m.
Rain and colder. Strong winds from the north, bringing possible snow by evening. Residents of Zahm, Cavanaugh, and Freshman Halls should wear quarter-length boots.
Sunset 5:35 p.m.
Thursday: Sunrise 5:49 a.m.
Much colder with strong wind from the north. Snow flurries throughout the day. Possible blizzard by nightfall. Wear you coonskin hats.
Sunset 5:37 p.m.
Friday: No sunrise.
Strong winds from the north, high 43 m.p.h., low 27 m.p.h., close 37.3 m.p.h. Heavy snowfall throughout the day. Heavy underwear, mackinaw and blanket will be the favorite
All students interested in submitting for publication in the Scholastic short stories, poems, familiar essays, essays in historical or literary criticism, are invited to bring manuscripts to the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria Building, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock; or to room 328 Main Building, mornings from 9 to 11 or evenings from 8 to 9 o’clock.
V________________ J
combination on the campus. Odor of fish hanging heavily over Dillon.
Sunset 5:39 p.m.
Saturday: Sunrise 5:46 a.m.
High winds from the south. Quick drop in temperature bringing heavy thaw. Waterproof yourself as much as possible. Residents of Lyons, Morrissey, Howard, and Badin Hall wear rubbers. Four-buckle galoshes, boots advisable for Walsh, Sorin, Carroll, and Brownson. Zahm, Cavanaugh, and St. Edward’s will need fulllength boots. Freshman Hall—either use water-wings or stay home.
Sunset, 5:41 p.m.
Sunday: Sunrise 5:44 a.m.
Balmy “breezes in the treeses.” Sorin’s tulips reported in bloom. Candid camera fans out in force to take choice spots from which to photograph the Dome through the magnolia trees. Three injured. Brother reports lake temperature at diving board 35 degrees at noon. Softball game begins on Badin’s playground; called in last of 23rd because of snowdrift between third and home. Freshman Hall sends out rocket signals for help at 5:15 p.m., the drifts having reached the second floor. Weather man predicts “as usual.”

ItUl be frozen before he hits.
Mission Club Dance
The Bishop Crowley, C.S.C. Mission Club of Chicago will sponsor a dance on the night of Monday, Feb. 21, in the Congress Hotel in Chicago. Proceeds of the dance will go to the Bengal Missions in India. Tickets for the dance are being sold on the campus by the Chicago Club and also at St. Mary’s.
Keith Beecher’s orchestra will furnish the music for the occasion.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
KNIGHTS HOLD LAST RITES IN HALL
•
Twenty-seven more-or-less moonlight Knights passed safely through first degree initiation rites in the Walsh Hall chambers of the local chapter of the Knights of Columbus last Tuesday afternoon. They will not attain an absolutely pitch-black status until Sunday afternoon when the second and third degrees will be administered and the charring process completed.
Grand Knight James Quinn announces that these will be the last Knights to fall in the the present Walsh Hall chambers. Subsequent moon - backdrops will be initiated among newer and more- luxuriant surroundings, for very soon renovated chambers in Walsh basement will be opened. These new chambers will reveal 125 first-editions from the American Folding Chair corporation, 4 over-stuffed high-chairs for the officers, and new rugs.
The remodeling program has been financed by an appropriation of $750 voted by the building corporation of the Notre Dame chapter. Any surplus from this building fund will be used to augment recreational facilities.
With the opening of the new chamber plans to incorporate all the resources of the local chapter in Walsh basement will be completed. The recreational room with facilities for bowling, ping-pong, pool, and billiards occupies the whole north basement. Business offices are located in the central part and the new chambers will include the remaining section of the south basement.
'Dome' Pictures Rushed
The Dome staff has once more resumed the task of preparing the 1938 Dome for publication, after a brief lull in its activities caused by the first semester examinations. A good deal has been accomplished thus far. All junior and senior pictures have been taken, and an appreciable number of the photographs, for the yearbook are ready for use.
Beginning on Monday, Feb. 7, the first of the campus club pictures will be taken. The time and place for sittings will be the same as last year— from 12:30 to 1:00 in Washington Hall. It is hoped that all club presi-• dents observed the announcement in the last issue of the Scholastic, relative to club pictures. If, however, there are any presidents of new campus clubs who have not yet made arrangements for the “sitting” of their groups, they are urged to see Robert Parks, Dillon, ■without delay.
Man About the Campus
Ray Fiedler is a husky rural Illinois lad whose home is on the highway between Champaign and Quincy in a little town called Thomasboro. Developed physically by raising prize pigs for the 4-H Club in his youth. His high school career was quite varied. It began at a boarding prep school in Quincy, but lie was graduated from Rantoul High in Champaign. In between he played football and basketball at a couple of more neighboring schools.
Ray had a hard time choosing be-
tween farming and chemical engineering; the latter won, but he is still not quite sure of his decision. Partly influenced by his brother, who was a member of the C.S.C., he decided to come to Notre Dame to study.
He played football during his freshman year, but did not find time to go out for the team after that. No, his time was not taken up completely with studies — Ray just decided on a political career. He was elected vice-president of the Chemists’ Club and also ran for S.A.C. He then decided it would be better to be the power behind the throne— result, he is general chairman of the Engineers’ Ball Friday night.
Ray used to find it impossible to stay in bed after five in the morning; but, with the aid of roomie, Paul “Pete” Lahey, he is now able to sleep until ten to seven when he dashes off for Corby.
His summers are all spent working here on the campus, but he manages to sneak away many a week-end in Chicago. He denies any special interest there, but blushes when he hears the name, Carol . . . and it’s probably not Lombard either.
GRIDSTERS BANQUET "ALUMNUS" FEATURE
The fourth issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus, February, 1938, will be in the mails by the time this article appears. The publication features a story on the Eighteenth civic testimonial football banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley, entitled: “Brilliant Addresses Key Football Banquet.”
“The President’s Page” by William E. Cotter, class of 1913, reveals the very inadequate endowment of the University. He urges the alumni to contribute consistently so as to enable Notre Dame to near the national leaders in the academic world, financially.
The monthly column, “Spotlight Alumni,” introduces Hugh C. Mitchell, ’95, Washington, D.C., mathematician in the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey; Cornelius J. Carey, Jr., ’30, county judge and surrogate and judge of the Children’s court of Franklin County, New York; Frank Oberkoetter, ’32, one of the nation’s leading professional photographers; Leo R. McIntyre, ’32, president of the school board of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and Ernest M. Morris, ’06, president of the Associates Investment Company and chairman of the First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend.
“Campus Notes” by John J. Lechner, ’37, gives us a brief glance at life on the campus during the present schoolyear. The regular feature “University Affairs” announces the success of past lectures in Washington Hall and reveals the plans iVr the future.
Joseph S. Petritz, ’32, gives us an interesting resume of the sports events of the past month and a glimpse into the future in his “Athletics.” This month, as usual, Alumni Club news is plentiful.
Under the personal column, “The Alumni,” Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president, informs us of the Indiana State Law passed recently which will stop further marriages at the Log Chapel. This rich, spiritual tradition, dear to the hearts of all Notre Dame men will be no more. Thoose who have been married there ■will treasure beautiful memories which unfortunately coming generations will never experience.
April 25, will be the University of Notre Dame Night; the night when all Notre Dame men will gather to honor their Alma Mater.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
S. A. C. PLANS DRIVE AGAINST DISEASE
•
“Check infantile paralysis!” became the cry of the Student Activities Council this week as that organization, led by its president, Scott Reardon, appealed to the student body and members of the University faculty for full co-operation in the new nation-wide drive against infantile paralysis. The local drive got underway early Thursday evening, February 3, with the announcement of the movement by the rectors of all halls on the campus. At the same time S. A. C. members began the sizeable task of canvassing all residence halls for student contributions. In addition, letters were sent to 150 members of the University faculty
President Roosevelt Spearheads a ivorthy cause.
early this week, informing them of the drive and requesting their support.
This campaign for funds was instituted by the newly-formed National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. This foundation acts as a “big brother” to the celebrated Georgia Warm Springs Foundation, one of the pioneer organizations in this fight, termed “the nation’s greatest peacetime battle.” It was fostered by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, himself one of the most famed sufferers from infantile paralysis in the world, and the nominal president of the Foundation is a one-time law partner of President Roosevelt named Basil O’Connor. In urging that everyone do his part as a founder of the Foundation, President O’Connor recently explained that potential founders have been divided into three (Continued on Page 21)
THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
Overheard in the caf
They don’t flunk Seniors. . . I got seventy in every subject. . . The prof opened the blue book and there were all the cribs .... He said he’d add two points to every bulletin if no one misspelled the word “Psychology” . . . It’s common gossip that his wife makes up the exams and corrects the papers. . . I’m not going to crack a book again until the final exams. . . There are over 200 fellows signed up for the course next semester... Eight every morning and a three-fifteen every M.W.F., a fine way to treat a Senior. . . He wrote the entire course out on a small sheet of paper and pasted it over the face of his watch— the rest was easy. . . I elected that Penmanship course; nobody’s flunked since Savoldi came through with a twenty-three. . . He doesn’t even bother to correct the exams. . . If he doesn’t like you you don’t pass no matter how smart you are. . . Exams don’t prove a thing. . .
Exam story
Following every semester exam there is always a crop of exam stories, some tragic, some comic, some with a moral. It has been the custom of the Week to print one or more of these stories. In carrying on the custom we contribute a story which is incredible to say the least. We don’t guarantee the authenticity of it; all we do is submit it for what it is worth.
The questions had been given out, and the pens had been squiggling along for some twenty minutes. One poor fellow was just sitting there with an empty book, gnawing his pen and gazing at a dirty ceiling. When he thought the professor wasn’t looking he opened the fold of his suit coat and ducked his head. When his head came out he began to write furiously for some two or three pages. Then he would go back to gnawing the pen and looking at the dirty ceiling. As soon as the professor would look the other way, down would go the head into the coat, after which he would write furiously for two or three more pages.
He had almost two blue books filled when the professor caught sight of him and came down and tapped him on the shoulder. “Okay, Buddy, I’ve been watching you. Hand over the cribs.” The fellow, naturally, was terribly flustered. All he could stammer was, “I don’t have any cribs, really I don’t!” “You don’t!” snapped the professor, “Well, why have you been sticking your head inside your coat?” The professor reached down into the coat and pulled out an al
most empty bottle of Scotch with a long straw in it.
As we said before, the story does sound incredible.
Band Dance
We would just like to mention in passing that we went to the Band Formal on Jan. 14, and were very disappointed. We had expected to see the Band men in uniforms (The Scholastic said they would wear uniforms, Dec. 17, 1937, page 4) and perhaps even President Murphy and chairmen with cocked hats, an epaulet or two and maybe a few borrowed Knights of Pythias swords. We were also hoping (though, to be truthful, we really didn’t expect it) the musicians would go into a formation and come out with the words, “BAND DANCE” or “HAVE A GOOD TIME.” But no. The only compensation that we had was watching Joe Casasanta and one or two professor’s wives (whose names, unfortunately, we did not get) do the Big Apple with some of the boys and girls. Oh yes, Murphy said that they made a nickel. It is to be framed and hung in the music department.
•
Behind the netvs
In the spirit of our usual service we made an investigation to find out why Scrip came out on a Monday and not a Friday. Here is the story and as far as we know it is a scoop: Charles Nelson, the editor, came down with the measles the week of publication. We tried to get Charlie to tell us all about the measles etc., but he didn’t have much to say. About the only thing we could find out was that they were not German measles. But you can’t blame Charlie for being reticent. He’s probably planning on using the story in a poem or editorial in the next issue of Scrip.
N. D. Drinking Glass
In the Jan. 14 issue of The Scholastic appeared a full page ad of the “Notre Dame drinking glass” ($2.65 a dozen including shipping cost, write to Comptroller’s Office). “The ten-ounce drinking glass, with the seal of the University in blue and gold on the side, is the first thing of its kind to be authorized by the University.”
Anyone can see that the “Notre Dame drinking glass” offers wonderful opportunities for all sort of comment. But we think all that we will say here is—when writing to advertisers please mention our magazine.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
College Parade |
By John A. Callaghan
Purty Purtry
He rocked the boat, Did Ezra Shank;
These bubbles mark
o o o o 0 o Where Ezra sank!
'	—The Hoya.
—o—
Negro Problem
Without the usual windy bombast aand egotistical shouting, Manhattan college seniors voted a four-year scholarship for a member of the Negro race. It has been the custom of most colleges, both Catholic and others, to grow righteous and rant against prejudices with words. Here is action. For which hooray!
Cooperation
A cooperative educational enterprise which will link a great industry with a first-rank American college is being launched at Pittsburgh. The enterprise—a new program of undergraduate engineering training—is to be carried out by the Carnegie Institute of Technology anff the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company. In order to insure the success of the undertaking, the Westinghouse Company has made an appropriation of $200,000 to the college.
Collegiate Oddities
Muskingum College claims to have the world’s smallest park. Patton Park, on their campus, covers less than l/350th of an acre. It is the home of one tree, three stones and approximately 200,0(f0 blades of grass .... Harvard Yale Brown quarter-bacaked a football team of a high school up in Winslow, Maine. Yep, you guessed it. He wants to be a first string quarter at Harvard, Yale or Brown. . . . Dean Marjorie Hope Nicholson warned the Smith graduates not to reveal the fact that they have college degrees. After all, none of us is perfect, and a girl’s past is her own affair.
—o—
Memoramblings
We sort of wish that the water where Ezra sank was deeper. Imagine it being about 90 feet. It would take up a whole column. . . Brrrr! The Crimson-White has a Big Apple joke to end all Big Apple jokes. They tell us the worm dance is the latest. It’s very simple. All you do is wiggle a
(Continued on Page 19)
SENIORS PLAN FLAG PRESENTATION
The forty-first commemoration of Washington’s Birthday will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 22, when the members of the senior class present the University with the traditional new flag.
This observation began in 1897, and is significant of a very definite aspect of Notre Dame education. For
President O’Connor
His: An annual duty.
forty years, each senior class at Notre Dame has presented an American flag to the University on Washington’s birthday. The flag will be blessed at the Mass on Commencement day and later raised for the first time to become the official University flag for the ensuing year.
Jerome B. Magee, senior in the College of Engineering from Buffalo, New York, will preside as chairman for the occasion.
Tom P. Mulligan, senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Cleveland, Ohio, will deliver the Washington Day Address.
Senior Class President, John C. O’Connor, senior Commerce student from Indianapolis, Indiana, will present the new flag to the University.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University will make the speech of acceptance. Music for the program will be furnished by the University Band under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music.
Leo F. Welch, senior Commerce student, will head the cap and gown committee.
Lawyers Mourn Cain
The Notre Dame Law Club assembled in a body at the home of Judge William Morley Cain, who died Monday evening following a heart attack. The late law professor had been a long-time friend of the Law Club.
Plans are bing made for the annual Hoynes Banquet. A definite date has not as yet been set, but the banquet will be held probably during the first part of March.
[ Calendar 1 X_______________________________/
Friday, February 4
Scholastic meeting, editorial staff, 6:30, general staff. 7:00 p.m.; Engineers Formal, Columbia Athletic club; Track meet, varsity vs. Marquette, field house, 8:00 p.m.; Fencing meet, varsity vs. Chicago, at Chicago.
Saturday, February 5
Basketball game, varsity vs. Pittsburgh, field house 8:00 p.m.; Fencing, varsity vs. Ohio State at Ohio State, at Columbus; Movie, Washington Hall, 1:30, for freshman, 3:30 for upperclassmen.
Sunday, February 6
New schedule of student masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, low masses; 8:30 high mass; and 10:00 low mass; Evening devotions, Sacred Heart church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.
Monday, February 7
Meeting, Patricians, 7:45, Law building.
Tuesday, February 8
Meeting, Knight’s of Columbus, Walsh Hall chambers, 7:45, p.m.
Wednesday, February 9 . Basketball, varsity vs. Marquette, at Milwaukee; Meeting, Wranglers, seminar room. Law building, 7:45 p.m.
Thursday, February 10
“Marionette Theatre,” of Martin and Olga Stevens, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Bookmen Plan Program
Hal Williams, president of the Bookmen, conferred with Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, moderator of the club, and announced a new schedule of events for the ensuing semester.
It is the aim of the president to make the activities of the second semester even more intensive and interesting than the first. The routine activities of the first half of the year included the induction of new members, discussions on new books to be acquired, and informal talks by the members. Beyond the pale of regular club activities, were the talks by Dr. Gurian and Dr. DuBos, both members of the faculty this year. Being astute critics in their respective fields, these men were able to present many stimulating ideas to the Bookmen.
At the Bookmen meeting on Wednesday, Feb. 2, seven new books were selected. Announcement of the new selections was withheld pending committee action.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
4 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
Faux Pas.
During the holiday season a dance was being run by one of the larger city clubs and the chairman of the affair greeted all who came, putting on the frosting to the young ladies, and patting the backs of the escorts.
The approach of a particular friend was an incentive to turn open all valves and he practically oozed cordiality. After the introduction he used the old puffer-upper, “Oh yes, I’m certainly glad to meet you. Why I’ve been hearing about you since September, etc., etc.” He was unconscious of the semaphore signals and nervous fidgetings of the escort so determined was he to show his ol’ pal, ol’ pal, what a fixer-upper he was. Nor did he notice the rather questioning look on the face of the young lady or the quick, quizzical glances at her perspiring escort. The abrupt way they cut him off might have been significant to him but greeting others who were now coming in made him forget it.
Not until late in the evening did he discover, by way of a rather heated whispering from his friend that the young lady was a blind date for that evening.
Swing.
For the addicts of Tommy Dorsey, Benny Goodman, Glen Gray, et al, we give out with the slang expressions used by these purveyors of rhythmic interpretation. A musician forsakes that title when he joins a swing band. From that time on he is known as a “cat.” We who sit back and enjoy (?) the music (again?) are known as the “alligators.” Crazy, unbridled swing is “screwball.” A “sock chorus” is the last chorus of an arrangement. To go off in the corner by yourself and experiment with a new song is to “woodshed.” When you swing in blues fashion you “gutbucket.” Warming up to give forth in swing is “licking your chops.”
Looney Laws.
In Texas it is a penitentiary offense to be discovered carrying a pair of pliers in your hip pocket. (Probably to protect the fingers of pickpockets).
In Waterloo, Kansas, barbers cannot eat onions between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. (In Waterloo, Bill, you could eat onions only after 7 p.m.).
In Ohio, a man who has been lynched can recover damages from the locality in which he was hanged. (A consoling thought). Incidentally,
the sum you can recover under those circumstances is $500 which ought to give you a pretty fair funeral.
Caf Tableau
In the caf one night sat five of our most eminent philosophers. In front of each was a malted milk. Seemingly on prearranged signals they would bend down, draw the delicious drink through the straws until breath gave out, and then sit back and take up their conversation where they had left off. Apprentice-philosopher Gus Sidler sat at the next table, leaning back to catch every wisdom-studded word. From a side view the ear of Gus looked like a megaphone stretching out to gather in every utterance of the pedagogues.
We- sat, fascinated by it all, until a passer-by cynically broke the spell with the cryptic remark, “If you could climb up on top of that table you could sit right down on the strength of their words, friend.” Short Ones
Jack Tangney is consistently being mistaken for Gene Dolan in one of
“No! You can't go to the Engineers’ Ball!”
their classes and vice versa. After considering their marks the boys have decided that it’s a toss-up as to who is getting the break . . . Hank Leader, who buys two-pants suits because one pair would never cover those stilt legs, is planning to enter the Bengal Bouts. Hank, about as heavy as a shadow and just as thin, has a decided advantage if he boxes sideways. A pencil line is about all he’ll present for his opponent to stab at . . . Joe Kuharick is an Edgar Allen Poe appreciator. “The Raven” is his favorite poem but he has changed the “Quoth the Raven, nevermore” to “Pipes the Raven Evermore” for personal reasons . . . Suggestion for a cartoon: Two band members walking together. One says to the other, “Don’t you just detest sitting next to the bass horn?” . . . Japan has at last broken off diplomatic relations with China but still there has been no formal declaration of war. Something like batting your neighbor over the head with a club and saying, “But understand, my friend, I’m not mad at you — yet.”
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C______________Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT_______________________Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA----------------------------Managing Editor
Departmental Editors Harold Williams-------------------------------The IV eel?
John Callaghan-----------------------------College Parade
John F. Clifford________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy----------------------------In the Juggler Vein
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey___________________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock_____________________Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk____________________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard___________________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller_____________________________________Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey John	Kohn
William C. Fay_________________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman_______________________________Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli------------------------------Sports Editor
Frederick Digby______________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto___________________________Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan______________________________Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff
Art Staff George Elmore_________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 71	February 4, 1938	No. 14
An Old Friend Has Gone
IN THE twilight of a full career as a faithful public servant, jurist, and legal adviser death suddenly came early Tuesday morning to Judge William Morley Cain. A life well-»pent tapered off into the shadows of eternal destiny as his pupils began a new semester. "And for the first time since 1930 the dramatic utterances of the Judge failed to ring through the Law building with their sage learning of the law.
To the members of the faculty, student lawyers, and to his legal associates in the bench and bar, his passing was a distinct and heart-felt shock. A grand character has gone to his everlasting reward assured that his words on the theory and practice of law have enshrined themselves in the hearts of his listeners. In all he said and did the Judge was an honor to a profession which he graced for nearly forty-five years as judge, prosecuting attorney, and defender of the rights and liberties of the unfortunate accused.
No one who has ever been acquainted with him, either as friend or pupil, will ever forget the two ideas paramount in his mind, two ideas which he expostulated and fought for unceasingly in a day in which many men profess to look upon them with disdain. Time and again the Judge declared that all law was based on the moral
law; time and again he fought for the perpetuity of the principles laid down in the Constitution.
In his writings and in his sayings Judge Cain upheld the doctrine of the Catholic Church that the basis of all law is the moral law, a tenet which many jurists have failed to grasp or comprehend. How many of us will ever forget how the Judge with waving hands punctuated and with a fine oratorical flourish emphasized the importance of that idea? Last year before the Senate Judiciary Committee he made an impassioned plea against the proposed “packing” of the Supreme Court. To him it was the first sign of a piecemeal effort to destroy the validity of the Constitution. In the Constitution he found all the safeguards for the protection of the individual citizen’s life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness.
A Nebraskan plainsman the Judge, like the soil from which he was reared, had the full recognizance of his convictions. As a member of the supreme court commission of Nebraska, as prosecuting attorney of Butler County, Nebraska, and as a practicing attorney he despised what was cheap, dishonest, and debased and upheld what was honest, fine and praiseworthy. He preached relentlessly for years that the administration of criminal law in this country was a national disgrace, a conviction which President Taft was later to expound.
He lived to see the seeds of his teachings bear fruit. He inoculated into his pupils that intense search for truth and justice that pervaded his whole being and gave to them a far better start in the profession than he ever had. If it be eternal fame to be well-remembered, the Judge may rest assured that it will be his.
Judge Cain died as he had lived, a glorious honor to his profession.
▼
Here it Comes
IN A WEEK or so the campus will be bombarded with propaganda. Propaganda handed out by your own Scholastic. Yes, it’s those Bengal Bouts back again. The event that we like to call the “highlight of the winter sports season.” And, we ask, why shouldn’t it be termed that? Spectacular presentation along with first-class boxing, interspersed with a bit of comedy, and spiced with the appearance of a notable figure in the boxing world all goes to make a sports show that is worth the twenty-five cents one pays on the night of the finals. But more important, your quarter goes for the Bengal Missions on the other side of the world. And don’t think that those good Fathers over there and those in the Mission Band over here don’t know and appreciate what you’re doing when you go to the bouts.
The fellows that participate in the bouts and fight to win the traditional sweaters are just starting the training grind, but it will be a valuable grind. The classes being conducted will be a course of instruction in the fundamentals of the sport. They’re open to everybody. From the inexperienced boxer to the Bengal veteran of three years. Surprisingly enough it’s the inexperienced boys that seem to do well in the bouts. So to the new ones, to freshmen, to all boxing hopefuls here’s your chance to pick up the essentials of the rugged art of self-defense from experienced teachers. And, participation in the classes will not mean that you have to fight in the bouts, that is entirely up to you.
So, in every respect, the Seventh Annual Bengal Tournament is under way heading toward that great night, March 18th. We’ll see you there, in the ring, if you win; in the seats, if you just prefer to sit and watch.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Alshes to Ashes
By Robert F. Voelker
Mary Potter held open house on the afternoon of December second. It had taken nearly all morning to move the furniture from her old house. Four old ladies came to tell Mary how nice her new home was, and to eat the lunch she prepared, even though they might find a stick or a coffee bean in the bread. But one on relief was glad to get something different to eat once in a while. Mary splurged that afternoon and spent 39 cents at the A. and P. store. She even had canned milk for her guests as she knew they didn’t like the goat’s milk she liked so well.
Mary was very happy. For thirty-one years she had lived in a shack which was once an ice house. Every Thursday she scrubbed the barber shop. On Friday, it was the drug
store and doctor’s office in the back, and on Saturday afternoon, the bank.
Tonight would be the first in her new home. If the road had not been moved because the people drove too fast through the village, she would never have had a new home. The new road passed right through her old abode, and the State built her a new one. Was it a dream? She had six windows, electric lights, and two rooms, one serving as kitchen, dining room, and parlor, and the other as bedroom. All this was very lovely, but her greatest joy was the shiny, white hardwood floor. She had decided long ago that she would scrub it twice a week, but now as she gazed at it, she determined to scrub it three times a week. Mary liked to scrub floors, but she never had a chance to scrub her own, as in her
old house, the floor was hard packed ashes.
After getting into bed she thought that maybe her plants would freeze, so without getting up, she reached over and lighted the kerosene stove. She dropped the match on the floor, as she was too tired to put it out. It would go out on the hard ash floor anyway.
The match started a kerosene rag smouldering. She had used it to clean off the starter. Mary didn’t have her glasses on, and was asleep, dreaming that she would always be as happy as she was now.
Every one sent flowers. The banker, doctor, cashier of the bank, station agent, mayor, and the church janitor were her pallbearers. The sermon was on being happy with what one has.
reshie Comes Back
By Edward Huston
Willie is a Freshie at Notre Dame. He has his counterparts at other schools all over the country. Probably not all of them are as fresh as he, and perhaps a few are a little fresher. On the train coming back to Notre Dame, he sits in the corner of the car sadly reflecting on his Christmas vacation. He expected so much and experienced so little.
Father and mother had met him at the station. They began to ply him with questions, innumerable questions. Willie thought they were stupid questions and was bored. No, he didn’t know Johnny^ Whoozis of Whatsisburg, and he was not president of the class. He wondered how his parents could think of so many questions, questions that anybody should know.
The gang had gone on without Willie. He was out of the swim. He
didn’t talk their language any more. They were different, too, and didn't seem so pleased to see him as he thought they would be.
And then there was Sadie. Sadie had been Willie’s best girl. While he was at school, Willie had dreamed of her and built her up into a beautiful girl. She was different, too. He had thought that she would be true to him and would mourn his going away. She was going with another guy now. That was swell. That was just swell.
Willie had imagined that he would be a big shot when he got home. He thought that people would point him out on the street as the boy who went to Notre Dame. They didn’t. They didn’t pay any attention to him. Just looked at him with that, “Oh have you been away?” look.
Christmas dance would be different
Willie knew. There was no one there but a crowd of gawky high school kids and staid old people. None of the smart set were there. The girl that Willie took was awkward. She stepped all over his feet. He kept comparing her to thoose smooth dancers of Saint Mary’s.
There had been tears at parting— Mother’s tears and a few of Willie’s. And there had been admonitions mixed in with the tears, “Watch your health. Study hard. Don’t let your feet get wet.” Willie agreed to everything dutifully, but inside he rebelled. Gosh, what did his parents think he was any way, a kid.
It’s a funny thing isn’t it Willie? That train seemed to go so slow when you were anxious to get home. Now it goes so fast when you’re not so anxious to get back.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
MU - _ ,—	" „ .U , ■ ■ — ... J J5V
IRISH GAGERS HOSTS TO PITT TOMORROW; TRAVEL TO MARQUETTE WEDNESDAY
By Eddie Huff
Notre Dame’s basketball team, playing under the impetus of its fifth consecutive victory and a dozen wins in fourteen starts, mixes its gold and blue with the blue and gold of Dr. Cliff Carlson’s Pitt Panthers in the fieldhouse tomorrow night. A fortnight ago, Notre Dame visited Pitt’s stadium pavilion in Pittsburgh and tied the Panther’s tail with a 10-point triumph, 51-41. <♦-----------------------------------------
George Keogan takes his traveling Irish to Milwaukee where Notre Dame and Marquette play the 25th game of their long series next Wednesday night. Marquette will appear here later in the season.
The balance of the ten-year series with Pittsburgh hangs in the favor of Dr. “Red” Carlson, of Pitt, showing 11 games on the right side of the ledger to nine successes for the Keo-ganmen. Notre Dame, however, holds four victories in the last five games between the two schools.
Pitt, playing a majority of its contests away from home, has found the competition very strenuous this season under the imposition of the new rule that lays stress on reserve material. Dr. Carlson may start a veteran senior- combination in the persons of Captain Bob Johnson I and Miles Zeleznick, forwards; Eddie Spoto-vich and Mike Radvansky, guards; and Joe Garcia at center, but he has little in the reserve cast.
Jack Scott, Eddie Lawry, and Sam Lindsay are the most formidable holdovers from last season, and this trio has been augmented with the addition of Bob Johnson II, Bill Edmunds, and Charley Wolbers, of the sophomore crop. Joe Fabel, a regular and a letterman in his first campaign last year, has withdrawn from school.
Notre Dame has been the only club to lash the Panther in his home lair, but Wisconsin and Butler, both Notre Dame victims, hold decisions over the Golden Cat, Butler’s advantage coming by one point in an extra period. Georgetown edged Pitt in Washington, and Kentucky, another Notre Dame victim, defeated Pittsburgh in the Sugar Bowl classic.
Pitt has conquered Northwestern, Fordham, Syracuse, Duquesne, Carnegie Tech, West Virginia, and Westminster, the first three games having been won away from home.
Notre Dame will be gunning for its (Continued on Page 19)
Spring Sports Schedule
BASEBALL
April 16—Chicago at Chicago '
April 18-19—Ohio State at Columbus
April 25-26—Iowa at Notre Dame
April 30—Chicago at Notre Dame
May	3—Northwestern at Notre Dame
May	5—Western State at Notre Dame
May	7—Michigan State at East Lansing
May 10—Illinois at Notre Dame
May 14—Western State at Kalamazoo '
May 17—Northwestern at Evanston
May 19—Michigan at Ann Arboi-
May 21—Michigan at Notre Dame '
May 24—Michigan State at Notre Dame (tentative)
May 27-28—California at Notre Dame
June 3-4—Wisconsin at Notre Dame (Commencement)	-
GOLF
April 18—Detroit at Detroit
April 22—Chicago at Chicago
April 25—Ohio State at Notre Dame
April 30—Purdue at Notre Dame
May	2—Wisconsin at Madison
May	6—Northwestern at Notre Dame
May 14—Minnesota at Notre Dame
May 16—Michigan at Ann Arbor
May 21—Michigan at East Lansing
May 23—Indiana State Tournament at Evansville
TENNIS	, .
April 22—Northwestern at Notre Dame April 30—Western State at Kalamazoo May	1—Detroit at Notre Dame •’ '
May	2—Chicago at Notre Dame  
May 4—Kentucky at Notre Dame : May 5—Michigan at Notre Dame 1 May	7—Indiana at Notre Dame ■
May 12—Michigan State at East Lansing i-r May 19-20-21—State Tournament at May 14—St. Louis U. at St. Louis * Richmond, Ind.
SPORTS STAFF CANDIDATES
Candidates for the sports staff, including those who reported last fall and any new men who might wish to try-out, are requested to report to the SCHOLASTIC offices in the Ave Maria Building at 8:00 o’clock on Thursday, Feb. 10. Please bring writing materials.
BOXING CLASSES FOR HOPEFULS STARTED
The conclusion of semester examinations saw the opening of Bengal Bout training this week. On Wednesday afternoon the first boxing class was held in the apparatus room of the field house.
This year the instructors and trainers, Mr. Napolitano, Phil Walker and Ed Broscoe, constitute probably the most expert group ever to take charge of training. Walker and Broscoe themselves are Bengaleers, while Napolitano has been associated with boxing for many years. It is
Instructor Napolitano “Jabs and crosses galore."
hoped that many students will take advantage of this instruction.
Classes are held every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 4:00 p.m. in the gym. They are open to everyone wishing to participate. Attendance at the classes does not mean that you are required to enter the bouts. They are entirely for your benefit with no obligation incurred.
This year, as in othei- years, it is expected that many freshmen will take part in the classes as well as the bouts. Men who can fight in the lighter weights are asked to come out as the entries in these groups are always slim. There are eight weight classes, 118, 126, 135, 142, 147, 160, 175, and Heavyweight.
The classes, being held three times a week, will become daily sessions three weeks before the finals, March 18th. This year every contender in the bouts will be required to put .in at least three weeks steady practice in order to enter. This regulation is made for the fighters’ own proctec-tion.
Plans are going forward to procure the presence of a notable figure (Continued on Page 16)

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FENCERS ENTER PEAK OF YEAR'S SCHEDULE
INDOOR TRACK SEASON OPENS TONIGHT HERE WITH MARQUETTE TESTING IRISH
Today and tomorrow, February 4th and 5th, the Irish fencers will strike the peak of their schedule, in matches with the University of Chicago at Chicago tonight, and with Ohio State at home Saturday.
Chicago’s fencers are defending champions of the Western Conference, while the Buckeyes are strong contenders for this year’s title. Chicago has already beaten Northwestern and a team representing the Army Air Corps at Chanute Field, while Ohio State has lost only one tight match to Michigan State, slashing through both Cincinnati and ^Lawrence Tech. Notre Dame has not beaten Chicago in two years. Ohio State, with a victory last year over ■ the Irish, stands a good chance of taking two in a row.
Both meets will be decided in the foils bouts. All the Irish foilsmen are green, undergoing their first year of competition. A little more strength in this weapon would easily swing both matches to Notre Dame, for the blue and gold epee-men are steady in close, hard bouts, and the sabremen are invincible when in top form. Zerbst and Scarlata and Graham, in sabre and epee, have been the chief support of the team, but the key men are the youngsters handling the foils. An extra point by Mercado or Sayia or Leising or de la Vergne could upset both the Maroons and the Buckeyes.
The Irish are pointing especially for Chicago, and if the steady improvement they have shown in the last three weeks persists, they should give the Maroons a very tough evening.
Saturday, January 15th, Notre Dame’s fencers travelled to Lafayette and lost to Purdue’s strongest team in years, 15-12. On the next weekend, Saturday, January 22nd, the Irish in their turn received and trounced Detroit, 12%-4%.
Against the Boilermakers, as was expected, the Irish piled up most of their points in the sabre, Captain Zerbst and veteran Scarlata winning two out of three bouts, while Johnny Gavan, fencing Number Three, won all three of his bouts. Purdue, with the best epee group in the west, swept through that event, Notre Dame’s only points coming through the winning work of Jim Graham in two of his three bouts. The Irish dropped their weakest event, the foils, 6-3, with Vic Mercado winning two out of three and Pierre de la Vergne scoring the third point for Notre Dame. The Irish epee-men, (Continued on Page 19)
Notre Dame opens its indoor track season in the field house tonight with a traditional meet against Marquette University.
In the opening- meet of last year’s indoor track season, a strong, star-studded team from Indiana University met an injury-hampered and unready
Notre Dame group, and gave them one of the worst defeats a Nicholson team has ever felt. This year the Marquette and Illinois meets which precede the Indiana meet will serve more or less as a means to an end. Nick, intent upon scoring a revenge victory, is pointing his boys for a tough battle at Bloomington on February 19.
But he realizes, of course, that each hurdle must be taken as it
Miler John Francis
A rhythmic picture in flight.
comes, and he is well aware that Marquette is never a team to be taken too lightly. However, the Irish reserve strength and power in each event should prove too much for the less-balanced Marquette squad. Notre Dame has met its Milwaukee rival in eight dual meets, and its has won all but one, a 54-32 victory for Marquette in 1933. The Irish have also won the only two outdoor dual meets in which the schools have met. Last year’s meet, held on a rather narrow indoor track at Milwaukee, was a 54-41 victory for Notre Dame.
Eddie Burke, national indoor high jump champion, is the star of the Marquette team, and the colored lad holds the meet record of 6 feet, 6 inches, which he set last year. Williams, another Marquette high jumper, has cleared 6 feet, 5 inches in his specialty. Bob Shurilla, a sophomore hurdler, is also a key man for the invaders.
Notre Dame has good men in each event. Although the 6 feet, 2 inches Ted Leonas has cleared in the high jump thus far this year does not
stand up with the liest heights of his two opponents, Leonas has a competitive spirit which should cause him to improve his mark under fire. And anything above 5 feet, 10 inches is an improvement on the jumperless teams Notre Dame has had since Vince Murphy graduated. Pole vaulter Dan Gibbs cleared 13 feet, 6 inches with little trouble in dress rehearsal last Saturday. Hal Langton, evidently remembering the story of the spider who finally succeeded in his seventh attempt to pole vault from one beam to another, cleared 13 feet last Saturday on his seventh try at the height. If he can hit his lucky seven in his first three attempts tonight, both Notre Dame pole vaulters should better the meet record of 12 feet, 8% inches.
Johnny Francis and Greg Rice finished almost in a dead heat in a 4:20.5 mile last Saturday afternoon, the fastest practice mile either of them has ever done, and one of the fastest miles ever run on Notre Dame’s indoor track. An hour later, Francis ran an 880 in the very good time of 1:57.3. The meet record of 4:30.8 in the mile doesn’t seem destined for a much longer life, and Gene Gormley’s two mile in 9:40 last Saturday indicates that the 9:48 record in that event also occupies a very precarious position. Steve Szuma-chowski, though he is coming along a little more slowly than his running mate in the two mile, has shown indications in his recent workouts of a return to the form which helped him end up last year’s outdoor season with the excellent time of 9:25.
Bill Faymonville has not quite recovered from his serious illness of a few weeks ago, but with “Mike” Mandjiak and Ed Beinor to help him, the Irish should be able to take care of themselves in the shot-put. Bill Clifford, Tom Shields, and Steve Coughlin in the sprints, and Captain Bill Mahoney and Bob Lawrence in the hurdles should capture quite a few points for the Irish. The- picture is completed by two excellent quarter milers, veteran Pete Sheehan, and sophomore Hank Halpin, whose 142 pounds, though unusually light for this event, contain dynamite for a powerful finishing sprint.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WALSH, DILLON LEAD HALL LEAGUES
By Mark J. Mitchell
William Patrick Mahoney, erstwhile cowhoy and present captain of the Notre Dame track team, is another of those diversified personalities about whom it is very difficult to write a unified comment. Therefore, the only feasible approach seems to be the chronological one, a beginning at the beginning.
Prescott, Arizona, was the place in which Bill first opened his eyes to the expanse of mesa which he was to view uninterruptedly for about seventeen years. His father was a rail-
Track Captain Mahoney
road man, born in Ireland, and the Mahoney’s moved about Arizona a great deal before Bill entered high school. When that noteworthy event took place, he decided to “light” for a while in Winslow, and so spent four years there.
Winslow High School found Bill a valuable asset athletically, for he competed in football, basketball and track, winning his letter in the last two, and captaining the thinlies his senior year. Notre Dame appealed to Bill as a good Catholic school, but, in addition, the fame of John P. Nicholson seems to have drifted all the way out to the sands that knew Bill’s flying spikes in prep school. Nick, you know, won fame as an Olympic hurdler, and Bill always wanted to be a hurdler.
At Notre Dame, Bill immediately became “T-Bone” a name that has stuck ever since. Vince Duggan applied it to the bushy haired Arizonian, after a cowboy singer on a Boston radio station had won fame as William “T-Bone” Mahoney.
A comparison of Bill’s best times in high school and college might be appropriate, and so are herewith presented, approximately of course: 25 seconds over the low hurdles, 16.2 over the highs, and 22.1 in the furlong represented “T-Bone’s” prep
records. Under Coach Nicholson’s tutelage, 15 seconds for the highs, 24 for the lows, and a 49 quarter have been Bill’s best efforts.
As a sophomore, “T-Bone” teamed with Don Elser in the lows, and the pair just about wiped out all competition in dual meets. In the triangular outdoor meet between Notre Dame, Michigan State, and Ohio State that year, Bill got the biggest thrill of his college career. He nearly licked the unbeatable Jesse Owens over the low sticks.
One of the funniest meets Bill ever ran in was the Marquette affair last year. An indoor meet, it was held in a gymnasium with the sprinters and hurdlers running on the basketball floor, and the pole vaulters landing on a wrestling mat.
Bill is very assertive in his views about track. It is the greatest sport there is. The best track men in the country are on the Pacific Coast. And this year’s track team promises to be one of the best Nicholson or Notre Dame has ever had. This last is not any egotism either, but faith in his teammates to pull through a tough schedule.
The diversity in Bill’s personality comes into view when you consider that he has two monograms, was elected last year to a membership in that exclusive organization known as the “Wranglers,” and maintains a magna cum laude scholastic average.
Besides this he is taking a tough Pre-Law course which will keep him around here for two years after this one. Then he intends to return to Phoenix and practice law. All of which just about sums up Bill Mahoney pretty well—athlete, scholar, and a swell guy!
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 14)
in the boxing world on the night that the finals will take place. Last year Barney Ross was present.
There is a rumor going the rounds that Joe Race will again be seen in the ring, wrestling, we hear, that mastodon of mastodons, Paul Kell. But more about that next week. The boys haven’t worked up a -good enough mad at each other as yet, but if we know Race and Kell, things, heavy things, will be flying before long. We will let you know. And meanwhile, don’t let the other see you with the one. You’re on your own if you do.
The first round of the 1938 interhall basketball season got under way on January 16, and with the end of the third round rapidly approaching, the defending champs, Walsh and Dillon, have not yet tasted defeat. The former outfit is defending the heavyweight title while the latter quintet is trying to recapture lightweight laurels.
Walsh, however, has some close competition in Lyons, and Dillon who also boasts of an unmarred record. In Group I the Carrollites alone are undefeated.
The dorm lads are showing the way in Group I of the lightweight class with both representatives undefeated. Brownson has copped three verdicts while Carroll has won in both of its encounters. In the other group Alumni and Walsh are keeping up with the Dillonites with two victories apiece.
Ed Longhi bagged 13 points for the Howardites against Walsh. This gives the varsity football center the individual scoring honors for a single game.
Results:	•
Heavyweight Division:
January 16, Group I—Off-Campus 16-Freshman 5; Cavanaugh 10-Brownson 4;’Carroll 16- St. Ed’s 12. Group II—M orrissey 21-Sorin 9; Walsh 24-Howard 20; Lyons 22-Alumni 21; Dillon 26-Badin 18.
January 23, Group I—Brownson 16-Freshman 15; Off-Campus 20-Cava-naugh 9; Zahm 16-St. Ed’s 19; Group II—Howard 34-Sorin 6; Walsh 22-Morrissey 14.
January 30, Group I—Cavanaugh 26-Freshman 22; Brownson 25-Off-Campus 21.
Lightweight Division:
January 16, Group I—Off-Campus 12-Freshman 8; Brownson 13-Cava-naugh 5; Carroll Il-St. Ed’s 3; Group II—Morrissey 21-Sorin 12; Walsh 21-Howard 8; Alumni 44-Lyons 20; Dillon 18-Badin 6.
January 23, Group I—Brownson 19-Freshman 13; Zahm 15-St. Ed’s 8; Cavanaugh defeated Off-Campus (forfeit); Group II—Dillon 16-Lyons 15; Walsh 25-Morrissey 17; Sorin deefated Howard (forfeit); Alumni defeated Badin (forfeit).
January 30, Group I—Carroll 27-Zahm 21; Brownson defeated Off-Campus (forfeit).
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Brushing Up
By Ed Brennan
One of the largest crowds that ever filed into the field house is expected tomorrow night when the Irish will conclude their athletic relations with the Panther of Pittsburgh. The two schools first faced one another in 1909 in a football game—
A crowd of 11,000 saw Indiana defeat Butler at Indianapolis Tuesday-night—
Four intersectional games are included in De Paul’s 1938 football schedule which is said to be the most rigorous in the history of the school—
Marty Karow, Ohio State star of a decade ago, recently resigned as baseball coach at the United States Naval Academy. Karow will join the staff of Texas A. & M. college to coach the backfield and baseball—
The Universities of California and Michigan are the only two new opponents listed on the Irish baseball schedule for the coming yeaar. Purdue is the only team the Irish met in 1937 that they will not meet in 1938.
At the National league schedule meeting in New York Tuesday, a proposal was discussed advocating the possibility of insuring clubs and players against liability incurred through injuries to spectators—
Forty personal fouls were called in the Toledo-Ohio State game played at Toledo.
Engineers Club Meets
George Schlaudecker, president of the Engineers Club, presented Mr. E. P. Lockart, superintendent of the Architectural and Engineering Service of the Owens Illinois Glass Company, as guest speaker Wednesday evening Feb. 2. “The Story of Insulux Glass Products,” was the subject of his discussion, while slides and samples of the company’s products were also presented.
At the meeting of the organization late last month, Jerry Cushing, a Notre Dame alumnus of two yearsago, addressed the group on “Marine Construction.” He is now associated with the Great Lakes Dredge and Construction Company, and spoke briefly on the development of dredges and the construction of breakwaters. A series of slides clearly illustrated his talk.
The club committee is working on designs for a club pin, and tentative plans for an open meeting on Wednesday, Feb. 16, are being arranged.
( SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX )
k________________________________________________________________________/
By John F. Clifford
This is Nick’s night to howl . . . the Grand Old Man of the Notre Dame coaching staff presents a great show tonight in the fieldhouse—the annual Notre Dame-Marquette track meet. This the first test for both squads for the indoor season should be a revelation to local track entrusiasts anxious for a peek at some real championship performances, the like of which the Notre Dame gym has not witnessed for many, many moons.
Notre Dame and Marquette for years have enjoyed one of the keenest rivalries in track and field athletics in the Mid-West. No little of this rivalry is reflected in the good-natured ribbing and heckling that Coaches Nicholson and Jennings indulge in during the evening. When these two track men get together, watches in hand by the judges’ stand, anything is liable to happen. But it’s not all Charlie McCarthy with Nick and Jennings. They know runners; they can “feel” condition in an athlete; and above all else, they know men. Their records prove that.
Coach Jennings brought an insignificant colored boy—Ralph Metcalfe by name—along the hard road of conditioning and training and made him one of the greatest sprinters to ever crouch at the blocks. The record he set in the local gym for 60 yards still stands. Tonight Jennings is bringing another colored lad with him to meet the track men of Notre Dame. He, too, like Metcalfe, is a former record holder, only he specializes in the high jump and is pretty good at it. His name is Ed Burke, former world’s high jump champ at six feet eight inches.
A member of the 1912 Olympic team and one of the greatest hurdlers of all-time, John Nicholson has had his share in bringing along some great runners and jumpers at Notre Dame. Alex Wilson came under Nick’s tutelage at Notre Dame in 1928, and with aid of expert coaching and a wealth of natural ability developed into the classiest runner ever to represent the Irish on the cinders. Jack Elder, whose records at the century dash at Notre Dame are traditional, was another one of Nick’s proteges. In this list there might be mentioned Vince Murphy, captain and high jumper of the 1934 team, and Don Elser, a great weight man.
Individual stars are almost indispensable assets to any team: their coming through in the pinches with much-needed extra points have helped pull many a close meet out of the fire. But it is always a coach’s pride and joy—and this is especially true in track—to have developed green, inexperienced material into a well-balanced squad. And what tickles Nick’s heart about this year’s team is its all-around strength.	■
From the sprints, through the two-mile and on up to the pole vault the Irish this year are the best they have been in years. In the dashes Bill Clifford, Steve Coughlin, Sheils, and Tucker have looked exceptional so far this winter. The last three are sophomores and have as yet to feel active collegiate competition. In the hurdles Captain Bill Mahoney, one of the hardest, most sincere workers out there, can be depended .upon for at least five points a meet. Bill is equally good at holding down a leg on the mile relay, and will undoubtedly see much of this work. Pete Sheehan and Hank Halpin, quarter-milers, have been touching .51 during their workouts, and that is fast stepping on the local track. The half mile is another strong event. John Francis, a senior, in the trials last Saturday, stepped out to a 4:20 mile, and came back an hour later to -win the half in the phenomenal time of 1:57.5. Such a pre-season performance is indicative of the record-smashing team that Nick has assembled. It takes only one race to get Greg Rice and Steve Szumdchowski in shape for the tough meets that are ahead of them later in the season.
Danny Gibbs and Hal Langton have been carrying on a little stratosphere flights of their own by means of the vaulting pole. Gibbs has missed 14 feet in practice, clearing the bar at 13' 6" at the first try. Langton has done 13 feet consistently. For the first time in three years Notre Dame has been woefully weak in the high jump. This year, however, a sophomore by the name of Leonas looks good as a potential winner. Nick thinks he is capable of six-four, being a fine competitor.
Harry Sylvester has a provocative article in the February “Columbia” called (Continued on Page 18)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Cagers Turn in Victories Over Exam Interval, St. Louis, Pitt, Butler Fall
By Nick
Notre Dame’s basketball quintet shook off the lethargy of exams last Tuesday night and trounced the St. Louis university five, 50 to 25, in a slow game at the local fieldhouse. The victory was the 13th in 15 starts this season. It also extended the new victory string to six straight and marked the' 14th consecutive home triumph for the Irish.
St. Louis started out fast and ran the count to 5-1. The Irish tied the count at ’7-all and then pulled away to a 15-12 advantage. The Blue and Gold led 21-12 at the half. The visitors tired rapidly in the second half and Notre Dame went on to take a commanding lead. Moir and Nowak of the Irish and O’Sullivan of St. Louis tied for high scoring honors with nine points each.
On January 15 the Fighting Irish downed the Kentucky Wildcats in the fieldhouse by a 47 to 37 score. The game developed into a roughhouse in the second half as Brown of Notre Dame and Hagan of Kentucky tried to reenact the Civil War on the hardwood floor. Johnny Moir
V
Release Schedules For Three Spring Sports;
Baseball, Golf, Tennis Teams Meet Michigan
Although it doesn’t look or feel much like spring on the campus, we can be sure it is not far away, for Elmer Layden, director of athletics at the University, has announced the spring sports schedule for the ’38 season.
Most of the schools on the schedule this year have been consistent opponents of the Irish for the past few years. Michigan, however, meets Notre Dame twice in baseball and once in tennis and golf, marking the first dual competition between the two schools since the baseball season of 1924. One baseball game will be played on each campus. Notre Dame and Michigan will also meet in track, in a quadrangular meet at Bloomington, April 23, with Indiana and Ohio State filling out the quartet. From what we have heard of the Michigan squads lately we can expect interesting battles when the Wolverines invade the campus.
SPLINTERS — (Continued from page 17)
“This running Is No Fun.” That just about sums it up. Nothing could be more erroneous than the idea that these track men have been doing a little running or limbering up after class, and that tinight they are simply going to see who can run the fastest around the dirt oval. There is a lot more to it than that. There are about two months of tough conditioning under those boys’ belts, rugged work that has whipped the squad into a strong bunch of competitors under the watchful, careful eye of Nick—a great guy!
Lamberto
silenced some of his critics by annexing 20 points while combining it with a sparkling defensive exhibition. Thompson led the Kentucky scorers with 15 points. Brown and Wukovits were second best for Notre Dame with 11 points each.
The Irish journeyed eastward and beat Pitt, 51 to 41, at Pittsburgh on January 19th. The victory soothed a few of the barbs from the football “reverse” last fall. Spotovich of Pitt led the scorers with 14 points. Johnnie Moir and “Duke” Ducharme pulled the game out of the fire when Pitt threatened. Sadowski led the Notre Dame scorers with 11 points. Paul Nowak contributed a fine floor game on offense and defense.
Butler’s Bulldogs came north from Indianapolis to meet Notre Dame in the fieldhouse on January 22nd and returned home on the short end of a 39-26 score. Butler’s deliberate set play style of offense slowed the game down to a walk at some stages of the contest. Numerous shots were missed on both sides. Wukovits emerged as high point man with eight
Coach Pedro de Landero of the tennis team is optimistic, even though his team meets the cream of the middle western crop, playing five matches during the first seven days of May. Besides guiding the Irish racketers, Coach de Landero will try to steer a squad of inexperienced fencers through a tough six-game schedule, so he should have his hands full.
Father George L. Holderith, C.S.C., has a strong nucleus for his golf team, which took runner-up honors in the national intercollegiate tournament last year. Father Holderith will take his boys to Detroit April 18 to play Detroit in the first event of a ten-meet schedule.
The baseball team, under Jake Kline, also promises to be strong, with several additions to the pitching staff, and most of the rest of the team back.
McGoldrick elected
NEW GRID CAPTAIN
•
James Joseph McGoldrick, of Philadelphia, Pa., was elected captain of the 1938 varsity football team last Tuesday afternoon. McGoldrick succeeds Alec Shellogg who resigned the captaincy and withdrew from school at the end of the first semester.
The new captain played left guard last year, understudying Joe Ruetz. His work was outstanding throughout the season but his showing against Minnesota won him special mention.
McGoldrick attended West Catho-lis High School in Philadelphia where he was awarded all-city honors. His father was a well-known athlete in his day, playing with the famous Donegal Celtics team in association football.
Jim entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1935. He is enrolled in the Commerce school where he is majoring in Business Administration. He played a good deal of football during his sophomore year, and just missed his letter by a few minutes. This past season, he made it with minutes to spare even though he was playing behind Joe Ruetz.
Endowed with the Irish heritage of leadership and ability, Jim should make an excellent captain for the 1938 Fighting Irish.
De Correvant To Play With Northwestern
•
Bill De Correvant, the nation’s scholastic Red Grange from Austin High in Chicago, will enroll at Northwestern university near his home city, he announced during the week.
Warren Brown, Windy City sports editor, was our source of news during a sports flash.
De Correvant, also a basketball player and baseball performer of some ability and recently graduated from high school, drew nationwide attention when he played a leading role in his team’s victory over Leo High for the city championship in Soldiers’ Field, Chicago, last fall. The game attracted some 120,000 spectators, the largest gathering in the history of what has become America’s national game.
October 9, 1920 — When tempted to tell your neighbor’s faults count your own, multiply them by ten, subtract your neighbor’h, and then — if you must talk — talk about the remainder.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
From the Files
October 16, 1920 — Considering that green is the symbol of hope, the freshmen should have great expectations.
April 23, 1921 — “Do you like liverwurst,” said the young man as he glanced over the menu trying to pick out something cheap?
“Yes,” she replied, “I like it worst. You can order fried chicken for me.”
June 4, 1921 — “Much liquor mak-eth a full man.”
February 4, 1932 — It is rumored that a Freshman “saw the swellest movie,” in which a man jumped out of a balloon and came to earth in a parasite.
February 4, 1932—Willowy Winnie says: Honesty doesn’t pay. .Look at a ship. Even if it arrives on time it gets docked.
t October 27, 1917 — The Account of the Columbus Day celebration in Washington Hall contains this picturesque sentence: “The Knights of Columbus marched to the hall in a body wearing their Knight gowns and long purple badges.”
CAGERS PLAY TWO
(Continued from Page H)
20th victory of the memorable 25-game competition with Bill Chandler’s Marquette veterans. Despite the loss of five lettermen from last year’s squad, Chandler has six senior lettermen in the fold and this group has been strengthened by the unexpected development of lesser lights and the sophomore center, Ralph Amsden.
The elimination of the center jump brought about the replacement of Dineen at center with the substitution of Paul Sokody, a converted forward. Chandler has, however, a brace of schooled offensive threats in Glen Adams and Erv Graf. They are backed up by George Hesik, Dave Quabius, and Al Cofone, defensive retainers. Bill Hughes, George Bel-humeus, and Bob Mullen all shared in the Marquette lineup a year ago.
- Following a home defeat by Northwestern and a loss to Chicago in the mid-West metropolis, Marquette has cut seven successive notches in the victory belt. Games with Northwestern, Wisconsin, Iowa, and a return melee with Chicago, Western Conference foes, brought new glory to the Jesuit floormen. Later triumphs were registered over Butler, and Michigan State, and over Western State twice. Marquette is scheduled to meet Cani-sius and Niagara, in the East tonight and tomorrow night, respectively.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 10)
bit and then go into the Big Apple . . . The Setonian defines a woman: a woman is a person who can hurry through a drug store aisle 18 inches wide without brushing against the piled up tinware and then drives home and knocks off one of the doors of a 12 foot garage. . . The exams are over and most of the boys are convinced that “cram doesn’t pay.” • . . . They get worse and worse. The Silver and Gold defines the following: smoke—stuff which gets in your eyes in a song from Roberta; night work —that which silly people think students do; notebook—that which one loses when full. . . . The Torch sez that there was the Scotch dentist who was so tight he refused to treat a tooth. . . His best friends wouldn’t tell him—so he flunked. . .
Bee in the Bonnet
Collected by apple-loving professors throughout the nation, the following freshman definitions are reminiscent of our mellowed golden rule days. Turn back the pages, you dopes, and live again the dusty past, monogny—a wood they make furniture out of
cistern—a group of drum and bugle players
cremate—overflowing with cream simony—A French movie star earl—oil in the vernacular boon—Daniel was his first name pant—singular of pants litre—a bunch of young puppies grub—past participle of grab jargon—a famous World War battle deceit—something you sit on
FENCERS WIN
(Continued from Page 15)
though overwhelmed by their expert opponents, stood up very well, Gavan winning two of his three skirmishes with the Big Ten’s best, and Colgan losing each of his three bouts by one touch.
Gavan, with three wins, was high scorer for Notre Dame, while Levin led Purdue, also winning three bouts.
Seven of the ten men competing for Notre Dame were fencing in their first important varsity match.
Detroit had none of the adroitness of Purdue, and merely provided a stiff work-out for the men in blue and gold. Altogether eleven men fenced for Notre Dame, no one engaging in more than two bouts. Zerbst took two bouts, Scarlata one, and Gavan one, for a 4-0 sweep of the sabre. Notre Dame ran through the
foils, 6-3, Leising, Sayia and De la Vergne each losing once. In the epee, Graham of Notre Dame won one and tied one. Guerin, an Irish sophomore, won his only match—his first against an outside opponent. McEnearney lost his bout to Captain Jankowski of Deroit, making the final epee score 2%-l1/2 for Notre Dame.
High scorers with two wins and no losses were Captain Zerbst of the Irish and foilsman Paulin of the visitors. After the official match, both teams worked out together for about an hour. Most of the Irish had an opportunity of facing Mr. Charles Schmitter, Detroit coach, a left-hander who is champion of the state of Michigan in all three weapons.
CAMPUS OPINION
Question: Should interhall athletics be emphasized more than they are at present?
Answers:
Bob McLeod, sophomore, Carroll: “Yes. There should be a greater variety of interhall athletics. Teams should be created for track, tennis and baseball. The student publication should also give more space to these activities. When these conditions are realized, approximately 60 percent of the student body instead of the present 25 percent will take an active part in interhall athletics.
Frank Sienko, junior, Lyons: “Those who are unable to participate in the strenuous sports of soccer, touch football and basketball during the winter months, should be given an opportunity to utilize their competitive powers in interhall ping-pong and billiards. This would enliven interest in interhall activities and more students could take part in them. Athletics should be emphasized more.”
Mike Byrne, freshman, Brownson: “No. As I have seen them, I think that they are developed to the right degree. Any more emphasis on them would tend to create interference with other college activities.”
Dick Thompson, senior, Sorin: “Yes. Very little equipment would be needed to establish an interest among the student body in boxing. Interhall teams could be formed from which a nucleus for a future varsity boxing team could be made. Another field would be open for students seeking other extra curricular activities than the present ones.”
Joe Robinson, junior, St. Edwards: “No more emphasis should be given to interhall athletics. Instead junior varsity teams should be created from which varsity material could be uncovered.”
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Fool
By James Francis Dempsey
The street bleakened by morning-shadows re-echoed the crashing din of a spilt ashcan top. Green eyes peeped forth from behind the rubbish pile. Then the furry black darted across the empty walk, bouncing into the gutter and scuttling down an alley.
Grey rays of dawn dispelled the gloom—a new day had arrived. The horses’ trotting hoofs pulled white wagon wheels from house to house. Eight o’clock -— figures dotted the grey beaten walks while groaning cars sidled along between the curbs. Nine o’clock — two white-haired men descended 207’s red steps burdened with a figure-filled chair. Gently they placed the bundled clothes near the curb. Anne, a faded, buxom blonde came but from 207’s dark hallway carrying a knitting basket and a camp stool. She parked her - stool next to the grotesque figure.
Seated comfortably, she began to knit.
The figure in the bundled clothes stirred. A thin thatch of sandy hair began slowly appearing from the top of the draped blankets, revealing a pair of rolling, bloodshot eyes and a puffed-up face which contained a dribbling foamy mouth. No other action could be detected.
Mrs. Murphy passed by, armed with her market basket, greeting. Anne with a smile and the figure with a contemptuous sneer. Mary, a youthful bride of beauty, sauntered up the stairs that led from the basement spying Anne, she approached
“Morning Anne, how’s the patient this morning?”
“He’s all right so far but you know how he gets when he’s been out a while,” Anne replied between stitches. “Why don’t you keep me company Mary, for an hour or so?”
“O.K. It’s early and I haven’t anything else to do. I’ll run back and get a stool.” The fair-complexioned brunette disappeared down the stairs into the basement of 207.
A young couple, apparently recently married, slowed down to cast sympathising eyes upon the gory figure. Mary reappeared with a small
stool and squatted down alongside of Anne. The sun was now high in the heavens, pouring forth rays almost intended to dry up everything.
“Wheel I’m glad today’s Saturday, ’cause I’d never work in this heat,” Mary remarked.
“You know Mary, I haven’t done a scrap of work since I was married. Maybe I’m almost lucky.”
“Lucky, did you say?”
“Yea, I suppose I did. By the way, did you hear about that new couple that moved into the Horton’s old rooms on the top floor?”
“No ... I don’t think I did; why do you know anything?”
“Well, it’s this way. The other night, I heard that they—Oh gosh There’s the start now; there he goes now,” Anne snapped as she turned to watch the gurgling figure, drooling at the mouth.
“I guess he’s too hot.” Anne unfolded the top blanket and laid the arms of the crippled body on the arm-rests of the chair.
“I’m sorry that I ever promised to take care of this fool they baptized John.”
“Oh, he’ll soon kick the bucket,” Mary murmured. “A man can’t stand that much torture much longer, especially with the hot weather coming on. You know, sometimes I wonder if he feels any sensations at all?”
“Nah, he couldn’t feel a knife stuck halfway through his body. It’s a funy feeling to have somebody like that around you all the time . . . somebody as good as dead.”
Slowly beads of perspiration began bubbling forth from John’s brow. Amidst foam that continued to drip, unintelligible sounds came from his mouth.
“I wish he’d cut that out. It certainly gives me the jitters . . . and, the way everybody stares when they pass by embarrasses me. You’d think that I was its mother. Thank heavens, I’m not.”
“Anne, you apparently don’t like John,” Mary uttered between her chuckles.
“’Tain’t funny Mary, ’tain’t funny.” Anne was angry.
“Ah now Anne, snap out of it, you’d really think that I was serious in my joking—”
“Joking? More like insulting, if you ask me. Calling, me practically a screwball who shows affection for a fool.” Mary knew now that Anne was really angry.
“I’m sorry, Anne, let’s skip the whole thing and get back to your story on those new top floor tenants of ours.”
“All right. Well, as I was about to say before, I heard the other night that—nerts, he’s off aagin. We had better fix the blankets.” Louder those gurgling noises sounded. Anne again fixed the clothes. Mary sighed.
“Well, I guess it’s about time we ate. Give me a hand and help me carry him in—the pest! Maybe he’ll soon learn how to eat without being fed; after all he only twenty-two.” Anne laughed at her own joke.
Mary got up and shook her dress clear of its wrinkles. Going around to the opposite side of Anne, she grabbed hold of the wooden rail. “Let’s go, Anne; let’s give our pest a good fast ride this time.”
John tried; he tried hard to shake his head to let them know he understood. But try as he may, he couldn’t-make his flabby muscles move. The only thing he could do was roll his eyes and dribble saliva a little bit faster. He stared at those cute black: curls that crowned the waves in. Mary’s hair and wondered how such a pretty girl could be so cold-hearted. He didn’t mind Anne’s talking for he had heard her ever since he could remember. In fact he didn’t mind any of their talk, even though it added to his tortures — having been baptized a Catholic, he knew that he could bear his suffering. “If I could only let them know, if I only could . . . but I am not able, so all I will do is to continue with my mental prayers,” John thought to himself.
The trio disappeared up the steps and into the dimly lighted hallway. The chimes of the small Catholic Church around the corner softly tolled twelve. Time for thanksgiving..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Cracowans Entertained
Mr. Louis Hammerschmidt, a prominent South Bend lawyer, entertained the members of the Cracow Club at their meeting of January 21st, presenting motion pictures. The meeting, which was held in the Law building, was attended by the entire group.
Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., chaplain of the club, introduced the guest speaker. Mr. Hammerschmidt began with scenes taken in Poland, especially in Warsaw. Following the scenes from Poland the speaker showed pictures of Russia taken during his tour last summer. These scenes showed the brighter side of the Soviet’s accomplishments. The point the speaker stressed was the way in which Russia is concentrating its energy on the youth. The older people are being shoved into the background. He showed scenes from a Moscow parade in which 50,000 youths took part, as well as pictures of Moscow, Leningrad, Kiev, and the famous shrine of St. Basil.
After thanking the speaker for the entertaining lecture Father Lisewski gave a short talk on one phase of the Polish language. The results of the ping-pong and pool tournament will be announced by the middle of February.
S.A.C. DISEASE FIGHT
(Continued from Page 9)
classes: those donating one dollar will be known as Personal Founders; those giving two dollars will be Honor Founders; and those who give five dollars will automatically become Family Founders.
He made it plain, however, that all contributions will be most welcome, regardless of the amount given. The National Foundation is purely charitable and every dollar collected will be used to fight infantile paralysis from four important directions — scientific research, epidemic first aid, proper care (which includes disseminating to doctors and parents infor-
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind.
mation which may prevent dreaded after-effects of the diesase), and contributions to orthopedic centers, hospitals, and clinics. A substantial sum of money has already been realized from the dances, concerts, and entertainments held on January 29 in celebration of the President’s birthday, but a great deal more must be donated to make the National Foundation’s initial year a complete success.
Not a little of the success of the paralysis prevention movement so far has been due to Notre Dame’s own Fred Snite. Millions of people everywhere have stopped to consider infantile paralysis in a more serious light after reading of the great fight waged by this boy, one of the disease’s bravest victims. It is hoped by S. A. C. authorities that the students here wall pause to think of Fred Snite when asked to make a contribution.
Foundation contributions may be given to members of the S. A C. or they may be left at the Prefect of Religion’s offices in Dillon, Howard, or Cavanaugh Halls.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8211
TOBIN says:
T	IRISH MIXTURE
O
B	CORKTOWN
I
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
He'll Hutt.... and he'll Putt
GO by South Shore Line
Old Man Winter can do his worst, and still you get there on time via South Shore Line. You just step aboard a fast electric train and forget all about traffic or highways, straight through to your destination. In the winter, more than ever, you save time and money when you travel by South Shore Line.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
•
To Chicago The Safe, Fast
Dependable Way
and ship-to-shore service.
Good evidence that telephone engineers will go to great lengths to make your telephone service more dependable, far-reaching and valuable.
Travel Man on Campus
On Tuesday, February 8th, John F. Healy (’30) will be at Notre Dame for the purpose of interviewing faculty members and students who may be interested in foreign travel during the coming summer.
Mr. Healy is a member of the Hayes and Healy Travel Bureau, and will be prepared to give information and assistance on the European tours which are to be conducted this season. He will be at the Alumni Office all day February 8th for those who wish to consult him about these tours.
MATHEMATICS SYMPOSIUM (Continued from Page 5) ing Prof. A. Adrian Albert, leading algebraist, and Dr. J. K. Senior, professor of chemistry at Chicago, who will speak about certain applications of algebra to chemistry.
From the University of Notre Dame, Dr. Karl Menger and Dr. Emil Artin will participate in the two-day discussion. Dr. Menger, now associate professor of mathematics at Notre Dame, is noted throughout the mathematical world as one of the creators of various new branches of mathematics. Before coming to Notre Dame he was professor of mathematics at the University of Vienna and a visiting professor at Harvard and at Rice Institute. He has lectured on mathematics at other leading universities in this country and abroad.
Dr. Artin recently assumed his post as associate professor of mathematics at Notre Dame. He was formerly professor of mathematics at the University of Hamburg and is internationally-known for his contribution to the theory of numbers. His speech, “Geometric Aspects of ah Algebraic Subject,” will conclude the symposium. Dr. Arthur N. Milgram, who will present a paper entitled, “A Theorem on the Algebra of Geometry,” is the third University of Notre Dame representative in the meeting.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
—♦—
Intelligent service Reliability 34 years’ experience are our endorsements.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street
South Bend, Indiana
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
HeStakes’2500aWeek
on His Knowledge of Tobacco...
Robert W. Bams —Independent Buyer-one of many tobacco experts who smoke Luckies
perts like Mr. Barnes, Luckies have over twice as many exclusive smokers as have all the other cigarettes combined
HAVE YOU HEABD "THE CHANT Of TH TOBACCO AUCTIONEER" ON THE RA1HOT
Whan you do, remember that Luckies use the finest tobacco. And also that the "Toastiej" Process removes certain harsh irritants found in all tobacco. So Luckies ora kind to your throat
'T OFFEN invest $2500 a week A in tobacco—$2500 of my own hand-earned cash,” says Mr. Barnes. "So you can see that the only way I’ve stayed in business 10 years is to know tobacco.
“Now I know Lucky Strike tobacco and it’s top-grade. That’s why I’ve smoked Luckies for eight years now.
"Lots of other independent buyers, auctioneers, and warehousemen I know smoke Luckies for the same reason.”
Yes, sworn records show that,

58^^ ■fat-WITH MEN WHO KNOW TOBACCO BEST-ITS LUCKIES 2 TOT
Paul Douglas /
my good reason lor smoking
Chesterfields
I find they give me more pleasure than any cigarette I ever smoked.
And if a man isn’t getting pleasure from his cigarette he might as well quit smoking.
Chesterfields are milder ... they’ve got a taste that smokers like... they have everything to give a man MORE PLEASURE.
Weekly Radio Features Lawrence Tibbett Andre Kostelanetz Paul Whiteman Deems Taylor
Chesterfield

’ Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.