n nora am
SCHOLASTIC
(wus ncuus [Mine
UUCLHLU
IN THIS ISSUE
©
WASHINGTON PREVIEW OPPONENT EDITOR'S SLANT TENNIS TOURNEY RESULT FALL TRACK PRACTICE
THE WEEK
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS ON DOWN THE LINE INTRODUCING
FOUNDER'S DAY TUESDAY STUDENT TRIP UNDECIDED SCHOLASTIC STRAW VOTE KELSEY TO PLAY COTILLION LUNN'S FIRST LECTURE
OCTOBER 9f 1936
Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C. Honor Him Tuesday
HALF & HALF MAKES
Reach new heights of pipe-pleasure with Half & Half.
Cool as a hill for last year’s dues. Sweet as the proof you don’t owe a dime. Fragrant, full-bodied tobacco that won’t bite the tongue—in a tin that won’t bite the fingers. Made by our exclusive modern process including patent No. 1,770,920. Smells good. Makes your pipe welcome anywhere. Tastes good. Your password to pleasure!
a bit off bite in the tobacco or the Telescope Tin, which
Not
gets smaller and smaller as you use-up the tobacco. No bitten ffingers as you reach ffor a load, even the last one.
Copyright 1936, The American Tobacco Co.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailins at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3. 191". Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
October 9, 1936
No. 3
NINETY-FOURTH FOUNDER'S DAY PROGRAM SCHEDULED FOR TUESDAY; SOLEMN HIGH MASS. RADIO HOUR SET
PRESIDENT TO SPEAK
By Gregory Byrnes
Next Tuesday, October 13th, will be Founder’s Day. The day does not mark the date of the founding of the University, but is rather the Feast of St. Edward, the feast day of the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., the founder of Notre Dame.
This year the day will be celebrated in two ways. In the morning there will be a special Founder’s Day solemn high Mass in Sacred Heart Church for students and faculty. The celebrant at this Mass will be the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. He will be assisted by the Rev. John A. Mol-ter, C.S.C., as deacon, and by the Rev. Eward L. Heston, C.S.C., as subdeacon. The Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., will preach a sermon on the significance of the occasion in the past history of the school. Then in the evening there will be broadcast from the campus studio a special Founder’s Day program that will inaugurate the year’s radio activities. During this broadcast the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, will deliver an address appropriate to the occasion. The program will be made up of this address and of a concert by the University Glee Club and Band.
The day has always been a free day or holiday for the students. In former years it was the occasion for elaborate celebrations. Before the death of Father Sorin in 1893 the day was marked as one on which the achievements of the past were reviewed and the hopes for the future cited. During the afternoon there were various interhall athletic events. In the evening elaborate programs were presented in honor of the men who founded Notre Dame.
An excerpt from The Scholastic of Oct. 14, 1871 reads as follows: . “Last week we anticipated the brilliant festivities to be held in honor of the Very Reverend Edward Sorin. But the national calamity which so
unexpectedly fell upon us—the destruction by fire of more than half of the great city of Chicago—has taken away the interest which the students feel in this great festival.”
It is indeed fitting that this day
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.SiC. Celebrant for Tuesday’s Mass.
be set aside to honor the memory of Father Sorin and his band of six, those courageous men who answered the call of the Bishop of Vincennes to found a school in the wilderness of Indiana. They arrived in November 1842 with little" but their faith and courage—they had a capital of but $400—but these proved more than enough to rear to them the great monument that is the Notre Dame of today. The Notre Dame men of today may look around them on Founder’s Day at a living, growing tribute to the courage and faith of that little band that braved the wilderness to found this University almost a cetury ago.
As in the past, Founder’s Day will be an academic holiday, all classes in the University being cancelled. Students are especially urged to attend the special Founder’s Day Mass, honoring the patron saint of Notre Dame’s pioneer-priest.
BAND TO BROADCAST ON N.B.C. HOOK-UP OCTOBER 17
•
The University of Notre Dame Band will broadcast Saturday, Oct. 17, from the Campus Studio between 7-8 P.M., C.S.T., on an N.B.C. coast to coast hookup. The broadcast will be part of the program in celebration of the National Broadcasting Company’s 10th year of service to the people of the United States.
The University of Wisconsin Band, coming here for the Wisconsin football game in the afternoon, will also play on this program. Each band will play 6% minutes. These are two of the college bands throughout the country which the National Broadcasting Company has selected to play on its anniversary program.
Professor Joseph Casasanta announced this week that the personnel of the band is to be augmented to 100 pieces. Uniforms will be distributed among the new men as soon as they are available.
The University Glee Club will be heard from the Campus Studio, Tuesday evening, Oct. 13, between 7-8 P.M., as part of the Founder’s Day Program. The personnel of the Glee Club will be selected before that date.
All students interested in forming a University symphony orchestra are asked to report at the Band Room in Washington Hall, Tuesday evening, Oct. 13 at 6:30 P.M. This year’s symphony orchestra will be under the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta.
Candidates for a University dance orchestra will please report to Professor Casasanta in the Band Room on Friday evening, Oct. 16, at 6:30 P.M.
Professor Casasanta expressed the hope that the personnel of all the Campus musical organizations would be selected as soon as possible.
A survey of the U. of Maryland showed that sororities with the lowest scholastic averages were well above the frats boasting the highest marks.
The Phi Kaps at Northwestern University have built an oversize doghouse for their Great Dane mascot.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
STUDENT TRIP TO BE ANNOUNCED TODAY OR TOMORROW; PITTSBURGH AND ARMY GAMES STILL BEING CONSIDERED
RATES MAY BE LOWER
Definite decision on the annual student trip will be made today or tomorrow. Negotiations have gone forward all week with railroads, the University Council and the S.A.C. and the final choice of either the Army game in New York, or the Pittsburgh game at Pittsburgh will be made late this week.
Official sources this week revealed that there is a possibility of obtaining lower fares than were originally quoted to either game. Figures this week brought the cost of the Army trip, including railroad fare and ticket down to a point between $20 and $25.
The Pittsburgh game at Pittsburgh is scheduled for Saturday, Oct. 24 and is the first game away from home. The Army game is to be played at Yankee Stadium on Saturday, Nov. 14.
Of 1275 students answering a campus poll, nearly 1,000 favored the Army trip, 250 favored the Pittsburgh game and the balance was equally in favor of either game.
Other details of the trip, including hotel accommodations, will not be made, of course, until the destination has been made definite. Early plans made tentatively several weeks ago, called for an overnight stay in New York if the Army game was chosen. No detailed plans were made for the Pittsburgh trip.
Both games hold considerable interest for followers of Notre Dame teams. The Army game is traditionally one of the nation’s most colorful spectacles, and the Pittsburgh rivalry has produced some stellar football. Both games last year were headliners, Notre Dame beating Pittsburgh on a field goal, 9-6, and battling the Army to a 6-6 tie.
October Adoration Periods Filled
•
October Adoration this year has exceeded all previous records, according to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion. Approximately 2,400 attendance cards have been signed. The number of students for each half hour period of adoration ranges from three to forty. All periods have been taken.
NEW YORKERS MOVE FOR REVIVAL OF MET CLUB
By Frank Reilly
Eighty men, from the vicinity of New York City, moved into the basement of the Library Tuesday night to discuss the past, present, and future of the Metropolitan club.
The Met club held a dance during the Christmas vacation in 1934, and shortly afterwards, the club found themselves $ 1 0 0 in debt to the Hotel Roosevelt. This debt still remains although there are other smaller ones amounting to som e $300.
Until $100 is paid to the Hotel Roosevelt, the club is defunct. Under the new S.A.C. ruling a club must hold activities if it is to retain its charter, and this charter must be renewed every year. If the Met club has no functions, then, it will lose its charter permanently, and must therefore get under way this year to insure a future organization from that district. The purpose of the meeting Tuesday night was to hit upon some plan for reorganization, in short, to uncover a plan for raising the $100 necessary to have even the election of officers.
William R. Foley, of Brooklyn, N. Y., submitted a plan suggested by the S.A.C., which organization he represents, and in that capacity, conducted the proceedings. Under the S.A.C. plan, 100 members will each pay one dollar, as dues for this year, and they will then have the right to nominate and elect officers. The money will be collected and handled by the S.A.C. members. A plan similar to this was suggested by the S.A.C. last year, and 93 men signified their intention of paying one dollar each.
William M. McNally, senior, of Woodside, Long Island, took the floor. “I will have $100 within 24 hours,” proclaimed McNally.
“My plan is this,” he continued, “I have 10 fellows who are each willing to give $10 to see the debt cleared and get the club functioning once again. This $100 can be paid back sometime after the Christmas dance, (Continued on Page 5)
PRESIDENT TALKS ON WEEKLY CATHOLIC RADIO HOUR
•
“Temperance and Fortitude” was the subject of Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, in another of his talks on the Catholic Hour over the NBC network last Sunday.
“Be it understood, then, that the Catholic Church encourages the honest ambitions of youth, but warns youth that these must never imperil the eternal welfare of the soul,” said Father O’Hara. “The Catholic Church,” he continued, “then does not crush the honest aspirations of youth. On the contrary, it welcomes the enthusiasm of youth and seeks to save it from the pitfalls that have destroyed others. She imposes prudence in the selection of the best means to reach the proper ends of life; she demands justice, first to God and then to our neighbor, in our necessary relations with others; she insists that temperance rule our lower passions that they be our servants and not our masters; while the higher passions, impetuosity on the one hand and timidity on the other, she entrusts to the virtue of fortitude.”
Defining fortitude as “firmness of soul in pursuing an honest end,” Father O’Hara pointed out that, “more strictly, it is a moral virtue which strengthens a man in difficulties, especially in sustaining or repelling the danger of death. In its highest form it is called martyrdom.”
Father O’Hara then went on to show how there is still ample opportunity to die for principle, although there are few martyrs in the world today.
“. . . there is dire need for the cultivation of fortitude to meet the difficult situation of private and public life.”
“What of the physician himself? The medical profession is not for the coward. Every morning’s sun brings to the physician the possibility that he may be called upon to perform some act contrary to the law of God and the teachings of the Catholic Church. Only by the habit of fortitude can he resist the promises of financial reward, the social pressure, the threats that would swerve him from the path of duty. The medical profession constitutes a noble vocation, and the practitioners of medicine should be noble men. Conscientious Catholic doctors will act from principle and not from expediency, and the patient will know in advance what to expect of him in given situations. There are many conscientious physicians outside the Catholic Church—their number, thank God, is legion—but the final and complete (Continued on Page 8)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.	5
ARNOLD LUNN OPENS SERIES OF SIX LECTURES
CAMPUS POLITICAL OPINION TO BE TESTED BY "THE SCHOLASTIC" IN STUDENT PRESIDENTIAL STRAW VOTE
One of the most interesting and convincing lectures of its kind was heard by a capacity crowd in Washington Hall Tuesday when Professor Arnold Lunn spoke on “Psychic Research.” The talk was the first in a series of six.
He began with the explanation of Ectoplasm and Seances. “Ectoplasm is a sort of cloud which is emitted from the medium’s body and after leaving the body of the medium, takes on' different forms.” To prove these forms a group of scientists and people of high social position were asked to investigate the phenomenon. As proof they suggested that the spirit, or form of ectoplasm, dip its hand into a container of parafin and then vanish, leaving the form in the parafin. The spirit, Mr. Lunn said, obliged and as a result there are several parafin gloves which have remained after the ectoplasm returned to the body of the medium. This was definite proof that the ectoplasm had taken on the form of a hand.
“When dealing with seances,” Mr. Lunn said, “Most people think that these spiritualistic meetings have to be held in darkness. This is absolutely irrelevant because I have attended seances that were held in the presence of a red light and in broad daylight. Most of the spiritualists of today are fakes and occasionally they make surprising hits.”
From this he went into the explanation of Telepathy. This is a form that is also used by the mediums of all classes. Telepathy, unlike electricity or other mediums cannot be controlled by any given formula. It is not effected by distance nor obstructions.
The famous spiritualists mentioned by Mr. Lunn were: Mrs. Leonard of London, with whom he had a seance; Mrs. Piper, who communicated with the spirit of a French doctor. When the spirit was asked a question in French he was unable to answer in French because he said that he had so many English patrons that he forgot how to speak French; the last was Dennis Bradley who questioned a spirit about his morals and thus received an answer favorable to his own convictions.
At the close of the regular address Mr. Lunn answered many questions put to him by students. The question period was the most spontaneous and interesting one to follow a lecture in Washington Hall in several.years.
200 DOCTORS VISIT CAMPUS DURING CONVENTION
•
Some two hundred prominent doctors and their wives were guests of the University Tuesday afternoon as the 87th annual convention of the Indiana State Medical association convened in South Bend. The group spent nearly two hours on the campus, visiting the art gallery and other buildings on the campus.
The doctors returned to the campus Wednesday evening for the annual session which was held in the west dining hall. The principal address was delivered by Dr. Gordon Laing, of the University of Chicago end general editor of the University Press. Another interesting address entitled “Changing Times in . Medicine” was delivered by Dr. J. H. J. Upham of Columbus, Ohio, presidentelect of the American Medical association.
Some of the outstanding men in the field of medicine who attended the convention were: Dr. Russel Cecil, professor of clinical medicine at Cornell University medical college at Ithaca, New York; Dr. Frederick A. Coller, professor of surgery at the University of Michigan Medical school at Ann Arbor; and Dr. Lincoln F. Sise of the Lahey clinic at Boston, Mass.
Stanford Scientist Talks Ta Chemists
•
Dr. Edward C. Franklin, eminent chemist and emeritus professor of organic chemistry at Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif., lectured Tuesday night in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering on “The Nitrogen Analogs of the Alcohols, Aldehydes, Ketones, and Carboxylic Acids.” Dr. Franklin was introduced by Prof. H. B. Froning, head of the department of chemistry which sponsored the lecture.
Similar talks on chemistry, to be attended by chemistry students and chemists from surrounding communities, will be sponsored throughout the year by the St. Joseph Valley division of the American Chemical association and the Notre Dame chemistry department.
Dr. Franklin is a noted authority on liquid ammonia as an electrolytic solvent an dthe ammonia system of compounds.
PRINT BALLOT OCTOBER 16
•
By Robert McClain
A campus poll to determine student sentiment in the November presidential election will be conducted by The Scholastic. Straw vote ballots will be printed in next week’s issue.
Names of four candidates, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Alfred M. Landon, William Lemke, and Norman Thomas will be on the ballot. The student is asked to register his choice and also to indicate his home state.
The poll is not limited to those eligible to vote, but is open to any student desiring to cast a ballot. Representatives of The Scholastic will canvass each hall on Monday and Tuesday, October 19 and 20, to collect the ballots.
A similar straw vote was conducted in the Fall of 1932 and the results predicted Roosevelt’s election. The actual vote was: Roosevelt 302, Thomas 210, and Hoover 49.
Both major parties have shown a strong and increased interest in youth and youth movements during the past four years. Young Democratic and Young Republican clubs have exhibited considerable political strength in state and local elections. First Voters, Young Leader Groups, arid other such movements have emphasized the importance of the college man’s political opinion. Several large universities including Harvard, Michigan, and Minnesota are conducting campus straw votes this year.
Votes cast in the local poll will be tabulated as soon as a representative number of votes has been cast, and the result will be published in the issue of October 23, ten days before the actual election.
Met Club Plans
(Continued from Page 4)
when the club is back on its feet.” Under McNally’s plan there will in reality be only 10 members in good standing, that is, eligible to vote for club officers. There are four officers to be elected if the debt i scleared.
Philip Bondi, president of the S.A.C.,. addressed the meeting, and asked those present to consider both propositions, and be prepared to vote on them at a meeting Friday, at 12:30.
Mr. Joseph Gelson, president of the Metropolitan New York Alumni, will address the meeting on Friday.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
CARLTON KELSEY TO PLAY AT COTILLION TICKET SALE TO START MONDAY;
DANCE PRICE SET AT $2.50
SPECIAL GAME TICKETS, $3.60 •
Carlton Kelsey and his Pacific Coast orchestra will furnish the music for the annual Sophomore Cotillion to be held Friday, October 16, at the Palais Royale, Joseph McDermott, sophomore class president, announced Wednesday.
Kelsey, although little known in the Mid-West, is one of the most popular leaders on the Pacific Coast. Bas orchestra is mainly noted for its work in such musical pictures as Flying Down to Rio, Rio Rita, and Roberta. Besides playing for pictures, Kelsey and his band have appeared in the main hotels and clubs of Hollywood and San Francisco.
Price of Cotillion bids will be $2.50. Tickets will go on sale Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, from one to five o’clock, in the basement of the Dining Hall. In view of the fact that the price is much lower than former years, McDermott hinted that the custom of sending corsages might be restored.
Disciplinary regulations released by the Prefect of Discipline’s office state that the dance will begin at nine o’clock and last until one. All students attending the Cotillion must be in their place of residence by one-thirty. According to the agreement made by the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, and the S.A.C., the dance was allowed on a football week-end provided the Cotillion-goers would not drive automobiles. Father Boland stated, however, that since the taxi supply will not be adequate, the girls will be allowed to drive automobiles.
The Cotillion - goers and their guests will have the opportunity of purchasing tickets for a special section of the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game on the east side of the field. The athletic oce ticket department has The athletic office ticket department has announced that two tickets for this special section will cost $3.60 if student athletic book is presented along with money.
Cotillion chairman John Mulderig has the following men acting as committee chairmen: Charles Englehart, tickets; Ed Frenning, music; Herb Fairall, patrons; Jack Mullowney, entertainment; Tom Gilespie, programs; Dan Donovan, printing; Tom Reardon, halls; Gene Toolan, invitations; Dick Anton, publicity; Paul Kelly, decorations.
"Alumnus" Makes Bow In New Cover
•
Featured by a bright new cover, the first issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus appeared this week. The magazine, which is beginning its fifteenth year, is again edited by Mr. James E. Armstrong, ’25, alumni secretary, with Mr. William R. Dooley, ’26, graduate manager of publications, as managing editor.
The first page of the Alumnus is
James E. Armstrong Secretary, Editor, Worker
devoted to a report of the opening of the 95th school year together with interior and exterior pictures of the new Cavanaugh Hall, while the remainder of the magazine’s news section includes articles on the new members added to the University’s faculty, the new courses in continuity writing added to the curriculum, and a report on the progress of the University’s building program.
Two feature articles round out the news section. The first tells of the private audience Mr. Arthur J. Hughes, president of the Notre Dame alumni association, had with His Holiness Pope Pius XI in which communism was discussed. The second is an inside story of the 1936 Olympics by Mr. Fred Steers, ’ll, member of the Olympic committee accompanying the American delegation to Berlin.
The Department of Athletics is still handled by Mr. Joseph Petritz, ’32, director of athletic publicity. The column "Campus Notes” is again conducted by John Lechner, a . junior in the College of Law, from South Bend, Indiana.
Seventeen Organize Far-West Club
•
Seventeen students, representing ten of the eleven far western states and the territory of Alaska, met recently to discuss the formation of a Far Western campus club.
Tentative organization plans provide for a governing body called the senate, which is composed of one representative from each state and territory. It is intended to make the club a purely social organization.
Next Tuesday night a meeting will be held in 203 Walsh hall at which plans for drawing up a constitution and by-laws -will be considered. Immediately after ,the constitution will be placed in the hands of the S.A.C. for ratification.
Those attending the first meeting were: Tuck, representing Arizona; Stolich, Gheres, and Kelly, California; McGuire, Montana; Shefter, Casey, Burke, and Larwood, Oregon; Gallivan, Purcell, Utah; Hosterman and Shaeffer, Washington; Foy, New Mexico; Murphy, Wyoming; and Mullen, Alaska.
Record Crowd Throngs Jersey Smoker
A Freshman Smoker in the Carroll Recreation Hall last Tuesday started the year for the New Jersey Club. The largest group of New Jerseyites in the history of the organization, between sixty and seventy strong, turned out for the opening affair.
President Joseph Quinn started with the introduction of the officers to the new members, Joseph Moore, vice-president, Leonard Habig, treasurer, and William Costello, secretary. He then settled the question of dues by stating that the alumni had taken care of it and that there would be none for the present members. Next he outlined an ambitious program for the year, including a Communion Breakfast before Christmas, and the ' attempt of a revival of inter-club athletic activities with the cooperation of the Presidents’ Council.
Mass For Team . . .
A Mass will be said in Sacred Heart Church Saturday at 6:30 a.m. for the football team. All students are urged to attend this Mass and offer their prayers and Communions for the safety of the team. Members of the S.A.C. will canvass the halls Saturday morning to awaken students.
In the past a large turnout has been present and this year, the same is expected. Students are asked to be on time at the - Mass; '	- - •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
7
VILLAGERS LAY PLANS AT YEAR'S INITIAL DINNER-MEETING
•
The Villagers club held its first regular dinner-meeting of the schoolyear on Monday, Oct. 5, in the lounge of the Columbia Athletic Club in South Bend.
Theodore Prekowitz, president. of the society, gave an address of welcome to the new members, and introduced the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, who traditionally addresses the organization at its first meeting.
“I hold a warm place in my heart for the Villagers and am always ready to offer any instructive suggestions,” said Father Boland. “I wish to express the gratitude of the administration of the University and my personal congratulations to the Villagers for the wonderful cooperation they accorded the University during the registration period in assisting the off-campus students to their temporary private residences. In my personal opinion, no other club has rendered such a single service to the University.”
“There is this year an open season for much activity and anxiety to do constructive things,” continued Fath-
Theodore Pkekowitz Leads Local Boys.
er Boland. “The Villagers have always presented the best dramatic productions given in Washington hall year after year, and I hope to see this fine record continue.”
A minute of silence was given by the members in tribute to the. late Howard Barnett, killed in an automobile accident during the summer, who for three years was one of the most outstanding member of the club.
Other officers of the organization are: James Beaudway, vice-president;
. Charles Lemons, secretary; William Rieke, treasurer; and James Gorell, sergeant-at-arms. .
OVER ONE HUNDRED RESPOND TO FIRST CALL FOR CAMPUS BROADCASTING TALENT;
PLAN SEVERAL NEW PROGRAMS
Rev. J. Thillman, C.S.C. Buried Wednesday
•
Death again saddened the University, when the Rev. John P. Thillman, C.S.C., third oldest priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross, died of heart disease last Monday in St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend, following a brief illness. Father Thiliman was stricken a week ago. He was 74 years of age.
Father Thillman was the fourth members of the community to die during the past few months, being preceded by Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., the Rev. Joseph J. Boyle, C.S.C.,' the Rev. Angus MacDonald, C.S.C., and the Rev. Moses McGarry, C.S.C., who at the time was the oldest priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Born in Luxembourg on December 26, 1861, Father Thillman was ordained December 29, 1888, at Notre Dame. While at the University, he served both as professor of Latin and as rector of old St. Joseph’s hall.
Upon leaving the University, Father Thillman taught Latin at a Holy Cross school in Cincinnati, Ohio, and later was a member of the faculty at Sacred Heart College in Watertown, Wisconsin.
He was one of the five priests whom the community sent to Portland, Oregon, in 1902, to establish its Pacific Coast school, the University of Portland. Continuing his argosy, Father Thillman stopped off at New Orleans to do pastorate work, and upon his return to South Bend was named an assistant at St. Joseph’s Church. Previous to his retirement, the aged priest also served as chaplain of St. Joseph’s Hospital.
Funeral services were held for him Wednesday morning in Sacred Heart Church, and he was buried in the Community cemetery.
Interhall Debating Plans Considered
•
The Wranglers, honorary forensic society, held an informal meeting Tuesday evening at 7:30 in President Richard Meier’s room in Sorin Hall.
Plans for the year’s activities were discussed. Under the direction of President Meier, the society will organize interhall debating, appoint hall coaches and select judges. Interhall debates are scheduled to begin the first week in November.
Rev. E. P. Burke, c.s.c.
FIRST BROADCAST TUESDAY •
By Gregory Byrnes
Increased interest in campus activities was amply demonstrated at the first meeting of the Radio Group held last Monday evening in the studio of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. More than a hundred students were in attendance t o hear the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C. S. C., faculty director of radio, outline the plans for the year. Norbert Aleksis, student director, spoke briefly regarding the or
ganization and procedure to be followed this term. Other speakers were S. W. Petacci and Jim Britt, both of the South Bend Tribune station.
The special program on Founder’s Day will open the season’s activity. The studio will broadcast approximately five hours a week in 15 minute and half hour programs. Most of the more popular features of last year will be retained and improved. The Faculty Lecture series will be heard every week over the local station and also through WIND in Gary. Such programs as the “Scholastic of the Air” “You the Defendant,” “Headline Personalities,” and “Highlights in History” will be heard again.
Many new program ideas have been suggested including a weekly program resembling “The March of Time” to depict news events of the week at Notre Dame. Since the establishment of the course in Radio Script Writing it is planned to write and present several original radio dramas during the year. The music department has agreed to present several programs featuring all types of music. More varied programs of better quality is the motto of the group this year.
Fifty Attend Initial Servers" Meeting
Over 50 students were present Monday night at the first meeting of the Servers’ Club in the Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church.
Brother Boniface, C.S.C., sacristan of Sacred Heart Church and adviser of the club, spoke briefly welcoming the new members and explaining the purpose of the club.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
S. A. C. HEARS PLAN FOR WEEKLY DANCES
•
That the S.A.C. will inaugurate a series of week-end dances after the football season this year seems highly probable according to proposals laid before the meeting last Monday night. Such a series would be an outgrowth or continuation of the popular. football dances held each Fall.
The dances scheduled for the rest of the football season are to be on the nights of the Wisconsin, Ohio State, and Northwestern game. There will be no dance after the Washington game tomorrow. The first two will be in charge of the seniors, while the last will be run by the Knights of Columbus. Two formal dance dates have already been decided upon. They are: the Law Formal on January 15, and the Junior Prom on February 5.
Parker Sullivan, chairman of the first football dance, announced that it was successful financially as well as socially.
A committee, consisting of John Kelley, Joe O’Brien, and Peter Martin, with Martin Burns as chairman, was appointed to manage the pep meeting for the Wisconsin game next week.
The week-end of the Ohio State game promises to be a gala one this year. The game itself, with the colorful crowd attending, is to be augmented by a giant pep meeting, and by the annual hall decoration contest. Jerry Claeys was appointed chairman of the arrangements, with John Wilson in charge of fireworks.
President Talks
(Continued from Page i)
source of medical ethics followed even by these physicians is in the teaching authority of the Catholic Church.”
“That a special virtue is necessary for strengthening the soul in difficult situations is glaring evidence from the mediocrity that characterizes the vast majority of men,” Father O’Hara said. “There are many good men in the world, but there are not many men who are both good and great. The power to dare, and dare calmly and reasonably in the face of the gravest danger, is rare; still less common is the power to endure.” It is said that the best defense is a good attack, and this is partly true because the virtue of patience, which is a part of fortitude, is so difficult to attain.”
From Fitchburgh, Mass., comes smiling James McHugh, senior manager of football equipment, and this week’s luminary from Sorin Hall. He carries on the tradition of managers and will be graduated in June from the College of Arts and Letters, and the Journalism Department, with honors.
‘Mac’s’ many duties include custody of the tackling dummies during daily practice. Has a great affection for them and will go into detail if asked.
Brags to awe-struck freshman managers about his ten box-cars of equipment. Keeps a flashlight handy for those balls around Cartier field fence.
Shares 101 Sorin (and his clothes) with fellow manager Paul Barker.
His biggest honor came last year when he succumbed to his literary aspirations. He wrote a long story anent the managerial activities and sent it to a local paper. The ensuing publication contained his name in the by-line! A nom-de-plume has been selected for his next attempt.
‘Mac’ eats in the cafe (but eats!) and wonders why his books are void so quickly. His roommate, declares ‘Mac’ is trying to emulate Coach Joe Boland. ‘Mac’ wore Coach Boland’s belt at the Navy game last year and had to wrap it around himself twice.
Has little to do with the fair sex but occasionally takes a tour along the Michigan promenade. Declares it interferes with his avocation of imbibing Coca Colas, for which he holds the local record.
Jim hopes to engage in active newspaper work after graduation, and believes he will find an opening in his home town paper, where he worked during the past summer.
SEVENTY-FIVE ATTEND COMMERCE FORUM'S FIRST SESSION
Approximately 7 5 upperclassmen of the Commerce School gathered in the Law Building last Monday night to attend the first regular meeting of the Commerce Forum. Talks by Mr. James E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce, and Mr. E. J. Payton, Associate Professor of Marketing, were the highlights of the meeting. Al Smith, as president of the organization, outlined the Forum’s program for the year.
Mr. Payton discussed the value of the Forum to Commerce men and emphasized the need for clear-thinking young men in business and in-dutry today. Mr. Payton said that in his opinion young men going out into the industrial stream soon find their level and that only too many young men, content with doing merely the daily routine of their work remain in the lower strata for the rest of their lives. In order to advance in industry today it is necessary to have ideas which will work for the good of the particular industry, and the ability to transmit those ideas to others. Mr. Payton concluded by saying that the Commerce Forum is an ideal agency for the development of ideas and for teaching the members the value of clear and emphatic means of expression.
Dean McCarthy welcomed the demonstration of renewed interest in the Forum and assured the Club’s officers of his hearty support and aid in their undertakings during the year. He reviewed the history of the organization and offered suggestions for its betterment in the future. Mr. McCarthy heartily endorsed the proposed program to have the Commerce men themselves take part in discussions relating to business and industrial problems.
Al Smith brought the meeting to a close by mentioning the proposals of the officers for the year’s activity. The campus survey of brand preferences, a yearly accomplishment of the Forum, is to be conducted on a more extensive scale this year than ever before so that the results will be more truly representative of student opinion.
Many speakers of national repute have been tentatively lined up. for the year, and the program is also to include trips through various industries of South Bend and vicinity. A tentative trip to Chicago to examine the operations of the Chicago Stock Exchange, the Wheat Exchange, and the Federal Reserve Bank was also announced.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
THE WEEK
Inaugural
A week ago last night things really happened, and for the best. The strong, impetuous cry of “In the lake” is as famous at Notre Dame as is the fence at Yale. Upperclassmen were worried for a while, though. Nobody had been tossed in, even after flagrant violations of tradition and student conduct. Then, last Thursday night, came the opportunity. 'A pair of red cords wrapped around the legs of a freshman shrieked for action. Had they been a modest maroon or a ruddy rose, the owner would have escaped. Speaking sartorially, almost anything goes here. But these cords were a frightening scarlet, potent enough to wither Father Doremus’ pet flowers on the side lawn of Sorin. And these trousers were made more horrible by a figure of goal posts and footballs which ran through them with a most devastating effect. The nadii* had been reached, so the waters parted and down went the freshman to the bottom of the lake, the inaugurator of the ducking season. He asked for it.
Football vs. Tea
Bill Smith will have to put the heat on some of his freshman squad. A few days back his group was only half represented at a practice session. Puzzled, Bill contacted the culprits and asked for alibis. A shy spokesman admitted that he and his friends had cut practice to go social at a South Bend tea dance.
Frustration
Walsh Hall breaks into the news because of a locker. Occupants of a double room had only one locker and no closets on the first day of school. The roommates tried to cram all their clothes into the one locker, but there was a sizable overflow. Topcoats were attached to a hook on the back of the door; sweaters were draped around the bedposts; shoes covered the floor. Open suitcases accounted for shirts, handkerchiefs, and towels. Annoyed, they appealed to the janitor who appealed to the Superintendent of Equipment. Weeks passed with no relief. At the end of sixteen days, one of the distracted men saw a wagon back up to the hall entrance. The driver told him that his locker was in his room. He rushed up the stairs, anxious to reorganize. There was the locker—locked. Deep scratches and a beaten look betrayed its age. No key could be found. So the topcoats stayed on the hook, the
By John A. Gillespie
sweaters on the bedposts, and the shoes on the floor until a key was obtained. A fine system.
Chaos in the Band Room
Joe Casasanta is righteously indignant. While working with his boys in the band room of Washington Hall, an agent for a cigarette company broke through the police guard and tossed samples to the musicians. They were engaged in learning maneuvers for the Carnegie Tech game, but they broke ranks and fought over the free smokes. The scene resembled a K. of C. banqeut. The tuba men fought with the piccolo player, the drummer won over the trumpeter. Discipline failed and the panic was on. In supreme disgust, Joe lighted one of his cigars and waited for the return to normalcy. Hereafter, you’ll need a press badge to mix with the men of music.
Top of the Week:
Those of you who went to the pep rally before the Carnegie game know this story. Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., after a short but effective speech, had to leave. He was on the balcony and he should have left by the exit to the extreme left. Maybe he was filled with the football spirit; maybe he was just tired. Anyhow, he walked confidently to the second door on the left and tugged. He couldn’t open it, despite repeated bangs and pressure. Lost in the shadows, he was alone in his struggle. The cheers went on, the band played, speakers spoke. Still Father O’Hara fought. He knows now that that door leads to the upstairs gym. After five minutes of bewilderment^ he stood quietly, defeated. He was escorted to freedom eventually, but he had a bad five minutes.
Understudies
All we know is what we read in The Scholastic, and it says that the personnel of the band is composed of ninety men—eighty regulars’and ten reserves. All right, we’ll grant the regulars. But what is this business of reserves? Will the reserves get into enough games to earn their letters? What has the third clarinet to say about his chances? Will the reserves make the training table? Will the second string make the Army trip? Come, come, Richard A. Riley, your name is above the story. What’s the lowdown? You can’t leave us in the dark that way.
CELEBRITIES AMONG COLORFUL THRONG AT FIRST GAME
•
Cheering the “Irish” on, Notre Dame followers from every section of the country flocked to the Stadium last Saturday, when Notre Dame marched to victory against Carnegie Tech.
The game took on national importance, since it was broadcast from coast to coast. Ted Husing broadcast for CBS; Al Halfer for MBC; Lynn Brant, as well as Tom Mills, a former coach at Notre Dame, did the broadcasting for NBC; and Jim Britt for WSBT and affiliated stations.
In the roll of spectators were found such men as: Mayor E. J. Kelly of Chicago, Illinois, Col. C. A. Carlisle of Carlisle Manor, John H. Lloyd of the Lloyd Insurance Agency, Col. George M. Studebaker and J. M. Studebaker, Jr., of the Studebaker Automobile Company, all of whom are residents of South Bend, Indiana. Representatives of the Notre Dame-Chicago Club, Notre Dame Alumni Association of New Jersey, and the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania were also in attendance.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, and his party, were present to back the team.
Tickets were issued to the late “Packey” McFarland previous to his death. He was the State Supervisor of Boxing from Joliet, Illinois.
LING OUTLINES PLANS FOR CLUB LEADERS
•
Gene Ling, new leader of the Presidents’ Council, hopes to have his organization “do something for the good of the clubs this year.” In the past it has merely been a cooperative medium of the S.A.C.
Chief among the plans he hopes at present is the establishment of a reserve fund, contributed to by all the clubs, from which a club may borrow a limited amount of money when in financial distress. President Ling explained that if such a club were in operation in the past, many clubs would have been spared trouble.
At the meeting last Thursday night, charters for the different clubs were issued. In applying for a charter for a new club, at least ten signed names of those intending to join are necessary. Applications should be sent to Arthur Hoffman, 421 Walsh, or Gene Liiig, 107 Walsh.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus
Founded 1867	•
i
-■■■;	!-	.	—	--- ■	= I
>
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
To those who know Notre Dame the valiant story of Father Sorin’s struggles is an old one. We have heard the tale of harrowing winters, of bitter discouragement, of hard won gains wiped out. We have been told the heroic story of Father Sorin’s unbounded courage in the face of a devastating fire. To repeat these stories is futile—we need only see the campus, talk with students, feel Notre Dame’s importance to know that Father Sorin must have built well, must have put sinews of steel into a driving desire to advance his flaming faith.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.......................Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER...................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie_________________________________The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle_____________________________College Parade
John Hurley____________________________________Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan________________________“Scholastic of the Air"
Joseph Rotondo___________________________In The Juggle Vein
Netos Staff
Louis DaPra Netos Editor
Harold A. Williams_______________________Assistant Netos Editor
Michael Mongoven_______________________________Frank Reilly
Graham Starr________________________-_______Gregory Byrnes
Richard Riley_______________________________Robert McClain
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett_________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe_________________________4ssislani Sports Editor
John Cackley Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride_____________________________Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby________________________________John Clifford
Charles Callahan______________________William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott________________________________James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger___________________________________Art Editor
William R. Dooley, ’26 Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	October 9, 1936	No. 3
FOUNDER'S DAY . . .
FOR NINETY-THREE years men of Notre Dame have paused on October 13 to pay feeble homage to the founder of the University. Next Tuesday is the feast of St. Edward, patron saint of the Reverend Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., and on that day thousands of men will join in the ninety-fourth celebration of Founder’s Day.
In a hurrying world of steel and clashing commerce it has been relatively easy for the hasty to parcel out neat little rows of special days. One is Mother’s Day, another is Father’s Day, still another is Memorial Day—this is essentially a neat device to provide convenient slots into which one may drop brief sentiments.
Founder’s Day at Notre Dame should mean and always has meant more than that. For almost a century students, alumni and friends of the University have done more than think briefly of the wonder-working courage of the French priest who hewed out an institution from bleak backwoods. Each year has brought a little fuller realization of what this man has done, each year has added some new meaning to his task, each year has found his mission advanced steadily by men who have pledged their lives to his task.
YOU AND THE MOVIES . . .
THE LEGION of Decency was started in 1932 for the express purpose of cleaning up moving pictures. The movement was not one which required the gentle action of a mild antiseptic, the. remedy needed was vigorous scouring—the Legion was well handled and did its job well.
For all practical purposes the moving picture producers did respond to the strong hand of public sentiment —they.will always respond to the hand that shoves money into the box office. But the reform is far from complete.
One of the worst sores left is the flagrant violation of all decency and advertising ethics in the three-sheeting of pictures. The situation seems particularly bad locally. Wild displays are featured on the sidewalks, huge pictures stare out of brick walls, daily newspaper advertising is deliberately colored to give the impression that “here is a picture the censors missed.” In some cases this is regretably true, in others it is false and deliberately misleading.
This week the Students’ Activities Council in behalf of all the students, protested this shady practice directly to the manager of one of the largest movie houses. The S.A.C., through its president and spokesman Philip Bondi, pointed out that such offensive tactics reflect directly on the students whose patronage the theaters attempt to capture in such an objectionable manner.
The letter reads in part: “It has been brought to the attention of the Students’ Activities Council by several influential students on the campus that you have been advertising and staging performances this Fall of an altogether offensive nature. Frankly, it is generally held here on the campus that you do this chiefly to attract the students.
“As president of the Students’ Council, it is my duty to inform you that we regard such an appeal as altogether uncomplimentary.”
The S.A.C. protest is a long step in the right direction. It at least shows that Notre Dame students are not mere cattle lured easily in droves by the simplest kind of sugar-coated publicity. Students must go further, however, and prove that this is true.
As long as the theaters are crowded, as long as winding lines of students wait impatiently to buy tickets for a show of this nature, the protest will have absolutely no effect. As long as such performances and such advertising pays, it will be considered successful and the theaters will see no reason for abandoning the practice.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
11
CALENDAR
Friday, October 9
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff 6:30 pan., general staff 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, October 10
Football, Washington University, of St. Louis vs. Varsity, Stadium, 2:00 p.m.; Movie, “Follow the Fleet,” Washington hall, first show for Freshmen begins at 6:40 p.m., second show at 8:40 p.m.
Sunday, October 11
Student Masses, at Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; St. Vincent de Paul Society meeting, K of C chambers, Walsh hall; the Rev. John F. O’Hara’s radio address, NBC, 5:00 p.m.
Monday, October 12
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; band practice, 4:00 p.m.; S. A. C. meeting, basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting of the Arnold Lunn group, Law auditorium, 8:00 p.m.; Annual Columbus Day banquet of the La Raza club, Oliver hotel; Movie, “Seven Keys to Baldpate,” starring Gene Raymond, Washington hall, shows at 6:40 p.m. and 8:20 p.m.
Tuesday, October 13
Founder’s Day, no classes; Founder’s day Mass, Sacred Heart Church; Founder’s Day program, campus radio station, University Glee club; call for Symphony orchestra, band room in Washington hall, 6:30 p.m.
Wednesday, October 14
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; band practice, 4:00 p.m.; lecture by Arnold Lunn, “Mountaineering,” Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, October 15
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; band practice, 4:00 p.m.
Bookmen To Select
Six Members
•
Meeting in the Hurley Hall of Commerce last Wednesday night, the Bookmen reviewed applicants for membership. As yet the membership committee headed by Harold Williams has not announced the selection of six new members who, will complete the club’s roster.
During the meeting, Robert McGrath, president, announced that a reception will be held for the new members at the Oliver hotel, South Bend, on Wednesday evening, Oct. 21.
Announcement was made that Arnold Lunn, special lecturer and assistant professor of Apologetics at Notre Dame from England, and Dr. Arthur Haas, the internationally - known Viennese scientist, have been asked to speak to the Bookmen.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Of Interest to Freshmen
If some of you men of the Class of ’40 are wondering whether or not the grades you will receive are indicative of youi- personality we offer you this threefold classification of an Oregon State psychology professor on the subject. Students who regularly receive “A” grades are usually of a meek and submissive nature and can easily be molded to satisfy the instructor. The defiant and independent type of student generally averages “C” grades. Grades of “B,” he concludes, are usually those of the most successful students.
Tradition Yields to Romance
Syracuse University officials recently decided upon an unique way to tax student romances. It has been a tradition at Syracuse to segregate the men and the women at football games, but under the new tax system this tradition is slated to go by the boards. Coeds may now sit with their escorts providing said escorts pay a ten per cent state amusement tax.
Interesting Quotations
“College honorary societies are in many cases only mutual admiration groups.”—Dean J. A. Park of Ohio State University.
“We need fight! Students should be willing to go to any extremes— even to getting kicked out of school —if they actually believe in something.”—Professor Ernest Lauer of Northwestern University.
’Cross Campi
A contest is being conducted at Colgate University to determine the best student after - dinner speaker. . . . The student body of California University has never seen its National Championship and Olympic championship crew in competition on home waters . . . Northwestern University a few years ago inserted into its curriculum a course on traffic control. The response to this course was so favorable that the school now has a graduate course in that subject . . . An estate valued at $1,500,-000 will shortly be turned over to Washington and Lee University according to the terms of the will of Mr. Robert P. Doremus, who was a member of the New York Stock Exchange. A number of years ago Mr. Doremus visited the campus of the “Generals” and was so impressed by the friendliness and hospitality of the students that in his will he specified that his estate should be given to Washington and Lee after the death of his wife. Mrs. Doremus died a few weeks ago.
VINCENTIANS CHART YEAR OF INTENSE ACTIVITY
The St. Vincent de Paul Society held its first meeting of the school year Sunday morning in the K. of C. lounge with President Joseph Drolla presiding. Rev. John C.’Kelly, C.S.C., was introduced and outlined plans for the year.
The Society plans to intensify its program in the Big Brother field. That is, the campus conference will endeavor to furnish Big Brothers for boys referred to the society as needing this service.
Luke Kelly, case supervisor, of the Vincentian Service Bureau in South Bend, offered the assistance and cooperation of his office in aiding us in securing cases and in treatment methods.
Letters of thanks, appreciation, and commendation from E. I. Payton, president of the Vincentian Service Bureau in South Bend; R. A. Hoyer, executive secretary of the same bureau; and Father Hildebrande, O.S.B., of the St. Ann Indian Mission were read to the members.
The following men were named officers for the year: John McClurg, executive secretary; Joseph Drolla, president; Robert Cronin, vice-president; James Foltz, secretary; John Winegardner, treasurer; James Wilson, librarian; Francis Gallagher, wardrobe.
Patricians To Choose New Members
•
An executive meeting of the Patricians was held last Monday evening in the basement of the Law Building. At this session a membership committee was appointed to consider student applications for membership into the organization. The Patrician Club President, Matthew J .Bruccoli, at this meeting an- -nounced that the club’s charter had been renewed for the year to conform with S.A.C. regulations for campus societies.
The Patricians will continue to cooperate with . the university radio station and will present their own weekly program that was so well received last semester.
Students desiring to join the Patricians may mail their applications to Matthew J. Bruccoli in 333 Sorin Hall.
This year the society will be directed by the following officers: Matthew Bruccoli, president, Thomas Doody, vice - president, and Jack Deane, secretary-treasurer.

Its a Light Snr
As Gentle as if
n
i
:c
i<
a
* * NEWS F
n
s
Over 6,000 j
\ ’1'
ac
P1 gl
e
ti
7 n
e
e< id
■y
! C’ ir iY' ! r€
1 fl
7
Cuwrltht 1936. The American Tobacco Company
For Lucky Strike is not m in taste, but a genuine li^ treats you gently. You wi' throat, kind when you i:J long. If you believe in al lieve in Luckies! Among : ’ one which offers you the' J that famous process knd "It’s Toasted. ” And this i turn to—for deliciousne; all-day smoking pleasure Smoke of rich, ripe-bodied i
Sweepstakes" ad<
KIND TO YOUR THROAT—
A Light Smoke
There’s a friendly relaxation in every puff and a feeling of comfort and ease when your cigarette is a Light Smoke of rich, ripe-bodied tobacco — A LUCKY.
OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED/TOBACCO  

great nation Lucky Strik come from e
Have you e your Luckies Lucky Striki Parade”—W nings. Lister tunes — then "Sweepstake
And if yo Luckies, buy too. Maybe ] thing. You’ll ' ofLuckies—:
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
13
FASHION PLATE
r oke!
Delicious!
m
wi
a
& 1
e i
:n<Ei
f *
ne
rell
-d’l
y mild and mellow moke which always nd it easy on your e, friendly all day tie smoke, you be-igarettes, this is the :ome protection of to the world as e one that millions For protection, for ickies are A Light acco.
HASH!
hploys 6,000 to ss entries!
rew ionR tiki;
n e
u el
?le are employed in ad-i entry cards for that cigarette game, Your Sweepstakes.” Entries
i । y State in the Union.
.iesl|l rikj! Wll teJI lenl I ikel y°| «y|| ,e w rill
red yet? Have you won flat tin of 50 delicious
Tune in "Your Hit esday and Saturday eve-idge, and compare the :y Your Lucky Strike
: not already smoking ick today and try them, 've been missing some-preciate the advantages ght Smoke of rich, ripe-
bai
Mr. Watters and I walked into the elevator and rose swiftly to the sixth floor. We got out and I followed him into his office. He pressed a buzzer; a minute later, a middle-aged, genial-looking Irishman entered the room. Mr. Watters introduced him as Tom Moore. “Have somebody show him the ropes, Tom.”
There I was, a stranger in a strange building, about to start my first job. I felt uneasy, a bit embarrassed, but Tom tried to brace my morale. As we walked to my desk, I thought, almost bitterly, of how I had come to be working with the Peek Elevator Company in New York. I had come home from my sophomore year at college, ready for three months of luxurious loafing. But my mother had tired of seeing me loaf around the house; I never got out of bed until ten o’clock; I stayed out late every night; and I spent too much money. So my parents exchanged opinions, with the result that I was to be put to work. I had never worked in an office before, and I wasn’t fired by any great ambition.
Tom led me to a group of young fellows who were sorting mysterious papers into a row of boxes on a large desk. They looked up when Tom spoke. Obviously he was the boss.
Of the five men I met, one impressed me. His name was Jack Soutar. He was appointed to show me around the building and to introduce me to my co-workers. He seemed eager to make me comfortable.
As soon as Jack spoke, I knew he was a New Yorker. I recognized his clipped speech and his confident mannerisms. He was tall and seemed even taller because of his slenderness. His hair was a dirty blond, his face rather pimply. It was a hot day and he had taken off his coat, displaying gaudy suspenders. For some reason I noticed that his trousers were shiny and baggy. He had a habit of rubbing his hands together when he introduced me. Always it was the same speech.
“Mr. Schlaaf, (or Mr. Gurney, or Mr. Norton, or Mr. Piper) this is Gene Krautter. He’ll be with us this summer.”
That morning I was schooled in the intricacies of delivering blueprints, carrying telegrams to the third floor, and being generally useful. I was responsible for ten buzzers; all ten might ring at once but Jack didn’t explain the procedure in that emergency.
Realizing that I had found a valuable friend, I arranged to eat lunch with Jack. The office was in that squalid district of New York known as Hell’s Kitchen. We walked through dirty streets to a Jewish store which was a combination delicatessen and quick lunch counter.
We cross-examined each other. I learned that Jack, although only twenty-two, had been working for Peek Elevator Company for seven years, at the same job for the same pay. His father was dead, and he and an older brother supported
By Edward Goodner
his mother and two younger- children. They lived conveniently near the office, in a small flat.
The store was crowded and stuffy. I complained of the heat. “I shouldn’t have worn this heavy suit,” I said.
“What would you do if you had only one suit to wear, winter or summer, Sundays and holidays, pressed or unpressed,” he asked. Now I understood why his suit looked shabby.
On the way back to the office, we took a new route. I noticed several cafes, all heavily shuttered. Theater advertisements comprised the only window displays. One of them bore the dubious name of “The Swank Bar.”
“What kind of a place is that?” I asked, expecting a laugh and a disparaging reply.
“Well, I’ve been there only once. I took Grace in last Tuesday night. Only cost me a buck for beer and dancing. They have a nickel victrola machine during the week and a piano-player on Saturdays. It’s the only place I’d take a girl around here.”
I looked closer at the “only place.” I would have been afraid to go in without adequate protection. Yet Jack considered it satisfactory. I began to see the difference between supporting a family and living off one.
During the next four weeks, I felt like shrieking every time I reported for work in the morning. Every day Jack had that same suit on. He was trying to make it last, but cloth is only cloth. I wondered how he ever expected to have it dry-cleaned without losing his job. If he took it off, he -would be practically naked. The cuffs became ragged. He never complained about his environment at home, which must have been unpleasant. Living in Hell’s Kitchen was no dream. He spent his evenings in tough beer parlors, yet he was a serious-minded boy. He had no place to go and no money to plan for his vacation, which would be coming up in September. When I got home at night, I was free to spend as much of my salary as I cared to. Jack gave two-thirds of his money to his mother.
It was pitiful to hear him talk about his pleasures. Day by day I knew Jack better and felt happier about my good fortune. He and I did the same work, and it was monotonous and dull. But my work was -over at the end of the summer; Jack had been doing the same thing for seven years, with no hope for the future.
I was glad to reach the end of my sentence in the office. I said goodbye to Jack and my bosses. In a week I was back at school, remembering my promise to write Jack.
My letter to him was not answered for two weeks. Then I got a short note from Tom Moore. Jack had quit Peek Elevator Company and was employed as a change-maker on the Eighth Avenue Subway. He had a uniform, now, and could save his only suit for parties and dates in “The Swank Bar.”
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
ATHLETICS
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HERE TOMORROW FOR GRID TUSSLE WITH NOTRE DAME;
HAVE EXPERIENCED TEAM
By Arch Gott
A new opponent in the glorious annals of Notre Dame football history will be added tomorrow when the Irish play host to the Washington University team from St. Louis. Although from a school where national football prominence is yet unknown, the Bears from Washington are this year made of the stuff that causes upsets. As compared to the inexperience of the current Notre Dame aggregation, the Washington team is composed of nine two-letter men, one brilliant sophomore, and a one-year letterman. Also to be carefully considered is the 7 pounds to a man weight advantage that the Blue Gold are to ocncede to their foes.
Last Saturday the Bears were in a tussle with the Illini and barely lost the decision on a last minute pass, 13-7. Washington made not a single substitution during the entire game, proof that they can really absorb plenty of punishment. At the same time Notre Dame was swinging to victory past the Tartans of Carnegie Tech, 21-7. From “Scrapiron” Young comes the information that all the Notre Dame men will be in shape to enter the fray.
Coach Jimmy Conzelman of Washington will show the Irish an attack similar to their own by using a back-field shift to a box formation, sometimes shifting to a short punt formation. Usually his team employs a balanced line. Notre Dame is still attempting to improve the kicking which last Saturday averaged only 30 yards per attempt as compared to a 38 yard 1935 average by Pilney and Shakespeare. Joe O’Neill, however, shows promise of becoming an excellent, if not a great, kicker.
In their attempt to stop the Irish 1936 winning streak at one straight, Washington will present Les Brumbaugh at left end — 6 foot 3 inches and 197 younds. Les is a streaky pass
Educated toes help the score.
receiver and strong on defense. Equally versed on offense is 191 pound, 6 foot right end Dwight Hafeli. At tackle, the Bears will have Norm Tomlison at 6 foot 2 inches and tipping the scales at 203; his partner is Bill Bowman, another giant who is as tough as his 196 pounds. At the guards will be Liberto Bertagnolli 5 foot 9 inches and 179 pounds with Irv Londy 6 foot and 191 pounds. The center is Captain Alviero lezzi, a short man of 180 pounds, who is constantly breaking up enemy passes.
At quarterback, either Jones Klein or Tom Ozment will function, with Ozment probably getting the nod. He has been injured for his team’s first two games, but for the past two years has been a regular. No doubt the most dangerous man on the team is Left-half Bob Hudgens voted the best
705 Freshman Report For Basketball
. •
The first freshman basketball practice held last Thursday in the fieldhouse found 105 aspiring eagers answering the call for candidates. They reported to Freshman Coach John Ford, co-captain on last year’s varsity. Coach Ford expects to have this number cut down considerably in the next two weeks. The limited floor space makes this “cutting” necessary.
Assisting Coach Ford in this process of elimination were three varsity players, Captain - elect Ray Meyers, Paul Nowak, and John Moir. These three, together with the rest of the varsity squad, are eagerly anticipating the opening of varsity practice early next week.
Freshman practice to date consists of scrimmages between various teams. This enables Coach Ford and his assistants to see the aspirants in action and thus get a true picture of their worth. After the squad has been picked they will scrimmage the varsity throughout the season, and those that survive will be rewarded with numerals.
player in the Missouri Valley Conference last season. Against Illinois, Bob ran a total of 68 yards from scrimmage. As his blocking right half, Conzelman will employ Dick Yore, a flashy sophomore who may surprise. Finally at full back the Irish will find Joe Bukant, 203 pounds of charging thunderbolt. He scored the Washington touchdown against Illinois last week. His punting is passable and he has a way of running low and hard , into the line which renders him almost impregnable to opposing tacklers.
With improved blocking and a better pass defense, Notre Dame should be capable of drawing a win, but the Washington Bears intend to make it a plenty tough victory and are conceding nothing.
WASHINGTON GRID STARS WHO
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
15
FAVORITES ADVANCE WASHINGTON "IRON MEN" READY FOR IRISH
IN FALL TENNIS
CONFIDENT OF SURPRISE SHOWING
TOURNAMENT
By Charles Callahan
Getting under way slowly but surely the Fall tennis tournament, which attracted all the leading racquet-wielders in school, has progressed to the third round. Though many hard and close contests have been played, as yet there have been no startling upsets.
Tennis captain Joe McNulty is at the top of the list in the upper half of the draw. His teammate, Jim Waldron, is at the bottom. Both went into the second round on bye’s. McNulty advanced into the third round defeating Joe Lewis 6-3, 6-2. Waldron had a little more trouble with Whitey Gregory and even lost a set before coming out on top: 6-4, 3-6, 6-2. Other second round winners in the upper bracket were Bob Converse who defeated Herb Gardner 6-1, 6-4; Bill Arnold who took over Tom Schriner in straight sets 6-4, 6-3; Paul Anderson who also enjoyed a straight set triumph, beating M. O’Connell 6-4, 6-1; and Tom Har-dart who met little opposition from Tom Kinnealey 6-0, 6-3.
In the lower half, two more tennis lettermen, Bill Fallon and Ed Kil-rain, were placed at opposite ends of the draw. The idea being that, barring upsets, they will ultimately meet in the semi-finals. Fallon has not played his second round match with Jim Rocap as yet, while Kilrain had quite a bit of trouble before climbing the third rung of the school chamiponship ladder. However, he edged out Ed Brower in a fiercely-fought struggle 8-6, 4-6, 6-4. Others to advance to the third round in the lower bracket were: Bill Waters who overcame Don Duffy 8-6, 6-1; F. Reppenhagen who defeated “Tony” O’Boyle 6-3, 8-6; Art Selna who con-
(Continued on Page 16)
By Lackland Bloom
(Sports Editor Student Life)
When Coach Jimmy Conzelman’s Washington University Bears trot out onto your gridiron Saturday afternoon to open football relations with your University, there will be but one thought uppermost in their minds— victory. That does not mean that the Bears do not have a great deal of respect for Coach Elmer Layden’s
JIMMY C0NZ6LMAN
Washington Head Coach.
eleven. Far from it. They realize full well that the ball carrying ability of such backs as Wilke and Danbom along with the punting skill of O’Neill will make your team the favorite to win. They remember that the phrase “The Fighting Irish” has become synonymous in football language with a Notre Dame victory.
But Jimmy’s “Iron Men” as they are called, having played two full games with only one major substitution, can also point to a fight-to-the finish spirit, as well as to three backfield men who could probably make any college football squad in the country. Two of these men, Bob Hudgens and Joe Bukant, are playing their third year for Washington, and they received all-American honorable
mention last year. Dick Yore, a. sophomore half-back, is living up to all the expectations which St. Louis fans had of him. These three men consistently outgained Coach Bob Zuppke’s Ulini eleven last Saturday afternoon at Champaign when the Bears lost to Illinois 13-7 in the last five minutes of play. In that game Coach Conzelman used but 11 men, making not a single substitution.
In the line, the Bears have such veteran players as Dwight Hafeli and Les Brungard at the ends, Captain Al lezzi at center, and Irving Londy at tackle. These men are playing their last year of football for the “Hilltoppers.”
“Bounding” Bob Hudgens has proved himself the most consistent ground gainer in the Washington backfield. Last year Bob scored against Illinois, Michigan State, and Southern Methodist Universities. “Bucking” Joe Bukant, in addition to being a reliable ball carrier, is also a dangerous passer and an accurate punter.
But if the Bears are seeking victory, they do not expect it. Despite the fact that Coach Layden’s team is built around inexperienced players, Jimmy Conzelman is looking for a devious running and passing attack from Notre Dame. On the ground the Bears should hold their own, but in the air the Irish should have everything their own way, both defensively and offensively. In addition to their weakness in the air, the Bears will feel their lack of reserves. Although their first string eleven showed up well against Illinois, it can hardly be expected that they will bear up that well in eveiy game. Should Conzelman’s team escape serious injuries against Notre Dame, (Continued on Page 19)
WILL FACE IRISH TOMORROW
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
INTROD UCING *-
“Who’s this Wilkie fellow?”
That’s been a question on the lips of more persons than one at Notre Dame in the last three years. Bob Wilkie has always been unknown in more than the general sense of the word until he went about to show the questioners just who he was and ■what he meant to do. The question has been definitely answered by him as everybody knows now but that wasn’t the case three, and even two years ago.
He came to Notre Dame with a reputation as a fair basketball player. He had played football for four years at Hamilton Catholic High in Hamilton, Ohio, and had been captain and quai’terback on the team in his senior year. But primarily Bob was a basketball player. Nevertheless he gave football a try in his freshman year and ended up on the last freshman team. This didn’t give him much to shoot at in his sophomore year but he tried again. He seemingly was to be put on a shelf on one of the reserve teams early in the season until one day, the week before the Purdue game of 1934, his particular reserve team was sent to scrimmage against the varsity, using Purdue plays. It was this day that Bob answered the question, “Who’s this Wilkie fellow?” He ran wild against the varsity and instantly earned himself a place on the varsity squad. Coach Layden sent him in against Purdue, and Bob showed the world at large who he was. On the third or fourth play Bob took the ball and ran some thirty yards closer to the Purdue goal with it. A few days later, Jim Costin, Sports Editor of the South Bend News-Times, made a prediction that certainly came true in a big way. He wrote, “Watch this red-headed sophomore, Wilkie; he’s going places, and will be a big asset to the Irish some day.”
Right now Bob is one of the biggest assets the Irish have. People were mourning the loss of Shakespeare and Pilney this year, but those close to Notre Dame football always came back with the fact that Wilkie’s still there.
Football didn’t start in high school for the Hamilton, Ohio boy. In * grade school he went at it so hard he broke his arm twice. Hamilton Catholic used him for four years on their team and elected him captain in his senior year. However, Bob made his biggest reputation playing basketball; he was the star of the team for four years, and came to Notre Dame intending to play under George Keogan. But football got the nod much to Keogan’s sorrow and Layden’s pleasure.
In the Springtime Bob puts himself under the golf tutelage of Father George Holderith, C.S.C. Last year he played quite regularly bn the team that took third in the National Collegiates. This year he is being depended upon to add more strength to an already potentially great golf team.
Notre Dame had always been a life time obsession for Bob. Practically from the cradle he planned to come to the Irish school, and was encouraged further by a great number’ of friends who lived in Hamilton and had attended Notre Dame.
His brother was never a Notre Dame man, but became prominent as a third baseman for the Chicago Cubs in 1928 and 1929. At present his brother is managing in the minor leagues. Pittsfield of the Eastern League was managed by him just a ■ few years ago.
Last summer Bob worked as a foreman in the parks of Hamilton, although he is a Commerce major.
He has no plans as to what he will do after Commencement, but like 400 other Notre Dame seniors is hoping for the best.
This year, his last year, he has no men like Pilney and Shakespeare ahead of him, and he plans to answer once and for all that question, “Who’s this fellow Wilkie?”
Italian Club Holds First Session
The Notre Dame Italian Club held its first meeting Thursday evening in Carroll Recreation Hall at 7:45. President Joseph Mangelli extended the club’s hearty welcome to the large number of freshmen in attendance.
Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., chaplain of the Italian Club, was introduced and gave a short address to the assembled group.
SO THEY SAY
“There may not be any ‘Four Horsemen’ or ‘Seven Mules’ in this new edition of Elmer Layden’s. However, there is enough of the speed and spirit of the greatest of Rockne’s old heroes scattered through the ranks of three teams that saw action to assure the thousands of real and synthetic Notre Dame followers in the land that the Old Gold and Blue colors of the Hoosier school will be planted atop the ramparts of most of the foes on the nine-game schedule.”—Edgar Munzel in the Chicago Herald and Examiner. ~
“The huge and baffling ‘X’ which marked Notre Dame’s 1936 football future ere today is no longer an unknown quantity. . . In today’s debut, however, the 1936 Irish proved they are better blockers than their predecessors were at the same time last year.”—Charles Bartlet in the Chicago Tribune.
“Showing a surprisingly effective early season running attack, Notre Dame trounced Carnegie Tech today, 21 to 7, in the opening battle of the football season for both teams. . . .
' Notre Dame’s squad lacked experience, but had ample reserve strength. Elmer Layden depended heavily on his second stringers to duplicate the 1935 victory, when Tech was turned back, 14 to 3.”—New York Times.
“In one of the most spectacular and thrilling opening games ever played by a Notre Dame team—always barring the Southern Methodist game which opened the stadium in 1930— Elmer Layden’s 1936 edition of the Irish football special came through with a brilliant 21-7 victory over an inspired and hard-fighting Carnegie Tech crew at the stadium Saturday . afternoon before 35,000 spectators.”— James M. Costin in the South Bend News-Times.
“The Notre Dame football team rallied its scoring punch in the second half of its game with Carnegie Tech eleven here today to score two touchdowns and emerge the victor in a bitter battle by the score of 21 to 7.”—The Pittsburgh Press.
Tennis Tournament
(Continued from Page 15)
quered Tom Bulger 6-2, 6-4; Bill Metrailer who downed L. Demer 6-4, 6-0; and George Belanger who bested Phil Hoene 6-3, 10-8.
The main purpose of this Fall tourney is to give tennis coaches de Landero and Langford some idea of what type of material they are going to have next Spring. The winner will receive a suitable award.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
17
ON DOWN THE UNE
By Mike Crowe
The favorite target of the photographers in the World Series was the forgotten man of the national pastime, BABE RUTH. The Old Bambino still wears his cap to such occasions. He very seldom sports a hat.
ANDY URAM, Minnesota’s triple threat left halfback, doesn’t know how it feels to be a loser. Andy has never played on the losing team in a high school or college football game.
Chicago is the center for football stars. That’s the opinion of LARRY “MOON” MULLINS who coaches St. Benedict’s college at Atchinson, Kansas. His squad includes fourteen gridders from the Chicago vicinity.
EARL “BUD” SVENDSEN, one of BERNIE BIERMAN’S good centers, missed practice one day last week. The reason was a seven-pound son born early in the day to Mrs. Svendsen.
In payment for JACK WINSETT and EDDIE MORGAN outfielders from Columbus, the Brooklyn club of the National League is expected to turn over F R E N C H Y BOR-DAGARAY, JIMMY JORDAN, and EMIL LEONARD to the Red Birds of the American Association.
Collecting two hundred hits is the desire of all major league players in their first year. BUDDY HASSETT missed this mark by but three blows this year.
PHIL KENNEALLY, champion in his division of the Bengal Bouts last winter, was stopped in 1:30 of the third round by North Geardin recently. Phil is a C.Y.O. favorite.
World series marks were broken right and left by the Yankees in the second game. An even dozen former marks went by the boards before the steaming Yankee power.
Lefthanded golfers are coming into their own. In a recent lefthanders’ tournament held at St. Louis, there was an entry list of one hundred and thirty. Golfers from 25 states competed, the players represented states from California to Florida.
BOBBY WILSON, one of last year’s gridiron standouts, will play with the Brooklyn Dodgers of the national profession league this season. Wilson weighs 146 pounds, and is only five feet seven inches in height.
Here’s another laugh from the colorful DIZZY DEAN. Already tired from repeated bull pen work, Dizzy was called to the mound by FRANKIE FRISCH for the third consecutive day. The great one said, “I’m gonna buy me a mule and keep him in the bull pen. When Frisch gives me the nod to pitch I’m going to ride the mule to the mound. I’m getting _tired walking all that way all the 'time.”
IRISH GRIDDERS SWAMP CARNEGIE TECH 21-7 WITH BRILLIANT BLOCKING DISPLAY;
MILLER, DANBOM. CARNELLY SCORE
STATISTICS N.D. Tech
First downs _______________________ 15	7
First downs from rushing 13	3
First downs, forward passes ________ 1	4
First downs from penalties _________ 1	0
Total yards, scrimmage ____________295	227
Total yards, rushing ______________262	71
Total yards, forward passing _______24	145
Total yards, lateral passing _______ 9	11
Total yards, penalties ____________ 45	20
Forward passes attempted ___________ 6	18
Forward passes completed ___________ 3	9
Lost ball on intercepted forward pass 1	1
Lateral passes attempted ___________ 1	2
Lateral passes completed ----------- 1	2
Yards run back on intercepted forward passes -------------------- 19	3
Total run back, interceptions_______19	3
Number of punts -------------------- 5	6
Total yards of punts
(from line of scrimmage) ________152	210
Average yardage of punts----------- 30	35
Number of punt returns ------------- 3	3
Total yards of punt returns _______ 13	17
Average yardage of punt returns	.... 4	5
Total yds of punt and kickoff returns 27	74
Total yarrds from scrimmage._______341	304
Fumbles ____________________________ 1	3
Own fumbles recovered -------------- 0	1
Opponent’s fumbles recovered-------- 2	1
Number of penalties  3	1
Yards lost on penalties ----------- 45	20
The Notre Dame football machine started rolling, stopped momentarily, and then went forging ahead to win its first game of the 1936 season, from the Steffen - coached Carnegie Tech eleven, 21-7, in the Notre Dame Stadium before a colorful crowd of 38,000, last Saturday.
The Skibos, possessing a very heavy and strong team came out of Pittsburgh hoping for an upset victory over the Irish. Coached by Judge Wally Steffen the Carnegie team had dreams of repeating the great victories that Steffen - coached units have won over the Irish of other years. But Notre Dame was ready for them and not over-confident in any respect, as other Notre Dame teams in past years have been toward the Carnegie game, and the Laydenmen came through for a clean cut victory in their opening tilt.
Notre Dame scored first, early in the second quarter, following an intercepted Carnegie pass by Joe Ruetz, second team quarterback, deep • in Carnegie territory. Another pass, McCarthy to Gleason brought the ball down to the 14 yard line. McCarthy and Miller collaborated in bringing the ball to the 4 yard line and a first down. On the next play Steve Miller banged his way through the line for the first Notre Dame score. Beinor, blond sophomore tackle, converted.
From then on, in the second quarter, the play was almost all Carnegie. The Scots turned on their vaunted passing attack and passed and ran themselves all over the field for practically all the second period. Notre Dame could do practically nothing when the Carnegie men started to pass, and the Skibos eventually clicked with their aerial attack for a
score just before the half ended. • Passes and laterals put the ball on Notre Dame’s 5 yard line, then Mat-elan, the spark plug of the Carnegie backfield, shot a bullet pass to Carnelly that connected over the goal line for the tying score. Captain Henrion’s kick was good.
The Notre Dame team came back a few minutes later in the second half, and following a fifteen yard penalty on the Irish for holding, Larry Danbom behind excellent blocking shook himself free and sprinted 62 yards for the score that put the Irish ahead. Andy Puplis’ kick for the extra point went over the posts for a point. Danbom’s run would naturally be attributed to a fast halfback rather than a 200 pound fullback, but Larry turned on the steam at the right time and outstripped three would-be tacklers in red uniforms in an exciting race down the field.
Late in the third quarter the Irish tallied their final touchdown. A drive from the Notre Dame 40 yard line culminated in an eight yard dash by Miller put the ball over the line and Puplis’ conversion made the score 21 for Notre Dame and 7 for Carnegie Tech.
The second team went in for the fourth quarter, and almost immediately found themselves in trouble. A Carnegie drive was stopped on the Notre Dame 13 yard line when Mat-elan fumbled and the Irish recovered. McCarthy’s punt didn’t go far, and aided by a fifteen yard penalty because of interference with the safety man who had signalled for a fair catch the Tech boys were again threatening from the Irish 22 yard line. Passes and runs put the ball on the four yard line, but the Irish held and gained possession of the ball. Jack McCarthy’s punt from behind the goal line went out on the Irish’ 39 yard stripe, but this time Carnegie could not drive down again, and Kopcsak punted out of bounds on the Irish’ 13. A few plays later the fleet McCarthy did better than his punts when he dashed 37 yards to bring the ball into enemy territory. From then on. the play was all Notre Dame. The game closed with the third team in position for another potential score on the four yard line of Carnegie.
The Irish looked better than their predecessors of 1935 did in their opening game against Kansas. The team performed with precision, no signals were missed and the blocking was of the best. The first and second team lines were much better (Continued on Page 20)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
You probably saw it yourself and you have been reading about it in the papers every day since, but we just can’t help saying a few words about the Carnegie game. You probably noticed the same things we did,—the good blocking and the poor pass defense, but they deserve emphasis. The blocking made the team seem to be the best Irish team to start a season within the last four years and Elmer Layden must at last be satisfied that his men have mastered the “fundamentals” which he has been stressing ever since he started to coach here.
•
The matter of pass defense may be serious and then again it may not. Certainly the team could stand some improvement along that line but the games in which it will be most necessary, Ohio State and Southern Cal, are several weeks away. So perhaps things aren’t so bad after all. Most every one at the game seemed to be satisfied with the Irish pass offense. It wasn’t used very much but it met with better success than we anticipated. And Oh! Mr. Layden! We don’t want to tell you how to run your business but we used to like that flat pass over the center of the line that was used so frequently last year.
•
What we liked most about the game was the presence of reserve strength, both quantity and quality. We heartily approved of the first three Irish teams on the field but did not get an opportunity to see the fourth in action, although Layden was all set to put it in the game when the final gun went off. Of course the fact that the first team had been pounding at the Tech men for more than half the game accounted for some of the brilliance shown by the second and third stringers. But with a little more experience for those teams, perhaps The Scholastic, like the Southern California Trojan, can run a picture of the varsity coach with the caption: “HIS TROUBLES ARE OVER.”
•
One of the strangest phenomena ever to hit the campus is the lack of interest in interhall football that is being shown this year. At the time of writing only one group, Off-campus, has a team ready to put out on the field, while none of the halls on the campus seems to care very much whether or not the sport continues. There was a time at Notre Dame when the varsity coach suffered periodic fits of apoplexy because he couldn’t get anyone to report for varsity practice,—they were all out for interhall. (See last week’s “Scholastic,” Page 15.) This column hopes for a speedy recovery of the waning spirit of Interhall competition. It is one of the essentials of campus life.
•
The Sports section of The Scholastic is entirely staff-written, with the exception of occasional guest articles by the Sports Editors of other college papers. When vacancies on the staff appear, all who wish to try out for the fulfillment of those vacancies will be invited to do so. In the meantime, we ask that budding journalists, especially among the Freshmen, refrain from representing themselves as members of the Sport Staff.
Our first crack at football-game-outcome-predicting wasn’t quite as bad as it might have been. Out of the eleven predictions only two were wrong. This we, thought, was pretty good for a starter until a columnist in the “Daily Northwestern” came out with the statement that he has maintained a perfect score for two weeks, which puts this column in a bad light. Therefore, let Wally Fromhart tell you what he thinks about tomorrow’s games. Here are Wally’s predictions:
Notre Dame 21;
Chicago 18; Butler 7
So. Calif. 27; Illinois 6
Michigan 14; Indiana 12
Iowa 19; So. Dakota 13
Purdue 20; Wisconsin 0	..
Minnesota 19; Nebraska 6
Northwestern 21; No. Dakota State
Pittsburgh 14; Ohio State 13 -
Washington U. 0
Holy Cross 14; Dartmouth 12
St. Mary’s 18; Loyola (La.) 6
Fordham 7; So. Methodist 6
Yale 14; Pennsylvania 12
Harvard 21; Brown 0	\
Army 20; Columbia 12
0 Navy 13; Virginia .6
PETRITZ ASKS REFORM IN GRID STATISTICS TO HELP WRITERS
•
Mr. Joseph Petritz, Director of Sports Publicity of Notre Dame, in a recent article advocates a more uniform method of compiling statistical information concerning football games.
Petritz states that the Official Football Guide has issued figures stating that punts during a certain football game have traveled between 71 and 80 yards on the fly.
The most famous kickers of intercollegiate and professional football, such men as Shakespeare of Notre Dame, Kabealo of Ohio State, Dick Nesbitt of the Chicago Bears, have all been watched by Petritz and as he says, “I have yet to see a punt travel 70 yards in the air from the line of scrimmage.”
The error does not lie in the Official Football Guide; it may be possible that with a strong tail wind punts have traveled 71 yards in the air. However, Petritz, goes on to say, the punts that have traveled such great distances may have been measured from the spot where the kicker stood instead of from the line of scrimmage.
In last year’s game with Pitt when Marty Peters booted a field goal to win the game, much time was lost in arguing how far the kick had traveled. The ball was on the 18 yard line when the center passed it back, Peters was on the 26 yard line, the goal posts were 10 yards behind the goal line. The question arose whether the kick was an 18 yard kick, a 26 yard kick, or a 36 yard kick.
Another instance of football uniformity may occur when a man is being played up for an All-American berth by a publicity man. The average yardage of the player is listed, but it fails to mention whether the yardage was made on punt returns, running plays, passes he threw or caught, kickoff returns, or even punts. His average may be 7 to 10 yards a trip, but his average on running plays from scrimmage may be but 3 yards.
The point to these illustrations is to emphasize the fact that football statistical information differs widely throughout the country. However a great forward step has been taken this year by the American College Publicity Association when, under suggestion of Mr. Petritz, they compiled forms that will serve as a basis of gathering statistics for the 1936 football season.. -This ’ year football writers will not .have to pore through ■many different forms and lose much time; but with a uniform form chart (Continued on Page 21) '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936/	19
IRISH RESERVE TEAM POLISH ATTACK
FOR ILLINI
•
After spending last week ironing out the flaws uncovered by the game with Niagara University on Sept. 27, the Notre Dame “B” squad settled down to the perfection of an offense for use against Illinois on Oct. 17. Coach Bill Cemey announced the first of this week that the “hamburgers” were hard at work learning the Washington University offense which they are using against the Varsity in scrimmage this week, and which they will in all probability employ against the Illinois “B-men.”
In this game the Notre Dame “B” team will be without the services of two of its first string players who were injured in the game at the Falls. Paul Smith, senior left guard, is suffering from a wrenched knee, and John McMahon, sophomore halfback, has a broken finger. Although Smith will probably be able to play later in the season, it is feared that McMahon will be lost for the rest of this year. The rest of the team is in good shape, and this week’s action against the varsity should keep them from losing the conditioning acquired in the Niagara game.
Against Niagara the Irish Juniors lacked scoring punch. They looked well in midfield, but were powerless to penetrate deep into enemy territory. Undoubtedly this may be attributed partly to the liquid condition of the field. Nevertheless they were not functioning as a unit, and not until their teamwork is greatly improved will they be able to threaten seriously such a team as Illinois.
It is against this lack of a well-knit offense which Coach Cerney is working this week as he prepares his team with a twofold purpose in mind. Primarily he hopes to give the Varsity somewhat stiffer competition than the Frosh would be capable of furnishing. And just as an afterthought he might be able to show the Ulini something in the way of an offense which they won’t be expecting.
Washington Game
(Continued from Page 15) and should their passing defense click, you will see, in our opinion, a very fine and close football game tomorrow afternoon. It is our opinion that Notre Dame will win because of their stronger passing attack.
We here at Washington, irrespective of which team wins this game, are looking forward to a fine afternoon of football. We certainly hope that both teams are in the best of shape so that the contest will be finely played in every way. Our only regret is that both teams cannot win.
PRESENT DAY FOOTBALL CROWDS CONTRAST GREATLY WITH THOSE OF YEARS GONE BY IRISH SUPPORTERS MULTIPLY
• By Jim Waldron
“Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame” —from the big Yankee Stadium in New York to the Los Angeles Coliseum re-echoes the chant of the followers of the “Fighting Irish.” From the time when representatives of the first and second dormitories of the Junior Class first played a football game for a basket of apples donated by the Reverend President, Notre Dame has had rooters at her football games.
First Game Supported
Way back in the days when John L. Sullivan swaggered about to the tune of “Hail the Conquering Hero Comes” and Grover Cleveland tried to guide the destinies of a reconstructed nation, Notre Dame played its first organized football game against Michigan. It was the first intercollegiate contest in the Middle West and an enterprising sports reporter of the Scholastic named Shinner had this to say about the game: “Dormant blood was roused into healthy circulation, which caused pale faces to sparkle with a ruddy glow, and strong frames to tremble with excitement. A cool, crispy day, with a frisky football bouncing over a level field, will make the veriest sluggard spring into a new life.” Times haven’t changed very much as fans at the “Battle of Columbus” last year will testify. The only difference was that ruddy faces turned pale as Bill “the bard” Shakespeare faded back to throw that long pass to Wayne Millner.
Some Opposed Sport
Carriages drawn by horses carried the faithful to see their Alma Mater play. Some wise old campus sage in 1890 .observed that “Football is obviously gaining in popularity and bids fair soon to become an established national sport—there would be little rashness in predicting that within 10 years thousands will gather to shout themselves hoarse at the exploits of rushers and backs.”
All was not serene for this infant sport however, and criticism was voiced on the campus against “bringing forth the savage in the average citizen.” In an editorial in 1892, it was charged that the game permitted “throttling, kicking below the knees and gouging” and demanded that “a national game be established suitable to the high standard of civilization, culture and refinement, which the American people attained.” But more
carriages swung into line behind the team and school spirit flourished as witnessed by Mr. C. Roby who denied himself the pleasure of a Thanksgiving dinner at home in order to participate in the Albion game of 1891.
Thousand See Game •
It was in this year that cheering reached a new high in proficiency. The immense concourse of nearly a thousand spectators composed of students and visitors in carriage and on foot cheered so enthusiastically that some eloquent observer wrote this description: “Rah! rah! rah! Gold and Blue! Rah! rah! rah! And N.D.U. was the cry that tore the atmosphere wide open on the campus.last Saturday afternoon. The yell poured forth from myriads of throats and twisted itself into hard knots. It hit the ground, rebounded amid clouds of flying dust, shot upward, and tore great rents in the blue clouds of flying dust, shot upward, and tore great rents in the blue clouds of a beautiful afternoon”—Top that, if you can, for cheering.
Crowds Vastly Increased
With the turn of the century, the rooters swelled from the 600 who watched John Farley and Red Salmon play ball, to the 10,000 which celebrated “George Gipp day” in 1920 when Nebraska was downed 16 to 7. The dazzling speed and magic tactics of Rockne on the gridiron recalled that the first organized cheering at Notre Dame was when this famous coach combined with Gus Dorais to pass Army dizzy in 1913. The Fighting Irish were at the top and even the disastrous season of ’28, failed to stint the loyalty of her rooters. Navy was met at Soldiers’ Field, Chicago, before the largest crowd in all football history, totalling about 120,000 fans.
Notre Dame has become the adopted Alma Mater of countless pseudoAlumni all over the country who leave their tasks when the Irish are playing to see or listen with beating hearts to their school defeat some team. And this recalls the entreaty of Patrick McDonough, ’03, when student enthusiasm was at an ebb, who asked for “a song that will be clean, racy and soul-inspiring. The man who writes this song will awake to find himself famous.” And so with Com posers Reverend Michael Shea and John Shea, we sine- — “flnwoH. to Victory.”
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
CONVERTS BEGINNERS-CONVINCES VETERANS!
tobacco.
AND CICAA
HOLDERS
ALSO CICAHETTE
NOVEL C STANDARD SHAPES tbotitk,
SOMETHING WONDERFUL goes on inside FILTER-COOLED
MEDICO
tbupureofi
FINEST 9 ■ BRIAR ■ MONEY
CAN BUY
UNHEARD OF VALUE
THE ONLY PATENTED “CELLOPHANE”- SEALED FILTER-IT REALLY FILTERS
This simple appeat-ing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interiorkeepsinices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue 1 bite, raw mouth, 1 wet heel, bad odor, frequent
mL expectoration.
No breaking in. Improves thetasteand

0^
Carnegie Game
(Continued from Page 17)
than had been predicted. The linesmen opened some large holes for the backs, and considering the fact that Carnegie’s line is the heatnest of any of Notre Dame’s opponents this year much can be expected from the forward wall in later games.
Bob Wilke, Vic Wojcihovski, Larry Danbom, Andy Puplis, and Steve Miller all performed as expected. They are, everyone of them, first class backs. Jack McCarthy, seeing his first year of active varsity service, came through as had been predicted. The boy is one of the fastest man on the squad, and Carnegie had a hard time stopping him once he got through the line. Ed Beinor, sophomore tackle, made his varsity debut auspiciously, not only because of -his work on the line but for the fine place kicking that he demonstrated. An educated toe like Beinor’s should do the Irish more than a little good this year. The third team backfield was a revelation to the fans. Piloted by O’Reilly; McCormick, Tonelli, and Arboit, drove through the Carnegie varsity like the first team men. Bunny McCormick sprinted through the Tech line for several fine gains and looked good doing it.
Interhall Football Gets Under Way
Apparently a decided lack of interest will cause the interhall football schedule to be abandoned this season. As yet only one team, Off-Campus, has a squad ready to play. Mr. Elvin R. Handy of the Physical Education department, who is supervising interhall athletics this year, stated last Monday that five uniforms was the total amount that has so far been issued.
It takes eight weeks to play the hall schedule, including the championship game. If the program is to be completed this means that the contests must begin on Sunday, October 18. Interhall football was originated by the late Knute Rockne, and has been an annual feature of the Fall grid exhibitions sponsored by the University.
The main reason for this unusual attitude on the part of the students towards hall football is unknown. Perhaps it may be the new rules that were put into effect this year. These regulations were absolutely necessary if the players were to be protected from injury. The case of the freshman halls is understandable as the Frosh squad has not yet been cut. The upperclass halls should get under way immediately, and organize their teams at once if they expect to participate.
As an outgrowth of soccer being taught in the required freshmen gym classes, interhall soccer will be added to the list of spoils already on the program for freshmen halls. St. Edward’s and Freshman will meet at 9:30, Sunday morning, on the field north of Freshman Hall, in the opening encounter.
Speedball also will be inaugurated for the first time in hall competition. In the past it has been played mostly on an interclass basis within the department of Physical Education. Brownson and Cavanaugh will tangle in the initial game on Brownson Field, Sunday, October 11, at 9:30.
“Pardon me, Duchess, but you're sitting on my Twenty Grands.' “Oh, Colonel, you say the cutest things. Have one of mine!”
Mr
ALSO OBTAINABLE IN FLAT FIFTIES
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co., Inc.
WK CERTIFY that we have inspected the Turkish and Domestic Tobaccos blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes and find them as fine in smoking quality as those used in cigarettes costing as much as 50% more.
(Signed) Seii, Putt & Rusby Inc. (In collaboration with tobacco expert)
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
21
Petritz Asks Reform
(Continued from Page 18) being used by some 360 colleges it will be made much simplei- for them.
The Association of Football Writers of America, formed here at Notre Dame at the beginning of last year’s football season is expected to pass on the charts at an early date. The association was formed to correct box abuses. While the difference of statistical forms was not an abuse, it was, however, a great source of inconvenience to the football writers.
The regulations to be used in 1936 by ACPA schools in keeping their statistics follow:
All runs and passes will be measured from the line of scrimmage to the point where the ball is declared dead.
All punts will be measured from the line of scrimmage to the point of furthest advance. In the case of balls punted over the goal line for touchbacks, measurements will be from the line of scrimmage to the 20 yard line.
Any field goal attempts will be considered as punts if unsuccessful. If successful they shall be measured from the line of scrimmage to the goal posts ten yards behind the goal line.
Passes completed by penalty shall be recorded as individual penalties, and the yards gained and lost shall be entered under the total yards gained and lost by penalty.
On touchdown plays, although the yardage gained may include a first down, no first down is given.
The yardage gained on lateral passes is credited to the receiver of the pass. Any previous yardage gained by the passer is credited to him under yards from rushing, passing, or kicking plays as the case may be.
While, under the rules, any pass in a lateral or backward direction is considered as a lateral pass, for purposes of statistics only passes of two yards or more in length will be considered as laterals. Thus are eliminated the “indirect pass” that occurs when a quarterback hands the ball to a man going into the line of scrimmage or when a spinner play is used. Plays made from indirect passes will be recorded as running, passing, or kicking plays as the case may be.
MAX ADLER
^"The Big Store on the Corner^
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors.
Arrow unveils its newest dress shirt.
We might call it dual control—Arrow's new well-behaved dress shirt which promises never to bulge out at the sides, dig into you when you bend over, or ride up when you sit down. Archer design—back curved in and tails cupped to fit. It's the Lido—$3.
Prof. Hoyer Lectures
Mr. Raymond A. Hoyer, professor of social work in the graduate curriculum, spoke today on “The Age Bases for Group Work Program” at the Michigan State Conference of Social Work held in Kalamazoo under the auspices of the Group Work division.
Joseph A. Beattie, director of the Franklin Settlement and a graduate in social work from Notre Dame, ’27, is chairman of this division.
Observe the two ingenious suspender loops and trouser tab to hold bosom in place—(adjustable tor swing music)!
Other Arrow Dress Shirts $2.50 and more.
Sanforized Shrunk.... A new shirt if one ever shrinks.
union
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
Track Men Prepare For Annual Fall Meet
•
Track Coach John P. Nicholson’s troupe of ninety athletes went into their second week of practice with added purpose and determination. The reason for this is the announcement by Nick that the Annual Fall Handicap Track Meet will be held
Regardless of weather . . the South Shore Line gets you there
ON TIME/
There’s one way to be sure about travel weather —rain or shine, warm or cold, the South Shore Line is safe and comfortable. Take out weather insurance — go by South Shore Line.
CHICAGO, SOUTH BEND AND SOUTH SHORE RAILROAD

LARGE FENCING SQUAD PRACTICES
Thirty swordsmen, all of them upperclassmen, took up their foils this past week and began their long period of training for the rather far off fencing season. From this group Coach Pedro deLandero hopes to develop at least four or five men to round out his fencing squad/
The season will not begin until the middle of January, and during the period preceding, Coach deLandero will work with these men, searching for new talent to replace that lost by graduation. Last year’s co-captains, Kevin Kehoe and Carlos deLandero have both graduated, leaving the team without its best sabre men. These two fencers were the mainstay of last year’s squad and climaxed their collegiate competition in fencing when they tied for first place in the sabre for the regional Olympic title.
The only three returning lettermen, Telmo deLandero, Jack McAuliff, and
next week Thursday and Friday. This meet is open to members of all men are in top condition but most of them should be in time for next week’s meet.
In this meet track fans will get a prevue of the 1937 Track Team and what they are capable of doing in actual competition. Nick hopes to uncover some men who can take the place of his graduated stars, but said the task is about as easy as pulling rabbits from a hat. . Unfortunately for him men like Elser, Bernard, Meagher, and McFarlane do not turn up every day.
Nick still sticks to his original plan of having his middle distance runners run across the cross country course around St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s lakes. The sprinters, hurdlers, and weight men practice on the Cartier Field oval.
AT YOUR DEALER
Bob Seco, have been practicing for two weeks and are already rounding into form. However, Coach deLandero will need more fencers to bolster-this trio and will develop them from those who have reported.
The schedule this year will be as hard, and possibly harder, than last year’s. In fact the team will probably meet most of the teams that it did last year. And since Notre Dame has such a long string of victories, the opposing teams will be pointing for a win over the Gold and Blue fencers.
Coach deLandero, assisted by his son, Carlos, who has returned to aid in coaching the team, will work for two weeks gettin gthe men who have reported into shap and will then issue the call for freshmen fencers. Because of the large enrollment he expects an unusually large turnout for the beginning of freshmen practice.
CAMPUS OPINION
The Place: The Cafeteria.
The Question: What Do You Think of the Discontinuance of Cross-Country?
Don Duffey, 411 Badin, sophomore:
I certainly don’t think that crosscountry should be discontinued unless it is absolutely imperative to drop some minor sport.
Ray Meyer, 221 Howard, junior:
Besides being a very inexpensive sport, cross-country is almost essential in rounding every track man from the quarter miler up through the longer distance men into top shape for the season.
Winfred Schulte, Lyons, sophomore:
Competitive fall cross-country is
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHO LASTIC, OCTOBER 9, 1936.
23
really the most worth-while conditioner I know to prepare a distance man for the track season.
Bob Linsey, 169 Alumni, 1st yr. law:
I don’t think cross-country should be dropped. It is one of the oldest sports in the world, dating back to the Grecian Marathon. If Notre Dame wants to stay on top, it should keep all of its minor sports.
John Murphy, Sorin Hall, senior:
It seems futile to keep cross-country in a school that is surrounded entirely by flat plains; a true crosscountry course should be hilly.
Tom Hughes, 230 Dillon, junior:
Cross-country gives distance runners an outlet foi' talent and experience for fall. It gives more students a chance to earn a minor-sport monogram.
Squad Smooths Flaws
•
Acutely aware that Washington University is by no means the set-up that a few ill-informed individuals imagine, Coach Elmer Layden has been driving and drilling his men through tough work-outs all week. Just as he has always done in the past, now, too, he has been stressing the fundamentals, — smoothing out the flaws that flocked up a few times last Saturday in the blocking and ball-carrying, and in the defence as a whole.
Coach Layden wants teams that work together with perfect precision of timing, teams that are on their toes continually against both ground plays and passes, and teams that drive hard, charge hard, and tackle joltingly always; he will drill until he gets them. He wants no touch-
Established 30 Years l(mo9tre£i OPTOMETRISTS
222^2 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
downs lost through penalties caused by unnecessary holdings or careless chargings offside.
Frank Kopczak, who sprained a muscle in the back of his right knee against Tech last Saturday, is the only player who has an injury serious enough to keep him out of tomorrow’s game. The line-up, therefore, will be almost entirely unaltered although Coach Layden does want to use a few of the boys who didn’t get in against the Tartans Saturday.
We Asked One Question of 200 Men and Women
“Which Pen is Your Choice for	O/u/
And 2 to 1 Selected Parker’s Laminated Pearl*
—The sacless Vacumatic with
Ever-Visible Ink Supply and 102% More Ink Capacity than Old Style — GUARANTEED
Mechanically Perfect
Yes, other things being equal, style-minded people would choose the Parker Vacumatic for beauty alone! But other things, too, including performance, make this revolutionary invention the national favorite by a still bigger margin—by 9 to 4.**
One important difference—its ink supply is ever visible—the ENTIRE length of the barrel. Thus it shows days ahead WHEN IT’S RUNNING LOW.
Another great difference is the patented Parker filler. There’s no other like it. It requires no sliding piston immersed in ink—its working parts are sealed in the top WHERE INK CAN NEVER TOUCH THEM— can never decompose them.
During the week the varsity has been sampling the “B” team’s interpretation of the Washington attack. They must be prepared thoroughly because the eBars are bumping down toward them outweighing them seven pounds to a man, boasting of Bob Hudgens, all - Missouri - Valley left half, Dick Yore, triple threat sophomore right half, and roaring for revenge for the fourth-quarter win that Illinois squeezed over them last Saturday.
The Parker point is Scratch-proof —precious Platinum combined with solid Gold.
Every student needs this miracle writer that doesn’t "let you down” by running dry in classes or exams.
Go and see this luminous, laminated Pearl Beauty at any good store selling pens. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
*More than twice the numberselected Park er than any other.
**Natiuoal Pea Census. Recordins and	Corps
mey lave a mowpleasing taste and aroma
© 1936, Liggett & Myems Tobacco Co.