fMe bosk la not %© w ¥ en
Sc ho last4c
A S3
_	____X ‘

Vol. 80, No. 8
IN THIS ISSUE:
V-12 SEAMEN
AND MARINES
GET READY
FOR TONIGHT'S
BALL
• V-12 Ball Tonight
• 100th Charter Year for Notre Dame
• Basketball Team Beats Marquette
• Track Meet Here Tomorrow
^he cNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Q^uasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney_________
Ralph Abell_____________
_____Editor-in-chief ...Associate Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole__________________________Managing Editor
Harold Berliner and John McKeon....Asst. Managing Editors
Jack Carson and Bill Byrne___________________"The Week”
Bill Waddington________________________________Splinters
Lieut. S. L. Beatty________________________Observations
Jim Casey and Buzz Hassett..______...._The Green Banner Dick Murphy____________________________._..College Parade
Al Lesmez____________________________Man About Campus
News Staff
Frank Keenan						News Editor	
Al Lesmez				....Campus	Editor
Edward Madden...			.Administration Editor
John Keleher	Vernon Mikkelson	Joe Plante
J. D. Usina	R. L. Marske	James McCarthy
Jim Regan	H. G. Gilligan	Bill Thompson
Paul Wood	Leland James	Frank Gleason
Steve Loyacano	John Locke features	Mike Canair
Al Broten							....Editor
Al Bisbee	Palmer Amundsen	H. F. Ziegler
James Paris	Leonard Hogan	Sam Miller
Art Wagner	Harry Tanner Sports Staff	Charles Veenstra
Bill Carey					Editor
James H. Howard	Jim Fennelly	Jack Houghteling
Joe Murnane	Paul Brennan	David Scheider
John Power	Jim Regan	Joe Fahey
	Staff Photographers	
Al Shaefer	Charles Renaud	Joe Haller
SERVICE MEN, you are always
WELCOME
at the NAVY CANTEEN
•
REGULATION HABERDASHERY
CIGARETTES COCA-COLA CIGARS CANDY GUM
•
Make the Navy Canteen Your Club ★ ★ ★
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
-	Circulation	,
John Matmiller................................    Manager
Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.__________Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Eos Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
2
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS — E. C BEERY . Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. Evenings by Appointment
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 80
JANUARY 14, 1944
NO. 8
900 Couples Await V-12 Ball Tonight
New Unit Insignia Features Unique Deco
ration Scheme; Long's Men Provide Music.
» BY PVT. JOHN CONRON
Weeks of feverish preparation and anticipation will reach a climax tonight as Johnny Long and his crew start “sending” for 900 V-12 trainees and their guests in the Navy drill hall. The downbeat will come at 2100 and dancing will continue until 0100.
Although everything possible has been done to make the evening’s schedule run as smoothly as possible, committee members ask trainees to double or triple date so that the facilities available will not be over-taxed. Those attending will find that such a course of action will add to their enjoyment of the Ball.
Prior to taking their places on the dance floor, couples will pass through the reception line where they will be greeted by Capt. and Mrs. J. R. Barry, USN, commanding, and Lt. Com. and Mrs. A. R. Pierson, USN, executive officer of the Notre Dame V-12 training program. -
Acting-as aides to the captain will be Marine Pvt. Bob Curley, Milwaukee, Wis. and Seaman Harry Strom of Chicago.
Seaman Dick Bevington, chairman of the decorations committee, has announced that the new V-12 seal will highlight the colorful decoration scheme. Flanking the seal will be the Marine and Navy insignias. Background for the bandstand will be a blue and gold color scheme. To add to the nautical air, pennants will be strung from the ceiling.
Possibly the toughest of all committee jobs fell to Seaman Joe O’Keefe who is in charge of transportation. Trainees are assured however, that adequate arrangements have been made. In addition to the special Navy bus trips to St. Mary’s, there will be several busses from down town which will run directly to the drill hall. Cab company officials have assured Seaman O’Keefe that
- (Continued on Page 14)
Rules of Military Courtesy
This week a special bulletin covering the courtesies to be exchanged at tonight's ball was distributed. Below are excerpts which especially interest the couples attending. A knowledge of them will prevent any embarrassment tonight.
As you enter the receiving line your “date" should be on your left. side with her arm through yours. Upon reaching the Captain's side tell him your “date's" name clearly and distinctly. At this point you both face the Captain at an oblique angle. Your date should use the normal civilian salutation. “I am delighted to meet you. Captain." or “Good evening. Captain Barry." You will abide by military courtesy rules and are to say, “Good evening. Captain." Do not stand at attention but remain erect and allow all remarks to be initiated by the Captain. Do not bow to the Captain but you should bow to Mrs. Barry and Mrs. Pierson. The same salutations are in order for the Ex
Captain's Aides Curley and Strom, and Chairman Davis
ecutive Officer as you have used for the Captain, except that the word “Commander" is used in place of “Captain." Under no circumstances are the girls to curtsey.
Neither you nor your guest should touch any of the equipment in or about the drill hall nor go behind curtains at the rear of the bandstand.
Trainees are advised to attend the Ball with another friend in order that the one boy may be with the girls when the clothing is checked and punch is served.
Powder Room for the ladies is in the upper left hand side of the drill hall as you come in, almost directly on the side of the stage on the same deck.
Do not loiter about the entrance of the drill hall. There will be plenty of seating space.
Be sure to introduce your “date" to the various officers attending the Ball. Say: "Captain Finney, may I present Miss Smith," or "Lieutenant Beatty, may I present Miss Jones."
3C .3C 3 g. -3g	3 g 3g- -3g
The Week
BY JACK CARSON AND BILL BYRNE
Thursday:	.
The work is tough, The tests are rough, Will fifty do?
(I made a two).
Saturday:	'
- I’ve got a knack,
You seem to lack, For here I see
TOP OF WEEK
We’ll just see who’s here.
SHORE LEAVE AT "ROCK"
Three weeks they were gone.
For three weeks the seats at the Oliver theatre lacked the usual wads of gum; no booths were broken at George’s; no terrific Central High school lettermen sought temporary refuge in the Men’s Room at the LaSalle Hotel; no semisoiled Kleenexes dropped coyly on Colfax Avenue; no picket lines in front of the Service Center; and the local sales of Bull Durham had fallen off 94%.
We couldn’t figure it—the roller skating rink at Playland was still open; it was too early for spring plowing. Baffled, we consulted our private oracle, one John Wellington Jones (booth 3) at the Heidelberg. His response was a cowardly attack on the King’s English and so we translate:
“They went home to see if Santa would come through. You see, they told the old boy that all they wanted was a man old or young, dead or alive.”
We left J. Wellington tying granny knots in a length of soggy dental floss, and mumbling into a glass of Royal Crown.
BRAVE NEW WORLD
Post-war planning isn’t confined to Franklin’s Rumpus-Room and the editorial page of the Ch—c-g— Tr—b-n—. A butcher of 1607 Lincolnway S.S.E., one Sebastian “Blood and Guts” Flotsam, opened our dull old eyes.-to a plot right here in South Bend. The. City Elders broke up the parchesi game long enough to set aside a tidy sum to be used to build a plant as soon after the war as possible. It will be a distinctive edifice, designed along practical, grim lines reminiscent of the Indiana State Prison. Location? , On the banks of the St. Joe River, just screaming distance from the Rock. The plant will be fitted with equipment of the latest design; in fact, the only deviation from the ultra-modem theme will be the Old English Script on the brass gate plate: “South Bend Sewage Disposal Plant.”
REACTIONS:
Lynn Bryan (Zahm): “The best news I’ve heard since the Gipper was declared eligible.” .
Bill Cassidy (Alumni): The S.B.S.D.P. can be considered an addition to South. Bend—and should be a welcome one; it will give the old place something distinctive.... well, something, anyhow.”
Mr. J. Bird (South Bend Plumber) : “I think it was a wise move. The need for- a sewage-disposal plant has been rather noticeable of late.”
Joshua Zombroski: “I dunno. I never had no problem.”
Harry Brosk (Zahm) : “Well—.”
Thanks, Harry.
INTELLIGENCE TEST (or) "Are You Officer Material?"
1.	How many dorsal vertebrae has a doodlebug?
2.	How bright is a braid on an Ensign’s sleeve?
3.	How long is a hair- on a rabbit’s back?	.
LAUGH OF THE WEEK
From the preface of Henry Perkin’s College Physics, (revised*): “The aim has been to make explanations so clear that the student should be able to understand them without assistance.”
* for the worse.
ON OUR LIST (Grade "A" Division)
Coulomb, Dalton, Dulong, Faraday, Petit, Gilbert Ohm.
PEOPLE GET AROUND (Case No. 1079)
Jack Conway, who has recently' merged with the Navy Department, spent Wednesday afternoon in Roseland,; window-shopping. :	; ’
PHYSICS CYCLE . V
-Tuesday:	. '	-
< . I rave and curse,
Despair of worse,- ; . . > For it ain’t fun (To get a one.)
A shapely three.
Tuesday:
Studied all night
By candlelight, Then studied more— And missed all four!
CONTRAST DEPARTMENT (Hacksaw Division)
A shy, downy-cheeked freshman barreled into one of the booths at the Zero Deck the other day, did the nickel-and-dial trick, and blurted, “Hello Joyce, this is your little jailbird.”
CHARACTERS ON CAMPUS
We give you James Patrick O’Camall, the lad who spends his entire Metallurgy Lab period cutting down pennies to fit the coin boxes in N.I.T. Co. Busses. Jim’s lab grades aren’t too hot, but he’s doing a lot of travelling.
HOME-COMING DAY
17. Jan. 1944 .will be a momentous day. Classes will go on as usual; mail will be distributed at two musters; and the South Bend Trib still plans to put out its afternoon edition. But behind the casual mask of everyday activities, there will be a warm feeling in the heart of every trainee on campus, on the seventeenth there is someone returning to us —someone who is loved by all.
He has been a counselor to the timid, and a father to the homesick. Only if it were unavoidable, would he use his authority-to chastize some wayward lad who didn’t quite understand the “navy way,” but would always make it a point to‘ give the boy a constructive, man-toman talk on the finer details of naval etiquette, - and always lend the kid his Bluejacket’s Manual.
\He.. enlivened his classes with little witticisms that brought admiration and • endearment to this shy, soft-spoken, . little fellow..	-
.. .Yeah, we can hardly wait._Chief
Gallagher is cornin’, . back! .
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
“But Chief, we’ll be 21 in March!”
Observe 100th Charter Year of University at Luncheon Tomorrow in Indianapolis
BY FRANK KEENAN
Land Grant Obtained in 1842
The 100th anniversary of the granting of a charter to the University of Notre Danie by the state of Indiana will be observed tomorrow in Indianapolis at a luncheon sponsored by the Notre Dame club of Indianapolis.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University,, will represent Notre Dame at the centenary luncheon, to be held in the Indianapolis Athletic club.
. Dignitaries of both church and state will be present for the occasion, and- Gov. Henry F. Schricker will head the representation from the state of Indiana.
St. Peter’s, Ind., several hundred miles ' south of South Bend, almost became the site of the University of Notre Dame. Rev. Stephen Badin, first priest ordained in the United States, and after whom Badin Hall was named, and T. J. Owens, the Indian agent in Chicago, sought to obtain a grant of land in Chicago for an Indian school. Although the project had to be given up, Father Badin finally succeeded in obtaining from the government a piece of land on the St. Joseph river, which included two small lakes.
In the meantime, Rev. Edward Sorin and six Brothers of Holy Cross came to Vincennes from France to give aid to the bishop. Awarded a mission in St. Peter’s, a few miles from Vincennes, Father Sor- ’ in decided to build a college. This idea, however, was opposed by the bishop on the grounds that a Catholic college already was located in Vincennes. Instead, the bishop offered Father Sorin the land ’ which Father Badin had turned over, together with that priest’s stipulation: that a college should be erected on the land within two years after it was given to anyone.	.	,
Father Soriri accepted the grant and
Log Chapel: Notre Dame 100 Years Ago
on Nov. 16, 1842 headed north, finally arriving on Nov. 26, after enduring many hardships, on the ice-bound shores of St. Mary’s lake. Upon arrival the group was greeted by only 10 acres of cleared land and a rough log chapel, which had been erected by Father Badin to serve the Catholic farmers and trappers in northern Indiana. A replica of this chapel still houses the remains of Father Badin beneath the floor. By early summer Father Sorin and the Brothers had finished a small, twostoried square brick building and had it ready for occupation. Although an architect arrived in late August and a new building was begun, the smaller one, built by the religious, served as the original college building.
This building, now called “Old College” or “Mission House,” is the only original landmark on the campus, as the 100th anniversary of the granting of the charter is observed, and is currently used to house members of the Holy Cross Mission band on the campus.
National A. S. M. President
Addresses Local Chapter
The national president and vice-president of the American Society of Metals lectured here Wednesday night in the Engineering Auditorium. The occasion was the annual visit of the officials to the local chapter, which includes stu-. dents and townspeople.
The president spoke on heat treatment of medicine, and he illustrated his points with slides. Approximately 200 attended, and Dr. A. S. Coffinberry, assistant professor of metallurgy, pre-, sided.
Financial Report for the First V-12 Ball Released
On the eve of the second V-12 Ball, the financial report on the first V-12 Dance has been released by Lieut, (jg) J. J. Collins, the officer in charge of the dance. The report reveals that some 583 couples attended the first Ball as compared to approximately 900 couples who plan to take, in this evening’s festivities.
The report in full:
RECEIPTS:	-
583 Tickets at §3.00§1.749.00 EXPENDITURES:
Furness Ice Cream Company
(Punch)--------------$ 16.00
Music Corp, of America (Orchestra) 1.000.00
Jas. O’Keefe (Tickets &
Printins)------------ 4.25
W. Alexander (Maids and	’ ' .
Waitresses)20.00
J. Cunningham (Flowers &
Favors) 267.00
Weisberger Bros. (Cups &
Napkins) 9.85
T. Cass (Police Parking)_	5.00
R. Walker (Checking) ____ 16.00
G. Johnson Co. (Decoration
Material Rental)  250.00
O. Gratzol Signs. Inc.	.
(Posters)15.00
M. Shoemaker (Piano Tuning
& Repair)____________ 12.50
Mossberg & Bedell Inc.
(Invitations) 11.00
South Bend Lumber Co.
(Lumber & Nails) 	28J6
Ave Maria Press (Paper for
Decorations)____1’ * 2.00 '
Lt. (jg) Collins (Taxi for	-
Maids Freight for Dec.)_	8.47
G. Nesbitt (Expenses)_—	10.36
W. Talbot (Expenses) ______ 3.08	.
A. O.' Gerlack (Expenses)_	.45	,
J. L. Toole (Expenses) ___ 7.00
Wygant Floral Co. (Palms)	20.00
Safeway Steel Scaffolds	.
(Scaffold)4.90	.
Total Expenditures§1.711.02
Surplus 37.98
S. S. Kresge (Framing Pictures) _ ' 15.00
Balance on Hand__________________.	22.98
1.	A1I payments made by check after approval of Dance Committee.
2.	Balance is a welfare fund for V-12.
3.	Checks and bank statement submitted for audit and approved.	-
J. J. COLLINS. Lieut, (jg).
Officer in Charge of Dance Approved: A. R. Pierson. Jr.. Lt. Com., -. . Executive Officer, V-12.
Lecturer's Failure to Appear Here Friday Due to Illness
Professor Waclaw Lednicki, Ph.D., scheduled to lecture here last Friday . evening, Jan. 7, failed to appear due to illness. Professor Lednicki spoke the previous night in Chicago, when the illness attacked him.
Formerly on the faculties of the universities of Moscow, Cracow, and Brus-seis, Professor Lednicki was scheduled to speak on “Russian Literature.”
5
College Parade
BY RICHARD MURPHY
AT LAST
A CIVILIAN DANCE
Yes, the civilians of Notre Dame will finally have the opportunity to step out on the night of Feb. 4 in the Indiana Club. It’s the annual Knights of Columbus Ball and from the plans that we have already heard, it promises to be a huge affair. So get your dates lined up now for an evening of fun. More details will appear in next week’s Scholastic.
HE'S ALL BUSINESS!
A ship’s gunner, home on leave, was sitting with his cat before the fire. His wife had to go out and visit some relatives, so she warned him to keep an eye on the fire.
She went out. The gunner fell asleep. Two hours passed. The fire died. The wife returned. She took one look at her husband snoring before the dead fire and screamed: “FIRE!”
The husband leaped to attention, tore open the door of the oven, rammed in the cat, slammed the door, and cried, “Number’ one gun ready!”
—The Mcrciad
FUN-LOVING FROSH
The student newspaper at the University of Alaska, The Farthest-North Collegian, tells us of the fearless frosh who, upon discovering their Math professor taking a shower went to the wash room on the floor directly below. There they turned the hot-water faucet on and off—thus alternately scalding and freezing him. It seems that expressions other than binomial theorem or trigonometric identities were resounding throughout the corridors of the building that day.
DETROIT—TOUGH TOWN?
The following little item appeared in the Ohio State Lantern via the Detroit Free Press:
“Police revealed Monday that a special squad had been organized to hunt for the hooded murderer who had made four attacks in the Northwest .Section_.”
“He is just average in appearance,” Franke said....
6
“But from his appearance he is the type of man that could be found 800 to the mile in downtown Detroit.”
NEWS OF THE WEEK
In recent months we heard that the demand for secretaries in Washington has become so great that applicants- are given only one test: They are put in a room with a sewing machine, a washingmachine, a typewriter. If they can pick out the typewriter, they’re hired.
—Merciad
THE GOOD OLD DAYS
English officer in a fashionable west end restaurant: “I should like a porterhouse steak drowned in mushrooms, some delicately browned toast, and plenty of butter.”"
Waiter: “Pardon me, sir, are you trying to order or just reminiscing?”
IT'S A FACT
The Bible class of Wesleyan University in West Virginia, ask us to ponder that God created the Universe and rested; God created man and rested; He finally created woman, and since then neither God nor man has rested.
THIS MARRIED LIFE
Old Timer: “Is your married life one grand sweet song?”
Newlywed: “Well, since our baby’s born it’s been like an opera, full of grand marches with loud calls for the author every night.”
THE TRUTH ABOUT CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
If I would cut my nose off short;
Rdduce my waist six inches,
Amputate each- leg a foot,
And stretch my reach for clinches,
If I would grow two extra toes,
My thumbs their angle shift,
Then and only then—perhaps, I’d fit one Christmas gift.
—The Taper
Law School Maintains War
Enrollment Lead of Nation
A recent report from the Association of American Law Schools discloses the fact that the Notre Dame College of Law is still leading the nation’s law schools in the percentage of enrollment maintained since the first call under the selective service act. The only institutions that have offered any competition in this respect are those schools that conduct both day and evening classes and who also enroll women students.
Dean Clarence E. Manion
Since May, 1942, students with as much as 60 hours of credit in the undergraduate schools are eligible to enter the law school. The course consists of six semesters which may now be completed * in two calendar years.
The student-body at the present time is evenly divided between civilian students and V-12 men. Navy students who transfer from other schools and who are expecting to enter law school next semester should consult Dean Manion about the curriculum.
Although the enrollment is now only 36 per cent of normal, all of the extracurricular activities are being maintained. The Notre Dame Laivyer, the official publication of the college, has re- 1 cently completed a subscription drive which has doubled the circulation of the periodical.
Economic Comprehensive
The comprehensive examination in Economics for those majors scheduled to graduate in February, 1944, and for law students who have fulfilled economics requirements, will be held Thursday, Jan. 27, 1944, at 1:15 p.m. (13:15), in 329 Main Building, it was announced by Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the department.
Purple Heart Awarded in Ceremony
Seaman. Robert J. Waddick, from Melrose, Mass., received the Purple Heart award from Captain J. Richard Barry, commanding officer of the Naval Training School here at Notre Dame. Seaman Waddick was wounded in action in the southwest Pacific in August, 1942, receiving those wounds in his left shoulder and arm. Waddick enlisted in the navy in January, 1942 and after seeing action was assigned to Notre Dame in the V-12 program. The award was made on New Years Day, as personnel assembled in the Navy Drill hall for the ceremonies commemorating a National Day of Prayer. Capt. Barry read the President's proclamation which appears below and Father John Cavanaugh, Vice-President of the University, delivered the invocation.
NATIONAL DAY OF PRAYER
January first, 1944
The President’s Proclamation
At the end of the year 1943, which has not only made manifest the devotion and courage of our nation’s sons but has also crowded their efforts with brilliant success on every battle
front, it is fitting that we set aside a day of prayer to give thanks to Almighty God for His constant providence over us in every hour of national peace and national peril.
At the beginning of the new year 1944, which now lies before us. it is fitting that we pray to be preserved from false pride of accomplishment and from willful neglect of the last
measure of public and private sacrifice necessary to attain final victory and peace.
May we humbly seek strength and guidance for the problems of widening warfare and for the responsibilities of increasing victory. May we find in tiie infinite mercy of God of our fathers some measure of comfort for the personal anxieties of separation and anguish of bereavement.
Now, therefore, I. Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, do hereby appoint Saturday, the first day of January, 1944, as a day of prayer for all of us, in our churches, in our homes and in our hearts, those of us who walk in -the familiar paths of home, those who fight on the wide battlefields of the world, those who go down to the sea in ships and those who rise in the air on wings.
Father Sheedy Gives Friday
Religious Lectures; Invite All
Last Friday the Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., prefect of religion began a series of lectures and discussions on religious topics. The lectures are scheduled for every Friday evening this month and are to be held in Zahm Hall Chapel. All of those who are interested are invited to join and discuss freely the subjects to be dealth with.
On Jan. 14 the subject to be discussed will be “The Meaning of the Mass.” Subsequent subjects are “The Mass of the Catechumens” and the “Mass of the Faithful.”
A further series, if there is demand, will probably be arranged on such subjects as Marriage, War, Player and some .of the recent encyclicals of Pope Pius XII.
The programs include a 20-minute talk beginning at 6:40 on the subject of the meeting by Father Sheedy. Afterward there is a 20-minute discussion period. Pertinent problems and questions will be discussed and answered if possible.
Wave Officer and Marine
Sergeant to Wed Here
Wednesday, Jan. 19, 1944 will be the date of the first wedding on the Notre Dame base of two members of the naval personnel. Ensign Virginia Negus, U.S.N.R., is the bride-to-be of First Sergeant Theodore MacHale.
7
OBSERVATIONS
Students, Trainees Unanimous in High Praise for John Stehlin's Victory Band, Poll Shows «
BY JOHN McKEON
By Lieut. S. L. Beatty, U.S.N.R.
All Naval personnel may enroll for free correspondence courses when not in residence at a college. The address is Navy Registrar—Army Institute, Madison, Wis. The Institute catalogue for Naval personnel is available on request from the Madison office, and a copy is on hand at the V-12 Office in Rockne. This service is free to all members of the Armed Forces in foreign lands and at home. The catalogue lists all the cooperating universities and colleges, and include 16 pages of course titles, ranging from accounting, art, and aviation studies through Russian and Caribbean history to writing for radio broadcasts, with plenty of mathematics and navigation and biography and sociology in between. There are high school courses as well as those for college graduates and undergraduates, and thousands of men in the Armed Forces all over the world are enrolled in the courses, according to their needs and interests.
* *
“The United States Coast Guard Academy” is the title of chapter XX in Kensil Bell’s book, Always Ready, the Story of the United States Coast Guard, published by Dodd, Mead & Company, New York, 1943, now available to interested sttudents calling at the V-12 Office
in Rockne. Navy V-12 Bulletin No. 142 describes the opportunity for V-12 men to be considered for cadetship to the U. S. C. G. Academy.
* *
Lieut. Clark of the 9th District Naval Aviation Cadet Selection Board will return here to have physical examinations given to men desiring to transfer to V-5, Aviation. The examinations will be given during these three days this January: 19, 20, and 21. This opportunity is open only to seamen in V-12.
* *
All V-12 seamen who are in their last year of study in the V-12 Program may attend a special lecture by an interview-
8
Canary Pat Chapman Gives Out for the Lads
The concert given recently by John Siehlin and the Victory Band left us with a fine glow, and we decided to wander around the campus and see if others felt the same way. All those who were interviewed were unanimous in their praise for the band and its members. And they all wanted more.
Here are some of the opinions:
Stanley Obremski, Navy V-12 student of Dillon Hall: “They were really in the groove; I’ve heard many big name bands who didn’t have that rhythm.”
James Dugan, civilian of St. Edward’s Hall: “I thought that the band was fine. They were very loud, but they were good.”"
Bob Rohde, NROTC of Walsh Hall: “The band was the best the campus has seen in the three years I have been here.”
Joe Dahms, Marine V-12 student of Cavanaugh Hall: “I may have heard better, but I am sure that there is not a better college band in the country.”
ing and classifying officer of the U. S. N. R. Midshipmen’s School at 1830 to 1930 this Monday evening, 17 January, in the Law Auditorium. The subject will be an analysis of the assignments deck candidates and specialist candidates receive, upon completing their training in a midshipmen’s school. This special meeting is planned only for V-12 trainees; they and the chief specialists associated with their companies may attend.
John Caron, NROTC of Walsh Hall: “They were a little weak in spots, but with more practice they are going- to be a top-flight outfit.”
Bruno Opela, Marine V-12 student of Cavanaugh Hall: “I am very enthusi- ’ astic about the Victory Band. The vocalists gave those songs a swell treatment.”
Thomas Burns, civilian of St. Ed-ward’s Hall: “One of the finest shows that I have ever seen. That band ranks with the top outfits of the country.”
Lewis Shilino, Navy V-12 student of Dillon Hall: “I have heard many bands, big name and otherwise,-and in my estimation Stehlin and the Victory Band are right up there on the top.”
GOODYEAR COMING
T. W. Prior, personnel representative of the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio, will be at Notre Dame on Jan. 24 for the primary purpose of interviewing engineering seniors with regard to Goodyear employment.
Mr. Prior will also be glad to talk with non-engineer seniors who are interested in either accounting or sales work and who are classified 4-F in the draft. All interviewees are asked to sign up in advance in the dean's office. Engineering Building.
Sinclair Executive Gives
Talk on "Lubrication"
Mr. Leland B. Stanford, vice-president and a director of the Sinclair Refining Co. and a brother of Mr. Grattan T. Stanford, alumni member of the Associate Members of Lay Trustees of the University, gave a talk Monday night on “What Is Lubrication.” The talk, given
Mr. Leland B. Stanford
in the Engineering Auditorium, was combined with silent motion pictures the Sinclair company has made.
On Tuesday, Mr. Stanford was guest of honor at a luncheon tended him by the University. Included among the guests were: Capt. J. Richard Barry, commanding officer of the Naval Training School at Notre Dame, Mr. Russell Frushour, president of the South Bend Lathe Co.; Mr. E. M. Douglas, executive engineer of the Studebaker Corporation; Mr. Joseph E. Otis, Jr., president of the Dodge Manufacturing Corporation; Mr. Stanley Krzeszewski, plant manager of the Oliver' Farm Equipment Co.; Mr. Dale Parshall, works manager of the Singer Manufacturing Co.; Dean Raymond Schubmehl of the College of Engineering, Notre Dame,- Mr. J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations at the University, and Mr. Otto Pfaff, president of the American Foundry Equipment Co.
In his talk, Mr. Stanford traced the
composition and uses of lubricating oils, stressing the necessity of using the right quality of lubricant in the correct application. The “Law of Lubrication” recognizes that “even quality lubricating oils incorrectly applied may fail to render satisfactory service in actual operation, and that correct application is a necessary supplement to quality in a lubricant.” Mr. Stanford went on to discuss the specifications for a quality lubricant and showed how the rapid development of the internal combustion engine, especially in aviation, has taxed science to provide the proper lubricants required for efficient operation. He further brought out the important part chemistry is playing in developing the types of lubricating oils required in the various phases of this highly mechanized age. Lubricants for use in Diesel engines and industrial plants of all sorts are two of the most important fields for uses of the numerous qualities of lubricants.
“The development of these better oils and the improvement of the old conventional type oils began long before the present war, and fortunately for all concerned, when the present war did come, the new methods of refining had been so completely worked out that the petroleum industry was equal to the call made upon it.”
Informally, Mr. Stanford gave several instances of how petroleum is used in war. At the start of the war no 100 octane gasoline was being produced. Now however, a 1,000 bomber raid on Germany will use 200,000 gallons of 100 octane gas per hour, or about 1,000,000 gallons for a five houi' round trip. A bomber at cruising speed uses 100 gallons of this gasoline per hour. Finally, a mechanized division proceeding along a road at usual speed uses 18,000 gallons of gas every hour, while a cargo ship on a round trip to North Africa must be supplied with 215,000 gallons of Fuel Oil.
Sixty-three V-12 Seamen to be Taken Into NROTC
Commander H. B. Buttcher, executive officer of the N.R.O.T.C., has announced that 63 seamen from V-12 schools all over the country will be selected to become members of the Notre Dame N. R. 0. T. C. at the beginning of the next semester, and every semester thereafter.
The new course will be five semesters in length, following the preliminary V-12 course of two semesters. The class entering in March will graduate in October, 1945, after completing courses in seamanship, navigation, communications and naval history. •
1 Marine Murmurs I
E	By Private Knoc-E Toff	:
“From’ the halls of Montezuma” and so on into the night were the familiar strains rendered audbile (and sometimes deafening) by the newly acquired drum and bugle corps of our detachment. Brownie, after squinting at the script for an indeterminable length of' time, finally bellowed “sound off” and the tune sung and played in all corners of the world started echoing from the barrack bulkheads stirring the pride of a United States Marine within us (even if in the V-12). The corps really builds up our outfit. You’re doing a’swell job, fellows 1
“The Battle of Notre Dame” reached a crucial point this week. Few are the marines who haven’t been fazed. The decisive point of the battle ruining bur nerves should have reached its peak before this copy reaches your hands. The decisive point will have been reached when the casualties are posted on the bulletin board. The way your reporter sees it now-, there will be a considerable number of battle shocked men who will be confined on Sundays after 5:30 and on the mid-week leaves.
Seventeen men formerly of this detachment have been chosen to go directly t.o Quantico after their bootcamp training, which has now ended. This number includes the former football players of Notre Dame and the taller fellow-s of those sent from here. The remainder will be sent to New River to receive combat training and other battle maneuvers. Angelo Bertelli, who has a furlough from January 8th to the 18th, received the Heizman Trophy in New York Wednesday.
Among our members we have a man who stole a streetcar in downtown Chicago. It appears the car was motormanless, and blocking the traffic; - so, this Pvt: clanked the bell twice and com-(Continued on page 19)
9
THE SNOOPER
Snooped, Edited and Written by: THE SNOOPER
Orchids of the week go to Mr. William Leroy (Snowbird) Tuttle (Co. E, 339 Dillon) for his marvelous oratory. It seems that at an inspection last week, our “Snowbird” (who hadn’t shaved for four days) was accused by his chief of not shaving that day. Snowbird so launched an oratorical barrage that the chief was taken aback so much, he forgot about the demerits to be issued. ’Tis indeed great — if you can manage it.
Mr. LeRoy (Roy) Lang (Co. K, 161 Zahm) has all the earmarks of a great politician. It is not known definitely whether Lang has been having trouble with his drawing (not art) class or not, but it appears that he may have. He has such a “settled” look about him, now that he is going with the daughter of one of the drawing instructors here. He has been so-o-o blissful since he started this “romance!” If any of you fellows wish to see Mr. Lang in his state of complete bliss, just drop up to the Service Men’s Center some Saturday, and ask someone to point out to you the S.M.C. Kid.
Mr. Michael Weinberg (Co. F, 114 Alumni) seems to be allergic to Waves (or should I say — allergic, period?). Last week when he reported to the sickbay for his “physical,” he was forced to wait for his turn. He was watching and talking to the busy little girls in. Navy blue, when his turn for examination arrived. When he sat down to have his blood-pressure taken, the truth was revealed. How long was it before your blood-pressure settled, Mike?
Mr. Jerry “Beethoven” Wathal (Co. E, 349 Dillon), who cuts out and saves pictures of Frank Sinatra (honest), seems to be having love trouble. He has been in the habit of walking a certain girl (from the dining hall) home each evening. One night last week he . made the sad mistake of walking the girl’s cousin home instead. Now he is having difficulty. Beethoven doesn’t want to
(Continued on page 19)	.
"Nights and Daze" Rocks Washington Hall; V-12 Premiere is Huge Success
BY SEAMAN MIKE CONNAIR
Washington Hall lost its roof Tuesday evening as a huge crowd of V-12 seamen and marines, Officers and their wives, and ship’s company and their guests applauded the first of a series of V - 12 - written - and - produced variety shows.
Captain J. Richard Barry,, Commandant, spoke a few words and the show was opened, with Johnny Stehlin’s band playing the National Anthem. Then followed a series of mirthful antics and cracks that kept the. audience in stitches for the rest of the evening. Noel Digby, who also emceed the Christmas show, made another successful appearance, doing the honors for this premiere of “Nights and Daze.”
Joan Brown, a WAVE stationed with ship’s company here, opened the evening’s festivities as she sang several numbers accompanied by Johnny Steh-lin. Quite well done, too. Johnny and his band provided the musical touch throughout the entire program, by the way.
Giving a warning to all swoon crooners, Bob “Frankie” Schellenberg demonstrated the end which will befall them. It seems he was handed the hot slug (bullet, to the uneducated) by a jealous husband in the balcony. The husband being portrayed by Joe O’Keefe, who also came back sometime later and for some reason asked “where our children” were.	'
Excellent work in the ivory-tickling line was handed in by Johnny Clark, pianist with Stehlin’s group. John did imitations of a number of famous pian- , ists which were really super. - Included in his selection were imitations of . Claude Thornhill and Eddie Duchin.
Noel Digby ran into a little trouble while trying to run the show when one of the Docs (Jim Cassidy), who was working overtime on reclassifying Spe7 cialists, wandered in and proceeded to give him the once over. On the-merits of.
. his investigation and the introduction Noel had been given, Noel was finally, pronounced a Navy 4F or Specialist. -
In the musical line again, Dick Ames vocalized his rendition of “Paper Doll” ably backed by the Victory Band. Comely Pat Chapman prepared to sing “Embraceable You” and after the audience . became accustomed to seeing, such a charming feminine creature, she did sing it and the uproar began all over again.	.
Chuck Waters showed off his fine voice and guitar playing and was called back for several encores. Roy Lang, trombonist with the band, came forth to give a scientific explanation of why the trombone works. His ensuing talk was so abstruse (he’s even got me doing it) that ten Physics majors have been assigned the task of translating it into common English, if such a thing is possible.
Splendid work was done, too, by the A Flat Trio, composed of two marines and a seaman. They sang three numbers, including “Mood Indigo” and a very novel version of “Sweet Rosie O’Grady.”
Credit for the success of the show belongs to Noel Digby, Jim Cassidy, and the rest of the seamen and marines who contributed to the writing and presenting of the affair, and to Johnny Stehlin and all his band who presented the musical portion of the show. There are two other men who deserve special mention for their work in a supervisory capacity, Chiefs John Broderick and William Ijams.
Johnny Stehlin and the band brought the show to a close with their fine arrangement of the Notre Dame Victory March and finally Lt. Comdr. Arthur Pierson, Jr., V-12 Executive Officer, spoke a few words in praise of the fine work done by all the participants.
Remember! this was only the first. There are many more to come in the very near future. Look for them.
4?
Sgt. Tarro Becomes Private Temporarily as he Reenlists
For approximately two minutes on Friday, Jan. 7, 1944, Platoon Sergeant Tarro was only a private. He was of no higher rank than any man in the marine detachment. (Good thing some of the boys didn’t know.)
The cause for this demotion of the sergeant is a minor technicality which states that upon re-enlistment of any man .in the marine corps, that man is sworn in as a private. He is then reinstated to the rank he held previously.
In other words, Platoon Sgt. Tarro has signed up, for. another four year hitch in the United States Marine Corps. He - is the. first of marine detachment N.C.O.’s to., do so on the Notre Dame campus.—By John Knutson
10
i I
►
Notre Dame Sports
Notre Dome Tracksters Open Indoor Season Tomorrow Against Notre Dame Midshipmen
BY JOHN POWER
Notre Dame will unveil its track team, 1944 edition, tomorrow afternoon pitted against the Midshipmen of Notre Dame led by the fiery Tommy Quinn, popular CPO. The midwestern premier of the Irish will find them replenished with V-12 and Marine transfers, but sadly lacking in the lettermen, who last year swept meet after meet by amazing totals, and broke records at every turn in the road. Gone is the human dynamo, Ollie Hunter, who constantly left competitors wallowing in his dust. Gone are Captain Jim Delaney, shot putter de-luxe; Bill Dillon, star hurdler; Frank Conforti, Jack Wietoff, Gene Fehlig, Tony Maloney, and Don Currie. Returning to the fold are Frank Martin, Jack Zilly, and Don Lundergan.
What will Notre Dame do without these men? Each day Doc Handy can be found putting the boys through their paces, striving hard to whip them into condition and tomorrow his efforts will meet the first acid test.
Going to the post in the- half-mile run will be Ralph Pohland, Marine transfer' from Minnesota University. Pohland, one of the foremost half-milers in the nation, holds the Big Ten Indooi’ Half-Mile Championship.’ Pete Schwinn and Bob Stupey are other formidable competitors in this event. Frank Eck, Gordon Forrester, Don Lundergan, and Fred Jones represent the Irish in the quarter mile. A promising veteran from last year’s squad, Bob Purcell, was scheduled to run the 440 but unforeseen circumstances have. arisen which prevent him from doing so. His return to competition is hopefully anticipated.
In the distance events Notre Dame will be ably represented by Frank Martin, sophomore miler, and John Lyons, the current freshman sensation. Tommy Quinn, the Midshipman coach and star two miler, will meet strong opposition in - Roger De Wolf, Wyman Kunzler, Mike Kiely, and Larry Woods. Speedsters in the dashes are Len Scarpelli,
Larry Lynch, Bud Cain, Brad Bennett, and George Birmingham, while scaling the hurdles in rapid fashion will be found Vince Laurita, John Cauley, and John Hosbien.
When necks become stiff from watching the human comets streak around the track, eyes will wander to the center of
Trackmen hit the fieldhouse turn.
the arena where husky footballers, George Sullivan and Jack ' "Zilly, stage their performance. Sullivan will toss the shot while Zilly will pole vault in the adjacent lane. The return of AllAmerican grid stars, Jini White and John Yonakor, to the weight events is ■ anxiously awaited. Both are potential fifty footers. Zilly’s cohorts in the clouds will be Phil Anderson who gained fame at Marquette last year- with a jump of thirteen feet, five inches. Accompanying Messrs. Zilly, Sullivan, and Anderson will be high jumpers Frank. Eck, and Bill Hillard, and Buster Hoag dominating the broad jump pit.
Baslceteers to Enjoy Ten Day Mid-season Respite
By Jim Fennelly
As the Notre Dame basketball team reaches mid-season with a not too impressive victory skein, it would seem that the fates that guide Irish court activities are smiling in their cups. In the nine games played to date, the powers that be have put the stamp of Irish victory on only five contests, while handing the laurel wreath to the opposition in the four other games played. However, the new Krause edition has shown in the past few games that it is potentially a top notch club, and only lack of experience has caused the mediocre showing so far. The ten day layoff between the Marquette game and the Northwestern encounter next Friday should help the Irish prepare for the second half of the schedule.
Though the present first five is much stronger than the quintet that started . the season, it seems to be suffering from a “last 20 second” hangover, a throwback to the football season and the memorable Great Lakes game. In two contests this season the Irish have had mental lapses in the last minute of play, and have gone down to defeat. In the second Wisconsin game, the last 30 seconds saw the Blue and Gold on the wrong end of a 47-45 score, while against Kentucky last week-end, a defensive slip and a free throw in the last minute of play, gave the Kentucky “Bobcats” the nod. Nevertheless any sort of a break in either contest could have meant victory, and a more impressive winning percentage for the Irish.
Notre Dame’s present total consists of a victory over Alma College, a double win from Purdue University, a split in two games with Wisconsin University, and losses to Northwestern, Kentucky and Western Michigan. A 52-46 win over Marquette Tuesday puts the Irish percentage for the season above the .500 mark. Though not exactly a record to bring cheers from even the most rabid rooter, we should not lose sight of the fact that Notre Dame started the season without the services of a single letterman from last year’s squad. Coach Krause is to be complimented on the . results he has gotten from such inexperienced material.
Since the initial contest with Alma, -he has changed the starting lineup consistently, in an attempt to hit on a five with a good scoring punch and the ability to play team ball. The present quintet of Klier and Loyd at forwards, Rutledge and Lujack at guards, and To-dorovich at center seems to be the an-.
(Continued on page 13)
11
Irish Five Loses Again in Closing Minutes--to Kentucky; Win from Marquette
BY PAUL BRENNAN
Kentucky Wins, 55-54
Playing one of the wildest basketball games in Notre Dame history, the Irish dropped a 55-54 contest to the University of Kentucky quint in Louisville last Saturday as a three point Notre Dame lead disappeared in the final minute and a half of play.
Trailing most of the contest the green and gold basketeers nosed into a 54-50 lead in the closing minutes and apparently had the game “in the bag.” But big Bob Brannum, Wildcat center, dropped in two field goals and a free throw to put the game on ice. The rangy mountain boys from Kentucky successfully froze the ball in the remaining seconds of play.
It was definitely a fightin’ Irish club that battled the highly favored Wildcats, because the Krause men rose above their mediocre play of the season thus far and fought the ’cats on an even basis.
Brannum, Kentucky’s pivot man, was the deciding factor in the race horse contest. The rangy ’cat connected from the side court in the game’s deciding minute and a half to narrow the score to 54-52. Seconds later he knocked down a high pass to Mike Todorovich, Irish center, and dribbled in for a tip in. However, Todorovich fouled him on the shot. The Kentucky center made the gift toss for the deciding point.
Todorovich and Loyd took scoring honors for the Irish with 15 and 14 points respectively, while Johnson and Brannum were high for Kentucky equaling the Irish scorers on the 15 to 14 basis.
Kentucky jumped into an early lead at the outset, but a field goal by Todorovich and free throws by Klier tied it up at four-all. Play slowed down for a short time, and with 12 minutes left at half time the Irish pulled into a 14-9 lead.
The mountain boys got their slow offensive underway near the close of the half however, and a forward-guard combination of Johnson and Tingle set the scoring pace for the ’cats and settled the Kentuckians in a 29-24 lead. .Kelly and Klier did their best to keep the Irish in the fray during the scoring spree and by halftime had narrowed the Kentucky lead to 29-26.	.
Kentucky stretched its lead to seven points in the third stanza just before the Irish started their strong scoring drive. Kelly, substitute for Lu jack, hit a hot streak and tied the count at 48-all. Klier, the Notre Dame scoring ace, took
up the work from there and. with the help of Todorovich and Rutledge ran the green and gold score to 54.
Brannum then took charge and decided the game with - his three baskets and gift toss.
Notre Dame Wins, 52-46
The Marquette Hilltoppers were upset 52 to 46 in the Notre Dame fieldhouse last Tuesday night by the “fightingest” Irish team to take the floor in a long while.
Marquette started the scoring, but lost their lead in the very first minute of play, never to regain it again. Leo Klier tied the score and then he, Carl Loyd, and Johnny Lujack hit from all parts of the court to make the game look, for a while, like it might be a run-away. Marquette had too much height to let this happen. Slowly they cut the Irish lead to one point. But the Irish were not planning to lose this game, and within two minutes had jumped, the lead to seven points, where it stood at the half, Notre Dame 31, Marquette 24.. ' ’
Again in the second half Marquette controlled the rebounds and the jumps but somehow a white jersey lad managed to take the ball out of nowhere.
As in past Notre Dame games, the game in the second half was wild, and rough. In fact some fans might have thought that they were watching a football game instead of a basketball game, if it wasn’t for the baskets at the end of the court replacing the goal posts. , Klier, Loyd and Mike Todorovich were the Irish big guns with 17, 14, and 11 • points each. Sadowski led the Hilltopper’s scoring column with 15 points.	-
The side line saw a lot of action also . as. the officials of both , schools gave it to the referee and the opposite bench at’ the same time.	.	, •
■ : Marquette’s failure to make their free throws is what lost the game for them, while the Irish big draw-back was the .
lack of height.	.							
■ Notre Dame					Marquette		
	G -	F	>■		G	F	P
Klier	6	’ 5	2	Kallenherger 3		' O'	' 1'
Loyd	7	’ 0	0	Prado .	0	. 0	0
Todorovich	5	-1	3	Sadowski		1	1
- Lujack '	3-	2	9	Weisner .	’ 4-	O’	1 -
Rutledge .	1	0	3	Chandler	3	1	•_1
Kelly	0	. 0	3	Polzin -	1	. T .	3
Kivisto	0	0	0	Downey.'	3	1-.	2 ’
Price	. 0.	0	0	Pionteck ’	0	■ 0	T
■ Totals .	22	8,	13	Totals	21	4	To
Officials': Jim Enright and Bill Haarlow.
Interhall, Overflow Leagues Get Off to Roaring Starts
By Jim Regan
After battling on even terms for four periods and one overtime session, the “Harps” finally overcame the hard-fighting LaRaza quintet 26 to 25 in the second overtime period to capture the opening game in the Overflow League last week. In another scheduled game the “Wildcats” were awarded a 2 to 0 forfeit victory over the “Stratoliners” when the latter failed to floor a complete team.
In the opening game of the Interhall League, the Sorin five was too strong for the Off-Campus group, and when the final whistle blew the winners held a 35 to 23 lead. Brownson Hall emerged victorious in the other interhall tilt last week by a 47 to 32 score over St. Ed’s.
The opening game of the Overflow League was a thrilling game that was not decided until one of the winners made good on a foul shot near the end of the second overtime canto to give the “Harps” their one point win. Kramer with four baskets and three fouls, and Barrett with four hoops and two charity shots paced, the attack for the “Harps” while A. and L. Smith accounted for 15 of the losers’ points. The “Stratoliners” failed to have five eligible men ready for their tilt with the Wildcats and were forced to forfeit the game. In a practice game that followed the forfeit, the “Stratoliners,” strengthened by two ineligible men, defeated the “Wildcats.”
Both games last week in the Interhall circuit were won by fairly large margins. Sorin Hall paced by Thomas were able to defeat Off-Campus by 12 points. The losers were sparked by Mammina with eight points. Brownson Hall showed that they are one of the top contenders for the title .when they defeated St. Ed’s 47	'
. to 32.	,
' During the past week four games were played in the Overflow League. The “Mustangs” met the “Tigers” and St.
-Ed’s collided with the “Intellectuals.” The “Wildcats” played the “Blues” while the “Harps” sought their second win of the, season against the “Deakes.” Tonight in the Interhall ;League Breen-Phillips' will make their first start of the season aigainst once-beaten Off-Campus while in the other game Sorin Hall will attempt to gain temporary possession of first place when they play St. Ed’s. ,
One of the feature games of the early season in the Interhall League is expected to take place when the two freshmen halls, Breen-Phillips and Brownson oppose each other next Friday. Off-Campus . and St: Ed’s will play in the other game with Sorin drawing the bye for the week.
12 •
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Contrary to many personal changes by various news services and papers, Notre Dame’s freshman ace, Carl Loyd, has only one “1” ,in his last name.... Last year, Kentucky beat us by two points, this year by one.... I suppose we can look foi-ward to a tie next season, provided there isn’t another Bob Brannum to steal
Bill Waddington 1 »s * minute laurels for the Wildcats. . . .
Kentucky fails to strike a familiar note in the football world, but when they abandon the grid for the court, then they do nothing but excel in basket triumphs. ___St. John’s of Brooklyn, Indiana, and Carnegie Tech are listed among the list of vanquished on the “Mint Julep ■ boys” schedule, and by quite large scores, so we shouldn’t feel too bad about the whole thing.
When the nation’s alleged tallest team, Valparaiso, meets DePaul on the former’s court tomorrow night, there will be a battle between the country’s two leading scorers, George Mikan who is holding top honors at present, and Bob Dille, the contender for the title as far as the season has progressed.... It also finds . Valpo undefeated on their home court in four years.... Milt Schoon, 6'10" center on the Valpo quint, teamed up with Dille last week and each entered the scoring column for 23 points in the 59-53 win "over Illinois Normal.... Both teams are futures on the ND calendar, DePaul be-. ing undefeated and Valpo having been downed twice in Kansas.
Notre Dame’s NROTC basketball assemblage, now under the tutelage of gridder Jack Zilly maneuvered their way to 132 points in two games last weekend, defeating Bendix and Allis-Chalmers of LaPorte on successive evenings... Leo Klier, the high-scoring forward of the Irish, can offer a good challenge to Johnny Moir’s all-time scoring record if . .he can keep up his tallying pace.... Bill Chandler, Marquette, guard, is a son of Coach Bill Chandler.... Herb Jones, . sports business manager, received an order for Notre Dame-NYU. basketball game tickets from Lt. Joseph Clements, . stationed in the South Pacific.... An or-. der also came in from John DeGrove, a native, South Bender, who is with the
Seabees on Tarawa, for tickets to all of the home grid contests of the Irish in the ’44 season.... Who says we haven’t got optimistic boys in the service?
Great Lakes football band, instead of parading on the field during half time, disassembled and then about 12 members had music stands set-up in front of them with an amplifier connected to a sound truck, by way of which they gave out with real jive, having had some one-time big band members in the outfit... . Wisconsin’s victory over Illinois last week marked the first time that the Badgers have come home in front over the “Fighting Illini” eagers since Feb. 15, 1941.... However, the Dairy state lads still hold a 31 to 29 lead in the series.
Mid - western experts are having a tough time trying to call the edge in the cage tilts this season, since the scores are anything but true to form._____Notre Dame and Wisconsin split.... Illinois and Gt. Lakes divided their pair... Wisconsin and Illinois had a 50-50 meeting . in their two encounters.... You try and figure it out for the remainder.... It looks as though Northwestern will find its illustrious Otto Graham on a championship team before he leaves the Ev- " anston institution, that is, if the eagers don’t fold between now and the final curtain.
Jack Smiley, Illini guard from the-famous Whiz Kid aggregation, is said to have played the game of the past year by holding Johnny Kotz, erstwhile Badger scoring satellite, to a big goose egg in tally tabulation in the second of their meetings last season.... Chicago’s much diminished basketeering outfit had 148 points chalked up against them by Purdue and DePaul in contests last week, while the Maroons totalled a meager 53 in two times at bat.
Predictions for the week-end:
Tonight:	•
Northwestern over Chicago Michigan over Wisconsin Purdue over Minnesota	.
Ohio State over Indiana ,	"
Tomorrow:
Illinois over Chicago ... I DePaul over Valparaiso.
. Great Lakes over Marquette '.
- Purdue over Minnesota . ’	-
Iowa over, Augustana
Indiana over Ohio State.
NROTC Basketeers Drop One Game, Win Two
By Jack Houghteling
The N.R.O.T.C. basketball team scored two wins in three games last week. On Tuesday evening, Jan. 4, they dropped a 41-36 decision to the V-7 team composed of chief specialists and officers, members of the South Bend Class AA Municipal league; on Friday they romped away with a 68-46 count over the Bendix Products of the same league and overwhelmed Allis - Chalmers of the LaPorte City league 63-26 on Saturday.
Al Wade was the top scorer for the Irish cadets in all three games. Scoring only eight points against the V-7 team, Wade hit the bucket for 20 points against Bendix and 19 against Allis-Chalmers to boost his season’s average to 14.2 points per game. Harry Gilligan dropped in 31 points in the three games to run his seven game total to 57 points and second place in the scoring parade.
The two victories and one defeat gives the Irish cadets a season record of five triumphs as against two losses. On Friday, Jan. 14 the navy team will meet the Mishawaka Consumers of the South Bend Municipal league and on Saturday will face Dujarie Hall for the’ second time, the NROTC -winning the first game 31-23.
BASKETBALL TEAM HAS RESPITE (Continued from page 11)
swer. Except for the two lapses in the Badger and “Cat” games, this five, has more than held its own with the opposition and should start the remaining Irish games.
In Klier and Loyd, Notre Dame possesses two of the best scoring forwards in the Mid-west.J Klier has repeatedly scored in the double figures, and in the losing Badger game, his 23 points came close to eclipsing Bobby Faught’s 26 point all time Notre Dame individual record, set at Madison Square Garden against New York University two years ago. In the Kentucky game Loyd’s 14 points and his all around play brought back memories of last season’s great star, ’Frank Curran, dynamic little forward. .
The remainder of the Irish schedule reads like a coach’s nightmare and includes practically every top club in the country. DePaul U. winner of twelve straight games, Great Lakes, always a power in court circles, New York U. rated the best in the East, Iowa U, at present tied for the Big Ten lead, and Northwestern, who already boasts a victory this season over the Irish, are included among the teams to be met by Notre Dame during the next few weeks.
13
INTRODUCING
By John McKeon
BERNARD RUTLEDGE
The man in charge of this year’s basketball edition is another of the great athletes that are on this campus. He is a graduate of Chaminade High school on Long Island in the Empire state, New York. While spending four years at this institution of learning, Bernie proved himself an all-round man. He collected two letters each in football, basketball and track. He was the captain of the football team in his senior year and an able back during his two years on the team. In basketball he repeated the story by captaining that team in his senior year and being a very handy man to have around at any time. And on the track team he did a little jumping and running.
But that was not all that Bernie did while at Chaminade. He was the president of his class in his senior year and .gathered a very creditable 88 average in his work with the books. Now in his third year at Notre Dame, he is trying to maintain that average and is doing very well.
His Notre Dame sports career has been spent entirely on the basketball court. As a freshman he received his numerals for his great work on the hardwood. Then last year he did very creditable work with N. D.’s great quintet, which was rated the nation’s no. 2 club. He claims that his greatest thrill in sports was playing with that team in the Madison Square Garden last year. And now . this season Bernie has stepped into the big spot and is leading the team like the great athlete that he is.
“Bunky” wants to give a great deal of credit to his basketball coach in high school, a fine fellow by the name of Ned Gagliano. His football coach there was an N.D. grad of the class of 1938, named Wally Bossu. This does not mean that he wishes to take credit from the “Moose.” Coach Krause has done a fine job with his material and with a few breaks the boys will be winning those close ones which they have lately been dropping.
Bernie claims that the boys suffered a great blow when George Keogan passed away. It was tough bn the players and also on the man who had to step in and take over. A lot of credit to Ed Krause.
Then, and this is my opinion too, there is a certain woman in Bernie’s life who -should rate a “big blow.” This is his, mother. This fine woman has. seen to it
14	' '	' ■’	'
that her son continued his education after his father died and left her in charge of the family. That was a great responsibility and she has lived up to it admirably.
C. P. O. Tom Quinn Leads
Veteran Midshipman Squad
The Notre Dame Midshipman School track team that is to meet the Notre Dame varsity this Saturday has been selected by Chief Tom Quinn, the director of track athletics, for the Middies. The men on the cross country team will form the nucleus for the middle distance events and in the sprints, hurdles and jumps the Middies are expected to give Notre Dame as good a caliber of compe-.tition as they will be able to find in collegiate circles as they are this year, due to the loss of so many men to the armed services. Lack of time has been the chief barrier for the Midshipmen but they have come on very well under the direction of Chief Quinn.
A few of the men who will represent the Midshipmen are: Doyle Howard, one of the mainstays of the cross country team and former North Texas Teacher’s star. It has been five years since Doyle has competed but in the Regimental Championships he won the mile, half-mile, two mile, and took second in the quarter mile.
In the sprints will be Hal Wimberly who competed for Illinois Wesleyan in his college days and ran everything from 60 yards to the 220 and high jumped and broad jumped. He’s the pride of the Middies when it comes to speed. Right behind him is Fraser from Ottawa College, Kansas, the broad jump and 440 champion of the Midshipman school. Incidentally Fraser along with being the Kansas Intercollegiate sprint and broad jump champion is also a former Wisconsin State High School 100 and broad jump champion. Irvin, from Ursinus College, and Jack Hunt from Fresno State, will also be in there in the sprints — if they can shake off the colds that, have been hindering their workouts.
In the high jump Jim Galloway, former' Texas A. & M. star, looks good. A former Texas Southwestern Exposition Champion, he can still get over the old crossbar. One of the most remarkable men in the meet will be Fred Von Dolen, a man who doubled in the shot put and the mile run.. Such a combination as that is a Teal rarity in track and field. Chief Quinn believes that he could get Von Dolen down to a 4:40 mile with a few more weeks of training?
In the distance events the coach of the
Middies will step out himself and run either the mile or the two mile. Many of his charges have never seen the coach in action but they will see that he has learned his track from the practical side too. The Chief holds a host of titles both national and sectional from distances from the half mile to the cross country grind.
V-12 BALL
(Continued from page 3)
all available cabs will be on duty Friday night to service trainees.
For those lucky enough to obtain private cars, parking facilities will be available on the field adjacent to the old gym.
Ball chairman, Pvt. Bud Davis, again stressed that no fresh flowers will be allowed at the event. Trainees are asked to cooperate with this edict to. prevent embarassment. Artificial flowers for the hair will be allowed.
Adequate checking facilities will be available in the old gym, Pvt. Jack Leahy, committee member in charge of this detail, has announced. Trainees are asked not to make arrangements for checking their own belongings. No tips will be given the checkers.
Highlight of the evening will be a half hour broadcast over WSBT, local outlet of CBS. South Bend residents will tune in on the Ball from 2300 until 2330.
Tonight’s Ball will get under way with the playing of Johnny Long’s now famous theme song, “White Star of Sigma Nu,” acclaimed by those familiar with the dance band business the most distinctive overture of the day.
Johnny’s choice dates back to the now memorable ASCAP squabble. When that group forced him to drop his original theme, Long decided to shop around for something that had permanency in it instead of grabbing the first new tune that came his way.
At this juncture Long hit upon the idea of using his fraternity song. After contacting the national headquarters and identifying himself as a member in good standing he received permission to use the song exclusively.
Success of “White Star of Sigma Nu” can be measured from the hundreds of letters which have poured into Long’s office since his fortunate choice. Undoubtedly trainees will leave the Ball with the strains of this unique melody lingering in their ears as a memento of one. of; the most successful dances ever held at Notre Dame.
L
J
'	. By Al Lesmez
The Atlantic ocean spread out in all directions far as sight could penetrate. Little Tommy Bremer filled his sight with its immensity; an immensity made more awe-filling because it was the first ocean Tommy had seen. Then somehow, sight- and ocean merged, and the ocean was all around him and over him. The spot on the deck where he had stood a moment before was bare, and the little ship went plodding on. “Man overboard!” started action, and in a split second, Tommy and the ocean were separated again. Aside from shock, and the fact that he did not quite enjoy the sight of the Atlantic any more, Tom came out without any serious consequences. Just wet.
Every time you are handed' a “special delivery” letter, and the letter carrier is - tall Tom Bremer, be thankful that someone was quick enough to have saved his life, for it is men like Tom that add their real bit to the enjoyment of college by the occasional treat of a “special.”
Thomas F. Bremer, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, was born there on Dec. 16, 1922. He attended Cathedral Latin with such football notables as Bud Meter and Eddie Prokop. While at Cathedral Latin, Tom was an active member of the glee club, participating in the minstrel shows which that school put on. Then too, he was manager of the basketball and baseball teams.
Tom had not quite made up his mind ' what college he was going to choose when John Laughlin, former Wrangler, visited his family and his tales of Notre Dame soon had Tom on his way here.
Bremer is now in his last semester here, a senior in Business Administration. He plans to go to law school on graduating, for he believes that a basic knowledge of law will help him in whatever business he chooses. Particularly of interest to him is the advertising business, along with promoting.
Give Tom a good dose of music, whether it be classical dr popular, and he will * ask for no greater pleasure. As a matter of fact, Tom prefers to call listening to jnusic his “hobby,” he enjoys it so much. He used to be a stamp and coin collector, ,• but ever since , someone borrowed his . stamps (and forgot to.return them), he has shifted to the. safer hobby of music.
Bing Crosby is tops as a singer of popular music, according to Tom, but he
takes his preference of John Charles Thomas when it comes to the more serious works. His favorite band is Tommy Dorsey, now that Glenn Miller is not around. .
While at Notre Dame, Tom has been on the Glee Club for four years, in the Savoyards, and . played, in the student musical “Let’s Get Going.” His forthcoming appearance in “Ruddigore” will be that of one of the ghosts. During the football season, Tom spotted for the radio announcers. His extra-curricular activities leave nothing wanting, especially when you realize that besides these, Tom holds two jobs.
Many afternoons of the week, Bremer goes downtown to the Goldtone Studio where he waits on customers. His other job is the one that has made him famous on our campus. He, and Jack Kelly are
the- - two “Special Delivery” carriers, and where is the fellow whose pulse doesn’t beat a little faster when that “extra” letter comes along, letters with importance written on their postage. New Year’s Day, Tom managed to handle more than 100 of these “Specials.” During the week he takes care of so many “Specials” that he is beginning to get as famous as our persistent Western Union delivery man.
’ Tom claims that his most pleasant accomplishment is being a" good friend of Father Carey’s,, and yet, not writing for the Scholastic. Congratulations, Tom! Let’s hope you get away with it a little longer.	.	.
Glee Club Downtown
On Friday, Jan., 14 the Notre Dame Glee' Club will give a concert at the Progress Club .under the auspices of the American Association , of - University Women. The soloists for the. occasion will
; be Gene Peciulis, baritone, and Jack Witt at the piano. The-program will consist. of sacred, patriotic and novelty numbers.
■ The glee club will present a program' on the campus some time in the future.
Indoor Sports Program, Planned for All Students
By Jim Began *'
Announcement was made earlier this week that the department of physical education will conduct an open wrestling tournament, the first of its kind at Notre Dame, as well as handball, squash, and badminton tournaments starting Jan. 17. John A Scannell, head of the. department, will be in charge.
Wrestling for all weights will start on Jan. 17 with the finals scheduled to be held Feb. 7. The N.C.A.A. rules will ’ be followed. All men wishing to enter should report to the wrestling room of the old gym Monday, Jan. 17, at 4 pun. .
Open singles championships in handball, squash and badminton will open play. Jan. .17. All entries should have been submitted by Jan. 13". Regular interhall medals will be awarded to the winners in all the four tournaments.
Captain’s Aides
At the V-12 Ball this evening Captain J. R. Barry, U.S.N., Commanding- Ofir- . cer of the Notre Danie Naval Training, Station, will have for his aides Pvt. Robert Curley and Seaman Harry Strom.
Pvt. Curley comes from Milwaukee, . Wis., where he attended Marquette University for two years. When in attendance there he was a member of the Varsity football squad. Bob is enrolled in the law school here and has his senior status in the Marine Corps.
Seaman Strom is a freshman from Chicago, and was stationed at the Glenview naval air base before entering- the V-12 in July of 1943.
Lost-Found Dept., BX to be Operated in Main Bldg.
The. official Lost and Found "Department of the campus has been taken over by the management of the Book Ex-, change, and will operate one hour a day in the late afternoon. The exact time is to be announced later. Room 10 of the Main Building will house the two , departments.
The Book Exchange is being1 reopened , to facilitate the selling of textbooks for those leaving school during the semester. Anyone having credit slips from the past semester may now cash them.
. The Lost and Found Department was formerly operated by the Prefect of Discipline Office. Those who have either lost or found articles are requested to co-operateWith this department.
15
D. C. Ford, New Dining Hall Manager, has had Extensive Training for Position
BY STEVE LOYACANO
Mr. David C. Ford has just recently been appointed manager of the student dining halls and the cafeteria. Mr. Ford, who hails from nearby Chicago, has been in the food business for 17 years.
He joined Swift and Co. in 1927, and has learned all the facts of food from the actual slaughtering of cattle to the art of making fine French pastries. Mr. Ford has had extensive training and experience in supplying the foodstuffs of many big hotels in Chicago.
At the Chicago World’s Fair of 1934 the new manager did all the purchasing for Swift’s restaurants and stands, which averaged 19,000 checks per day for 186 days. About 1937 he was in the general office of Beef, Lamb and Veal Dept, (of Swift’s). Here he organized and directed fresh meat cutting rooms in 12 of the company’s main packing plants. These plants supplied meat for all of their branch houses and plant sales in the United States and Canada as well as for hotel contract and institutional trade (hospitals, sanitariums and the
This week it is my pleasure to bring to you Chief Specialist Robert D. Horen.
Horen was bom in Detroit, Michigan, September 11, 1919. He attended the Mackenzie High School of Detroit, and while there participated in five major sports, winning letters in all five: football, baseball, basketball, hockey, and track. In 1936, his senior year, Horen was cited All-City as well as All-State Guard. Horen told me his most thrilling experience came in high school, in the 1936 season. The score was 12-7. While playing at guard he managed to break through the line in time to intercept a lateral pass, and run 75 yards for a touchdown. This was in the last quarter of the game, and the touchdown gave MacKenzie a 13-12 lead which they held until the final gun sounded.
The Chief went to work for the Minnesota .Mining & Manufacturing Co., of Detroit. He worked by day, and attended the night sessions of Wayne Univer
16
like). He also directed the purchasing of all food items for plant cafeterias.
During the past few years Mr. Ford, then the assistant manager for Swift’s in charge of the sales promotion and procurement, had wide experience in quantity feeding and menu development, including nutrition experiments on balanced diets and portion meat cost work.
In college, at Columbia University, Ford majored in food chemistry. Hence he is well educated in the science in addition to his practical experience.
Mr. Ford emphasized that at all times students may get jobs in the cafeteria or dining halls; they must merely go down to the “zero deck” where his office is located and apply for a position.
As the new manager, Mr. Ford has proved himself to be a very capable and dependable man, and I’m sure that his menus would tempt the most sensitive palates. But it would be the students’ dream ( or should I say miracle) for potatoes to be cut down to only three times a week.
sity. Only during his freshman year did Horen wear the green and gold of the university’s football squad. For three years he worked and attended school.
In 1941 Horen played semi-pro. football and semi-pro hockey. He played for the Detroit Lions Farm Club, under the direction of Mr. Harry Suffrin. The club played only in the local semi-pro league. The Chief said his toughest experience in the league was his tryout for the team. He weighed only 185 pounds, and the men he-was bucking averaged 255 pounds.
In February 1942 he joined the navy as a seaman. Soon, however, he proved himself proficient in the work of a yeoman, and acquired the rate of Yeoman Third Class., Later he advanced to Yeoman Second Class. In June 1943 he qualified for Chief Specialist’s School, and was sent to Bainbridge, Maryland.
For Horen, September 13, 1941, was a day of rejoicing. That was the day he married the Detroit girl whom he had courted for the previous five years.
To you Chief Horen— all-around athlete and five-letter man — we take off our hat.
Midshipmen Enjoy "Happy Hour" in the Drill Hall
The graduating midshipmen of the University of Notre Dame presented another successful hit Friday evening.
Staged in the huge drill hall before 1200 middies, the various battalions offered skits entitled, “The Battle of the -Brandywine,” by the Third Battalion; “From Badin to, Worse,” Fourth Battalion; and “Daze in Morrissey,” by the Second Battalion.
Each act was given an enthusiastic reception by the audience. Outstanding was the performance of the midshipmen’s own swing band under the direction of Ensign Duda. Their renditions of current popular favorites brought thunderous applause. A piano solo by R. M. Trotter, young brother of radio’s John Scott Trotter, highlighted the musical end of the program. The Henry P. Burnett Midshipmen choir sent many lingering melodies throughout the vast Drill Hall and presented a striking, scene as they stood on the stage in their dress blues. Another sterling performance was that of Magician R. N. St. Mary who amazed and mystified his fellow trainees with feats of hokus pokus.
Midshipman Stan Siegal acted as Master of Ceremonies and kept the show alive and humming with his ready wit.
A rendition by the choir of the navy hymn and the national anthem brought the Happy Hour to a striking close.
New Series of Night
War Classes Announced
The inauguration of a new series of night school studies to be given at Notre Dame was announced during the week. Sponsored by the War Manpower Commission, the new program is designed to train men and women in specialized fields of engineering, science and management, which are undermanned at the present time.
The first classes start at 7:00 p.m. Monday, Jan. 17, and will be held in the Engineering Building. They will meet once or twice a week from that time on, each class to last three hours. High school graduation or its equivalent is necessary for entrance in any of the courses, among which are electronics, electrical engineering, auditing, engineering drawing, tool and die design, aircraft engines, industrial management, time study, chemistry, and many others.
Students of the University who are expecting to be called for the Army within six months are eligible for enrollment. As an aid to the people of South Bend and vicinity, the University will aid anyone who makes application in procuring additional gasoline for trips to and from classes.
The Green Banner
By Jim Casey and “Buzz" Hassett
THE LOCAL SCENE
Due to the brisk weather of late, ice skating on St. Mary’s lake has become a * major activity for all able-bodied men, women, and children in St. Joseph County. Say, just from a casual glance, too, we make bold to state that we haven’t J seen such gymnastics since “Treetop” Adams was mousetrapped in the Georgia Tech game. Old Man Newton, after a r brief survey would, we fear, rush into the library to revamp his manual on the laws of physics. Some of the lassies. (Ahem!) are rather interesting, too. All of this sort of speculation prompted our good friend (and yours), Bob Dunne, to make the casual observation in a spe-v , cial delivery letter home (for his tubes) that “If the ice will hold up under some of these dolls, I have little fear of a watery grave.”
The news of such activities on the lake has got about the campus to be sure, with the inevitable result that several who have never skated before procured skates and were off to do some ice-capad-ing. Oh, the gay blades! As was to be expected, if you know the local scene as well as we do, several romances have £ blossomed forth. You can tell by the number of lads falling every afternoon.
Snap - The - Whip is by far the most popular game. If, by chance, you happen to be end-man, have a library card on your person, or a prayer-book in your I pocket; they may come in handy. When the lead-man suddenly turns, your speed at the tail of the line will accelerate faster than a war-time semester; and you will be even busier. The odds are that because of your increased momentum, you will lose your grip on the person . next in line and go sailing off to Paul Byrne’s Bibliotheque, or (if you are a good boy) fly right on up into the Seminary chapel. In the last instance, if you keep your big mouth shut, and answer the prayers properly, you might easily get in line and march down to the dining room for a good meal. You’ll probably do much better over there than you can do in your own dining room. Anyway, it will give you an opportunity to see what plates look like.
But none of this good fortune will happen to you if you find yourself involved with certain people. For the only ones known to have the ability to last out the game are the co-eds from St.
*- Mary’s. Brother, when they get their hands on you, nothing, nothing in this
world can make them break their hold. As a result, you end up on the ice, just where you started from. However, should you detect yourself flying into the library, select a few good books, bank slightly to the left, and continue on your way with a left turn to the infirmary. Bones broken or not, go on in. One of your profs might see you and change his opinion of you. Besides, it is rumored that the place is heated. If one of the nurses puts a thermometer in your mouth, take it and glide right on up to a quiet comer on the second floor. Even if you have no skates, smooth-shoe over and watch others cut their steak in the dining room; the treat is a rare one, even though the steak isn’t.
To those of you who do not have skates, drop down to the lake, anyway, and observe the shenannigans going on there. It is diverting, to say the least. But don’t stay long; you may get the cold shoulder, and not necessarily from the elements, either!
CIVILIANS GO SOCIAL
A civilian dance will definitely be held on Feb. 4 at the Indiana club, under the auspices of the Campus Chapter of the Knights of Columbus. The Knights, with a past record for sponsoring successful affairs, are going all out to make this dance one that will long be remembered as one of the finest dances you have ever been privileged to attend. So lads, don’t wait.... get your date. The band will be selected this week, and announced in the next issue of this sprightly pulp weekly. And if you have any difficulty,
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
or uncertainty regarding a date, let us know. This is a little service we think we may be able to arrange for you. Time was when we kept an extensive little book filled with names, etc., aided and abetted by competent aides-de-camp from the Rock, ever willing to cooperate. But this year, with departure of Georgia and Orry, we are not so well informed as usual. However, we feel that we have enough information and ability in this matter to satisfy even the most fastidious, insofar as the Rock has ever been able to satisfy the fastidious. If you do not believe us, just try us ( anymore, we stop at nothing!).
And while we’re on the subject of the dance and. the music and the people who are to be there. Of our own accord, we suggest that John Stehlin and his outfit make an effort to fill the engagement. His style, his selection of music, lovely Pat Chapman, and his recording of the “Victory March,” last week, would be difficult to duplicate anywhere. The campus outfit can be all the more appreciated when you stop to realize the limited time for practice the boys have. But like the fine musicians they are, they enjoy playing, especially for the appreciative audience you were the other night. Those of you who failed to show, don’t miss these grand showmen the next time out.
DEAR DR. ANTHONY
I have a Question—Last week, I saw, taking the road to the “Rock,” Pat O’Brien, Paul Cartwright, Frank Brady, Jack Herlihy and Joe O’Keefe. Now my question is: “In your opinion, Dr. An-
SOUTINE
17
thony, who do you suppose had the dullest afternoon?”
ADDENDA
Someone put the snitch on Dick McCormick’s flivver, the other day. If the thief presents himself, Dick will not prosecute, but will apologize. Incidentally, is Dick seeking a master’s degree in chemistry or bird stuffing?
“Tex” Pequigney, editor of this sheet, claims he writes for a living, but only in his letters home.
Herb Coleman seems to visit South Bend quite frequently. Could it be the enchantment of the campus that keeps bringing him back.
Scallions to Ed McKeever, • and his Christmas greetings! Doesn’t he know the postal regulations? Anyway, it cost us five cents to get his “Merry Christmas” out of hock at the local post office, all because of a mistake in the amount of postage required to send his greeting cards. And all the time we thought it was probably a letter from “her” or from home—possibly even containing a check. But now, just a “Merry Christmas” from good old Ed. Why doesn’t Texas join the union and observe standard postal regulations? It would be easier on both our nerves and our finances.
Well, my little ones, we’re off to Rosie’s and yards and yards of spaghetti, if our credit is still good.
Seaman Spends a Day With the Physics Dept.
“Gosh, it’s five after. I’ll be late for the test. Maybe I- can slip in quietly -and mot-noticed.”
“Good morning,” says the professor.
“So you finally got around' to honoring ’■ -us with your presence. Please take your seat. Here is a copy of the test. You have twelve minutes left.”
"Sarcasm. He thinks I can’t do it. Well, Can I? My gosh, what kind of a
test is this? That fellow’s got his book open. And that’s no racing form that this other guy’s got his eyes glued to. He seems to have the right idea;. I’ll just sit in the back of the room and use my especially prepared scrap paper. -
“Eight minutes to go. Let’s see, now, which of these formulae do I uuse. I’ll toss a coin. Heads!! So I use F = ma. Using that one I can’t miss. Let’s see. My answer is 1327. Now what answers are given: (a) 2, (b) 6, (c) 10, (d) 18, (e) 25. I’d better use (e) because 25 is closer to 1327 than 18.
“Four minutes left. What’s next? Let’s see. 'An airplane is traveling due West at a ground speed of 321.42 miles per hour. A wind from the east is blowing at the rate of 147.26 miles per hour. (some wind). 'It leaves South Bend-at 4:22 P.M. (that’s 1622 to you swabbies and bellhops). He is not carrying any running lights. Now, from the data given, determine the destination and the phone number of the hostess.’ Now that shouldn’t be hard. No man in his right mind would leave South Bend in the beautiful season of winter, the garden spot of the universe, so he’s just going to circle around and land - here again. And the hostess, Mirinie-Ha-Cha, of the SMC, says her phone number is 4-4181.
“One minute to go. I guess I won’t, have time to finish. It won’t do any harm to glance around and get a concensus of opinion on the last two. There is a fellow who’s all finished. He got 99% last semester. That’s good enough for me. Who want’s to be perfect? Well, we agree on the first two. What a coincidence! But he didn’t- use ■ any'
scrap paper and I used" up "two'sheets. . ' Guess. I .used the “long”, method. He’s . .. got (c) and (d) for the last two, so I’ll just carry the coincidence a bit farther and neatly inscribe same on my
paper.
crossed. Ugh, the right answers are: (a), (e), (b), and (d). Well, I got two right. That brings my average up . to 43%. Not bad, not bad. Now I find out how easy those problems were. Simple, the way he does it. Well, at least I won’t have any more dealings with the Physics Department for five hours, when I go to lecture.
(Five hours elapse uneventfully).
“Well, well, well, I made it on time. How did that happen? I wonder if I can sneak back down the stairs after he takes roll? No, I guess not. He’s liable to call roll again at the end of the hour. So 1’11 just sit tight and watch the show. Ta-ta-ta-taa-ta-ta-taa-ta-tata-taa. (Enter instructor, left stage.) Wonder what, that cannon down there is for? Oh well, I’ll find out soon enough. These seats are the most uncomfortable I’ve ever tried to sleep in. Nothing like those in the Engineering Building. Well,, a third of. the class is settling back to catch a few winks, so I’ll do likewise. I’d still like to know what the cannon is for, though.
(A few minutes elapse, then Boom!!)
“What goes with all that noise? It’s getting so a person can’t even sleep peacefully through a Physics lecture any more. So that’s what that cannon was for. He’s found a way to keep a class awake.. He goes on to explain ‘Now that illustrates the idea of recoil, a force acting’ in reverse.’ Recoil, baloney, I still suspect foul play to keep us awake.
“Well, if I can’t sleep I’ll have to find other, ways to amuse myself. Pay, atten-.tion .to- the . lecture? -That, pal,- never occured- to-me.- Glad you “mentioned it. I’ll do that next week. ‘
■ . “Might as well put in practice some aeronautical theory. Wonder if this paper airplane can make a three-point
“Time’s up. I’m keeping my fingers
Navy and Civilian Physicists Pose Over Experiments
. landing on the prof’s desk? Here goes. Oops, he turned too quick. His ‘Having fun, Mr. Paris’ is good for laughs, but at my. expense. The plane made it though.. Force meets force as the beautiful airplane meets his hand.
“Still got twenty more minutes. What’s next? Oh, oh, that guy is sleeping so peacefully. What a boot he’d get out of a hotfoot. Fiendish thought. Got a match, mate? ' You have; swell, I’ll give ’em right back.'	,
“Swell, there goes, the bell. Now I can get some real sleep in my bunk. Too bad this Physics lecture only meets once a week. I get a big kick out of it. Now I’ve got a full week to prepare for next.
• . week. -Wonder..where I can buy some ; stink bombs?” : :	.	:	-
; \ J ■ Seaman James Paris
18
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Campus Centenary Publications
•	-
Notre Dame—100 Years_SI.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell..$2.50
... at the Bookstore
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
THE SNOOPER (Continued from page 10)
lose the first girl, and he is at a loss to know what to do about it. One of the main reasons, he says, for not wanting to lose this girl is because it “sends him” when she says, “It don’t make me no difference.” Want me to write to Dorothy Dix for you, Beethoven ?
One Mr. Karl Marshall (Co. I, 236 Alumni) is violently in love. He would be with his “heart throb” every spare moment he has — if she were here. As it is — with her a thousand miles aw*ay — he finds it necessary to release his emotions here in South Bend. Too bad, so sad — or is it? He seems to have a wonderful time!
MARINE MURMURS (Continued from page 9)
menced to operate it through two of the busy downtown blocks before the motorman appeared on the scene.
And then we have a blond company commander who sits dejected most of the time while in the USO, which is most frequently, on the rail of the balcony counting on his fingers the number of times his favorite hostess is cut in on by other servicemen. We can’t all be Casanovas! Another faithful USO-goer, we understand, is Pvt. Eggbeer, whose visitation there is of a permanent nature on weekends.
Good luck to all the blind robins tonight. We hope they all aren’t strictly for the birds.
Beware! something’s amiss near Room 120. The boys are so sharp at cards in that vicinity that they make each other deal one-handed with the deck on the table.
SUGGESTIONS OF THE WEEK:
. . . Busses leaving Notre Dame every ten minutes for Reeds and the Dixie Grove over the weekends until 0400 Sunday morning and (censored) Sunday evening.
. . .’ Lowering the house percentage on the slot machines at the American Legion and the DAV.
. . . Wolf skins and fangs for the boys in Co. C. .
DAYDREAMS
... To live the life of the Battalion Staff or Vic Kulbitski and be able to get at the head of the chow line and sleep mornings.
Compliments from Warrant Officer Baneshek to the sleuth who knew his every whereabouts Sunday evening. Beware, fellows! he’s one up on you.
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. "T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.
South Beni. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-566L	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
■	503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building '
L. E. Fisher, M.D.
M- J. Thornton, M.D.
19
Wththe boys...It’s
Chesterfield
S'
You see Chesterfields everywhere these days—and why? Because they are milder and better>tasting and no wonder . . . Chesterfields are made of the best tobaccos that grow. And that’s not all — it’s the blend —the Right Combination of these tobaccos that makes Chesterfield / the cigarette that