EVERYONE FINDS
HIS SIZE AT THE
CAMPUS SHOP..
Even if you’re taller, smaller or heavier than the average man, you’ll find your exact size at the Campus Shop. Whether it’s a suit, outer coat, sport coat, or trousers . . . whatever you need in clothing, the Campus Shop has your size (or can get it for you in a matter of hours). Come to the Campus Shop for the famous Brand Name clothing and haberdashery you want ... in your size.
I LBE RT S
On-theCampus—Notre Dame

{By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
SHEAFFER SPECIAL
SCIENCE MADE SIMPLE
Though this column is intended to be a source of innocent merriment for all sexes and not to concern itself with weighty matters, I have asked my sponsors, the makers of Marlboro, whether I might not, from time to time, use this space for a short lesson in science. “Makers,” I said to them, “might I not, from time to time, use this space for a short lesson in science?”
They agreed, the makers of Marlboro, for they are the most agreeable of men. Their benevolence is due in no small measure to the cigarettes they smoke, for Marlboro is a cigarette to soothe the most savage of breasts. I refer not only to the flavor which is a delight to the palate, but also to the Marlboro container. Here is no fiendishly contrived device to fray the fingernails and rasp the nerves; here, instead, is a flip-top box that opens like a charm. Add to all this an improved filter that does not disturb that famous flavor, and you can see you get a lot to like.
Let us begin our series of science lessons with chemistiy. It is fitting that chemistry should be the first, for it is the oldest of sciences, having been discovered by Benjamin Franklin in 468 B.C. when an apple fell on his head while he was shooting the breeze with Pythagoras one day outside the Acropolis. (The reason they were outside the Acropolis and not inside was that Pythagoras had been thrown out for drawing right triangles all over the walls.)
They had several meetings outside the Acropolis, but finally Franklin said, “Look, Pythagoras, this is nothing against you, see, but I’m no youngster any more and if I keep laying around on this wet grass with you, I’m liable to get the breakbone fever. I’m going inside.” Pythagoras,
© Max Shulman. 1958
The makers of Marlboro, who bring you this column regularly, are tobacconists, not scientists. But here’s an equation we do know: Marlboro + you = pleasure.
4
friendless now7, moped around Athens for awhile, then drifted off to Monaco where he married a girl named Harriet Sigafoos and went into the chuck-a-luck business.
But I digress. We were beginning a discussion of chemistry, and the best way to begin is with fundamentals. Chemicals are divided into elements. There are four: air, earth, fire, and water. Any number of delightful combinations can be made from these . elements, such as firewater, dacron, and chef’s salad.
Chemicals can be further divided into the classes of explosive and nonexplosive. A wise chemist always touches a match to his chemicals before he begins an experiment.
A variety of vessels of different sizes and shapes are used in a chemistry lab. There are tubes, vials, beakers, flasks, pipettes, and retorts. A retort is also a snappy comeback, such as “Oh, yeah?” and “So’s your Uncle Oscar.”
I have now told you the most important aspects of chemistry, but there are many more—far too many to cover in the space remaining here. However, I am sure there is a fine
•3.44 VALUE
NOW, LIMITED TIME ONLY
Includes $2.95 Skeaffer Skripsert FmmIem Pm, 49£ Package of 5 Skrip Cartridges, Handwriting I■proveaent Booklet!

Sheaffer^
chemistry lab on your very owm campus. Why don’t you go up some afternoon and poke around? Make a fun day out of it. Bring ukuleles.Wear humorous hats. Toast frankfurters on the Bunsen burners. Be gay. Be merry. Be loose... For chemistry is your friend!
Take advantage of this once-in-a-lifetime offer by the W. A. Sheaffer Pen Company. $3.44 value for only 75
Get yours today. Available only at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Scholastic
Scholastic
Vol. 100 October 31, 1958 No. 5
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis
Founded 1867
Eentered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
(TO BE APPOINTED) Editor
BOB SEDLACK Associate Editor
4 RON BLUBAUGH.................News	Editor
WALT RUDGE..................Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH................Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON____________Sports	Editor
PETER HASBROOK......Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI..............Circulation
BOB FANCHER---------------Photography
DAVE SOMMER_______________Photography
LYN RELPH______________Assistant News
ROY RUBELI...............Assistant News
BOB MARUYAMA___________Assistant Copy
CHAS RIECK.............Assistant Copy
TOM ROMANS..............-Assistant Copy
FRANK DUDA.....................Assistant	Features
f JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER_________Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER_________________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE.....................Assistant	Sports
BOB SCHAEFER...........Assistant Sports
BOB HORN.....................Assistant	Business
COMMENTARY
When the bells of Sacred Heart Church began to peal at 11:05 Tuesday morning, the campus knew that the 262nd head of Christendom had been chosen. Father Boarman made the formal announcement at 11:30 Mass that the “eminent cardinals in Rome have elected as Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church the Cardinal Patriarch of Venice, Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli, who has chosen the name John XXIII.”
Born in 1881 at Sotto il Monte in the Diocese of Bergano, Roncalli began his priestly studies at the age of 11, and was ordained at the age of 23. In addition to his study of theology, he acted as professor of Church history, apologetics and patrology, and also as private secretary to the Bishop of his native diocese.
His active spiritual ministry to the Italian Army in World War One and his formation of several social and cultural institutions in Bergano brought him to the attention of Pope Benedict XV, who appointed him president of the Italian Society for the Propagation of the Faith. From that time on, the young priest rose rapidly in the ranks of Church hierarchy; he progressed from the position of Apostolic Visitor to Bulgaria to the Archbishopric of Acropolis, and was associated in several different capacities with the Balkan countries and the Near East. After World War II, he was consecrated Cardinal and became Apostolic Nuncio to France.
As a tactful diplomat, distinguished author, and vigorous member of several Church departments, Cardinal Roncalli won the respect of the many divergent parties and factions of postwar Europe. But his greatest assets are a jovial and even-tempered sense of humor and a friendly spirit of good will — he has been referred to as the “optimistic cardinal.”
Last week end, decorations week end, provided quite a few interesting topics and we shall tiy to cover a few of them: First of all, the Scholastic staff breathed a collective sigh of relief when it rained on Saturday. It's not that we were particularly pleased with getting soggy at the game BUT. . .our cover last week end depicted the “typical perverseness” of Indiana weather and we were pleased, as was the artist, Tom McGee, that the weather finally turned typically perverse after weeks of nice non-Notre Dame type weather. (And anyway, rain on decorations week end is getting to be such a tradition around here that we’d hate to see it broken.)
Also, we were glad to see that “Aquarelle,” the first of this year’s student government dances, was a success. Probably the greatest achievement of the dance committee, however, was the multicolored water fountain in the middle of Caron Court. A number of people had serious misgivings on this score but it seems as though they were unfounded. Who knows,, maybe this will set some sort of precedent which will continue in the form of Student Center Swim Mixers?
Another rather- interesting sight last Saturday was the green-dyed student body-of Notre Dame. We would certainly hate to cast aspersions on the wisdom of the Marketing Club in their selection of green derbies but it does seem a little superfluous that the grand old Spirit of Notre Dame should be manifested in this particular* way. After all, the people who were watching the game, via colored television may get the idea that we’re a little too fanatic.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and , Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The half-time demonstration by Purdue’s Marching Million was certainly a bright spot of the cold, dreary afternoon and they should be complimented on the imaginative performance. However, from where we were sitting, it seemed a bit of cheap photographic sensationalism to pose the Golden Girl with the Notre Dame student body. She was not only out of place in the stands but detracted from the performance put on by the Notre Dame Band. We don’t want to seem prudish but we do not believe that this stunt was done in good taste.
Publication Schedule for the 1958-59 school year, Volume 100: No. 1, Oct. 3; No. 2, Oct. 10; No. 3, Oct. 17; No. 4, Oct. 24; No. 5, Oct. 31; No. 6, Nov. 7; No. 7, Nov. 14; No. 8, Nov. 21; No. 9, Dec. 5 (Special Football Review); No. 10, Dec. 12; No. 11, Jan. 16; No. 12, Jan. 23; No. 13, Feb. 13; No. 14, Feb. 20; No. 15, Feb. 27; No. 16, March 6; No. 17, March 13; No. 18, March 20; No. 19, April 17; No. 20, April 24; No. 21, May 1; No. 22, May 8; No. 23, May 15; No. 24, May 22; No. 25, May 29.
We were rather disappointed that the voting for “Patriot of the Year” was so light that it was necessary to reopen the polls for another day. Perhaps it’s about time for an explanation and a revitalization of this senior project.
See that the Academy of Political Science is making a survey to determine the political knowledge (or ignorance) of students. Should prove interesting. One long range objective of the Academy is the establishment of “Young Republican” and “Young Democratic” organizations on campus.
OFFICE HOURS
Sunday, 7:30-11:30; Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-11:30; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:30-5:30; Saturday, not open.
October 31, 1958
Just a suggestion: In past years it has always been the policy of the various university organs to warn against certain movies which have been condemned. This is in accordance with the duty of the Catholic Church to protect its followers. On the other hand, any mention of condemned movies seems to bring them up in conversations and, regrettably, to focus unnecessary attention on them. Would it not be a good idea to maintain a dignified silence once or twice with regard to such * movies and then compare the results? — R. S.	' *
5
MAKE FAY’S JEWELERS YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR GIFTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
See our magnificent selection of Transistor Radios. Choose from such famous names as:
This week’s cover is the product of John Siddle, senior fine arts major, whose work appeared in an earlier issue of the Scholastic. The magazine wishes to dedicate this issue’s cover, with its sack dress, to the Notre Dame men who will be in attendance at St. Mary’s Sophomore Cotillion, presented this evening midst the Halloween atmosphere of goblins, witches, and pumpkins.
VACATION!! WE
my
NDS!! See
THE MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE For Airline Reservations at no extra charge
LaSalle Hotel
CE 2-2253
PHILCO MOTOROLA BULOVA
Prices from $19.95
111 SO. MICHIGAN ST.
LARGE MIDWESTERN MANUFACTURING FIRM
Needs three young men for part-time employment three evenings weekly, five hours on Saturday. Car necessary. Call a.m., or write:
MR. EARL W. HOELSCHER,
606 No. Scott St., South Bend 16, Indiana — Tel. CE 2-4596
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES HTTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Top men go to Texaco
a leader in the constantly expanding field of petroleum
BUILD A REWARDING CAREER for yoUT-self with The Texas Company.
FIND OUT FIRST hand the broad range of opportunities and benefits in the fields of your particular studies, made possible through Texaco’s nation-wide and world-wide scope of operations.
texaco’s representative will be interviewing on your campus soon, on the dates posted. Sign up now.
you will find it informative to sec the booklet: “Opportunities with Texaco.” This booklet is available in your placement office.
Your opportunity
Research and Technical
Sales
Chern Eng	M	Chem Eng	B
Meeh Eng	M	Civil Eng	B
Chemistry	M PhD	Elec Eng	B
Refining		Ind Eng	B
Chem Eng . Civil Eng Meeh Eng Met Eng	B M B M B M B M	Meeh Eng Met Eng Liberal Arts Bus Adm Accounting	B B B B B
The Texas Company

The Scholastic
a scholarly
attempt
♦ .
In answer to a charge (made up for the occasion) that I do not devote , enough space to things of permanent value, I am presenting a scholarly work which should be of much value to stu-। dents of architecture, and which will * certainly hasten the death of some professors.
An Architectural History of Hie Buildings on the Campus
BADIN HALL

This building is an excellent example of the period known as Dungeon Revival or Early Tenement. An interesting feature of this building is the complete absence of any kind of front entrance. This has caused much confusion, and recently it was suggested that one side be arbitrarily labeled “Front,” and another “Side,” and so on, although this procedure would undoubtedly stifle the creative imaginations of many students. Badin Hall was originally intended as a display for the Homecoming Game of 1903, which was held on Halloween. It captures much of the picturesque flavor of condemned buildings, while retaining an incomparable air of imminent collapse. The other buildings of this fruitful period, Sorin, Washington Hall, the Main Building, etc., have been glorified too much in print already to require any descriptions by me.
THE MORRISSEY-HOWARD-LYONS QUADRANGLE
This interesting group is done in the style which is known as Early Football „ Grandeur, which is divided into two ' subsections, Depression Ivy-League and Tudor Gothic. Collectively, Lyons and Morrissey may be described as Tudor : Gothic, since the first is Tudor, while the second is Gothic. The rear of Lyons is especially Tudor, with its half-timbered archway and mullioned windows. n The students who live in this section of the hall are conscious of their historical heritage, and are seen wearing forked beards and velvet doublets on occasion.
i Every now and then a student is elected to preside as Henry VHI,.. and executions are held in the halls after lights-out. On the other hand, the Goths 1 . of Morrissey are divided into Ostrogoths and Visigoths and hold intramural warfare. A favorite practice of these tradition-minded students is sacking the Golf Shop. This contributes to no end of student rivalry. Howard is such a fine example of its type that it has been kept as a museum for some time (see July 8 issue of “Famous Dormitories of Western Man”; also “The Dormitory
Considered as Museum”). Thus, no students are allowed to live in it, and it is populated only by excess rectors and archaic caretakers. This accounts for the fact that nobody knows anyone who lives in Howard. Those who think they live in Howard should send a postcard to me, and I will arrange for an interview to straighten them out on this rathei* difficult problem.
DILLON HALL
This magnificent edifice, done in NeoIvy - Covered - Harvard - Imitation, has more rooms and less living space than any hall on campus. This is due to the fact that 96.3% of all floor space is covered by interminable corridors, which give the hall, the unique quality usually reserved for the Catacomb of St. Callix-tus. These corridors hold a vast amount of stagnant, slightly greenish air, since there is no ventilation of any kind in the hall. A biologist, interested in the problem, recently analyzed a sample of air in the northeast corridor of Dillon Hall, and found that it dated from June 3, 1935. LOBUND is planning an expedition to this fruitful site, in hopes of finding even more archaic samples (not counting students).
Other interesting statistics on Dillon: it is composed of 6.3 trillion bricks, made on the job by students who were working off their bill at the Book Store. All the students in Dillon, if laid end to end on Notre Dame Avenue, would certainly be horribly mangled by passing cars. This hall also contains an economy feature — sinks without faucets. This will doubtless cut down on needless water usage.
THE BIOLOGY BLDG.
This is a representative type of the style of architecture known as Late Factory. What kind of factory this building was before it was consecrated to biology is not known, but it is believed that the McClosky Rubbish Co. built it. The company folded in 1903, when it was discovered that South Bend was already blessed with a surfeit of rubbish, and the leftover stock was. piled next to Washington Hall, and is called the “Old Huddle,” a corruption of “Old Rubble.”.
An interesting feature of the Biology Building is the magnificently sculptured frieze over the main entrance. It is intended to depict the Spirit of Smallpox being routed by the armed figures, of Cortisone and Formaldehyde. Professor McTrash has not yet admitted that he created this,’but perhaps he is only be- . ing coy.	. ..
by John Bellairs
THE ARCHITECTURE BLDG.
It is fitting that this penetrating (per- d: haps you prefer “boring” article be climaxed by a description of the home , of ’dsd our architectural skills. This building, a near replica of the Taunton, Mass^ Police Station, was until recently, famed.. >dd for its luxuriant ivy, which concealed an otherwise vile exterior. When the underbrush was removed, a sign was revealed which proudly stated that the:' X; building was the Hoynes College of Law, ; > much to the confusion of freshmen law ; d:? students.	“ . Ad
The story behind this odd name’■was d-fd? revealed by Professor T. X. Cuneiform, the campus authority on Odd Incidents. d.„ d It seems that, in the fall of 1878, Notre > Dame and Harvard were engaged in a bitter rivalry. This was the pre-football t era, and the sport then was ScavengerHunt, a game in vogue at the time. The . custom for the previous ten seasons had dd been to make a list of things possessed . _ by Hoynes University of East Wagon . -Rut, British Columbia. Then the two _d rival teams would descend upon this - > hapless Canadian campus and ransack d. ; freely the movable possessions of alld sizes and shapes, with victory going to the team with the most loot. This outing .dd' came to be both a Student Trip for Har- , . vard and Notre Dame and afierce intramural battle, in which the students of dd Hoynes U. could take no part. This^ of A course, disturbed the Hoynes students, who were irritated by the annual sack- -d ing of their campus. Therefore, theyA;-d began to lock up and nail down every- . thing of any importance on campus, with the result that the excursion became an A even greater challenge to the teams of Notre Dame and Harvard in 1878. d . ??dd
The Notre Dame team arrived a full ' day ahead of the Harvard group,and stormed into East Wagon Rut, looking for things, to pillage. Suddenly the eywdAg of the captain fell on the Hoynes Cot Add lege of Law, which was abuilding noted for its collection of Byzantine murala d It was no time at all before the teamfddA; had put this edifice on rollers and carted/d'd' it to the railroad station, where it'was^dS dismantled and spread evenly .throug|^M^ out the passenger cars. The triphomedd . was enlivened by skirmishes with itihers ant Harvard bands on their way Hoynes, but the treasure arriveddjijt Add South Bend infect, and was set’upwdterwddd . it stands, today. The ivy was roMh^ii^ commemorate’ the SOth Anniversary of d d the Destruction of Hoynes (completedbyddd Harvard in 1879). Truth feds^^^ than fiction. .:	. >d'<dddd^dA?
'	:	' •’ -d'A<d5d'd-d.ddd?^^
•	■ ■ d ..
October 31, 1958
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the University Press Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Badin Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of three lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Sunday night preceding publication.
SERVICES
TERM PAPERS, theses, research reports, expert assistance in organizing and compiling. Paragon Publications, Box 967, New York, 1, N. Y.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
THE TEXAS COMPANY, AH Engineers, AB Commerce, November 3, see page 6.
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT, November 6, see page 8.
KEARFOTT CO., INC., November 6, see page 22.
ESSO RESEARCH & ENGINEERING CO., ChE, ME, (BS, MS). November 19, 20, see page 25.
PERSONALS
WANT to reach the students at a nominal rate? Place a classified ad in the Scholastic.
r
DIAMONDS
JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.
J.M.S. Bldg.
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types
CHARTER A —
Ph. CE 3-3235 304 National Bank Bldg.
SPRING SEMESTER 1959 IN VIENNA: $1195
Spend 5'A months in Europe. Attend the English-taught courses at the University of Vienna. Travel on 3 integrated Study Tours through 8 countries of Europe. Students live in Austrian homes. Price includes ocean transportation, room, board, tuition and travel. Group sails Feb. 10, 1959, on the Ryndam.	■
Application deadline: December 10, 1958 Write today for free brochure.
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
35 EAST WACKER DRIVE
CHICAGO 1. ILL
v
Yr'

IKORSKY AIRCRAFT


THURSDAY
The Scholastic
RepMcMAiian
• Dear Editor,
In reference to your commentary on Dean O’Meara’s removal of the Law School from “Who’s Who” awards, I would like to offer my rationale of why the Law School is attempting to “remove itself farther and farther away from the rest of the campus.” I repeat that this is my rationale, and is not to be construed as representative of any actual administrative policy of our Dean.
As a rule of thumb, for the sake of clarity and brevity (which nonetheless is in my opinion completely valid) I would define the end of a university to be the ( perfection of the intellectual virtues. This is the raison d’etre, the pivotal point around which all action should turn. If you will allow me, I would say this is the common good of Notre Dame, the reference point for all concerned.
However, while it is true that the common good, the perfection of the intel, lectual virtues, must be willed in every case, it is merely essential that it be willed formally and not materially. St. Thomas explores this area in the Summa Theologica in the First Part of the Second Part, Q.19, Art. 10.
A man’s will is not right in willing a particular, unless he refer it to the common good as an end, since even the natural appetite of each part is ordained to the common good of the whole.
He states further, however:
If a man’s will wills a thing to be according as it appears to be good, his , will is good; and the will of another man who wills that thing not to be, according as it appears evil, is also good. Thus a judge has a good will in willing a thief to be put to death, because this is just; while the will of another (e.g., the thief’s wife) who wishes him not to be put to death... is also good.
The formal common good remains intact in both cases, but the thing willed
Internat'l Club Enlarged As More Members Join
The International Relation club has been completely reorganized with greater life and spirit as new members strengthened the club’s total membership to 28. After an extensive membership drive students were accepted by the club following interviews by a board. The club has revised its constitution and made plans to arrange outside speakers every month.
Featured at the club’s first meeting was Rev. Bertier Du Sauvigny, a faculty member from France on the Distinguished Professors program. His lecture treated the new French Constitution, and the implications therein, which was drawn up for the Fifth Republic led by Gen. De Gaulle. Father Bertier teaches French history here.
October 31, 1958
has diifered materially.'. Thus, ■ oh the' University campus, the Commerce Department would be justified in wanting to employ a given amount of appropriations for procuring lecture services of distinguished businessmen, while the Chemistry Department would be equally justified in wanting to use that same money for constructing a new laboratory. Or substitute the case of Who’s Who nominations.
In the instant case, the Law School is also willing the common good, the perfection of the intellectual virtues, but in the implementation of same, the Law School has observed phenomena which certainly might be justified for the University, but are considered at best extraneous, and at worst detrimental, to the pursuit of the Law. A very arduous undertaking awaits those who respond to the calling, and at Notre Dame, in the words of Dean O’Meara, “Excellence is our platform, and we can be content with nothing else. This requires, on the part of the Law School, the highest of standards and, on the part of the students, sustained hard work.” So many of the functions of the University are therefore barred to us by the simple expediency
NOTRE DAME
DANCE CLASSES
ARTHUR MURRAT
120 E. WAYNE
of time economy. Moreover, by its very nature, the Law School has an end which. differs in degree, and probably in kind, ' from the University. While the statement that the sole end of the University is the perfection of the intellectual virtues is open to debate, that same statement as applied to the Law School is irrefutable.	~	~	'
I hope I haven’t been extremely panpous in stating a simple maxim: one man’s meat is another man’s poison. In its essential terms, this means that the Law School has perceived a basic difference between its end and the sundry activities that are proper to undergraduate life. The rituals of rallies designed to induce Pep, the round- potato tradition as enumerated by Mr. Bowen, the intercollegiate golf tournament, or noni-nations for “Who’s Who” are probably important issues at the University; at the Law School they are just so much banality.
This is my opinion, gentlemen, why you have observed what you term a -“withdrawal.”	-
James C. Talaga, - -846 N. Forest Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. ; Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
CE 2-3339
Have a MUD of FUN!

Travel with fITA Unbelievable Low Cost ^^Euroce
60	Aram $645
Orient
Scholastic Subscription $5 a Year Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
FLYING SOMEWHERE?
Now You Can Make
43-65 Day*
**■ $998
gejDjg
Atony fours induOa college tradit.
Also low-cost trips to Atoxico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
MILITARY SUPPLIES

26lh Year
k 332 Ss. MichigM Aw. MC-Oiicags 4, HA 7-2SS7
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
Gendel's Surplus Sales B-15 JACKETS & FIELD JACKETS You Save Everyday at GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN
KQDL KROSSWORD
ACROSS
1. Baseball’s man in the blue suit
4.
Kid
9. Disengaged, so to speak
12.	One puff and you’ll-------how refreshing Kools are
13.	Vegetable tear jerker
14.	Roman god
15.	Willie’s home ground
17.	It's the rage in Ireland
18.	What Pop is on top
19.	They may be Green or
48.	Europe in World War H
49.	13-19
50.	English cathedral town
DOWN
1.	The 49
2.	Kools are made with mild------
3.	Special aversion (2 words)
4.	“Square” vegetable
5.	Corporate abbreviation
6.	Minds Junior
7.	Kind of spring
8.	Tryanything—
9.	A kind of drab
10.	Makes out
Leg O’ Mutton	11. Snow	Kool
21. London	16. The lass with
deaner-upper	' the delicate	
22. What gears	20. Eastern VIP
should do	21. Half cousin of
23. Throat	?	the mambo
Switch to	24. Theatrical
Kools!	dreuit
25. On the qui vive	26.	avis
27. Ready for	28. Radioactive
plucking	item
31. Old land	29. Kid sister’s
measure	hairdo
32.	Cedric	30. Pitcher’s
33. Perasperaad—	report card
36. Hindu	33. Two can live as
concentration	cheap	
37. Complaints,	(2 words)
from those who	34. Sit kinda short
are chicken?	35. Kind of jet
40. Jeffs dosest	36. A Hollywood
friend	hairless
41. .Yours and mine	38.1 say it’s
42. Better than	cabbage
none (3 words)	39	gin fizz
45. Grab	40. Ill tempers
46. Spoken	43. An amusement-
47. Sweetie or	park house
shoofly	44. Elfin
45
48
AIR UNE RESERVATIONS
Right on Campus at No Extra Cost
FIRST BANK & TRUST CO. TRAVEL DBARTMENT Second Floor, Bookstore Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Also Steamship Reservations;
Domestic and Foreign Tours
1	2	■			5	6	7	•
12								
15			16					
	18					19		
20
21
23
26
25
31
33
37
What a wonderful difference when you switch to Snow Fresh KOOL! At once your mouth feels dean and cool... your throat feels smoothed, refreshed!
Enjoy the most refreshing experience in smoking. Smoke KOOL ... with mild, mild menthol...for a cleaner, fresher taste all through the day!
Answer on page 25
KOOL GIVES YOU A CHOICE-REGULAR... OR...KING-SIZE WITH FILTER!
4^
No. 5
ARE YOU KOOL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
22
L	10	11
L		
r_		
		
		
'■C
24
30
29
32
27 28

4

K®L
•toSiwFtesh )]
FILTHS
K®L
K®L


10
The Scholastic
GREEN SEEKS VICTORY AT NAVY TOMORROW
» 500 Students Depart for Student Trip;
Navy Game in Baltimore Highlight Tomorrow
This afternoon more than 500 students will be leaving at 4:30 pan. on buses for the Calvert Street siding where they * will board the Pennsylvania Railroad’s Special Student Trip train at 5:15 pan. An early dinner, at 4 pan. has been arranged. The entire trip is being handled by the Blue Circle.
The train will depart for Baltimore and a box lunch will be served, eri route. It will be distributed at midnight so that meat sandwiches instead of cheese spread may be eaten. Game tickets and green hats will be distributed on the It train.
. Upon arrival in Baltimore the trippers j will attend a special Student Mass on I the Feast of All Saints. Transportation ? will be provided to the Municipal Sta-j dium in time for the game at 2 p.m.
I After the game, the special train will return the members of the trip to Wash-
yCS Plans Week-End Services f Of St. Joseph's Hall Retreats » The Young Christian Students will
sponsor* a series of closed retreats this year, at St. Joseph’s Hall. The first of these retreatswill beheld next week end.
1 Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C., will open the series by treating the topic of “The Christian Life and the Apostolate.”
। Those interested should register at the r opening of the week desired. Retreat-
. ants are reminded to sign out with their rectors for Saturday night.
I Each of these retreats is designed to help the student realize more fully some aspect of his spiritual life and the relation of this to the active Apostolate of all Christian laymen. Any student, * either interested in or already active in the Apostolate, is invited to attend any or all of these retreats.
, Each retreat will begin Saturday evening of the week end assigned. Retreatants should meet at the YCS office, second floor LaFortune Student Center, at 7 p.m. The retreatants will then proceed to St. Joseph’s Hall, stopping at the Grotto.
The agenda includes several conferences given by the retreat master, as well as the rosary, stations, and holy hour, after which students will return to the campus at 5 pan. Sunday. The price of $2.50 per person will cover the cost of the two meals, Sunday break-fast and dinner, taken at the retreat.
October 31, 1958	-
ington, D. C. While in Washington they will stay at the Sheraton-Park Hotel. Sight-seeing tours and a blind date service will be available in the Capital.
The train will leave for the return trip at 3:30 pan. on Sunday afternoon from Washington’s Union Station.’ It will stop in Baltimore at 4:10 pan. to pick up anyone who remained there Saturday night. The group will be back on campus Monday morning, in time for 8:30 a.m. classes.
Excused cuts are granted for the 3:30 and 4:30 pan. classes this afternoon. However, these cuts are excused only for those who are traveling with the trip and have filled out the proper forms which were provided by the committee.
Accompanying the trip will be the Notre Dame Marching Band. They will travel in the first two cars of the train and stay with the rest of the group at the same hotel.
There will be no pre-game display since the midshipmen will march onto the field. The half-time ceremonies are entitled “The State Fair Show.” Bruce Cossachi is the drum major.
A dinner-dance will be given for the members of the band by the girls of Marymount College in Arlington, Va.
Jr. Prom Set for Moy 1 With Dinner Donee Sot.
Preliminary plans are being worked out for the 1959 Junior Prom. The date has been set for Friday, May 1. There will be a dinner dance on Saturday night, and a Communion breakfast Sunday morning.
The general chairman is Emmett McCarthy. McCarthy is a forward on the basketball team, a Blue Circle member, and on the Dean’s List in the Liberal Arts College.
He will be assisted by John Christen, who is the dinner dance chairman, and Bob Dow, who is in charge of the Communion breakfast. Other chairmen are Jack Saladino, who handles decorations, Charlie Farrelly, who will take care of the favors, and Roger Fuydal, who will arrange for the accommodations.
Tickets will be handled by Bob Toland, while Joe Geary is taking care of publicity. The business manager is Jim Wysocki.
Irish Attempt to Snap Two-Year Navy Spell
by BOB SCHAEFER
Notre Dame’s football Irish invade Baltimore Municipal Stadium tomorrow afternoon to face Navy’s once-beaten Middies. The Irish .carry a three won, two lost record into the game following last week’s 29-22 loss to the Purdue Boilermakers on the rain-drenched turf of Notre Dame Stadium.
The Middies warmed up for' tqmdr-row’s encounter with a lopsided5O-8 win over hapless Pennsylvania. 'Navy used its first string unit for only 20 minutes
DICK DAGAMPAT
Navy captain and halfback
while building up a 20-0 lead. Then the • second and third units of the Middies , took over and continued the rout.
The offense-minded Navy eleven piled up 545 yards total offense, 320 of them . on the ground. In the absence of first-string quarterback, Joe Tranchini, who saw limited action because of a lame shoulder, his understudies completed., eleven of 18 passes for 225 yards and " < two touchdowns. Jim Maxfield, a junior,	. ..
and John Livengood, a sophomore, sue- -cessfully directed the Navy attadr in ' place of Tranchini.	.	.
The star of the lopsided victory was a second-string sophomore fullback, Joe -Matalavage. Matalavage scored two tf the Middie TD’s and was the leading ball carrier for the Midshipmen.
Navy, thus far, has lost only 'to --Ta-;J-v lane in a 14-6 upset while beating: WB-
(Continued on page 19)
WINNER OF DECORATIONS CONTEST
Fisher Decorations Win Homecoming Competition
The characters from Dogpatch seemed to attract the eyes of the judges last week end in the annual hall decorations contest. Fisher Hall’s decoration which depicted a Purdue player being boiled in a cauldron of “kick-a-Purdue” juice captured first prize.
The Keenan effort, which won second honors, showed “Lil’ Abner” watching another Purdue man get the same treatment.
■ Zahm’s towering representation of John Henry swinging a hammer received third prize. John Henry’s powerful blows were ramming unfortunate Purdue gridmen into the soggy grass facing the east quadrangle.
The judges, who evaluated the decorations according to originality, artistic
SMC Debaters Open Season Tonight Against Oxford Team
St. Mary’s College debaters will open their season in a split-team debate with the Oxford University debate team on tour from England. It will be held tonight at 8 in the Little Theater.
The topic is the question: “Resolved, That in modern Western civilization there is no longer any appreciation of the excellent.” Patricia Bramucci and Elizabeth Fiss will debate for St. Mary’s.
Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics at Notre Dame, is for the third year directing the St. Mary’s debaters. They meet bi-weekly and hold numerous practice debates with Notre Dame.
perfection, and adherence to theme, were Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., and Frank Montana, head of the architecture department.
The first place winner received $25 and a traveling trophy. The second prize was $15 and the third prize was $10. Keenan also received the trophy for the best freshman hall.
Indiana K. of C. Picks School Run by Brothers as Project
Father Gibault School for Boys, south of Terre Haute, is the special project for the Indiana State Council of the Knights of Columbus. The school is run by the Brothers of Holy Cross and receives an annual contribution of over $1500 from the N.D. Council.
The purpose of the school is to rehabilitate boys of all colors and creeds between the age of 11 and 17 or from the fifth grade through second year high school: boys, who for some unfortunate reason became involved in some juvenile crime which would demand a judge of the juvenile courts to impose sentence to a correctional institution.
The school can accommodate 125 boys, but it often has a waiting list of 50 to 100 boys from all over the United States. Preference is given to Indiana boys, since the project is sponsored by the Indiana Knights.
A boy admitted to Gibault is usually required to stay at least one year before he becomes eligible for release. Prior to his release every effort is made to instruct his parents or guardian regarding any special help necessary for continued adjustments.
Chicago Dean Visits Campus Monday to Meet with Students
Mr. Theodore Heimarck, Assistant Dean of Students of the School of Business, University of Chicago, will visit the campus Monday. The University will participate in the Honor Scholarship , | Program of Chicago’s School of Busi- j ness this coming year*.	I
Professor Heimarck will meet with members of the faculty and students to discuss the graduate programs offered by the school. Students interested in business study at the University of Chi- * cago will have an opportunity to talk	'
with Mr. Heimarck concerning graduate	,
programs of study, career opportunities, | and the scholarship program in an infor- ■< F mal interview. Students should consult Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., in the dean’s office, O’Shaughnessy Hall, beforehand.
Regardless of their undergraduate major, students with a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent are eligible to apply for admission to the school.	f1'
SMC Sophomores Hold Cotillion in New Lounge
The “Bittersweet Ball,” St. Mary’s College Sophomore Cotillion, will be held tonight ’midst goblins and pumpkins. *1’
Under the general chairmanship of Carol Shark, the dance will be in the new lounge and recreation room from 8:30-11:30 pan.
In charge of decorations are Nance Sullivan and Mary Lee Zahner. Mary Ellen Berry will take care of arrangements and Wini McGuiness heads the publicity committee. Patsy Greganti and her committee will supply refreshments 1 ’ and in charge of invitations and cleanup . is Rowie Haefer.
Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen will provide the music for the dance. i
Rev. Mark Fitzgerald Named Peace Group Vice President
At the annual conference in Washington last week of the Catholic Associ- ■’ ation for International Peace, Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., director of the industrial relations section of the department of economics, was elected •" Vice President for the coming year. The Association concluded last Sunday a three-day session based on the theme: “Peace, the Work of Justice.”	J
Other officers who will serve during the next year are: Most Rev. Patrick A. O’Boyle, Archbishop of Washington, Honorary President; Mr. Harry W. Flannery, journalist, Washington, D.C., President; Most Rev. Robert E. Lucey, Archbishop of San Antonio, Vice-President; and Rev. James L. Vizzard, S.J., Washington, D.C., Treasurer.
The annual Peace Award, presented at the Association’s conference this year, ..was conferred on Deputy Under Secretary of State, Robert D. Murphy.
12
The Scholastic
WSND
MONDAY-FRIDAY
7:00—Wake up Music
8:00—Morning News
8:15—640 Club
9:00—Music Till Noon
12:00—High Noon News
12:15—Koffee with Keating
.	1:00—Afternoon Concert
4	2:00—News
2:05—Penthouse Pops
3:00—News 3:05—Penthouse *	4:00—News
4:05—Penthouse
5:00—Five Star Final
5:30—Relax
*	6:00—Invitation to Music
7:00—Lucky Strike Extra
7:15—Broadway Melodies
7:30—Tues., Sports Beat, 7:45—Fr.day, Boarman; Wed., On the Line; Thurs., ND this week
8:00—Requestfully Yours
9:00—Penthouse Serenade
9:45—Lucky Strike Night Edition
10:00—Penthouse Serenade 11:00—Sign Off
‘; SATURDAY
;	8:00—Operation Music
5:00—Five Star Final
5:15—Sports Report
'	5:30—Mostly Mellow
2	7:00—Lucky Strike Extra
i	.	7:15—Just Jazz
9:00—Music Till Midnight
9:45—Lucky Strike Night Edition
10:00—Music Till Midnight
12:00—Sign Off
SUNDAY
►	8:00—Sunday Serenade
9:00—Christopher Program 9:15—Paris Star Time
9:45—Datline London
*	10:00—Music for Moderns
11:00—Sizing up Sports
11:15—Music for Moderns
12:00—High Noon News
v	12:15—Festival of the Arts
4:00—Sunday Showtime
6:30—News and Sports
6:45—Hour of St. Francis
'	7:00—Memory Music
7:30—Where in the World
8:00—Latin Sounds
9:00—The Round table
•*	9:30—Blues Express
10:00—Tales in the Dark
10:30—Kelly
11:00—Sign Off
Two New Groups Organized To Discuss History, German
The new school year has witnessed the planning of two new campus organizations, the German club and the History club.
The distinctive feature of the new German club is that it has no officers; instead it has two discussion leaders from the faculty, Dr. ter Haar and Prof.
KNUTE ROCKNE ON THE REID
'Rockne of Notre Dome' Televised National/; Movie Composed of Authentic Shots of 'Rock'
“Rockne of Notre Dame,” a CBS television production, will be shown nationally next Sunday on the CBS network from 6:30 to 7 pan.
The picture is an actual film biography of the life of the famous coach.
Spillane. The meetings are run as an informal seminar, whose main purpose is the discussion of such German literary giants as Goethe and Schiller and their works.
The organizational meeting for the German club has already been held, and meetings will be held regularly twice a month on Tuesdays. Plans for future meetings include slides and movies from the Germany embassy.
The second meeting of the new History club will be held Wednesday, 7:30 p.m., in room 201, O’Shaughnessy Building. The new constitution will be ratified and a short talk will be given by Father Zatko on his experiences in Poland this summer.
The club is primarily for history and education - history majors. Tentative plans for the club’s meetings include lectures by local professors and outside speakers from such schools as Harvard and Chicago University.
The History club is the first such club on the campus since the old history organization disintegrated six years ago. The present group is being formed by Charles Tausche, Dave Christian, Paul Kusbach, and' Pat Martin.
Although sound movies were only three years old when Rockne died, there is a wealth of sound-film coverage of him and much of it is used to make this film. -
The story, which stars Rockne himself, includes many of his colorful remarks and talks. A highlight of the film is one of the famous Rockne locker room pep talks to his squad before a big game.
The show details how the great coach changed football from a game of brute strength to one of skill, teamwork, and deception. Though football was a half century old when Rockne came along it was to be he who would bring the game to maturity.
One of Rockne’s own quotations from the show illustrates his modernization of football.
“Today, by means of the shift, open formation and reverses, double reverses and plays of that type, a coach is able to utilize a small, smart, active, agile chap who outsmarts the other big man by getting the blocking angle on him— by outwitting him—by outmaneuvering him.”
The film describes also how Rockne, insisting on perfection, won startling results in his 13 years of coaching at Notre Dame. His teams won 105 games, tied five, and lost only twelve. He amassed five undefeated seasons and produced three national champions. In one six-year period he lost only one game.
Sponsors of the show produced by CBS-TV, is The .Prudential Insurance Company of America.
October 31, 1958
Science School Probed . . .
by JIM SHORT
In the ninety-three years since its establishment as a distinct unit in the University, the College of Science has risen to its present position under Dean Lawrence H. Baldinger, Ph.D. as a significant contributor to the University’s intellectual life, and to the academic world at large. The present College consists of five departments: the departments of physics, mathematics, chemistry, biology, and geology. Two departments no longer exist as such in the College: the department of pharmacy of which Dr. Baldinger was head from 1933 to 1939 when it was discontinued, and the department of agriculture which passed out of existence in 1930. In addition to each department offering the student the opportunity to major in a particular field of science, the College offers three other undergraduate programs: the preprofessional program which prepares men for the medical and dental professions, the general science program for those students who wish to acquire a background in several sciences, and the teacher training program designed to lessen the current shortage of qualified high school science teachers. Of the approximately 700 undergraduates in the College, about one-half are enrolled in the preprofessional program, although the number enrolled in the general science and teacher training programs is l'apidly increasing.
The general objective of the College are stated in the Bulletin of the College of Science:
“The College of Science strives to realize the general objectives of a Catholic university; in a special sense it seeks to inspire a search for learning in the sciences and in the other cultural areas. As a separate college, it is equipped to counsel more closely and intimately those young men whose interests and aptitudes lie in the field of the sciences, so that they may receive sound fundamental training in their chosen field, and also receive a spiritual and intellectual awareness of their responsibilities as scientists toward their fellow men. In order for the student in the sciences to impress his influence for good upon his associates, he must be literate, articulate, self-confident, poised and personable, and morally good. To work toward these goals, the students in the College of Science are assigned to classes with students from other colleges in the University so that they may enjoy a free interchange of ideas and culture, and they are urged to supplement their work in the sciences with a liberal selection of courses in the humanities and in the social sciences.”
The objectives of the College may be summed up by rewording sightly Dr. Baldinger’s statement regarding the aims of the preprofessional program — to read, to provide well trained, God fearing young men to enter their chosen professions, whether it be physics, chemistry, mathematics, Ideology* biology, or any field in which scientific training is instrumental for success.
But the contribution of the College of Science to the scientific world does not lie only in the education of well-trained, God fearing scientists. Through the years various members
of its faculty, through use of its own facilities and those of	, ■
other institutions, have made significant advances in pure	: I
and applied science. Perhaps the most widely known advance Q was Father Julius Nieuwland’s discovery of the basic I4j formulae from which the DuPont Company subsequently de- ■ veloped neoprene, an oil-resistant synthetic rubber. Perhaps ; less widely known is his accidental discovery of Lewisite gas although it was not until after World War I that he realized 1 * that the poisonous gas he stumbled upon in his researches with acetylene was the same as that developed by Dr. W. Lee Lewis of Northwestern University and widely used as a military weapon during the First World War. Probably due .'r to the great secrecy which necessarily surrounded the project, the vital work of several faculty members of the department of physics in the Manhattan Project and the development of atomic energy has not been widely publicized. Equally un- ‘" known to the layman, but equally respected in his own field of medicine is Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel, class of ’37, curently a professor of surgery at Georgetown University, who has । perfected an unusual and successful method that makes surgery possible of theretofore hopeless heart cases. He is the developer of the Hufnagel Heart Valve. Numerous members of the physics, mathematics, chemistry, biology, and geology departments are currently engaged in vital, if ’ less spectacular research projects for the U. S. Government and other agencies. Most of this work, particularly in basic research, seems unspectacular and even unintelligible to the	•
nonscientist, but the past endeavors of these scientists are	’’
proof that the deep respect the scientific world holds for these men and their work is well-grounded.
It is hard to say which of the departments in the College of Science is the most important, for each is vital in its own right, but with the attempt of modern science to provide a ' mathematical description, if not explanation, of the phenomena it treats, the department of mathematics does occupy a unique position.	4 L'
It is only within the last twenty-five years that the mathematics department became a separate unit in the College of Science, instruction in mathematics formerly being the responsibility of the College of Engineering. In the short time of its autonomous ' existence, however, the department has developed into a nationally known and highly respected department, thanks mainly to a first-rate faculty and a sound administration daring enough to . experiment with new mathematical and pedagogical approaches. ।
14
The Scholastic
The department is interested in pure mathematics for its own sake as well as in applied mathematics.
The department currently offers six different programs of undergraduate mathematical instruction: a mathematics major in the College of Science, a strong mathematics program for students in the natural sciences and engineering, two honors programs, one in the College of Arts and Letters, one in the College k of Commerce, plus two additional programs in these colleges. The work of the department in undergraduate instruction is nationally known and is continually being cited as an example of avant-garde mathematical instruction in American universities.
. The graduate school, though still relatively small, has developed tremendously in recent years. In this respect, the mathematics department is not so much interested in quantity as in quality. In the graduate school, the student not only is given first-rate instruction in the various fields of classical and modern mathe-$ matics, but is also introduced to the original research carried on at Notre Dame, and is invited to participate in seminars concerning this original research. The department is strong in almost every field of mathematics, but its current researches are mainly concerned with topology, mathematical analysis, particu-larly functional analysis, number theory, and various algebras. The research in ■ these fields is greatly aided by the availability of one of the country’s finest collections of mathematical works in the College of Science library.
In addition to its own distinguished - faculty, the department is fortunate to ; have had with it within the past two years a number of eminent visiting pro-* fessors such as Dr. Thoralf Skolem from Oslo, Dr. Kurt Mahler from Manchester (England), Dr. Amitsui’ from Jerusalem, Dr. Bambah from India, and Dr. Chowla from Colorado. Its own faculty members are also in demand as visiting professors. Currently Dr. James A. Jenkins is doing research at the Institute ' for Advanced Study at Princeton, N. J., while Dr. Joseph P. LaSalle is on a leave of absence to RIAS (Research Institute for Advanced Study) in Baltimore, Md. Next year Dr. Donald Lewis will be a visiting professor at Cambridge University and the University of Manchester in
■ England.
Dr. Ross foresees a significant expansion in the department as the role of mathematics in almost all fields of study is becoming increasingly important. Already the demands on the department are greater than it could ordinarily handle. But quality will never be sacrificed
■ for mere quantity.
Perhaps the department making the most direct application of mathematics is the
' department of physics. Housed in the Nieuwland Science Hall, as is the depart*
; ment of mathematics, the physics depart-■ ment was formerly under the jurisdiction ; of the College of Engineering, becoming : a part of the College of Science in 1936. | Currently there are over 100 physics majors j October 31, 1958
in the undergraduate division plus 54 graduate students.
While the undergraduate training is designed to prepare the student to enter industry immediately following graduation or to undertake graduate training in physics, the tendency in recent years has been towards graduate work in either fundamental or applied research. The undergraduate program has recently undergone a change in emphasis toward modem physics to meet the demands of the rapid progress physics is making today. Though laboratory and lecture courses in physics and instruction in mathematics constitute the essential part of the undergraduate program, each student takes a liberal number of courses in the humanities, particularly in philosophy. In the six-semester Philosophy of Science sequence, the student is introduced to both classical and modern philosophies, with a special emphasis on their relationships, if any, with science, so that he may understand the methodology of science, its scope and limitations, its validity as a way of knowing, and its place in man’s knowledge of the universe.
While undergraduate laboratory facilities are comparable to any good undergraduate school in physics, the research facilities are ideally suited to the research being carried on, mainly because of the excellent research library and the availability of first-rate shop facilities and technicians. The most valuable asset of the department which the Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., has headed since 1936 is its faculty. In addition to their teaching duties, members of the faculty carry on extensive research here on campus and elsewhere. Many of them have distinguished themselves in their respective fields. For example, Dr. Bernard Waldman and Dr. Walter Miller worked with the Manhattan Project during the Second World War. Dr. Charles Mullin and Dr. Edward Coomes were formerly engaged with the radiation laboratories at MIT. Several members of the faculty are currently consultants for the labora-
tories at Berkeley, California, and Oak Ridge, Tenn., to name just a few of the laboratories at which faculty members assist. Here at Notre Dame, many of them are currently doing basic research for the Atomic Energy Commission, the Office of Naval Research, and other agencies.
The theoretical group, in addition to theorizing about photo-nuclear reactions and other aspects of hi-energy physics and working out a mathematical description of various phenomena in hi-energy physics, develop and examine in detail the theories necessary to explain the results of the experimentalists. The othei’ members of the faculty are also engaged in similar research, which, while rather unspectacular from the layman’s point of view, is very basic to modern science and man’s understanding of the physical universe in which he lives. Research facilities include a horizontal type van de Graff generator for research in low range energy bands (from 1 to 5 mev. Note: 1 mev = one million electron volts), numerous counters and measuring devices, and various other pieces of specialized laboratory equipment.
The department - of chemistry, also located in the Nieuwland Science Hall, likewise is composed of an undergraduate school and a graduate school. There arc also seventeen post-doctoral students carrying on research in the department. The world-wide renown of the department is 3-
15
lustrated by the fact that sixteen of these post-doctorate fellows are from foreign countries.
The undergraduate program is designed to prepare the student for either industrial work at the bachelor’s level or advanced training in chemistry up through the post-doctorate level, though here too the tendency in recent years has been toward advanced training. There are currently 79 undergraduate chemistry majors. Like the undergraduate program for physics students, the undergraduate chemistry program provides for a number of electives in the humanities. It also allows the student to take the education courses required by the various states for a teaching license so that a graduate of the department may immediately take his place in secondary school education.
While the most famous discovery made in the department is that resulting from the acetylene researches of Fr. Nieuw-land, significant, though often unglamor-ous research is being carried on by 17 of the 19 staff members. Much of the research is suported by grants from such government agencies as the AEC (the recent grant of §354,314 to Notre Dame for radiation chemistry research was the largest in the AEC’s current series of 72 unclassified' physical research contracts), the Surgeon-General’s office, the Dept, of the Army Medical Corps, the National Institute of Health and by numerous industrial concerns. Dr. G. Frank D’Alelio, whose specialty is organic chemistry, is currently the head of the department.
The history of biological research at the University is almost as long as the history of the University itself. Present research is carried on in two depart
ments, LOBUND which is an autonomous unit in the University, and the department which is a division of the College of Science.
While the department of biology, which has been located in its own Biology Building since 1936, offers instruction to students who wish to specialize in botany or zoology, the undergraduate department also assumes an important position in the education of the preprofessional student, training him in the fundamentals of zoology, botany, and bacteriology.
There are currently about twenty-five students working for advanced degrees in the biology graduate school. Since most of these students will eventually enter college teaching, a broad, well-balanced training in biology will be of greater value to them than a highly specialized and narrow program. Hence the faculty of the department has been chosen partially for the diversity which the fields of the various members offer, in order to give the student a wide and diverse background in the biological sciences. In addition to their teaching duties, the faculty members also carry on highly independent researches in their own special fields of interest.
Research facilities of the department include geiger counters, x-ray machines, neurophysical equipment, constant temperature rooms, and a greenhouse for plant physiology. The department also edits and publishes an internationally known biology quarterly, The American Midland Naturalist, which this year is celebrating its fiftieth anniversary.
Another department of the College of Science which was formerly a part of the College of Engineering, although not as a distinct unit, is the department of geology, presently located in the south wing of the
fourth floor of the Main Building, the old ? St. Thomas dormitory. The geology de-;? partment was organized to provide service | courses in geology after the department of.s mining and engineering in the College at Engineering was discontinued. The geology ^ department was officially established in^ .i 1948, the same year the B.S. geology;-? major program came into existence at Notre Dame. Two years prior to that, Dr??;? Archie MacAlpine had been hired to or-^ ganize the department in the biology build-;? ing, his efforts being realized in 1948. In?-J 1955 the A.B. geology major option and the ; engineering geology option were added the program. In 1957 the five-year combi??? nation geology-civil engineering program?;^ was added.	ji
In this department also, most of the?J| undergraduates upon receiving their?S bachelor’s degree enter a geology gradu-? « ate school since the demands on aj?® geologist are such that a B.S. is nq^ longer adequate preparation for profes???® sional work. Of the sixty-six graduates?; of the department to date, thirty-seven??: have attended graduate schools in geob?? ogy, with thirteen more currently taking^ graduate work. These men are spread^ about in various graduate schools® throughout the country.
The main purpose of the geology pro~| gram in the College of Science is t^ train the technical, research, and expl<^ ration geologist, although the curricu-® lum allows for a liberal number of elec^ tives in the humanities. The A.B. geol^ ogy program is designed more for the® administrative geologist, while the five?® year civil engineering-geology combina?® tion is primarily for the professional^^ registered geological engineer. All ma-^B jors in the department are required to|U take a summer.field program at some® recognized university’s field station. Atla least one Notre Dame sponsored field® trip during the Easter vacation is also® required. In recent years these latter® trips have been to southwestern United!® States, the Smoky Mountains, and Can-^B ada, the members of the Canadian trip]® covering over three thousand miles ini®
. TAe Scholastu^R
16
eleven days. Last summer Dr. Raymond Gutschick, head of the department since 1948, directed the Indiana University Summer Field Station in Montana.
The five men on the department’s faculty, each with his own field of interest, constitute a well-balanced staff. In addition to Drs. Gutschick and Mac-Alpin, there are Drs. Robert Winklei' and Knowles Smith and the Rev. Michael Murphy. Drs. Gutschick and MacAlpin are currently doing research under the sponsorship of the National Science Foundation, the foimer on Mississippian rocks in Northern Arizona, the latter on glacial geology in the northern part of Michigan’s southern peninsula, though both are curently on campus.
While the achievements of the department have not involved the spectacular, they have been consistently good. Many of its graduates are very successful geologists in the academic and indurtrial world. Its first graduate, incidentally, discovered new oil fields in Illinois, and like several other graduates, now heads his own company.
Dr. Gutschick envisions a great expansion in the department when the department acquires more physical facilities. Current plans call for the department’s removal to the remodeled Old Convent Building where there will be four times as much space as there now is in the department’s present quarters.
All of these departments in the College of Science are greatly aided in their work by the availability of a first-rate collection of scientific literature found chiefly in the Science Library in the Nieuwland Science Hall. Another important contributor to the present success of the College of Science is the Advisory Council on Science and Engineering. This council, which was founded by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, is composed of men from industry and the various scientific and engineering professions who meet twice a year to offer advice on the operation on the College and to help it meet the demands which are being made or will be made upon it.
AT THE ART GALLERY ...
IRISH YESTERDAYS . . .
In the Art Gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall, an interesting photographic exhibit of Irish folk tradition is being held. The change from the old ways to the new has been even more abrupt in Ireland than in many other parts of Western Europe. Thus many older ways of thought and action were fossilized by the exigencies of time and are familiar to those who have met both past and present. These traditions are of great importance as regards the knowledge of historical and cultural development. They have been recorded on film by such agencies as Bord Failte Eireann, National Museum, Irish Times, Irish Press, and the Green Studio, who have loaned the photographs to the Notre Dame Art Gallery. The story they tell is not simply a national one, but one shared by all peoples and nations. The Gallery is open from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m.
October 31, 1958	'
At the Movies
AVON
The Time of Desire: (Oct. 30-Nov. 6). Co-hit — Bullfight.
COLFAX
Man of the West: Oct. 31-Nov. 4). Gary Cooper is still standing at the end of the fightingest, shootingest Western seen in many a day, but all of a gang of train-robbing pluguglies have bitten the dust of northwestern Texas (circa 1874). Cooper then starts westward in a covered wagon with the only other surviving member of the cast, Julie London.
GRANADA
The Big Country: Oct. 31-Nov. 4). The reviews on this thing are so good it’s disgusting. The story in essence is simple, and not a little trite, but cast and direction, color photography and majesty of scenery make it a superior film. It is basically the story of a bitter feud between proud and ruthlessly stubborn ranchers. Gregory Peck, Jean Simmons, Carroll Baker, Charlton Heston, Burl Ives and Technicolor.
Onion Head: (Nov. 6-13). In this mirthful portrayal of World War II life, Coast Guardsman Andy Griffith does for that branch of the service what he did for the army in “No Time for Sergeants.” He plays it straight ' while the gag writers furnish enough material for a field day ashore and afloat with a bit of romance tossed in for good measure.
PALACE
The Blob: (Oct. 31-Nov. 4). Combines science-fiction and horror with a good, stiff shot of mediocrity. Newcomers Gerald Hughes and Aimee McCarron save the proverbial day when they discover CO, will freeze the thing and is the only effective weapon against it.
Co-hit — I Married a Monster from Outer Space: A shotgun wedding, perhaps?
The Tunnel of Love: (Nov. 5 only). On stage. Stars Eddie Bracken.
Around The World in 80 Days: (Nov. 6). Mike Todd’s fabulous extravaganza. Time and money well spent. . .even if you’ve seen it once.
RIVER PARK
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof: (Oct. 31-Nov. 5). This Tennessee Williams play has been given a sound and workmanlike screenplay, with happy results. Cast selection was well-nigh perfect, and performances by Elizabeth Taylor, Paul Newman, Burl Ives and Jack Carson are superlatively good. MetroColor.
Hot Spell: (Nov. 6-8). Shirley Booth, Anthony Quinn.	•
Co-Hit — Maracaibo: Cornel Wilde, Jean Wallace.
STATE
Raw Wind In Eden: Any wind is raw when you’re in the same predicament. I suspect a coat rather than an apple hung from the tree. Color, Jeff Chandler and Esther Williams.	,
Co-Hit — The Saga of Hemp Brown: Stars Rory Calhoun as the traditionally wayward bandit; Judy Trogola as the traditionally wayward woman.
The She-Gods of Shark Reef: (Nov. 2-5). Features Rene Switzer.
Co:Flop — Night of the Blood Beast: Two unknown unknowns provide a comic twist to a cosmic situation. Which is to say pretty girls are not always like melodies, but a friend in need is a friend. Indeed? Intimidates Leslie Shea and Doranne Terhune.
How to Make a Monster: (Nov. 6-9). Sub-titles: “How to Make a Rosemary”; “How to Make a Rose Mjrry”; “How to Make Rose Merry.” Headlines Robert Harris and Rosemary Fritz.
Teenage Cave Man: Co-Hit.
I ________________________________________________________________________—.
17
Professor Maynard Mack of Yale University Delivers Four Lectures on Shakespeare
Hamlet is a story of conflicts. Hamlet and Claudius are mirror images, each the reverse of the other. There are three sons whose fathers have been killed, and each seeks vengeance on the person responsible. Fortinbras, Hamlet, and Laertes have all lost their fathers, through deaths, honorable or dishonorable. Further conflict results from inner upheavals, both in Hamlet and King Claudius. Claudius’ conscience bothers him, and the intelligent Hamlet worries lest his revenge on Claudius be wrong.
The world of King Lear is a world of violence and pain. The mood of the
Get a head start on your vacation!
FLY UNITED AIK UNIS
Going home for the holidays? Or maybe planning a trip somewhere? You’ll have extra days for extra fun if you travel via United. Chances are you’ll save money, too. United Air Coach Mainliner® fares are low. Your choice of fast, convenient schedules to 80 major cities coast to coast and Hawaii. See your Travel Agent or call your nearest United Air Lines office today.
play is interrogative, not doubtful, as is Hamlet. Violence is thrust upon us with no motivation or delineation. The crucial option deciding the whole of the action comes at the outset, as the killing of the albatross in Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
The predominating image through Lear is “the family of man.” The characters decompose into opposite: good against evil, natural ties against contracted ties, clairvoyant against naive. The problem is presented, what is a knave? and what is a man? The word man appears seventy times, more than
any othei’ repetition in Shakespeare.
Lear and Gloucester are both victims of consequence and discoverers of the community of man. Gloucester is a sensual, conforming, complacent man, on the surface a man, but inwardly blind and lacking insight. But in Act III, when he is blind on the surface, insight comes to him. Lear’s madness makes him ask what is sanity? This is insight for him. The metaphysical problem what is Man? is an important one, and one not readily solved.
The essential conflict is between Antony, representing the reason of Rome, and Cleopatra, the energy, the lasciviousness of Egypt. The play is elemental, dealing in the air, earth, fire, and water of Empedocles. The substantialness of the earth is Rome, the whole world. The water of the Nile, overflowing, is Egypt and the many facets of Cleopatra. The

fire corresponds to the queen’s death, holding the asp to her breast, and the air is their escape, dying to be immortal in love. They both rise to death as to a lover’s bed, and death is like a lover’s pinch—it hurts, but represents desire.
If, for Shakespeare, Hamlet was a Purgatorio and Lear an Inferno, then Antony and Cleopatra was his Paradiso. ; Cleopatra is a most unqueenly queen, Antony an elderly playboy, “fixated,— too old for adolescent fixations, but nev- : ertheless fixated.”	'
There is no finality of criticism or : meaning to The Tempest. The mode is first of all the illusionist versus the psychological. But secondly it is emblema- j tic, and some of the significance of the : pattern of ideas a character follows is not clear to the character himself. This : is not so in other plays, as Hamlet, where Hamlet intelligently examines all the paths open to him.	j
Nature is opposed to art in The Tern- j pest, or better, nature versus nurture. : Most of the action occurs previous to the • time of the play, and the play is spent ' in restoration rather than destruction. . The two opening scenes juxtapose Mi- ■ randa’s naivete and Prospero’s calm ; knowledge, prefiguring the end of the i play, where the lovers are seen playing chess, signifying Miranda’s approach to reality in this highbrow pastime.
—by Lyn Relph
18
The Scholastic
Crippled Brennanmen At Baltimore Before
(Continued from page 11) liam and Mary, Boston University, Michigan, and Penn. Only Michigan gave the Navy squad any trouble, but they went down, 20-14.
The Navy fullback, Ray Wellborn, is a player well-remembered from last year’s Homecoming game here at Notre Dame which the Irish lost, 20-6. Wellborn scored all three Navy touchdowns in the contest and for his efforts was named the Associated Press “Back of the Week."
The halfback posts are filled by veteran team Captain Dick Dagampat and junior Roland Brandquist. Dagampat, 5-8 and 170 pounds, is a two-year letter winner and was the star of a 7-7 tie with Army his sophomore year. Brandquist is also a small ball carrier weighing in at 175. He made one of the Navy scores last Saturday.
Quarterback is held down by Tran-chini, who understudied All-American Tom Forrestal last year. Tranchini is 6-0 and 187 pounds.
The center post is held down by senior Milan Moncilovich. Moncilovich was a starter the last half of the 1957 season and starred in Navy’s Cotton Bowl victory over Rice.
One guard slot will be anchored by two-year letter winner George Fritzinger. Fritzinger is 5-10 and 195. The other guard position has Don Chomicz, a 6-0, 190-pound senior, and Ed Bannan, also a senior, fighting it out for a starting berth.
The Navy suffered a big loss at tackle when All-American Bob Reifsnyder was injured early this season. Coach Eddie Erdelatz is doubtful whether he will be
seeing any action at all tomorrow. In his position at right tackle will be eithei-220-pound sophomore Ron Erchul or junior Bill Thomas. The other tackle slot will be filled by Larry Boyer, a 214-
pound junior.
At right end will be two-year letter winner John Kanuch. Kanuch caught six touchdown passes last year despite being out for four games due to a leg injury. Kanuch is 6-2 and weighs in at 190.
Tom Hyde is the other starting end for the Middies. Hyde is a letterman from last year’s squad when he understudied Pete Jokanovich.
This is the 32nd meeting of the two teams, a series which has continued unbroken since its origin in 1927. The Irish have won 24 and there has been one tie. Navy, however, has won the last two contests by wide margins.
The Irish will be hampered by the loss of first-string tackle Bronko Na-gurski, who suffered a severe knee injury in the Purdue game, and guard Jim Schaaf, who probably won’t see
Face Middle Gridders Irish Student Body
more than limited action aftei- recovering from an ear infection.
Last Saturday the Irish spotted the Boilermakers a 26-7 lead early in the second half and then fought back in a desperate bid to overtake the Purdue squad. The Irish fought down to the wire and had the fans on their feet when they lost the ball on downs on the Purdue 27 with only 1:17 left in the ball game.
Purdue won the toss and elected to kick off. After holding the Irish on downs they gave the Notre Dame eleven a break when Ross Fichtner, Boilermaker quarterback, fumbled after a jarring
FLYING TACKLE BRINGS DOWN IRISH BACK Leonard Wilson of Purdue (43) leaves his feet to drop Irish right halfback Bob
Scarpitto (37) for a loss. Scarpitto was trying to swing wide around his own right end when Wilson and Jerry Beabout (76) broke through to stop the play. The Irish, hampered by serious injuries, fell behind and fought back well but lost to Purdue, 29-22.
tackle by ND center Bob Scholtz. Monty ■ Stickles recovered on the Purdue 30.
Bob Williams passed 14 yards to Bob Wetoska on the Purdue 15-yard line. Three plays later, Williams faked a pass and broke out of the pocket and raced nine yards for the score. Stickles made it 7-0 with a perfect place kick. The score came with 9:41 left in the quarter.
Late in the same period Purdue got a break when Nick Pietrosante’s punt sailed out of bounds on the Irish 28. Six plays later fullback Bob Janis scored the first of his three TD’s. Fichter’s kick was good, and with 43 seconds left in the quarter the score was knotted at 7-7.
In the second canto Purdue drove to the ND 15, but Dick Royer stopped Clyde Washington short on a fourth down try.
The Boilermakers kicked off to start the second half and got the break that
started Purdue’s surge to a 26-7 lead. Jim Crotty fumbled the kickoff and the Boilermakers recovered on the Irish 21. Six plays later Jarus went over from
the one for a 13-7 lead.
Two plays later Leonard Wilson intercepted a William’s pass and returned to the four-yard line. Jarus plunged over on the first play and Purdue led, 19-7.
Notre Dame failed to gain a first down after the ensuing kickoff and punted to their own 43. Two plays later Jack Laraway broke over his own right tackle on a 28-yard TD jaunt. Fichter’s kick was good and, with 7:18 left in the third quarter, Purdue led 26-7.
In the fourth quarter the Big Green opened their bag of offensive tricks, and George Izo treated the home folks to a comeback attempt that almost succeeded.
The Irish took possession of the ball after a Purdue punt went out of bounds on the Notre Dame 34. Ron Toth got three, then an Izo to Bill Mack pass was ruled complete on the Purdue 26 because of interference. On the next play Izo hit Stickles in the end zone as Stickles took the ball away from three Purdue defenders for the score. His kick made it 26-14.
Purdue got a field goal later in the period after taking possession of the kickoff on the ND 46. They marched to the Irish 10 where “Skip” Ohl booted the three pointer.
After the kickoff, with Izo operating out of the spread formation, the Big Green marched 67 yards in 12 plays only to lose the ball on a fumble on the Purdue two-yard line.
(Continued on page 21)
October 31, 1958
19
TIME OUT
Last Saturday the Notre Dame football team lost to a Purdue team that was very heavy through the line and was the best team faced by the Irish so far this year, according to Coach Terry Brennan in a postgame statement.
In the first four games of the year, the Irish stopped themselves with fumbles, intercepted passes, and penalties. Last Saturday again fumbles and intercepted passes hurt the Irish. Two of the three touchdowns Purdue scored early in the second half resulted directly from an intercepted pass and a fumble.
But it was also obvious that the thing that hurt the Irish the most was something that was beyond their control—the loss of too many key ballplayers. There is no need to elaborate on the various injuries. Let it suffice to say that the Irish were crippled severely in the line by the end of the game with the loss of the first four tackles and the top two guards.
TOP MEN HURT
Jim Schaaf didn’t play at all, and Bronko Nagurski didn’t play after a first quarter injury. Before the game was over, Al Ecuyer, Chuck Pun-tillo, Frank Geremia, and Don Lawrence were handicapped, some seriously, by injuries. And the inability of Nick Pietrosante to play up to his normal performance also hurt the team.
When one considers that Notre Dame was playing without the entire middle of its line, except for the center position, and without its hardest-running back and playing a team which capitalizes on its size in the middle of the line, it seems surprising that the Irish did as well as they did.
Purdue figured to run all over the weakened Irish line, but they did only once, in the first seven and one-half minutes of the second half. Unfortunately for the Irish, this was enough to win. But it is all to the credit of the Notre Dame reserves that they were able to stop the onslaught of Purdue touchdowns and provide last quarter heroics that came close to winning the ball game.
TEAM SPIRIT
It would have been remarkable enough if the team had been at full strength and had rebounded as the Irish did last Saturday. But it is all the more an indication of the spirit of the team as an integrated unit that the second- and third-stringers not only halted the massive Boilermaker line but pushed across two scores and tallied a safety in the final quarter.
Ever since the game was over, there has been a lot of mumbling and disapproval expressed regarding the performance of the team. Some feel that they aren’t producing as well as they should be. But how can anyone ask for any more effort and solid football than the undermanned Irish displayed in the last quarter of the Purdue game?
While it is true that the squad will be missing some key players tomorrow, a number of those who couldn’t play last Saturday will be ready for Navy. As good as the Navy team is, they don’t seem to be as powerful in the line as the Boilermakers were, and possibly those reserves who played more last Saturday than they ever had before will be able to step in just a little more capably with their game experience.
ACTIVE COACHES
Another factor which points to an improved performance by the Irish tomorrow, besides the fact that the team figures to be in better physical condition than they were last week, is that each week Coach Brennan is developing some new offensive weapon to throw against the opposition. Against Army it was the end-in-motion; against Duke it was the flanked backs and wide plays; against Purdue it was the spread. This shows that tiie coaching staff is not complacently watching the team’s performances but is actively searching for every new formation and stratagem that might surprise the opposition.
With this spirit among even the reserves on the team and with a coaching staff and a head coach that are doing their best each week to improve the team game by game, the Irish figure to play well enough tomorrow and in each succeeding game to make any student body proud of them and want to support than.—T.T.
Stickles Top Scorer, Has 31 Points So
End Monty Stickles, a junior fraM^ Poughkeepsie, N.Y., retained his lea^^^ scoring for the Irish with 31 poim^|| Stickles has four touchdowns, four tra points, and a field goal to his cred^^§ Senior quarterback Bob Williams follows# with three touchdowns and Sophomd^^jfj Bill (Red) Mack has two touchdownsjto# his credit. The only other scores for tiSiL§S Irish have been two safeties, one each;# by Myron Pottios and Nick Pietrosanie2#j
Fullback Pietrosante is the rushirigg| leader for the Irish. Pietrosante lu^^ gained 286 yards in 64 carries for a 4^# average. Halfback Mack has run 34# times for 225 yards and a 6.6 average# while Williams has picked up 107 yards^il in 31 rushes. Fullbacks Norm Odyniec#-and Ron Toth each have gained 97 yards# rushing.	##
George Izo, junior quarterback, is the^ leader in the percentage of pass con^gj pletions with 43 per cent. Izo has com## pleted 11 of 26 passes for 168 yards# and two touchdowns. Williams has cornea pleted 19 of 50 for 182 yards and twoj^|
touchdowns also.

Halfback Jim Crotty is the leading^ pass receiver with seven catches for 32g# yards. End Bob Wetoska has grabbed# six passes for 82 yards. Stickles has|g caught five passes for 94 yards and fourg^ touchdowns. Mack has picked up 80fe yards on three catches.
•
Sophomore halfbacks Bob Scarpittog^ and Crotty each have returned two punts® for 29 yards to lead in punt returns. Q
Pietrosante has punted 17 times for|#|3 571 yards, giving him a 33.6 averag^S per try.
Defensively, Co-Captain Al Ecuyer has# been a stalwart although he has beeng injured for the past two games. HeS leads in tackles with 24. Sophomore cen-^ ter Pottios follows with 19. Don Law-g rence has 16 tackles and Jim Schaaf an<18 Pietrosante 15 each.
Stickles leads in fumble recoveries^ with two. Williams has intercepted two3| passes and broken up three.	g
In the five games to date, the Irish 8 have scored 65 points to the opponents’^ 56. While the total offense of the Irish | has gained 1556 yards, the defense has I held the opposition to 1142 yards. Notre I Dame has outrushed their opponents g 1083 to 756 and also has outpassed | them 473 to 386. The Irish have con- I nected on 34 of 85 passes for 40 per ■ cent. The opponents also have a 40 per ■ cent completion average, having connected on 32 of 79.
Statistically, the Irish have been hampered by fumbles. They have lost possession of the ball on 13 out of 18 fumbles while the opponents have lost the ball on seven occasions. The Irish have also lost the ball ten times on intercepted passes.
The Scholastic
20
Sailors Capture Second At Boilermaker Regatta
The Notre Dame sailing team captured second place, close behind a good University of Michigan team, in the Purdue Invitational regatta last week end. The competition was held at Shafer Lake, Ind.
Only five points separated the two teams at the finish of the regatta, and at one stage of the meet the Irish trailed by only two points.
Irish skippers Mickey Pavia and Dan Schuster consistently finished in the top half of the fleet, and by keeping clear of fouls they managed to finish twelve points ahead of the third place team, Detroit.
This is the best showing to date of the steadily improving Irish sailors. The Purdue regatta is also significant since the Irish there defeated two of the teams they will meet in the Timme Angsten Eliminations which will be held at Purdue Oct. 8-9.
Pavia took high point honors in the “A” division, and Schuster was second high point skipper in the “B” division. Doing the crewing for the Notre Dame skippers in the shifting wind were Tim Sharon, Tony Bill, and John Kroha.
Tyler’s Picks of the Week
Notre Dame over Navy Army over Colgate Penn State over Furman Pittsburgh over Syracuse Alabama over Georgia Auburn over Florida Duke over Georgia Tech Mississippi State over Kentucky Purdue over Illinois Minnesota over Indiana Iowa over Michigan Texas Christian over Baylor Southern Methodist over Texas Oregon State over California Air Force over Oklahoma State Southern California over Stanford Missouri over Nebraska
THIS IS THE YEAR Colorado over Oklahoma
CAN’T LOSE THREE Michigan State over Wisconsin
WILL IT LAST?
Northwestern over Ohio State
BATTLE OF THE UNBEATEN Mississippi over Louisiana State
THE LITTLE WORLD SERIES Akron U. over Hiram
October 31, 1958
Detroit Bowlers Lead Two Campus Leagues
The Kampus Keglers finished another round of competition last week. The biggest surprise of the week was the unseating of the Northwest Motors team from first place in League Three by the Detroit “C” bowlers.
The Holy Rollers and the Detroit Club share the lead in League One with identical 7-2 records. The Architects are third. The Rollers have knocked down 7406 pins and the Detroit Club has accounted for 7808.
In League Two the Bohemians have an 11-1 record for the top spot. Tied for second are the Handy 6’s and the Texas Club. They both have 7%-4j4 records.
As mentioned above the Detroit “C” team has wrested the lead from the Northwest Motors in League Three. The leaders have a 10-2 record, followed by Chicago with 9-3 and the Motors with 8-4. In total pins, however, the Motors still lead with 7829, Detroit having 7472 and Chicago 7194.
In League Four the Michellos have posted an 8-1 mark to take the lead. Trailing them are the Ten Pins, last week’s leaders, and the Cleveland Club “A” in that order.
The top team effort for three games belongs to the N-W Motors with 2780. They also have one of the best individual game scores of 987. Other top scores are three game totals of 2741 by the Detroit Club and 2749 by the Cleveland Club “A.” The Cleveland Club has a 1006 game which leads the Keglers in the single team game department.
Jim Flannery has taken the lead from Tom Jablonski among the individual bowlers. Flannery has an average of 188 to 185 for Jablonski. Flannery bowls for the Cleveland Club “A” and Jablonski for the Northwest Motors.
The Keglers are planning a sixth league if enough teams can be found who are interested in competing.
Notre Dame-Navy
(Continued from page 19)
On the first play, however, Pietrosante dropped Laraway for a safety and the lead was cut to 29-16.	.
Izo and Stickles teamed up for another Irish score on the first play after the free kick. The play covered 43 yards. Pietrosante’s pass for a two-point conversion was broken up by a host of Boilermakers, and with 2:28 to play Purdue led, 29-22.
Izo recovered the onside kick on the 46-yard line of Purdue. He gained eleven to the 35. His pass was good to Pietrosante for eight more. Two passes fell incomplete, and with 1:21 to play Toth was held short of a first down, giving Purdue the victory.
After the game Coach Terry Brennan stated that “defensive mistakes hurt us bad, but the guys never gave up and we almost won anyway.”
Dillon, Stanford, Zahm Win; Six Elevens Still Undefeated
Sharp defensive play and two high-scoring games marked last Sunday’s interhall football competition as six teams still remain unbeaten.
Dillon, seeking the league lead, defeated the Howard squad, 12-0. Al Chon-ko sparked the Dillon eleven with a magnificent 65-yard run and then plunged over from the one for the score. The passing combination of Orsi to Heenan was good for 40 yards and Dillan’s first
IN1HMALL ACTION A determined back crashes through
touchdown. Tom Brinkworth, Pete Mootz, and Dave Fay were the defensive stalwarts in holding the Howard team scoreless.
Penalties and injuries were common as the representatives of St. Edward’s
and Breen-Phillips halls ended in a 0-0	.
tie in a rugged defensive battle.	.
Farley and Zahm, both previously undefeated, also clashed last Sunday with Zahm winning, 8-6. Juliano racked up the six-pointer for Zahm with Highwa-ter going over for the game winning PAT. Dan McGinnus scampered 25 yards to paydirt for Farley’s lone tally.
The Off-Campus eleven, also previously unbeaten, were crushed by a strong ; Stanford squad, 25-0. Stanford still remains undefeated although they have ; been tied by Farley. Five men accounted . . for Stanford’s 25 points. John Tidge* well, Harry Brown, Bob Naro, and Jim Davis each scored a TD. Bob Connelly > added the extra point after their last ,; touchdown.	.	;
Ron Pyle and Steve Loroux paced the :	'
Cavanaugh gridders in their 22-0 win over Keenan. In holding the thrice- . . • beaten Keenan squad scoreless, the Cav- . anaugh line was led by Ed. Abel and . ~ Tray Hekan.	; ;
The undefeated teams:	•	\ /
W. L. T.	,
Badin___________________2 - 0	0,	/
Sorin 2	0	0	\
Dillon 2	0	-0...
Stanford------------------2	0	1-./
Zahm ___________________ 2	0 '	11 . f )'-
Cavanaugh ....------------2	0	.

Irish Second in N.D. Meet; Run at Lancing Tomorrow
Tomorrow the Notre Dame harriers will go against Wisconsin and Michigan State on Michigan State’s national collegiate championship course. The seven men who will represent the Irish will be Ron Gregory, Dave Cotton, Galen Cawley, Mike Haverty, Dennis Johnston, Dave Wehlage, and Charles Fernald.
So far Coach Wilson’s boys have won two meets and lost one. Their one loss occurred last Friday in the third annual Notre Dame Invitational.
The meet was won by Western Michigan with 23 points as their runners captured the first three places. The Irish finished second with 41 points while Michigan came in third with 88 points.
Dave Cotton led the Irish runners, finishing fourth with a time of 20 minutes flat over the four-mile course. Ron Gregory finished four seconds behind him for fifth place and Galen Cawley, Mike Haverty, and Dennis Johnston finished in eighth, ninth, and 15th places respectively.
Despite the youthful team’s loss Coach Wilson says his boys are in better shape than they have ever been and that, if they keep running the way they have been, they will have a better than average chance to win the NCAA championship for the second year in a row.
Sixth Festival of Arts Begins November 9^ Contemporary Painting Shown in Art Gcdleiti
The sixth annual Festival of Arts, featuring an outstanding exhibition of contemporary painting and sculpture, will open at the Art Gallery in O’-Shaughessy Hall, November 9.
The highlights of the week-long festival will include a reception of artists, art students, and official guests on the opening day; a program of readings by Pulitzer Prize winning poet Richard Wilbur; a lecture by James Johnson Sweeney, director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City; and a concert by the Per Musica Chamber Orchestra.
The contemporary art show will feature 45 paintings and 25 pieces of sculpture assembled from New York dealers. Among the artists represented are Josef Albers, Arthur Osver, Karl Zerbe, Seymour Fogel, and Eugene Berman. Sculptors whose works are exhibited include Georges Braque, Mary Callery, Gerhard Mareks, Mirko, William Zorach, and Etienne Hajou.
The art festival will last only one week, but the contemporary art show will continue through November 30. Gallery hours are 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily during the festival week and 1 to 5 p.m. thereafter.
Wilbur, recipient of a number of litfeqq erary awards and author of several^ volumes of poetry, will give a program; rj of readings from his own works in tfieq 1 gallery, November 10 at 8 p.m. Wilbur j.d won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry last f year.	; ; -
Sweeney, authoi’ and editor of numer- J ous fine ails books and articles and producer of several art films, will give " a J public lecture on “Contemporary Art” in-S the University gallery on November 11 I at 8 p.m.	, } ;
Per Musica Chamber Orchestra will ' J present a varied concert program which 5 includes the premiere performance of an “Overture for Flute, Clarinet, Horn, and; j Strings,” by Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., I head of the music department. The con- I cert will be held in the art gallery No- J vember 12 at 8 pan.	J
The orchestra is directed by Rocco 1 Germano and Charles Biondo.	1
Robert Dempsey, Jr., a senior from | Elm Ulm, Minn., is chairman of the stu- j dent festival committee. Other members, | of the committee are Robei-t Dini, Win- | netka, Ill.; Lucio Noto, Englewood Cliffs, 11 NJ.; Charles Ladner, Essex Falls, N.J.; < and Joseph Harrison, Santa Barbara, Calif.

Senior engineering students...
Kearfott will be on the Notre Dame campus
November 6,1958
KEARFOTT CAPAMJTIES NKUBE:
interviewing for
ASSISTANT PROJECT ENGINEERS
Responsible training-program assignments offer varied experience, and a chance to select the work you prefer for long-range growth. For example, let’s examine the present training of Larry Wood, class of ’58:
Larry chose the Navigational Systems Laboratory for his initial assignment. Here, he is working on the inertial guidance system for the SUBROC missile; he selects components such as networks and gear trains, specifies parameters such as amplifier gain, and is studying possible alternates to the present system. If Larry requests permanent assignment in this Lab, he will write design specifications, sketch originals, and supervise draftsmen in the preparation of final prints. He will coordinate the efforts of engineers from supporting groups, supervise technicians performing final systems tests and developing required
Wood, BSEE, University of Maine, June, 1958
supporting test equipment.
Larry is helping Kearfott grow, and he is growing with it. Similar opportunities exist for this year’s EE and ME graduates. Please see your Placement Director for additional information and for an appointment.
Kearfott Company, Inc. 1600 Main Avenue, Clifton, N. J.

22
The Scholastic
$500 Prize Offered For Best Book Report
A $500 prize will be given for the best critical appraisal of the new book, Some Of My Best Friends Are Professors, written by Professor George Williams of the Rice Institute. The contest is open to all upperclassmen: sophomores, juniors, and seniors.
The manuscripts of the analyses of the book are to be sent to the publisher, Abelard-Schuman Limited, before February 1, 1959; the prize-winner will be announced on March 15, 1959. Entry blanks can be obtained by writing to the publisher’s office, 404 Fourth Ave., New . York, 16, N.Y. All manuscripts are to be no fewer than 3,000 words and no more than 10,000 words.
In the book, Dr. Williams warns that there is only one way to be a good professor, but there are at least seven ways to be a very bad one. Dr. Williams is concerned with the failures and fail-i ings in the American university today and is convinced that these failures stem from the ineptitude, timidity, and inadequacy of too many professors.
According to Dr. Williams the bad professors fall in the following categories: stupid, smug, arrogant, researchish, “palsy-walsy,” complacent, and the business-like. The opposite characteristics provide at least a clue to the seven qualities possessed by the “good professor.”
Bookstore Move Killed
During Senators’ Debate
Struggling to absolve itself from the criticism heaped upon it for the rather poor debate of the previous week, the Senate last Monday reconsidered the resolution condemning the bookstore and defeated it 14-6.
However, the Senate narrowly averted an even more ignominous action when Ed Butler, junior class president, whose , personal courage no one questions, withdrew a motion he had previously submitted, which would have removed the whole issue from the record. John Hayward, senior class president, spoke vehemently against the motion, insisting that “our constituents have a right to know of our vacillations.”
This gave more emphasis to the statements of treasurer Bruce Babbit and sophomore senator John Patton, that the Senate must face up to the issue. Patton drew much praise in the conversation outside the meeting for his part in the whole affair.
Patton, when the Senate had beaten the resolution, asked for a round of applause for Stay Senator Herb Riband, who had begun the debate with an apology for his lack of preparation the week before.
■ It will be “Standing Room Only” next week when Vice President Bill Graham presents his case for partisan political clubs on campus.
—Jim Byrne
October 31, 1958
Campus News Briefs
Water leaking from an overflowing water basin on an upper floor of Sorin Hall tripped a fire alarm, calling city fire equipment to a no-fire situation. With sirens blaring and lights flashing, the fire engine was involved in an accident in South Bend. A second alarm came in an hour later but was recognized this time as a false alarm.
Eugene H. Klaber, a noted authority on housing, addressed students and faculty of the architecture department yesterday afternoon. His subject was housing development and town planning.
Mr. Klaber is a Fellow of the American Institute of Architects and is a member of many planning and development institutes. As an educator he served as Director of Division of Planning and Housing, School of Architecture Columbia University from 1944-46. In his professional capacity, he is a housing and town consultant.
His lecture was part of a series of speakers which the architecture department is presenting.
A Ford Foundation grant of $88,000 has been awarded to the U. S. National Student Association for a four-year renewal of its Foreign Student Leadership Project.
The Foreign Student Leadership Project is a four-year-old NSA program under which student leaders from Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America spend a year at selected American colleges and universities.
Keep On Your Toes With NOQOZ
When the student body sits in class all day, getting numb at both ends, be crazy like a fox. Keep on your toes with NoDoz. Be alert for late-hour studying and hep on late dates. Safe as coffee and much more convenient.
"kNotetoPrexy:
NoDoz will keep your Facultiez alert,
The FSLP program emphasizes development of leadership skills, professional abilities, and experience with democratic institutions among the student leaden of aforementioned areas.	.
The National Teacher Examinations will be given Saturday, Feb. 7, 1959. At the one day testing session, a candidate may take the Common Examinations, which include tests in professional information, general culture, English expression, and nonverbal reasoning. The candidate may also take one or two of eleven optional examinations designed to demonstrate mastery of subject matter to be taught.
On a recent NBC Philharmonic Orchestra radio performance, the “Third Symphony” of Dr. John J. Becker was performed with Leonard Bernstein conducting. Becker is a former faculty member of Notre Dame and onetime head of the music department. The program also included Van Clibum playing the Rachmaninoff Concerto which won him the Moscow Prize for piano.
A new chairman of the Lay Board of Trustees has been selected for St. Mary’s College. He is William Miller, a graduate of Wabash College and Notre Dame. He is president of the J. E. Porter Corp, and active in various Illinois activities. Other new board members are Frank O’Laughlin, and Francis Jones, both Notre Dame graduates.
YOUR NAME BRAND JEWELER IN SOUTH BEND . . .
Watches by
• OMEGA
• BULOVA
• LONGINES
• HAMILTON
• LE COULTHE
• WITTNAUER
• PATEK PHILIPPE
Diamonds by Keepsake & Artcarved
•	GOLD & STERLING CHARMS
•	RELIGIOUS JEWELRY
•	BIRTHSTONE RINGS
•	COSTUME JEWELRY
•	MEWS JEWELRY
•	GIFTS
WATCH AND CLOCK REPAIR HAND ENGRAVING
121 WASHINGTON	CE 4-1311
Doctor Tells Students Co-eds1 Lack Harmful
“We (Catholic colleges and universities, including Notre Dame) are far behind in this regard (co-education). The barracks-room approach to higher education which results when 5,000 young men are hurled together without the
from our University Shop
OUR RACCOON COLLAR OUTERCOAT and a new reversible short coat
For football weekends and rugged campus wear, we offer our good-looking raccoon collar outercoat of heavy tan cotton twill, fully lined with Orlon* pile for extra warmth. Even sizes 36 to 42. $80
Also our new reversible short coat of tan cotton with red wool lining. Both sides are water-repellent. Even sizes 36
$40
to 42.
•DuPont’s fiber
Hom JtaishUuj£flats Shots
74 E. MADISON ST, NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YOU • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FKANOSCO
leavening influence of women has no beneficial aspects that I can see. In addition, it serves to break down the selfpride and standards of conduct of the men involved.”	■
This statement was made by Dr.
SENIOR BAU CHAIRMAN
Applications for general chairmawg? of the Senior Ball will be accepted^ up until midnight on Monday. They|>2 may be sent to John Hayward, 103g Walsh, Mark Shields in 51 Soring or Dennis Nead in 266 Alumni. Twig position is open to all seniors.
George A. Constant, of Victoria, Tex., who is specialist in neuropsychiatry.
Constant spoke on psychiatric problems': of the teen-ager in a lecture at Wash? ington Hall.
He went on to suggest a program of awarding school letters for academic; achievement, much in the same way that, athletic letters are awarded. He felt that Notre Dame, with its country-wide ath| letic reputation, would be an excellent^ place to begin this movement on the? college level. It has already been initig ated by a few high schools.	g
The doctor selected the varsity-type letter as a means of honoring academic; excellence because it is “a symbol, read-?) ily recognized by other young people^ that is respected.”	?
Dr. Constant emphasized the three"' “A’s” in the raising of children. He list-g^ ed these as being acceptance, affection,®?
and approval. He stressed the fact that;
a
LU dppiUVdl. UC BUCMCU VAiC	VAXWUg 'r
small child, although unable to speak, ? J * crf-ill gayica iia ar/’Anffi'nPA nr
can still sense its acceptance or rejec-^gs'
tion the minute an adult enters the room, gg “Children must be accepted for what;g^ they are, not for what they do,” he^j? f claimed.
Affection speaks for itself, but in re-g^'
gards to approval, he emphasized that®^
g<*rUS LU	U Vdly lit?	ulld
it should be positive and definite. ToogO often, when a child accomplishes some-OB
thing, it is taken for granted, as some-^ thing he should have done.
A major point of his talk was the pre-g^ ventive psychiatry that many persons,? especially parents, can practice. At cer-^ tain times and places, children should be encouraged to express their feelings g and talk over their gripes. They should be allowed to realize that they have as® much right to expression as adults. How- g ever, he did not wish this to be inter-, preted as advocating the principles of the “progressive school of education,” where a child is never to be restrained.


KNIGHTS APPLICATION
Applications for membership in the University Council of the Knights of Columbus will be accepted today in the Council Chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall. The time for these applications to be turned in is from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. The Knights offer many advantages to members. In addition to the eco-. nomically sound life insurance plan, there are numerous social and fraternal activities throughout the year. The Knights’ Annual Spring Picnic is a high spot of their year.
?■
The Scholastic
Baroness Delivers Talk On Germany's Recovery
Last Monday evening the Notre Dame campus was visited by the Baroness Elisabeth von Guttenberg. The Baroness in her lecture at the LaFortune Student Center, spoke of Germany’s postwar recovery and of the spiritual rebirth of Germany and the entire Western World in the past few years.
We are entering a new age, said the Baroness, an age of Christian spirit. The age of the godless anti-Christ as described by Nietzsche is gone. It was experienced by the world in the decade between the two world wars and ended in the dust and rubble of Nazi Germany.
The new Germany, she said, and the entire Western world now bask in material prosperity. It is up to the people of Western civilization as a whole to keep a Christian spirit in the face of material comforts and the Communist’s godless ideology. The Baroness reminded the audience of the Holy Father’s plea to the laity in this regard.
The Baroness also spoke briefly of her part in the plot against Hitler, and of her present role in the Christian Democratic Party in Germany.
Student Body President Denny Shaul thanked the Baroness for her visit and presented her* with the book, Notre Dame, One Htindred Years.
KGDLANSIAER
1QIJIW LBUKY art BMK SHIP
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
□□□ SDQEE sbb amnEG]
ESQ BDQ
□□a
□sansEnas
□□as EBasasa
EEQQ
SEB S
□bbeb i ns
□□bed
□□BEE
anas
□ns
□EEnnsB eebb EES aDBSHBEQS □□□ QBEE0 SUH □BE BBBEBSBn
StaHch from Mots •to Snow Resh KODL
Mr. Schoonhoven Tells Club Of Need for New Labor Law
Speaking before the Labor Management club last week, Ray J. Schoonhoven, ’42, now partner in a leading Chicago labor law firm, stressed the need for extensive labor law reforms if a balance of powers at the bargaining table is to be achieved.
Specifically, Schoonhoven advocated closing loopholes in the Taft-Hartley Act which, in effect, permit secondary boycott practices against employers not directly involved in a labor dispute. He also called for legislation banning recognition and organizational picketing where unions do not represent the ma-jority„of the employees.
Mr. Schoonhoven criticized the welfare fund legislation passed by Congress this year, stating that it indiscriminately lumped employer operated pension funds with union administered funds.
Ray J. Schoonhoven was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1942 and became an officer in the United States Navy. In 1948 he received his LL.B. from the Northwestern University Law School.
Chairman of the meeting at which Labor Management club president. The speaker was introduced by Dr.. Richard Mr. Schoonhoven spoke was Jim Sutter, Martin Lyon, club moderator.
October 31, 1958
■WB
Back PatfC
the ethi®
*
by BOB VONDRASEK
of creativity
The image of God in man is the most beautiful and most terrible truth in Catholicism. It is the source of hope and despair. It is the vitality of meaning within our faith and existence. In the world of today, it is a barren theological fact.
Every kind of perfection in everything like the perfection of God, ontological and not only moral perfection, all fullness of being, must be a participant in eternal life. The immanence of God in man has made this presumption won-drously possible, that the image of God the Creator exists in man, that man being a creator in his divine human nature fashions his creativity as a continuation of God’s original act of creation. Christians have too often reduced the whole issue to a mere submission of the creativity of man in all spheres of cultural and social life to religion and to religious authority.
Creativity is a justification for art, for creative philosophy, for all the activities of man; most of all, it roots out man from passivity, from inertia, from resignation, and yet it is fundamentally opposed to the modem idea of man which requires him to be always doing things for the good of society. This vision of man-creator must permeate all existence; it must encompass the fields of science, philosophy, art, and ethics.
The traditional Christian morality, especially, has not been creative; the morality of love, of creativity, of the New Testament has not been realized. The religion of Christ has become from the nominal meaning of religion, a binding force, a subjection and submission to the law, a morality of fear and worry, a reversion to Old Testament morality.
Is it enough that man save his soul?
Nicholas Berdyaev, commenting in his extraordinary book, The Meaning of the Creative Act, states the problem daringly:
“For man’s eternal life does God require only the moral man, or also the aesthete and the knower? If the religious life is complete with redemption from sin, then a higher creative fullness of being is both unattainable and unnecessary. . .the one thing needful is perfection of obedience. . .
“From this tragic problem of Christianity there can be only one way out: the religious acceptance of the truth that the religious meaning of life and being is not wholly a matter of redemption from sin, that life and being have positive, creative purposes—that higher creative, positive being, though unattainable at the time when redemption was begun, when God was still transcendent to man, is attainable in another period
of religious life: salvation is always from something and life should be foi" something. Many things unnecessary for salvation are needed for the very purpose for which salvation is necessary— for the creative upsurge of being. Man’s chief end is not to be saved but to mount up creatively. For this creative upsurge salvation from sin and evil is necessary.”
Well-ordered being, the law, and the need for security are the worst enemies of creativity and action. There are passages in The Diary of a Country Priest, by Georges Bernanos, which are relevant. The remark of the priest:
“There are some thoughts which I never dare confide, though they don’t seem mad to me—far from it. I wonder what I should become if I resigned myself to the part which many Catholics would have me play—those that are so occupied with social preservation, which really means their own preservation. Oh, I don’t accuse these people of hypocrisy, I believe them to be sincere. So many of us, supposedly standing for law and order, are merely clinging on to old habits, sometimes to a mere parrot vocabulary, its formula worn so smooth by constant use that they justify everything and question none.”
Berdyaev had stressed the notion of the preoccupation with salvation, not as something wrong in itself, that is the desire to be saved, what is wrong is the fear and concern, the excess of apprehension. There can be no higher being, no rising above the mediocre, no overcoming of self in such selfishness; man has never been transformed from slavery, he remains under the yoke of obedience, of the heaviness of sin and the oppression of its consequences. Christian morality is beautifully opportunistic, adapting itself to the burden and weight of necessity and subservience, to the scientific spirit. The negative virtues, as humility, self-denial, abstinence, have taken the place of the positive virtues of courage, nobility, and honor.
Phrases like “spiritual heroism” have become obsolescent. How many men will understand what is meant by religious consciousness, sin, prayer, or the Church? There is a terrible sterility within modern Christianity in which men faintly live, in which they may retain some vestiges of a long forgotten religious awareness.
Berdyaev lashes out bitterly against die modern idea of Christian morality: “It is a morality of practicality and everydayness. The morality of die Gospels, the spirit of love, these have always been held to be inadaptable for a good situation and security. This morality is one of small actions
and modest situations; it is not aware of £ the heights; it is hostile to any aristocratic i f spirit; it is afraid of great, heroic, broad- < winged action. It is the morality of die ! i conditional values of this world’s position,; ; values of riches, power, fame, of sexual in- ■ dulgence, of the enjoyment of comfort and?: luxury; it is the morality of submission, of j living in constant terror of one’s own sins. This morality is powerless to accomplish m anything in the world. There must be ag sacrifice of worldly profit and well-being | to nobility and beauty as a way of life.” . |
This is not to create a religion of aes- | thetes; nothing could be further from/l the true spirit of Catholicism.	.1
Most necessary in the Christian mo^ n rality is the spirit of love. Through sac-. g rifice and renunciation of the world, the. B spirit is led to creativity and a desire- f for a creation of a new world. .The idea./ of following Christ, that is, actually£ imitating His life, has lost all meaning/’A*
for modern man. People prefer not to think about the injunction to follow Him.
A more subdued and realistic thinker than Berdyaev, Romano Guardini, in his book, The Church and the Catholic, ex- < ? plains his view of the conflict between; 4 ideal and actuality within the Church: “To be a Catholic, however, is to ac- ,^ cept the Church as she is, together with sfg her tragedy. For the Catholic Christian this acceptance follows from his funda-<y mental assent to the whole of reality. He cannot withdraw into the sphere of? pure ideas, feelings, and personal ex-^ perience.
Then, indeed, no “compromises” would be any longer required. But the real world would be left to itself, that is, far J from God. He may have to bear the reproach that he has fettered the pure! Christianity of the Gospel in human power and secular organization, that he | has turned it into a legal religion on i the Roman' model, a religion of earthly | ambitions, has lowered its loftiest stan- | dards addressed to a spiritual elite to 1 the capacity of the average man, or > however the same charge may be expressed. In fact he has simply been faithful to the stern duty imposed by ' the real world. He has preferred to renounce a beautiful romanticism of ideals, noble principles and beautiful experiences rather than forget the purpose of Christ—to win reality, with all that the word implies, for the Kingdom of God.”
Ultimately, we must love the Church as she is, and at the same time, resolve
to bring her closer to her ideal. To be
a Catholic is to accept the Cross of Christ, His Body the Church in which He lives united with her human mem
bers, whose imperfections are the symbol of that Cross.
26
The Schohutic
Arrow cotton Wash-and-Wears earn their way through college
Why spend date money sending shirts home? Just wash and dripdry these Arrow cotton wash-and-wears and you’re ready to go.
Only Arrow offers so wide a range: your favorite styles of collars and cuffs in oxford and broadcloth, in white, solids and patterns.
And every shirt features exclusive Arrow Mitoga®-tailoring. $4.00 up.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
first in fashion
i,
Washability is
the word for Fall
Here is one of the big-point favorites on our list: the Arrow Twin Tartan wash-and-wear sport shirt, crisp new version of a Scottish classic. Stop in soon and see our whole wide wonderful Arrow selection.
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
menthol fresh
rich tobacco taste
modern filter, too
Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
£ ■
As refreshing as the trickle of water down a mossy rock
is the taste of a Salem. For through its pure^white, mod
ern filter flows the freshest, cleanest taste in cigarettes.
Rich tobacco taste with new surprise softness. Smoke
refreshed, pack after pack. Get Salem by the carton!