Vol. XXIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 5, 1889.	No. 5.
Sunrise.
Slow fade the shadows from the eastern sky.
At first the maiden Mornin? blushin? took
But one coy glance, and yet that modest look From Earth’s fair brow the dark shades lifted high; The golden beams of light steal forth to spy
Uprising Nature leave her quiet nook, Now gild the sky and dance upon the brook,
While singing up to Heaven glad birds fly.
How loud and clear the angels’ matin hymn
Will rise to Nature’s God on that calm day, When Christ shall bid my weary soul take flight
To Him on High to dwell with Seraphim;
To walk for aye the shining golden way, Where Death is not and comes no dreary night.
H. A.-Holden.
The Cathedral of Strassburg.
BY e. v. N.
In the twelfth century an architect, distinguished alike by his genius and piety, conceived the design of erecting a noble and beautiful monument to the honor of the Most High God. For a long time he reflected upon this undertaking, studied over the varied pictures wrought by his grand mind, and at length fully matured his plan before beginning his enterprise, so that the edifice was, as it were, created ere the first stone of its foundation was quarried. But Erwin von Steinbach, although a great architect, could not realize his design without assistance; so he collected a few men, and with the fullest confi-' dence made known to them his plans. These men resolved to devote themselves to the accomplishment of the master’s mighty conception. | Then stone-cutters, masons, carpenters rushed ’ to them from all sides, and while Erwin designed
and gave orders, the obedient workmen in strict silence fulfilled their tasks.
Chroniclers declare that a period in which a hundred thousand men united in one ffrand un-o dertaking, living on black bread with vegetables and sleeping on the bare ground was an “Age of Faith.” All the treasures of Europe could never have purchased such sacrifices, nor the blended favors of all its kings and courts buy or ^repay such devotedness. But religion could do that and even more, for she promised for a few years of toil an eternity of glory. . . .' Hence every stone was bathed in the laborer’s sweat; each rising column bore to heaven the secret of a manly, trusting heart—thus Art and Poetry sprang up living, breathing, beneath the callous hands of the workingmen. Workingmen! I ought to style them sublime artists, inspired poets; for the traveller in our day who gazes upon Jzhis work of our forefathers in the faith . exclaims: “Here we behold the power, the splen- . dor of religion! The imagination cannot picture anything more august or imposing, nor Faith display anything more soothing or mysterious. It is the poesy of a believing soul actualizing Christianity by the magic aid of her symbols, by the wizard fascination of her creed.” Those sheaves of tiny columns were formed by peasant hands; those arches carved by'some rustic shepherd; those branches, creating divisions arid subdivisions, reminding one of a towering pine forest, are the result of a wood-cutter’s labor; but they are all successful individually and collectively, for peasant, shepherd and wood-cutter believed, obeyed and hoped, while sacrificing themselves to honor God and His saints. -
From 1247 to 1318 Erwin, while directing his employees, worked with his own hammer. He endured with them not only daily toil, but the, greater fatigue of planning and controlling. His
66
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
enterprise was steadily growing in its promised splendor when death summoned him to the eternal temple of his Creator; but before his exit, he summoned his son John, and bequeathed to him his plan, his tools and faithful colaborers.
Genius had ever been the sole inheritance of this worthy family, and the enthusiastic son of Erwin worked with the descendants of his father’s co-operators. When at length age overtook him, having but one son, still a boy, he , bequeathed to his virtuous daughter, Sabina, the legacy of his ancestor.
She took her place, hammer in hand, with her father’s stone-cutters, continuing the magnificent plan, whose marvels were to excite the admiration of the world. One day she took her chisel and carved the statue of the Mother of God which may still be seen over the portal of the great cathedral. In her right hand the Blessed Virgin holds a chalice, in her left a cross, and on her head she wears a queenly crown. At the sight the workers spontaneously knelt, and with joined hands chanted the Magnificat in chorus, for they understood the symbolic cross and chalice foretold an unfading crown. When Sabina died, her brother took up the hammer of Erwin von Steinbach, and thus they continued to work from generation to generation until the fifteenth century, when the cathedral of Strassburg was completed.
Robert Burns.
Of all the bards that adorn the history of English and Scottish literature, Robert Burns stands among the foremost. He was born January, 1759, amid the picturesque surroundings of the little town of Ayr, in the immediate vicinity of the Scottish kirk of Alloway, Scotland. His father, William Burns, procured a livelihood for himself and family by tilling the soil.
As a farmer, William Burns was both unsuccessful and unfortunate. On several occasions he was financially embarrassed, which condition necessitated him to give up his property and seek other employment. Finally, by persistent efforts and resignation to poverty, William Burns became more prosperous.
Robert, who had at this time reached the age of nine years, was attending a country school a few miles distance from the farm. From the beginning the youth manifested a strong and retentive memory, an apt and quick perception of natural beauty and a tender and sympathetic heart. At home he was governed by an affectionate and prudent father, whose constant en
deavor was to bring his children up in the path of virtue.- From neighbors and friends Robert procured such books as the “Spectator,” Shak-speare, Pope, Thomson, from which volumes he acquired the pure diction of classical authors that he used in later life with perfect facility. However, Robert’s earlier years were not spent wholly in pouring ovei' volumes of classical authors and English poets; on the contrary, the days of his youth were passed in laboring as a peasant on his father’s farm. In the correspondence of his later years, he says: “This kind of life—the cheerless gloom of the hermit with the unceasing moil of a galley slave— brought me to my sixteenth year, when love made me a poet.”
Robert’s first poetical effusion, the song of “Handsome Nell,” disclosed to him a diversion by means of which he dispelled all gloom and sadness. Until his 28th year, his life was one constant struggle against poverty. He left one farm but to take up another and meet with misfortunes and ill-luck. At this time the Islands of the West Indies allured adventurous youths, and it was to this country that Robert Burns decided to go to seek his fortune. Transportation to these islands at that time was easily obtained. He found but one barrier to prevent his immediate departure. That was the want of money. In order to get necessary funds, he was induced by friends to publish a volume of his poems. This he did, and his purse was replenished with twenty guineas. He had made preparations for his departure. On the last night that he expected to be in Scotland, he received a letter from a poetical critic who informed him' that an edition of his works would be received with favor in Edinburgh. The voyage was abandoned. His own words are: “I immediately posted to Edinburgh without a single acquaintance or letter of introduction. The baneful star which had so long shed its blasting influence upon my zenith for once made a revolution to the nadir.” He needed no letters of introduction. The edition of his poems had preceded him.
He was brought into intimate relations with the most fashionable. The literary and gay of the capital welcomed him with open arms. The new edition was received with such enthusiasm that the “Ayrshire Ploughman” was made the talk of the town. “ It needs no effort of the imagination,” says Lockhart, “to conceive what the sensation of an insolated set of scholars must have been in the presence of this big-boned, black-browed, brawny stranger, with his great flashing eyes; who having forced his way among
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6?
them, the plough-toil overpowering the bon mots of the most celebrated convivialists by broad floods of merriment impregnated with all the burning life of genius.” The poet had long entertained a desire of seeing the celebrated o
scenery and places of historical interest in his native country.
The consideration received for the edition of his poems placed him in good financial condition, and he was able to make quite an extensive tour. After spending the summer of 1787 in travel through the country, visiting many places of interest, he returned to Edinburgh with the expectation of securing such employment from his, many friends as would permit him to devote a large portion of his time to the Muse. While waiting for his hopes to be realized he joined in their convivial reveries. This led him into intemperance. His strong constitution was undermined; he soon broke down in health, and the poet died at Dumfries ■ in the thirty-seventh year of his age.
Robert Burns had the highest poetical qualifications: the most exquisite tenderness, humor the broadest and most refined, the most delicate perception of natural beauty, are the characteristics of his writings. They are chiefly lyrics of perfect charm. The variety of his poetical talent is fully displayed in “Tam O’Shanter.” Nowhere in the English language is there a poem blended with such brilliant description, touching pathos, and a combination of the terrific and ludicrous. Another unparalleled poem is a narrative studded with beautiful little songs entitled the “Jolly Beggars.” This poem is filled with quaint humor, and is a splendid representative of the careless vagabond jollity.
In his “Address to the De’il, Death and Dr. Horbook,” “The Two Dogs” and the dialogue between the old and new bridges of Ayr, Burns gives us a beautiful, humorous and picturesque description with numerous reflections on life and society. The two famous poems “On Turning up a Mouse’s Nest with the Plough” and on destroying the same way a “Mountain Daisy” will ever.remain in our literature as gems of poetry. In “Cotter’s Saturday Night”—a very beautiful poem—the poet depicts the joys and consolations of the poor. He pays a very high tribute to the virtues of the poor and unfortunate.
John H. Mithen.
----------------------
“God Save the King” was written for the Stuarts and not for the Brunswicks, by Father Petre, S. J., King James’ confessor, as it is announced by Mr. Harford, minor canon of Westminster Abbey.
The Power of Music.
“ When gripping grief the heart doth wound, And doleful dumps the mind oppress, Then music, with her silver sound, With speedy help doth lend redress.”
The pleasures which are interwoven with the constitution of our nature, and which, under proper regulations, become important sources of our happiness, are more or less adapted to the relish and enjoyment of each individual. Some are highly gratified by the sweet odor of the verbena or heliotrope, and can give no explanation of the cause of their enjoyment; while others seem equally captivated on beholding a Raphael, or a masterpiece from the hands of Donatello or Michael Angelo. But the charm of all charms, that spell which fascinates us all, is music with all its power and grandeur.
. In every age and with every nation has this art been in vogue. Among the .Greeks it was practised by those who had attained the highest distinction as warriors or philosophers. Even the Hindus have possessed, from the earliest period to which their history extends, a music confined to thirty-six melodies.
Music, sphere-descended maid, Friend of pleasure, Wisdom’s aid.
Melody seems to be an universal language, addressing itself to the heart, and powerfully exciting its affections and sympathies. Many an aching heart has found relief, many a weary mind has been refreshed, by the sweet sound of music. The laborer, ploddinghis way homeward a fter the performance of his daily duties, seems to forget his toil and drudgery when he unburdens his heart in song, or soothes his weariness by the sweet sounds of some musical instrument. What is it that rouses the fire and spirit of the soldier? With defeat staring him full in the face, when reason, duty, or patriotism -are departing from his heart, the uncouth sound of the bugle, trumpet, or drum awakens him from his broodings, restores his vigor and patriotism, imbues him with the spirit of action, and rouses him to a new life.	’
Music is the companion of poetry. While it exalts the sensibility of the mind and by its general tendency disposes it to-lively emotions, poetry gives vividness to our impressions and turns to shape, as it were, the indistinct images of the fancy. Music may reproduce nature. Study the works and masterpieces of our greatest composers, then will you hear the continuous roll of the thunder before an Alpine storm exactly counterfeited by the rumbling of the per
68
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
former among, the bass in regular fortissimo style. These discharges of electricity are followed by the outbreaking of the storm. At the command of yFolus the storm gradually abates; and finally the light pattering of the rain and the distant roaring of the cataract is all that can be heard of that tumult of a few moments before. The rain gradually ceases, old Sol, by degrees, begins to issue forth from the clouds, O 7 o	1
and all that breaks the silence is the twittering of the birds, as they fly from tree to tree.
The influence exerted over animals by music is another one of its many powers. Horses manoeuvre and prance about at the sound of martial music. Snakes are charmed by it and rendered completely harmless while under its power. The flute seems to be the most agreeable sound to the horse. Aristotle relates that the Cretonians made use of this to the best advantage in their wars against the Sybarites. At the commencement of the battle the flutists, on receiving the signal, played the most enchanting melodies, upon which the horses of the Sybarites immediately broke the lines and crossed over to the more musical warriors, refusing to follow the notes of their former masters, in consequence of which they were easily captured. From this it is evident that the horse maybe influenced very powerfully by the human voice and also by certain musical instruments.
The beauty of some music can only be observed by a refinement of taste attained by great cultivation and enhanced by a knowledge of the principles of music as a science. Some of the most intricate pieces are often listened to with general languor or apathy, till the introduction of some popular melody awakens the dormant feelings of every hearer, and calls forth one universal expression of satisfaction and delight.
Music, most divine and romantic of all arts, the representative of the self-moved activity of the soul, and the'constant exercise of the angelical seraphs and cherubs of the heavenly kingdom, thou art a thing of beauty, and a joy forever!
“ The man that hath no music in himself,
. Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
: Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils;
The motions of his spirit are dull as night And his affections dark as Erebus;
Let no such man be trusted.”
John J. Reinhard.
Have no care for the morrow; think only of doing well to-day, and when to-morrow becomes to-day then we may think about it.
Comm.on-Sch.ool Education in East India.
From the German Annals of the Holy Childhood, published in Aix-la-Chapelle, we learn the following particulars of school life in India, furnished by a missionary priest. He says that it was not his intention to write a comment upon a royal British high school or university, but of a school out in the country. The Indian resembles a bird that sings and builds his nest as his parent does, without ever altering it or excelling himself in it:—
The priest first conducts us into an Indian school-room. It is distant about thirty p^ces from the missionary’s residence. You cannot enter it now, as all the seats are occupied. As a rule, the school-room is always as plain as it can be. xA. roof made of palm leaves, resting on poles, constitutes the hall. Most of the pupils generally sit in the shade of the trees in the immediate vicinity. There are no such things as slates, benches, chairs or desks. Nature supplies all that. Sand is strewn about, and on this the exercises are written; sand also takes the place of the blackboard. Teacher as well as pupils sit, legs crosswise, on the sand.
Instruction commences at the first dawn of morn. The children come of their own accord, and very early. There is no playing truant. They never come late; on the contrary, each child emulates the others in trying to be first at class. And as they arrive, they seat themselves beside the others; thus forming a long row. The time of arrival designates the place each has to take. He or she who was first at the school is first in rank; and so on to the last. First of all, they repeat, in a singing voice, all they, have learned, from the first letter of the alphabet to what they learned the day previous. . No one is excepted in this repetition of their A B C, which, large or small, as the children may be, they must repeat in three different chords, inscribing it at the same time in the sand; and all this goes on in the following manner: The one who has charge of the school calls out short A, singing it three times in three different chords, inscribing it in the sand and then rubbing it out. All the pupils repeat it in the same tones, inscribe it in the sand, and rub it out. Then, in like manner, long A is sounded; all the letters of the alphabet are thus sung, engraved in the sand, and obliterated. After this some numbers, measures and weights and their signs, etc.; this constitutes an Indian’s educatio'n. Their progress is not very great in this style of schooling, as many a pupil has. sung, written in fhe sand
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and expunged many an A and the next moment all has vanished. The repetitions last about an hour. After that the younger ones learn what they have written on their palm leaves, while the pupils farther advanced busy themselves solving such arithmetical problems as the tutor had the day before prescribed for them. These problems are written in the sand and then wiped away, written again and wiped away again, and so on until about eight o’clock in the morning.
The tutor generally comes at eight o’clock. Often he comes from afar, as he does not always keep school in his own residence, but where it suits him best. He instantly commences his work by examining the duties the children have made; thereupon he gives each child a new lesson: this is troublesome to the tutor, as he has to write on the palm leaf of each child what it has to learn. The lesson consists of the alphabet, and ciphers, reading and writing short sentences, and finally arithmetic. In solving certain kinds of problems the Indian writes them on the sand; solving another class of problems, he does not write, but works them mentally. This is all; history, geography, etc.,are not taught to the country children.
The child receives a leaf on which the tutor - has himself written the alphabet; this, the child is taught to pronounce, distinguish, and then write in the sand. So far, so good; it then receives another leaf and another, and so on till it has received quite a number of leaves, which are at last bound up somewhat after the fashion of a book, which becomes thicker as the scholar gets smarter. The scholar carries this book continually till he or she knows all that is contained therein. It is then solemnly hung up at home in token of the ability of the proprietor. . It can easily be perceived that in an Indian school there are as many classes and divisions as there are pupils. The young Indian is not extraordinarily ambitious; the cane, which, during the whole time, does not leave the teacher’s hand, helps' more than anything else to advance the pupil in his studies. While the tutor imparts his instruction to each child individually, the others must repeat the duty of the day previous. Thereupon the teacher makes the whole school repeat all they have learned, and the cane is never lost sight of, but notes what is read or spoken incorrectly.
About an hour before noon, the children plant themselves in a long row before their tutor, and sing a song. As I am no poet, I can only give a translation of it in prose. It runs: “On our feet since early morn, our morning prayers being finished, and ever since, busy with our duties.
69
After having partaken of some rest and food, we will, invigorated, return to thee, O beloved tutor. Glory be to God!” This they sing every morning, their arms crossed on their breast, and in a neat and edifying manner. They then make a reverent bow before their tutor, go two by two to the well, there wash themselves and set off for home, singing and repeating their lessons till they come to the door of their home. It is worthy of notice that the East Indian never appears at table without having previously washed his teeth, mouth, hands, feet, etc., very carefully.
Breakfast being ended, the children rush to school as quickly as they can, each one emulating the other in being the first on the schoolground; for all are conscious of the fact that the teacher will make his rounds, inquiring when each one came, and giving out his “strap-oil” according to each one’s measure. Instruction then commences. First they have penmanship exercises. All they knew in the morning had to be engraved into the sand,, but now a strange operation takes place, which seems very odd • indeed to those who never witnessed it before. First of all, the children have an iron pencil or stick which is sharpened to a point at one end; next they make a circular incision in the thumbnail of the left hand; now each takes his palm leaf and engraves what the teacher dictates to each one individually, holding the pencil in his right hand and letting it glide up and down in the incision of the thumbnail with an expertness and rapidity that astounds the foreigner. And, besides, this kind of penmanship is economical; ink and paper are entirely unknown to the. country children of India. Nay, they can thus write standing, sitting, or walking. The palm leaf is very smooth, about six inches broad, and from one to two feet in length, sloping to a point at one end, and having on the other end a knife wherewith to cut their palm leaves.
Penmanship, as one of the rules of the school, lasts till noon—sometimes, however, till one and two o’clock in the afternoon. Then there • is an interruption: the children get hungry, and crave food. But before they go, the teacher makes his rounds as in the morning, inquiring when the children arrived after breakfast, gives them the strokes of his cane; but the thought of dinner makes the young folks forget the cane a little; they do not mind the pain so much. Then they again sing a song, bow reverently and depart by twos for home. In order to impress it well on the minds of his pupils, the teacher causes them to repeat after dinner all they have learned during the forenoon. In
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
order to make sure, he goes to each child and examines what he can read, how he writes, and what he writes. Towards evening, he dictates the lesson the pupils must engrave the next morning upon the sandi Instruction for the day is now ended; the children, as in the morning and at noon, place themselves in a long row before the .preceptor, sing the following song, make their bow, and depart for their homes: “The evening has come; we now start for home. But at home, instead of play and gambols, we will by the light of the lamp, look our lessons over, see what we have learned and what we have not. To-morrow we shall come again. Glory be to God!” In the Catholic villages, the children remain a while longer to learn the prayers. Such is a day of the school life of our young Indians, says the missionary.
P. S.
Science, Literature and Art.
—The project to erect a statue of Mendelssohn in Leipzig, which has been contemplated for many years, is now in a fair way of accomplishment. The municipality has headed the subscription with 5000 marks (Si200).
—One of the objects which attract much attention at the Paris Exposition is the great De Bauge gun which, at a recent test in the trial grounds of the Exposition, threw a projectile, weighing 880 pounds, 20,770 yards, a little less than twelve miles.
—Miss Eliza Allen Starr has completed hei-work, “Isabella of Castile,” which was undertaken under the auspices of the Queen Isabella Association whose head quarters are in Chicago. The work is now in the hands of the publisher, and. is designed for distribution at the World’s Fair in 1892.
—Mr. Edison, while abroad, received marked attention from all classes of people. Dignitaries found pleasure in doing him honor, and in scientific circles his welcome was peculiarly cordial. King Humbert of Italy lately conferred on him the title of Count, and on a recent public appearance in Paris 8000 people gave him an ovation.	.
—Another small planet was discovered by Prof. H. C. F. Peters at the Litchfield Observatory, Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y., on the night of the 25th of August. It is stated to be of the tenth magnitude, so that, if really new, it is remarkable how it has escaped 'detection so long. This is the forty-seventh one of these bodies discovered by the Professor.
—The use of compressed air as a motive power for tramways is being introduced in France. This year it will be substituted for horse-power in- Lyons. The cars are comfortable, and run
smoothly with little noise. They do not interfere with the traffic of the street, and-their immunity from accidents is remarkable. Their average speed is eight miles per hour; but it can easily be increased or moderated, and in case of need an almost instantaneous stoppage effected.
—King Oscar of Sweden received with the greatest courtesy the Rev. Father Cesare Decara, S. J., who represented the institute of the Sacred Congregation of Propaganda at the Oriental Congress at Stockholm. The king, who is a Lutheran, charged the learned Jesuit with the duty of expressing to the Holy Fathei' and the Sacred Congregation of Propaganda the gratitude of the Orientalists. The Congress has also conveyed its thanks to Cardinal Aloisi Mosella for a document he placed at its disposal.
—Dr. Elias Loomis, who died recently, was for many years Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy at Yale College. He was the author of several excellent treatises on mathematics, astronomy and meteorology, of which his “Introduction to Practical Astronomy ” is the best known and, being largely used as a textbook, has run through many editions. At the time of his death he was in his seventy-eighth year. By his will he left his fortune, which was considerable, to Yale College to found a chair.
—Mr. Gordon McCabe, of Petersburg, Va., has brought with him from England a very interesting relic, in the shape of the manuscript of Thackeray’s “Virginians.” This was presented by the novelist’s daughter, Mrs. Thackeray-Ritchie, who expressed the opinion that this manuscript ought to be in the hands of Virginia or Virginians. It is Mr. McCabe’s purpose to present it either to the State Library at Richmond (which is one of the most complete in the country on the historical side), or the library of the University of Virginia, of which institution he is himself a visitor.—Ex.
—The menu of the farewell banquet to the members of the Oriental Congress at Stockholm ought to take a permanent place in collections of literary curiosities. The initial “sup” or nip of schnapps, which always begins a Scandinavian dinner, was recorded with a song in the Kairs tongue. The soup was described in Getziani and a song in Chinese: Prof. Max Muller wrote a song in Sanscrit praising the salmon. The filet de boeuf-wdjs, mentioned by a verse in Malay and by another in Japanese. Artichaut au beurre was treated in Coptic; Gateau a la Victoria in hieroglyphics; the ices in Himyaritic; the cheeses in Bichare. The menu concluded, according to the Swedish custom, with “Thanks for Dinner” written in Persian. :
—The greatest known depth of the sea is in the South Atlantic Ocean, midway between the Island of Tristan d’Acunha.and the mouth of the Rio de la Plata. The bottom was there reached at a depth of 40,236 feet, or eight, and three-quarter miles, exceeding by more than
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	71
17,000 feet the height of Mount Everest, the loftiest mountain in the world. In the North. Atlantic Ocean, south of Newfoundland, soundings have been made to a depth of 4,580 fathoms, or 27,480 feet, while depths equaling 34,000 feet, or six and a half miles, are reported south of the Bermuda Islands. The average depth of the Pacific Ocean between Japan and California is a little over 2,000 fathoms; between Chili and the Sand which Islands, 2,500 fathoms; and between Chili and New Zealand, 1,500 fathoms. The average depth of all the oceans is from 2,000 to 2,500 fathoms.
—The Pope has decided, at the instance of Father Denza, Director of the observatory at Moncaluri, that an astronomical observatory should be erected at the Vatican. The place selected for it being the tower surmounting the apartments of the President of the Sacred College, which is the highest of the buildings in O'	o	o
the Vatican. In connection with this subject the Liverpool Catholic Times says:
"The astronomical observatory at the Vatican, the establishment of which has been decided on by Leo XIII, will be one of the most remarkable institutions of the kind in Europe. With the munificence of the Holy Father, and the interest taken in the work by Catholic scientists, the task of Father Denza, who is so well known for his astronomical knowledge, will be greatly facilitated. Several of the beautiful astronomical instruments which figured in the Swiss and American sections at the Vatican Exhibition will be used at the observatory.”
College Gossip.
—Trinity College has withdrawn from the New England Intercollegiate Base-ball League.
—The University of Pennsylvania will probably have a regularly organized reserve football team this fall.
—The site has been selected at Chattanooga for a Southern Vassar College. This will be regarded as a new lease of life by the editors who have joked all the paint off the old institution.—Ex.
—The new Athletic field at Princeton will be double the size of the present one. There will be ample room for two football fields and two base-ball diamonds, besides a fine running and a large grand stand.
—Henry Hohixina Lyman, a Sioux Indian, twenty-two years old, has entered the Yale law school. He intends eventually to hang out his' ' shingle among his own tribe, and is described as handsome and intelligent.
—A man may find on hills and coast Much recreation, rest and fun;
But when he needs vacation most Is after he’s returned from one.
—N. V. Journal.
—The Michigan Agricultural College has organized an “ eleven,” and expects to make quite a record this season. With such teams as Ann
Arbor, Albion and the Agricultural Michigan is well supplied with football material.
—The delegation of ball players from the principal Eastern universities, who have been playing in England during the summer, returned on the 13th ult. It is said that a base-ball craze has swept over that country and nines are being organized on all sides.
—A Freshman knows everything: he has explored the universe and has proved all things. A Sophomore has the wisdom of an owl, but, like that sedate bird, keeps still about, it. A Junior knows a little but begins to be a little doubtful about it. A Senior knows nothing.—Ex.
—“Now, boys,” said the professor, “remember that while you see the point of a needle you perceive the point of a joke.” “And the point of a pin, professor?” “Ah!” replied the professor, with a soft sigh, “that is neither a vision nor a perception; it is an experience.”—Harper's Bazar.
—The Northwestern brings forward a very strong football club this year. They talk of defeating Ann Arbor before long, and a team-must be very confident before making such a statement as that. There may be a team in Indiana, however, that can play a strong game against either of these teams, and will probably try before the ground becomes whitened.
—The French CEtrore des Ecoles Libres was founded ten years ago to maintain religious schools for the poor, in opposition to the secular schools supported by the Government. Since its foundation it has collected and expended twenty-two millions of francs.' Last year it had 75,000 children in its schools. Its chief directors are the Duc de Broglie, M. de Chesnelong, and the Abbe de Courcy, the Vicar-General of Paris.
—The solemn dedication of the Catholic University of America and the formal opening of its courses of instruction will take place on Wednesday, November 13. On the evening of the same day the exercises of a spiritual retreat will begin, and will last during four days. On Monday, November 18, after the solemn Mass of the Holy Ghost, the classes of the Divinity Faculty will be opened. As already announced, the faculties for the laity will be opened within a few years . . . There will be lectures daily on Dogmatic Theology, Moral Theology, Sacred Scripture, and Higher Philosophy; tri-weekly on English Literature and Sacred Eloquence; and at least weekly on Ecclesiastical History, Liturgy, scientific subjects, and the problems of the day. Every facility will be afforded for the cultivation of the scriptural languages and the modern European tongues. Tri-weekly disputations will test the progress of the students in their various courses, and exercise them in correct and appropriate expression in Latin and English. Charge is made only for the board of the students and the necessary expense connected therewith. The annual fee has been fixed at S250, payable semi-annually.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^SuLIfsfjcb tfirrn ^afurftan Suring <Tcnn Eime at N. D. Snifirrsifn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind,
Notre Dame, October 5, 1889
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twenty-third year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping- hand.
THE N07RE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as' on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct. •
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Archdeacon Farrar is going to send his son to America to be educated. When men of such prominence and social position as the archdeacon patronize American educational institutions, it speaks volumes in their favor. The reverend gentleman is authority for the statement that in science and engineering our universities are far superior to the English schools. What does this signify? Have American colleges progressed more in three hundred years than the colleges/of Europe in a thousand?
—An exchange remarks, apropos of athletics, that some of the Eastern colleges are best known by reason of their excellence in field sports. There is perhaps some truth in this. Nowadays we hear more of Yale’s crew and Harvard’s eleven than we do of the intellectual precedence of either of those .hoary institutions. Not un-frequently a student receives his degree, and hastens to bid for immortality by joining a baseball team. The American people are flighty; they run to extremes, and the contagion has extended to their colleges. Mental discipline becomes a farce when it is subordinated to physical culture.
Staff.
J. W. Cavanagh,- ’90, H. A. Holden, ’90, J. B. Sullivan, ’91, W. P. McPhee, ’90,
H. P. Brelsford, ’90, Wm. C. Larkin, ’90, C. T. Cavanagh, ’91, Joseph E. Berry, ’91.
—The American Trade Conference is now in session at Washington. This conference is composed of commissioners from the republics of each of the Americas. Its object is to facilitate trade and commerce between the various governments of the Western continent. This is certainly a wise movement. Our interests are one. The states of Europe are bound by reciprocal treaties. Why should not the American republics pool their issues?
—There is too much foreign capital invested in the United States. The titled nobility of Europe own immense tracts of land in every section of our country. Many profitable industries in our larger cities are operated by foreign capital. It is rumored, and not without foundation, that a wealthy London synodicate is contemplating the purchase of the milling interests of Pillsbury & Co., of Minneapolis. It i§ not wise to permit this. It is not politic.
—At the recent Convention of the’ Cigar o
Makers’Union, heldin NewYorkcity, the following petition was drafted to present to -the legislatures of the several states.
"Whereas...., we are of the opinion that the practice of cigarette smoking has served to demoralize and injure the youth of our country, undermining their health, impairing their mental faculties, and rendering them unfit for any useful purpose'.”
What further proof of the pernicious effects of the cigarette habit does the rising generation require than the evidence of these men who know how and from what cigarettes are made.
The present condition of affairs in France has much of interest to the political economist. In the recent elections, the government passed through a crisis the most momentous, since Lidan. The elections were not decisive. They demonstrate only, that discontent is deeply roofed; A man with a bigger and more worthy personality than Boulanger could undoubtedly precipitate'another revolution. The government is secure only because of the pusillanimity of the popular idol. And it is doubtful whether the drastic measures’adopted by the government
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in counting out Boulanger candidates, strengthened the party in power with an electorate already dissatisfied with the present regime.
—The Chicago Herald recently devoted one half column to an editorial on higher educa-tion. It states that advanced learning is incompatible with manual labor; this may be conceded. It further says that the world has already a surfeit of highly educated people; this will not be acknowledged so readily. Undoubtedly there are a few mechanical arts in the pursuance of which a University education would be of little value. But from a pecuniary standpoint alone, advanced education is more often an advantage than otherwise; while those who take other than a mercenary view of the question readily see that the increment of mental and moral elevation that results from higher education is of incalculable value to the individual and to the State.
—Ever since the Presidential campaign of ’76 exposed the inaccuracies of our present manner of voting, there has been a growing desire to improve our mode of election by the ballot. The question of introducing the Australian ballot system will soon be brought prominently before the people. There are many arguments in favor of its adoption, the chief among which is that it will enable the laboring classes to vote in accordance with their convictions and not as capital dictates. The assertions that the votes of the employees are practically decided by the employer will doubtless have great influence in effecting this change; for in a country such as ours, where everything depends on the free and intelligent vote of the people, nothing can be more harmful than the system of bull-dozing in vogue in many parts of the Union.
—In this day when men with brains and’ energy alone succeed, how important is a college education! Youth, full of bright hopes and glorious anticipations, forms many brilliant pictures of the future. - “Failure,” with its dread accompaniment of disappointment and banished hope, is unthought of by the youthful aspirant for honor and renown. But when success has crowned his efforts, unless he has an education suitable to any station, he finds himself socially inferior to men not his equals in brain-power and real worth; and the greater his achievements, the higher the eminence he attains, the more
73
bitter will be his feeling of humiliation. At college one receives a polish that gives lustre to his mental qualities, that draws out his powers to their highest perfection, and enables him to cope in the world’s arena on equal terms with his opponents. The knowledge he acquires there will not only fit him for the struggle of life, but will be his solace in his hours of ease. In social life it will enable him to move in that circle at the charmed gates of which wealth knocks in vain.
The Red-Headed. Boy.
There are not so many red-headed boys as there used to be. Neither in the Junior nor the Senior department nor among the aristocrats of Sorin Hall is the boy with hair like the tint of maple leaves in autumn prominent. From the fact that a white horse has been seen in front of St. Mary’s several times, it is presumed— • only presumed—that there is at least one maiden of auburn locks within the sacred portals of that palace guarded by the stile. But this is . a digression, and effects do not produce cause, so the white horse may mean nothing.
The red-headed boy is neither so frequent nor so scorned as he was some years ago. Then; to be red-headed was to be treated contume-liously. It was to be suspected; it was to have “no music in one’s soul;” it was to be a Pariah; it was to have the seat in the draught—in the class-room—to have all the hot cakes snatched by the other boys in the refectory, to be blamed for everything, to be always afflicted with a feeling of inferiority, and to get more black eyes {rouge et noir, a wicked gambling game, took its name from this combination) than any other boy in the school. The fate of the redheaded boy in the seventies was hard.
We have no data by which we can ascertain how he was emancipated from his thraldom. What brought about the change in public opinion which now makes him an aristocrat instead of a plebeian? Why is it that “Reddy in the woods couldn’t catch a butterfly” no longer thrills the red-headed boy with strange and evil forebodings? Why is he not told that his head’s a-fire, and laughed at whenever he approaches a group of friends whom the tint of his locks turned into enemies? Who can answer?
Whatever may be the cause, the boy of the scarlet top-knot is respected. Perhaps the innate force of character, the strength of purpose, the great talents, which invariably accompany red hair have made themselves known so thbr-
74	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
oughly that the rudest must bow to them. If so, the Hero, the Conqueror, the President, the Man of the.future, will be a red-haired.boy grown to the full height of a genius long contemned.
o	o	o
Electrical Notes.
During the past vacation months there was no cessation of the work and progress of the rapidly growing electrical industries. Improvements, additions and new applications are reported from all quarters. The National and the Edison Electric Light and the Bell Telephone Associations held their usual semi-annual conventions, and the papers read were timely, important, and above the average in excellence. Progressive and energetic plans for the future were discussed and adopted. Many of the leading electricians have been promoted to higher positions and assigned more important work. Mr. H. W. Leonard, who, as Chicago agent of the Edison Company, was consulting engineer for Notre Dame University, is now General Manager of the Edison United Manufacturing Company. The reorganized General Edison Company has S12,000,000 capital. Mr. F. H. Haywood, M. E., who installed the electric light engines at Notre Dame, has returned from Europe, and will represent the Straight Line Engine Company in New York. Professor F. B. Badt has been appointed General Electrical Engineer of the Edison Company with headquarters in Chicago. The magnificent salaries paid to Mr. Leonard and to Prof. Badt might be cited as an indication of the prosperity and importance of the electric lighting industry.
i ' Mr. R. O. Heinrich, lately chief electrician for I	Messrs. Queen & Company, of Philadelphia, has
|	been appointed Professor of Electrical Engi-
j	neering for Lehigh University, and Mr. G. W.
I	Patterson, Jr., was selected for instructor in
Physics, with Professor Carhart, injthe new electrical engineering course at the University of Michigan.
I	The tenth convention of the National Elec-
|	trie Light Association was held in August at
J	Niagara Falls. In his address of welcome to
the delegates, Hon. W. C. Ely said: “You are experimenters with force and power; you deal in it; you generate it, utilize it and profit by it. The item of profit is a stimulus to your brains and energy. You are the devotees of a force, the latest, the most interesting, to which all thought-।	ful men are now looking for the solution of
some of the most difficult economic questions
of the day.” In his opening address the President said: “Schools, colleges and larger elec-trical companies are paying more attention to electrical education. With greater efficiency in apparatus, bettei* trained men, and more intelligent management, depreciation will be reduced, the conservatism of investors toward electrical securities will disappear, and capital will seek us.” The following statistics collected by the Secretary were given. Number of arc lamps in service in the United States, 237,617; incandescent lamps, 2,704,768. Number of street railways operated by electricity, 109—comprising 575 milesof track and 936 motor cars; capital invested in these industries, 8275,000,000.
A number of American electricians visited the Paris Exposition, and took advantage of the opportunity to examine the electrical industry in various European cities. They all return home with strengthened convictions that in the application of electricity the United States leads the world. The methods, machines and instruments of the principal manufacturers were well known.to .the visitors; and when a search for novelties was made, they found that many of the European exhibits consisted of simple “ring-bells” and unimproved apparatus. The Edison and Thomson Houston exhibits attracted by far the largest number of people, and were certainly among the principal features of the Exposition. It is said that nine-tenths of the United States exhibitors received prizes.
When the electric motor was first introduced, only a few years ago, the manufacturers had to exercise their scientific imagination to be able to write in their catalogues the possible places where the motor might, could and should 'be used. In all the places named, and in many others not thought of at that time, the motor is now in successful use. The C and C Electric Motor Company have installed a machine in St. Patrick’s Cathedral to operate the organ bellows, .and have contracts for the same for Calvary, St. Thomas and St. Ignatius churches, New York. Among late electric light items is the following: “The Notre Dame Church, located in the Place d’Armes, Montreal, Canada, is probably the largest church on this con^nent. The buiding is 241 feet long, 135 feet wide, 61 feet from the foundation to the eaves, and will seat from 10,000 to 12,000 people. It was recently decided to light this church throughout with electricity, and an isolated plant for that purpose is now being installed. The design is to light partly with arc lamps and partly with incandescent lamps.”
M. O’D.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
IS
Exchanges.
—The large number of exchanges which appear upon our table give evidence of the general resumption of active work in the field of college journalism. To all we extend a hearty welcome, and the assurance that we shall endeavor in our dealings with them to render our acquaintance both profitable and pleasant.
—The Fortnightly Lantern from the Ohio State University begins its tenth volume enlarged in form and much improved in appearance.
—The Washburn College Reporter announces that its next issue will be printed at the college upon its own presses. A stock company has been formed, and hereafter it will be published “of, by and for” the students.
—The College Courier figures for the last time . on our exchange list, and gracefully bows itself out of single existence. Henceforth it will appear in fusion with the Monmozith Collegian, and will be known as the Annex. We wish the new venture all possible success.
—The. Elite Journal from the Illinois Wesleyan University is one of the brightest college publications upon our exchange list. Although only in its third year it is quife a sturdy youngster, and already ranks with/many of its older and more pretentious contempories.
—One of the most welcome visitors to our sanctum is the Salmagundi, a monthly journal of unusual interest published by the students of the Philadelphia Seminary.. There is an air of sobriety about it that quite recommends it to the lover of good, spicy literature..
—The Chaddock is the title of a neat journal published in the interests of the students of Chaddock College, Quincy, Ill. Many of its pages sparkle with bright reading matter and choice tidbits, and, altogether, it evidences the healthy tone of the college it represents.
—The Northwestern quotes the following x from one of its exchanges:
“ It will doubtless be a surprise to most of our readers to learn what immense sums the Roman Catholics have been drawing from the national Government for their Indian schools. The whole amount received by the Congregationalists for their schools among the Indians the past year was about $23,000. But the following figures, taken from the Dakota Catholic, show how much the Roman Catholics have received since 1884: 1884, $65,220; ■ 1885, $113,614; 1886, $48,743;. 1887, $214,750; 1888, $244,677; 1889, $344,545; and this coming year they expect to draw $431,930.”	'
Whatever may be the aid received from the Government by Catholic missionaries to the Indians, the following item, now going the rounds of the press, will show that it is far from being commensurate with the opportunities for doing good which they are able to command:
“ One of the United States Indian commissioners, a Protestant, who has been lately treating with the Sioux, pays a glowing tribute to the work of the Indian mission at Standing Rock, Dakota. Among other complimentary words, he says: ‘I talked to about 200 Catholic Indians on Sunday at the request of Mrs. McLaughlin, the wife
of the agent, who is herself about one-fourth Indian—a woman of cultivation and earnestly at work Christianizing and civilizing the Indians. The meeting was that of a society of which she is president. Those in attendance were well dressed, and several of the young men made speeches. They spoke of their desire to adopt the ways of the white man and lead Christian lives and become self-supporting. The married ones had been united by the Catholic priest. Upon the whole, I am decidedly of the opinion that the Catholics are doing more towards civilizing the Sioux Indians than all other religious agencies combined. This is due, in part, to the liberality of the Drexel sisters, who are spending large sums of money in founding schools, and missions.’ ”
Books and Periodicals.
—“Birds and Butterflies,” a book for boys and girls, by M. G. Musgrave, is among the most beautiful works published this season for children, and is a new departure in the line of juvenile works. It contains over one hundred fine illustrations including a number of colored plates printed in fourteen colors.
—Donahoe's Magazine for October is the most
• • •
interesting number issued. Its principal features are: biographical sketch of the late Archbishop Hughes, with a portrait and engraving of the statue to be erected to him October 2; the interesting papers'on Canada and Her Neighbor is continued; The Know-Nothing Riot in Providence, described by a Sister of Mercy; Newfoundland and Its Early Settlers: Their Trials and Triumphs; Irish National Education is a paper interesting to all; Irish Literary Men of New York; The Catholic University of America. These are a few of the articles in this number, which comprise in all forty articles, besides the events of the month.
—We return our thanks to the Hon. Governor W. D. Hoard for a copy of the “Blue Book” of the State of Wisconsin. It is a valuable publication not only for the people of the State, but also for all who are interested in the political institutions of our country. Among its contents will be found the Constitution of the U. S. and the Constitution of Wisconsin, a very complete Manual of Parliamentary Practice embracing a detailed Statement of Rules of Procedure in Congress and State Legislatures, Election Statistics, National and State, and a mine of useful information in regard to State institutions, etc., etc. The work is compiled and published by Ernest G. Timme, Secretary of State.
—The leading article in the October Forum ■ is a review of the political situation in Europe, by Prof. Emile de Laveleye, of the University of Liege. He shows the points of danger to peace, and explains the formidable preparations for war that even the most pacific nations are continually making. It is a comprehensive inside view of the political status of all Europe. A hundred years hence, Prof. Laveleye thinks, except China, there will be no nation that can compare in strength and importance with the • United States and Russia. Senator S. M. Cui-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
lom, of Illinois, writes an elaborate article to show that protection is of greater benefit to the farmers than to any other class. He quotes agricultural statistics of different countries, and traces the unprecedented development of agriculture in the West under protection. Mr. Thomas L. James, who was Postmaster-General under President Arthur, and who spent a considerable part of his life in the postal service, points out the reforms that are now greatly needed, such as the cheapening of ocean-postage and of the rate of money-orders. I Mr. James makes a forcible plea also for the complete divorce of the postal service from politics. Mr. Edward Wakefield, a member of the Australian Parliament, writes from his experience as a politician about the ballot system which several of our States have adopted. Prof. F. W. Taussig, of Harvard, explains in detail the workings of compulsory insurance of employees in Germany.
—General O. O. Howard has written an article for the young folks who read Wide Awake, which will also interest and enlighten their elders; we refer to the little paper in the October number entitled “How many Indians in the United States?” In the same number Miss Rose Kingsley, Charles Kingsley’s daughter, has a valuable contribution about “The Boy who Invented the Telegraph”—Claude Chappe, a little French • lad. Mrs. Goddard Orpen in her “Famous Stones” series, gives a very different page of French history in telling the story of “The Diamond Necklace.” After excepting Mrs. White’s Public School Cooking paper about dainty preparations for invalids, and the kindred one by Mrs. Cavazza about “Sleep Slippers,” and Prof. Starr’s “ Geological Talk,” and Mrs. Claflin’s “behavior” letter, the remainder of the number is given up to stories, poems and pictures, all of a’most entertaining character; notable among the latter is Mr. Bridgman’s amusing Court Calendar and the eighteen Prize Nonsense Animals, the most remarkable chapter known of modern natural history. The poems include contributions from Graham R. Tomson, Mrs. Celia Thaxter and Mrs. Whiton-Stone, all at their best.

Local Items.
—Bellum est.
—Look at Mc’s bloomer.
—Turn off that alarm clock.
—Sale of tickets still booming.
—And still they come! Who? Why, Juniors.
—The Minims are organizing new games for the 13 th.
—Did you find out what George was doing at the lake, J. B ?	.	.	*
—Where is the gentle whooping and tooting of the night owls? :	.
—Football continues to be the leading sport among the Juniors. ’
—The “Parisian Banquet” is now something more than mere imagination.
—The weather last Sunday was as usual, “ recday”—sunshine behind clouds.
—Sullivan’s grand-stand was turned into a target Sunday—apple shooting.
—B. B. wants it understood that there are two study-hall faculties in the Juniors.
—The devotions of the month of October were inaugurated on Monday evening.
—Our European travellers are with us once again, yet the Eiffel Tower still stands.
—The St. Cecilians did not meet this week, owing to the absence of their President.
—The Philopatrians should be reorganized. Many have signified their desire to join.
—A new patent window pane adorns one of the buildings directly west of the College.
—Base-ball cranks will soon be able to say that these are the days of their discontent.
—Look out for the weather prophet; he has a serious look—more “rec-day” showers, we guess, o
—Many of the boys wish that apple season was over, because too many are thrown around: so says “Apples.”
—The electric light surrounding Our Lady’s statue on the Dome is beautiful when the shades of eve have fallen.
—We are anxiously waiting for that decline of prices in the lemonade market which B. L. said was near at hand.
—Only a few, season tickets left; the second edition has already been ordered. Come right up and give the boys a lift.
—What is the matter with the College yell? We hope the enthusiasm for our “yell” has not gone down; if so, what yell next?
—The big bell—the grand Bourdon—rings out clear and sonorous these beautiful October evenings as it announces the opening of devotions.
—“Listen to my tale of woe,” sighed the small boy Junior, as the latest edict regarding the apples in a neighboring orchard was anounced.
—Sorin Hall is well represented in Company “B”—in fact too well. This company was supposed’to be entirely of and for the Juniors, if we mistake not. .
—Why not organize a Junior boat club? There is ample material and plenty of enthusiasm among them for the successful carrying out of such a project. '	•
—The Junior branch of the Archconfraternity have their religious exercises on Wednesday mornings. The Seniors attend on Saturday as before.	.	.
—An old song which we think should become very popular on “rec” days is:
“ Rain, rain, rain, go away,	.
Base-ball fiends would like to play.”
.—The Rev. R. White, S. J., of'St. Francis Xavier’s, New York,, passed a few pleasant- days
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
II
at the College during the week visiting his brother, Bro. Polycarp, C. S. C.
—The football eleven claims the championship of Indiana, and would like to hear from any team in the State that does not acknowledge Notre Dame’s superiority at that game.
—A class in which the rudiments of vocal music will be taught has been started and is largely attended, with prospects of good results. This class is independent of the higher course of voice culture.
—The new athletic field at Princeton will be double the size of the present one. There will be ample room for two football fields and two base-ball diamonds, besides a fine running and a large grand stand.
—The Elocution classes have - been reorganized and are largely attended. Under the instruction of their distinguished and competent teacher, Prof. Walter C. Lyman, they will reach a high standard of perfection in that noted branch of education.
—The prophet announces the following weather prospects for next week:
Sunday—“rec-day” shower;
Monday, Wed., Fri. and Sat.—fine, sunny;
Tuesday—rain in after-noon; Thursday—“rec-day” shower.
—A. nine from town calling themselves the “South Bend Reds,” played a game of ball with the 2d nine Junior special the other day, and were defeated by a score of 13 to 4. Hesse and McPhillips for the Juniors did excellent battery work. J. Cunningham officiated as umpire.
—The firm of Adler Brothers, of South Bend, has long been noted for its liberal support and patronage of the athletic clubs of Notre Dame. The firm recently bought twenty-five season tickets of the Athletic Association, and the members of the association, as well as their friends, feel very grateful for this evidence of interest in the organization.
—Once more the familiar drum beat of the invincible Co. “B” is heard to resound as ye brave and noble soldiers march through the college grounds. They now muster about thirty men, and are making wonderful progress under the watchful eyes of their accomplished Captain F. Fehr and his assistants, and are confident of another victory over their brother cadets of Co. “A,” in the next competitive drill.
’ —The class in Criticism has just finished criticising the simple and beautiful style of Bunyan’s “Pilgrim’s Progress,” and are now engaged in tearing to pieces De Quincey’s article “ On ‘ the Knocking at the Gate ’ in Hamlet.” The class is composed of the more advanced students in English, and promises to do some excellent work during the year upon selections from the most noted writers in the language.
—On Tuesday last, Captains Hayes and Mackey selected their nines. Hayes took Long, S. Fleming, Kelly, R. Bronson, Campbell, P.
Fleming, Cooney, H. Bronson., Krembs and Reynolds. Mackey’s side will include G. Cartier, Smith, Cooke, Fitzgibbons, D. Cartier, Combe, Moncada, E. Coady, W. Cartierand B. Hughes. The “Special” is composed of Kelly (Captain), Long, G. Cartier, Bronson, Cooke,- Campbell, Hayes, Fitzgibbons and.S. Fleming. ’
—The fourth regular meeting of the Law Debating Society was held on Wednesday, Oct. 2. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and adopted. The question for debate—“ Resolved, that the welfare of the people would be promoted by an amendment to the Constitution prohibiting the liquor traffic”—was argued by Messrs. McConolgue and McWilliams on the affirmative, and Messrs. Burns and Blake on the negative. The chair decided in favor of the negative.	.
—In the report of the Law Debating Society, which appeared last week a mistake was made which should be corrected. After the subject, “Resolved that a federal form of government would best subserve the English people,” was discussed, the President did not decide in favor of the negative. Prof. Hoynes, after reviewing the arguments brought forward showed that the great weight of them rested with the affirmative. In addition he paid a high compliment to the speaker who closed the affirmative side, the gifted young Irish-American, H. O’Neill, on his historical knowledge and elocutionary powers.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association held a special meeting in St. Edward’s Hall on Tuesday, October 1, for the purpose of electing officers. The following is'the result: Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger and Very Rev. E. Sorin, Honorary Directors; Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. J. A. O’Connell, Promoter; C. Connor, 1st Vice-President; F. Roberts, 2d Vice-President; E. Elkin, Recording Secretary; R. Powell, Corresponding-Secretary; G. Mayer, Treasurer; W. Marr, Marshall; J. Crane, Librarian; L. Stone, 1st Censor; J. Barhour, 2d Censor; J. O’Neill, 1st Monitor; C. McPhee, 2d Monitor; E. Falvey, 3d Monitor; G. Funke, 4th Monitor; W. Walsh, Standard Bearer; Wm. Nichols, Sergeant-at-Arms. The meeting closed with an original composition on “Vacation” read by C. Connor; a poem on the same subject was read by R. Powell; E. Elkin recited the “Catacombs,” and G. Mayer the “Sculptor Boy.”
—The Everett Piano from Root & Sons, Chicago, which is to be placed in the reading-room of the Lemonnier Boat-house, was received at the College a few days ago. It is a superb Cabinet Grand in ebony case with beautifully carved panels and music stand. The tone is full, brilliant and sympathetic, and the professors and visitors who have tried it unanimously agree that the workmanship of all parts is superior, and the action all that the most critical could desire. The Everett Piano is fast gaining a name and reputation as one of the best
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and most durable pianos made, and we congratulate the Lemonnier boat club in having received such a valuable and handsome instrument for
their pleasant rooms.
—The second regular meeting of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Association was held Satur
day evening, Sept. 28. After the regular business of the evening had been attended to, the question: “Resolved, that secret societies are detrimental to the prosperity of a nation ” was debated by. Messrs. W. Larkin and Barrett on the affirmative, and Messrs. L. Chute and Brelsford on the negative. Opinions were voluntarily expressed by Messrs. Paradis and Sullivan. The Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh, having been asked to act as Judge, after a short resume of the various arguments brought forward, gave his decision in favor of the affirmative. This was their first debate of the year, and the speakers by their eloquence’ and reasoning made it very pleasant for the association.
—The Senior field sports, to be held on St. Edward’s Day, will be unusually varied and interesting. The conditions on entering are that there will be three entries for each prize: nine for three prizes, six for two prizes, three for one •prize. The other conditions have been made known to the boys’before. Those entering will please hand in their names as soon as possible. The following are the
Prizes:
ist Prize. 2D Prizr.	3D Prize.
Gold Medal; Silver Medal;	Gold Pen.
Gold Medal; Silver Medal;	Album.
Gold Medal; Silver Medal;	Album.
Box of Cigars: % Box Cigars;	; Box.
Silver Medal: Gold Pen;	Album.
Gold Medal: Gold Medal;	Silver M.
Silver Medal; Gold Pen:	Album.
Silver Medal: Gold Pen:	Album.
Silver Medal: Gold Pen;	Album.
Silver Medal: Gold Pen:	Album.
Silver Medal: Gold Pen:	Album.
Silver Medal; Gold Pen;	Album.
Silver Medal: Gold Pen:	Album.
Sitver Medal; Gold Pen;	Album.
First 100 yards’ dash: Second 100 yards' dash Third 100 yards’ dash: Three-legged race: Sack race: 3Iile race: Throwing ball:	.
Putting shot;
Hop, skip, and jump: Standing Jump: Runningjump: High jump: High kick: Pole vaulting:	.
Kicking football (drop kick) —ist Prize. Old Silver klatch-box. ad Prize. Gold Pen: 3d Prize, Album.
Tug of War between Base-ball Nines, Box of Cigars.
Tug of war between Rugby Teams, Box of Cigars.
Consolation race—ist Prize, Silver Medal; 2d Prize, Gold Pen. 3d Prize, Album, -	•
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Allen, Adelsperger, Benz, H. Brannick, Barrett, Brelsford, Burger, Blackman, Blessington, Blodgett, Berry, Bovett, Bunker, Lancaster, Burns, E. Brannick, H. Beckham, G. Beckham, Brennan, Combe, Cassin, Carroll, Cassidy, S. Campbell, W. Campbell, G. Cooke, L. Chute, F. Chute, Clayton, Curtis, E. Coady, T. Coady, P. Coady, Dela Pena, Dillon, Dorsey, Delany, Dacy, Dennis, Daly, Draper, Davis, Dyer, Dougherty, Dorsey, Daniels, Fitzgibbon, C. Flynn, F. Flynn, Ford, P. Fleming, Fehr, Fisher, S. Fleming, Garfias, Gibbons, Galen, Houlihan, Herman, Hanrahan, Healy, Howard, Heard, B. Hughes, E. Hughes, Hummer, Hempier, Hoover, Hayes, Hobletzell, Johnson, Karasynski, Kearns, Keenan, King, Krembs, J. Kelly, F. Kelly, Kohlman, Lesner, Langan, Lair, W. Larkin, "Lane, Lynch, Lahey, Moncada, Mock, Mulroney, McGinn, H. McCarthy, G. McDonald, McAuliff, McKee, McAlister, G. McDonnell, McPhee, McConlogue, Mackey, Morrison, Meehan, McGrath, O’Brien, O’Shea, Olds, O’Connor, Parker, Powers, Philips, Paradis, Pyplacz, Portilia, H. Prichard, Paquette, Quigley, W. Roberts, C. Roberts, Rebillot, Rothert, See-
berger, Sullivan, Stewart, N. Sinnot,* Steiger, Schaack, J. Smith, T. Smith, Soden, Satter, Toner, V. Vurpillat, Wade, Youngerman, G. Cartier, D. Cartier, W. Cartier, Schwarz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Aarons, Ayer, Brubaker, B. Bachrach, S. Bachrach, E. Bates, B. Bates, J. Brady, T. T. Brady, T. M. Brady, W. Brady, Burns, Bruel, Blumenthal, Bos, Bradley, Coll, Crandall, Cunningham, Cheney, Conroy, Cosgrove, Case, Crotty, Cudahy, J. Connors, E. Connors, Delany, Dempsey, Dorsey, Drumm, Dela Pena, Evers, Elder, J. H. Flannigan, C. Fitzgerald, A. W. Funke, A. M. Funke, J. Fitzgerald, A. Galen, Gale, Garrison, Gnewuch, Hooten, Howard, Hull, Hambaugh, Hack, Hesse, Hahn, R. Healy, P. Healy, Halthusen, Hagus, Hannin, Helfer, Ibold, Jacobs, Kearney, Keough, King, A. Leonard, J. Leonard, Lee, J. McCartney, E. McCartney, Mackey, Murphy,” Maurus, Maher, Messick, Mitchell, Merkel, Jas. McPhillips, A. McPhillips, W. McDonnell, F. McDonnell, F. McKee, E. McKee, McIvers, McDonald, F. Neef, A. Neef, Neenan, O’Neill, O’Brien, O’Mara, O’Rourke, Otis, Pendelton, Pomeroy, Quinlan, Robinson, Rarig, Roper, Regan, Riedinger, Roth, W. E. Stanton* Merz, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, Scott, Seymore, Seerey, Sokup, Scherrer, Sutter, Tetard, Town, Thorn, Talbot, Werthimer, Wife, Weitzel, Wright, Weise, Zinn, Tivnen, Gough, L. Kehoe, V. Kehoe, Keough, Spalding, Ward, T. Whalen, Prichard, Baltes, Clendenin, Young, Campbell, Gross, Youngerman, Wolff, Anson, Mier, Rowsey.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ball, 0. Brown, Blake, T. Burns, Barbour, J. Burns, Bauer, Cornell, C. Connor, W. Connor, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Coquillard, Croke, Clarke, Crane, Durand, Elkin, Evers, Eckler, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, Fischer, Frankel, Fuller, E. Furthman, W. Furthman, Funke, Girardin, Greene, Gilbert, D. Gilkison, A. Gilki-son, Hoffman, Hamilton, Jonquet, Krollman, Keefer, E. King, Klaner, Kern, Lonergan, H. Lamberton, C. Lamberton, Levi, Loomie Loomis, Montague, Maternes, Mattas, Marr, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, McGuire, McPhee, Morrison, Mayer, Marre, McCarthy, W. Nichols, C. Nichols, Powell, L. Paul, C. Paul, Pellenz, C. Packard, J. Packard, Pierce, Roberts, Ronning, Ryan, Stone, Sloan, Seidensticker, W. Scherrer, Stephens, Thornton, Trujillo, Vorhang, Wilcox, Washbume, F. Walsh, G. Zoehrlaut, Ziegler, Hill, G. Zoehrlaut.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
List of Excellence.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Grammar—Masters E. Elkin, Durand, W. Nichols, O’Neill, Roberts, Stone, Powell, Grant, Marr, Pellenz, J. Marre, Morrison, Stephens, Vandercook, F. Brown, T. Finnerty, Wever, A. Crawford, D. Gilkison; Arithmetic -—Masters Roberts, Barbour, E. Elkin, Falvey, Marr, Powell, O’Neill, L. Paul, Wever, A. Crawford, Pellenz, Walsh, Durand, Henneberry, Cornell, Myers, C. Furth-man, Trujillo, C. Nichols, H. Mestling; Geography— Masters Browning, Falvey, Stone, W. Nichols, Seidensticker, J. Burns, Pellenz, F. Brown, Ziegler, J. Marre, Morrison, McPhee, T. Finnerty, Myers, A. Crawford, Wever, T. Burns, Londoner, Evers, A. Gilkison; Orthography— Masters Gilbert, L. Paul, Falvey, Greene, W. Nichols, Bi owning, Marr, Grant, Thornton, W. Connor, Ziegler, Vandercook, Stephens, J. Marre, Henneberry, Hill, W. Crawford, Wilcox, Dench, H. and E. Mestling; History—Masters E. Elkin, Marr, Powell, O’Neill, Roberts; Reading— Masters Powell, C. O’Connor, W. Nichols, O’Neill, Vandercook, Klaner, Washbume, Greene, Levi, Crane, Stephens, Grant, Pierce, W. Crawford, McPhee, Crandall, Blake, Montague, Lonergan; Penmanship— Masters Roberts, E. Elkin, L. Paul, Stone, Mayer, Durand, Barbour, Clarke, McPhee, W. Connor, Wever, W. Crawford, Seidensticker, G. Zoehrlaut, Montague; Christian Doctrine—Masters C. Connor, Marr, Durand, McPhee, W. Nichols, A. Crawford, McGuire, Trujillo, C. Nichols.	■	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
19
St. Mail’s Ssaderaj.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Thanks are tendered Miss M. Piper for kind favors to St. Luke’s Studio.
—Little Anne Eliza Dennison, of the Minim department, was the only one who received 100 in lessons for last week.
—At the academic meeting of Sunday'even-ing, Very Rev. Father General made a few complimentary remarks followed by words of fatherly advice.
—The first competition of the year was held in the 1st Preparatory Grammai' class on Monday last; the “Captains” were Miss A. Regan and Miss E. Lewis. .All the participants did remarkably well.
—Should St. Mary’s pupils name their choice for a national flower, the golden rod would surely be the favored one, for the beautiful specimens. abounding in the vicinity are eagerly sought by all, particularly by the art students.
—The Junior literary society held a very interesting meeting on Thursday evening. Adelaide Procter was the writer discussed; Fannie Burdick and Linnie Farwell contributed to the general pleasure by reading a sketch of her life and works..
—The Graduates held a reception in the Vocal Hall on the ist inst. The ist Seniors were the invited guests, and the evening passed most pleasantly. The Misses Davis and Leahy added much to the enjoyment of all by the rendition of instrumental and vocal music.
—St. Teresa’s Literary Society departed from their usual routine at the last meeting; Miss J. Currier, representing the ist Senior class, read an essay on “The Object of Literary Societies,” and Miss E. Flannery, on the part of the Graduating class, read one on “School Life a Preparation for Real Life.” Essavs were exchanged for criticism—the result to be read at the next regular meeting.
—Very Rev. Father General, as Spiritual Director of the Sodality of the Children of Mary, is deeply interested in each member of the Society, and is untiring in his efforts to promote their welfare. Every Monday morning, after the holy Sacrifice of the Mass, he gives a short instruction for their especial benefit. The first one for the academic year was given on the 30th of September, the subject being the Devotion of the Rosary.
—The visitors of the past were: Rev. F. X. Dutten, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. D. McGuire, J. T. Young, Dr. J. D. Hammond, R. Ulrich, P. Cavanaugh, R. R. Beck, Chicago; Mrs. H. Collbran, Mrs. J. P.Pellenz, Denver, Colo.; G. Philion, Mishawaka; Miss. A.Burtis, F. Murphy, Omaha, Neb.; P. J. Loomie, Dallas, Texas; Mrs.B.Wick-ersheim, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. J. Claffey, Bertrand, Mich.; M. Crane, Frankfort, Mich.; Mrs. T. Nester, Marquette, Mich.
Nothing but Leaves.
The Divine Artificer of Nature, with each recurring season, presents to our gaze a series of pictures inimitable in their beauty. Their charms never wane; and, though ever ancient, are they ever new. Who has not felt the sway of the enchantress, spring? Buds which have slumbered during the winter months now burst forth, and render the air redolent with their rich perfume; birds sing in the tree tops, adding their meed of praise, as if rejoicing at the return of spring; brooks rend the icy chains that have bound them so long, and flow swiftly over their pebbly beds; all nature breathes happiness— birds and brooks and flowers sing with one heart that the earth is beautiful. But spring must give way to summer’s reign, when the warm sun enters the very heart of Nature, and that which was sown in spring and perfected in summer is ready for the harvest—golden grain, rich, ripe fruit. Oh, mother Earth is bountiful in her gifts! But what of our beautiful forest scenes, our wooded hills? What shall we gather there? The crimson and gold, the russet and the brown may be charming to the eye, but no fruit is there— “nothing but leaves.” The thoughts awakened by that sentence, “Nothing but leaves,” are serious ones, and are worthy of consideration.
Man is destined to fulfil a high and noble • station; his dignity is measured by the fidelity with which he nourishes the seeds of those talents which God has given him, causing them to produce rich fruit a hundredfold. Our powers are great; but do all use them to advantage? Our answer is readily found if we look around us and see the effects of wasted talent.
Some there are in whom the blessed seed of charity is planted; among the poor we find them, as ministering angels, giving aid to the lowly, assisting the needy and doing Christ’s work on earth. Every word they utter, every act they perform is prompted by holy self-forgetfulness; and when we meet these souls, involuntarily we pay reverence to them, remembering that it was of such the consoling words were said: “Inasmuch as you did it to one of My least brethren, you did it unto Me.” Others there are whose impulses of charity are fruitless of good; whose consciences are soothed by occasional alms-deeds, but who are too much engrossed with the demands of pleasure to sacrifice precious moments to the wants of the needy. Their harvest will contain no golden sheaves, but will be, alas! “nothing but leaves.” The barren fig tree spoken of in the Gospel is a striking figure
8o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the lives of many: “Words notactions,” seems to be their motto. Pity they extend; but help, never. The leaves of sympathy are beautiful, it is true, but cannot compare with the fruit of aid. Even words are left unsaid with some, and thoughts remain lost in the heart. Of such has John Boyle O’Reilly written:
“ How sad t’would be to see a master’s hand
Strike glorious notes upon a voiceless lute;
But, oh! what pain, when at God’s own command, A heart-string thrills with kindness, but is mute!”
The career of . thousands seems to be made up of failure. Why is this? What has become of the talents developed at school, the opportunities offered afterwards? In many cases the seeds of success are sown in youth; but, through want of care, nothing is produced save leaves.
In education also is this often the case; a training which is superficial cannot bear the fruits that spring from true culture, and the harvest must be—“nothing but leaves.”
In every walk of life may fruit be found. Take the poet whose aim is to awaken man’s love for the beautiful, and to raise his heart to the Author of beauty. In so far only as he lives up to that aim is his work productive of good. In regard to our last great harvest particularly, should we question whether we bear fruit or leaves. Inspirations unheeded, good thoughts unspoken, deeds of virtue neglected, and what fruit ma}?- we hope to bear to God’s throne? Sadly will we find we have
“No garnered sheaves *
Of life’s fair ripened grain;
Words, idle words, for earnest deeds;
We sow our seeds: lo! tares and weeds!
i We reap, with toil and pain,
f	Nothing but leaves.”
1	o
Margaret R. Smith (Class ’89).
. Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Ash, Ansbach, Bates, Balch, Bernhart, Bogner, Bero, Bovett, Byrnes, Clarke, Cunningham, Collbrann, Cooper, Coll, Currier, Crane, M. Davis, C. Dempsey, N. Davis, Deutsch, E. Dennison, D. Davis, S. Dempsey, C. Dorsey, Dolan, M. DeMontcourt, I. DeMontcourt, Ernest, English, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Frost, Green, Ganong, Hammond, Healey, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hurff, H. Hanson, Holt, Hess, Hagus, Harmes, A. Hanson; Hellmann, Hale, Hull, Hutchinson, Hamilton, J. Hughes, E. Hughes, Jungblut, Kasser, Krimbill, Kelso, Kimmell, Koopmann, Linneen, Leahey, Lynch, Leavick, Lauth, Lewis, McFarland, Moore, N. Morse, McLoud, K. Morse, Maher, Mills, M. McPhee, S. McPhee, McCarthy, M. McHugh, Murison, McCune, Mullaney, Miller, Nickel, Norris, Nacey, O’Brien, Otis, Piper, Pyle, Penburthy, Pendleton, Pugsley, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, A. Regan, Rose, Roberts; -Rinehart, Rinn, Robinson, Rentfrow, Reilly, Stapleton, Spurgeon, Studebaker, Schiltz, M. Schermer-. horn, Skancke, Smith, Schrock, Schaefer, N. Schermerhorn, Tormey, V an Mourick, Violette, Woolner, Wickers-heim, A. Wurzburg.	.
• JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Barry, Burdick, E, Burns, M. Burns, Black, M. Clifford, E. Cooper, M. Cooper, M. Davis, B. Davis, Dreyer, L. Ernest, Evoy, Farwell, M. Fosdick, Hickey, Henry, Holmes, L. Kasper, C. Kasper, Levy, Mabbs, Mc.-Cormack, Meskill, Patier, Pellinz, Philion, E. Regan, Robbins, M. Scherrer, Soper, Sweeney, Thirds, A. Tormey, E. Wagner, Waldron, N. Wurzburg, Wood, Wright, Young. .	.	.	-
■ MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Ayer, Crandall, Dennison, M. Egan, Finnerty, Goodwin, M. Hamilton, K.Hamilton, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, Porteous, S. Scherrer, N. Smyth, L. Scherrer.	.
[From the Austin Statesman^
St. Mary’s Academy, Austin, Texas.
St. Mary’s Academy was founded in 1878 by a little band of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, sent out at the request of some of the people of Austin from the long-established and famous school of their Order at St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Ind. Its beginnings were small and unpretentious, as befitted a new school in a town of a few thousand inhabitants, j’ust rejoicing in the recent acquisition of its first railroad, and where the field was already occupied by rivals of no mean attainments. Butthe principles that guided its founders were as intelligent and far-seeing as those that prevailed at the widely known and prosperous “Mother-House” from which they had come, and, under such circumstances, the success of the little school was a foregone conclusion.
Through the wise management of that masterful and intelligent woman, the beloved lamented Sister Mildred, aided by her little band of devoted assistants, the new academy grew in reputation and, as a consequence, in numbers, until the house which they had secured at the opening of their undertaking proved, in spite of repeated additions, too small to accommodate the requirements of the rapidly growing school, and in 1885 a new and much larger building was erected on the most desirable and suitable spot the city afforded—the block of ground set apart for the president of the Republic of Texas when Austin was surveyed in 1838. The historic little white frame cottage that had done duty in those early days, as the executive mansion, was torn down, and in a few months there rose in its stead the imposing stone structure now known as St. Mary’s Academy.
Its present enviable reputation, the high repute as teachers which the Order of the Holy Cross enjoys, the beautiful and commanding situation of the Academy itself, the well-planned building which it occupies, and, chief among good reasons, the well-known salubrity of the climate of Austin, are all conditions which give the people of this city reason to believe that the time is not far distant when students will be drawn in large numbers from all the neighboring states, and when St. Mary’s Academy will be acknowledged among the first schools, not only of Texas, but of the South and West.