and how it started
$
y^^-CAIVI ELS
I
LOVELY HOLLYWOOD STAR
TERESA WRIGHT says: “Up to 16, my knowledge of acting had been gleaned from seeing movies. When I saw my first professional play, that was it: I only wanted
to act. I got into high school plays, wrestled props at Provincetown, understudied, sat for months in producers’ reception rooms. One rainy night, sick with
a cold, I read for a good role, and got it!”

K. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
SUCCESS STORY:
Camels — now more than ever the nationwide favorite cigarette!
I -found out Came/s nave -fke Most delightful flavor and mildness op any cigarette."Try Camels and you'll be as enthusiastic as 11''
START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Make the 30-day Camel mildness test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!
AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
Scholastic
Vol. 96 OCTOBER 29, 1954 No. 5
The ARROW points to
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, I Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
0OHN ADAMS .....................News
ROBERT KAUFMAN ....Assistant News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE .........   Copy
Charles McKendrick .................
..................... Assistant Copy
DAVE COHEN ............    Features
KEN WOODWARD ..Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER ____________Circulation
DICK HAIRSINE ...........Photo Editor
PAUL FITZGERALD ....................
...... Photography Coordinator
^OHN P. DEFANT ______Faculty Moderator
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented lor national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is pubb'shed weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
PHOTOS—Pictures taken by staff photographers appear on the following pages:
Jim Guide—page 20.
John O'Brien—pages 18, 22.
Mike Thompson—pages 14, 15, 21.
Moy we collar you soon in a smart ARROW Radnor?
Cover: Today is “B-Day” for some 400 -cheering Irish who will board the Notre Thame Special for Baltimore where the
Fighting Irish tangle with Navy tomorrow. It’s the same old song for Joe Tripper: fresh and eager in starting out, 60 minutes of “yars” and “yeas” at the game, some enchanted doll for the usual aftergame dance-party pleasantries, and, after it’s all over, train ridden, toured-out, tattered, but satisfied. Cartoonist was Tom Cahill, a student in the Department of Architecture.
^October 29, 1954
With 90% of a shirt’s style up in the collar, the man who wears an Arrow Radnor is smarter than a wet whip.
Choose a Radnor Button-Down (above), a regular Radnor, or Radnor “E”—with eyelets, shown at right. The Radnor “E” is also available with French Cuffs. They’re all Arrow ... all easy on the eyes and on the budget. Arrow Radnors ... smart-looking and perfect-fitting — in broadcloth prices start at $4.50; in oxford cloth, $5.00 white or colored.
AH/IOW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKER
n : 11 si
•S • CASUAL WEAR
I CONQUERED MY
INFERIORITY COMPLEX
in one hour
You can really dance after the first lesson!
When you can swing out on the floor and dance expertly, you, too, will feel proud—not inferior any more! Arthur Murray himself had a complex in his youth—and overcame it by becoming an expert dancer. And today experts trained by him will help get rid of any "I.C.” that hinders you—in society or in business.
In just a few hours your "dated” dancing will be transformed—you’ll know the latest steps—you’ll be a popular partner. Don’t wait! Phone MU 2-4647 or come right to the studio for a Free 15-minute dance analysis.
at Arthur MurM s
Copr. 1943—Arthur Murrey Inc.

letters
। Free ' -DANCE I BOOK
Please send me the new 64-page “Murray-Go-Round” with all its helpful hints on dancing and information about the Arthur Murray Studios. its parties, etc. I understand if I send this coupon in promptly I will also receive a certificate good for 2 FREE introductory dance lessons!
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne, South Bend, Ind.
Ph. 2-3339
* Name____________________________Phone_________
sruD/o
Street_______________________________________________
USSONS
City----------------------Zone____State----
.	<S)
Shape Up, Frosh!
Editor:
We went to Washington Hall for the first time this year—from the way things went, it was probably our last time this year. After sitting there for about ten minutes, we came to the cor elusion that this year’s freshmen are the most impolite, inconsiderate bunch to ever hit this campus. Granted that Washington Hall is a campus theatre . and that the majority attending are men. However, there are women there. You should know—you noticed them the second they came in. Some of the remarks heard during the show weren’t fit to be heard behind a locked door in your room, and certainly not in the pres. : ence of women. This isn’t a zoo or a wild jungle. You are supposed to be good, intelligent Catholic men attending a university dedicated to Our Lady. How about acting that way?
Four disappointed juniors (Names withheld by request)
“Nothing”
Editor:
Let’s give John Winslow and Al Rilew q a public pat on the back for their quid. > and entertaining thoughts as expressed	I
over “Nothing,” WNDU’s presentation	j
of Sunday night, Sept. 26.	'
This program and other original and humorous programs ought to be originated and continued by WNDU as a standard feature, so that its spontaneity and relaxed attitude could be enjoyed by more art lovers on campus.
Jack Scriba
309 Lyons ।
Orchids For Student Body
Editor:
I graduated from Notre Dame in 1950 after having spent the football seasons of 1943, ’46, ’47, ’48 and ’49 there. During that time I, of course, attended at least every home game and I never witnessed a Notre Dame defeat. My conception of the spirit on the part of the student body during the above perio was that it was unbeatable.
In retrospect, however, I can see how easy it was for us to generate spirit when we were so singularly successful. । The loss Saturday (Oct. 2) to Purdue was the first ND defeat I have had the ; misfortune to observe since 1942. And though defeat never comes easy for l Notre Darners, since we very seldom have the opportunity to practice it, I (Continued on Page 32)
4
The Scholastic^1
the week
by Jim O'Shea
Top of the WEEK:
My girl notifies me that she’s coming up for the A.B. Ball, November 12 . . ,
That Handsome Picture
For those of you who haven’t noticed, that gay, smiling felow at the top of the page is supposed to be me. This is a source of great chagrin to John O’Brien, my distinguished colleague, because, as anyone can see, I’m better looking than he is. O’Brien just doesn’t have the dashing profile, the Roman nose, the amorous eyes that I have. I didn't want to let them print those pictures, because I knew it would hurt O-B’s feelings, but they did it anyhow. He’s probably in some dark corner right now, crying his eyes out. (tmtche, John!)
More About Restaurants
A few WEEK’S ago, I made a complimentary remark about a restaurant where 1 had received some good food, and some exceptionally fine service. This WEEK, I’m going to make a few uncomplimentary remarks about another downtown restaurant, where I received ^ome miserable food and some exceptionally lousy service. There’s only one catch—the editor won’t let me mention the name of this restaurant in print.
Anyhow, I had some friends up for the MSC game a while back, and on Sunday afternoon, we all decided to eat a big meal at this particular restaurant. After seating ourselves (since no one else seemed interested in seating us), we ^were approached by a gangling, straw-^leaded waitress who inquired “What would y’all like?” I replied, in my most polite manner, that I’d like a menu if she didn’t mind. She didn’t. She gave us two menus (there were six of us), and came back an hour later to see if we wanted anything. Since we were starving by this time, we all ordered big dinners.
Then came the fun. She brought us six tomato juices. We drank them. Instead of picking up the glasses, she ^pushed them to the center of the table.
Then we had salad. She pushed the dishes to the center of the table. Each meat course came on an individual platter, from which we transferred it to a plate. The platters got pushed to the center of the table.
Before I had eaten any of my mashed potatoes, one of my friends informed me that they were cold. I called the waitress and asked for french fries.
She brought me a plate of cold, damp, soggy, wormy looking things that could not have passed for french fries at a masquerade. (The dishes, of course, were pushed to the center of the table.)
By this time, we were getting up to our necks in dishes. Some of them were falling off into my girl’s lap, so I signaled the waitress to do something about the situation. She did. She gave my girl another napkin to put in her lap. Then she disappeared again.
About a half hour later, she appeared again. “Y’all wan’teet dee-zurt?” she inquired. I ordered apple pie. Everyone else had ice cream. She served the five ice creams and vanished again. Fifteen minutes later, I trapped her tip-toeing out of the kitchen, and grabbed her. “Hey!” I smiled sweetly, “Where’s my apple pie?”
“The cook is a-lookin’ fer a piece now,” she said. Fearing that the cook might find a piece in an abandoned garbage pail somewhere, I changed the order to cherry pie. I was given two big, thick, hard crusts, with a few cherries in the middle. I ate it, and ordered coffee. I still can’t figure out how the cook manages to differentiate between his coffee and his dish water. Maybe he doesn’t. The coffee was cold, too, by the way. In fact, the only thing hot at the whole meal was me, and I was just about boiling when I walked out.
It is not the purpose of this column to smear restaurants, but the only decent service I received came when I asked for the check (and boy, did I get
that quick!), so I think this one deserves to be smeared.’ At any rate, I rose from the table, dodging the pile of dirty dishes which fell when I ceased to support them, and we all left, never to return again. (I tipped . the waitress exactly what she was worth—§0.02.)
Men, if you want to eat a decent meal, I do not advise patronizing Restaurant X—come- around to my room anytime and I’ll whisper the name into your ears.
Anybody Wanna Be a Queen?
Why is it, I wonder, that no one seems to w’ant to be queen of the Saturday night Victoiy Dances? Last WEEK, at the “Autumn Leaves” affair, five lucky numbers were called, and no one appeared to claim the orchid. I don’t think our lovely St. Mary’s friends are getting tired of orchids, so there must be some other reason for this refusal of so many queens to accept their thrones. Do you think, men, that St. Mary’s girls are becoming reluctant to kiss their ND dates? Heaven forbid, but it looks like this is the case. Now, to solve the problem . . .
Obviously, all Victoiy Dances 'must have queens, so we have to find a way to make the girls answer the call, and accept the honor. I propose three possible solutions to the question:
1.	Any girl who has a date with a Notre Dame man that she wouldn’t mind kissing, should report to the Dance Manager early in the evening, and announce that she wouldn’t mind being queen for the night.
2.	Any girl who is picked to be queen, and who doesn’t want to kiss her date, may leave the guy standing there, and kiss the Dance Manager instead (he does seem to be such a dashing fellow, in that natty blue suit!).
3.	We could start some sort of “good friends” setup, wherein the queen could give her escort a friendly, hearty slap on the back and then shake hands all around. This seems like the best solution to me, but then I’ve been known to have a rather un-romantic streak in me.
Anyhow, I do hope that Victory Dance queens start answering their lucky numbers.
Flub of the WEEK
The downtown waitress who accepted an I.D. proving that its bearer was a member of the French Foreign Legion. . . . Hmmm, they’re still asking for I.D. though, men.
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . She’s going with my roommate.
^/October 29, 1954
MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE
LASALLE HOTEL Airline reservations at No Exira Charge
Phone 1-1181 or 2-2253
Eves, and Sun.—2-0947
calendar
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
^VlarviiK
. J EWE L E R 5
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
We Welcome You to
THE TWINS RESTAURANT
PIZZA and SPAGHETTI our specialties
CHOPS CHICKEN T-Bone—STEAKS—Porterhouse
713 E. LaSALLE
2 blocks east of Hill St.
Phone 3-0951
ROYAL TYPEWRITER CO.
309 E. Jefferson South Bend
Phone No. 2-3336
OCTOBER 29
PALACE (one day only)—The Festival of American Jazz hops into South Bend for a one night stand. Stan Kenton and his orchestra take the spotlight, while the Art Tatum Trio, the Charlie Ventura Quintet, and Shortie Rogers lend their talents and renditions to the big show of modern American jazz.
AVON (through Nov. 5)—On the Waterfront (A-2) starring Marlon Brando and Eve Marie Saint continues for another week.
COLFAX (through Nov. 5)—Alan Ladd dons the armor of the Black Knight, and takes it upon himself to straighten out the Kingdom of England. He does this a little ostensibly, and wins the hand of Patricia Medina in the process.
GRANADA (through Nov. 5)—The Adventures of Hajji Baba is an Arabian nights tale of a barber* and a princess on the road to adventure. In a narrative with stock ingredients, Elaine Stewart plays the local princess, and Derek a dashing adventurer. The ending, naturally, is a happy one.
RIVER PARK (ends Saturday)—Ann Blyth, as Rose Marie (A-l), transposes herself from a lone wildcat existence to a lady of civilization. Her voice is ideally suited for operetta, and consequently she and Howard Keel burst into song at every opportunity.
STATE (ends Saturday)—A couple of re-issues: Dead End with Sylvia .Sidney and Humphrey Bogart, and The Westerner with Gary Cooper.
OCTOBER 30
BALTIMORE, Md.—The Notre Dame football team, the band, and 300 students travel East to meet the midshipmen in another intersectional battle. Radio still replaces TV in bringing the play-by-play to those staying on campus.
PALACE (ends Thursday)—Complications set in when a money-hungry waitress sets her sights on Chill Wills, but Miss Marjorie Main proves an expert matchmaker and things work out for everybody but the audience in Ricochet Romance (A-l). Rock Hudson and Arlene Dahl follow up with Bengal Brigade (A-l).
WASHINGTON HALL (3:15, 6:30, 8:40)—Alan Ladd and Joan Tetzel go whaling in the Antarctic in Hell Below Zero. A good one.
OCTOBER 31
RIVER PARK (ends Tuesday)—A romantic adventure comedy told against the backgrounds of Rome and Venice is Three Coins in the Fountain (A-l). Screenplay is simple, as boy meets girl. While this picture fails to fascinate as a comedy drama, it manages as a travelogue.
STATE (ends Tuesday)—Hollywood does everything in a big way, even its mistakes. The Egyptian (B), with Edmund Purdom and Gene Tierney, succeeds in spectacular photography, but seems a bit phoney in its mystic theme. Van Johnson plays hero in the Confederate spy drama, The Siege of Red River (A-l). Routine situations and a worn-out theme are about all this picture has to offer.
NOVEMBER 5
RIVER PARK (ends Saturday)—Intrigue in Peru puts Charlton Heston and Nicole Maurey together in Secret of the Incas. They have a hostile relationship, but their antagonism melts in the finale. Still that does not save the picture. The Moonlighter (A-l) is one who rustles cattle by the light of the moon.
STATE (ends Thursday)—Marilyn Monroe in Niagara (B) and Don’t Bother to Knock (B). Don’t bother.
6
The Scholastic^
Editor 's Page
Scholastic Takes Respite
Next week the Scholastic staff will join the rest of the student body in the approaching long week-end preceding the Feast of All Saints, a holy day of obligation.
Because of the free day Monday, there will be no Scholastic next Friday. Scholastic will resume operations the following week with the Nov. 12 issue.
The 1954 Student Trip: Point of Decision
Almost 400 students, including band members, will leave this afternoon on the official student trip to Baltimore. Still others are traveling independently to the Notre Dame-Navy contest. No matter the method of travel it is hoped that all will have a good and safe trip, see an Irish victory and have a good time.
But there is more to this year’s trip than that. Because of the cancellation of last year’s jaunt due to what was called “lack of student interest,” the fate of future student trips lies in the success or failure of this one. Thus far it has been a success in that more than the required minimum of 200 tickets were sold.
That, however, is only one of the things that will affect future trips. Among others are the ever-present obligation of representing the University well, student enjoyment of the trip and the proper functioning of the trip as planned by the committee.
Following a University policy of several years’ standing, that of giving students more responsibility, this year’s trip was organized completely by a group of students. A report is required for all major student functions, and upon the trip committee’s report the judgment will be made concerning student trips of the future.	•
Have a good time. And, keep the student trip at Notre Dame.
Festival of the Arts: A Return to Ancient Greece
The days of ancient Greece will return to view when the second annual month-long Festival of the Arts opens November 8 under the sponsorship of the College of Arts and Letters. Thousands attended last year’s Festival of modem arts; even more are expected to attend this year’s program.
Some 80 pieces of valuable Greek sculpture, pottery, coins and other articles will be displayed in the O’Shaughnessy Building gallery until the end of November. For November 8 .through 12 a program of fine speakers and exhibitions has been scheduled. These include a classical archaeologist, Dr. Rhys Carpenter; the dramatics reader and English actress, Miss Margaret Mower; and a performance of Gluck’s opera Orpheus, sponsored by the Department of Music.
Much work by a few people has gone into the staging of the Festival, yet much satisfaction will undoubtedly be derived by many. Last year’s Festival showed this to be the case; it also showed that such a thing is worthwhile and should become an annual part of the University’s cultural program. The jump from the modem assemblage of last year to the ancient this year is great, yet that very factor should aid in bringing interest in the arts of Greece alive.
This year’s program appears extremely well-arranged to give a relatively deep insight into the arts of Greece in a very short time. A picture-text feature, which includes the complete program schedule of the coming Festival, appears on pages 18 and 19 of this issue.
7
* October 29, 1954
i(^.OTCKWa»W*^»S>«S>ia«’'«l«US»WSKBtWM«3WAa^W^^
DRRWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS ------
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED --------
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel
Phone 4-5777
CAMERAS FOUNTAIN PENS	1
ipiiTini HU! M»Tt IIH	
128 W. Washington	
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken At Prices You Will Appreciate	1 1
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls	
$1.30 Joe Nabieht’s Restaurant 213 N. Main	Open Sunday	
The Scholastic	
8
■ scmsTic
Volume 96, Number 5	Notre Dame, Indiana	October 29, 1954
•STUDENT TRIPPERS DEPART FOR BALTIMORE
Middie Clash, Tours Highlight Weekend
All aboard! “Middie Special” now leaving on Track One for gala weekend. a Approximately 400 students get roll-^ing today at 4 p.m. from St. Mary’s siding for the student trip to the Navy football game at Baltimore, Md. A box lunch supper will be served to the group at 6 p.m. this evening on the train. Students will receive their game tickets, and also information concerning their hotel accommodations in Washington, D. C.
The train will stop at Martinsburg, W. Va., at 7:30 a.m. tomorrow to enable a the students to attend Mass and be w served breakfast. At 9:10 a.m. they leave Martinsburg and continue on until they arrive at Silver Springs, Md., at 10:40 a.m. Students living in the Capital district will be allowed to leave the train to go home, or to meet their friends. The football team will accompany the official Student Trip train from Silver Springs to the stadium. Arrival at Baltimore, Md., is set for £ 12:10 p.m., giving the students two hours before game time.
Forty minutes after the final whistle, the train will leave for the Annapolis Hotel in the nation’s capital.
Dick Capka, chairman of the student trip, with the aid of Dick Lewis, Dave Collins, and Jack Moynahan, has made arrangements to provide a blind date bureau, and also information concerning ? tours for all the students. Due to a lack a of student interest the Saturday night • dance in Washington has been cancelled; however, there will be a mixer ; at Trinity College at 2 p.m. on Sunday.
Monday afternoon the trippers will , assemble at Union Station in Washing-’ ton to board the 2:30 train for Notre Dame. Supper will be served to the men - on the train, and they will arrive at St. Mary’s siding at 6:10 Tuesday morning, j giving the students sufficient time to | make their first class.
October 29, 1954
ROSEMARIE BAPPERT, MARY VIRGINIA KENNY AND LOIS MATIA
Queen O’Land . .. Queen O’Sea ... Queen O’Air
Land, Sea, Air Queens to Reign Next Friday As Local ROTC Units Sponsor Military Ball
The impressive crowning of a “Queen of the Land—of the Sea—and of the Air” will highlight the annual Military Ball to be held in the LaFortune Student Center next Friday evening from 9 to 1. An estimated 350 men enrolled in the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC programs and their dates will dance to “Music in the Foster Fashion.”
Flower wreaths representing the three branches of the service will grace the main floor of the Center, while from a globe will project a tank, plane, and ship symbolizing the three-fold power of the armed forces. To round out the completely military atmosphere, flags and flowers representing all three units will form the backdrop for the bandstand.
During intermission at 11:15 p.m., the dates of each of the three co-chairmen for the gala affair will be crowned by the commanders of their respective units. “Queen of the Land” is Miss Rosemarie Bappert of Bronx, N. Y., presently employed at American Fire Insurance Co.; she will be escorted by Cadet Major John A. Tokar, AROTC, and will be crowned by Col. C. J. Letzelter, U.S. A.
“Queen of the Sea,” Miss Mary Virginia Kenny, of Chicago and a student at St. Mary’s of the Woods, Terre Haute, will be escorted by Midshipman first class, Lawrence C. Buckley, NROTC, and crowned by Capt. F. P. Luongo, U.S.N.
The “Queen of the Air” is Miss Lois Matia, Cleveland, O. She is employed as a secretary by her attorney father, and will be escorted by Cadet Major Eugene P. Wagner, AFROTC. Col. M. M. Towner, U.S.A.F., will place the Air Force laurels on her head.
The royalty will be led by a 12-man color guard, and met by a reception line made up of members of the three ROTC units.
The chairmen announce that the usual residence permissions for 2 a.m. and car permissions from noon Friday until 2 a.m. have been granted. They also stated that white shirts and uniforms will be proper dress for the affair, and that there will be no corsages.
Chuck Foster, whose orchestra will furnish the rhythms for the ball, is a nationally famous bandsman, having played for college affairs throughout the (Continued on Page 33)
Dr. Kertesz, Deportment of Political Science, Begin Research Program on Soviet Russia
Commerce Ball Bids To Go On Sale Nov. 8*
A new program was inaugurated in the Department of Political Science sometime ago, which deals mainly with research concerning the Soviet Union, its ideology, and other “iron curtain” countries. It is under the direction of Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of political science, who explained that this is not a special institute, but a program within the Department of Political Science with the cooperation of the Departments of History and Philosophy.
The late Dr. Waldemar Gurian, eminent Notre Dame political scientist who died last spring, played an active part in developing the program.
The program was greatly expanded by the $57,500 grant from the Ford Foundation, which was given primarily to continue research in an area which has been under study by Notre Dame faculty members for several years. The work has now been coordinated in a Center for Soviet and East European Studies, located on the top floor in the library.
Professor Kertesz explained that while this is primarily a research program, which was started with six advanced students, all students at the university are free to take the announced courses.
A Struggle for Minds
“Our basic problem today is the struggle between Communist totalitarian dictatorships and the free ■world,” stated Professor Kertesz. “We have to know basic Communist doctrines, methods of penetration, and of conquest, since this struggle is primarily one for the minds of men.”
He explained that the special study program is divided into two parts: The first includes the study of the Soviet Union, its ideology and policies, the history of Russia, the Communist movement, and particular problems of the Soviet Empire. The second part includes the study of the area in East Central Europe conquered by the USSR.
“Within the framework of this program,” Professor Kertesz said, “we are studying the methods used by Russia, under the protection of the Red Army, in installing Communist puppet governments in formerly independent states. This area includes Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, which were attached outright, and Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Rumania, Bulgaria, and Poland, which have Russian - dominated Communist governments, and for particular purposes lost their independence.
“How the stooges of Soviet Communism seized power, how they are supported by the USSR, and their method
of relationship with Russia, are some of the important subjects studied in the n?w program.”
Among the faculty members who
PROFESSOR KERTESZ Surveys Soviet Ideology
form the corps of the teaching staff other than Professor Kertesz, whose speciality is the satellite states and Soviet diplomacy, are: Dr. Michael Pap, the internal problems of Russia and Eastern Europe; Dr. F. A. Hermens, government structures and problems; Dr. A. R. Caponigri and Rev. Herman Reith, C.S.C., Marxist philosophy; Dr. Boleslaw Szczesniak, Russian history; and John Fizer, Slavic languages.
Aesculapians Plan Program; Movies, Lectures Scheduled
Officers of the Aesculapian Club have completed their plans for the fall semester, John Cywinski, program chairman, recently announced.
Technical movies will be shown each week for the pre-med men, and a series of talks have been scheduled. Dr. John F. Konopa delivered the first in the series of lectures on. Oct. 14. His topic was “The General Practitioner.” Dr. Noel Shaw will speak on pediatrics next Thursday, and Rev. Thomas C. Doulan, O.P., will give an address on ethics on Dec. 2.
On the social side, plans are being made for a banquet in the near future, and a dance has already been arranged.
Officers of the Aesculapians are Don Santschi, president; Frank Olazabal, vice-president; Joe Drody, secretary; and Emmet Malloy, treasurer.
Tickets for the 1954 Commerce Ball will go on sale for some 400 Commerce men on Monday in the basement of the Dining Hall from 3 to 5 and from 7 to 9 in the evening, Ticket Chairman John Dwyer has announced.
All remaining tickets will be sold at the same times the next day, Tuesday.
Ducats for “An Evening at Montq^ Carlo” are priced at $3.75, and a definite maximum of 400 has been set, Dwyer further stated. Communion Breakfast tickets and hotel reservations, as well as game tickets for the Irish-Southern Cal fracas, will be available with the dance bids. Communion Breakfast tickets are priced at $2.50 per couple with a maximum of 80 to be sold. The breakfast will be held at the Morris Inn.
Buddy Morrow, his trombone and hisl*’ orchestra will supply the melodies for the “Riviera retreatants” on Friday, Nov. 26, in the Student Center from 9 until 1.
This will be the first time since the 1953 Sophomore Cotillion that the Morrowmen have appeared at the University.
Pacing the long weekend will be the Notre Dame-Southem California game in the Stadium Saturday. That nights the ballgoers will dance to the music of Don Gels at the usual Senate Victory Dance. Varied festivities will be fea
tured throughout the day for the Commerce men. The Communion Breakfast
Sunday will cap the home-game weekend of the season.
Plans have been completed for the weekend. Lee Crean, general chairman, has announced. “All Commerce men who haven’t started planning for the dance should do so now,” Crean added. “Much interest has been expressed, and with the somewhat limited number of bids available, a big rush is expected when the tickets go on sale.”
Markley Is Chosen to Guide Announcer's Staff at WNDU
Bill Markley, a Commerce junior from Detroit, has taken over the post of chief announcer for radio station WNDU, ac- ' cording to Dick Beeman, station manager.
Markley, who is majoring in business administration, is disk jockey on “Daily Express,” an afternoon program featuring popular recorded music. He has been announcing on the WNDU staff for over two years. As chief announcer, Markley will be in charge of approximately 35 student announcers.
10
The Scholastic O
Prof. Mathes' Choral Mass to Be Sung Dec. 1;
*Sacred Musical Work to Climax Marian Year
Sauter-Finegan Band Billed for ND Concert
By TOM QUINN
On Dec. 1, Sacred Heart Church will serve as the scene for a concert performance of Missa Solemnis in G Minor Nostrae Dominae a Luca (The Solemn Mass in G Minor of Our Lady of the Lake). The composition, a work of Prof. ^Carl Mathes, University faculty member, is to be “the artistic musical climax of Notre Dame’s celebration of the Marian year.”
The work, for mixed chorus and solo quartet, is to be performed by members of the University Glee Club and young ladies from South Bend. Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., will direct and Professor Mathes will accompany on the organ.
a This will be the second performance " of the work, the premiere being held on Ascension Thursday, 1950. It was then officially dedicated to Our Lady and the original manuscript was presented to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University at that time.
The composition was put together in the summer of 1948, though years of preparation preceded the finished product. The task was made especially arduous for the composer by a severe ^physical handicap, for Carl Mathes has been totally blind for most of his life!
The Woman Behind the Man
He credits music as being chiefly responsible for overcoming his handicap, despite the fact that this field imposed further difficulties upon him. The major difficulty was finding someone to transform his musical ideas to paper, for copyists are few in America, and D those in the business are employed by publishing houses or musical organizations. So, for over 20 years, Mrs. Mathes has been serving as her husband’s copyist.
A Hungarian by birth, Professor Mathes went to study at the Royal Academy in Budapest, when he was 12 years of age. From here he went to Temesvar where he taught for a number of years. Besides studying music, he received his .master’s degree in German languages at ^Budapest. Nevertheless music was his “first love” and while still a young man he achieved fame as a concert pianist throughout Europe.
The youthful artist had performed several times in Rumania and had been well received by Queen Marie of that country. Her Majesty offered him the position of court pianist, which he accepted and for a time he was also musical instructor for the royal family. As the professor puts it, he “had the
bug to go to America,” and when the queen realized his desires, she secured a passport for him and his family as well as letters of introduction.
From Humble Beginnings . . .
When the Matheses arrived here, however, they were almost penniless and discovered that the United States was not the field for concerts that Europe had been. For a time, Mathes was forced to play in eating establishments in the East. In 1923, prompted by the large number of Hungarian residents in South Bend," he came to settle here.
Soon he opened a studio and held a recital, an annual event for many years. His reputation as teachei- and composer spread so that at one time he was serving on two conservatory faculties in Chicago. Ill health forced him to resign, however, in 1944. After he recovered, Professor Mathes was offered a position in the Notre Dame Department of Music which he accepted in 1948. Today, he is in charge of the piano and music division here.
Mathes, who learns by merely hearing the music played, has written many compositions. He has penned well over 20 leider songs but his most famous work is probably, Five Tone Pictures, which was first presented by the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra, in March, 1936.
Seniors Cast Ballots Soon to Select 'Outstanding Patriot'
Seniors will again have the opportunity to select the American who, in their opinion, best deserves the title “Outstanding Patriot of the Year.”
This unique opportunity, which was first given the Senior Class last year, is an addition to the traditional program for the annual Washington Day Exercises in which the seniors will participate next Feb. 22. It is hoped that the individual selected will be able to appear here at that time to receive an award for outstanding patriotism and to deliver the main address at the Exercises.
Senior hall presidents and representatives will distribute ballots within the next few days so that ’55 graduates may make their choices. By careful selection and prudent judgment, it is hoped that this annual award will eventually become as significant and as respected in its field as the internationally renowned and distinguished Laetare Medal which the University presents each year to the “Outstanding Catholic layman.” (Continued on Page 33)
The famed Sauter-Finegan Orchestra will present a two-hour concert in the Fieldhouse Nov. 15 at 8 p.m. The colorful musical organization will appear in the second of a “name band” series sponsored by the Student Senate.
Tickets will go on sale in the basement of the Dining Hall Nov. 8, 9, and 10 from 5 to 7 p.m. The student admission price is 50 cents with an ID card; general admission is one dollar. Because of the general ticket sale in South Bend and at St. Mary’s College, St. Joseph’s Nurses’ Home, and to the Junior Daughters of Isabella, students are urged to purchase their tickets during the advance sale. ND students will be given first choice. Any tickets not sold in advance will be available at the Fieldhouse.
According to Jim Sherer, social commissioner of the Senate, the reason the Senate is able to provide “name” entertainment at low cost to the student body is because of the student activity fee which was collected at the beginning of the semester. This fee insures the Senate against financial loss. However, Sherer emphasized that Senate social activities are planned so as to break even if at all possible.
In its entertainment program, the Senate is presenting the Sauter-Finegan group, an organization known for its novel approach to well-known selections.
The co-leaders first thought of forming their “ideal” dance band in 1939. World War II interrupted their plans for the next few years.
By the time Sauter and Finegan or-(Continued on Page 33)
EDDIE SAUTER AND BILL HNEGAN
The ‘Doodle Town Fifers’
October 29, 1954
11
PLACEMENT DIRECTOR DOOLEY BRIEFS FUTURE LEADERS
Picking men for the job . . . and working with them.
Vallie of True Christian Leadership Stressed In Four-Day Leadership Training Progam
By PETER STURTEVANT
The Leadership Training Program, an eleven-session workshop sponsored by the Student Senate and presented by the Blue Circle, was held last Friday through Monday in the Nieuwland Science Hall and the Student Center.
The program, the first of its kind to be held at Notre Dame, was designed to train both present and potential campus leaders in the meaning and value of true Christian leadership.
The program consisted of lectures by members of the University faculty, administration, and student body on the various aspects of leadership and of group discussions on the theoretical and practical problems of leadership.
John F. Powers of the Blue Circle served as chairman of the program and presided over all lecture sessions.
Joe Daley, Student Senate president, announced that he considered the program a “successful experiment” and expressed the hope that another such program will be held later in the year for those who were unable to attend the past week’s sessions. “I learned a great
deal from the Leadership Training Program and know that all who attended did too,” he said.
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., opened the program with a lecture entitled “Education for Leadership.” Father Walsh defined a leader as “anyone who exercises influence on someone else” and explained that leadership can be exercised in the spiritual, moral, intellectual and social fields. Ideas and energy or “drive” were cited as the basic ingredients of successful leadership.
Prof. Frank O’Malley, speaking at the Saturday afternoon session of the program, characterized leadership as “a quiet force” seeking to make sense of and give form to man’s present existence. Warning students against the dangers of perfectionism, impatience, imitativeness, and activism, O’Malley called on leaders to look to the Church as the source of their powers of leadership so that their work might be animated by the Christian spirit.
Joe Daley emphasized the need for many leaders on campus, and stated that
a leader must bring a “personal message” to his task if he is to be effective. Daley outlined the need for student leaders in 390 separate campus leadership positions.
How Many Talents?
Sunday morning Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., University executive vice-president, celebrated Mass for the group in Dillon chapel. In his sermon, Father Joyce used the parable of the talents to illustrate the obligation of an individual^ to develop his leadership abilities.
The Sunday afternoon sessions were devoted to a talk by John O’Meara, chairman of the Blue Circle, on “Techniques of Leadership,” a case method discussion of problems facing leaders, and a technical discussion of the opportunities for leadership in the various fields of student activity.
O’Meara listed common sense, tact, self-control, courage, and loyalty as the’ characteristics most needed in leaders.
He presented a five-point procedure for solving problems and advised those who would be leaders to familiarize them
selves with extra-curricular life, develop a broad outlook on student life, and gain experience in student affairs.
Maturity for Employers
Speaking at the Sunday evening session Mr. William R. Dooley, director of the Placement Bureau, said that matur- ' J ity was the key quality desired in students by prospective employers. Academic achievement, character, personality, ability to express ideas and having an objective in life are the criteria of maturity used by employers, Dooley said.
The final day of the program was devoted to lectures by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., past president of the University and director of the Notre Dame foundation, and by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs.
Father Cavanaugh, speaking on the topic, “Public Relations,” emphasized the importance of charity in dealing with others. “A good leader is a go-giver rather than a go-getter,” he explained. Besides charity he listed decisiveness and imagination as prime requisites for leaders, especially in the field of public relations.
Father Norton closed the four-day workshop with an address on leadership responsibilities. Every student has a responsibility to himself, to the student community, and to the University, Father Norton said. He defined the motive for Catholic lay leadership as a desire “to share in the lay apostolate by restoring all things in Christ, to sanctify one’s self, and to sanctify those around us.”
12
The Scholastic f%
Student Senate Sets 1954-55 Budget at $7,000; John Houck Garners • Announces Standing Committee Appointments Top Moot Court Spot
Approval of the 1954-55 first semester budget and the appointment of men to fill campus leadership positions occupied the Student Senate in its Oct. 18 and 25 meetings. Other business transacted by the Senate included Blue Circle appropriations, an appropriation for- the purchase of an office safe, and the postponement of the date of freshman elections.
A first semester budget of $7,169 was approved at the Oct. 18 meeting. Major items of anticipated expense included $1300 for the purchase of movie equipment by the physical facilities committee, $800 for the Christmas parties for South Bend area children, and $250 for the Senate’s contribution to the Festival of the Arts.
All expenditures made in the name of the Senate must be approved individually by the whole Senate and are not specifically authorized in the budget itself.
New appointments to standing Senate committees included: social committee, Jim Kramer and Tom Laughlin; publicity committee, Joe Safko and John Engler; campus club committee, Chairman Dick Norton, Maury Reidy, and Jerry Murphy; academic committee, Phil Agee; physical facilities committee, Ron Francis; and spiritual committee, Dick Pollenz. Bert Millen was approved as associate justice of the Student Activities Court, and Maury Reidy was named to the concessions committee.
Charity Chest Committee
sented by Tom O’Malley was approved by a close 9-7 vote. The compromise provided that the safe be purchased 50% from Student Senate funds and 50% from the Student Center fund for Center facilities.
A similar debate on the purchase of hurricane lamps to be rented to the various dance committees resulted in the approval of Jim Hesburgh’s motion. Under the Hesburgh motion the Senate loaned $100 to the House Committee for the purchase of the lamps. The loan will be repaid out of funds received by renting the lamps to dance committees for $10 per dance.
The date of the freshman elections was changed from Nov. 18 to Nov. 23 at the request of freshmen members of the YCS. The date was changed to avoid conflict with mid-semester examinations.
Net Worth of $6,637.72
Senate Treasurer Dan Devine reported that the present net worth of the Senate is $6,637.72. The net worth represents assets minus liabilities.
John O’Meara in his Blue Circle report announced the appointment of Don Sniegowski as chairman of the Integrity Committee of the Circle. Tom Caplet was named supervisor of the freshmen round-robin mixers. O’Meara also announced that the Blue Circle had passed a resolution condemning the practice of ticket-scalping by Notre Dame students.
On Oct. 20 the finals of the 1953-54 Moot Court competition were held in the Engineering Auditorium. The two teams, comprised of John Houck-Jim Kelly and Will Pollard-Armand Deatrick, competed for the honors of representing Notre Dame in the regionals of the National Moot Court Competition in Chicago, in November, as well as receiving the Clarence Manion Award annually presented by the former law dean. George Lang, director of Moot Court, announced that over 300 spectators were on hand for the finals.
These four, the finalists out of an original field of 32, argued according to appellate case rules; that is, having no witnesses, and supposedly before the United States Supreme Court. Five prominent judicial figures, invited by Dean Joseph O’Meara, presided as the justices. They were: Chief Justice G. W. Bristow of the Supreme Court of Illinois; Chief Justice Horace Stern of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania; Chief Justice C. V. Weygandt of the Supreme Court of Ohio; Judge F. E. Gilkison of the Supreme Court of Indiana ; and Judge Harry F. Kelly of the Supreme Court of Michigan.
After the prospective lawyers presented their cases, they were individually judged on three points: bi-iefing, oral presentation, and answers to questions.
Houck was awarded first place and Kelly received second. These two award winners will be accompanied to Chicago by the third place winner, Deatrick, who will act as alternate.
The Charity Chest Committee as an-£ nounced by Spiritual Commissioner Jim Broughton will be Dick Pollenz representing the Senate, Bob Brannick representing the Blue Circle, and Tom Quinn representing the campus at large. '	Broughton also announced the appoint-
•	ment of Ameel Rashid and Tatum Eason
as special counsels to the spiritual com-(	missioner.
A $385 appropriation to . the Blue Circle to cover all of its operating ex' penditures for the first semester was ' ™ approved by voice vote. Senators Roy . Belknap and Dick Burke opposed the ap-.	propriation on the grounds that the
Circle should be required to seek api	proval of individual expenditures as
,	they occur.
I The purchase of a new $125 safe to i	be placed in the Student Center for use
.	of the Senate evoked a lengthy debate
!	on who should be required to pay for
।	the safe. A compromise motion pre-
f 0 'October 29, 1954
FINALISTS AND PRESIDING JUDGES—1954 MOOT COURT Barristers Weather Mock Trials Favorably
13
'Detective Story’ Anticipates Nov. 17 Opening: O'Donoghue, Baumer Billed for Leading Roles
A Korean veteran, who is now a freshman at Notre Dame, and a St. Mary’s College junior from New Or-Orleans, La., have snared top billing in the University Theatre’s forthcoming production, Detective Story, as the result of three weeks of tryouts made known last week by the play’s director, Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C.
The play is scheduled to open in Washington Hall on Nov. 17 for a four-day run.
James F. O’Donoghue from Lindenhurst, Long Island, N. Y., who saw action with the military police in Korea, has been cast in the lead role of Me Loud, a hard-working detective of the New York police department who seeks to punish all lawbreakers with his mania for brutal punishment.
Opposite O’Donoghue in the other major lead is Gayle Baumer, who began her dramatic career in her high school days at the Academy of Holy Angels in New Orleans. Miss Baumer has participated in a number of dramatic presentations at St. Mary’s and here.
Another St. Mary’s student, Ann Wainwright, assumes the role of Susan, while Arthur, her counterpart, will be played by Notre Dame sophomore Reginald Bain. The humorous part of the shoplifter, made famous by Lee Grant on Broadway, is taken by Catherine Gaffigan, a SMC sophomore from New York City.
Another taste of humor is added to the play when Charlie, played by senior James Luotto, and Lewis, played by junior Joseph Kelly, both burglars, enter upon the scene. Grad student Gene Gorski and alumnus Dick Robison, both familiar to University Theatre patrons, have also been selected for juvenile leads. Another veteran performer, Hildegarde Vargyas, will fill the comedy role of Miss Hatch.
Popular on Broadway for over a year, and equally as popular on the road, Detective Story was recently made into a movie starring Kirk Douglas. The three-act melodrama by Sidney Kingsley centers around the squad room of the New York police department. Out of the welter, vice, and stupidity there emerges the tragic case of a decent young man who has stolen money from his employer.
Though a girl who is in love with him comes to his aid, and his employer offers everything that was taken from him, the case falls into the hands of McLoud, the hard-working detective whose experience in police work has developed within him a mania for brutal punishment of all lawbreakers. McLoud is at
work at the same time on another case involving a doctor with a shady practice. This case brings about the climax of the play.
Work on the technical end of the play has already begun under the direction
JIM O’DONOGHUE
Washington Hall’s Top Cop
of Mr. Fred Syburg. John Noland has been selected as stage manager and will be assisted by Mary Ann Miller. Stage carpenter John C. Harrington already has the sets well under construction. Ambrose J. Seitz will handle the lighting while Patrick J. Casey will act as properties manager.
Rehearsals for the production are now in full swing, with dress rehearsals scheduled for Nov. 12.
All seats in Washington Hall will be reserved and students will be admitted at half price. The box office in Washington Hall will open Nov. 1.
Wack, Parnell, Lennon Attend Language Teachers' Meeting
Walter M. Langford, head of the Department of Modem Languages, announced today that three members of the faculty attended the annual fall meeting of the Indiana Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of French, German, Spanish, and Portuguese, which was held in Indianapolis, Ind., recently.
Prof. George Wack, instructor in German; Prof. Charles Parnell, instructor in French; and Prof. John Lennon, instructor in Spanish and Portuguese, represented the Department of Modern Languages.
Highly Prized Volumes Purchased by Library *
Notre Dame has purchased a collection of approximately 1,500 books on the history of universities from Dr. Anson Phelps Stokes, Lenox, Mass., it was announced recently by Victor Schaefer, director of the University libraries. Dr. Stokes, who began gathering the collection in 1922, is a former Secretary of Yale University and Canon of the Episcopal Cathedral in Washington, D. C. £ I
The Stokes collection includes some 200 rare and highly prized volumes, many of them published in the early sixteenth century. Other books in the collection, although dealing with universities founded in the Middle Ages, were printed some time later. Included in the collection are about 250 histories of American colleges and universities.
The books are particularly valuable and interesting to specialists in medi-ij' aeval education, Schaefer explained, because many of them contain the constitutions of the world’s earliest universities as well as their curricula and registers of students.
“This outstanding collection is particularly welcome at Notre Dame,” Schaefer said, “since scholars in the University’s Mediaeval Institute are engaged in research on mediaeval education. It is especially appropriate that this collection be housed at Notre Dame,” (g) he said, “because of the leadership of the Catholic Church in the development of the world’s first universities in the Middle Ages.”
Press Club Elects Mannion; Group Plans Year's Activities
The Press Club elected its officers for the 1954-55 season at its Oct. 21 meet-ing. Choices were Dick Mannion for president and Jack Mullin for vice-president. Dave Davin was elected secretary while Tom O’Hara was voted treasurer. Prof. Edward A. Fischer of the Department of Journalism, is moderator.
The campus premiere of Shake Down the Thunder was presented at the meeting. Students in the Department of Journalism made the film as part of their work in documentary scriptwriting.
The picture, based on a magazine ar-ticle, tells how the Victory March was written in the basement of Sorin Hall in 1909, and how it went on to gain world-wide fame from there.
The club has announced that on Nov. 4 the editors of the Scholastic, the Dome, and members of the WNDU staff will meet with 50 journalism majors. An attempt is being made, to get Mr. Richard Sullivan to speak concerning the writing of fiction as a sideline.
14
The Scholastic
'Push-Button' Rooms Simplify Plant Study, ^Enable Biologists to Fluctuate Cell Growth
amount of illumination to as much as one-fourth or one-half, as required.
Electronic Controls
Located in the basement of the biology greenhouse are two new environmental rooms which have been added to the numerous and varied laboratories of the Department of Biology. These rooms are equipped to recreate many environmental conditions which occur throughout the world by the control of temper-mature, relative humidity, and lighting.
Construction of the two growth rooms under the supervision and planning of Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., and Dr. Albeit L. Delisle began in the spring j of 1953 and was completed in the spring I of 1954.
! These rooms were planned for experiments on growth, on the response of organisms to the relative length of day, on plant-breeding, and morphogenesis as ™well as standard problems of physiology and plant hormones.
’ Each chamber is equipped with an air conditioner which has the refrigerating capacity of five tons of air. The air is drawn in through ducts from the outside by fans and passed through an air filter which removes dust and other foreign particles. The air is then blown over water-cooled coils to lower the temperature and relative humidity.
ND’s Purest Air
After the air is cooled it is heated to the desired temperature and forced over steam jets, which humidifies it, and then passes through a diffuser into the growth room. Thus, only filtered, dust-free air at the proper temperature and relative humidity enters the experimental area.
Doctor Delisle stated, “The first-cool-then-heat arrangement gives a very close control of the temperature without appreciable fluctuation.”
Lighting of each growth chamber is accompanied by a luminar which con-
LUMINAR: 2500 FOOT CANDLES
sists of 24 slim-like fluorescent bulbs plus twelve 100-watt incandescent bulbs. The luminars are suspended from cables and may be lowered or raised to regulate the intensity of the illumination.
Illumination from the panels is in excess of 2500 foot candles. However, provisions have been made to cut the
All of the ail- conditioning and lighting units are automatically controlled by present electronic devices. There are also recorders which keep a record of temperature and relative humidity over a period of time.
In comparison with other growth rooms, Doctor Delisle stated, “Our biology growth rooms compare very favorably with similar growth rooms in other institutions of the Midwest.”
At the present time, research on colchicine is being carried out. Colchicine is a chemical that affects the chromosomes in a plant and in turn affects the size and production of the plant.
Also, research on the breeding of a certain moth and determination of its life cycle is being carried on.
'The Modern Mind1 Is Topic For Wranglers' Discussions
President Frank Newman recently announced that the theme of the Wranglers’ discussions this year will be “The Modern Mind.”
Each week the group, originally a debate club, will discuss a paper presented by a member. In succeeding weeks, the views of Frank Kafka, Czech novelist, and Don Luigi Sturzo, priest and former secretary to Italian Premier Mario Scelba, will be presented.
Prof. Francis O’Malley is the moderator of the group, which is composed of sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Pete Caruso, membership chairman, will register new members at 310 Walsh Hall until Oct. 31.
TEMPERATURE, HUMIDITY RECORDER	GREENHOUSE AIR CONDITIONER
A October 29, 1954
Irish Tie for First in Purdue Debate Contest; ND's Doherty Takes Top Affirmative Honors
The seventh annual Purdue Debate Conference saw the “arguing Irish” garner a tie for first place in the season’s initial national competition. Winning six of eight debates, Notre Dame and Wake Forest shared top honors as the nation’s most prominent 16 teams vied for* forensic recognition.
Wake Forest College was awarded the first place plaque on the basis of a fourth round victory over Notre Dame, who had won six straight debates before being overcome in the final round. The University of Chicago ran a close third.
Chuck Doherty, team president, was named the tournament’s outstanding affirmative speaker with 71 out of a possible 80 points. This was the sixth time in seven tries that a Sommer-coached team had been represented on the all-tournament debate squad. Do-
ND Pressmen Attend Publications Meeting
Four members of the publications staff represented Notre Dame at the thirtieth annual Associated Collegiate Press convention in Washington, D. C.
Attending were Larry Brehl, Scholastic editor; Ken Woodward, Scholastic business manager; Bud LaLonde, Dome editor; and Frank Burke, associate editor of the Dome.
Five hundred and seventy-five delegates from the newspapers and yearbooks of 181 colleges and universities throughout the United States, Canada, and Hawaii assembled in Washington’s Statler Hotel to attend lectures and participate in discussions on the problems affecting student publications.
Seventeen speakers including professional newspapermen and leading journalism professors conducted seminars on college editorial policies and the various phases of news and feature writing. Representatives of the National Advertising Service and commercial magazine cover manufacturers spoke concerning the cost of publishing a college magazine and methods of satisfying advertisers.	■	'
As a special feature- the convention ■: offered short courses - in photography, typography, newspaper makeup, and . yearbook management? A ./dance and dinner closed out the proceedings.
Notre Dame received special recognition as the Scholastic was awarded an All-American Honor Rating and the Dome garnered a second class award for yearbooks.	'
herty and Kamal Hossain, senior from Pakistan, comprised the outstanding affirmative team with a record of 3-1.
Junior Dick Schiller, Aurora, Ill. and sophomore Allan Riey, Chicago, ranked second among the negatives with an identical three wins and one loss.
Among the schools represented were Michigan State College and the Universities of Boston, Kentucky, Illinois, Wisconsin, Pittsburgh and Indiana.
The question debated was: Resolved that the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to the communist government of China. Thirty-nine of the 64 decisions were awarded the negative.
This weekend, the team will travel to Indianapolis for a combination discussion, parliamentary procedure contest at Butler University. The varsity four, accompanied by freshmen Rick Ninne-man and Gerry Brady, will seek to uphold Notre Dame’s reputation in Tau Kappa Alpha sponsored events.
On Thursday evening: Schiller and Doherty will maintain the negative in an exhibition debate with Wabash College. The winner will be determined by an audience poll of coaches and debaters.
German Protestants Face the Social Question
By William 0. Shanahan
By bringing about a massive reorganization of the traditional agrarian world the Industrial Revolution so altered man’s work, his home, and his habits of thought as to place Christianity in jeopardy- The Christian response to this crisis of human existence was feeble, and the first generations of factory' workers imagined Christianity to be irrelevant there.
In attempting to deal with the social question, German Protestants became entangled in national politics. How their attempts entered into German history after 1815 provides the narrative of this book.
$6.75 German Protestants Face the Social Question is the eleventh in the series of International Studies sponsored by the Committee on International Relations.
4	1
On Sale at the Bookstore
University of Notre Dame Press . Notre Dame, Indiana
Prize Architecture Panels
On Display Through Friday £
The Department of Architecture has announced a display of the winning panels in the 1954 Honor Awards competition sponsored by the American Institute of Architects. The exhibit, to be held in the Architecture Building exhibit room, started last Wednesday and will continue through next Friday.
The panels on display will consist of 31” x 33” photographs and plans of the^ best in contemporary American architecture.
The American Institute of Architecture is a national association of professional architects with the home office in Washington, D. C. The Indiana Society of Architects, a subdivision of the parent organization, has loaned the display to the University.
The 25 winning displays are selected annually at the national convention by^ a jury composed of Institute members.
Among the nationally-known architects who have buildings included in the display are Richard Neutra of California and the firm of Perkins and Will of Chicago. All designs of buildings built before Jan. 1, 1949, were eligible for judgment.
The display is open to the public and no admission will be charged.
16	The Scholastic ‘
ND Alumni Group Initiates Novel Gift Method; ^Class of '29 Asks Donations by Will Provision
WOU Mike Chatter
j The Notre Dame Alumni Association, given an idea by the members of the Class of ’29 has initiated a novel method of increasing endowments to the University, writes Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the Univer-jsity, in the fall issue of Notre Dame ^magazine.
9 The class of ’29, not impressed with •its donations of its own Silver Jubilee Class Fund, came up with the proposal of increasing gifts to Notre Dame by having alumni make provisions in their wills and bequests for the giving of funds to the University.
The class committee agreed that few provisions had been made by alumni in > this regard. The committee decided that n<a personal survey to determine the ex-^tent of estate donations could not be ; undertaken by the administration without causing the University undue em-‘ barrassment.
To determine the accurate number of alumni who have already made provisions for donations from their estates and those who plan to do likewise, the men of ’29 distributed a questionnaire . to over 4,000 alumni who graduated ' from Notre Dame before and in 1929.
Father Hesburgh commented on the results of the poll, “The disappointing fact that only 286 alumni replied at all . indicated that the field was as unfamiliar in the University program as the Notre Dame Foundation Office had concluded.”
$1 Million in Gifts
Only 52 had made any provision r whatsoever for estate contributions.
These gifts amounted to nearly $1 mil-" lion. Another 108 alumni replied that ' they had intentions of including donations to Notre Dame in their estates. Pledged gifts ranged in amount from $100 to $175,000.
In his article, Father Hesburgh enumerates three ways of including the University in alumni estate planning:
- Perpetual donation by return on in-vested gift capital, remembrance of the < school by donations of important edu-cational possessions, and the insuring " of the donation by naming the Univer-, sity as beneficiary after estate needs have been covered.
This thoughtful idea for increasing ; donations to Notre Dame, Father Hes-| burgh said, does not necessarily con-/ stitute the final program for estate gifts, but it is a step forward to greater - alumni interest in the plan of increasing ' endowment to Notre Dame by estate 1; donations.
0; October 29, 1954
In closing Father Hesburgh thanked the class of ’29 for its devotion to the University. “It is a hopeful development for the future of Notre Dame, in which most of us can share and in which all of us are interested. And this universal significance of course multiplies the service which the Class of 1929 has rendered to its Alma Mater.”
CAMPUS CLUB PRESIDENTS
Whether you’re from the East, West, North, or South there is a campus club representing your state or area, ready to welcome you as a member.
If anyone is interested in joining one of the state campus clubs, the men to see are the club presidents. Some of them are: John Casey, 206 Alumni, Buffalo Club; Karl Marter-steck, 5 Sorin, Cleveland Club; Tom Castel lini, 464 Morrissey, Cincinnati Club; Tom Laughlin, 126 Fisher, Florida Club; and J. Gogan, 424 Morrissey, Garden State Club.
J. Miller, 334 Alumni, North Dakota Club; R. Hart, off-campus, West Virginia Club; B. McGrath, 319 Alumni, Kansas Club; B. Dougherty, 228 Walsh, Kentucky Club; J. Kalbas, 157 Dillon, Milwaukee Club; and D. Furlow, 351 Sorin, Texas Club.
Robert Hutchinson, off-campus, Washington - Maryland - Virginia Club; J. Aman, off-campus. Canton Club; Dick Hairsine, 333 Walsh, Delaware Valley Club; M. Fox, 158 Alumni, Indiana Club; Arthur Sullivan, off-campus, Minnesota Club; Edward Denn, off-campus, Mohawk Valley Club; J. Hayden, 263 Alumni, Philadelphia Club; and Edward Schickler, 141 Fisher, Rochester Club.
Sociologist Fr. Murray Rated Among Most-Quoted Authors
A study recently conducted by Duke University in the field of sociology revealed that Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., rated among the authors most frequently quoted in classroom texts. According to the letter of Dr. Hornell Hart of Duke University, only one other Catholic author, Paul H. Furfey, of Catholic University, received such a distinction.
It has often been remarked that about the only aspect of life that is left untouched in the various and nefarious discussions of college students is the educational side of things. It is not the object of this column to tread on the toes of that small, but highly vocal, minority of pseudo-intellectuals who spend their days discussing the impact of Zulu finger painting on our modern culture and other such vital topics, but rather to explain the position of WNDU as a representative radio station operating on a university level.
As is the case with almost everything else, radio stations fit into the classifications of either educational or commercial. This distinction is, of course, based on the belief that education is a thing unpalatable to the listening taste buds of a radio audience. WNDU finds itself in the rather unique position of being a commercially operated station while at the same time attempting to supply programs of interest to an audience capable of grasping things on a plane slightly higher than the “Polka Parade” level of broadcasting.
The most recent achievement in this area of what is termed educational broadcasting is “The Science Forum.” This is a group discussion which explores the multi-faceted problems which the scientific era has brought about in | contemporary society. Commerce and 1 A.B. men needn’t worry about their lack j of slide rule knowledge since the prob- a lems discussed are ones which effect ! everyone. This program has given vent | to intelligent and stimulating discussion and has achieved a popular acceptance unmatched by anything of its type yet attempted by WNDU. If you care to set your crystal set for this program it breaks at 8:30 on Thursday evenings.
Likewise the programming department is always alert to the various problems and situations that quite fre- | quently arise in the day-to-day life of	j
the Notre Dame man. Campus politics | might not exactly fall under the classi- | fication of the intellectual, in fact it is • quite often physical in its approach to the voting populace, but there are a number of things involved in student government which require clarification and WNDU provides the best means for a prompt and intelligent account of the matter. Such things as the “Senate Dollar” and a trial of the Student Activities Court have come into focus and WNDU is prepared to meet still further situations.—Bill Byrne
17
Zke Qlory Zkat Was preece
By TIM DEVEREUX
The 1954 version of the Notre Dame Festival of the Arts will last the entire week of Nov, 8-13, winding- up with the Arts and Letters Ball and the Notre Dame-North Carolina game.
Exploration and appreciation of the liberal and fine arts is the purpose of the festival. It affords an opportunity for students, faculty members, and guests to experience the art forms at first-hand.
The idea of the festival was first conceived by a group of students in the Spring of 1953. Last Fall the first Notre Dame Festival of the Arts took place with an estimated 18,000 persons attending the lectures, demonstrations, films, shows, and exhibitions.
This year’s festival theme is “The Glory that was Greece.” The O’Shaughnessy galleries will exhibit original Greek sculpture dating from 800 to 200 B.C.
Through the efforts of Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., universities, museums, private dealers, and collectors have loaned the Festival approximately 90 authentic Greek works. These works include: bronzes, marbles, vases, coins,
Dr. Leahy and Chairman Yeckel go over opera plans.
Greek coin—symbol of the 1954 Festival of Arts.
fragments and terra cotta figures.
Ten large photo-murals showing Greek architecture and statuary will be hung on the walls of the galleries. Also available for examination will be a number of books containing photos of Greek art and architecture.
Some of the contributors of these Greek originals are the Chicago Art Institute, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Harvard University Art collection and the University of Pennsylvania galleries. The sculptures will be on
exhibit Nov. 9 through Nov. 28. A
A tape-recorded gallery tour by Fath-'A-' er Lauck and Dr. Rhys Carpenter, authoi- and archaeologist, and the showing of a “Life” filmstrip on Athens will be presented each evening in the galleries.
One of the rarest of the pieces contributed, an ancient Athenian coin, has been selected as the symbol of the festival. On the front of the coin is a representation of Athena, patron of Athens and central figure in Greek mythology. An owl, the symbol of Greek wisdom, and an olive branch, the symbol of prosperity, are portrayed on the reverse side of the coin.
General chairman of the festival, Don Yeckel and Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, planned and organized the 1954 festival. Others helping in this operation are Tom Caplet, Blue Circle coordinator; Tom Wageman, publicity and Charles Cush-wa, audio-visual effects.	.Q
The opening lecture, Monday, Nov.
8, 8:00 p.m. serves as a background for the exhibit of Greek culture and the other events that follow during the week. Dr. Rhys Carpenter, a professor of classical archaeology at Bryn Mawr College, will lecture on “Greece the Undying.” Dr. Carpenter holds an honorary membership in the Greek Archaeology Society and a correspond-
■ ing membership in the Pontifical Roman Academy. He was the director of the J American School of Classical Studies at Athens, Greece, for seven years and is the author of articles and books on classical art and civilization. His lecture will be illustrated with slides.
Other- highlights of the week-long festival include a series of dramatic readings by Miss Margaret Mower, English actress, writer and traveler, and a performance of Christoph Willibald von Gluck’s opera, “Orpheus.”

The Scholastic
Dame.
6:45 opera Gluck,
104 O’Shaughnessy.
and 8:45 p.m. “Orpheus,” an by Christoph Willibald von will be presented by the De-
Father Lauck gets a hand unpacking art treasures.
Notre Dame university faculty contributors include: Dr. Otto Bird, Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, Dr. Ernest Sandeen, Dr. John Oesterle, and Dr. R. Catesby Taliaferro.
Dr. Oesterle will speak on “Imitation in Art,” and Dr. Taliaferro will lecture on “Basic Aspects of Greek Science.” The other faculty members will form a panel and discuss the “Hliad” of Homer.
Miss Mower’s program will include: k“Iphigenia in Tauris” and “The Trojan r Women” by Euripides and a short story
FESTIVAL SCHEDULE
Monday, Nov. 8
8 p.m. “Greece the Undying,’-’ a lecture by Dr. Rhys Carpenter, author and archaeologist. Student Center Ballroom.
Tuesday, Nov. 9
4:30 p.m. “Basic Aspects of Greek Science,” a lecture by Dr. R. Catesby Taliaferro, associate professor in the General Program at Notre Dame. 104 O’Shaughnessy Bldg.
8 p.m., Readings in Greek drama by Miss Margaret Mower, noted English actress, writer, and traveler. Student Center Ballroom.
Wednesday, Nov. 10
4:30 p.m. “Imitation in Art,” a lecture by Dr. John Oesterle, associate professor of philosophy at Notre
partment of Music. Student Center Ballroom.
Thursday, Nov. 11
4:30 p.m. A panel discussion of the “Iliad” of Homer. .Student Center Ballroom.
8	p.m. Discussion on “Freedom of Inquiry vs. Authority in the Greek World,” by Rev. Stanley Parry and Anton-Hermann Chroust. Student Center Ballroom.
Friday, Nov. 12
9	p.m. Arts and Letters Ball. Music by Hal McIntyre. Student Center.
Saturday, Nov. 13
1	p.m. Notre Dame vs. North Carolina.
| by Francis Steegwuller entitled “Hermes i in Parnasus.” Her commentary will j bring these excerpts into focus for those ■ who know nothing of the texts as well £ as for those who do. Miss Mower’s । presentation is sponsored by the Notre | Dame concert and lecture series.
The opera “Orpheus" will be pre-
• October 29, 1954
sented by the Department of Music, directed by Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, in cooperation with Dr. Eugene J. Leahy and Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., director of the University Theater. This performance will make use of an abridged English libretto, with a narrator to provide continuity. Soloists, John Noland and Eugene Gorski, as well as other members of the Notre Dame Glee Club will be featured.
Hal McIntyre and his orchestra will play at the annual Arts and Letters Ball, Friday, sponsored by the students of the College of Arts and Letters in conjunction with the Student Senate.
WNDU will present a series of programs in conjunction with the festival of the Arts. On Sunday, Nov. 7, at 6 p.m., WNDU will present the BBC World Theater production of the “Agamemnon” of Aeschylus, from the translation by Louis MacNeice.
Sunday, Nov. 14, also at 6 p.m., the student voice will present the B.B.C. World Theater production of the “Electra” of Euripides, translated and adapted by Gilbert Murray. WNDU is also planning a series of short
programs featuring readings in Greek of Homer, Euripides, Sophocles, Demosthenes, and Pindar, by W. H. D. Rouse, translator of the Mentor editions of the “Iliad” and “Odyssey.”
Terra cotta statuette.
19
Walsh—The Goldcoast
Oversees Walsh—Father Brown
By HARRY NIEMANN
This was “the Goldcoast”—in 1909.
In 1909 the “aristocrats” of Notre Dame’s student body were clamoring for more comfortable living quarters. The university answered their pleas with a new building—Walsh Hall.
The elite who became residents of Walsh were more than satisfied with their surroundings and promptly dubbed Walsh the “Goldcoast.”
Suites of rooms consisting of a study, two bedrooms, and a bath, were available to those who could afford it. Mosaic hallways, inset sinks, gigantic closets and enclosed marble showers made Walsh blue bloods happy.
All the woodwork in the hall is solid oak which is great for keeping the noise
At prayer in the Walsh Chapel.
in or out, as the case may be. The new hall even had—of all things—an elevator.
In its early days, Walsh was the only hall on campus with a recreation room. After dinner the “Gentlemen of Walsh,” as they liked to be called, could be found scanning the quadrangle for freshmen they could dupe into becoming pinboys. That’s right, these lucky people even had a bowling alley in the basement.
Until 1920 smoking was forbidden in the rooms in the residence halls but this didn’t bother the Walshmen. They found their brass bed posts made excellent ashtrays after the round balls on the ends of the posts were removed.
From 1921 to 1925 the Department of Speech held their classes in the lounge in Walsh’s basement now occupied by the Knights of Columbus. A few years \ later the bowling alley was closed. The men of Walsh could go into town now without special permission from the ' rector and besides the freshmen • were demanding union wages for setting pins.
From 1940 to 1945 Walsh became the “Good Ship Walsh.” The naval R.O.-T.C. unit took over the entire hall, in fact Sorin Hall was the only hall on campus not turned over to R.O.T.C. units. The “swabbies” installed new f I lighting throughout the hall, rewiring i the entire building in the process. They « also ripped out the drinking fountains in the hallways and extended the fire escapes to ground level.
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., supervised the entire renovation of Walsh’s chapel in 1950. It now ranks among the most beautiful on campus. The renovation was made possible by a $10,000 donation from the parents of the late Jack Donahue, a former Walsh-ite. Walsh rector, Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, C.S.C., centers the spiritual life of the men of Walsh around this chapel.
Today, the residents of Walsh still point with pride to their hall. Its bay-windowed rooms and convenient location are unique features. An indoor driving range and four ping pong tables have also been added to the recreation room.
And Walsh residents are still talking about their prize-winning homecoming display. Walsh teamwork came through again—according to the Walshmen.
In past years the residents of Walsh have been active in nearly all campus activities. This year’s crop of 210 seniors is no exception, and has more than its share of “big men on campus.”
Anyway you look at Walsh, it’s a pretty good hall to live in. Rev. Thomas Walsh, C.S.C., the hall’s namesake, and president of the University from 1881 to 1893, must be proud of “his boys.”
20
The Scholastic
An engineer relaxes.
^he Engineers Go SBohetnian
^Bohemian Engineers?
A bit of Greenwich Village came to Notre Dame last Friday as over 250 engineers and their dates “went Bohemian” at the Engineers’ Ball in the • Student Center. Silhouettes of the New - York skyline and scenes from the famed “artists quarter” of the city set the ■ mood for the evening’s dancing.
The “slipstick’’ men escorted their girls up to “Ptomaine Terrace”—also known as the second floor of the Center. There, three escapees from the College of Arts and Letters—Jim Ehrenreich, ; Dick Scherpereel and John Lochtefeld— ; lent their talents to sketching the couples in charcoal. The charcoal , sketches were taken home as souvenirs of the outing, in place of the usual favors.
Johnny Palmer and his orchestra found their way to “the village” after a mistaken trip to “the Rock.” Palmer and his men provided the music that J has made him popular at such dance centers as Chicago’s Aragon Ballroom.
. Intermission music was supplied by ™ Don Gels and his band.
A Bohemian pointing at a tourist?
Engineering Dean Carl Schoenherr crowned dance queens, Miss Pat Costello ; and Miss Sally Carey, the dates of Ball | Co-chairmen Bob Baudendistel and Tom | Magill.
Then at 1 a.m. the Engineers left the - J" world of “the village” for a return to ■
their halls and slide rules and Saturday . -
fc morning classes.
October 29, 1954
A Sketch for a Souvenir.	Down in the Village.
21
NOTRE DAME’S HOLLER GUYS—SEXTET OF SPIRIT
They Shake Down the Thunder . . .
ND Cheerleaders Propel Famed Irish Spirit; Six Energetic Men Comprise 'Holler Squad'
Behind Notre Dame teams is always the student body, but prodding the latter are the ever-present, but unnoticed, unlauded cheerleaders. A group of six energetic men, hailing from such wide-ly-divergent points as Texas and Rhode Island, propel the ND spirit at pep rallies, football, and basketball games.
They move the men of Our Lady toward a great external showing of spirit, as exemplified by the gathering outside the Irish dressing room after the Purdue game a couple of weeks ago. This spirit, which is acclaimed by many as the best in the country, surprises everyone but the cheerleaders. They all admit openly that Notre Dame has the greatest student body in the ’	world.
; This year the squad is led by Joe I	Saunders,	a	senior from Amarillo,	Tex.
i	Saunders	is	an economics major	and
| has spent two years on the team.
I The other senior on the squad, Ron । Rene, hails from Bristol, R. I., and has j three years to his credit as a cheer-i leader.
:	The junior contingent of the squad is
; comprised of Bob Keegan, Rochester, ; N. Y., and Ev Hatch of Baltimore, Md.
Keegan received his prep education at Aquinas Institute, “The Home of the Little Irish,” in Rochester. Aquinas has contributed many gridiron greats in the past years with Jack Lee and Frank Varrichione being the most recent. Keegan has three years experi
ence with the cheerleaders and plans on a career in chemical engineering. Ev Hatch, who also is a chemical engineer, has put in a total of two years with the team.
Another Texan, Ed Healey, sophomore, is in his first year as a member of the crew. Healey’s home town is San Antonio, and he has designs on geology as his major.
Bill Keegan, also a sophomore and the brother of Bob, is in the College of Commerce. The younger Keegan has been on the squad since his freshman year.
The squad this year plans to send cheerleaders to the Navy game in Baltimore, Oct. 30, and to the Iowa game in Iowa City, Nov. 20.
Saunders added that cheerleading tryouts will be held sometime in May for those interested in joining ND’s “holler guys.”
NSA Program to Feature UN Charter Revision Debate
The International Commission here . on campus, representing Notre Dame in the National Student Association, is sponsoring a student discussion concern- • ing “Possible Revision of the U.N. Charter,” to be broadcast over WNDU this Sunday at 2 p.m.
The broadcast’s purpose is to stimulate international awareness, one of the
primary reasons for the establishment of NSA.	'
The Commission also aims at 1) mak-^) ing life more meaningful for students from abroad attending American colleges, and 2) interpretation of the work of the NSA International Commission in its relations with student unions of other countries. It is hoped that these aims will be accomplished by sponsoring films about other countries, appointment of speakers, forums, and interviews in the Scholastic with foreign students.
These three purposes and others are*" the result of an International Student i Relations Seminar sponsored by NSA at Harvard University this past summer. Working co-operatively with the Committee are the Academy of Political Science, The International Relations Club, The Sociology Club, The Blue Circle, and the YCS.
Fr. Beichner's Book *4 Cites Author of Music
The father of music was not Tubal-	|
cain, the Biblical blacksmith, but rather	g
his half-brother, Jubal, according to	g
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., dean	g
of the University’s Graduate School.	f
Modern art historians, unfamiliar with	|
mediaeval literature, consistently con-	|
fuse the two Biblical figures, Father	|
Beichner says. The man often repre-	f
sented in statuary and’ frescoes at an	|
anvil at the feet of Music is Jubal the	I
musician and not Tubalcain the black-	|
smith, he contends.	I
The Notre Dame priest has recently j published a study, The Mediaeval Rep-	I
resentative of Music, Jubal or Tubal-	I
cain?, under the auspices of the Uni-	|
versity’s Mediaeval Institute. In his	\
study, Father Beichner traces the de-	!
velopment of the story of the discovery	■
of music through writings of the Middle	•
Ages — Biblical commentaries, chroni-	[
cles, poems and tracts on music.
Genesis (Ch. 4, v. 19-22) is the source of the tradition which associates Jubal with music, Father Beichner points out. The passage identifies Jubal as “the father of them that play upon the harp and organ.” It refers to Tubalcain, his half-brother, as “a hammer and artificer in every work of brass and iron.”
According to Father Beichner, many mediaeval writers say that Jubal discovered music while listening to the sound of Tubalcain’s hammers. However, a number of manuscripts, including the Gutenberg Bible, misspell Jubal’s name as Tubal. As a result, modern art historians have erroneously installed the blacksmith as the father of music.
22
The Scholastic
Knights of Columbus •'Start Member Drive
The annual membership drive of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus is now underway. The campus council, largest collegiate K. of C. unit in the country, has increased its efforts to attract new men to the group in the hope that more Notre Dame students will take advantage of the opportunities the jg organization provides.
The local council has championed three goals in its operations: to orientate students in the fundamental work-I	ings of the order so that they can pro-
।	vide more intelligent lay leadership in
| their respective communities; to provide । members with social events and afford an outlet for those interested in fraternal work; to provide means by which the student can become accustomed to re-sponsibilities in any organizational w function.
This year’s Grand Knight of the Council is Louis Basso of Detroit. Richard Miller, Tom Armstrong and Jack Lee comprise the executive staff. Coun-! cil chaplain is Rev. Philip Schaerf, |	C.S.C.
। In addition to the regular meetings in f the K. of C. chambers in Walsh Hall twice monthly, the council also attends Mass and receives Communion in a body _ twice a month, sponsors a monthly : " breakfast program, and members serve as ushers in Sacred Heart Church on
! Sundays.
Highlights of the year for the organization are the holding of a Christmas ! party, the sponsoring of the annual Ben-; gal Bouts, and the Spring Picnic. The Bengal tiffs, which will be held in March, raise nearly $3,000 each year for the Bengal Missions.
a Another prime undertaking of the council is the collecting of funds for a club building which will house activities of the organization. Since 1920 over $150,000 has been gathered for this purpose.
Vince Raymond is in charge of the membership drive. He may be contacted in the basement of Walsh Hall on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 4 to 5 p.m. and on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m.
Navy to Award Scholarships; Test to Be Given Dec. 11
“The Navy is offering a scholarship program that can bring a boy about $5,000 over a four-year period,” recently announced Comdr. J. A. Masterson, professor of Naval science. He explained that this is the ninth year that such an opportunity has been
A October 29, 1954
offered whereby the government pays the boy’s way through school, while at the same time he prepares for a career as a Naval officer. The scholarship mental exam will be held on Dec. 11, but applications, which are now available, must be received before Nov. 20.
Applicants must be male, U. S. citizens, and between the ages of 17 and 21. Those qualifying will then be given a midshipman physical exam in February and from those passing, 1800 will be selected and allowed to choose any college for attendance starting with the 1955 school year. Summers will be spent on a cruise with the fleet.
This scholarship will furnish $600 annual retainer pay until the commission is received, as well as all tuition fees and books for regular classes and the class in naval science. At the conclusion of their college careers, these men will receive commissions in the regulan Navy or Marine Corps for active duty with the fleet throughout the world.
Prof. Beckman Observes New Automotive Artistry
The artist has become as important as the engineei- in the automotive industry, according to Professor Frederick S. Beckman of the Department of Art.
“Good engineering in today’s cars is taken for granted,” Beckman said. “As a result,” he continued, “drivers have developed a keen design consciousness and are concentrating on colors, fabrics and beautiful lines when shopping for a new car.”
Professor Beckman, who is a specialist in design, recently spent three weeks as an observer and consultant in the styling division of the Chrysler Corporation. There, he saw on the drawing boards, in clay scale-models and in full size mockups, car designs which won’t be seen on the streets and highways until as late as 1957.
According to Beckman, the auto industry is continually searching for college graduates with a liberal education plus training in the fine arts, particularly design. College art departments are the principal source of manpower in this increasingly important field of automotive design, he said.
“Auto industry executives are not interested in the so-called Bohemian artist,” Beckman emphasized. “Instead they are looking for competent young men who in their college years have learned to get along well with other people. It takes teamwork to design and build a sound and saleable automobile. The artist or designer is an important member of the team,” he said.
McIntyre Will Play For AB Ball Nov. 12
Hal McIntyre and his orchestra will provide the music for the Arts and Letters students and their dates at the annual AB ball to be held in the Student Center Friday, Nov. 12.
In accordance with the Festival of Arts, the ball will be centered around ancient Greece and the theme “Olympia —Home of the Greek Gods.” Projections of Hellenic scenes will deck the walls, and statues of gods from Greek mythology will line the dance floor. Adding to the Grecian atmosphere, the decorating committee headed by Bill Byrne will have the waiters clothed in the ancient Greek garb—togas.
From 9 to 1 the dance-goers will be enjoying one of the all-time favorite college dance bands. Hal McIntyre’s orchestra has played at campus proms throughout the country with great success. He has performed at President Roosevelt’s Birthday Ball at the Palladium in Hollywood, and the Paramount in New York, besides being featured in four Columbia musicals. An added attraction will be vocalist Jeanne McManus.
The usual car permissions will be granted.
The big weekend will continue on Saturday for the AB couples with a box lunch at 11:30 a.m. in the student lounge of O’Shaughnessy Hall. According to Lunch Chairman George Vosmik, each box will contain a per-person quota of one pound of chicken.
Following the lunch, the dance-goers will witness the Notre Dame-North Carolina game in the Stadium. Tickets for
(Continued on Page 32)
hal McIntyre
Fiddles for ‘Olympia’
CAMPUS FACILITIES
Book Store—Front section: Monday to Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 12 noon. Rear section: Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.—1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
The Huddle—Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 12 noon.
Barber Shop—Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
Shoe Repair—Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
Watch Repair—Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 11 a.m.
Student Center—Monday to Thursday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., 6:45 p.m. to 9:45 p.m.; Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, 8 a.m. to 11:30 p.m.
BELL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
ALSO
SANDIA CORPORATION
(operated by Western Electric Co. for Atomic Energy Commission) Applied research, development and design on ordnance phases of atomic weapons.
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
For openings in various positions in all parts of the country for Seniors and graduate students in
Engineering, Physics, Science, and Mathematics
*	Also for January graduates
in Liberal Arts and Business Administration
REGISTER NOW at the Placement Office
Ground Floor • Administration Building INTERVIEWS on NOVEMBER 9
Pool Room—Monday to Friday, 9:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.; Saturday, 9:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, 12:30 to 5 p.m. and 7:15 to 9 p.m.
Rockne Memorial—'Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Open for swimming—Monday to Fidday, 3 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. and 7:15 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Badin Hall Office of Laundry and Cleaners—Monday to Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.
Post Office—Monday to Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturday, 7:30 to 1 p.m.
Library—Monday to Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
The time not to phone St. Mary’s—after 8:30 p.m.
The last bus leaves the downtown area nightly at 11:45 p.m.
YCS to Advise Frosh In Election Procedure^
With freshman elections, previously scheduled for mid-semester exam week, having been changed to Nov. 23, President Jerry Pottebaum of the Young Christian Students recently announced a program to acquaint all freshmen with the prerequisites of a good delegate to the Student Senate.
Meetings will be held for freshmen^ and members of the Senate in the near future, and a second meeting will also be held in each of the freshman halls to acquaint members with candidates for the various offices.
Concerning the elections, Frank To-nini, YCS representative in the Student Senate, said, “I am very glad to see so much interest in the freshman elections. The YCS will continue to co-operate fully with the Student Senate and the^ Blue Circle for better student government. It is our hope to activate interest among all the freshmen, and thus to develop a new crop of leaders to take the place of those who are graduating.”
Joe Daley, president of the Student Senate, has urged freshmen to take interest in student government by stating that there is a place for anyone who wishes to serve.
The Young Christian Students was founded by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C.,^ on the Notre Dame campus in 1940.® This was an off-shoot of the crusade begun in Europe after World War I by Rev. Joseph Cardyn and two young workers.
Working' in groups of seven to ten members, broken down from hall groups in freshman and sophomore years and college groups in junior and senior years, the YCS attempts to solve student problems and to promote Catholic Action.
The YCS is responsible for the “Choose Your Major” program for sophomores. It operates the Book Exchange, the Catholic Action Study Commission, and the Campus Press.
A day of recollection, sponsored by the YCS, will be held at the University
Saturday and Sunday, Nov. 6 and 7, it was recently announced by Rev. Louis
Putz, C.S.C., moderator. Father Putz
will speak on “The Vocation of Student Life” at the affair.
Saturday’s program will consist of a conference to be held in Lyons Hall at 9 p.m. and Benediction.
The agenda for Sunday includes an 8 a.m. Mass in Lyons Hall Chapel; a 10:30 a.m. conference in the amphitheater of the LaFortune Student Center, followed by a question and answer period; and an 11:30 a.m. Benediction in the Lyons Hall Chapel.
24
The Scholastic
• Scholastic Sports
RESTED IRISH FACE NAVY AT BALTIMORE
Badin Wallops Three Foes in West League As Sorin Holds Dillon to Scoreless Deadlock
By JACK GUEGUEN and KIT ECKL
The West league of this fall’s interhall football slate gave indications of developing a real champion during the third week of competition, as Badin ^emerged unbeaten, untied, and unscored Wupon in three straight games.
Dillon, undefeated and unscored upon in Western competition, was held to a scoreless tie by Sorin, and thereby dropped into second place behind Badin.
Tuesday, in Badin’s most recent victory, Jerry Ryan got loose foi' two 50-yard touchdown runs to break up the game with Morrissey and keep the Badin win string alive.
Pass interceptions kept the Dillon £ squad from tying Badin for first place honors this week, as two drives were halted by a pair of misdirected passes. Joe Yaeger and Mike Kiley sparked Dillon, and Sorin was paced by “Moose” Patz and Bob Andrew.
Howard dropped its third straight game of the season on Oct. 22 to the Morrissey eleven, by a 33-0 verdict.
DAN SHANNON
From Left End . . .
Howard has yet to score in a game this fall.
Bill Thees drew first blood with a one-yard plunge early in the game, after Ray Miller had set up the play by a pass interception. Miller scored later in the game on a lateral from Ed Sullivan from 30 yards out and again on a four-yard plunge.
Mark Storen added the third tally on a five-yard carry, and Sullivan ended the scoring for the afternoon with a 45-yard TD run. Marty Angelino converted twice, and Storen added the third extra point.
Dillon played Alumni to a 7-0 standoff last Saturday afternoon. Mike Mulrooney supplied the key block for Jim Fay, who went 35 yards on a reverse for the game’s only score. Alumni threatened late, but the Dillon line held on the ten. John Raub showed defensive power for Dillon.
Another one-touchdown affair was the Lyons-Sorin clash, in which Lyons up-(Continued on Page 29)
PAUL MATZ.
. . . To Right End
Once-Beaten Middies Loom as Solid Threat
By DAVE DAVIN
College football’s longest continuous intersectional series will carry on tomorrow afternoon as the Fighting Irish meet the Navy midshipmen in Baltimore.
Kick-off is at 2 p.m. (E.S.T.) in Baltimore’s Memorial Stadium, where over 400 ND student trip rooters will be on hand to back the Irish.
The Notre Dame-Navy rivalry began in 1927 and since then the Irish have won 22 games, lost four and tied once, including ND’s 38-7 victory in 1953. Despite this lopsided record, the annual contest is always a thriller. Tomorrow’s game will be played before an expected 60,000 fans.
Middies Boast 4-1 Mark
To date the Middies have won four of their first five starts. The lone loss came two weeks ago from a surprising Pittsburgh team that beat the Navymen 21-19. Navy has turned in impressive
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
NAVY	NOTRE DAME
Beagle _______ IE	  (C) Shannon
McCool _______ LT	...... Palumbo
Benzi ........ LG	________ Lemek
Davis ........ C	.... Szymanski
Aronis ........ RG	__________ Lee
Royer-........ RT	....	Varrichione
Smith ________ RE _____ (C) Matz
Welsh ........- QB ____ Guglielmi
Hepworth _____ LH ________________ Heap
Monahan ______ RH ............ Reynolds
Gattuso ...... FB ____________ Schaefer
Kickoff—2 p.m. (E.S.T.)
victories over William and Mary, Dartmouth’s Indians, Stanford ,and Pennsylvania.
The Irish, after a week and a half of boning-up, have trained their sights on Coach Eddie Erdelatz’s sailors. This Navy team includes a veteran backfield but a green forward wall.
Middie Captain Phil Monahan, the
£ October 29, .1954
25
DICK ECHARD
Dangerous Aerial Threat
right halfback, is back in action this year after leading Navy's scoring in 1953 with five TD’s.
Tne quarterback chores are being handled again this season by George Welsh. Last year this junior passer tossed 39 aerials for 489 yards and five touchdowns.
Echard-Johnny On the Spot
Dick Echard, a determined senior, has impressed this season with spectacular passing and seems to be the man that Erdelatz calls on in crucial situations. Coach Erdelatz says that left half Bob Craig, another junior, is the “most improved back on the club.” Craig is not too big as far as college football goes, at 171 lbs., but last year he carried the leather for 192 yards in 44 tries.
Squatty Joe Gattuso, middle plungerfullback led Navy in rushing last year, gaining a tidy 412 yards. Gattuso, no stranger to Irish tacklers, was starting fullback last season and is a two letter winner. He headed the touchdown parade against Penn last week with two six-pointers.
Up front, the Middies have only two returning lettermen. Left end Ron Beagle and right guard Alex Aronis are doing a stout job of bolstering a line that Erdelatz can be proud of.
Beagle, a six-foot, 185 pound flanker, won a letter last year as a sophomore. Navy coaches have tabbed him one of the best prospects to pull on the Navy blue in many a year at Annapolis. He led the team in pass receiving in 1953 with 14 nabs for 146 yards, and is an ample target for Welsh’s heaves.
Royer Sparks Line Play
The Navy tackles are juniors and both weigh 208 lbs. Pat McCool, a native of California, is holding down
26
the left tackle slot in a Middie line that averages 192 lbs. Jim Royer, the right tackle, moved up to the varsity before last year’s Army-Navy game.
The starting Middie right end is a converted quarterback. Billy Smith, a 6' 1", 185 pounder and only a sophomore, was plebe signal-caller last year. At the spring practice sessions this year, Navy coaches moved Smith to end to bolster the line.
Left guard Len Benzi is a senior and holdover from the 1953 squad that won four, lost three, and tied two games. Benzi has been holding down the guard slot for the first time this year. He is a Pennsylvanian who weighs 185 lbs. and stands 5' 9", only an inch taller than his mate, Aronis.
Bob Davis, Middie center, is also a convert. He was a guard last year but now is number one center.
Penn Follows Navy
Next Saturday the Fighting Irish will travel to Philadelphia to tangle with the Red and Blue of Pennsylvania before an expected crowd of 74,000 at Franklin Feld.
Penn has yet to break into the victory column, having dropped their first five games under their new head coach, Steve Sebo, former backfield coach at Michigan State. The Quakers have lost to Duke, William and Mary, Princeton, George Washington, and Navy, and this weekend they host their traditional rivals, the Nittany Lions of Penn State.
Captaining the Quaker squad is Jim Castle, a 6 ft. 190 lb. senior left end. Castle is a splendid defensive player, and last year against the Irish he caught two passes for 47 yards. His teammate at the other flanker is 6-2 190 lb. John Lavin, a senior, who was the top pass-

RON BEAGLE
The Irish Secondary Will Remember
JOE GATTUSO	j
Also a Top Punter	।
receiver a year ago when he caught 26 I passes	for 287 yards.	f
Shada	Displays Speed	j
Jim Shada is Penn’s left tackle after I understudying the regular center last J fall. The 5-11 175 lb. junior has been | shifted to tackle on offense to take ad- I vantage of his speed and aggressive j play. Fred Dustin, a 6 ft. 200 lb. junior, i is the regular right tackle.	j
Sharing the left guard assignment are ■ John Gurske, double monogram winner, and Dick Pomygalski, a 6-2 220 lb. junior.
Mark Levitan, a 6 ft. 195 lb. senior, is the starting right guard. Anchoring | the middle of the line is George Traut- f man, a 6 ft. 190 lb. offensive center and I defensive linebacker.	I
Calling the signals for the “Michigan ’ State multiple offense” employed by Penn is Jim Manley, a senior who spark- j led on the junior varsity for two years. Jim Kopenhaver, the only letterman among the quarterbacks, has been giving Manley a battle for the starting post.
Handling the halfback duties for the Quakers are Walt Hynoski, senior left half who scored a TD against Notre Dame in the opening minutes of the game last fall, and right halfback Gary Scott, who gained 111 yards in 21 carries and caught eight passes for 142 yards. Hynoski has won two letters, and handles the bulk of the passing and kicking.
Stan Chaplin and Leon Hardy are the top fullbacks on the Quaker eleven. Chaplin is a junior letterman, and Hardy was the top linecrasher among the junior varsity backs a year ago.
In the Penn-Notre Dame series the Irish have a 3-0-1 record. The Irish won the 1953 contest, 28-20; and Penn tied Notre Dame, 7-7. in 1952.
The Scholastic
Trotters Import Basketball Magic
Organized 28 years ago
by owner-
Trotters Drop College All-Stars
South
makes those add to his
hook shots contagious
contests one-half
included
Joe Ber-
is run This
inch arm span look easy and clowning.
human dynamo of energy travels some 100,000 miles a year keeping tabs on his charges that include not only the
toured Europe, Australia, and America.
The huge Trotter organization by diminutive Abe Saperstein.
Last year these merry madcaps of the hardwood court turned in 423 victories against 7 defeats. Actually, the Trot-
Barnum & Bailey will have nothing on the Notre Dame Fieldhouse next Friday, when those fabulous Harlem Globetrotters invade the campus to host the Toledo Mercurys.
Half-time entertainment will be provided during the contest that starts at 3 p.m. Tickets can be obtained from Monogram-Club members in each hall at $.50 with an ID, of for $.75 at the door.
Gangling Reece “Goose” Tatum is again the prize showpiece of this year’s snappy quintet. The 6' 3%" giant is playing his twelfth season with the Trotters and is known as the greatest showman and comedian that ever stepped into an athletic arena. Goose’s 84-
ABE SAPERSTEIN
Here Today . . . Gone Tomorrow
coach Abe Saperstein, the Trotters have amassed a winning total of 4,770 games while losing only 280. Percentagewise that’s .944, a good country percentage for any team, but more amazing in view of the fact that the Trotters play over’ 400 contests annually.
ters have been unbeaten in 261 during their regular ten and month season.
The College All-Stars, that Irish stars Dick Rosenthal and
trand, handed the post-season defeats to the Trotters in a cage world series played last April. The Trotters won 15 games to sweep the series in a whirlwind basket junket that played in 20 cities in 21 days and drew 296,000 fans.
Nicknamed “Uncle Sam’s Ambassadors of Good Will,” the Negro magicians have amazed fans from Europe and North Africa to the Far East and the Pacific Isles with their sleight-of-hand basketball tricks. Last year the Trotters
Trotters, but also movie actors, acrobats, and show people of every sort. Saperstein, himself, rates an audience his team had with Pope Pius XII and an ovation given his squad by 75,000 spectators in Berlin’s Olympic Stadium in 1951 as his two biggest thrills.
LEON HILLARD
Highlight’s Trotter
Ballhandlers
The Inimitable Reece “Goose” Tatum is the Performer de Luxe of This Basketball Troupe.

by Paul Fullmer
The month of November may well tell the tale. The Irish teams have
many question marks that must be cleared up in these 30 days. The Fighting
Irish must sweep through their two game Eastern swing in highly impressive
RALPH GUGLIELMI
fashion and then manhandle Iowa and Southern California to move back into national contention.
Basketball coach Johnny Jordan will have some mighty big problems in fall practice this year with Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand, and Dick Sullivan moving out via the graduation route. Some of his big sophomore skyscrappers must come through or the eagers will have their troubles with the toughest schedule in history.
Alex Wilson’s cross-country team has surprised this year with a trio of impressive wins. If they come through against Indiana this afternoon, Notre Dame may roll on to a fine season and then continue during the indoor m^ets.	’
On the individual side, Ralph Guglielmi reaches his do-or-die point tomorrow afternoon at Baltimore. Highly touted as Charlie Callahan’s 1955 Notre Dame All-American, Guglielmi has run hot and cold in the first four games. His Mid-Western support is now lukewarm, while the Eastern scribes are openly dubious after watching Army’s Pete Vann and Navy’s Dick E chard.
The Eastern Swing May Turn The Tide
Guglielmi can take giant strides toward insuring his first string berth by playing some top ball against the Middies and Quakers these next two weeks. Ralph has played good, but not spectacular ball this year. The sportswriters usually vote over their morning coffee, while scanning the Sunday headlines. And you don’t make the headlines by running the split-T to perfection like Guglielmi did last week against Michigan State and excelling on defense as he did in the opener against Texas. It seems that they only look for touchdown passes.
Guglielmi lost one of the best Irish pass receivers this week when Paul Reynolds had to call it quits after a tough session as his knee gave out again. Reynolds may not be ready for the Middies. That leaves the bulk of the pass receiving to halfback Joe Heap, who is usually watched like a sneaky chicken thief. Paul Matz, Dan Shannon, and Gene Kapish will have to take up the slack this week or the Irish will have to stick almost exclusively to their ground game.
Don’t be surprised if you see Paul Hornung running from a different backfield spot this week. There have been many backfield shifts in the past two weeks and Coach Terry Brennan may unveil a revamped outfit tomorrow, much like Frank Leahy’s unleashing of Tom McHugh against the Middies last year.
Navy May Be Troublesome
Navy will provide a real test tomorrow for the Irish. Coach Eddie Erdelatz is in the fortunate position of having an experienced backfield quartet to start with, and then two explosive men like Joe Gattuso and Dick Echard to move in when the situation demands.
The Irish have looked real good in practice this past week and if the pass defense can hold up and the line brace as it did against State in the second half, the Irish could really move. Guglielmi should reach his peak tomorrow with a couple of TD passes that pace the Irish to a vital victory, 27-7.
Cage Practice Opens For Irish Next Week
Notre Dame’s basketball team begins practice for the ’54-’55 season next week, one month prior to the opening game with Wisconsin. The aim of the Irish again this year is to duplicate the bids they received to the NCAA play-offs in the past years.
Captain Jack Stephens, with junior^. John Fannon and Bill Weiman, are thew only returning lettermen. Coach Johnny Jordan said that as a result of spring practice a tentative starting team would include the above three plus sophomore John Smyth at forward and junior Lloyd Aubrey at center.
Only Three Lettermen Return
Loss of three first stringers and twe^, other monogram winners poses the biggest problem for Coach Jordan, who is in his fourth year as Irish mentor. He said, however, that “if sophomores Joe Morelli, Lee Ayotte, and senior Steve Rebora continue to perform as they did last spring, they will help our reserve strength considerably.”
Also pressing for team positions will be sophomores Tom Higgins, Jack Be-dan, and Henry Luepke, juniors Paul King, Bob Jastrab, and Bill Kearney.
Stephens Predicts Tough Schedule
Capt. Stephens, when confronted with the question of what the students can expect this year, replied, “We need time to develop. Last year’s team had been together for three years. However, there is more versatility among this year’s squad and playing the first four^j games at home will be to our advantage.”
Coach Jordan predicts that this will be the toughest schedule in years with seven of the Big Ten teams slated to clash with the Irish. The Sugar Bowl tournament during the Christmas vacation, a southwestern tour against Tulsa and Kansas State, and a trip to the East where they play New York University and Holy Cross, will also supply^ the eagers plenty of top competition.
When asked what he thought of Notre Dame’s pre-season selection as number nine in the nation, this year’s captain remarked, “There is too much comparing of teams on paper, rather than on the floor.” To the same question, the coach replied, “I had not given it much thought. It is a point which must be proven.”
The Scholastic &
28
Velo+ta's High Round ^aces Cleveland Win
Scouting the Novy Middies
“Buzz” Velotta led the defending champion Cleveland Club to a 4 to 0 victory over the Civil Engineers to pace the first week of bowling by the Kam-pus Keglers. His three-game total 172186-190—548 was high for the day.
Wisconsin, Toledo, Architects, Chemical Engineers, Air Cadets, and the ^Metropolitan Club of New York all Miurled shutouts at theii- opponents while the Electrical Engineers, Accounting, and the Irish club squeezed out 3 to 1 victories. Two ties involved Rochester and Washington-Maryland-Virginia in the Blue League, and the Mechanical Engineers and the LaRaza Club in the Gold League.
Earlier this year a meeting of the Keglers was held to elect officers and fset up the leagues. John Aquilla was elected president; John Wilkins, vicepresident; Pete Walsh, secretary; and Jim Haering, treasurer.
There will be two leagues, labeled blue and gold, “which will bowl each Sunday at 12:45 and 2:45 p.m. except on those days that conflict with important weekends. Each league is comprised of 12 teams and every team will bowl weekly ■with a position week occurring every four weeks. Position week has every ^team bowfl the one directly above it in the standings.
The winners of each league are matched against each other at the end of the season to determine the champion. This team is then honored at the annual Keglers’ banquet, and a trophy is awarded to each member.
All the teams are sponsored by the various clubs on the campus and made up of club members. Each team has ^seven men, including two alternates.
Scoring is based upon four points a match. One point will be given the winner of each of the three games bowled, and a fourth point will be given to the team with the highest numbei- of pins at the end of the three games.
Standings after the initial week of bowling:
Interhall Football
i (Continued from Page 25)
set Sorin, 7-0. The winning score came on a 40-yard pass interception. Late in the game, Sorin’s Bob Andrew connected with Paul Noland for a 60-yard pass, but the drive stalled deep in Lyons territory.
Howard suffered a 27-0 loss at the hands of Badin on Oct. 21. In the first half, John Hummer climaxed a 60-yard drive with a two-yard plunge off tackle. Two Howard aerials were turned into
The balanced Navy offense moves equally well on the ground or through the air. Quarterbacks George Welsh and Dick Echard have passed effectively to end Ron Beagle this year, while Bill Hepworth, Dick Guest, and Joe Gattuso have blasted through the spread defense.
This week our scouting reports show that the favorite Navy ground play is their patented “27 F”. It is a basic play off the T formation, but it has worked very well for Navy this year as the defense awaits the rashes of either Guest or Gattuso from the fullback slot.
The Middies line up in a standard T with right halfback Monahan split wide as a flanker. Welsh, Hepworth, and Guest remain tight in the backfield. The line
is also pulled in tight for maximum blocking at the line of scrimmage and downfield.
The snap comes back to Welsh who slides off to his right and fakes to the fullback cracking into the right side of the line. Welsh, however, hangs onto the ball and hands off to the left halfback Hepworth, who has moved over behind the fullback’s fake.
The right guard pulls out to hit the defensive left end and clear the path for Hepworth who heads out around that end. If the key line blocks enable Hepworth to clear the line, it is imperative that Monahan move downfield and hit the halfback, while the left tackle cuts diagonally across field and hits the other deep defender.
The ultimate in faking and precision blocking is required for the correct execution of “27 F.” So look for this one tomorrow when the Middies need that yardage.
TD’s by the alert Badin defenders. Pete Fieweger grabbed the first on the Howard 30, and John Hummer intercepted another on the Howard 35.
Hummer added the last tally on a 35-yard ran through the Howard line. Two other Badin TD’s were called back by penalties, one of these being a 98-yard punt return. The hapless Howard squad finished the game with a minus rushing and passing yardage.
Badin blanked Alumni, 6-0, in the first season outing for both teams on Oct. 19. The victors, paced by Bob Costello, Dick Rust, and Jerry Ryan, drove all the way the first time Badin had the ball. Rust went the final five yards.
Alumni’s McCullough raced 67 yards with an intercepted pass later in the game, but was brought down short of the goal, and the Alumni drive ran out of steam deep in Badin territory.
Only three games have been played
recently in East league competition. Breen-Phillips is tied for the top position in the standings with St. Edward’s, last year’s league champ.
Breen-Phillips took the measure of Zahm by a 20-0 margin on Oct. 19 to keep its slate clean.
St. Ed’s earned its second win in a 6-2 conquest of the Off-Campus squad. The victors overcame a 0-2 deficit with a 60-yard pass interception touchdown ran by Don Masini. The Off-Campus safety was the result of a bad pass from center.
The only other game in the East league saw Farley overpower Cavanaugh, 12-0. Lee Kletzly, who quarterbacked the Farley attack, tossed a 40-yard TD pass to Dave Kubal early in the game.
Martin plunged six yards for the second tally in the third quarter, after an intercepted pass.
6 October 29, 1954
29
Midshipmen Impressive in Pennsylvania Win As Five Future ND Opponents Gain Victories
By JOE MADIGAN
Future Notre Dame opponents enjoyed profitable weekends, winning five out of their six games last Saturday. Penn, the only loser, found itself humbled by Navy, the Irish opponent tomorrow afternoon at Baltimore.
Irish supporters were keenly interested to see whether Navy would bounce back after their upset loss to Pittsburgh two weeks ago. The Middies convinced the Irish that they are ready for the oncoming battle by submerging the winless Quakers, 52-6, before 41,228 fans in Franklin Field. It marked the first time Navy has been able to defeat the Quakers in Franklin Field since 1945.
Halfback Joe Gattuso sparked the midshipmen’s offensive, scoring two touchdowns. For the greater part of the game, though, the Middies had no individual star as they massacred the demoralized Pennsylvanians. It was sweet revenge for the Middies whose rating had slipped considerably after their untimely loss to the Panthers.
Strangely enough, it remained for a Penn player to come up with the day's outstanding run. Halfback Stan Chaplin fielded a Middie kickoff and raced 79 yards for the only Quaker score in the first period.
Iowa Stumbles To Victory
In the exciting Big Ten race, Iowa’s Hawkeyes bounced back after their one point loss to Michigan by handing Bernie Crimmins’ Indiana Hoosiers their third straight Big Ten defeat 27-14.
The Hawkeyes took advantage of Hoosier fumbles in the second quarter to score three touchdowns, and then held off a second half Indiana surge to protect their margin of victory. Speedy Milt Campbell’s fumble on Iowa’s one yard line that was turned into a touchback cost the Hoosiers a golden opportunity to take the lead early in the second quarter.
The Hawks started their first sustained drive from the Hoosier 20 after the touchback and marched 80 yards in fifteen plays, with Quarterback Jerry Reichow culminating the drive by plunging over from three yards out. Jerry Freeman kicked the first of three straight placements, and the Hawks had drawn first blood, 7-0.
Shortly afterwards, Campbell again fumbled and Eddie Vincent, Iowa’s workhorse halfback, recovered on their own 38. A few plays later, Earl Smith scooted 48 yards around the Hoosier
30
left end to paydirt. Freeman added the point and the Hawks led 14-0.
Iowa’s third touchdown was handed to them on a silver platter. After Iowa’s Roger Wiegmann had punted out of bounds deep in Hoosier territory, tackle Rodger Swedberg recovered an ensuing fumble on the five-yard line. On the next play fullback Wiegmann knifed over for the score and Freeman again converted.
The second half saw Indiana completely dominating the play. Fullback John Bartkiewicz took a lateral from quarterback Florian Helinski and scampered 33 yards for the tally. Helinski then booted the point after touchdown, and the Hoosiers still had hopes.
Campbell Comes to Life
These hopes seemed closer to realization, when in the fourth quarter Campbell atoned for his previous miscues and dashed 32 yards after taking a Helinski pitchout. Helinski again split the uprights, and with a little more than 15 minutes left to play, the scoreboard read, Iowa 21, Indiana 14.
But the Hawks were not to be denied. They came back, marching 87 yards to put the game on ice. The payoff came when quarterback Ken Ploen lofted an 11-yard scoring pass to Smith. Freeman failed to convert, but by now the outcome was obvious.
Down in Chapel Hill, North Carolina’s Tarheels tripped Wake Forest 14 to 7. Ed Sutton scored both Tai-heel touchdowns. The sophomore back galloped 21 yards for one score, and later on shook himself lose for a 77-yard scoring jaunt.
Further down south at Dallas, Texas, Southern Methodist continued its winning ways by trouncing lightly regarded Kansas 36-18. The offensive minded Mustangs left no doubt as to the game’s final outcome by scoring two touchdowns in each of the first two quarters, and adding one more for good measure in the late stages of the game. »
Trojans Take Thriller
In Los Angeles, Southern California’s Trojans enhanced their chances for a Rose Bowl bid by outlasting a strong California eleven 29 to 27, in an important Pacific Coast conference clash.
Halfback Linden Crow, a standout performer all day, scored three of the Trajan touchdowns. Crow also performed brilliantly on defense. His recovery of a California fumble on the
game’s opening kickoff ultimately set the stage for the first U.S.C. score.
Passing ace Paul Larson enjoyed one of the finest days of his collegiate career, completing 14 out of his 18 attempts to set the pace for the underdog Bears. The Bear quarterback also sprinted 84 yards on a kickoff return to set up a California touchdown in the third quarter. This drew the Bears within six points of the Trojans, but the deciding play of the game came on a third quarter safety when Larson wasg, tackled in the end zone by tackle Don' McFarland.
ND Harriers Face Hoosiers; Marquette Falls Before Irish
The Irish cross-country outfit travels to Bloomington today to race the three-mile course against their traditional track rivals, the University of Indiana. In an effort to avenge last season’s de-W feat, the Irish will have in their favor an improved squad. The Hoosiers have lost much of their 1953 depth.
The Notre Dame thinclads carry a 3-1 record into play and feature a stronger secondary, which was displayed last Friday as they trounced Marquette, 21-37, on the golf course.
The Irish harriers cut the tape in high gear against the Warriors with Jack Gits, Bill 'Squires, and “Spike” Daly completing the sweep in a photo-^ finish. The trio covered the trail in 20:51, which is a new individual high for Gits.	.
Marquette kept close until the two-mile mark, and then started to fade. The Irish drove into big leads, with the Notre Dame trio holding a heavy lead over Tom Lehmkuhl, the leading Warrior. Lehmkuhl, in a futile attempt, began to cut down the Notre Dame lead,^ but fell 75 yards short as the Irish trio™ split the tape.
Wrestling Drills Begin Nov. I As Irish Seek New Members
Mr. Fallon, faculty adviser for the Notre Dame wrestling team, has announced an eight-match tentative schedule for the coming season this week.
The initial workouts for the team will gn begin on Nov. 1, with a group of 44 members trying out for the squad. The team is divided into nine divisions consisting of 123, 130, 137, 147, 157, 167, 177, 191, and heavyweight classes.
The chances of the new members are promising since only five members of last year’s team, John Palumbo, Jack Mulligan, Terry Crowley, John Gavin, and Joe Clarke, have had any experience in actual matches.
The Scholastic 0D
^Sophs Hold Key to '55 Diamond Fortunes
Notre Dame’s baseball fortunes are seemingly on the upgrade.
The annual fall practice session, that ' ended last Saturday, unveiled a host of promising sophomores that are expected to bolster the team next spring.
Veteran Coach Jake Kline made no attempt to conceal his optimism about W the possibilities of the 1955 ball club, j “Last year was a lean one for us. But I’m certain we’ll have a much better team this spring. The thing that impresses me the most is the spirit of this gang. They really want to play ball. We figure to be strong everywhere except on the mound. Our pitching is a little uncertain, but it will be better than i last year.”
Sophomores are putting in a determined bid for starting berths at every position. As fall practice ended, the situation looked like this:
Sophomore Elmer Kohorst has all but sewed up the first-string catcher’s job. Junior Mike Lesso, regular first baseman last spring, is being pressed by Sophomore Jim Cusack. Sophomore Ed | Hurley and Junior Don Sniekowski are battling it out for the starting nod at second base.
Q A similar situation exists at shortstop where Sophomore Tom Carroll and Junior Tom Russell are neck and neck. Don Nespo, who was regular third baseman as a sophomore in 1952, has returned to school after two years in the service. But in order to regain his starting job, he must discourage the fine efforts of Sophomore Hi Lavelle, a transfer from Compton Junior College.
A Even the jobs of veteran outfielders ™ Bill Teske and Jim Twohy are somewhat in jeopardy. Impressive sophomore outfielders are Jim Carideo, Bob Nowakowski, Jack Keller, Steve Johnson, Jack O’Drobinak, and Joe Yeager.
Sophomore Dick Bunker is expected to be the ace of the pitching staff. Other promising sophomore hurlers are Ron Hammet, Pete Longchamps, and Paul Besser.
Veteran twirlers returning from last year’s team include Leo Linbeck, Jerry Spaeth, and Angelo Capozzi. Senior Bernie McClorey has also looked good in fall drills.
Lyons Wins Cross-Country
Lyons Hall, paced by John Reichert, won the interhall cross-country meet sponsored by the Physical Education Club last Sunday.
* October 29, 1954
Met Clubbers Reveal 1954 Activities Card: Dance, Bowling League, Communion Breakfast
The Met Club of New York recently announced its program of activities for the coming year. The club, second largest geographical organization on campus, has planned several projects fostering the social, spiritual, and educational life of its members.
Heading these activities will be newly elected officers, Bob Kunze from Teaneck, N. J., president, and Ed Kell from Jackson Heights, L. I., vicepresident. Walt Arnold from Bayside, L. I., is secretary and Ed Keenan from Forest Hills, L. I., will serve as treasurer.
On the social side there will be dances, bowling teams, and other affairs intended to promote a feeling of fellowship among members. On Dec. 26, a winter formal, under the cochairmanship of Paul Marback and Jim Twohy, will be held on the Astor Roof with dancing from nine to 12. Music will be rendered by Art Stanley’s orchestra.
For bowling enthusiasts, the club plans to have a bowling league which will meet one afternoon a week at the Palais Royale.
A get-acquainted smokei- for the frosh will be sponsored jointly by the club and the alumni club of New York.
ROTC Rolls List Only 1,560; Army Largest Campus Unit
Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., Department of Military Information, recently released the initial tabulation on the enrollment of the three ROTC detachments at the University. This year’s total is only 1,560 compared to last year’s 1,752.
The Anny is well ahead of the other two units with the sum of 651. The Aii- Force is next with 541, while the Navy is last with 369.
Father Woodward also asserted that 66 per cent of the freshmen who took the college qualification test passed it. The percentage of students who passed increased among the upper classes with 95 per cent of the graduate students coming out on the good side. Now, however, the requirements for the graduate students have tightened considerably.
Further information obtained from Father Woodward shows that only 31 men were drafted from Notre Dame in the last three years and only 13 last year. Among those students taken into the service last year, the highest scholastic average was 78.6.
Keeping in mind the spiritual needs i of the men, the organization has plan- ; ned a Communion Breakfast during I Lent. Mass will be attended in Sacred	I
Heart Church, followed by a breakfast ! at the Morris Inn.	j
Doing the footwork for all these af- j fairs are the hall representatives, two । from each hall comprising a total of j 28.	‘
The club also provides for train	and	j
plane transportation home during	the	j
Christmas and Easter vacations at re- j duced rates.
A job placement bureau has been set up _ in conjunction with the alumni group in New York to obtain positions for outgoing seniors.
Summing up, Bob Kunze has this J to say about the club, “The advan- | tages of membership do not end at | graduation but rather the friends and ’ contacts made through the Met Club • follow the Notre Dame man through | life.”
Captain Luongo Announces	j
Four NROTC Staff Changes	j
Four commissioned instructors and	|
one non-commissioned instructor com-	j
prise the only changes in the NROTC	j
staff as it begins its ninth year at the ■ University. This announcement was	|
made recently by Capt. F. P. Luongo, ] professor of Naval science and head I of the NROTC unit.	j
He also explained that the difficult । mental and physical tests, which were | very important in determining entrance : into the contract NROTC, made for the | acceptance of only 89 candidates out of I 265 that applied at the beginning of J the year. This set the total enrollment | for the NROTC at 369 including an | additional 20 who joined this year, not | in contract NROTC.	I
The four new officer instructors are: I Lieut. John W. Haizlip, Jr., USN, who | came to the University from the sub- | marine Trench; Capt. William J. Kelly, g USMC, who transferred from the ROK | Marine base school, where he commanded the ROK marines during the Korean War; Lieut. Robert C. James, USN, came from the 192nd Fighter Squad- i ron, where he was a jet pilot; Lieut. | (j- £-) William E. Keeney, USN, is a g transfer to Notre Dame from the | U.S.S. Manchester, which saw combat | in Korea.	|
The non-commissioned instructor is John S. Bueter, yeoman first class,' USN, from London, England.
31
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) certainly want to congratulate the Notre Dame student body of 1954-55. Saturday you gave each and every visitor to the campus an insight into the thing which makes Notre Dame the finest institution of learning in the world: the tremendous spirit and cohesiveness with which all of you tackle each endeavor, whether it be in the class room or on the athletic field. Continue to stick with your Coach Brennan and his staff as we did with Coach Leahy and his staff and come what may, the respect of the world will continue to stick 'with Notre Dame.
William F. Roemer. Jr.
Hammond, Ind.
A Loyal Few
Editor:
Having seen a letter- which a few of the troops plan to send you, I feel it only fair that you get another response to your editorial on the waning spirit at Notre Dame. One of the traditions which impressed me most was to have seen the great spirit exhibited by the student body after a football defeat. If the Purdue game is any indication of what spirit is, I hope, for the sake of the majority of the student body, that they never have to witness another. The following rally on Thursday night for the Pitt game further exemplified the great following the team has. Those that were there were loyal and noisy but were lacking in only one respect— numbers. The final score of the Pitt game indicates what the team can do for the loyal clan who can accept defeat and then fight all the harder for the next game. I am only sorry that a little honest criticism has to offend those for whom the words were constructively intended.
Paul H. Johnson
426 Morrissey
Men or Larcenists?
Editor:
Sometimes I wonder how some guys take claim to the title of being a Notre Dame man. But then there -will always be a few who think they are getting away with something.
Today was no exception. Badin Hall played Alumni in an interhall game and during the course of the game a few “smart” guys plucked the practice footballs used by Badin. Sure they pulled a nice theft—two nice footballs—but whoever they are, they sure made jerks out of themselves—anybody on this campus will attest to that.
I just hope they’re men enough if they read this letter to return the foot
32
balls and grow up and act like men instead of hehaving like a bunch of kids.
Gene O’Connor
326 Badin
Dances, Intermurals Headline Chicago Club's '54-'55 Season
Frank Lolli, president of the Chicago Club, recently announced the social schedule for the largest club on campus. Membership in the Windy City group approximates 1,000 men.
The calendar of events for the ’54-’55 school year includes four dances, a senior dinner, and a well-rounded intermural athletic program. Dances will be held on Thanksgiving, Christmas, end of the semester, and Easter.
The main objective of the organization is, as Lolli asserted, “to give club members good wholesome fun on holidays, and to create good will and lasting friendships among the Chicago area students!”
Assisting President Lolli are Phil Sheridan, vice-president; Dick Lewis, secretary; and Bud Freidhiem, treasurer.
Committeemen for the Chicago group are: Dan Shannon, Jerry Gatto, Bob Hanrahan, John Broderick, and Bernie Smith.
McIntyre Will Play
(Continued from Page 23) the game have been placed on reserve for out-of-town dates.
The AB weekend will end Sunday morning with Communion Breakfast in the Gold Room of the LaSalle Hotel at 10:30. Breakfast Chairman Frank Lolli has arranged for Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., to speak.
Five hundred tickets are available for the dance, according to Ticket Chairman Paul Hanlon. The sale of ducats began last week but tickets may still be obtained in the Great Hall of the O’Shaughnessy Building, next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. After that date they may be purchased in Room 412 Walsh.
To accommodate out-of-town dates, over 75 South Bend rooms are available. Ed Kelly is in charge of the arrangements.
General chairman for the ball is Jim O’Shea. Other chairmen are: Bert Metzger, business manager; Joe Saunders, publicity; and Chuck Collins, blind dates.
The Scholastic tty
Foundation Plan Adds ^Educators to Faculty
A number of outstanding educators have already been added to the University faculty during the summer in conjunction with a plan originally announced last October by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation. The plan, the Distinguished Professors Program, calls ^for sufficient salaries to attract the educators.
A spokesman of the University said that under the plan new members for the faculty are being sought in1 this country and abroad.
Father Cavanaugh, past president of the University, declared at the initiation of the program that corporations would be approached as the symbols of private enterprise.
“Because we believe that, for the good of the country,” he said, “strong tax-supported institutions of higher learning should co-exist with equally strong private colleges and universities, we are approaching corporation executives, confident that they will welcome the partnership which we propose for the education of morally responsible leaders for the nation.”
He asserted that the plan implied no depreciation of the “splendid corps of professors” on the 560-man faculty. Reason for the move is the combination of increased enrollment and the departure of some members of the faculty each year for better' paying jobs in industry.
Already the Notre Dame Foundation has announced extremely encouraging returns for the first three quarters of the calendar year. As of this month 7,024 alumni have contributed $336,830 compared with 5,535 alumni gifts and $ $148,729 at this time last year.
Contributions from non-alumni friends reveal that 617 have given $250,359 thus far in 1954, in comparison to the 573 non-alumni who gave $213,824 during this period last year. Donations from alumni during the final quarter of 1954 can boost the gifts to an all-time high.
Four district managers of the foundation are contacting corporations, state governors, city chairmen, and other in-gK dividuals in specified areas.
Camera Club Elects Officers
At the first official meeting of the newly-formed Camera Club last Monday, Jim Guide, fifth-year architecture student and originator of the club, was unanimously elected president. Also unanimously approved were John O’Brien, senior, as vice-president, and
Armin Gumerman, freshman, as secretary. By a majority vote, sophomore Mike Thompson was chosen treasurer.
The limited enrollment of 50 members ratified the club’s constitution and bylaws with complete agreement. The club’s seal, a lens from a press-type camera surrounded by the club’s official name, the University of Notre Dame Camera Club, was also approved.
Among plans in the near future is the renovating of the space on the second floor of the old Science Building to serve as a dark-room. The club also hopes to hold exhibits which will be open to the public.
Land, Sea, Air
(Continued from Page 9) country. He has also appeared on radio with such personalities as the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Judy Garland, Rita Hayworth, Ginger Rogers, and Jimmy Stewart. He will present as his vocalist, Miss Ann Vincent.
Heading the various dance committees are: Gerald Massey, business manager; David Friske, entertainment; John Locht, tickets; Thomas Armstrong, publicity; Martin Murphy, decorations; Patrick 'McAward, refreshments; Paul Reed, hotels; and John Cuddy, transportation.
The three unit commanders and their wives will serve as chaperones.
The Capital's tallest building offers
BEST VALUES in
CAIRO and Sava
hotel
Running wafer, from $2.75 with bath from $4.00
DOUBLE ROOMS
Running wafer, from $4.50 With bath from $6.00
Large, fwo-room suites* with bath, ideal for families of four people from $10.00 per day $2.00 per day for any additional person, up to 8 people beautiful dining room AND COFFEE SHOP MEALS AT POPULAR PRICES Liberal commission to Travel Agents on all
^Shinatan
F	Slop at th*	CIMALF
SINGLE ROOMS
bookings.
Cairo
Q Street of 16 th, N.W.
JAMES C. VANSTQKf, St, MGt
Sauter, Finegan (Continued from Page 11) ganized their band, both were well-known names in the music field. In addition to arrangements for Benny Goodman, Sauter also wrote for Artie Shaw, Woody Herman, Red Novo, and Ray McKinley. Likewise, Finegan wrote countless scores for Tommy Dorsey and was an important arranger for the Glenn Miller orchestra.
The orchestra line-up, unique for dance bands, includes three trumpets, three trombones, and five saxes who double on flute, piccolo, oboe, English horn, bass clarinet, and recorders. The latter is an ancient woodwind instrument.
In addition, they have a special percussion section consisting of xylophone, marimba, chimes triangle, celesta, tym-pani, glockenspiel, tambourines, thunder drams, and toy drums.
ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI STEAKS and CHOPS enlarged for better service
537 North St. Louis
Five Minutes from the Campus
• October 29, 1954
35
the beck pege
by Don Yeckel
tended for us at all, but for some vague intellectual elite.
There’s another popular view of tire Greeks. It admits that the Greeks were perhaps pretty advanced for their times, but after all, scientifically and technically they were children compared with modern people. They might be all right for historians and scholars to study, but there isn’t any sense in an ordinary person trying to figure them out.
If either of these views is correct, then the whole idea of a festival devoted to the re-creation of the Greek liberal and fine arts is wacky, and the whole thing is bound to be a dud.
Fortunately, though, there’s a third view, and I think it has a good deal to be said for it. This view sees that understanding what the Greeks did 2,000 years ago can help understanding what we are doing now, and even understanding what men will probably be doing 2,000 years from now.
Why Study the Greeks?
Plato said that all philosophy could be summed up in two words: “Know thyself.” And according to the Greek poet Pindar, education consists in “becoming who we are.” But how is knowing ourselves and becoming who we are related to the Greeks?
The Greeks were men first, not Greeks, and had as their chief interest what it meant to be men, and only secondarily what it meant to be Greeks. If they found out what it meant to be men, and what it was like to live like men, then it might be worthwhile for us to look at what the Greeks discovered.
The Greeks looked at men and the
Timeo Danaos et dona ferentis.—“I fear the Greeks, even when bearing gifts.”
The 1954 Festival of the Arts begins November 8. Its theme is “To the glory that was Greece.” This is a rather forbidding title, and perhaps some of us might even literally say something like “I fear the Greeks.” The Greeks have acquired an awesome intellectual reputation —something like Einstein, whose name has become synonymous with a kind of transcendental wisdom, as when little boys (and not so little boys) say to one another, “Who d’ya think ya are, Einstein or sumthin’?” The Greeks have come to be regarded in this way too, as possessing a kind of superhuman knowledge that isn’t given to ordinary men to have. We fear the Greeks, “even when bearing gifts,” as if their gifts aren’t in-
other animals and saw that each thing has its particular powers — something that it can do better than anything else. When that power was highly developed they called it arete, or excellence. For example, the excellence of a race-horse is speed, of a cart-horse strength. Man, they saw, has many powers: intellectual, moral, and physical. Achilles, the hero of the Iliad, is the most formidable of fighters, the swiftest of runners, and the noblest of souls. They showed that the greatest of all these powers is the ability to see truth and beauty and to live well. They also established that using these powers well is necessary for human happiness.
But the Greeks didn’t only think about these powers: they used them. They created things of beauty and truth, philosophy and drama and sculpture.
Some of these beautiful and true things are going to be part of the Festival of the Arts. Philosophy and science, literature and art, will be discussed by men who have thought about them long and hard. There will be an exhibition of Greek sculpture in the O’Shaughnessy galleries.
This Greek sculpture will not he the grand and famous things that we have read and heard about. They are mostly small—some of them just fragments. At first they might look very plain. This is probably good, because we will have to get rid of our ideas of art as something big and well-known, and look hard to see the simple and unadorned beauty that is there. If we try hard, maybe we can see
just what the Greeks meant when they talked about beauty.
A good question at this point is: I^> it worthwhile studying anything of Greece except her philosophy and art? Briefly, the answer is yes: the Greeks laid out a number of solutions to mens’ problems—social problems, and political and historical, too.
I’ll let Richard W. Livingstone, former Vice-Chancellor of Oxford, answer that one more fully.
“In spite of many differences, no agef has had closer affinities with Ancient Greece than our own; none has based its deeper life so largely on ideals which the Greeks brought into the world. . . . If the twentieth century searched through the past for its nearest spiritual kin, it is in the fifth and following centuries before Christ that they would be found. Again and again, as we study Greek thought and literature, behind the veil woven by time and distance, the^J face that meets us is our own, younger, with fewer lines and wrinkles on its features and with more definite and deliberate purpose in its eyes. For these reasons we are today in a position, as no other age has been, to understand Ancient Greece, to learn the lessons it teaches, and, in studying the ideals and fortunes of men with whom v’e have so much in common, to gain a fuller power of understanding and estimating our own.” (The Legacy of Greece)
These are the reasons, then, why I think it important for everyone, liberal arts students and engineers, businessmen and factory workers, to take advantage of this opportunity for education. It is important because wre are men, and it is important because we are men living in the Western tradition during the twentieth century. What the Greeks thought and said and have done is within our reach and has useful meaning for us now.
Marble head of woman.
34
The Scholastic
1
Choice of Parents
Choice of Wife
Choice of Job
/ /																
				FIELDS (				3F	SPECIALIZATlOb					4		
				-	2 o	" S	o	- 9	“												
	SCOPE OF OPPORTUNITIES		AERONAUTICAI MECHANICAL 1 CIVIL ENG. ELECTRICAL EN ELECTRONICS ARCHITECTURA HYDRAULICS El ADMINISTRATIS PHYSICS MATHEMATICS CHEMISTRY 1 METALLURGY													
																
ADMINISTRATION			•		•	•	•				•					
power plant ANALYSIS			•		•											
AIRCRAFT STANDARDS			•		•	•	•	•	•	•					•	
PRODUCTION DESIGN			•		•	•	•									
FLIGHT TEST LIAISON			•		•		•									
AIRFRAME			•		•	•			•							
MECHANICAL COMPONENTS			•		•					•						
INSTALLATIONS			•		•		•			•						
LIAISON			•		•	•	•		•	•						
TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS			•		•		•	•	•		•					
AERODYNAMICS			•		•											
MISSILE DESIGN			•		•	•	•	•	•	•		•	•			
DYNAMIC ANALYSIS			•		•	•						•	•			
STRUCTURES DESIGN			•		•	•			•							
STRUCTURES MATERIAL					•									•	•	
STRUCTURES TEST			•		•	•			•	•		•				
WEIGHTS			•		•	•	•	•	•	•	•		•			
RELIABILITY					•		•	•				•	•			
ANTENNA							•	•				•				
SERVO MECHANISMS			•		•		•	•		•						
AEROPHYSICS			•				•	•				•	•			
ELECTRONICS DESIGN							•	•				•				
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS DESIGN							•	•				•				
GUIDANCE & FIELD OPERATIONS							•	•				•				
DEVELOPMENT			•		•	•	•	•	•	•			•			
FLIGHT TEST ENGINEERING			•		•											
FLIGHT TEST ANALYSIS			•		•											
FLIGHT TEST INSTRUMENTATION			•		•		•	•				•				
TOOL ENGINEERING			•		•											
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING					•		•	•			•			•		
QUALITY CONTROL			•		•		•	e						9	9	
You don't have any choice on the first and
very little on the second
On the third however, it’s strictly up to you— a poor choice can throw you years behind -your classmates and a good choice can put you years ahead.
At Chance Vought, young engineers (Aeronautical, Mechanical, Civil and Electrical)
have every opportunity to make a mark for themselves in the industry that places the greatest value on engineering skill and ingenuity.
The very nature of the modem aircraft—its immense complexity and its never-ending development — presents technical problems that are unparalleled in any other field of engineering.
The chart illustrates two things; first, the extent to which our work involves the various
engineering and scientific specialties and second, the scope of the opportunities that exist for the young engineer.
For more information regarding these employment opportunities please contact your placement office in order to arrange for an interview with our representative when he is on campus, or write for a copy of “Four Career With Chance Vought Aircraft”.
Address:
We invite you to discuss your career opportunities in the aviation industry with us. Contact your placement office today
Engineering Personnel Section




Chance Vought Aircraft
INCORPORATED
for an appointment for your interview
Chance Vought Personnel Repvisit your cam-
with K. L. Gilbert, Aircraft Engineering resentative, who will pus November 8.
CHANCE
VOUGHT
P.O. Box 5907
Dallas, Texas