DISCE-QUAS1-SEMPER-VICTVRUS-V1VE-QUASI-CRAS-MORITVRVS
9
Vol. LIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 5, 1921.
No. 15.
TO STEVENSON.
BROTHER LEONARD, C. S. C., ’23
A RMED hosts beside a tiny pen are small, If wielded by a strong and potent hand
That blasts tile liar’s vilifying scrawl,
And blights the purport of the wounding brand;
That saves a beautiful and stainless name
And wrests a hero from a villian’s fate;
That guards the sacred honor, slanderous Fame Would e’en in sainted martyr desecrate.
With greater bravery than in bygone days
Bold errant knights in hostile blood did lave Their tainted honor, Truth’s sole champion flay
Aspersion cast on martyred Damien’s grave.
And so he fought for Truth, and Right, and won— 0 God, be thanked for upright Stevenson! .
WAR MEMORIES.
CLARENCE J. MCCABE, ’22.
oAVE* you ever sat by the fireside 011 a l°nS’ wintry night and gazed El tl into the grate, abandoning your-self to the caprices of fancy and letting your thoughts turn back to other days, when you were a soldier and wore the uniform of your country? Perhaps you have, and in spite of yourself—for you re-call that not many months ago you took an oath to the high heaven that should you survive the rendezvous with Death, you would forget that you were ever in the army or wore the uniform. But,, now that your 'honorable discharge has lain away in the attic all these months and you wear a blue serge instead of an olive drab and a velour in the place of the overseas" cap, and shoes pointed at the toe instead of the broad, hob-i nailed ones, and now that you feel no longer the. first glorious impulse of freedom, you suddenly realize that you cannot forget the service, and-—stranger still—that your attitude in regard to it is beginning to change.
The fact, is that your perspective has
changed. It is all different, to you now as you sit here before the fire. The huge leather chair affords the maximum'of comfort; you light your pipe, or cigarette, and in the haze of the blue smoke you paint a picture, which in some way or other comes very close to your heart. You are overseas again, and billeted in some quaint, picturesque little French village which nestles like a jewel amid-the charming hills of Burgundy. It is late spring, and- a million fragrant blossoms scent the soft wind, which comes like a benediction from the shores of the Mediterranean far to the south. You recall the long hours on the drill field while you were in' training and getting ready for Jerry. They were a great hardship then, but they hardly seems so -now. Then, after drill all gathered in Marie’s or Jeanette’s wine cafe and talked things over. And of course you received letters from the States. There was one in a baby blue-envelope, addressed in a most dainty handwriting, which no one but yourself could read. You thought at the time that you could never go through life with any happiness, whatever except with her. But you have learned since she married Percy Stone, of the Chemical Department, that you can get along remarkably well, and you wonder if it was not the glamour of war that caused all the illusions.
Then, there were the nights of France, when the soft, velvety light of the moon was flooding the earth, and the stars like myriads of diamonds sparkled in the blue meadowlands of heaven, and . a mist warm and langorous lay like a white mantel over the peaceful valley. Through the town ran . a road.. Whence it came and whither it went you did not know, nor care.
What you recall, best are the long walks . under, the moon down this white road that stretched like a band of silver through the
250	^ne Notre dame Scholastic
peaceful valley, finally losing itself beyond the hills. With you walked one of the ' charming girls of France—at least you said that she was charming. At any rate, she was Juliette, the daughter of the man in whose house you were billeted, and she is ® certainly deserving of all your kindest con-
• siderations as long as you live. Many and many a time when homesickness and yearnings for other days overwhelmed you, she acted as a good angel to you in trying-to cheer you up in her own sweet way. While you walked she tried to tell you in her mixed ’ French and English all about a little French maid who lived years and years ago and tended the sheep on the sunny hillsides; and how she had a vision, in which she was told she should lead the armies of France ' when the day would come for the country’s deliverance; then how .when she had freed her beloved country she was rewarded by being burned as a witch by the English. Yes, she told you all about Joan’of Arc. About all you said during the entire walk was “oui, oui,” which was about the full extent of your’ French vocabulary in those days. ■
- When at length, you returned to the old-fashioned French home and bade her goodnight, you remember that she plucked a crimson rose and pinned it to your overseas cap, and that then a look came into her beautiful dark eyes which somehow told of a love, needing but a word to fan it into a flame. You have often wondered how this little affair would have ended had you remained there. But you will never know, for on the following day your regiment was ordered to the front, and you never saw Juliette, the little French maid, again.
No doubt she is still in the quaint, old home with the roses climbing over the windows. When the moon rides high and the “ white xroad runs beneath it, her memory recalls another night just’like this when you were with her; deep in her heart she.is.
*. sorry that you never came back; and her . eyes, are wet with tears as she wonders
- . whether you were killed in the battle, or survived and long ago returned to your own country, f or getting her; forever. Ah, Juliette, you shall never be forgotten. Two z million Americans have brought home the memories of girls like you, and though you'
may never know it, you will always be one of the sweet flowers that sprang into blossom through the ashes and tears of the Great War.
When you arrived at the front you began to realize the awful destruction of war. All around you were villages and towns laid in ruins. The very ground you walked on was poisoned and torn to pieces by shrapnel and high explosives. The white trunks of trees, hundreds'and hundreds of them, gnarled, twisted, and splintered, looked weird and ' ghost-like under the full moon, or loomed up suddenly out of the darkness like huge guideposts pointing towards the invaders who had despoiled them.	■	.
You saw the refugees rushing from their homes. You recall them as they passed along the road, most of them old men and women, with a sprinkling of middle-aged matrons with babies at their brests, all of them carrying bundles over their drooping shoulders, a few provisions of food or clothing hastily gathered for the flight. Others drive before them cows or herds of bleating goats. But what you remember best is the piteous, appealing look from the eyes of the did, and the flash of admiration in the dark eyes of the young women—admiration because they sensed .in you the champions of their cause. Down in their frightened' hearts, hope stirred and gave them new courage.
You see the wheat fields of the Marne waiting to be harvested. The yellow grain ripens and waves in the passing wind. Millions of poppies thrust their crimson heads . above the golden grain; but .the reaper is presently to pass over that ground. You see those same fields plowed with steel missiles, the wheat crushed and broken to the ground, and the poppies stained with, a redder red than their own.' The place is rotten with dead men; green, clumsy legs, high-booted, lie sprawled along the river. The trunks are buried in. the sucking mud, resembling half-filled sandbags, and naked sodden but- . tocks, mats of hair, bulged and clotted heads sleep in the plastering slime. .	.	J
You lie under the fierce . German attack, chilled by night and burning by day. Finally, you see their ranks .waver, break, ' then dissolve under your repeated; counterattacks. ( You cross the Marne, and, in a
"Sfie Nozre Same Scholastic	251.
series of battles, which for fierceness and desperation on the part of the Germans have not been equalled, you drive them back from the valley of the river. ■ Nor do you stop until your. colors are planted along the Vesle—and the homes in that garden spot - of France through* which the Marne flows are forever safe from Prussian violence:
You remember your buddie who used to be your bunkie. A quiet, fine sort of chap he was. You met him first in the early training days back in the States, and you executed squads east and west with him many a long hour. Then, when you went overseas you had a bunk right across from his Qii . the transport, and you were both seasick. You .were worse than he was, for you recall how he used to bring you a lemon or a dillpickle to help your poor stomach get back into condition. After arriving in France you both rode in those unforgettable sidedoor pullmans, marked, “eight houses or forty men.”
Then came the day you will never forget, even if you live to be a century old, when you were charging across the brown fields of the Argonne. It was a general advance along the entire line, and your battalion was in the fore. Machine guns, and rifles kicked up little geysers of earth and sprinkled you with it from tip to toe, or whizzed past your, ear to- deal death elsewhere. Shrapnel broke over your head in keen ear-splitting explosions, its shattered pieces darting earthward with terrific force. High explosives come towards you with the roar of an express train and many times . as fast, hitting the earth and exploding with awful effect, the flying fragments darting here and there, cutting the wind until it shrieked -and moaned. It was during this advance that you. saw your buddie falter, stop, and then fall to' the ground, with a red stain oozing from .a hole in the center of his head. He was dead when you reached him, and a flood of tears came to your eyes as you realized it. You muttered something about what would do if any prisoners fell into your hands, and then you left him there. Even now, after this lapse of time, your voice grows husky aiid .you seem to look through a mist when you think of him. ■ . When you come to think about it all, some of the saddest and sweetest memories of
your life are of these days in the service. You perhaps never realized this before; but somehow or other you do tonight as you sit by the fire, and you see those memorable days passing in review through the smoke of your pipe. Of course you * remember the Rhine, too—the dreamy Rhine with its legends as old as the hills that stand like sentinels above its waters. You see again the vineyards that cover the foothills along the Moselle. You rehearse the parades along the river front, the drills, and the horseshows you attended, and the picturesque old German home in which you were billeted. This time you did not awaken admiration in the dark eyes of Juliette, but when you came a pair of violet eyes looked at you in wonderment aiid half in fear. Before you left, however, Fraulein Louise showed something of the affection, of Mademoiselle Juliette. You were glad to leave the Rhine, but of late you would almost enlist in the army just to go back again. Yes, all the hard thoughts of service days are forgotten, and the mists enfold all that was not romance in that war.—But see—the log in the grate has broken in twain the swift ylay of the flames has subsided, the embers are paling, and only the gray.ashes are left. The room is becoming chilled, and your pipe has gone out. You are returned to the world of reality—memories are but the stuff of dreams. •
CARDINAL NEWMAN AS A MAN OF LETTERS.
BROTHER ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
One of the most remarkable things in the career of John Henry Newman was that he attained the foremost rank among English prose-writers without ever consciously striving to acquire a literary style. But perhaps this very indifference to literary skill, for its own sake, is the secret of the “haunting beauty” of every page that Newman wrote. His only purpose in all that he published was' to make clear and effective'the thoughts of his mind.*	.	;	.
Another feature of, Newman’s .writings, and one as noteworthy as his success, in attaining a perfect prose style, is the circumstance that despite the fact that his theme is nearly always , a religious one, he has a
5^
Notre dame Scholastic
human interest that fascinates the reader. The explanation of this phenomenon is to be attributed to the wealth of illustration in all that Newman wrote, so that in his knowledge of the world he surpassed even such a versatile author as Thackeray. Both in matter and in form Cardinal Newman is unexcelled as an essayist.
Who would think that in a work entitled “Discussions and ‘ Arguments” there might be found some of the most beautiful prose in English literature? The Cardinal’s theme is education. He is refuting the theories of Lord Brougham and others who maintained that education of the mind is sufficient to enable man to control his. appetites and his passions. So forceful and so fresh is the expression of each phase of the thought that the reader is enthralled more by the rhetoric of the writer than by his argument.
Cardinal Newman was preeminently a rhetorician, not in the formal sense of that word, but in the endowments of his mind. In whatever he wrote, whether the theme lends itself naturally to embellishment, or is of a scientific character, the exposition of the thought is always pleasing. When compared with other great essayists of the nineteenth century, such as Arnold, Carlyle, or .Ruskin, Newman is evidently peerless. He is less artificial than any other writers, less self-conscious, less manneristic, in the form of his literary productions. They have suffered from the modern critics, while Newman’s fame has grown greater ■udth each generation.	.
The chief works of Cardinal Newman, the ones that have won for him his literary renown, are the “Apologia,” Oxford “University Sermons,” the “Essay 'on the Development of Christian Doctrine,” “he “Grammar .of Assent,” and the “Idea of a University.” ' To these prose works must be added that unique poem on death, “The Dream of Gerontius.” Although, these productions are philosophical, yet the charm of the author’s marvellous style has so enriched them that they will live forever among the most cherished treasures of English literature.	“ • \	■
We shall take three of these works for a brief appreciation. The most charming of all of Newman’s books is. the “Apologia.” Written under the most. trying . circum
stances, as a refutation of the unkind and cruel accusation of untruthfulness, the “Apologia” reveals to the whole world in the most, perfect form the life and character of the author. It was with the greatest reluctance, as Newman tells us, that he thus unbosomed himself to all men. But his cause was so sacred, and the accusation of his maligner was so far-reaching that there was indeed no other way of meeting the charges. After reading this exquisite autobiography, we can almost forgive the accuser when we remember that except for his mistake we should never have had this revelation of the rarest mind in modern letters.
“The Idea of a University” contains some of Cardinal Newman’s finest essays. -This is a work that should be familiar to all students of literature or philosophy. The great author goes over the whole ground of knowledge and enunciates the principles that underlie the various sciences as well as general literature. Here the student will find handy definitions that will be serviceable at any time. And what is most remarkable is that although the subjects treated in this book are by their nature often abstract, the manner of their presentation is made, by wonderful literary gifts of the author, a marvel of beautiful diction. Indeed, the reading and writing' of‘ the “Idea of a University” ought to be one of the greatest delights of every ‘ student. “The Grammar of Assent,” unlike the “Idea of a University,” is a philosophical treatise on the logic of belief. The work has been, styled the most original contribution to ■philosophical thought in English. But like all of Cardinal Newman’s books this volume is also literature. In the “Grammar of Assent” we are struck by the same happy and exact use of words that .is such a marked characteristic of everything Newman penned. Of course, the reading of this book requires great concentration of mind if the reader is to grasp the author’s meaning. While this is true, yet the reader is often compelled to stop and admire the beauty and dearness . with, which ideas are expressed. As a plilosophical ’ essay the “Grammar of Assent” is an excellent treatise for -any student of logic; to read. Here he will find original opinions on the subject of logic, which. will be an invaluable supple
Nocre dame Scholastic
ment to his previous studies. It seems quite remarkable that so few students of philosophy have ever read this volume of Newman.
The wonderful charm of Cardinal Newman’s writings is appreciated by all his readers. But the most marvellous thing in connection with the greatest of English essayists is that so few educated persons have read any of his works. It will be interesting to inquire into the cause of this neglect of Newman. We should naturally look for readers of Newman in our Catholic colleges and universities. But strange to say, it is just here that the great- convert’s writings are least known and appreciated. What is the explanation of the apathy of Catholics toward a writer whose genius is universally acknowledged by literary critics? I shall venture to offer as a reason for this slighting of Newman’s works their philosopical or theological character. Nearly .all of his books were written to promote the cause of the faith he had embraced. But the real secret of Newman’s greatness as a writer is the union of the deep thought and exquisite literary expression. And one who cannot appreciate such an author writes himself down at once as shallow and ill-trained.
IN SORIN HALL.
A Notre Dame student who had at length promoted himself to the dignity of a senior and had been assigned a room in Sorin Hall found the furnishings entirely inadequate to his style of life. Imbued with the idea that •the Lord and the University help those who help themselves, he instituted a thorough search of the premises for chairs, bookstands, and tables. A modicum of success attended his clandestine sallies into storerooms, trunks rooms, and recreation quarters. His efforts were rewarded by the acquisition of two chairs, a wash-stand, and a library table. No sooner had his well-lighted, well-veiltilated, ’ and well-heated room been further enriched with the loot than a laborious step was heard outside his door and the room resounded with a loud ■ knock. The unsuspecting senior issued a general invitation - of entrance. The door flew open and the head janitor of Sorin Hall stood on the threshold in all his majesty.
253
“Uh huh, pretty nice room you got here,” vouched the visitor.
The fourth-year man flushed at the compliment and modestly admitted, “Oh it’s pretty fair now, but it wasn’t much until I fixed things up.”
“What you goin’ to do with those three chairs ? ' I’spose you’re a professor and goin’ to have class in here.”
“Oh'no, no, Alphonse; I have been used to a- comfortable bed and I occasionally sleep on the three chairs instead of reposing on that medley of iron, wire, and calico over there in the corner.”
“Yas, I see. That’s a good idea; all I have to do is dust off the chairs in the morning; no bed to make—but my gosh, boy, where you get Father Hogan’s library table?” . “Father Hogan’s what?”	.
“The rector’s library table. He told me . to save it for him ’specially. You can’t have that.”
“Who’s goin’ to keep me from having it? Why, heavens above, man, -Sorin Hall rooms are . getting to be worse than those in the Y. M. C. A. Hotel.” Why, where I am going to keep all these clothes, pictures, and books, and everything else?”
Three days of service in Sorin Hall had made Alphonse a veritable mine of resourceful suggestion. “Use your suit case for them ' things. That’s the way all the rest of the . fellows do. I got to take this table—I got to.”
.“Don’t zyou touch that table. Take your -hands off of it.”	■	.
“All right, all right; you stole the table, and I tell Father Hogan. He. fix you. all right, you thief!”	.
The door banged. At frequent intervals during the day the janitor and his elderly assistant engaged in loud and prolonged conversation just outside the culprit’s door. The latter gathered from the trencl of the remarks that he would soon shake hands with the President and be requested to grace the halls of another university. The next morning while the senior was in Washington . Hall singing lustily, “It is The fairest place on earth, Oh, Notre Dame, Oh, Notre Dame!” someone who possessed a master key entered his domicile, decided that the effectiveness of the decorative scheme was
?54
not enhanced by the presence of the library table, and accordingly removed the offending article. Now the said senior keeps his toilet articles under his pillow. Three cir-■ cular chalk marks on the floor indicate the seating accomodations of the establishment, and in lieu of heat there is an admirable drawing of a Colonial fireplace just opposite his desk.	—emmett sweeney, ’21.
THOUGHTS.
BY JUNIORS.
Make every motion a promotion.
Conduct is the exponent of character. Feed the flesh and you starve the spirit. Hard work well done becomes a pleasure. Radical beliefs make a normal young man. Paint cannot make all old things look new. The good student carries his books in his head.
Some men are so upright that they lean backward..
Good nature and good sense are too seldom united.
The reformer who breaks the ice gets a cold reception.
For not a few persons the “eleventh” is the only hour. .
Our prejudices are our most formidable antagonists.	•
All the world’s a stage, but not all the actors get encores.
Do not brag and people will not expect so much of you.	’	.
If you would never taste defeat enlist in the army of God..
The real tragedy enables us to forget life’s little irritations. .
, You can drive a man to water, but you cannot make him like it.
“Better late than never” is not very consoling at examination time.	-
If you want to avoid trouble, think twice and then keep silent. ’	;
No man can be a friend of Christ who is not a friend to his neighbor. ,	\	-
Do not tempt your children to doubt your veracity by telling them how good you, were when you were young. ,	* J '
if-
Nouye &ame Scholastic
VARSITY VERSE. • “I’m Glad to Know You, Jack!” ’ As I look back in reverie
And scan the halls of memory, I meditate upon the name ’ Of every man at Notre Dame Who looked me in the eye and said, “I’m glad to know you, Jack.”
I wish that I could see once more
The men who left to go to war;
For I knew them and they knew me— They’re still my pals in memory, And I remember how they said, “I’m glad to know you, Jack.”
Of course I was a new man then, I hardly knew the older men;
And-1 felt shy at first, y’know, ■ But they all boomed, “How are Ya”—so I fell in with the crowd and said, “I’m glad to know you, Jack.” .
And soo,n I’ll have to say good-bye. . . . No longer will the campus cry,
' ‘How are you,-Jack?” fling in my ears; But still I’ll cherish all those years
. When N. D. men shook hands and said, “I’m glad to know you, Jack.”—W. o’k
***
My Valentine.
Sweet rose with beauty flight, Of human form divine, The wide world would I give To say that you are mine.
The faith that through your eyes, Shines brightly as a star,	■
Illumines all my heart, ‘ And draws me from afar.
Yet of thy greatness, May I not ask a sign,	"
Do only answer this:
• . Are you my Valentine?—J. T. B.
***
To a Moonlit Cloister.
Castle of virgins pearl-eyed like Selene, Each dusty day in loye Seraphic swathed, By night uplifted with the strong betrothed, Thy hearth hives fragrance like a bee’s desmense! How sweet the moonlight wraps the stones in, peace, While autumn throbs in musing minstel trees;. Does wine wing from this soil-bereft of lees, Can. joy be quaffed here and the cup increase?
A thirst they crave -who flay toil’s rough-flagged life
Embracing riches or at best a wife. ...
All, sister,, hide thy heart’s tranfixing thorn, We know that rapture is of penance born! Christ, cruel Lover, swings a stinging lash, Thy soul is bounded with.His bleeding'sash! -' , ' /	■	;	—M. E. W.
N<xre dame Scholastic
“PSYCHOLOGY” ’
' CHARLES P. MOONEY, ’21.
On the hottest day of last summer in' a town of the sweltering Mississippi Valley five gentlemen of color were assembled in a stuffy room above a dilapidated barber shop. .The furniture of the room consisted of a wobbly table on three unsteady legs, several chairs made by cutting flour barrels halfway through the middle, a box of saw dust to be used in lieu of a cuspidor, and a drop light suspended over the table. On the rear wall was hanging a picture supposed to be a reproduction of the charge of the Ninth Cavalry at San Juan Hill. The acrid odour of the cheap cigars was neutralized by the scent caused by the close grouping of the perspiring sons of Cain.	.
Two days before this the negroes, all of whom were employees of a cottonseed oil company, had received their monthly wages. As is the custom with most of their race, they would not return to work until they had disposed of the fruits of their toil. Since the assembly was yet well supplied with capital, several days- would elapse before the company would again enjoy the' services of these leisurely workmen. Just at this time they were entertaining themselves in their third hour of a poker game, the limit of which was twenty-five cents, with a ten-cent ante.	-
After the game had continued for another hour, during which period nothing startling-in the way of betting had occurred, the motion was made and carried that the limit be made fifty cents. The result of this change in the stakes was the summary elimination of two of the players. A few more hands were dealt and a third negro was . pushed out. ■ This last withdrawal left only two, “Liver Lips” Johnson and “Pear Haid” Crump, contesting for the untimate ownership of the company’s finance.
“Pear Haid,” although many dollars the winner, was nevertheless disgusted with the thought of a poker player of his skill having to spend so’ much time at throwing the crowd into bankrutpcy, a feat whose accomplishment ordinarily consumed not half so much time. Since he regarded himself as an ace among African gamblers, it galled him to have this hitherto unknown and weazened
255 negro an insurmountable obstacle between him and victory. However, no matter how-skilled one may be, or may think himself to be, he is in the game of draw- powerless unless he has some sort of hand. After his opponent had won ten qy more small pots, “Pear Haid” began to publish his inward discomfort. “Hit show do beat me,” he • grumbled; “ah ain’t never ’fore seed no run of luck like sich as dis hyali ahse havin’. Yeh’d think they wan’t nothin’ in that deck of cyads but dooces and sebens. Somebuddy sho done cunjered me; ah ain’t had a paih foh a week.”
“Well, ah ain’t done so much mahself,” informed “Liver Lips.” “Ahse winnin’, but what is ah winnin’ ? Nothin’ ’cept yoh ante, an’ mebbe chew bits now and then.” ‘
“Oh, yoh craves action, does yoh, niggah?” challenged the other. “Thinks yoh’s a bigtime gambler, huuh? Well, s’posin’ foh yoh benefit, -we jest makes dis hyah game wuth while. Foh all the money ahse makin’, ah mought jest as well be wrikkin’. Is yoh on, Liver Lips?”
“Says which? “Liver Lips’’ was outwardly chary.
“All says does yoh wanter take off the limit an’ play pokah, show nuff pokali, er keep up dis hyah jungle buzzard’s game?”
“Take it off, Big Shawty. Ah ain’t never yit been bluffed by no city niggah. What it takes to gamble, ah jest happens to have.”
Accordingly the limit became the ceiling. This, however, did not call for any sensational betting, since neither of the negroes -were drawing any high cards. Nor did it effect any great change in the luck of the disgruntled “Pear Haid.” “Liver Lips” kept -winning the pots methodically on small hands. To “Pear Haid” it seemed that there were no two cards alike in the deck. Only once did he manage to draw anything high enough to attempted a “raise.” It -was three sevens. True to form, “Liver Lips” “topped” him with three, eights. This loss had made a large dent in “Pear Haid’s” dwindling pile. A hasty survey of his exchequer showed that there remained to him only ten dollars. At the rate things were going he. had about a half-hour to continue as participant in the game, unless the goddess of chance should desert “Liver Lips.” But the goddess, whom some persons accuse
256	w Norre dame Scholascic
of fickleness, was not even considering a temporary separation. This realization of his plight made “Pear” desperate. If the goddess would not come to him voluntarily, he would use the draft method.
On the next hand “Liver Lips” opened the bet for a dollar, expecting to van the ante; but “Pear Laid” chose to “stay in” and accordingly tossed a bill into the center.
“How many cyads, niggah,” he snarled.
“Gimme three, and don’t be so familiah,” demanded “Liver Lips.”
Then a brilliant idea penetrated “Pear Haid’s” armour-plate skull. He weighed it and inspected it from all sides, before he decided that ,11 was practical. So he held three' pasteboards and took two from the deck. After a furtive glance at his hand, his. ebony countenance merged itself into an eight-inch grin. He began fingering the remnants of his capital eagerly.
“What yoh do, Liver?” inquired Pear Haid.” ,
“All bets a dollah.”
■ “Why don’t yoh make hit a man’s game?
All sees yoh dollah and makes hit nine dol-lahs more, jest to drive out the chillun. Would make hit more, but ah ain’t got hit. Now is yoh a pokah playah er jest a hahd wukkin’ country niggah?” -
This change of tactics on the part of his opponent caused “Liver Lips’ ” jaw to drop . some six inches in surprise. This was the first sign of any desire to plunge by “Pear Haid.” “Liver Lips” concluded that he had better go slowly: “Pear Haid” must have something, for why should he risk his whole fortune at one time. Hoping to. find some enlightenment on the situation, he studied his adversary’s countenance. This, however, availed him nothing.
“Well, naggah, is yoh or-ain’t yo goin’ ter bet?” taunted “Pear Haid.” “Yoh can’t l’arn anything er-looking at me. Yoh’se gotten pay to see niah cyads.” ' .	.
“Liver Lips” emitted a yawn, and non-chantly rah his hand into his. pocket and extracted therefrom a greasy wallet. All the while he stared at “Pear Haid,” who in turn kept his eyes fixed on “Liver Lips.” Once “Pear Haid” interrupted his gaze long enough :to drop a prurient glance at the money in the middle of the table; Then he returned his attention to watching -his
enemy’s physiognomy. ‘/Liver Lips” continued fingering his wallet undecidedly. Again “Pear Haid’s” eyes rested upon the bills and silver constituting the pot—whereupon “Liver Lips” suddenly pushed nine dollars to the center.	-
“All calls yoh, Pear Haid,” he announced; “show me yoh cyads if yoh can beat these three ladies ahse got.”
“Pear Haid,” collapsed. A vision of winged dollars drifted across his mind. “Liver Lips,” after sweeping in the pot, took the cards from, the temporarily paralyzed negro. The result of an inspection was a smile of satisfaction.
“Some pokah playah,” he chided the inanimate “Pear Haid,” “yoh is not. Ah knowed all the time that yoh didn’t have nothin’.”
“How come?” asked “Pear Haid.”
“How come? Jest sikology, niggah. Yoh lookin’ at that pot an’ not bein’ able to keep yoh eyes off’n hit was er dead give-away that yoh was bluffin’’ Yassah, ole silkogy cost yoh nine bucks. ’Taint nothin’ else but silkology.”
“Who am dis sikology yoh talks er-bout?” ?“Tain’t no pusson—hit’s a science. Look
•hit up yohself. That’s how ah found out erbout hit.” -	'	.
Three days after he had been stripped of his. honor and of. his fortune “Pear Haid,” having empied a truck of its oil barrels and moved them onto a platform, sat down to await the vehicle’s return with more cargo.. He soon noticed that he was seated next to his-conqueror, “Liver Lips.” “Pear Haid” still resented the taunts of his rival after he had carried off the money.' He looked at “Liver Lips” in disgust.
“Say niggar,” began “Pear Haid,” “ahse got yoh figgered out as nothin’ else but a downright liah.” -	:
“Now watch out cullud boy,” threatened “Liver Lips”; “and ’splairi yohself, ’splain , yohself I” ’	.	.
“Hit’s erbout dis hyah’see-kollogee.’” “What erbout hit, Pear Haid?” -“They ain’t no sech word—’ca’se ah peeroosed the ole deectshuneery all the way through the letter ‘s’ from ’sabbytahyah’ to ’systole’, an’ didn’t s.ee no sigh, uv yer ’see-kollogee’. Yoh jest < made; that word up. Hull,-see-kollogee I What liahs you school-; niggahs is.” ?	.
Moure dame Scholastic
257
‘ DISCE- QUASI- SENPER-VICTVRVS-VIVE• QUASI- CRASMOR1TVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Terni at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIV.
FEBRUARY 5. 1921.
NO- 15.
BOARD OF EDITORS.
Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Walter M. O’Keefe, ’21 Morris Starrett,’21 Henry Stevenson ’21 Edward B. Degree,"23 Leo R. Ward, C. S. C., ’23 R M. Murch, C. S. C., ’23 Charles P;
M. Joseph Tierney, ’21 Emmett Sweeney, ’21 Edwin W. Murphy, ’23 Vincent Engels, ’23 J. W. Hogan, C.S. C„ ’22’ Frank Wallace, ’23
H. W. Flannery, ’23
Mooney, ’22
Ultimately the difference between culture and average ignorance lies in the’ point of view: as we climb higher up the Pierian ■	peaks, the ideas
■ Gilbert Chesterton and = and ideals of the College Man. the other fellow are revealed to .us more and more clearly while apparently, our own powers depreciate, as we strive to develop them. As a truer . impression of the man at our elbow forms itself, a sincere respect for him rises in us—a respect that is most forcibly expressed in the word, democracy.. That is why the really intellectual man is the sincerest supporter of the popular ideal. Perhaps, too, it explains why G. K. Chesterton, one of England’s topmost literati, is England’s leading democrat. To speak of an Englishman,1 especially one who represents the highest literary stratum, as a democrat, is. ordinarily either humor or satire. Like the device he is so adept- in manipulating, however, Mr. Chesterton is himself a para-r dox._ He is the oracle of liberty in a land of oppressors. In fact, democracy is the burden of .all Chesterton’s literature; it is the essence of his genius. Underneath his trappings—the . bewildering -paradox, the epigrammatic tang, the glitter of his style— even in his most eccentric humor, is sensed:
that friendly sympathy and esteem for his-fellow, that is typical of democratic culture. Stevenson had it; so did Dickens and Scott and the other genial masters. In this as in every wrinkle of his unique temperament Chesterton is a remarkable figure in the eyes of the college man. The sparkle of his writing has attracted unnumbered disciples, although nobody has yet been able to imitate or parody him. For the genuine admirer of the delightful Englishman, however, these marvellous mannerisms are not deluding. It is a precept of democracy that inspires the genius of the man by which the subtle student is fascinated. For in the typical American university, not excluding our own, where intellectual pride or personal pedantry is the bane of existence, the portly form of Gilbert Chesterton is a suggestion to laugh, and it is men’s mirth that makes the world akin.	—e. w. m.
The question for debate at Notre Dame ’ this year is whether the national - government’ should own and operate all the coal mines in the United States. Support the Coal is a natural resource of . Debaters.	supreme importance, which
'	the world sees more clearly
as all industry has come to depend upon it. Though the United States has great stores of this commodity and produces more of it than all other countries combined, our supply is not unlimited. The present system of unregulated private ownership and operation, with its cut-throat competition and at least -one huge instance of monopoly, is charged with monstrous and intolerable abuses, chief among which is that the supply is being deci- . mated. Whether these abuses are remediable with the retention of the present system, or are inherent in it; whether,public.control ■ is practicable, whether our government- can successfully engage in business; whether the , adoption of the proposal would be a decided step toward Socialism; whether the rather, general collapse of public ownership and operation throughout the world has any bearing on this-question:—these are a few of the fundamental problems which the would-be debater must meet- squarely. And at least certain of them are problems the mastered solution of whichwould a decided asset to any Catholic , student. . l. r. w. .
258
Tefie Noire Same Scholastic
A number of years have passed since a certain group of writers first began to call public attention to the extraordinary success obtained by college Does Education	men. They showed
Pay?	how ninety one and a
half per cent of all wealthy persons had studied in college, and drew this shifty conclusion: “Since most most big men have been at college, a college course is all that is necessary for success.” We are inclined to believe that the well-meaning gentlemen who created this propaganda should be choked or at least throttled. Their voluminous reports have sent to the colleges of the country a horde of misfits for whom the only goal of Education is a sort of fantastic alchemy. To these, they have communicated the belief that there is subtle magic in a college degree which draws, to the bearer casks of yellow gold. Of course, they have been guilty of deception. Now we are being favored with the opposite variety of officious nonsense. It has been discovered by various shrewd reporters that a column of space may profitably be devoted to showing that the average owner of a college-diploma must % begin on fifteen dollars a week; that business directors are inclined to frown upon him by reason of his aversion from daily labour and his intense devotion to good-looking stenographers. The question is openly put, “Does Education Pay?”
The answer is, of course, that no four years of anything will pay unless work has been done in them. Education has suffered itself to be misled from the old idea that something more could be drawn from a man than a giggle or a guffaw. It is beginning to understand now that the only thing which matters to a man is that when life is over he shall be satisfied with his use of it; satisfied that he has successfully invested not only his money but himself.	—v. e.
A ’man cannot be a girl’s friend; he must be either sweetheart, enemy, or mere acquaintance.
Children think in straight lines; it is only “more intelligent” men and women who think in the roundabout way,
IRELAND TO NOTRE DAME.
The arrival of Miss Mary MacSwiney, sister of the martyred mayor of Cork, at Notre Dame next Wednesday will be another bit "of evidence to show that the University
believes in keeping a well-informed eye on the Irish situation. We have not yet forgotten the visit of Eamon De Valera; and very likely we shall put this picture of our coming guest into our memory-books.
BENGALESE BENEFIT SMOKER
Boxing, wrestling, a tribute to Coach Rockne, and a talk by Father O’Donnell featured the smoker arranged by Brownson Hall last Monday evening for the benefit of the Bengal Mission. A. hundred and fifty dollars will go to this mission as the result of the first eflfort of the Brownson boys in what they intend to make an annual affair.
Brother Alphonsus, rector of Brownson Hall, and a resident of Notre Dame since 1884, delivered an interesting tribute to Coach Rockne in his speech on “The Rockne System.” Sketching the academic and athletic work of the Coach from time he entered Brownson Hall twelve years ago until he became the peer of the football coaches in the country, Brother Alphonsus stated that the Rockne school of athletics is distinctive, already making its influence felt by graduates who are now coaching other colleges and preparatory schools. He analy-zbd the “Rockne System” into the coach, the
Norre dame Scholastic
excellent moral type of the students whom he trains, and the system of interhall athletics. He said the greatest football teams ; of the school were those of 1909, 1913, and ;	1920;-he predicted increasingly brilliant or-
■ ganizations.	.
Charles De Roulet pinned Charles Ruble . to the mat three minutes after the first wrestling bout of the evening was called by . “Paddy” Granfield, boxing instructor at Notre Dame. “Shorty” Lujan. and “Kid” Ashe went a fast draw of three rounds in an ■ attempt to settle an old dispute for the bam-tam-weight supremacy of the school. Frank - Cahill gave away under weight to Dave Hayes in four rounds of sensational milling which in rugged fighting and stealthy science rivalled professional talent. “Kid” Parker, . the flashy Corby grappler, had a man’s job । in fulfilling his contract to throw “Tom” ' Riley fought the first fall for nine minutes Riley fought the first face for nine minutes and was pinned for the second in six minutes of wicked work. The star act of the evening brought together “Jimmie” Egan, “Wop” Aviles and “Jack” Lightner in two rounds of blindfolded boxing. Charlie Chapman might have learned much from these brave warriors who battled the air wildly or mixed three pairs of arms and legs in rough and ' tumble.	.
. Paul Breen, the eloquent young orator,” as chairman, presented the various speakers and players. “Eddie” Gottry and “Jerry” Hassmer gave good piano selections, and Grant Steimer’s violin solos were heartily applauded.
The most important event of the evening-. was, however, an address by the very Rev.
Provincial. Opening his remarks, Father O’Donnell congratulated the Rector of Brownson Hall and the young men themselves on their spirit of enterprise and of faith in arranging the evening’s program for so worthy a cause. Explaining the history and meaning of the old log chapel on the campus, he brought home to his hearers the vitality of the missionary cause to-day and how it is of necessary interest to all who are truly Catholic. He touched on the needs of the ‘ missionaries and showed how far even fifty cents will go in India. In the course of his . remarks, he paid a fine tribute to the young
259
ladies at St. Mary’s, who have done much and will do more for Bengal. He urged the students of Notre Dame to emulate those of St. Mary’s. Taking occasion of the nearness of Lent, Father O’Donnell showed how the old-time Catholic spirit of penance can harmonize very practically with the spirit of zeal for the foreign missions. In conclusion he touched lightly but impressively upon the other great means of helping the missions, that of giving one’s self as a missionary. Out of the sound faith of to-day, he said he had no doubt at all that great vocations would answer to the needs of the. missions once those needs are effectively made known.	.
MEN YOU REMEMBER.
—Rev. Thomas Lahey, C. S. C., addressed the business men of La Porte at a luncheon on January 27, on “Taking the Risk out of Business.”	'
—The announcement of the recent mar-raige of Mr. John T. Stark, LL. B. ’15, of Duluth, Minn., to Miss Mary Margaret Taff of Des Moines, Iowa elicits the hearty congratulations of the University.
—Frank S. Farrington, 1920 graduate in the scribblers’ department, who has been chasing stories for the South Bend NewsTimes, left January 31 for a trip to his home in Wisconsin, where he will prepare to leave early in February for Peru, South America, to engage in publicity work. He will be accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. James Dower, the former a graduate in commerce of last year.
—Rev. Timothy Crowley, C. S. C., and Bishop Legrand, C. S. C., who have been at Notre Dame for sobe time, will return soon to Bengal, India, to continue their missionary work.
—Joseph McGinnis, LL.B. ’19 who is now seting the real estate world afire in Chicago visited the University Sunday. Joe while a student starred not only on the glee club but. also on the track team.	-
—And now Kansas Aggie’s Head Coach, Charles Bachman, an old Notre Dame football and track star, will be one of the instructors in the physical training course there this summer. Bachman will tell of the
Norre Scholastic’
260
. theory, art and practice of the game as played in different parts of the country, using as data his experience as coach of a Western Conference team and of a Missouri Valley Conference team. He aided at Notre Dame in track instruction find was one of those who attended the Olympic meet last Summer.
—Rev. William P. Lennartz, C. S. C., former Master of Novices at Notre Dame, has left for Holy Cross College, Washington, where he will attend lectures on the Bengal - Mission. His scheduled trip to Bengal as a - missionary is put off until Fall because of the dangers of beginning such work in the “hot” season.
—The “Tulsa Daily World” of Tulsa, Oklahoma, in a leader editorial for the issue of January 18th, dwells long and favorably on the possibilities of Judge Thomas D. Lyons, LL B. ’06, as a gubernatorial candidate of promise for the campaign two years hence. ‘Tom’ was an exceptionally brilliant’and popular student while at Notre Dame, saw service overseas in the past war, and has demonstrated his ability in public affairs in so marked a way during the past few years that little doubt exists as to his capacity for the office which the press and statesmen of Oklahoma are considering for him.
—Dewey W. Rosenthal, M. E. ’20, is now filling the job of assistant-structural engineer for the Beloit Works of Fairbanks, Morse and Company at Beloit, Wisconsin. . “Rosy” writes of seeing Tom King,- our old . gridiron star, playing basketball at Beloit with a team from Louisville. .
—The heavy schedule which “Mike” Ahearn, athletic director of the Kansas “Ag. gies,” has arranged for next year is good evidence of the faith he has in Charles Bachman as a football coach. Last year was “Charlie’s” first as gridiron' monitor for the * “Aggies,” and it resulted in the first suc-' cessful year for the Kansas “Warriors.”
? —The students of Notre Dame, past and present, from Newark, N. J., and its vicinity were the guests of Joseph Byrne Jr., (old
cident. Mr. Battle, whose brother is also an alumnus of Notre Dame, was editor of the Exportador Americano, the Spanish edition student ’12-’13) at'a dinner held in the of the American.Exporter.: The Scholas-Washingtdn-Restaurant in Newark on the.. tic wishes to express its sympathy to the fourth of January.- Among: the- old N.. D. wife and the brother of the deceased in their men present were Rupe Mills, Hardy Bush, loss,	;	.
Bill Cotter, Danny Sullivan, Jim Cavanaugh and Rey. P. Cornelius, 0. S. B. At the organization of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Essex County,’ which followed the dinner, Mr. Joseph Byrne was made honorary president, Joseph Byrne Jr., president, Rupert Mills, vice-president, William Cotter, secretary and Hardy Bush, treasurer. It was decided to collect a fund for the purpose of presenting,to the University a scholarship from Essex County to be dedicated to the memory of George Gipp. Joseph Bryne Sr., although not an ahnnus of Notre Dame is as loyal a son as can be found among the ranks of her graduates. It was through his efforts that such athletes as Rupe Mills, Gus Desch, and Frank McDermott decided to take their college work at ( Notre Dame. When our team defeated the Army this fall, it was Joe Byrne who entertained the entire squad at the Greenwich Village Follies. The men from the Essex County Club intend to form an organization on the campus which will either be a New Jersey Club or a New Metropolitan Club.
IN MEMORIAM.
The death of Mrs. Maurice Francis Egan in Brooklyn on the 27th of last month brings feelings of sorrow and sympathy for the husband of the deceased, Mr. Maurice Francis Egan, former minister to Denmark. Many members of the faculty as well as the old students of the days when Mr. Egan was head of the Department of English at the University and when he and Mrs. Egan lived at the Lilacs, knew both well. On behalf of these many friends of former days who sympathize with the bereavement of Mr. Egan, the Scholastic extends sincere condolence to him. .
- ■
Word comes to the University from Madrid, Spain of the recent tragic, death of Mr. Evaristo Batlie, B. S. in Arch. ’06 and his son, resulting from an. automobile ac-
Norre ^ame Scholastic
261
tion” and “Marine Insurance.” Mr. McCarthy, who holds a law degree from Columbia -University, has been regarded as an ‘ important factor in the promotion of friendship between the two Americas.
—The committee on social and business activities has decided after mature delibera-, tion, that the following are entitled to the rank of the “Six Best Sellers of Notre Dame.” 1. Walter O’Keefe, the sweet singer. 2. “Eddie” Gottry, and his little piano. 3. “Al-Slaggert, announcing Al. 4. Hector Garvey the four sport man. 5. “Spike Granfield, sporting impressario. 6. Pio Montenegro and Ong Ching Kay, funning neck and neck for Oriental oratory. The committee wishes to announce that the minor importance attached to conducting chaperones removes “Tea Train” Dollard from consideration.	.	-
—The • smoker held by the Chamber of commerce last Sunday in honor of Mr. Joseph Rafter, who leaves the University for Pennsylvania, was an adequate manifestation of the commerce students’ appreciation of the ex-instructor’s services. As testimonials of their regard, the Chamber of Commerce and the Manila Club presented Mr. Rafter with a brief-case and a watch fob respectively. He was praised for his sterling qualities by Prof. Weir, Frs. O’Hara and Burns, who made the principal addresses of the evening. The music for the occasion was furnished by “Chuck” Davis’ orchestra.' Mr. Corona, with Mr. Rafter accompanying on the piano, rendered a solo. Mr. Rafter will teach at Villa Nova and attend Temple University to prepare for the Spring examinations of candidates for admission to the Pennsylvania bar.
.—Sixty students from foreign lands were guests of the South,.Bend Chamber of Commerce at its Inter-Nation trade dinner Monday noon. Dr. Lippincott, of the Studebaker corporation, attributed much of the growth of South Bend to the presence of Notre Dame in its environs; and Rev. Dr. James A. Burns, C-. S. C. president of the university,-in speaking of the relations of the school confi-
dence in an increase of students from the Orient and ' South America. Rev. John O’Hara, the man responsible for the intimate .	-	-	-	f
/	UNDER THE DOME.
;—Mrs. J. H. Thompson, of Nashville, । Tenn., is visiting her son Joseph, of Walsh j Hall. -	■	' v
i	—The Writers’ club met in the library
i Friday evening. Smokes and refreshments from the Kable Kitchen on the Kampus were ’ enjoyed by the mental athletes.
r-	—The Senior class met in the library Wed-
nesday afternoon to discuss matters relative to the big affair of June. Topics of interest •introduced by Pres. Frank Coughlin included the Dome, the Senior ball, caps and gowns, the Senior flag, rings and pins and the condition ruling.
’	. —All-locker holders in the gymnasium
will be required to deposit one dollar for the :	use of lockers during this coming semester.
.	The ■ deposit 1 will be returned, when the
lockers are given up in good condition, and no key dr towel charges are booked against the holder’s account. This innovation will enable Doriot to have the lockers accessible at all hours.	'
—“Paddy” Granfield, pool and billiard im-pressario of the campus, announces that Cabeza, the Cuban wonder, has won the . large silver loving-cup offered the winner, of the billiard tournament held in Walsh Hall parlors. The bowling alleys of the Hall have been overhauled and match games are being staged among the maple-knockers from the different dormitories.
—While Father Peter Herbert, C. S. C., was inspecting the classical department of the library the other day, he came upon a very interesting volume of Theocritus which :	lay hidden, modestly among rows of forgot?	• ten tomes. This volume, printed in 1522,
j	was given to M. F. Egan by a friend and
j	inspired the famous sonnet “Theocritus.”
j	A manuscript copy of this, is attacted to the
;	flyleaf.
■ —In his search for Mr. Rafter’s suc-■	cessor, Fr. O’Hara could not have found one
better qualified than Prof. James E. McCarthy, who until recently was a leading member. of the American Colony at Buenos Aires. Since Mr. McCarthy has for a number of ■ years been the head of the
. Transportation Company with offices at the ! ‘ foregoing city, he has been appointed to teach the subjects, “Ocean Transporta-
United States with other countries, expressed his
1
262 .	Notre dame Scholascie
international relations of Notre Dame, described his trip through the Southern continent, and Rev. Augustine Mendez, of Mexico, Pio Montenegro of the Pillipines, Jose Gonzalez of .Havana and Ong Ching Kay of China spoke on their respective lands.
—Pool tournaments seem to appeal to Notre Dame like goulashes to the little ladies. Following the successful competition staged by “Paddy” Granfield in the parlors of Walsh Hall, the Carroll preps have created a brand new set of green cushion champs who are out to win from the world. “Dick” DeCorps ran off with the pool singles, Kerwin and Walk took the doubles. “Stupe” Ker-lin, the 2nd, let the rest of the world go by in three cushion billiards, taking the singles easily and aiding his partner Gill to corrall the doubles. .
—What Vicente Blasco Ibanez thinks of the French craze for American jazz is a mere trifle to what the prefects Of various halls, night watchmen, and our old friend “Mike” especially think of the love which their charges have developed for “St. Pat’s” and “St. Joe’s.” Mike, the Cerberus of the main building, claims he wore out four pairs of shoes answering calls Wednesday evening.
—The final tryouts for the University debating team were held.in Washington Hall on Tuesday before an audience altogether too small for such an important -school activity. It must be admitted that anyone familiar with the consistent teams. of the past would have found last Tuesday’s affray a bit inferior. Studious effort on the part of every man was quite evident; but owing to lack of experience and tradition the manner of presentation left considerable to be desired. Under Father Bolger’s veteran tutelage the defects will soon be overcome, and we may look forward confidently to representation by a good team ; however, that team needs support just as much as athletic teams do. The men can get along without a cheer-leader but they do need a cheer. Places were' awarded to the eight speakers in the foilowing order: Raymond Gallagher; Leo Ward; Vincent Engels; Janies Hogan;" Joseph Rhomberg; Frank Cavanaugh; Worth Clark; Raymond Switalski. . _	'	. '
WHAT’S.WHAT IN ATHLETICS
’Varsity BB Shots.
Because Depauw was able to make 14 free tosses into the hooped affair at the end of the court she ran up the one point that beat Notre Dame at Grencastle; score, 26 to 25. The game was fast and hard fought, but Cannon’s twenty opportunities to place the ball between the meshes offset field ringers by McDermott, Mehre, Logan and Kiley, and the Gold and Blue couldn’t chalk the slate oft the winning side. Depauw made only six field goals in the game, started well, leading at the mid-way by 14 to 9, but because of the guarding of Kiley and Anderson, were forced to make long shots and to depend on the fouls that were committed by Notre Dame men. McDermott and Grant went to the showers for personal fouls.
Wabash, put one more notch down in her well knicked record after meeting and defeating Notre Dame, 30 to 15, and allowing Gold and Blue players three field ringers. During the first half things went better for at the mid-whistle the score board showed, 16-to 10. Garvey who subbed for Kiley, played a pretty game. Wabash’s record this year is exceptional, and critics, knowing that she easily defeated Purdue, leader in the Western Conference, and that Indiana cancelled a game with her, have dubbed her “best in the West.” But Notre Dame has a return game with Wabash and when that team trots out on the oft-mooted dirt floor, and the score is remembered by the home quint, the board may tell a new tale.
•	y 'i* ¥
Fast, lively, and close was the game Notre Dame dropped to Western State Normal Monday evening at Kalamazoo, 30 to 23. Once more numerous fouls gave the en’emy, an opportunity to make unmolested baskets, and Miller, the star of the game, made ten of the chances mean as many points. Up until the last, however,, Notre Dame was just behind the victorious five. Mehre and Grant also, romped around in great style.
* . *** .
While over’ three thousand watched from the stands, the rafters, the backboard sup-
r
Nonv &ame Scholastic	2 63
ports, and every other available position, in Michigan Aggie gym, Notre Dame’s valiant five succumbed to the superior play , of the Michigan Aggie five, on Tuesday night, to the chorus of 37 and 25. Gilkey was the big noise in the reckoning and his long shots seemed always sure. Captain Mehre performed well for his troupe, but from the initial blast it was. seen that the visitors were outclassed, at least for the night. Between halves some co-eds showed how well they could dance a highland fling, some pugilistic creatures maltreated each other, and the stands let their voices loose in song.
The Frosh-Varsity Handicaps.
Track devotees got a first glimpse of Rockne’s cinder squad on Saturday afternoon, January 29th, when . Captain “Cy” Kasper led his trio of Olympic stars, Murphy, Desch and Hayes, and their brilliant co-luminaries into action against the Freshmen. The Handicap meet was carried away by the Gold and Blue representatives, 64 to 34, developing into a contest for points, with Chet Wynne taking the honors.
The meet revealed a well-rounded squad which will make its power felt in the Spring contests. Murphy, Desch, Hayes and Wynne are almost certain winners in the high jump, dashes and hurdles. Wynne in the broad jump, Shaw in the shot-put, Ficks in the quarter and Kasper in the half are even bets against any performers in the. West. Doran ran a good mile and Hogan and Garvey turned in creditable marks in the pole vault. The two-mile run is the only real weakness of the squad and Rockne is grooming Mc-Barnes to complete with Culhane and Huether in this event. *
40-yard dash—Hayes (V.), 1st; Brady (F.), 2nd; Shaw (V.), 3d; Kelly (F.), 4th. Time, 4. 3:1.
40-yard high hurdles—Wynne (V.), 1st; Hoar (V.), 2d; Dant (V.), 3d; Hennes (V.), 4th. Time, 6.00 flat.
40-yard low hurdles—Wynne (V.), 1st; Desch (V.), 2d; Connor (F.), 3d; McKenny (F.), 4th. Time, 5.2. „
440-yard race—Walsh. (F.), 1st; Breen (V.), 2d; Hoar (V.), 3d; Avilez (V.), 4th. Time, 53.4.
Half-mile run—Heffernan (V.), 1st; Kennedy, (F.), 2d; Long (F.), 3d; Oseau (F.), 4th. Time, 1.59.3.
Mile fun—Barker (F.), 1st; O’Hara (F.), 2d; Huether (V.), 3d; Mohn (V.), 4th. Time,. 4.42.2.
Broad jump—Hogan (V.), 1st; Wynne (V.), 2d; Brady (F.), 3d; Lieb (F.), 4fh. Distance, 21 feet.
Pole Vault—Falvey (V.), 1st; Hogan (V.), 2d; Shanahan (V.), 3d; Cameron (F.), 4th. Height, 11 feet.
Shot put—Wynne (V.), 1st; Shaw (V.), 2d; Flynn (F.), 3d. Distance 41 ft., l^in.	.
*** • *
Interhall Doings.
Corby, so far, has caused the stop watch less exertion than any other of the interhall relay teams. When they beat Walsh at the St. Mary’s—Notre Dame basketball game, their time was 1:40 3-5. That same day Brownson put eight yards between herself and the City Residents, making the distance in 1:41:2 and Carroll almost overlapped Badin, when they made the stop watch register 1:41:3.
The next day Sorin was just able to best Carroll with 1:42:2; Walsh bested Badin, 1:43 3-5, and by one yard Corby took honors from Brownson, 1:42 'being the time. According to the tinier, however, the honors of the day went to “Wop” Berra’a avordupois quartet, who, it was announced, made the distance in 1:13, mainly, because, of the speed of Robert Rink, a stbut Hoosier, who won when his opponent slipped and fell in the ignoble mud.
***
It took two. extra periods for Carroll’s scrappy five to get the two points that beat Walsh on Sunday, 16 to 14. Then it was Hurley’s pretty long shot from the center white line that balanced the scales Carroll— ward. Corby and Sorin were also matched closely and only by a little faster work did Corby get two more than Sorin’s nine. Badin ran up a score of 26 when she and the City Residers mixed, and the latter contented themselves with 18.
***
Brownson Hall’s five invaded Michigan' on Wednesday evening and came back with smiles after getting the better of the Lutheran Independents of St. Joe, 22 to 16. The game was no walk-away for scrappy Brownson, and time and again the count was dangerously evened. Finally, however, tosses by Barry and Burns, and clever work by Rooney, made the ending happy for ever after.
’	SLAGGERT—FLANNERY.
Zhe Novre dame Scholastic
264
, SAFETY VALVE.
He.—I understand that Mr. Ford is truly in love with his new car.
She.—Well, the old proverb says “True love never runs smoothly.”
V ¥ •$*
He asked the fair maiden to throw him a kiss
She was not disconcerted a bit, *
So he held out his arms to the darling young miss But the thing that she did was to spit.
Hunk.—I asked Mable if • she’d marry nie last night.
Chet.—And what did she say?
'	Hunk.—She told me we had better wait until
to-day.
' •	Speaking of Larson.
Have you ever seen Ojay bored?
■ “I love chicken “chirruped the youth as he looked over the menu.
“Well, let’s get married, then” spoke up the old^ maid.	-	. .
“Horrors,” he sobbed, “I hate fish.”
***
“I always use the clutch when I shift from low. to high,” said the smiling freshman as he raised his lip’s from her hand -and placed them on her cheek.	,
* “Have you ever had a record,” queried the star athlete as he looked sadly upon the down-and-outer. “Yes, indeed,” replied the other, “I have two jail records.”	.
The Indefinite Article.
“How old is Ann,” blurted forth the facetious student? •	’
“An what,” said the very precise professor of ■English?
Dorthy (to Hector who has been calling on her very frequently}. • I am going to have a big surprise. for you next week, Hector.	-
Hector (Puzzled). I don’t get,you.	-
Dot.—You’re _right you don’t get me. I’m engaged.	.
. , ***
I would’nt want the blue laws passed,	.
For though its very true * ‘ :	-
That blue becomes me very well '	. '. •
I’d become very blue. -
“Conscience,” wrote a fair youth in his examination paper, “is; the practical goodness of an act regardless of whether it is good or bad.” .	'
? Sorrow used to fill all hearts
.. Sitting round a bier, ... '
' But since Volstead came along
; ' Hearts are filled with fear - .	•
Carrolite.— (rubbing his knee). Did you, ever have a house maid’s knee?
Walshite.—Not on your life. I’d' sit on the floor first. .	'
*	VW
Student.—Grace certainly is a belle, isn’t she?
Boomer.—Yes, a dumbell. -
$$$	i
Teacher.—How many feet are there in English prosody? \
Student.:—I could’nt say professor. I never measured it.
History Prof.—Where is Montenegro?
Student.—I think he’s in Chemistry Hall.
.J"
“Where do you get that stuff,” she breezed as the youth kissed her hand?	.
“Honest, Alice,” the Freshie replied, “I have’nt had a drop of liquor. I never touch the stuff.”
Stu.—You say I failed in Science? Well, I simply can’t understand that.
Prof.—That is just why you failed.	.
Stu.—Ayhy? •	.	.
Prof.—Because you can’t understand it. •
Bad.—How did you hit the exam.
■ Wal.—Flunked it cold.
Bad.—Cold?	.
Wal.—Ya, zero.
***
What Makes ’Em Queer.	.
My. teacher is a funny gink
.He must have indigestion,'
He growls -at me whenever I ' Ask him a foolish question.
But when he calls on nie, he sure Gives me a nasty look, -	•
And tells me—though I knew 'it first—
“You haven’t read your book.” '
. Sometimes I feel quite "bad for him For he’s a dizzy creature, - , I won'der if one has to be	,
That .way to be a teacher.	•
, ■’ *** . ’ • - •
“Did you know Harriet. Fish,’’ .said the coed to her chum?	•	.	»
“Horrible grammar!” spoke up the listening -teacher, you should say, “Did you know Harry , ate fish?” .	.	.	.
'	- _ ■ V V	_	•
Be still sad heart and cease repining, Behind the hills' they are still moonshining. ■
A fellow who follows, the. best policy, is generally broke. .	-
Late to bed and early to ris.e. .
.. Gives " almost anyone two bleary eyes.