^he S^fotre 2ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
The College Parade
Bv BILL CARNAHAN
JUST IN PASSING
Congratulations are in order for the Navy man whose brainstorm produced an effective Cartier Canteen to refresh the warm and weary couples Friday night. . . .- Every day we see' more and more men who left us last spring for khaki pastures, coming back to visit and to inquire as to the whereabouts of their former classmates. . . . Today marks the earliest date upon which a student can leave for the service and still receive credit for the semester — and the last time on the campus for many of us.
ONCE UPON A TIME
“Why were the two little ink-spots crying?”
“’Cause their father was in the pen finishing out a sentence.”
Don’t you get it?
RALPH ABELL ’
Associate Editor, Marines
EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
HAROLD BERLINER -BILL WADDINGTON -
DICK MURPHY -BOB O'TOOLE -
Managing Editor
Sports Editor
- Circulation
Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -
Observations
LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS
Know Your Navy
JIM CASEY . -
The Green Banner
JIM REGAN -BILL CARNAHAN ROBERT RIORDAN LEO OUILLETTE HARRY LEBIEN
-	- Introducing
The College Parade . Man About the Campus Pressbox- Splinters
THOMAS PAYNE
ARTHUR WAGNER CHUCK RUSS
- - Si	~
• * ' ■ <
N E WS STAFF
STEVE LQYACANO BILL THOMPSON ‘ JOHN O'HARA
The Periscope
JOHN KNUDSON BOB STEVENSON DON FORGAYS
WILL THEY OR WON'T THEY?
From the Plainsman, student publication at Auburn University, comes the impersonation of the week:
It seems that a trainee named Priles called Walter Winchell in New York concerning the line in the Winchell program that the V-12 would, be discontinued. After a long try at contacting the commentator, Priles saw his efforts were futile and gave up. In the meantime trainee Larrow went to a nearby telephone, called, and asked for the “young man who wanted to talk to Mr. Winchell.” Priles hurried to the phone. Larrow solemnly explained in his deepest and most masculine voice that he was William Randolph Hearst, that Winchell’s column was in his chain, that he knew the call must have been important and had taken the liberty to see what the young man wanted. Priles was thoroughly deceived and Larrow explained that the Navy had too many officers and had to do -away with its college training program. The' rumor spread, and it was the next noon before Larrow revealed his part in the act.
❖
WHICH REMINDS ME—OF YOU KNOW WHO
Little Willie/ oh his bike,	.
Through the village took a hike.
Mrs. Thompson on the walk;—
She will live, but still can’t talk.
ON THE BEAM	.
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York Gity—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC ' is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and ; examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all -manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. '	.
2
. Out in New Guinea a squadron observer was called in by . '<his C.O. and asked whether* he had been nervous during the .attack. ’
’	-“No, Sir,” the soldier replied. “I was as cool as a cu-
cumber.” ;
“Swell,” .the C.O. smiled. “I was afraid you might have been a little bit rattled when you called in there were 27,000
‘ bombers, coming in at 18 feet.”—Highway Traveler
- .
COSMO EPITAPHIO - *
Weep a bit '	/
For Z. B. Lott;
He was lit— .	.s'
His lights were not.	(Continued on Page 15)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81
JUNE 2, 1944
NO. 11
Midshipmen Graduate Fifth Class
1,087 young men, comprising the fifth graduating class at the United States Naval Reserve Midshipmen School, here on the campus, received diplomas and commissions as Ensigns last Wednesday morning, at the graduating exercises in the Navy drill hall.
The mammoth structure, bedecked with flags and bunting, and crowded with proud relatives and friends of the graduating members, was an attractive setting for the ceremonies that consisted of an invocation by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University, followed by an introduction of the speaker by Captain J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commanding officer of the Naval Training Units at the University. ■
The guest speaker for the occasion was Captain James L. Holloway, Jr., U.S.N., the director of training bureau of Naval Personnel, Washington, D.C.
In his speech to the graduates, Captain Holloway drew from his experiences as director of the training division, bureau of naval personnel, and pointed out that heroic service in the performance of one’s duty had already become a tradition of the school on the campus here which today sent out the fifth class of ensigns. Captain then touched on the
1,087 Midshipmen Graduate in the Spring Class
diversity of service, stating:
“Graduates of this school have seen service with the fleet in all areas in which our navy has been in combat, and have acquitted themselves with heroism and distinction. Practically all citations for outstanding performances in the line of duty, including the medal of honor, have been awarded to graduates of this school.” ’
Following the address, the Midshipmen’s Choir offered “Dear Land of Home,” by Sibelius, and were followed by the presentation of awards to the following men:	'
Thomas Reaser Roberts, Minneapolis (Harvard University), University of Notre Dame Award for Highest Honors.
Charles Sharp Wilcox, Jr., Norfolk (Virginia Military Institute), Outstanding Leadership.
John Winthrop Ellis, Jr., Berkeley (University of California), Honors in Navigation.
Martin Everett Karp, Belle Harbor, N. Y. (City College of New York), Honors in Seamanship.
Arthur Richard Edwards, Bemidji, Minn. (Northern Illinois College of Optometry) Honors in Ordnance.
(Continued on page 15)
Com. Gabel Arrives
to Skipper. V-12 Unit
Commander Walter S. Gabel, former commanding officer of the Pennsylvania State College V-12 unit, has arrived on campus this week to take command of the naval unit here.
Commander Gabel entered the Naval Reserve when America went to war in World War I. At the war’s end, he went on inactive duty as a reserve officer.
During the years of peace between 1918 and the second World War, the Commander kept up his status as a member of the Naval Reserve.
Ten months prior to Pearl- Harbor, Commander Gabel was again called to fight for his country. Upon call to active duty in March of 1941, he became first executive officer aboard the naval supply ship U. S. S. Pegasus, and later was made the ship’s commanding officer.
Later the Commander was transferred to the U. S. S. Neiv York, and was serving on that ship at the outbreak of present hostilities.
After. serving more than two and a half years at sea, mostly in the "North Atlantic, Commander Gabel was placed in command of the unit at the Pennsylvania State College, from which he was relieved to come here.
Co-Hop Street Dance
This Saturday Night
Festivities are planned this Saturday night when the Co-Hop will present a street dance for the entire campus. Leeper Park has been selected as the site for the get-together. The city police/park and street departments are cooperating with the Co-Hop organization.
Several blocks will be roped off, and decorative lights and other special effects are promised. There will be plenty of facilities for refreshments.
Leeper park is easily reached from either South Bend or Notre Dame. It is located just off Michigan avenue, half way between South Bend and the Uni-
(Continued on page 15)
3
V-12 Seaman Wins Presidential Citation;
Saw Action at Midway. Makin. Guadalcanal
BY EDWARD H. MADDEN
'‘Scholastic" Associate Editor
Seaman Warne Schaap, Phm. 1/c prior to his V-12 assignment, has received a Presidential citation for gallantry in action in the Solomons. The citation was given to the men in the Marine First Division, reinforced, the unit to which Schaap was attached. Schaap fought at Midway, Makin, and Guadalcanal. At one time he was a member of the inimitable “Carlson’s Raiders.”
A citation from General Vandegrift in addition to the Presidential citation was received by Schaap and is included in his service record. The text of the Presidential citation follows:
Cited in the Name of
The President of the United States THE FIRST MARINE DIVISION, REINFORCED
Under command of
Major Gen. A. A. Vandegrift, USMC Citation :
“The officers and enlisted men of the First Marine Division, Reinforced, on August 7 to 9, 1942, demonstrated out-
Glee Club Presents Campus Concert Tonight;
Fred Waring Novelties Will be Highlight
The N.D. Glee Club under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, B.Mus., F.A.G.O., will present its campus concert tonight at 8:00 p.m., in Washington Hall. It will feature an hour’s program of sacred, classical and patriotic selections as well as Fred Waring novelties, and solos by baritone Gene Pe-ciulis.
After several successful concerts in
The Notre Dame Glee Club with Director Daniel H. Pedtke
standing gallantry* and determination in successfully executing forced landing assaults against a number of strongly defended Japanese positions on Tulagi, Gavuta, Tanambogo, Florida and Guadalcanal, British Solomon Islands, completely routing all the enemy forces and seizing a most valuable base and airfield within the enemy zone of operations in the South Pacific Ocean. From the above period until 9 December, 1942, this Reinforced Division not only held their important strategic positions despite determined and repeated Japanese naval, air and land attacks, but by a series of offensive operations against strong enemy resistance drove the Japanese from the proximity of the airfield and inflicted great losses on them by land and air attacks. The courage and determination displayed in these operations were of an inspiring order.”
Signed, Frank Knox, Secretary of the Navy.
South Bend and neighboring cities, Prof. Pedtke said of this club, “It is gratifying that in these times we have been able to maintain our organization. Although not as large as in previous years, and with only one soloist, our present club, composed of civilian and naval students, has achieved a choral effect that has been favorably received heretofore, and I hope will produce an enjoyable concert this evening.”
Know Your Navy 4
NAVAL PHRASEOLOGY—4
Figure head—A carved, wooden figure carried on old sailing vessels under the bowsprit.
First Lieutenant — The officer charged with the cleanliness of a ship, also in charge of the C. and R. equipment and ground tackle. -
Flag—A term used only with reference to a four-sided-flag; namely, rectangular in shape. (See burgee and pennant)
Flag Officer—A designation of those who have attained the rank of Commodore and the grades senior thereto.
Flogging—A form of punishment used in the. early Navy, now abolished by law.
Flotsam—Floating wreckage or goods.
Fogy—An increase of pay due to length of service without increase in rate or rank. Technically, longevity pay.
Fore and Aft—Running in the direction of the keel.
Forecastle (foc’s’le) — The upper deck * forward of the foremast. A forward compartment where the crew live.
Foul—Jammed; not clear.
Franklin life buoy—A brass life buoy which automatically ignites two . lighted arms upon striking water.
Freeboard—The vertical distance from the water line to the maindeck or gunwale. .
Gadget (also gilguy)—An unseamanlike term used when the correct term is . forgotten.	-
Ga#— A staff provided on the after masthead from which colors are flown when underway.
Galley—The kitchen of a ship.	j
Galley yarn—A rumor.	. i
Gangway—(1) The sea ladder or ac- / commodation ladder over the ship’s ' side, also the brow or gangplank when j alongside a dock. (2) A command , meaning to clear a passage so that j someone may pass through a crowded
_ space.	M
Gear—-A general name for all ropes,	£
blocks, miscellaneous material, etc.	S
(Continued on page 14)
4
V-12 "Weekend Maneuvers" Great Success;
All Events on the Program Come Up to Par
A weekend of dancing, fun, and relaxation was had by V-12 trainees and their guests last Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. Including a military ball, a regimental review, a picnic, and a tea dance, “Weekend Maneuvers" was termed a “Huge Success” by those who attended.
This extensive program began with the V-12 Ball a well managed affair featuring smooth music by Jerry Wald and his orchestra. Lt. (j.g.) J. J. Collins, Welfare and Recreation Officer, Seaman Bill Ferrick, Chairman of the Ball, and the many trainees
Lt. J. J. Collins ft'ho worked unceasingly, should be highly complimented for the fine work they did. There were approximately 1000 trainees and guests in attendance at the Grand Ball. The outside terrace, set up for- the first time, took the strain from the dance floor nicely and afforded more enjoyment of the evening for the largest crowd ever to attend this event.
The review took place Saturday morning under a boiling hot sun on the V-12’s big drill field. The highlight of the drill came with the presentation of regimental colors to the units by the University of Notre Dame, and the nation’s colors by Pulaski post No. 357, American Legion. The presentation of the regimental ensign was made by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident. The national flag presentation was made by Leo Chelminiak, adjutant of the post; Frank Aftowski, commander of the post; and Frank Florkowski, chaplain, who gave the prayer. It was so hot that many of the trainees' were overcome and had to be treated, and revived.
The surprise hit of the four star weekend came Saturday afternoon and evening. The combination of crazy races, highly contested by the seamen and Marines, a plentiful supply of hot dogs and coke and the final crowning event — Casey Snyder’s “Nites and Daze” show comprised this event. Marine Private Tommy Young, in charge of the Week-End Maneuvers, acted as emcee for. the show, and supplied many laughs with his ad-libs both during the production and at the races. Seaman
Sal Perez captivated his audience with his rendition of “The Music Stopped,” and caused the feminine portion of the audience to “swoon” and sigh loudly. He was backed by George Finn and his fine trainee band. The mad antics of Snyder, good tap dancing, some clownish roller skating, and a weird assemblage of hairy-chested and knock-kneed “chorus girls” kept the audience well entertained. An estimated crowd of 1500 gathered for the show in the evening. Chief Specialist Broderick was the advisor for the production.
■ The tea dance Sunday brought the Weekend Maneuvers to a close. George Finn’s band again supplied the musical honors. This function ran smoothly and accomplished its purpose perfectly — the purpose of having a quiet place for the trainees and their guests to go, just before train time.
Trainees were wishing the weekend could continue for many days. As a social splurge it was unexcelled. Coopera-
Thomas Young and William Ferrich, “Maneuvers" chairmen
tion of those who attended and tremendous energy on the part of the committeemen contributed to the success of the program. “Week-End Maneuvers” will long be remembered by the V-12s at Notre Dame and their weekend guests.
♦J*	«£♦ <{♦
Due to the fact that Memorial Day ❖ closed SCHOLASTIC presses and of- ❖ ❖ fices. the Staff has limited this issue ❖ ❖ to 16 pages.	•••
«£»*£<» ♦£•
BY ROBERT RIORDAN
Jim Kress . . . Detroit’s contribution to the marine detachment . . . majoring in architecture . . . wants to do industrial designing . . . just finished a statue of St. Timothy for the niche over arch in Howard hall . . . civilian here in 1942 . . . drum major of band . . . known as the man of the stratospheric baton . . . his first baton was a broom stick ... threw his baton higher than the third tier of Yankee Stadium at the 1942 Army game . . . expects to go to P.I. at the end of the semester.
Some people think he looks like Paul Muni ... he sings lots of all kinds of songs . . . plays baritone and piano accordion . . . plays Spike Jones type piano . . . prefers Fred Waring’s band . . . claims he can’t dance.___likes football, baseball, hikes, fishing, and sleeping ... is currently having trouble with math and physics.
Class notes often consist of caricatures of profs . . . adds personal touch to letters by artistry on back of enve- . lopes . . . dabbles in photography . . . something of a practical joker ... has weakness for pyrotechnics . . . loves Notre Dame ... is “one of the boys.” .
Thinks marines are “it” . . . main ambition is to get his commission in the marines . . . was instigator of the marine drum and bugle corps ... now drum major" of combined navy and marine band . . . pet peeve at the moment is -his roommate’s laugh which is strangely similar to the bark of a seal begging for fish.
President of junior and senior class at De La Salle in Detroit.____won speech contest in Detroit region in ’42 . . . gave cutting from “Journey’s End” . . . worked at private yacht club in Detroit as bartender . . . tended bar early evening, tended guests latter part of evening . . . won state bait casting tournament two years in a row . . . was offered job demonstrating tackle . . . too young . . . was in radio at W49D, an F.M. station in Detroit . . . likes to go to new places, towns, joints, etc. . . . buddies think he is considerate, a good Catholic, modest, moderate in all things, good natured, and a real marine.
Has a girl at Michigan State . . . re, (Continued on page 15)
5
Knights Elect Officers
Meeting for the first time in several weeks, the local council of the Knights of Columbus took over the auditorium of the Law building, last Monday evening, elected new officers, and set up a tentative program for the coming summer months. At the same time, a drive for new members got under way, with several men from the campus taking the first degree in the South Bend Council rooms. No definite meeting date nor place.was decided upon, but information regarding these points will appear in the next issue of the Scholastic. Joint meetings with the South Bend and Mishawaka councils were discussed. Delegates to the state convention were also voted upon, resulting in the choice of Ernest Howard and Bernard Teah.
Prospects for a new office for the financial secretary were discussed. Subsequent investigations pointed to a room in Sorin Hall as a likely spot, convenient and serviceable.
Elections resulted in the selection of the following men: Grand Knight, Timothy Cotter; Deputy Grand Knight, Benjamin Mammina; Chancellor, Richard Sadowski; Recorder, Peter Runcano; Treasurer, Brother Meinrad; Warden, John Kramer; Advocate, Bernard Teah; Inside Guard, William Clemency; Outside Guard, Louis Lauth; Trustees, Richard Murphy, John DeMoss, and Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C.
St. Mary's Graduates
“The college chapel in a Roman Catholic college is the heart of the college,” Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., chaplain of St. Mary’s college, said Sunday morning when he preached the sermon at the college.
“For 100 years the chapel has been the heart of St. Mary’s college,” he continued. “The function of a college is to educate the intellect, but education includes the training of the whole man, mind, will and feeling. Religion, is the unifying element.” Father Schumacher lauded St. Mary’s for its new course to be inaugurated this summer in sacred theology and defined it as the perfect centennial gift of the college to American womanhood.
Directing the Mass were Rev. Joseph A. Maguire, C.S.C., as celebrant; Rev. ’ William A. Bolger, C.S.C., deacon; Rev. William F. Minnick, C.S.C., subdeacon; and Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C., master of ceremonies.
Last Wednesday the annual open-air cap and gown ceremony in the . quadrangle was held; In these ceremonies, seniors bequeath their academic garb to the juniors. Thursday night the annual honors convocation took place.
6
Report on Screening to
Upper-Level Specialties:
The Bureau report on assignments of V-12 men now in their second semester of college and of V-12, effective for transfers 1 July 1944, is summarized as follows: 20 men will be retained at Notre Dame for NROTC Engineering, and 24 will be sent to Northwestern University for NROTC General (with other NROTC transfers to be sent to Notre Dame from other V-12 units); 21 men to the University of Rochester for mechanical engineering; 13 to the University of Pennsylvania and 6 to the University of Michigan for Supply (in addition to a considerable number retained at Notre Dame for Supply) ; 4 to California Institute of Technology for aerology and 3 to Case School of Applied Science for civil engineering, and 4 to the University of Virginia for electrical engineering, communications and pre-radar; 5 to Union College in Schenectady, N. Y., for electrical power .engineering and 2 to Massachusetts Institute of Technology for construction corp engineering. Many deck candidates are being retained at Notre Dame, and quotas for deck, engineering, and NROTC will be reporting here from other V-12 Units for the term beginning 1 July 1944.
The pending Naval appropriation bill carries the sum of $1,360,000 for 23 chapels for the Navy, to be constructed at continental shore stations with either no chapel facilities or inadequate ones. • • • .
Vice Admiral F. J. Horne, vice chief of Naval Operations, states that, at the end of this year, our Navy will be at least three times that of the available Axis ships in the Pacific Ocean. . . ’.
The 24,230 airplanes carried in the Naval .Appropriation Bill for 1945 are nearly all combat planes, the proportion of noncombat types being much smaller
<%>
❖ ❖ ❖ There will be a band concert open ❖ •I* to the public in front of the Main ❖ ❖ Building next Tuesday .evening at ••• 7:15. All are invited to attend. <• ❖ ❖
than heretofore. Of the total 24,230 planes, 23,310 are combatant and 920 are noncombatant. All of these 24,230 airplanes are “useful” airplanes, that is, airplanes which are in all respects suitable for war operations. . . .
At the Pre-V-12 Training units for men from the Fleet, physical examinations will be given to determine the men’s physical fitness for transfer to Class V-12. This examination will replace the regular Apprentice Seaman examination ordinarily administered upon arrival at Navy V-12 Units. . . .
According to the press, the Navy’s source of officers now will be from the experienced enlisted men, with few civilians being commissioned directly. . . .
In Germany only 600,000 youths become 18 years old each year. In the U.S.A, the number is 1,200,000, and in Russia the number is much larger. . . .
Recording of educational credits: The American Council on Education is preparing an index of courses offered in the Educational Services program of the Navy, copies of which will be sent to all educational institutions in the U.S., in order that there may be no confusion as to nomenclature and curriculum. A great many officers and enlisted men in the Navy, at home and abroad, are enrolled in courses conducted by the Navy Institute (home office, Madison, Wisconsin). . . .
Men in V-12 who have brothers hoping to enter V-12 this summer or fall should advise them to use their vacation period to refresh themselves in mathematics or to take a course in college algebra or plane trigonometry. The last aptitude test for enlistment in V-12 was given March 15. The date, for the next one has not yet been announced, but interested persons may be placed on the mailing list for a copy of the informative announcement by writing to the U.S. .Office of Education, Washington, D. C., requesting a copy of the “Qualifying Test for Civilians.” ...
Rules for Selecting Clothes
Avoid? repetition of color lines, avoid clashing, opposites of color or lines; try for transition of colors; subordinate the entire, costume to the'central color note; try for symmetry of lines.
SOLILOQUY
... so that’s the obstacle course! . . . it sure doesn’t look very tough from here . . . maybe thofee guys were just kidding about the 20 foot wall . . . anyhow, it won’t be long now . . . sure chief, I’m always ready . . . here goes nothing.
. . . what’s hard about this? . . . jump —roll—jump . . . crawl under this blasted wire . . . (Sound Effect: ripping cloth) ... of, oh, there goes my shirt . . . can’t stop now though . . . gotta get over the wall . . . looks a little bigger up close his way . . . jeep, what is it, 20 feet? . . . they certainly don’t expect us to get over that . . . hey chief, we can’t jump that! . . . (S.E.: bandsaw going through cast iron) . .. . Okay, O-kay, don’t get excited, I’ll do it ... it says here . . . gotta—go—faster—and—jump —uh . . . (S.E.: air going cut of tire) . . . pant, pant . . . I’m ruined for life . . . sneak around side when he isn’t looking.... made it, heh, heh ... glup.
. . . well, it won’t be long now . . . those ropes were kind of tough though . . . the raw place on’ my leg will heal soon . . . this maze reminds me of a football ticket entrance . . . well, well, look at the little pond . . . (S.E.: pigs ' grunting) . . . you look happy, anyhow. . . . finally, one last obstacle , . . (S.E.: ripping cloth) ... oh, oh, my pants are gone. . . .
. . . can’t stop now . . . gotta dash in . . . real fast . . . whew! it’s over ... I quit—finish—done-through I . . . say chief, what are you doing . . . don’t throw that brick . . . (S.E.-.: Body falling to ground).
... oh, my head . . . what say, chief? . . . indecent! . . . whata ya mean? . . . I was just going to hang it up, that’s all. ...
BEAT ME DADDY
.Not to be outdone by the V-12s, the NROTC last week tooted forth with a marching band, this to replace the lone drummer who formerly regulated the wandering feet of. this organization. To make everything complete, the WAVES on campus have only to form a band. Then everybody could have a shifting
cadence as they marched. Meanwhile the ’ROs, who are legally in the V-12 program, most of the time doubt it, and sometimes don’t know it, added a touch of humor to their band’s maiden voyage, or was it wishful thinking? The first number the band played: We’re in the Army now.
CRASH DIVE
In order to squelch the rumcrs being whispered wherever swimmers meet, this following little note is pertinent. There is no whale in the swimming places on campus! It is all a mistake on the part of the landlubbers who saw Jim Fitzgerald make a surface dive.
SHOW BLOW
And it certainly deserves one. Poto-watomie Park was really rockin’ last . Saturday eve; and despite the fact that old Chief Potowatomie probably turned over in his grave in the process, a very good time was had by all. While the three ring circus at times needed , only one to be interesting,-the majority of the hard-working performers were good, and well-practiced. A lot of credit goes to those “V-12 Sea-Bees” whose prodigious efforts produced a fine stage, complete with footlights, PA. system, ele-
“Boy, are there any seats left in the balcony?"
vated band stand and the rest. The top billing goes to K. C. Snyder and Tom “A good man is hard to find” Young, who really put the show across. Nomination for the hit of the evening: Sal (Sinatra) (Supercroon) Perez singing Night and Day. It is very hard to point out outstanding acts as all were good, but some return to mind easily as, Lynch and Sullivan roller skating among the band; Dr. Agony, with Mr-Snyder in rare form; Seamen Perko, Evans, Meter, Farley, Erdman and Lynch in the Can Can Chorus; the Dunham Dancers and Mr. Clark’s busy fingers.
POISINAUTIES
Al Lieke, the man with the big deals, has a favorite quotation: “Now I’ll tell you what I’ll do.”
George Finn, leader of his justly famous band, is leaving soon for Annapolis.
Mahoney, who in the process of being blood-typed last week, was jabbed five times by a new Corps man, just learning how.
❖
ADVERTISEMENT
For sale: One V-12 Ball ticket. Anyone interested contact J. J. O’Brien. Be-.hind that lies a story!
Herb Melton Visits Here
Herb S. Melton, ’43, dropped in for a brief visit Wednesday afternoon. He hopes to fly back to a football game in the fall. When here, Herb was a well-known and popular campus figure, being one of the main props of the fencing team in ’41, ’42, and ’43, and representing Howard and Sorin on the Student Council in his junior and senior years.
He is now in the U.S.NJR. and has just completed his Primary Flight Training at St. Mary’s, Calif., and’ at the U.S-. Naval Air Station, Olathe, Kansas. He will start his Intermediate Training at either Pensacola or Corpus Christi, prior to receiving his commission.
Speaking of his classmates and buddies, Herb says, Don Potter, who was married a year ago, is expecting an heir one of these days; Tom Sweeney is an engineering officer on a sub-chaser; Bob Bowers, of’ baseball fame, is at Camp Breckenridge, Ky.; Walt Jones, campus politician, is in the Army Air Corps; Hans Holland, “Gordy” O’Reilly and some other NJD. grads are still at Olathe; and, concludes Herb, with his characteristic smile, “I guess that about covers the whereabouts and latest news of some of the strangest fellows you ever knew.”
7
Three Game Home Stay Billed for Klinemen; Michigan Today, Tomorrow; Soldiers Sunday
BY HANK SLAMIN

"Scholastic" Baseball Writer
Home town baseball fans have the chance to see the Notre Dame diamond aggregation play three ball games on the Cartier Field turf this week-end.
Hitting the dust._and Praying!
Michigan’s Wolverines hold the spotlight today and tomorrow, with Freeman Field rounding out the trio’s finale on Sunday.
The Irish have a few bones to pick with their week-end opponents, Michigan having administered a double defeat to the Golden Domers three weeks ago while Freeman Field shut them out, 4-0, a couple of Sabbaths ago. Michigan, current Big Ten pace-setter, has absorbed but one loss this season, and their fine hurling stag coupled with capable hitting power make them one of the stronger, if not strongest, teams in the MidWest.
.	Hirsch to Pitch
The Wolverine’s hurler for Saturday’s contest will be the highly publicized Elroy “Crazy Legs” Hirsch, a rare individual who successfully demonstrates his prowess on the gridiron, diamond, track, and basketball court. Evidently, time doesn’t permit indulgence in further sporting activities. Tomorrow, he will be shooting for his sixth win this season. Mr. Hirsch set the Klinemen down with seven hits in their last meeting - and Coach Kline is eager to prove that Elroy is not unbeatable. Notre Dame will be
sending Bill Martin and Bob Barrett out to do the trick.
Paul Lammers will probably handle the pitching chores for Sunday’s contest.
The Irish moundsmen department having been further depleted when it was announced that Joe Zieminski would be unable to play. This, added to the loss of shortstop Bob Klein, handicaps both the offensive and defensive strength. However, head mentor Kline feels that a few hits in the right spots will bring the Blue and Gold (Notre Dame version) their share of the victory bacon. Freeman Field’s record is topnotch and they should prove troublesome to the locals.
Ed Albright, chucker in a nine-hit shutout over -Notre Dame will be serving them up for the soldiers. A three-game victory string will prove ample revenge where the South Benders are concerned.
The Lighter Side
Last week-end, a hot Notre Dame ball club slapped a twin defeat on the Western Michigan nine at Kalamazoo. The Saturday twin-bill produced 2-1 and 4-2 victories for the Irish. The first game was won on a wild pitch which allowed . Tommy Sheehan to scamper home from third. The Brones came back to load the sacks with two down in the ninth but a grounder to Johnny Lu jack at the second
sack concluded the opening contest in .
■which Bill Martin got credit for the win. a ’
In the number two encounter, Notre Dame brought two runs in with four hits in the fourth. Pitcher Barrett’s single drove in another tally in the seventh. ' The last run came home in the eighth on Julie Rykovich’s bingle. The Western Michigan outfit crossed the plate once*. * in the fourth and again in the fifth.
Sunday found the Irish back in their ( own green pastures, but merely as oblig- a ing hosts in taking a 6-2 thumping from I
A
SWIMMING CLASS* >
The civvies and trainees can have all the fun they want down at the “old swim- I ming hole” from now until the fifth of '•T July when the Navy physical training^ program will then include regular swimming classes in theii’ curriculum. . •
With only two more weeks of phy-ed :
to go in the current semester, the training office has temporarily abandoned the > thought of trying to foster classes yet this term but instead will concentrate on a more rounded-out program that will ensue when the new semester convenes.
A 21-foot jumping tower is to be in- -stalled for the purpose of simulating I “abandon ship drills.” If the necessar:
2
The Summer Lake Clirl
A

IS


ne
Dippy Evans Says Flying is Like Football;
Irish Grid Star Soon to Become Officer
in n.A re ts ;le h. 4
the Bunker Hill Air Cadets. The fliers f pounded Joe Zieminski and Paul Lammers for 10 safeties while Joe Hoover, the Bunker Hill stalwart who toed the mound, limited Notre Dame to half that many.
BY BILL WADDINGTON
“Scholastic" Sports Editor
When the claws of Uncle Sam began
to dig into the college campuses of the
United States, they took one of the most
m
ce*> *
ir (
m |
The Klinemen opened the scoring with a run in the initial frame, Len Scarpelli scoring after singling. The Cadets then hammered away at the pellet to assume a 3-1 lead, then Lammers appeared on the scene only to permit three more to get across.

SS» begin ON JULY 5
brilliant football stars of the modern era from the Golden Dome scene as Frederick. Owen “Dippy” Evans was Air Corps bound.
Today, “The Dipper” is engrossed in the arduous task of becoming afighter pilot at Foster Field, Texas, having com-
take plenty of conditioning, coordination and quick-thinking, and both place a premium on teamwork with your fellow mates. Right now, however, I want to get up there in the fastest ship they have. Later, I may play more football.”
Drafted by the Bears a couple of years ‘ ago, Dippy is giving serious consideration to the Chicago club, but he may
ill <'• equipment can be procured, a water ob-
n-of
n-
id nie a et te ill :S.
X
stacle course will also make its inauguration. Functional swimming, styled after last summer’s routine, will again be reinstated for the purpose of getting the boys used to the type of conditions that would prevail under battle and abandon ship conditions.
pleted preflight and basic training and now undergoing the advanced pilot routine from which he will emerge a second lieutenant or flight officer.
When the Navy has first call on St. Joseph lake for their activities, all men who are not in the regularly enrolled classes will have to refrain from patronizing the cooling splendors of this luxurious hangout. However, on week-ends,
li-
the limit and
r
and after hours, the sky’s it’s all yours to go to it.
here the Boys Get Together
lirl
Sparked Notre Dame
A gridiron and track star at Riley High school in South Bend, Dippy graduated in 1939. and matriculated at Notre Dame. In the fall of ’40, his first year for eligible intercollegiate play, he became the understudy to Bob Saggau, performing in several games and sparking the Irish to wins over Army, Navy, and Southern California.
When Frank Leahy made his appearance on the local scene in ’41, the Dipper really went to town. Teaming with Angelo Bertelli and Steve Juzwik, he led the team as an offensive performer in a Notre Dame backfield that piled up 2,494 yards in winning all their contests, save one which they tied with Army. He scored 11 touchdowns, eight of them from rushing plays inside his opponent’s 10-yard line, made 480 yards in 141 attempts, and returned nine kickoffs for 206 yards.
A sad note struck the Notre Dame varsity of ’42, for in a pre-season workout, Dippy was severely injured, shelving him for practically the entire season since he saw action for only one minute in the Illinois game at Champaign.
Army induction soon followed and with the injury having knitted sufficiently, he became one of the boys who makes his home in the clouds.
continue his education and gridiron playing at Notre Dame first, for he believes that, under current Big 10 eligibility rules he will be permitted to play one or two more years of football.
In the meantime, however, Frederick Owen Evans is getting his signals in pilot training at this single engine school of the AAF Central Flying Training Command. To him flying one of the AAF’s fast pursuit ships is no picnic— but he aptly adds that neither was football in a typical Notre Dame schedule.
The Same Old Dipper
Dippy Evans admits that Cadet training has been a rigorous and tough course but one in which an individual may feel proud in accomplishing. “Football or flying—they’re both great,” says Dippy. “In many respects they are similar. Both
Officers Prizes Awarded
This past week saw the culmination of the handball tournament among the Navy officers on the local station, with Lieut. ( jg) Vincent Doyle, assistant athletic officer, defeating Ens. W. L. Schan-bacher, instructor in ordnance, in straight games, and thereby winning a handsome set of gold cuff links.
In the squash tournament, Lieut, (jg) Paul T. Sprinz, defeated Ens. S. W. Rider, Jr., third battalion officer, 3-1. His victory merited the silver identification bracelet which was awarded at a gathering of the tournament participants later in the week.
9
Thin-Clads Win Final Dual Meet of Season;
Enter Central Collegiate Match Tomorrow
cuit yet to be encountered by each club before the termination of the present competition which is scheduled to end, June 15.
BY JACK McGRANE "Scholastic" Track Writer
Of the five aggregates that represent the various phases of life aboard the USS Walsh, the north section of the third deck is in command with a .750
Capturing ten first places out of 14, the Notre Dame track team handily kept Western Michigan’s Broncos in check last Saturday at Kalamazoo, 67 Byford Barr of the losers was top point man as he garnered victories in the century, broad jump and low hurdles, besides tying for second in the high jump.
Bob Purcell turned in his fastest official time to date as he negotiated the quarter-mile oval in 49.4 seconds to beat out Bronco Pittman. In the same race Frank MacCauley was forced to drop out because of a sore leg, but it is hoped that he will be available for the two remaining meets.
That's Brotherhood
Mike Kiely, Frank Martin and Billy Tully, Irish milers, repeated their performance of the indoor season against Western Michigan by crossing the finishing line clasping hands to give the team a slam in that event. Martin returned an hour later to win the doublemile but teammate Kiely had to content with third in the same heat.
Phil Anderson kept up his winning ways in the pole vault while George Sullivan succeeded in beating Joe Kelly, also of the Blue and Gold, for the first time in the outdoor season. Johnny Lu-jack again took enough time off between innings of a ball game to take the high jump and annex five points to the Irish total.
The mile relay team, with Frank Eck replacing the injured MacCauley, conquered its slower rival as anchor man Purcell turned in another brilliant performance.
Central Collegiate Tomorrow
The track team faces the cream of the Mid West cinderpath crop tomorrow at Great Lakes for the running of the Central Collegiate Conference meet. More that 5,000 “boot trainees” are expected to witness the affair which will be held at. the Naval Center. Summaries:
100-YARD DASH—Won by Barr (WM); Erickson (WM), second; Foide (WM). third. Time, ;10.1.
POLE VAULT—Won by Anderson (ND) ; Bowman (WM)second; Lane (WM) and Streubel (ND), tied for"third. Distance. 12 feet 2 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won bySulIivan (ND); Kelly, (ND), second; Stotlar (WM), third. Distance, 44 feet.	-	,
MILE RUN—Kiely, Martin, Tully (all ND) tied for first. Time, 4:45. -	• '	' " ;
HIGH JUMP—Won; by Lu jack (ND) ; Barr
(WM), secoond; Neal (WM), third. Height, 5 feet 9% inches.
DISCUS—Won by Kelly (ND) ; Svenson (WM) , second; Quasey (ND), third. Distance, 134 feet 6^ inches.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Purcell (ND) ; Pittman (WM). second; Besaury (WM), third. Time, :49.4.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by O’Neil (ND) ; Harris (WM), second ; Lindahl (ND), third. Time, :16.S.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Barr (WAI) : Lane (WM), second ; Bowman (WM), third. Distance, 22 feet 3% inches.
HALF MILE—Pittman (WM) and Lundergan (ND), tied for first; Wares (ND), third. Time, 2:04.8.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Bennett (ND) ; Behler (WM), second; Burke (ND), third. Time, :22.8.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Martin (ND) ; Rice (WM), second; Kiely (ND), third. Time, 9:50.7.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Barr (WM) : Benson (WM), second; O’Neill (ND), third. Time, 25.2.
RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Jor.es. Lundergan, Eck, Purcell). Time, 4:30.5.
Third Deck North Leads
NROTC Softball Play
_ The NROTC inter-deck softball league has now completed its second round of play and there is one more complete cir-
Lawrence College, Midshipmen Meet Defeat As Notre Dame Golfers Win Fifth and Sixth
In conquering Lawrence College of Appleton, Wis., last Saturday on the William J. Burke Memorial Course, 135, the Notre Dame golfers added another win to their rapidly mounting credit column, thus making it six straight, having left Northwestern, Michigan, Detroit, Minnesota, Lawrence, and. the Midshipmen in its wake. The only setback, 9%-8%, suffered at the hands of Purdue’s Boilermakers at the outset of the season, is the lone blemish ’ on the Irish record that is almost near perfection.	.
The dual schedule will come to. a close tomorrow with Illinois Institute of Technology from Chicago south side coming down to provide the. competition. ;The . originally billeted match’with Bear Flying Field of Fort Wayne for June 10 has been cancelled. The National Intercollegiate meet at Toledo will be. the .
percentage as chalked up against its nearest opponent’s .571, the south section of the third and the south department of the second sharing this honor. The north portion of the second deck is batting an even .500 while the first deck is struggling for existence in the league with a meager .125.
Captain Jack Cassidy of the pacesetters has done most of pitching chores for his club with heavy sticking from Vince Laurita and Al Wade. Bill Bracken’s contending second placers along with Bud Gotta’s crew are waging a tight race for the number two spot. Chuck Hastings, who handles the mentorship of the north wing of the second deck has had some tough breaks with his club while Hank Frailey’s first deck conglomeration has failed to show any potency at the plate while making many miscues afield.
The standings as of Wednesday, May 31:
	w	L	PCT.
Third—north 		.... 6	2	.750
Third—south 		.... 4	3	.571
Second—south ....	.... 4	3	.571
Second—north ....	.... 4	4	.500
First 					 1	7	.125
next objective of the Blue and Gold linksmen later in June.
After calling it a satisfactory day with Lawrence on Saturday, the Fighting Irish went out after the Midshipmen on Sunday and successfully subdued them, ll%-6%. Ens. Patton, a ringer in the middie outfit, shot a pair of 36’s which gave him a low 72 for the day. Jack . Fitzpatrick, in pairing with Bob Gerry, came through with a 33 on the back nine to give a two under par for the second half of the trip. Both Fitzpatrick and Patton were able to garner four birdies apiece.
Honors for the Lawrence match were .bestowed upon Jack Fitzpatrick who negotiated a pair of 35’s.in the afternoon single’s, round and Mel Wilke who fired a round trip total of 72 in the morning’s best-ball matches in pairing with Tom Hanlon.
10
Pressbox Splinters
BY LEO OUILLETTE

'I g
I i
‘4
Jimmy Dykes claims that his Chisox, in Myril Hoag, Guy Cartwright and Ralph Hodgin, have a better outfield sitting on the bench than the Yanks can put on the field.... Admitted too is that the Red Sox have a better infield than the Yankees and that the Senators have a stronger pitching staff — on paper. . . . That makes the New Yorkers look pretty bad, but they still lead the league by three games. . . . What is it — that name? Or, perhaps the credit belongs to Joe McCarthy which seems more reasonable. . . .
Eddie Miller, who this writer considers the finest shortstop he has ever seen play, went through 21 games and 112 chances before he made his first error this season.
Mel Ott, manager of the New York Giants, claims that the Boston Braves are the team to beat in the National League. . . . He admits, just as everyone else does, that the Cards are the class of the senior loop, but after the Red Birds comes the Braves says Mel..
. . . Mel had good reasons to speak as he did when he did — the Bostonians had just ripped open his Giants in four out of five games and then had gone on to take three out of four from the Pirates. ... As this column goes to press, the Boston club is doing all right. . . . They have climbed from a lowly seventh place to within a game of the fourth place Phillies, or Blue Jays to the newer generation ■ of baseball . addicts, and here’s one Boston fan that hopes they keep right on climbing. . . .
Jerry Hoar, present manager of the Notre Dame laundry, was an all-around track star here under Rockne. . . . Back in 1919, ’20, and ’21, he ran every distance from the sprints to the mile, and on one occasion he even tried his Band at the shot. ... It seems that Rock needed an extra point in order to cinch a meet before the final event up at. Wisconsin, so he drafted Jerry to do a little weight tossing^ . . . His first two practice throws, after a two-year lay-off, were pretty miserable attempts, so-Rock walked off in disgust. . . . Jerry got boiling mad and as he puts it, “I didn’t pict the d— thing, I threw it half way across the field for. a second place.” From that
day forward, he was Rockne’s “shotputter deluxe.” . . .
Harold and Herbert Anderson and Brownie Veach of the Iowa Seahawks were all members of the same infield when they played for Lynchburg in the Piedmont league a year ago. . . . Speaking of the Seahawks brings to mind the fact that they probably have one of the best athletically balanced outfields of the year. . . In left field is Dick Wakefield, $51,000 bargain who batted .316 for the Tigers last season. ... In center is Bob Steuber, national ground-gaining champion while a halfback on the Missouri football team. . . . And, in the right field garden spot is Price Brookfield, all-American basketball player from West Texas Teachers’ College. . . .
They’re already making hotel reservations up at Boston for the week-end of October 14 and 15. . . . On Saturday, the 14th, the Fighting Irish play Dartmouth at Fenway Park and on’ Sunday, the 15th, the newly organized Boston Yanks play the Washington Redskins.
. . . These two games will probably add up to more good football than old “Bean town” has seen in any one season for a . good many years. ...
The American league pennant race is rapidly developing into one of the tightest dogfights since the Yanks have relinquished the services of their indomitables to the service, having made it a habit of winning eight years ago. ... At this writing, the fourth place club is just 314 games out of first which is mighty close, close enough for even Bronx Bombers to cogitate over. . . .
Lt. (jg) Wayne Millner, hero of the 1935 Ohio State game and former assistant to Frank Leahy, has just returned to duty after spending a short- leave at his home in Massachusetts.......There’s an argument going , on as to. which horse is the better three-year-old . . . Pensive, Kentucky Derby and Preakness winner, and Twilight Tear, winner of seven consecutive races, both hail from the same stable of Chicago magnate, Warren Wright. . . . But “Plain” Ben Jones doesn’t show any consternation over the dilemma on the part of some turf experts; he just runs them where they’ll win and doesn’t worry about the better of the two. . . .
Langfordmen Annex Win Number Seven
Notre Dame’s tennis team climbed one more rung on the victory ladder last Tuesday afternoon as they annexed-their seventh straight win of the season over Western Michigan, 8-1, and thus put a greater accentuation on their western title goal.
Winning the trio of doubles matches and dropping but a lone single’s encounter, the Langfordmen went about their business pretty much in their own way with a look to the future, the return match with Western Michigan at Kala-
It Looks Easy, But.....
mazoo tomorrow and then DePauw’s trip to the local courts a week later. The National Intercollegiate will be held at Evanston starting the week of June 26 and continuing on through July 1.
Tuesday’s match -with the Broncos was the first time in which the upper half of the roster .had lost, a set all season, Evert and Tully having been nipped in the first set, 4-6, but rallying to win the match, 6-2 and 6-3.
The reciprocation at Kalamazoo tomorrow will be played on concrete courts, differing from the asphalt and clay courts to which the Langfordmen are accustomed.
Air Medal Won
First Lieut. John A. McNicol, of Binghamton, N. Y., flying fortress pilot with the Eighth AAF in England, has been awarded the “achievement” while participating in bombing attacks on military and industrial targets in nazi Europe. Lieut. McNicol attended the University from.1939 until January of 1942.
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
KXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
K

YE OLDE SWIMMING HOLE
Never mind checking your calendar. Summer is officially here. Swimming in St. Joe’s lake is no longer taboo, ’cause Brothel* Coleman has retaken his familiar position beneath the trees not far from the pier and the rafts. The chlorinated bath tub and the sun lamp at the “Rock” have been abandoned, but only temporarily. When fall comes, the indoor swimming pool will again resound with the splashing of “athlete’s feet.”
Dick (I lost my ring) Ames, and .Fred Fahrendorf were among several of the stalwarts performing belly-flops for the benefit of the many sun-lovers grouped around “the tower.” One glunk. (We knew he was a student because lus ribs were so prominent, — a trait common to all dining hall habitues), stood at the edge of the dock and asked how deep the water was. No one knew, so he received no answer. After several minutes of waiting, he jumped into the spring-fed darkness. When his head popped out of the water, he shouted that he couldn’t swim. A few fellows looked his way, but no one moved to help him. It was, indeed, a lazy afternoon, and besides, experience is the best teacher, ’tis said.
“Spider” Thomas (no relation to “Bigger” Thomas of Native Sun fame), Johnny Rumley, Begley, and a few other lads are not too happy concerning their place in the sun. Tap them on the shoulders to attract their attention, and they become slap-happy.
Herb Coleman was observed floating about; and we’re thinking that Coach McKeever is going to have no trouble next fall, keeping the opposing teams from attempting line plunges, with the old steel-miller in the center of the Notre Dame forward wall.	.
Naturally, Brothers Patrick and Justin were present, and they seemed to have the jump on most of the boys when it comes to getting sun tans. We suggest that you refrain from competing with them,. gents. They virtually live outdoors.	..	,	'
JUNE BUG
It’s easy to tell that examinations are only a few weeks away, by simply glancing at the permission board in Sorin Hall. Fewer and fewer boys are signing out for midnights.. Is it tabbo?
M M M N M X
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxE
Is half the hall campused? Have we a group of real students living in our midst? Let’s ask Bill O’Connell; he should know the answer.
❖
HERE AND THERE
We didn’t get down to Kokomo for the K. of C. convention last week; but we understand that it is quite a city, lo-
Creighton (Call me "Par") Miller states: This is one game where a good lie invariably helps your score."
cated in the heart of Hoosierdom. The natives, for the most part, are harmless, we are told, but we hesitate to give you the full story on the place. And no . delegate saw any elevated line, or subway, or outer drive, or shuttle — all of which certain members of the faculty told them to be on the lookout for, as they “moved into the loop” of that quiet little hamlet. The. place is over-rated, even though the first automobile in America was made there. ... We are told by the Marines that “there teas not , a single member of our group unable to
survive the rigors of the Review, last Saturday morning.’’ . That: statement, we understand, can be made by
no other group on campus, except, perhaps, the Waves. ... Oh, the irony of circumstances. . . . All of which reminds us that Betty Ludwig had a birthday party last Monday evening; and still she doesn’t look a day over 32. . . . Notice all the summer uniforms on the station! Now if we could just get the faculty togged out seasonally, everybody would be happy and cool, and, perhaps, in a somewhat better frame of mind for the coming examinations. (Why do we keep bringing up that subject, anyway?). . . . And tomorrow, we bid goodbye to the Seniors at St. Mary’s, and are sorry that we have to do so, even though their absence will save us a lot of hiking through the woods, and deprive Frank Kent of those delightful strolls down the Highway with Rebecca. . . . But that is the penalty of time — to see others graduate and move on. However, with a bit of good luck continuing on for several years, we’ll be seniors ourselves, and so face the responsibilities of the sterner aspects of life that come with graduation — we hope. Meantime, we wish the very best to our cousins across the Dixie, and shall patiently await the crop of freshmen next fall, and hope that they will be as good at the next horse show as the present crowd was this past Sunday. . . . And now we go down to Rosie’s, but our heart is not in the trip. We know there won’t be there that jovial little crowd . that used to laugh at our jokes, and giggle, and tell us we were just killing them with our clever quips. However, it is pleasant to remember that we shall have to pay for only our own food — a novel experience, to be sure.
All-Service Softball
Tourney Under Way
The intra-campus all-service softball tournament is now in full sway and with a half-way break in the weather, a winner should be announced by Tuesday of next week, gaining the right to meet the winner of the civilian tourney which is also now in progress.
In all, there were 18 teams which started the competition from the Marines, V-12 Navy, and NROTC, but only one will emerge victorious. Under the supervision of Ens. Carey Brewbaker and innumerable chiefs that act as the game officials, the contests are a regular early evening feature, being played on the diamonds east of the stadium at 1710
■ (5:10 p.m.).
After the winners of the respective service and civilian leagues are determined, a campus series will be played, best two out of three, for the claim to Notre Dame supremacy. The final series is scheduled to be held the latter part of next week.
12

gsiitiimiiiiiiiMiiatiiiiiatiiiiiMititiiiiaiiiiiiitimiitiiiiiiitiMiituaQ I Marine Murmurs |
WHAT A WEEK-END!
The detachment really turned out for the big event of the semester Friday evening. Though the weather was hot, the guys and then- gals had a great time. Old boy Neptune looked over the whole affair with a big smiling face.
' There were hundreds of pretty girls! Frills, formals, and femmes. Oh! what a night! It was delicious! Well, while we are at it we may as well do an Elsa Maxwell and do a little commenting. Naturally one of the prettiest was escorted by a Marine. Miss Lynn Tracy of Des Moines, Iowa, escorted by Pvt. James W. Cooper (our'. Skippy), created no little stir. Skip, she was beautiful!
Miss Jane Shields of Butte, Montana, attending Marquette University, was escorted by Pvt. Gunnar “Squeaky” Hald, who seemed to be quite perturbed and speechless at her popularity.
Miss Susan Fowler, also from the tall corn state of Iowa and escorted by Pvt. Robert Newgard, received much attention.
Everybody seemed to be happy. Espe-. cially Wayne Martin. For some time now, Wayne has carried that diamond around unable to get it on the lady’s * finger. But the week-end did the work. Congrats., Wayne! And you needn’t hand out the cigars, either. See you down at “The Shamrock.” . . . One marine’s date was supposed to be met at the train by one of his friends. Every hour on the half-hour his friend left a local bar to meet the South Shore Limited from Chicago. Saturday afternoon the S.P.s questioned the Marine. Between burps and gurgles he told them that he was waiting for his buddy’s date. The punch was good, hmmmm! And the dugouts over on Cartier Field were occupied for the greater part of the evening. The local shore patrol, consisting of those guys who don’t like women, made sure that everything was on the up-and-up.	’
Jimmy King carried his big frame around the floor, too. Although he was wilting, the big “Olav” from the north got along O.K. Joe Signiago is a good map reader. He was showing his date how to read azimuths and find directions by observing the stars. And then there was the poor deck ape’s girl who stayed in a trailer camp over night.
Saturday night the swab went to pick up his date and found that the camp had moved on to Michigan. Sunday night reports arriving here, said that the sailor was on his way to Cleveland still looking for his date.
All the practice which the detachment had, proved valuable Saturday morning. Under that hot sun the boys really fried. But it was worth it. Brownie really stepped out. While passing Co. B, he said, “Hey, Joe. Here I am.” Some eager beaver mentioned that greens would have looked much better, but we think khaki was rather nice. Three big cheers for Sgt. Rockwell. His work with the band was compensated Saturday.
The picnic was fun, also. Capt.- Barry put in an appearance as did most of the officers on the base. Too much credit can’t be given to the committee. Joe Thornton, the erstwhile impersonator on the third deck, gave the men a big laugh when he “made” like Capt. Finney. Bud Meter practically stole the can-can number with that graceful dancing of his. Larry “I” Lynch will get musclebound if he continues to skate the way he does. And you, Tom Yakey, did a good number . . . you’ll be given a contract one of these days. The weenies and cokes went, fast, but Johnny Rem-inger made out all right. He was serving the stuff and made sure, that he would rate a good chowhound medal. He did, too. We all like the prizes. You guys who landed them can wear- those ties after the war.: The tug-of-war was won by the Marines ... even after the Navy rushed in reinforcements. . . . Said one swab, “Youse guys is agood at dat stuff, ain’t ya?” With the races won and chow gone, the Marines and their ladies settled down to a nice evening, of relaxation.
WE HEAR
—that Pvts. Cleary and Crowmer, the kids who went to the American Legion Meeting on the wrong night, departed from the Golden Dome campus last Tuesday morning.
—that Achilles Frederick Maggioli, better known as “Pappy,” is once again at home.in Cavanaugh Hall. The conductor, composer, arranger, and chief bottle washer, is planning on' reviving the famous “Muskrat Maulers.” A\ definite date has hot been1 set for the Mauler’s new summer series, but according to “Pappy” it won’t be long: until he will have the “Maulers” in perfect discord. Here’s hoping for an early appearance! —that a fleet-footed marine and his bare-footed date were seen walking in the downtown business section of South
Bend last Sunday night. The identity of the couple is being withheld and the only information available is that the bare-foot hails from the mountain country of Arkansas and the fleet-fcot makes his formations on the south side of Cavanaugh Hall. I wonder who?
—that the Michigan City muskrats have once again' come out of their long winter hibernation and are eagerly awaiting the return of the boys in green.
—that Pat Filley is back again after a three-month stay down at PJ. Pat is back awaiting his MJ), from the corps.
BOUQUET AND BOO-QUET
OF THE WEEK
The bouquet of the week to the little man at the airport who gave us the fine weather for the week-end-
The bpo-quet of the week to those eight balls who failed to go through the reception line at the Ball.
❖
SCUTTLEBUTT OF THE WEEK
All seniors to be given 72 hours plus the time from their last final until'Friday morning.
CAMPUS CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS
ooo
NOTRE DAME—100 YEARS——$4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF
CHARLES L. O'DONNELL—$2.50
ooo
At the Bookstore
13
i
KNOW YOUR NAVY—(from page 4)
Gig—The captain’s boat.
Glass— A term used by mariners for barometer.
Gob—An enlisted man. Not considered in good taste and its use should be frowned upon. (Use bluejacket or enlisted man.)
Gouge—(1) A term used at the Naval Academy meaning to cheat — a very serious offense. (2) A set of answers used in grading papers.
Grapnel — A small anchor with several arms used for dragging purposes.
Grog—Today it refers to any intoxicating drink.
Ground tackle (taykle)—A term used to include all of the anchor gear.
Guess (Guest) warp—A line from forward through a thimble at the outer end of a boat boom, used for securing a boat to the boom.
Gunwale (gunnel) — The upper edge or rail of a ship or boat’s side.
Guy—A steadying rope.
Hail—To address a nearby vessel.
Halliards—Ropes used for hoisting flags and sails.
Hand lead—A lead weighing from 7 to 14 pounds secured to a lead line. Used for measuring the depth of water or obtaining sample of the bottom.
Handsomely—Carefully, not necessarily slowly; used in orders to steersman.
Hash mark—Slang expression for a diagonal strip on an enlisted man’s sleeve to indicate a previous enlistment.
Haul—To pull; a change of wind in the direction of the hands of a clock.
Hawser—A heavy rope used for towing, etc.
Hawsepipe— The pipes through which the hawser or chain leads to the anchor.
Head—The ship’s toilet; the bow of the ship.
Heads up—Slang for look out or clear the way.
Headivay — The motion of a ship forward.
Heave—To throw; to pull on a line; the rise and fall of a vessel in a seaway.
Navy in Action
Valor in the Navy, an attractive souvenir booklet of Naval action, has been published by The Cayuga Press, Inc., printers of the Alumni News. From its cover in color through its 68 pages of official Navy pictures and text, the book is a stirring record of the fleet in action. Its typographical design and layout is the work of R. W. Sailor, ’07. For use as a gift to Navy men and women, the last few pages have space for the autographs of shipmates. Valor in the Navy may be obtained at 75 cents from the Cayuga Press, Ithaca, N. Y.
14
Navy Whites Appear— Victory Now Certain
By SEAMAN BILL BYINGTON
For many days, officers and gyrenes have sported their summer ensembles, topped with jaunty new hats and a sprig of mint. Poor swabbies labored from pillar to post swathed in large blue wool sack-like creations, made heavier by the process of perspiration. A number of the sea-going zoot-suiters were found in a prone position, still rigidly at attention, during a formal party held last Saturday by Captain Finney. After several corpsmen had dragged these husky brutes from the battleground, the ranks were discovered to be nearly cut in half. Like flies they fell. Some were distinctly heard to mutter, “Boy, that Sinatra really sends me,” as they regained their feet and waddled off in the direction of civilization, arm in arm with some enterprising F. 0.
Never again, men! The spirit of democracy is here—a bit on the delayed action side. Whites are with us—too little and too late. With great pride all seaman hands have hauled out of the moth balls a nondescript jumble of clothing, pieced it together clumsily, and appeared in spotty array. True, some of the barnacles have not been scraped off as yet, but they add atmosphere, and can often be trained to cover holes. But blow the dust off that kiyi, Mac, and get it into action. If you can’t scrub out the raspberry jam, then paint it out. But lend a hand and get those pants shipshape, and thank your forepeak you got them before the storekeepers were drafted.
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave, at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
SOUth^ore
j BUY WITH CONFIDENCE |
|	at	e
| South Bend’s Leading Jeweler e
E	A wide selection of	B
Desirable Gifts
l	on display.	B
B Use our lay-away plan.	=
........Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltj
"G. 1" NIX 7m I VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B^Bo (G)-C-B6
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will .Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ninc-Vitamin Tablet Contains—
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk
AS MUCH “D”
as 1 lb. of Butter
AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice
AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage
AS MUCH “B2”
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “Be” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as % lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH "E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS=83.50
G

1
MIDSHIPMEN GRADUATE
(Continued from page 3)
Edward James Vredenburgh, Jr., Kansas City (University of Missouri), Honors in Damage Control.
Joseph Holliday Veal, Madisonville, Ky. (Duke University), Greatest Contribution to Morale.
Presentation of Diplomas and Commissions were made by Captain Barry, who then administered the oath of office to the new officers. Rev. George Dick of the First Baptist Church, South Bend, gave the benediction, as the choir intoned the favorite “For Those in Peril on the Sea.” After “Anchors Aweigh” the drill hall became a scene of great commotion and preparation for departure as the new officers mingled with relatives and friends to receive congratulations. Previously, they had marched into the hall six abreast to take their places before the platform. They were dressed in their spotless white uniforms and their gold stripes of an ensign for the first time. It was little wonder that the audience rose in a body, many hoping to catch a glimpse of their own sons.
After the ceremony, approximately 90 of the new officers hastened to marriage ceremonies on the campus, to South Bend, and to their homes.	’
STREET DANCE
(Continued from page 3) versify, on the Dixie Highway. To clear all doubt, there will be signs showing the way, as well as a map in the cafeteria.
Besides the dancing itself, other amusements are being planned in the way of folk dances and entertainment by some top campus material.
As is the Co-Hop custom, a date is not necessary. Over 800 South Bend girls will be there to insure the evening’s success. Starting time is eight o’clock, and the admission is free.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
(Continued from page 5)
ports V-12 week-end was very, very very successful . . . she has his N.L. pin . . . buddies arranged to let her know just what it means . . . Jim’s comment, “Things are looking up.”
He likes beer, cigars, fishing, and Lois . . . when in the 8th grade always had beer and a hani sandwich for lunch . . . when hitch hiking has been known to tell stories that would put a lot of old timers to shame ... never claims to have been across, but tells them he’s been in more camps than probably exist .. . says, “People ask for it, so I might just as well entertain them” . . . knows lots of people and lots of people know him . . . may stay in corps if he gets his commission.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 2)
Shed some tears For Y. K. Mott He had air—
His tires had not.
FROM OSWALD DOAK. JR.
Papa Turtle, mama turtle and baby turtle went into a beer garden and ordered three beers, when papa turtle suddenly remembered he’d left his money in his other suit. So baby turtle was sent to get the money and papa and mama promised not to drink their beer until he got back.
One day and night passed, and then another day and night, and on the third day mama turtle said, “I think we’d better drink our beer, papa, or it won’t be any good.”
At that baby turtle stuck his head around the corner and said, “If you start talking like that I won’t go.”
Gen. Mulcahy Promoted
It was recently announced that Major General Francis P. Mulcahy of the Marine. Air Force has been placed in command of the Marine air activities on the west coast.
General Mulcahy, a native of Rochester, N. Y., graduated from Notre Dame in 1914. He received his commission in the Marine Corps in 1917.
In the first World Wiar General Mulcahy won the Distinguished- Service Medal while serving in France. Following the war, General Mulcahy saw service in Haiti, Nicaragua, Santo Domingo, and the Virgin Islands.
In World War II, General Mulcahy has been twice decorated. He received the Gold Star for his brilliant leadership of the Allied air forces in the occupation of Guadalcanal. During this operation the air forces under General Mulcahy inflicted heavy losses on Japanese vessels, aircraft and shore installations.
General Mulcahy’s second award in World War II is the Army Legion of Merit, for his service as commander of the New Guinea air force from June to August 1943. '
In his new post General Mulcahy will command the organization known as Mayfair which includes all tactical training at the Mojave, Santa Barbara, El Toto, Kearny, and Pendleton Marine Air Stations.—Bill Thompson
Patriotic Indiana has on its statutes a law permitting nurses who saw service during the first World War to finish without a license.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bide-. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, MD
Telephone 3-4269	'
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
•	LEONARD A. ROSE D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE D.D.S.
623*629 Sherland Bldg*.	South Bend. In<L
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-3574
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. ..TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDIN* HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN’S SHOP
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
. Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
15

Copyright 1944. Doom & Mybks Tobacco Co.
Change to Milder Better-Tasting Chesterfields for all the satisfying pleasure a good cigarette can give you
There is no mystery why more and more smokers are changing to Chesterfields... for the answer is both simple and to the point... Right Combination — World’s Best Tobaccos... there you have Chesterfield’s 5-Key words for more smoking pleasure.