
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

University Men have agreed upon the change of style
That’s the edict. And our favorite clothes maker has met the situation with the smartest University style ever found on the campus. The patterns we show cannot be found in any other store in the city. The cut is entirely different—the College man’s ideal, and priced unusually low.
$30	$35	$40
ADLER BROTHERS
Apparel for Men, Women and Boys SOUTH BEND
) vv i\'7ji\'7 ^7^7	iv:7iW ^7^ff¥j^7£\^7i7'^7 iv? iw *y7 iw iW * ^7iW *w * v7iv7


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	257
SOUTH BEND'S ORIGINAL LOW PRICED CAB COMPANY
Men of Notre Dame
Prefer Indiana Cabs
We appreciate this preference on the part of students and in turn our drivers will endeavor to continue their prompt and courteous service to all Notre Dame.
INDIANA
CbeXuxe
Cab Company
Our carrying capacity is limited to four by the Insurance Company for your safety
Call 3-7147	Call 3-7147
Reliability! Safety! Courtesy!
A FAIR PRICE FROM THE START
258
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
You get the nourishment from the wheat. Just enough bran to be mildly laxative. Order some today at your campus cafeteria or the fraternity restaurant. Made by Kellogg of Battle Creek.
^5^
PEP BRAN FLAKES
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Pep Bran Flakes, ALL-BRAN, Rice Krispies, Krumbles, Corn Flakes and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also
Kaffee Hag Coffee —the coffee that lets you sleep.
fl
PEP
BRAN flakes
OThtBPiBrso,
^WHEAT
company
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
259
NOW IN PROGRESS
Max Adler's Annual O’Coat Week
Scores of the newest Overcoats in every variation of style, color and fabric are offered during our Annual Overcoat Week at great savings. We said the newest—single ar.d double breasteds, two and three button models, in Alpaca, Fleeces, Harris checks and other popular fabrics. Whatever your preference is in Overcoats we have it. Come in tomorrow.
$225° *2450
$2gso $3450
and up to $50
PIGSKIN GLOVES
$3 50 and $5
ENGLISH SQUARE MUFFLERS—
$3 and $5
Max Adler
COMPANY ON THE CORNER	MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
261
r ,
$
1872
~ Gher
Notre Dame -Scholastic
WsceX2jwi-3mpCT-Victutw-Vw£- Quasi- Cray- Moriiuruy
1928

JOHN V. HINKEL, ’29................Editor-in^Chief
HARLEY L. McDEVITT, ’29. .Business Manager
THE EDITORIAL STAFF
DAVID W. SAXON, ’29.......Managing Editor VINCENT McINTIRE, ’30......The	Week
JOHN DeROULET, ’29 .Literary	Editor BERNARD A. WALSH, ’29..The College Parade
HARRY A. SYLVESTER, JR.,’30.. Sports Editor JAMES J. WALSH, ’30.Music and Drama JOHN BERGAN, ’31..........................................News	Editor THOMAS A. CANNON, ’31.Club	Editor
JOHN H. ZUBER, ’31... .Interhall Sports Editor
MURRAY YOUNG, ’29 MURRAY HICKEY LEY, '30 BAYARD KURTH. '30 GILBERT PRENDERGAST, ’30 WILLIAM H. MORAN, ’30
NEWS STAFF
ROBERT W. FARRELL, ’30 ROBERT C. BALFE, ’31 CLEMENT K. COLE, ’31 EMIL TELFEL, ’31 JAMES J. KEARNEY, ’31
PAUL HALLINAN, ’32 JOHN KIENER, ’32 JAMES COLLINS, ’32 MYRON E. CRAWFORD. ’32 GERALD DUFFY, ’32
BUSINESS STAFF
FREDERICK N. DAVIS, ’30.. Local Adv. Mgr.	HARRINGTON J. NOON, ’29.. Local Cir. Mgr.
JAMES L. RIZER, ’30 .Foreign Adv. Mgr.	CHESTER M. ASHMAN, ’30.. .Foreign Cir. Mgr.
JAMES H. RORKE, ’31	EUGENE J. GARLIN, ’29 JOHN BLANDA, ’31
VOL. LVII	NOVEMBER 16,1928
No. 9
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week ........................__T. Vincent McIntire, ’30______ 262
Next Week’s Events_______________________________________________263
Week-End Plans __________________________________________________264
Campus Clubs ____________________Thomas A. Cannon._______________269
? ? ? ? ?_....................................... _	_	270
The Editor’s Page..._____________________________________________271
The Sword Is Mightier Than the Pen..Louis L. Hasley______________272
The Flaming Worm_________________...Murray Hickey Ley____________278
Old English Ballads and Negro Songs—
Jorge Palomino .....___________ 275
Sherwood Anderson—Cobbler to the Gods— Phillip de Roulet_______________________________________________276
Loop Sunrise—Chicago (a poem) John de Roulet.____________________277
Sport News_______________________Harry A. Sylvester, Jr__________278
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
■ ■ The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men ;
3.	*
s	&
MBfca--------	■ - -	—
262
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“We have met the Army and they are ours.” A battle that will go down in history, deserves a historic maxim, and to the minds of all who agree with sympathetic sports writers, the game at Yankee Stadium last Saturday will indeed make history. Those few students who were fortunate to have relatives in New York, give us most vivid accounts of the game, and though we derived our enjoyment from the gridgraph, the enthusiasm and spiritual support that we were able to give the team at the gym and in the church more than offset our regret that we too could not be among the lucky few.
Then there were other fortunate sons of Notre Dame who were not in attendance last Saturday on the Campus. It seems that the “belles” of St. Mary’s of the Woods considered that a Junior Prom without the usual apportionment of Notre Dame men would be a failure, so again we find the solution to several mysterious absences. From the incoherent whisperings of these fortunates about “beautiful girls,” “wonderful time,” “swell dance,” and other hysterical utterances, we may assume that the affair was not short of a social classic.
For the last few weeks the publications office has been waiting and hoping for something of interest to take place, and lo and behold, our prayers were answered. Sometime early in the week we received word that Badin Hall had gone literary. This was not heralded with great joy as should all great achievements be hailed, but rather Badin considers itself under a stigma. This is due to the number of students (old school type), who form the majority in that venerable hall. The story is worthy of mention since news and gossip are astonishingly scarce. It seems that a few days ago, one of the candidate for Badin’s Hall of Fame, ordering some loiterer from his room, instead of using the conventional “get the so and so out
of here,” said “Ave atque Vale.” So Badin, the last of the halls to cling to the traditions set down by former generations of the “great unwashed” has been set apart as the hall of • the fellowship of scholarship and ambitious literati.
Another item worthy of mention, which is now common gossip, is the invasion of the Kilties of Carnegie Tech; whose sole purpose we presume is to do battle with the “fighting Irish.” Tech is said to have the best team	<
in years and since it conies to Notre Dame	i
undefeated and confident of victory the out-	1
come is a matter of conjecture. However,	|
let it never be said that a battle between the	\
Scotch and the Irish has ever failed to	■
attract a capacity crowd. The battle on the	?
gridiron too, should be a memorable event, because for some reason that probably might be traced to ancient clan histories, the Irish have never been known to concede the Scotch anything without first making a good fight.
We also look forward with interest to the Kiltie Band; the program between halves promises to be extremely interesting. On one side we have Henry Tholen and his Casasanta Band, on the other side the famous Kilties.	(
Now that we have conquered the Army, we can rest easy in our beds, and be free for . j a time of any disturbing thoughts that might | interfere with our recourses to Morpheus. i Also the cheer-leaders have shown remarka- j ble tact and thoughtfulness in allowing us < almost a whole week to recover our voices and chase the husky strains from our throats. I Really it has been quite a restful time. Ev-	I
eryone is so nice to everybody else, which is	I
so unusual as to demand explanation. Prob- I ably the normal emotions that would ordi- | narily conquer this strange condition are still * । buried in the morass of extraordinary cir- \ cumstance. But who cares, as long as we licked the Army. “Step up Tech. Your turn next!”	—T. V. M.
THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
263
* NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS ❖
FRIDAY, November 16—Student body reception of football team, gate 1, Cartier field, 5:00 p. m.— Torchlight parade and pep meeting, 6:30 p. m.—Entertainment, Gymnasium, 7:30 p. m.—Dance, sponsored by Columbus Club, Knights of Columbus ballroom, 8:30-12:00 p. m.
SATURDAY—Student Mass in honor of football team, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a. m.—Dinner for students, 11:30 a. m.—Football, University of Notre Dame vs. Carnegie Institute of Technology, Cartier field, 2:00 p. m.—Notre Dame “B” team vs. Flint, Flint, Mich.; S. A. C. dance, Tribune Auditorium, South Bend, 8:30-12:00 p. m.—Movies, Washington Hall, 6:30 and 8:30 p. m.
SUNDAY—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Meeting Wranglers club, Public Speaking room, Walsh Hall, 10:00 a. m.— New Jersey club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 10:00 a. m.—Interhall football, championship, Division I, Cartier field, 2:00 p. m.
MONDAY—Scribblers meeting, Scribbler room, Rockefeller Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Knights of Columbus meeting, Council Chambers, Walsh hall, 8:00 p. m.— Academy of Science meeting, Science hall, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY—Akron club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.—Spanish club meeting, Hoynes hall, 7:30 p. m.—K. C. first degree initiation, Council Chambers, Walsh hall, 7:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY—La Circle Francais meeting, Hoynes hall, 7:00 p. m.—Minnesota club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.—Engineers club lecture, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY—Indianapolis club meeting, Badin “Rec” room, 7:30 p. m.—Toledo club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 8:00 p. m.—Chicago club meeting, Lay Faculty dining room, 7:45 p. m.
FRIDAY—Scholastic staff meeting, Publications room, Main building, 7:00 p. m.—Lawyers’ “Informal” ball, Palais Royale ballroom, South Bend, 9:00-12:00 p. m.
BEAT CARNEGIE’TECH
AN OPEN LETTER TO THE STUDENT BODY
The Students’ Activities Council of the University will sponsor a dance tomorrow evening in the Tribune Auditorium. We desired to hold this dance at the K. of C. ballroom, but a certain South Bend organization, repeating an action of several years standing, obtained an option on that place last August. The option was offered to us at four times its original price by the officers of this group, who also admitted that they intended to entertain as many Notre Dame guests and friends as possible.
We offer you these facts in an effort to obtain your help in fighting this measure. With your aid we can show this organization that it is taking on more than it can handle when it attempts to offer such an effrontery to a unified Notre Dame. Explain these facts to your friends and guests and help us put over your own dance tomorrow evening.
—the s. A. c.
HOW THE STUDENTS HELPED WIN THE ARMY GAME
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
264
WEEK-END PLANS ANNOUNCED
Elaborate plans for celebrations this week to precede the Carnegie Tech game were altered early in the week out of respect for Jack Gleason, whose tragic death marred the victory welcome last Sunday night. The S. A. C. and Blue Circle have limited activities to two pep demonstrations as well as a Mass to add spiritual strength.
This afternoon at 5 p. m. the student body will gather at Gate 1, Cartier field, to greet the team as it leaves its last practice session before the game. At 7:30 tonight a monster demonstration in the gym is planned, beginning -with a torchlight procession from the various halls led by the Band. Prominent speakers will address the student body and indications are that the spirit shown will rival the history-making demonstration before the Army game.
Alumni and students will be the guests tonight at a dance sponsored by the Columbus Club which will be held from 8:30 to 11:30 p. m. in the Knights of Columbus ballroom.
Tomorrow morning at 6:15 the student body will attend Mass in Sacred Heart Church to make a spiritual offering for the team and victory. The members of the team considered the wonderful response a week ago the greatest factor in their victory and a similar showing tomorrow is expected.
Information booths for visitors will be erected in the dining hall lobby, the Postoffice, and at the LaSalle and Oliver hotels. They will be in charge of the S. A. C., assisted by the Blue Circle and members of the Pittsburgh Club, Villagers, and West Virginia Club.
From 12 to 1:45 a plate dinner will be served for guests and alumni in the University Dining Halls.
The game will begin at 2 o’clock before the largest home crowd of the year, 28,000 people being present. The ticket sale for the game was exhausted over a week ago so that a capacity audience will witness the fray. Between the halves mass demonstrations and drills will be given by the bands of Notre Dame and the Carnegie Tech Kilties of sixty
pieces. Blankets, the gifts of South Bend merchants, will be presented to members of the first two teams before the second half of the game begins.
Saturday evening the Students Activities Council will sponsor their annual football dance in the Tribune ballroom, West Colfax Ave., South Bend, from 8:30 to 12 p. m. Art Haerens and his Cotton Pickers will play for dancing.
The entire business district of South Bend will be decorated in the colors of the two rival teams for the day of the game, in keeping with their annual custom. The Villagers club, which is sponsoring the window decorations of the merchants for the game, will award a prize to the best decorated window tomorrow morning.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
FATHER CARROLL IS AUTHOR OF NEW BOOK
The Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., Litt.D., author of several well known works, is to have another book, “Heart Hermitage” and other poems off the press very shortly. The introduction is written by Charles L. Phillips, A. M., Associate Professor of English at the University.
Father Carroll is the author of “The Man-God” used in the religion classes as a textbook, “Songs of Creelabeg,” “Round About Home,” “Memory Sketches” and several plays.
Scott, Foresman and Company of Chicago, Ill., are the publishers of Father Carroll’s latest work and it will be released about December 1.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE TO MEET NEXT MONDAY
The second bi-monthly meeting of the Academy of Science will be held at 8 o’clock Monday evening, Nov. 19, in Science Hall. .
Dr. Baker, of the South Bend Clinic, will speak on “Crippled Children.” The meeting will be open to all members of the College of Science, and will be of particular interest to the Freshmen. P. Heil and R. J. Schulze are in charge of the program.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
265
,	VILLAGERS MEET CARNEGIE TECH
:	TEAM
The Carnegie Tech team was welcomed this morning on its arrival in South Bend by * the Notre Dame Villagers. A caravan of I	twelve automobiles met the players and es-
;	corted them to their hotel. A light work-out
was held on Cartier field and thence they ; . were taken back to their headquarters by the •	Villagers. Each automobile was decorated
"with the colors of the two schools, blue and gold for Notre Dame and Scotch plaid for Carnegie Tech.
The welcoming committee consisted of: William Konop, chairman; Francis Jones, , Norm Hartzer, Kenneth Heck, W. J. Bergan, Jules Grossman, Jack Shively, John Marcus and Robert Holmes.
The Villagers were also instrumental in getting the merchants of South Bend to decorate their stores and windows in the colors • of the two schools for the game tomorrow. Practically every merchant was interviewed •	during the week by one of the Villagers. Ths
}	best decorated window in South Bend apro-
‘	pos of the football spirit will be given an
autographed football signed by Coach Rockne
• and other members of the team. The com-i	mittee on decorations included: Lucas Bran-
j	don, general chairman; George Krofph, Ches-
i	ter Francowiak, Phil Konop, Arthur Denby,
j	Gerard Hodges and Frank Goetz, Jr.
!	A committee selected from the business
'< ' men of South Bend and the faculty of Notre Dame will adjudge the best decorated window tomorrow morning.
'	BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
CARNEGIE STUDENTS AND BAND TO ATTEND GAME
Approximately two thousand students and supporters of the Carnegie Tech team will be rooting for the Plaid on Cartier field tomorrow. The game is a student trip for the Car-Inegie student body, who will arrive at South . Bend today and tomorrow on six special trains. The Tech Kiltie band of sixty pieces 7 ’ is also making the trip and will be on the ,	side lines when their unbeaten team does
battle with the Irish.
This band, led by Director J. M. Sullivan, • wears Scotch plaid kilts and makes an im-
pressive sight on any field. It ranks with the best in the East and is being brought here as a part of the student trip for the game.
The Kilties and the University Band will be guests of the University at a dinner given in the dining hall tomorrow at 5 p. m., immediately after the engagement, and Director Sullivan of the Kilties, and Director Casa-santa of the Irish will be the guests of honor. Joseph Keefe, president of the Band, is in charge of the dinner and has arranged a short program for the entertainment of the guests.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
PHOTOSTATIC MACHINE INSTALLED IN LIBRARY
A photostatic machine has been installed in the University Library and will be used to reproduce archives, paintings, pictures and old writings so that the public may have access to these documents and the original copies may be better preserved. The entire equipment consists of a reproducing machine, an electric dryer and a wash tank. Mr. Myers will have charge of the work done by the machine, while the Reverend William Mac-Namara, C.S.C., has charge of the University collections, which will be reproduced.
Over 200 archives of the Bishops and Missionaries of Texas before its admittance to the Union will be reproduced first. Many of these are large and will be reduced by Mr. Myers. Mr. Paul Bryne, librarian, has arranged to reproduce many of these archives to page size for practical use.
Work will also be done for anyone who desires it, according to Mr. Bryne.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
QUARTERLY BULLETINS TO BE
RECEIVED BY DECEMBER 1ST
The quarterly bulletins will be sent so as to reach their destination by December 1 at the latest, according to a report from the office of the Director of Studies. Duplicates will be given to the Rectors of the various halls for distribution to students.
Professors and instructors handed the grades in to the Registrar yesterday and the heads of the various departments are now busy compiling the bulletins.
266
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ALUMNI TO ATTEND CARNEGIE TECH GAME
Although there is no official homecoming game at Notre Dame this year, many prominent alumni from all sections of the country will be present at the game tomorrow with Carnegie Tech. Special trains will be run from Chicago, Toledo, Cleveland, Indianapolis and Pittsburgh, and will arrive in South Bend Friday evening and Saturday morning. The local hotels have been filled to capacity and what promises to be the largest number of alumni to ever attend a game at Notre Dame will be present.
For the convenience of guests, the West Virginia and Villagers clubs will maintain information booths in the hotels and the S. A. C. will have them on the campus. The Alumni office will also be open all Saturday morning to greet returning Notre Dame men.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
UNIVERSITY DINING HALL OPEN TO PUBLIC TOMORROW
The University dining hall will be open to the public Saturday during the noon hour in order to relieve the cafeteria of handling the large crowd that is expected to be here for the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech football game. A special dinner will be served from 12 o’clock noon until 1:45 p. m.
Reservations have been coming in all week to the office of Mr. R. H. Borland, manager of the dining halls. The Harold J. McElhinny Co. of Chicago has reserved places for sixty, while thirty Knights of Columbus of the Calumet Council of Chicago have also sent in requests for places. Many other reservations have been received from individuals and Mr. Borland plans to reserve the west hall for these, and the east hall will be open to anyone else who cares to take advantage of the opportunity.	•
A special one dollar luncheon has been arranged by Mr. Borland for Saturday and the diners will have an extensive menu to choose from. The regular student meal will be served at eleven o’clock and the classes of that hour will be excused. Supper will be. held at the regular hour.	.
MCCREADY HUSTON GIVES LECTURE
A cabin set far apart from civilization is not necessarily the ideal locale for writing a successful novel, according to McCready Huston, who addressed a group of about 150, interested in fiction, on Tuesday evening at 8 o’clock in the library. The lecture was the first of a series of six concerning the writing and publication of the novel to be given on successive Tuesdays, sponsored by the English department of the University.
In secluding oneself in a cabin with only primitive means of living, the writer does exactly what he should not do—separate himself from human nature which should serve as the background for his writing. Mr. Huston urged student writers to gather impressions now, during the period of their life most suited to this, deferring the actual writing until they were able to get the correct viewpoint of these impressions and interpret them in writing.
Fewer modern novels attain the high recognition received by those written several decades ago, said the speaker, but this is not caused by inferior writing but rather by the great competition at present. Mr. Huston, who is managing editor of the South Bend News-Times, is the author of several successful novels. After the lecture, the audience was invited to inspect the original copy, written in pencil, of his latest novel,. “Dear Senator.”
The lectures are sponsored by the English department of the University and are designed primarily for the students, but the public is also invited.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
FATHER STACK’S MOTHER DIES
The Rev. James Stack, C.S.C., rector of Walsh hall, was summoned home Wednesday, November 7, by the death of his mother in Springfield, Illinois. Mrs. Stack was sixty years of age. Her death was due to heart failure. Father Stack and other members of the family were at her bedside when she died. A requiem High Mass was said for the repose of her soul in the Sacred Heart Church, Tuesday morning.—R. I. P.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	267
FATAL ACCIDENT MARS STUDENT RECEPTION.
Tragedy stalked in the wake of the crowd assembled at the New York Central station in South Bend last Sunday night to greet the team on its return from the Army game, when a freight train struck a baggage truck which had been pulled too close to the tracks and precipitated it down a 12-foot embankment, injuring John Gleason of Canadaigna, New York, a student in the College of Arts and Letters at the University, so-critically, that he died shortly after being rushed to the St. Joseph Hospital in an ambualnce. Paul Duncan, of LaSalle, Illinois, a class-mate of Gleason’s, and two young women were also seriously injured in the same accident, as well as almost a score of other students and townspeople who received slight injuries. *
Gleason died from a fractured skull sustained when the tongue of the wagon struck him on the head. The young man was not standing on the truck, but in front of it, when it was hit by the engine. Coroner Reifeis, of South Bend, , is conducting an investigation into the accident. Notre Dame officials and the New York Central railroad are also probing the crash in an attempt to determine who was to blame.
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Gleason, parents of the dead youth, were informed of the tragedy by their parish priest, who had previously been notified of the accident by University officials.
Funeral services were held from the family residence in Cananadaigua, New York, yesterday morning. The Reverend Vincent Mooney, C. S. C., rector of Sophomore Hall, where Gleason resided, celebrated the funeral Mass. A Requiem High Mass was also celebrated in the Sacred Heart Church, Wednesday morning for the repose of his soul. The Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., was the celebrant. Messages of condolences from officials of the University and spiritual bouquets from the students were sent to the bereaved parents. R. I. P.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
COLUMBUS CLUB DANCE TONIGHT
The Columbus Club will hold a dance tonight in the K. of C. ballroom, South Bend.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta’s University orchestra will play for the affair. Tickets may be secured from John Dorgan and John Hinkel, Sorin, Clement Cole, Sophomore, and John Kuhn, Morrissey, or at the door.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
. S. A. C. DANCE TOMORROW NIGHT
Tomorrow night the Students’ Activities Council will hold a dance in the Tribune Auditorium, Colfax Ave. at Lafayette Blvd., South Bend. The affair which will be known as the Carnegie Tech Hop will have the well known Walz Haerens’ orchestra play the program of dances, and will be further notable, as students in attendance will be allowed 12:30 pers. The orchestra that has been engaged is now playing at the Palais Royal e ballroom so that good music will be heard. WSBT will broadcast the dance music.
The S. A. C. dance has always been one of the high spots on the social calendar each year, and this affair will be no exception. Novelty entertainment will be featured and a good time is assured all who attend.
In order to insure a large attendance tickets will be placed on sale in every hall and the Off-Campus office or can be secured from any member of the S.A.C. The visiting alumni and Carnegie Tech supporters will be the guests of honor. The usual price, $1.50 per couple or $1.25 for stags, will be in vogue.
' BEAT CARNEGIE T$CH
NEWS-TIMES EDITOR SPEAKS BEFORE PRESS CLUB
Mr. Sidney B. Whipple, editor of the South Bend News-Times, gwe an interesting talk to the students in the School of Journalism last Tuesday. Mr. Whipple warned the members against the evil of commercialism and the effect it is having on the modern newspaper.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
LAWYERS READY FOR INFORMAL
Gerald Roach, president of the Law Club has announced that arrangements have been completed for the informal dance to be given next Friday night at the Palais Royale. A limited number of tickets are still available to members of the College of Law and may be secured from Al Sebesta, chairman of the ticket committee or any of his assistants.
268	THE NOTRE DAME
WASHINGTON HALL NOTES
Because of the construction work in Washington Hall last week, Gilbert McClurg was unable to give his Travelogue and it has been postponed until November 30. Dr. Walsh of New York City spoke last night on “PresentConditions in Mexico.” On November 20, Dr. Frederic William Wile, of Washington, D. C., will give a lecture.
----o----
A dramatic recital and lecture on Shakespearean plays is to be given by Mr. Edward H. Sothern, noted actor and lecturer. on Shakespearean plays, on Wednesday evening, December 5. The presentation will consist of four groups and will be interspersed -with anecdote and story in Mr. Sothern’s most delightful vein.
While still a very young actor, Mr. Sothern achieved the name of the leading light comedian of his day. His first Shakespearean effort was in the role of Hamlet. Such was his success that a few years later with Julia Marlowe he began an association of twenty years that was the outstanding enterprise of the century in the American theater, Together they acted in ten of Shakespeare’s plays, an ambitious and comprehensive list.
Added to this attraction is the revival of that inimitable character of “Dundreary,” the central figure of a meandering, quaint, amusing play—and the romantic character of Francois Villon in “If I Were King,” acted hundreds of times by Mr. Sothern until it has come to be a semi-classic of the theater. In his program he will include four of the famous poems from the play.
In the recital program Mr. Sothern will include scenes with Ophelia and the Queen from “Hamlet,” the murder scene of “Macbeth,” and the trial scene of the “Merchant of Venice.”
Mr. Sothern’s brief discussion of each play, giving many fascinating and amusing incidents in connection with them, greatly enhances the charm of these programs.
----o----
During Father Carey’s absence from the University, Father J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.
SCHOLASTIC
C., Prefect of Discipline, is arranging the lectures to be given in Washington Hall, and Father George Holderith, C.S.C., Rector of Freshman Hall, is making the bookings for the weekly movies.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
RETURNING TEAM GIVEN ROUSING RECEPTION
Over three thousand students and townspeople jammed their way about the New York Central station last Saturday night to roar out their welcome to Coach Rockne’s football team just returned from running roughshod over Army.
The players finally succeeded in pushing their way from the train to the busses, which took them through the cheering crowd to the steps of the court house in South Bend.
Bart McHugh took charge of the meeting there and made a short introductory speech before he introduced August Grams, football manager. Grams told the crowd that they were cheering for the “scrappiest” players that had ever been sent out from Notre Dame. He then introduced each individual member of the team.
A deafening cheer greeted each man as he was raised on the shoulders of some of his admirers so that all might see each one of the men who had taken the kick out of the Army mule. Captain Fred Miller responded to the demands for a speech by telling how much the team appreciated the support and encouragement given by the students and asked everyone to give the same support for the game Saturday with Carnegie Tech.
Following the meeting at the court house the students fell in behind the Band and marched to the University, enabling the team to snatch a few quiet moments from one of the largest and most enthusiastic receptions ever given a returning Blue and Gold football team.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
FATHER CAREY ON VACATION
After strenuous labors of the past few months as Registrar, Father William A. Carey, C.S.C., has left the University for a month’s vacation. He is expected to return about December 10.
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	269
g THE CAMPUS CLUBS	- - By Thomas A. Cannon S
«5B5252525B5HSHS25a5E5252SH5HS25B52S25aSH5H5H5HSB5a52S252SE52525H525E5a525E5a5SS2SH5HSH52S25aSHSi3
VILLAGERS
Professor Henry Staunton of the English department of the University was the principal speaker at the regular monthly dinner meeting of the Villagers club which was held Monday evening, November 12 in the Alice Stark tearoom, South Bend. Mr. Staunton gave an inspiring talk in which he told of the real values gained by college men and the tendency of the present college man to disregard study and have a good time.
Following the talk by Mr. Staunton business of the club was discussed. Plans for the Villagers’ part for the week-end were made known and the various committee chairmen gave their reports. The dance chairman, Norm Hartzer, gave plans for the club’s first dance which will be held in South Bend on the evening of November- 27. Francis Jones, the club’s prexy, urged all the members to boost the dance and stated that plans for the annual Christmas dance of the club would be discussed at the next meeting. Entertainment for the evening was furnished by a banjo duo consisting of Malone and Jackson. This meeting, the second of year, was attended by forty members.
PITTSBURGH CLUB
The descent of a horde of Pittsburghers on Notre Dame and South Bend for the Carnegie Tech game has called upon the resources of the Pittsburgh club of the University. During the week-end the club will work in conjunction with the S. A. C. and Blue Circle. A committee composed of John Roney, chairman, Phil McCullough, John Hickey, Joe O’Rourke, Bill Magarrall, Dick O’Toole, Joe Hartman, Gene Coyne and Dave Nash has been appointed by President Bernie Conroy to handle the arrangements. The committee will meet the Carnegie Special at the station on Saturday morning, and throughout the day will maintain an information booth on the campus. All plans have been perfected and the club is prepared to make its public debut on Saturday.
WEST VIRGINIA CLUB
The West Virginia Club held a meeting Thursday night, November 8, in the Law Building. At this time final arrangements for the Carnegie Tech game were completed with Robert Farrel being placed in charge. President Kirschner also announced the committee for the club smoker, which is to be given December 5. John Emmert was appointed chairman, -with Leo Kletzly, Wayner Heitz, Albert Bros-seur and James Molloy assisting him. Plans for the Christmas dance to be held in Clarksburg on December 27 were also discussed.
Beginning Tuesday, December 11, the club will meet regularly on the second Tuesday of each month at 7:30 p. m. in the Badin Hall “Rec.” room.
BUFFALO CLUB
Ths Buffalo Club held a banquet Wednesday evening, October 31, at the Hotel Oliver. President Henry L. Burns acted as toastmaster for the even
ing. He introduced Professor Daniel O’Grady of the Philosophy department of the University, who gave a very interesting talk on “Campus Clubs.” In his talk Professor O’Grady outlined the purposes and advantages of campus clubs.
Following the banquet the regular business routine was followed. It was decided to hold the next meeting of the club Monday, November’ 20, at 7:45 p. m. in the Badin Hall “Rec.” room. All members are requested to be present at this meeting because final plans for the Christmas dance to be given the night of Dec. 27 at the Hotel Statler will be completed.
A. I. E. E.
The American Institute of Electrical Engineers met Tuesday evening, November 13, in Badin Hall “Rec.” room. The gathering was most interesting because Mr. J. P. Kennedy of the Senior Class, also a noted radiotrician, explained the principles of Television. Mr. Ben South of the Junior Class spoke on the Cathode Tube. Another clever article was given by Mr. Wider of the Sophomore Class. Dr. Caparo was well pleased with the large attendance at every meeting so far held and asked that this, co-operation be continued.
ROCHESTER CLUB
A special meeting of the Rochester* Club was held Monday evening in Badin “Rec.” room in order to pay respect to its deceased member, John B. Gleason, who died Sunday evening. At the meeting the members subscribed for two masses to be said for the repose of his soul. The entire club attended the student mass and received holy communion in a body Wednesday morning.
The next regular meeting of the club will be held Wednesday evening, November 21, in Badin Hall “Rec.” room.
WABASH VALLEY CLUB
The newly organized Wabash Valley Club held its second regular meeting of the fall Monday night, November 12, in the Badin Hall “Rec.” room.
The main topic of discussion during the meeting was the plans for the Christmas dance which will be held the week-end following Christmas day. The committees are hard at work in anticipation of making the dance the biggest event of the holidays.
All students living within a radius of fifty miles of Logansport are eligible for membership and are urged to attend the meetings of the club. The officers for this year are: James Ryan, president; Carl Johnson, vice-president; Francis Crowe, secretary, and Mack Sinjer, treasurer.
270
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Well, here we are again, kiddies! Now just gather round your old Uncle Bob’s knee while he tells you a little story. Once upon a time there was a travelling salesman going to Gary on the Interrur-ban .... What? You’ve heard that one! Well, how precocious you brats are getting! G’wan to bed; no story for you tonight!
4:	❖	❖
WAZMUS WAXES WOEBEGONE!
Memories	'
As we sat there-, you and, I, While above us was the sky And the water flowed beloiv, Did you, think of the other days Almost dimmed by memory’s haze?
When you painted pictures there, Did you think no one would care To see the images you, wrought?
Or, because we’ve been apart, To hear the story of your heart?
'	—WAZMUS.
* * *
SONGS FOR SUCCESS, OR COPYWRITERS’ RHYTHMS
They laughed when the headwaiter queried in Greek Just what I desired that day.
They all were amazed when to him I did speak In my most “fruitstandian” way.
“Oh, where did you learn Greek so quickly?” they cried!
I gazed at my friends nearly bursting with pride I said rather shortly, “You really should guess That I studied Greek thru the great I. C. S.”
The music then started; to dance I arose.
My friends thought it. funny as sin;—
I never cou'd waltz without stepping on toes— They jeered tvhen they saw me begin.
I started to waltz, then switched to the tango, The varsity drag and then the fandango.
My friends looked astonished and envious too;
I said, “Now you see what Art Murray can do!”
Once back at the table, I started to tell
Of subjects both ancient and neiv;	-
The wisdom of ages from my quick lips fell
And all that I told them was true.
They gazed in amazement, surprise in each eye— “Why only last week, you were dumb!” was the cry.
I answered quite simply, “Why the easiest way— Is to read Elbert Hubbard’s scrap-book every day.”
I sing like Caruso, play poker and poo'., The trumpet and bass clavicord;
I dance; as a speaker—I’m nobody’s fool;
My listeners never get bored.
I’m a talented man you all are azo are.
How I learned so much—should you happen to care— I’ll tell you with pleasure, you don’t lose a dime: I studied at home in my little spare time.
—CHESTERFIELD.
* * *
SOME DID NOT! BUT DON’T RUB IT IN!
Dear Laddie: Who is this “Twenty-eighter”? Didn’t that class graduate last June? What’s the idea, huh?	—one black crow.
Luckless Lad: Call youi- column “Chesterfields” —they’re not “Luckies” but they satisfy. Or “Old Gold” because they’re mellow. But what’s in a name, anyway?	—one alone.
(Weill bite—what is in a name? But we appreciate your kindness in assuring us that our column does satisfy, even though we arc very, very luckless.) * * *
(WHOOPS, DEARIE! PASSION AND WHAT NOT!) Lines to—
Could cold, gray words do justice to my love Or cold, da/rk ashes re-create the flame— Then might I hope to place you, far above The motley crotvd that smiles and speaks your name As though it, were impersonal, a vase
With which to toy and lightly set aside, Instead of a soft sound, or yet, a maze Of music blending in one chord. Deride The flame that sears my soul with fire— If this ain’t true, then call me just a Story Teller!
—WISTFUL WILLIE. ’
And, to conclude, we’ll just have to tell you a secret! Next week we will have a name for our altogether too questionable column. (Even the address of its conductor seems to be a matter of question, that is if we judge by the number of contributions received this week!) So thank you children for your patience in waiting for us to find a suitable name for this, our adopted infant, left on our door-step by Allan-a-Dale! But we don’t want you to forget about us now that we have named the cute little three-year-old; in fact, we would much rather that you send more, and more contributions to .	—the luckless lad.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
271
THE EDITOR’S PAGE
A WELCOME TOUCHED WITH GRIEF
Notre Dame this week-end extends two welcomes, one to the officials, faculty members, players, students, alumni, and friends of a great sister university, Carnegie Tech, who are here to see their unbeaten eleven oppose Coach Rockne’s team on Cartier field tomorrow; the other to her own alumni and friends, who are also here for a football game which gives every promise of being numbered among the greatest gridiron attractions of the present season. To both she offers un-stintingly of her hospitality, every possible courtesy, and every possible consideration. Her visitors are always her guests, and it is her fondest desire to make their stay in this vicinity as pleasant as she can.
It is a whole-hearted, sincere welcome that Notre Dame extends to her guests. Yet, there is a note of sorrow touching it—sorrow because one of her sons has but a few days ago been suddenly summoned by death.
The situation is analagous to the welcome extended the Carnegie Tech supporters when the Pittsburgh eleven appeared on Cartier in 1925; The day the Plaid squad arrived in South Bend for the engagement, Jim Powers, after ten days of suffering from a broken neck, died, plunging the University into the deepest grief. Last Sunday, Jack Gleason was fatally injured at a railroad station in South Bend, once mere plunging Notre Dame into a heartfelt sorrow.
So, this season too, a visiting Tech team and its supporters finds the University extending as cordial a welcome as ever, but like the previous one—a welcome that does net belie the grief and the sorrow that is hers.
—J. v. H.
NOTRE DAME, 12; ARMY, 6
Notre Dame’s brilliant victory over a previously undefeated Army eleven last Saturday has called for no end of speculation and attempted explanation among prominent
sports writers about the country. Many theories are advanced by the scribes as to why Coach Rockne’s supposedly inferior eleven should decisively outplay and outpoint one of the strongest teams in the nation.
Mr. John Kieran of the New York Times says that the split second difference in speed between the Anny and Notre Dame linemen tells the tale. Mr. Kieran is partly right. The erudite Mr. W. 0. McGeehan of the Nev: York Herald-Tribune attributes it, more or less, to individual brilliancy. He too, is partly right. Other writers have other opinions and other reasons, such as “staleness” or “cockiness” on the part of the Cadets.
But whatever the reason or reasons, for Notre Dame’s success, the game will go down in the annals of sport not only as a startling, so-called upset, but as a great victory by a great team. Notre Dame men will always know it for what it really was—the triumph of a burning, unquenchable spirit against great odds. It was a story as old as athletic competition, yet ever new. The story of the soul rising above itself, and imbuing its sheath of clay with the spirit to overcome well-nigh insurpassable obstacles to a glorious triumph.	—H. A. s., JR.
JACK GLEASON
Last' Sunday’s tragedy at the New York Central station has cast a pall over the University. The suddenness, the shock of the accident coming at the time it did, did rot leave the student body unmarked.
Gleason and his quiet, earnest manner will lorg be remembered, and missed, at Notre Dame. Many were acquainted with him, few knew him, but those few admired those qualities that he possessed which are the ideal of every true Notre Dame man.
The Scholastic wishes to extend its deepest sympathy to those he left behind, both here at school and at his home.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
c	Illi I J / * I J w'
The Sword is Mightier Than the Pen
LOUIS L. HASLEY
WHOEVER said that the pen is mightier than the sword must have failed to make a passing grade in history somewhere in the process of his education. And, added to that, perhaps he later lost a breach-of-promise suit upon evidence in the form of certain of his hieroglyphic compositions which were sent through the mails with the ostensible purpose of captivating a fluttering and (though he knew it not at the time) untrustworthy heart. Of course, if such a hypothesis were found to be true, I could hardly do less than append the modification "in some cases” to the original proposition. At the sartie time I would probably experience the desire to assume my most erudite manner, lift my eyebrows an infinitesimal fraction of an em, and mutter something like, “Kinder spielen nicht mit Feuer,” or, “Always keep a carbon copy and sign your name with a typewriter.”
Can you imagine Captain Kidd, the master of all pirates, using a pen to sign his name? Of course not! Rather you see a blustering old buccaneer unceremoniously drawing blood from his arm with the point of his sword, then, with the same instrument, scratching, not signing, his name. In fact, I am inclined to believe that the Captain would not have considered an agreement binding if it were signed with pen and ink. I feel that he required all signatures to be made in blood with either a sword or a cutlass.
Another indication which may be used to blast the popular fallacy that the pen is mightier than the sword is the growing tendency toward international disarmament. Everyone seems intent upon doing away with all implements of warfare (swords, no doubt, included). Has there been any corresponding movement to require all propagandists to lay down their pens? If such agitation
were begun and met with success, our eleemosynary institutions would be unable to harbor all the indigenous writers who would necessarily be thrown upon the public charge. The government realizes that these propagandists can do little more than bring about military interventions and precipitate wars (which must be settled with the sword) so they are allowed to pursue their harmless method of getting an honest living.
Guy de Maupassant, probably the greatest French writer of the short story, obviously must have loved his pen dearly, and also must have known it to be of some moment in the world. But the controversies into which his fertile imagination often led his characters were settled by duels in which the participants used either swords or pistols, not quills. Napoleon, when a strong wind was creating havoc by blowing the hats off some of his men while standing at attention, declared that he would take his sword and cut off the head of the next man whose hat blew off. Not a hat left a soldier’s head after that. Could he have accomplished the same thing with the threat of using a pen on them?
As a final and convincing example, history chronicles the case of Damocles, who seated himself directly beneath a huge sword suspended by a single hair. It is hardly necessary to make a comparison here. Even if the weapon suspended above him had been the most barbaric of writing implements, a postoffice pen, I do not believe that this worthy king would have allowed its menacing presence to affect either his appetite or his equanimity. And if those of you who still harbor doubts as to the truth of my contention will just reflect that these comments are the work of my pen, I will rest satisfied that I have clinched my argument.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
273
A Flaming Worm
MURRAY HICKEY LEY
THE art of high and wild literary creation is something that is rather out of fashion in contemporary literature. We have our scrupulously detailed realists, our technically fine romanticists, but the deliberate attempt at a capture of the golden bodied, silver taloned Eagle of sheerly fierce, madly winging Beauty is, today, an effort that would seem to be in ill repute. A venture which fain would catch the bird that perched on Homer’s shoulder, ate from Dante’ hand, and gulped from Rabelais’ goblet, is one that is, at present, slighted all too much, too often looked upon as a casting of netless nets into the streaming rivers of yet unharped wonder.
But men have ever hunted the great fire bird, have ever cast nets into the white silver river-platters; and not a few times have the giant wings flapped on whited pages, the nets emerged brimming with violent emeralds, smoking moonstones.
Stemming from such mighty quests is E. R. Eddison, a modem Eagle hunter, a twentieth century caster, using for his bait a flaming, self devouring Worm, and the catch, as set before us in his book, “The Worm Ouroboros,” is amazing and wondrous indeed.
The author of “The Worm Ouroboros,” Eric Rudder Eddison, is a contemporary writer, of Scandinavian origin, now living in England. The book of which we are speaking came to life in 1922. For three years it lay untouched, an unworked mine of supernal treasure. Finally, in 1926, it was published in this country. Then, among the few who were fortunate enough to discover it, enthusiasm poured, lava-like, over the dessicated barriers erected by pedantic Caution.
James Branch Cabell and James Stephens (whose own works are rose and orchid clusters in the Kew gardens of prose) had been among the first to discover the book in the early years of the twenties. And so, when it was brought out in this country, they hastened to' proclaim their convictions in unbrooked, undamned terms.
In characteristically limpid, ‘ precise language, Cabell declared that:
“To me, in any event, The Worm Ouroboros remains a rather majestic example of romance,—of really pure romance, untitivated, in our modern way, with satire and allegory, or even with humor,—of the romance, in fine, with purchases, through its own unadulterate magic, and for no utilitarian ends whatever, the momentary suspension of disbelief in many very beautiful impossibilities.”
James Stephens, who contributed the introduction to the American edition of this book, has found it hard to restrain his enthusiasm. A few of his more laudatory passages well merit quotation here.
“The Worm Ouroboros, no worm, but the serpent itself, is a wonderful book. As a story or as prose it is wonderful, and, there being a cause for every effect, the season for writing it should be as marvellous again.
“Shelley had to write the Prometheus Unbound, he was under compulsion; for a superhuman energy had come upon him, and he was forced to create a matter that would permit him to imagine, and think, and speak like God. It was so with Blake, who willed to appear as man but existed like a mountain; and, at their best, the work of these is inhuman and sacred. It does not greatly matter that they had or had not a message. It does not matter at all that either can be charged with nonsense or that both have been called madmen—the same charge might be laid against a volcano or a thunderbolt—or this book. It does not matter that they could transcend human endurance, and could move tranquilly in realms where lightning is the norm of speed. The work of such poets is sacred because it outpaces man, and, in a realm of their own, wins ever above Shakespeare.
“An energy such as came on the poets has visited the author of this book ... . ”
“Mr. Eddison is a vast man. He needed a whole cosmos to play in, and created one; and he forged a prose to tell of it that is as gigantic as his tale.”
“Mr. Eddison’s prose does not derive from
274	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the English Bible. His mind has more affinities with Celtic imaginings and method, and his work is Celtic in that it is inspired by beauty and daring rather than by thoughts and moralities. He might be Scotch or Irish: scarcely the former, for, while Scotland loves full-mouthed verse, she, like England, is prose shy. But, from whatever heaven Mr. Eddison come, he has added a masterpiece to English literature.”	.
The book itself chronicles, in phrasing’s lush with heart’s blood of fancy’s white and purple grapes, exquisitely ensnared in the winepress of the author’s mind, a war on the planet Mercury as seen by one Lessingham, a mortal taken from this earth to that distant planet. The conflict is between the rival kingdoms of Demonland, led by Lord Juss, Brandoch Daha, Goldry Bluszco, and Spitfire, and Witchland, led by Gorice XII, Corinius, and Corund.
And now, in order to give some idea of the book itself, one must present a few passages (which, so fine is the whole, may quite easily be picked at random) that will reveal it’s innate verbal magic.
The presence chamber of the mighty Lord Juss is being described, and among a few of the star-shafts of description are the following: “But a great wonder of this chamber, and a marvel to behold, was how the capital of every one of the four and twenty pillars was hewn from a single precious stone, carved by the hand of some sculptor of long into the living form of a monster: here was a harpy with screaming mouth, so wondrous-ly cut in ochre-tinted jade it was a marvel to hear no scream from her: here in wine-yellow topaz a flying fire-drake: there a cockatrice made of a single ruby: there a star sapphire the color of moonlight, cut for a cyclops, so that the rays of the star trembled from his single eye: salamanders, mermaids, chimeras, wild men o’ the woods, leviathans, all hewn from faultless gems, thrice the bulk of a big man’s body, velvet dark sapphires, chrysolite, berl, amethyst, and the yellow zircon that is like transparent gold.
“To give light to the presence chamber were seven escarbuncles, great as pumpkins, hung in order down the length of it, and nine
fair moonstones standing in order on silver pedestals between the pillars on the dais. These jewels, drinking in the sunshine by day, gave it forth during the hours of darkness in a radiance of pink light and a soft effulgence as of moonbeams. And yet another marvel, the nether side of the canopy over the high seats was encrusted with lapis lazuli, and in that feigned dome of heaven star a diamond that shone with its own light.”
Drama and magnificence are united in soul stirring marriage in the conjuring of the dread, thrice cursed “worm of the pit,” the fabled Worm ‘Ouroboros, by King Gorice XII in the keep of Carce in the dead of night: “Now .... the vivid light departed as a blown-out lamp, and the midnight closed down again without. Nor was any sound heard save the thick panting of the King; but it was as if the night held it’s breath in expectation of that which was to come. And the candles sputtered and burned blue. The King swayed and clutched the table with his left hand; and again the King pronounced terribly the word Voarchadumicb.
“Thereafter for the space of ten heartbeats silence hung like a kestrel poised in the listening night. Then went a crash through earth and heaven, and a blinding' wildfire through the chamber as it had been a thunderbolt. All Carce quaked, and the chamber was filled with a beating of wings, like the wings of some monstrous bird. The air that was wintry cold waxed on a sudden hot as the breath of a burning mountain, and Gro was near choking with the smell of soot and the smell of brimstone. And the chamber rocked as a ship riding in a swell ’with the wind against it.”
For us it is night-time at sea, but for Eddison, “Midsummer night, ambrosial, starry-kirtled, walked on the sea.”
Then, in a most unexpected place, we discover the following lyric lines: “Day goeth up against the tyrant night. How delicate a spirit is she, how like a fawn she footeth it upon the mountains: pale pitiful light matched with the primaeval dark. But every sweet hovers in her battalions, and every heavenly influence: coolth of the wayward little winds of morning, flowers awakening,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
275
birds a-carol, dews a-sparkle on the fine drawn webs the tiny spinners hang from fern-frond to thorn, from thorn to wet dainty leaf of the silver birch; the young day laughing in her own strength, wild with her own beauty; fire and life and every scent and color born anew to triumph over chaos and slow darkness and the kinless night.
A fitting end to these flowered bits is given us in the picturing of a certain sunset: “The sun was down behind the stately Thornbacks, and the whole sky from bourne to bourne was alight -with the sunset glory. Dappled clouds, with sky showing here and there between, covered the heavens, save in the west where a great archway of clear air opened between clouds and earth: air of an azure that seemed to burn, so pure it was, so charged with warmth: The clouds above the
arch were pale’ rose: the zenith like black opal, dark blue and thunderous grey dappled with fire.” But we must have dene with this colored magic.
Eddison’s story is a giant ivory bow flinging tulip-arrows of majestic prose at the far Eagle of which we have spoken; his Worm Ouroboros, (the dread serpent, ever eating itself, that is conjured up by Gorice XII) flaming bait in the rivers of wonder.
In fine, he has given us a masterful, robust work; a work that bids fair to cloak itself in the coveted purple mantle of Immortality. The pebbles of the years, hurled from the vast mountainside of the Ages, will never bury it; for here is a great book, o book of flowered thunderbolts, of filigreed lightnings, of high, wild Beauty-----and of such is Man himself.
Old English Ballads and Negro Songs
JORGE PALOMINO
SOMEONE has described to me, how groups of negroes, lost like phantoms in the mist of fantastic evenings in the South, gathered at certain trysting places around huge bonfires, and sat all through the night—drinking, laughing and singing. . . . Old customs of strange peoples, forced by fate to stand in the background of civilization, people who suddenly evolved from the lower states of mind to the category of man. One can still see, only too patently, their war dances, their wild sensual dances, in our contemporary “Charleston” and “Black Bottom”; their raging awakening to a higher consciousness in their “Blues” and in their songs, and the exuberance of the jungles handed down by a strange atavistic power in their minds, in their intense predilection for the brightest colors.
Negro songs were originated in the South, among the slaves of the large plantations. They are impersonal, of an ambitious character, essentially narrative, and it is certain that they were the fruit of group singing, and improvised in moments of psychological outbursts of joy, sadness or religious fervor. There is in every man a strange need of creation, of self expression. Savages tattoo their
dark bodies abundantly and try to produce horror by identifying themselves with fantastic beings of their own creation. So also we see the hands of a Michel Angelo creating an eternal youth, his David, and the pen of a divinely inspired Dante creating, as it were, Hell itself, and Heaven and immortal Beatrice.
Ballads originally were the creations of simple people, for the people. And it is undoubtedly this same strange need of self-expression in men that originated the Old English Ballads and the Negro Songs. The same origin and the same germinal art content are common to both forms. These have each forced their way into the two branches of art that enter into their composition, that is, poetry and music. The ballad form in poetry has been immortalized in creations like “The Ballad of Reading Gaol,” “La Belle Dame sans Merci,” and by so many other beautiful English, French, Italian and Spanish masterpieces ; and in music by Chopin, Debussy, and other musical geniuses. In the Negro Songs, their melodic expression being so superior to their words, we find the accompaniment in such a high state of development that one thinks of negro music as one of the most
276
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
modern forms of composition. Whole movements of the “Symphony of the New World” of Dvorak’s are constructed of rarely subtle negro melodies.
The popularity of negro music today is probably due to this belief that it is very modern, as well as to the fact of its artistic excellence. I have heard an entire program of Negro Spirituals sung with incredible success by a negro choir in the fashionable
Town Hall, during New York’s last musical season; and I have heard their overwhelmingly sensual “Blues” in the negro carbarets of Harlem—“Blues” directly extracted from the old Negro Songs and Spirituals—music that has influenced and changed in a quaint manner the entire psychology, the ethics and social philosophy of the modern race and age; changed it so completely that it is sometimes called “The Jazz Age.”
>——,j.—.j,—<—
Sherwood Anderson—Cobbler to the Gods
PHILIP DE ROULET
A YEAR AGO a friend of mine who is somewhat more mature than I and who at times seems to be genuinely concerned about my lack of culture, recommended that I begin an intensive study of those writers known as the “Modernists.” For the sake of being agreeable, and because I really wanted to know something about contemporary literature, I visited the South Bend Public Library, and returned with three volumes of Sherwood Anderson. These bore such attractive titles as: “Poor White,” “The Triumph of the Egg,” and “Winesburg Ohio.” I though that books bearing such delightful names would prove to be interesting, and consequently I prepared myself for some delightful evenings in the company of Mr. Anderson. About one week later I finished the last of the trio, and felt much the same as if I had just returned from the funeral of my Aunt Hadassa, or had just witnessed a particularly painful bit of surgery.
I found Sherwood Anderson’s writings extremely depressing. When I finished “Poor White,” I realized that the world was not such a lovely place, that the lillies of the field have been grossly overrated, and that summer was much shorter than even the mildest of winters. “The Triumph of the Egg” caused me to wonder whether or not anyone was really happy. By the time that I turned the last page of “Winesburg Ohio,” I was convinced that fornication, if not a social necessity, was at least an every day occur-ance, and that all men were predestined to happiness or sorrow—with the chances heavily favoring the latter. My illusions were gone, for the moment at least, and all of my
ideals concerning beauty and love and truth had been dashed to the ground with cometlike velocity. I pictured Anderson’s mind as a place to which happiness, chastity, pure love, beauty and friendship were strange,—a place dominated by reality, ugliness, and sordid misery. I thought of him as a cobbler to the Gods, who had found too many clay feet.
But I did find a certain beauty in Mr. Anderson’s observations—a sombre poignance like the sigh of a violin whose notes die too quickly. My heart was touched by the story of the faded, miserable old man who was afraid of his own hands, the restaurant keeper with his devotion to the egg, the unfortunate inventor of the “Corn Planting Machine.” I believe that the creator of these altogether miserable characters must move through life writing of the cockle and leaving the wheat to his less-fatalistic and more idealistic contemporaries.
Women who have never known love, men who have no idea of a pure passion, ministers, loving but unloved, drunken derelicts, ambitious fools—such as these are the types with which Mr. Anderson deals. I can picture him reaching a bare arm into a drumly pool to draw out his subjects, barnacle-covered creatures that shrink from the light. He scorns the sun-lit creek where waters laugh over the stones, where the clear sandy bottom gleams golden, a setting for flashing pebbles. I ask him why he chooses the ugly, when the beautiful is so near. “Why draw up the pebbles shining so prettily through the spring water?” he answers. “But no one can see the stones in the green stagnant pool—yet they exist. Therefore, bring them to the surface,
«
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
barnacles and all, so that everyone realizes that such ugliness is about us.”
We look at Sherwood Anderson’s characters. We compare them with people whom we know. We realize how natural, how hu
man, how possible they are. Through them we see life very differently. Everything seems futile; everything is sad. We miss the beauty that we used to see. We bow to melancholy—and, perhaps, Mr. Anderson smiles.
^^1=========^^
$ '
]	Loop Sunrise—Chicago
Cyclops thrusts his head into the clouds and strains his shoulders at the low, gray sky. The gray mist churns against his lusty breath, and sivirls about his beating arms and thrashing limbs that shake the dull night languor from his torso, tall and white and faintly luminous thru the shreds of mist that cling with cold, damp fingers to the marble of his frame. Tall buildings rise—
The soft glou? of a dancer’s body languid in the mauve shadoivs of a dimly lighted stage—	-
Impersonal, like white cliffs standing starkly bare Unscarred with all the beating of cloud waves which swirl, and hiss, and boil against the stone.Like water serpents—
Writhing snakes in green and brown and faded emerald; scaled in long-di owned jewels wan and lusterless, against the stvirling silver of the surf.
A red blade flashes on the Eastern shore, Incarnadines the white breast of a cloud. A silver rapier, swifter than the prism Arched breathlessly against the slow . . . gray . . . rain . . . Leaps lightly from the claret cloak flung carelessly across the horizon. Blood gushes from the gaping, golden wounds .... The mist scarf falls away!
Cyclops thrust his head against the clouds!
The wind pack bays across the cool, green lake and cloud-deer shake their antlers and rush, frightened, thru the sky, but leave bright foot-prints etched in silver eddies on the water’s rising breast inhaling deep the freshness of the dawn.
Q ’	—JOHN DE ROULET.
& ^^^|C===============i

GJ
§
278
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JIM BRADY, Quarterback
Great Army Team Bows to Rockmen
SCORE 12-6—-CHEVIGNY AND O’BRIEN TALLY FOR NOTRE DAME
TED TWOMEY, Tackle
Battered, outweighed, twice defeated, an underdog, the burning flame that is the 1928 edition of the Notre Dame football team, fought and smashed its way to a 12-6 victory over Army’s greatest team to accomplish the most startling upset of the season last Saturday at the Yankee Stadium.
From the opening minutes of play when Eddie Collins threw Cagle for a fifteen yard loss, to the last play when an exhausted Irish line stopped Hutchinson on its six inch marker, the men of Notre Dame played like supermen. The tradition of Salmon, of Eichen-laub and of Brandy was with this team and the spirit of the immortal Gipp seemed to have inspired every man. No words of ours can tell you how this team fought. All we can say is that it fought as no Notre Dame team ever has, and for you who know the traditions of your school no more need be said.
The first quarter was uneventful, the linemen of both teams smothering the opposing backs before they could get started. Notre Dame accounted for two first downs however, on passes from Niemic to Collins, but the greater part of the period was taken up by a punting duel between Niemic and Murrell, with the former having the edge.
The second quarter opened with another
exchange of punts, Brady taking Murrell’s on Army’s thirty-eight yard line. Freddie Collins ripped ofi: twenty-two yards through left tackle, the first long run of the game. On two successive bucks he carried the ball to Army’s five yard line. Chevigny made a yard and Collins carried it across on the next play only to fumble, Murrell recovering for a touchback. Once more before the half ended the Blue and Gold marched deep into Army territory, this time taking the ball from its own thirty-seven yard line to the Pointers’ thirty-five yard strip before being stopped.
Cagle got loose for the first time, early in the second half, and ran twenty yards to his own forty-seven yard mark before Vezie downed him. Dropping back on the next play he whipped a beautiful pass to Messinger, whom Niemic downed with a flying tackle on Notre Dame’s thirteen yard line. In four tries Army made it first down on the Irish three yard line, from where Murrell took it over for a touchdown two plays later. Sprague’s try for point was wide.
An exchange of punts gave the Irish the ball on their own forty yard line and the march was on. A penalty and four plays with Chevigny and Collins carrying the ball made it first down on Army’s twelve yard line. Four tries made it first down on the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
279
West Pointers’ two yard line, but Anny held and it took the Rockmen four plays more before John Chevigny crashed through for a touchdown on a cut-back over center. Nie-mic’s try for the extra point was blocked.
Carideo’s try for a field-goal was short and Army took the ball on its own twenty yard line soon after the fourth quarter opened. “Biff” Jones’ men failed to gain and several exchanges of punts gave the Irish the ball on their own forty-seven yard line. In exactly four plays Niemic and Chevigny made it first down on Army’s sixteen yard line. There seemed to be a mix-up in the signals on the next play and the ball rolled back to the thirty-three yard line where Chevigny fell on it with half the Army line on top of him. He was carried from the field, exhausted rather than knocked out. Then Rockne inserted the lithe-limbed Californian, John O’Brien, and the versatile Niemic promptly whipped a thirty yard pass to him as he fell across the goal line with the winning touchdown.
Army died hard. Cagle took Niemic’s kickoff and finally got loose on a typical Cagle run after being held in check all day; on and on he sped down the side-line with a clear field ahead, but fast as he ran the living flame that is Freddie Collins sped still faster and nailed him from behind on the Rockmen’s thirty yard line. Battling desperately Army surged to Notre Dame’s one yard line with one down left to score in. Hutchinson hit center but a mighty Irish line was adamant, and even as the gun sounded he failed by a scant six inches.
No one stood out for Notre Dame. How could any man have stood out when Eddie Collins threw Cagle for a fifteen yard loss; when O’Brien dove after and clutched Niemic’s perfect pass; when Johnny Law, the lightest man in either line, stopped Cagle and Murrell time after time; when Twomey and Miller were immovable, unstoppable, and Sprague left the game in a daze; when Moynihan outplayed and outlasted Army’s great center, Hall; when Leppig crashed through time and again and wore down three opposing guards; when Vezie and Colrick stopped Cagle cold? How could any man have stood
out when Chevigny blocked and ran and tackled like a fiend until he was carried exhausted from the field; when Niemic punted and passed coolly and deliberately in the face of what was recognized as the country’s greatest team; when Fred Collins forgot his broken wrist, and slashed and tore through Army’s mighty line, and climaxed it all by bringing down the mighty Cagle after he had been shaken loose in an open field; when Brady and Carideo, playing under the terrific strain of calling signals in a game like this one, calmly and coolly chose their plays, and chose them right to the extent of sixteen first downs.
Army (6)	Notre Dame (12)
Carlmark____________LE_____________Ed Collins
Sprague______________LT______________ Twomey
Hammack _____________LG________________  Law
Hall _________________C____________ Moynihan
Humbert ____________RG___________:____ Leppig
Perry________________RT______________ Miller
Messinger____________RE________________Vezie
Nave_________________QB________________Brady
O’Keefe_________-___RH________________Niemic
Cagle _______________LH____________ Chevigny
Murrell ____________FB___________Fred Collins
Referee, Walter Eckersall, Chicago; umpire, T. J. Thorpe, Columbia; linesman, F. W. Murphy, Brown; field judge, N. E. Kearns, DePauw.
Score by periods:
Notre Dame______________0	0	6	6—12
Army ___________________0	0	6	0— 6
Scoring: touchdowns, Notre Dame, Chevigny, O’Brien; Army, Murrell. Substitutions: Army, Allan for O’Keefe, O’Keefe for Allan, Dibb for Humber, Parkham for Sprague, Lynch for Messinger, Maxwell for Hammack, Walsh for Dibb, Allan for O’Keefe, Gibner for Nave, Piper for Murrell, Hutchinson for Cagle; Notre Dame, Colrick for E. Collins, Cannon for Leppig, Leppig for Cannon, Carideo for Brady, Dew for Chevigny, O’Brien for Colrick, E. Collins for O’Brien.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
ARMY AND NAVY ELEVENS ON 1929 IRISH CARD
Notre Dame will meet the Army next year on Saturday, November 30, according to an announcement recently made by West Point athletic officials who have been drawing up a 1929 schedule for the Cadets. The engagement as usual, will be played in New York City, either at the Yankee Stadium, or at the Polo Grounds.
Officials of the United States Naval Academy have also carded Notre Dame for a game next Fall on October 12, at a place to be later decided upon by both institutions.
280	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TARTAN CLAN READY FOR IRISH
Heralded far in advance of the current football season as a mighty eleven, Carnegie Tech has been fulfilling the fondest expectations of its most ardent supporters. At the present time, the Skibos have the distinction of sharing with the comparatively inconspicuous Boston College team the honor of being the only undefeated major eleven in the East. The Tech tribe will invade the honored confines of Cartier Field tomorrow, brandishing the scalps of six fallen enemies, three of whom were especially choice victims. These three are W. & J., Pittsburgh, and Georgetown, who have tasted Carnegie violence during the past month. The conquest of W. & J. was expected, for the Presidents are woefully weak this year; the Pitt game had been in doubt until the final score of 6-0 was an-nonuced; but the sensational triumph over the high-powered Georgetown team by 13 to 0 had hardly been anticipated.
The Tartans pride themselves in the encon-ium of “The Fighting Scotch,” but this ap-pelation is probably derived from old Andrew Carnegie himself. Such names as Schmidt, Mielzener, Rosenzwieg, Dreshar, Highberger, and Karcis are not suggestive of bagpipes and kilts. Be this as it may, the mere name, “Fighting Scotch,” has spurred many a Tech team to victory.
HARPSTER AND KARCIS TECH ACES
The scoring power of the Skibos lies chiefly in her two great backs, Harpster and Karcis. Captain Harpster at quarterback, will be remembered as the same gentleman who caused the Irish so much trouble in that disastrous upset at Pittsburgh. The Tartan leader is regarded as an excellent prospect for AllAmerican honors this fall. The other Carnegie ace-in-the-hole is the burly fullback who has earned for himself the title of “Five Yards” Karcis. It was the power of Karcis that registered the first touchdown against Georgetown last Saturday, and this same terrific drive will be hurled repeatedly at the Irish line tomorrow.
Advance reports from Pittsburgh have it that the Tech forward wall averages 210 pounds per man from tackle to tackle. Miel-
ziner, the huge 235-pound center, is the colossus of Carnegie’s line. Dreshar, whose favorite position is right guard, also alternates at the pivot post with Mielziner. The other guard is Lovewell, who by the way, is no relation to the “Lillums” of funny-paper fame. Schmidt and Highberger will probably start at tackle, with Rosenzweig and Sweet or Shaughnessy holding down the end positions. Incidentally, this Rosenzweig was the star of the fray with the Hilltoppers last week, his skill at executing Carnegie’s famous end-around play being directly responsible for one of the Tartan touchdowns and indirectly for the other.
Coach Steffen has a wealth of backs to choose from when he selects his starting line-up. Outstanding among these, of course, are Harpster and Karcis; but Letzelter, Moorehead, and Flannagan will also be called upon to bear the brunt of the Skibo attack tomorrow.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
LYONS TRIUMPHS; FRESHMAN AND HOWARD TIE
Upholding the honor of its uncrossed goal line to the last, Lyons turned a first quarter touchdown into its margin of victory, defeating the Maroon horde from Sophomore for the coveted title of Division II. It was a bitterly fought game between two almost evenly matched teams, the superior defense of the Lyonites eventually proving the deciding factor. The Viking squad will meet the winner of the Freshman-Howard game for the interhall title November 25, on Cartier field.
In Division I the deadlock still remains unbroken. Freshman and Howard, who have been tied for first place since the opening games, were unable to decide the issue last Sunday and will play again on Cartier field, November 18—the winner to meet the already victorious Lyons the following Sunday.
Resume of the last games of the interhall schedule:
LYONS, 6; SOPHOMORE, 0
Playing the smarter football for the first few minutes of the opening quarter, the Vik
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
281
ings cashed in their lone chance of the ga r.e for a touchdown, and then fought the Maroons to a standstill to preserve their slim lead to the end. Getting the ball on their own 40 yard line after the first exchange of punts, the Gold Coasters rushed it to Sophomore’s 35 yard strip, from where they scored a beautiful pass—Mangin to Hardacre. Sophomore’s turn came in the second quarter. Taking advantage of a fumble on Lyons’ 30 yard line, the two-year-olds gained 15 yards on a pass, Langdon to Howard, only to be held for downs. Still not to be denied, the Maroons recovered a punt that slipped from Francis’ fingers on Lyons’ 10 yard strip and plunged the ball to within inches of the goal but again the Gold Coasters turned them back and Mangin punted out of danger, the half finding the ball in mid-field.
The second half was as unlike the first as day is from night. For the entire two periods the ball see-sawed back and forth with neither team able to gain consistently. Mangin, Travers, Francis, and Hardacre scintillated for the victors, while Romanin and Howard starred for Sophomore.
HOWARD, 0; FRESHMEN, 0
This game proved a fine example of the irresistible force and the immovable object. Both teams stronger defensively than offensively, the ground gaining efforts of both as a rule came to naught; occasional dashes for five or ten yards by Chevallier or Durcott alone breaking the monotony of three plunges and a punt. Freshman made the only sustained drive of the game in the third quarter when an intercepted lateral pass gave them the ball on Howard’s 30 yard strip. From there the yearlings plunged it fifteen yards only to have Howard stiffen and hold them for downs. Higgins, Chevallier and Napolitano starred for Howard while Durcott, Terry and Georgio looked the best for Freshman.
OFF-CAMPUS I, 24; BROWNSON, 0
Brownson took its final and most decisive defeat of the season Sunday when the Off-Campus aggregation blanked them, 24-0. The Day-Dogs began their attack in the first quar
ter with two touchdowns through the weak Arabs’ line and culminated the slaughter by two more scores in the final half. A 25 yard run followed an intercepted pass in the closing frame featured the town-boys’ play, which was steady throughout the entire game. Orint was the outstanding Brownson player, while the entire Off-Campus team starred.	—P. H.
CARROLL, 6; WALSH, 0
A blocked punt gave the Main Building boys a 6-0 victory over Walsh Hall on the Varsity practice field in their final tilt of the season. Attempting to kick from their own five yard line, in the third quarter, Walsh received a set-back when Max of Carroll blocked the kick and Cox fell on the ball for the only score of the battle. The attack was mainly aerial for both teams with Max, Perone and Conti featuring Carroll’s offense.
—p. H.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
Final standings in the Interhall league:
DIVISION I
Won
Howard________________________3
Freshman______________________3
Off-Campus I _________________3
Carroll ______________________2
Walsh ________________________1
Brownson______________________0
Lost 0 0 2 2 4 4
Tied 2 9 0 1 0 1
DIVISION II
Won Lost Tied
Lyons _______________________5	0	0
Sophomore____________________4	1	0
Corby _______________________2	2	0
Badin -----------------------1	2	0
Off-Campus II________________0	3	0
Morrissey____________________0	4	0
—J. H. ZUBER.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
RESERVES WIN AND LOSE
Saturday’s reserve games netted the Irish a victory and a defeat. The team that went to Iowa City to battle the “B” team of the University of Iowa met defeat, the score being 13 to 0. Though the Notre Dame squad expected victory, the unusual weight of the lowans with the line averaging 195 pounds and the backfield 185 pounds, resulted in the final wearing down of the Irish squad. Both touchdowns occurred in the fourth quarter after concerted drives by the burly men of
282
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Home of Paramount Pictures
SAT.
Sun.-Mon.
Tues.
He Bewitched Women!
Then . . . One Woman Bewitched him........
JOHN GILBERT —in—
“The MASKS of the DEVIL”
A Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Picture
—With— Theodore Roberts
Eva Von Berne and Alma Rubens
—Also— Warner Bros. VITAPHONE Specialties Fox MOVIETONE News
ONE ENTIRE WEEK
SAT., NOV. 24th
See . . . Hear and Enjoy An Astonishing Vitaphone Thrill Al Jolson
—in-—
Warner Bros. Greatest Success “The SINGING FOOL”
Iowa. Because the field was muddy the Irish runs failed to result in touchdowns. Much credit is due however to the line, Taffan, Culver and Metzger shoving plenty of football. In the backfield Nichols and Savoldi were outstanding. The first three quarters were the evidence of ability and fighta in the Irish reserves, as more first downs and yardage were gained.
Playing at Cartier field, the other squad of Notre Dame reserves gave us a victory over Minnesota’s “B” string. The powerful “Gophers” came here with an impressive reputation but returned to the confines of Minneapolis with the short end of an impressive score, 24 to 0. Long runs resulting in touchdowns featured the game. Fishliegh, Notre Dame quarterback, returned a punt 40 yards for the first touchdown only three minutes after the first whistle. During the second period, in nine consecutive plays the Notre Dame backfield carried the ball 40 yards for the second touchdown. After the half the defense of Minnesota functioned and Notre Dame failed to score.
In the final quarter Cannon’s long run and a concentrated drive resulted in two more touchdowns. The coordination of line and backfield play and the effective interference were major factors in Notre Dame’s victory. Much credit is due to the individual performances of Dailey and Wilhelmy in the backfield and Donahue and Pendergast in the line.	-
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
CROSS COUNTRY SEASON ENDS
Indiana’s victory over Notre Dame last Saturday morning by the score of 26 to 29 brought to a close one of the most successful years a Notre Dame cross-country team has ever had.
Despite the three defeats, Coach John P. Nicholson is well satisfied with the team’s work especially because of its defeat of Illinois, the first in the history of the two schools’ track relations. The Irish harriers led by Capt. Bill Brown have showed both determination and ability in their meets. The outstanding individual performance was that of John “Chesty” Brown, who led his
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
283
mates to the finishing line in every meet. Great runs by Jim Biggins aided materially in the victories over Marquette and Illinois. John Vaichules and Bob Brennan, running their last year, turned in excellent performances.
The season’s scores were: Wisconsin, 26— Notre Dame, 29; Notre Dame, 27—Illinois, 28; Notre Dame, 17—Marquette, 37; Michigan State, 27—Notre Dame, 28; Indiana, 29 —Notre Dame, 26.
BEAT CARNEGIE TECH
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ♦ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖
<£♦	4$» %	%
Many writers were under the impression that the ball was in Army’s possession as the game ended. Army had failed to make the required distance in four downs and it was Notre Dame’s ball. No doubt the rapidity with which things were happening caused much confusion and the erring writers failed to notice this detail.
❖ * ❖
Army used six guards and four tackles. Messers Miller, Twomey, Leppig, Law and Cannon are not very tough. Neither is Tim Moynihan.
❖ ❖ *
The wise money on Wall Street did not fare so well last Saturday. Some of the smart boys took an awful trimming.
5^
It was not so much an exhibition of mind over matter, as of spirit over sheer latent ability and brawn.
The first three plays of the game looked like curtains for the Irish, but boy I oh boy! What was behind those curtains.
♦ ON THE ENEMY’S TRAIL *
*	J. G. P.	❖
The high-score record for last week was achieved by Southern California, which rolled up a 78 to 7 count against Arizona. The Trojans had little difficulty in amassing the total, bowling over the cowboys at will, and demonstrating the same old scoring power that is expected to land them on top of the Coast
SUN., MON., TUES.	.
“THE HAUNTED HOUSE”
The screen’s most thrilling mystery with Thelma Todd, Larry Kent. Chester Conklin, Barbara Bedford, Eve Southern and Montague Love.
WED., THURS., SAT.
Dorothy Mackaill and Ralph Forbes
—in— “THE WHIP”
PALACE
STARTING SUNDAY, NOV. 18 CHESTER CONKLIN in
“TAXI 13”
BEGINNING THURSDAY, NOV. 23
SAN FITCH GIRLS
—and—
MEMORIES OF MINSTRELS
ORPHEUM
SAT., NOV. 17 to 24, inclusive
Universal’s Spectacular $2,000,000 screen version of America’s Greatest Melodrama
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
Special Prices—Adults 30c; Children 10c.
284
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7 Notre Dame Men guessed the Notre Dame-Army
score
Oh, Jack., I’m so thrilled to talk over plans, I can hardly wait ’till Saturday.”
“Fine, Mary, 1’11 be there on the 1 1:30. We’ll have a bite to eat and then go straight to the stadium for the big game.”
College men are keen for progressiveness. Like Jack they have found that long distance telephone service is the preferred way to make appointments. Long distance rates are low and the service is faster than ever before.
Use the Telephone to make your next appointment.
Try your luck on the California game
Last chance at the $25.00 in merchandise Free
SEE OUR WINDOW THIS WEEK
INDIANA
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	285
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
St. Joseph Loan and Trust Company
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
----o---
J. M. S. BUILDING
Louisiana Texas NewMexico Arizona California Oregon Nevada Utah
Go One Way—Return Another
Tl) DAY’S westbound
* traveler makes the most of his trip by going one way, returning another and seeing all the scenic wonders of the Pacific Coast while there. Southern Pacific offers you four great routes with a vast network of connecting lines reaching out to all the scenic attractions of the Great Southwest and Pacific Coast. For complete information and illustrated ____literature, write, dep’t. X._
Southern Pacific
E. W. CLAPP, Traffic Manager, 310 South Michigan Blvd., Chicago, Ml.
The Gravure Section of the News-Times contains action pictures of the game.
On sale at the News Stands
THE
NEWS-TIMES
286	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Conference this fall. Two formidable opponents, Washington State and Idaho, still remain to encounter Howard Jones’ men before they tackle the Irish on December 1st.
Perhaps the most important contest between two Eastern elevens was staged at Albany when Carnegie Tech faced Georgetown last Saturday. The Hilltoppers, fresh from a 7-2 win over New York University the previous week-end, were conceded better than a fair chance of victory; but they were unable to master the complicated Tartan offense and fell before the Skibos powerful team, 13-0. The Pittsburghers had the better of the game throughout, registering sixteen first downs as against thirteen by Lou Little’s charges. The Jesuits fought hard, especially in the last quarter, but superior weight and skill sent them down to defeat.
CAGERS RAPIDLY ROUNDING INTO SHAPE .
Coach George Keogan’s basketball squad began daily practice last Monday, after two weeks of drill, three nights a week. Light scrimmages between picked teams were held each practice and the entire squad is fast rounding into shape.
Co-captains Frank Crowe and Joe Jachym have been setting a fast pace for their mates in regaining their basket ability, and some expert dribbling and passing should be seen during the season if these first practices can be taken as an indication of future results.
The freshman squad has been cut to twenty-five men, and according to Coach Keogan it is one of the best yearling outfits that Notre Dame has ever had.
Armour Tech opens the Blue and Gold season here on December 11.
The University Dining Halls
Will Serve a Special PLATE LUNCHEON at One Dollar
For Your Week-end Guests
SATURDAY AT NOON
Cafeteria Open from 6 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
COLLEGIATE STYLES ARE HERE
Ask to see the Swanky—Hit and Hickoff—all imported Scotch grain—$6.00 and $7.00.
BEACON SHOE STORE 114 West Washington Avenue
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
the world-famous
VENUS Vpencils
3 copying
At all dealers
Buy	give best service and
a	longest wear. ..
dozen
10c
AMERICAN PENCIL CO. 500 Willow Ave., AV 18, Hoboken, N. J.
Makers of UNIQUE Thin Lead.
Colored Pencils in 20 colors—$1.00 per doz.
Stop at the HOTEL TYLER
When you come to
Los Angeles with your
Football Team or otherwise.
Located only two blocks from the Coliseum. Reasonable rates. Special prices to those attending the game if you clip this ad and bring it with you.
Comer 38th and Grand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
287
GILBRO’S
Formerly Army Store 330 S. Michigan St.
CROMPTON’S Blue, Grey or Brown CORDUROYS ......$2.95
MONARCH-MADE Sheepskin Lined
COATS, heavy waterproof top .......................$6.48
VARSITY Brand Guaranteed SLICKERS.............   ...$4.95
ARMY FIELD SHOES.............$3.45
Double Soles, $3.85.
k-	.......
(r ...... ............
----—"T	-A
Where Notre Dame Men Come For Exceptional Food
The
China Inn
Noon Luncheon, 50 cents Dinner. 65 cents • Sunday Dinner, 81.00	.
Bring “her” in for that Tasty Dinner before the dance or the show.
5k :k
210 N. MAIN STREET
Next to the City Hall
HELLO MEN!
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
“When a Feller needs a friend”
When birthdays heave into view —Mothers, sisters, or best girls— what do you do? Worry and then not send anything? Just come to Wyman’s, step inside the south door and say to the girl there—“I	i
want a pair of your Jo-don all silk chiffon stockings in the newest . shade.” They come all packed in a gift box ready to send and the girl friend will think you’re wonderful. (They’re only $1.50 a pair, too— but looks more.)
WYMAN’S
V —	'	-.	- —”
288
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Girl’s Hot Tip Steers Student
to Favorite
Pipe Tobacco
San Francisco, Cal. Laras & Bro. Co.
Richmond, Va.
Gentlemen:
Since I first started to smoke, I have always smoked cigarettes.
One day SHE said to me “Ed, dear, why don’t you smoke a pipe. I think those Jong straight-stemmed pipes are so manly-looking.”
So, naturally, I had to buy a longstemmed pipe and a can of well, we’ll call it “ Blubs Mixture tobacco.” Immediately with a certain feeling of pride in my new pipe, I “lighted up” and proceeded to have my tongue bitten. I tried almost every brand I had ever heard of, but none satisfied me.
Sadly, I had to confess to HER that as a pipe smoker I was a good dietitian.
“Did you try Edgeworth?” she asked. “That is what dad smokes, and he’s always smoked a pipe.”
So I was forced to try Edgeworth, and all that I can say is that if every fellow that has tried to accustom himself to a pipe, started with Edgeworth, there would be very few that would go back to cigarettes.
Yours sincerely,
Ed Maher
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
<CliOTUES
ESTABOSREP ENGLfSH^NtVERSITY STYLES, ^iEORJEtS-^V^R^UTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY £ORt>IST«NGUISHED SERVICE I^T^fiU^lVip STATES.
]
(JhwtiOouse
suit* Mo,	o
SB_	■=	\
vercoats
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
OCR STORE IS THE J
of South Bend
The character of the suits and overcoats tailored by Charter House will earn your most sincere liking.

Dr. Frank M. Powers
University Physician
‘ MAX ADLER CO.
When making purchases, remember that our advertisers deserve your patronage.
health flunk
you
Nothing pulls down marks as fast as sickness —and good health pro* vides the clear brain that carries you through many a tight quiz. All of na* ture’s healthfill food ele* ments are in
Shredded Wheats
AND WHOLE MILK
My father said—
"John Hancock is a great name;
Life insurance is practically indispensable.” That time, at least, he was right.
or Boston. Massachusetts
J)orit Experiment. with your Appearance
AT THE BEST MEN’S SHOP
How Dry I Am
Frog Brand Slickers are guaranteed waterproof, made of light-weight material with plenty of room for your comfort. A genuine oiled slicker will keep you dry on rainy days.
FROG BRAND SUCKERS are obtainable at men’s stores, haberdashersand department stores. Get yours— TODAY
H. M. SAWYER & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE - MASS.
Hotel LaSalle Barber Shop
Accomplished Service
SIX EXPERT BARBERS MANICURE
N. D. Men Always Welcome. You’ll be delighted.
*------------ ~
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Real Folks at Home (The Cigar Store Clerk)
By BRIGGS
c
C P. Loriilord Co.* Est. 1760
. not a cough in a carload

