WEMRE them AU!
Philip Mouris l n
'««.n9 b,md ,o X?"'’
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a PHILIP MORRIS. Just take a puff— DON'T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?
2 Light up your present-brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide. for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!

w
NO CIGARETTE hangover ^rneons MORE SMOKING PLEASURE
i'^niUP MO RR IS
2
Scholastic
MASS SCHEDULE ....
Saturday, Nov. 4 — white —St. Charles Borromeo. 2nd or. of Octave of All Saints, 3rd or. of Sts. Vitalis and Agricola, 4th or. of the Rosary, 5th or. for Peace.
Sunday, Nov. 5—green—23rd Sun. after Pent. 2nd or. of the Octave of All Saints, 3rd or. of the Rosary, 4th or. For Peace.
^Monday, Nov. 6 — white — Day within the Octave of All Saints. Mass of the Feast. 2nd or. of the Holy Spirit, 3rd or. for the Church, 4th or. For Peace.
^Tuesday, Nov. 7 — Same as preceding.	.
Wednesday, Nov. 8—white—Octave of All Saints. Mass as on the Feast. 2nd or. of the Four Crowned Martyrs.
Thursday, Nov. 9—white—Dedication of the Archbasilica of Our Lord. 2nd or. of St. Theodore, Credo.
Friday, Nov. 10—white—St. Andrew Avellino. 2nd or. of St. Trypho and his companions, 3rd or. For Peace.
- A Requiem or a Votive Mass is permitted.
If you want your underwear really comfortable you’ll want Arrows. Arrow shorts have no binding center seam, and are generously cut. Form-fitting Arrow “Guards” and undershirts are made of fine quality cotton yams. See your Arrow dealer!
Arrow Shorts s1.25 up T-Shirts s1.00 Athletic Shirts	Arrow “Guards” 95e
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Wait till you see the date I got for Effie . . . He looks like he just stepped out of a men's fashion magazine.
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
GILBERTS
813 -817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Nov. 3, 1950
3
perfect form... from any angle
Flowers by Williams
I I I
I I I
ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
WILLIAMS, The Florist
219 W. Washington
Phone 3-5149 “Just West of the Oliver”
new Van GIVE	!
tailored gabardine in front, knitted	|
comfort in back, completely washable	g
Scoring an ace for service with its fine-woven	■
Van Gab gabardine front... its knitted-for-	I
action back and waist. The new Van G-i-v-e*
gives you smart looks ... many color combina-	I
tions . . . g-i-v-e-s with every movement. New	■
low price, §4.95.	*Reg.T.M. Pat. Pend.	g
9 Van Hensen.	1
'the worlds smartest'1 Ullll I/O	I
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y. ■
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
cW
111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
HOE. LaSalle
GILBERT'S
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
Choose your VAN HEUSEN
from the complete selection in the Men’s Shop at
First Floor
ROBERTSONS
of SPoulh^end
The Scholastic •

Top of the Week
November comes in bright and promising . . .
Spirit Plus
The spirit on campus last week reminded us of V-J day without the libertine kissing and amiable incandescence of John Barleycorn. Things really reached some sort of peak on Thursday night when the ND vigilantes hopped in their trusty jeeps and rode the range and all-night shifts of Dillonites stood guard over everything, including Badin Bog, for no earthly reason except to guard something.
The Friday night pep rally’s bonfire was the brightest thing on campus since the Main Building burned down in the 1800’s. A South Bend fire truck stood about 50 yards from the inferno with motor running and hoses dry and we think the fire-eaters enjoyed the blaze almost as much as the co-editors of the ■Juggler, who were roasting marshmallows.
When the crowds came Saturday they wondered if the Laundry was on strike because of all the dirty linen hanging out of hall windows. A couple of Lansing residents took a look at the sign on the site of the forthcoming Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Residence Hall and said, “Guess these Notre Dame folks are tired of building their halls on top of the ground.”
A couple of erstwhile ND rooters after watching the game with their friends Johnny Walker and somebody’s Grandad stumbled out of Gate 14 and sobbed, “Almost had ’em.” And the funny thing is we almost did.
Political Potpourri
Tuesday is election day and the polls all over the nation will be busier than ever before deciding if Harry Truman’s 81st Congress is all those nasty things the Republicans keep saying they are. The Democrats will be out to prove that they can win an off-year election without rallying behind their president, probably the wisest thing the Democrats did since they had Roosevelt.
This year’s political struggle is about as confusing as a Northern Indiana
Transit Bus schedule. Some Republicans are supporting the Fair Deal, some Democrats are acting like disciples of Taft, and some Dixiecrats are even running again. Some people never learn.
Some Suggestions
This week’s Junior dance in the Navy barn and the forthcoming Sophomore Cotillion, Law Ball, and K. of C. dance only emphasize the fact that a great many of our readers need advice on the problem of going to, being at, and recovering from ND dances.
This first rule is very simple. Get a girl. Dancing by yourself can cause a few ugly comments and it’s no fun at all to step on your own feet.
Rule two is almost as simple as the first. Get some one who can’t dance. You will probably be surprised, but this rule can do more for your evening’s entertainment than anything else. If you just have to dance, you can always do that, but it’s not worth it, especially at the Palais Royale.
Rule three is so simple, we hate to
U RATES NOW IN EFFECT
. . . two can learn to dance for the cost of one the GEORGE DAVIS way and save 50%. Call 3-8229 for free trial lesson.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
106 W. MONROE corner Michigan SOUTH BEND Dial 3-8229
bring it up. In fact, this whole piece is pretty simple, but don’t get irritated because the floor is crowded. All you have to do is close your eyes, get a tight, but not too tight, grip on your partner and go whirling and stomping around like a frenzied dinasour, bumping into as many other couples as you can. We have never tried this yet, but it must be fun since just about everybody that bumps into us at dances smiles, laughs, and gets
a real kick out of it.
Bottom of the Week
. . . and with it the thought of midsemesters and a one-day Thanksgiving holiday.	•
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
. General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
DANCE FIESTA Every Thursday, 9 p. m.
All Notre Dame students invited to attend our friendly socials. No charge.
STUDIOS
Nov. 3, 1950
5
Vol. 92 November 3, 1950 No. 9
NOVEMBER 3
COLFAX (through Nov. 8)—Doris Day, who is destined to be a musical star for a long time to come, co-stars with Gordon MacRae in Tea for Two (Legion of Decency Rating A-2), a snappy and snippy technicolor tune-fest. Gene Nelson offers fine support and proves he’s a top rate dancer to reckon with.
AVON (indefinite run)—Clark Gable is at his best in To Please a Lady (A-2) and he finds a perfect foil in his leading lady, Barbara Stanwyck. The pic’s background is auto racing—midget, stunt and the big stuff. There are plenty of exciting racing shots with a bang-up finale filmed last Spring at the Indianapolis 500.
PALACE (through Nov. 8)—Dark City (B) has only one claim to distinction—the introduction of Charlton Heston, an actor who has strong potentialities. The co-feature is The Lawless (A-2), one of the minor pics put out on the anti-discrimination problem but, nonetheless, one of the best products. Revolving around the friction between the Mexicans and the citizens of the West, it has MacDonald Carey and Gail Russell as its stars.
NOVEMBER 4
CLEVELAND—Those Middies will sink—just wait and see.
-WASHINGTON HALL—Reliable John Ford comes through with another good 'Western. This time it’s called Wagonmaster (A-l). Ben - Johnson and Joanne Dru are the featured players but as in most Ford productions, the scenery and photography often top them.
NOVEMBER 7
WASHINGTON HALL—The Concert and Lecture Series presents Lilly Windsor in a recital starting at 8 p.m. Miss Windsor is a lyric soprano of the Rome Royal Opera and has been acclaimed widely throughout Europe as being one of the most promising of the present young singers.
NOVEMBER 9
WASHINGTON HALL—Rev. Cyril Vollert, S.J., will give a lecture entitled What are the Limits of Theology?—In the Light of the Recent Encyclical. The address will start at 8 p. in.
PALACE (one night only)—One of the too-infrequent road shows finally hits South Bend. Death of a Salesman (B) is an exceptionally fine piece of dramaturgy and should not be missed by the discriminate entertainment-seeker.
AVON (For the next few weeks the run of films appearing at this theater will depend upon the ticket demand . . . therefore, the Scholastic prints several of the forthcoming films, not mentioning dates.) Following the Gable-Stanwyck film will be Pll Get By (A-l), one of the season’s top musicals. June Haver, William Lundigan, Gloria de Haven, Dennis Day and Harry James are the stars and then several of 20th Century-Fox’s top lights also make guest appearances. After that will be another smash hit—King Solomon’s Mines (A-l). This is one of the best movies of the year. Filmed entirely in Africa, some of the shots will leave you gasping for breath. Stewart Granger and Deborah Kerr share co-billing.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class' matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS '51
JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52______________News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52___Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51_____Features
JOHN F. MEANEY '52____________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52_____Assistant Sports JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51.._Photography LEON GARDNER '52_______.Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER__________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51_Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN '52______Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS_________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: You’re not the only ones who have a hard time in the classroom. The	f
profs do too, as illustrated in a small	j
way on this week’s cover. What the ND	|
professor sees, no one knows. But this	I
collection of “classroom characters” is	q
-almost average. Cartoon by Chuck Lenz	/
and photo by Jim McLaughlin.	f
•	.	!
The	Scholastic	v
•	i
II p
6
Something to Remember
Last week the Notre Dame spirit hit a record high. The likes of it hadn’t been seen during the past four years and some veteran observers have extended that period back a great deal further, o
One of the most heartening things to come out of it was that it started in the Senior Class. The fourth year men arc supposed to be blase, they’re above any sort of uninhibited displays of sincere spirit. They leave that rah-rah stuff to the Freshmen and then with arms folded, look on the proceedings with a cynical smirk.
But this year’s Seniors shot the traditional picture to shreds. It was from their quarters that the excited spirit began to grow. It shot out of their rooms with a spontaneity that was indicative of their feelings toward the school. Then it became organized and spread across the campus to every residence hall.
That’s when every student, regardless of class, got into the act. The demonstrations of pep put on last week came from the unit known as the Notre Dame student body. And then it was climaxed on Saturday afternoon by one of the greatest football teams ever to represent our school. They fought tooth and tong every inch of the way. They proved more conclusively than ever that they are a team of which we can all be proud. In fact, we can be proud of the entire week. It was something to remember, o
A Sad Situation .
An article based on poor reading habits of Catholics recently appeared in a newspaper. The author backed up his argument of how much secularization is diseasing our read-o	o
ing with facts. Briefly, the statistics are like this: although there arc approximately 26 million Catholics in this country, only 300,000 copies of Sign magazine are sold each month and only 35,000 copies of America each week. There are scores of other Catholic publications but their combined circulation total is pitifully small.
These figures are even more alarming when it is considered that there are some 200,000 Catholic college students alone in the country. These students are supposedly intelligent and in search of a more Christian way of life. But are they really? The answer would seem to be a negative one.
To bring the situation closer to home—Notre Dame’s Catholic reading habits are just as bad, if not worse, than those that prevail throughout the country. The Scholastic
checked with the magazine sales in the Caf and the results painted a sorry picture.
Each month approximately 1,800 issues .of LIFE are sold. LOOK’S monthly sales hover around 600. Time claims 580 readers and Newsweek has 200. These are just a few of the secular magazines and these approximate figures do not include mail circulation.
Then there are the Catholic magazines. There are only two of them on the stands for sale: Sign and Commonweal. The caf management orders five copies of Commonweal each week and five copies of Sign each month—and it is seldom when even some of these piddling few aren’t returned!
Some might question the reasons for reading Catholic publications. The main one, of course, is because they do not allow secular thought to infest them. From cover to cover you receive Catholic thinking. Catholic writing—in other words, truth.
What better way is there for us to become militant Catholics than to be instilled with Catholic thought. And one of the best methods is with the help of Catholic periodicals. You don’t necessarily have to subscribe to one or more of them—but we should all read them more frequently.
Opportunity Knocks But Once
South Bend’s major drawback for Notre Dame students is that it is not primarily a college town. If it were we might be presented with more cultural attractions. Every once in a while, however, an attraction of note is offered the student body.
Next Thursday night a fine production of Death of a Salesman will be played on the Palace stage. This play has been hailed by authorities as one of the greatest plays of our time. Arthur Miller has written a moving and often harrowing commentary on our society. Albert Dekker, the star, and the supporting cast are competent actors. In all, it is a production that should rate favorably with the Broadway original.
Any student who buys a ticket won’t go wrong. But there is another reason for urging NDers to see this play. There is a definite need for similar productions to play South Bend. The local management, however, says the demand is too slight to warrant more. So here is our opportunity to show them there is a demand.	•
Every student ought to be sated with the top-heavy movie diet in South Bend. A few plays every once in a while would spice the entertainment bill of fare considerably. But whether or not we shall be offered them -is partially up to us.
Nov. 3, 1950
7
UP-TO-DATE STATISTICS FOR
Study means learning. Learning comes from books. Books must be read to be understood. If you don’t read properly, you can’t study properly.
•
No matter how fast you are reading now, you can read twice as fast with better understanding and re-tention.
Why not get twice as much learning from your study time? Learn how to double your reading capacity in a short period of instruction at
THE FOUNDATION for BETTER READING
114 E. La Salle Ave. 2-8670	3-0077
Come in for a free demonstration of the methods used to develop this unusual study skill.
8
THE 1950 NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH
Two names, those of end Jim Mutscheller and halfback John Petitbon, emerge alongside that of Bob Williams as leaders in the Notre Dame statistics race.
Mutscheller had his best day of the season against Michigan State last Saturday, as he caught six passes, three for touchdowns, and gained 109 yards.
With just a little over half of the season gone, Mutscheller has now broken almost every Notre Dame single season pass-catching record that there is to break. As of this week, with five of nine games played Jim has caught 25 passes, (previous modern single-season record, 19, set by Leon Hart in 1949) gained 319 yards by pass reception, (previous modern single-season record, 309, set by Bill Wightkin in 1949), and scored six touchdowns, double the number* of his nearest rival on the 1950 Irish.
To make the offensive renaissance even more heartening, John Petitbon turned in a phenomenal rushing performance
Saturday. John carried the ball 10 times from scrimmage; his total yardage on the 10 tries was 171 yards; better than 17 yards a try. John’s performance enables him to take over the rushing lead from his roommate—disabled Billy Barrett. Petitbon now has 235 yards gained for the season, in 31 tries, an average-per-try of 7.5 yards. Petitbon is also second in yards-gained-by-pass-reception with 155 on 10 passes, and second in scoring with three T.D.’s.
Bob Williams, by completing 11 passes in 21 attempts kept his collegiate pass completion average well over the .500 mark. Bob now has a total of 150 passes completed in 286 for a .524 average. With 657 yards gained on passes, Wil-
liams is over 100 yards ahead of his five-game pace in 1949. He has thrown six touchdown passes—the same number as he had after five games last year.
Two reserve backs, Murray Johnson, halfback, and quarterback John Mazur also had a good day statistically. Johnson gained 25 yards in three carries for an 8.3 average, and Mazur completed 8 of 11 passes for 107 yards and two tuochdowns.
	RUSHING
Player M. Johnson Petitbon Barrett Landry Gay Gander Williams Marchand	Times Carried	Yd.	Avg. 3	25	8.3 31	235	7.5 20	121	6.1 44	163	3.7 17	54	3.2 25	77	3.1 19	41	2.2 14	29	2.1 SCORING
Player	TD	PAT	Points Mutscheller	6	0	36 Petitbon	3	0	18 Gander	2	0	12 Caprara	099 Marchand	10	6 PASS RECEIVING Number Player	Caught Yd. TD’s Mutscheller	25	319	6 Petitbon	10	155	1 Ostrowski	11	90	0 Marchand	4	52	1	
Gay Gander Landry Player Mazur Williams Barrett	5	46	0 4	44	0 5	37	0 PASSING Attempted Com.	Pct. ' 15	10	.667 125	59	.472 1	0	.000
PUNTING
Player	Number	Yd.
Williams	20	785
Caprara	1	23
Avg.
39.3
23.0
The Scholastic
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 9	NOVEMBERS, 1950
Council Awards Dance Flower Concession; Pictures, Complimentary Tickets Discussed
Freshman Candidates Register Next Week
“A rose is a rose is a rose,” according to Gertrude Stein, but the Student Council learned differently last Monday when they were faced with the problem of awarding the flower concession for University dances. In choosing the party to handle the photography concession, they encountered similar difficulties.
After considerable debate to determine which offer would be most advantageous to the students, the Council voted to award the concession to Dave O’Leary, a Senior from Manson, Iowa, and Wally Purcell, a Junior from Oak Park, Ill. They will obtain the flowers from Burnetate Florists of Chicago. Under their contract with the Student Council, they will pay the Student Council 30% of the profits in return for the exclusive right to sell flowers on campus. The photography concession was won by Harold Munger of 150 Dillon. He will offer two five by seven prints for $1.40. These will be taken with a four by five Speed Graphic and printed on five by seven high quality double-weight paper.
Munger, who has had experience
O’ Brien Baps South Bend Policies Over Air Waves
Hugh P. O’Brien, associate professor of sociology and director of curriculum in corrective administration at the University, assailed Wilford V. Walz, county prosecutor, and Paul M. Butler, third district Democratic chairman, in a recent radio speech.
Speaking over station WHOT, O’Brien charged Walz with a “do nothing” policy that Butler was trying to cover up. St. Joseph county was linked with “gambling,” “corruption,” “protection,” and “powder-puff justice” in the talk.
Professor O’Brien also directed questions to Butler concerning the pardoning of D. C. Stephenson, one-time head of the Indiana Ku Klux Klan, who has now dropped out of sight.
The speech, according to O’Brien, was his answer to Butler’s charge that pre' vious criticisms of the prosecutor’s office
working for the Dome and the Scholastic, is working on a plan to make available folders for the pictures. He will \lay the Student Council ten cents per pkir of prints, and he and his assistant will be the only photographers allowed to take pictures at the dances.
Also at the meeting of last Monday the Council voted to give complimentary tickets to the Student Council dances to each member of the Council.
Commenting on this, Bill Carey, Treasurer of the Student Council, said, “In keeping with the established precedent of donating complimentary tickets by class dance committees to prominent campus organizations, such as the Dome, the Scholastic and WND, the Student Council has voted free admission for its members to the Student Council sponsored Victory Dances.
“This has been deemed proper in the light of the Council members’ collective contribution to the administration, auditing and management of the dances since their inception several years ago.”
were connected with the professor’s failure to obtain appointment to the parole board of the state prison at Michigan City.	_
Call Barristers and Dates To Law Ball by Subpoena
Law students are getting a taste of their own medicine with the serving of subpoenas ordering them-to appear next Friday at the annual Law Ball. The legal ones will plead their own cases from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. at the Progress Club. Each will be allowed one character witness, ordinarily a girl. Four dollars is the price of the subpoena.
Music for the dance, a formal affair, will be handled by Herbie Germann and his orchestra. The Jerry Costello Quartette will play during the intermissions.
Bill Ethridge and Dave Matthews, chairmen of the dance, have arranged for a date bureau to supply girls to any law men interested.
Freshmen who wish to be candidates for officers of the Class of ’54 at the Nov. 21 elections must register their names with the Student Council next Tuesday. Their names and the positions for which each is running should be brought to the Student Council office located on the first floor of the Main Building on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday afternoons between 2:15 and 4:15.
Don Grubmeyer, chairman of the Blue Circle election committee, announced a new ruling for the Frosh elections this year. Each candidate must present a letter of recommendation from his rector concerning his disciplinary record and his study habits. .
The positions of president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer will be filled by these elections providing 25 percent of the Frosh class participate.
The elections will be held in the basement of the dining hall on Nov. 21 during regular lunch and dinner hours.
Lilly Windsor to Appear In Concert Tuesday Night
On Tuesday the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series brings Lilly Windsor, noted American soprano, to the stage of Washington Hall.
Lilly Windsor comes to Notre Dame after brilliant successes in this country and abroad. In true American tradition, she was discovered while “tending store” in her father’s Hawthorne, N. Y. grocery. After years of exhaustive study, Miss Windsor made her concert debut in Amsterdam, Holland. From her very first number, she won the hearts and applause of her super-critical audience.
Following her overwhelming debut, Miss Windsor visited Rome, Italy, where she became the • first American in 30 years to receive, a contract with the Royal Opera Company. Recently, an internationally-known critic said: “Today Lilly Windsor is receiving the acclaim of noted critics while she is winning the hearts of ever-increasing audiences.”
The Washington Hall recital, to begin at 8 p. m., will feature, among others, the works of Mozart and Mendelsshon. Miss Windsor will be accompanied at the piano by George Shick.
Nov. 3, 1950
9
Conference of Christians and Jews Meets; Intergroup Education to Be Institute's Topic
An institute on intergroup education will be sponsored in South Bend on Nov. 24 by the educational committee of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, according to Louis A. Radelet, professor of sociology and Indiana director of the Conference.
The institute is intended for leaders of religious, educational, and other community organizations throughout the state, as well as for the interested general public. Its purpose is to assist in strengthening the educational approach to the problems of inter-group tensions, prejudices and discriminations.
Central High School will be the scene of the institute, with a noon luncheon scheduled at the Oliver Hotel. Registration will begin at 8 a. m. at the high school and the first morning general session is slated for 9:05 a. in.
Rev. John LaFarge, s.J., associate editor of America, will address the morning gathering. Walter White, one of the foremost among this country’s Negro leaders, will be speaker at the luncheon. Afternoon general session speaker will be Dr. Ernest 0. Melby, dean of the School of Education of New York University.
Among leaders of discussion groups for both morning and afternoon cessions will be Dr. Willard Johnson, national program director of NCCJ, and Dr. John J. Kane, instructor in the Department of Sociology at the University. The institute will end at 5:30 p. m.
Reservations are necessary for both the discussion sessions and the luncheon. Registration fee is one dollar and charge for the luncheon, $1.75. Interested faculty members and students may secure registration forms and further information on the institute from Mr. Radelet in the Department of Sociology office, Room 127, Main Building.
Law Students to Vie
In Moot Court Trials
Moot court competition in the Notre Dame College of Law is expected to be very keen this semester with nearly 100 students participating. Last semester saw the revival of moot court here and this semester the court is well-organized with junior and senior divisions. All law students may compete and take part in oral argumentation except first-semester Freshmen who will act as junior counsels.
The following five men have been appointed by the dean for the organization and direction of the moot court of 1950: Henry Shine, Jr., director; Bruno P. Ber-nabei, executive director; Charles Perrin, director of public relations; Rex P. O’Connor, counselor for senior division; and E. Milton Farley, III, counselor for junior division. Faculty advisors are
Professors Edward F. Barrett and Robert Sullivan.
The first moot court trial will be held Nov. 15, for the senior division and Nov. 21 and 22, for the junior division. Each team is composed of six members, four senior counsels and two junior counsels. The teams are allowed 30 minutes to present the case and ten minutes for rebuttal. There will be three judges in attendance at the court, one faculty member, an attorney from South Bend, and one senior law student who has submitted a factual situation and been accepted. The trials will be open to everyone.
This year a complete filing system with personal data cards will be kept on those students who participate in moot court competition. This information will be sent to the home-town newspapers of the students in co-operation with the Department of Public Information.
The two best entrants will be selected from moot court competition to receive the Dean’s Award. They will be chosen on their ability in writing a brief, oral argument, and answering questions. The students who receive the award will represent Notre Dame in the district moot court competition next year. These two will be chosen over a period of two semesters.
George Pletcher and Harold Van Tassel, who received the Deans’ Award last semester, will represent the College of Law at the district moot court competition in Chicago this year. The first team they compete against will be Indiana. If they win three arguments, they advance to the national moot court competition in New York. The topic for the case is “Artificial Rain Making.”
Vetville Residents Get Together
Cider, doughnuts, and conversation keep this group occupied Despite appearances, this fellow isn't holding his nose. He's at the Vetville residents' barn dance last Saturday evening. eating doughnut offered him by Vetville Mayor Chuck Perrin.
10
The Scholastic
Scenes From St. Mary's Soph
Cotillion
Two Notre Dame Sophomores waltz their partners past the bandstand to the music of Gene Hull's band at St. Mary's College semi-formal Sophomore Cotillion last week.
This loving couple simply wouldn't be distracted by the Scholastic cameraman.
..............................:..........
Father Baldwin Discovers Class in Bass;
, Director of Contest Knows All the Angles
i
K
i
I
Fish stories are a dime a dozen, but this one is unique in that it has the distinction of being true.
One day back in 1915, a young student at the Holy Cross Seminary across the lake from Notre Dame, weary of flunking tests all day, grabbed a bamboo pole and decided to try his luck at ashing his worries away. He fell into the proverbial slumber- that'accompanies all such piscatorial adventures, only to be awakened by the splashing of a four-pound bass on his line. From then on, when week ends rolled around, studies took a back seat and fishing was the predominate interest.
As the years progressed, and theology homework became more abundant, Father George Baldwin, c.s.c., forgot his enticing pastime and devoted all of his time to his studies and his religious life.
Thirty-one years later, after being placed on the Holy Cross teaching staff here at Notre Dame, he was appointed chaplain for St. Mary’s Academy in South Bend. He traveled back and forth every day in a taxi-cab. Before long, he had gotten acquainted with the driver, George Jackson, of Osceola, Ind.
One day George said, “You know, Father Baldwin, I sure would spend all my time fishing if I had two big lakes
Nov. 3, 1950
in my back yard like you do.” Father Baldwin replied, “I was thinking about that myself George, but I don’t have any equipment.” The trend of conversation changed several times before the two met their destination. The next morning, a large bundle of fishing equipment was found on the front porch of Corby Hall.
After this, George and Father- Baldwin became even closer friends. George would often come out on the week ends and spend a lot of time fishing with his companion.
Three years ago, Father Baldwin saw the large number of ND students Ashing on the lakes, so he decided to start an annual fishing contest. This year, his dream was finally realized. ’
The contest is being sponsored by the Student Council and the prizes are being awarded by the Reco sporting goods store in South Bend. First prize is a South Bend glass casting rod, and second prize is an anti-backlash casting reel made by the same company. This company is one of the foremost manufacturers of fishing equipment in the world. The contest catch is limited to bass, and will be open to all ND students Until Dec. 1.
Father Baldwin has announced that
fishing this fall is surprisingly good. One reason for such results is the fact that the Department of State Hatcheries of Indiana stocked St. Mary’s lake with 4,000 large-mouth and 2,000 small-mouth bass in the fall of 1949, and -with 2,000 large-mouth bass so far this fall.
All catches must be registered and weighed by Father Baldwin within 24 hours after- the catch is made. So far, John Cassidy, an undergraduate, has the winning entry which is a 14 -inch large-mouth bass.. Second place is held with a 12 % -inch large-mouth bass.
Dr. Bartholomew to Lead Vacation Tour of Capital
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science will again lead a group of students on a tour of the nation’s capital. The excursion will leave on Thursday, Jan. 25, after semester examinations, and w-ill return on the following Monday.
The group will travel to Lapaz, Ind., by bus, where they will board the Baltimore and Ohio Columbian. Arrival in Washington is scheduled for Friday. Leaving the capital Monday evening, the students will return by Tuesday morning, in time to register for the new semester.	■	•
Highlights of the tour will include attendance at sessions of Congress and the
. U. S. Supreme Court.
11
Sophomores Sell 550 Bids to 'Evening in Paris': Convert Palais to French Park for Cotillion
Tickets for the Sophomore Cotillion next Friday are as scarce—and as much in demand—as ducats for the Pitt game the following afternoon. And scalpers of dance bids are harder to find.
If the number of tickets sold—550 of them is any indication, the Cotillion promises to be an extremely popular and populous affair.
Equipped to accommodate only an expected 500 couples, the dance committee was able to cope with part of this jast-minute demand for tickets by ordering 50 more bids and favors. Because of the limited capacity of the Palais Royale ballroom for a formal dance, many requests could not be filled.
For the fortunate 550, and their dates, a bustling week end has been planned, beginning at 7 p. m. Friday with the
Thespians Take Ten
A short break is taken by four members of the University Theater's production of "The Man Who Came to Dinner." Resting backstage at Washington Hall are Leonard Sommer, the play's director, Alice Weiss, Skipper Swift, who is playing the leading role, and Pat McCaughan. The show will have a four-night run from Nov. 27 through Nov. 30. Three other University Theater presentations will follow this.
pep rally in the Fieldhouse. Two hours later the couples will begin to gather amid the more sedate Cotillion atmo-mosphere at the Palais. Dancing will continue till 1 a. jn.
Car permissions have been extended to those upperclassmen who will attend the dance. To rent a car, however, one must be a licensed driver and at least 20 years old.
Autos may be rented for the evening from the U-Drive-It Co., 223 W. Washington Ave., in South Bend. Rates for the late model Chevrolets, Fords, and Plymouths are 60 cents per hour plus nine cents a mile for the first seven hours, and 15 cents an hour thereafter. Convertibles are available at a silghtly higher rate.
Notre Dame men and their guests will
find the Palais converted into a Parisian park, in line with the Cotillion theme of “An Evening in Paris.” The setting will include three-dimensional models of , buildings, silhouettes of many famous French edifices, a Parisian cafe in the balcony, trees, street lights and park benches, and a band shell. The decorations committee will begin work in the ballroom next Thursday.
Maestro Frankie Masters and his orchestra have promised to include several appropriate Paris melodies in their program for the evening.
For many, the morning after the Cotillion will be spent dozing in class, but all will have recovered in time to escort their dates to the Pitt game that after-•ioon.
The Palais can be revisited Saturday evening for the informal Victory Dance.
A special section will be reserved for Cotillion couples at the 9 o’clock Mass Sunday in Sacred Heart Church. To occupy the reserved pews, they should arrive a few minutes early.
By Sunday night, the week end will be over and the studying will be begun, by those who have the- ambition or the strength.
Father Norton Calls Frosh Forums 'Complete Success'
A large turnout and complete cooperation of the Freshman hall rectors have made a series of Blue Circle-sponsored Freshman seminars a complete success, according to Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs, and supervisor of the seminars.
The discussions have been held at 7:15	..
p. m. every Wednesday since Oct. 18 in the lounges of Farley, Zahm, and Breen-Phillips halls, and the St. Edward’s hall chapel. Plans called for a series of four such weekly meetings, concluding next Wednesday, but the interest shown has been so encouraging that an extension of several weeks is being considered.
The seminars, a part of the Freshman orientation program of the Blue Circle, are conducted entirely by students. Their object is to acquaint the Freshmen with good study habits, the University regu- ? lations, different study aids, such as the Department of Guidance and the Notre Dame library system, and the selective ■ service law as it applies to college students.
Discussion leaders for the various halls, all Blue Circle members, are Bernard Lavins, Al DeCrane, and Tom Reedy (Breen-Phillips), Frank Crovo and Dick Marshall (Farley), Dave Schoen and Joseph Conlon (St. Edward’s), and Vic Kroeger, Thomas Morsch, and George Remus (Zahm).	’.\
12
The Scholastic

>\ Congrats to Everyone
Editor:
In looking back over the events of the past week, it is felt that some mention should be made of those who so unselfishly gave of their time and energy in order that the weekend could be what it was. Personal mention should be made to Dick McDonald and Bob Huff, whose ideas and tireless efforts were made manifest by outward signs across the campus which made the Michigan State weekend one that will long be remembered by everyone.
. The Blue Circle and Hall Councils, both as individuals and as organizations furthered the spirit by waking everyone for Mass Saturday morning and seeing that each hall was decorated with signs.
To all the students who, in any way, helped enkindle the Notre Dame Spirit, the Student Council extends a very sincere “thanks.”
Mention should also be made of the fine way in which the Administration cooperated whole-heartedly in every way possible, in making	the events	leading
*	up to Saturday as	successful	as they
I	were.
E Finally, it is felt by this body that the football team should be congratulated thoroughly. They displayed one of the finest examples of Notre Dame “spirit” as has been seen around here in quite awhile.	Bill Anhut
President, Student Council
A Spirit Suggestion
Editor:
We have been complimented as the f' most spirited student body in years. We hope we can live up to our reputation for the rest of the year. But it seems that a minute “time-out” for a silent Hail Mary will perhaps help more at crucial moments than spirited yelling. No doubt every student would—if they thought of it, but we get all excited. So how about a sign reading “prayer” or Hail Mary
'i
w
for the cheerleaders to raise when needed. It need only be a quiet pause, but it would be louder to Our Lady than any spirit of Notre Dame.”—Name Withheld
St. Mary's Theology Dean to Speak Here
“What Are the Limits of Theology?” will form the subject of a lecture in Washington Hall Thursday night by Rev. Cyril Vollert, S.J. The talk, considering the matter in light of the recent encyclical, will begin at 8 p.m.
Father Vollert has been professor of theology at St. Marys College since 1939 and dean of the school of theology since 1940. During the second semester of 1948-49 he was guest lecturer at Gregorian University, Rome.
Father Vollert received his A.B. from Marquette University in 1924 and entered the Society of Jesus the same year. After receiving a Ph.D. from Gregorian University in philosophy, he instructed in classics at Marquette.
He studied theology at St. Mary’s College (The School of Divinity of St. Louis University) from 1932 to 1936 and was ordained in 1935. Father’ Vollert entered upon graduate studies in theology at Gregorian University and received his S.T.D. from there in 1939.
The speaker is author of The Doctrine of Hervaeus Natalis on Primitive Justice and Original Sin. Among his translations are Scheebn’s The Mysteries of Christianity, Suarez’s On the Various Kinds of Distinctions, St. Thomas’s Compendium of Theology, and Zolli’s The Nazarene.
Articles by Father Vollert have appeared in such magazines as The Modern Schoolman, Revista Eclesiastica Bra-sileira, The Linacre Quarterly, and The Classical Bulletin.
Administration to Decide On Retreat, May Day Plans
Plans for a general retreat for Notre Dame students and a large-scale May Day ceremony will be discussed by the Apostolic chapter of the campus NFCCS council at a meeting next Monday. The group will meet at 4:15 p.m. in room 120, Main Building.
At the meeting, the council will hear the opinion of the University Administration regarding these major projects, to be effected by the campus religious clubs cooperating through the NFCCS organizations.
The apostolic council is also considering conducting a poll to determine the type of retreat that the student body would prefer. This survey would be taken once the plan for a general retreat is approved by the Administration.
Poor Souls Novena To Begin Thursday
November being the month of the Poor Souls, Notre Dame men have been asked to make a novena for the souls in Purgatory. The nine days of Masses, Communions and rosaries will begin next Thursday and continue through Nov. 17, the feast of St. Gregory the Wonder Worker.
Other novenas for purity and for oui* parents will be held before the Christmas Vacation.
A pre-Assumption novena ended Wednesday with the formal pronouncement by Pope Pius XII of the dogma of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin into Heaven.
Declaration of the new dogma was also commemorated at Notre Dame by a special solemn high Mass of the Feast of the Assumption, at 11 o’clock. Other Masses of the day were proper to All Saints Day. At a holy hour Wednesday evening, Notre Dame students were consecrated to the Immaculate Heart of Mary. Rev. William M. Robinson, C.S.C., gave the sermon.
General Motors Researcher Discusses Auto Engineering
T. A. Boyd, one of the eo-discoverers of tetraethyl lead used in ethyl gasoline, will take a look into the future of automotive engineering in an address here this afternoon.
Mr.. Boyd, who is research laboratories consultant for the Geenral Motors Corporation in Detroit, will speak in the College of Engineering at 4:15 p.m. in a public address entitled “Your 1970 Model—I’d Like to Drive It.”
Associated with the General Motors Corporation since 1920, Mr. Boyd served as head of the research laboratories fuel department of General Motors from 1923 to 1947. Together wuth Charles F. Kettering, former general manager of the laboratories, and the late Thomas Midgely, Jr., he conducted exhaustive tests on the nature of engine “knocks.” This research produced tetraethyl lead, used to control combustion in aviation gasoline and high-grade auto fuels.
Later, this same group of scientists developed a real superfuel, called “triptane.” Used principally for research purposes now, “triptane” has a rating three times as high as the 100-octane gasoline used in aircraft engines.
The author of more than a score of technical papers, Mr. Boyd has also devoted time to popularized science lectures and writings. Among these are his books Gasoline—What Everyone Should. Know About it and Research—The Pathfinder of Science and Industry.
13
Nov. 3, 1950
Nero may have fiddled while Rome burned but he prepared for his blaze with less industry than these part-time arsonists (above, left) seen busily throwing another log on the pyre. About all of the pre-Civil War period desk chairs on campus suddenly disappeared. The end .product of all this labor (a bove, right) climaxed the history-making pre-game pep meeting.
Alumni Hall does a take-off on one of the Tribune’s trickier "banners" (above, left) with a message a little bit changed from that of the original. It's shades of election day (above, right) as marchers "carry the torch" in procession before the pep rally. Bill Anhut and company meet in conference ( below) to plan tactics for "Operation Campus." Roger Wilco.
The Big One
stu-
Pictures by JIM McLAUGHLIN, ’51
Text by CHARLEY DULLEA, =52
It was Wednesday and already the signs had begun to pop out around the campus with messages of “Beat State” and “Blast ’Em” and guys were running all over slapping on paint, pounding tacks, and sawing wood. This was the big one.
Thursday came and with it the only topics of conversation were the Spartans and the Irish. Word began to spread from hall to hall, room to room, desk io desk. Invasion. A crack task force from Michigan State was on its way, armed to the teeth with bucket and brush and aimed at painting the campus. There was only one thing to do. Form a plan of defense.
A band of grim, determined men -net with Student Council Presirent Bill An-hut to map out the strategy. It was hard work but they did it. And Thursday night coughing jeeps bounced back and forth over the campus, spotlights sending out yellow beams into foggy air, while Dillon Seniors paced out sentry duty through the armed camp. But the enemy did not rome.
Then it was Friday. The day of rhe pep rally. And the bonfire. For days an army of foresters had been dragging, pulling, carting and rolling every sliver of available timber to the open fields south of the tennis courts. The pile grew and grew and Friday they were still throwing wood on. And then it was lime.
Soon after dinner the campus began to shake. It shook with the blare of trumpets and the stomp of marching feet. It glowed with the light of scores of torches. The march. There were a thousand smiling faces and a thousand roaring throats and the procession sang.
They sang until they reached the rally’s site and then they cheered. Up on the stands the cheerleaders jumped and waved and pleaded and exhorted and the crowd cheered. They cheered for Father Hesburgh, for Mel Allen, for Jim Britt. They cheered for Coach Leahy. They cheered for Captain Groom. And as the first flame began to lick the pyre they roared and it was the roar of a winner.
Game-time Saturday. The stands filled quickly and soon warm-up time was over.
The game started. It was hard and tough and often it didn’t look good for Notre Dame. The cheering kept on. The team started coming back and they went ahead but then it ended and the score was 36-33. The team was tired and beat and the students were disappointed but there was one thing that stood out. They still cheered. And it was the cheer of a winner.

Megaphones in air, perspiring cheerleaders spur on the cheering of a roused
dent body at Saturday's Irish-Spartan conflict (above). "What though the odds" comes ringing through the air (below) as anxious rooters sing a song of touchdowns.
Linguistic Odyssey
Two years ago I was in Greece, my home country. There I always dreamed of coming to this glorious land of skyscrapers in order to study. Unfortunately I did not know a single word of English. Nevertheless, because of the civil war, I could not get a teacher and so, I had to use just an “English Method” with Greek characters for the pronunciation.
Gad! The pronunciation I learned was awful—for that book was terrible. For instance, according to my text, the words mad and mud had exactly the same pronunciation! Consequently, when you spoke of mud, I thought that you were mad and furious and enraged! When you spoke of bottles, I thought you were getting ready for battles and wars and revolutions! . . . When you spoke of a hat, I thought that you were hot and warm and fervent! . . . Anyway, I kept on studying and studying.
Comes to U.S.
Months went by, and, at last, one morning I found myself at Bethany College, W. Va.! . . . What a dream! . . . Bethany looked magically beautiful and exotically romantic, while on the campus some Greek goddesses, like heavenly cherubim and immaterial seraphim, were whirling around in a fascinating vertigo of dazzling beauty! . . .
Suddenly, some clouds of ' unpleasant excitement appeared in the middle of this phantasmagoria. The Dean of Students wanted to see me! ... In the meantime, I had found out that, unfortunately, his name was Mr. Kirkpatrick. I say “unfortunately,” because it is hard for Greeks to pronounce such names. Needless to add that, before I visited the Dean, I locked myself in my room for two hours and made practice on . . . the pronunciation of his name!
On my way to the Dean’s office, I met a young lady who influenced by the melancholy of the autumn, hated to waste her time by saying, “Good afternoon!” So she just groaned, “Hi!” Of course, this . . . metaphysical greeting “was . . . Greek to me,” as my friend Bill Shakespeare said! I had never heard it before. Consequently, I opened my dictionary and, to my surprise, I found the word “high!”
“So,” I protested, “my dear young lady, you think I am too high and tall!” “What are you talking about?” she groaned again. “Well you said ‘high,’
by Panos Barilis, Grail.
(The author of this article is a graduate student and a native of Greece. An article about him appeared in the Oct. 20 issue of Scholastic/
didn’t you?” I persisted. But my . . . Shakespearean English and, especially my fascinating accent helped her solve this Delian problem. “Well,” she explained, “you must know that, in American, ‘hi!’ means hello!”
I got furious. “Look, young lady! In the future, I forbid you to greet me in terms of dimensions! Hi, tall, broad and narrow are Greek to me. And now, goodbye!” “So long!” she said smiling sweetly.
I fell over! “Here we go again!” I screamed desperately. “I just told you, young lady, that you are not supposed to greet me in terms of dimensions. So long, and so short mean absolutely nothing to me!” To my despair, she burst out laughing uninterruptedly. Suddenly, a teacher appeared. “What’s going on here?” he asked eagerly. “0 Doctor,” the Greek goddess exclaimed still laughing unendingly, “this boy is pulling my leg!”
Heavens! I took it literally again. And, as for us, for a European student, there is nothing worse than to be accused in his teacher’s presence of having done awful things. I burst out shouting madly: “You hypocrite! You liar! You Machiavellian! How dare you accuse me of pulling your leg? Please, Doctor, don’t believe her. I didn’t even touch her leg! How could I do such a horrible thing in the middle of the campus!” To my surprise, both of them were laughing, and laughing, and laughing! So I turned away and rushed to the Dean’s office.
Name Is Troublesome
Of course, in my confusion, I could not help pronouncing the last “ck” of his name like “ch.” “Dean Kirchpatrich” ... I started saying. But he interrupted me and, summoning all his terrific Aristo-phanic spirit, all his inimitable Molieric humor, he said, “Mr. Bardis, I very seldom allow people to Russianize my name!” I was embarrassed. Then I answered: “Sir, I am not to blame if your
name consists of only three vowels and a whole Persian army of consonants!” Excitement! . . . Confusion! . . .
At last, I must confess that I was awfully glad to get rid of the Dean and his humorous attacks. Unfortunately, this was not the end of my troubles. In the exit, a student was waiting for me. “Well,” he whispered suspiciously, “what do you think of Kirk?” I did not know that, just because Americans like to abbreviate everything on the campus everybody called the Dean just “Kirk” (of course, in his absence). So, thinking that “Kirk” is a usual English word I was trying to recall its meaning! . . . But the American student did not approve of my mysterious silence. “Are you sleeping?” he said. “I asked you what you think of Kirk!” “Of what?” I also asked. “Kirk! Kirk!” he said impatiently.
Dictionary No Help
All of a sudden, I got a brilliant idea. I grabbed my dictionary from my pocket and thumbed through its pages. “What are you doing?” the student asked hopelessly. “I am trying to find the word Kirk,” I answered decently. “Are you nuts?” he exclaimed. I got mad. “Why am I nuts? Because I don’t know every English Word?”
“But for heaven’s sake, you can’t find the Dean’s name in your pocket dictionary!” I dropped dead! Everything became clear to me. “You son of a gun,” I howled furiously, “who gave you the right to become a surgeon and operate on names?” “Well,” he said seriously, calmly, “it takes a long time to say: Dean Kirkpatrick?” I very nearly blew up! ! !
But my friend was nice. “Okay, Panos,” he said. “Don’t get excited. Relax! And now let’s go to the restaurant. I like to treat you to some hot dogs.” A volcano could not erupt more violently than I did!
“You miserable character,” I screeched, “what makes you think I eat dogs! I I didn’t eat dogs when I was in Greece, during the German occupation. Shall I eat them now, in this country of abundance? You may keep your hot dogs and . . . cold cats! . . .”
What did l‘ do next? I dashed into the church and kept praying all day. “Please, dear Lord,” I said a million times, “change mankind into a bunch of Za-menhofs! Amen! . . .”
16
The Scholastic
TV Films Accent Curricula Of Colleges Before Game
Highlights of the curricula within the five colleges of the University of Notre Dame will be presented in the fourth of a series of five films at noon tomorrow over the Dumont Television Network.
Featured in the fourth film, which will immediately precede the telecast of the Notre Dame-Navy game, will be a cam-era-eye view of how Notre Dame students are taught in the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Commerce, Science, Engineering and Law.
The final film in the series will be televised immediately preceding the telecast of the last home football game on Nov. 11 against the University of Pittsburgh. Each of the films tells a different story of Notre Dame life and accomplishment in the fields of higher education.
Included in the television programs is a section in each film devoted to the universities which constitute Notre Dame’s football opponents. An interview between Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and the presidents of the universities of the five opposing teams also is a prominent feature of each pre-game television show.
The films, prepared on the campus by a professional movie staff engaged by the Dumont Television Network, are shown on Dumont affiliated television stations which also carry the live telecasts of the five Notre Dame home football games.
Form Student Foundation; To Operate With Council
A Notre Dame Student Foundation Committee is in the process of organization. The University Foundation has sought from its beginning to unify the various factors that make up a complete university program. This necessarily includes the students themselves.
The new committee is being organized as a separate group to work in conjunction with the Student Council. It will comprise the presidents of all campus clubs, the Class presidents and the o editors of publications.
* The committee’s purpose is to give the student the same information on University objectives that other interested parties are receiving. There will be no request for a student solicitation of funds or activities of a fund-raising nature unless the committee itself later decides on some such program.
The committee will meet for the first time in early December. While the committee is the official channel of information, any interested students will be wel-. corned at the meetings.
Official of Union Carbide Talks on Field of Plastics
W. J. Connelly, assistant director of public relations in the bakelite division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corp., New York, discussed “The Proper Perspective on Plastics” in the Engineering Auditorium Wednesday night.
Mr. Connelly, who has lectured widely on the subject of plastics, both in technical and non-technical aspects, supplemented his talk with a full-color movie. The film illustrated the molecular structure and physical qualities of synthetic plastic materials.
SPEECH WORKSHOP
Tuesday evening at 7:00 p. m., the Speech Workshop will have an organizational meeting in Room 1 of the Law Building to make plans for the year. Anyone interested is invited to attend.
The Workshop will stress the less academic side of speech instruction. It is meant to supplement, not substitute for, the regular Speech courses at the University.
Geologist to Speak
Dr. M. M. Leighton, Chief of the Illinois State Geological Survey, will present a talk to the' Notre Dame Geology Club and the faculty and students of the Geology Department next Wednesday afternoon at 4 p.m. in the Geology lecture room in the Main Building.
Dr. Leighton, who has headed the Illinois Survey for 27 years and this year is also president of the Society of Economic Geologists, will talk on the research program now being conducted by the Survey. The public is invited to attend.
Meeting of Metals Society Scheduled for Wednesday
The Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals will hold its November meeting Wednesday night. Dinner in the Dining Hall will be followed by a technical session in Room 5 of the Engineering Building.
W. C. Wall, of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, will address the gathering on the subject of “Plastics versus Metals.” A member of du Pont’s polychemical department, Mr. Wall will compare the mechanical behavior of molded nylon as a machine component with metals and other plastics.
The dinner will begin at 6:30 p. m. and its cost will be $1.75. Reservations must be made before Tuesday noon. The
technical session will commence at 8 p. m.
Plans of the society call for a December joint meeting with the Michiana chapter of the American Welding Society. M. V. Maxwell cf the Westinghouse Electric Corporation^. Chicago, will speak on “Atomic Energy—Tool or Weapon?”
Cleveland Alumni to Hold Pregame Lunch
As a prelude to the Notre Dame-Navy game, the Cleveland Alumni Club is sponsoring a pre-game luncheon in Cleveland Stadium from 11:30 a. m. to 1:30 p. m., tomorrow. All Notre Dame students making the trip are invited to attend, according to Bernie Endres, president of the campus Cleveland Club.
Those students taking advantage of the New York Central’s bargain price of $14.00 will depart from South Bend this afternoon at 4:45 p. m. and will arrive at 10:10. There will be no special cars for the return trip, and the roundtrip tickets will be honored on any of the regularly scheduled N.Y.C. trains to South Bend.
To begin this football weekend, the Cleveland alumni are staging a rally and dance tonight in the Rainbow Room of the Hotel Carter. The following night there will be a victory dance from 9 p. m. to 2 a. m. in the Hotel Carter’s Main Ballroom.
Smelser Acts as Recorder For Education Conference
Notre Dame’s Marshall Smelser, assistant professor of history, was named recorder* of the Indiana Colleges section at the Midwest Regional Conference on Discrimination in College-Admissions.
His appointment was announced by Dr. A. C. Ivy, vice-president of the University of Illinois, this week. The conference was held at the Palmer House in Chicago Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. It was organized by the American Council on Education.
Nov. 3, 1950
17
Xotrc
To most Notre Dame men the mention of St. Joseph’s lake suggests little more * than a small body of water near the short cut to St. Mary’s College. But to a few-young campus salts it means an excellent place for them to exercise their abil^ . ity to sail a dinghy.	C
These sea-faring students are tire members of the Notre Dame Sailing . Club, an organization that has had TeU atively little prominence in the whirl of local extra-curricular activities in the- . past. The present members of the club'; however, are hoping to take a morb prominent spot in the Notre Dame spot| . light soon and their hopes are being boosted greatly this semester by a rapiS increase in new members.	J
riS
The Sailing Club was founded in 1947.1’W With only 15 members at its inception and no boats for personal use it was nev- W ertheless soon accepted into the Midwest • 1 Collegiate Sailing Association and -was ; ’ represented at various meets throughout the Midwest in that year.	Si-
Ratins; Grows	> '
. C -
By 1948 ND sailing was coming intqp; its own. Competing with such teams as.'\; M.I.T., which usually maintains approxipy mately 40 boats and 1500 members, th^(? Club placed third in the Midwest Collegi^. ate Dinghy Championship and stole sec-v ? ond place in the Michigan Invitational^ * out of a field of 12. Having established - ; itself firmly in the Midwest the Club, in?; the same year received several unsched|' ;.
*	s 5
uled invitations for dual meets with such top-notch teams as Michigan and North-’.? Western.
Last year, the Notre Dame sailors^ “kept up the good work” and ran Becond\$ for the Indiana State Championship and^. later- in the year, took second place againw^ in the regional eliminations for the MidWj west Championship race at Chicago. Thei^ low point of the season came at a dual?;-? meet with Michigan when the Notre^c Dame club won sailing’s booby-prize, the??-“whale-tail-pail,” which is a large gilded^?-pail that is filled up with beer by the': $ losers of the meet for the winners. But-d-a consolation was had at the end of the>^ season when Jim Crowe of Notre Dame';-was rated ninth in a field of over 100 of J. the Midwest’s best skippers andJim AmyJ j-rated nineteenth.	SRL
-r
Dame’s
by Hugh Scliadle. ‘52
men. Then we started
raising 35
new
The Notre Dame Sailing Club does some land-lubber work before taking to sea.
Two Dinghies Bought
“We started with a drive for new members.” Bill said. “By distributing rposters and advertising we succeeded in
At present, the Club enjoys great prospects. Its membership, which had hovered around 18 men from 1947 to 1949, has now swelled to 52. It has two boats of its own which can be used on St. Joseph’s lake and the old custom of allowing only members who had learned sailing before they joined the club to enter the various sailing events need now no longer be followed. Moreover, plans are being formulated to organize more efficiently the training program for new members along practical lines to supplement the old blackboard method of instruction.
After the election of the present officers last February—Dick Brotherson as commodore; Bill Jonak, vice-commodore; Joe Schrank, secretary; Wally Christopher, treasurer; and Bob Edmondson in a new office of fleet captain, whose duty is to take charge of caring for the boats —things began to happen in the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Vice-commodore Jonak noted that a program of expansion begun in the Spring met with great success.	.
plans for obtaining boats. We considered such ideas as raffles and membership loans but finally decided on trying for a Student Council loan. With the help of Dean Schoenherr, Dean of Engineering and our moderator, Athletic Director Ed Krause, Father Hesburgh, Father Kehoe on others, the loan came through on April 17. We had little time to start re-organizing the Club before summer vacation, but we bought the two dinghies and, on returning this year, started sailing in earnest.”
Bill explained that a dinghy is a small, one-sail, boat, 11 feet in length which is manned by a skipper and a one-man crew. This type boat was bought because it is the standard type sailed by all college clubs in the Midwest Association.
“The association itself is the organizer of all the sailing that goes on between the schools and has grown along with us from nine members when we joined to the present 25.” Bill went on, “The Commodores gather at the major regattas each Fall and Spring (which is the Tim-me Angstrom Memorial Trophy race at Belmont Harbor in Chicago in the Fall, and the Midwest Championship Elimination race in the Spring) to arrange for future meets.
A group of beginners (right) are taught how to tie some nautical knots that are important for every sailor. Membership in the Club is opened to all students. After some land-side courses, members are ready to sail the briny St. Joseph. Bill Jonak, vice-commodore, skippers a dinghy (below) across the breezy lake.
“Tentative schedules are submitted to the association where they are worked over and then mailed out to the member clubs a short time later. The clubs arrange dual meets between each other for open weekends on their own.
Bill explained that, at an actual race, six men are usually taken as a traveling team, and the boats of the various teams are exchanged between races so that no one team will have an advantage due to the superiority of its craft. In the popular “Round Robin” race an A team represents each school in a beginning heat, and a B team follows for a second contest.
The races are then run alternately between A and B teams for a number of races corresponding to the number of schools present. The school that has compiled a plurality of racing “points” after all the races have been run is the winner. One point is awarded for starting, one for finishing and one for each boat beaten in the individual races. In a nine-
(Continued on Page 21)
COLLEGE
• From the University of Portland Beacon: “Jim Creegan, senior, father of Portland’s newly formed campus parking program, tossed a bombshell into student council affairs Monday when he tendered his unsuspected resignation as parking director to Sy Rooen, senior, student body president. . . . 'There are too many elements for me to combat/' he said.”
Oh, get in there and fight.
• From the McMaster University Silhouette:
“To the question, why they were not translated into English, there is an easy answer; namely, that the people likely to be interested in them know German anyway.”
Well, let’s not get our dander up.
• From the University of Mississippi Mississippian:
“This year’s dress-up department is dominated by basic sheaths and contrasting cover-ups. This illusion of two dresses for the price of one will be noted by budget-conscious college, girls.”
Now you see it; now you don’t.
• From the McMaster University Silhouette:
The first act received a thorough going over ■with concentration focused on movements. According to one member cf the cast, “It’s pretty well salted down.”
Similar to jerked beef?
• From the University of Creighton Creightonian:
“Suggestive scenery will be used throughout the play, according to Mr. McBride. It will be the first time Creighton has used this type of staging.”
And probably the last.
• From the University of Creighton Creightonian :
“Although cats, mice, rabbits, dogs, chicken embryos, guinea pigs, and frogs are used for research in the department, only mice and guinea pigs are used in his endeavors to find the answer to mankind’s most dreaded disease, cancer.”
Sort of playing favorites, isn’t it?
• From the Gannon College Knight:
“This season promises to be one of the finest in years -with Kit Cornell, Helen Hayes, Betty Field, Jean Arthur and Flora Bobon all acting at once.”
That’s Flora, of the Bobsie twins.
20
DADADE
• From the Gannon College Knight:
“Fred Raven, first recipient of the Alumni outstanding athlete award, is now residing in Pittsburgh with his wife, the former Nancy Drexler. Fred is with the Pennsylvania Railroad.”
Unless the “bulls” have kicked him out of that box-car.
• From the University of Alaska Polar Star:
“Harvey Turner, originally a member of the party, was forced by knee trouble to turn back after the party had pro-
ceeded about 50 miles up the Logan glacier.”
You know he forgot his galoshes.
• From the Queen’s University Journal:
“ ‘A little bit of Einstein, a large feature of Al Lenard, and a whole lot of Queen’s spirit are the features that I demand in my males,’ answered pretty Peggy Dyer, when asked to describe her choice of God’s gift to the female species.”
You know Peggy Dyer, God’s gift to spinsterhood.
• From the University of Notre Dame Scholastic:
“Freshman Swimming Meet. . . Castle walked off with honors in the 50 yard backstroke. . . .”
On die bottom of the pool?
• From the University of Cincinnati Neu>s Record:
“Announcement of LSMFT -winners on Tuesday, Oct. 17: Margie Hamilton and Nancy Platt, tap dancers. Margie and Nancy featured a tap routine to ‘Sweet Georgia Brown.’ They are former stars of the Withrow Minstrels.”
You remember their act! .
• From the Mundelein College Skyscraper:
“Now it can be told! The large quantities of cookies savoured by parents and students alike on Parent-Daughter day were approximately two weeks old. Don’t shudder yet!
“The cookies were the project of the experimental foods class, who are working with a newly acquired home freezing unit. . . .
“The Home Economics department is experimenting with this . . . and has a sample cake five years old. It’s fresh too.”
Those cookies were bad enough; you can keep your cake.
• From he Alabama Polytechnic Institute Plainsman:
“Last week’s Pajama Parade, cancelled because of rain, will be. held Saturday at 10 a.m., according to Steve Blair, chairman of the Pep Committee. Pajama-clad fraternity and organization groups will parade with appropriate Tulane stunts.
And if it rains again this week, Steve will probably give up the whole scheme.
•	From the St. Peter’s College (Jersey City) Revieiv:
“Did anybody ever tell you that you gave him a pain in the neck? Well, if no, the chances are that you were either impolite to that gentleman or else very disagreeable.”
Be that as it may, if anybody told us that, chances are we’d slug him.
•	From the University of Maryalnd Diamondback:
“Beginning Tuesday, special on campus shows will be presented at different times during the day to publicize the chow.
’ “ ‘Lucifer,’ a devil mannequin, will appear at odd places to engage students in conversation. The Oriental practice of suttee—the burning and vanishing of a human body—will awe those hurrying to and from class.”
If you don’t mind, we’ll stay in our room.	•
•	From the Ohio State University Lantern:
“An organizational meeting of the Arts and Crafts group of the University Dames will be held at 8 p.m. today in Room 309, Pomerene Hall.
“Classes in corsage making, knitting, crocheting, rug making, painting and sketching, and ceramics will be organized if enough members are interested.”
Did you ever see a bunch of University Dames who weren’t interested in something like that?
The Scholastic
ND Sailing Club
(Continued from Page 19) boat race there is a possibility of ten points for one team.
Training Fairly Easy
Asked about the period of training necessary to qualify a new club member as an “able seaman” Bill felt that the requirements were Blight.
“The only prerequisite anyone needs to become a member of our Club is an interest in sailing. We have the blackboard instructions on fundamentals and principles of sailing at the Club meetings and, when the fundamentals are mastered, a new man should be able to learn to handle a boat in one or two afternoons.
“Sailing a boat is as easy as stepping on a bar of soap,” he said. “When a person steps on the edge of a bar of soap, the bar slips forward because the pressure in the direction of the floor meets more resistance than the forward pressure. In sailing, the wind offers the same force as the foot. It strikes on the side of the sail and is broken into two component forces—one to the side and one forward.
“The keel on the bottom of the boat under the water gives the superior resistance as the floor does under a bar of soap, and the boat moves forward along the line of least resistance. The important thing to remember is to keep the sails full at all times and to know what safety precautions are to be followed to prevent capsizing.
“It’s just a matter of learning the tricks of racing after that to participate in the meets. We have certain tests forthose who want to qualify as skippers based on all the various principles.”
Bill felt that prospective members could not pick a better time to join the club than at present. New plans are being formulated for training and arrangements are being made for space in the
And next week they send me "How to Mould Powerful Legs."
St. Joseph’s lake boat-house where the two boats can be permanently kept and meetings held.
The club dues are $2.50 per semester and members are asked to make a loan of ten dollars to the Club, which will be repaid at graduation, till the Student Council loan for the boats has been repaid. And it is hoped that, some time in the future, the Notre Dame Club will be able to invite other of the Midwest schools to come here fo.r a regatta.
Fun and Relaxation
“Sailing is a good competitive sport and it is a fine way to relax,” Bill said. “You have to try it before you can really appreciate it. It doesn’t take any great athletic ability as do many of the other college sports and there is plenty of room for everyone who wants to participate. One Eastern school has six or eight teams which sometimes all participate in a different regatta on the same weekend. It’s a lot of fun and can be carried on for many years after graduation.”
The team has participated in one meet at Bowling Green so far this Fall and has two more to go—the Michigan State Invitational, Oct. 28-29 and the annual Timme Angstrom Memorial Trophy race at Belmont Harbor, Nov. 24-25-26, where the Spring schedule will be arranged.
All are ready to “hoist anchor” this weekend for the University of Michigan and are determined to come home victorious.
French Grad Student Taking Sociology on Rotary Grant
Jean Pierre Labbens of Castres, France, is attending the University of Notre Dame under the terms of a Rotary Foundation Fellowship awarded him last June. One of 85 graduate students from 24 countries to receive such a grant, he is studying sociology.
Labbens attended the University of Lille and was granted the Licencie (master’s degree) in Letters in 1946. He then studied at the University of Lyons and received his doctorate in 1949. He also studied international relations at the Institute of International Studies in Paris.
Aftei- receiving his doctor’s degree, Labbens was given an appointment at the University of Lyons as a teacher of sociology. He was sponsored as a Rotary Fellowship candidate by the Rotary Club of Castres.
Dr. Labbens served as president of the Literary Society and as secretary of the Student Federation while at Lille. He has been a national director of .the French Federation of Catholic Students and director of the International Relations Division of the Secretariat for Christian Student Youth.
Survey Is Underway Of Library Facilities
In order to improve the services offered by the Notre Dame libraries, University officials have requested two noted librarians to make a study of the facilities available on the campus. These librarians, Dr. Louis Wilson and Mr. Frank Lundy, will be here at Notre Dame all next week. During that time they will visit the main library and the departmental libraries.
Dr. Wilson and Mr. Lundy will make a complete check of the material in the various libraries. They will determine if the books on the shelves are sufficient to meet the needs of the students and will decide what types of books the library should secure for them. Another thing they will do is to make suggestions as to how the books can be re-arranged so they will be easier to find.
Also, they will check on the personnel of the libraries. They will see if the staff is large enough and trained sufficiently to take care of the students. Finally, they will look into the services of the libraries, such as obtaining books not on the shelves.
As a part of the survey each, faculty member and student using the Library next week will be given a questionnaire which they will be asked to read carefully, fill out, and return to the circulation desk before leaving the building. This is intended to help the surveyors get a better picture of just what use is being made of the Library and of the staff’s efficiency.
AN APOLOGY
An error in last week’s issue in an editorial about the article “The Mc-Carran Law” credited Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew as being the head of the Department of Political Science.
The head of this department really is Rev. Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C. Our apologies to Father Cour.
Nov. 3, 1950
Catholic Action In The Flesh
In the last issue of the Scholastic an article entitled “The • Christian Cold War” explained the aims and necessity of Catholic Action in the world today. The purpose of this present article is vo describe the work of Catholic Action in a Catholic university.
YCS or Young Christian Students is a local Catholic Action effort which insists more on being real students than on engaging in multifarious activities. Wherever there is life, there must be some action and it is this which we shall make some effort to describe and justify.
Pope Pius XI defines Catholic Action as the participation of the laity in the apostolate of the hierarchy. It is clear that the main apostolic effort must be along intellectual lines. The job of the laity would seem to be cooperating in the general effort of education. While the major burden is being carried by the faculty and the administration, an active participation on the part of the student is necessary and it does not seem . out of place for. student groups to inquire into and dissect student life to find out how to improve their contribution in the work of the student community. Now education on college level should be a community effort. Catholic Action is not merely a religious action, but must aim to fit the student for his job: learning."
Our task, as members of the student community would then be to enable each student to have at his disposal the means to develop himself as a student, to grow to be a child of God. Some of these means are financial and economic. A student is not just a brain, he is a whole man; he lives an academic life, a social life, a religious life; he has economic needs.
Consider the student’s economic wellbeing. It is evident that he is periodical, ly in need of money. Lack of it compels the student to seek outside employment which may drain off a large portion of his time and energy in non-student activity. This is an obstacle to the student, (although at times work is a valuable contribution to a person’s education) but it also deprives the common good or the student community of his active presence.
It would seem that Catholic Action, if it is to further the student’s aim of securing an education, cannot overlook an obstacle to the student’s well-being. YCS, therefore, has a legitimate field of action in such problems as financial relief—when they concern the student body as. a.whole. This explains its in
22
terest in such a project as the student Book-Exchange, the “B-X.”
The Book Exchange was established as a student institution to help relieve student economic burdens. By means of it a student would effect an important saving by buying a textbook, using it and then reselling it on very advantageous terms. The Book Exchange is a service operated by and for students. All labor except professional auditing is performed gratis by voluntary student labor. A slight deduction from the price of the book provides for operating expenses. The service demonstrates how students may work together. to solve community problems which are hindrances to their job of learning.
Not only the individual student, but also student organizations have financial problems. They must advertise their activities, print programs, tickets, etc. This is an expensive proposition if contracted for commercially. The Campus Press, another student institution, was formed to solve this student economic problem. The Press is a service managed by students for students. Prices are adjusted only to cover professional labor, material costs, and needed improvements. The Press arose to fulfill a student need, and that is its purpose today.
However, the field of learning is more closely related to the problem of securing a Christian education. It includes such problems as study habits, use of time, selection of courses, relations with professors, the ability to read well.
Every student at Notre Dame realizes that education is not exclusively a classroom activity. There are innumerable means of education available—either to increase knowledge, or to solve difficulties involved in the skills of learning. The campus fosters a wide variety of discussion groups. Professors are ready and willing to offer assistance outside of classes. There is an excellent series of concerts and lectures. The services of the Guidance department are available to every student. These channels of education exist but their use by students must be furthered.	.
Here are some examples of what can be done:
During the last semester a group of Seniors arranged a series of informal, round-table seminars with their professors. They discussed problems of general interest, not just one particular field of learning. Here was a community of men learning together, each contributing to the education of his neighbor.
A group of students realized that the student community lacked sufficient ex-tra-curriculai- opportunities to develop self-expression. They knew this ability was necessary if the students were to communicate what they learned. A speech workshop was developed in cooperation with the department of Speech, and a group of interested students received valuable training in selfexpression in an informal atmosphere.
The question of choice of major prompted a group of Sophomores to suggest a “Choose Your Major Program.” The program was organized through mutual co-operation of faculty members, the Guidance department, and students. Its purpose was to enable students to visualize the purpose of the work they were doing, and hence, better realize the reason for doing it.
Freshmen, stymied by the “college method,” of studying were in dire need of assistance at mid-semesters. November, 1949, a group of Freshmen, working with the Guidance department, organized a series of lectures explaining, “How to study, read quickly and thoroughly, discover the meaning of the texts, etc.” This training was not valuable simply as a means of passing exam. inations, but also as a skill of life-long value.
Each of these student efforts does not exhaust the possibilities but merely characterizes the “why and how” of Catholic Action in general and of YCS in any Catholic School.—Frank Hennig^ 53.
Want Date for Pitt Hop? Council Offers 47 of 'Em!
Hear ye, hear ye, all eligible Notre Darners. Put down thy telescope. The day is about at hand. Forty-seven Sigma Alpha Sigma girls from diverse parts of Indiana will arrive in South Bend next Friday.
The immediate purpose of the visit is to hold a state convention. Requests were made, however, to the Notre Dame Student Council for Saturday evening dates. Pertinent information such as age and height (plus any indication of neurosis) was inclosed in the letter.
In reply, Student Council representatives James C. Hennessy and Henry T. Madden sent invitations for the Pittsburgh victory dance to the group and assured them that 47 men would be on hand to greet the party. Students interested can contact the above men at 334 and 369 Dillon, respectively, for additional information.
. Most of the girls, it was reported, average 21 years of age. Hence, juniors and seniors will be given first attention.
The Scholastic
Two New Members On Advisory Council
Two prominent New York City businessmen have accepted membership on the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce according to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. The two members of the Notre Dame Commerce Council are Victor D. Ziminsky, president of the Union News Company, New York City, and Bernard C. Duffy, president of Batten, Barton, Dur-stine and Osborn, Inc., advertising firm New York City.
Father Cavanaugh made the announcement in conjunction with the Fall meeting of the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce which was held last week end. Addition of Mr. Ziminsky and Mr. Duffy brings to 32 the number of prominent business executives from all over the United States who are serving on the Council.
Mr. Ziminsky, a native of South Boston, Mass., started in the retail business with the E. T. Slattery Company, Boston, where he served as merchandise manager until 1928 when he assumed a similar position with the Franklin, Simon Company of New York. He later became merchandising manager at Gimbel Bros, in New York City, a position he relinquished in 1947 to assume the presidency of the Union News Company. Mr. Ziminsky also is a director of the American News Company.	.
Mr. Duffy, a native of New York City, became associated with Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn in 1919 and served as space buyer of the company from 1920 to 1925, when he was named head of the media department. Mr. Duffy was appointed in 1935 to the position of vicepresident in charge of media, marketing and merchandising, and in 1943 was named general manager of six eastern offices of the company. The new Notre Dame council member was appointed general manager of Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn, Inc., in 1945, and has been president of the company since 1946.	'
Other members of the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce at Notre Dame are: Thomas E. Braniff, Dallas, Texas; 0. J. Caron, Rochelle, Ill.; John A. Coleman, New York, N. Y.; James E. Coston, Chicago, Ill.; William R. Daley, Cleveland, Ohio; Hugh Dean, Detroit, Mich.; Noah Dietrich, Houston, Texas; Robert E. Dwyer, New York, N. Y.; Lester W* Foley, Jacksonville, Fla.; K. H. Fulton, New York, N. Y.; James Gerity, Jr., Adrian, Mich; Robert H. Gore, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; J. M. Haggar, Dallas, Texas; Robert L. Hamilton, Racine,
Wis.; Daniel P. Higgins, New York, N. Y.; Charles R. Hook, Middletown, Ohio.
Neil C. Hurley, Jr., Chicago, HL; John T. Kirby, New York, N. Y.; Herbert A-Mendelson, Pacific Palisades, Calif.; Philip Murray, Washington, D. C.; Robert H. O’Brien, New York, N. Y.; John F. O’Shaughnessy, Wichita, Kans.; Edward J. Quinn, Chicago, Ill.; Charles M. Reagan, New York, N. Y.; Peter C. Reilly, Jr., Tuckahoe, N. Y.; John J. Reynolds, New York, N. Y.; Judson S. Sayre, South Bend, Ind; George W. Strake, Houston, Texas; William K. Warren, Tulsa, Okla.; and Jack P. Whitaker, North Kansas City, Mo.
Knights Will Hold Formal Nov. 17 at Indiana Club
The Knights of Columbus will open the year socially with a Thanksgiving Formal dance on Nov. 17 at the Indiana Club in South Bend. Co-chairmen John Colusta and Robert Savage have announced that Bud Simpson and his band will play from nine until one a.m.
All Notre Dame students are invited. The bids will cost §2.50. Those attending have been granted 2:30 a.m. permissions and may obtain car permissions from the Office of Student Welfare. John Geller is in charge of dance arrangements; John Gighlieri, tickets; Chuck Lenz and Phil Finnegan, publicity; and Bob Finnegan, decorations.
------Mauled-------------------------
Nov. 4
Wagonmaster
Nov. 11 Holiday Inn
Nov. 18
Secret Fury
Nov. 22	.
Bride For Sale
Nov. 25
White Tower
Dec. 2
Golden Twenties
Dec. 7 Our Very Own
Dec. 9
Tarzan and the Slave Girl
' Dec. 16
Treasure Island
Jan. 6
Dangerous Profession
Exam Offers Seniors Government Careers
Mr. William Dooley, director of the Job Placement Bureau, has announced that the United States Government is preparing an examination leading to a career in the Federal Government. 'The Junior Management and Social Science Assistant Examination will be given in South Bend in early December by the United States Civil Service Commission.
The purpose of this examination is to recruit outstanding young people who are trained in management, the social sciences or public affairs for careers leading to executive and high-level staff positions in the Federal Government.
To qualify, the candidate must have completed a four yeai- college course leading to a bachelor’s degree, or expect to complete it before June 30, 1951. His course must include 30 semester hours in one or a combination of the following fields: public or business administration, political science, government, economics, international relations, industrial management, industrial engineering, sociology, psychology, anthropology, geography, history.
Mr. Dooley also announced that the Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N. Y., -anticipates openings in 1951 for a limited number of young men who are qualified for and interested in beginning positions in chemical, mechanical or electrical engineering, in chemistry or physics, or in the various Commerce fields.
Preliminary application forms from Eastman, to be filled in by interested 1951 graduates, are available in the Placement Bureau. Those expecting to finish in January are to fill in these forms at once. Others may fill them in up to Dec. 15.
To assist students seeking employment, James A. Nielsen, U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station, Inyokern, China Lake, Calif., will be at Notre Dame next Tuesday and Wednesday. Movies will be ’ shown at • -3 p. m. on Tuesday at the Audio-Visual Center. Anyone may attend.
Dr. A. R. Willey, representing the American Can Co., Maywood, - Ill., will arrive on Nov. 13 to interview chemistry students and chemical engineers. Representatives of the National Division, Allied Chemical and Dye Corp., Buffalo, N. Y., will be here to interview on Nov. 15.
The U. S. Rubber Co. ■will interview at Notre Dame on Nov. 30 for a variety of personnel. Shell Development Co., Ev-eryville, Calif., will have representatives here on Nov. 15 to interview graduate chemists.
Nov. 3, 1950
23
Band Honors Shannon View Mike in Navy Game Display
Tomorrow at 7 a.m. the ND Band will depart for Cleveland on the Pete Redden Football Special. Arrival is scheduled for 12:30 p.m.
During the half-time show, the Band will share the spotlight with the Naval Academy Band. The Notre Dame show will open with the Hike Song and a Bilent drill. .The Band will then countermarch and play Anchors Aweigh in a N-A-V-Y formation. Then follows Blue and Gold with the band spelling out the title.
Drum Major Dave O’Leary will lead the ND contingent across the field to the Irish stands where they will form an outline of Shannon View Mike and play Where. Oh Where, Is My Little Dog
Gone? The Victory March will follow. The Band will return to the campus tomorrow night.
Flying Fusileers Holding Practice for New Season
The AROTC rfle team has begun practice for its 1950-51 season under the direction of Captain Thomas J. Hardy, USAF, and Sgt. Melton, assistant coach.
The first match for the 15-man Bquad, captained by Don Riley, will be held in late November. The schedule is incomplete at present, but will include other AROTC units and Army ROTC units. Highlight of the year will be participation in the Hearst Trophy matches and the National Inter-Collegiate matches held in January and February.
We’ll loan you a Camera ...
Send Your School Pictures to the Folks at Home ...
— Here’s What You Get —
2 Rolls Film, Eastman or Ansco.
We will develop and finish the 16 pictures.
Loan you a Camera
ALL FOR
f
Your I. D. Card is all you need.
See us for all your Photographic needs.
Ault
CAMERA SHOP. Inc.
122 So. Main St.	Ph. 3-5041
Your Eastman Kodak Store
THROW MiM
10 for 1O«
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUALITY)
Pipes of specially selected imported briar. Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... X
Also Frank Medico 'Standard"...
America's Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pipe
Frank Medico Cigarette Holders *1 & *2
When the Filter in Medico Pipes or Cigarette Holders turns brown, throw it away with the nicotine, tars, juices and flakes it has trapped. Insert a fresh Filter to get cooler, cleaner, dryer, purer smoking!
Real Filters .. not mere hollow tubes
MEDICO FILTER PIPES
The Scholastic
24
Irish Seek Elusive Third Against Navy
Luckless Foes Tangle a+ Cleveland Stadium
By JACK VARLEY, ’52
Frank Leahy’s Fighting Irish will attempt to even their season won-lost record tomorrow at the expense of Coach Eddie Erdelatz’ Navy eleven before an expected crowd of 81,000 in Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium. Both teams will be dragging heavily marred season records onto the field, but again this year the Middies will be the underdog in the 23 year old rivalry between the two schools. Notre Dame has won 18, Navy four and one clash ended in a tie.
Navy’s record is unimpressive this season. They opened against Maryland and came out on the short end of a 35-21 score. The following week they met Northwestern and were defeated 22-0; then Princeton edged them 20-14. Their only victory of the season came when they upset Southern California, 27-14. Last week they were again pushed into the loss column by Pennsylvania, 30-7.
But the fighting Middies remember last year’s 40-0 trouncing, and realizing that Notre Dame is no longer invincible, will attempt to be the fourth team to
Tom Baltics
disrupt the Irish ranks in the pigskin parade. Led by their ever-pitching quarterback, Bob Zastrow, Navy will combine the T and experienced backs to match the passing of Bob Williams and company. Zastrow, who was good enough last year to make third team All-American, will keep Leahy’s defensive backs on their toes all afternoon. In the ’49 season he completed 74 out of 178 passes
for a .416 average, 1,126 yards and nine touchdowns. Right behind Zastrow is Mike Sorrentino who Erdelatz thinks is the slickest ball handler among his quarterbacks.
Navy’s two hard-driving halfbacks, Frankie Hauif and Bill Powers, are very liable to be large thorns in the Irish side. They both specialize in driving off the tackle spot which was a Notre Dame weak point last Saturday. Hauff was the leading ground gainer among Navy’s regulars last season with a 4.7 average. Powers was right behind him with a 4.3 average. The fullback position will probably go to 187 pound Dave Bannerman. Last year he amassed 416 yards to be the Middies chief ground gainer. Behind him is Roger Drew who doubles as placekicking specialist. He copped scoring honors last season with 19 points on 21 conversion attempts.
Mainstays of the line will be Tackle Paul Tetreault and Capt. Tom Bakke, an end. Tetreault, the heaviest man on the Navy squad at 225, played' the full 60 minutes in most of the games last ■ year. In his first season he won All-American honorable mention. Bakke, who won honorable mention All-Amer-ica at the University of Denver* in 1947, is playing as a regular for the first time this year at the Academy. Sharing (Continued on Page 32)
Nov. 3, 1950
25
KjiJOckiua /buHuwl the.
St. Ed's Downs Cavanaugh in Last Minute
With but a minute left in the game Bill “Scotty’” Scott spurted off his right tackle for six yards and the game’s only T.D. as the St. Edward’s gridsters 'won a hard-fought battle from a game Cavanaugh crew, 6-0. “Scotty,” who stands 5’ 5” and weighs only 140 pounds, was the outstanding player on the field. The diminutive tailback played both offense and defense for the full 48 minutes.
Cavanaugh dominated play in the first two periods. Late in the second quarter they drove as far as the St. Ed’s 17 yard line before they were stopped. The situation changed in the second half. St. Edward’s showed a complete reversal of form as they took the opening kickoff and stormed to the Cavanaugh 15 before their drive petered out.
Tackle Dick Moran intercepted a short pass a few minutes later to give St. Ed’s the ball on the Cavanaugh 22. As the third canto ended the winners had a first down on the 6 yard line. Cavanaugh rose to the occasion and pushed them back.
With but a few minutes left Gordon Berquist, St. Ed’s defensive center, pounced on a fumble to give his club the oval on the Cavanaugh 37. Paced by little Scott’s twisting dashes and big Fred Crowe’s powerful, lumbering smashes, they rolled to the 6 yard line from where “Scotty” raced to pay dirt.
—Roger Fernandes, ’5i
Off-Campus Blanked Again
Tom O’Brien to Ray Dietrich is a pass combination that Off-Campus is not likely to forget for a long time. For it is this duet which accounted for Lyons Hall’s two touchdowns in their 14 to 0 victory over the downtowners.
The scoring took place in the middle periods. In the second quarter, O’Brien hit Dietrich for thirty yards and the tally. Midway in the third frame, Dietrich again snared an O’Brien heave for a forty yard money play. The victory was Lyons’ first of the year.
Oddly enough, both scoring passes came when Lyons had the ball on fourth down with considerable yardage to gain for a first down. Each time O’Brien’s aerial thrust was successful, not only for the first down, but for a T.D.
26
Although the Off-Campus eleven had a large weight advantage over the Lyons team, it was outfought and outclassed all the way. This is the second straight 14-0 shutout that Off-Campus has suffered. Dick Salamida and Vic Riley added several pretty runs to Lyons’ offensive punch and helped to keep Off-Campus on the defensive throughout the game. Seldom did Coach Turco’s men get a drive started toward their opponent’s goal, and when they did it soon petered out.
—Bob Rust, ’53
Forfeit Win to Morrissey
Last Friday afternoon Alumni defeated Morrissey in a bruising ball game
Teammates congratulate Ray Dietrich for leading Lyons to win over Off-Campus.
by a 7-0 count. All went by the boards, however, when a protest lodged by Morrissey’s Coach Canfield concerning the eligibility of an Alumni player was upheld by Mr. Napolitano, who awarded Morrissey a 1-0 forfeit victory. The controversy centered about Alumni’s Bransfield. It was claimed that he had at one time been out for freshman football and upon investigation it was discovered that Bransfield’s name was listed on the official freshman football roster for 1948. Since the interhall grid rules ban any man from competition who has played on a university football squad, Mr. Napolitano had no choice but
to declare Bransfield ineligible and nullify ' the Alumni triumph.
However, the game was an interesting one. The only score came in the later stages of the third quarter when a pass from Derivaux to the much-discussed Mr. Bransfield clicked for a touchdown. Until this happened, the contest was a close, seesaw battle throughout.
Bright spots in the game were the runs of O'Day and Derivaux of Alumni. O’Day especially was adept at breaking through the Morrissey line. Actually the play that set up the lone touchdown came on a beautiful return of a quick kick by the quarterback Derivaux. He was seemingly trapped on his own 40 but escaped by running laterally across the field and got down vo the Morrissey 20 yard line before he was dropped. From this point, a few moments later, came the game winning pass.
Thereafter Morrissey did not have a chance because Alumni gained possession of the ball on downs following rhe kickoff and ran out the clock with ground plays.—Bill Brien, ’53.
Zahm Trips Farley, 14-0
Sparked by the running of little Bill . Sinozitch, Zahm Hall gained a decisive • victory over a strong Farley crew last week in another inter-hall encounter, . 14-0.	•
Throughout the first half, an impressive “T” was stalled by numerous penalties which nullified considerable yard- . age picked up by its strong running attack. The only scoring threat of the first half came in the final minutes of the second period, when Zahm’s Dave Foy picked off a Farley pass on his own 45 and returned it to the Farley 11. However,	■
Farley met the challenge and choked off	:
this Zahm threat.	:
With about five minutes remaining in the third quarter, Zahm started its first T.D. drive. After Foy returned a Farley punt to the Farley 35, Dutch Niessen, on a quick-opener, picked up a first down on the 25. With Niessen and Sinozitch sharing the brunt of the running attack, Zahm quickly drove to the Farley 10. From there Billy Sinozitch skirted his own left end and scored. Niessen bulled over for the extra point and Zahm led 7 to 0.
Zahm’s second score came in the final minutes of play. Led by the sensational running of Billy Sinozitch, Zahm marched to the Farley 10. Niessen once again was the strong man and cracked over for what was to be the final tally of the afternoon.—Mort Kelly, ’53.
The Scholastic
Harriers Down Iowa; State Title Bid Today
This afternoon, the cross country men are fighting it out with Purdue and Indiana for the Indiana State Championship in a race being held on the Butler* University course down in Indianapolis.
Indiana has been champs for the past two years, but was hit hard by graduation, and probably won’t be as strong this year as last. Though Notre Dame beat the Purdue harriers, 26-31, earlier this year in a dual meet, the Boilermakers will probably be the favorites, since
Benny Almaguer
Notre Dame was hard hit when a Big Ten committee ruled two weeks ago that Captain Jim Kittell had completed his college eligibility.
Bob Rodibaugh, Purdue Senior, is the defending champ and an odds-on-choice to repeat. Rodibaugh beat Notre Dame’s Ben Almaguer by 60 yards in last month’s dual meet, but Ben has improved noticeably since then—as indeed have all the Irish. Bob Dellinger of Indiana beat Ben several times last year and looms as another strong contender. Purdue has a Sophomore, Johnny Stayton, who didn’t compete against Notre Dame, but could upset the dope if he runs today. Stayton was the nation’s leading high school miler two years back at Anson High downstate and supposedly has a great collegiate future ahead of him.
Also on today’s program is a “Little State” championship being held for the benefit of the smaller colleges which wouldn’t have a prayer against the three big universities. The host school, Butler, (Continued on Page 30)

Monday Morning Quarterback
For the first time since the Southern Methodist game of last year, Notre Dame had a football team that looked like a Notre Dams team on the field last Saturday against Michigan State. The Irish blocked and ran better than they have all fall. The passing of Bob Williams and John Mazur was spectacular. The pass receiving was even more sensational, with Jim Mutscheller showing that he is one of the outstanding ends in collegiate football.
It was as thrilling a game as the Stadium has ever seen. Perhaps the Purdue game of ’48 may be remembered longer but only because the Irish won that one. And the reason Notre Dame beat Purdue that year is the same reason why Michigan State won last Saturday. The Spartans were outgained in the air and on the ground but they got and made the breaks when they counted most.
If the Irish can continue to play the type of ball they showed last Saturday, they won’t be beaten again this year if— and this is a big if—injuries don’t cripple any more key members of the squad.
Play of the Week
John Mazur’s clutch touchdown pass to Jim Mutscheller for the first ND touchdown. The way John came in and got the Irish their first six points reminded you of a pinch hitter coming to bat with men on base and then knocking one over the fence on the first pitch.
Player of the Week
Who else but John Petitbon? The Junior back took over Billy Barrett’s spot in the ND backfield and performed brilliantly. John gained 171 yards in ten carries and also caught four passes. His being injured in the fourth quarter after a long run might have cost the Irish their upset win.
Sport Shots
There were three Michigan State football players who returned “home” to Notre Dame last Saturday. Dick Kuh and Deane Thomas were listed on the Irish 1948 roster but left school shortly after* the start of the season. Kuh is listed as a Junior and Thomas a Sophomore at
State. Don McAuliffe, Grandelius’ understudy at halfback, was on the Irish squad in ’45 but left ND to enter the Naval Academy. Later he resigned and when he could not re-enter Notre Dame and participate in intercollegiate athletics, McAuliffe entered Michigan State. He is now a Sophomore. ... In case you’re wondering why the Irish are wearing those practice helmets every Saturday, here’s the story. The Irish started out the season with new type helmets which had foam rubber padding inside for protection instead of the conventional suspension straps. Some players complained they were heavier and didn’t offer as much protection as the conventional models. These players were given permission to wear practice helmets during regular games but it wasn’t long before others followed suit. Last Saturday, everybody wore the practice ones. . . . Track Coach Alex Wilson is having a tough time lining up opposition for his Irish trackmen for the coming indoor season. A new Big Ten policy has every conference school meeting every other school. That doesn’t leave open dates for such schools as Purdue, Indiana and Michigan State, entering Big Ten competition for the first time, to continue their traditional track rivalries with Notre Dame. To complicate matters one of the Irish’s other meets won’t be run off any more. The Illinois Tech Relays have been discontinued because Tech officials decided sponsorship of the affair wasn’t worth the trouble. However, a group in Milwaukee intends to hold an indoor meet open to both college and club runners on the weekend formerly taken by the Tech meet.
Prediction of the Week
This Irish team looks like it has “arrived.” We’re looking for them to continue their fine play of last week.
Notre Dame, 28; Navy, 14.
• From the Gannon College Knight z
“It is hoped that by granting the extra time, more students, who would otherwise be unable to attend away-games, will be able to arrange the necessary means to do so.”
Such as building ox-carts.
Nor. 3, 1950
27
Bill Gay Meets the Spartans
Irish halfback Bill Gay runs into a flock of Michigan State tacklers as he returns kickoff after Spartans' final touchdown to set up Mazur-sparked touchdown drive.
Trojans Defeat Oregon for Season's First Win; Three Other Opponents Are Trampled Again
Saturday when the giant killers from ; Miami (Fla.) knocked them over rather \ easily by a score of 28-0.	; ,
Quarterback Jack Hackett sparked the Hurricanes to their win over the hap- V less Panthers. Hackett completed 16 passes two of them for touchdowns to end Ed Lutes and he was the main threat during Miami’s other two touchdown drives. The Miami defense did the rest. Their line was the master of the . game as Pitt was unable to penetrate past Miami’s 35 yard line until the fourth quarter.	t
Iowa’s only consolation is that Fesler let them score. Ohio State administered the Hawkeye’s worst beating in their football history last week with an 83-21	\
drubbing.
It was halfback Vic Janowicz who exploded the majority of Iowa’s woe al- * though eight Iowa fumbles helped the . cause along. Janowicz ran for two touch- /; downs and he passed for four more. His -last two touchdown passes ran Ohio’s ? score from 48 to 62.	*
Iowa never had a chance. The Buck- \ ‘ eyes scored three times in the first 5 minutes and led 35-0 at the end of the first quarter. Iowa didn’t score until late in the second period with the score 55-0, Wes Fesler cleaned his bench.	|.
While Navy battles Notre Dame tomorrow Pittsburgh will be looking for its I ; first victory of the season when they s;' tackle West Virginia. Iowa faces Minne- 0 sota in a Big Ten Conference game and Southern Cal tackles Stanford on the ' j coast.—Frank Ronnenberg, ’52
Southern California’s first victory of the season, a 30-21 victory over Oregon, kept the future Irish foes from drawing a blank for the day. Even as Notre Dame was going down before a great Michigan State team, three of Notre Dame’s four-future opponents were being trampled before they even got up.
The sad state of Notre Dame’s remaining schedule can be well told by Pennsylvania, Miami (Fla.), and Ohio State. Tomorrow’s opponent, Navy, was mauled by the Quakers, 30-7, while Miami walloped Pitt, 28-0, and the Buckeyes of Ohio State ran rough-shod over Iowa, 33-21.
Smarting under four consecutive losses and the sharp criticism being aimed at their coach, Jeff Cravath, the Trojans of Southern Cal turned on Oregon and whipped them, 30-21, in Los Angeles. It was a rough first half that saw the Trojans take a 13-7 lead with only 4 minutes left to play in the second period.
Southern Cal’s star halfback changed the complexion of the game soon after the start of the third period. He broke through the Oregon line and romped 63 yards for a touchdown that put the Tro
28
jans comfortably ahead. They added another touchdown and a field goal before the quarter ended and leading, 30-7, the Trojans loosened up to allow Oregon to narrow the final count.
Navy lost numerous scoring opportunities last Saturday on their way to being humbled by Penn. The Middies outrushed and outpassed the Quakers but they also out-fumbled them and had four passes intercepted.
After two Navy drives in the first quarter were stymied by fumbles, Penn took the lead on a 61 yard pass by Red Bagnell. In the second quarter, Penn halfback Glenn Adams ran 35 yards for another score. Soon after that Navy finally navigated the touchdown route successfully but’ they trailed at the half, 17-7.
The second half was the same storjr. Penn took advantage of two Navy mishaps to add to their total while the Middies kept on missing, once as close as the one foot line. It was Navy’s worst defeat at the hands of Penn in over fifty years.
The Pitt Panthers had the dubious distinction of losing their 5th straight last
• From the ■ University of Mississippi Mississippian:
“The good news about coats this season is variety. No shape or fabric domin-nates. It may be an enormous tent falling from sloping shoulders, the revised Chesterfield, or a trim fitted reefer.
Suitable for round-shouldered marijuana addicts.
See advertisement on page 8.
The Scholastic
B' Squad to Arkansas For Razorback Game
At 8:30 tomorrow night in Fort Smith, Arkansas, the Notre Dame “B” team will meet the University of Arkansas Bees in a game which has long been awaited in that section of the country. All tickets, from three dollars on down, have been sold for weeks to insure a capacity crowd of over 8,000 for the game to be played at a Fort Smith high school stadium.
Included in the notables expected to be present are Gov. Sid McGrath of Arkansas and Most Rev. Albert F. Fletcher, Bishop of the diocese of Little Rock. Gov. Henry F. Schricker of Indiana was also invited but will be unable to be present because of previous commitments.
Between the halfs, the spectators will be afforded a show by the University of Arkansas band, which stayed home from the Arkansas-Texas A. & M. game in order to play for the fledgling Irish-Razorback contest. To add to the atmosphere of a big-time game, a 48-page souvenir program will be sold.
All this has been the work of Pres. Raymond Marre and the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Fort Smith. The people down there don’t have much of a chance to see a Notre Dame team in action, but when they do, evidently, it’s cause for a celebration.
Frosh coach Benny Sheridan will direct the Irish while Arkansas head coach Otis Douglas figures the game is worthy of his personal attention. He plans to. fly home after the Varsity game to handle his Bees.
The Irish will be after their second win of the season, having beaten Purdue, 13-7, while tying Illinois, 0-0. Tomorrow morning, the squad is scheduled to leave St. Joseph Airport at 9, arriving in Fort Smith four hours later. The return trip will also be made by air with the team slated to be back in South Bend by noon Sunday.
Swordsmen Readying To Extend Win Streak
With the disadvantage of trying to match the achievements of the greatest fencing team in Notre Dame history, about 40 hopeful swordsmen have begun training for the coming season. While the first match is still over three months away, the fencing aspirants, under the supervision of Professor ‘ Walter Langford, have been working out for the past three Weeks.
Last year the ND fencers won ten dual meets in as many attempts to put the Irish on the fencing map nationally.
Among the victories was a 20%-6% conquest of the University of Chicago, which was the worst defeat ever suffered by the men from the Windy City. Climaxing this stellar performance the swordsmen placed sixth in the NCAA tournament, the highest spot ever captured by a midwestern school in that perennially dominated Eastern sport.
This year, however, the future is not too bright. Six monogram winners were lost by graduation while an equal number returned. Heading the list of the veterans and the two who will backbone the otherwise inexperienced squad are the co-captains of the team, Nick Scalera and Dan Parisi. Both were standouts of the undefeated 1950 group.
Hoopsters Step Up Pre-Season Practice
Irish basketeers step up their practice sessions (right) with start of hardwood season only a little over a month away. Below, Assistant Coach John Brennan, Frosh Coach Gene Kenny and Head Coach Moose Krause (left to right) try to see what the future holds for the Irish eagers. First game for- the Krause-men is on Dec. 6 with Franklin College from downstate as the opposition in the Notre Dame fieldhouse. Two more games follow at home, against Anderson on Dec. 9 and Wisconsin Dec. 11, before Irish meet Northwestern in Chicago.
There are ten matches scheduled again this year with the first being set for Feb. 3, against Northwestern. The highlight of the card and the final event foi’ the team will be the NCAA championships, which are to be held this year in Champaign, Ill. The complete schedule is as follows:
Feb. 3—Northwestern, here
9—Case, at Cleveland
10—Ohio State, at Columbus
12—Illinois, here
17—Kansas, here
24—Iowa, at Iowa City
Mar. 2—Michigan State, at East Lansing
3—Detroit, at Detroit
10—Chicago, here
17—Cincinnati, here
30-31—NCAA, at Champaign
Nov. 3, 1950
29
The Third Degree
By ED MERTZ 
While the topic is still seasonal, the Third Degree would like to say its piece regarding the passing pigskin parade. Along about this stage of the year every columnist from Beatrice Fairfax to Westbrook Pegler seems to be gripped with the autumnal urge to talk football in print, and we are no exception. We do have, however, what might be called a novel gimmick in our gridiron act. We do not want to handicap next week’s games, second-guess last week’s or name an All This and That Team. As a matter of fact, we don’t even want to talk about players at all, but about the crowd; specifically the Notre Dame student body crowd.
Most of the graduate students at Notre Dame have taken their degrees elsewhere, and a lot of us came from schools where so far as football was concerned, to lose was human, and to win, an unrealized dream. Accordingly, we have indulged in a lot of cynical second-guessing as to how defeat would affect the vaunted Notre Dame spirit.
Well, now everybody knows, and the knowledge is an everlasting credit to the University. The students are, if anything, more solidly behind coach and team. And both team and crowd has measured up to defeat like champions, with praise for the victor, and pride in a team that could be beaten, but never outfought. And speaking on behalf of the grads, I am offering a large bouquet of praise to the undergraduate student body. It would be even more tremendous if you could carry that spirit and attitude over into the cage season, and leave booing, hissing and catcalls to the high schools. How about the same kind of respect for officials, right or wrong as their decisions may seem to you, and the same spirit of fair play towards opponents, so inspiringly present in these weeks of grid defeats.
It is with deep sorrow that we announce to the graduate student body the death of the sister of Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., the graduate dean. An official graduate school memorial Mass will be announced very shortly. Meanwhile remember to include her soul in your daily Masses and prayers. It is the first and finest way available to show our sympathy, and our friendship for Father Moore.
Yet another reminder of the Grad Association meeting at 8:00 p. m. in the Rec Hall on Nov. 13. We’ve already be
30
labored the big drum, and made our pitch as to why we need you and not just somebody else at this meeting. Help us to help you. It’s up to you. Keep that date open, and make yourself seen and heard.
Cross Country (Continued from Page 27) will be one of the leading contenders for this title.
Until last Fall, Notre Dame and Indiana had taken turns winning the state championship, with Purdue always close, but never a winner. Last season—supposedly Notre Dame’s turn to win—Indiana scored one of her most convincing triumphs with 32 points to Notre Dame and Purdue’s second place tie total of 73. Indiana actually was not quite as superior as that score might indicate. Several runners from the “Little State” schools pushed the Notre Dame and Purdue scores higher by finishing between Indiana’s first five men and the final scorers of the other two teams.
Last Saturday the harriers brought their season and dual meet record up to the .500 mark by dumping Iowa, 24-35. Ben Almaguer was an easy winner in 20:19.8—his fastest time ever for the four mile home course—by close to 200 yards over Davis and Von Ahsen of Iowa.
Under instructions from Coach Wilson the whole Notre Dame team went out fairly fast. When the lowans held back fearing a stiff early pace, the Irish as a team were able to get such a commanding lead over the bulk of the lowans that after the first mile there was never any doubt of a Notre Dame victory.
Davis of Iowa stuck with Almaguer for the first two and a half miles, but couldn’t stand Benny’s killing pace and slowly dropped behind and out of contention. Junior Bob Fieler, the youngest of a family of top-flight distance runners, took fourth in the race and was followed by sophs John Joe O’Connor and Harry Snyder. Con Tetrault in eighth place completed the Irish scoring, and was closely trailed by George Helfenstein and John Mohar, both of whom beat Iowa’s fourth and fifth men to push the Hawkeye score higher.
—Ted Prahinski, ’51
• From the University of Creighton Creightonian:	*
“Law students of the Junior class Friday evening, Oct. 13, held an informal party at the Ancient Order of Hibernians hall. The feature of the evening was a wrestling match staged between Gorgeous George, alias Tom Lott, and the Ape Man, otherwise known as Dick Ryan.”
Preparation for die appelate court?
o
By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
Within the last few seasons on Broadway, there have been some really great musicals. Our parents and the movies are often referring to the great shows of the “good old days” with names like Marilyn Miller, Billie Burke, Nora Bayes, and shows like “Sunny” and “The Ziegfield Follies,” but in our day we have been able to contribute to the roster of greats in musical comedy. “Oklahoma” is, of course, the outstanding hit as a great show, with “South Pacific" the most recent successor. These are great shows with wonderful music which will live for a long time and will probably be sung by many future generations.
There are great performers on Broadway today too. For example, Ray Bolger is a tremendous performer and trouper. He ‘made’ “Where’s Charlie” into a hit show. It would have been rather lusterless without the springy, inexhaustible Bolger. Another musical comedy of this type is on Broadway now. It is a great show for various reasons, but not for the outstanding music contained. This show is “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,” and it has been a sell-out from the day it opened. It has all the elements of a good musical, plus. The costumes are gaudy and bright, perfectly portraying the mad outfits of the roaring twenties. For the first time in many a day, the old-time chorus girl is back, and the long-legged beauties are displayed liberally throughout the show. The dances and dancing are perfection thanks to the expert guidance of Agnes de Mille.
These all help the show along, but the climax of the show, the push that moves “Blondes” to the smash hit category, is another great performer, Carol Channing. Here is a creature from another planet. She resembles nothing human, and from the moment she skips on stage, all eyes watch no one else. She’s a tremendous bleached blonde, measuring six feet and weighing 170, but she can sidle with the best chorus girl. Her performance as Lorelei Lee has been heralded as hilarious and astounding, and Carol is currently threatening the now reigning musical comedy queens.
Her wide-eyed cracks keep the audience roaring and her wild, squawking voice rocks the house. The best number in the show is “Diamonds Are A Girl’s Best Friend” and it gives Carol a chance to cut loose. She slinks her way through her tale of preferring diamonds to theii' donors. He voice goes from a soft moo to a resounding squeek, and every note charms the audience.	j
i
The Scholastic J

YEARS AGO
--------By BOB FINNEY, ’53--------
Fifty Years Ago
From the Nov. 3, 1900, Scholastic: The Irish were upset by Indiana, 6-0, for their first loss of the year after four wins. . . . The newly organized cheerleaders led an enthusiastic reception for the team in Brownson Hall when they returned from Bloomington. . . . The annual retreat had just ended and students were urged to “work with a vim till Christmas. . . . We must perforce stay indoors a good deal, and while there we may as well use the time profitably.”
Twenty-five Years Ago
From the Nov. 6, 1925, Scholastic: Mid-semester exams, scheduled for the week ending Nov. 14, were to be one-hour exams held during the regularclass period, in contrast to the formermethod of holding formal two-hour-exams in every course. It was hoped that the new system would be adopted permanently. . . . The Notre Dame Publicity Department was created, with the purpose of circulating authentic news about Notre Dame and clarifying mistaken conceptions. The need for it arose when the 1924 national champion football team put the University squarely in the spotlight. . . . Proof of Notre Dame’s continued football prominence was witnessed by the announcement that a special train would run from Denver, Colo., to Lincoln, Neb., for the Irish-Nebraska game. . . . Notre Dame 13, Georgia Tech 0, as halfback Christie Flanagan scored both touchdowns.
Five Years Ago
From the Nov. 16, 1945, Scholastic: The University was still running on the wartime schedule of three full semesters a year, and the fall semester was two weeks old. NROTC and V-12 enrollment for the fall semester was 898. . . . The first postwar student trip left for Evanston, Ill., and the Northwestern game. . . . Karl E. Schoenherr accepted the position of Dean of the College of Engineering. . . . Charles C. Price was named head of the Chemistry Department. ... Lt. Cmdr. Frank Leahy was discharged from the Navy, and returned to Notre Dame as an advisor to Coach Hugh Devore for the rest of the football season. . . . Over a thousand students greeted the football team at the Union Station early Monday morning when they returned from New York and the Army game. Army won the game 48-0. . . . Football results to date included Irish 39, Pittsburgh 9; Irish 56, Iowa 0; Irish 6, Navy 6; and the Army game.
• From the Queen’s University Journal:
“Dr. McLaughlin explained the poses in the portraits to the guests.”
Those darn cubists.

College Sweaters
Best Author Will Win $500 In College Fiction Contest
Prizes of $500, $300, and $200 are being offered by Tomorrow Magazine in its College Writers’ Short Story Contest, open to any Notre Dame student. The winning stories will be published next year. Regular- rates will be paid for any other manuscripts which are used by the magazine.
Any number of manuscripts may be submitted, as long as they do not exceed 5000 words and have not previously been published. The contest closes on January 15, 1951.
Entries should be sent, along with the student’s name, college, and home and campus addresses, to the magazine in care of College Contest, 11 East 44th Street, New York 17, N. Y.
Attends Conference
Professor emeritus Knowles Smith of the Science Museum represented the University at the mid-West sectional conference of the American Association of Museums, recently held in Indianapolis. The Notre Dame museum is a member of both the national and mid-West organizations.
CORSAGES
FLOWERS
for
All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
w-
Trimly tailored button-front coat sweater . . . popular on every campus. 100% virgin wool in your choice of black, red, Kelly green, or royal blue. Sizes 36 to 46. Come in and see them today. .
Men’s Shop . . . Main Floor

Nov. 3, 1950
31
Navy Game
(Continued from Page 25)
tackle honors with Tetreault is 218 pound Jim Hunt. The guard position will be the weakest with only one returning letterman, Bill Steele.
Last week, while Penn subdued Navy, Michigan State was winning their third game in 18 starts against a Notre Dame eleven. The combined efforts of a hard-fighting team and a spirited student body weren’t enough to stop the brilliant offense of Coach Clarence “Biggie” Munn’s Spartans as only a field goal and penalties spelled the difference between the two teams.
Notre Dame opened the scoring early in the first quarter when Quarterback John Mazur threw an 18 yard pass to Jim Mutscheller. Joe Caprara missed the conversion. No sooner had Notre Dame kicked off and their six points had been posted on the scoreboard when State, led by Everett Grandelius and Vince Pisano, had driven to the Irish 10. The Spartans were penalized five yards for offside, but on the ensuing play Pisano powered 15 yards for the score. Bob Carey’s kick was good and State led, 7-6.
The luck of the Irish turned, bad and the Spartans capitalized on it to lead 206 at the end of the first period. State’s Doug Weaver intercepted a Williams’ pass and ran it to the Irish 24. A few seconds later Grandelius scored from the seven. Carey was again successful. The following kickoff was fumbled by Jack Landry on the ND six. A clipping penalty drove the ball back to the one. Lan
dry picked up ten yards, but another penalty again placed the ball on the one yard line. Williams went back to punt, but his kick was blocked by Jim King. Weaver recovered the ball for the third State marker.
Leahy’s lads scored the only points in the second quarter as the result of a 41 yard run by John Petitbon to the State eight. A few plays later- he took a handoff and went five yards for the score.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
Notre Dame	Navy
Mutscheller ...E........McDonald
Toneff .........T....... Fischer
Burns ..........G.........Bryson
Groom .........C........... Hunt
Wallner .......G......... Steele
Flynn .........T............Hunt
Ostrowski .....E.......... Bakke
Williams........Q........Zastrow
Gay ............H......... Hauff
Petitbon ......H......... Powers
Landry .........F........ Franco
KICKOFF: 1:30 E.S.T.
The second half opened with Michigan State driving from their own 21 to the Irish 21. Here their attack bogged down and Carey attempted a field goal on fourth down. Angling his kick perfectly, Carey split the posts and the Spartans increased their lead to 23-13.
Then the Irish got the ball; their attack began clicking. Led by another run by Petitbon, the gold and blue clad warriors drove to the State 16. A pass from Williams to Mutscheller completed the
yardage for the T.D. Caprara’s kick made it 23-20. With the student section resounding with cheers and the defense stiffening, the Irish forced the Spartans to punt from their own eight. A sustained drive brought the pigskin to the MSC 25 and from here Williams pitched to Mutscheller to put Notre Dame in the lead, 26-23.
State again went into the lead. On the following kickoff the, Spartans kept plugging away at the ND defenses until they were within six yards of their fourth touchdown. They drove to the two from where Grandelius scored.
A few minutes later the Irish were on the march. Williams passed, but State’s Don McAuliffe intercepted and ran nine yards to the midfield stripe. The Spartans drove to the 12, passed to the one from where McAuliffe scored.
With time rapidly running out, Mazur went in at quarterback. He threw pass aftei- pass, climaxing one to Jerry Marchand on the two yard who went over to make the final score: Notre Dame, 33, Michigan State, 36.
There were many great deeds on both teams, but the play of John Petitbon was very outstanding. As a pass receiver he was great; as safety man he did very well; but perhaps his yardage gained was the outstanding thing of the afternoon. In ten attempts he carried the ball 171 yards.
Almost as great as the feats of the players were those of the student body who cheered their mates on throughout the whole game onto the field at the game’s end to congratulate the players.
Dick Cotter moves in to'make the tackle on Spartan kickoff return as Burns (64) moves up to help and Caprara (49) does (?)
John Petitbon, the running star of the day, tears through a big hole in the MSC line. Ostrowski (87) and Flynn (74) block.
32
The Scholastic
Student Choir Makes Debut at High Mass l
•	Before a congregation of students and
\ football weekenders, the Notre Dame ; student choir made its first appearance |	of the semester at Sunday’s 11 o’clock
j	solemn high mass. Under the direction
j of Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., the 1 group will sing at high mass on every second Sunday	for the remainder of
:	the year.
;	This choir was first organized last
1	January, when	Father McAuliffe gath-
; .. ered approximately 50 students together " and taught them to chant the responses of a high mass. From then on, the group
. sang on the last Sunday of every month, ’ making a favorable impression on late mass-goers.
f	After this encouraging start, Father"
McAuliffe decided upon a more ambitious program for the coming year, ineluding an increase in the number of students in the choir. In addition, the plain Gregorian chanting will soon be supplemented by four-part singing. The z musical form will continue to be a cap-pella, that is, plain voices without accompaniment.
Ultimately, the purpose of the choir is to initiate congregational singing at Notre Dame. Father McAuliffe hopes ’	to use his trained group as a nucleus,
’	to familiarize the rest of the student
; body wtih the manner of singing the ; Mass, and eventually, to help the entire j congregation to join in the singing.
|. Father McAuliffe explains that there ! are two primary reasons why congrega-■ tional singing should be practiced at -	Notre Dame.
“From the purely artistic viewpoint,” }	he explains, “the Catholic Church has
? the most beautiful choral music in all a
| the world. Protestant and non-sectarian if musicians have always recognized this f and have exploited Catholic music in :	their programs. It seems fitting that a
;	Catholic University like Notre Dame
should have a student choir which can adequately present this beautiful, tra-j	ditional music.”
j
I	But more important, there is the re-
| ligious aspect. “Congregational singing | is the most intimate and fruitful way of 4	participating in the Mass,” he adds.
1	“The Church has long been urging the
! laity to take a greater part in the Mass. |	- Following the responses in a Low Mass,
i or better, singing the responses in a High Mass is the finest way of sharing in the spiritual benefits of the Mass.”
_ Because of the loss of many of last
year’s members by graduation, and also because of its plans for a larger group this year, the student choir is in need of many new members. Interested candidates need have no special singing abilities to qualify. While the Gregorian chant is one of the most beautiful of all musical forms, it is also one of the easiest to sing. It requires neither extensive training nor exceptional ability to perform.
(Advertisement)
Sport Shorts
Notre Dame’s John Helwig, a Senior end from Los Angeles, Calif., has never made the headlines—at least in football. Although John was a regular line-backer last year, and has played both line-backer and end on this year’s Notre Dame team, his main fame has come from his prowess as a track man. John has been the best shot-putter ever to throw the iron ball at Notre Dame. While in high school, he held the national scholastic record. He holds every shot-putting record at Notre Dame. Last ■winter he defeated Charlie Fonville of Michigan, former collegiate title-holder. As an end John specializes in defense and is also used as a line-backer on occasion.
COMIN C
Notre Dame’s captain and center Jerry Groom, and end Jim Mutscheller have developed into the “iron men on a team of iron men,” due mainly to the lack of depth on this year’s Irish squad. Groom has played 255 minutes in five games, Mutscheller 256. That is an average of over 50 minutes per game. John Petit-bon, who ran wild last Saturday against the Spartans of Michigan State with 171 yards in ten carries, is the iron man of the backfield. John has played 107 minutes in five games for an average of almost 40 minutes a game. His time would have been even greater, except for injuries which kept him out of half of the Tulane game and a quarter of last Saturday’s contest.
Among other things, Saturday’s Notre . Dame-Navy game in Cleveland’s giant Municipal Stadium, should evolve into a battle of the 22’s. Both Bill Gay of Notre Dame and Frank Hauff of Navy wear that number. Both Gay and Hauff are left halfbacks, and both Gay and Hauff have been playing both offensively and defensively—in itself unique in these two platoon days.
If the Notre Dame football team should lose to Navy this Saturday in Cleveland, it would mark the fourth time in 62 years of football that the Irish have lost four or more games in a single season.
WATCH TCH IT
Nov. 3, 1950
33
A Trumpet
We only have one more home game, so this offering comes a little late. The student body and the band are xtill not together on the Victory March after 'touchdowns in the stadium.
A few weeks ago we proposed that the band wait some 30 seconds until the wildest of the cheering has died down. We still think this part of the answer.
This week, we go further and suggest that, plus waiting, the band appoint one of the trumpet men to turn toward the stands and blast.
Most of the students sit behind the band and it is hard to hear what’s being played. If the trumpeteer faces the students, they’ll hear and sing.
Ghoul Frolic
The Junior class-sponsored informal dance in the old barn last Tuesday night was a right nice affair. Hull played his usual fine brand of music and everyone seemed to enjoy the pre-holiday relaxing. Even the cokes tasted good in such an atmosphere.
Anyway, it’s about time the Juniors did something around here.
Summary
Most of what can be said about last weekend has already been said, but you can’t let a weekend like that go by without comment. Nor can you ever really know all that goes on during such a time. You can only observe. We feel it is time for a summing up.
First of all, one has to comment on the “spirit” evidenced by such a weekend. It is probable that the spirit of the season reached its zenith last weekend. Nothing comparable will be seen again this year.
whole affair. They were in on the planning and they particularly were concerned with keeping the spirit directed into the right channels and they did a fine job.
Several people should be mentioned as the prime movers of the show. One of these is Dick MacDonald. The men who did much of the sloganing were Dick Marshall and Bill Carey. Others, like Bob Hoff and Jack Young, worked hard to put over the show.
To all these men, and to the many more who contributed freely of their talents and services, the WORD offers a “well done” and a thanks.
The rally Friday night was extremely well organized and effective. The torchlight parade was a fine thing. The speakers were well chosen and their speeches were brief and to the point. The bonfire was an imposing sight.
The football team comes in for its share of praise. They did a magnificent job last Saturday and there is no gainsaying the fact. Their performance made the actual score of the game rather insignificant, in retrospect. -
Elections
Election day for the nation is Nov. 7. There are a lot of men on campus who are old enough to Vote.
We admit that voting intelligently is pretty tough. It’s hard to know everyone you are voting for and it’s hard to know what you’re going to get. There are so many men running for office, and there is so little decent information available about them.	’
Our suggestion is this: Try to know the men who are running. Choose your man with the good of the country in mind. Make up your mind before you
step into the ballot box. Don’t make voting a pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey affair. Then vote! That’s all you can do and it’s an awful lot.
The Last Word
This week it’s Navy and for the moment there is only one game on our 1950 schedule—Navy. Tomorrow evening we’ll be able to think about Pittsburgh. And how we’ll beat Pittsburgh even worse than we beat Navy.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
HEALTH SPOT
SHOES
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
We have lovely lavender orchids now for only
$3.75 and $5.00 each
BEYERS
Florist
I I I W. Wayne (near Y. M. C. A.)
A lot of people are in line for congratulations after last weekend. The whole demonstration was planned and given impetus by a group which is too large to name individually. Some names stand out.
We give the biggest nod to two people: Bill Anhut, president of the Student Council; and Tom Carroll, chairman of the Blue Circle. Both of these men had their feet on the ground during the
LIFE IS SHORT C O L L E GI A N S !!!
Why not devote it to God as a
FRANCISCAN TEACHING BROTHER
In the Classroom— on the Ball Field — in Club Activities — at Camp
CHRIST and YOUTH need YOU!
Write: VOCATION DEPT. C	41 Butler St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.
34
The Scholastic
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Sophomore Cotillion Law Ball
November 10, 1950
Si A J	unny Italy Jotrc Dame Tradition ▲ “Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food. SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 North Niles ▼
GIVE YOURSELF JR THIS
PDPIIIAHflY If ST
Students who were not fitted on the campus may still rent tuxedos at Logans in South Bend, 107 N. Main St. Over 500 suits to choose from; shorts, stouts, regulars, longs and extra longs. Sizes Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56.
PRICES:
Tuxedos — $5.50 Accessories — $ LOO (Shirt, Bow Tie, Jewelry, and Suspenders)
Full Dress, $7.50
NO DEPOSITS
Duc to the large demands o place orders early.
LOGAN'S
107 No. Main, So. Bend, Ind.
Do you look forward to going to a dance?
Ye:
No---
Do partners enjoy dancing with you?
Would you rather dance than watch others?
Yes____ No ■ ...
Ii you answered "yes” to all the above questions you must be the most popular person in town. But, if. you had to say "no” a couple of times here’s how to change those "no’s” into "yes’s.”
Come in today to Arthur Murray’s. Just put yourself in the hands of one of his talented experts and before you know it, you’re dancing with confidence and grace.
Then watch those invitations come your way, for good dancers a.re always in demand. So don’t wait, don’t miss ou ton good times you deserve to have. Come tn now and be all set for your next dancing party.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 EAST WAYNE
Phone 2-3339 for Free Trial Lesson
Free Dances Thursday Nights
Nov. 3, 1950
35
WE DARE them AU!
Philip Mourns k ■■
'-d.n9 brond	«he,
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!

1 Light up a philip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?
i.
di*

£. *
2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
.C5
'**^**.^%
ESTASMSNED -
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
MORE 5MOKINO K[a;'	4
ovte* wo
^■•Saicn'oN
ESWUUPMOHWS
2
The Scholastic
Oversight Caught
Editor:
Indignation—No I
A pointed omission—No!
Recognition—Yes!
As a Notre Dame alumnus, and as a sensitive New Orleanean, permit me to pass comment and not judge your editorial of October 20, 1950 appreciatively entitled “Thanks Unlimited.”
Your expression of gratitude was indeed one of limitless enthusiasm; but in your full measure of joy you unfortunately failed to mention Holy Cross High School, which did not a little in making things pleasant, and even somewhat comfortable, for the talented Notre Dame Band members.
I have called this oversight to your attention for particulars were pointed out, in your editorial, which helped to make the student trip one of excellent rating.
With every best wish for a successful academic year, I remain neither a “Senator Claghorn” noi* an individual who enjoys self-exclusion at the price of fairness.	Name Withheld
Cub Columnist?
'SUBuSHtDil**'
Editor:
Before I make any assuredly provoking comments, would you please have your cub columnist, Mr. Walt Collins, clarify the intimimations of his crude statement that “it’s about time the Juniors did something around here.” 312 Howard	Bob Deline, ’52
Steady, lad; let’s not get panicky.
—Walt Collins
No Blondes, Please
Editor:
It, seems such a shame that “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,” which is a poor excuse for a girlie show at its best, even had to be mentioned in a column with such great shows as “South Pacific,” “Oklahoma,” and “Charlie’s Aunt.” Mr. Morris said: “It was a great show for various reasons, particularly it had all the elements of a good musical, plus.” He then proceeded to outline the femininity as the reason foi- its success.
If this is the only thing that makes a musical good, then Michael Todd, and Olsen and Johnson are doing a better job. The productions of Gian-Carlo Me-notti of the Hartmans would have been more fitting for the column, rather than the type of evening the uneducated tired business man spends away from his wife.
Farley Hall	Tom Knott.
BROOKS BROTHERS has a long and illustrious history
Brooks Brothers, a famous name in men’s clothing, was founded in 1818.. .and was a (if not the) pioneer in the manufacture of Men’s Ready-Made Suits.
Through the decades many notable persons have crossed our portals—from Lincoln and Grant...to Franklin Roosevelt, Dempsey, Tunney, and many of Hollywood’s best dressed men.
Today a bright new chapter has been added with the opening of a fine new store in Chicago...where Undergraduates will find our traditional quality and good taste reflected in distinctive clothes for campus or dress wear.
Biens furnishings, ^ats ^Shoes 74 EAST MADISON STREET, CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
ESTABLISHED 1*18
Nov. 10, 1950
3
with the
soft collar that
won’t wrinkle... ever!
NOW... in your favorite winning colors, too...
the new Van Heusen CENTURY shirt
Such a sensation in while . . . we knew you’d want it in these new fashion-smart colors of grey, blue and tan. Soft collar stays neat all day and night... can’t-be-copied, patented fold line always folds right . . . collar points resist curling.
All this! . . . and color too! In regular or wide-spread collar models.
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size. in white—§3.95, §4.95 in colors—§3.95
We'll loan you a Camera ...
Send Your School Pictures to the Folks at Home . . .
- Here's What You Get -
2 Rolls Film, Eastman or Ansco. We will develop and finish the 16 pictures.
Loan you a Camera
ALL FOR
Your I. D. Card is all you need.
See us for all your Photographic needs.
Ault
CAMERA SHOP. Inc.
122 So. Main St.	Ph. 3-5041
Your Eastman Kodak Store
THROW AWAY
Van Hensen
"the ivoMs smartest" OM.JL1. I/O
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
When the' Filter in Medico Pipes or Cigarette Holders turns brown, throw it away with the nicotine, tars, juices and flakes it has trapped. Insert a fresh Filter to get cooler, cleaner, dryer, purer smoking!
Make GILBERT’S
Real Filters ..not mere hollow tubes
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
10 for 10<
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY fINE QUALITY} Pipes of specially selected imported briar.Sft Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... L Also Frank Medico "Standard*...
America's Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pipe Frank Medico Cigarette Holders & *2 MEDICO
FILTER PIPES
GILBERT'S
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 ■ 817 S. Michigan Street
4
The Scholastic

by
Top of the Week
Sophomore Cotillion tonight in the Palais Royale. . .
Food and Stuff
Notre Dame men like to vary their existence a little bit each week by eating in one of South Bend’s restaurants. Why they do this, we don’t pretend to know. One reason may be the special priced dinners offered by a few of the greasy spoons.
Everybody, well aZmost everybody, goes to Papandrea’s on Tuesdays, Rosie’s on Fridays and Tuesdays and Na-bicht’s on Sundays. All we need now is' for Clark’s, Mark’s, and a few other . eating joints to have special days to take care of Monday, Wednesday, and especially Saturday.
Should this happen, we would be the first to quaff our cocktail in toast to the restaurant owners responsible. Indeed, such a gesture on the part of steak and chop boys would go down in history along with the landing of MacArthur in the Philippines and the War of Jenkin’s Ear.
We’re going to be waiting here in the Scholastic office with napkin around neck and fork and knife poised. You let us know if anything develops.
Sophs Swirl
This is the big night of the year for ND Sophomores and their imported and otherwise procured dates. The annual Sophomore Cotillion swings into a full tizzy this p.m. under the spacious and dimly-lighted roof of the P.R. ballroom. After the Sophs get through, we can make no predictions about the roof or j for that matter, about the Sophomores either.
A word of advice seems pertinent at this moment, especially after the tremendous response to last week’s WEEK dance suggestions and we will quote from both letters.
“. . . Don’t you think ND men expect too much when they ask a girl to one of their dances? . . .”
“. . . Why doesn’t a Notre Dame man ever ask the same girl to two dances in a row? . . .”
x To the first question, the answer is ob-
Nov. 10, 1950
vious. We don’t think it’s too much to expect the girl to buy the dinner, provide transportation, and make fascinat- ’ ing and exhilarating conversation between dances when asked to do so. But, we do object to some girls trying to take advantage of theii- ND dates by bringing up subjects like winning football teams, draft classifications, and class marks.
Another thing that gets on our nerves is the girl that continually snuggles up to us, whispering husky amors into our left ear, and incessantly kissing us in dark corners. After- all, you can carry a thing too far.
The second question deserves no answer at all, but here’s one just the same. We hardly ever take the same girl to two dances in a row, because they usually haven’t recovered from the first one by the time the second rolls around. Just remember girls, it’s not every day you
PREPARE NOW
for HOLIDAY DANCING FUN
GEORGE DAVIS offers Special Low Rates for Notre Dame Men
Don't miss out on all the fun at the Dances this semester. Even if you don't know your left foot from right ... A few easy lessons with a GEORGE DAVIS expert will set you straight.
Cali 3-8229 NOW for your FREE TRIAL Lesson
South Bend’s Largest Dance Studio
106 W. MONROE corner Michigan
South Bend
get to go to a ND dance, and you can thank your lucky stars for that.
Progress Review
The WEEK can report and take pride in some very significant changes on campus as a result of our comments so far this year.
That horrible bust in the Library has been removed and shipped to Moscow as a Christmas present for- Uncle Joe. If a war starts in December, you’ll know-why.
The fish derby entries have tripled since the WEEK report and Notre Dame now has the healthiest and most well-fed cat population in, if you’ll excuse the expression, Northern Indiana.
The campus voice of Notre Dame, WHY or WHO or WND or something like that, is still operating and they seem to be improving.	'
Some other suggestions have been ignored and frankly we are amazed at the seeming indifference displayed by some of the institutions on campus toward these matters. The Student Council hasn’t brought up that skating rink floor for discussion yet. Let’s wake up, you representatives of the student body I
Bottom of the Week
.. . and you don’t even have to be back in your halls until 2 a.m.
DANCE FIESTA every Thursday, 9 p. m.
All Notre Dame students • invited to attend our friendly socials. No charge.
Dial 3-8229
NOVEMBER 10
PALAIS ROYALE—The up-and-coming Sophomores will entertain their dates tonight at the annual Cotillion from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Frankie Masters and his orchestra have been signed to substitute for Gene Hull. Lavish decorations are promised to fool the 550 couples into believing they are spending the evening in Paris.
COLFAX (through Nov. 16)—All About Eve (Legion of Decency Rating—B) will divide the ND movie-going public into two camps: come will think it is great; others will find it an over-talkative bore. It is the type movie which the discriminating entertainment-seeker will rave about. A top-notch cast including Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, Celeste Holm, George Sanders, Hugh Marlowe and Gary Merrill are outstanding. Joseph L. Mankiewicz, who directed and wrote the picture, proves he is one of the ablest men in Hollywood. Take a tip—see this entry from the beginning, preferably some night next week when a noisy audience won’t distract 5rou.
PALACE (through Nov. 16)—John Payne and Maureen O’Hara co-star in Tripoli (A-2), a technicolor film glorifying early exploits of the Marine Corps. Not much is known about the second feature, Prisoners in Petticoats (A-2), but the incredible title suggests a poor man’s Caged.
AVON (booking dates indefinite)—June Haver and Gloria deHaven share the honors in the pleasing musical I’ll Get By (A-l). Jeanne Crain, Dan Dailey and several other Fox stars appear for a few seconds in this pic. It will be followed by King Solomon’s Mines (A-l) a colored epic about a safari in Africa. Its authentic filming in the Dark Continent is one of its main distinctions.
NOVEMBER 11
STADIUM—Revitalized after their win over Navy last week, our team faces the Panthers from Pitt tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. With the student body vocally behind them—for the last time this year—the squad should show up even better than they did against the Middies.
PALAIS ROYALE—With the Cotillion crowd pleasurably packing the place, this week’s Student Council should be one of the biggest successes of the Fall. Hours: 8:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.—12:30 a.m. permissions.
WASHINGTON HALL—One of the best musicals ever made plays the campus Bijou—Holiday Inn. The two showings are at 6:30 p.m. and 8:35 p.m. In case you forget, this one starred Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire and featured some of Irving Berlin’s best contributions, including the introduction of White Christmas.
NOVEMBER 12
SACRED HEART CHURCH—A special section will be reserved at the 9 a.m. Mass for Cotillion-goers and their dates.
VET REC HALL—The weekly bridge tournament starts at 1:15. All experts and duffers alike are invited to these card gatherings.

Vol. 92 NOVEMBER 10. 1950 No. 9
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS '51
JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52_______________News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52___Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51_____Features
JOHN F. MEANEY '52_____________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52_____Assistant Sports JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51___Photography
LEON GARDNER. *52___________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER__________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51__Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN *52 Circulation
JAMES ROGERS *51__________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS_________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the	j
school year, except during vacation and examina- J tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.	V
COVER: Refuting a time-honored American tradition, Scholastic herewith presents one American male tying one black bow tie. What this new accomplishment of the nation’s manhood null do to a favorite Hollywood formula is another question. However, Sophomore Bill Dargan seems to be making out all right and that cummerbund is sure to make eyes pop. Let’s just hope he gets those suspenders adjusted in time for tonight’s Cotillion.—Photo by Jim McLaughlin
The Scholastic
Watch Their Smoke
If local scalpers could have gptten some tickets this past week they would have made a killing. Pitt tickets? Uh-uh’! ----stubs to tonight’s Sophomore Cotillion.
It was almost unbelievable to see students scurrying around asking for tips on how to get a ticket. It was impossible to pull strings. There just weren’t any left.
And although the sell-out was disappointing to some students who wanted to go very badly, it was, on the whole, a good sign. It was indicative of a class that is interested in supporting extra-curricular activities.
Generally dance committees suffer up until the last minute, wondering whether or not they’ll be able to meet expenses. This burden didn’t bother the Cotillion men. They started early with a good publicity campaign and went over the top nearly two weeks ago. With this worry out of the way they were able to concentrate on other details of the big dance.
Last year as Freshmen, the Class of ’53 showed signs of being a live-wire bunch. And from the looks of things they haven’t lost an iota of enthusiasm. If they can keep this spirit up they’ll surely be a great asset to the university.
Welcome, Brothers
The Scholastic is pitifully skimpy this week for a good reason. It’s not because our magnanimous budget has been expended nor because the staff got lazy and demanded a rest. The real reason is because the Juggler is coming out next week.
To explain: the Ave Maria Press, where all student publications, except the Dome, are published, is suffering from a tremendously big printing schedule. The ultimatum was either the Scholastic cut its size down to 20 pages for one week or else the Juggler could not see the light of day this Fall.
The decision was an easy one—the Notre Dame literary magazine would get its chance to live. This might sound like a martyr’s decision, but it was not.
It was felt that our brother magazine more than deserved an opportunity to be published this semester. We not only felt they would do the same if positions were reversed, but also that there is a definite place for such a publication in student life.
Not too long ago the Juggler was under much attack for its content. Some of the criticism was justified, but some was not. However, that was “not too long ago.” The final issue of last year resolved any of . the criticism about the mag’s being too full of vague and erudite gibberish. Instead, that issue proved the literary publication could be entertaining, instructive and creative as well as being a sounding board for neophyte literati.
Nov. 10, 1950
Here, at last, was a mag' as pleasurable and satisfying as anything on the professional racks. Although this year’s first issue has not been seen yet, it’s a good bet that the trend evident last Spring will be continued.
If some of the student prejudices against the Juggler could be dispelled a great many NDers would find out what they have been missing. There’s nothing superficially arty about this publication. On the other hand, it’s not pointed toward the comic-book addicts, either. If more students took a crack at reading the Juggler they would see it was a magazine worth reading.
While on the subject of brother publications it is only right mention be paid to the Technical Review which also comes out next week. Because of its nature the Review does not garner the wider audience of both the Scholastic and the Juggler.	-
It is parochial in so far as it is by and for students in all engineering departments. But because it is slanted toward these men is no reason why other students shouldn’t take a gander at it.
As for the engineers, themselves, the Technical Review offers a stimulating platform on which to swap ideas, theories and other material commonly interesting to all. Just from looking at the make-up, alone, proves the engineers don’t make light of their magazine.
It is hard to find a college publication that is produced with more polish. The Review staff is allowed a good time between issues but from the finished product it is easy to see that they use this time wisely. The make-up is splendid. Pleasure is derived from just flipping through the pages. A magazine has to be good to rate on this point.	’
In fact, both the Juggler and Technical Review rate highly on any point you can throw at them. And the Scholastic is proud to be associated with them.
Why Not Continuous Music?
A new innovation appeared this week in Notre Dame formal dances, namely, having two bands providing music for continuous dancing.	.
This is the first time such a scheme has been tried at a University dance and in our opinion it is about time. Anyone who has attended a ND dance, we feel sure, will share this opinion.
The majority of ND dances are, like football games, sellout affairs, as witness both tonight’s Sophomore Cotillion and Law Ball. These sellouts mean just one thing— a crowded dance floor. No matter what the thrill of attending a dance, you can’t have a real good time when you can’t dance comfortably.
This new innovation could be copied at other class dances for the rest of the year. The money angle shouldn’t be a problem.
7$
B ..
. AJight are the famous keys of national honor societies. No. 9 is an important newcomer. It’s the Bell System’s new keyset for the direct dialing of Long Distance telephone calls. And, though not yet "national,” it already has "chapters” in more than 900 cities and towns.
By pressing these keys, your operator can dial calls straight through to telephones in many distant places. Calls go through faster, more accurately.
Automatic dialing of Long Distance calls by operators, a development of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, is being extended steadily. This new method of putting through Long Distance calls is especially important right now, when the nation is counting on telephone service to help speed the job of defense.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Keysshown: 1. Sigma Xi (Scientific Research). 2. Sigma Tau (Engineering). 3. Sigma Pi Sigma (Physics). 4. Beta Gamma Sigma (Commerce).
5. Beta Alpha Psi (Accounting). 6. Blue Key (Service). 7. Omicron Delta Kappa (Men’s Leadership). 8. Pi Gamma Mu (Social Science).
8
The Scholastic

VOLUME 92, NUMBER?
NOVEMBER 10, 1950
Sophomores Set for Year’s First Formal
Co+illion-goers Spend 'An Evening in Paris'
If you cherchez la femme at “An Evening in Paris,” you’ll find 550 of them, dutifully accompanied by a like number of Notre Dame men, packing the Palais park scene at tonight’s Sophomore Cotillion.
Two of the girls, dates of the dance co-chairmen, will reign as Cotillion queens. Miss Janet Stanton of Gary, an English major at Indiana University, will be escorted by Jerry Kelley; Miss Julie Darst of St. Louis, a graduate of Villa du Chien Academy, is Mike McNulty’s date.
Music, French or otherwise, will be provided by the popular Frankie Masters and his orchestra.
Tonight’s formal dance is the highlight of a full weekend of activities for the upperclassmen and their dates. The pep rally this evening will prepare the Cotillion couples for tomorrow’s tussle with Pitt in the stadium. Come what may, there will be an informal Victory Dance at the Palais that evening.
Miss Janet Stanton
Council Offers Cash for Best Decorations; Votes to Back Student Musical Comedy
Aside from just hall spirit, the men who are working on hall decorations for the Pittsburgh weekend will now have the added incentive of a cash prize to work for.
At the Student Council meeting of last Tuesday it was decided that $100 would be appropriated for the three halls with the best decorations. The first prize will be $50, the second $30 and the third $20.
A committee consisting of some member of the administration and two notable visitors to the campus will determine the winning decoration. The winners will be announced at the game.
The money will be presented to the hall councils, which will use it for whatever hall activities they think fit.
Council backing has been approved for
Many of the girls will still be on hand for nine o’clock Mass Sunday morning at Sacred Heart Church. Regardless when they leave, all the dates will be shown a good deal of the Notre Dame campus before the week end is over.
Already successful attendance-wise, the Cotillion will last from 9 p.m. till 1 a.m. The Cotillion-goers have two o’clock permission for tonight’s affair, while all must return from the Victory Dance by 12:30.
The busy week end appears to be a sure cure for the mid-term blues—and pinks—so prevalent this week.
The SCHOLASTIC extends its deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Professor Philip H. Riley, who died Sunday morning. A member of the Department of Modern Languages, Professor Riley had been associated with the University for many years.
the University Theater’s production tentatively titled Faith-, Hope and Hilarity. This will free University funds for-, other uses later, and it is believed by the -Council that the students will benefit thereby.
Investigating at the request of some students, the Council found that nothing could be done this semester about, cuts taken when getting their physical exams. But a recommendation will be made to the proper authorities. . ■	■'
Jim Mannion made a report bri the.' possibility of installing the honor system at Notre Dame. This too is being investigated.
The next showing of football movies will be next Tuesday, when the Indiana game is shown. As usual the showing will take place at 4:15 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Knights' Formal Soon
Thanksgiving season at Notre Dame will be highlighted by the Knights of Columbus Formal dance to be held Nov. 17 at the Indiana Club of South Bend. All Notre Dame students, regardless of what they have to be thankful for, are cordially invited to attend.
Co-chairmen John Clusta and Bob Savage are busy making final arrangements. Bud Simpson and his orchestra . will entertain from 9 p.m. until 1. ajn.
Residence permissions have been extended to all those attending, until 2:30 a.m. • Car permissions may also be obtained from the Office of Student Welfare. Bids have been placed on sale in the lobby of the Dining Hall for the price of $2.50 per couple.
Bob Finnegan has charge of decorat. ing the Indiana Club with the approprj- . ate pumpkins and corn stalks. Chuck Lenz and Phil Finnegan are handling publicity while John Gighlieri is selling tickets. John Geller is in charge of arrangements. •
Nov. 10, 1950
Faculty Art Exhibition Continuing to Nov. 18
Commemorating National Art Week, the exhibition by faculty members of the art and architecture departments of the University will continue through Nov. 18. The showing, which began Nov. 1, is
Art exhibit guests, inspect home model.
open to the public daily during the week from 9 to 5 and from 7 to 9 in the evenings. Enabling weekend guests to view the exhibit, the gallery will be open from 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday.
Stanley S. Sessler’s “The Trout Fisherman” and Frederick S. Beckman’s “The New Preacher” are among the oil paintings displayed. “Winter Recollections,” a watercolor by Francis J. Hanley, was awarded the Peter C. Reilly Prize in the Hoosier Salon Exhibition at Indianapolis in 1949.
Francesco Montana is showing four watercolors, including his “Temple of Karnak.” Robert Schultz and Vito Gi-rone have Pacific war scenes on exhibit.
Sculpture by Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., includes “Head of Christ” in terra cotta and a bas-relief titled “Lord, that we may see.” This bas-relief won first prize in the Art Show of the Indiana State Fair and has been exhibited in national shows at Hartford, Conn., Provincetown, Mass., and Newport, R. I.
Two busts by Eugene Kormendi, artist in residence, are included in the exhibit. “Head of Christ,” done in aluminum, is one of these. Aladar and Viktor Olgyay are showing a group of photographic enlargements of new construction in Hungary which they designed.
Architecture Men Eligible For Two Design Contests
Architectural students at Notre Dame are eligible to compete for prizes totaling $325 in two national design contests just announced by the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design, in cooperation with the Tile Council of America.
. The first problem calls for the design of a group of garden apartments with 350 dwelling units. Permanence of construction, with the use of such fireproof and easily maintained materials as clay tile, is to be a major consideration.
A sketch plan for a public swimming pool is required in the second contest. A perspective of a diving tower, pavement, portion of a building or other detail showing the character of the architectural expression and the suggested use of tile is to be included. Both contests close Dec. 23 and are to be judged the second week of January.
The competitions are open to students of universities and colleges in the United
Notre Dame Competes in
George Pletcher and Harold Van Tassel will represent the College of Law in the seventh Federal Circuit Moot Court competition in Chicago next week.
The team, winners of last semester’s dean’s award for Moot Court competition, will meet De Paul University of
George Pletcher addresses the "jury” while the "judge," Prof. Edward Barrett, and Harold Van Tassel, other winner in last year's ND Moot Court competition, listen.
States, Canada and Cuba. The University department of architecture can furnish interested students further information on them.
Comprehensive Econ Exam Scheduled for December 7
Undergraduate economics majors scheduled for graduation in January will take their comprehensive examination Dec. 7 at 1 p.m. in Room 127 of the Social Science Building.
Students graduating next June, who are in process of finishing all requirements by January, may take the exam if their economics courses average 87 to date. Notification of Mr. John H. Sheehan, head of the department, must be made to this effect.
The examination will cover- General Economics Principles and Problems and the six required courses. Copies of past examinations will not be supplied for review purposes.
District Moot Court Meet
Chicago. The argument will pertain to the legal aspects of rain making.
The winner of this district competition will participate in the national finals in New York City in December. Arthur Beaudetete is the alternate member of the Notre Dame team.
IO
The Scholastic
'Juggler,' 'T. Review' Appear Next Week y ■	.
;	Two University publications will hit
•	the newsstands next week for the first
1	time this semester. The Juggler, literary
.	magazine, and the Technical Revietv, a
i	magazine of Engineering news, will ap-
,	pear- next Wednesday and Friday respec-
1	tively.
I	The Juggler, co-edited this year by
J	Dave Yerex and Walt Clements, rolls
from the Ave Maria presses next Tues-• day and will go on sale Thursday. The Juggler is a literary magazine includ-, ing short stories, sketches, essays, book . reviews, poetry, and—an innovation— j drawings by Chuck Lenz. .
■	Co-editor Yerex is a 23-y ear-old Sen-
' ior in the College of Arts and Letters, , majoring in English. His home is in New . Zealand. Clfements is a 21-year-old Sen-
l ior in Arts and Letters, also majoring in ‘ English. He lives in South Bend.
The Juggler staff this year* includes a business manager for the first time. In charge of this phase of the magazine is Dick Byrnes, a Senior from Asbury , Park, N. J. Byrne is saddled with the job of distribution and sales of the literary booklet.
A subscription campaign for the Juggler has been carried on in the campus residence halls as one means of distribution of the magazine. It will also be sold in the halls, at newsstands in the cafeteria and bookstore, and downtown at Bruggner’s and the Aquinas Book Shop.
The Technical Review, which will present its 1950 Fall issue to the public next Friday, is a publication of the Col- lege of Engineering.
Review editor this year is John Els-bree, a 30-year-old Senior in Electrical
Engineering, College of Engineering, from Lehighton, Pa. Tom Loosbrock, a Junior Architect, is responsible for the layout of the magazine. John Minck, a Junior Electrical Engineer, is managing editor.
The Technical Review is directed to Engineering students. It prints articles covering the complicated fields of engineering and explains these fields. It also treats of the pure sciences insofar as these have a relation to engineering. According to Elsbree, the publication may be read with profit by anyone with the prerequisite of a minimum of two years of Physics.
Noted last year for its design covers and fine makeup, the Technical Review promises again to excel in these fields. According to Elsbree, the abstract covers are selected with an eye primarily to interest, and only accidentally to symbolism. The covers are chosen from drawings submitted by Architecture students.
Sociology Club Discusses Occupational Opportunities
The Sociology Club presented a discussion of occupational opportunities for students majoring in sociology Tuesday evening in the Law Building. The discussion was led by Mr. John Kane, Mi-. Louis Radelet and Mr. Hugh O’Brien of the Department of Sociology.
Questions by club members followed the remarks of each panel member. The meeting was held to aid sociology students in choosing their careers. The club is open to all Juniors, Seniors and graduate students in sociology. Officers include Russell Barta, president; Howard Fenn, secretary; and James Ramsey, treasurer.
Discussions Resumed By Dept, of History
Resuming its monthly history discussions, the Department of History will hold a meeting open to the public Tuesday at 7:45 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building. The general theme for the 1950-51 year is “The Idea of Reform in the Various Periods of History,” this first meeting centering on ancient times.
Dr. Anton-Hermann Chroust, an authority on ancient law, will present a paper on “Seventh Century Social and Economic Revolution in Ancient Greece.” Rev. Gerald Phelan, director of Mediaeval Institute, will preside as chairman and Dr. Waldemar Gurian, of the Department of Political Science, will open discussion following Dr. Chroust’s paper.
The December discussion will be concerned with the idea of reform in later American history. The principal paper will be given by Professor Aaron Abell, of the Department of History, and the discussion will be opened by Professor Vincent De Santis, who will also discuss the, background of the New Deal reforms.
In later* discussions, Professor Marshall Smelser will discuss the notions of reform during the period of the American Revolution, while Professor M. A. Fitzsimons will investigate the English Puritan reforms. While these discussions are intended primarily for the members of the Department of History, members of other departments will participate and students interested in social and political problems are invited to attend.
Nov. 10, 1950
11
NFCCS Gets Support for May Day Plans; Msgr. Sabo Pledges Cooperation of Diocese
May Day plans received another boost at this week’s meeting of the NFCCS apostolic chapter, when Msgr. John S. Sabo, V.F., pledged the cooperation of the diocese in the project instigated by the Notre Dame student organization.
Because May 1 will fall on a Tuesday, May Day ceremonies, other than Mass and Communion, will be limited to the evening. With that in mind, the NFCCS religious council is planning a twilight ■ rally in the stadium, climaxed at dark by an impressive candlelight display in which the entire audience would take part.
As chief speaker for the affair, the council hopes to obtain Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, one of America’s best-known preachers. Samuel Cardinal Stritch of Chicago and Bishop John F. Noll of the Fort Wayne diocese may also be invited.
Although plans are still tentative and subject to University approval, the rally will probably include the entire Fort Wayne diocese, while similar projects will be encouraged in other localities throughout the nation through the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
While the May Day ceremonies will be open to the clergy and to laymen and women from all walks of life, particular emphasis will be placed on the participation by all Catholic students, on the elementary, secondary, and college levels. Non-Catholics will also be welcome.
Since May 1 is also a day of Communist demonstration, the rally will serve to counteract this ideology by stressing its evils, by stimulating Catholic opposition to it, and by praying for its destruction.
The NFCCS group has submitted its plans and an estimation of cost of the ceremonies to the University adminis-• tration. Once the project is sanctioned, the council will proceed to put the plan into effect.
Other matters discussed at the meeting Monday were those of October devotions, a general retreat, and the recent Rosary Rally. The Knights of Columbus reported that only approximately 2100 Notre Dame students pledged themselves to say the rosary daily, in compliance with Our Lady of Fatima’s request.
Because the University cannot deviate from its schedule for the school year, a general, three-day retreat which would exclude classes will be impossible this year. Therefore the council expressed the hope that such a retreat can be
12
placed on next year’s school calendar. The opinion of the student body on this matter is very much desired.
Concerning October devotions, the group discussed various suggestions to improve participation in adoration during that month, as well as during Lent and on First Fridays. The present system has not proven adequate.
PRICE RAISE
In keeping with the policy of the Journeymen Barbers Union, Local 427 of South Bend, the Notre Dame Barber Shop will raise the price of a haircut to $1.25, effective next Monday.
The council also greeted two new members. Sophomores John Maclnnes and Buck Hennigan have been chosen as representatives on the apostolic chapter by the Liturgical Club and YCS, respectively.
At next Monday’s session, the University’s decision on the May Day ceremony may be revealed. Also, the council will elect a chairman to regulate the meetings and to communicate with apostolic organizations in other NFCCS schools.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, Nov. 11—white—St. Martin. 2nd or. of St. Menna, 3rd or. For Peace.
Sunday, Nov. 12—green—24th Sun. after Pent. Mass of the 5th Sun. after Epiphany. 2nd or. of St. Martin (from Common of Popes), 3rd or. “Defend us,” Credo, and Preface of the Trinity.
^Monday, Nov. 13—white St. Dida-cus. 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. ad lib.
Tuesday, Nov. 14—red—St. Josa-phat. 2nd or. For Peace.
Wednesday, Nov. 15 — white — St. Albert the Great, Doctor of the Church (teacher of St. Thomas Aquinas). 2nd or. For Peace. Credo.
Thursday, Nov. 16—white St. Gertrude. 2nd or. For Peace.
^Friday, Nov. 17—white—St.- Gregory the Wonderworker. 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. ad lib.
* A Requiem Mass or a Votive Mass is permitted.
Debating Team Goes Against Purdue Today
November promises to be a busy month for the debating team, with two debates just past, and three more scheduled for the next three weeks.
Eight members of the Purdue University debate squad will tackle 16 Notre Darners this afternoon in a series of practice debates. There will be two rounds, totalling up to eight debates.
Members of the Notre Dame team are Paul Davis, Al De Crane, Tom Field, Bill Fagan, Bill Kerwin, John Houck, Bill Hank, Don Dowden, Dave Burrell, Doug Robertson, Ray Smith, Robert Barbierri, Dick Wolfgram, Joe Bellon, Dave Hogan, and Hugh Braun.
Monday four members of the Irish squad journeyed to Chicago and participated in two afternoon debates at Mundelein College. That evening saw them match arguments twice more at the University of Chicago. The topic was “Resolved: that the non-communist nations should form a new international organization.” Al De Crane, Tom Field, Paul Davis, and Bill Fagan were the men who made the trip.
On Nov. 16-17, eight men will compete in a tournament at Bradley University, in Peoria, Ill. There will be five rounds of debates, discussion oratory, extemporaneous speaking, after-dinner speaking, and folk tales. Four men will attend a tournament of the same nature at Iowa State University, on Dec. 1-2.
Scientists Lured by Ball From Mortar and Pestle
The eyes of Notre Dame’s scientists have, in the past few weeks, developed a sudden twinkle. To outsiders it would appear that these masters of the slapstick are about to come up with some new and wonderful discovery, and in a sense this is true. For on the Dec. 1, something new will be added—the College of Science Ball.
Scene of this event will be the Indiana Club, where the embryo scientists and their dates will relax to the music of Gene Hull and his orchestra. The dance will run from 9 until 12:30. It is to be a semi-formal affair with no flowers involved. Car permissions and 1:30 residences have been approved.
Cordially inviting all members of the College of Science are the co-chairmen, Bob Beh, Don Sondag, and Cornelius Desmond. Their dates, Sue Whalen, Barbara Schmitt, and Jeanne Johnson, respectively, will reign as co-queens.
Bids may be obtained from either Fred Schlichting or Phil Roehig at a cost of $3.25 per couple.
The Scholastic
Pittsburgh Target for Irish Homecoming
Razorback and Irish 'B' Squads Tie, 14-14; Panthers Underdog ND's Smith and Arkansas' Logsdell Stand Out In Tomorrow's Tussle
While the varsity was bringing its season’s record up to the .500 mark at Cleveland on Saturday, the Irish B-Squad was finding mighty tough going at Fort Smith, Ark. A strong Razorback eleven came from behind on two occasions to hold the Irish to a 14-14 tie and almost won the game in the last period.
Gene Smith capped a good day’s work with a 35 yard touchdown run after a pass interception that broke a 7-7 deadlock in the third quarter.
Notre Dame jumped off to a 7-0 lead late in the first period. Line punted to Smith on the Irish 27 and he returned to the 39. A third down pass from Gau-dreau to French put the ball on the Arkansas 34. Fullback Ralph Paolone carried to the 30, but the Irish were penalized 5 yards for taking too much time. Gaudreau tossed 35 yards to Wol-niak on the next play for the score, and Jack Whelan added the point after.
Arkansas tied it up with 33 seconds remaining in the first half. The Razorbacks took over on downs on their own 37, and then Mr. Logsdell went to work.
Steve Sichko
Two passes to Britt put them on the Notre Dame 15. A fumble lost eight yards, but Logsdell recovered that yardage on a sweep around right end. Another Logsdell pass, this time to Mann in the end zone, made it 7-6, and Logsdell plunged over from the two.
Smith’s run and Ed Whelan’s conversion gave the Irish a short-lived lead in the third quarter.
Soon after the fourth quarter began, an exchange of punts gave Notre Dame the ball on their own 15. Price intercepted a third-down Carter pass on the Irish 25 and was stopped in his tracks. Logsdell passed to Britt on the 14, went over right tackle for five, and passed to Britt again for the score. This time Egan plunged to make it 14-14.
Arkansas almost won it a few minutes later when Price intercepted another’ pass and returned to his own 45. A Honeycutt to Price pass put the ball on the Notre Dame ten. Marshall got down to the one foot line on three carries, but was thrown on the one on fourth down.
The game ended with the Irish in possession on the Arkansas 15.
Bob Bestwick
By BILL DELANEY, ’52
A sellout crowd of over 57,000 fans is expected to be on hand for the Notre Dame Homecoming game tomorrow with the Pitt Panthers in Notre Dame Stadium. The game is the final home game of the 1950 season fpr the Irish and such stars are Jerry Groom, Bob Williams, Bill Flynn, Bill Gay, Fred Wallner, Jack Landry, and John Helwig will be playing their last game for the University before the home crowd.
Having defeated Navy last week the Irish are now hoping to go over the .500 mark for the first time this season since the first game. Pitt also won last Saturday but it was the first victory of the season for the hapless Panthers as against five defeats.
Pitt has-dropped decisions to Duke, 1428; Ohio State, 7-41; Rice, 7-14; Northwestern, 23-28; and-Miami (Fla.), 0-28. However, the Panthers climbed aboard the victory train with last week’s 21-7 win over the high scoring Mountaineers of West Virginia.
Despite a new head coach, Len Casanova, and a new offensive setup, the T, the Panthers have looked rather unimpressive. Practically the whole.team was hand-picked by Mike Milligan, last year’s coach, for the single wing which he had used so effectively in 1948 and ’49. The big .problem, then, was to make over the team from a powerful single wing team to a quick, sharp T formation team. The change was too great to accomplish in one season.
Another factor of Pitt’s poor showing so far this season is the United States - Marine Corps. Fullback Paul Chess, around whom Casanova built most of his new plays, and a number of experienced reserves were called to active service by the Marines shortly before the opening of the school year.
However, Pitt does have one good point and that is their defensive line. With George Radosevich playing the Iron Man game at the center of the line
Nov. 10, 1950
13
and Merle DeLuca and Mike Boldin flanking him at the guards and Bob Brennan and Nick Bolkovac at the tackle spots, the front wall averages nearly 210 pounds. The ends, Chris War-rinei- and Nick DeRosa, are both over six feet and weigh 190 pounds each.
Bob Bestwick started the season at quarterback but has since been switched to his native right half. Fred Botii and Bob Osterhout will probably split the quarterbacking duties.
Running from the halfback slots will be Billy Sichko and Bill Reynolds at left and right respectively. Bestwick and Jim Jennings will also see a lot of action.
Joe Schmidt, a 205 pound sophomore, or Joe Capp, another sophomore, will start at fullback with another second year man, Frank Guadagnino behind them.
Under the worst possible playing conditions the Fighting Irish downed a tough Navy team in Cleveland last Saturday, 19-10. The win evened the season’s record at three wins and three losses for the Irish.
Bob Williams was great as usual as he led the team to a thrilling triumph. But it was Jack Landry who played perhaps the best game of his career and really led the Irish to victory. Jack picked up 161 yards of Notre Dame’s total of 200 on the ground. He carried the ball 26 times for a little over a six yard average.
Landry set up the first Irish score with a 53 yard run to the Navy ten yard line and then scored the final touchdown himself from five yards out in the fourth quarter. But at the start of the second quarter Navy lost the ball to the Irish on the Notre Dame seven yard line when Paul Burns recovered a Navy fumble. However, after two plays, Bill Powers snatched a Bob Williams pass out of the air and raced 17 yards
to the Irish three. Bob Zastrow took it over on a quarterback sneak from the one after two tries at the line had gained only two yards. Drew’s kick was good and the Middies led, 7-0.
The ball changed hands four times after this touchdown and, with little more than two minutes left in the half, Jack Landry broke loose for his 53 yard run. Williams then threw two five yard passes, to Ostrowski and Gay, the last on fourth down for the TD. Joe Caprara kicked the extra point and the half ended in a seven all tie.
Early in the third quarter, the Middies drove from their own 43 to the Irish 14 where they were held by the staunch No-
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS Notre Dame	Pittsburgh
Mutschellcr ....E........... Warriner
Flynn ..........T.............. Green
Burns —.........G............. Thomas
Groom ..........C.............. Dazio
Wallner ........G............  DeLuca
Toncff .........T........... Geremsky
Ostrowski ......E............  DeRosa
Williams .......Q........... Bestwick
Gay ............H.............. Fyock
Petitbon .......H........... Campbell
Landry .........F............... Capp
Kickoff: 1:30 C.S.T.
tre Dame defenders for three downs. On fourth down Drew kicked a field goal from the 19 yard line to put Navy ahead, 10-7.
Shortly afterward, the Irish moved from their own 24 to a touchdown with another Williams’ pass culminating the drive, this one to Chet Ostrowski. This put the Irish in the lead for the first time, 13-10. Caprara missed the try for the extra point.
On the second play of the final quar
ter Capt. Jerry Groom blocked a Navy punt and Jim Weithman recovered it on the Navy 17. In three plays Landry carried it over for the final score of the game. Caprara again missed the extra point attempt.
Knocking flround the Halls
St. Ed's Scores Upset Win Over Zahm
The accurate right toe of St. Ed’s Bill Scott was the weapon St. Ed’s used to upset a strong Zahm eleven last week, in one of the finest played games of the 1950 Interhall season.
This game displayed the best offensive power that has been seen in any previous game this year. The Zahm “T” and the St. Ed’s single wing moved with clock-like precision as both lines consistently opened up gaping holes in the opposition’s defense.
Shortly after the opening kickoff, Dave Foy took a hand-off and raced around his own right .end for 65 yards to tally. Fullback Niesen ran for the PAT but was stopped short of the goal line. This gave Zahm a 6 to 0 lead.
However, St. Eds’ bounced back quickly. After an exchange of punts, Fred Crowe hit Lee Bozany with a 20 yard pass and Bozany easily outdistanced Zahm’s safety man for a scoring play that covered 40 yards in all. Scott split the uprights and St. Ed’s led 7 to 6 as the first quarter ended.
St. Ed’s quickly added their second TD as Billy Scott intercepted a Zahm aerial on the Zahm 30 and turned it into a quick St. Ed’s score. Once again (Continued on Page 16)
Navy
Topples
Navy’s Frank Hauff (left] gets ready to snag one as John Helwig moves in for the. tackle at last Saturday's rain soaked game in Cleveland. Bill Powers is the carrier (right) but despite the Middies' attempts, the Irish came out on top 19-10.
14
The Scholastic
Double Duty for Irish; PiH, Loyola Race Here
There’s not one, but two dual meets on the line for the Notre Dame cross country team tomorrow morning at 11:00 in their final home appearance of the season. The opponents are the University of Pittsburgh, originally scheduled for the date, and Loyola University of Chicago, a late addition to the Irish schedule. All three schools will run in the same race with separate point scores being kept among the individual schools.
The Loyola team, developed by Notre Dame Coach Al Wilson who coached there up until last June, has two runners, Bill Conrardy and Bob Kelly, who will give Notre Dame’s Ben Almaguer a real race. Conrardy’s specialty is the half mile and he is holder of the JuniorNational AAU 800 meter championship. In the half mile, Conrardy has done 1:50.1, a performance roughly equivalent to the times Notre Dame’s Bill Fleming turns in for the hurdles. Kelly, on the other hand, is a distance man primarily. Last year as a freshman at Loyola, he covered two miles in consistently better times than Almaguer did for ND.
There isn’t much available on the Pitt team, but if it means anything, Notre Dame’s Ben Almaguer and Bob Feiler were able to take first and third against the Panthers in the two mile event in last May’s dual meet with Pitt.
Last week the Irish cross country men competed in the Indiana State cross country championship and came in third behind Indiana and Purdue. Indiana’s total in winning the meet was only 24 points, a very low score for such a meet. The Notre Dame men ran well, but were outclassed by two better teams.
Ben Almaguer led the Irishmen with a third place. He ran most of the way in second place behind the winner, Bob Rodibough of Purdue, but was outkicked in the home stretch by Dellinger of Indiana.—Ted Prahinski, ’51.
•	From the Loyola University Loyola Nezus:
“A new way to say the same thing over and over again, sometimes with a new twist, sometimes not. Life—anything—becomes a series of repeated habits.”
Well, that’s a new twist.
•	From the Tri-State College TriAngle :
“While in high school he was a member of the honor society, competing only with two thousand students.”
Chicken, eh?
Nov. 10, 1950


What Price Readership
There’s a new fad cropping up among the nation’s sportswriters — answering the question “What’s wrong with Notre Dame?”
These sensation seekers must have a hard time finding things to write about judging from their explanations and the way they pick apai-t the Notre Dame squad, their coach and the administration.
One thing they all agree upon, though, is the fact that Notre Dame is de-emphazing football—and they make it plain that they don’t like it. But do they mistake de-emphasizing for not overemphasis? If they mean that Notre Dame isn’t keeping pace with other schools by upping their scholarship quota by three or four times, if they mean that all Notre Dame will give to their athletes in the future is what they’ve given in the past and are giving now— an education—then, yes, Notre Dame is de-emphasizing .football and will continue to follow that same policy just as long as Notre Dame Stadium is standing.
If these writers wanted to write anything at all about Notre Dame, the least they could have done was to get their facts straight and not resort to fiction in their columns in an attempt to attract some attention. The arguments they used are not worth the time and space to refute.
Monday Morning Quarterback
Navy was a lucky football team last Saturday. They were lucky because they played Notre Dame in about the worst football weather imaginable—rain, cold, high winds. They -were lucky because the elements prevented the score from being any higher than it was. The nine point difference between the two teams didn’t show just how superior the Irish were. If the game had been played on a dry field, there’s no telling how high the Irish would have run it up. They picked the poorest day from a weather standpoint to play their best game of the season. Yes, even better than the Michigan State game. Against the Spartans, the Irish play was inspired. Last Saturday, they had the confidence and workmanship of Notre Dame teams of old.
Perhaps the most encouraging thing
shown in the game was the play of the defensive line. Paul Burns plugged up the middle and got great help on both sides from Bob Toneff and Tony Zam-broski. Zambroski played the best game of his college career and was the bulwark of the Irish line in the first half. Bob Toneff has been bothered by an injured ankle of late, but it didn’t seem to hinder him last Saturday. Although Navy gained 139 yards rushing, only 22 came in the second half. This Irish team is improving rapidly and will be tough to beat in the remaining three games.
Player of the Week
Bob Williams played one of his finest games last Saturday. Even though he’s not playing with a championship club this year, he showed against Navy that he can’t be kept off any All-American team. Any All-American team that is an All-American team.
It would be mighty hard for anyone to top Bob’s performance, but that’s just what Jack Landry did. He gained all but 39 of ND’s yardage on the muddy turf of Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium. .
Time Out
Track Coach Alex Wilson has been busy clocking students in gym classes in the hope of unearthing some talent for his graduation-riddled track team. Coach Wilson did the same thing while head coach at Loyola in Chicago and it paid off well as he discovered many promising runners who never knew they had “it.” ...	•
Wildlife correspondent Byron Boji reports that 25 Mallard ducks dropped in on St. Joseph’s Lake last Sunday to set up -winter housekeeping. . . . Byron believes that many more will follow because the weather here is just what a Mallard likes. . . .
Prediction of the Week
Tomorrow will be Homecoming for the Irish and it also will be the final home appearance of Captain Jerry Groom, Bob Williams, Jack Landry, Fred Wallner and all the other Seniors on .the Notre Dame squad. They’ll want this to be the game we’ll all remember them by.
Notre Dame 33, Pitt 7.
15
A little community singing is always welcome between dances and this group who attended last week's Junior Halloween dance are doing just that around an old piano.
Lilly Windsor Pleases Filled Concert Hall
A large audience crowded Washington Hall on Tuesday evening, to hear Lilly Windsor, leading soprano of the Rome Opera Company. By the time the recital was over, everyone agreed that Miss Windsor had done an excellent job. Her voice, though rather cloudy at first, warmed up quickly and she was soon at top form.
A lyric soprano, Miss Windsor chose songs which gave her ample chance to display her rich middle register and low tones. Mozart’s Alleluia, and Wid-mung by Schumann were soft, rich and delicately sung. The Fruhlingshed by Mendelssohn was good and lively, and by this time, her voice was clear* and full. Debussy’s Fantoches was the only disappointment. Miss Windsor did not appear to give the whole meaning of the French chanson, although she was good vocally.
It was in the Italian arias, however, that Miss Windsor was at her best. Ah Fors’ e Lui and Sempre Libera from Traviata proved the quality of her vocal control. In her earlier numbers, she was very careful of her high notes. They were clear but soft and short, and one felt that she was capable of bigger things. The selections from Traviata proved that she was. Her cadenzas were clear and her staccato notes were pin point in quality. As she sang, she expressively
acted the part and it was easy to imagine her as the buoyant Violetta.
The aria from The Marriage of Figaro was quite well sung, but Miss Windsor seemed to be a bit rushed. She didn’t give the aria a chance to ‘take’!
Perhaps the most difficult number was Norina’s aria from Don Pasquale. It is tricky and requires perfect knowledge of the music and dramatic situation. Again Miss Windsor* was in her field, Italian opera, and she did the number tastefully and well.—Jerry Morris, ’52.
Hall Football
(Continued from Page 14)
Scott’s conversion was adequate and St. Ed’s led at half time, 14 to 6.	’
Numerous penalties hampered the Zahm running attack until late in the third period. Then, with some very fine running by Foy and Zinozitch, Zahm drove to the St. Ed’s 20. From there Zinozitch twisted and fought his way to the Zahm 8 yard line and a first down. Two plays later Zinozitch cracked off tackle for the score. Zahm’s second attempted conversion once again failed.
There was no scoring in the fourth quarter, and the final score found St. Ed’s on top by the score of 14-12.
—Mort Kelly, ’53
B-P Ties Farley
A game Breen-Phillips football squad dimmed Farley’s pennant hopes by com
ing from behind to tie them, 12-12. Breen-Phillips, using the T and a deceptive single wing, came up with a powerful ground attack that picked up plenty of yardage and earned them six first downs. The vaunted Farley offense was unable to gain one first down during the whole afternoon.
After a scoreless first period, Farley struck swiftly to tally twice in the second quarter. The only completed toss of the game scored the first TD for Farley. The passing combine of Pete Chase to Mike Laughton accounted for 80 yards and the score. Pete whipped the oval 15 yards to Mike on the Farley 35 and the lanky end sprinted the remaining 65 yards to cross the goal line standing up.
A few* minutes later, Breen-Phillips tried to punt from their 25 but then they started seeing double. Another Laughton, Mike’s twin brother Jack, crashed through to grab the blocked BP punt in mid-air and carry it over for another six pointer. As after* the first TD, the try for point failed.
Breen-Phillips came back in the second half with vengeance. They took the opening kickoff and marched 66 yards to score. Halfback Whitey Streeter capped the drive with a 31 yard touchdown run. B-P’s run for the point after failed.
With about six minutes left in the final period, Gene Kelly intercepted a Farley pass (the first interception of the day) and ran it back 30 yards to the Farley five. Dick Ellis exploded through on the next play to score the tieing TD. B-P attempted to tally the point after the touchdown with a line buck but they were stopped again, inches short of the final stripe. The contest ended with Breen-Phillips goalward bound on the Farley 24.—Roger Fernandez, ’54.
Wonder if we'll start having Phy Ed inside soon?
16
The Scholastic
Miss Mary Ann Mollohan
Civil Service Exams Open to ND Seniors
With the greatly increased coverage that the New Social Security Act will bring about, a number of new positions will soon be available to properly qualified college graduates. College seniors, however, are eligible to take the forthcoming Civil Service examination with the expectation of qualifying for appointment upon graduation next June.
The positions of claims assistant and field assistant with the Bureau of Old-Age & Survivors Insurance, Social Security Administration, will be filled from the civil service register to be set up from the assembled examination for Junior Professional Assistant to be held in South Bend at a later- date. The closing day for making application for this examination—No6—58(1950) is November 28, 1950.
Notre Dame seniors or graduate students interested in entering the field of Public Administration under the Federal government may secure application form 5000AB and the examination circular by applying at the Notre Dame Post Office or at Window 15, South Bend Post Office.
Since nationwide appointments are expected, successful candidates will be considered for placement in any part of the country where the need arises.
Mr. Roy Hoyer, manager of the South Bend security office, will be glad to discuss opportunities for a career with the Social Security Administration with interested students. Call at Room 209, South Bend Post office Bldg., any weekday except Saturday.
Nov. 10, 1950
Carnival Air Theme For Barristers' Ball
One hundred seventy-five couples will dance at a carnival tonight from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. at the Progress Club in downtown South Bend. It’s the annual Law Ball under the appearance of a carnival that brings the budding lawyers together to dance and frolic around the merry-go-round.
Co-chairmen Bill Ethridge and Dave Matthews will escort the reigning queens to this formal dance. Mrs. William Ethridge of Youngstown, Ohio, will. go with her husband while Mary Ann Mollohan of Chicago, Ill., will be Dave Matthews’ date.
Final plans have been completed by the committees in charge. Victor De Fiori and John Sacano handled the ticket sales while Cyril Vidra and Ervin Brendel publicized the affair. Joseph Helling negotiated with the bands and he has gotten continuous entertainment.
Douglas Casbard, in charge of the decorations, is responsible for the carnival atmosphere at the Progress Club for tonight’s limited engagement. Ed Ros-wadowski was in charge of fixing up the studious lawyers with blind dates.
Music will be furnished by Herbie Germann and the Aristocrats, a ten-piece orchestra featuring a girl vocalist. To permit steady dancing the Jerry Costello quartette will play during the intermissions.
Dave Matthews and William Ethridge
The Student Law Association, sponsors of the dance, through its president, Norman Kopec, has invited Mr. Robert Sullivan, Professor of Law at Notre Dame, to be guest of honor at the affair.
Mrs. William Ethridge
Cast Goes Into Final Stage ot Its Rehearsals
Rehearsals are fast approaching curtain time for the University Theater’s production of Kauffman and Hart’s The Man Who Came to Dinner. The comedy, which had a long and successful run in New York, will be presented in Washington Hall from Nov. 27 through Nov. 30, with performances starting at 8:15 p.m.
Director Leonard Sommer has announced the final casting for all roles. Playing the leading part of the cantankerous Sheridan Whiteside will be Skipper Swift. The romantic triangle will be handled by Patricia McCaughn as Maggie Culter, Dick Wolfgan as Bert Jefferson,, and Alice Weiss as Lorraine Sheldon.	-
The eight women, members of the cast are members of either the Catholic Theater Guild of St. Joseph Valley or the Presbyterian Players group.
Other featured roles will be enacted by John Schneller as Banjo, Mike Murray as Beverly Carlton, and Jack Roberts as Dr. Bradley. The convict luncheon guests who visit Whiteside are parts assigned to Bob Williams, Dick Cotter, and Marty O’Connor. These actors have not heretofore distinguished themselves on the stage.
The original setting has been designed and executed by C. Robert Egry of the Department of Mechanical Engineering with the help of Dolores loRio.
• From the Tri-State College Tri-Anffle:
“Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio, was founded in 18244.”
Always thought those Kenyonites looked a little odd.
17
dance chairmen are yelling: “But takes money. We can’t afford bands!”
Admitted. We aren’t asking for
that two
two
Memoriam
Last week one of the greatest men of the century died. Although it looked for a while like he was indestructible, George Bernard Shaw is dead at the age of 94.
Shaw was born in 1856 in Dublin, Ireland. He was a dynamic person. In his prime a great orator and spellbinder' —pamphleteer, critic, playwright, socialist, satirist—Shaw was often branded eccentric. But he had the type of eccentricity that makes for greatness.
He was in his element at satire. He loved nothing better than to sit back and take pot shots at customs, institutions, and people who needed pot shooting. And the shots usually went home.
Shaw was converted to Socialism by Henry {Progress and Poverty) George. He joined the Fabian Society, a utopian socialistic group, eight months after its inception. He liked to call himself a Communist but he levelled more than one of his pot shots at Marx and successors.
He was also a self-styled atheist. His religion was of the evolutionary brand. He identified God with a vague Life Force and thought of the universe as God in the act of evolving Himself. He rejected Darwin’s evolutionary principle of Natural Selection in favor of the Lamarckian theory of Functional Adaptation.
Probably his most fruitful occupations ■were those of playwright and critic. He was remarkably prolific as a playwright. During the period 1893 to 1939 he wrote 47 plays—an average of one a year. Such plays as Major Barbara, Saint Joan, Caesar and Cleopatra, and Pygmalion have become little classics of satire and insight.	•
As a critic, he wrote for several magazines, commenting on literature, art, and music. Shaw’s musical education came from his mother, who was a noted mezzo-soprano in her own right.
When you come to think of it, Shaw lived through a period of the greatest technical and social change in the known history of the world. When he was born our own civil war had not yet begun. He died during the fifth year of the atomic age.
Such a life span gave him ample opportunity for observation, ample mate-
Ju,
rial for writing and satirizing. He
put
his great intellect to the task of under-the middle and got great help on both him, and the world was better for it.
With Shaw’s death, the civilization of the West lost something rich. One got accustomed to looking upon the “peculiar old man” as an oracle of the times. His death leaves a void not easily filled.
In summing up his life, one can only say that he was without a doubt one of the very top men of the century. In spite of his atheism, communism, and undeniable flaws, one can still pray for the happy repose of his soul. About that, it is for no living man to pass judgment.
Music, Music. . . .
The Law Ball tonight innovates a practice that we think could well be emulated in many other situations. There will be continuous music for dancing at the affair.
The barristers are working it like this. Herbie Germann and his orchestra will supply the major part of the music with a 10 piece band and a vocalist. While Herbie and the boys take five or so for a smoke, the Jerry Costello Quartette will take over the bandstand and grind away. Thus eliminating intermissions.
Which is a darn good idea. One goes to a dance, supposedly, to dance. It is irritating to run into a band that takes .intermissions almost every half hour.
The cry is going up already. Outraged
The Huddle
wishes to announce that it now carries Mixture
No. 79 tobacco in stock, in three sizes:
1% oz. package
8 oz. tin
16 oz. tin
bands. Even some guy with a harmonica will do. But if the law men can do, why can’t others do?
Concerning informal dances like the Victory Dances, we have no gripe. You can’t have all icing and .no cake. But when you run into name bands, you run into intermissions. The bigger the “name,” the longer and more frequent the intermissions. Some of the biggest name bands take a 10 minute break after .each set of numbers, plus their half hour breaks every half hour. If you should be sipping a coke (or atmosphere) on the Palais balcony, you sometimes can’t get through the crowd and down to the dance floor when you hear the music start until a new intermission is under way. Frustrating.
So we merely say, if the Law Ball has continuous dancing, it can be done— without incurring heartrending expenses. Maybe the Law School is handing the class dances a challenge.
The Last Word
Elections are over and all the politicians can relax and go back to normal living—which means? . . .
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY — WATCHES
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.
J. M. S. Bldg.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 44)661
$ .30
1.00
2.50
18
The Scholastic
t
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
arvm
JEWELERS
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING
CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E. LaSalle
HEALTH SPOT
COR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
BLOCK BROS.
Corner Michigan & Washington
Jewelers to
Notre Dome
for more than 25 years.
preferred on every campus
Surveys show Arrow to be the best-liked shirt of college men—from coast-to-coast. Famous collar styling, careful tailoring, fine Sanforized fabrics and laundry-defying buttons make Arrow your best shirt buy!
s3.65 up
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
It’s ADLER’S for ARROW
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Nov. 10, 1950
19