Welcome Students
Fun
cP
LEARN TO DANCE
IT'S EASY
IT'S FUN
Learn while you’re young. Learn the famous Arthur Murray Way. In no time at all you’ll be able to step out on the dance floor with any partner . . . full of confidence and poise.
Don’t Wait . . Phone 2-3339 today for a free trial lesson.
AIR CONDITIONED
“Northern Indiana’s Finest Dance Studio”
ARTHUR MURRAY’S
120 E. Wayne St	Ph. 2°3339
FREE PARTY DANCES EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT
The Scholastic
YOU CAN LEARN TO MORE THAN DOUBLE
This instrument makes a record on movie film of your eye movements as you read.
YOUR READING CAPACITY
No matter how fast you are reading now, you can double your rate and improve your powers of comprehension.
Would a reading rate of 650 to 1,000 words a minute (2 to 4 average book pages) help you in your studies? Hundreds of students have been helped to better grades with this new skill.	.
Learn how you, too, can acquire this valuable new skill in a short period of time!
Stop in for a free copy of the booklet “YOU CAN READ BETTER,” and receive a demonstration of instruments and methods used in‘this unusual training, o
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle Avenue
Phone 3-0077 Sept. 22, 1950	, 3
HEADQUARTERS FOR YOUR GYM CLOTHING
GYM PANTS £1.25, £1.35, £1.65 WHITE TEE SHIRTS 65c, 75c, 85c SWEAT SHIRTS £1.69, £2.25, £2.50 SWEAT PANTS £2.10, £2.50, £2.60 WIGWAM SWEAT SOCKS 55c, 65c, 90c BASKETBALL SHOES £4.75, £6.50, £10.95
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ph. 3-3702
------------
Some Fans Write
Editor:
. . . Ever since my son (Jim O’Rieley, 272 Dillon) became a student at Notre Dame in 1946 I have been an interested reader of the Scholastic, and never miss anything in it.
But the September 11 issue tops them all, and you are to be congratulated not only on this fine number, but on the new idea of getting it out before classes begin and filling it with such wonderful material. It is, indeed, a high-class magazine, and I cannot imagine a better one published by the students of any university.
I wish to further commend you specially on the editorials, the letter from Father Cavanaugh, the “Introduction,” and for that matter I might mention every department in the whole issue; they are all splendid . . .
I am a stranger to you and your staff, but nonetheless, you have my sincere congratulations.
'Sincerely yours, M. W. O’Rieley
Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Editor:
I want to express my thanks as well as admiration to you and your staff for the September 11 issue of the Scholastic. An introductory issue for newcomers should alleviate a great deal of the confusion so prevalent during the days of registration and those immediately after.
And of particular interest is the new column “Living Today” by Frank Brophy. Mr. Brophy will have to be very astute if he intends to remove all cause for complaint from Tom Kelleghan and cohorts. I do hope he completely attains this objective in his column in spite of the fact that it’s a very large order.
Sincerely,
Pete Brennan
307 Badin
Editor:
Only a few days ago I returned home after seeing my son enroll as a Freshman at Notre Dame. I wish I could tell you fully how your wonderful spirit at Notre Dame of advice and cooperation impressed me.
My son and I, both complete strangers in this part of the country, were extremely grateful for all the help given us by upperclassmen. I hope to visit your campus soon again.
Name Withheld Los Angeles, Calif.
OUTSTANDING IN QUALITY, STYLE AND VALUE
Clothes of Refinement
SUITS and COATS — $55 upwards
READY TO WEAR OR TAILORED TO YOUR MEASURE
Parker-Winterrowd Clothes of Refinement “Suits” are masterpieces of the tailoring craft because of the superlative quality of fabrics, the deft hand-lining of cover and pattern, and the exacting fit as well as flattering fashion. Select from our abundant array of popular models.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc.
1151/> - 117t^ North Main Street
Second Floor — Upstairs
“SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST CUSTOM-TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS”
4
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
Freshman Picnic tomorrow at Pota-watomie Park . . .
Shades of Michelangelo
When the Scholastic moved to its Farley Hall offices last Spring everyone on the staff agreed that a little paint on the fiber-board and cement walls would add greatly to the overall beauty of the subterranean setup. In fact, a lot of paint in the right places might even hide a multitude of unsightly features, as most women know but will rarely reveal.
Everybody knows that the painters couldn’t do the job in the summer when everybody and everything was out of the office, so they’re here now, en force. Everywhere you look you see a pale green color, including the typewriter keys. The fumes are enough to drive away everything but the flies. All the desks and chairs are stacked in the middle of the floor with copyreaders and rewrite men daringly perched atop the mountain of mahogany and maple.
After waiting more than three months we really ought to be thankful, but it would be easier' to work if the Sports Editor would hold this ladder steady.
Numbers Game
semble so much — the new cards might be used for something like this:
WND’s popular weekly give-away program “Breakfast at Ziggy’s” is now on the air and the master of ceremonies is picking a number from random in the files of the Dining Halls. He pulls out number X4175. After a hurried search X4175 is located, just finishing his dessert. Number X4175 is hustled to the microphone where he is awarded the grand prize for being the lucky winner — an extra helping of pickled beets.
Other possibilities for these new cards are just as exciting and it will be interesting to see which wide-awake promoter will be the first to take advantage of the situation.
Fun-Packed Afternoons
The Sunday afternoon sojourns across Dixie Highway to St. Mary’s tea dances by some ND students began this week. Incidentally, they still don’t serve tea or any other kind of refreshments at these affairs. But, to get back to what we started to say, this year’s crowds at the Le Mans dance pavilion ought to break all previous attendance marks.
A St. Mary’s tea dance is still a very confusing affair. Everyone of the ND men is required to don coat and tie while he trys to dance to inaudible music from a 19th century gramophone. But
that’s not the only pleasant aspect of these Sunday get-togethers.
The veteyan tea dance goer is used to a packed floor and stag lines three and four deep, made up of hopeful. Notre Dame men surrounding the dancers. Sunday’s crowd, however, not only filled the dance floor and patio but overflowed onto the lawns and walks.
Several St. Mary’s Freshmen saw the male aggregation and wondered if they hadn’t taken the wrong bus from town. A couple of Notre Dame Freshmen left about 3:30 p.m. without even catching a glimpse of a female, concluding the whole thing was a hoax.
These mammoth crowds are easily explainable when you get right down to it. Ths new men, acting as such, are definitely exploring. The others are either trying their luck again while the crop of eligible dates is still plentiful or are compelled by past actions to return to the scene of their triumphs and capitalize on their good fortune.
We went over to get some tea, but as we said above, nothing doing.
Bottom of the Week
. . . Plenty of hot dogs and ants, but never enough girls at any ND picnic.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Those new numbered cards that have replaced the old Dining Hall meal tickets are causing more talk among the student body than the prospect of a losing
• football season this Fall. Whethei- or not the new system deserves such attention is debatable, but in the months to come just about anything could happen. For-example:
• The noonday bustle in the East Dining Hall is suddenly interrupted by a voice over the P.A. system blaring out “Attention all stations. Attention all stations. Be on the lookout for a student bearing chow hall card number B7689. Repeating card number B7689. This student is wanted for line crashing. Use extreme caution for he is believed to be dangerous. That is all.”
Or if they’re not going to get confused with license plates — which they re-
South Bend's Finest Spaghetti House
Seafoods
We cater to Parties
A FAVORITE WITH NOTRE DAME MEN
415 North Michigan
Phone 3-0903
Special T-bone Steak every Thursday — $1.25
Sept. 22, 1950
5
Vol. 92 September 22, 1950 No. 2
SEPTEMBER 22
COLFAX (through Sept. 27)—Betty Grable, heralded in the ads as “the new 1950 Grable,” even though she doesn’t look much different from the ’49, ’48, ’47, ad infinitum Grable, stars in the musical My Blue Heaven (Legion of Decency Rating B). It’s as trite as a bromide, worthless as a stick of cotton candy, and twice as gooey. This is definitely a “why-did-I-waste-money-on-that” type show.
AVON (through Sept. 27)—The fact that Ann Sheridan and Victor Mature are the marquee stars of Stella (A-2) doesn’t mean a thing. It’s really David Wayne who makes the picture something special. The plot might have been uncomfortably macabre, but an amoral lightness surrounds it (reminiscent of, but not as good as, Arsenic and Old Lace). Frank Fontaine registers a bullseye with a bit role.
PALACE (through Sept. 28)—This time Warner Brothers have concocted two duds—the studios out there must take turns. Pretty Baby I (A-2), with Dennis Morgan and Betsy Drake, Hollywood’s poorest ;	excuse for an actress, and The Great Jewel Robbery (B), with David
I	Brian and Marjorie Reynolds, definitely don’t correspond with the
current slogan about movies being better than ever.
STATE (through Sept. 23)—The State foregoes its usual ran of j dribble to come up with a pair of aces—The Raiders and Thunder Rock are both pre-war English films well worth seeing.
SEPTEMBER 23
POTAWATOMIE PARK—The annual Freshman picnic with 400 of the first year men trying to impress the damsels from nearby girls’ | schools gets underway at 2. This affair is always good fun. After looking at some of the new frosh from across the road there are more than a few upperclassmen who wish they were Freshmen again.
WASHINGTON HALL—Red, Hot and Blue (A-2) is a musical that went off the track somewhere along the route. It just doesn’t come off. Betty Hutton and Victor Mature try hard but fall flatter than some of La Hutton’s notes.
SEPTEMBER 27
AVON (indefinite run)—At last South Bend comes up with a nifty musical. Judy Garland returns after a year’s absence from the screen to co-star with Gene Kelly in Summer Stock (A-l). The plot isn’t any world-shaker but the performers work like beavers to put the pic into the should-see bracket. Phil Silvers, Marjorie Main and Eddie Bracken, among others, good technicolor and lilting tunes all help the stars greatly.
SEPTEMBER 28
COLFAX (through Oct. 4)—The only fault with Our Very Own (A-2) is that it attempts to do too much. If Sam Goldwyn had been content to merely tell a story he would have been all right — but instead he also grapples with an unsuccessful attempt to depict the essence of middle class life in America. Nonetheless, Ann Blythe, Farley Granger and a capable cast manage to polish it into a fairly good, even if rather syrupy, movie.
I
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS JOHN H. JANOWSKI
JOHN J. POWERS___________________News
CHARLES B. DULLEA_______Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE___________.Features JOHN F. MEANEY__________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY_________Assistant Sports
JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN________Photography LEON GARDNER_______________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER___________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT________Advertising ROBERT WILDEMAN.____________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS_________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
i,
■
COVER: Dejection covers Joe Lotta’s face as he prepares to enter, the long winter ahead. It took a while, but acceptance has finally been given to the fact that summer is over. There’s no way out. The books have Joe, a Senior in Aero-Engineering, and every other ND student cornered. Our backs are against the wall, so the books it is. Oh, for a lazy day in June.
—Photo by Gordon Brickson
The Scholastic
Cards on the Table
School has been in session a week and one day. Trunks and suitcases have been unpacked. The excitement connected with returning each Fall has died down. The levis-clad Freshmen have been absorbed into the student body. And so, it seems a good time for the Scholastic to let everyone know just where it stands.
Let’s get one thing straight right away. This newsmagazine is not a student publication. It is an official University publication put out b> students for students. It is under the jurisdiction of the University.
And how that gripes people!
Do they always have to keep their hands over your mouth?
How will you ever learn if you cant do things for yourself?
What’s the matter, can?t they treat you like men?
Students who mouth such blabber are generally the type who can’t be happy unless they have something to gripe about. The way the Scholastic operates doesn’t concern them particularly, but that doesn’t keep them from grousing about our lot. Furthermore, seldom do they ask staff members how they feel about the situation.
If these students did, here’s the answer they would get.
To put it as succinctly as possible—we don’t mind the University’s control a bit. For one thing, we like it here and when you like something you certainly don’t spend your time tearing, it down. Even if we did have absolute freedom it is doubtful we would try to rip the place apart.
The University of Notre 'Dame is a great place and it has been good to us. Our policy, therefore, is to work the best we possibly can with the hand that feeds us and let the professional gripers bleat on like lost sheep.
Also, the University’s control over this publication is often greatly exaggerated. Our faculty moderator checks all copy but censors only material that offends against morals or University policy. This magazine is a Catholic publication. One of the main tenets of Catholicism is obedience to authority. It follows, therefore, that we are being trained and not shackled.
Since we’re trying to make a clean start there’s something else that needs clarification. The Scholastic does not have a closed staff. There are some who think all staff men are hand picked out of the Department of Journalism at the beginning of the year. That’s not so. There is absolutely no affiliation between the Department of Journalism and the Scholastic.
The staff is open at all times to all students from all colleges. Putting out the magazine every Friday is a big job. There’s always room for new men—at least, new men who are willing to work and give up some of their free time.
And that brings up another point. The. purpose of the
Sept. 22, 1950
Scholastic is to serve the Notre Dame community and its members. We try to report all events accurately and without prejudice . . . but it is a job that needs cooperation. We are criticized frequently for emphasizing the work of a particular department or college. We might be guilty of this at times but in order to give every segment of the community an even break we must have cooperation.
Sometimes news is either overlooked entirely or wrongfully underplayed. Last year an Engineer won an award which the Scholastic mentioned in an insignificant-paragraph near the back of the magazine. In engineering circles the award was a high honor. In this case the mag was guilty of ignorance. But how are we to know what you think is important if you don’t give us a buzz. Give us the word and set us right before we have the chance to blunder.
The Scholastic has enjoyed good cooperation before— but there’s still plenty of room for improvement. Then there are also suggestions. The staff fosters no illusions about their brains being eternal wellsprings of scintillating ideas. We need help.
If there’s something you think would improve the publication let us know about it. Perhaps it’s an idea for a news story or maybe a feature. Perhaps there’s something you’d like to see in the sports section. Or perhaps you have a short piece of fiction you’d like to get published. We shall at least take a gander at anything you have to offer.
One of the best things about the Scholastic is that it is a liquid publication. Liquid in the sense that we’re not bound by precedents. We can change, expand, better, or vary anything in it as often as we, and you, like.
There she is—that’s what the Scholastic is like. Now it’s time to roll up our. sleeves and get down to business-
A Blue Spotlight, Please
When the present Seniors arrived at Notre Dame three years ago there wasn’t a soul on hand to greet them. Plunked down in an environment totally different from anything they had known before, they became confused, bewildered and generally “lost.”
It was during the following year that a comprehensive orientation program for incoming Freshmen was, suggested. The spirited Blue Circle pounced on the idea, mulled it over for awhile and finally inaugurated what has become one of the best student-run programs on campus.
Members of the Blue Circle were back early to prepare for the greenhorn deluge. And then for the following three days they all worked long—and often, thanks to Indiana weather, wet—hours, attempting to ease the newcomers transition to college life. There’s no getting around it . . . they did a job of which they can be well proud; a job well done.
. 7
IF YOU CAN WALK WE’LL TEACH YOU TO
DANCE. . The GEORGE DAVIS Way
Special 2 for 1 Rates for Notre Dame Students
Two Can Learn for the Price of One and Save 50%
* ALICE AND GEORGE DAVIS, proprietors of the George Davis Studios, who head a thoroughly experienced staff of experts.
Jitterbug
Rumba
DANCE FIESTA
Every Thursday 9 p. m.
All Notre Dame students invited to attend our friendly socials. No charge.
If you can walk we guarantee to teach you to Dance — even if you’ve never danced a single step before . . . Our short cut method based on George Davis’ simple system of teaching, makes it possible for you to master the Fox Trot, Waltz, Jitterbug or any other dance in just a few hours of private instruction.
Fox Trot
Come in or phone now for your free trial lesson.
DIAL 3-8229
NORTHERN INDIANA’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIOS
106 W. MONROE SOUTH BEND CORNER MICHIGAN *
8
The Scholastic
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 2
SEPTEMBER 22, 1950
Plan Shrine to Honor Our Lady of Fatima
A shrine to Our Lady of Fatima is soon to be erected beside the Dixie Highway opposite St. Mary’s College, northwest of the Notre Dame campus. The project, sponsored by the Holy Cross Mission Band, will also include a new mission headquarters building and a retreat house.
Since mid-July, a large, gold-and-blue . sign has marked the site. When the shrine is completed, it will be the scene of rosary devotions and various other public and retreat services for the intention of world peace.
Interest in the project has steadily increased since the “pilgrim” statue of Our Lady of Fatima was exhibited here two years ago. The confidence of the mission priests in the success of the shrine has been bolstered by the enthusiastic response to their plans throughout - thq midwest.
This is verified by the number of generous contributions already .received or promised. The Gold Star Mothers of South Bend recently gave a check for $500 toward erection of the shrine. Dr. E. J. Cain and Mr. Walter Clements, both of South Bend, have already donated $100 each.
' Cost of the shrine, based on that of a similar monument in Milwaukee, has been approximated at $60,000. However a contractor has agreed to erect the shrine at cost, while an architect is donating his services without charge.
No definite set of plans has been selected as yet, although several are being , considered. Just as the Grotto at Notre Dame is a replica of the one at Lourdes, so this shrine will resemble the scene at Fatima.
The new monument will include a rock formation, statues of the Virgin and the Portuguese children to whom she appeared, and an altar for outdooi- Masses.
In the new mission house adjoining the shrine, there will be a large chapel for indoor seiwices. Several thousand dollars has already been collected for the mission headquarters. Construction of that building is also expected to start in the near future. Funds for the shrine and the houses are being raised separately.	'
Sept: 22, 1950
New Liberal Education Program Under Way With 50 Freshmen Enrolled in Unique Plan
Notre Dame’s new program of Liberal Education is at last a reality. Fifty Freshmen are enrolled in the program which is being handled on the professorial side by Dr. Otto Bird and a faculty of five.
This program is a relatively unique one in its method of teaching and its purpose. Three major teaching methods are used. The first, known as the Seminar, consists of a rapid reading of many of the Great Books of Western civilization and a discussion of the main points of each of these books.
The books read in this Seminar method cover the entire period of the great thinkers of the Western World, beginning with Greek and Roman times and coming up to the modern day.
The great books of the great thinkers of this period will be read twice during the four year course.
The second teaching method is the Tutorial. This consists of a slower, more intense reading of a selected number of the Great Books on selected subjects. The Tutorials cover four separate fields: language and literature; mathematics and science; philosophy; and theology.
The Tutorial and Seminar methods will be supplemented by lectures on relevant subjects to be delivered by specialists in their fields.
The program of Liberal Arts is designed to provide the students enrolled in it with a liberal education in the true sense of the word, according to Dr. Bird. The education received under the program is a liberal one because it develops the mind of the student in formulating opinions and drawing conclusions.
The program aims at a general integration or unification among all the subjects covered so that the obscure relationships now existing between these subjects will be made clear. To this end, the basic first principles common to all the subjects will be sought and woven together into one broad pattern of thought.	-
The whole classroom has" been changed into a more-or-less informal discussion
chamber, with faculty and students participating in the educational process by means of discussion and closely cooperative reading. More personal contact than is usual in the conventional classroom is thereby established between the students and the professors, and among the students themselves.
The learning process becomes a reciprocal one and the student takes an active rather than the heretofore passive role in education.
This studential activity is the all-important point in this program. The student is taught primarily to think. The Great Books and the instructor or moderator of the discussion sei-ve as stimuli and guideposts for the students’ thought.
Pre-Season Dance Opens Social Season Tomorrow
The fall social whirl at Notre Dame starts this Saturday with a pre-season dance to be held in the Palais Royale in South Bend. The dance will run from 8:00 till 11:30 p.m., with arrival and departure optional.
According to Jim Garvin, dance man-• ager for the Student Council, this dance and the ones to follow should be even better than those that pleased the students last year. Gene Hull and his Band will be back with new jackets, new music stands and new arrangements by Jerry Costello.
The Student Council has tentative plans for similar dances every possible Saturday night hereafter. Plans are being considered for sponsorship of one of the home-game dances by each of the classes.
For the benefit of those men squiring ladies from across the road, there will be busses leaving St. Mary’s in time to reach the dance downtown. All St. Mary’s students must be, returned to their residences one-half hour after the dance ends. Notre Dame men, whether attending the dance or not, will have 12:30 permissions.	.
9

Annual Missions Open New Scholastic Year
To insure that Notre Dame men would begin the school year in proper style, the annual mission was begun on the first day of class.
Mission services were conducted in Sacred Heart Church on the evenings' of Sept. 14, 15, and 16 for Freshmen and Sept. 17 through 19 for upperclassmen.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of the University, conducted the Freshman mission, while Rev. Cornelius J. Laskowski, C.S.C., preached to the upperclassmen.
Each weekday during the Mission, Mass was held in Sacred Heart Church at 6:20 a. m. A special High Mass for Freshmen and faculty members was celebrated at 8 o’clock last Sunday.
About 90 per cent of the Frosh attended the mission services, with the “usual” 100 to 150 of the new men conspicuously absent. Concerning those who didn’t make the mission, Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., prefect of Religion, had this to say: “They will have more difficulty understanding what Notre Dame education is if they don’t take advantage of its spiritual facilities.”
Subjects of Father Cavanaugh’s principal sermons were: “Living in the State of Grace,” “A Life of Study,” and “Devotion to the Blessed Virgin.”
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH preaches to
a large gathering during Freshman
Mission.
Appoint Father Fagan East Campus Chaplain
The east campus has a new chaplain, counselor, father confessor, and pamphlet salesman. Rev. Robert J. Fagan, C.S.C., has been appointed as Assistant Prefect of Religion, with offices at 107 Cavanaugh Hall.
Father Fagan succeeds Rev. Edmund J. Murray, C.S.C., who held that position for the last five years. Father Murray, his cigars, smoke rings, and friendly “How are ya!” are off for Ireland, where he will do research study on Irish history and literature at the National University in Dublin.
Now spending a week’s vacation in Connecticut, Father will leave New York on Sept. 27. He will begin his studies on Oct. 10. How long he will remain in Ire-lend is indefinite, for he is an officer in the active reserve of the Army.
During the war, Father Murray spent four years as an army chaplain with the 104th Division, serving one year overseas in the European Theater of Operations.
Before the war, he had taught Latin for a year at Holy Cross Seminary and had been a prefect in Badin and Howard Halls. Returning to Notre Dame early in 1946, Father was made Assistant Prefect of Religion.
His successor, Father Fagan, enters the job with a useful Ph.D. in Business Administration, a sense of humor, and a
talent for bringing the complexities of religion down to the level of the Freshman intelligence. Since his ordination in 1948, he has been an instructor of Fresh- .
T -	"6
man religion.
Father is “glad to be of service to the school” and is particularly eager to counsel or console any beleaguered Freshman. The Sophomores of Cavanaugh Hall are also under his jurisdiction.
One of Father Fagan’s tasks will be to assist the Prefect of Religion, Rev. Richard Grimm, c.s.c., in writing the Religious Bulletin.
New Schedule Announced For Campus Sunday Masses
A new schedule of Masses in Sacred Heart Church will be in effect this Sunday and on all Sundays and holydays thereafter. Low Masses are at 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 a. m.	'
High Mass at 11 o’clock will be sung by the Dujarie and Moreau choirs on alternate weeks. The 9 o’clock Mass has been changed to a low Mass in hopes of relieving the previously overcrowded condition at the following Mass.
Only those students appointed as servers may attend Sunday and holyday Masses in the hall chapels, with the exception of Vetville residents.
To enable students to receive Communion, eat breakfast, and then attend 9 o’clock Mass, Confessions will be heard and Communion distributed each Sunday and holyday from 7:30 to 8:15 a. m. in the Dillon Hall chapel.
Late daily Masses at 7:20 a. m. in Cavanaugh and Dillon chapels and at 8 a. m. in Dillon are being continued -this year. These Masses, though intended especially for day students, are open to everyone.
Currently, the Liturgy Club is canvassing the halls selling daily Missals at reduced prices, to encourage better attendance and participation at daily Mass.
Liturgy Club members will also assume the serving duties for Masses and other devotions in Sacred Heart Church.
However, servers are needed for the a 6 a. m. daily Masses in the basement chapels of the main church.
The religious theme of this school year, according to Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., prefect of Religion, will be devotion to the Rosary, to fulfill the instructions of Oui- Lady of Fatima.
University employees now have a devotion of their own. They gather at the Grotto Monday through Friday at 12:45 p. m. to recite the Rosary. Students are welcome to join in these prayers for peace.	?.
10
The Scholastic
Foundation Contributions Double 1949 Total; Notre Dame Fund Receives $813,899 in Year
Contributions to the University of Notre Dame Foundation Fund for the year ending Sept. 1, 1950, have reached a total of $813,899. This amount more than doubles last year’s figure of $382-894.
Foundation representatives have announced that part of the fund will be applied toward filling the most urgent needs of Notre Dame today, such as $650,000 for equipment for new buildings ; $1,400,000 for expansion of the steam plant, expansion of the utilities to new buildings, and addition of new generators for power; $400,000 for sewage disposal, and $600,000 for the construction of a maintenance building.
A series of meetings is to be conducted in the following cities: New York, Detroit, Chicago, Minneapolis, Cleveland, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Davenport, Cincinnati, St. Louis, Syracuse, and Boston. A Notre Dame representative will be present at each meeting, the purpose of which is to inform all Foundation representatives in these regions of the 1950-51 program.
The representatives will be Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c., vice president in charge of Public Relations; James E. Armstrong, executive vice chairman of
the Notre Dame Foundation and alumni Secretary; John B. Kanaley, assistant to Mr. Frank Walker, chairman of the executive committee of the Foundation, and John Cackley, of the Foundation office.
A mass-appeal campaign will highlight the program for the coming year. Each alumnus will be given ten informational brochures about Notre Dame and asked to obtain at least a ten dollar gift from ten non-alumni friends by personal contact.
Televising home football games will be suggested to the Foundation Chairmen as a means of interesting small groups to watch Notre Dame games on television and learn about the University through pre-game films.
Lawyers Attend Convention
Students of the College of Law will represent Notre Dame at the National Student Law Association convention in Washington, D. C. during the week of Sept. 17. Attending will be John Globinsky, Henry Shine and Bruno Bernabei. The group will be led by Mr. Norman Kopec, president of the Notre Dame Law Association.
Debaters Plan for Season; 200 Contests on Schedule
Plans for the varsity debate team for the 1950-51 season were disclosed by L. F. Sommer, director of Forensics, at an informal meeting last Wednesday afternoon before the core of last year’s team. The first regular meeting will be held next Monday at 4:15 p. m. in Room 327 of the Main Building. Those interested in making the team, Freshmen included, are invited to attend.
With approximately 200 debates on this year’s schedule, Mr. Sommer was a little hesitant in giving any predictions for the forthcoming season. He stated, however, that William Carey, president-of the club and individual debate champion of the United States last year, should insure the team a strong backbone. Again, Coach Sommer stressed that new debaters will be given a fair chance of making the squad.
Team training will be centered on practice debates and argumentation in relation with this year’s national debate topic, which is: “Resolved—That the non-Communist nations form a new international organization.” This is the probable subject which the Irish speakers will argue in major debates at: Bradley, Boston, Miami, Texas, Iowa, Bowling Green and Purdue universities. Eight to ten men will constitute the traveling squad.
ND Cadets Take Part
In Summer Courses
Over 200 Notre Dame students participated in air and naval reserve officer training courses this summer.
From the Air ROTC unit, 26 future air corps administration officers journeyed to Wright Field, near Dayton, O., where they underwent a six-week indoctrination program. At the same time, six 'other ail’ cadets were sent to Scott Field, Texas, for a training course designed to acquaint them with their fu-' ture duties as engineering officers in the air arm.
From the naval unit, six senior Marine Corps candidates spent six weeks at Quantico, Va. Here they received employment and organization of naval aviation. Upon completion of this phase of their training, they journeyed to Little Creek, Va., for two weeks of instruction in the science of amphibious warfare. This period was climaxed by maneuvers in which a mock assault upon an “enemy” beach was successfully carried out.
FOUR NROTC MEN from Notre Dame study a winch aboard ship during summer training course in Atlantic. L. to r.: W. Beargie, R. Epping, J. Blalock and R. Collins.
Sept. 22, 1950
11
Scholastic Fiction
Charlie's Best Coffee
One night I am sitting in Charlie’s restaurant on 47th street, drinking a cup of Charlie’s best coffee and thinking it is a sad thing indeed that anyone should be going around and about with as few bobs in his pocket as I am at this moment. And in fact I have just enough bobs in my pocket at this moment to pay for the cup of Charlie’s best coffee that I am drinking, with maybe one or two left over to take a ride on the subway in case the weather should commence to turn worse and make it unpleasant for walking.
And just to show you that I am feeling very down and out indeed, I even think once or twice that maybe I should get a job until the racing season opens, so you will see that I am in a very bad frame of mind indeed. But of course I do not entertain these thoughts of work very seriously or very long and I by no means intend to let them persuade me to actually go out and get a job, but all the same the thoughts are there and I am commencing to feel very sorry for myself indeed.
So there I am, sitting in Charlie’s restaurant and drinking a cup of Charlie’s best coffee and wondering where my next bob is coming from when all of a sudden the door opens and who walks in but Max Starre. Now Max is a little guy who is nuts about horses and a doll named Kittens McDoughal. And while it is nothing unusual for a guy to be nuts about horses or even about a doll, Max is one of the few guys I know who makes a winning on the horses every ■now and again, and as one and all must admit this is very unusual for any guy whether he is nuts about horses or no. And in fact Max even owns a horse or two of his own and every now and again one of these horses wins a race for Max and this helps any guy who loves horses to love them maybe even a little more.
Now it is four o’clock in the a.m. and while it is by no means unusual for guys to walk into Charlie’s restaurant at this hour because it is about this hour most of the spots close up in town and many guys, and even many dolls, feel the need of a cup of Charlie’s best coffee after visiting around and about at these spots, still I am a little surprised to see Max
12
By CARLTON McLEIGH, ’51
enter through the door at this time because it is well known that Max very seldom visits any of these spots and in fact most of the time Max stays in the stables with his horses or else he goes to a movie with Kittens McDoughal. And I am even more surprised when I see the look on Max’s face for it is a very worried look indeed.
Of COURSE you might think that it is quite usual for many guys to have worried looks on their faces even at four o’clock in the morning and this is by no means untrue for most guys, but not for Max. Max is one of the few guys I know who almost never has a worried look on his face at any time and he is one of the fewer guys who seldom has anything to worry about.
So you can see it is a big surprise for me to see Max open the door of Charlie’s restaurant and step inside and see the worried look on his face and I am commencing to wonder what is biting Max when all of a sudden Max spies me sitting there and he comes over and sits down opposite me and says to me like this:
“Hello,” Max says. “It is very bad weather we are having in New York City for the past while, don’t you think?”
I tell Max that I am of the same opinion, but, I state, the weather is probably worse someplace else so we shouldn’t complain too much. Max says that this is true and then I ask him if he will join me in a cup of Charlie’s best coffee. Max says no, he is not drinking much coffee lately and in fact he is not drinking much of anything lately, and it seems from what Max says that he is going around and about with maybe even one or two fewer bobs in his pocket than I have and I consider this to be a very sad state of affairs indeed.
Well all of a sudden Max looks very confidential and leans over the table towards me and says to me in a low tone like this:
“Do you mind,” Max says, “if I tell you a story? I feel I must tell my story
to someone and you are the only one who might be kind enough to give me a listen or two.”
Of course when Max puts it like this I cannot refuse to at least give him a listen or two and in fact I feel very honored that Max wants to confide in me, even if it is only because I am the only one who will give him a listen or two.
So I take another sip of Charlie’s best coffee and tell Max I will be glad to listen to any story he has to tell and then I lean back and Max begins his story thus:
“It seems,” Max says, “that I have two horses on my hands at this moment and these are my very own horses and they are very good horses indeed. Now one of these horses,” Max says, “I consider to be a little better than the other horse and this horse’s name is Johnny Boy. And in fact I even consider entering Johnny Boy in the Kentucky Derby next spring and I consider Johnny Boy to have a very good chance of winning.
“But,” Max says, “these horses are in very bad shape indeed and I must get ahold of quite a few bobs if I hope to put Johnny Boy in shape to win the Kentucky Derby next spring. In fact Johnny Boy is in so bad shape that I am afraid he will haul off and die on me one of these days and everyone knows that the odds are very high against a dead horse ever winning the Kentucky Derby or any other race for that matter.
“A
IxND,” Max continues, “my other horse is a horse named Romper and this horse is in maybe even a little worse shape than Johnny Boy since I spend all the bobs I have to try to keep Johnny Boy alive and very few indeed on Romper. Of course,” Max says, “if it is only summer time now I can enter Romper or Johnny Boy in one of the races around and about this part of the country and maybe pick up enough bobs to put Johnny Boy in shape to win the Kentucky Derby. But of course everyone knows that it is now January and there are no races around this part of the country in January, so this scheme is out of the question.”
Now I consider this a very sad state of affairs indeed and I tell Max so and I even state that it is a shame that the
The Scholastic
guys who throw these races do not throw a special race or two at this time of the year so Max can enter one of his horses and maybe pick up enough bobs to put Johnny Boy in shape.
But Max says that is is a little impractical and to tell the truth I consider it a little impractical myself and only mention it to show Max that I sympathize with him.
“But,” Max says, “all is.not lost. I have another scheme which I am now desperate enough to try and which may bring in enough bobs to put Johnny Boy in shape for the Kentucky Derby. And this scheme is,” Max says, “to sell Romper to somebody or other and that way maybe raise enough bobs to see me through till spring. Of course I like Romper very much and consider him an excellent horse and it grieves me very much to do this,” Max sighs, “but it is the only way I can think of to raise enough bobs to put Johnny Boy in shape to come in in front of the rest of the horses in the Kentucky Derby next spring.”
13 Y this time I feel very sorry for Max indeed and I can see it breaks his heart to have to sell Romper, but I tell him that maybe this would be the best way to work it and in fact as far as I can see it is the only way to work it.
“But I have not told you all my story,” Max says. “There is one more part to -my story and it is this. Unless I can entei- Johnny Boy in the Kentucky Derby next spring and unless Johnny Boy can beat all the rest of the horses to the finish line, Kittens McDoughal will never become my ever lovin’ wife. Kittens tells me this from her own lips and if there is anything I desire more than anything else in this world it is, to make Kittens McDoughal my ever- lovin’ wife. And it is that that makes me decide to sell Romper.”
Now in my opinion no doll is worth this and especially Kittens McDoughal, even though she is a very pretty little doll, but I don’t say anything to Max on this point, as I consider he might become a little touchy if I do and maybe take a poke at me and if there is anything Charlie hates it is citizens taking pokes at each other in his restaurant at four o’clock in the a.m. or at any other time for that matter. So I merely tell Max I wish him luck and will be interested to see how everything turns out and. then Max thanks me for being kind enough to give him a listen and then he gets up and leaves.
I don’t see anything of Max for the next few months but I hear it rumored around and about that he sells Romper to some rich guy for quite a few bobs,
even though it breaks his heart, and I also hear that he uses these bobs to get Johnny Boy in very good shape indeed.
And it is a few months later that I pack my clothes and take a train down to a little town called Jeffersonville, Ind., which is right across the Ohio River from Louisville. Now the reason I go to Jeffersonville, Ind., is that it is a week before the Kentucky Derby and I am considering going across the Ohio River into Louisville on the day of the Derby and watch the horses run around the track. And also I have a friend who
lives in Jeffersonville, Ind., and I think it is maybe a good time to pay him a visit.
So one day about three days before the race I am turning the corner of 4th street in Louisville and some guy tuns the corner in the other direction and almost knocks me down. I am commencing to tell this guy that he should look where he is going and not be bumping into citizens when I notice that it is none other than Max Starre who bumps into me.
Max recognizes me at the same moment and gives me the big hello and I ask him how things are going and he has a big smile plastered all over his face and he tells me everything is going fine.
“T
tl OHNNY BOY is in excellent shape,” Max says, “and is entered in the Derby and there is no doubt whatever about his winning. The bookies,” Max says, “are giving plenty of 8 to 5 that Johnny Boy will get to the finish line before any of the other horses and I am of the same opinion.”
I tell Max I am very glad to hear that everything is going so well and I tell him that I consider putting about 50 bobs on Johnny Boy to win the race, but I don’t tell him that I first must put the touch on my friend in Jeffersonville, 'Ind., for the 50 bobs.	./
And then I ask Max how is Kittens McDoughal and he says she is fine and has promised to become his ever lovin’ wife just as soon as Johnny Boy wins the race.	.
“Of course,” Max says, “she says she -will never become my ever lovin’ wife if Johnny Boy doesn’t win the race but that r does not worry me in the least since there is no doubt whatever that Johnny Boy will win.”
So I wish Max luck and then I do not see him until the day of the Kentucky Derby. My friend and I go over to the track and since I have already put the bite on him for 50 bobs I rush down to the window that says WIN above it and put the whole 50 bobs on Johnny Boy. Then I go back to the stands.
T
X HERE is a big crowd wandering around and about and I hear that all of the experts say that Johnny Boy is a sure thing to win the race and many of them even consider it a little foolish to run the race at all and I am feeling very safe indeed in putting 50 bobs on Johnny Boy. And pretty soon the horses begin coming out to line up at the post and the second horse that trots out is Johnny Boy. Now Johnny Boy is a very beautiful horse indeed and everybody cheers when he comes out and I hear one guy say that the only other horse in the race is an .entry from the Calumar stables by the name of Homer. But it seems that Homer is a mudder and it has not rained in Louisville for a week and his chances are very slim indeed. .
And pretty soon the horses are all lined up at the post and ready to go and someone is yelling off their names over the loudspeaker and then he yells they are off and sure enough they are off, Johnny Boy takes the lead right away and stays out in front by about two lengths and even commences to increase this lead.
And then I look down along the rail and I spy Max and he is holding on to the rail and has a big smile all over his face and there is a doll hanging on to his arm and jumping up and down and yelling very loud indeed like this:
“Come on, Johnny Boy,” she yells. “Hurry up, Johnny Boy.”
She yells so loud that I think maybe even Johnny Boy hears her and Johnny Boy is by this time all the way over on the other side of the track and running very fast indeed. So I suppose that this doll who is yelling must be Kittens Me* Doughal, although I am too far away to see her very well, still I can hear her
n (Continued on Page 33)
Sept. 22, 1950
13
Student Poll Predicts Undefeated Year
The majority of Notre Dame students believe the 1950 edition of the Fighting Irish will be as potent as its four undefeated predecessors. When asked, “What do you think of Notre Dame’s chances this fall?” almost all those contacted agreed that the Irish will stretch its unblemished record through 1950.
Bill McCarthy, a pre-med student from Providence, R. I., and Cavanaugh Hall, summed up his opinion by saying, “I don’t think there’s a team that can touch Notre Dame. I look for another unbeaten season.”
Phil Zurlo, 143 Farley, confessed, “I haven’t read much about the team’s prospects this year, but from what I have heard it could go undefeated if North Carolina is beaten.”
Sorin’s John O’Brien, last year’s 137-pound Bengal Bout champion, is one of the few who expect ND to be defeated. John thought, “We should lose one game this year, but no more.”
Berni Paulsen, Breen-Phillips, is another who is looking forward to a perfect record for Coach Frank Leahy. He
It’s 7:50 .. . you goin’ to make that 8?
put it this way, “After all the things I’ve read about Notre Dame football, I don’t see how they can lose.”
Mort Freiji of 140 Morrissey was a little more cautious. “Once we get by Michigan State there’s nothing to worry about,” was his comment.
Smitty Meehan of New Jersey and 128 Breen-Phillips is also afraid of the Spartans. He said, “If the team beats State, it should go all the way.”
An off-campus Senior, Bob Lokken, looks for nine victories but added, “I don’t think the team will be as good as last year, and it could lose to Southern California.”
Bill Artificavitch, 115 Dillon, is a little on the pessimistic side. He remarked, “The law of averages will finally catch up to us this year. I expect the team to lose at least one game and possibly two.”
An Engineering student from 216 Zahm, George Koch, answered, “We should take every game, but I think Michigan State will give us plenty of trouble.”
Tom Feeley, 314 Howard, is sure that a rough season lies ahead for the Irish, but said, “With Toneff in the line, how can we lose?”—Bill Londo, ’53
Mass Schedule
Saturday, Sept. 23 — red — Semidouble; Ember Day and Feast of St. Linus, Pope, Martyr; 2nd Coll, of Ember Day, 3rd Coll, of St. Thecia, 4th Coll. Against the Pers.; Preface of Apostles; Last Gospel of the Ember Day
or
Mass of the Ember Day—violet; without a Gloria; 2nd Coll, of St. Linus, 3rd Coll, of St. Thecia, 4th Coll, against the Pers.
Sunday, Sept. 24 — green — semidouble; 17th Sunday after Pentecost: 2nd Coll, of Our Lady of Ransom, 3rd Coll. Against the Pers.; Credo, Preface of the Trinity; Last Gospel ot Our Lady of Ransom.
Monday, Sept. 25—green—simple; Mass of previous Sunday; 2nd Coll, of Saints, 3rd Coll, of the Faithful Departed.
Tuesday, Sept. 26 — red — Simple: SS. Cyprian and Justina, Martyrs; 2nd Coll, of the Saints, 3rd Coll, your choice, 4th Coll., Against the-Pers.
Wednesday, Sept. 27—red—Semidouble; SS. Cosmas and Damian, Martyrs; 2nd Coll, of Saints, 3rd Coll, your choice, 4th Coll. Against the Pers.
Thursday, Sept. 28 — red — Semidouble; St. Wenceslaus, Martyr, 2nd Coll, of Saints, 3rd Coll. Your Choice, 4th Coll. Against the Pers.
Band's Precision Marching Ready for Tarheel Contest
Led by a seven-man color guard from the campus NROTC, 105 Notre Dame musicians will perform during the pregame and half-time ceremonies of the Irish-North Carolina football game.
Band Director H. Lee Hope has announced that Dave O’Leary, a Senior in the College of Arts and Letters, will serve as this year’s drum major of the marching band. O’Leary, who hails from Manson, Iowa, will be assisted by veteran baton twirlers Randy McNally and Howard Haney.
It has also been announced that the 1949 policy of a season-long series of half-time shows has been abandoned. Numerous special events occurring this fall have necessitated this action. However, the 1950 Notre Dame Band will feature a military drill which is to be executed without visible or audible signal. Said Mr. Hope, “This year we will
14
The Scholastic
spend less time on pictorial formations, placing a particular emphasis on precision marching.”
An informal social and business meeting was held for the members of the band on Wednesday, September 20. At this meeting, Mr. Hope introduced to the band Bill McMillan, the organization’s president for the coming year. Present at the gathering were Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., and Rev. John Murphy, C.S.C.
Committeemen Named For Sophomore Cotillion
Selection of committeemen for the ten committees planned has brought this year’s Sophomore Cotillion one step closer to reality. Jerry Kelley of Hawarden, Iowa, and Mike McNulty, of Glencoe, Ill., newly-elected dance chairmen, handled the acceptance process.
Kelley and McNulty polled the greatest number of votes at a Sophomore Class meeting in the Law Auditorium. Class President ' John O’Connell conducted the assembly.
The Cotillion has been set for the evening of November' 10, so that the Sophomores and their dates can attend the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game on the following afternoon.
First Meeting of Aero Club Held Next Thursday Evening
Prospective members of the Aero Club are invited to attend the first business meeting next Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering building. Properly called the Notre Dame chapter of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, the organization is open to all students in Aeronautical Engineering.
The club held its first informal gathering of the year on September 16, at a picnic for old members. Bill Dillon was chairman of the affair, held at Warren Dunes State Park on Lake Michigan.
Biology Profs Attend Meet
Notre Dame’s Department of Biology was represented at the annual meeting of the American Institute of Biological Sciences by Dr. Edward O. Dodson, Dr. John A. Jump, and Dr. Edward W. Sybil. Meetings were held at the Ohio State University from September 11 to 13. Dr. Jump read a paper on “The Activity of an Antibiotic of Streptomyces albus against Certain Phycomycetes.” Members of the Notre Dame delegation participated in meetings of the Botanical Society of America and of the Genetics 'Society of America, which is sponsoring a program to celebrate the r Golden Jubilee of the Science of Genetics.
NFCCS Will Convene At Nazareth College
The Fort Wayne region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students will hold the first of four meetings this Sunday at Nazareth College, Nazareth, Mich.
Representing Notre Dame will be Senior and Junior Delegates Jim Garwin and John O’Connell, Student Council President Bill Anhut, and Don Carbone, secretary - treasurer of the campus NFCCS council.
At a Freshman class meeting this week, Garvin outlined the plans and purposes of the reorganized council. The officers, he said, will work with Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., prefect of Religion, “to coordinate the aims and objectives of certain existing campus organizations to the local NFCCS council.”
Last May, the Notre Dame council launched its new plans by rejoining the Fort Wayne region, after three years of association with the Chicago area schools of the Federation.
In addition to Notre Dame and Nazareth, other colleges in the region include St. Mary’s, St. Joseph’s of Collegeville, St. Mary’s of the Woods, Aquinas of Grand Rapids, and St. Francis of Fort Wayne.
Please, may I cut in?
Maintenance Men Pave Way for New Buildings
Under the direction of Rev. Bernard C. Furstoss, c.s.c., the maintenance department at Notre Dame has been active this summer improving the grounds and preparing the way for the construction of the new buildings. One of the major jobs was removing the pipelines and underground wires in back of the Chemistry building to clear the way for digging the foundation of the new Science building.
Two new additions have been added to the Biology building. There is a new Biology greenhouse directly behind the Biology building, and LOBUND has added a section for the study of germ-free animal radiation.
Asphalt walks have been made on all the major paths from the Circle to the Administration building. Maintenance men are also completing the job of replacing all the windows in Dillon and Alumni Halls.
Blueprints are almost complete for the Notre Dame Inn, the Fine Arts building, and Fisher Memorial Hall. Bidding for the contracts to build these structures was opened September 11, and it is hoped that work will begin shortly.
Sept. 22, 1950
15
Short Life of
A Campus Daily
Sy (forge Schwartz ’51
“Do you want a daily newspaper for Notre Dame, and if one was published, would you support it?”
That question was put to Notre Dame’s 2,300 students in April, 1923. Of those who replied, 95 per cent thought a daily paper would be a good idea; so a group, consisting mostly of Sophomores, took the suggestion to the University, and was given permission, under a faculty board of control, to start putting cut the Flotre Dame Daily, a four-page, tabloid size, morning newspaper.
On May 20, 1923, the first issue was put on sale on the campus. It dedicated itself to Father Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., president at that time, and set forth its desire to, “represent the University, mirror its life, foster and protect its traditions, and preserve a spirit of loyalty among the students.” There was also a small boxed-in notice at the bottom of page one urging the students to sign subscriptions to the Daily.
Everything Avent well for a few days. Then on May 25 another notice turned up: “Do You Want the Daily Next Year? Every subscriber who hasn’t paid his subscription is urged to do so before June 3. Remember, next year depends rn you. The Daily's office in the Main Building is open from 8 to 5.”
On June 5 another notice took a more prominent place on the first page: “Your four-bits are urgently needed to assure the Daily's financial solvency. This may determine if you have a newspaper next year. It must pay its own way.”
This time the money started coming in, and the staff had enough left over after exams to publish a 12-page welcome’to a group of old grads who descended on the campus for a reunion.
The Daily had finally been launched, and everything was ready for the next Fall. .
Except that the Daily, was able to come out only four days instead of the desired five, things got off to a good
16
start in September of 1923. The paper got into student affairs, giving a lot of publicity to “Hello Week,” the first week of October, when each student was given a card bearing his name, and in large print, the letters HELLO. Whenever he met another student or a group of students, he was supposed to say “Hello,” and call them by name.
Midway in the week the Daily swung a few editorial blows at “the men who aren’t speaking.” But it finally announced that “Hello Week was successful.”
Not many news stories were missed. When the game of Mah-Jongg struck Notre Dame, the Daily carried a story declaring that, “the Yellow Peril seems to be firmly established here. A MahJongg book is indispensable to every student.”
And in addition to having a telegraph wire for every away football game, the paper chronicled the death of an old Notre Dame student named William A. Pinkerton who had made good in the private detective business after leaving school.
The promotion staff of the Daily kept the students busy too. When the Toledo club gave Notre Dame an Irish Terriei" mascot in January of 1924, the paper-started a contest to name him. After lengthy consideration by Coach Knute Rockne and the committee picked to choose the winning name, the dog was christened Tipperary Terrance. But Tipperary Terrance never got to see a football game. He was killed, by an auto three months after his christening.
About the same time the Daily started a contest to name the clubs that had done most to help their own members, as well as Notre Dame. It took a month to run the contest, and after throwing out thousands of unsigned ballots, the Daily finally named the winners as the : Toledo club in the geographical club class, and the Scribblers in the campus club class.
A look at the class schedules published
at the end of the first semester would give today’s students some pretty good ideas about which were the most popular electives. A few of the courses taught in the Science school were:
Agronomy 5—Advanced Grain Judging and Breeding.
Animal Husbandry 1—Stock Judging.
Animal Husbandry 6—Sheep Marketing.
Animal Husbandry 12—Elements of Dairying.
Animal Husbandry 13—Butter Making and Creamery Management.
The movie ads seem to indicate that the entertainment offered by South Bend theaters back then had a lot more variety than it does now. On March 16, 1924, the Blackstone 'Theater billed Rudyard Kipling’s movie, The Light That Failed as well as: “A revue with Irene Roth, musician and dancer; Charles Hart and Goldie Blue, dancers; the famous Yerkes’ Jazzarimba orchestra; a dance revue with five girls; and a double-voiced female singer.”
And if you think some of the advertisements published in newspapers today are distorted and kind of silly, read the Vaseline Hair Tonic ads carried by the Daily. One of them pictures a young couple at the theater. Under the picture are the words: “Thrilled? You bet he is! He’s making a tremendous hit! She has just told him that he has hair like Rudy Valentino’s. But he doesn’t know whether to pretend that it came that way or confess that he did it with his little bottle of ‘Vaseline Hair Tonic.’ He owes a lot of his manly beauty to that bottle. . . .”
Another shows a stag cutting in on a dancing couple. The ad reads: “He has the pride of the peacock, the courage of the lion and the combined nerve of the whole menagerie. And why? Because he is sure of himself—and sure of his appearance. As the last and cleverest
(Continued on Page 24)
The Scholastic
Brownson: Forgotten Man
By JAMES P. CARROLL, ’51
“Brownson Hall?” said an indignant Freshman after asking for directions to the Student Accounts Office. “What do you mean Brownson Hall? There’s nothing like that shown on this map of the campus.”
And he was right. The memory of f Brownson Hall, like the memory of the man it was named after, has grown dimmer and dimmer with each passing year. The name of Brownson has dropped almost completely out of the vocabulary of Notre Dame.
And just 74 years ago, April 17, 1876, Orestes A. Brownson’s death was news at the University and all over America. A stormy life had ended; the voice of a great philosopher was stilled.
Born in 1803, Brownson spent his life searching for truth. The rugged hills of his Vermont birth place were much like his character. He was tough and fearless, the kind of man who worries about his own conscience instead of about what others say.
In religion, he was a Congregationalist by birth and a Presbyterian by choice. But later he was ordained a Universalist minister, though in a little while he was preaching Unitarianism. Still later, after he had a fling as pastor of his own independent Church of the Future, he was converted to Catholicism, Oct. 20, 1844.
Brownson’s Conversion
Brownson’s entering of the Church shocked America much as John Henry Newman’s conversion was to shock England a year later. But Brownson was used to surprising people. His forceful speaking had long attracted attention. And the magazines he edited and wrote for, especially Broivnson’s Quarterly Re-vieiu, were praised everywhere.
K As a social reformer, Brownson had few equals. The. son of a poor fanner, he knew what it meant to be hungry. He really understood the worker’s problems; and the sudden growth of industrialism during the early 1800’s alanned him. The life of a “wage-slave” in the Massachusetts mills was for him, unbearable. So by 1840 he had decided that the only solution was the destruction of capitalism; the workers must eventually rise up and smash, their masters.
You can imagine what a bomb-shell that idea, as presented in Brownson’s
Sept. 22, 1950
essay “The Laboring Classes,” was to the staid New Englanders who read it. Brownson was a communist, in fact if not in name—an American communist eight years before Marx composed his Manifesto.
But who remembers that now? Brownson’s social ideas are as forgotten as his political theories and his literary talent.
He was for a time intimately associated with the Transcendentalist movement, hob-nobbing with Emerson, Alcott, and Thoreau. His visits to the experimental colony at Brook Hill Farm were almost legendary; because Brownson’s thirst for logic constantly made him berate the dreamy idealists he found at Brook Hill.
In politics as a humanitarian he naturally leaned toward the Democratic
party of Jackson and Van Buren; here, he thought was the party of the people. But when Van Buren was defeated by Harrison in 1840, Brownson was disillusioned ; he felt the people had betrayed him. So, in his mercurial way, he was soon attracted to the states-rights, “aristocratic democracy” of Calhoun.
But after his conversion to Catholicism Brownson spent less and less time considering political theory. He so firmly believed in his new-found Church that he tried to learn all he could about it, preparing himself to defend it. He studied Thomas Aquinas and even mastered Latin. It wasn’t long before Brownson was celebrated as America’s number one Catholic philosopher.
In 1850 he visited Notre Dame as a
(Continued on Page 32)
The Road to Rome
Notre Dame Men Visit Rome, Lourdes, Fatima During Summer Holy Year Pilgrimage in Europe
Through the centuries for more than two thousand years Italy has held in the palm of her hand a most precious jewel for all the world to behold. She has jealously guarded this, her crowning glory, protecting it through persecutions, invasions and war, gazing fondly if proudly as its brilliance outshone all others.
And the Italians have been most generous with their possession. Anyone may come to view, to wonder as he sees the heart of the old Roman Empire and -Jie seat of Christendom. The Italians boasted once that “All roads lead to Rome.” Their claim still stands unchallenged.
This year one of the greatest “migrations” in modern history is taking place as hundreds of thousands have taken the opportunity to reach the Roman prize. By decree of His Holiness Pope Pius XII the time between Christmas Eve, 1949, and Christmas Eve, 1950, has been set aside as a period of penance and prayer for all the faithful, designated by the term “Holy Year.” In response to the Papal Bull, Christians the world over have made and are making the pilgrimage to the Eternal City.
Twenty-five Notre Dame students, 5 alumni, 4 seminarians and 4 priests joined the traveling ranks this summer as they made a month-long tour of Europe, stopping at religious and historic landmarks along the way, following the road to Rome. This is a very brief narration of their journey, a journey which took one month to complete, but which could fill a lifetime.
June 11—Sunday
An hour before midnight the two DC-4’s took off from Newark and Idle-wild for Gander, Newfoundland, first stop on the long transocean hop. In less than six hours both aircraft had put down at Gander after an uneventful 1163 mile flight.
June 12—Monday
Like commuters grabbing a bite to eat on the run, the passengers ate breakfast at the Terminal, downing the last cup of coffee in the gray light of dawn. At 6:45 a. m. New York time they were
Sept. 22, 1950
By AL LAPORTE ’51
Photographs by JOHN SEE ’51
airborne again, headed over the sea to Shannon, Ireland.
The planes came in on Shannon in darkness, landing at 9:30 p. m. After another hit-and-run meal the whole troop climbed aboard for the flight to London, arriving just before 3 a. m. Tuesday morning (London time).
June 13—Tuesday
After Mass at St. Aloysius’s, everybody took off on sight-seeing trips. Name any of the famous sights in this famous city and at least one of the travelers saw it. Buckingham Palace, Westminster Abbey, 10 Downing Street, the Tower of London, St. Paul’s Cathedral, Pic-adilly Circus, Leicester Square—the list takes pages. The all day excursion ended at 7:30 p. m. when the tired assemblage bedded down in the Royal Hotel.
June 14—Wednesday
The early risers in the crowd played Reveille about 7:30 this morning collecting everyone in the hotel lobby for another whirl, this one to Stratford-on-Avon, Oxford and Warwick Castle. After the organized tour was over, some of the crew wandered about London, going down into the subway, three stories underground, where whole families lived during the Blitz.
Room keys at the Royal were replicas of old jail keys, heavy cumbersome affairs. Upon checking out the guests would throw them into a large box provided for this purpose, at the same time creating all the noise and clamor of a boiler factory.
Func 15—Thursday
At 11:30 a. m. “Air France” flew the group across the Channel to Paris, landing at 1 p. m. After a Customs check at LeBourget Airport, the 60 person party split up and headed by bus for their hotels. Once again the majority sacked
out early, too tired to try Paris on the first night.
June 16—Friday
Notre Dame welcomed Notre Dame this morning as Mass was celebrated in the famous Cathedral. Nothing the English had could compare with the beautiful old church, her architecture and three rose windows. Tradition has it that the cardinals’ hats which hang above the main' altar will fall when their owners reach heaven. The hats are then burned and the ashes sprinkled in the River Seine. Cardinal Richelieu’^ hat has been hanging placidly for 300 years.
The magic of Paris lured the tourists in the afternoon as they traversed the length and breadth of the city, visiting the Louvre where the “Mona Lisa” hangs, the Arc de Triomphe de L’Etoile and the Eiffel Tower. The adventurers did not waste this night, searching out the famous and not so famous sidewalk cafes, learning that their well kept clothes marked them as targets for every guide and the like in the city.
June 17—Saturday
Another day of sightseeing. The Versailles was the focal point in the morning and the city in general that afternoon. Five of the wanderers went to the Left Bank this evening where they met some English students and the characteristic artists. No longer were the Americans dressed well. They went “native,” donning old clothes and berets for the trip. “Le jazz hot” has its almost fanatic -fans here across the Seine.
June 18—Sunday
After Mass at Trinity Church, several of the gang strolled again. The guided tour went to Lisieux and the shrine of St. Theresa. There the group saw the saint’s crypt where lies the Little Flower, just as she died. A visit to the Basilica ended the day.
June 19—Monday
Busses transported the travelers to The Chapel of the Apparitions of 1830
19
(St. Catherine Laboure) for 9 o’clock Mass. St. Catherine was the nun who received from the Blessed Virgin the Miraculous Medal. The body of St. Catherine rests intact under the altar, her heart in a reliquary of crystal upheld by two angels in bronze. The chair in which the Blessed Virgin sat when she appeared to St. Catherine is preserved.
This evening three of the gang went to see “Carmen,” met Father Murray and a couple more of the group afterward and spent some time sitting in one of the sidewalk cafes, batting the breeze and watching the Parisians go by.
June 20—Tuesday
Again the early risers routed the rest of the crew out at 5:30 for the train trip to Lucerne. A change in schedule cut the allotted time down to only a night stopover here, right in the middle of the Swiss Alps amidst the rolling fields then in harvest. Though snow was on the mountain peaks, three hardy souls went swimming in the picturesque lake.
Carved into the white face of a nearby cliff is the famous “Lion of Lucerne,” a monument to the 780 Swiss guards who died defending the palace of Marie Antionette and Louis XVI against the mobs of the French Reign of Terror. Lucerne is one of the two cantons (Zurich, the other) to supply the first Papal guards, the result of a treaty made with the Vatican in 1505.
June 21—Wednesday
Early rising was beginning to become a habit, for this morning the group pulled out at 8:45 for Venice after Mass and breakfast. The train passed through Milan without a long holdover, arriving in Venice at 6:30 p. m. At times the train passed through low clouds in the Alps, countless tunnels and the long St. Gothard’s Pass, an 18 mile, 25 minute run through a tunnel which took seven years to build. Though the arrival was fairly late in the day, enough of the city could be seen in the failing light to confirm all the stories about the canals and gondolas.
June 22—Thursday
Down the canals in a procession of gondolas sailed the amazed travelers to the Ducal Palace, St. Mark’s and the heart of the glass blowing industry. Later in the day a big celebration in honor of the Blessed Virgin commenced on many of the canals and through the city’s streets—streets often wide enough for only three people to walk abreast. That night the gang “went to sea” again, winding up the procession with a
^Vaiican iMessage
Last Spring, while preparing for the pilgrimage to Rome, the entire Notre Dame community was asked to offer Masses, Communions, prayers and ejaculations for a Spiritual Bouquet to His Holiness Pope Pius XII.
When in Rome, the pilgrims presented the spiritual gifts to His Holiness. Following is a letter Father Grimm, Prefect of Religion, received from Msgr. Giovanni B. Montini, the Vatican’s Secretary of State.
Dear Reverend Father:
His Holiness has graciously instructed me to interpret to you the sentiments of His warm gratitude for the rich Spiritual Bouquet which you had presented to Him in the name of the priests, brothers, seminarians, sisters and students of the University of Notre Dame.
The Holy Father was much gratified to receive this precious treasury of Holy Masses, prayers and good works which bear eloquent testimony to the feelings of tender veneration and regard which they cherish for the Vicar of Christ. The Supreme Pontiff would have me assure you that it is a source of abiding consolation to Him, midst the daily cares of His exalted office to know that His faithful and devoted children of Notre Dame University are so prayerfully mindful of His welfare and intentions during this Holy Year. As a token of His grateful appreciation and paternal benevolence His Holiness cordially imparts to you, to the priests, brothers, seminarians, sisters and students of the University who so lovingly co-operated with you in making this presentation, and to the friends and benefactors of Notre Dame His special Apostolic Blessing.
Assuring you of my esteem and consideration, I remain, .
Sincerely yours in Christ,
MSGR. GIOVANNI B. MONTINI
roaring “Victory March” to mandolin accompaniment.
June 23—Friday
Back aboard the train and on to Rome, through rocky countryside, arriving at 7 in the evening. The unfinished railroad station is a masterpiece, made of white marble and glass. The lodgings were in a former military school built by Mussolini for his youth movement with. all the grandeur and space to be found anywhere. A brief tour of the city ended with welcome sleep.
June 24—Saturday
First item on the order of the day was the required visit to the four main churches—St. Peter’s, St. Mary Major, St. Paul’s on the Ostian Way and St. John Lateran—where the necessary prayers were said for the Holy Year indulgence. If St. Peter’s seemed impressive in the morning at the first visit, it was magnificent this night, for it was then that the group witnessed the canonization of Maria Goretti.
To ensure a place from which the ceremonies could be seen, the pilgrims arrived two hours early. The estimated crowd was between 350 and 400 thousand in the Square, the first time a canonization has been held outdoors. The procession lasted 25 minutes with nearly 80,000 participants. The whole show lasted 2% hours, colorful, inspiring as only Rome can be. The canonization Mass was scheduled for Sunday at St. Peter’s at 10, so the troupe went to bed fairly early for the big day.
June 25—Sunday
St. Peter’s was jammed. The capacity for this occasion was 80,000, though the church will hold an even 100,000. A roar began from the rear and swelled to a thunderous crescendo as every voice blended into one shouting the electrifying “Viva II Papa!” when His Holiness was carried in on the shoulders of eight guards, riding serenely in his Sedia Ges-tatoria. He turned from side to side, smiling, beaming as he blessed the throng. This wild cheering and waving of handkerchiefs, so out of place in an American cathedral, seemed so natural in St. Peters that everyone, foreigners alike, joined the salute.
At the elevation of the Mass, the Pope as celebrant did not just raise the host and chalice but turned completely around to face all the people, one of the most impressive acts witnessed by the assembled multitude. The choir was beautiful and the people, who knew the hymns far better than our own do, joined in the singing. If the twelve silver trumpets weren’t sweet enough this perfect music was. With the conclusion of the 1% hour Mass and procession, the pilgrims drifted away to visit other churches and shi-ines for the rest of the day.
June 26—Monday
Back to the Vatican for a tour of the Museum, Sistine Chapel, Library and then Rome itself. The Forum, Pantheon and other historical sites-were all visited in a quick but interesting search through the old and new parts of the city.
20
The Scholastic
June 27—Tuesday
After Mass, the party went out to the old Roman catacombs of San Sebastiano, 1 the only ones accessible to the pilgrims. Down narrow passages lit only by the light of the guide’s taper went the small group past niches where sometimes appeared the name of the interred and sometimes the word “in pace.” A few of the earlier inscriptions are in Greek, the later, in Latin. Could the catacombs be placed in a continuous line, they would stretch roughly 545 miles, but they are built on tiers, the deepest 50 feet down, the newest only 22 feet below the ground’s surface.
June 28—Wednesday
The crowning highlight of the tour was today’s audience with the Pope. Again the mad cheering, clapping and waving as His Holiness arrived, announced by the silver trumpets. After he had circled the church, the Holy Father sat down to talk to the pilgrims in their own tongues. He spoke in Italian, French, Spanish, German and English. His diction was perfect! After the formal audience, he visited with the r various hierarchy, then went about shaking hands and talking until 7:30 when he left the church on his chair, blessing all as he went. Father Grimm received papal thanks for Notre Dame’s spiritual bouquet at one of three audiences.
June 29—Thursday
After Mass—this was a holy day in Italy, the feast of Sts. Peter and Paul— the pilgrims boarded their train for Pisa, pulling in at noon. Part of the group went down to the Mediterranean for a swim, returning to the hotel after a trip about the bombed out city.
June 30—Friday
Off for Nice, France, by 8 o’clock in the morning. At 7 this night the group arrived at the famous town along the French Riviera. Nice’s hotels were the most luxurious imaginable. When some of the party sat down on the seaside benches, they were assessed the usual tax for using the benches, a custom prevalent in this country.
July 1—Saturday
While some of the tourists went swimming, the rest roamed about the city. The tourists returned to find the sun worshippers beautifully burned, and hot showers didn’t improve the condition one bit.
July 2—Sunday	-
Another Notre Dame church was the scene of Sunday Mass at 7 a. m., then
(Continued on Page 30)
ON A SIDE TRIP from Paris to Versailles, a group of Holy Year pilgrims from the University stop to inspect a farmhouse that once belonged to Marie Antoinette;
JOHN SEE and Father Edmund J. Murray make friends with some little French school children while resting on the steps of the world-famous Cathedral i of Chartres.
VENICE’S GRAND CANAL echoed to the strains of the Victory March one evening this summer when the Notre Dame contingent glided down the ancient city’s mam street.
Sept. 22, 1950
21
South Bend
Theatres
Welcome the Men of Notre Dame
Colfax
State
Palace
Granada
Blue Circle Conducts Freshman Orientation
Incoming Freshmen received a traditional welcome on Sept. 11 from the Orientation Committee of the Blue Circle. The committee with the aid of members of the YCS undertook the annual task of helping frosh get acquainted with Notre Dame and each other.
The new members of the student body were welcomed at various train stations and the circle, conducted to the Drill Hall and then taken on extended tours of the campus. Registration and aptitude tests occupied their first two days.
Freshmen were officially welcomed to Notre Dame by the president of the University, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., on Sept. 12 in Washington Hall. Officers of the administration -were introduced and Coach John Druze showed football movies of the 1949 season and the traditional Knute Rockne, All-American. Bill Van Scoik was in charge of arrangements with Tom Carroll acting as master of ceremonies. The week was rounded out wuth the Freshman Mission conducted by Father Cavanaugh.
Last Monday, the Freshmen held their general class mixer with Joe Shelley as M.C. and Dave Schoen in charge of arrangements. Talks were given by Bill
Send
SCHOLASTIC
Home
The folks back home would like to. know about the activities at Notre Dame so why not send them a gift subscription? The cost is $4 a year and it means your parents will receive 26 issues of the student magazine.
Get the JUGGLER
The student literary magazine, the JUGGLER, costs $1 a year. This year this magazine is going to feature a special issue that will be the talk of the campus. To get your copy you have to subscribe so send your dollar now.
Send subscriptions to:
Publications, Notre Dame, Ind.
Anhut, president of the Student Council, Jim Garvin, campus chief of the NFCCS, Jim Hennessey, Senior class president, and Bill Rich, president of the YCS. Entertainment was provided by Gene Hull and his band, with songs by Jack Broderick. The evening, was highlighted by refreshments and informal talks with members of the Monogram Club.
As part of the Orientation Program, which is still underway, there will be a varsity football scrimmage and a frosh picnic tomorrow. Next month, a Freshman Field Day is planned with interhall competition in all sports. A trophy ■will be awarded to the winning hall.
The Orientation Committee is headed by Tom Carroll with Dave Schoen, Vic Kroeger, Hugh Braun, Bill Sahm, Bill Van Scoik, Ward McCabe, Ed Noonan and Dick Herrle assisting.
The upperclassmen who aided the committee were: Rod Belcher, Frank Blanch, Bill Carey, Dick Cotter, Frank Crovo, Al DeCrane, Bill Dargon, John Dunlevy, John Harrington, Fred Hail-man, John Houck, John Hawley, and Bob Johnson.
Also: Bill Keane, Jerome Kelly, Bill Kerwin, Bob Koestler, Dick Marshall, Jack McKelvey, Lamont McLaughlin, John Morre, John Morsch, John O’Connell, Ed Raque, Tom Snyder, and Joe Stanichak.
Grand Knight Dick Cullen Heads Year's KC Council
Notre Dame Council 1477 of the Knights of Columbus begins its new year under the direction of Grand Knight Dick Cullen. Installation of officers is slated for Wednesday, Sept. 27, in the Council chambers in Walsh Hall
Tomorrow night will see the Council’s first social event of the year with a smoker to be held for all members in the Mishawaka Club House. Dates are optional and all new members who have made application are welcome.
First initiations for prospective Council members will probably be held in the latter part of October. At a recent meeting of officers, the membership committee was activated under* the direction of John Ceeler.
Office hours are from 1 to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday, -with the lounge also open during that time. 'Television hours will be announced at the next meeting.
Officers for the year will be: Dick Cullen, Grand Knight; Bob Savage, Deputy Grand Knight; Bill Soos, Financial Secretary; Lou Ripp, Treasurer; Bill Johnson, Advocate; Ollie Celusta, Chancellor; Tom Carroll, Records; Bob Lally, Warden; Paul Rupp, Guard; Gene O’Connel, Guard; and the Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., Chaplain.
The Scholastic
22
Wightman Art Gallery Gets Mosier Painting
“Forging the Cross,” a large painting by the noted artist Henry Mosier, has been presented to the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery at the University of Notre Dame by Mrs. J. Fuller Feder, of New York City, daughter of Mr. Mosier.
The painting, valued at $5,000, is the second Mosier work to be presented to the Notre Dame gallery. Mr. Peter C. Reilly, President of the Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation in Indianapolis, , Ind., in 1944 presented the gallery with a later painting of Mr. Mosier entitled “Woman in a Cabbage Patch.” Mr. Reilly is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame.
Mr. Mosier, who died in 1920, formerly sei-ved as art correspondent for Harpers with the Anny of the West in 1862-63. His “Le Retour” was the first American painting ever purchased by the Luxembourg Gallery.
In addition to his representation in Luxembourg, the Sydney, Australia, Mu-t seum owns his “Wedding Morning,” and the Corcoran Gallery, Washington, D. C., . is in possession of his “Saying Grace,” which was painted in 1897.
Rabbi Shulman Gives Booles
Over 250 books now in the University Library form a donation from Rabbi Albert M. Shulman of South Bend’s Bethel congregation.
Taken from the Rabbi’s own personal library, they consist primarily of reference books covering such subjects as the history and psychology of racial prejudice, anthropological studies, general history, and volumes written in Hebrew.
These books should be in a library such as Notre Dame’s, Rabbi Shulman stated, if they are to be available for serious study.
A former Naval chaplain, the Rabbi took an active part in Notre Dame’s fund-raising campaign in South Bend.
Law Finalists to Compete In Moot Court Competition
George Pletcher and Harold Van Tassel, winners of the Moot Court Competition last Spring, will represent the College of Law in the National Moot Court Competition to be held in November and December.
The competition will be held on a regional basis with Law schools from Indiana, Wisconsin and Illinois competing in Chicago. Winners from the various regions will compete in the finals in New York on November 30.
The Notre Dame Moot Competition inaugurated last year will be continued this year as an autonomous activity of the Law Student body. It is open to all
WELCOME
Men of Notre Dame
We know you fellows enjoy good food at reasonable prices and we will enjoy seeing you and serving you again.
ANNOUNCEMENT
All Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors who have not yet picked up their copies of the DOME are requested to do so as soon as possible. They may be gotten in the Publications Office in the northeast basement corner of Farley Hall any time between 1 and 5.
students enrolled in the College of Law with Dean Clarence E. Manion donating cash awards to the finalists.
Dean Manion and Professor Robert E. Sullivan of the Law faculty will represent Notre Dame at the annual Convention of the American Bar Association, which ends today. Highlight of the convention was the annual luncheon of the Notre Dame Law Association held Wednesday in the Carlton Hotel. Notre Dame Lawyers from all over the nation attended the affair. Mr. William Jones, ll.b., ’30, served as chairman and toastmaster.
Professor- Sullivan devoted the summermonths to research in the problems of oil and gas law in preparation for a course to be offered in the Law school in the Spring semester. Mr. Sullivan’s activities covered the states of Oklahoma, Texas and Kansas and covered every phase of the petroleum industry.
Our Specialty
1/2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes
Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.05
“Every Bite a Tender Delight”
FREE DELIVERY
PHONE 6-7346
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE, OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED —SAVE MORE THAN HALF This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture WILLIAMS PAINT CO.
755 So. Michigan
One Block North of Gilbert’s
JOE NABICHTS RESTAURANT
“Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main Street Varied Menu ' Open Sundays
Sept. 22, 1950
23
Chest X-Ray Opener Scheduled for Oct. 9
Under the auspices of the St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League all those associated with Notre Dame will be afforded the opportunity of having chest X-Rays during the period from Oct. 9 to 12. The X-Ray survey will be conducted, as it was last year, in tne basement of the Dining Hall.
Aiming at as wide a coverage of the campus as possible, the League states that pictures can be taken at the rate of 100 per hour. Each subject is sent a confidential report of his diagnosis. There is a charge of fifteen cents for reading of each film by an X-Ray specialist.
The survey will begin Oct. 9 with Alumni, Badin and Breen-Phillips residents being covered during the hours of 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Dillonites are to be handled from 5 p.m. until 7:30 p.m.
The time schedule for the remaining days follows that given above. Farley, Howard and Lyons are slated for the first group Oct. 10 and St. Edward’s and Cavanagh will compose the second. Denizens of Sorin, Walsh and Zahm Halls are to report during the first period on October 11. Vetville residents
and men from Morrissey are scheduled for the second.
On the survey’s last day, Oct. 12, the time from 11:30 to 3:30 will be devoted to Moreau Seminary, Holy Cross Seminary,- Sacred Heart Novitiate and Du-jarie Seminary. Religious and lay faculty, day students, employees and other residents of the campus may report at any of the previously listed dates.
As a safeguard to the health of the community, the League advocates that everyone should have a physical examination consisting of an inspection by a physician, and a chest X-ray once a year. Slogan of the League’s campaign is "Check your chest — TB will not go away by ignoring it.”
The schedule will be reprinted in the Scholastic for Oct. 6.
Campus Daily
(Continued from Page 16) touch to his toilet, he smooths his mane with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. His head stays dapper and sleek throughout the giddiest of whirls.”
In spite of the revenue brought in by adevrtisements however, the Daily was forced to issue periodical pleas for more subscriptions to help pay the cost of publication.
On June 15, the final day of the school
year, the paper declared optimistically that, “with this issue the Daily com-pletes its first volume, and looks forward to serving the students again next fall.” -
But the Daily never appeared again. Father Walsh had asked his Board of Publications about the advisability of continuing the paper. In a report dated August 1, 1924, the board condemned it on several counts.
No one would assume the editorial responsibility for more than a few weeks, the circulation department had been negligent in its distribution of the paper, it had to be a bulletin for the day students, and finally, it was horribly in debt, a debt that the University was ultimately forced to. assume.
Geology Club Meets
The Notre Dame Geology Club opened this year’s schedule with a business meeting Wednesday evening in the Main Building. Program Director Dave Smith previewed the coming activities which will include a dinner meeting and several prominent speakers.
Jim Hillebrand and Dave Grundy highlighted the meeting with a talk and color slides on their activities at the University of Kentucky geology field course this past Summer.
DOME Deadline
If you haven’t already picked up your 1950 DOME at Farley Hall’s publications office, come
*
in between 1 and 5 p. m. next
week or forever hold your
peace.
The Editors
24
The Scholastic

Frosh Test Varsity Tomorrow in Stadium
Summer Successes of Notre Dome Athletes Overshadow Klinemen's Dismal Season
By JACK ECONOMOU ’52
Although names like Malik and MacArthur attracted the chief attention of the vacation months occasional articles in the nation’s newspapers told the reoccurring story of successes by Notre Dame athletes.
The brilliance of these fine showings helped to cancel the miserable demonstrations of the 1950 baseball squad which completed its season with a dismal record of eight victories and 14 defeats. One of these setbacks included a 21-0 shellacking at the hands of Illinois, the worst beating an Irish diamond squad has ever suffered.
Ace trackman Bill Fleming sounded the call to victory for the Irish as he copped first place in the 200 meter low hurdles with a time of 23.1 seconds. In the same National A.A.U. meet held at the University of Maryland on June 24, he placed third in the high hurdles. The victor, who beat Fleming by a scant three feet, was Dick Attlesby, the USC star, who established a world’s record of 13.6 seconds in his winning effort.
At the N.C.A.A. games in Milwaukee, Bill placed in both the 220 low hurdles
and the 120 high hurdles. On his performances alone, Notre Dame garnered sixth place in the team standings of both meets. Bill also copped the 220 low hurdles in a mid-summer’s visit to London. At present he and Jim Miller, pole vaulter on last year’s squad, are assistant coaches here at the University. Fleming, nevertheless, plans to train for February competition at the Pan American games in South America.
A threat to the smug security of the present day top amateur golfers was sounded by linksman Tom Veech as he • stroked his way to the quarter-finals of the Minneapolis Amateur Tournament. The eventual winner was St. Bonaventure grad Sam Urzetta, of Rochester, N. Y., who upset Frank Stranahan of Toledo. On the local front, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the Irish golfers, was voted president of the National Golf Coaches Association.
In professional baseball ranks, lefty Dick Smullen, Notre Dame, ’49, limited the Boston Braves to three hits during
(Continued on Page 29)
Irish Set to Improve Last Week’s Showing
By JACK VARLEY ’52
Notre Dame’s defending National Football Champions will go on view to the student body for the first time this Fall as they participate in an intrasquad scrimmage tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 in the Stadium. The newly-organized frosh will attempt to do what no college eleven has been able to do in the last 38 games — subdue a gridiron varsity coached by Frank Leahy.
Chances are that the Varsity won’t he stopped tomorrow, but if last Saturday’s scrummage is any example of the play of Leahy’s lads, they will be slowed down more than they are accustomed.
As a matter of fact, last Saturday the frosh bogged the Varsity down until well into the second quarter when Halfback Bill Gay broke away for a 30-yard gain and set up a TD which he made on the next play. Quarterback Bob Williams attempted the conversion, but failed.
On the following kickoff, Fullback Jack Landry scooped up the ball and trudged 90 yards for the score for the (Continued on Page 29)	-
FRED WALLNER blocks for John Petitbon on 50-yard punt return.
WHITE-SHIRTED Varsity converge on hapless frosh ball carrier.
Sept. 22, 1950
25
Wilson, Ex-lrish Runner Succeeding Handy, Faces Stiff Job Before Approaching Season
Wilson is the father of four children— Patricia 12, William 11, and twins Robert and Richard 10.
By JIM BRISLIN ’52
Alex Wilson, likable Canadian who this season takes over the track-coaching post vacated by “Doc” Handy, has his work cut out for him.
Although the cross-country picture looks bright, the loss of ace hurdler Bill Fleming, shot-putter John Helwig, polevaulter Jim Miller, and Captain-dashman Bob Smith makes for quite a rebuilding job before this indoor season gets under way. Howevei* the new track mentor is determined to give his best to his alma mater, and his best has always been good.
Wilson, born December 1, 1907, at Montreal, was a relative unknown, running distances of five and ten miles for the Harriers, a small local club, when discovered by Notre Dame track coach John Nicholson in 1926. Nicholson was coaching the Montreal A. C. that summer. “Nick” immediately recognized the Canadian as a potential middle-distance star, and shortly thereafter Alex was studying at Notre Dame.
Under Nicholson’s shrewd handling Wilson became one of the finest trackmen ever seen at the University. While here he was undefeated in both the quarter and half-mile events and set a national indoor record of 49.3 for the 440 in 1932. He was once clocked at
COACH WILSON discusses training plans with runners Vai Muscato and Jim Kittell.
46.9 seconds for the quarter and won the national AAU 600 once and the Millrose 600 twice.
He appeared twice in the Olympics. In 1928 he ran on the 600 meter relay team which finished third at Amsterdam. In 1932 he competed in the individual 400 and 800 meter races in the Olympics at Los Angeles but ran against men who broke two world records. He finished second to Tom Hampson of Great Britain who set an 800 mark of 1:49.8, and third to Bill Carr of the U.'S. who did the 400 in 46.2, also a record.
After graduation from Notre Dame in 1932, he was named cross-country, track, and swimming coach at Loyola University of Chicago. He spent 18 years at the Windy City school before returning to his alma mater, and was named athletic director* at Loyola on April 19, 1945.
During his stay in Chicago he turned out some fine track teams and many individual performers profited from his expert tutelage. While at Loyola he also founded the Illinois State Catholic High School relays which are now held annually in Loyola Stadium. During the summer he runs Camp Chippewa at Mercer, Wisconsin.
A family man topped only by Frank Leahy on the Notre Dame coaching staff,
Veterans to Bolster Cross Country Squad
By TED PRAHINSKI ’51
•With every member of last year’s cross country team back and five newcomers pushing them for places Notre Dame should have its strongest and best balanced team in recent history this year.
The roster of the seven man squad which will face Purdue in the season’s opener here on the campus Oct. 7 will be determined Friday, a week from today, when the annual University championship cross country run is held. This race will start in front of the Grotto and continue around the school lakes.
On past performances Ben Almaguer and Jim Kittell look like the favorites in the University championship run, but George Helfenstein, a Sophomore, appears to be in the best shape of any of the competitors at the present ime. Almaguer won the run last year as a Sophomore and tied for first place in his Freshman year of 1948. During the 1949 season’s varsity meets, Kittell shared first places regularly with Almaguer, and has had a reputation as ND’s most consistent cross country man over the past few years. The Sophomore newcomer, Helfenstein, stayed in shape over the summer by running in AAU sponsored club meets, and right now is in such fine shape that Coach Alex Wilson has been instructing him to take it easy in practice lest he go stale before the end of the season.
John O’Connor is another second year man who, already is in fine shape and it looks as though it will be hard to keep him off the squad. Harry Snyder, a third soph, looks ready to go to town this year.
Lou Lepry and Tony DaDamio were regulars in 1948, but injuries and other mishaps kept them from breaking into the lineup permanently last year. Now, as Seniors, they have no intentions of letting any underclassman keep them from the positions that circumstances denied them last year.
The four other returning regulars from last year, Con Tetrault, Bob Fieler, George Gross, and John Mohar are rounding into shape as fast as can be expected, and from all indications will be as good as or better than last year.
As if these were not enough, Vai Muscato, the leading half miler on the outdoor track squad last spring, has turned
26
The Scholastic
’ his attention to the hill and dale sport • and looks surprisingly good.
, The new coach, Alex Wilson, has already won the respect of the runners.
. Wilson’s a small man with the knack of । making friends instantly. He has just : enough confidence—some would call it : cockiness—in himself and his men to ' transmit a winning attitude to the run-
ners. He has been working the boys ; hard, and they have been really putting , out for him.
j The season’s schedule looks rougher than last year when the team took one dual and two triangular meets, dropping . two dual contests, and took second in the Central Collegiate Conference and the Indiana State Championship Meets.
j Both Wisconsin and Iowa, who inflicted I	last	years’ dual meet	losses,	are	back,
<	plus	three other dual	meet opponents.
J	The	schedule:
;	Oct.	7 Purdue at Notre Dame
14 Marquette at Notre Dame
'	21 Wisconsin at Wisconsin
1	28 Iowa at Notre Dame
j Nov. 3 Indiana State Meet at Butler
•	11 Pittsburgh at Notre Dame
'	18 Central Collegiate Conference at Ypsilanti
27 National Collegiates at East Lansing
}
Cage Slate Features
; Big Ten Opponents
; Notre Dame’s 1950-51basketball sched-« ule lists 24 opponents with Big Ten op-| ponents figuring predominately in the * first eight games. Wisconsin, Northwest-j ern, Iowa, Indiana, Purdue and North: western are met in quick succession ' after warm-up games with Franklin ; College and Anderson College. Immedi-
ately after the Big Ten spin, the Irish
1 hoopsters travel to St. Louis to take on the always tough Billikens of St. Louis
< University.
J Later in the season Coach Krause’s j charges swing East for games "with CaI nisius, arch-rival New York University, j and the University of Pennsylvania.
i	The complete schedule:
। Dec. 6 Franklin College at Notre Dame
1	9 Anderson College at Notre Dame
I	11 Wisconsin University at Notre Dame
j 16 Northwestern University at Chicago Sta-i	dium
, '	18 Iowa University at Iowa City, Iowa
■	22 Indiana University at Indianapolis
I 23 Purdue University at Indianapolis
|	30 Northwestern University at Evanston, Ill.
I Jan. 3 St. Louis U. at St. Louis, Mo.
|	5 Butler at Notre Dame
9 Loyola University at Notre Dame
13	St. Xavier U. at Cincinnati, O.
15	Kentucky U. at Lexington, Ky.
25	Michigan State College at Lansing, Mich.
30	Butler University at Indianapolis
Feb. 3 Marquette University at Notre Dame
10	DePaul U. at Chicago Stadium
13	St. Louis U. at Notre Dame
16	DePaul U. at Notre Dame
19 Michigan State College at Notre Dame
:	24 Canisius College at Buffalo, New York
26 New York U. at Madison Square Garden
I 27 U. of Pennsylvania at Philadelphia / Mar. 3 Marquette U. at Milwaukee, Wis.
। Sept. 22, 1950
,1
I ?
The $64 Question
the outstanding player on the field that
Despite repeated warnings from Coach Frank Leahy and sports publicity chief
Charlie Callahan, the nation’s panel of football experts have gone ahead and installed Notre Dame as the pre-season
favorite for national honors.
Early last summer, the general feeling of those close to the Notre Dame scene was that a few sportwriters and sportcasters would choose the Irish to duplicate their prize performances of the past four seasons. But to have the entire sporting fraternity, with a couple of exceptions, tag Notre Dame is almost too much for Charlie to bear. Ask him what he thinks of it and he doesn’t say a word—just shakes his head sadly.
How can the Irish be chosen again? They’re far below their standard of the past four years. Has the calibre of college football fallen off so appreciably that the team Notre Dame will field one week from tomorrow can unquestionably be called the finest of the nation’s 400-odd colleges? They are a good team, make no mistake about that. But it seems rather foolhardy for the so-called “experts” to put themselves out on such a long limb.
Perhaps they don’t realize the Irish -have lost heavily at end and tackle. And even though they still have Bob Williams and a flock of speedy ballcarriers, fellows like Sitko, Spaniel, Coutre and Zalejski are sure to be missed. This team could do it, though, but the odds are heavily against it. The answer to just how good they are should be known in whole or in part one week from tomorrow.
Like the Canadian Mounties . . .
One of the handier football hand
books on the market is the official NCAA football guide. It lists just about every individual and team performance for ’49 that you can think of. Looking over the long runs, long pass plays, etc., executed against the Irish last year, a surprising number carried asterisks, signifying that the play “did not score,” thanks to the work at safety by John Petitbon.	‘
“Petty” was money in the bank for the Irish last year. Perhaps his most outstanding performance was against Iowa here in Notre Dame 'Stadium. Eddie Anderson, ex-coach of the Hawkeyes and now at Holy Cross, said that
day was Petitbon. John caught speedy halfback Jerry Faske from behind three
or four times after the Hawkeye had broken into the clear and was on his way to a t.d.
Now that the crop of capable ball carriers has been leveled off by graduation, Petitbon will undoubtedly be used on offense, too, this year.
Time Out
The football season hasn’t even started but already two of Notre Dame’s opponents have suffered losses. Purdue lost their left-footed kicking and prospective starting halfback, Bill Skowron, to the New York baseball Yankees. Bob Cook, Indiana U’s Charlie Callahan, was recently recalled to active duty with the U. S. Air Force. . . . Lansing, Michigan, home of Michigan State, will sport a festive ensemble for football weekends this fall. Over 500 large Michigan State pennants will line the streets of the business district when the Spartans are playing at home. Downtown businessmen put up the necessary cash and the city government accepted the responsibility of erecting and caring for the ten-foot tall poles and pennants. Several similar pennants reportedly found their way back to South Bend after the ND-Michigan State game of last fall. . . . Successor to Johnny Lu jack, Doak Walker and Charlie Justice as the number one cover boy of football is our own Bob Williams. We don’t know if Bob -set any kind of record with his appearances on sporting and non-sporting pub- . lications this year, but he sure was on a lot of ’em.
The Early Bird ...
Oklahoma and Notre Dame don’t meet on the football field until the 1952 season but the 'Sooners are already getting prepared for the series’ inaugural game and the games to follow. Circulating among Oklahoma’s high schools last spring was a 54-page booklet which started off telling prospective O. U. enrollees when and where they would be able to play against the “nationally famous Notre Dame team.” According to reports emanating from that section of the country, Sooner rooters are counting the days until the Irish show up at Owen Field in Norman on Sept. 26, 1953.	‘
Injury-Ridden Irish Glad Opener Next Week; Coach Leahy Away Scouting North Carolina
It is always nice to look for the silver •lining. The silver lining in the dark cloud that could be construed as the 1950 Notre Dame football outlook is that the first game with North Carolina, here (Sept. 30), is still slightly more than a week away. And while that may be just around the corner, the Irish coaching staff, headed by Frank Leahy, and the players, led by Capt. Jerry Groom, are happy for even such a brief respite.
The reason the Irish are glad the opener is a week off is that five first string squad members are sidelined with injuries, and there has been a definite lack of offense, both in the air and on the ground, in every scrimmage to date against the reserves and the freshmen.
Coach Leahy in early interviews stated that despite the loss of star running backs Emil Sitko, Larry Coutre, Frank Spaniel and Ernie Zalejski, the current crop of Irish ball-toters, including Bill Gay, Billy Barrett, Jack Landry and John Petitbon were capable of doing a pretty good job, provided they had the opportunities. In explaining what he meant by opportunities he said: “These lads will not be operating behind the type of linemen we’ve had in the past four years. We can field one fairly good line, but if injuries set in, we’re finished.” The Irish mentor probably didn’t realize how good a prophet he was going to be. During the first week of workouts, Bob Toneff, junior right tackle, and Paul Burns, junior left guard, were put on the shelf with injuries, and have not yet returned. Toneff suffered a wrenched knee and Burns a severe elbow sprain. It is hoped by squad members and coaches alike that with their return some semblance of an offensive attack will also return.
To make the picture even more gloomy, Bill Flynn, left tackle, Chet Ostrowski, left end, and Right Halfback Barrett joined Burns and Toneff on the sidelines as members of the injured brigade. Flynn suffered a bruised hip, Ostrowski a strained neck muscle, and . Barrett a severely sprained ankle.
Thus, if there is a silver lining in the present Notre Dame outlook, it is in the fact that the season is not opening this weekend. Also, Trainer Hugh Burns believes that most of the injured boys will be ready for the North Carolina opener. However, the fact that none of them will be able to participate in any heavy preparation work is not a bright prospect.
Magazine previews to the contrary, it is not a surprise to those close to the
28
Notre Dame scene that troubles, nonexistent over the past four years, have arisen this season. Ten of the first eleven of last year’s National Champions left via graduation as did 17 of the top 22 men. Altogether 19 monogram winners are among the missing. This combined with the fact that the average age of the current team is only 19 warned the coaching staff of problems to come.
Tomorrow, the annual Frosh-Varsity game will be held. Among the missing will be Coach Leahy. He and one assistant are scouting North Carolina in the Tar Heels’ opener with North Carolina State.
From the statistical standpoint, when this year’s Irish team faces the kickoff a week from tomorrow, they will be seeking to extend the Notre Dame undefeated streak of 38 games. They will also be after their 11th straight triumph. But Notre Dame fingers are crossed.
Grid Squad Competing With Ancient Order of Hibernians
The justification of the term “Fighting Irish,” when applied to Notre Dame football teams is evident on the basis of the number of Gaelic or part-Gaelic lads on the 1950 squad.
Out of 85 men reporting back for practice, 43 are either all Irish, or have one parent of that nationality. The Irishmen include two Flynns, two Murphys and two Whelans.
Possibly the most Irish monicker belongs to William James Patrick Flynn, elder of the Flynn brothers. Bill, a senior and first string tackle, was bedecked in an ancient Irish costume at the opening picture-day ceremonies and he led the squad through various antics for the benefit of the newsreels. Flynn, incidentally, is the only squad member seeking his fourth monogram. He played as a frosh in 1945, was in the Marines for the next two years, returning to play again in 1948 and 1949. Having played in 1945, he is thus the only member of the current squad to have participated in a losing Notre Dame game.
In addition to Flynn, five other members of the potential first eleven, including the starting backfield, are of Irish descent. They are: Capt. Jerry Groom, center; Bob Williams, quarterback; Bill Gay, left half; Bill Barrett, right half, and Jack Landry, fullback.
Coach Kline Calls Fifty
For Fall Baseball Practice
Notre Dame’s first baseball practice in the history of the University is currently in progress and will continue as long as the weather permits.
About 50 men were called out by baseball coach Jake Kline to take part in this practice. The group is made up of last year’s Freshmen team and the returnees from both the varsity and “B” squads.
Coach Kline outlined his plans and his reasons for fall practice at a meeting held last Monday in the Engineering auditorium.
“This practice,” says Coach Kline, “will give me a pretty good idea of next season’s starting line up. The boys have been playing ball all summer and should show their best.
“A good spring practice,” continued the coach, “is practically an impossibility here. This fall one should be a great help to me.”
Those called will participate in a series of inter-squad games until it gets too cold for baseball.—Bill Delaney, ’52
Schedule Sellout Looms; First Time in History
Despite the announcement of its policy to televise all home football games, the University of Notre Dame finds itself faced with the possibility of the first complete schedule sellout in its his- i , tory.
With the exception of a handful of tickets available for the North Carolina and Pittsburgh home games and the Navy encounter at Cleveland, there are no pasteboards to be had for the nine game ND season. The heaviest demand was for tickets to the Michigan State contest, the entire supply being exhausted during Student-Alumni sale.
The Du Mont Television Network will carry all home games plus the Navy tilt at Cleveland. A special feature of the Du Mont show will be a fifteen minute program before each game depicting life on the Notre Dame campus.
Not forsaking the age old medium of radio, the Irish will have at least two of their games broadcast nationally; also, as usual, Joe Boland will relate the action of the four home engagements to a Midwest audience over a seventeen station hook-up extending from Buffalo to Minneapolis.
The Scholastic
Jack Mayo, Former Irish Diamond Star, Aids Phils in Stretch Drive for Flag
.	By JOE STRAUB ’52
Any day now, the Fighting Phils . from Quakertown will clinch their first National League pennant in 35 years and, to some measure at least, Notre Dame will share in their glory.
Jack Mayo, ’47, a former Fighting Irishman, is one of the latest Whiz Kids to join in quest of the prized gonfalon which has eluded them since 1915.
. Last Labor Day was a bad one for the Phils. In addition to being shut out twice by the Giants, they lost the services of their prize left fielder, Dick Sis-ler. Two nights later, his substitute, the aged Bill Nicholson, collapsed under an attack of diabetes. The front office was then obliged to recall Mayo, a bonus player, from Toronto of the AAA International League, where he hit .307 that year.
Displaying understandable nervousness in his debut, Mayo went 0 for 3. His fielding was sharp, though, and Ed Sawyer liked what he saw when Jack backed up the infielders on throws. His first hit came the next day off Erv Palica of Brooklyn.
It came with two out and prolonged a rally which eventually beat the defending, but staggering, champs. Incidentally, this blow, a smash over second base, caused Jackie Robinson to dislocate his thumb as he fell on it after knocking the ball down.
IjP his fourth game he garnered one of the five hits off Johnny Sain as the Phils lost, 3-2. In the sixth inning, a cloudburst which stopped the game cancelled his first home run, which would also have tied the contest.
Nevertheless, hitting is not Mayo’s main forte. His dazzling speed and sharpness in the field, which includes a good arm, make him the “Rickey-type ball player” and should insure him a big time berth for some time to come. He made a catch on a drive off Hermanski’s ’ bat that saved a game and still have the
Shibe Park patrons buzzing.
So far there have been no complaints about his hitting either, except from the opposition. His average, though inconclusive at this early date, is .312 and each hit has come in a scoring inning. As Connie Desmond, Dodger announcer, and fminer Notre Dame man himself, said, “This kid is going to make some Fighting Phil fight for a job next Spring.”
5 The only sad note is that Mayo cannot
Sept. 22, 1950
participate in the Series. League rales forbid the use of any player acquired after September 1.
Wilson Announces Practice For Frosh Track Hopefuls
Track Coach Alex Wilson is inviting prospective Freshman cross country runners to meet him in the Fieldhouse Monday afternoon at a time to be announced on the hall bulletin boards. Prospective half milers and milers are also invited to partake in the fall workouts, but Coach Wilson intends to let any field event men or sprinters to rest another week or so before giving them a call.
In past years the climax of the freshman cross country season has been a Freshman championship race in which medals were awarded to the first seven place winners. The Big Ten rales, to which Notre Dame generally subscribes, forbid intercollegiate competition for freshmen, but last year the Notre Dame frosh harrier squad was able to compete in and take second place in a club meet in Chicago. Freshman “54” numeral •sweaters will also be awarded to qualified members of the Freshman track and cross country squads at the end of the school year.
In announcing the call Coach Wilson stated, “I have no intention of cutting anyone from the team, since there is always plenty of room around the lakes for anyone who wants to run.”
Scrimmage
(Continued from Page 25) best display of the afternoon. Again Williams missed the extra point.
The Varsity again bogged down. Williams’ passing was off and the Frosh line outcharged the Upperclassmen.
Then shortly after the second half began, Halfback John Petitbon returned a punt 50 yards to the one-foot line from which Halfback Jerry Marchand plunged over. Fullback Joe Caprara attempted the extra point, but he too failed.
A few minutes later Williams got off a 25-yard pass to John Petitbon who scored the fourth Varsity marker. The last scoring of the day came through the combined efforts of Cotter, Paolone and Petitbon with Petitbon scoring from the one-foot line. Caprara booted his second conversion of the afternoon and the Varsity had amassed a 32-0 score when the scrimmage ended.
But, the score doesn’t quite tell the whole story of the happenings on Cartier Field last Saturday. The Varsity was goven the ball most of the afternoon to test their offense. And, the First-Year men had been playing together for only a couple of weeks. Yet, on some occasions they fought deep into their opponents’ territory using plays borrowed from Coach Carl Snavely’s North Carolina play book.
On the other hand, there were almost as many Varsity players on the bench with injuries as there were playing on the field. Speedy Halfback Bill Barrett left in the opening minutes. Later Guard John Seaman, Tackles Bill’Flynn and Jim Mahoney, and linebacker Dave Flood joined the injured circle. Potential All-American Tackle Bob Toneff and Guard Paul Burns didn’t even dress for the fray because of injuries.
Before the injury jinx of the afternoon set in, the lineup looked like this on offense: Ends Jim Mutscheller and Chet Ostrowski, tackles Tom Murphy and Bill Flynn, guards Tom Seaman and Fred Wallner, and center Jerry Groom. In the backfield Bob Williams was at quarterback, Bill Barrett and Bill Gay at the halves with Jack Landry at full.
The defense found Seaman, Groom, Wallner and Mutscheller in their offensive slots with John Helwig coming in to hold down the other wing post and Jim Mahoney and Jim Dunlay assuming the tackle positions. In the backfield were Dick Cotter, John Petitbon, John Bush and Dave Flood.
Athletes
(Continued from Page 25) the first seven innings before dropping a 5-3 decision. Pitching for the Wilmington Blue Rocks of the Intra-State League, Smullen, who rejected a $40,000 bonus to sign with the Phillies, was removed in the eighth inning after three hits and two errors gave the Beantown-ers three runs.	,
Alumni of the undefeated Irish foot-•ball squad of 1949 held a reunion on the turf of Soldier’s Field as the College All-Stars met the Philadelphia Eagles, the pride of pro football. Bill Wightkin, Jim Martin, Leon Hart, Larry Coutre— all participated in the 17-7 victory over the professionals. Emil Sitko, unable to play because of a wrenched knee, lent moral support from the sidelines.
While Malik and MacArthur didn’t greatly affect these fellows, the Korean crisis called two stellar Irish athletes into the services. Both Vic Roblez, two time Bengal Bout champion, and Matt Tuite, a mainstay of the tennis squad were called into active service with the United States Navy.	.
29
By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
New Dance Music
It won’t be long now before we’ll be hearing some good popular music again. Believe it or not, the new Fall season promises to give us some really good songs, says Variety, the bible of popular music and show business, and after a painful deluge of Third Men, Mona Lisas, and- Pricillas, the change will be greatly welcome.
The. newspaper went so far as to say that the new season will be the best since 1940-1. It will take a great deal of good music to compare with songs like Begin the Beguine, Over. the Rainbow, Green Eyes, and Til Never Smile Again. However, with the bebop craze extinct and the dixieland fad rapidly declining, perhaps songwriters will take the open musical road and produce some worthwhile tunes.
Another change due in the new season is the predominance of dance orchestras over the recently reigning singers. After a long period, in which singers set the musical pace, the organization of such promising new groups as Ralph Flanagan and Ray Anthony gives hope for a return of good dance music. Old reliable dance bands are becoming increasingly popular. Jerry Grey, Frank De Vol, and Frankie Carle are busy trying to hasten the public’s return to dance bands.
Pre-Meds Take Note
Leaving scalpels and sutures behind, that Big Guy of music, Stan Kenton,- is back again. This time he has not one, but two orchestras. Stan considers this the best solution to his problems of pleasing all kinds of popular music fans.
He claims he made a big mistake in playing progressive jazz in ballrooms and theatres, and he found it difficult to find the right theatres in which to present his specialty. Now he has de-* cided that although he could never give up jazz, he will do one-night stands with a smaller outfit and play dance music exclusively.
June Christy, now on her own as a recording artist, will be replaced by baritone Jay Johnstone, who got his start with Bobby Sherwood. As for his jazz program, he plans to tour with his outfit and do “innovations” which will completely outlaw dancing.
New Road to Stardom
A young, attractive Indian girl is currently astounding the world’s great
30
singers and vocal coaches. She has a phenomenal range of foui* octaves and apparently can reach the amazing high notes with no effort. Everyone who has heard Yma Sumac of Peru is amazed at her exciting voice.
She was discovered by a former member of Walt Disney’s studios at a native sun festival where she was worshipped as a goddess by the Indians. Since then she has signed contracts with a major film studio, and with Capitol records. An album, called Voice of Xtabay will soon be released and will be one of the most interesting musical recordings of the fall season.
Road to Rome
(Continued from Page 21)
a bus ride to the station for a 9:15 train. A little after six at night the train pulled into Carcassonne, France, a one night stand.
July 3—Monday
This day and the following were spent . thoroughly viewing the Grotto, Basilica and surrounding religious shrines of Lourdes. Approximately 200 miracles occur here every year at the shrine. The water where so many of the miracles take place is not changed after each bath, no matter what disease it may touch, but not one case of contagion has ever been recorded in this spring water.
July 5—Wednesday
This leg of the journey proved to be the worst, the trip to Madrid. Riding second class was unthinkable; but everyone rode second class. At the Spanish border connections with the scheduled Madrid train didn’t click off, so the group ended up first class anyway, arriving the next morning.
July 6—Thursday
Madrid was in the midst of the hot season and the women made continual use of their fans wherever they went. One party went to the bull ring to see what attracts the eyes of all Spain but
An Opportunity
We are looking for several Notre Dame men to represent us at school. Must be on-campus residents. Apply by letter stating qualifications and time available.
they did not have time to stay for the fights that weekend.
July 7, Friday
A visit to the Royal Palace, beautiful beyond words, and a few quick stops at some of the churches took up the time until the train left for Lisbon.
July 8—Saturday
Here the group was held over because they missed connections again. The weather, as in Madrid, was very hot. The day dragged on until the Lisbon train finally left in the evening. Ten minutes later the border was crossed and the change was startling. In Portugal, as if another world, everything was clean.
July 9—Sunday
Twelve hours and 250 miles later the train pulled into Lisbon. Immediately the side trip to Fatima began. Eleven more hours. But the trip was worth it, though the stop at Fatima was only one hour. The basilica is not as beautiful as many of the others on the trip, but its simplicity was compelling. Back to the hotel and final preparations for the “long voyage home.”
July 10—Monday
The morning was spent in readying everything for the flight west. Takeoff was 7:55 p. m. for the trip to the Azores. Off again at midnight for Gander. More song fests until the tired troupe called it a day.
The big four-motored ship set down at Newfoundland at 10 in the morning. The last leg of the journey began at 7:30 p. m. after an abortive flight due to carburetor trouble. Final touchdown at Idlewild was midnight, one month from the day of departure.
The 1950 Holy Year pilgrimage was over, though many had recorded it on movie and candid film, filling scrapbooks with pictures, cards, stubs and menues from every conceivable place on the trip. Tired but happy, they left the airport. The road to Rome had been traveled.

MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
31
The Scholastic
t
The Catholic Renascence ?
Some twenty years ago a European Catholic wrote: “A religious process of incalculable importance has begun—the Church is coming to life in the souls of men.”
In the year 1950 a leading American Catholic magazine ran an article entitled, “The Catholic Revival” written by a young American Catholic woman.
Both of these writers are deeply convinced that the Church is at the start of a great comeback. These two are not alone in their conviction, for there are many today who believe that within the Church there is going on a great process of revivification. Some go so far as to call it a Catholic Renascence.
Certainly there is a great amount of evidence today, to the effect that much has happened within the pale of Catholic thought and action in the last forty years to throw it into sharp contrast with the rest of post-Reformation Catholicism. Of course not very much of this activity has gone on in America, so that the average layman would most likely not be aware of it. The center of it all has been in Europe and more particularly in France.
There we find the names of Maritain, Bloy, Peguy, and Cardinal Suhard. In France we find the birthplace and stronghold of Thomism, the Church’s answer to the bankrupt philosophies of the West. At the Dominican Center of Theology many young Catholics of the West are studying the ideas of St. Thomas. But France is not the only contributor.
In England there is Christopher Dawson and there was G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc. There is also Fathei-D’Arcy and the scholarly monks of Downside and Ampleforth. Furthermore, England fosters two of the most outstanding Catholic periodicals: The Dublin Review and The Tablet,
In literature, European Catholic Culture can boast of Bernanos, Mauriac, Si-lone, Claudel, Green, -Waugh and Und-set. These authors have given a Christian meaning to the experiences and aspirations of mankind in our times.
In the field of social action there has been Cardinal Suhard in France and Bishop Von Ketteler in Germany. Today we find such institutions as the Fribourg International Institute of Social and Political Science and the International Christian Social Union, organizations for the study and propagation of social action and reform.
Throughout the world we find the Church supporting the Trade Union
■3 Movement and taking a live interest in
the family with her establishment of the Christian Family Movement and the program of the Cana Conferences. To combat the Communist idea of world brotherhood the Church has brought the dynamic idea of the Mystical Body of Christ.
Great Christian minds have re-evaluated the past and have provided a foundation on which to plan for the future. Anachronistic ideas may have been done away with and new ones have taken their place. Such radical but truly modern innovations as the priest-workman and the grouping of parishes around industrial units are bringing the life of the Church to the factory worker.
The necessity of giving the Church a meaning and place in the everyday lives of the people has led to a focussing of attention on the liturgy. Von Hildebrand and Guardini have defined the meaning and message it should bear to the modern man and small groups have taken up a vigorous study and practise of it. Here at Notre Dame we have a Liturgy Club.
Here also at Notre Dame we have a YCS. It is similar to the Jocist movement in France. It is a Catholic Action group whose general aim is the injection of Catholic Principles of thought and action into the lives of its members and into the society in which they live. The YCS works on a cell system, similar to that of the Communist party.
With all this and still much more going on, there are still those who are skeptical about the name “Catholic Renascence.” They feel that there has been too much talk and confusion, especially among the intellectuals, but too little action. Moreover, they claim, a really dynamic and vitally alive movement is never aware of itself, particularly as an historical entity which such titles as “Catholic Renascence” would seem to imply. Such a movement, if it exists, must have its motion and growth from within organically, and a true evaluation of it therefore, can only proceed when it has come to an end.
Whether there is a real renascence or not depends upon the convictions of the individual. Certainly there is a great transposition occurring in France today. But France is neither England, nor America, nor the World, and a Catholic Renascence ought to be universal. Yet there are many serious and especially young Catholics who believe that such a thing is going on, and they desperately want others to listen and believe with them.—Frank Brophy, ’51
Sept. 22, 1950
31
Forgotten Mon
(Continued from Page 17)
guest of Father Sorin. And in 1862 he was offered a teacher’s chair since he was well qualified to handle a variety of subjects. But Brownson turned the proposition down. The wages offered him probably weren’t too good; but, as Brownson wrote Father Sorin, the real reason he didn’t accept. was the hours, from six in the morning until ten at night.
But in 1865 Brownson did consent to write a series of articles for Father Sorin’s brand-new Ave Maria. The Quarterly Review was no longer published and Brownson was glad of the chance to keep his finger in the literary pie. The articles explained the philosophy behind devotion to the Blessed Mother and the Saints. For nearly six months Brownson turned out an article a week. And in 1866 he started a second series for the Ave Maria, this time approaching the moral and social sides of devotion to Mary.
When these articles were written there were about 400 students enrolled at Notre Dame. And every student respected the wisdom of Brownson. His articles were praised by many prominent American critics, Catholic and Protestant alike. But now, though the Ave Maria he helped to fame is still a familiar part of Notre Dame, Brownson is unread and unknown.
After his wife died, Father Sorin offered him a home at Notre Dame. Brownson was getting old and he said he wanted to spend his last days on Our Lady’s campus; but he decided to go first to Detroit and spend some time with his son. It was there he died.
Ten years later, June 17, 1886, his body was transferred to Notre Dame. He was re-buried with ceremony in the floor of the then-new basement chapel; and it was named the Brownson Memorial Chapel in his honor.
But you never hear it called the Brownson Memorial anymore. The grave is still there, of course, covered by a stone slab. And once in a while somebody will glance at the Latin inscription, but nobody looks for long.
The world has so forgotten Brownson that in New York in 1937 no one could remember who he was after some boys damaged a bronze memorial bust of him. The bust was erected as part of a monument in 1910; and only 27 years later the monument, like the man, was a mystery.
But as time passes the memory of Brownson gets buried still deeper and deeper. Even Brownson Hall, named
after him in 1890, has ceased to really exist. It was once the East wing of the Administration Building, a dormitory foi- undergrads; but now few students remember it or call it by name. Crowded classrooms and make-shift offices now occupy the East wing, Brownson Hall; and somehow they just don’t make you think of neat rows of beds and quiet study rooms.
So a Freshman has good reason to think he’s getting kidded when some one directs him to Brownson Hall. He just can’t believe there ever was such a place.
And in a few years people probably won’t believe there was an Orestes A. Brownson, either.
Washington Hall Movies
Saturday, Sept. 23 RED, HOT AND BLUE, 2:00, 6:30, 8:34 p.m.
Saturday, Sept. 30
IT’S A GREAT FEELING, 6:30, 8:35 p.m.
Saturday, Oct. 7 TOP O’ THE MORNING, 6:30, 8:50 p.m. .
Thursday, Oct. 12	.
CAPT. CAREY, U.S.A., 6:30, 8:33 p.m.
Saturday, Oct 14
CHICAGO DEADLINE, 6:30, 8:37 p.m.
Saturday, Oct. 21 GREAT LOVER, 6:30, 8:30 p.m.
Saturday, Oct 28
CAPTAIN CHINA, 6:30, 8:48 p.m.
Tuesday, Oct. 31 CINDERELLA, 6:30, 8:24 p.m.
South Bend Officials Discuss Game Traffic
In preparation for the start of the Notre Dame home football season, officials of South Bend and St. Joseph County met during the week to plan a program for the handling of automobile traffic to and from the games.
Earl J. (Pete) Redden, manager of automobile parking concessions at the Notre Dame Stadium, called the meeting for law enforcement officers and others interested in the traffic problem. Their hope is to devise a plan to get cars to and from the Stadium in the quickest and safest manner.
City officials attending the meeting assured those present that the construction and repair work which has snarled traffic on South Bend streets lately will not block traffic on football Saturdays.
Capt. George Barcza, head of the police traffic division, reported that traffic control measures so successful in recent years would again be put into operation each time Notre Dame plays football at home. These measures include a system of one-way streets before and after games.
Herbert E. Jones, Business Manager of Athletics, has been handling traffic in past years. He said that South Bend had gained a nation-wide reputation for the dispatch with which it has taken care of the enormous overflow of cars on home game days.
Band Slated for Navy Trip As Musicians Await Opener
Not only New Orleans, but also Cleveland, will be visited by the Notre Dame Band this football season. The news, announced by Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.s.c., Vice-President in Charge of Student Welfare, means a trip to the Notre Dame-Navy clash this coming Nov. 4. No definite arrangements have yet been made for the Middie encounter.
At a meeting of the Band Wednesday night Father Kehoe congratulated the organization on records made in conjunction with the Glee Club. The discs were pressed by RCA Victor.
Plans are under way to route the annual Spring concert tour through the East and back through Canada. It is hoped that a regular varsity band can be organized to play at home basketball games, according to Mr. H. Lee Hope, Band Director.
This year’s officers are headed by President Bill MacMillan. Dave O’Leary is Vice-President and Drum Major, Jack McVeigh holds the office of Social Chairman, and James Doyle is Secretary.
32
The Scholastic
Charlie's Best Coffee
(Continued from Page 13)
j. voice very plainly and it sounds like Kittens’ voice.
The horses are still running and Johnny Boy is still out in front and Max is still smiling and Kittens McDoughal is still hanging on to Max’s arm and yelling very loud indeed when the horses turn into what is known as. the home stretch. And I am commencing "to feel very happy indeed that I, put my fifty bobs on Johnny Boy and even wish it is not too late to put a few more on him if I have a few more, when I notice that another horse seems to be running very fast and even seems to be catching up on Johnny Boy. This horse runs faster and faster and by the time the horses cross the finish line it is hard for most of the citizens to tell who is in front.
And I commence to feel a bit worried and I look down at the rail and Max is no longer smiling and Kittens McDoughal is no longer holding on to his arm and has even stopped yelling. And by the time they announce the winner over the loud speaker the noise becomes ( very great indeed and in fact I do.not even hear the name of the winner but I know it is not Johnny Boy so I assume it is the other horse that is with Johnny
Boy when they cross the finish line and the picture is taken.
Well I have no further interest in the race and am feeling very down and out indeed at losing 50 bobs, and especially since the 50 bobs are not mine in the first place so I leave the track and go back to Jeffersonville, Ind., and the next
WATCH THE CLOCK
This Sunday morning, at 2 a.m., South Bend officially goes off Central Daylight Saving Time and returns to Central Standard Time for the Winter.
Students are warned to set their watches and clocks back one hour tomorrow night.
day I leave the vicinity entirely. I do not see Max for the next few weeks, but I hear it rumored around and about that Max feels very low about losing the race and also that Kittens McDoughal is as good as her word and refuses to become Max’s ever lovin’ wife and even becomes an ever lovin’ wife to some other guy just to prove her point. And while I consider Max is maybe very lucky at
that I don’t suppose he feels the same way about it.
And one night about three weeks later, I am again sitting in Charlie’s restaurant on 47th street and drinking a cup of Charlie’s best coffee and wondering where in the world my next bob is coming from and it is again about four o’clock in the a.m. when the door opens and who walks in but Max. Max spies me right away and comes over and sits down and says to me like this:
“Well,” Max says, “it is even worse weather we are having in New York for the past while than when I see you in here last.”
I say that is true and then I ask Max what is the name of the horse that wins the Kentucky Derby that day.
“You see,” I say, “I miss the horse’s name when they announce it over the loudspeaker and the next day I don’t have time or enough bobs to buy a paper and so I never do hear who wins the race that day.”
“Why, don’t you hear?” Max says. “The horse that wins the Kentucky Derby that day is none other than the horse I sell last winter to raise enough bobs to put Johnny Boy in shape. The horse that wins is Romper.”
A OaHudic Daily Newspaper
the SUN-HERALD
begins publication October 10
Watch the SCHOLASTIC for details on campus subscriptions.
Sept. 22, 1950	33

It’s With Us
School has (sob) begun. The “Hi ya (mumble forgotten name), how was the summer?” greetings that were rampant a few days ago have subsided and inside dope on football dominates campus conversation. The profs have completed their introductions to the courses, and assignments are piling up. There are even some rumors of approaching tests in the Physics department. We’d might as well face it. School is with us.
BLOCK BROS.
Corner Michigan & Washington
Jewelers to
Notre Dame
for more than 25 years.
Well Done Again
Before the opening days of the semester are banished from memory, mention of the Blue Circle’s highly successful Freshman Orientation Program is in order. For the third straight year, the honorary society has done a fine job of welcoming the incoming freshmen to their new home and making it feel like home. To the men of the Blue Circle who worked hard on this program, congratulations and thanks.
Liberal Arts
The new General Program of Liberal Arts has taken its place among the courses in the College of Arts and Letters. The purpose of this program is to provide the students enrolled in it with a genuine liberal education. It is an attempt to prepare the college man for living rather than for a job.
Fifty Freshmen are enrolled in this new course. A faculty of six competent men is directing it. The program is fortunate in boasting the services of Dr. Otto Bird as its director.
Of course only time will record the success of this new course. But the idea behind it is an enviable and admirable one. It is to be hoped that the men enrolled in this course will do their part in giving it the success and recognition it deserves. We feel it is not going overboard to say that the whole
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
‘‘Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
education world is watching the outcome of the General Program of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame with interest. Best of luck.
Last-Minute Change
Last Saturday’s varsity scrimmage was advertised as open to the public. Those who attempted to see it know that it was decided at the last minute to hold a closed scrimmage. The reason for this change of mind is, of course, best known to Coach Leahy.
We feel sure, however, that he had the best interests of both the team and the Notre Dame student body at heart in his decision. We also feel sure that students will not find reason for complaint at such an order and that they will also realize that their glimpse of the Irish of ’50 may be a happier one for such closed scrimmages.
Bookstore Blues
The horror of a bookstore line is familiar to all upperclassmen. This year, however, something new was noticed and enjoyed. The new bookstore policy of relieving waiting in line and harassing congestion by the system of making all payments to a specific cashier rather than to the busy clerks has aided immensely in alleviating confusion and traffic tie-ups. This is progress.
The B X also came through with some alleviation of congestion. Specific windows for several of the colleges helped to speed up buying and contributed to orderly selling.
New Looks
The Sacred Heart church has been equipped with new rubber kneelers. It is a well founded theory that comfort and concentration are corelative terms.
Another welcome innovation is the new type windows installed in the rooms of Dillon and Alumni Halls. Gold Coast dwellers will soon come to have a soft spot in their respective hearts for the more convenient portholes.
Back to Sacred Heart Church, we see an attempt at relief of the crowded con- ' dition of the popular 10 o’clock Sunday Mass. The old 10:10 and 11:10 Masses < have been switched to 10:00 and 11:00 j and the 9:00 Mass is now a Low Mass. : This last is an inducement which, it is hoped, will drain off some of the over- ? population of 10:00 pews.
For those men who want to receive Holy Communion, eat breakfast, and go ? to 9 o’clock Mass, arrangements have V been made for Communion to be dis- 5* tributed in Dillon Hall chapel during the f half hour before breakfast is served in < the chow hall. The Communicant may | then attend the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred E Heart Church.	4
The Scholastic^
34
5/
Ik mo SMS
ffKCM campus
Burt—oxford button-down collar with the soft roll (the college man’s staple diet). A "Manhattan,” of course.
Range—fine white broadcloth with the wide-spread collar. Made by "Manhattan,” which means perfect fit.
The Manhattan Shirt Compan y, makers of “Manhattan” shirts, ties, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs.
Get Your
NOTRE DAME
School Album
in Blue and Gold '
$3.25
AULT CAMERA SHOP
(Inc.
122 N. Main	Phone 3-5041
DESK LAMPS
SLIDE RULES
BLOTTER PADS
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
Business Systems
126 S. Main Across from Court House
Sept. 22, 1950
35
D) YOU smell that milder Chesterfield 0) aroma. No other cigarette has it.
[fu YOU smoke Chesterfields and prove what every tobacco man knows ...
tobaccos that Smell Milder Smoke Milder
Copyright 1950, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Which, cigarette is Milder...


^Chesterfields
Mso miichdWi Ider
BE YOUR OWN CIGARETTE EXPERT says-Ralph A. Goss PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER, DURHAM, N. C.
YOU buy a pack of Chesterfields HA and you open it up.
sta.rr/n g	JPETTY GIRI.
i'-COrUMijA^TCCHNTc^frOR Pic
HESTERFIELD