HIGHLIGHTS . . .
Notre Dame's Pledge The Merry Wives Centennial Plans Symphony Concert The Magic Man
For God, Country, and Notre Dame
VOLUME 75
NUMBER 11
DECEMBER 12, 1941
CHiMMtrtS	tffiRGRWE,	€£KY£U.t
NOTRE DAME REPRESENTATIVES of
THE MODERN GILBERT’S
''GlwiiiwxiA (fyt St^ie Men"
If you want the best in fine quality apparel see any one of our campus representatives. THE MODERN - GILBERT'S -
813-817 S. Michigan Street
Experience proves that nothing takes the place of quality. You taste the quality of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Again and again you enjoy the charm of its delicious taste...and its cool, dean after-sense of complete refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY of South Bend ’ 1107 Beyer Avenue
You trust its quality
2
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
"The Vanderbilt Hustler"
A blue-blood, suh. The Hustler subtitles itself “The Aristocrat of Southern College Newspapers.” This paper comes out each Friday—“published by the students. ... under the supervision of the Vanderbilt Publications Board.” Easy-to-maneuver size and varied headline type are good. No exceptional features but each issue usually contains' enough pictures to liven things. Editorials short but well written. Overall blow: GOOD.
Coach Leahy would have snapped up this fellow in a minute if he could have seen the way the lug charged into our room. Anyway he slammed on the brakes about two inches away from us and then practically blasted us into the corner with a big bass bellow:
“Listen you, were you referring to me in your column last week?”
“What do you mean?” we managed to peep out.
“You said that a friend of yours read about something in the “Weak.”
“Well yes, but —”
“You weren’t referring to me, I hope, ’cause if you—”
“No, no, you aren’t a fjjie—”
“Well, pal, that’s plenty lucky for you. You writers get away with plenty, but nobody’s going to accuse me of reading that “Weak” and be able to pass the physical exam for the draft. I’ve got a social standing, SEE!”
“Yes, friend, I understand perfectly.*' ❖
P.S. The editor of the Scholastic with a superior air pointed out to us that J. Q. O’Connell is not a pseudonym. O.K., O.K., but we tried to protect him.
The Brain
Prof: Young man, do you know anything about this course?
Student: A little, sir, what would you like to know?
—Queen’s Journal ❖
Line Up, Gentlemen
“Laundry Offers Small Student Refund”
—The Plainsman ❖
Wishful Thinking
Shillelah
passes to Notre Dame but “just for a year.”
—Daily Northwestern
"Idle Moments"
Verse—from the Ohio State Lantern
“I wish I were an idle moment
In my professor’s class.
It always seems to pass.”
How idle the moment doesn’t matter.
❖
1 Explanation"
Note: We refuse to argue with any sociology brains on the biological angle of the following.
“I am a little moron
As happy as can be.
And yet I am the brightest one On my ancestral tree.
“My mother is a microcephalic;
My sister a Cretin is she;
My brother is a Mongolian idiot.
My father was insane, you see.”
❖
Take Off That Mask
“W” men at the University of Wisconsin will be paint removers for one day. The method they will use will be the application of a half-nelson together with vigorous rubbing with a turkish towel. But our verb tense has been wrong —the monogram men were paint removers. The paint was any lipstick or powder found adorning the faces of any U. of W. coed last Friday. Cardinal Sports columnist Marv Rand said, “W Club day may become a permanent affair here at Wisconsin. If it turns out half as interesting as forecasted, we hope it does.”
We think the event should be called “Revelation Day,” or “Across the Breakfast Table Preview.”
❖
Morning Check
Heard a fellow telling the other day about the little red corpuscles who all went to church in a body.
❖
Don'is for Vacation
“Don’t”
Arrange 43 dates via the mail There are only 14-15 days of vacation.
Get dates with three different girls for the same big event.
Wait until the last minute to arrange for your good time.
Forget to make out your Christmas list now.
Forget to bring at least one book home to make a good impression.
So what if you don’t open it?
Try to get acquainted with every good looking girl you see on the train. Her husband may be in the lounge.
Forget to hang out your sock on Christmas eve.
Come in later than one p.m. the next afternoon on New Year’s eve.
Get into an argument with her—it’s a long time until Easter and letters sort of relieve the monotony of the situation.
Manage to miss the train coining back and cut yourself out of two or three classes.
(Special to “J.Q.”): Forget to resolve to write a better column when turning over the New Year’s leaf.
❖
Mistaken Identity
“Hello there, my good fellow.”
“Hiss.”
“Beg pardon?”
“Hiss.”
“Well, such an impertinent little man.”
“Hiss.”
“Deserves a good lickin’.”
“Hiss.”
“Got a notion to give you one. I’m coming in.”
Newspaper Headlines: “Inebriated. Man Crushed by a Boa Constrictor at Zoo.”
♦
Doomed to be henpecked
Most everyone knows by now that Princeton plays hockey matches with nearby Bryn Mawr—a girl’s school. In the most recent engagement the boys massacred the lassies in two games, 1-0 and 2-0. Interesting part of the account of the battle was the last paragraph which we reprint from the Prineetonian:
“In the first game weakness in many positions was the cause of the tight fit. E. J. O’Brien was the most notable weak spot, seeming unable to control his woman. Several times he was thrown to the ground, and finally was forced to retire from action.”
46 percent passed the course
Two profs were walking across the campus. Various students on passing the two would give them a big greeting. The profs would always return the greeting, but one would always mutter “The same to you,” under his breath after the students had passed. Finally the other prof asked him why he did this.
The mutterer answered, “You forget, I was a student -here once, and I know what they’re really thinking.”
A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year from the Parade to All of You.
3
THE WEEK
NEXT WEEK
By John A. Lynch
By J. Q. O'Connell
Top of the Week
1-2-3-4-5 Beat Japan!
❖
We Hear Jingling!
Anyone who has seen the Rose & Katz store downtown, or the tree in Alumni, knows that Christmas is coming. These holidays approach so swiftly that sometimes we’re caught short. We remember one Easter when we were so rushed at the last minute, we forgot to boil the eggs, and was that a mess. But that’s another story.
The moral here is: he who waits until the last minute to do his Christmas shopping is goofy in other ways, too. The whole problem is much simplified in one of the late issues of the Saturday Evening Post. “Buy 'him’ an airplane,” says the Post airily. “Get ‘her’ a new refrigerator. Send the folks on a trip to Florida.”
Quick, Dingby, where did we put our piggy bank?
♦
Speaking of Christmas present problems, Douglas MacDonald, of California, is wondering what to send the folks. Our suggestion is a nifty model the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company puts out. Portable, they say, heavily armored, and completely air-conditioned. We hear you can set it up in the back-yard in no time at all.
♦
Mental Lapse Dept.
Jim O’Neal told us about this last week. In spite of the source we think it’s pretty good.
Shortly after the early dismissal date was announced, one of the Brothers over in the post office intercepted a post card with no address on it. The card read: “Dear Kay,
“I’ve just learned that we get out on the 19th instead of the 20th. Isn’t that wonderful? Make your vacation plans accordingly.
“Love,	Bob.”
The Brother set it aside and awaited developments. Sure enough, in the next mail came another post card. This one read:
“Dear Kay,
“I just sent you a post card, but I’m not sure that I addressed it. What I wanted to tell you is that we get out on the 19th instead of the 20th. Isn’t that
wonderful? Make your vacation plans accordingly.
“Love,	Bob.”
We hope Kay is extra good at mental telepathy, because the post office isn’t. Bob did it again.
❖
Rose Colored Glasses Dept.
We came back from Chicago last Monday, just after the Declaration of War, and we’re ashamed to admit that our thoughts were a little on the gloomy side. We were thinking of bombers, and the draft, and naval engagements, when we heard voices in the wilderness. We could tell that they were Notre Dame students from the vocabulary.
"Gee,” said the first voice, dreamily, “Gee, I had a thick milkshake today. It was so thick I could hardly drink it. The guy put in five scoops of ice cream.”
“Was it . . . was it double chawclut?” asked the second voice, awe-stricken.
“No,” said the first voice, sighing expansively, “no, it was vanilla.”
There was a long, happy silence, during which all three of- us dreamed of extra-thick milk shakes, with five scoops of ice cream. This isn’t such a bad world, after all.
<►
Notes and Nosegays:
To Duke Goeller, of Alumni Hall: Duke, the police of Amarillo, Texas, are holding a man wearing patent leather shoes, corresponding to those you advertised for. The police add that from the man’s condition, he must have gone to the Notre Dame Sophomore Cotillion.
To Robert LeMense, Wanderer in the Wasteland: Bravo! Robert, old boy. That’s the sneer we like to hear.
We’re interested in the sentiments behind Representative Jeanette Rankin’s recent historic stand, but, coming as she does from Missoula, Montana, we’re even . more interested in her non-political accomplishments. Bet she does a mean two miles on the cinder path.
To the students of the University of Illinois: We like your slogan, “Set Japan on its Can!” Mind if we borrow it?
♦
Bottom of the Week
Commencement in Waikiki.
SATURDAY, DEC. 13:
Six days.
Movie, “Shining Victory,” Disney cartoon and news, 6:40 and 8:00 p.m.
Basketball, University of Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame, away, the Keogan men leave home for the -first time this year.
SUNDAY, DEC. 14:
Five days.
Jewelry promoters and assorted campus salesmen make a last stand.
Catholic Action radio discussion, “Youth Has What It Takes,” music by the University Choir, WSBT, 4:30 p.m.
♦
MONDAY, DEC. 15:
Four days.
Campus Newscast, Morrissey Hall’s Chuck Patterson takes over as Pischke’s aid, WSBT, 4:15 p.m.
“The Merry Wives of Windsor,” Hickey, Heinlen, Curtin, and cast open their short season at Washington Hall, open-house for all play-goers, 8:00 p.m.
❖
TUESDAY, DEC. 16:
Three days.
Commerce Forum on the air, roundtable discussion, WSBT, 4:00 p.m.
“The Merry Wives of Windsor” cast closes successful season at Washington Hall.
♦
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 17:
Two days.
Football movies in Washington Hall, two of the Notre Dame games will be viewed, 6:40 and 8:00 p.m. "
♦
THURSDAY, DEC. 18:
One day.
The dining hall presents a meal for home-bound students.
♦
FRIDAY, DEC. 19:
A merry Christmas to you all; a happy New Year to the rest. '
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered az second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for malllnc	’
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1913.
Volume 75
DECEMBER 12, 1941
Number II
Father O'Donnell Pledges Full Support Of the University to President Roosevelt
Following the declaration by Congress of a State of War, on Monday, Dec. 8, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, addressed to the faculty and students the following bulletin:
“The hour has come. Our Chief Executive and the Congress have spoken. We are at war with its accompanying death, bloodshed, and suffering. Our armed forces will respond to the call as will all true Americans.
“Today, Notre Dame is one. She has known the grim horrors of past wars. The fact is that the peaks of her history are shrouded in the mists of war. In accordance with her strong tradition of patriotism, the University pledges unswerving loyalty and devotion to the Commander-in-Chief of our country and places her facilities at his disposal. We stand united behind him and pray hourly to God to strengthen his arm during the perilous days that lie ahead. We also bespeak Divine Guidance for Congress and all military and civil authorities in the execution of their trust so that in due time our country may be victorious and peace may be restored to the people of the world who love and cherish it.
“There is no reason why students should become unduly alarmed at this time, notwithstanding the swiftness with which war has come. Do not be carried away by violent emotion, which leads to confused thinking and acting. Go about your normal ways until such time as our country calls. This is what Notre Dame expects of you; this is what your parents desire of you. This is the best way to serve our country.
“As our beloved President so well expressed it yesterday in his message to the Congress: ‘With confidence in our armed forces—with the unbounded determination of our people—we will gain the inevitable triumph—so help us God.’
“Accordingly, let us pray.”
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Prof. Pedtke Dedicates
New Orgatron Sunday
Organist for the dedication concert of the new orgatron at St. Joseph’s Roman Catholic Church Sunday night at 7:30 p.m. will be Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, Mus.B., F.A.G.O., head of the department of music at Notre Dame, and director of the University Glee Club which is also appearing on the program.
Prof. Pedtke has been an organist and choir master for 22 years, having held that position at Sacred Heart Church, Hubbard Woods, Ill.; Mount Carmel Church, Chicago; St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Grand Rapids, Mich.; St. Mary’s Church, Evanston; and St. Patrick’s Church in South Bend.
Mr. Pedtke has been head of the department of music at Notre Dame for the past four years, coming to the University from the same position at the College of St. Teresa, Winona, Minn. He has also appeared on concert programs throughout the Middle West playing both piano and organ..
A student in piano of Alexander Raab and Sergei Tarnowsky, Mr. Pedtke appeared as soloist with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra at an early age. hi organ he was a student of Dr. J. Lewis Browne and Dr. Wilhelm Middelschulte. His studies in theory were under Dr. Arthur Olaf Anderson and Dr. Wesley LaViolette. He received his music degree from DePaul University and earned the highest rank of Fellow in the American Guild of Organists by examination while in Minnesota. He is also a member of the National Association of Schools of Music.
Prof. Pedtke is the author of Keyboard Theory and has composed many works for organ and piano and a “Mass in honor of St. Jude.”
Two Special Trains Will
Leave Campus Next Friday
The Student Travel Service announced this week arrangements for transportation home for the Christmas vacation. All trips are sponsored by club presidents, rates being set by the same.
Two specials have been arranged for. The Pacemaker going east will leave from the campus siding near the new Ave Maria building at 1:45 Friday, stopping at main points and carrying a special Boston car. Reservations are not necessary for the Pacemaker.
The westbound Chicago special will leave the campus siding at 12:35 Friday and will arrive in Chicago in time to make connections with the “400” and other outbound trains.
Westbound from New York at the end of vacation, Jan. 4, will be the Commodore, leaving New York at 4 p.m. and getting to the campus siding in time for eight o’clock classes Monday morning.
Ticket sales: Chicago and Cleveland, noons in the basement of the dining halls, 15th through 18th. Eastbound (other than Cleveland), evenings, basement of dining halls, 15th through the 18th.
Reservations made for seats westbound and northbound out of Chicago on the
5
Northwestern railroad can be made with J. A. Byrne, 265 Dillon, or Gail Fitch, 273 Dillon.
Byrne announced today that student tickets will be validated on the trains. He also said that reservations will have to be made for the Boston car.
At Last—St. Louis Club
Soccer Team Scored On
A lop-sided soccer victory for the St. Louis club was somewhat marred by the fact that their Sunday opponents were the first to score against this stellar outfit in over three years of play. A member of a pick-up senior Phy. Ed. team was the lucky man. The Missouri boys went on to win, however, by a healthy margin of 6-1. This, their second game of the season, was also played on a slippery Biology building field.
Playing honors were quite evenly divided Sunday as halfback Jim O’Neal and inside right Tom Hennigan each scored two points and center forward Jack Murphy and inside left Waldo Wilson tallied one apiece. Ed Manglesdorf and Dan Murphy played some mighty fine fullback as Jim Bellinger continued his fine work at the goal posts. Halfbacks Bob Funsch and Leo Donati, outside left Bill Guyol and outside right Ed Rowen rounded out the victorious St. Louis lineup.
Challengers are still being welcomed by the St. Louis club, but members of that team wish to announce that they will consider any game forfeited to them if the opponents do not show up at the appointed time with a full team, or fail to advise them of a change in plans in sufficient time.
Blackout Hits Met Club
But not the way you think! Mayor La Guardia has promised to keep the city’s lights on but the Met Club itself, as one of the many features of its Christmas Formal, intends to have one hour and a half of Candle Light Dancing. The dance is due to swing into action at 9 o’clock, Friday night, Dec. 26, to the soft strains of Harry Arnold’s orchestra. Numerous reservations that have already been made are a fine indication that this year’s dance will be the most successful ever arranged by a Notre Dame group in the big town. Chairman Jim Burke announced at a meeting Thursday night, that door prizes and favors have already been provided for. The meeting was the largest yet held by the Met Club on campus. '
Along with the final discussion of the dance, President Matty Byrne announced the train rates for the Met Club “Special,” which will leave the campus siding
at 1:45 p.m. on Friday, Dec. 19. The round trip ticket runs to 25 dollars and can be purchased in the basement of the dining hall every night next week after supper. All Met Club members were advised to avail themselves of this saving since the railroad rates have jumped because of government taxes and are bound to go higher due to the present crisis.
Sheridan Rides Again
When the Centaurs, the Cavalry Replacement Training Center’s football representatives in the army’s grid wars, marched off the field following the end of the Kansas All-Star versus Centaur tilt, many former collegiate greats wrote finis to their first year of army competition. Among this group was Pvt. Benny Sheridan, swift moving Centaur halfback and former Notre Dame All-American, who had a big hand in giving the Ft. Riley, Kansas cavalrymen the cavalry championship of 1941.
Trooper Sheridan, having completed his basic training period, will remain attached to the cavalry center to assist in the recreation division.
Glee Club Will Sing
At St. Joseph's Church
The new organtron of St. Joseph’s Roman Catholic Church in South Bend will be formally dedicated Sunday night. The Notre Dame Glee Club will be on the program. Glee Club Director Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, Mus.B., will be organist. The Glee Club will offer five numbers: Divine Praise by Bortniansky; 0 Lord Increase My Faith by Gibbons; Panis Aneglicus by Gibbons with William Scully, soloist; Hymn to the Madonna by Kremser with Anthony Donadio as soloist; and Sandus by Gounod with Mr. Donadio as soloist. Prof. Pedtke will also play a number of organ selections.
Cancel Freshmen Dance
Jim O’Neal, president of the Senior Class and proposer of the successful “intercollegiate” Freshmen dances held between the lads of Notre Dame and the lassies of St. Mary’s College, announced on Wednesday evening that due to the fact that the girls of St. Mary’s are beginning their holiday vacations three days earlier than was formerly planned (Monday), there will be no Freshmen dance held on this Sunday afternoon. The dances will continue immediately after Christmas, however, on the first Sunday after the vacation.
Xmas Banquet Planned
Men of Notre Dame feast again “campus style” on Thursday evening, Dec. 18, the great day before the greatest day of the winter months. The school presents this yearly “Christmas banquet” to the student body as-the formal opening of the Christmas season on the campus, a season which most of the fellows experience and enjoy at home with the folks.
The dining hall will be decked out in its best Santa-garb with a large tree in each of the halls and miniature-sized trees (well at least for the first few minutes) on the tables. Music will be furnished by Bob Richardson’s Modem-aires and Jack Molloy’s Cavaliers. Dinner, which will be served at 5:30 instead of the usual 6:00 on that evening, will consist of the following delightful delicacies :
Fruit Cocktail
Celery	Olives
Fillet
Potatoes	Corn
Ice Cream and Cake
Coffee Tea Milk
Candy Mints	Peanuts
If you are one of the three or four hundred chaps who "forgot to bring their athletic books,” your chances of winning the three or four prizes.... are smaller than your chances of evading the draft.
Paul Carr
Petritz and Barry Speak
Notre Dame Sports Publicity Director Joseph Petritz and Thomas J. Barry, former N. D. publicity head now regional editor of the new Chicago Sun wall appear on the program of the District VI convention of the American College Publicity association in Bloomington, Ill., today and tomorrow. Mr. Petritz discusses “What’s New in the Sports Line.” Many other well knowm newspaper personalities are at the convention.
Prof. McClurg Speaks
Notre Dame will be represented by Professor John J. McClurg at the American Public Welfare Association Round Table in Washington, D. C., today, tomorrow, and Sunday. Professor McClurg, supervisor of field work in the department of social work, will take part in two of the sessions relating to “Public Welfare and National Defense.”
Lillis is "Most Valuable"
One of Paul Lillis’ fans from Baltimore was so impressed with the big blond captain’s grid exhibitions this fall that he just up and sent the boy a large, handsome trophy as the most valuable player on the 1941 Fighting Irish squad.
6
ADMINISTRATION
Centennial to Show All Phases of N. D. Life
It’s Notre Dame’s year to shine—next year. Her bricks, grass and trees will primp for the Centennial celebration. But you won’t see her leading a powder-puff parade. It will be men’s sounds you’ll hear: booming lectures—whispering scientists—wise philosophers—bulging symposia — ivy-covered societies — crashing linemen and dancing backs—the whip of a driver — mellow music — An All American collection of Notre Dame’s best.
The president of the University will proclaim the opening of the Centenary in September of 1942. From that day on until the close of the festival week, in the fall of ’43, it is expected that most of the 20,000 scattered alumni will thread their ways through the circle to attend one or more of the centennial events. Heterogeneous groups from all the 48 states of the Union will return to see Our Lady in her 100-year garb. And they will be joined by members of the various national groups of academic spiritual, cultural and social societies that will hold conventions on the campus.
Among those groups which have already made definite plans for meeting here during the Centenary are:
The National Catholic Educational Association.
The American Catholic Phiilosophical Society.
The Indiana Academy of Science.
The American Mathematical Society (Midwest meeting).
The American Mathematical Society (Indiana Chapter).
The American Association of Teachers of French (Indiana Chapter).
The American Chemical Society (St. Joseph Valley Section).
Added to these will be many others, which will be announced as the plans of the organization are complete.
Supplementing these will be outstanding cultural programs, similar to the annual music and lecture series conducted by the University, but greatly augmented for the centennial program.
Spiritual emphasis will be given during the year, with the bringing of many Church dignitaries to the campus, publication of a Notre Dame prayerbook, and special services on the campus, commem
orating the many historical and Church feasts of the year.
Notre Dame’s grid, diamond, hardwood and track fields will quake under the feet of the outstanding list of collegiate opponents who will battle our teams during the course of the year. This phase will be launched with the playing of the National Intercollegiate Golf tournament on the Chain-o’-Lakes course, in June, 1942.
A history of the University, and many other special publications in the field of graduate research, biography, religion, and literature, will be concentrated within the scope of the program. Special plans for student activities are now being discussed by a committee of students and University officials.
All this leads up to an academic festival in the fall of ’43, which will climax the year’s events. The first part of the week will be devoted to symposia in the fields of current problems of politics and philosophy, and will bring together the leaders of the nation in a discussion of topics in these two vital subjects. The second part of the week will be occupied with a series of lectures by some of the most eminent scholars of the day. Delegates from American institutions of higher learning, from the great learned societies of the country, and from the outstanding research foundations will be invited to be present. Then on the seventh day, it will be brought to a close by a special convocation at which honorary degrees will be conferred on a number of the nation’s most outstanding scholars.
Father Cavanaugh, able director of the Centenary, has expressed the general objectives thus:
“The painting of a proper picture of Notre Dame as it closes its first 100 years as a part of the American scene, will have many and varied details. It will not be possible to cover them all in one year. But in this centenary, the University hopes to bring to alumni and to friends and to the public such a clear presentation of the developments of the first 100 years, that the close relationships established during the year will remain constant and mutually beneficial in the years ahead.”—Roy Grumbine
Current Article By
Notre Dame Professor
Word was received by the University from the editors of We, the People, annual yearbook of public opinion, that “Help for Reds,” an article written by one of our newer faculty members, Professor Reichle of the Speech Department, has been accepted for their next publishing. We, the People, is a compilation of public opinion addressed to editors of all newspapers and magazines during the past year.
Mr. Reichle’s thesis was chosen from the “Voice of the People,” a daily column published in the South Bend Tribune.
Mr. Reichle’s true work is not that of an author however, although his endeavors in that field evidently are well acclaimed. Rather, his “voice teaching” services had been so well appreciated at St. Louis University, that Notre Dame . officials soon heard of his abilities and offered him a position on the faculty. During Mr. Reichle’s last years as head of the speech department at Regis College (from where he proceeded to St. Louis University as the head of their speech department), his students won the Rocky Mountain Peace Conference for three consecutive sessions, while one of his students was chosen by unanimous vote as the best orator at that conference. His college students, too, gained permanent possession of the Denison Trophy by winning the Colorado one-act play tournament for four consecutive years.—Paul Carr
Hydrogen in Steel;
is Metallurgy Topic
The Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals held its December meeting on Wednesday, Dec. 10. A dinner was held in the Dining Hall followed by the technical, session in the Engineering Auditorium.
The guest speaker of the meeting was Dr. C. A. Zapffe, research associate of the Battelle Memorial Institute, Columbus, Ohio. Dr. Zapffe’s research work concerning the effect of hydrogen upon the properties and behavior of steel have proved to be of value in this new and important subject.	:
Dr. Zapffe presented the highlights -of Battelle’s research program. The re
.7
suits of their experiments indicate that hydrogen, hitherto little suspected as an alloying element or impurity in metals, has an important bearing on many of the problems of. the metallurgist. He discussed such defects as low ductility, flakes, shatter cracks and thermal cracks in forgings; blisters and brittleness in steel and electroplate; “fisheyes” and cracks in welds and castings; abnormal malleableizing of cast iron; and blistering and chipping phenomena in paints and vitreous enamels on steel and cast iron.
Recent work, as yet unpublished, was presented to clarify the relationship of hydrogen to the defects and to reveal the role played by this gas in the crystallography of steels.—Tom Duffy
No Bugs; At Least
in Prof. Reyniers Animals
Typical of the interesting and important work being done at Notre Dame is that of Prof. James A. Reyniers, who conducts the germ-free experiments in the Biology Building. Prof. Reyniers, head of the laboratories of bacteriology, has been working with the germ-free idea for about 12 years. Incidentally, Notre Dame is the only place in the country to deal with it so successfully.
The object of the work is to raise animals germ free, without the slightest trace of bacteria in their little systems at any time. This gives a standard animal to use as a basis for comparison.
The mother animal, which has been anesthetized, is placed in a sterilized container, the operating cage. Here a Caesarian section is made. The baby animals are then transferred to another part of the container, where they are kept and given a special concentrated diet of sterilized food. They are fed every three hours; the feeding being done by hand through rubber gloves which serve as a flexible barrier to prevent any infection. When the animal is old enough to feed itself, it is moved to another sterilized cage. Sterilization is achieved by steam under pressure for 20 minutes. Tests are made every two days to make sure that the animal has not been contaminated.
Guinea pigs are the animals most often used although rabbits, mice, rats and monkeys have also been employed successfully. Prof. Reynier was able to keep a germ-free monkey for a month and a half, but the unfortunate little beast fell down into the rubber glove and suffocated; a martyr to science. After the operation the mother is killed in most instances. Chickens are sometimes used, too, in which case the egg shell is sterilized.
Even Prof Reyniers, however, has not been able to solve the problem of the precedence of the chicken or the egg.
—Charles Kleibacker
Notre Dame Host to
Language Conclave
Mr. John T. Frederick, of the Department of English, will be the principal speaker at the annual convention of the Modern Language Association of America, to be held in Indianapolis, on Dec. 29, 30, and 31. In this 58th annual meeting, all the universities and colleges in Indiana will be hosts to Modern Language professors and department heads from all over the nation.
Prof. John T. Frederick
On Tuesday evening Professor Frederick will address the convention in the Claypool Hotel on the subject “Literature in a Time of Crisis.” This will be the final night session of the conclave, as it closes on Wednesday afternoon.
Professor Frederick conducts a nationwide broadcast dealing with books and literary people entitled “Of Men and Books” over the Columbia Broadcasting System; and is also the author of several books. He graduated from the University of Iowa, and taught there and at the University of Pittsburgh before joining the English Department here in 1930.
In addition to Professor Frederick, Notre Dame will be represented at the convention by Mr. Earl F. Langwell, head of the department of modern language, who will serve as a local delegate.
—J. H. Johnston
Dr. Hull Visits Campus
Dr. A. W. Hull, assistant director of the General Electric Research Laboratory and noted research worker in electronics, visited the department of physics last Sunday.
The purpose of Dr. Hull’s visit was to inspect the electronics laboratories at Notre Dame. He also discussed certain problems with those carrying on research here at the University. Dr. Hull also spoke informally on the need for electronics research in general.
FACULTY PORTRAITS
Every student in the University, with the exception of members of the Naval R.O.T.C. and Physical Education courses, is required to take elementary hygiene during his Sophomore year. The course was added to the school’s curriculum in the Fall of 1939 and since that time hundreds of Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors have tramped across campus to the new and fulsom-smelling biology building to be confronted by the slender, soft-spoken figure of Mr. Ervin. This year Mr. Ervin is in charge of all of the elementry hygiene classes and in the past two years, though he was not the lone professor, he very likely substituted at least once in each class during the period of the year.Therefore we may conclude that at least 95 percent of the student body has or shall be taught practical information about health and its processes by Mr. Ervin, and that this gentleman may well be said to be the most universal professor on the campus.
Mr. Ervin has acquainted you with the general history of disease, and turnabout being fair play we shall acquaint you with the general history of Mr. Ervin.
Mr. Ervin hails from the deep South, from the deep south of Ohio. He came to Notre Dame as a student in 1931 and joined the pre-med department; the next year he transferred to the now extinct department of pharmacy from which he graduated and acquired a bachelor’s degree cum laude in 1936. A bit later Mr. Ervin received his master degree in bacteriology. After studying bio-mechanical technique in Chicago Mr. Ervin came back to Notre Dame as a teacher and member of the research staff in bacteriology.
When he wants to forget that science ever existed.... Mr. Ervin plays golf. “I used to play a fair game of tennis,” he said, “but in the last few years—well, golf is my game!” His real hobby, however, is photography. He is immediately - concerned with photomicrography and biological photography which means, just as the word is constructed—the taking of pictures of microscopic germs and fungus.
One of Mr. Ervin’s eventual concerns is with the bettering of the elementary hygiene course; he wishes this one-hour a week class to be filled with as much practical knowledge as he possibly can accumulate and dispense to the students.
—Paul Carr
8

Cushing Hall Profile
Every organization has a boss but few of them recognize this fact more so than does the Radio Club, for the dynamic studio manager is a virtual czar. However, everyone that comes in contact with Bob Lejeune is strongly influenced by his bright smile and radiant personality. The gentleman in question has done a marvelous job with the Radio Club. When he first assumed control last year it was in a congested state of affairs, but he soon had it running at full speed. Since then the programs have progressed both in quality and in quantity.
Bob is a small, blond-haired, blue-eyed Electrical Engineering student. Last year he studied Communication, but decided to return to Notre Dame for an extra year in Power. He is an industrious student. When he is graduated next spring, Bob would like very much to obtain a position as an electrical engineer with a steel corporation.
Being a resident of Oak Park, Ill., Bob attended Oak Park High School where he was on the swimming team and took part in many other of the school’s activities. His favorite hobby is tinkering with automobiles, and up to this time Bob has had five such vehicles most of which he bought himself by working after school. It might be said, as an added note, that Bob has four brothers, one of whom was graduated as a civil engineer from Notre Dame in 1935.—Charles Macfarline
Relativity Explained
The “Theory of Relativity” was explained to the student members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineering last Friday night in the space of one hour! At least, the talk presented by Dr. Jose Caparo cleared up some misconception as to the nature and origin of the theory. Realizing that the theory could not be completely explained or even presented within the time available, Dr. Caparo spoke of “Some Topics Relative to the Theory of Relativity.” He also pointed out the difference between the Classical Theory and that of Einstein and Lorentz.
Dr. Caparo stated that space is made up of four dimensions: length, -width, depth, and time. Space as most of us know it can not exist without time. An analogy used was that of setting a watch by noting the time on a church steeple or on the town courthouse. No matter
how good one’s sight might be, he could not set his watch at the same time as that of the clock, since some time would be necessary for the light to travel from the clock to his eyes. The elimination of this time would eliminate space itself. Many other interesting analogies were likewise given as further proof of this fact.
After the presentation by Dr. Caparo, the engineers were further entertained with refreshments and a motion picture, “The Processing of Steel,” presented by Professor C. R. Egry.
—Dodge Angelakos
Mechanical Engineers
Hold December Meeting
Last Friday night, Dec. 5, the members of the A.S.M.E. met in their clubroom in the Engineering Building to discuss plans for the winter’s program. Professor C. R. Egry, faculty advisor of the club, gave a talk emphasizing the importance of student papers in club activities. Recalling the many excellent papers he had heard delivered at numerous engineering conventions throughout the Middle West, Professor Egry pointed out the principal requirements of an interesting and instructive technical paper. The lively discussion which followed proved the interesting nature and timeliness of his talk.
Slide rules will give place to basketball at least an hour each week, as plans were completed for members to form four team and play out a round-robin series for the club championship. Competition will be keen, and liniment sales should soar. The teams, captained by Bill Herzog, Frank Brehl and Henry Reilly, should provide some very interesting, if not smooth, brands of basketball.	.
A technical movie, “The Processing of Steel,” proved quite interesting, especially since many of the scenes were reminiscent of the club’s recent inspection trip. An informal discussion of the movie and the serving of refreshments concluded the meeting.
New Equipment Arrives
New Heat - Power Lab
At the present time two new steam-driven, reciprocating, double-acting air compressors are being installed in the Heat-Power Laboratory. The compressors, part of the Mechanical Engineering equipment, will extend greatly the
experimental facilities of this department.
The compressors are separate units, each being driven by its own reciprocating steam engine, but by a clever arrangement they can be connected in a number of different ways, to study various thermodynamic laws. These arrangements can be adjusted to accomplish three general purposes: 1. An infinite number of ratios of compounding; 2. The intercooler and aftercooler are piped to produce either counterflow or parallel flow; 3. The steam engines may be connected as single stage units or as a two-stage unit, either condensing dr noncondensing.
The compressor and steam engine. units were designed and connected so that the greatest number of operating conditions could be studied with a minimum of equipment. The arrangement was designed and installed under the supervision of Professor C. C. Wilcox, Head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, and Professor G. E. Rohrbach, Professor of Mechanical Engineering.
These units will be used not only to study the principles involved in air compression and steam engine operation but also to supply compressed air at variable pressures for the various needs of the Laboratory.—Bob McFarland
N. D. Glider Soars High
When everything had “settled down” and the points were added up last July it was found that R. S. Eikenberry, piloting the new Notre Dame Utility Glider (N. D. 1), was just 12 points shy of first place among Group II Gliders in the National Glider Meet at Elmira, N. Y.
Group I consists of sailplanes—gliders with exceptionally long wingspans and various other design-features that' make them especially suitable for soaring. It takes an experienced pilot to handle a sailplane. Group II consists. of utility gliders which are suitable for training as well as soaring, thus placing them in a separate class from the more elaborate sailplanes.
Walter Lob from M.I.T., with 307 points, finished first in Group II, and Dallas Wise, Jr., with 304 points finished second. Mr. Eikenberry with 295 was a cloe third. Behind them were 17 other utility gliders and pilots. It is interesting to note that the two gliders that finished ahead of the N.D. 1 were both “Franklins,” designed by a member of the University of Michigan faculty and named after him. Mr. Eikenberry worked on Franklin gliders when he was a student at Michigan. Of the first three utility gliders, the “N.D. 1” is the only one that has been completely stress - ana-(Continued on page 26)
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers..................  .Managing	Editor
William Scanlan........................  Promotion
John Dinges.............—..............Sports	Editor
William Baader..........................  Art	Editor
Robert E. Brooks...............Administration Editor
Don Heltzel............................Campus Editor
Ed Drinkard ..................    Staff	Photographer
Leo Lee ...........................     Advertising
Frank Kiener ........................   Advertising
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C...........Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association ard Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff. 6:30 F. M.; General Staff, 7 :00 P. M.
.	LET'S DO
Our Country is now at war. The catastrophe we have feared and hoped against has been thrust upon us. Cloaked in perfidy and hypocrisy, an alien foe has ravaged our country. We have only one task, only one duty—to support our country to the utmost of our ability. This we can, must, and will do.
There is no abstraction of justice or truth involved. We are engaged in that most realistic and most just of all wars —a fight to defend our very lives and the freedom without which there is no life. Win we must and win we will.
These basic truths realized, we are faced then with the immediate problem of how we may best help our countiy. The solution is simple and singularly undramatic. Truth generally is. We must refrain from all melodramatic gestures and strive as best we can to maintain our normal life. Until our government actually calls upon us for more tangible services, we must endure the more trying bond of patience.
We know that this will not be easy. We, ourselves, find it difficult enough to avoid dramatizing the issue, and adopting an apathetic attitude toward the ordinary problems of campus life. The cry of die “lost generation” may already have been raised by some. But this slogan simply will not stand under the present circumstances. This is total war —involving not a generation but a people. Every man, woman, and child in this nation will bear a proportionate share in the conflict. Before this war is brought to an end, each one of us will have contributed something—no matter how large or small it may be—to its successful conclusion. To assume that we shall bear a disproportionate share would be idiotic. A bomb is no respecter of age. It is, in fact, a thoroughly impersonal instrument of destruction.
What, specifically, shall we do during this interim of relative inactivity? First of all, we must study. That is the fundamental purpose of our present status in life. If we ignore this duty, our position becomes meaningless.- We have been given the opportunity to attain the ends inherent in intellectual activity. This is our heritage and we have neither die right nor the privilege to abandon it.
OUR PART
Neglecting assignments and failing to prepare properly the daily work required might seem at first glance to be sensible; but actually it is extremely childish. Pettishly dropping a half-completed task is a clear indication of adolescent irresponsibility. But we are presumed to be men .	—able and willing to finish any work we undertake. Let
us, then, be men and not “quitters,” and finish the job we have begun.
Then, too, we must remain at all times as calm as possible whenever a personal crisis arises. Some of us may well be called into the armed forces sooner than others. Inevitably, this will be due to the mechanics involved in the draft procedure itself. However, the separate inductions of individual students should definitely not be made the basis for unfounded rumors concerning the prospective induction of the entire student body. Nor should the individual so inducted feel that he has been prematurely singled out for service. We repeat again that the enormous effort which will be required to meet the onslaught of the totalitarian powers necessarily precludes any consideration for the individual.
Finally, we must aim at a moral rejuvenation which will enable us ultimately to succeed in the above program. We must develop to the fullest both a Spartan simplicity, and an intensity of ideals which will be able to withstand any future moral crisis. In short, we must strengthen our faidi until it is so deeply planted in our hearts as to be impregnable. Then only will our ultimate triumph be assured.
These words are addressed to a student body whose reaction so far has been undeniably splendid. You have faced the crisis magnificently. We appeal to you now to maintain that spirit and not to falter. We are being tried —let us not be found wanting.
The SCHOLASTIC wishes all its readers a very merry Christmas and its sincere hope for a happy New Year!
10
CAMPUS NEWS
"Merry Wives" in Washington Hall Next Week
Next Monday and Tuesday nights mark two more important dates on your 1941 calendar, for at 8 p.m. on each of these evenings, a hard-working cast of 20 ■will present the long-awaited “Merry Wives of Windsor.” Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., director, has invited everyone to attend, having open-house both evenings, for religious, lay faculty members and their wives, students, and townspeople.
The presentation of “The Merry Wives of Windsor” provides a fitting climax to 1941 Washington Hall entertainment. The ghost of Shakespeare will certainly pervade the hall as the group of actors endeavor to make this as successful as any of Shakespeare’s plays produced before on the campus.
Besides the comical escapades of Fal-staff, the main character, the comedy has
a minor plot, in which three gentlemen try to outdo each other in gaining the favor of Mistress Ann Page. The latter definitely knows her own choice, but, due to the intriguing of her parents, she is provided with other persistent suitors. In the final act of the play, many surprising events occur, out of which Ann comes victorious. Most tenacious of the trio of suitors is the belligerent Doctor Caius, who, with a convincing French accent, threatens to annihilate whoever stands in his way. Directly opposite in character to him is the timid Abraham Slender, who, pushed by his mercenary uncle and a Welsh parson, barely finds the courage to express his feelings to Ann Page. The last and most refined of the suitors is Fenton, a gentleman of Windsor, who is at a complete loss, hav
ing no one to intercede for him.
The theme of “The Merry Wives of Windsor” should prove interesting to all. Those who are planning to- attend either performance in Washington Hall may well look forward to a most enjoyable evening. The Cast
Sir John Falstaff._______________William HickeyFenton___________________________Daniel Gentile
Shallow__________________________Daniel Downey-
Abraham Slender._____________________Lyle Joyce
Ford-------------------------------David Curtin
Page.-------------------------------------Jerome	Heinlen
Sir Hugh Evans___________________James Poinsatte
Doctor Caius________________________________John	Groeger
Host_________________________________George Uhl
Bardolph------------------------------------John	Henchy
Nym__________________________________Griff Allen
Pistol_____________1_____________Philip Steropoli
Robin____________________________Francis Keenan
Peter Simple.____________________Andy McElroy-
John Rugby.__________________________John Ford
Mistress Ford________________Elizabeth Jankovits
Mistress Page________________________Mary Ahern
Mistress Ann Page._______________Barbara Dolezel
Mistress Quickly_________________Patricia Drain
—Daniel Downey
. . . The comical escapades of Falstaff—alias Hickey
Five Notre Dame Alumni
In Pacific War Zone
According to an announcement this week from the Alumni Office there are five Notre Dame men reported in the Pacific war-zone. Emphasis was given to the fact that the list is .not complete and includes only those men who have been reported to the office.
Included in the list are:
Ensign Joseph A. Durkin, ’34, a naval aviator, when last heard of was stationed on the U.S.S. Chicago at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Joseph Gore, Jr., ’40, is with the United States Air Corps at Bellows Field, Waimanolo, Hawaii. '
Three men, Mario G. Tonelli, ’39, a fullback on the football team; Adrian R. Martin, ’39; and Sergeant Thomas. Foy, ’38, are all at Fort Stotsenburg, Pampanga, Philippines.
No word has been received at the Alumni Office of these men.	-
Kathleen Lloyd, daughter of University Comptroller Frank W. Lloyd, was married last June to Vincent Gucharri, ex-’4O, a former Bengal bouter at Notre Dame, and both have been living in the Philippines.	~
Two Notre Dame, students have their families within -the war zone. Patrick Anthony . Madden, Dillon Hall junior, comes from Honolulu, Hawaii, while Michael Yasuo Horikawa, Breen-Phillips freshman, also comes from Honolulu. .
11
Symphony to be Unveiled Next Sunday Afternoon
Just how good is the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra?
No one seems to know! Ever since September there have been rumors drifting around.... rumors of a bigger, better organization. ... of increased, rearranged personnel.. .. of a brand new repertoire. ... of a more active, professional spirit within the society. There have even
been a few speculations that the Symphony may prove to be the top musical organization on the campus. No one really knows how much of this is true or how much is propaganda simply because no one on the campus has ever heard the Symphony of 1941-42.
But next Sunday afternoon the veil of mystery will be lifted. At 4:00 p.m. the Notre Dame Symphony will present its first official concert of the year in Washington Hall. As guest soloists with the orchestra will appear Mary Frances Kabel and Tony Donadio. Miss Kabel is not a stranger on the campus; her stellar performance as Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Duchess” in “The Gondoliers” of last spring, as also her appearance with the Symphony during Music Week have established her as an artist of no mean ability. Mr. Donadio hardly needs an introduction; as the finest tenor Notre Dame has ever produced, Tony is famii iar to everyone as a leading soloist with the Glee Club, last year’s operetta, and Symphonies of previous years.
The program of Sunday’s concert is pleasingly varied. The selections have been chosen from the repertoire which has been in the process of development all fall. The orchestra presumably has been working seriously, and for that reason should be well prepared to present a brilliant performance. But these are just suppositions; even we don’t know what measure of success the orchestra has found since its declaration of high purposes at the reorganization meeting in September. At any rate, the Symphony must be congratulated for the intelligent planning of a program which should suit the tastes of every member
of the audience:
1.	Overture to	The	Caliph of	Bagdad___Vaughan
Symphony	No.	39,	E-flat major______Mozart
Largo Allegro
Reverie __________________________  Debussy
2.	Eres Tu __________________________Sandoval
.	Bolero
. Orchestra
Vision ______________________________Kriens
from “A Midsummer’s Night’s Dream”
The Blue Danube_____________________Strauss
Mary Kabel, soprano; Ethel Gaumer, accampanist
3.	Duna .......................Pickethall-McGill
My Lovely Celia.........................Weiler
Anthony Donadio, tenor; Ed Cashman, accompanist t. No, No, Turiddu.................-....Mascagni
From “Cavalleria Rusticana”
Mary Kabel, soprano; Anthony Donadio, tenor Duet with Orchestra
Emperor Waltz..................-........Strauss
Orchestra '
Bobby Byrne Signed For The Junior Prom
Edward Doyle, general chairman of the Junior Prom of the class of 1943, and William Costello, president of the class of 1943, announced this week that they, with the aid of Joseph Kresock and Robert Walsh, joint chairmen of the music committee, have signed Bobby Byrne and his orchestra to play for the dance. Byrne is an excellent choice for a college prom, for he has a remarkably young band and an original style.
He features several well-known young musicians, among them Jerry Yelverton, clarinetist, Dick Farrell, druimner, and Dorothy Claire, vocalist. Miss Claire once sang with Glenn Miller and his band. Byrne, himself one of the best trombonists in the business, combines with the three other trombonists in the orchestra to form the popular “Four Trombymes.”
Byrne and his band are very well-known in the east, having played at the Glen Island Casino, the Meadowbrook, and this summer he played at the Hotel Pennsylvania. Notre Dame men from Chicago will have an opportunity to hear Byrne during the Christmas vacation, for he opens an extended engagement at the Panther Room of the Hotel Sherman in Chicago New Year’s Eve.
The Prom this year will be held on Friday, Feb. 6, the week-end immediately following the semester examinations. There will be a tea dance Saturday afternoon, Feb. 7, and the chairman of the tea dance, Walter Jones, will announce details for this dance later. On Saturday evening Prom men and their guests will see the basketball game between the University of Kentucky and the University of Notre Dame.—Bill Brady
National Orchestral Pol!
Announced this week was a National Orchestral Poll to determine popularity of the nation’s outstanding bands and instrumentalists. The vote is being taken among America’s college students. The contest will close Jan. 15. Ballots will probably be distributed about the campus after the Christmas vacation. Each student will return his individual ballot to the contest editor. The poll is in line with “Down Beat” and Metronome polls.
Engineers Ball Set for Night of Jan. 16 at Palais Royale
Edward Buenger, president of the Engineers Club, announced this week that the annual Engineers Ball will be held -Friday night, Jan. 16, at the Palais Royale. John Gilbert has been appointed general chairman for the dance.
The dance will follow the pattern of last year to the extent that it will be in cabaret style. Orchestra for the evening will be Jack Molloy’s Cavaliers. Molloy, an engineer himself, will seek to make it a family affair.
Time limits have been set from 9 p.m. until 12:30 a.m. Buenger said there will be about 200 bids let for the dance, and added that the tax has not yet been definitely decided upon.
The Ball, which will be formal as in previous years, will be open to the entire student body. As work progressed this week Buenger lifted his eyebrows, commented on Chairman Gilbert’s efforts: “He’s sure surprised with all the work he’s done.”
Chairman of the various committees follow:
Publiicty Chairman, Paul Lillis; tickets, Joe Rorick; patrons, John Coury; music, Bob Mullaney; favors, Charles Shirk; decorations, John Carney; reception, Frank Brehl; transportation, John Peters.
Neil Green First To Be
Called Since War Started
To Neil Green, an A.B. man from Rochester, N. Y., went the honor of being the first Notre Dame student drafted since the declaration of a state of war with Japan by the United States.
Cheered up by about 25 of his Dillon Hall friends who were rounded up to see him off last Tuesday afternoon, he said that he wished that the Army could have waited at least until the end of the semester before calling him.
He talked about the swell time he has had at Notre Dame during the past two years, and several students kidded him about skipping out just before a Cosmology exam.	•
He laughed when he took down a slogan from his wall reading “Hit the books before you hit the road,” saying that he probably should have shown it to the Army also.
Telling the men to “Take care of the girls until I get back,” he left Tuesday night with his family who were visiting him for the week-end.	‘
12
Jack Whelan, Magic Man of Howard Hall Pays Way Through College by Deception
Yes, neighbors, that magic man of Howard Hall is much like you and me and this reporter is convinced that aside from his roster of tricks Jack Whelan is human after all. Those students who have seen him perform will testify to the fact that he is most unnatural as handkerchiefs, Bromo Seltzers and even beer do his bidding, at the wave of a hand and a mysterious exhortation from those constantly moving lips, but on entering his room one finds nothing of the magic paraphernalia usually associated with such deceptions. Like a traveling salesman, his entire stock in trade is carried in a medium sized suitcase which affords the necessary portability, for his jaunts around the surrounding countryside.
About ten years ago, Jack took up magic as a hobby, and started with the usual selection of simple parlor tricks for the benefit of the family circle alone. Gradually his skill increased and he realized that he had much more than a mere hobby in his possession. From then on, his pastime turned into a business and dollars supplemented applause. The first professional show in which he played was in Bloomfield, N. J. his home town, before a group of policemen assembled for their annual Policemen’s Mutual Aid Show. He was in the eighth grade at this time, but despite his tender age was something of a smash hit. At the age of 14 years he applied for membership in the Society of American Magicians but was rejected because of the minimum age requirement of 17. As a note of recognition however, he was declared to be official mascot for the national organization and continued in such capacity until he reached the required age for membership, which he now retains. During his high school days his art was faithfully pursued with the aid of his father and magician friends who saw possibilities of great value. These possibilities, if they may be called such, were worth exactly $2000 in green New Jersey lettuce, the total of which was saved with an eye towards Notre Dame.
Jack came to the attention of the Notre Dame students when he was a freshman and won first prize in the annual K. of C. show in Washington Hall, which many Juniors and Seniors will remember. That netted him $30 and from then on his popularity increased and his ability became known generally in the vicinity of South Bend and surrounding towns. As an example of his prestige in this territory, he lists a total of 31 shows given by him during his freshman year, 65 during Sophomore,
. . . even bears do his bidding . . .
and 24 thus far in his Junior year at Notre Dame. A typical week’s work would include such varied assignments as those recently completed: Elkhart Rotary Club, Elkhart Masons, Elkhart Chamber of Commerce, special show for the Nuns in the Infirmary, Bantam Bearing Co., Vox Pop program, St. Andrews of Mishawaka, and finally St. Patrick’s of South Bend. This is not a schedule for a year or a month, but for one week, which may give some idea of the spare time that this gentleman enjoys. Needless to say, his education here at school is well assured from a financial point of view, as it always has been in the past two years. At $15 per performance you can’t go wrong.
In spite of the heavy schedule of professional appearance, Jack maintains an 85 average in his studies and looks forward to a Law course later on. At the (Continued on page 21)
What Were You Doing When the War Started
The question: “What were you doing when Japan declared war Sunday afternoon ?”
Ted McDonald, Sorin Hall: “Jerry Killegrew and I were at my home in West Lafayette. We had just returned with our dates and we weren’t concentrating when war was declared. But afterwards, when the girls had left, it
really hit us. We still can hardly believe it.”
Jack Crahan, Badin: “I was home on a week-end and at the time of the declaration I was driving to see my girl, when my car radio announced that Japan had attacked Hawaii. I was really stunned. I didn’t think they could be that dumb.”
Joe Tracy, Howard: “I had just returned from taking a shower. When I heard the news of the war, I was so shocked that I almost had to go back for another shower to revive myself.”
Stan Litizzette, Alumni: “I was in Chicago over the week-end staying at a friend’s house. We were downstairs talking when his brother rushed down from the upstairs radio to tell us the shocking news.”
Frank Lavelle, Walsh: “At the time of the declaration, I was writing home planning a nice Christmas vacation when the war broke. But despite the Japs and Hitler and Mussolini I still intend to
• take my vacation.”
Ray Wilmer, Dillon: “At the time of the outbreak of the war I was with a friend at the concert at John Adams. It wasn’t until about six o’clock when we were changing to the Notre Dame bus that we saw newspaper boys with the extras carrying the stunning news. So we enjoyed the concert in blissful ignorance while the Japanese bombed Honolulu.”
Jerry Heinlen, Walsh: “I was at home with my family at Garrett, listening to the radio at the time. When we heard the news we were immediately saddened. My brother is in the Navy, so my mother was in tears at the news. My mind seemed to go blank; I can still hardly convince myself that we are at war.”
Jack Sprague, Howard: “We had Jack Reis* radio strewn all over his room fixing it when we heard Brother Columba talking about the declaration of war out in the hallway. I was quite dismayed about the war because I have an adopted brother who is Japanese and I don’t know just how the war will affect him.”
Murray O’Toole, Walsh: “Some fellows rushed into our room Sunday afternoon and spent half an hour trying to convince us that war had been declared by Japan. Then we heard the grim details on the radio.”
Bob Milford, Badin: “I was driving my car at home when the news came
• over the car radio. My folks were deeply shocked. I have a brother 23 years old in the army.”	.
Jim Godfrey, Howard: “I was asleep in my room at the time when my roommate burst in shouting the news of the war at me. I certaiply was shocked into horrible reality.” -
13
INTRODUCING —	___:-=-:—: By RAY DONOVAN *
Defense is the keynote throughout the United States today and the keynote of Coach George Keogan’s fightin’ basketball squad is no different. The success of the Irish netters is almost totally dependent on just how successful they are in then efforts to foil the offense of their opponents. Defensive maneuvers center around the Blue and Gold lanky center— Frank Quinn.
Quinn, whi in his junior year at Notre
Dame stepped into the position of regular Notre Dame center, is one of the outstanding defensive men boasted by the Irish in a decade. The stringy Hoosier is invariably assigned to the high scorer of every opponent. One of the outstanding achievements of the lad was last year’s masterpiece of guarding Gene England of Wisconsin. Frank regards this as one of the toughest assignments he has ever had, but emphasizes that mini’s Malthi-son also gave him plenty of trouble.
Francis Quinn is one of the many Hoosiers who have made good on the Irish varsity. Born in Indianapolis on March 20, 1920, the youth received his prep basketball and scholastic training at Cathedral High of the state capital. His freshman and
sophomore years found Frank rather inactive on the basketball court which by his own adinission can be blamed on his squatty stature of those days. He admits that until his junior year in high school he assumed the approximate proportions of 5:7 in height and 150 pounds in weight. This is hard to believe upon a comparison of these statistics with his 6:2 and 167 pounds which he boasts today.
The Cathedral machines upon which Quinn performed were faced with the almost impossible task - of living up to the enviable reputation established by the 1936 Cathedral team which fought its way through, the tough state tourney and then went to win the national Catholic title. Johnny Ford; who was later to become captain of the Notre Dame basketbailers starred for the national
champions.
During Frank’s stay on the Cathedral varsity, which was confined to his junior and senior years, the team managed to pile up an enviable 1’ecord, and in his senior year the team wne to the semifinals of the state Catholic tourney before they bowed to Anderson, the ultimate champions. This same year Cathedral battled the Indianapolis city champions, Shortridge, on even terms through
out the game before going down to a 36-34 defeat in the final seconds.
Although the Indianapolis team went down to defeat in the state tourney in Quinn’s senior year, the Cathedral center’s class caught the eyes of the critics so much taht he was picked up on the All-State Catholic team. Such fine athletes as Bill McGannon, Bob Hargrave and Bill Hillenbrand also participated in the tourney as members of the Evansville Reitz Memorial team. As a climax to his stellar year of performance, Frank was crowned the Indianapolis - scoring champion of that year as a result of 258 points in his 21 games.
“Effie” learned his basketball from two of the outstanding scorers in the country: Johnny Townsend, former Indianapolis Tech and Michigan star, and Charley Shipp, currently of the Oshkosh
professionals. The trio became skilled in the fundamentals of the game via a basket erected in the alley. With the rise to court fame of Quinn, all three have achieved fame on midwestern college teams.
The Butler field house floor has proved to be a jinx floor for the Irish athlete. Frank has performed in the spacious emporium five times to date and thus far has been unable to come off a member of the winning aggregation. The annual Shortridge - Cathedral city game was played in the field house and three times Quinn left the floor the loser. Since playing for the Irish the lad has played before home-town fans twice and has yet to hold a decision over the Bulldogs in their own field house.
Frank proved to be one of the most popular members of his high school class off the hardwood, as is evidenced by the fact that his classmates elected him treasurer of his senior class. Another popular activity off the basketball court was. participation in sandlot softball. This hobby led to Frank’s membership on the St. Ed’s A.C. softball team which last year won the ScHOLASTic-sponsored tourney.
Although Quinn is an athlete of no mean ability himself, he asserts that the best basketball player at Notre Dame since his participation on the varsity was Eddie Riska. Eddie, who was captain of the Blue and Gold machine last year, was elected to the All-Star College team this year which was chosen to battle the Pros. Although Riska suffered a knee injury and was unable to participate in the game, the collegians eked out a 34-33 triumph. Frank also voices the opinion that Steve Juzwik is the best halfback he has ever seen play at Notre Dame.
It is hard to find a hobby with Frank outside of basketball, but during his earlier days he piled up a huge collection of stamps, which he still maintains. Sandwiched between his academic activities during off-season he likes to while away the hours reading short stories.
Frank has seen some of the nation’s best quintets during his three-year stay on the Notre Dame varsity, but after considerable recollection he ventured the opinion that the Southern California team which defeated the Irish in his sophomore yeai' was the best against which he has participated. This is the quintet which featured Ralph Vaughn and several other former Hoosier high school stars on their squad. . . .
During the summer months the Indianapolis youth labors to keep in shape for the ensuing basketball season. Last summer found him employed as a checker in a local lumber yard, but the sum-
(Continued on page 26)
M
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Irish Play Wisconsin, Big Ten Champs Tomorrow Night, Meet N. U. New Year's Eve
Michigan, Illinois and Harvard Are Holiday Foes
Notre Dame’s eagers, playing less ragged ball than their opponents, posted their second win in three starts last Saturday evening., In defeating St. Louis 51-22, the Irish closed their home stand for 1941. Starting tomorrow, four consecutive road games will be played against stiff Big Ten opposition. The next home games will be in January, 1942.
To Avenge Last Year's Close Defeat
Notre Dame faces her toughest opposition of the still young basketball season tomorrow when they meet the powerful University of Wisconsin quintet at Madison. Wisconsin is the champion of the Big. Ten and stands a good chance to retain its crown. Last year Wisconsin won a one-point thriller from the Irish at Madison, 44-43, to shave the Notre Dame all-time victory margin to four triumphs in six games. The series began in the 1926-27 season when the Irish won 19-14. Leading the Irish in their 1941 invasion of the Badger camp will be assistant coach, Ray Meyer.
Coach Meyer has high praise for the Badgers after seeing them defeat Mar
The eagers will be busy during the holidays
quette last Saturday. He brought reports of a very good passing and fast breaking team. Having several sharp-eyed scorers on the team, the Badgers work the ball in close to the basket from where they seldom miss. Coach Bud Foster last year started using the Notre Dame defense and this year the Badgers have mastered it and are employing it to great advantage.
Wisconsin, having lost but three squad members by graduation, presents, with one exception, the same lineup that won the NCAA championship last winter. A senior, Hario Scott, is filling the shoes of All-American Gene Englund, at center. Returning at forward are Epperson and Kotz, the team’s leading point getters, and at guard slots are Rehm and Alwin. Kotz, a junior, scored 16 points in the Badgers’ 35-34 conquest of Marquette and stands a good chance of being the Big Ten’s leading scorer of the season.
Followed by Michigan and Illinois
Next Friday night as most of the students are traveling home the Keogan-men will be in Ann Arbor filling an engagement with the University of Michigan. The Wolverines are not expected to
be as strong as they were last season, but this will have little bearing on the Notre Dame game as Michigan can always be counted on to play their best against the Irish.
Four days after the Wolverine game, Coach Meyer will lead the Irish eagers to Champaign for an engagement with Illinois. The Illini, studded with sophomore stars from last year’s great freshman team, are expected to be a big contender for the Big Ten conference championship. This game will pit brother against brother as Vic Wukovits of the Illini and Bill Wukovits of Notre Dame, both brothers of Tommy Wukovits, great Irish guard of a few seasons back, clash.
And Northwestern on New Year's Eve
On New Year’s Eve, Northwestern will have a chance to make up a little for the football defeat handed them by the Leahymen a few weeks ago. The Wildcats have four members of the football team ready to face the Irish on the Evanston court. Footballer Bud Hasse and Otto Graham will still be doing a lot of passing as will Don Clawson and Don Krueger. Graham, who scored 26 points in his first game, won’t have Ber-telli to rival him on the court but such men as Charley Butler, John Niemiera aand Bob Faught can give him plenty of rivalry.
Alumnus Brown Brings Harvard Here
The next home game for the Irish will be on Jan. 3, as a strong Harvard team invades the Midwest. The Crimson men are coached by Earl Brown, All-American end at Notre Dame in 1939 who also starred for Mr. Keogan. The battle of pupil and teacher should prove of interest. Coach Brown will present one of the East’s outstanding teams in his-allsenior quintet.
Two nights after the students return from their holiday, Washington University of St. Louis will furnish the Irish opposition in the Notre Dame field house. At this time little is known of the Bear’s strength, they are, however, expected to furnish much better opposition than did their cross-town neighbors, St. Louis University.—Bill Reynolds	.
Though it survived the Civil war, the University of North Carolina was closed for five years during the Reconstruction period.
15
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
by Red Lonergan
All during last week’s game there was a constant chant of antagonism and a disgust for St. Louis’ style of play. We were constantly complaining about their slow and deliberate system, not realizing that their methods were merely foreign to us. We seemed to be ignorant of the fact that there still remain two styles of play, that of the East and that of the West. They have been given these geographic titles to designate the sections of the country in which they predominate, though there are numerous exceptions to this rule. St. Louis was an exception.
The styles of play are these. Eastern players have generally been taught to depend on a clearer, slow-moving style. Their play embodies feints, pivots, quick starts, and quick stops, in planned maneuvers to get opponents off balance. Possession of the ball is important and shots at the basket are taken only when the player is unhurried or in a good position.
In opposition to this style of play is that of most western players who take long cuts, run harder, and use a free style of passing. Very few eastern players use hook shots from the side of the basket. This shot is a favored weapon of western players. The elimination of the center jump has increased the speed of the game and those teams which employ a steady running attack have used it much to their advantage.
The ideal would probably be to combine the cleverness of the eastern player with the speed and stamina of the western player. Let us not condemn this different style of play just because it happens to be different and foreign to us.
Sports Quiz
1.	What two men are considered the “Iron Men” of the six day bike races?
2.	Whose fortunes did Coach Keogan guide before he came here?
3.	Can you give the nicknames of these famous National A. A. U. teams?
a)	Denver ____________
b)	Tulsa______________
4.	Where was the first book of Rules on Bridge printed?
5.	When and where is boxing first mentioned in history?
6.	What are the three weapons of fencing?
Frosh Cage Crew Numbers 25 After Final Cut
Following an influx of liberated freshman footballers, the yearling basketball squad cut for last time last week-end and now numbers 25 men.
The hallowed upstairs gym, producer of Casasanta’s greats, has been the scene
of daily practice for the frosh for the last several -weeks. The new basketball squad has the one feature sorely missed by the varsity since the halcyon days of Moir and Nowak—size. The new crop has good players with both height and weight.
Up to this point, Coach Al Del Zoppo has been concentrating mainly on defense with the stress on basket making technique to come later. This department should be well taken care of, as there seem to be a number of point-getters, especially the one hand push-in artists, employing something of the style of Bill Menke, former Indiana U. star who starred here last week with the Great Lakes quintet. '
There are a number of players whose brothers won monograms in previous years under Coach George Keogan, including Sobek and Klier, but possibly the outstanding player at this writing is a West Virginia boy, Ozzie Coleman. Other standouts include Rutledge, Davis, Fire-stine, Pavela, Nolan, Newbold, Sheehan, and Creevey.—Coleman McGuire
Irish Track Prospects Good in Most Events
Practicing intensively before the Christmas holidays, the Notre Dame track team can be viewed daily in the field house. Coach Bill Mahoney expects to have a fine team, sparked by quartermilers, and a mile relay team which set
Pretty Peggy Pepper Suggests
a new Notre Dame mile relay record last year.
Captain. Ray Roy is anchor man of the quartet. Running before him will be Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta and George Schiewe. All but Tupta, who runs the half-mile, are fine 440 men. Other promising half-milers are Wilbur Riordan, Austin Jones and Bill Kelly. In the distance events Mahoney is counting on Tony Maloney, Ollie Hunter and Frank Conforti, plus three good sophomores, Bob Reilly, Walt Barry and Walt Brehmer.
Weak events for the team are the sprints, where Jay Gibson, a monogram winner, is the only holdover from last year, and the pole vault, now that Ezra Smith is performing for Uncle Sam. Frank Wietoff is a returning vaulter, and Bill Dillon, who set a N.D.. record in the high hurdles last year, has shown promise in the pole vault.
The same Dillon heads an array of returning sprinters which numbers Joe Prokop, George Schiewe and Bill Nicholson. Keith O’Rourke, who won many championship events last season, is the mainstay of the high jumpers. Bill Nicholson, Charles Murphy and Bill Neelan are dependable for points in the high jump, too. Hogue is the best bet in the broad-jump, while Jim Delaney heads the weight - men, ably supported by Herky Bereolos and Wally Ziemba. It (Continued on page 18)
16
rCCCP*N SPLINTERS
EEC Ai THE PREJf ECX
BY BILL SCANLAN
CRIMMINS IMPRESSES FOLKS AT INDIANAPOLIS
When it comes to an extraordinary sample of Notre Dame’s athletes in action, take a quick look at Bernie Crimmins.... Thomas L. McCoy, chairman of the Athan-aeum Turners in Indianapolis, writes local University officials after Bernie’s visit there: “Bernie is a very fine gentleman and a credit to the University. He conducted himself splendidly, and it was really a treat to see the expressions and actions of all of the youngsters who attended the Father and Sons banquet when they were in conversation with Bernie. There wasn’t anything that any of the boys, or, in fact any of the dads, asked that Bernie did not graciously answer.” ... Notre Dame will see more of Crimmins.... He captains Coach Jake Kline’s 1942 baseball team, as a catcher.... If the draft doesn’t call too soon.
FOOTBALL COACHES FACE FULL SCHEDULE
Most of the Irish footballers have slipped into the realms of easy living, but the traveling days for the coaches is just beginning.... Since the season closed Coach Frank Leahy has delivered talks in Peoria, Ill.; Madison, Wis.; South Bend; Flint, Mich.; Saginaw, Mich.; Chicago; Davenport, la.; Omaha, Nebr.; Terre Haute, Ind.... Dec. 15 he visits Oil City, Pa., returns here briefly, then on Dec. 18 heads for a month’s vacation in the south.... He may attend the Sugar Bowl game in New Orleans. ... And he flew to Boston to see the B.C.-Holy Cross game recently.... Dec. 4 he spoke in Flint at noon, and Saginaw at night.... What a welcome vacation will be— . Coach Ed McKeever’s trail as speaker includes: Chicago, Detroit, Sturgis, Mich., Hammond, Ind., South Bend, and Indianapolis.... Joe McArdle and John Druze have gone to their homes in Massachusetts and New Jersey.
MADDOCK IRON HORSE OF IRISH LINEUP
Bob Maddock played 413% minutes to top Irish players during the past season.... Dippy Evans totaled 409% minutes while Jim Brutz slid into third place with 406% .... Only men to play more than 400 minutes.... Good enough for the Irish coaches, yet too often overlooked by All-America pickers.... Ollie Hunter won’t race Greg Rice in the Sugar Bowl extravaganza.... Bill Sullivan, Coach Leahy’s secretary, has fully recovered from an attack of flu.... He is to be married to Mary K. Malone, Boston, in February.
SUGGESTIONS FOR GOOD SANTA CLAUS
If Santa Claus needs any suggestions for his gift list this year, he might consider: a pair of guards for Coach Leahy, some that can play their posts like Freshman John Yonakor fills left end.... He’s 6:5, weighs 230.... Coach George Keogan wouldn’t cut a couple of basketball prospects like Bob Faught off the squad.... J. W. McAllister needs a few more sweat sox and a couple of footballs.... Coach Bill Mahoney holds his sock out, hoping for more trackmen who train as hard as Jim Delaney and Will Riordan.... Tennis Coach Walt Langford wants freshmen made eligible so Jimmy Evert can play with both Olen Parks and Capt. Dan Canale.... The “Week” columnist, J. Q. O’Connell, needs a course in arithmetic so he can count the days before Christmas as well as a new middle name.... Q.... The retired “Week” editor is similarly in a quandary.... J. P. O’Laughlin, who surrendered writing to sell shoes in a local establishment, sold himself new brown nifties.... When he got home—they didn’t fit.... Baseball Coach Jake Kline wants a shortstop like Ray Pinelli who can hit a la Andy Chlebeck.
JERSEYITE HANDLES BASKETBALL SCOREBOOK
Official scorekeeper at Irish basketball games is gentleman William P. Kelly, senior manager, who operates out of South Orange, N. J.... Top thrill he experienced was watching Carl Hubbell strike out seven American League sluggers in a row during the 1934 All-Star game.... Major aim—U. S. Naval Air Corps.... And foreign news reporting.... Note to the Navy.... Dan Cullinane, Walsh- hall’s one-man gymnasium and master phy-ed, philosophises: “Jap jui jitsu holds depend on a surprise attack for effectiveness; but the Japs can’t break American wrestling holds after they are once applied.”
Perfect Topcoat
•	Fly Front
•	Well Tailored
•	Your Favorite
Cloth*
The ideal Coat for a College man's wardrobe — goes any place — Select it in
* Camel's Hair Rare Wool Harris Tweed Fleeces Covert Gabardine	-
PARKER-WINTERROWD 115^-117^ N. Main (Upstairs)
N. D. Representatives: LILLIS KELLEY
McCARTY
Alumni Hall
We Carry ...
Not only DR. GRABOW and HOLLYCOURT Pipes but also KAYWOODIE, YELLO BOLE, DUNHILL, SASIENI and many others.
BRUGGNER'S Cigar Store
110 N. MAIN ST. (Opposite Oliver Hotel)
MEDICO |SBPE] _ FILTERED
I KNUIHE Fm$ FDR MEDICO PIPES
■ MRy [ PACKED ONEY IN THS RED & BIACK BOX f 66 Baffle Filter whirl-cools smoke; traps juices, flakes and nicotine in pipes, cigarette and cigar holders.
For Your Trip Home at Christmas
Even if you don't have a return portion of a College Special Reduced Fare ticket. . . you can go home by train on a definite schedule, safely and economically. Fares are low!
HERE’S HOW YOU, TOO, CAN TRAVEL ON
"COLLEGE SPECIAL"
REDUCED ? FARES
Students and teachers travel from and to their homes at great savings on these College Special tickets. To make this saving, all you have to do is purchase one from your hometown railroad ticket agent before returning from the Christmas holidays. The cost is amazingly low—liberal return limits fit your school program—you can make stop-overs, too! There are reduced round trip Pullman rates, also. When Spring holidays come you can use the return coupon to travel home again or use it at close of school.
IMPORTANT—It is expected that on account of a heavy volume of Military furlough travel, as well as civilian holiday traffic, passenger travel during the forthcoming Christmas-New Year's Holiday period will be extremely heavy this year. If it can possibly be arranged for students to leave school December 17th or before and return to school January 7th or later, it is urged they do so. It will also .be ■ found easier to make reservations and more comfortable to travel
■ on or before December 17, 1941, and on or after January 7, 1942.
Be Thrifty—with Safety—Travel by Train
ASSOCIATED EASTERN RAILROADS
is feared that Ed Sullivan, still hampered by a football knee, will be unable to compete in the shot-put.
As yet the schedule has not been released by the Athletic Board, although a tentative card has been arranged with the first meet likely to bring a powerful Indiana team to the field house, Feb. 2.
—Bill Rogers
Free Bowling Lessons
Offered in Walsh Alleys
With all teams up to date, the allCampus Bowling league is looking forward to a more stable season. Lou Spagnuolo of St. Ed’s Hall, league treasurer, states that all back prize money for weekly high scores has been paid.
Single Tourney Still Open
Jim Fayette, secretary of the league, tells us that entries for the handicap singles tournament will be taken up until post time at 12:00 noon Saturday, Dec. 13. This tournament is open to all students, and the average bowler has as much of a chance to win as the star because it will be conducted on a handicap basis. A fine trophy will go to the first place winner, and medals to the runners up. Cash prizes will be awarded according to the number of entries received. Entry may be made at the K. of C. alleys in Walsh Hall.
Through the efforts of Joe Palmer, president of the league, various prizes have been obtained from South Bend merchants to be given to teams at the close of the season.
, “Nib” Trimbourne reported from Chicago, where he attended the Tribune Match Game Eliminations over the weekend, that he had overheard Ned Day, national match game champion, say that “the growth of bowling in the colleges has reached a point where a national intercollegiate tournament similar to that conducted in billiards, is in immediate prospect. A number of universities have been sending teams to recent A.B.C. tournaments, and there are annual telegraphic matches between the Big Ten schools.”
Tom Halligan, manager of the alleys in Walsh Hall, says that starting next week, class and individual bowling instructions will be given free of charge to those who already bowl or to beginners. All those interested are advised to sign up early at Walsh Hall. .
All Campus Bowling league standings
as of Dec. 7, 1941.			Blue League	W	L
Red League	W	L			
Champs 		..12	3	Alley Rats 		..13	2
Knights 		..10	5	Sonneborns 		..12	3
Hot Dogs	.. 9 ■	5	St. Ed’s A. C....	..10	5
Gaels 		...8	7	Admirals 		.. 7	5
Golds 		_ 5	7	Aero’s 			.. 8	
Whirlwinds 		.. 0	12	Hy Marcs 		.. 1	14
18
Naval Reserves Publish
Magazine, "Irish Pennant"
An attractive blue and gold mimeographed magazine called the Irish Pennant made its appearance on the campus this week. Scheduled to be published monthly by the local Naval Reserve unit, the Pennant is edited by Stewart F. Murphy, with Lt. T. Black, Jr., USN, as faculty advisor.
Cover design on the initial magazine was a reproduction in gold of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. emblem. Contained in the first issue was a message from Commandant H. P. Burnett, brief biographies of Burnett and student officers and several short articles.
The sports section was largely devoted to the rifle range and the rifle matches scheduled thus far this season. According to the Pennant the local rifle unit dropped a match to Minnesota while beating Oklahoma’s Naval Reserve team.
Editors other than Murphy of the Irish Pennant are: Frank E. Beaudine, Vincent A. Bitter, Robert L. Bobbett, Louis J. Borghi, James J. Bryan, Roy J. Carlson, Joseph A. Conerty, John M. Grentzer, Roy J. Grumbine, John R. Houghteling, Donald E. Hummer, Charles G. Lyden, Charles J. Montrie, Charles E. Seghers, Edward J. Singely, Frank W. Snyder, Charles Murruela, and William W. Wicks.
Cover design for the first issue was executed by Louis J. Borghi.
Butler and Sophs Lead In Irish Cage Scoring
Charlie Butler, junior forward from Chicago, is the only returning veteran who has retained his scoring punch, having scored 27 points to lead the other Irish. Even he, however, had an off night against Great Lakes. He made 10 points, six of them on free throws, but he didn’t get a field goal until the final two minutes. He made only four points against St. Louis. George Sobek, senior forward, who ranked behind Butler last year, has collected six points, and Frank Quinn, senior center, who made 82 points last year while playing great defensive ball, has clicked for only seven points. Capt. Art Pope, guard, has been even less fortunate, making but three points.
Meanwhile, three sophomores and a junior are hot on Butler’s trail. Bob Faught, 6-foot, 5-inch soph center from Cleveland, Ohio, has made 21 points; John Niemiera, soph forward from Chicago, has 19; and Bob Rensberger, junior guard from Napannee, Ind., has 16; and John (Buster) Hiller, soph forward from . E. Bernstadt, Ky., has 12.
WYMAN'S
Pltaue 3-5104
''om ■
For Mother, Sis, Girl Friend —
Handmade, pure linen handkerchiefs_________________________3 for $1
Her favorite colognes, gift bottled.____________________________$1
Gloves, pigskin or capeskin__________________________________$2.98
Perfumes — fragrances that flatter_______________________$1 to $12
Handbags for day and evening_______________________$1.98 to $18.50
Belle Sharmeer leg-size stockings______________________$1 to $1.95
Andes Candies, beautifully boxed_______________________2 lbs. $1.25
For Dad and Brother —
Ties — Botany, Nor East, Nylon, Wilson....________$1 Interwoven socks, regular and short lengths_______55c pr.
Sheaffer pen and pencil sets_____________$1.95 to $15
Swank jewelry — key chains, tie clips________________$1
Wilson and Kingly shirts______________$ 1.65, $2, $2.50
Swank, Buxton, Hickok billfolds_______________$1 to $5
Wilson Gloves...._____________________________$1 to $5
Visit TOYLAND for children's gifts
You're sure to find just the gift for litt'e brother or sister in Wyman's big Toyland. It's overflowing with trains, dolls, games, books . . . all the things so dear to a child's heart.
Here's help for your shopping
Ask on the main floor for Miss “Lil” Manion. Ask anyone to call Joan Navarre, personal shopper — she’ll shop for you or with you!
WYMAN'S
W
in the nation's defense effort
— a type of carrier telephone circuit — is now being built into many miles of Long Distance cable lines to increase their capacity.
Engineers at Bell Telephone Laboratories developed this circuit which enables two pairs of wires in parallel cables to carry as many as twelve separate conversations at the same time.
K carrier is one of the ways we have found of adding a lot of long circuits in a hurry to meet defense communication needs. Such problems constantly challenge Bell System men with pioneering minds.
Interhall Cage Results;
Plan Swim and Squash Meets
Interhall basketball practice round commenced the first week of December in the Rockne Memorial.
Displaying a brilliant defense, Dillon lightweights smothered a green Zahm Hall outfit, 28-6. Badin lights bear watching as the result of their 49-19 rout of Cavanaugh. Brownson and Walsh finished out the December first card with a thriller. Paced by Jim Droney, Brownson sharpshooter, the freshies tripped the Walsh Hallers 23-22.
In the heavyweight league, St. Mary’s lads were trailing Zahm 14-4 at intermission but rallied to upset the “Zombies” 31-27. The Law Club bested St. Ed’s huskies, in a rough and tumble affair, 17-15.
In general the play of the teams was too fast, but before actual league play starts, most of the rough spots will be ironed out.
Results of the games, Dec. 1, Light League: Brownson 23, Walsh 22; Badin 49, Cavanaugh 19; Dillon 28, Zahm 6.
Dec. 2, Heavy League: Carroll 33, Dillon 29; Lyons 25, Navy ROTC 14; St. Mary’s 31, Zahm 27.
Dec. 4, Heavy League: Howard 30, Breen-Phillips 22; Brownson 40, Badin 24; Law Club 17, St. Ed’s 15; Morrissey 40, Walsh 26.
Lackner Wins Squash Title
A sophomore, Vince Lackner, outclassed “Duke” Goeller, a senior, to win the squash tournament Tuesday night. The handball tournament has reached the semi-finals and the winner will be determined sometime this week.
Another Swimming Meet Planned
Mr. Mills announced tentative plans for the Interhall Swimming Meet. It will be held shortly after Christmas. Judging from the entries in the All-Campus Swim Meet held recently, N. D. swimmers are-not too ambitious. Mr. Mills would like to see a revival of interest in this sport, so hall teams are urged to organize and start conditioning before the holidays.
Faculty Tournament
Plans are also under way for a faculty squash tournament as well as a handball tourney for priests.
—Jack Denniston
Sports Quiz Answers
1.	Reggie McNamara and Alfred Letourner, the iwo old men of six day cycling.
2.	St. Louis U’s.
3.	a) Denver Safeways; b) Tulsa Oilers.
4.	In Russia.
5.	It is first mentioned in Homer’s Iliad and its birthplace can be said as in Greece.
6.	a) Foil; b) Epee, and c) sabre.
20
Air Corps Press Release
Montgomery, Ala., Dec. 3 — Former Notre Dame men are now enrolled as aviation cadets in the replacement center at Maxwell Field, Ala., headquarters of the Southeast Air Corps Training Center.
These men are John Lawrence Crane, Jr., of Dunkirk, N. J., A.B., T940; Robert Lawrence Grogan of Terre Haute, Ind., A.B., 1937; Patrick Dorr Putnam of Syracuse, N. Y., B.S., 1941, and Charles Braun Rasor of Troy, 0., A.B., 1939.
They are scheduled to leave soon for primary schools in the southeast for the first phase of other pilot training. Upon the completion of 30 weeks in flight training, they will be awarded commissions as second lieutenants in the Army Air Corps.
K. of C. Show Will Aid
Men in Armed Services
Edward Reidy and James Fayette, chairmen of the scheduled Knights of Columbus bazaar, announced this week ■ that all proceeds from the aifair will go for Notre Dame men in the armed services of the country. They said the money will be used for purchasing things which are not supplied by the government, such as cigarettes, candy, etc.
The show is scheduled for the middle of February, just before Lent starts. At present a contest is in progress to determine a name for the show. Four prized are offered to winners: $10 for first prize and three consolation prizes of two dollars each. The contest closes next Wednesday. All entries should be addressed to Reidy in care of the local Knights of Columbus council in Walsh Hall.
JACK WHELAN, MAGIC MAN (Continued from page 13) present time he is enrolled in the Commerce School with business administration as his major. You can rest assured that his magic ability is confined to public appearances and not exercised in the class room, as it is apparently harder to pull answers out of a bag than it is rabbits.
Things seem to be looking up for magicians as a whole, according to Jack, and -with the advent and future use of television, magic might well become as important a medium of national entertainment as has ventriloquism and other stage acts depending formerly on personal audience contact. As gag lines and a continual flow of conversation always
accompany the magic of Mr. Whalen, radio and particularly television offer a tempting field for his talent. He has found, in the course of his 700 odd performances, that audiences look for a good “line” to coordinate the various acts, and Jack has developed one that steadily limits the number of tricks he can perform in a given time, and at the same time provide his spectators with more entertainment.. He suggests that Fred Allen used that technique as a ventriloquist, to achieve his present position. Jack makes mistakes in public and occasionally bungles an act, as do all
Bl POPULAR!
These Arthur Murray Dance Studios Offer
Special Holiday Rates to Students
• Guarantee yourself the best holiday of your life by brushing up on your dancing as soon as you come home from school! You’ll enjoy learning die latest Rumba and Fox Trot. In just a few hours you’ll surprise your partners with the diriKing new steps. Gain poise and confidence. Call at die Studios and ask about special rates for college students. Don’t wait until the last minute.
ARTHUR MURRAY
BOSTON..............294	Boylston St.
CHICAGO . Hotel Drake & 57 E. Jackson CLEVELAND.............Hotel Statler
DETROIT..............Hotel Statler
EAST ORANGE . . 44 Brick Church Plaza MILWAUKEE.............Hotel Astor
magicians, but he has found that many an error or slip has given birth to great improvements on the trick, and often originates the idea for an entirely new and distinct trick, the constant goal of all engaged in the business of magic.
The brother of the great Houdini is an acquaintance of Jack, as are Blackstone and a number of lesser lights in the business of deception. Ideas are exchanged between all the magicians of the country through the medium of their clubs, forming a massive fraternity with secrets by the hundreds binding theih together.—Ray Duggan
MINNEAPOLIS .... Hotel Nicollet NEW YORK . 11 IL 4-lrd St. & 695 5th Are. PIHLADELPIIL1 . . . 1518 Walnut St. PITTSBURGH . . . Hotel William Penn ST. LOUIS .... 7742 Forsythe Bird. WASHINGTON. D. C.. 1101 Conn. Are. N. W.
21
Four professors of physics at Cornell university have left the campus to take defense positions.
HEY,
HEADING FOR HOME?
Start right and easy! Send your luggage round-trip by trusty, low-cost Railway Express, and take your train with peace of mind.We pick-up and deliver, remember, at no extra charge within our regular vehicle limits in all cities and principal towns.Y ou merely phone
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
N. D. BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame Christmas Cards
5 cents
(Two different scenes) GROTTO or ADMINISTRATION BLDG.
Notre Dame Monogrammed Jewelry
Notre Dame Pillows, Pennants and Souvenirs
Religious Articles
(Gift Wrapped Ree)
BADIN HALL Notre Dame
"Get Picture - Conscious"
Says "Times" Editor
“What’ll ya have, Mr. Morgan, steak or a newspaper?”
Although that question may never have been asked, Mr. J. Ray Hunt, picture editor of the Chicago Times, thinks that in many cases, the request would be for the paper.
On Dec. 6, 1941, Mr. Hunt gave a lecture to the Journalism majors in place of the regular class in news writing and reporting. The class is scheduled to run from 9:00 to 10:50 with a ten minute rest from 9:50 to 10:00 o’clock; yet, Mr. Hunt held the interest of his audience to the extent that the recess was ignored.
Mr. Hunt, who was a student here himself, “—about 15 years ago,” told how the tabloid newspaper (that is the type in which the Chicago Times is printed) was evolved. First published in London as an attempt at educating the British women who hadn’t either the time or the literacy to read the printed word, it was in great part pictures. Col. McCormack of the “World’s Greatest Newspaper” was over there during the war with a friend of his who since has founded and made successful the New York Daily Neivs suggested that the idea might be a success in America. The first day’s circulation was about 500,000, and then went down to about 35,000 but it didn’t stay at the bottom long. Right now it has a circulation of about 3,000,000 on Sundays and about 2,000,000 on week-days.
Mr. Hunt attributes a great deal of this success to the picture. He says, “Much of the quality in news today is visual effect-pictures-pictorial presentation of the startling and significant happenings of the hour, side by side with the printed word.” To prove their value he points out that of all the words we have read on the evacuation of Dunkerque, the invasion of Poland and the night raids on London, most of us remember only one of the words, “Blitz-kreig,” while most of us remember those startling pictures of the British soldiers wading out to the boats, the girl crying next to the machine-gunned body of her sister, and the ruins of St. Paul’s church. In short, he told all the prospective Paul Mallons to get “picture-conscious.”
He told them the techniques employed in sending wirephotos, in taking the pictures, in making the cuts and showed them how the page of pictures is made up.
In closing he warned them not to go out with the idea of getting a “by line”
because you can’t eat a piece of paper that small and get any nourishment out of it. Be prepared to do anything at all but above all be aware that the best attention getter is a good picture.
—Frank King
MUSICAL POWDER BOXES
with
NOTRE DAME VICTORY MARCH and other tunes From $2.95
•
JEWELRY GIFTS for All Occasions.
•
Guaranteed Watch Repairing at Reasonable Prices.
•
Mail orders will be given prompt attention.
block bros.
CORNER MICHIGAN ^WASHINGTON
FORD IWHIHS
DRUG STORE
Your friendly DRUG Store in the Oliver Hotel.
•
STUDENTS!
Make us your Off-Campus Headquarters
Try our delicious food at budget prices.
Need DRUGS? Prices to meet your purse.
22
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
ASK US TO
PLAN YOUR
HOLIDAY TRIP
•	The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Our agent can handle your every detail to and from home.
•	Inquire about fares, routing stopovers, travel time, to any section of the United States or Canada.
•	Many students have already arranged their holiday trips. Plan yours now without further delay. The South Shore ticket office is open daily until midnight.
C. W. VEACH City Passenger Agent
TICKET OFFICE 301 N. Michigan Street
Phone 3-3111
Varsity Debate Squad
Members Are Announced
While the final rebuttal arguments were still rocketting off the pillars of the Law auditorium, the judges retired to formulate their final decision in the varsity debate tryouts. Fifteen minutes later they were back and Director of Debate William J. Coyne announced the names of the varsity squad members.
William Meier, Alumni hall Senior and Mark Lies, Dillon hall Junior, were picked for the “A” squad negative team; Joseph Tracy, Howard hall Junior, and James O’Dea, Morrissey hall sophomore, will debate on the “A” squad affirmative team. On the “B” squad, John Utz, Morrissey hall Sophomore, and Robert Le-Mense, Howard hall Junior, will uphold the affirmative; Robert Galvin, Morrissey hall Sophomore, and William Lawless, Lyons hall Sophomore, will argue for the negative.
The intercollegiate question this year is, “Resolved, That the Federal Government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States.” The varsity squads have begun work on the question already but will not get into full swing until after the Christmas holidays.
The schedule for this year will probably not be decided on until some time after the holidays. Usually both “A” and “B” squads participate in the Manchester tournament at North Manchester, Ind. The “A” squad in past years has engaged in several dual debates with traditional rivals and has taken several extended trips, going South last year and East two years ago.—Robert LeMense
Survey Conducted by the
Department of Journalism
“What do Notre Dame’s Journalism students do after they graduate?” That question was on the mind of Dr. Cooney, head of the department of journalism so he delegated his secretary, Bill Peidmont to look into the situation.
Under the direction of James E. Armstrong, ’25, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, who was himself a journalism major, aided by the members of the Press Club and students in the department of journalism, Peidmont sent all the members of that exclusive club, the Notre Dame Journalism majors a little questionnaire.
The survey showed that there were members of the club who were working in 31 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, and also in what was then France and in Germany.
Members of the group were found in practically every phase of journalism:
“Z DROPPED it!” “WHAT?” “My WATCH.”
PETERS. Watch Maker 102 V2 N. Michigan Street Over Clark’s Restaurant
GOING HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS? ... Be prepared with a pair of Kuehn's all-occasion shoes.
Hi-Mm Bum
A Step^ti lisliictiii
It’s a man’s world today. And these are comfortable shoes for men who do things, shoes that revel in rough weather. But they also win you admiring glances from the gentle sex. See these handsome, husky Crosby
120 S. Michigan St.
23
in newspaper and magazine work, in book publishing and writing, with trade journals and technical periodicals, in publicity and advertising posts, and in various departments of radio broadcasting.
Among those who took up actual newspaper work upon completion of their studies are such great names as Paul Mallon, ’23, whose column “News Behind the News” appears daily on the pages of more than two hundred newspapers in the United States giving clearcut interpretations of the nation’s politics. Another specialist in politics is Walter Trohan, ’26, who is the Washington correspondent for the Chicago Tribune. The labor news from Washington is handled by Thomas Coman, ’25, for the Associated Press.
Among the newspaper sports columnists are James 0. Kearns, ’34, who is now doing his best to help Mr. Fields’ morning paper grow out of the infant stage. Charles 0. Molz, ’24, is a newseditor for the Detroit Daily News. Gerald Holland, ’25, is the marine editor for the same paper.
All the Journalism grads didn’t go to work for big city papers, however. Arthur L. Himbert, ’32, is the editor and publisher of the New Smyrna Beach (Fla.) Daily News. Daniel Coughlin, ’22, is the business manager of the Waseca (Minn.) Herald, while Francis Fink, ’30, is associate editor of Our Sunday Visitor, the largest Catholic weekly in the United States.
Many of them are engaged in radio work. Harry Flannery, ’23, began, in 1940, to tell the world—over the Columbia Broadcasting System from Berlin— all that might discreetly be told of what seems to be going on inside Germany. Walter Hagen, Jr., ’40, is “sportscasting” over the N.B.C. network from Chicago, and John Herrick, ’36, is doing station announcing for WOKO Albany, New York. Another "great” is Francis Wallace whose writings have provided the ideas for eight movies during the past five years.
Publicity and public relations caught the eyes of many of the men who answered the survey. Joe Petritz, ’32, is now serving his ninth year as director of sports publicity for the University. John F. McMahon, ’28, is a public relations manager -with Air Hygiene Foundation, of Pittsburgh.
In the advertising field, Lord and Thomas claims the services of Edward
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER”	Michigan at Washington
It's Adler's for Arrows
You’ll find Arrow Formal Shirts, together with a huge selection of favorite, long-wearing Arrows, at ADLER’S. Make your selection tomorrow.
CORRECTION!
We regret that the ad above was run on Nov. 14 with the prices of Arrow dress shirts listed incorrectly.
News for
Night Owls
If formal wear is your Nemesis, see the goodlooking Arrow dress shirts. They’re both comfortable and well-behaved.
The Arrow Lido, for white tie and tails, has a smooth narrow bosom, held securely in place by suspender loops.	—>-
The Arrow Shoreham, for black tie and tux, has a semi-soft pleated bosom with turned-down attached collar.
-<—
Arrow Dress Ties, SI	Handkerchiefs, 25c
Collars, 35c
ARROW WIRTS
Z4
McCormack, ’28; John Mullen, ’28, is in New York with Benton and Bowles, and Richard Meade, ’33, works for the San Francisco office of J. Walter Thompson.
Of course, many of the graduates of the department of journalism didn’t go into work of these types at all. The accompanying chart shows exactly the division of localities among the Journalism graduates who left school between 1914 and 1939:
V-16G ,
Journalism, (all branches) 54 percent; Sales and Merchandising, 13 percent; Finance and Brokerage, 9 percent; Law and the Judiciary, 6 percent; Government, 3 percent; Social Work, 3 percent; Education, 2 percent; Coaching, 2 percent, and Miscellaneous, 8 percent.
In addition to those already mentioned, several members of the University’s faculty and administrative staff were students of the department of journalism during the period covered by the survey.


These include Eev. James Connerton, C.S.C., ’20, acting registrar; Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., ’18, head of the department of sociology; Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., ’20, head of the department of English; Professor Paul I. Fen-Ion, ’19, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Mr. William R. Dooley, ’26, managing editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus.
$334.88 In an Hour
Fans attending the Notre Dame-Southern California football game purchased §334.88 worth of Health Crosses, Miss Irma Collmer, executive secretary of the St. Joseph County Anti - Tuberculosis League, has announced. One hundred and forty-three girls from six high schools and several junior high schools in South Bend participated in the drive with South Bend Catholic’s six girls winning the team prize for collecting §48.76. St. Joseph’s Academy was the winning . school with a record of §95.89 collected. A Catholic high girl ranked first for individual sales with two St. Joseph’s Academy representatives following in second and third place.
In thanking the University for the opportunity to sell the Health Crosses, the T-B league said the game sale was remarkable because the girls worked for only an hour.
Indianapolis Club Dance
The date for the traditional Christmas Formal of the Indianapolis Club has been selected as Friday evening, Dec. 26, according to an announcement by Presi-den John Gavin at a recent Club meeting. The dance this year is to be held at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. It provides the one opportunity for an alumnus and student reunion; and because of the uncertainty of the times, every effort is being expended by the



Have fun-be friendly
Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum The Flavor Lasts
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251





25
committees to assure the guests a memorable affair.
Paul Deery, general chairman, has engaged Chuck Smith and his orchestra. This band has rapidly increased in popularity throughout Indiana during the past season. A buffet-supper, a popular feature during previous dances, will be served again this year. To add to the entertainment a floorshow, replete with novelty dances and comedy acts, will be presented.
Bill Kennedy is music chairman, ably supported by Bernie McKay, decorations committeeman. Mike Carr announces that bids for the dance are now available.
N. D. GLIDER SOARS HIGH (Continued from page 9) lyzed; and since the law now requires this analysis, it is the only one of the two designs that can be built and licensed to fly.
Besides finishing third among utility pilots, Mr. Eikenberry was awarded the Samuel L. Willard “Silver C” award of $25 for being the first utility pilot to complete a flight of over five hours’ duration. This flight, lasting five hours and 45 minutes, was completed four days after Mr. Eikenberry arrived at Elmira.
The Notre Dame glider was not finished and made ready for competition until after the meet had started; and as a result the other pilots had a six-day start on Mr. Eikenberry. Since the meet lasted only two weeks, the final standing of the Notre Dame glider and pilot is all the more outstanding.—John W. Gilbert
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 14) mer of 1940 provided more unpleasant excitement for him. It was while working in an Indianapolis chemical works that Frank suffered painful burns on his face and hands when he spilled anthra-cin over himself. His leisure hours found him playing softball in an Indianapolis, league.
Unlike most pivot men, Notre Dame’s Frank Quinn is not one of those sparkling offensive men who receive most of the publicity. He stands out on defense, but when the occasion presents itself this fighting Quinn breaks through the opponent’s defense for a push-in shot.
The Notre Daine varsity is faced with one of the toughest schedules in years with a definite lack of experienced net-ters. George. Sobek and Captain Art Pope, the only other seniors on the squad, are being heavily counted on to provide the spark offensively. Defense? The simplest way of halting the other team is to single out their high-point man and give that assignment to the regular Irish center—Frank Quinn.
26
DISC-CUSSION
By Ed Roney
Several men have asked me during the past month if Glenn Miller has ever recorded a vocal rendition of his theme song “Moonlight Serenade.” And if no, why not? Now I can’t tell you the reason any more than anyone else can. In fact, I suppose that the only ones who can are Glenn himself and the Victor Recording Company. I have only heard this vocal by Ray Eberle five or six times and I liked it better each time. It seems to me that, following the example of Freddy Martin and his “Concerto,” he should “take a crack at it” and record this number.
Song-sation of the Week
Harry James has been following a new policy for several months that, although it shouldn’t be, is rather unique in popular records. This is to serve up two
c?
s«orsz
Il’s Going Places!
TBS DUKE
*Ask the salesman why Douglas "Down-to-tbe-Wood — Vp-to-tbe-Arcb” construction assures you better fit —greater comfort.
$4-50 . $5.50
Custom and Normal Treds, $7.50
When you step into the Duke, by Douglas, you’ll know why college men prefer it. It’s smart—campus-styled and just the right shoe for college wear. And Douglas’ exclusive hand-done color-toning process will give your pair the right shade of brown that looks best with flannels and tweeds.
Hcuqtai Shod 210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET Open Saturday Evenings
NEWEST FASHIONS IN LADY DOUGLAS, $4.00 ANO $5.00
top-notch tunes on one platter. And now he has done it again. Those students who attended the Army game came back talking about two of his numbers which were called “Make Love To Me” and “You Don’t Know What Love Is,” and now he has released them together. Helen Forrest handles the first one and with the help of Harry’s trumpet, she sings those lyrics in a way that’s sure to make your pulse skip a couple of beats. Dick Haymes doesn’t let Helen outshine him for he’s just as good on the reverse side. After hearing this you’ll wish more bandleaders would release two good tunes together.
A record that has been greatly neglected while the. rush to buy Glenn Miller’s “Chattanooga Choo Choo” goes on, is Jan Savitt’s version of the same number. It hasn’t any vocal but you can almost hear that train roaring down the track and it’s a swing masterpiece. It reminds one of “In the Mood,” “Two O’clock Jump,” and “Tuxedo Junction” all put together. It’s that good.
Jimmy Dorsey gives out with two more
FOR ALL EVENTS Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR'S
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100 South Main Street
(Across from the Courthouse)
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg. South Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
.314 J.M.S. Building Telephone 4-360
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M.D.	M.D.
Phone 3-2805	residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J.M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose. d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d. d. s.
623-629 SHERLAND Bldg. South BENO
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574
swell numbers named “The Spirit’s Got Me” and “Charleston Alley.” The former has Bob Eberly on the vocals and is mighty, mighty mellow while the second number is some more of that fine Jimmy Dorsey jive.
Bandwagon Playbacks
Jack Leonard, who has been in khaki since April, will be released shortly under the “over 28” clause—Raymond Scott is scheduled to lecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on acoustics—there are over 300,000 juke boxes in the United States—Eddy Duchin, after returning from South America, predicts that the Samba will be our newest dance craze — Beethoven composed his “V for Victory” song while almost entirely deaf—Bob Chester has cracked all attendance marks at the Armonk, New York Log Cabin with a 2,500 draw— Artie Shaw was presented with a Master of Music by the University of Omaha— Tony Pastor will open in December at the Log Cabin—Bon Bon has rejoined the Jan Savitt crew—Dick Jurgens will very shortly start a swing through the east—Mozart made only $200 on his famous opera, “The Marriage of Figaro” —Records are not made from wax or hard rubber — they’re pressed from a shellac and resin compound—Griff Williams and his crew have signed at the Palmer House for numerous intervals during the next six years—With Benny’s blessing, Cootie Williams has left Goodman to form his own band—120 million records will be sold in 1941—An all-time record—Vaughn Moore is now a Master of Music from his Alma Mater, Carnegie Tech — Abbott and Costello have been signed to make records for Victor—Freddy Martin has managed to get away from the West Coast to open the Wedgewood Room of the Waldorf-Astoria in January—Art Jarrett will trek to St. Louis for a Chase Hotel stand very soon—The Phonograph was considered a toy until Caruso recorded some numbers in 1906—Tommy Dorsey is now out on the coast making “I’ll Take Manila”—and the Emperor is no competition for Tommy.
Boston Club Dance
At University Club
Plans for the annual Christmas dance have been completed by the rejuvenated Boston Club. Chairman and ex-president Sig Wesolowski and President Frank Stewart, with the capable aid of Jim Cooney, predict the dance will be a great success. The affair will be held at the University Club in Boston on Dec. 26. Music will be supplied by Art Davis and his up-and-coming N. E. orchestra.
Give a little MUSIC this Christmas!
Co/umbia Albums
A Waltz may be just the thing . ..
•	Strauss Waltzes
•	Waltz Time in Vienna * Popular American Waltzes Al Goodman and his orchestra
Or plenty of laughs or remembrance in these two albums:
•	Naughty 90‘s and
•	Naughty 90’s No. 2
Large variety of ALBUMS . . . .
•	Rhumba with Cugat
•	Hymns—Phil Spitalny and orchestra
•	Memories — Al Goodman and orchestra
•	Serenades — Wladimir Sel-insky and string ensemble
•	Dinner Music — Wladimir
Selinsky and ensemble
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evenings
BODHIS
/;♦	T	. tv
27
Tune in the Christmas Spirit It's Chesterfield Pleasure Time Enjoy the music that everybody likes N. B. C. Stations
This time I’m coming to you With a timely shopping tip . .. Drop in at your tobacco store Take a look at the handsome way Your Christmas Chesterfields are packed.
this is
You never saw the like Of these swell gifts . .. Big ten package cartons Cartons holding four tins of 50 And brand new this year Special greeting cartons Holding just three packs.
year It’s Chesterfield
Milder Better-Tasting ...that’s why /
For more pleasure than
Copyright 1941, Liccett & Myebs Tobacco Co.
Anything else you can buy X 11	j 1*11
Vjhesterneia
28