
Paid Advertisement 
Freshmen, Upperclassmen, Sti 11 ·interested in working with 

We want you! We need you ! .Please call us at 239 -7668 or come ·and see us on the. second floor of La Fortune! 


STUDENT PLANNING CALENDAR.
'87 

-
'88 
On Sale in Student GovP,mment 
(2nd Floor Lafortune) 
and in your dorms! 
Includes: . 
Scheduled Campus Activities Important Names & Numbers Recreational Building Hours & Much, Much, More 

BUY YOURS NOW! . 


. !

Sch 
lastic 
Notre Dame's. Student Magazine September 10, 19 B 7 
News 
8/The High Cost of Learning by Mark Drajem 
Student Life 
6/Tearing Up the Turf by Rosabelle White 
Sports Departme~ts 
10/Back to the Future by Terry Lynch 5/ On Other Campuses: Notre Dame of Ohio? 12/ Sportsweek 
27/Music: Sounds from Down Under 13/Why Does Notre Dame Have the Greatest College Football Tradition? 
30/Final Word: The Beat Goes On· 21/Football 101 · -by Marty Burns 
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46656 and printed at The Papers; Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available $1.00/copy, The opinions expressed in Scholastic are this of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material becom~ the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS Communications, Inc. 
' ' 
o 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or part without permission is prohibited. 
Editorial 
Sharing the Wealth 
W 
ithout "stealing from the rich and giving to the poor," the financial aid office has attempted to main­tain a fair tuition and student aid policy. It is Notre Dame's philosophy to keep tuition low for everyone and offer compara­tively few scholarships rather than set higher tuition and be more generous with the excess. A reversal of that policy would be more in keeping with the University's admissions goals. 
For years, the administration has claimed concern about the lack of racial and ethnic diversity on campus. But the financial aid policies followed over those years do not help to attract a more diverse student body. Other academically competitive schools who try to succeed in maintaining a balanced population raise tuition overall and offer more scholar­ships. Keeping tuition relatively low is admirable, but if a low tuition is $12,000, it only succeeds in attracting upper middle class students who would not receive aid, even if the tuition were higher. Meanwhile, qualified students in lower income brackets attend other schools with a more reasonable need­based, and even merit-based, financial aid policy. 
$60 million of Notre Dame's Strategic Moment fund drive is slated to increase the scholarship base and allow more non­governmental grants to students. What is necessary to recognize, however, is that in recent years Notre Dame has not had trouble raising funds, but financial aid to students still appeared a low priority. Instead, the University builds dormitories and social and athletic buildings. Campus improvements are obviously important for continuing to attract students. However, the time has come for the University to begin investing directly in stu­dents by providing more aid to ql.).alified stu­dents. 

Scholastic 
2 

Scholastic letters Policy ling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space limitations, Scho­
Letters to Scholastic must be lastic cannot print all letters typed anc include the writer's received. name, address and phone number. 
Letters should be limited toUniversity students should include fewer than 250 words. Address alltheir year in school and college. 
correspondence to:

Faculty members whould include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. 
The Editor 

Scholastic reserves the right to 

Scholastic

reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Lafortune Center States. Scholastic also will edit for 
Notre Dame, IN 46556
copyfitting, grammatical or spel-
Students. Get smart and save $$$ on your class books. 
All used texts 25% off; all new texts l0% off. 
Over 30,000 titles in stock. 
3-5 day shipping time on text orders. 

Pandora's Books, 808 Howard at N.D. Ave., 233-2342 Open 7 days/week 10-5:30 
**
* Class· of 1988 * 
** ** 
*
*
* Bonfire Pep Rally *
** *
* White Field Tonight. 9 p.m. *
* ** 
* Find out itinerary for U of M *
** ** ** 
Featuring *
* **
* TIM BROWN ** 
* *
* REGGIE WARD *:
*
*
* FLASH GORDON:
*
* 
** ** ** ** ** * 

ATTENTION! 
Writers Artists Photographers Copy Editors 
Come see·us again 
SALESPEOPLE 
Sept. 1 7, 7 p.m. 
WRITERS 
Sept. 1S, 7 p.m. 
ARTISTS PHOTOGRAPHERS PRODUCTION 
WORKERS 
Sept. 1 7, 8 p.m. 

Scholastic Magazine 
LaFortune Center 


239-7569 
or 


239-5029 

September 10, 1987 
COMPILED BY JILL COAKLEY







newsnotes 
the Pope's arrival, McBricn will  types of trees  on  campus have  
Corby Medal Honors  work out of New York City for CBS-TV as an on-air commen­ been labelled, most of which are on the µiain quad. Two of  
ND  Grad  tator throughout the papal visit. McBrien, a priest of the  the named trees, the Paper Birch and Shingle Oak, are the  
During  the  halftime  Archdiocese of Hartford, Con­ largest of their kind in Indiana,  
ceremonies  of  the  Notre  neticut,  writes  a  syndicated  according to  the Indiana Divi­ 
Dame-Navy  football  game  on  column  for  the  diocesan  sion  of  Forestry.  The  1250­ 
October  31, Notre  Dame  will  Catholic press and is the author  acre  campus  houses  an  
honor the memory of a gradu­ of "Caesar's Coin: Religion and  estimated 5000 trees,  many of  
ate of the class of 1965.  Lieu­ Politics  in  America,"  which  which are rare to this area and  
tenant  James  E. Pavlicek Jr.,  was published last March.  were  brought  to  Notre  Dame  
an  army helicopter pilot, died  for  study  and  beautification.  
in combat on November 3, 1967, while serving in Vietnam. On October 31, the Alumni  Campus Security Branches Out  The Class of 1990 provided the most recent additions, a con­torted Hazlenut and a pink  
Association  will  present  Dogwood  planted  last  April  
Pavlicek's  parents,  Mr.  and  Traffic  violators  on  roads  near  the  Grotto,  in  honor  of  
Mrs.  James  E.  Pavlicek  of  adjacent  to  campus,  including  then  University  President  
Hereford,  Texas,  with  the  US  31,  No"tre  Dame  Ave,  Father Theodore Hesburgh and  
Father  William  Corby,  C.S.C.,  Angela Blvd and Juniper, Dorr  then University Vice President  
A ward.  Each  year,  the  Corby  and  Douglas  Roads  may  now  Father Edmund Joyce.  
A ward  acknowledges  a  Notre  receive  citations directly from  
Dame  graduate  for  dis­ ND  Security  officers.  Previ­ 
tinguished military Pavlicek has also  service. received  ously, the security officers had to file an affadavit at the  At Student Senate This  
posthumously  two  Dis­ County  Prosecutor's  Office  to  Week ...  
tinguished Flying  Crosses  and  seek  charges  against  the  
the  Air  Medal  13th  through  offender.  According  to  Rex  
20th Oak Leaf Cluster.  Rakow,  security  director,  the  
change  in  ticketing procedure  The September 7 Senate Meet­ 
ND  Priest  Covers  was a logical step. Notre Dame Security is a police department  ing discussed the establishment of priorities for this year's body  
the  Pope  under Indiana law and certified  to  address.  Among  the  topics  
police  .  officers  patrol  the  slated for Senate consideration  
Father Richard P. McBrien chairman of the theolog; department, will be joining  campus roads.  and  the  surrounding  were student athletic facilities parking, the jurisdiction of duLac regarding off-campus  
Dan Rather on CBS-TV to give live coverage of Pope John Paul II's arrival in Miami on Sep­tember 10. In the past, McBrien has acted as a commentator on news involving the Catholic Church for CBS news. After  Name That Tree Visitors to the Notre Dame Campus no longer need· to rely on the dome for location orien­tation. Twenty four of the 300  actions and academic advisors. An upcomimg survey of the student body organized by five student senators was also. dis­cussed. Survey f orins will appear in student mailboxes shortly.  


Scholastic 

On Other Campuses 
Notre Dame of Ohio? 
Two Notre Dame of Ohio students pushed into glass while registering 
"Two Notre Dame of Ohio students 
were pushed into glass doors by a mob of students registering for courses at Stepen Center," states the National On Campus Report in a recent article. The article also states that the only exit for some stu­dents was crawling under the philosophy sign-up table. No doubt students at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana are marveling at the coincidence, as a similar incident took place there during course preregistration last spring at Stepan Center. 


Only two percent of the student leaders 
across the nation consider alcohol a major problem on college campuses, reveals the National On Campus Report's annual survey. Among campus newspaper editors, who run countless stories con­cerning drunk driving accidents and alcohol-related incidents and citations, only three percent believe it is a top-rated problem. The survey also reveals that these same groups consider the major problem needing rectification on today's campuses is that of "student apathy." 

Opposing censuses and favoring 
nuclear disarmament, the West German Green Movement is forging its way onto American cam­puses, reports the College Press Service. Keneth Green of UCLA, however, is a little skeptical as to whether the new "American Greens" will indeed gain the necessary support from today's collegians since virtually all conservatives favor censuses and are staunchly opposed to unilateral disarmament. However, he also states that "Students are more liberal these days." In proving this point, Green cited a census he took last year of over 200,000 col­lege freshman about their political attitudes. 

Students are flying high at the Univer­
sity of Kansas over news of the new Visas and Mastercards offered by the KU alumni association, reports the University Daily Kansan. According to the association, the plastic money now being distri­buted to students will feature the Kansas mascot, "a cute little jayhawk." Students have been flock­ing to fill out applications for the cards which cost them only three dollars and benefit their alumni association. However, the applications are subject to approval by the credit card companies, and stu­dents must have a good credit rating in order to receive their new tweet. 
EDITED BY STEVE SPARKS 
September 10, 1987 
Tearing Up the Turf 

Two students celebrate a centennial of football through song 
BY ROSABELLE WHITE 
The fight song, the "Hike" song and the "1812 Over­ture" are all familiar sounds to Notre Dame football fans. Senior Peter and sophomore Paula Abowd are hop­ing hoping that their new song, "One Hundred Years," will soon become just as popular. In celebration of the 100th anniversary of the football team, the Abowds wrote the song mainly to bolster school spirit and pro­mote alumni involvement. Said Peter, "Most of our songs ar~ trad­itional marches. This song is an attempt to introduce contemporary music that both the student body can relate to and that the alumni can appreciate." The majority of the revenue from the sale of the song will go into scholarship funds. A minimal amount will be used to cover pro­duction funds and to serve for hall improvements m Walsh and St. Edwards, the respective halls of Paula and Peter. 
Writing contemporary music is not new to Peter. His experience includes writing music since his sophomore year in high school and playing in bands at the Nazz fresh­man year and more recently at Theodore's. As for a future in music, Peter said, "I would con­sider music as a definite alterna­tive career. I am very interested in the growing hi-tech aspect of the music business. I believe that as music becomes more hi-tech, my experience both as an electrical engineer and my interest in com­puters will prove to be invaluable. For now, it is a byline, however." 
Notre Dame tradition was the main reason she became involved with the project. She said, "As students we have the privilege of being here for the 100th anniver­sary of football at Notre Dame. (Peter and I) believe that this song enables students to participate in this celebration." 
Assistant coach Vinnie Serato said that the team's response to the song has been favorable. "When Peter sang the song to the team the other day they seemed to be real enthused. They sang the lyrics to the song with him. Once the team gets started on a successful season, the song will sell a bunch." He added that morale is high for this football season, and this song 


Peter co-wrote the song with older brother Anthony, also a Notre Dame graduate. Paula supervised the recording and still controls the production's public relations. She said it was an "incredible" experience in both the musical and business fields and is considering some type of future in public relations. However, the chance to express her belief in the reflects that feeling. 
The record, which is blue with a gold insignia bearing the Alumni Association's approval, is now available in the bookstore for $4. Also enclosed in the album are the lyrics so that the fans can sing along with Peter. "If you (the stu­dents) don't like the lyrics, you can always use the record to decorate the wall," said Peter. 
6 
Scholastic 




What's That?! 
You'd like to travel all over, meet new and exciting people, and express your creativity all before you graduate? 
Then Join Scholastic's Advertising Team 
This is .the perfect opportunity . to get involved, 
especially if you're a business, art, or design major. 
Simply contact 
Scholastic 
at 239-7569 or 239-5029 and mention this ad 
Become part of over 120 years of tradition! 
September 10, 1987 ""-"" .. """.. -~ -J\.-q 
Paula said the alumni should con­sider the new option because a part of each purchase will benefit the education of Notre Dame scholars. 
In the meantime, Peter and 

Paula continue to cheer on the 
football team and in the words of 
their song, hope that this year, as 
in the past, the Irish will be: 
"Shaking down the thunder, Waking up the echoes, Tearing up the turf, For one hundred years. Marching loyal sons, Beating all the odds, Going a hundred yards, 
I "
For one hundred years. 
(c) 1987 by A+Music. II All rights reserved. 


Monday, September 14 
'* Food 

* 
Entertainment 

* 
Prizes 


* 
~,cavenger Hunt 

* 
Illusionist Act 

* 
Play: 11Barefoot in the Park" and many more activities all day! 


Come Explore· LaFortune 
~ . 
7 

·· The High Cost of Learning 
Keeping tuition low and financial aid high is a delicate balance for the Administration. 



BY MARK DRAJEM 
The acceptance letter from Notre Dame arrived weeks ago, but today an even more imoortant letter has arrived, upon which your attendance at -the University may depend. It's · your financial aid award. Anxiously, you open it. Will it be enough money so that you can spend your college career under the dome? What sacrifices will your family have to make in order to put you through the University? Financial anxiousness is a very real feeling for many students before and during their college years. In the last twenty years, col­lege costs have risen well above the inflation rate. For a typical middle class student, this increased tuition nieans loans, grants and work study. For others, financial need eliminates the option of private college altogether. This year, tuition rose 9.9 per­cent at Notre Dame. In real dol­lars, that means $855 more this year. According to Thomas Mason, vice president for business affairs, this percentage has "roughly been followed in the last few years." He said this increase can be attributed to two primary concerns for improvement in the University -quality of academic life and quality of social life. 
8 
Under the auspices of academic life, one half of all the increased revenue will go toward higher faculty salaries. On November 30, 1982, Provost Timothy O'Meara presented to then Univesity President Father Theodore Hes­burgh "A Report on Priorites and Commitments for Excellence at the University of Notre Dame." The PACE Report addressed "the mission of the University and the integration of that mission into the total life of Notre Dame." 
Among other findings, the report showed Notre Dame lagging behind comparable schools in faculty salaries, Mason said. "We made the decision to bring our salaries into the top quartile of nationwide faculty salaries. We have arrived," he said. ·"Now, theoretically, we can attract the best people to our faculty." 
The money appropriated to improving the quality of social life will be spent in three specific areas -LaFortune Student Center, 


/ 

the Eck Tennis Pavilion and two new positions in the Office of Stu­dent Affairs, said Mason. The maintenance·. of these buildings and the two new salaries will take nearly 20 percent of the new reve­nue. 
Because of such rising tuition costs, many students must find resources to supplement their family's income. For many of those students, the answer comes in the form of financial aid. 
Financial aid goes to anyone who exhibits "need;'' "Need means that the student and his family cannot meet the expenses of the University," said Joseph Russo, director of financial aid. This is determined by the financial aid office through analysis of the student's· Financial Aid Form and by examining the tax returns of the student and his family. 
There are two sources available to the needy student from the Notre Dame financial aid office: government money and the University's own grants. In a few weeks, the Financial Aid ·office will be applying for federal funds such as Perkins' loans, federal grants and College Work Study for the 1988-89 school year, said Russo. Funds received from the federal government are then allot­ted to qualified students. It is the office's . decision, based on the 
money available, as to who gets what amount of aid. 
An example of this is the Col­lege Work Study Program. Last year, according to Russo, the University. received $700,000 in Work Study money, The financial aid office divided this money by appropriating ceilings on what the qualified students could make. Some students could not work atall. Others were appropriated more money than they actually earned. "Every penny of that $700,000 was spent last year," said Russo. "We balance it out knowing that Sophomore Tony McHale puts in his work study shift at South Din­ing Hall. 

some will go over the. ceiling and others won't take advantage of it." Beyond the federal government's money, there is 
· Notre Dame's own resources that must be divided. The top one-fifth of those accepted to the University are labelled "Notre Dame Scho­lars" by the Admissions ·Office. "Only those Notre Dame .Scholars with need get our scholarships," Russo said. "If there are 600 scho~ lars and you are the 601 st person, you don't get a scholarship." This means that over 80 percent of the students accepted are · initially ineligible for any Notre Dame grants upon entering as freshmen. Russo said that some upperclass­men can receive a grant later depending on academic perfor­mance. 
Some other schools tie academ­ics to aid, but few in such a dramatic way. Marquette Univer­sity offers scholarships of $2000 or more to students that meet certain academic requirements, but there are other grants. available on purely need-based criteria. John Carroll University also offers scholarships that are chosen depending on grade point average and SAT scores, but there are also other grants available, according to the school's financial aid office. 
Notre Dame operates on what Russo said was a "fiscally conser­vative policy." This means that for every scholarship awarded, there is a real dollar that is there to make up the difference. These dollars come from outside donors that set up trust funds, where the yearly interest is a scholarship, or from a direct donation for the specific use of scholarship. 
Other schools may offer a scho­larship to the student without real dollars coming in tcr make up that difference. Russo said this is a "Robin Hood" scholarship. "That money has to come from some­where," said Russo. The money comes from raising tuition, so that those who are able to pay the tui­tion do so and those that can't receive the grants. At Notre Dame, tuition is kept comparably low, but that great amount of scholarship money is not available. "It is a choice of philosophy," said Russo. "It's how you view wealth and its redistribution." 
Without resorting to the "Robin Hood" scholarship system, Notre Dame will be able to provide greater scholarship money in the future, Russo said. This new form of endowment will come from the Strategic Moment fundraising campaign. The largest single cam­paign component is a $60 million endowment for student aid. "This money should make our campus more diverse and better quali­fied," Russo said. It should also make it easier for some students to attend Notre Dame without emp­tying their bank_ accounts in the process. II 


D 
N 







TOTH TURE 
Post-game keg parties, alumni support, and, yes, even losses to Michigan were as much a part of Notre Dame f ootba/1 JOO years ago as they are today 
BY TERRY LYNCH September 22, 1879. Neither the an appearance on the Notre Dame participants (intramural teams campus. It all started when a cer­
When Notre Dame football 
named the "Reds" and the tain Brother Paul received a letter began 100 years ago this season, "Blues") nor the style of the game from two Notre Dame alumni the earth, as some might have you (which was probably soccer) are doing graduate work at the believe, did not shake. Bands did very noteworthy. But the postgame University of Michigan. The not play. People did not wait in activities would serve warning to letter informed Brother Paul that line to buy tickets. The players, what was to come in later years. the Western Champion Wolverines without helmets to protect. them­After the Reds' 2-1 victory, both were planning a tour of Indiana selves, probably worried a great teams got together and celebrated and Illinois, and asked him if he 
deal more about keeping a full set over a large barrel of aged cider "'-could put together a rugby team of of teeth than they did about keep­until Father Corby, then univer­
eleven. players interested in ing their academic eligibility. sity president, good-naturedly (but learning the rules of the new sport But if there is one thing about firmly) asked that the athletes end and playing a game with the team that first game, played on a chilly the festivities and retire to their from Ann Arbor. This, of course, day in late November 1887, that dorms. While tailgating had yet to would foreshadow another charac­Notre Dame fans (especially of be developed (owing to the fact teristic of Notre Dame football: recent years) can identify with, it that the car wasn't developed, al:umni support. Brother Paul 
is · this: Michigan won. Other less either), it seems that the postgame obliged, and on November 26, annoying aspects of the game and keg party had established a tradi­1887, the two teams met for a ses­its development are also part of tion even before the first game sion of drills and instruction on 
the story of the first Notre Dame was played. the rules of the game for the football game ever played. It was not until 1887 that foot­novice Notre Dame club. 
The first recorded "football" ball -real football, derived from The confusion level of the match on campus took place on the sport of rugby -would make 10 Scholastic 

average Notre Dame player prob­ably was high. Even in its early stages the game of football could not be described in less than 50 rules, if the "Rules of the Rugby Game of Football" listed in 1881 by the American Inter-Collegiate Association were anything like the brand of football Michigan played. Fittingly, the site of all this rapid-fire learning was an athletic field which would go on to house a history of confusion: Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Among the things that the Notre Dame players had to learn about, besides the basics ("Rule 
47: A Touch Down is when a player, putting his hand upon the ball on the ground in goal, stops it so that it remains dead."), was a huge list of technical terms. Con­sider the following: "Rule 44: A Maul in Goal is when the holder of the ball is tackled inside the goal line, or being tackled immediately outside is carried or pushed across, and he, or the opposite side, or both, endeavor to touch the ball down. In all cases, when so touched down, the ball shall belong to the players of the side who first had possession of it 
before the maul commenced, unless tp.e opposite side has gained complete possession of it." 
Even tackling was different, and it must have sounded polite ~ompared to today's combination of cracking pads, macho grunts, taunts and obscenities. "Rule 32: If any player holding or running with the ball be tackled, and the ball fairly held, the man tackling shall cry, 'Held'; the one tackled must cry, 'Down', and there put it down." 
At the end of the practice session, the Notre Dame players (by this time probably completely boggled) hosted their tutors for the night, having agreed to play an official game on the following day. What took place on the morn­ing of the 27th (some accounts claim the actual date was November 23) was undoubtedly a strange sight to onlookers. The Michigan team, arrayed in full uniforms (which at that time was a protective jacket, mouth protec­tors for rushers, shin guards, shoes, stockings and jerseys emblazoned with the trademark "M"), probably faced a Notre Dame team clad in whatever it could find. Their canvas, baseball-type uniforms would not be made until later, when the teams would meet again in the spring. 
In just one "inning" -the game was divided into two 45-minute innings with a IO-minute intermis­sion --the Wolverines had an 8-Q lead (on two four:-point, uncon­verted touchdowns) against their students of the previous day. At that point in the game, both teams apparently decided to call it a day. As James M. Costin, sports editor of the South Bend News-Times, wrote on the Golden Anniversary in 1937: " . . . since the score was only 8-0, we suspect that the Wol­verines were pulling their punches." 

Father Thomas Walsh, who eventually would become univer­sity president, thanked the Michi­gan team for its visit and assured the Wolverines of the cordial reception they would always receive at Notre Dame (immedi­ately becoming one of the things that would not become part of the tradition). 
The fourteen players -George 

R. Cartier (whose brother Warren was the donor of Cartier Field), Captain Henry Luhn, Joseph Cusak (who would later reside in the first single room ever given to a Notre Dame student in the newly-built Collegiate -now Sorin -Hall), Francis Fehr, George Houk, Joseph Hepburn, Henry Jewett, James Maloney, Eugene 
Maladey, Patrick Nelson, Thomas O'Regan, · Eclward Prudhomme, Edward 'Saw kins and Frank Springer -would not go on to the kind of immortality reserved for their more famous followers. 
For the members of the first Notre Dame football team, there were no poses on horses or national championships. None of them invented the forward pass, and none became widely-respected college football coaches. But for a bunch of. students who got together on a whim and tried to beat Michigan (even though they barely knew how to, let alone had the talent if they did), they weren't all that bad. Sometime during the first "inning" of that 8-0 shutout, they might have invented the most important legacy of the game -one that has lasted 100 years -the Notre Dame spirit. II 



ports 
e 


COMPILED BY TERRY LYNCH 
SOCCER 

The soccer team opened its home season in a new facility with a 2-0 win over Drake last weekend. The team scored two goals in the final 16 minutes of the game to improve its record to 2-0. Forward RANDY MORRIS knocked in the first goal on an assist by BRUCE "TIGER" MCCOURT, and later kicked the corner that resulted in an insurance goal by midfielder KURT ROEMER. Sophomore midfielder ROLF BEHRJE was credited with the assist. 

VOLLEYBALL 

The volleyball team takes its 2-1 record up to Ann Arbor tonight for a 7:30 match with Michigan. 
Last weekend hea<l coach ART LAMBERT's squad suffered a defeat at the hands of Indiana, 15-13, 13-15, 8-15, 11-15 in the Hoosier Classic. Junior MARY KAY WALLER led the Irish with 10 kills and 10 blocks. 
In the consolation game, the Irish defeated Ball State, 15-12, 12-15, 15-8, 15-8, to capture third place in the tournament. Junior ZANETTE BENNETT and sophomore setter TARYN COLLINS set school records in kills (24) and assists (56). 

MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

The men's cross country team will travel to the nation's capital this weekend for a Saturday meet with Georgetown. 
Senior captain DAN GAR­RETT, junior RON MARKEZ­ICH and sophomore MIKE O'CONNOR will compete for the number-one spot on the team against the strong Hoyas. 

WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

The women's cross country team will run in ·the Detroit Invi­tational at 11 a.m. on Saturday in Detroit, Mich. Second-year coach DAN RYAN will lead his club against Detroit, Dayton and Malcomb Junior College, which finished first among '86 junior college teams. 
Last weekend at the Purdue Triangular, the Irish finished behind the host Boilermakers 
(27) and Illinois State (49) with a total of 53 points. THERESA RICE and TERRY KILBESTIS finished fourth ( 19:04.1) and fifth (19: 10.7) respectively. Irish freshman JENNIFER LEDRICH finished 11th (20:04.2). 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 

The top two teams at last year's North Star Conference Championship will square off on Saturday a~ Notre Dame hosts Northern Illinois in the opening match for both teams on the 
Courtney Courts at 2 p.m. 
Seven monogram winners return to head coach MICHELLE GELFMAN's squad. Senior captain MICHELLE DASSO, sophomore STEPHANIE TOLSTEDT and juniors NATALIE ILLIG and ALICE LOHRER will provide the experience, while Gelfman will count on freshmen CECE CAHILL, ANN DEGA and KIM PACELLA for some added team strength. 

FIELD HOCKEY 

Head coach JILL LINDEN­FELD has 18 players returning from last year's 6-12-1 "rebuild­ing" season, including defensive standouts CAROLINE BEREZ­NEY and BENET DeBERRY. The Irish will play host to Kent State on Friday at 4 p.m. on Car­tier Field. 

Why does Notre Dame have the 

college football tradition?· 
.. ,:;"1'\r-\':r,, 


We can think of 


.good reasons... 
. 13 


KNUTE ROCKNE 

What justifies naming Knute Rockne as one of the greatest ele­ments in Notre Dame's long and illustrious football history? Well, he does have a service area on the Indiana toll road named after him. He also happens to possess the 
Rockne with mascot Larry at his
' .

side, produced the highest wm­ning percentage of any college coach in history. 
highest winning percentage in the history of college football coach­ing. 
In fact, Rockne's statistics alone would guarantee him a revered position in college football lore. During his three seasons as an 
Irish varsity end (1911-1913), Notre Dame was 22-0-2. During his years as an asssistant to head coach Jesse Harper (1914-1917), Notre Dame was 27-5-1. And during Rockne's 13 years as head coach (1918-1930), he compiled an incredible 105-12-5 record for a winning percentage of .881 that remains unequaled today. 
Rockne's 13 seasons included six national championships, five undefeated seasons, 47 shutouts, and Notre Dame's first bowl appearance --a 27-10 win over Stanford in the 1925 Rose Bowl. To top things off, Rockne pro­duced 20 first-team All-Americans and won his last· 19 games in a row. 
The legend of Kenneth Knute Rockne, however, only begins with the phenomenal record. The short, balding, smash-nosed immi­grant from Norway was also a great innovator and motivator. 
Rockne's impact on college football began during his playing days; he did not invent the for­ward pass, but in his senior year he teamed up with roommate quarterback Gus Dorais to demon­strate to a stunned Army squad that the forward pass was a legiti­mate offensive tool and not just the desperation play that most regarded it. The heavily-favored Cadets fell, 35-13. 
Rockne's innovative touch con­tinued throughout his coaching tenure.. He raised eyebrows by being the first coach to take his team all around the country, earn­ing for them in the process the nickname of "Rockne's Ram­blers''. The legendary mentor also 
designed his own equipment, reducing bulk while increasing protectiveness, and he introduced silk pants to cut down on wind resistance. Rockne's strategic innovations, meanwhile, included the use of "shock troops" --start­ing a game with a full team of second-stringers to wear down the 
Scholastic 






opposition before bringing on his first-team starters. 
Perhaps Rockne's most success­ful refinement, however, was the Notre Dame shift, in which all four backs were still in motion at the snap. The shift was so success­ful that the rules board eventually outlawed it. 
More , than anything, though, Rockne will be remembered for his motivational pep~talks. It is estimated that he delivered no less than a dozen barn-burning talks as a coach, but he had a great sense of timing and a flair for the dramatic. One such talk came before a contest with Georgia Tech in 1922. Rockne entered the lockerroom with a telegram from his supposedly critically-ill son, Billy. With a lump in his throat, Rockne read the boy's only wish: "I want Daddy's team to win." They did, of course, but the players were slightly dismayed to be greeted by an ecstatic and per­fectly healthy young Billy upon their return home. 
Of course, Rockne's most famous speech is his "Win one for the Gipper" pep talk. On November 10, 1928, Rockne's injury-riddled squad faced a powerful Army team at Yankee Stadium. In his pre-game talk, Rockne spoke of George Gipp, the star of his 1919 and 1920 cham­pionship teams, who had died eight years earlier. Rockne, who had been at Gipp's bedside, repeated Gipp's last request: "I've got to go Rock. It's all right. I'm not afraid. Some time Rock, when the team is up against it, when things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys -tell them to go ,n there with all they've got and win just one for the Gipper." 
The team was silent and Rockne continued: "The day before he died, George Gipp asked me to wait until the situa­tion seemed hopeless -then ask a Notre Dame team to go out and 

beat Army for him. This is the 
day, and you are the team." He 
was right -Notre Dame won an 
inspired game, 12-6. 
That episode became a per­

manent part of American sports 
lore, helped in part by the 1940 
film, "Knute Rockne -All­
American". In most respects the 
film bears little relation to the 
truth, but that's fairly typical of 
productions involving Ronald __ Reagan. 
Rockne's success brought about 

the construction of a new home 
stadium for Notre Dame, designed 
in Ihge part by Rockne himself. 
Because of the construction, the 
entire 1929 schedule was played 
on the road --yet the Irish still 
went undefeated. Notre Dame was 
undefeated again in 1930, its first 
year in the new stadium, and won 
its second straight national cham­
pionship. Things couldn't have 
looked brighter for Rockne and 
Notre Dame. But then, on March 
31, 1931, a plane carrying Rockne 
crashed near Bazaar, Kansas, with 
no survivors. 
Rockne left behind a legacy of innovative and successful coaching methods. He had been a Notre Dame man fro•m beginning to end: as an undergraduate he wrote. for Scholastic, edited the Dome, played the flute, and was a track star in several events. During his years as coach, Rockne also served as Athletic Director, business manager, ticket distributor, track coach and equipment manager. He wrote a weekly newspaper column, authored three books, acted as a · public spokesman for Studebaker, 
and was a dedicated family man. 
Typical of Rockne's dedication 

to Notre Dame is the fact that he 
worked for a $10,000 salary, 
despite offers from rival schools 
reportedly as high as $100,000. 
The Rockne legend Ii.as been 

distorted by a lot of myths over 
the years, but even when stripped 
of exaggeration, Rockne's coach­
ing record and all-around 
character merit him a place of honor not only in Notre Dame's history, but in the history of American sports. 
BY ANDRE THEISEN 



THE FOUR HORSEMEN 
"Outlined against a blue, gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruction and death. These are only aliases. Their real -names are: Stuhldreher, Miller, Crow­ley and Layden." 
--Grantland Rice New York Herald-Tribune October 19, 1924 
For those who arrive at Notre Dame already immersed in its his­tory -clothed in Irish parapher­nalia since they were old enough to have a shamrock pinned on their diapers every football Satur­day -the mere mention of the Four Horsemen is enough to send a chill down their spines. Even those vaguely familiar with Notre Dame's rich football tradition real­ize that the Four Horsemen have joined Rockne and the Gipper in a trinity that has gained immortality through legend. 
But if questioned as to the identity of the Four Horsemen, few people could provide the names of this famous quartet. Almost none would guess that each of the four weighed less than 162 pounds. Small as they were, Harry Stuhldreher, Don Miller, Jim Crowley and Elmer Layden earned the respect of their opponents from 1921-1924. 
With Layden at fullback, Crow­ley and Miller playing halfback and Stuhldreher at quarterback, the combination of intelligence, timing and speed was destined for the history books. By joining forces behind a powerful group of linemen Rockne dubbed "the Seven Mules," they stormed their way to national prominence, a 27-2-1 record and the 1924 
~ -~ 
national championship. Only two powerful Nebraska teams were able to tally victories against the Irish during their careers, and the Army team of 1922 could manage only a tie. 
Each of the four members of the famed backfield came to Notre Dame as (what else?) highly­touted high school players with hopes of making an immediate 
impact on the varsity team. But looking at them, all under six feet in height in full uniform and pads, few people would have predicted the greatness trapped within these remarkable athletes. And Rockne, quite understandably, was less than anxious to pull them to the front of the freshman ranks. 
But Layden, at 162 pounds, Stuhldreher, at 156, and Crowley and Miller, at 160, quickly showed Rockne that speed and finesse could win college football games. As sportswriter Rice wrote before making them famous with his apo­calyptic allegory, "What they lacked in poundage, they more than made up for in speed, spirit, smartness and driving force." 
~  f  J  J,  J  I  o  
k  - 
,1  .  

The Mules didn't hurt, either. Although some might question the wisdom of calling a Notre Dame lineman a mule, these players wore the title as a badge. A shade hef­tier (a whopping 185 pound aver­age) than their backfield, the Mules simply insisted on going forward, no matter how hard opponents tried to stop them. 
All of thse nicknames and glorious descriptions, however, were just waiting around· Rice's fertile mind until that day in 1924 when the Irish upset one oi Army's finest teams, 13-7, at the Polo Grounds. Rice witnessed the foursome's display and at first described them as being "worse than a flock of wild horses on stampede." This was the start. Recalling Vicente Blasco Ibanez's book, Four Horsemen of the Apo­calypse, Rice found a striking image. The horsemen -known only as Famine, Pestilence, Des­truction and Death -became the nicknames of Miller, Layden, Crowley and Stuhldreher, the men capable of reaping such great des­truction on almost any opponent that strayed into their paths. 
BY MOLLY MAHONEY 


FRANK LEAHY' 
It wouldn't matter if Frank Leahy never won a game as head coach of Notre Dame, the man was a great guy. He even looked like Jimmy Stewart.· He was so well­liked by his players, fans and media that he should be a Notre 
Scholastic 
r • < -l c ~ I ' 
. • 





Dame legend for that alone. He punctuated every statement with his trademark, "lads." 
But Leahy was also a hard­driving man, and also the first Notre Dame football coach who succumbed to the awesome pres­sure of winning -resigning at age 45 on the advice of doctors. 
Leahy won -a lot. Eighty­seven times in his 11 seasons to be exact (against only 11 losses). His winning percentage of .885 is second only to Rockne, his men­tor. With that, there were the championships (five in all), unde­reated seasons (six), He is man Tro­phy winners (three) and the usual 
array of Irish players named to all-America lists. Apparently, Casey Stengal never met Leahy, or he never would have said that stuff about nice guys finishing last. 
Nicknamed "The Master," Leahy continued construction on the House that Knute built. As a player, he had been injury-prone, and on a fateful day in 1930, he 
September 10, 1987 
suffered a leg injury that ended 
his playing days. So when Rockne 
went to the Mayo clinic after the 
season for his phlebitis, he took 
Leahy with him to get an opera­
tion on the injured leg. Leahy 
spent the two weeks with his coach 
cross-examining him. 
Leahy would later adopt the 

"T" formation from the Chicago 
Bears, whi•.::h drew considerable 
opposition from alumni, who 
thought that he should stick to 
Rockne's proven "Notre Dame 
box." 
After assistant stints at George­town, Michigan State and Ford­. ham, J;.,eahy took the Notre Dame 
job in 1941. Known for his geni­ality off the field, Leahy was a perfectionist · on the field. He would routinely drill his players until they complained -otherwise he thought they weren't doing enough. Somewhere along the line the work paid off. In the years between 1946 and 1950, the team won 39 straight games. 
Leahy's teams won so much, in fact, that in 1947 the sports world was rocked by a supposed "freeze" on Notre Dame. Army, Northwestern and Tulane -tradi­tionally part of the Irish schedule ­started dropping out. Leahy was accused of having a hand in this, being no diplomat in post-game consolation. But as a coach, he was a winner -and for that he will always be remembered. 

BY TERRY LYNCH 



THE ERA OF ARA 

The worst winning percentage of any coach in Notre Dame his­tory. Worse than Gerry Faust's, even. That's how Joe Kuharich, Ara Parseghian's predecessor at Notre Dame, perhaps always will be remembered. Things were so bad in 1963, in fact, that without the November 23 Iowa game being cancelled because of President Kennedy's death, the Irish easily could have finished with a 2-8 record. As it was, 2-7 didn't fit in at a place which had become accustomed to Rockne, the Four Horsemen and Leahy. 
What Notre Dame fans wanted, needed, craved was a good year or two to get the program back on the winning track. What they got was the Era of Ara, or eleven seasons of old-time, here's mud-in-your­face, Rockne-style football that yielded a 95-17-4 record, two national titles and 66 players who made some sort of all-America list -that's 38 more players than Notre Dame has had named to a post­
17 


/ 



season all-America team in the 12 years since. 
To fully appreciate Parseghian•s place in Fighting Irish lore. you. only need to go back to that first season in 1964. Ara nearly got himself canonized (and did earn coach-of-the-year honors) by turning things around to the tune of 9-1, the only loss coming in a heartbreaker to USC in the final contest. 
The adulation Irish fans heaped un their new coach was unusual considering that Parseghian was 

neither a "Notre Dame man" nor a Catholic. But Parseghian had coached at Miami of Ohio (also a launching pad for Woody Hayes and Bo Schembechler) and had compiled a 39-6 record before moving on to Northwestern. There, even as coach of the Wild­cats, he managed to win more games than he lost, including vic­tories over Notre Dame in all four meetings. The good fathers at. Notre Dame certainly knew who he was when he asked to be con­sidered for the head coaching position. The job was eventually offered and he accepted -but only 
under the condition that he be given complete control of the football program. 
On campus Parseghian was hailed as a savior to the program. Thousands of students chanting his name interrupted his first staff meeting at the Rockne Memorial. He had charisma, fan support, and some great players such as Reis­man winner John Huarte and future NFL stars Dave Casper and 
18 
Rocky Blier. Together these ele­ments enabled Parseghian to orchestrate one of the most dramatic program turnarounds in collegiate football history. 
The 1966 season saw it come together for the Irish as Notre 

· Dame captured the national cham­pionship with a 9-0-1 record. Par­seghian cemented his legendary stature at Notre Dame with that title, although the rest of the country may have been skeptical about him after he settled for a tie against No. 2 Michigan State in order to preserve his team's top ranking. 
But the 1973 title left no doubt about Parseghian's or Notre Dame's rightful place at the top of college football. Notre Dame went 10-0 for the season and then, to every Irish fan's delight, squeezed the national championship out of No. 1 Alabama in the final moments of their 24-23 Sugar Bowl win. 

Parseghian retired after a 1974 campaign in which the Irish went 9-2, culminating in an Orange Bowl victory again over unde­feated and top-ranked 'Barna. He still stays close to Notre Dame football, however, as a local bank executive and as a TV analyst for CBS. 
BY IAN LARKIN 




DAN DEVINE 
Long before the caustic cries of "Oust Faust," there was the suc­cinct slogan "Dump Devine." 
Dan Devine, a former NFL head coach with the Green Bay Packers who had been chased out mainly because he wasn't Vince Lombardi (one angry Packer backer reportedly went so far as to hang the Devine family's pet dog), had ONLY compiled a 16-6 record in two seasons as head coach of Notre Dame. Even during a 1977 campaign that would eventually find the Irish claiming the top spot in both wire service polls, bumper stickers bearing the "Dump Devine" phrase sold briskly. out­side the stadium at a dollar apiece. But that was before USC. 
The early autumn of 1977 had been unkind to Dan Devine. Al Hunter, the team's top returning offensive back, had been lost for 


---~--.._.,_.,___ 
-~~--~--­--. ­
the year because of disciplinary reasons. Sports Illustrated put a double whammy on the squad in its preseason college football issue: not only were the Irish ranked number one, but Outland Trophy winner Ross Browner was featured on the cover. 
The season began with a lethar­gic performance at Pitt, but turn-

Devine's bags were always packed. 
overs and an injury' to Pitt quar­terback Matt Cavanaugh gave the _uninspired Irish a 19-9 victory. The Rebels of Mississippi were not so friendly~ Eschewing southern hospitality, Ole' Miss handed the 
nation's top team a 20-13 loss. 
There had not been such a 

clamor for a Catholic's head since 
the days when the other team was 
a pride of lions. Devine rallied his 
team for three consecutive vic­
tories, yet still someone painted 
over "DEVINE" on his office 
parking space and replaced it with 
the words "5 MINUTE PARK­
ING." 
Devine's sin? He was not Ara.· 

Just as in Green Bay, Devine 
found himself following a tough 
act. The popular Parseghian had 
never finished out of the top ten. 
· September 10, 1987 More importantly, Ara had a char­ismatic flair· that fit the Golden Dome like a Brooks Brothers suit. Devine had merely led his teams to successive 8-3 records -six losses too many for most alumni. He also lacked Parseghian's fire: Ara was a volcano waiting to erupt while Devine resembled a reference librarian. 
And yet he had proved he could coach. Warned former Packer All-Pro linebacker Andy Russell, "He looks like a college professor, but there's steel inside that inte­rior." People knew Devine was competent. What they did not know was that the soft-spoken coach could perform a psych job that would make even Rockne, shall we say, green with envy. 
in their home blues but returned to the locker room to find the new jerseys waiting for them. The Kelly-green jerseys did for the 
Irish what blue tights did for Clark Kent, as Notre Dame ripped the Trojans, 49-19. 
Led by Joe Montana's arm and the lights-out hitting of defensive ends Willie Fry and Browner, the Irish never looked back. The last six contests were decided by an average margin of 34.5 points, including a 38-10 Cotton Bowl rout of number-one Texas in their own backyard. 
It WAS vindication, although Devine was nothing but gracious in victiory. Upon being informed that both UPI and AP had voterl Notre Dame number one in the 


Devine remained calm even under the most trying circumstances, 
The Trojans of Southern Cal met a sky-high Irish squad on that mid-October Saturday. The hitting at practice all week had-been so intense that it seemed as if sparks flew when the golden helmets met. Following Friday's practice, tennis coach Tom Fallon, he of the gol­den throat, serenaded the gridders in the dressing room with Irish ballads. 
But it was Devine who pro­vided the "piece de resistance." Months earlier he had secretly ordered green jerseys for this game, colors the Irish had not 
worn since the days of Leahy and Brennan. The players warmed up final polls, Devine politely replied, "Well thank you very much." 
Nevertheless, it was that cham­pionship season that stands out as the zenith of Devine's days here: not only did he capture the college football crown, but he gave sports fans everywhere a lesson in char­acter. Today in the office of another great ND coach hang the pictures of his four most talented predecessors. There is Rockne, there is Leahy, there is Parseghian, and there, looking like he sc com­fortably belongs, is Dan Devine. 
BY JOHN WALTERS 

. ' . 
• ,..,..* ...:.~lL"¼,~"',._.:;:;,,>-~.LF~--~'.. ---~------"-"--•=»-------­


• • .And Let's Not Forget 


e THE FANS. What can you say about the perpetrators of the craze that annually follows Notre Dame football? On campus, they are rabid: after USC's Anthony Davis scored a record six TDs vs. the Irish in '72, students taped copies of his picture on the sidewalk before the '73 contest so that they could "stomp" on the detested Davis all week long. And then there are the pregame pep rallies, which are legendary. On the road, they follow the team wearing but­tons and driving RVs that play the fight song. They're either hated or loved, but they're ALWAYS in 
green. 

• THE NAME. At first, it was the Notre Dame "Catholics." Then Rockne named his team the "Ramblers." Eventually the team became known as the Fighting Irish. No matter what anybody from Illinois says, it's the only "Fighting" name that works. Sports editors never have to look it 
up. 

0 THE MARCHING BAND. With all due respect to the Glee Club and the Pep Band, it's something about the blue uniforms, the Irish Guard and the sprint from the tunnel that makes the Fight Song truly come together. And they keep finding a medium between the Prussian military band-style of Michigan and the amateurish antics of Ivy League bands. This 
band does its job while having fun -although in one Irish Guard member's case last season, it was the kind of fun that spilled over, shall we say, onto the field. Just hope no one stops them from play­ing "Louie, Louie" this year. 
8 THE MASCOT. No matter what Sports Illustrated says, you've got to give some credit to the leprechaun. After all, he's the only human mascot who has the guts to show his face on the field. But maybe we should bring back Clashmore Mike and remove the hex on the team placed by the Irish Terrier Club of Chicago. Or if we don't give a hoot about hexes, maybe we should get a pit bull terrier. It might be a nice 
diversion, especially during those seasons when the leprechaun is, well, worth booing. 


0 THE CAMPUS IDOLATRY. 
Irish fans who know the campus idolize the statues as much as they do the players. Where else but at Notre Dame can you have a "Touchdown" Jesus, a "Fair Catch" Corby and a "We're· Number One" Moses? The only thing that could kill this tradition is if the school breaks down and builds a statue of an actual foot­ball player. 
8 THE "ACTS OF GOD.". Con­trary to what current students think, Irish football has a history of divine intervention -on our side. Like in '82, when the wind stopped for Harry Oliver's game­winning field goal against Michi­gan. Like when the clock ran out on Army in the '28 "Gippcr" game -as the Cadets were on the verge of the Irish goal line. Like Johnny Lujack's open-field tackle of Doc Blanchard in the '46 Army game. And don't forget Joe Montana's heroics in the '79 Cotton Bowl or the Bob Thomas field goal in the '73 Sugar Bowl, either. 

8 THE UNIFORMS. Lou Holtz made some great changes last year, bringing back the "old-time" black shoes and outlining the white numbers in gold on the dark blue jerseys. The interlocking "ND" on the sleeves and pants were a nice touch, and the helmets stayed gold -just like they oughtta be. But Lou, remember: only use green (if we use green) if we're trailing USC at the half. 

Compiled by Terry Lynch 


---------------=-~ -------1 \ I ' • l • / I •
~---~ -~ ----~ ~ ­







FOOTBALL 
101 
Notre Dame's enrollment into a second century of 

football begins with a Michigan. 
BY MARTY BURNS 

"Good morning, class, and welcome to Notre Dame Football 101, Introduction to the 1987 Season. 
"Before I introduce today's guest lecturer I'd like to call roll. 
"An-d ree-see-ak?" 

"Present... bu~. sir, it's Ann­d ruh-sak, with the emphasis on the first syllable." "Right, Terry. Sorry. I'll work on that ... 
"Uh, Brown?" 
"Here." 

"Oh, of course, right at the front of the class. How are you, Mr. Brown?" 
"Great, but I hope you don't mind if I can't stay after class today to clap the erasers. See, I left my Reisman, er my notebook, 
big test: seventh-ranked 
at the Huddle while I was brows­ing through the sports maga­zines." 
"No probiem, Brown. 

"What about Figaro? Does anybody know if he's in this class? He is? Great, that should help. 
"How about the two whiz kids that got held back last year? What were their names, Rice and Foley? You're both in? Congratu­lations and welcome aboard. 
"Let's see, the rest of you don't appear familiar... oh yes, there's the offensive line. How could I miss them? It's particularly god.d to see you four back, Mr. Lanza, 
Mr.  Spruell,  Mr.  Freeman,  and  
Mr.  Rehder."  
"I'll say."  
"What  was  that,  Mr.  
Andrysiak?"  
"Nothing."  

"All right, most of the rest appear to be new to the class so I'll turn over the podium to my guest lecturer, Mr. Holtz. He'll tell you about your first big test this Saturday on the Michigan Wolverines." 
"Thank you, thank you profes­sor. As you know I've always wanted to be a professor at Notre Dame. I even talk with a lisp, have a physique which looks like I've been afflicted with scurvy and beri beri, and I finished 234th out of my class of 250, so I 
should be qualified. 
"Anyways, class, I'm Lou 

Holtz and I'm here to tell you that 
Michigan is you're basic national 
championship contender ... " 
top the chatter, close the notebooks, and kindly put your books under your
--....11• desk, because the Notre Dame football team is taking a test. Ready or not, the Irish must take the field Saturday at Michi­



The task of stopping Michigan's tiny Jamie Mo:ris will fall one more ti~e to Irish defen~ers . 
gan Stadium in front of 106,000 spectators and attempt to answer a few questions. 
For example, will the Irish be able to move the ball now that all-time passing leader Steve Beuerlein has moved on? If so, will it be Andrysiak, Belles, Rice or Graham that's respo·nsible? And 
what about the defense? Even with linebacker Cedric Figaro eli­gible, the Irish return only three other starters. Will opposing quar­terbacks cut through the inexperi­enced Irish secondary as though it were Swiss cheese? 
And how about the Wolverines? Is going to the Rose Bowl the only way Notre Dame can beat Michi­gan? Will Bo Schembechler ever lose a season opener? Can the Irish push me Wolvermes up and down the field as they did last year, but this time, maybe now that Jim Harbaugh is gone, come away with 
a victory? 
Those are all tough questions, and they have Holtz admittedly shaking his head. "We have a lot of question marks that have got to be answered positively," he said. "Overall this football team won't be as talented as the one last year. But I think it has the potential to be a much better football team." 
Holtz and a national television audience will find out just exactly how much better in their contest with the seventh-ranked Wolver­ines. Michigan returns an all-
America offensive line, led by 6'7", 300-pound tackle John Elliott, and an elusive He1sman candidate and tailback in Jamie Morris. The defense should be strong as well, with veteran 
linemen and linebackers, although the secondary may be vulnerable after the lms of three starters to graduation. 
But, like their opponents, Michigan faces one particularly riddling question at the quarter­back spot. Fifth-year senior Chris Zurbrugg recently quit the team, leaving junior option runner Michael Taylor and junior Demetrius Brown to battle it out for the starting job. Schembechler won't say which one he'll start against the Irish, but a lack of 
Continued on p.24 

22 



Continued from, p.22 

experience there could become a key factor in the game. 
"Bo has some of the same con­cerns at quarterback that we have," said Holtz. "Terry Andrysiak, Michael Taylor and Demetrius Brown haven't been there before. But when you talk about Michigan, you talk about a team that blocks and tackles and handles the fundamentals awfully well. They won't beat themselves." 
The Irish, meanwhile, appear set to go with Andrysiak, a reserve for Beuerlein the last three years. Andrysiak said he feels extremely confident, although he expects to see a lot of blitzing Wolverines. "Keep in mind that Terry Andrysiak has waited a long time for this," said Holtz. "As long as he eliminates the bad play, he'll be fine." Chances appear slim Propo­sition 48er Tony Rice, blue-chip freshman Kent Graham or veteran reserve Steve Belles will see action. While all three appear capa'ble, Holtz likes Andrysiak's leadership. 
The Irish defense will count heavily on its defensive line of Tom Gorman, Mike Griffin and Jeff Kunz. Notre Dame always plays tough against the run, but if they can't harass the quarterback, Michigan may be able to burn a young Irish secondary which includes such untested commodi-


Michigan found Irish tight end Andy Heck (above) to be awfully tough to bring down last year. But if Andrysiak can't get the ball to Heck, Notre Dame can always go to tailback Mark Green (left) 
24  
-~~-.!.:::­ ·­ •  - .. ,  .,_..  -~­ .  -------­--­_,,._~ __f-_, __ , •• -~-~ ~, ~•-~J:.,"''r,.·:•~U­·>.;_~• ,:_'•,_~~?":_·I,_;~  't  ,.'_,.. __  -"'-:-.~-:.:-..•;.;::...,::;_.:.:~,.....,,_?.,_'-'""~~;"'1.--;._:·•,<.i:-,~,::  :.;:,~  ~,,)~':.~•:k~•-i;_:'::'.i,  
'.  _,.  .  .  



ties as Stan Smagala and Corny Southall. 
"(Defensive Coordinator) Foge Fazio calls this the hard-hat or the lunch-pail unit," said Holtz of his defense, "because they haven't received the notoriety of a Tim Brown. lt's true there are some 
new names, but I think our 
defense will acquit itself well in 
the long haul." 
If the Irish want to prepare for Saturday's test by looking at a copy of last year's version (which saw the Irish gain 455 yards only to lose 24-23), however, they can forget it. "Michigan is going to be a lot more aware of what we do on offense this time," said Holtz. "We just have to be prepared to play our game with minimal mi~­takes and hope that's going to be good enough." 111 

Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
is now accepting applications for the position of 

Advertising Manager 
Contact Kathleen McKernan or Catherine Coffey for details at 239-7569 or 239-5029 Applications due by 5 p.m., Friday, September 18 
25 




·~·· 

1,532 Broadway Performance;! ..... tlria -~ 
Monday, Sept. 14 f 

7:00 p.m. 

ND Room -2nd Floor LaFortune Free Admission 
I 

sponsored by SUB 
BCAC, SUB, Fisher Hall and Student Government 
present 

PIECES 



DREAM 
A Saturday, Sept~mber 12th A 9:00 p.m. A Stepan Center 
A Tickets: $3.00 Advance available in the Dining Halls and Cellar or call BCAC at 239-6841 
$4.00 at the door $5.00 non-students IA After Set Dance 11:00-2:00 p.m. 
SUB presents 
Wednesday, September 16th 8:00 p.m. Washington Hall Tickets available at Box Office Sept. 14 -Sept. 16 12-6p.m. $4.00 ND/SMC Students 
$8.00 for the public for more information call 
239-7757 
Sebo astic 

-~ •~ --I ' -­
• ~ t -' ' ', 
l ...,-----· ~ ~ . 
I • r ,. 
Music/ Ann Seifert 
Sounds from Down Under 

Two bands which have been best music here is the 
around longer are The Chills in the 
and The Saints. The Chills world 
record for Flying Nun Records 
coming 

and have out a compilation
from 

album entitled Kaleidescope
these days? No, it's not South 
World which is incredibly goo~.
Bend and it's not even Min­
The music definitely has mean­
neapolis. Australia and New 
ing and is well worth the 
Zealand are it! In the past year import prices. 
and a half, over twenty-five bands from Down Under have 
The Saints recorded great

emerged as tops. 
albums in the late 1970s and then dropped out of the scene,
The Church hails from Mel­

only to return in 1987. All 
album Sleepless, The Models,bourne and has five LPs out, 
Fool's Day is their first release 
The Screaming Meemees, the most recently Heyday, which 
in years, and it is more pop 
Zimmerman and Died Pretty,ranks among the top five 
than their older material. This 
with their-LP Free Dirt. I am 
albums of 1985. In addition, 
lends accessibility to the music, 
sure there are countless cool 
Steven Kilbey and Marty 
and the group has gained a 
bands which I have overlooked 
Wilson-Piper, both members of 
wider audience than ever 
here, and this fact alone proves
The Church, have released the importance of Austrialia tobefore as a result. 
magnificent solo albums full of the current underground music 
delicate melodies and haunting scene.
On the more hardcore Aus­

instrumentals. 
tralian side, the Celibate Rifles 
For those of you who

and The Lime Spiders are dom­
haven't heard of any of theThe Go-Betweens and The inating the scene at the aforementioned 16 AussieHoodoo Gurus are also hugely moment, along with The bands, how about INXS? Ipopular on their home con­Hard-Ons, who are distributed think that it is clear that Aus­tinent and are gaining in the on the U.S. based Big Time tralia rules. Be sure and takeUnited States each month. The label. The Celibate Rifles the extra step and find theupbeat Go~Betweens released released Kiss Kiss Bang Bang in vinyl . released by all theseTallulah in July to very positive the spring and the other two groups. I guarantee you won'tcritical and public reviews, and groups have later releases out, be sorry. 
The Hoodoo Gurus' Blow Your which emphasize heavy thrash­Cool topped the college charts ing guitars and good music. all spring and summer, which Some other groups which helped this band receive the deserve more attention than 
Ann Seifert is the Director of 
opening-act gig for the U2 space warrants are The Trif­
Music Programming at WVFI 
AM 640.
Australian tour this year. fids, Ups and Downs with their 

27 



THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10 
FILMS: 
11Burgler11 Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 
FILMS: 
"Little Shop of Horrors" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
"Running Scared," Carrnll Hall 7, 9111 p.m. 
"Mona Lisa" Snite Museum of Art 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $2 
SATURDAY,SEPTEMBER 12 
FILMS: 
"Little Shop of Horrors" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
"Running Scared" Carroll Hall 7, 9, 11 p.m. 


THEATitE: 
"Nunsense" Forum Theatre Wed.-Fri 8 p.m. Sat.. 6:30 and 9:30. p.m. Wed. and Thurs. 2. p.m. Sun. 3 p.m. $18.50-$23.50 
''Preacherman" Riverfront Playhou ¦ e 11 Water Street Mall F.ri. and Sat. 8 p.m. $6 
"The Singer" Gare Saint Lazare 1505 W. Fullerton Monday 8 p.m. 
$4 
"Sugar Babies" Candlelight Dinner Playhouse Wed.-Fri. 8:30·p.m. Sat. 5 and 10 p.m. Sun. 7:30 p.m. Matinee Wed. 2 p.m. and Sun. 2:15 p.m. $27.95-$36.95 w/dinner $17.95-$26.95 wiithout 
CONCERTS: 
Helix Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark September 11 at 9:30 p.m. 
Jerry Goodman Park West 322 W. Armitase September 13 at 7:30 p.m. 
SPORTS: 
Chicago Cube Wrigley Field Clark and Addison vs. Montreal Expos September 12 at 12:05 ve. Montreal Expos September 13 at 1:20 
Chicago White Sox Comiskey Park 35th and Shields vs. Minnesota Twins September 14 at 7 p.m. vs. Minnesota Twins September 16 at 7 p.m. ve. Minnesota Twins September 16 at 7 p.m. 
Chicago Bears Monday Night Footba!J Soldier Field vs. New York Giants September 14 at 9 p.m. 



Compiled by Mike Farnan 


MONDAY SEPTEMBER 14 
FILMS: 
"Crime de M. Lange" Snite Museum of Art 7p.m. $2 

"October" Snite Museum of Art 9 p.m. $2 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1!5 
FILMS: 
"Young Mr. Lincoln" Snite Museum of Art 7 and 9 p.m. $2 
WEDNF.SD A Y, SEPTEMBER 16 
FILMS: 
"Blind Date" Enginneering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
MOVIES: 

Univenity Park East 
Univenity Park West "Full Metal Jacket" 
7:15 and 9:45 p.m. "Fourth Protocal" 7 and 9:30 p.m. 
Scottsdale 
"House II" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "Born in East L.A." 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 






Michigan. Throughout all the years, there have been some high and low points. Notre Dame spirit always comes to the front when the challenge is the greatest. 
The tremendous pride of being committed to excellence started back before Coach Rockne. How­ever, it was the "Rock" who really sent Irish football to the top. His burning desire was to have players excel as student-athletes and out­standing wholesome individuals, always doing their best, regardless if it was socially, scholastically, or athletically. "Lads, there is no sacrifice too great for Our Lady," said the famous Coach Frank Leahy, who played for the Rock and continued the Rockne philoso­phy. There's no place like Notre Dame, where all combine to put forth their greatest efforts of con­tinuing the proud tradition of the 

; Fighting Irish. When your refer to Coach Leahy's time, you have to remember the old fieldhouse and a terrier mascot, "Clashmore Mike," along with "Six Yard Sitko," the Rifleman Bertelli, the Field Gen­eral Lujack, Big Leon Hart, Jungle Jim Martin, Ziggie Czarobski, and George "Moose" Connors;--also some of the great backs -John Lattner, Creighton Miller, Pep Panelli; Jim Mello, as well as four heisman trophy winners in Bertelli, Lujack, Hart, and Latner; also include the thoughts of unsung heroes from field mainte­
right and big things will happen. 
"Now,lads, there is no way we can even make a first down vs. this great team. However, your fantastic loyalty and continuous visits to Our Lady at the Grotto 
will indeed help us survive. When­ever you're down and out, always spend time at the Grotto." 
The beat continued with the finest of Notre Dame men -Terry Brennan, Joe Kuharich, and Hughie Devore. They carried on the trends of unsung legends. Out of a 2-8 season, a Reisman trophy emerged. Again hard work and determination of the underdog role brought the coveted Reisman award to Paul Hornung. You can still hear the "hit" in the big sea­son upset of Oklahoma. 
Along came the era of Ara Par­seghian who rekindled the spirit and total overall goals set forth earlier. For eleven years, Coach Ara understood the true values and relayed them to his student­athletes. The student body, South Bend community, administration and people from everywhere soon came to understand the values that Ara had awakened. This caused great pep rallies from our spirited band leading the way to cries of "Ara, stop the snow," and he did. Again a non-monogram senior, John Huarte, came to the fore with the "glue" of team producing a Reisman winner. 

Great players were numerous · during this time -· Rocky Bleier, 
Nick Eddy, Alan Page, Pete 
Durannko, Joe Theisman, Tom 
Clements, and so forth. They had 
learned the values of pride and 
sacrifice. The formula of effort 
plus endurance plus execution will 
equal excellence. Results were two 
national championships ('66 and . '73). 
The wearing of the green came 

about as Dan Devine entered the 
scene and in his own way he kept 
things rolling. The highs of a 
national championship and bowl 
victories plus the sadness of the 
loss of a great trainer and great 
man, Gene Paszkiet, were part of 
these years. Some other great 
names include Bob Crable, Ross 
Browner, Joe Montana, etc. 
The enthusiasm of five years 

with Gerry Faust sparking the way 
-some exciting moments and some 
disappointinennts -were part of 
those years. 
Coach Lou Holtz has left no 

doubt that his squads will continue 
the great trends of the past. He has 
molded the staff, players, 
managers, trainers and all to the 
task of carrying on the great Notre 
Dame tradition of "though the 
odds be great or small, Notre 
Dame will win over all." 
It is a unique privilege to be a 

part of this very special place. It 
definitely takes a realization of 
true dedication to continue the 
"beat" of this fantastic university.
• 




Live the Tradition 


Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send ___ years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address ___________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20. 00 x years=$ 
Scholastic 
-

' ':}J;,.s;-.C.::,.-"\.,<-l;;/.:.3,i :.,..",:i ...,~~c~;. Cl.U"W:1--J;.,;;:.;~ 


SC++ Q G L­
,s ~-ELL 

"THE-C.AR.Too.J T~O.T ~AS TO ~TA'1 p._t=TEQ.. !::CHOO(.., Fol2 MAl:.itJ0 0?.A7-'1 ~'-t f:~ 0C!f OF WE "o"s ,~ ''S'rnoo~• 
01.J SA'1 '-,oolt.
WE.'RE. Al.I.. <,o1.JG TO 

t:~OM 2V5!:
P1JT 01.)~ \-\EaOS Or-l ove. 

Rlt.~ -ro H.t:
Oe.Slc:S UfJTIL Tµ.E. "-lnST', t.lTTl.e Soy OU ~>JOIAJ1 TH l,,,ll-\o 0€..f E.C.A"t'E.D el...lE.IJE:. IN 1"3 THt URltJ~~ SStAJ A~ C.Of'J.E> ~oRwO.lto. t-\RlSTMA 

c..tR.c.l.e o,,.3 1'\{e :C. MU 5:''t' 12E.M 
e,1,AC..1t:.BoARO. E. C.~E.EQ.~VI, A BEtitE:-'T'' Soc, ~\C.%: ',OU OW WA"t(.~ WH 
SE. ON ll t.,H 

Sl..OWl...'1
~t~OF 
s~ (,oEs 
l..JJrJ~ 

ACE.. Dl:J'i ON
Wlt..l..S 

MOllf: 1"1POll
'roU I 

1W S°C.H0OL-,
RlG,H 

~ :C Gt1E.S:
OtQ.E.c: 
1
~-C':,r;H)-t.J1~t:, I 

To 1'HE 
1:m'•tJ& BAD 

Q.E. LA'Z.'1, 
12oM '10V. T. SERS, ul'l tS'T Ot= ,H I.{!:. ~E.E.T AS!.' 6'201: IWIVS \...lk HA"'t" IS Go1 Rl~~lc.H tJ 
E. e,e.trE. 
1-lE C.\..A5!. 
l\JlOtO l~TO ~01ivC, G~ov t,c, c, RouP A L-V8' <:,~ovP 
TAY Htl~ 'TH 
B~II) c,~ou w11..LC:,o To SPE.UAl.. 12.0 
1s nte.e 
I 
½0Nf:. WH. E.SN1T ~N 

o '100 TH,rJ~ I~ !:,01) TH1"1\::.. ~0\J CAJJ 
RH 

THE. HtPP'1-6E:.T iHR.oUG,H L..lFt
SOl.E.l>J"t' R. 
vi 00~ lU.. <,o o,.) £.Q.MIWEN 

L..tST'&J, l 1l.l­(,l" & lfou i=vu... CRE.otT AS L.O,J(:) 
A~ '-1()1) OON'T C.OM.6. AD0ViJO 
A.NO e,arHEQ. Me lWt.tMOQ.E,, 
WW1 IS IT' Tt-lAr AU.. '-joU FAILIN0 
STUvE.".nS H~\/1= ~uct{ NEGAT1~E. ATT' ITUO E~'! 
OU l.lTTt.E. 8R \JGlibJ~ IIJO 
00 W0Pll'T 8 ~ '100 C:, 
lG.~ SCHOO H~THE.. RE (,AfllC,~ D 
SHtR~, AN'O t.>£G 
v'l2Al•M (', >lL..l.'1 CA~ '1ou'IIE 0o-r A"-lcrnt.EJ2.. 
. TH1~ ~ ~uJ G. 
~Oll DO WHLrr C,ou 17 D TOt..E.ltASIJ1 WE.L-L, MR.. 0RO-t->lG,. Now ',oo f\o\usr 
ASIC '1002SE.t..f: IS IT U)Cle."TI{ 
DOlivG? 







PIZZA 
WELCOMES YOU TO NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S 
ASK FOR YOUR· FREE GIFT WHEN YOU PLACE YOUR ORDER 
r---------------------------T------------------------------,---------------------------J
I ~ 
. DINNER FOR : THINK THICK SUNDAY 
I 

FOUR ON DOUBLE HEADER THURSDAYS 
$10.99 +tax 

$6.00 +tax 

One 16" pizza Two 12"

with two items One 12" pizza pepperoni pizzasplus four cokes with extra cheese, for onlyfor only pepperoni and· 
$9.87 + tax

$10.99 extra thick crust for only 

$6.00 + tax 
SAVE $3.53 
SAVE $2.07 
SAVE 

Offer Good Every Day Offer Good on Thursdays Only Offer Good on Sundays Only 
Explra g/27/87 Expires 9/27/87 Expirei; 9/27/87 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
NOW HIRING FOR 
CALL US 
ALL POSITIONS 




So. Bend Avenue 

DOMINOS PIZZA 30 min. delivery guarantee DELIVERS FREE · or $3.00 off your order 
~,~~~~~Y..;CM~>S(•~~~~~,~~llil§G~~~~ 
-

_..,...,..::...~' ,,...___,~~.;;;.ckS.e:/ ~.~u., ~ ..__ ' 
.--J ' ..ffi
--:===========================================================::-. \.· ~~ i
. I \ I . I

I
I
•$ 


EVERY CARPET REMNANT IN STOCK 


Prior Sales Excluded Sale 'Ends 9-20-8 7 
OUR 33RD YEAR 



FLOOR CENTER 
4119 GRAPE ROAD, MISHAWAKA PHONE: 277-9711 





