Enjoy an extra measure of both sides of smoking pleasure — by switching to king-size Cavaliers. Try them! Find out for yourself that Cavaliers give you complete smoking enjoyment. What a pleasure smoking can be when the smoke feels so mild ... tastes so good! No wonder Cavaliers are winning friends so fast!
Yes, join the thousands who are enjoying the extra mildness and superb flavor of king-size Cavaliers. Get some today!
CAVAUERS ARE KING-SIZE
yet priced no higher than leading regular-size brands.
Try king-size Cavaliers! Feel that Cavalier mildness, so light, smooth and easy! See if you don't agree with thou-
sands of smokers everywhere who compared king-size Cavaliers with the cigarettes they had been smoking. Yes...
See why, among thousands of smokers interviewed...
8 OUT OF 10 SAID
Ask for the Cavalier “100” metal humidor. Keeps cigarettes fresh and flavorful.
CAVAUERS ARE MILDER!
9MSMS9IR
.Scholastic
Yol. 96 May 20, 1955 No. 23

is
8
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of [Postage. Section 1101, October'3, 1917. Authorized ’June 23, 1918.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
tSJOHN ADAMS ...............
| ROBERT KAUFMAN _____ Assistant | PAUL J. LaFRENIERE _.....
I Charles McKendrick .......
News News Copy

.................... Assistant	Copy
JOSEPH CONNOLLY ...................Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager
PETER STURTEVANT JIM FITZGERALD ..
Photo Editor
.. Photography Coordinator
CARL SCHAEFER
Circulation
t^JOHN- P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator rj ■
di Member of Catholic School Press Association, As-K3 sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national Bl advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., E| 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the W school vear, except during vacation and examina-pa tion periods at the University ol Notre Dame. Ad-Eg dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, ty Notre Dame, • Indiana.
H —	— ...	.	.
P NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Buck Harriss, Jerrold fj^fclilton, Jack Hugh, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, James | ^uenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, John Mc-I Mahon, James Murphy, Thomas Quinn, Jim Stein-I trager, Dave Thompson, Paul Underkofler, Ray I Walsh.
I SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit EckI, | John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Ray | Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, Vince Nai-| moli, Joe Norton, and Bob Parnell.
H BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran ® Sheffer.
Our Cover: Graduation marks the successful completion of a student’s career at Notre Dame. After four years of )ttudy, he has arrived at the time when he will receive a diploma as signification of this achievement. This last issue of the Scholastic is dedicated to the
Seniors and contains just a few of the happenings that they remember and will want to remember. The cover, with the Dome and the invitation to graduation, seems appropriate at the end of the schoolyear. Art work on the cover is by Al Baumer.
FRIDAY, MAY 20
COLFAX (held over indefinitely)—A bit more than chalk dust flies through the little red schoolhouse as Glenn Ford and wife Anne Francis try to tame The Blackboard Jungle (B). If you think life is tame around here, then, brother, sit through this one and you’ll be glad that ND’s rough-and-toughness is confined to the Stadium on fall Saturdays.
AVON (ends May 24)—Deborah Kerr and Van Johnson, supported by a jolly good number of Britishers, do a creditable job of bringing to these shores Graham Greene’s recent novel, The End of the Affair. Although she’s someone else’s spouse, it seems that Debbie Kerr’s for Van. A religious upheaval among the parties follows and ultimately Deborah must -decide whether to deride, or not deride, religion. Not for the youngsters in the crowd.
STUDENT CENTER (7:30-10:30)—Cosmopolitan William Hams will show a feature film on highspots in the Holy Land at 7:30. Afterwards, two-bits will get you into the new Center rathskeller for some mixin’. If no femmes show up, you can still have fun looking at the fine murals “down under.”
GRANADA (for two weeks)—Strategic Air Command (A-2) is a subtle Air Force advertisement, but it features some good piloting by Jimmy Stewart and Frank Lovejoy. As Stewart’s better half, June Allyson at first is very cool towards her husband’s recall to active duty. But she finally overcomes her misgivings and keeps her two little feet on the ground, while Stewart and his buddies careen wildly and spectacularly through the atmosphere in heavy bombers. Fasten your safety belts, guys. Off we go into the wild, blue . . .
RIVER PARK (tonight and tomorrow)—If you missed the J. P. Sousa story before, don’t miss it now. Stars and Stripes Forever (A-l) starring Clifton Webb as the “March King” is crammed full of brassy march music and will have you beating out the time with your foot. However, don’t bother waiting for The Long Wait.
SATURDAY, MAY 21
STUDENT CENTER (8:30-11)—Daddy Gels will blow “Finis” to his music-making career at ND with this appearance which will feature dancing in the rathskeller. For a buck per couple you can heai- Gels in his swan song and get in on the refreshments.
SUNDAY, MAY 22
WASHINGTON HALL (3 p.m.)—The Mazur Polish Dancers will cavort on the local floorboards as part of the Concert and Lecture Series. This teenage group makes effective use of ballet and pageantry in depicting Polish folk dances. The performance is gratis.
PALACE (ends ’May 26)—If you decide to pass up the Mazur Dancers and shell out good cabbage for this double feature, believe me, you will Rage at Daivn and feel like taking a Jump Into Hell.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 25
STATE (Wednesday and Thursday)—A superbly done movie, Magnificent Obsession (A-2), makes a belated second appearance in S. B., but it’s worth the delay. Jane Wyman is magnificent and hardly a fault can be found with the rest of the cast. Miss Wyman’s husband dies, Rock Hudson courts her, becomes partly responsible for her accidental blindness, and winds up being the object of her love. So This Is Paris gives you one-and-a-half times your money’s worth for the evening, since it’s a springboard for nine catchy musical numbers despite the thin story.
THURSDAY, MAY 26
PALACE (one day only)—The young and the old of the entertainment world will be in town for a one-nighter. If Louie (Satchmo) Armstrong has enough wind left to give forth on the trumpet and Gary Crosby can groan like his dad, then this should be an interesting outing.	■
20, 1955
LETTER & Ute CdU&L
Echoes of Honor
Editor:
The reaction to the Honor System Referendum has decidedly been negative. An evaluation of the procedures of the Student Senate in putting forth the amendment seems necessary. The effects of prematurely proposed legislation are so staggering in their consequences that they can never be ignored. We must conclude then that the Senate believed that the proposal had a good chance of being accepted.
Before we assume that Notre Dame men “don’t want to be treated like adults” or “want to cheat” as many unfortunately will, let us consider if the root of the problem can be found in the methods by which the referendum was presented to the student body. Would not a period of discussion, pro pnd con, through the media of the Scholastic and WNDU be of service to the students in making an intelligent decision? The Senate’s policy struck me as simply being: “We have proposed an honor system. Vote on it.” I wish to praise the efforts of Jerry Hornbeck, with his messages over WNDU, and Don Yeckel who, I believe, made the point that you should vote if you will uphold the Honor System, who made a serious attempt to clarify the picture. The voting blanks did give a favor or abide by choice.
However, the voting should only have been to determine if the students would want the Honor System. If the answer was in the affirmative, the Senate and Administration would draw up the plan which would go into effect. The students then, after more opportunities foi* discussion and deliberation, would vote to decide if the plan was acceptable.
The Administration must have been consulted and yet we are given no inkling if they would allow a student court or the system itself. The term Honor System packs an emotional wallop. There is no excuse for the fact that many voted without a correct understanding of what it means.
Some of the questions which were seriously pondered by the students hut never satisfactorily answered are:
1)	Why should I be treated like an adult from 8 to 5 and afterwards as if I were an adolescent?
2)	Will the Honor System eventually include Mass and night checks?
3)	Why should I put myself in the
4
uncomfortable position of having to squeal on a buddy when I don’t cheat myself and the Honor System will make no difference in my conduct?
I, personally, voted that I would abide by the system but I didn’t have enough facts to give it my wholehearted approval.
In the future, I hope that the Student Senate will keep in closer contact with the student body and that there will be greater preparation before action is taken so that Student government can assert its rightful place in campus affairs.
John Quagliano
122 St. Edwards
Caponigri Writes Book About Works of Croce
The historical writings of the late Benedetto Croce, Italian thinker and elder statesman, are the subject of History and Liberty, a new book written by Prof. A. Robert Caponigri of the University’s Department of Political Science. The volume has just been published in England and soon will be published in the United States.
Caponigri distills from Croce’s works a general theory of history which can be applied to all sciences which use historical documents. He carried on research for the book in Croce’s private library in Naples and was there when Croce died in 1952.
According to the author, Croce’s conception of history, which permeates all his works, is that history is the work of man’s creative freedom and the arena of his ethical action. The Marxian or Communist view, on the other hand, conceives of history as the result of economic determination motivated by the perpetual warfare of social classes. In Prof. Caponigri’s opinion, the most important implication of Croce’s theory of history is the superiority it accords ethics over politics and the consequent denial of all forms of political and social totalitarianism and authoritarianism.
Caponigri writes that Croce originally thought of history as simply evoking scenes from the past. He later came to regard it, however, as a moral drama, man’s struggle to realize in the forms of social life his ethical ideals. He also came to regard history as essentially tragic, always open to failure.
Croce was the dominant intellectual
LIBRARY BOOKS DUE
All books withdrawn from the Main and Branch Libraries by students must be returned by Thursday, Mr. Victor A. Schaefer, director of the Library, has announced. Renewals can be obtained upon request. No grade reports will be sent at the end of the schoolyear for students whose Library record has not been cleared. Regular hours will be observed on Monday, May 30.
figure in Italy for more than a halfcentury. He sternly resisted Fascism and played an important role in the political reorganization of Italy after Mussolini’s downfall. He .is credited with swinging Italy to the side of the western powers in the last stages of World WaQ II and with restoring her constitutional life.
Eight Men to Enter Priesthood on June 8
Eight young men will be ordained as priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross at the University of Notre Dame June 8, according to a recent announce© ment by Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., Provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana province. The Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Apostolic Administrator of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, Ind., will officiate at the ceremony in Sacred Heart Church on the campus.
Those to be ordained include: Rev. Thomas L. Bill, C.S.C., South Bend, Ind.; Rev. James F. Blaes, C.S.C., Ind^' anapolis, Ind.; Rev. Eugene E. Homrich, C.S.C., Muskegon, Mich.; Rev. Wilfred A. Menard, C.S.C., Kankakee, Ill.; Rev. Orel M. Secor, C.S.C., Chicago, Ill.; Rev. James Trepanier, C.S.C., Ludington, Mich.; Rev. Gordon W. Wilcox, C.S.C., Shaker Heights, Ohio; and Rev. George C. Wiskirchen, C.S.C., Quincy, Ill.
The newly ordained priests will celebrate their first Solemn Masses in their home parishes on Sunday, June 12^ Shortly thereafter they will be assigned to one of the activities of the Holy Cross Fathers.
Two members of this year’s ordination class will be ordained elsewhere. Rev. Joseph P. Browne, C.S.C., will be ordained June 4 in Detroit’s Blessed Sacrament Cathedral, while Rev. Gerald J. Whelan, C.S.C., will receive Holy Orders at St. Stephen’s Church, Old Chelsea, Quebec, Canada.	i
The Scholast 41

Edi tot's Page
MEMORIES, memories...
1 Why?
There was a fire in Fisher Hall early Monday morning. It was small and the damage was slight. A student who was awake turned in the alarm. Others handled the blaze. Notre Dame and South Bend firemen soon arrived, but students in the vicinity had taken over, and helped extinguish it.
Everything turned out all right. But there was one glaring fault—few residents of the hall recognized the fire alarm as such when it sounded. Some didn’t even leave their rooms. If a fire ever started in Badin, Sorin, St. Edward’s or any other of the older halls late at night, the results could be much different than they were in Fisher Hall.
The men in Fisher never before heard the horns used as fire alarms; the same is probably true of most other students on campus. WHY?
ray 20, 1955	‘
Four years have almost passed. In two weeks the Class of 1955 will graduate. We shall leave Notre Dame. But we shall take Notre Dame with us. Though scattered all over the nation and even the world, we shall each take with us memories and impressions and habits formed during our stay here.	‘
In the background are the least important memories. These will include our first drenching by a Northern Indiana deluge during freshman registration and the frequently unpleasant weather since, the grade received on a test, the times we didn’t make enough morning checks. Then, too, there were the long lines at the Bookstore and the Dining Hall which led to the disappointment of finding a book sold out or not yet arrived, or to one of the meals for which we had little taste. Add to these the surprise quiz, the ever-busy phones at St. Mary’s, lights out at 11 or midnight . . . and you’ve got some of the trivial things that will fade into a haze as time passes.
Then, there are bigger things, like Notre Dame football and class dances. What despair we felt when Fred Bennere and Southern Methodist shattered the Irish in our freshman year. But what a thrill it was to sit in the stadium and see our boys triumph over Oklahoma in 1952 and tie Iowa in the closing seconds in 1953. Always there was a strong bond. As for the class dances ... they were always enjoyed, especially the Senior Ball.
We’ll always remember friends from Notre Dame. Each of us has many acquaintances and friends whom we met here. They are students, priests, professors. Some we’ll see again; most we won’t. But they’ve made our stay here all the better and they’ll contribute to the wealth of memories.	.
Most of all, we shall carry away with us the Catholic education attained through four years and the habits formed during that time. Some things we have learned well in the classroom, others not. But we have had an opportunity few people ever receive—that of living for a long time in a community where the sacraments may be received daily a few steps away; where a priest is always close at hand for advice and help. Ours has been a wonderful opportunity.
The love of God, the strength to accept His will and the ability to live our lives as Catholics are the most valuable of the many things Notre Dame has given us. For these and everything we have received, I and the rest of the Class of 1955 will afivays be grateful.—Lawrence Brehl
Thanks
The editorial department of the Scholastic extends its gratitude to the many University officials, faculty members, students, and other persons who make its task easier and more successful by the help they gave during the 1954-55 schoolyear. Special thanks go to Mr. John P. Defant, director of publications; Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs; Mr. James Murphy, director of public information; Indiana Engraving Company and Al Balmer; members of the Ave Maria . Press staff, and every member of the Scholastic staff.
One week ago Brother Sabinus, C.S.C., superintendent of printing at the Ave Maria Press, died. For a number of years he worked closely with the Scholastic and other University publications. We ask you to join with us and remember him in your prayers. .
5

GILBERT’S NEW CAMPUS SHOP
Next semester Gilbert's. South Bend's largest store for men, will open one of America's finest University Stores here on the Notre Dame Campus. We are looking forward to serving you with a complete line of nationally known clothing and furnishings.
NATIONALLY KNOWN BRANDS
You will find such famous brand-name clothing here as Hickey Freeman, GGG, Society Brand, Eagle, Botany 500, Burberry, and Alpagora, Sportswear by McGregor, Wilson Bros., Arrow, Cricketeer, and Stradivari. Dobbs and Malory Hats, Florsheim shoes, Alligator rainwear, Arrow and Wilson Bros, dress shirts ... and many, many more.
CONVENIENT CAMPUS CREDIT TERMS
Gilbert's Campus Shop will offer a wide selection of convenient pay-plans to all students. Besides our regular 30-day charge, you are invited to use one of Gilbert's E-X-T-E-N-D-E-D accounts—without carrying charges. So, come back with empty trunks . . . fill your wardrobe needs at Gilbert's Campus Shop next semester.
^GILBERT'S
"South Bend’s largest store for men I ”
. .On the Campus
Notre Dame
May 20, 1955
7
YOUR
Headquarters
FOR
AFTER-SIX Formal Wear
once. Immediate delivery. Spacial ratoe to stodante.
free delivery, pick-up and eervice.
ROYAL TYPEWRITER CO.
309 E. Jefferson South Bend
Phone CE 2-3336
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—J ewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing
Fine Engraving
arvin^
JEWELERS
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202
South Bend, Indiana
The Scholastic
8
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 96, Number 23	Notre Dame, Indiana	May 20, 1955
Graduation Exercises Set For June 5
Brownell, Bishop Wright To Speak at Ceremony
Plans have been completed for the 110th annual commencement at Notre Dame, when more than a thousand students will receive graduate and undergraduate degrees at the exercises in the Stadium. Many events have been scheduled for the graduating students and
MOST REV. JOHN J. WRIGHT
A Sendoff . . .
their families. Featured speakers will be Attorney General Herbert Brownell, Jr., who will give the commencement address and Most Bev. John J. Wright, D.D., Bishop of Worcester, Mass., who will preach the baccalaureate sermon.
lor guests arriving Friday, June 3, there will be a concert given by the Notre Dame Band at 8:30 p.m. in the Drill Hall.
At 9 a.m. Saturday the Class of 1955 will make its last visit to .Sacred Heart Church as a class. This will be a private ceremony for the class only and will be preceded by an academic procession from the Main Building. The church services will be followed by a procession from the Church to the Drill Hall.
Class Day Exercises will take place beginning at 10 a.m. Saturday. At the exercises, class prizes will be awarded and ROTC units will be commissioned. Lunch will follow the presentations.
At 1 p.m. the families of the graduates will be able to meet faculty members in several offices, classrooms and laboratories of the different Colleges and will also be able to tour the many buildings and facilities of the University.
Notre Dame’s baseball team will oppose Western Michigan College at 2 p.m. at Cartier Field. Seventeen, a musical play, will be presented in Washington Hall at the same hour.
A reception by the University administration from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. will cap the afternoon’s activities. At the reception, which is to be held in the Student Center, the families of the Seniors will be able to meet the president of the University and other officials of the administration.
At 6:30 Saturday evening the University Band will stage another concert. The site of this concert will be the Main Quadrangle. In case of inclement weather the concert will be cancelled.
Seventeen will be presented again at 8:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. The Notre Dame Glee Club will give a concert in the Navy Drill Hall. The presentations of Seventeen in the afternoon and again in the evening have been scheduled to enable all of the visitors to see it.
Sunday at 8:35 a.m. the academic procession to the University Stadium will be held. At 9 o’clock a Solemn Pontifical High Mass will be celebrated in the Stadium by Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Apostolic Administrator of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, Ind. Most Rev. John J. Wright, D.D., Bishop of Worcester, Mass-, will deliver the baccalaureate address at that time. Following the Mass, Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will bless the flag presented to Notre Dame this year on Washington’s Birthday, by the Class of 1955. From 11:30 a.m. until 1 p.m. there will be
special cafeteria service available for visitors in both wings of the Dining Hall, so that families will not have to leave the campus.
The climax of festivities will come at 2 o’clock Sunday afternoon when degrees will be bestowed on the graduates in the Stadium.
At this time Herbert Brownell, Jr., Attorney General of the United States,
HERBERT BROWNELL . . . For the Seniors
will deliver the commencement address.
Honorary degrees will be bestowed upon Mr. Brownell, Bishop Wright, Very Rev. Christopher J. O’Toole, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rome, Italy; Ivan Mestrovic, the celebrated sculptor; Thomas H. Bea-com, vice-president of the First National Bank of Chicago; and Romy Hammes, president of Romy Hammes Enterprises, Inc., Kankakee, Ill. Another feature of the commencement exercises will be the presentation of the 1954 Laetare Medal to Jefferson Caffrey. Mr. Caffrey returned to the U. S. earlier this year after serving as ambassador to Egypt since 1949. His retirement marked the end of 43 years in the U. S. foreign service.
lay 20, 1955
9
GILBERT'S CAMPUS SHOP JK’VmUV or ROHL HMI MENS CLOTHING STORE
“they could be from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., depending on the needs of the student body.”
Gilbert is past president and currently a member of the executive board of the National Association of Retail Clothiers and Furnishers. This is the largest organization of its type in the country. Through it the member firms receive the latest in style trends and methods of men’s clothing store operations.
As a closing remark Gilbert described the inventory procedure to be used at the Campus Shop, “In our campus stom the minute we find we are carrying an item which is not needed, it will be brought back to the main store and some other article will be sent out that will have more appeal to the student. By this means oui- inventory at the Campus Shop will always be free of ‘dogs’.”
INSIDE THE NEW GILBERT’S MEN’S STORE A Great Price—No Dogs For Sale
Gilbert's to Open Campus Apparel Store In Hammes Shopping Center Next Fall
With the opening of the Romy Hammes Shopping Center for the fall semester next September, an added service will be available to Notre Dame men. At that time Gilbert’s Campus Shop will open its doors to the returning student body.
Located on the west side of the new service center and separated from the main wing of the building by passageway, the new store will be dedicated to seiwing the clothing needs of the modern collegian. The store itself will measure 55 by 60 feet when completed and ready for use.
Paul D. Gilbert, president of the firm that will operate the new store, commented on the type of merchandise that will be offered to the students, “There is usually a difference in the tastes of young college men and that of the older man, therefore we will stock the Campus Shop with goods that have shown themselves to be popular with the younger man. Students will not be exposed to old merchandise which has not sold well at the main store in South Bend.”
Gilbert’s sales personnel at the Campus Shop will be specifically instructed not to high pressure anyone nor try to sell the student something he does not want. The student will be free to visit the store anytime while it is open.
“Some of the specific types and lines of merchandise that we will have on sale at the Campus Shop are charcoal spoi-t coats in dark tones and contrasting slacks by such names in men’s clothing as Hickey Freeman, Esquire, Society Brand, and many others,” said Mr. Gilbert.
io
Speaking of the other articles of clothing that the Shop will carry, Mr. Gilbert replied, “We will carry sport shirts by McGregor, Arrow, and Hathaway; shoes for the Notre Dame man will be supplied by Florsheim and Jarman; our hat department will cater to the latest style trends, which now favor narrow brim, dark tones. The store will have Dobbs and Mallory hats; jewelry will be by Swank and Hickok, with belts by Hickok and Paris; rainwear by Alligator and Barracuda. Hose, featuring the now popular argyles, will be of the Interwoven, Phoenix, and Esquire brands. Ties in the narrow, square bottom style will be by Wilson Bros., Wembley, and Botany. The popular rounded collardress shirt in both the eyelet and buttondown fashion will be stocked in the Campus Shop in white and pastel shades. The Shop will also carry topcoats by Burberry, Hickey Freeman, and Alpagora.”
The price policy of the new campus store will be identical with that of Gilbert’s main store in downtown South Bend. All items that are on sale in the main store and are carried at the Campus Shop will be on sale there also.
Student credit accommodations will be made available upon the opening of the new shop. They will be made on the same basis as current provisions at the South Bend store.
At this time business hours for Gilbert’s Campus Shop remain uncertain. They will be determined by student needs. However, tentative plans call foi-the store to open at 11 a.m. and close at 8 p.m. “However,” inserted Gilbert,
Dr. Francis to Attend C Sociology Conference
Dr. E. K. Francis, professor of Sociology at Notre Dame, has been invited to pai-ticipate in a seminar on “Collectivization in Eastern Europe” at the University of Kentucky.
The seminar, under the support of the Ford Foundation, will bring together a select group of ai-ea specialists, rural sociologists, agricultural economists ar,^ political scientists from 23 universities as well as ten private and public agencies.
Dr. Francis has received a grant from the American Philosophical Society for the study of the German expellees and will go to Munich in the fall to carry out this research project. He will return to Notre Dame in the fall of 1956.
During the coming summer, Dr. Francis will continue his work on the Span'S^ ish-Americans in New Mexico. Earlier in the year he published an article on this subject in Religious Education.
At the annual meeting of the American .Sociological Society in Washington this September Professor Francis will present a paper on “Multiple Inter-group Relations in the Upper Rio Grande Region,” and he is also scheduled to discuss some of his research in theoretical sociology in a paper entitled “The BasaL Group—A Simple Model of Society.”
Dr. Francis recently has written an article for the Chronique Soeiale de France entitled “Pour une typologie des ordres religieux.” The coming issue of the Journal of General Education includes an article by Dr. Francis on “Higher Education in Continental Europe, 1815-1914.” Presently he is writing a book about the Spanish-American ethnic group.
The ScholastiQi^
I
[ NROTC Students to Moke Summer Cruises; l^pain, England, Cuba to Be Ports of Call
One hundred and fifty-four ND men will be among NROTC students from 53 colleges and midshipmen from the U.S. Naval Academy who will participate in the Navy’s summer training program. Notre Dame students will take part in two cruises, Abel and Charlie, and in amphibious, flight, and marine training. 9 Cruise Abel will leave the Naval base at Norfolk, Va., June 6. On this cruise will be 14 junior regulars, three senior regulars, who will be on a make-up cruise, and 33 freshman regulars. It will arrive in its first port of visit on June 20. From there the ships will go to Barcelona, Valencia, and Malaga, Spain.
The cruise will leave Spain on June 27 <nd steam to England where it will rrive on July 4. In England the cruise will visit Portsmouth, Weymouth, Plymouth, and Torquay. While visiting these European ports, tours have been arranged to give the men opportunities to visit such places as London, Paris, and Madrid.
On July 11 the cruise will leave England and head for the Naval training base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Upon arrival there, the men will train for four days. The ships will then return to ^Jorfolk where they will arrive on August 2, at which time the students will be detached.
Forty-seven junior contracts from ND, scheduled to sail on Cruise Charlie, will report shipboard at Norfolk on July 17. Cruise Charlie will depart the next day and will go to Colon in the Canal Zone. The ships will arrive there on July 25. On July 29 the cruise will continue to Havana, Cuba, where it will-^.rrive on August 5. The cruise will resume its journey August 9 arriving at Guantanamo Bay on August 18. After the training there is completed on August 22, the cruise will return to Norfolk where the men will be detached on August 26.
During these Navy cruises the men will be well trained. Freshmen on Cruise Abel will receive general shipboard indoctrination and training in Routine shipboard matters. The juniors and seniors on both cruises will be given more extensive training in navigation, gunnery, and ship handling.
Naval amphibious training will begin for 40 ND sophomore regulars on July 1 at the Little Creek, Va., naval amphibious base. During their training at Little Creek, the men will participate in amphibious warfare tactics including |l landing craft operations, beach maneuvers, and general indoctrination.
On July 25 and 26 the men will be air-lifted from Little Creek to the Naval flight training base at Corpus Christi, Tex. At Corpus Christi the men will be given general flight instruction. This training will last until August 13 when the men will be released.
Rigid and extensive training in Marine Corps tactics will begin on July 25 for 17 junior Marine students from Notre Dame. This training will be conducted at the Marine Corps school at Quantico, Va. The men will complete their training on Sept. 3.
Fr. Broestl on Trip
Rev. Lawrence C. Broestl, C.S.C., has been named the University’s representative in this summer program. Father Broestl will travel with Cruise Abel.
Two officers, who are presently stationed at Notre Dame, will be transferred to assist in the various summer training programs. Lt. John W. Haiz-lip and Lt. (j.g.) William E. Kenney have been assigned to Cruise Abel.
It has also been announced by the Navy that ten NROTC contract students, nine freshmen and one sophomore, have received Navy scholarship appointments. The new regulars are Robert Byrnes, Tim Cohan, Harold Enright, Michael N. Gleason, James J. McNamara, William F. Murphy, Larry Pelton, Ken Robison, William Tolle, and Edward Warnicke. These men will be among the ND regulars taking part in the Navy’s summer training program. Two ND contract students still remain on the alternate list of men waiting for scholarship appointments. These men are James Englehai-t and Pat Kittredge.
Film and Lounge Opening Top Center Mixer Tonight
Admission to the new basement lounge and a colorful travel film will highlight tonight’s student center mixer.
The redwood-panelled basement lounge, featuring modern sports murals along the walls, will be open to students for -the first time tonight. The lounge was used for the Junior Prom while work was still in progress.
Starting at 7:30, Mr. William Harris, noted world traveler, will show a film sponsored by the American Express Agency. The movie will show points of interest in the Holy Land, including Palestine and Jerusalem.
As usual, music and refreshments will 'be available to mixer-goers. Admission is 25 cts. and the party will end at 10:30.
MAZUR POLISH DANCERS
With a ‘Hoop’ and a ‘Ha’
Concert Series Ends With Polish Dancers
The Mazur Polish Dancers, nationally known dance troupe from Milwaukee, Wis., will bring this year’s Concert and Lecture series to a close on the Washington Hall stage, Sunday night, May 22, at 8 p.m. Admission is free.
The group, composed of 30 high school teenagers, specializes in a special type of Polish folk dancing depicting the various customs and legends of the country.
The dance form used by this group is similar to ballet, but interwoven into the pattern is music and temperament, with spectacle and pantomime giving the dance an authentic representation of the native Polish dance.
A special branch of the Polish Dancers, The Mazur Polish Dancers of Hollywood, has appeared in numerous motion pictures.
Founded in 1940 by Prof. Alfred J. Sokolnicki, supervisor of the Speech Clinic and Hearing Laboratory at Marquette University, the group first achieved national acclaim at the National Convention of the American Legion in 1941. Since that time, they have made numerous appearances under the USO during World War II, and have also appeared at veteran’s hospitals, conventions, and on television.
The objectives of the Mazur Polish Dancers are, through interpreting the folk dances, legends, and customs of the Polish people, to appreciate that culture, and through it, the many allied cultures of the world which gradually build up America’s growing national culture.
ay 20, 1955
11
Fisher's Fire Alarm Arouses Sleepy Troops While Slumbering Jack Smoulders in the Sack
By JIM STEINTRAGER
A blaring fire horn routed the men of Fisher Hall from their beds at 1:30 a.m. last Monday morning. Seems Jack Mahoney of Room 416 decided to have one last cigarette before going to sleep. Mahoney lit up his cigarette and then lay down on his bed. But Jack was out before his cigarette was. The cigarette fell from his hand and dropped to the mattress where it continued to burn. Soon the mattress was smouldering and smoke began to fill the room. But Mahoney slept on. Fortunately a possible case of asphyxiation was avoided when the burning mattress came in contact with Mahoney’s hand. Mahoney awoke with a start and as soon as he realized what was happening he began to drag the mattress out into the corridor.
Pope Sounds Alarm
Meanwhile down the hall Chuck Pope, i	a second year law student, was studying.
।	Pope thought he smelled smoke but
i	figured at first that it was simply a
I	brush fire somewhere. When the smoke
!	began to get thicker, Pope stepped out
j	into the corridor. He immediately saw
i	Mahoney struggling to get the smoking
I mattress from his room.
Mahoney called for help and Pope j sprang into action. He pulled the fire • alarm which is located just a few feet from his room and then ran downstairs to warn the night watchman on the first floor.
By now the men of Fisher were beginning to react to the blaring fire alarm. At first some men thought that a group of playboys were practical-joking and had set off a dozen electric alarm clocks in overturned wastepaper baskets. Two other seniors showed remarkable foresight. One of them grabbed his airplane reservations and the other a few notes, and both headed for the front door.
While the majority of the Fisherites were still groping around and wondering just what was going on, Pope was heading back up to the fourth floor. On the way up he met a friend, Jim Hurley, and the two of them ran to the fourth floor fire hose which they quickly put into action. As they reached the burning mattress, J. J. Smith, another fourth floor occupant, was already trying to quench the blaze with a fire extinguisher.
Within a few seconds more aid arrived from the third floor. Ned Griffin had grabbed the fire hose on that floor and with the assistance of six other third
12
floor men rushed upstairs with it. Unfortunately the hose would not quite reach the scene of the fire. Even more unfortunately, no one had thought of staying behind to turn on the water. One of the men returned however and soon two fire hoses and a fire extinguisher were being trained on the smoldering mattress.
At about this time the first of the fire trucks arrived at Fisher in answer to the 1:39 a.m. fire alarm. The two pieces of equipment from the ND fire station arrived simultaneously with the first truck from South Bend. Soon there were six pieces of fire fighting equipment behind Fisher. But the firemen didn’t have much work to do.
The men of Fisher had the fire well under control by now and so the South Bend firemen returned to their stations. The ND firemen under the direction of Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., the ND fire chief, put out the last embers of the fire and then began to mop up the small lake that had accumulated in the corridor.
Back Again
At 2:01 a.m., while the ND Fire Department was still at Fisher, the fire alarm was somehow tripped again. Once more the South Bend Fire Department rushed out to Notre Dame. And once again they did so in vain. They stayed for only a few minutes to clear up the confusion and then returned to their stations. Soon things returned to normal in Fisher.
Brother Borromeo said that the total damage as a result of the fire was the
McKENTY, RUPP, DAKOSKE, DONADIO
Slated to Lead Third Order of St. Francis Next Year
loss of a mattress. He said further that the students reacted very well and kept confusion down to a minimurSj “The men who handled the hall fire hoses and the extinguisher showed good common sense,” Brother commented.
There was only one casualty in the night’s excitement. Wayne Kent of 418 Fisher suffered a minor leg injury in rushing to Mahoney’s assistance.
Dakoske Elected Prefect In Third Order Balloting!
Last Sunday the Third Order of Saint Francis elected George Dakoske, a junior in Science, prefect for 1955-56. The prefect position was held this year by Jim Cantrill. Dakoske, who hails from Detroit, Mich., moves up from the viceprefect office.
The newly elected vice-prefect is Ken Donadio, a junior in Arts and Letters from Branford, Conn. Succeeding Frank Tonini as Master of Novices is Dicw Rupp, an Arts and Letters junior from Indianapolis, Ind. Rupp moves up from the assistant novice leader position. Herb Riband, a sophomore Engineer from Elkins Park, Pa., succeeds Rupp. Bob McKenty, an Arts and Letters junior from Uniondale, N. Y., was reelected treasurer.
The Third Order celebrated three Rogation days last Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Early morning procession and (Mass were celebrated each day wit^ the priests, Brothers and seminarians. “Our activities were well attended, and proved beneficial to all,” a spokesman for the Third Order commented.
This summer the Order will meet at the General Franciscan Youth Conference at St. Bonaventure College in the middle of August. The Conference will discuss the common problems of youth in the nationwide group.
’ New Shopping Center W^To Open This Summer
■ i Brothel- Conan Moran, C.S.C., director
>f the campus bookstore, expressed the ' wish this week that the new Shopping
Center would be open for the use of the summer school students.
The campus Shopping Center, donated by Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes, has been the subject of a number of postponements in regard to the date of Opening.
“We’ve been anxious to move into the building since the beginning of the ' second semester,” said Brother Conan, “but something always seems to happen to keep us back. We want to begin operations there as soon as possible, so we can make necessary adjustments to expedite selling next fall.”
^extbooks on Second Floor
The present text book section of the bookstore, which is now located in the rear of Badin Hall, will occupy the secohd floor of the building. Fine art, architectural, and drawing supplies, as well as text books will be purchased there. Space has also been set aside for a Travel Agency booth for the convenience of the students.
The main section of the first floor will house the accessories bookstore ^where camera supplies, records, class supplies, radios, phonographs, monogramed wearing apparel, greeting cards, toilet articles, etc., will be sold. There will also be a watch repairing department in this section of the store.
' The west extension of the first floor will contain the Gilbert’s Campus Shop where clothing items will be on sale.
The planned system for the operation of the new center accentuates speed and ^efficiency. A self-service “super market” policy will eliminate waiting and congestion. Check-out cash registers will be placed near the doors for the students.
Higgins Named Chairman For 1955 Commerce Ball
Jerry Higgins, of Kansas City, Mo., will head the 1955 Commerce Ball com-^mittee it was announced this week. The ball is scheduled to be held on Nov. 11 in the Student Center.
Assisting Higgins as business manager will be Don Walz, from Indianapolis, Ind.; Bob Hilger, publicity, from Columbus, Ind.; Luke Brennan, tickets, from Oak Park, Ill.; Jerry Gatto, entertainment, from South Bend, Ind.; Gerry Pastula, hotel accommodations, from Detroit, Mich.; and Bob Duffy, decora-
ns, from Floral Park, N. Y.
ay 20, 1955
BROTHER SABINUS
A Sudden Shock
Ave Maria Press Head Passes Away on May 13
The University announced the recent death of Brother Sabinus, C.S.C., superintendent of printing at the Ave Maria Press. He died at 7:30 a.m. May 13 in St. Joseph’s Hospital as the result of a heart attack. Thursday evening he had attended the annual Publications Banquet for University publications personnel. Friday morning he became ill and was removed to the hospital.
Brother Sabinus had been superintendent of printing for nine years. He had previously worked in the composing room of the press for four years.
He was publisher of the Bengal Digest, a periodical printed at the press from 1945 until 1948. He was author of a book, Maid of Corinaldo, as well as a number of articles for the Associate of St. Joseph.
Brother Sabinus was bora in Troy, N. Y., on Jan. 2, 1917. He became a Brother on Aug. 15, 1941, at Holy Cross Novitiate, North Dartmouth, Mass., and took his final vows at Notre Dame on Aug. 15, 1945.
He was assistant superior of Columba Hall and director of the Brother Columba Apostolate of the Sacred Heart at Columba Hall, in addition to his duties at the press. He was a member of the Catholic Press Association and the Michiana Club of the International Association of Printing House Craftsmen.
LAST ISSUE
This is the last issue of the SCHOLASTIC this schoolyear. The editors wish everyone success in exams and a safe, happy summer vacation.
Debaters Take Second At Milwaukee Tourney
The Notre Dame debating team took second place among 16 teams in a tournament at Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis., last weekend. The winning squad was from Texas University and had a 5-0 record while the Irish compiled 4 victories against a single setback. Dick Schiller, president of the 1955-56 squad, was adjudged the third best debater in the tourney while the other member of the Notre Dame team, Jerry Garvey, was given eighth place.
On Sunday night the Irish and Texas squads put on an exhibition debate over a Milwaukee television station, WTVW. The first man for Texas during the meet was Frank Finn who was president of the Notre Dame debate team back in 1946. His participation in the debates today is due to the lack of an eligibility limitation by the Southwest Conference.
This years debate president, Chuck Doherty, announced that at the recent Tau Kappa Alpha meeting Al Riley, Pat Curran, Jack Bure, Frank McCue, Stan Kusper, and Jerry Garvey were initiated as new members of the national debating fraternity. It was also announced that the freshman oratorical contest was won this year by Bernard Morais, and that Riley will be next year’s novice coach.
Graduating Students Urged To Participate in Alumni Clubs
Representatives of the Notre Dame Alumni Association interviewed more than 800 seniors and graduate students from May 9 to 13. The students who will receive their degrees on June 5 were urged to affiliate with their local alumni club and to become active in its yearround activities.
The interviews were the first of their kind to be conducted, according to James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary. “With the visits of University officials to Notre Dame clubs becoming increasingly frequent,” Armstrong said, “alumni activity has increased and our younger graduates have assumed leadership in many of the clubs.”
Armstrong urged this year’s graduates to keep in touch with their alma mater and each other through the Alumnus and their local alumni club. He reminded members of the graduating class to maintain their current address: in alumni office records. This is especially important for members of the armed forces and those interested in job placement aid.
The senior interviews were conducted by Allan J. Powers, Richard J. Bowes, John S. McCauley, and James W. Frick.
13
Engineering College to Host ASEE Meeting; Fr. Hesburgh Will Give Welcome Tomorrow
The Illinois and Indiana sections of the American Society for Engineering Education will hold their 18th annual meeting here tomorrow. Dr. H. E. Elli-thorn of the College of Engineering, sectional chairman of the ASEE announced recently.
Representatives from seven colleges and universities will register for the event in the lobby of the Engineering Building at 9:15 a.m.
A general meeting will be held in the Engineering Auditorium with a welcoming address by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. After a short business meeting, Dean Karl E. Schoenherr will introduce the main speaker of the event, Raymond R. Paty, director of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
At 12:15 a luncheon will be held at the Morris Inn. Departmental conferences will begin at 2 p.m.
The ASEE is divided into the following departments: chemical engineering, civil engineering, electrical engineering, engineering drawing, engineering mech-aics and aeronautical engineering, English and liberal studies, librarians, physical sciences, and mechanical and industrial engineering.
These conferences will be held in O’Shaughnessy Hall, Nieuwland Science Hall, and the Engineering Building. The final activity of the day will be a reception and tea on the Morris Inn patio at 3:45 p.m.
A ladies program will be held for those women attending with their husbands. The program includes tours and a luncheon on campus, with a tour of some points of interest in the area.
Included among the 200 expected guests will be representatives from the seven schools. They are: W. E. Short,
Annual Faculty Dinner To Be Held on May 26
For the second straight year the faculty of the University and their wives will be the dinner guests of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. The dinnei- will be held on May 26 from 7:30 until 9:30 p.m. in the East Dining Hall.
Last year at the first faculty banquet promotions in rank were announced and retiring faculty members were honored. This precedent will be followed again this year with Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs, announcing the list of promotions. The only speaker at the dinner will be Father Hesburgh.
14
Bradley University; C. E. Kesler, University of Illinois; M. A. Elliott, Illinois Institute of Technology; D. D. Kilner, Northwestern University; H. P. Ackert, University of Notre Dame; S. C. Hite, Purdue University; and R. D. Strum, Rose Polytechnical Institute.
WNDU's Call Letters Will Change to WSND
“It’s been Nancy for years, but it’s Sugai- next fall, for the station that’s tuned direct to your hall.”
This catch phrase has been puzzling local radio listeners for the past week. The explanation: “Station WNDU will change its call letters to WSND when it begins operations next fall,” Station Manager Pat McCartan announced re-recently. Nancy and Sugar are not successors to Elaine, they are merely the international code names given to the letters N and S.
Other innovations for the station which set a record of $8,000 in sales this year are the establishment of a new production department and various minor changes.
According to McCartan, “The new production department will provide student-produced shows of more originality and imagination. It -will give more students more things to do. It’s the type of thing we should be doing. WSND will operate with an entirely new program schedule dedicated to entertainment and education with opportunities to experiment in different types of programing.
“Shows like The Sunday Showcase, Focus, The University Theater and Request fully Yours will make WSND more enjoyable to listen to. We are de-empha-sizing disc jockey shows”
WSND will open its 1955-1956 season with a new portable tape-recorder, a renovated Studio B, an Associated Press news wire to replace the United Press service, and a staff of news writers covering campus events. “The news department will be more prominent in the future. There is plenty of news on the Notre Dame campus, and we hope to give good coverage not only from the news beats we will assign, but also by campus interviews on tape.”
McCartan also announced the appointment of Jerry Higgins, a junior from Kansas City, Mo., as sales manager. “We have made changes from the call letters right down to the personnel. We intend to live up to our new WSND motto. We hope to ‘Serve Notre Dame’,” McCartan concluded.
GEORGE MURRAY
The Brass of the Band
Murray Chosen President In Recent Band Elections
George Murray was recently elected next year’s president for the Notre Dame Marching Band. Murray edged Dick Rupp and Dick Meinert for the head position.
The vice - presidency was filled by Jack Gueguen who won over Jack Gaido. Dick Kopituk was elected to the post of secretary and Bill Jolly was the runner-up in this race.	a
Dick Meinert was chosen for the jot? of treasurer-social chairman; he was elected over Dante Fuligni. In the final race, Dick Rupp was elected alumni coordinator over Bill Jolly, John Rigsby and Bob Elliott.
Tomorrow the band will participate in the yearly Armed Forces Day Parade in South Bend along with the three ROTO units of the University.
COMMENCEMENT MATINEE
The final performance of the University Theatre production of “Seventeen” will be given on Saturday, June 4, for graduating seniors and their guests.
Tickets for the performances, matinee and evening, will be distributed from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and from 1 to 5 p.m. in the Alumni of-^ fice, from May 31 to June 3. All tickets will be given out on a first-come, first-serve basis.
The original cast of the play, starring Jim Kinnane and Gail Baumer, will enact the drama of teenage love on the stage of Washington Hall for the last time for the -Commencement weekend audience. 1
The
'BLACK GOLD' COUNTRY
By PETE STURTEVANT
“Black gold is bringing prosperity to Venezuela and higher educational standards to her people,” Dick Clamens told the Scholastic in a special interview.
Clamens, a senior foreign marketing major from Venezuela, was interviewed as part of a series of articles on Notre Dame’s foreign students and their countries, prepared in co-operation with the International Commission of the National Student Association.
Venezuela is now the world’s largest exporter and second largest producer of petroleum, Clamens reports. Sixteen oil companies are now operating in the country. In 1953 the average daily production of crude oil by all of the country’s oil companies was 1,765,000 barrels. The largest producer is the Creole Oil Company, a subsidiary of Standard Oil of New Jersey. “The United States has played a tremendous part in the development of this resource,” Clamens said. “The U.S.-owned oil companies
EAGER PROSPECTORS FIND ‘BLACK GOLD’ EVERYWHERE IN VENEZUELA ‘The March Is On . . . '	.
have provided employment for thousands of Venezuelans. Ninety per cent of their employees are natives.” The companies have played a prominent role in raising the living standards of Venezuela. They have provided hospitals, schools, housing and recreational facilities. “Executives of the major oil companies rank as some of the best ambassadors that the United States has sent to Venezuela,” Clamens commented.
The oil companies and the government share 50-50 in petroleum revenues. “The government realizes fully the contributions that foreign oil companies have made to the Venezuelan standard of living and therefore maintains the laws regulating the production of petroleum on an equitable basis,” according to Clamens.
The United States benefits from its activities in Venezuela not only by augmenting this country’s supply of petroleum but also by establishing a large
DICK CLAMENS
market for American-manufactured industrial and consumer goods. Oil revenue has provided the average Venezuelan with purchasing power that makes it possible for him to look to the United States for the goods he needs.
Venezuela has a very favorable balance of payments because its exports, primarily petroleum, have been running far ahead of its imports. “This accounts for the confidence that foreign companies have when they look to Venezuela as a place to invest,” Clamens said. “The capital of the foreign companies is mobile and dividend payments may be made without difficulty.”
The oil industry was first established in 1920. It is flourishing now in the eastern section of the country and in the Lake Maracaibo district where oil wells can be seen on the lake itself.
Another industry which promises to enrich the country is iron ore mining. Ore of very high quality was discovered recently. In 1953, over 2,275,000 tons were extracted, primarily by United States Steel Corp.
Venezuela’s government is now a military dictatorship headed by Marcos Perez-Jiminez, who was characterized by Clamens as “an extremely capable strong man.” Although the government is a dictatorship, it has demonstrated its belief in the responsibilities of government by carrying out numerous projects for the benefit of its citizens, Clamens said. These projects include public education, housing, highway construction, and labor legislation.
Because of the increased prosperity brought about by oil production, education has made rapid strides forward in Venezuela. The ordinary laborer is now able to educate his children. In spite of the progress made in education, a large (Continued on page 30)
J5
Film Views Lobund Story
Professor Fischer explains role to Charlie Klee who portrays the undergraduate Reyniers.

i
Mounting temporary entrance sign.
&
S
&
g
£
§
% $
§
&
£
HE house-lights dim, a hush falls over the audience, and a motion picture flashes across a silvery screen. All eyes focus on the close-up picture of a guinea pig hopping around in a large glass jar. Immediately, credit lines craw] upwards over the film. . .
The University of Notre Dame Presents—“Life Without Germs”—Produced by Students of the Department of Journalism in Cooperation with Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame.
This is the opening scene from a filmed story of the famed LOBUND program here on campus. Work on the film, a project of the senior Journalism
in movie and television prin-
course
life can
Lights . . .
Action—the birth of germ-free experiments.
Camera . .
ciples, began early this month. The seniors have been serving on a volunteer basis under the direction of Professor Edward A. Fischer, their instructor who authored this documentary script.
The story is based on the brilliant career of Dr. James A. Reyniers, Di
lector of LOBUND. In 1930, while still a Notre Dame undergraduate, Dr. Reyniers began his research in germ-free life, an almost unknown field in those days.
From long hours of patient effort by this one scientist has grown LOBUND’s world- renowned laboratories n o w manned by a staff of 50 skilled specialists. Dr. Reyniers’ original experiments were performed in a single small, dimly-lit room; today LOBUND has its own germ-free life building, machine shop, animal house, plus 28 laboratories in the Biology Building.
And with the tremendous growth of LOBUND, both in size and importance, there has arisen an ever-increasing need to explain this organization to the public. For it is the man on the street who will most benefit from such re
search, and whose interest and are essential to insure success program.
Experiments with germ-free
support for the
help to solve public health problems. The doors of LOBUND have been opened to scientists studying the causes and possible remedies for cancer, virus infection, tooth decay, radiation sickness and heart disease.
So there is little wonder that business,
civic and educational groups are constantly seeking the fundamental facts about LOBUND. To satisfy this interest, LOBUND staff members gladlyr donate much time to speaking before' such groups. However, their time and the range of their travels are obviously quite limited.
Consequently, since one picture really is worth a thousand words, the Department of Journalism decided to produce this 15-minute promotional film-short about the work of LOBUND. Because of high film-making costs that quickly consume the Department’s budget, the film is being shot in two segments—the first recently completed by this year’sW graduates, the second to be finished by next year’s senior class.
Professor Fischer is directing the project, a LOBUND scientist is serving as technical advisor, and a professional photographer is supervising the mechanical details. But the seniors themselves have a hand in every phase of production —setting, camera, lighting and even acting. So the film will actually serve two purposes: it communicates knowledge about LOBUND to the public, and it provides journalism students with valuable experience in applying basic principles learned in the classroom.
1
Relaxing during the Dixieland intermission
FRIDAY- ‘
Perhaps it is true that the Southland gave birth to the blues; but a revitalized Old South chased those blues away for over 600 couples who glided through the Drill Hall at last Friday’s Senior Ball.
During the day, as the girls arrived from near and far, everybody seemed to sense that this would be an unforgettable day . . . the social climax of the year ... a grand finale to college life . . . the Golden Anniversary of a proud tradition.
Long hours of work had transformed the stern Drill Hall interior into a dazzling replica of a Southern mansion. Costumed footmen escorted the couples through the entrance and onto a plat-fonn overlooking a colorful pond and garden. Beyond was the ballroom lined with pillars and a white fence. And seated at the far end was the orchestra of Ralph Marterie, a true gentleman of the Old South (Chicago).
During intermission, an authentic touch of Dixieland was added by Jimmy McShane’s crew, all fine exponents of the old two-four beat.
Queen of the Ball was Miss Eileen Hennessy, a St. Mary’s junior and date of Chairman Jim Griffin. She reigned over festivities happily unique in the memories of most seniors. ’ For this was the Golden Anniversary Senior Ball— an impressive conclusion for their years under the Golden Dome!
Examining the favors	And away we go!	Filling out her dance program
schedule of many Ball-goers.
was on the Saturday
the sandy dunes of western Indiana
picnic on
20



Erskine Country
Club added to the weekend’s Southern spirit.


Saturday-
It was 3 a.m. Saturday morning when the weary but happy seniors dragged themselves back to their halls after the Ball. And it was another half-hour before most of them managed to escape from their confining tuxedos. Also there was the inevitable groping on the floor for dropped studs and cuff links (a^ usual, the lights had been turned off aw midnight.) Finally, rest!
Ring! Hours seemingly passed in minutes, for alarm clocks were heralding a new day of fun . . . though for some there were unavoidable morning classes to dispose of first. Then, where to?
Many stayed around campus to tour the grounds and buildings with their imported dates. Topping the list of cam A pus attractions was the Engineering Open House with its exhibits, air and auto shows, and the annual chariot race.
Later, these couples had their choice of traveling to School Field where the Old-Timers surprised next fall’s varsity football team, or of visiting Cartier Field where both a baseball game and a track meet were in progress.
But for the adventurous ones who wanted to take full advantage of weekend car permissions, this warm, sunn^ afternoon demanded a trip to the Dunes. Who cared whether the frigid waves of Lake Michigan numbed even the hardiest swimmers? This was a truly carefree day.
Evening came, bringing back with it ; the long caravans of picnickers. Seniors; : raced to their halls for a split-second | change from wash slacks and swimming > trunks to snappy suits and ties. And


if
to
where dinner had
Dancing
been served earlier.
then
they whisked fair ladies off to a
name of the young- lady he had
invited
re-
where served
the for
Couples gather on the Country Club porch await the start of the dinner-dance.
Sunday-
center-aisle section was them.


dinner-dance at the Erskine Country Club.
All were impressed by the Club, for it is a Southern colonial building—so in keeping with the theme of all the weekend activities. As the couples arrived, they were immediately seated for an excellent roast beef dinner. (And who were those sly gals who charmed the waiter into pilfering extra dessert for
j g4;hem?) The day closed with a three-1 mour dance to the music of Ed Pistey’s , combo.
| On that bright Sunday morning, over 250 seniors escorted their guests to the
o’clock
Mass in Sacred Heart Church
8
have little
so many gone so long with so sleep!
£
And some 250 seniors and their dates prepare to “dig in” at the start of Sunday morning’s Communion Breakfast.
other Hesburgh offers a sincere Democratic Chairman Butler recalls \|elcome to the couples ... his Senior Ball at Notre Dame . . .
^May 20, 1955

After Mass, the couples filed into
the
Dining Hall for their Communion Breakfast. Father Hesburgh welcomed all, and complimented them on the success of this Golden Anniversary.
Paul Butler, a Notre Dame graduate who recently was elected Democratic National Chairman, served as guest speaker. Mr. Butler happily recalled memories of his own Senior Ball weekend . . . and just as happily forgot the
A
V)
to it (at this point, Mrs. Butler’s curiosity was aroused.) Getting serious for a moment, Mr. Butler pleaded for stronger moral values in those aspiring to political office, and expressed his faith in a Notre Dame education.
Soon that unforgettable weekend was ended ... a gay, sparkling, wonderful time. And who can forget how Father Hesburgh summed it up: “Never before



5
1
I

The Sho^cese
THE NIGHT AND THE COLD
By NORRIS J. BISHTON
' solitary coin .rolled down the narrow chute and clunked into the little tray at the end. He took it, put it in his pockety and walked out.
They were waiting for him—the night and the cold—and they quickly swallowed him up.
He walked until the stores became smaller and the spaces between them bigger. He was tired, too tired to notice he was hungry, and he was cold. Then it began to rain.
He pushed the tray down the last few feet of the gleaming rails and stood waiting. The woman behind the counter quickly surveyed the food on the tray. Click. Click. Click. Her fingers darted this way and that over the keyboard. They stopped. The machine gave a groan, rang a bell, and belched forth a little piece of paper. He took it and laid it face down on the tray. He would look at it later.
He lifted the tray from the gleaming rails and stood looking for a table. His first glance told him that there were no vacant places, but he kept looking anyway. Finally he just stood there, ridiculous, holding the tray with no place to go. No one noticed him, they just kept on eating. No one ever notices small men, and he was a small man. His smallness wasn’t just a matter of height. He seemed to stand small, walk small, think small, act small.
THEN they began, little pins of fire running up and down his arms. He looked around desperately for somewhere to rest the tray. No manager ran up to help him. No one noticed him. In desperation he carried the tray over to a window sill, a very narrow window sill. He still had to balance the tray with one hand.
He looked out of the window. They were there, waiting for him—the night and the cold. They knew he would have to come out sometime, and they were very patient.
He stared at the food on the tray. What had looked so warm and good a few minutes before now seemed cold and dreary. The thin cloud of steam that had been hanging above his coffee cup had disappeared. He looked out of the window again and shivered.
On the other side of the room someone finished eating, pushed back his chair, stood up, and left. Carefully balancing his tray with one hand, he watched a fat, old lady move to the . table pushing a cart before her. She whipped the dishes off of the table and redistributed the crumbs with a dirty-looking rag. Finished, she plodded away pushing her cart.
He picked up his tray and started towards the vacated place. The arm he
22
had used to balance the tray on the window sill was very tired. He tried to shift the majority of weight on to his other arm, but his dishes began sliding around the tray. He stopped until he had reestablished the equilibrium of the tray. When he moved again there was no longer any vacant place. Somebody else had taken it.
He just made it back to the window sill before his arm gave out. He was hungry; he was tired. His arms ached from carrying the heavy tray, but there was nothing he could do.
Four people finished eating and left. The fat, old woman added their dirty dishes to the ones already stacked high in the cart and halfheartedly wiped the table. The small man looked around. No one else was waiting. He started for the vacant table, carefully holding the tray high as he threaded his way among the tables. He saw the coat on the floor. It had fallen off the back of someone’s chair. He swerved to keep from stepping on it. There was a jar. The tray was ripped from his hands and it crashed to the floor.
A big man stood glaring at him angrily. “Why don’t you watch where you are going. It’s a good thing you didn’t spill anything on me.” Everyone had stopped eating and looked up at the crash. For a minute their interest was aroused by the possibility of violence, but the big man stalked out of the room. There was nothing else of interest. The small man had just dropped his tray. They went back to eating.
THE small man stood looking at the food spilled on the floor. The fat, old lady pushed her cart over and stood looking at it, too. Wearily she knelt down and began pushing the food into one pile. She uncovered the check, wiped it on a clean spot on the side of her uniform, and thrust it up at the small man. He looked at her dumbly. She shoved the check into his hand and pointed towards the cashier at the door. Obediently he walked over to the cashier and handed her the soggy check. She took it, gave him a pathetic look, and sat waiting. He handed her the money and watched it disappear into the cash register. She pushed a button, and a
HE huddled in the doorway an^ watched the rain. It seemed to claw at him like a hunter attempting to bring the hunted into the open. He watched fascinated as the rain slowly darkened the light colored sidewalk. Closer and closer crept the darkness, reducing the spot where he stood to a little island, smaller and smaller until it touched his shoes.
Then he ran. He darted from the doorway and started down the street^ The rain enjoyed its success in bringing the game into the open and joyfully took ‘ up the chase. The small man ran and ran, and then he could run no more. He stopped and stood waiting, his head bowed, shaking, like a rabbit waiting for the inevitable teeth of the hound.
The rain was bored by the ease of the chase. The small man had proved a disappointment. It pelted the dripping figure with one last burst to show its con- ; tempt and turned to look for new game^
But the rain was not content to leave ' 3 the small man alone. Instead it left be-	1
hind a slow, steady drizzle to remind	I
him not to try again to escape from the	|
cage of the night and the cold and	1
the rain.	|
After a long while the small man started to walk. Something told him to walk. Something told him that sometime the street would come to an end, I and there would be no cold or rain—jus^ I night getting tighter and tighter until I everything was night.
He noticed the light when it was just a pinpoint far down the street. He didn’t believe that it existed. Even when 1 he was standing under the streetlight, I blinded by the glare, he did not believe j that it existed as if believing would j cause it to disappear. And there under < the street light there was no night or , cold or rain.	r ■
When his eyes became accustomed t® the glare he saw her. She was standing	I
in the circle of light, but she gave no	|
sign of having seen him. She was tall I and beautiful. And her tallness re- I minded him of his smallness. And her beauty reminded him of his ugliness.. He knew at once that he must forsake! the light and the warmth and the dry-1 ness lest he disturb her. But when he *
(Continued on page 31) s I
The ScholastifadM
Notre Dame to Host ^Holy Cross Chapter
A Provincial Chapter of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana province will be convened at Notre Dame on June 17, it was announced here yesterday by Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial. Thirty-five priests will be delegates to the sessions which are held every three years as prescribed by the Constitutions £of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
A Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the campus will mark the opening of the Chapter which is expected to last about ten days. The obediences or assignments of Holy Cross priests for the coming year will be announced at the conclusion of the Chapter, Father Mehling said.
Included on the sessions’ agenda will be the election of delegates to the Gen-^eral Chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross to be held in Rome during the summer of 1956. Delegates to the June meeting also will review the activities of the province during the past three years and nominate three priests for the office of Provincial.
In addition to Notre Dame, the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana province operates the University of Portland in Oregon and St. George’s College at .Santiago, Chile. Its priests serve as missionaries ^in East Pakistan, conduct missions and retreats in this country, edit several publications, operate parishes, and serve as Chaplains in the armed forces, at hospitals, and other Catholic institutions. • In September the Holy Cross Fathers will open the new Notre Dame High ! School for Boys at Niles, Ill., a Chicago | suburb.
'THE FILTER	.
YOU'LL REALLY ! ENJOY!"	”
FOR THE
■nil f-
$
CIGARETTES
FILTER TIP TAREYTON
FOR EASY DRAWING MILDNESS!"
with the Pearl-Gray Activated Charcoal Filter
PRODUCT OF
Spanish Study Offered To American Students
The National Union of Spanish Students, official association of Spanish university and college students in Spain, announced the issuance of “Courtesy Cards” to foreign students visiting Spain so they can enjoy the same privileges in universities and other educational centers of higher learning as — Spanish students.
™ The only formality required for students wishing to obtain this card is the presentation of any document that proves their membership in a national union or similar association in their own country.
The Spanish Students Union promotes the courses for foreign students at leading universities in Spain, to introduce students from other countries to the i study of the Spanish language and cul
ture, or to increase their knowledge of these subjects. Upon completion of the course, students may take examination for the Diploma of Hispanic Studies, for a Certificate of Proficiency in any of the subjects studied, or they can apply for a Certificate of Attendance.
The first study week will begin at Salamanca on July 15. A short course on “Panorama of Contemporary Spanish Literature” will be given by members of Spanish universities. The second week, devoted to Spain’s present problems, will be at Jose Antonio College in the University of Madrid. The third week’s subject will be “A Glance at Spanish History.” The fourth week will be spent at San Jorge University College in Barcelona, where lectures will be given on “Art in Spain Today.”
Center Dance Honors Gels; Pistey to Direct 'Lettermen1
Don Gels and his golden trumpet will make their last appearance on the Student Center bandstand tomorrow night from 8:30 till 11.
Dance chairman Dave McCarthy has named the dance “Finis” as a final tribute to Gels as maestro of the University Dance Band. With Gels stepping down, Ed Pistey, an alto saxophonist and band soloist, will wave the baton over the University Dance Band which will sport the new moniker of “The Lettermen.”
“Finis” will feature dancing in the newly finished Student Center basement. Refreshments will be available for the couples. The price per couple is $1.
23
May 20, 1955
<3
VS
11)1 IMS
LIBRARY and
BOOK SHOP We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East " 4ve., So. Bend
J Youkl.. 'feOlNGHoME
TMe: Right after final exams. lace: Roomy air-conditioned train coaches .. “	with lots of space to roam and visit.
reasoH: Traveling home for summer vacation.
z _ All your friends ... be they
VESTS • “stag” or "drag.” ^ee X°ur 'oca' ra'lroo<f ticket
Fl J ’ r • agent	'-sriy reservations.)
Ao *
uvm
Don’t let that ' ing" cramp your style in < ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakened In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
—• i	* e
-----------------
Start your summer vacation with a “last get together” trip back home on the train... lots of friends along. No tough driving to do, no waiting for weather to clear. And there’s room for heaps ’n heaps of baggage.
Costs less, too... you and two more traveling together can each save 25% of regular round-trip coach fares on most trips of 100 miles or more by using GROUP ECONOMY FARES.* Or, gather 25 or more heading home at the same time in same direction and you each save 28%, even if you return separately.
♦except for local travel between New York-Washington and points east of Lancaster, Pa.
EA5W RAILROAM
*an H0'*
Enjoy youuv.
think! AFTER SIX _ shoulders—light on budget .> "Stain-shy" finish, too! For
that "up-in-the-clouds" feeling—go

PhVB^ pack «tatAds toWlW tfi*
Fish, Steals, Oops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty "Chicken In the Rough" Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes
Jug of Honey
Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
patches
Diamonds jc-. .
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
J.M.S. Bldg.
Joe Nabielit’s
Restaurant 213 N. Main Open Sunday
24
Scholastic Sports
IRISH NINE TO BATTLE BRONCOS, SPARTANS
ARNIE SOWELL WINS
It’s Almost Monotonous
Trackmen Edged by Pitt; Finish in NCAA Meet
By RAY LESCHER
The Notre Dame track team lost a close 67%-63% meet to the University I of Pittsburgh at Cartier Field last Saturday. The Panthers gained the victory in the last event by winning the mile relay; up to that point both teams were as evenly matched as possible, with the lead changing hands after every event.
After the completion of the regular schedule against the Indiana Hoosiers, the trackmen will wait until after exams before concluding the season with two inter-collegiate meets. On June 4 around 20 members of the team will travel to ) Milwaukee, Wis., for the Central Collegiate Meet. Also represented at this meet will be such Big Ten powers as Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, and Kansas, perennial powerhouse of the Big Seven.
On June 18, the NCAA will hold its championship meet at Los Angeles, Calif. Representing the Irish will be Bill Squires, Bernie Allard, Al Schoenig, and Byron Beams.
The Panthers were led by Arnie Sowell, outstanding amateur athlete of
May 20, 1955
Hitting improved As Revamped Klinemen Seek Winning Season in Final Three Games
The Irish baseball team will encounter one of the Midwest’s stronger ball clubs tomorrow afternoon when Western Michigan visits Cartier Field. The Kalamazoo boys swept their nine game schedule in the Mid-America Conference to gain the loop crown this year and at
the winter season, who won four events and contributed 15 points to his team’s total.
The Irish were paced by Bernie Allard and Bill Squires. Allard captured the high jump, won the 120-yard high hurdles, finished second in the javelin, and third in the 220-yard low hurdles, giving him a total of 14 points. Squires wound up with 10 points, winning the mile in 4:17.0, and the two mile in 9:39.4.
Other Notre Dame firsts came by Mike Kaufmann in the discus with a throw of 139 ft. 3 in., and Al Pestri-chella in the 100-yard dash with his winning time of :10.1.
The Summary:	i
HIGH JUMP:—1. Bernie Allard (N.D.); 2. Mike Kearns (N.D.); 3. Bill Kulnis (P). Height: 6 feet, 5 inches.
BROAD JUMP.—1. Arnold Sowell (P): 2. Bill Kulnis (P); 3. Lou Pilliod (N.D.) Distance: 22 feet, 7 inches.
POLE VAULT:—!. Bill Smith (P): 2. Jim Redmond (N.D.); 3. Jim Lynne (N.D.) and Dennis Goggin (P). tie. Height: 12 feet.
JAVELIN:—1. Pat Scordo (P); 2. Bernie Allard (N.D.); 3. C. Salvaterra (P): Distance: 180 feet. 3 inches.
SHOT PUT:—1. Sam Berry (P): 2. Mike Kaufmann (N.D.): 3. C. Salvaterra (P); Distance: 49 feet. 1 inch. (New meet reuord. old mark of 48 feet. 9 inches bv Berrv. Pitt, in 1954).
DISCUS:—!. Mike Kaufmann (N.D.); 2. Hal Blakeslee (N.D.); 3. Bob Pollack (P).; Distance: 139 feet 3 inches.
MILE RUN:—1. Bill Squires (N.D.): 2. Al Gunderson (P); 3. Wendell Harford (P); Time: 4:17.0.
440 YARD RUN:—1. Arnold Sowell (P); 2. Joe Dudes (P): 3. Bill Keegan (N.D.); Time: :49.4.
100 YARD RUN:—1. A. 'Pestrichella (N.D.); 2. Dave Peays (P): 3. Jim Pitcavage (N.D.): Time: :10.1.
120 YARD HIGH HURDLES:—!. Bernie Allard (N.D.); 2. Jim Baker (P); 3. George Alcott (P): Time: : 15.0.
880 YARD RUN:—1. Arnold Sowell (P); 2. Al Porter (N.D.); 3. Wendell Harford (P); Time: 1:55.3.
220 YARD RUN:—!. Dave Peays (P); 2. A. Pestrichella (N.D.); 3. Bill Keegan (N.D.): Time: 99
""TWO MILE RUN:—!. Bill Squires (N.D.); 2. Al Gunderson (P): 3. Jack Gits (N.D.); Time: 9-39 4
220 YARD LOW HURDLES:—!. Dick Cox (P): 2. Jim Baker (N.D.); 3. Bernie Allard (N.D.); Time: :25.
MILE RELAY—Pittsburgh (Ed Saunders, Joe Dudas. William Lape, Arnold Sowell). Time: 3:25.
present, sport a 10-6 season record. Their latest triumphs were over Western Reserve in a two game series at Kalamazoo last weekend.
Michigan State, a strong contender for the Big Ten championship, will face the Irish next Wednesday. The Spartans put the damper- on Michigan’s chances for the title by sweeping a three game series from the Wolverines last Friday and Saturday, and the wins give them an 8-4 record in Big Ten play. The defending champion Spartans are currently in third place behind Minnesota and Ohio State, but as of last weekend, their .337 team batting average was tops for the league.
Ray Collard, Jim Sack, and Bob Powell have been the big guns for the Spartans thus far, with Dick Idzowski’s 3-0 record pacing the moundsmen.
A pair of errors in the tenth inning yesterday cost the Irish the game with Michigan State. The Spartans won it 5-4.
Notre Dame matched the Big Ten power for nine and a half innings, the lead changing hands five times.
Soph John Hammett suffered the loss.
j
DICK BUNKER
Whiffs 14 Boilermakers
•*
25
I
1955 Notre Dame Batting and Pitching Averages
RIP GREAT LAKES, 13-5
McClorey on the Firing Line
Dick Bunker, hard-luck hurler of the Irish nine, broke the Purdue jinx last Tuesday afternoon setting the Boilermakers down 7-4.
Bunker struck out 14 in notching his second won against four losses.
Jim Carideo was the big gun of the N.D. attack with three hits, driving in three runs.
Jim Cusack hit safely Tuesday for the 16th straight time.
The Klinemen had a field day last Saturday as they unleashed a 19 hit barrage against Great Lakes, setting the Bluejackets down 13-5. Dan Nespo, Jim Cusack, and Elmer Kohorst led the attack with three hits each, Nespo banging three runs across for good measure.
Mike Lesso’s ankle has healed satisfactorily and he moved back into his first base job with two hits. Jim Cusack has been switched to the outfield and Nespo has taken over third base for the injured Don Sniegowski.
Bernie McClorey started on the hill for the Irish but the Bluejackets took a liking to him in a hurry, knocking in three runs in the first inning. He was relieved by John Hammett in the third who gained credit for the victory, his first against no losses. Great Lakes got to Hammett for a run in the third and another in the sixth, but he steadied each time and set them down without further commotion. Dick Bunker took over in the eighth and finished, adding three strikeouts to his collection in the process.
Lou Marinelli, Ross Meagher, and former Northwestern University star, Bob Burson led Great Lakes at bat and in the field. Marinelli drove in two runs with two hits and Burson made several fine plays at short.
The win over Great Lakes gives the Irish a 5-7 record with five games remaining to be played.
26
	G	AB	R	H	2B	3B	HR	RBI	Avg.V
John Hammett, p 				4	1	0	1	1	0	0	1	1.000
John Keller, of 						2	6	1	2	0	0	0	0	.333
Joe Yaeger, of				8	13	2	5	0	0	0	3	.384
Steve Johnson, 3b 				3	5	0	. 2	0	0	0	0	.400
Don Sniegowski, 3b 					10	35	4	13	3	0	0	5	.371
Jim Cusack, lb				13	57	9	20	6	0	1	8	.350
Paul Besser, p 					3	6	1	2	0	0	0	0	.333
Dan Nespo, 3b 					13	51	10	16	5	1	3	12	.313
Dick Bunker, p 				8	17	4	4	1	0	0	0	.235
Elmer Kohorst, c 						13	56	6	16	2	0	0	4	.285
Bill Teschke, of								12	47	8	12	1	0	0	g	.255
Ron Mottl, p 								4	12	4	3	1	0	0	1	.250
Ed Hurley, 2b 									13	54	12	12	2	0	1	5	.222<
Mike Lesso, lb 				4	14	1	4	1	0	0	3	.285
Jim Carideo, ss 						13	53	9	13	2	1	0	7	.245
Bernard McClorey, p 			4	5	1	1	0	0	1	4	.200
Jack O’Drobinak, of				 10	40	4	7	2	0	0	1	.175
Harold Lavelle, 3b				4	6	0	1	0	0	0	0	.167
Steve Rebora, 2b 				3	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	.000
Tom Russell, ss					 1	1	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000
Tom Pettersch, c 			1	1	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000
Gerry Spaeth, p					 1	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000
Jim Twohy, of					 1	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	.000
PITCHING AVERAGES	IP		R	H	so	BB	w	L	Pct.
Ron Mottl 				33		10	26	36	13	2	1	.667/
Dick Bunker					46		20	41	56	28	2	4	.333“
Bernard McClorey 			111/3		10	9	16	17	1	2	.333
John Hammett			9 1/3		6	12	5	7	1	0	1.000
Paul Besser 						12 2/3		5-	13	10	4	0	0	.000
Gerry Spaeth 			1		0	0	1	0	0	0	.000
Golf Team to Meet Iowa In Season Windup Match
Tomorrow afternoon at 1 p.m. the Notre Dame golf team will wind up its regular season with a home match against the University of Iowa.
Last week-end, Purdue University won the Indiana Intercollegiate State Championship held on the Burke Memorial Course. In the dual meet, the Irish defeated Indiana 19 to 17, lost to Purdue 25 to 11, and Purdue beat Indiana 29 to 7, leaving ND with a record of five wins and three defeats.
PART OF THE BIG “IF”
(left to right) Dick Lynch, Ed Sullivan, Dick Wilkins, Al Francis, Aubrey Lewis, and Dick Prendergast.
The Scholastic^
Purdue walked off with the team score with a five-man total of 733 strokes, followed by the Irish with 765, and Indiana with 771. Purdue’s Wayne Etherton was the medalist with a 36-hole total of 143. Runnerup was Don Albert, also of Purdue, with a total of 144.
Leo Matt led the Irish with two steady rounds of 73-75 for a 148 total. Felix Park came next with rounds of 78-74 for 152, followed by John Foley 75-79 and Joe Mulflui- 77-77 at 154 and Bob Filipiak 78-79, 157.
I
*Terry*s *55 Club Takes First Loss
For the fourth time in the history of the game, the Notre Dame Old-Timers beat the Varsity last Saturday, 19-14.
A powerful veteran attack and lack wof experience on the part of the 1955 contingent brought defeat to Terry Brennan’s second ND team.
The green-shirted varsity opened the game with a 76-yard drive to an early score, but then found themselves more than matched by a crew of ex-Irish greats and a spill over of present varsity candidates.
A sophomore named Chuck Lima and fellow called Lattner, an Irishman from two seasons ago, cut the shallow varsity line to shreds. Coupled with the old pass combination of Guglielmi to Heap, the varsity had tough sledding all afternoon.
Irish star Don Schaefer climaxed the first drive, squirting across from the 2. He then converted and the varsity looked on their way to another victory.
Later in the first period, Lima exploded through tackle for the first vet-®eran score.
In the third period the Old-Timers went ahead 13-7 when Heap pulled one of Guglielmi’s high passes out of the i air and the hands of Jim Morse for the | score. Minnie Mavraides, Irish star of I the 1953 team converted.
I Soon after, Varsity quarterback Paul Hornung went around right end for 34 yards and the score. Schaefer put ^Terry’s lads ahead 14-13.
Fitzgerald appears to
of injured Captain
Ray
had
Lemek,
19-14 VICTORY
OLD-TIMERS STIFLE VARSITY IN
Rough-Tough Line Ploy Decides Annual Spring Windup
«? *
Morse ran well Satur-improved on pass de-
back in the fall, day and seemed fense.
Fullback Dick
BOB WARD CIRCLES RIGHT END
Newcomers Make Impressive Showing
PRENDERGAST LEAPS TOO LATE The Possible Clincher?
■P
By DAVE DAVIN
Lima and Lattner alternated for the rest of the period to take the ball to the Varsity one. Tom Carey scored the final TD and Mavraides converted.
In the last quarter a veteran defense highlighted by Paul Matz, Dan Shannon, Fred Wallner of the Chicago Cardinals, Sam Palumbo, Frank Epstein, and Dick Szymanski, Frank Varrichione, and Dave Flood stopped a Varsity scoring attempt on the nine yard line.
The guards, weakened by the absence
trouble trying to open holes necessary for a smooth functioning split-T offense. Center- Jim Mense, still a bit green, played ball “at times, like Edmonds”, Coach Brennan said after the game.
Ed Sullivan, a soph, replaced Mense at center different times Saturday. Another bulwark hopeful was sophomore guard Al Francis. Francis started and played most of the game for the Varsity.
Back-wise, the Varsity didn’t seem to really be in deep difficulty. Besides Lima, the ’55 team has men like Hornung, who completed four out of six passes and engineered the running game well.
Brennan will be able to depend on, as in the past, fullback Schaefer. For running mates, “Schaef” will have Paul Reynolds, a senior^ Aubrey Lewis, Dick Lynch, Dick Wilkins, all sophomores. Besides these boys, Jim Morse will be

have shaken his leg injury that plagued him last fall.	•
On the whole, Saturday’s loss does not necessarily mean that the fall club will suifer the same fate the 1950 team did when the Old-Timers last beat the Varsity. That year the Irish had a weak 4-4-1 season.
Come fall, Coach Brennan thinks Notre Dame could field a fair ball team IF they profited by Saturday’s mistakes.

splintets ptsssbox
by Paul Fullmer
The crystal ball-gazers have figured all along that Terry Brennan s crew would lose three games in 1955. The 19-14 Old-Timers defeat last Saturday might just be one that won’t be on the record, and actually do more than
the 20 days of spring practice to bring this team around.
The varsity backfield looked good after drilling with only the basic offensive patterns, but the line still hasn’t learned how to tighten up and block for harried Paul Hornung. Hornung is the key to Irish hopes. There is no getting around this point. Saturday he didn’t answer any of the questions that sportswriters have been asking, but he did reconfirm previous conclusions. He is one of the most powerful and daring running quarterbacks in the country. However, his handoffs were not smooth, but smoothness was out of the question with three opponents hanging on your shirt. Hornung's passing was adequate, but there was no attempt to rely on an aerial attack.
Brennan lost eight regulars from the 1954 squad, but could conceivably open with seven veteran “starters.” Captain Ray Lemek, barring further injuries, and Pat Bisceglia started their share of the games last fall. Burly Jim Mense stepped in the last half of the season and proved that his brand of downfield blocking and hustle was of first team quality. Leading groundgainer Don “Dynamite” Schaefer and Jim Morse were regulars in the 1954 backfield. Paul Reynolds was out there when his legs were right and already proved that his defensive play can’t be bettered in the nation and that he can romp with the ball. Hornung, of course, had brisk workouts at fullback and quarter. These seven men are a tough nucleus.
Reidy Leads Ne+ters To Iowa Tomorrow
PAUL HORNUNG
He’s the Key
The tennis team, after experiencing a rough road trip last week, plays at Northwestern this afternoon, then travels to Iowa tomorrow for a tilt with the Hawkeyes.
Northwestern, paced by Al Kuhn, the Big Ten’s singles champ, is highly regarded by Notre Dame’s coach, Charlie Samson.
Tomorrow at Iowra, Notre DameW shouldn’t have too much trouble, the Hawkeyes being rated only as average. But Art Andrews, Iowa’s number one singles man, will be a tough opponent to stop.
Last week Notre Dame dropped a tough one to Kalamazoo, 5-4, in a match that saw the losers take all four of their wins 3-0.
Western Michigan swept through „ Notre Dame Tuesday, taking every'-’*' match to win, 9-0. It was the seventh loss for the Irish, compared to eight wins.
Also last week, Samson’s boys were swamped by Michigan 8-1. Captain Maury Reidy took the only match for the Irish, beating Mark Jaffe in three sets.
Against Michigan State it was the Kalamazoo story all over again as Notre Dame bowed 5-4. It marked the fourth loss in six 5-4 matches for the Irish.
Maury Reidy has won ten matches, giving him an 11 and 3 mark so far this year. Wally Clarke has 9 and 5, but most of the other boys are right around .500. The first doubles team of Clarke and Reidy have lost three thus far this year, two in the South and the other to Michigan.
Backfield Prospects Look Good
Classy, but hobbled, end Gene Kapish and Wayne Edmonds were heavy duty workmen last season and are not lacking in game experience. If Kapish, Reynolds, and Lemek can shake their ills over the summer, Brennan may well have a team that will have both experience and class. Aubrey Lewis, probably the fastest and most spectacular back to hit the Irish scene in many moons; Dick Wilkins, another sprinter who can really dash; Chuck Lima, the stai- who outshone the All-Americans in the Old-Timers game; and Dick Lynch will provide solid second-line strength. The secondary strength in the line is the question of the hour and it won’t be answered until mid-October.
The resodding operations in the Stadium gave the fans a break during spring practice. The Cartier Field practice sessions gave the fans a chance to watch the “Yarrs” in action. Let’s hope that Brennan keeps the drills open next year. It’s certainly a step in the direction of building interest and spirit.
It’s about that time of year when we sign off. We’d like to say thanks to Charlie Callahan and his sports publicity staff of Tom Welly, Bob O’Malley, Joe Bride, Jo Pappa, and Gwen Wanen. They have provided background information and pictures for this section all year.
We’ve thrown a few barbs this year. Some produced immediate results. Others were misinterpreted. Still others were ignored. About par from the course from where we sit.
28
BILL REALE
Four-Time Letter Winner
The Scholastia



I Four Freshman Prospects Show Promise ^As Baseball Season Swings Toward Close
Interhall Track Meet Taken by Morrissey
Four members of Notre Dame’s freshman baseball team, Bud Ahearn, Tad Bretting, Ron DeMatteo, and Frank Maloney, have been picked as most likely to break into next season’s varsity
JAKE KLINE
Looks to the Future
team by Tom Bujnowski, freshman ^coach.
Since almost the entire varsity team, sophomores this year, will be back on hand next spring, it will be more difficult than usual for this year’s freshmen to make the varsity.
Ahearn, a Farley hall engineer from St. Louis, combines good fielding form with consistent hitting in his 'bid for a
berth on next year’s varsity squad.
Bretting, also a Farley resident, is a phy.ed. major from Ashland, Wis. Good control on the mound earned him the top pitching job on the freshman team this spring.
DeMatteo, Breen-Phillips Hall, is studying science and comes from Schenectady, N. Y. His steady hitting and catching have made him an outstanding prospect for next year.
Maloney, a Zahm man and commerce student from Longmeadow, Mass., is developing into a good switch hitter according to Bujnowski, and is also a talented infielder.
Large March Crop
When the season started in March, over 70 aspirants turned out for the freshman team. After two weeks of workouts, the coach and his three senior assistants, Kirk Reilly, Dick Gaberik, and Dick Farrell, cut the team to 25 members.
Since then, intersquad games and batting practice have occupied most of the team’s sessions on the Cartier field “annex” east of the Stadium.
The freshmen suffered an early season 6-0 loss to the varsity, and the team may meet Coach Kline’s men once more before the end of the school year. Also on the tentative docket is a contest with the Moreau seminarians.
Bujnowski’s starting nine during most of the season has included: DeMatteo, c; Maloney, lb; Terry Mui*phy, 2b; Joe Geneser, 3b; Jim Cullen, ss; Joe
Morrissey Hall took first place in the Interhall Track meet held last Sunday on Cartier Feld. Morrissey had 27 points followed closely by Lyons’ 25. Breen Phillips garnered 17% for third while Dillon with 13 and Badin with 12 took fourth and fifth, respectively.
Top individual honors went to John Reichert of Lyons. In the morning events he took first place in the broad jump with a leap of 19 feet 8% inches, and also took second in the high jump.
In the afternoon, he took the mile run with a time of 5:2.5 nosing out Paul Courtois of Dillon whose time was 5:4. A half hour later Reichert copped the half mile with a time of 2:19.8. Jim Weber of Morrissey was second.
Pete McCabe of Morrissey took the shot put with a heave of 42 feet 2% inches. Meera Rau, also of Morrissey, easily won the 60 yard hurdles.
In the 100-yard dash, the 220-yard run, and also in the quarter mile the Sowa brothers had things pretty much to themselves. John Sowa of Badin copped the 100 yard dash in 10.5 seconds and then barely nosed out Schaeffer of Zahm in the 220. Paul, who is off campus ran the quarter mile in 54.4.
Breen-Phillips took the 880-yard relay to wind up the day’s events.
Brennan, If; Ahearn, cf; Bill Reisert, rf; and Bretting, p.
Jack Fischer, c; Fred Thon, ss; and Sam Litzenberger and Pete Ranich, pitchers, did consistent work all season as substitutes.
i —	INTERHALL RUNNERS PASS THE POLE	PETE KEYES TAKES THE BATON
Morrissey Takes It by a Hair	Not Enough Lizard “Kick”
The Summer issue of
Zke Juggler
on sale May 27
Bookstore and Cafeteria
25c
Department of Publications Basement of Farley Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
Rasmussen MEN’S SHOP
Main and Washington Sts.
Has Your
AFTER SIX Formal Wear more men wear
32.50
Hamiugo Restanrant 610 N. Mich. Open Sundays
Tuesday and Thursday SPECIAL ON T-BONE STEAK
a55-'56 Cage Schedule
Dec. 3 Detroit at Detroit
Dec. 5 Wisconsin at Notre Dame Dec. 7 Loyola at Notre Dame Dec. 10 Northwestern at Evanston Dec. 13 Illinois at Notre Dame Dec. 16 Minnesota at Minneapolis Dec. 21 Michigan State at E. Lansing Dec. 29 Sugar Bowl at New Orleans Dec. 30 Sugar Bowl at New Orleans Jan. 4 Butler at Notre Dame Jan. 7 DePaul at Notre Dame Jan. 11 Louisville at Notre Dame Jan. 16 Northwestern at Notre Dame Jan. 30 Indiana at Bloomington Feb. 4 Loyola at Chicago Stadium Feb. 7 Butler at Indianapolis Feb. 11 Navy at Baltimore Feb. 13 Holy Cross at Boston Feb. 14 Providence at Providence Feb. 18 Purdue at Notre Dame Feb. 22 Marquette at Notre Dame Feb. 25 DePaul at Chicago Stadium Feb. 29 Marquette at Milwaukee Mar. 3 Bradley at Peoria
Newly-Formed Swimming Club Approves Slate, Constitution
The newly organized Notre .Dame Swimming Club met May 11 and started the wheels rolling in the effort to bring intercollegiate swimming to Notre Dame. Paul Kerwin, a sophomore from River Forest, Ill., was elected president of the club, with Ed Healy, Bill Scanlon, and Paul Flattery being named as vice-president, secretary, and treasurer, respectively.
The club constitution was approved at the meeting, and although little else could be accomplished at this late date, the officers are enthusiastically awaiting the club’s tentative undertakings for next fall.
President Kerwin stated that any and all candidates for the club would be welcome and that hard work would be the only necessary qualification.
Stephens' Softballers Win Chicago Club Title
The Chicago Club Softball League came to a close this week with Jack Stephens’ team copping the title. Stephens’ club slaughtered the opposition’s pitching all season and finished with eight victories and no defeats.
Bob Wing’s outfit finished second with seven wins and one loss.
John Deasy’s team had a 6-2 record to take third place and Dick Beeman’s club finished with a 5-3 record to cop the fourth playoff spot.
Chicago Club President Frank Lolli indicated that the strong Stephens outfit would be the team to beat in the playoffs.
30
Black Gold
(Continued from page 15) section of the country, particularly in I agricultural regions, remains semi-literate. With the view in mind of making the country 100% literate the government is now concentrating on training teachers for rural school positions. At present schools are overcrowded. Each year the percentage of youth holding high school and college degrees grows.
The principal universities in Vene-^ zuela are La Universidad Central de ~ Venezuela in Caracas, La Universidad de Zulia in Maracaibo, and La Ciudad University in Caracas. Living conditions at these universities are among the most modern in the world. “In comparison to Notre Dame the dorms look like the Morris Inn,” Clamens added. The School of Industrial Technology at La Universidad de Zulia is one of the finest in South America.	*
The universities are supported largely by the government. Students are required to pay only a nominal fee. There are no private universities, but the Catholic Church does run private high schools.
Typical areas of study in Venezuela are the liberal and fine arts, engineering, geology, and law. Although the university students have no counterpart to student government as it is known in the United States, they do participate^ actively in the country’s government. “Often in the past they have had cause to stage mass demonstrations against government policies and practices,” Clamens said.
In the past a great many students in the higher income brackets studied in Europe. Now, however, they are tending to turn to the United States and Canada. A knowledge of English is con-^ sidered of prime importance to these students since commercial intercourse with the countries of North America has swelled considerably in the past five years.
Unlike Argentina, the relations between the state and the Catholic Church have been fairly good. “The clergy are wise in not actively opposing the government, and consequently there has been a minimum of ill feeling,” Clamens reported.
In conclusion Clamens said, “My country welcomes our North American neighbors and is desirous of cementing the bonds which tie our respective nations. We have the utmost respect for the United States government and its t citizens. We are particularly impressed | with American technology and mass pro- | duction, and we hope that by applying American know-how we may raise the f standard of living in Venezuela.” Ij?
The Sc/io/dsJicGa
fl /fl
i The Showcase
" (Continued from page 22)
Moved she turned and saw him and smiled. He stopped. He knew he should run, flee, but he could not move.
“Hello,” she said, and her voice against his ears felt sort of warm and soft and quiet all at the same time. “Are you waiting for the bus, too?” A thousand answers ran through his mind, but he could not answer. “You don’t Waind waiting for the bus with me, do you?”
She didn’t seem to expect an answer to this last question, but it made no difference to him for he could not talk. She began rummaging in her purse, and he watched with hypnotic fascination. Her hands slowed, faltered, and stopped their searching. He tore his eyes away from her hands and looked at her face. The beautiful face was frowning, and he knew that he had done something to offend her. He wanted to run, to flee, to return to the sanctuary of the night and the cold and the rain, but he couldn’t move.
“I don’t seem to have any money for bus fare,” she said, and her voice felt warm and soft and quiet and worried.
He reached into his pocket, and his hand closed on the coin the cashier had returned to him. He held it out to her, and she took it. He started to let his ^iand drop, but she reached out and took hold of it. They stood side by side, and she held his hand. He stood rigid, afraid that if he moved she would let go of his hand. And from her nearness something flowed into him until he was no longer small and ugly, but instead tall and handsome. And he forgot that the night and the cold and the rain ever existed.
Then the bus was there. Still holding his hand she got on and paid her fare ^vith his coin. He let go of her hand to reach his own fare, but he was still tall and handsome. Emptiness, seemingly vast and huge, greeted his hands. Wildly he searched his pockets, but each one turned out empty. And as they did, he became small and ugly again. Hopelessly he looked at the beautiful woman. She was laughing at him. He looked at the bus driver. He was laughing at him. Then the beautiful woman and the bus driver were no longer looking at him. G?hey were looking at each other and laughing. And then they stopped laughing and just looked at each other. But he could still hear their laughter, and it grew and grew until it filled the bus and hurt his ears and jabbed savagely at his mind.
Slowly he turned around and got off the bus. There was no street light, and - then there was no bus, only the night and the cold and the1 rain and the slaughter.
20, 1955
Walsh and Milwaukee Head Softball Playoff
The Interhall Softball League champions will be crowned next week according to Frank Maxwell, league adviser. Five pennant ■winners began battling it out for the playoff championship today.
Favorites are the Milwaukee Club and the Walsh Hall team in the Gold League. The favorite roles must go to these two clubs because of their superior pitching. Walsh has speedbailer Jim Irwin who gave up only four earned runs in five games of league play. Milwaukee pitcher Norm Keying has kept opposing batters on their heels all season as he led his team to the City-State League pennant.
The Club league representative will probably be the Italian Club, led by their slugging third baseman, Bob Kunze, and ace twirler Dave Scheele.
Morrissey easily wraped up the Green League going through their schedule undefeated.
Walsh’s drive to the pennant in the Gold league was not an easy one. Last week they nipped previously unbeaten Alumni, 5-4, and then beat a good Farley team, 5-1.
Probably the best balanced league was the City-State League. Milwaukee wound up the season undefeated but they had to get by three well-balanced teams in Detroit, Texas, and Rochester.
Sailing Club Finishes Season; Place Third in Midwest Finals
The Notre Dame sailing team concluded its most successful season since 1948 last weekend as it tied with Purdue for third place in the midwestern championships at Ohio State University.
Cincinnati won the title -with 116 points. Ohio Wesleyan finished second with 96, followed by the Irish and Purdue with 89 points each. Marquette was fifth with 83, Ohio State sixth with 81, Michigan seventh with 80, and Wisconsin eighth with 62.
The Irish sailors wound up the season with seven victories in eleven regattas, finishing second, third, sixth, and seventh in their other four meets.
Fisher Wins Handball Tourney
Fisher Hall won the Interhall Handball tournament last May 10 as they defeated Cavanaugh Hall in the finals and wound up without a loss.
Fisher beat Morrissey and Cavanaugh edged out Sorin in the semi-finals.
A trophy will be presented to the hall and medals will be awarded to the doubles team of Denny Sawinski and Don Behrman and to singles champs John Kurtz and Dan McCullough.
United’s low fares, fast
I
schedules help stretch vacation days and dollars. All flights on 4-engine Mainliners.
UNITED
South Bood: for reservation*, call 2-1401 or an authorized travel agent.
I UNITED AIR COACH
I You’re home | in hours!
I You're money
I sbusdl
1ST cuss |
United also offers you | luxurious 1st Class | Mainliner service with | full-course mealtime | service. Fares compar- | able to 1st Class rail with | berth.	i
QUEnCO-SUPERIOR Canoe Trips Only $5.50 per person per day for complete camping equipment, aluminum canoes and food supplies. Write: Bill Rom, Mgr., Box 757C, Canoe Country Outfitters, Ely, Minn.
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosies”—	.
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
31
This new AIR-FLITE will
Holy Mother Statue । To Adorn TV Tower
An 18-inch replica of the Blessed Virgin Mary’s statue on the Golden Dome will adorn the pinnacle of the 538-foot tower of the University’s television station. The statuette, cast in aluminum, will be mounted in position upon completion of the tower.
The idea for the statue came from George Smith. It will be the first tele-vision tower in the nation with any type*-of religious symbol at its peak.
Robert Zale, a junior in AB from Wauwatosa, Wis., made the figure from which the final icon was cast. Zale made several sketchings of the Blessed Virgin’s statue on the Dome of the Main Building to serve as a guide for the project. Next he formed a small
No other high-compression ball can resist scuffing like the new DURA-THIN* covered AIR-FLITE.® This exclusive Spalding cover adheres to the ball with a new strength to defy cutting up . . . even on high-iron and explosion shots.
It’s a more compact ball, too . . . offers you longer play and real economy.
Play your next round with this great new Spalding AIR-FLITE. You can expect AND GET new uniformity in distance and accuracy . . . better shot control . . . better golf.
last longer
than any other
high-compression ball ever made!
•Trade-mark
Spalding “r
Special Laundry Service Colored Hose Washed FREE UWDERETTE 208 East Jefferson Drop Off Service
Always Welcome at ROCCO’S
Pizza Our Specialty SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI STEAKS and CHOPS
Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight Open Sundays 5 to 9 p.m.— For Student Convenience.
537 North St. Louis
University of Detroit TUYERE John W. Skelley
32
replica from his drawings. The third1 step in the process involved the moulding of a terra cotta model of the statue. The final model was cast in aluminum by a Mishawaka firm. The whole project took Zale two weeks to complete.
The form itself is a simple, modernistic representation of the Blessed Mother with her arms outstretched. It has been j anodized to protect it from the elements. I
Rev. Anthony C. Lauck, C.S.C., of the Department of Art, commented on th£ newest of Notre Dame’s art work honoring the Blessed Mother, “The replica which will rest atop the new TV tower will be somewhat simpler in design than the statue on the Golden Dome. Many of : the folds in the original have been eliminated, thereby creating a plainer work of art. This was done in order that the statue catch as much light as possible and reflect it from its lofty ? position.”	a
The Sc/ioLrsn&Sj
■
Sociologist Fr. Fichter o Lecture Here Tonight
I Rev. Joseph H. Fichter, S.J., leading b sociologist in the study of the Catholic l parish, will present a lecture tonight at 7:45 in the Law Auditorium. The lecture, sponsored by the Sociology Club, is on the “Solidarity of Religious Groups in the United States,” a study of the vitality of Catholicism in the American parish.
9 Having received his doctorate in sociology from Harvard University, Father Fichter has thus far written two books concerning the impact of American city life on the practice of the faith. His first book, Southern Parish: Dynamics of a City Church, has become a well-known and controversial work as a result of an intensive study of a parish in New Orleans. He made this study on a grant from the Carnegie Foundation and ■Loyola University.
THREE
Ask for Style W-62S
Ask for
As advertised in Esquire
advert!tetl in Es^u‘n	Style W-699
WESBORO
Ask for Style W-65S
Add spice to your life with a swank variety of new spring and summer shoes to fit every occasion—everyday, dress-up and casual.
Subtract precious little from your cash reserves! BUY ALL THREE STYLES FOR ONLY $23.85"-a price you’d expect to pay for a single pair! $6.95, $7.95 and $8.95 per pair. Ask your dealer for FREE moneyfold!
Second Book Also Challenging
His second work, Social Relations in the Urban Parish, was published just last December and is as challenging as was Southern Parish.
In 1954 a Fulbright lecturer in sociology at the University of Munstei", Germany, Father Fichter is presently chairman of the Department of Sociology at g^oyola University of the South in New Orleans. He serves on the executive council of the American Catholic Sociological Society, on the editorial board of the American Catholic Sociological Review, and is a member of both the American and Southern Sociological | Societies.
Dick Rust, president of the Sociology ■ Club, reported that admission to the lecture is free, and everyone is cordially [Wnvited.
Palace Theatre
THE VERY NEWEST IN YOUNG MEN’S SHOES
ON STAGE IN PERSON
1 Thursday, May 26
| 4 BIG SHOWS
Gary Crosby W
Louis “Satciimo” Armstrong
[ Dolores Hawkins
20, 1955
SAFE STORAGE
ZtM MM
Out-of-Season Clothes
No need to ship or carry your heavy winter and out-ofseason clothes home for the summer. Leave them in our safe-insured STORAGE VAULT.
Your clothes will be protected from moths, fire and theft and the nominal charge doesn't have to be paid until you pick them up next fall.
Notre Dame men in the years past have found this storage idea to be a good bet. You can also take advantage of it.
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. Jefferson	First Corner across the River
On the Bus Line
33
the back page
by Don Yeckel
Freshmen
This is my last “Back Page.” I can hardly help thinking of the first. I dedicated that first column to the new freshmen, trying to sum up for them something of the meaning of education: “And for the freshmen especially, for this is primarily your issue of the Scholastic: use the precious right that is yours, and use it to the fullest. Don’t compartmentalize your life and make a false distinction between what you leam in the classroom and what you learn outside it. The two are one. The intuitions of your discussions, your books, and your professors are empty if they have no experience to enrichen them, and the activities of the world about you are meaningless if you cannot enlighten them with the intuitions of the classroom.”
Seniors
This last “Back Page” is dedicated to my fellow sen-
iors, but I am afraid that I really have nothing more to say to them than what I said to the freshmen eight months ago. It seems that all I can do is say the same things in a different way.
If I were to summarize all that I have learned here in four years, or if I were to choose one sentence that would exlima tte wt valuable insight 1 have received, I know just what I would say. I would have to echo the words of Socrates: “the unexamined life is not worth living.” If I have learned nothing else at Notre Dame, I have learned at least this much.
The Summing Up
It seems to me that the whole meaning of education is summed up in those words, and a whole philosophy of life. They are even more significant for us than for Socrates. For Socrates, they were a defense of his life, an Apologia Pro Vita Sua. For us, they are—or should be—a program for our future lives, a promise to be fulfilled.
There is no place in the world today for the unexamined life. More than a single human life is at stake now—it is a civilization and a way of life that hangs in the balance. It is the world that needs examining, and each of us must play the pai*t of examiner. If we refuse the examination, it might be better had we never been born.
In the Beginning . . .
Our starting point, as Christians, must be God. If we really believe that there is a God, then we must seek Him out. We must find Him in His Church, and in history, and in our own souls. We must find Him with our intellects and with our hearts. A knowledge of the
34
catechism is not enough any more—if indeed it was ever enough. For us, the most crucial issue of all is the issue of salvation.	.
And, as Americans, we must also understand our country. A simple blind faith, in democracy is not enough. If Wv tiWi pd of my w be preserved, we must know what freedom and dignity consist of, and we must have the courage to fight for them. Here too both mind and heart must be involved.
And, as parents, we must educate our children, educate them in the knowledge and love of God and country and man. The family is the instrument of God and of history, and the use of that instrument is given to us—for better or for worse.
With Our Whole Heart, and Soul, and Mind . . .
In all of these things, we must use both our minds and our hearts, for the mind without the heart is dead, and the heart without the mind is blind. Passion and intelligence cannot be separated here on earth.
To really examine our lives will require tremendous eifort. The unexamined life may be worthless, but it certainly is easy. The examined life, like salvation, is the fulfillment of a heroic discipline. The two meet, it seems, in the saint.
Perhaps this is why graduation is called Commencement: it is not an end, but a beginning. Most of all it is not the end of education. No matter what our vocation, life cannot be blind. We must continually re-evaluate and re-
examine. If we do not, life becomes meaningless, a
“. . . darkling plain
Swept with confused alarms of ” struggle and flight,
Where ignorant armies clash by night.”
A meaningless life is not worth living.
We’re lucky. We have a beginning and an end to our search. Is not Christ the alpha and the omega?, and “in him we live and move and have our being.” Our goal is “to re-establish all things in Christ, both those in the heavens ai^| those on the earth.” That’s no mean job.
Apologies
This whole article sounds suspiciously like a sermon. For that I apologize. It is more a sermon directed towards myself than towards anyone else. This is what I want to remember from my Notre Dame education. It will be very easy to forget it, and it’s something that I don’t want to forget.	<
It is not very coherent or unifiea, either. For that, too, I apologize. It was not something that I could say in a nice pat formula. It had to come out this way—as I thought it, as I felt it.
I’m glad that I was given the opportunity to write this series of articles. It gave me a chance to think some things out for myself. In all these articles, as in this last one, I wrote as much to my-
self as to anyone
else. Perhaps it
wasi?t much, hut it was a beginning’. ।
The Final Thought
Perhaps it would
be fitting for us
all, as a Commencement prayer, to say with St. Ignatius Loyola:
“Take O Lord, and receive my entire liberty, my memory, my understanding and my whole will. All that I am and all that I possess Thou has given me: I surrender it all to Thee to be disposed of according to Thy will. Give me onli' Thy love and Thy grace; with the® I will be rich enough, and will desirt nothing more.”
FATIMA NOVENA
A solemn outdoor novena, honoring the mother of God under her new title. Queenship of Mary, will open on Sunday afternoon at the Fatima Shrine on Dixie Highway, opposite St. Mary’s, beginning at 3 p.m. The novena will continue each night throughout the wee^» at 8 o’clock.	r
The student body will make pilgrimages to the shrine each night and participate in the procession and recitation of the rosary.
The novena will be brought to a close with evening Mass on May 31. The director of the novena is Rev. John O’Connell, C.S.C., of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Mission band.
Printed at Ave Maria

k
NOTRE DAME PRESS
Notre Dame, Indiana
NEW BOOKS
Liturgical Piety
by Rev. Louis Bouyer (of the Oratory) One of the most important works on the worship and prayer life of the Church to appear in the present century. The world’s great experts on the liturgy have praised the
book: “Not since Guardini’s Spirit of the Liturgy has any one volume given such a comprehensive and inspirational view of the scope of the liturgical renewal ... a landmark of advance”—Godfrey Dieckman, O.S.B.; “. • • a treatise on liturgical theology so rich, so deep and beautiful, that (it is) likely to stand unsurpassed
Student Life in Ave Maria College, Mediaeval Paris, by A. L. Gabriel, Canon of Premontre The intellectual life of the college and an interesting insight into the economic life of the mediaeval institutions of learning are pointed up in the first chapters of this book. The author also analyzes in detail thirty-three miniatures representing the daily occupations of the students. In the second part of the book can be found various Latin and French deeds related to the
college.
□ July, 1955. Probably $5.50
for years to come”—Clifford Howell, SJ
. a work
of lasting value, combining sound criticism with an in-
spiring enthusiasm”—Johannes Quasten
. a cour-
ageous . . . significant book”—Josef A. Jungman, S.J.; “. . . will open up hitherto undreamt of vistas in the understanding of the nature of the Church”—Dom Gregory Bainbridge; ”... a truly monumental work”— Charles Corcoran, C.S.C. □ Published. 284 pp. $4.75
Proceedings of the 8th Annual Convocation of the Vocation Institute, 1954, edited by John H. Wilson, C.S.C. For those engaged in discerning and fostering priestly and religious vocations, and in the counselling and guidance of young people toward those vocations. The book includes chapters on modern psychiatry and the Catholic Church, practical problems and solutions in vocation work, and the use of the questionnaire in vocation work. □ May, 1955. Paper Cover. 124 pp. $1.50
Britain Views Our Industrial Relations
by Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C. The findings in this study are based on an analysis of over sixty reports of British union-management teams which visited their counterparts in America since World War II and on personal interviews with team members in England by the author. Attention is given to management policy on industrial relations, the role of unions in American industry, wage standards in America, methods of income distribution, and the type of recommendations made by the teams to improve industrial relations in Britain. Particular emphasis is placed on the phases of industrial relations which the British union-management teams considered as vital factors accounting for the high rate of productivity in American industry. A revealing feature of the book is the way it cites contrasting situations drawn from both American and British
industries.
□ September, 1955. Pwbably UJS
J
I-
Our Land and Our Lady
by Daniel Sargent
Here is the thesis that Henry Adams might have chosen had he been a Catholic. This little volume traces the hand of Our Lady through the early history of America. The story of missionary beginnings, strivings, failures, and the ultimate paradox of success is told with profound spirituality. [J September, 1955. Probably $3.25
The Proceedings of. the 1954 Sisters’ Institute of Spir-
The Mystery of the Woman, edited by E. O’Connor, C.S.C. A presentation of the role of the Blessed Virgin in the Catholic Church. It contains chapters on "The History of Devotion to the Blessed Mother in the United States" by Daniel Sargent, “The Divine Maternity” by Walter Burghardt, S.J., "The Immaculate Conception,” by Ferrer Smith, O.P. and “The Assumption” by Rev. George
W. Shean.
□ November, 1955. Probably $3.50

ituality
edited by A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C.
A record of the work of the 2nd American Institute of Spirituality for Sister Superiors and Novice Mistresses held at the University of Notre Dame, the volume makes an important contribution to the literature on religious
life.
□ July, 1955. $3.00
r
r
The Building and Furnishing of Churches by Reverend J. O’Connell Gives the basic Church law which must be met in the building and furnishing of a Church. Because of its accuracy, clarity and compactness, the book should satisfy a long-felt need for a handy reference work on the subject. Q Illustrated. August, 1955. Probably $4.75
The Psalter As a Christian Prayer Book
by Rev. Balthasar Fischer In this informal study, Father Fischer shows us the best method for following the two great traditional ways of using what is, of course, the central prayerbook of the Church. He shows us how we may pray the Psalms as fruitfully as possible, not simply as individuals, but as Members of the Mystical Body of Christ. He shows us especially what we must keep in mind as we pray them through Christ to the Father or directly to Christ Himself. [J	November, 1955. Probably $4.75
The Primitive Liturgy
Josef A. Jungmann, SJ.
:■

WWWIWWIITOWWRWIWI
Men in the Held
by Leo L. Ward, C.S.C.
A collection of eighteen of Father Ward’s best short stories unified by their concentration upon varied aspects of a way of life very dear to the author—that of men
in the field.
□ September, 1955. Probably $3.75
This is a work of the kind of profound and fruitful scholarship for which Father Jungmann is noted throughout the world. Going from an investigation of the earliest forms of worship of Christian antiquity to how our present liturgy came into being through an organic growth in accordance with varying circumstances, the book proves of inestimable value in enabling us to gain fresh, realistic, and deep appreciation of the things we say and do in Church today.
□	December, 1955. Probably $4.75



For handy ordering, merely detach this four-page insert, check the titles you want, fill in your name and address on page 4, and mail the insert to the University of Notre Dame Press.


-JR »	‘
of Chesterfield’s smoothness
—mildness—refreshing taste.
You’ll SMILE your approval
i xl^ I
CHESTERFIELD
today!
of Chesterfield’s quality — highest quality—low nicotine.

In the whole wide world no cigarette SATISFIES like Chesterfield
© Liggett & Minis Tobacco Co.
$