October 15,1954

and how it started.
TERESA WRIGHT says: “Up to 16, my knowledge of acting had been gleaned from seeing movies. When I saw my first professional play, that was it: I only wanted
to act. I got into high school plays, wrestled props at Provincetown, understudied, sat for months in producers’ reception rooms. One rainy night, sick with
a cold, I read for a good role, and got it!”
K. J. Beynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
SUCCESS STORY:
Camels — now more than ever the nationwide favorite cigarette!
I
I -foLfhjd ouE Camels ha^ -the mosh delightful flavor and mildness op any cigarette .Try Camels amt you'll be as enthusiastic as 11
START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Make the 30-day Camel mildness test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!
ELS
AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE

'Scholastic
The ARROW points to
Vol. 96 OCTOBER 15, 1954 No. 3
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
. V' Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, 1 Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of ' postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized I June 23, 1918.
r	-—........ .	____—
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
i	Associate and Sports Editor
|	PAUL FULLMER
i	Associate Editor
j f	FRED C. ECKART
‘ JOHN ADAMS ..................-...News
' ROBERT KAUFMAN ....Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE _______________ Copy
Charles McKendrick .................
-............... Assistant Copy
j DAVE COHEN  ................ Features
KEN WOODWARD ..Business Manager
JIM GALLAGHER ............Circulation
i DICK HAIRSINE .............Photo Editor
1 f PAUL FITZGERALD ...................
..... Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT ____Faculty Moderator
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
Like Plaids?
We’ve Scads!
all ARROW-labeled for comfort and style
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
PHOTOS—Pictures taken by staff photographers appear on the following pages:
Jim Guide—pages 11, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21.
John O’Brien—pages 18, 27, 29.
COVER: Before each pep rally they tour the campus attracting the troops to the Field House. Every Saturday of 0 home games they proudly strut into the Stadium, bringing the crowd to their feet. Their Victory Marches, their Hike Songs, their blues and Bachs ring on into the post-game dusk. They step high and fast from goal to goal— a half-time institution. The Notre Dame Marching Band (see feature on pages 18 and 19) led by Jerry Gatto, marches between the uprights and the playing field. Credit for this picture goes to staff photographer Jim Guide.
Fall without a plaid shirt? Get off it, man! It’s a basic item on every campus, and Arrow has plaids aplenty for every man . . . right now! They’re bright, bold, neat or quiet. Why not fall into your campus dealer and slip on a new Arrow plaid shirt. They’re good for the soul . . . and relaxing on the budget Priced at $5.00 up.
A/t/lOJV CASVAl WEAR
SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
0 October 15,1954
^fARLUJ^OiDICK by AL CAPP
letters
tsanyface
CRIMINAL MASTER. OF 1,000 DISGUISES"
MY IPEAL/ FOSPICK, HAS GONE BALMY.^
10
PEANUTS
TO KEEP IT 1— NEAnBUTNOF -uGH.r-GREASYff' WHY DONTYOU
CHARUE.T
THAT'D BE ILLEGAL-MYNAME IS Eziozr
GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL.,.
'“‘cm
GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL. KEEPS HAIR NEAT-BUTNOr UGH?-GREASY. NON-AUXMOUC. CONTAINS LANOUN-REUEVES DSTNESS. REMOVES LOOSE DANDRUFF!*
i«

Editor’s Note:
Maybe we were way off base with the editorial (Oct. 8 issue); the two following letters—among the ones received—show that some fellows think so. Discussion also shows that many others feel the same way.
Yet others, as indicated by other letters received and discussion also, have stated opposite beliefs.
We’re glad so many people have voiced opinions.
Perhaps it depended upon location in the Stadium; at any rate we called it as ice heard and saw it and upon verification by others in various sections of the Stadium. We will stick by our statement, but ivith the sincere hope that we were wrong, and with the additional hope that tomorrow and upon other future occasions we will be proven wrong.
Sounds Like a Logical Answer!
Editor:
Your “page” in last week’s Scholastic had a number of good points, but I’m afraid you punched some of the wrong keys.
First of all, let’s face facts. The team was most definitely outfought by Purdue. I agree with you, “they weren’t clicking”—nor were they blocking and tackling; and these facts add up to being outfought. Terry Brennan admitted it, why can’t you? 'If they weren’t outfought, Purdue is the better team, and I don’t believe that, do you? Neither can you say the “twelfth man,” the student body, quit cheering in the second half. Also, there were just as many loyal men outside the dressing room after this Purdue upset as there were back in 1950.
You seem to be stabbing in the dark for reasons why we lost the game. The answer, I think, is pretty obvious. The Purdue game wasn’t really lost in the stadium. The team was beaten before Shannon and Matz ever witnessed the toss of the coin. The game was a fix, and we, the student body, fixed it. We were the 5400 guys who were going around shouting, “We’re number one,” without giving the team a chance to prove it. Maybe we did it so convincingly that we infected the team with our optimistical poison. Purdue, quite obviously, didn’t care to sing along. How we could’ve been silly enough to strike such a psychological blow against our own team, I don’t know. Surely, it wasn’t intentionally done. Maybe we
(Continued on Page 32)
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
D*RW TURBOW
^OPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
-- EYES EXAMINED ---

207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel
Phone 4-5777
HIIIMS LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
i
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough” % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls $1.30
Joe Nabieht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
The Scholastic
But there have Like the time the back in ’50, much Or how about the
some of our buildings in ’51? It didn’t exactly spell out “Go Irish.” Most of us remember the chicken dangling from the “dome” of the Commerce Building two years ago, with the inscription, “ND’s Fight.” Then
of course, there’s the still evident testimony of that last futile fracas . . . the tattered tape on the Cartier Field fence that almost still says “Beat State.”
Yes, a lot has gone before us in this a. series, with plenty of heartaches to remember. But the team has always stayed in there fighting. Remember the way John Pettibon wouldn’t give up, even though he was unconscious in the dressing room? The score was the first thing he asked about when he woke up. Or the episode of Dave Flood and the broken collarbone?
We start tonight to even the score, with a big bonfire rally. Each hall will £ march under its banner, and after we arrive a real treat is in store for us. Seems they’ve got new loudspeakers now, so that everyone can hear. But here’s a hint: Let’s sound off at the rally, and give a repeat performance at the game. This is the big one, men . . . let’s make it all the way from here on in.
The Bog in Monsoon
Some strange sounds were heard this " WEEK out where Badin Bog used to be sloshed in. Something like an alligator licking his chops, with an occasional slurp thrown in. But veteran observers on the local meteorological scene declare that the sounds are not of Saurian origin, but more of the Boggian variety. With the help of a few seasonably in-tolerabobble days, the Bog has been trying a comeback.
I If you don’t believe it, ask the guy I who needed swim fins and goggles to
October 15, 1954
the week
by John O'Brien
Top of the WEEK:
The day to avenge finally arrives . . .
On Stomping State. . .
If the thought of possible victory over Michigan State doesn’t arouse you to a frenzied state of mind, let’s review some past happenings with the hope that the team—and you —will even up the score. Speaking of scores, three come to mind: 36-33, 35-0 and 21-3 . . . ’nuff said?
been other little incidents in this rivalry, fire alarm was sounded in Alumni Hall to the dismay of the slumbering seniors, paint that was splashed on the walls of
find his bulldozer the other day. Word is about that contracts are being let for a new diving board on the latest excavation. The Bookstore might even have to declare a fire sale on Forrest Cool’s Law Review, which is located in rather a precarious position near that growing body of water on the corner. With the ghost of the Bog fading away, one can’t help but hear this little Lament of the Bog:
Me they’re a-holing,
So the boys can go a-bowling, •
And buy pretty duds of a sort.
But take your old bowling ball, With its three holes and all, And give me old Bogball for sport.
Flub of the WEEK . . .
My roommate just threw a burned-out light bulb (our fifth this year; must be seconds) at the wastebasket and . . . missed.
Pitt Sidelights
One that didn’t miss on the rebound this past WEEK was the ND team. But because of some oversight at their hotel in Pittsburgh, they almost missed Mass on the morning of the game. Seems the desk called some of them late, and they somehow got mixed up in a wedding taking place at the Cathedral. Everything worked out OK though, and it’s a good thing for the groom. Imagine having the “lads” come down the aisle in place of the bride!
Pitt really took the game seriously
... up to a point. In the fourth period * several children were playing tag in front of the Pitt bench. There were so many people standing around the sidelines (mostly policemen) that the Pitt Band started cheering “Down in front” in unison so they could see the field. . . . Just a few blocks from Pitt Stadium, Carnegie Tech beat Johns Hopkins 25-0. Attendance, 3,000. Of course, it was probably the televising of the NCAA game of the WEEK that kept the crowd down. That TV sure hurts attendance at the games. Kept all but 60,000 from seeing the game in Pitt Stadium on Saturday. (Attendance at the Pitt soccer game wasn’t too red hot either.)
I
Thanks. . .
To all the folks in Pittsburgh who made our stay there so enjoyable. . . To the Pitt team, who lost. . . To the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph, and in particular to Harry Keck, Sports Editor, and Ed Salamony, Chief Photographer and his staff, who most graciously allowed me to use their fine facilities for processing the pictures for this WEEK’S Scholastic. And to Mr. E. P. O’Brien, who treated me to a two-hour taxi tour of the Smoky City, t
The Pageant Is On
Gad man, Homecoming after one away game? Better hustle down and drape your door with crepe paper . . . you might get in on the judging. Might even win an honorable mention. There should be enough to go around. Here’s hoping that the judges won’t have to work by flashlight the night before in order to miss an Indiana rain. Haven’t been reading the sun spots lately, but would advise waterproof decorations. Why not a sign, “Decorations Inside,” then direct the visitors to your snack bar? After all, Walsh got away with a “Somebody stole our decorations” sign last year. Anyway, good luck, artists, carpenters, and etceterae. May you not labor in rain ... or in vain.
J
Local Problem
“Better watch out, better not pout, etc.”, at least not in front of Kewpies. Local gendarmes seem to be extra alert there for loiterers. So don’t pause to refresh (or even light up a cig. . .) or you may be under suspicion of idly spending your time. The word is: “On the move.”
1
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . After Wisconsin and Iowa beat us to it.
5
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
calendar
OCTOBER 15
MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE
LASALLE HOTEL
Airline reservations at
No Extra Charge
Phone 1-1181 or 2-2253
Eves, and Sun.—2-0947
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS (7:30 p.m.)—An outdoor pep rally, south of the tennis , courts, complete with hall banners, bonfire, speakers and the “Hungry Four Quartet” ■ start the weekend rolling.	I
PALACE (through Oct. 21)—Sitting Bull, the story of Custer’s much dramatized last stand comes up with several interesting departures from the usual cavalry- | ' Indian story. From sandy Mexico to Tin Pan Alley with John Carroll and Mala | । Powers to witness the story of a “sobbing songster” in Geraldine (A-l).	I ■
GRANADA (through Oct. 22)—Cinemascope, stereophonic sound and technicolor Bi make up the technical side of Woman’s World; June Allyson, Lauren Bacall and Hi Arlene Dahl, the human side. Clifton Webb with his barbed phrases, and his Mi sophisticated line of patter doesn’t quite agree.	Hi
AVON (through Oct. 20)—Broken Lance (A-2) after its first week continues till Tuesday. Returning troops have been appraising the movie as “pretty goood.” That’s K something! Better not miss this one. Besides it has color by DeLux.
COLFAX (through Oct. 21)—Stewart Granger portrays the romantic and daring i
Beau Brummel who lived lady love. A drama with
RIVER PARK (ends Lanza somewhere in the Student Prince (A-l).
in the time of King George III. Elizabeth Taylor is his a happy ending.
tomorrow)—Ann Blyth and Edward Purdom -with Mario soundtrack turn out some excellent entertainment in the

CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
STATE (ends tomorrow)—It will take a Desperado to see this thing Jack Slade (A-2) all the way through.
OCTOBER 16
NOTRE DAME STADIUM—The Fighting Irish buck the Michigan State Spartans at 1:30 p.m. as they head for No. 2 in their new winning steak. It should be a holiday for Terr-y Brennan as he stops the team that stopped Notre Dame three times in a row.
NAVY DRILL HALL—The Don Gel’s version of State Fair kicks off at 8:30. Price—one dollar per couple. The evening comes to a close at 11:30.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:20 and 8:40 p.m.)—Ronald Colman stars in Charles Dicken’s masterpiece, A Tale of Two Cities.
128 W. Washington
We Welcome You to the
THE TWINS RESTAURANT
PIZZA and SPAGHETTI our specialties
CHOPS CHICKEN T-Bone—STEAKS—Porterhouse
713 E. LaSALLE
2 blocks east of Hill St.
Phone 3-0951
OCTOBER 17
RIVER PARK (ends Tuesday)—Jane Powell and Howard Keel do a great job in Seven Brides for Seven Brothers (A-2).
STATE (ends Tuesday)—.Sir Thomas Malory’s Le Morte D’Arthur comes alive in Knights of the Round Table (A-l). It’s love and battle in the castle and countryside with Robert Taylor, stepping in as the indomitable Sir Lancelot and Ava Gardner, the star-crossed Queen Guinevere: also featured are Marilyn Monroe and Jane Russell in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes (B).
OCTOBER
WASHINGTON HALL (8 p.m.)—Miss First Concert and Lecture series program.
OCTOBER
19
Margaret Webster appears in the
20
AVON (indefinitely)—Marlon Brando gets enbroiled with a longshore union goon squad which terrorizes On the Waterfront. Something you will remember. Well worth seeing.
RIVER PARK (ends Saturday)—Greer Garson watches Her Twelve Men, and they watch her, and they both find out that school can be interesting. Charles Coburn goes back to the musical ’20’s to ask Has Anybody Seen My Gal? (A-l).
STATE (ends Thursday)—Tempers fly in this wild free-for-all. John Wayne as The Quiet Man holds his, for awhile, and Maureen O’Hara for good. Fair Winds to Java will cool you after the hot tempered scenes of The Quiet Man.
The Scholastic
Editor's Po^e
Welcome and Congratulations
Welcome to all the visitors here for the biggest weekend of the football season, especially to visitors here for the Sophomore Cotillion tonight. We wish all the sophomores and companions a most enjoyable time along the “Great White Way,” and at the Irish-Spartan contest tomorrow.
Congratulations to the halls on their decorations and especially to the three that get the judges’ nod.
A University announcement this week disclosed the extension of the “no triple cuts” policy to include the Christmas vacation this year. Violation would bring “failure on account of absences.” This policy was instituted last year for the Easter vacation period. It was reasonable, for the five-day vacation between, semesters had been eliminated to extend the week-long Easter respite by five days.
This move was in wide disfavor then because students knew the • need of a break between semester examinations and the opening of the spring semester. The between semesters vacation was the only time in the schoolyear when students could relax completely, the burden of studies being non-existent. Besides, most students become mentally tired during examinations and need a sufficient break before undertaking new studies—two days aren’t sufficient.
However, a reason was given then that the policy was instituted to enable students from distant places to go home for at least one vacation in the spring semester. It was stated that with two short vacation periods these students couldn’t go home at all. Because it did benefit some of these students we feel it was successful.
We can find a possible and good reason for the extension to cover the Christmas period, though none was advanced. With triple cuts in effect many students would miss material taught in classes either two days before or two days after the vacation. Under the new policy, classes would be relatively well-attended in the periods before or after both vacations. This, we think, would be good reason for the extension.
It will be noted, however, that the new policy does not include students on the Deans’ Honor Lists, except in special instances. We consider this a fitting privilege for students maintaining high averages and even an added incentive for other students to strive for a place cm the Honor List. But many honor students will miss classes before and after Christmas, missing material taught.
Other students who would save “cuts” in order to gain two extra days of Christmas vacation will probably now use them during the course of the semester. They will thus miss material taught in classes some time, if not at Christmas.
Because of the elimination of the triple cuts privilege and of the between semesters vacation to extend the Easter vacation, we advance a suggestion for consideration by the Student Senate and the University administration: a change in the between semesters policy. As the schedule stands now, examinations end on a Friday and second semester classes begin on a Monday. We feel students, and faculty, too, would benefit by the extension of the between semesters period by two days. With this four-day respite all would be more refreshed and ready to begin the new semester. It is our hope that favorable action wfll be taken on this proposal.
-	'	7
October 15, 1954
r Put yourself in ; the hands of an \ Arthur Murray i Expert.....
LEARN THE SECRET OF BEING A POPULAR DANCE PARTNER
You’re in for a big surprise when you come to Arthur Murray’s. For even if you’ve never danced before, you’ll discover that learning bis way takes practically no-time. That’s because of Arthur Murray’s "Magic Step” method of teaching. This step is the key to all dances and is simple to master.
So don’t let good times pass you by, come into the studio now and be all set for the gayest vacation ever. Our air-conditioned studios are open from 10 AM to 10 PM and visitors are always welcome.
Phone 2-3339
A $1.00 TRIAL LESSON WILL PROVE YOU CAN LEARN TO DANCE IN
3 HOURS THE ARTHUR MURRAY WAY
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
Genuine
Awer-MkiePeh Silvered-Tip REFILLS
0
in Red • Green • Blue
Silvered-Tip Refill means smoother, faster writing! Just 10 seconds to ' insert.. .never blots...dries instantly. Get Paper-
Mate Refills wherever pens are sold.

Paper Mate Pens now featured at the
Notre Dame Bookstore
Basement of Badin Hall
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 96, Number 3	Notre Dame, Indiana	October 15, 1954
•SOPH COTILLION HOLDS SPOTLIGHT TONIGHT
Spartan Tilt Completes Homecoming Weekend
Five hundred eager sophomores and their dates will bask in the spotlights and fanfare of the “Great White Way” F as they enter the Student Center tonight for the annual Sophomore Cotillion.
The second-year men will roll out the red carpet in a “First Nighter” atmosphere depicting the ball theme, ‘‘Premiere.” Reproductions of the Stork Club, El Morocco, and other famous night clubs along Broadway will be used to create the effect.
From 9 p. m. until 1 a. m. dancegoers will shuffle to the rhythm of | Charlie Spivak and his orchestra, which has provided music for such motion pictures as Pin-Up Girl and Follow the Boys.
Miss Carol Ann Mara will reign as queen of the Cotillion; Tom Edwards, general chairman of the dance committee, will be her escort. Miss Mara is from Norwich, Conn., and is employed by the Southern New England Telephone Company.
) Car permissions, which began this noon, will end at noon Sunday. A 2 a. m. curfew is in effect for tonight only.
Preceding the dance, the sophomores and their dates will attend the bonfire and pep rally at 7, which will set the stage for this festive decoration week-end.
‘Hungry Four’ Quartet to Sing
1 The rally will take place on the field south of the tennis courts. “The Massachusetts Hungry Four," a barbershop quartet of varsity football players, will provide entertainment at the rally. Speakers for the rally haven’t been announced.
For the remainder of the evening the Cotillion will hold the spotlight.
Saturday morning strolls around the campus to view hall displays are traditional for Cotillion-goers. These dec
orations are an annual feature of the homecoming football week-end, and a trophy is awarded to the hall with the most appropriate and original display.
In the afternoon all attention will be focused on the big home game of
CAROL ANN MARA
Reigns Over “Premiere”
the year between the Irish and the Michigan State Spartans. At half time the hall winning the decorations contest will be awarded a trophy.
Saturday evening will see Don Gels and his band play for the Victory Dance in the Drill Hall from 8:30 to 11:30 p. m.
The activities of the second classmen and their chosen ladies will come to a close Sunday morning with a Communion Breakfast in the Dining Hall. Bert Millen, breakfast chairman, has engaged Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University and Coach Terry Brennan as speakers.
Other committee chairmen for the Sophomore Cotillion week-end are: John Slevin, business manager; Ron Francis, accommodations; John Meagher, decorations; Tom Doyle, tickets, and Jerry Murphy, publicity.
Halls Eye Tomorrow's Decorations Awards
Hall decorations will be under the critical eyes of judges as well as visitors tonight and tomorrow. The exhibits, with the Michigan State-ND game as the theme, will receive final scrutinization tomorrow morning before a winner is chosen.
Awards to the winning halls will be presented during the football game in the afternoon.
First prize is a ‘ traveling trophy which will be engraved with the name of the top hall. The Student Center is the resting place of the trophy during the year. The victorious hall will also receive a permanent plaque.
Certificates will be given for second and third places.
Judges for the event will be Mr. Frank Montana of the Department of Architecture, Mr. Stanley Sessler of the Department of Art, and Rev. Anthony Lauck, also of the Department of Art.
The hall decorations week-end has been a tradition of long standing at Notre Dame.
The Student Senate provided $15 for each hall to help in relieving the cost burden. The halls added an additional $15 each to bring the total expenditures to $30.
Oct. 25 Marks Deadline
For Off-Campus Nominations
Nominations for the offices of junior and senior off-campus senators will be accepted from Oct. 18 to midnight, Oct. 25.
Elections will be held Thursday, Oct. 28. Candidates must be members of either the Junior or Senior class, live off-campus, possess a minimum cumulative average of 80 per cent, have a satisfactory disciplinary record, and be able to serve for one academic year. Letters of nomination should be sent to Election Committee, 204 Walsh Hall.
October 15, 1954
9
Damon Runyon Fund Provides Microscope For Cancer Research at LOBUND Institute
Natural Law Institute Hears Dr. d’Entreves
Cancer research at	Notre Dame’s
LOBUND Institute will be spurred with the installation of a	color-translating
:	ultraviolet microscope,	University offi-
t	cials announced last	Tuesday. The
•	$40,000 instrument, provided by the Da-
mon Runyon Memorial Fund, is the first of its kind to be made available commercially to any college, university or research center.
■ Manufactured by the Scientific Specialties Corporation of Brighton, Mass., the instrument adds a new dimension to microscopic analysis and enables scientists to make many important microchemical analyses not possible previously. It has many advantages over the conventional or electron microscopes including the fact that living tissue can be studied and the specimen need not be stained, dyed or treated in any way, or touched by any outside agent.
A New Horizon
“We are grateful to the Runyon Fund for making available to us this remarkable research tool which will be extremely useful in our cancer research program as we seek the cause of this disease,” Prof. James A. Reyniers, founder and director of the LOBUND Institute declared. “Moreover, this microscope will permit us to explore even more deeply into the nature of germ-free life. In our basic research we are constantly seeking to describe the germ-free animal as thoroughly as possible and compare it with conventionally contaminated life.”
Reyniers explained that the new ultraviolet microscope may enable Notre Dame scientists to determine what chemical differences, if any, exist between germ-free life and normal animals, between cancer cells and normal cells. Although the LOBUND Institute is the first research center to employ the mi-I croscope, Reyniers emphasized that the instrument will open new horizons in every field of biology.
A Mechanical Marvel
According to Physicist Harry Kou-youmjian, who installed the microscope for the manufacturer, the instrument within 30 or 40 seconds: 1) Takes three pictures of the specimen successively using three different wave lengths of ultraviolet light; 2) Processes or develops the film automatically; 3). Projects and superimposes the three photos on a screen in a full color picture of the specimen which may have had no visible color in it.
Operating on a principle known to i scientists as ultraviolet absorption, the
10
T ■
microscope analyzes the chemical constituents of biological material, Kou-youmjian explained. Scientists have learned that certain chemical components of cells absorb different wave lengths of light. It is known, too, that almost any pathological condition, such as cancer, has its own light absorption pattern. By photographing these cells and projecting these photos through color filters it is possible to obtain a full color picture on the screen of this microscope. In this way, it is believed scientists eventually will be able to determine the chemical constituents of normal and diseased cells.
Up to Notre Dame
Until now, the color-translating ultraviolet microscope has been principally in developmental and testing stages. It will now be up to scientists at the University’s LOBUND Institute and a few other selected research centers to determine how it can contribute to our biological and medical knowledge. Ultimately, it may prove invaluable in surgery and pathology. Scientists speculate that with this microscope a pathologist, or even a trained technician, could learn in a matter of seconds, and while a patient is on an operating table, whether tissue is cancerous or otherwise diseased.
The manufacturer of the microscope was supported by the Office of Naval Research, the American Cancer Society, and the Damon Runyon Fund who have underwritten research at the LOBUND Institute for several years.
PROF. REYNIERS AND HARRY KOUYOUMJIAN
LOBUND Takes New Strides in Cancer Fight The Scholastic J
Dr. A. P. d’Entreves, assistant professor at the University of Oxford, England, completed his series of natural law lectures in the Law Auditorium on Oct. 8 and 9. His lectures signaled the inauguration of a journal of natural law studies, to be published under the auspices of the College of Law’s Natural Law Institute. Dr. d’Entreves was welcomed by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., upon his arrival to the campus.
In his lectures, Dr. d’Entreves discussed the natural law concept as expressed in Goodhart’s theory of the obligatoriness of natural law. In his discussion he gave his criticism and views on the theory as expounded in Goodhart’s book.
Also included in his lectures were Q his views on modern day philosophy and expose on natural law. Dr. d’Entreves expressed his interest in the new University journal, Magazine of Natural Laiu Study.
The five lectures were well attended by lawmen from other parts of the country. In view of the importance of the lectures and the advent of a new campus publication, the College of Law invited a group of prominent scholars who have an active interest in natural / law, regardless of their approach to the * subject.
A series of informal meetings was arranged for these outstanding scholars, to enable them to discuss Dr. d’Entreves’ lectures and give the College of Law the benefit of their views concerning the new journal.
CHUCK DOHERTY AND DICK SCHILLER
Western Defense Against Communism Gets Test
Irish to Entertain Oxford Speakers Monday; Teams to Debate 'Communist Threat to West'
Monday evening, Oct. 18, marks the ; renewal of the Notre Dame-Oxford de-i bate series. The contest, to be held *in Washington Hall, has long been one of the highlights of campus forensic j	activity.
1	The debate will be presented in a
unique style, with Chuck Doherty of Notre Dame, the team president, matched with Derek Bloom of Oxford. This pair will present the affirma-9 tive side of one of the thought-provoking topics of the day, “Resolved: that the Western powers have failed i to understand and meet the challenge of Communism.” Dick Schiller, Notre > Dame’s freshman coach, and Peter Tap-l sell of England will maintain the nega-!	tive side of the question.
।	Oxford Team Impressive
J One needs to point only to the re-a cent stunning setbacks in France and W Italy, and the apparent Communist successes at Geneva and Panmunjom to emphasize the topic’s import.
The two men from Oxford bring with them an impressive record, both in and out of the forensic field. Both of these men served in the British Army during recent years. Bloom was a lieutenant in the Educational Corps, while Tapsell was commander of a mortar I platoon in the infantry. Both were the , _ presidents of their high-school debating
societies, as well as leaders in other fields of endeavor.
Bloom was bom in 1930 at Newcastle-on-Tyne, Northumberland, England. He is, at present, a member of the National Speakers’ Panel of the Conservative Party. Tapsell was also bom in 1930, in the town of Hove, Sussex, England. He is also a Conservative, acting in the capacity of assistant secretary to the Conservative Party’s Parliamentary Committee on Health and Social Security.
“Battle of Giants”
Dr. Michael Pap, of Notre Dame’s Department of Political Science, has been asked to highlight the arguments with an analysis of the respective cases following the debate. Dr. Pap is a nationally recognized authority on international Communism.
The debate will be one of the high points of the Irish season. Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, has called the match “a battle of the giants—the debating giants.”
Prof. Sommer, in welcoming the faculty and students to the affair, warned that in view of the popularity of past Oxford debates it would be advisable to arrive promptly, since seats will probably be at a premium. The contest will begin at 7:45 p. m. There will be no admission charge.
Da Vinci Work Shown In University Galleries
“Madonna and Child,” a controversial painting recently discovered and attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, is one of ten works to be exhibited in the University galleries beginning today. The painting was purchased in April by Dr. Hanns Teichert, a Chicago art collector, from a New York City antique dealer for $450. The attribution to Leonardo was subsequently made by Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, a Chicago art consultant and director of the University galleries.
Included in the exhibition," which will continue through Dec. 31, will be four paintings of the Leonardo school from the collection of John F. Cuneo, Chicago industrialist. They are “Madonna with the Flower” by Andrea Salai, the favorite pupil of Leonardo; “Madonna and Child with St. John,” a work by Gianpietrino which was included in the Leonardo da Vinci exhibition at Milan in 1939; “The Holy Family,” another Gianpietrino work; and “Madonna with the Cherries,” by Lorenzo di Credi, a classmate of Leonardo.
Five other paintings from the University’s permanent collection also will be on view. Included are “St. Catherine of Alexandria” by Gianpietrino, a gift of Consuela J. Cuneo; “Madonna with the Flower” by Bernardino de Conti, presented by Richard E. Berlin; and three paintings from the Fred J. and Sally Fisher collection: “St. Catherine” by Bernardino Luini; “Madonna and Child” by Andrea Solario; and “Portrait of Beatrice d’Este” by Bartolommeo Veneto.
This exhibition of paintings by Leo-, nardo da Vinci and his circle is believed to be the first of its kind ever held in the midwest. It will be open 2 to 5 p. m. daily except tomorrow and Nov. 13 and 27, in the O’Shaughnessey Hall.
Coach Bill Earley Appointed Air Force ROTC Instructor
Assistant football coach Bill Earley has been appointed instructor in the Air Force ROTC unit here. He is now teaching freshman air science classes. Though best known for his work as backfield coach under both Frank Leahy and Terry Brennan, he is also a captain in the U. S. Air Reserve.
During World War II, Captain Ear-ley served as a bombardier with the 15th Air Force in Italy. There he merited the Purple Heart when wounded in action; he also holds the Distinguished Flying Cross with an oak leaf cluster, and the Air Medal.
October 15, 1954
11
CASEY, HESBURGH, MASON, JACKMAN
Si •* 4 K Will Pilot Senior "Special” to Iowa
Senior Trip Tickets Go On Sale Monday
Tickets for the Nov. 20 senior football trip to the Notre Dame-Iowa game will go on sale Monday and Tuesday in the basement of the cafeteria. One hundred tickets will be sold each night from 7 to 9. Only one ticket will be sold to each senior, and ID cards must be presented to obtain the tickets. Game tickets are available only to those seniors who participate in the organized trip.
The tickets, which will entitle the holder to transportation to and from Iowa City, a football ticket, two nights’ lodging, a box lunch, and the traditional green derby, will be sold for $27.
The seniors will leave South Bend from the New York Central depot Friday afternoon, Nov. 19, and will arrive at Iowa City at approximately 9:45 p. m. Chartered buses will transport the students from the Iowa City station directly to the Iowa University fieldhouse, where the students - will be lodged.
In addition to the football game, the trip agenda includes a Saturday night dance. An outlined schedule of events will be given to each senior when he purchases his ticket.
The returning seniors will leave Iowa City Sunday afternoon and arrive at South Bend shortly after midnight. Chartered buses will transport the students back to the Circle. A four-hour stopover in Chicago is anticipated on the return trip..
John Casey, publicity chairman for
the traditional trip, cautioned seniors planning on making the journey to Iowa City to save their class cuts since class absences incurred Friday afternoon and Saturday morning will not be cancelled.
Casey, Business Manager Neal Mason, and Lodging Chairman Mike Jackman are assisting Jim Hesburgh, general chairman, in planning and executing the project.
'Split Program' Series Started by WNDU
An innovation in WNDU broadcasting began last week with the first in a series of “split programs.” “Split programming” is a technical advancement which makes it possible for the local station to air two programs simultaneously.
While the regular Tuesday evening program, “Student Senate on the Air,” was being aired as usual to Notre Dame residence halls, a disc jockey show, “The Dixie Special,” was beamed exclusively to St. Mary’s campus.
Although not yet out of the experimental stage, split programming is a big step forward in WNDU’s progress, and will make for more listener appeal when numerous technical difficulties have been ironed out.
Another change at the campus radio outlet was introduced last Sunday night at 8 p. m.
“The World This Week,” a new production in the field of news broadcasting at WNDU made its debut at that time. The new half hour show
will include complete, up-to-the-minute news and views in many different fields.^'
A complete run-down of the past week’s news from all over the world, with emphasis on the national scene, a commentary on the world’s political situation and the latest sports news is being featured. Of particular interest to students in the College of Commerce will be a business review highlighting the latest happenings in the business world.

Dr. Turner to Teach In Commerce School
The College of Commerce recently announced the appointment of Dr. Robert 0. Turner, B.A., M.B.A., Ph.D., to its faculty staff as visiting professor in the Department of Business Administration for the first semester of this year.
In addition to teaching government and business to undergraduates, Dr. Turner is conducting a seminar for a group of faculty members from the College of Commerce. It is being held in the Rockne Memorial lounge every Thursday at 3:30 p. m. during the fall semester.
The topic of the seminar is entitled: “Problems of Income Stabilization in a Developing Democracy.” Prof. LeClair H. Eells, head of the Department of Finance and one of 15 faculty members participating in the discussion said: “Dr. Turner is particularly well-qualified to discuss these practical problems and their applications because of his experience in Washington as a member of the presidential staff of economic advisors.”
Dr. Turner received his B.A. degree at Hiram College in 1930. Two years later an M.B.A. degree was conferred upon him at Northwestern University. In 1937, he obtained his Ph.D. from Ohio State.
During that same year he was appointed instructor at Wayne University. He remained there until 1941, at which time he accepted the position of economist with the War Production Board. Two years later, he was appointed director of the Foreign Division, W.P.B. He served in that capacity until 1945, when he became director of the Bureau of International Supply, and also deputy of the Combined War Materials Board.
0
From 1947 to 1948, Dr. Turner was an advisor on international operations in the office of War Mobilization and Reconversion Board. In 1951, Dr. Turner was appointed as economic advisor to the President. At present, he is a professor in the School of Business at Indiana University.
The Scholastic
12
Student Loan Organization Expands Facilities; 9 Long, Short Term Borrowing Hans Outlined
In 1920, a student loan organization was established at Notre Dame. Today a two-fold program exists which aids nearly 1,000 students a year. Both are under the guidance of Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., director of Loan Funds.
The first, the Student Loan Fund, is — aimed at long term and large amount W lending. Its function is to help certain students, who would otherwise be unable to complete their education at Notre Dame. The other, the Benefit Loan Fund, accommodates smaller loans and more temporary borrowing.
Mrs. Sally Fisher of Detroit, Mich., established the Fisher Education Fund of §250,000 in 1950 as a revolving student loan fund. Loans from this fund ' _ are available to any undergraduate, with W upperclassmen receiving preference. Up | to §500 yearly may be borrowed by any individual; a maximum of §1500 for all four years is set, however.
Ninety-day notes on these loans carry a 1% interest charge plus another 1% charge to defray costs of the University’s Group Life Insurance Plan, on the life of the borrower. Payment need not begin until four months after graduation and then only at 10% of the graduate’s monthly income.
•
Small Loan Fund
Closely paralleling this is the Benefit Loan Fund which, though under Fathei’ Mendez’s authority, is operated completely by the Student Senate. In its third year of operation, the Fund is under the direction of Ron Kueber, the 1954 Senate appointee as Senate Loan Administrator.
The Benefit Loan, operating on ap-$ proximately §5500, enables any student to borrow as much as §50 for 30 days at no interest whatever. This agency has become increasingly popular; in its initial year, 1952, §5,000 was borrowed but last year close to §20,000 in small loans was borrowed. Of this total only §450 to §500 has not been repaid and this chiefly by those who have left school.
Kueber, in order to improve the loan’s facilities has established a credit file this year, to keep a credit rating on the nearly 600 students who borrow yearly. Future loans will then be allocated according to one’s past credit reputation.
Another step Kueber intends to take is distributing, to borrowers, “odd.jobs” on campus and in South Bend, if it meets with student approval. This would be handled by his office, not the Placement Bureau, and would be beneficial to both students and the loan fund.
Plans are still in the formation stages • October 15, 1954
and Kueber desires suggestions regarding its establishment. Anyone interested is invited to visit the Student Senate office in the LaFortune Student Center, between 3-5, Monday thru Friday.
REGULATIONS CONCERNING STUDENTS’ INFIRMARY
For the sake of those who are ill and confined to the Students' Infirmary, the following regulations must be observed by all:
1)	No visitors (articles for patients may be left with the nurse at the 1st. floor office.)
2)	Patients must not disturb others by loud talking, radios, etc.
3)	Lights and radios off at 10.
Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline.
ND Barbershop Quartet Shaken Up in Auto Crash
The four members of the University barbershop quartet, “The Forget Me Notes,” were shaken up in an automobile accident last Saturday morning on U. S. 31, four miles south of Plymouth, Ind., when the station wagon in which they were riding collided with two other vehicles.
The quartet, Charles Hickman and Joe Casurella of Oak Park, Ill., Bob Ogburn of Louisville, Ky., and Bob Kesteloot, of Port Huron, Mich., were enroute to Indianapolis where they were to compete in the Indiana-Kentucky barbershop quartet contest finals.
They were able to board a bus and continue their journey, however.
The quartet was traveling in a station wagon driven by Roger O’Malley, 828 Park Ave., South Bend, president of the South Bend Quartet Society. O’Malley’s son, Pete, a student at Indiana University, was also a passenger. State police cited the source of the accident as some crates that apparently had fallen from a passing truck.
Police further said that the accident occurred when cars driven by James Dickson of Plymouth, Ind., and Mrs. Harry Hostetter of Elkhart, Ind., and the O’Malley car, all south bound, .collided as they tried to avoid three crates. Occupants of the Dickson and Hostetter cars escaped injury, while the O’Malley car was considerably damaged and the two O’Malleys were shaken up.
Name Hayes to Head Mardi Gras Carnival
Tom Hayes has assumed the general chairmanship of the 1955 Mardi Gras carnival. The Student Senate approved the appointment of the LaGrange, HL, senior - sociology major at its meeting last night.
Hayes "announced his committee heads immediately after his appointment was confirmed' by the Senate. Bob McAuliffe will serve as business manager for this year’s event.
John Weithers will be dance chairman for the big 'Mardi Gras Ball on Feb. 11. Hayes and Weithers will announce the Mardi Gras band in the near future.
Tom Armstrong and Jim Baker will be co-chairmen of the four-day carni-.val. The festival will again be held in the Drill Hall, and the co-chairmen hope to enlarge on the list of booths and novelties this year.
The car contest chairmanship has been assigned to Harry Edelstein. He will have charge of the chief money-making Mardi Gras functions.
The festival will run from Feb. 11-15. The dance will open the pre-Len-ten activity on Friday night. The carnival will then begin on Saturday night and run for the next four nights. The grand prizes will be awarded at the conclusion of the final night’s activities.
Hayes has promised that his committee will do its best to make this year’s Mardi Gras top all others in net profit. “We have to make as much as possible this year after the generous offer of Mr. LaFortune. And I think we have the men who can handle the extensive work that goes with a project of this type,” he stated.
TOM HAYES Mardi Gras Gets Push
13
PREFERENTIAL POLITICOS—HALL PREXIES AND SENATORS
Representatives Fill Remaining Senate Seats
Elections Place Campus Politicos in Spotlight: Upperclass Halls Pick Senators, Presidents
Students last week went to the polls in ten upperclass halls to select officers to fill the posts of hall president and hall senator in the Blue Circle-sponsored campus election. The election, regulated under the by-laws of the Student Senate Constitution, was under the direction of Election Chairman James Broughton. Freshmen are slated to visit the polls on Nov. 18 to choose their officers.
Senior students of Fisher Hall elected Ted Laughlin as senator and Mike O’Toole as hall president for the ensuing school year. Maurice Reidy will carry the colors of Alumni Hall into the Senate, while Ed David will direct Alumni’s seniors as president. Jim Curtin will preside over Walsh Hall with Dick Norton supervising matters for Walsh in the Student Senate.
Junior Jim Kraemer was given approval by his classmates of Dillon Hall as their senator, while Mike Horne was given the nod for hall president. Sorin’s juniors chose Senator Phil Agee and President John Cywinski as their representative. John Engler goes to the Senate as Badin’s choice while Dave Lockwood presides over Badin’s home front.
Sophomore Joe Safko will travel to the Student Senate under Lyon’s banner as Al Mooney assumes presidential duties of that hall. Under Howard Hall’s unique constitution, students elected four members to an electoral board from which Mike Burke was chosen as hall president. Dick Pollenz takes over Howard Hall’s seat in the
Senate. Jerry Murphy, a sophomore from Morrissey Hall, and Sophomore Ron Francis of St. Edward’s Hall journey to the Senate, while John Reardon of Morrissey and Roger Bennett of St. Ed’s assume presidential duties of those halls.
The duties of hall senators include representing hall members in the Senate and participating in policy formation for the entire student body. The hall president assumes the responsibility of developing a well-rounded program designed to meet the academic, spiritual, physical and social needs of hall members.
Senate to Hold Mixer Tonight; Marterie Concert Loses $500
The Student Senate will sponsor another in its series of weekly mixers tonight in the Drill Hall. Admission for the evening is only 25 cents. White shirts, sweaters and slacks are to be worn. Girls from St. Mary’s College and Academy, and St. Joseph’s Nurses Home have been invited to the mixer.
Jim Sherer, Senate social commissioner, announced that the recent Ralph Marterie concert put the Senate in the red by $500. But Sherer was quick to emphasize, “We cannot promise anything but some plans are being made for other top name band concerts. It will be to every student’s advantage if the Senate is able to bring name bands to campus at reasonable prices.”
Student Choristers to Make Debut Sunday *
The Notre Dame Student Choir, under the direction of Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., will make its first appearance of the year next Sunday at the 11 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heai't Church. Consisting of approximately 20 students • attired in cassocks and surplices, the group will sing the Mass in Gregorian Chant and harmonized motets in four parts.
Father McAuliffe, who is also director of the Moreau Seminary Choir, has this to say about the group after four weeks of practice: “Right now, after six years of straggling, the student choir is still in its infancy. It does not have the ability to carry out the musical aspects of the Church’s liturgy in all its beauty.”
Father McAuliffe continues, “It seems • that out of 5,400 students we should be able to find enough who have the talent and generosity to give the University the kind of choir it deserves.”
“Notre Dame is first in so many things,” he continues, “it is a shame that she can’t be first, too, in singing-the praises of God at liturgical services.”
Membership in the choir is open to any student who considers himself quali- _ fied. Practice is held every Wednesday W1 night at 6:45 p. m. in Room 242 of the O’Shaughnessey Building.
Stressing the importance of Catholics appreciating their own music the choir director states that, “The Catholic Church possesses as her heritage some of the most beautiful music ever composed. Non-Catholics recognize this, and the Church’s music is being exploited by non-sectarian choral groups f)) throughout the country. In fact, the best choral ensembles consider no program adequate unless it includes beautiful gems of classic polyphony.”
He concludes, “This is our music—	।
we should be the ones singing it for the praise and glory of God.”
NEED TUTORS
Students on the Dean’s list, or those having 90 or above in a particular course, interested in tutoring undergraduates may contact Dr. William Burke, Student Advisor, in Room 104 Main Building.
Rates for undergraduate tutors are $1.50 per hour, for graduate tutors, $2 per hour.
14
The Scholastic 'J
Life in 'Stalag 1' Described by ND Professor; ■ Dr. Grupp Sees Prison Life as Great Teacher
By JOE CONNOLLY
“We just vegetated.” That’s how Dr. William J. Grupp, of the University’s Department of Modern Languages, summarizes his experiences in a Ger-1 man prisoner-of-war camp during World War II.
In the summer of 1942, Dr. Grupp, a native of Rochester, N. Y., interrupted his studies at the University i of Toronto to join the Air Force cadet | program. After being commissioned, he i was assigned to the 8th Air Force in ' England as a bomber pilot. During the ’ next few months, Lt. Grupp distinguished himself on many successful missions, and was awarded the Air Medal.
But Dec. 31, 1943—New Year’s Eve £ —is a date he will never forget. That night he and his crewmates were forced to bail out of their crippled B-17 over occupied France. Three escaped; the others, including- Lt. Grupp, were immediately captured by a German infantry patrol near the town of Cognac.
The lieutenant was shipped to Frankfort, Germany for interrogation; he remained there seven days, mostly in solitary confinement. “The Germans,” he recalls, “actually were not looking a for much strategic 'information; • they merely hoped to confirm available data. In fact, they seemed to know more about our work than we did.” However, this was true only of American prisoners. All British airmen were subjected to intense questioning for a period of several months. Apparently the Germans knew very little about R.A.F. Mosquito bombers.
£ Stalag No. 1
i Lt. Grupp was moved to Stalag No. ’	1, a prison camp near Barth, Germany,
: in the Baltic Sea region. He thought of life there as “a primitive form of existence.” Surprisingly, the guards didn’t bother the prisoners much, but the waiting did. Many of the captured Allies became extremely nervous, and suffered from the meager food rations.
The Germans gave them only boiled potatoes, barley cereal and black bread. But relief came as Red Cross food parcels began to pour in regularly.
Dr. Grupp is emphatic in his praise of this charitable organization: “If it hadn’t been for the Red Cross, most of us would have come out in much worse shape!” Additional help was provided by the YMCA, which sent athletic equipment and books.
Perhaps what really kept the prisoners’ morale high was their own ingenuity. They made cooking utensils,
and oil lamps, using margarine for fuel. They secretly traded soap, cigarettes, and chocolate to their guards foi' parts to construct a radio. So every night the captives tuned in BBC news reports, and learned how the war was going.
Soon, they no longer needed the radio to keep informed on the progress of the conflict. They could now see Allied planes roaring across the horizon to attack enemy factories and military installations. In Dr. Grupp’s words, “What a great thrill it was to see our own air force flying over in formation.”
DR. GRUPP
Survived Stalag No. 1
A few days before the inevitable German surrender, the guards fled, leaving their 10,000 prisoners behind. Shortly thereafter, Russian troops arrived. In general, the Russians impressed Dr. Grupp as being rather touchy and impatient; but he adds, “They were quite decent to us, and gave us more than we could eat.” Amei’ican planes flew the men back to Camp Lucky Strike at Le Havre, France, on the first hop of that long-awaited homeward voyage.
Today, ten years later, Dr. Grupp is happily married, and is the father of five young children, four girls and a boy. He has earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Toronto University and both Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from Cornell. He is now serving as a professor of Spanish at Notre Dame for the sixth con-
(Continued on page 33.)
Grad Students Halt Fire in Aero Building
Quick action by Aeronautical grad students was credited with minimizing property damage to §100 in a fire which started in the experimental wing of the Aeronautical Engineering Building on Tuesday, Oct. 5. Fire departments from Notre Dame and South Bend responded to the alarm since the students were unable to determine the extent of the flames.
An overheated smoke generator exhaust pipe was blamed for starting the blaze. The generator is part of the mechanism used in experiments in conjunction with the visual-flow wind tunnel. Students were working on a thesis = project when they noticed the blaze at 8:30 p. m.
Fast action with the fire extinguishers kept the blaze from spreading up the east wall of the building, as students proceeded to dismantle and move costly equipment. The entire building and its equipment is valued at well over a million dollars.
“It looked bad at first,” relates grad student Berry Donald, “that’s the reason the fire departments were called.” The group was working on Donald’s project which involved the use of the wind tunnel when the fire broke out.
According to Fire Captain Arthur Howard of the South Bend Fire Department, the blaze could have had grave consequences had it spread to the ceiling. Howard praised the prompt action by declaring, “Those boys were on the ball with the fire extinguishers.”
Capt. Kelly Receives Medal For Service in Korean War
Capt. William J. Kelly, of the U. S. Marine Corps, new associate, professor of Naval science, was presented with a special medal of commendation this afternoon. Making the presentation was Capt. F. P. Luongo, professor of Naval science and head of the NROTC unit here. The medal was awarded on behalf of the U. S. 'Marine Corps with, whom Capt. Kelly served as a company commander during the Korean War.
The citation began: “For meritorious achievement in the. performance of his duties while serving with a Marine infantry. company during operation against the enemy in Korea. ■. . .” It went on to explain that the medal was in recognition of Capt. Kelly’s efficiency and interest in the welfare and morale of his men. He directed the construction of new defenses and showed particular knowledge of the infantry and its weapons.
1J
B October 15, 1954
Insurance Policy Available to All Students: Ordinary Injuries and Illnesses Are Covered
A student insurance policy is made available, by the University to curb the high expense resulting from injury or hospitalization to students. Only a few make use of the many advantages provided by the benefits.
Many hundreds of students were injured or became seriously ill last year. However, only 130 of them were covered by student insurance.
Student insurance is a voluntary participation or insurance plan designed to supplement the services of the University Health Service which includes the University infirmary and staff.
The health service provides the necessary care for ordinary injuries or illnesses that occur in the life of the student while at the University. The optional insurance plan gives extra protection when away on weekends or vacations, offsetting the heavy expense required for a more serious accident or minor hospitalization.
$21 Worth of Protection
The plan, which offers twelve months coverage for a premium of only $21, is underwritten by the Continental Casualty Co. of Chicago, Ill. According to Jerry Hornback, student representative of the company on campus, “The company has over 30 colleges and universities enrolled in this plan, but they consider Notre Dame their very best client.”
The first year there were 1300 enrolled in the program. This year, the second, 2,000 are enrolled. From the increase in enrollment over the past year, it appears to be quite popular with the students.
Some things are not included in the program and these are: dental treatment, unless the treatment was due to injury of natural teeth; services rendered by the University health service; cost of replacing eye glasses; the expense of preventative medicine or in-noculations; accidents occuring from riding in an airplane except when traveling as a paying passenger in a licensed passenger aircraft; war-time duty with the armed forces, or accidents occuring from participation in intercollegiate athletics.
Round-the-Clock Safety
The plan covers the student 24 hours a day both at and away from the University. In the event of an accident, it pays the student $750, and in the case of sickness, it pays $500. Policies also cover the student when traveling to and from the University.
It should be noted that ROTC students
16
are eligible for enrollment in the student insurance plan. However, benefits are stopped during the summer camp period. The benefits cease entirely upon entering the armed forces, and the money is refunded.
The plan was endorsed by the University and the Student Senate in recognition of the many values it offers the student.
The student insurance office is located on the second floor in the rear of the LaFortune Student Center. It is open from 3 to 5 p.m. five days a week. There a student can make all arrangements for enrollment in the plan with all the transactions being made directly between him and the Continental Casualty Company.
Thespians Work Out For 'Detective Story'
Intensive rehearsals for the University Theatre’s first production of the year, Detective Story, got under way this week under the direction of Rev. Arthui- Harvey, C.S.C., new director of the University Theatre. Father Harvey announced the Sidney Kingsley play will be performed Nov. 17 through Nov. 20.
A complete schedule of rehearsals has been developed, and the stage crew has begun construction of the single set required for the play. The rehearsal schedule calls for blocking, interpretive, and special rehearsals. Special interpretive rehearsals will be held with the individual members of the cast.
The stage crew has completed the platforms which will be used to represent the police lieutenant’s office and is now working on the frames for the flat scenery.
The stage crew, business crew, and ushers for the performance have been recruited from the newly formed Theatre Workshop. Membership in the Theatre Workshop is still open to anyone interested in any phase of drama, Father Harvey announced.
The backstage area in Washington Hall has been completely remodeled to provide more adequate facilities for the University Theatre. The area now includes three offices, three storerooms, five dressing rooms, and two make-up rooms. A large wrork room containing power tools and a grid has been built for set construction. The former glee club practice room has been converted into a theatre lounge. Also included under the new set up are a paint room and electric shop.
Scoreboard Erected On Morrissey Tower *
A novel method of stirring up school and hall spirit has been initiated by members of 'Morrissey Hall. In an effort to spike the general belief that campus spirit is slipping, Morrissey has started a practice which hall members hope will develop into a Notre Dame tradition.
Last Saturday evening, members of the hall erected a scoreboard on the Morrissey tower. The 33-0 score of last week’s win over Pittsburgh was the first result to be posted on the board. In the future, every time that Notre Dame wins either a football or basketball contest the board will be lighted and the score posted.
In order to further publicize Irish gridiron and court wins, the scoreboard will bask in the light of two white spotlights shining on the tower from Morrissey’s lawn and green lights focused on the board from the tower. Plans are also being made to fly the school’s colors from the Soph quad flagpole after each ND victory.
The suggestion for the hall scoreboard was made by Bob Scoggins and was endorsed by Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., rector of Morrissey. Newly-elected hall officers supplied the final impetus to the move.
John Reardon, president of the hall, Jerry Murphy, Morrissey Hall senator, and John Dessauer were instrumental in putting the idea into practice.
Concerning the purpose of the Morrissey scoreboard, Reardon said, “This practice has been started in an effort to stimulate general campus spirit and, in particular, Morrissey Hall spirit. Interest in the Notre Dame athletic teams has been rather lax in the past mx few years. This move is being taken in order to remove all doubts as to our and all sophomores’ school loyalty.”
Wranglers Now Accepting Applications for Membership
The Wranglers, a campus discussion group, are now accepting membership applications from interested sophomores, juniors, and seniors.
Inquiries about membership are to be sent to Wrangler Membership Committee, 310 Walsh Hall, before Oct. 30.
The group meets once each week to discuss a paper presented by one of the members. The papers for the forthcoming discussion will center about the general problem of the “Modern Mind.” Thus far, papers on Kafka Kierkegaard and Luigi Sturzo have been announced.
The Scholastic
The Old Legend Tree . . .
By CARL EIBERGER, '54
This feature story was written and submitted to the Scholastic late last spring—too late for use in the 1953-54 Scholastic. The author. Carl Eiberger, is a 1954 graduate of Notre Dame’s law school.
On your way to the grotto oi’ on a stroll around the lakes, you may have noticed the large, old sycamore tree that stands to the west and rear of Corby Hall, near the Grotto. The trunk and five branches are almost the duplication of a human hand—on a large scale— reaching toward the sky.
This tree, although now almost never noted was once mentioned so often in earlier Scholastics and Domes that it almost became a campus tradition. Its fame came from a legend that is as old as the University itself.
The Chief’s Visits
Some of the first Brothers at Notre Dame are generally regarded as the source of this legend. They became 0 curious about an old Indian chief--who -used to visit in the area and spend most of his time near this particular tree. They inquired about his visits and this is the story he told the Brothers:
A certain white man had been killed by some Indians. His closest friend had sworn eternal hatred for all Indians. This man happened to be passing by the place where the University now stands when he saw an old Indian man fishing P in what is now St. Mary’s Lake. The old Indian was a Christian convert, a friend of the whites and unarmed.
A Vicious Attack
The white man hid behind some nearby bushes, pulled a hunting knife from his belt, crept up behind the unsuspecting Indian—and drove the blade into the old man’s back.
The old man cried out. He stumbled to his feet. Tried to escape the enraged | white but fell exhausted at the spot where the sycamore tree now stands.
His assailant caught up with the weakened Indian and renewed his vicious attack. His defenseless victim cried out for mercy—begging the man to stop, wondering what he had done to deserve such a brutal attack.
The k n i f e-w i e 1 d i n g, white man snarled, “an Indian killed my best friend—I’ve sworn to kill every one of you.” He plunged the knife again
) October 15, 1954
and again into the old man. -
With his dying gasp, the old Indian swore he was innocent. That he had never harmed any man. And that he would appeal to God for vengeance. Then he died.
It was soon after this that the Indian chief found his tribesman’s mutilated body. He buried the old man on the spot where he had been killed.
On one of his subsequent visits to the grave, the chief noticed a small tree growing where the blood of the old man seeped into the earth. The chief was amazed to note that the little sycamore, a miniature of its present size, was taking the shape of a hand—with the fingers extended toward heaven as if pleading for mercy or revenge.
“Like a hand reaching heavenward.. .”
This may be a true legend—or just a startling fable. No one can say for sure, but the sycamore is still there. There for anyone to see and admire. The old tree’s beauty now overshadows its terrible past. This may be nothing but pure fiction—but the branches still reach heavenward—like a hand.
“THE SHOWCASE”
Watch for “The Showcase” in the Scholastic. “The Showcase” is now accepting original student-written fiction for publication. Submit all manuscripts to The Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
17
“The March Is On”
Text By DICK CONNELLY	Research By JIM O’BRIEN
Do you know what's at the bottom of St. Mary’s Lake? . . . Maybe no one does, but the Notre Dame Marching Band has been there.
Fifty years ago, the Band was to give a concert from a floating barge on St. Mary’s Lake with the audience seated on the sloping bank. All went well until the last member stepped aboard the barge. The audience hushed, and as though cued, the barge sank.
No band members were lost, but there are still a few instruments at the bottom of the Lake. But this was years ago. . .
Begins 90th Year
Two weeks ago the University of Notre Dame Marching Band began its 90th year as “band of the land” for Notre Dame football fans everywhere. Since the Band was formed by interested students just after the Civil War, it has become a precision marching unit nearly one hundred strong—about twice as large as the football team.
Years back, in 1871, the Band gave relief concerts for the victims of the great Chicago fire; it even played at the huge Olympian Hippodrome in New York City.
Once the Band discovered a promising flute player who abandoned a musical career for football—fluter’s name was Rockne.
Appearing in Yankee Stadium, Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium, and Soldiers’ Field, the Band gained followers throughout the country. In Connecticut,
the Band was presented with a set of dinosaur tracks by John Shea, author of the “Notre Dame Victory March;” in South Dakota someone presented a stuffed pheasant; and from Florida, a fan presented a stuffed alligator.
A Dancing Outfit
Along with its colorful background, the Notre Dame Marching Band has been described as “not only a marching, but a running, dancing, and constantly manuvering band.”
Under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope, who recently received his Doctor’s degree in music at the University of Indiana, the Band plays for pre-game and half-time ceremonies at home football games as well as pep rallies and parades in cities where away games are held.
Daily practice four afternoons each week plus a two hour stint each Thursday evening keeps the 91 members of the Band hopping.
At half-time of home football games, the Band presents a different “theme” for its marching manuvers. The “themes” are based on student interest with music from the Band’s current repertoire; for instance, a “Welcome Terry” theme for the new Irish coach highlighted this season’s first half-time ceremony. A special committee submits ideas for various “themes’” before each Fall semester when Band rehearsals start.
A cabinet covered with pigeon holes
indicating each marcher and his position in the Band’s initial formation is used to plan the half-time manuvers. The step-by-step procedure of each bandsman along with the music to be played is mimeographed for each member, and must be thoroughly memorized by Friday’s final rehearsal.
The size of the half-time formations
is determined by the number of men in the Band. Proper grouping of instruments helps the Band retain playing unity and euphony. Bandsmen move from their regular marching position only once . . the following formations are interrelated with one another.
Go To Baltimore
To further its marching and musical fame, this year’s Marching Band will occupy the first two railroad cars for the student trip to Baltimore and the Navy game.
Three years ago at Baltimore, the Band arrived at the stadium in a downpour—it had been raining for forty days and forty nights previous—Director Hope, noting the Middies refused to march, went through with the soaking ceremonies which included a “Hoe Down” dance—done bravely by the Band through and under the mud and water of the brown field.
Just how does a student get to be a “muddy Hoe Downer?” Those interested are interviewed and auditioned by Director Hope and his assistants during registration week of the first semester.
The Band Marches info the famed ND Formation and then Salutes the Troops.

Aside from the drummers and husky AV tuba players, band members furnish their own instruments. No scholarships
are awarded although Hope’s ate assistants receive financial the University.
Band members from the

year’s band arrive one week before the Fall semester begins and practice daily. This year, 170 freshmen competed for 91 openings; freshmen band members comprise a surprising 40% of this year’s regular Marching Band.
Hope’s Big Pipers
Mr. Hope is the man responsible for the habitual success of Notre Dame’s Marching Band. Along with his assistant director, John Giambrino, Mr. Hope originated the idea for the Irish Pipers who march at the head of the Band in their bright red kilted uniforms. All the Pipers are at least six feet in height. The bedecked Pipers wear authentic uniforms brought from Canada by Mr. Hope.
The Pipers were actually taught to play the traditional bag pipes, however, during one particularly cold half-time
ceremony two years ago, the Pipers’ pipes froze and for the following two minutes, the “Irish Washer Woman” was barely a squeal.
Besides cold, rain, and mud, the Band has fought a little snow too . . . about eight inches of it in Philadelphia for the Penn game last year. This time, the victim was only one member of the
previous
■Sit
immedi-
aid from
The Victory March, you guys,
not the funeral dirge!
Band, Drum Major Jerry Gatto.
Jerry’s the strutting fellow with the spotless white suit, tall white hat and clean white ducks who, incidentally, wore polio braces throughout his grammar school years.
At the game, he was a prime target for enraged Penn fans who pelted him unmercifully with snowballs.
Through the years, the Notre Dame Marching Band has risen far from its near watery grave of a century ago. Director Hope attributes it to a Marinetype “esprit de corps,” or as he puts it, “an essential in any musical organization is the spirit of the personnel, i This year, vital spirit has been present | in abundance.”
A good old Shamrock for the Irish.
Another Night Session

T >AST year, the Student Senate constitution revision made the Blue Circle society the official executive arm of student government. The Senate retained its legislative and judicial functions.
As it is now set up, the Blue Circle exists for three reasons: to give a mark of honor to those who have distinguished themselves at Notre Dame; to train leaders and to provide services for the student body.
The Notre Dame student comes in contact with the Blue Circle months before he attends his first classes. A letter of introduction and helpful information is sent to each accepted applicant before he leaves his home to start college life.
Handle Orientation
Freshmen orientation is a simple procedure for the incoming student. On arriving at the campus, freshmen and their parents are greeted and directed by Blue Circle representatives.
A mixer with St. Mary’s College and St. Joseph’s nursing school, another Blue Circle service, starts the freshman on. his college social life. The mixer is followed by a picnic with the girls from across the Dixie.
Throughout the year, plans, projects, and programs are realized through action taken by the Circle. They cover
“Now hear this . . .”
“Check that student manual, frosh."
Student Government
Blue Circle-Student Court
By TIM DEVEREUX
every phase of student life—academic, spiritual and social.
Aid Frosh in Studies
On the academic side, the Circle introduces proper study methods to freshmen and provides lectures from qualified persons and informal discussion groups in the hall lounges. It acquaints the freshmen with extra-curricular opportunities at Notre Dame and tries to point out the aims of a Catholic education.
Some of the spiritual programs that are handled by the Circle include: arrangements for the May Day procession to the grotto, the senior retreat, and ushering at the Marriage Institute.
A long list of social events are under direction of the Blue Circle. This year’s football trip to Baltimore for the Navy game, Oct. 30, will be taken care of by Circle members.
The Circle plans and conducts all pep rallies. It supeivises all campus elections, operates the alumni service booth at home football games and handles the
Part Two
selection of the 30 seniors or graduate students for Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.
Forty-five members comprise the Blue < Circle, the oldest branch of student government now in existence at Notre Dame. Since 1923 the Circle has maintained its three-fold purpose—providing services for the student body, limiting membership to those who have distinguished themselves and fostering leader- ship.
John O’Meara, chairman of the 195455 Circle, has been very active in student government. Last summer John attended student conventions with other ’ student government officers.
O’Meara took part in the Congress of United Nations Education and the National • Student Body Presidents’ Association convention in Chicago, Ill. He travelled to Ames, la., to attend the National Students’ Association convention.
Besides presiding over all meetings of the Blue Circle and transmitting instructions and other information from
The Scholastic -
20
the Student Senate to the Blue Circle s and appointing the necessary commit-k tees, Chairman O’Meara acts as the master of ceremonies at pep rallies.
O’Meara’s staff includes: George Carhart, vice-chairman, Forst Brown, secretary-treasurer, and John Powers, chairman of the new leadership program that 'will be operated by the Circle.
The Circle needs very little money to carry out the services it renders. Funds for the operation of the Circle are ap-propriated by the Senate. Its yearly expenses usually run below §600.
A new project under investigation by a Blue Circle committee is the student integrity question. The committee is attempting to find an answer to the cheating reportedly being done in the classrooms.
Students can learn more about this executive arm of the Student Senate, by attending the weekly meetings. The Circle meets each Wednesday at 7:15 k in the Student Center amphitheater.
A crowd’s-eye view of Chairman O’Meara and Cohorts.
Membership Requirements
Any Notre Dame student who has completed at least one semester at the University of Notre Dame, who has an accumulative average of 80 per cent and who has a satisfactory disciplinary record, is eligible for admittance to the Blue Circle. The Circle conducts its annual membership drive in the Spring. । Written applications and a series of ’ interviews precede the selection of new members.
Applicants must show leadership ability proven by past achievement in high school and at Notre Dame, and a
desire to work for the betterment of Notre Dame.
The benefits that the Circle offers its members are fundamental to a full college life. Association with campus leaders, leadership training, and above all, the sense of a job well done in the interests of Notre Dame and one’s fellow students, make membership in the Blue Circle a rewarding experience.
Student Court Studies Violations
Probably the least known branch of student government at Notre Dame is the Student Activities Court. The func
tion of this court is to hear cases of violation against Student Senate legislation and to hand down decisions of these same cases upon chartered clubs or upon members of the student body.
The chief justice of the student activities court is John Houck, a student in the college of law at Notre Dame. John Rosshirt, also a law student, assists Houck as a justice.
Any fines imposed by the Student Activities Court are put into the charity chest fund, which answers all pleas by charitable organizations from the students of Notre Dame.

H UH Mike Chatter
Those crys of “yahrr’ heard weekly in the Stadium don’t necessarily indicate any Neanderthal aspects of the Notre Dame man. However, it has been pointed out by some wise, wrinkled, old sage that “Music doth sooth the savage beast.”
WNDU doesn’t particularly focus its attention on the bestial aspects of Notre Dame life, but its musical programming is designed to please the vast and varied listening tastes of the campus audience which it serves. Whether one leans toward the classical, popular, or jazz field, he may find the selection on the 640 spot of his crystal set of interest.
Perhaps the middle ground of music, that field commonly referred to as popular music, receives the most attention. To supply a steady stream of “chatter and platter” (a phrase which, incidentally, was completely devaluated shortly after- it was coined) WNDU had a profusion of disk jockeys about the programming day. In our contemporary society the disk jockey has become not only an expert as far as things musical go, but also in the social, political, and sometimes, sports world. WNDU does not produce these sociological phenoms, but rather its announcers make it a point to primarily bring to its campus audience the latest and the best in the field of popular music.
For the adherents of the classics the “Student Voice of Notre Dame” brings two and a half hours of classical music daily. These programs are beamed toward the classicist’s palate three times during a regularly scheduled program day. From 3:30 to 4:30 in the afternoon there is, appropriately enough, “The Afternoon Concert." From six to seven in the evening is the very popular “Invitation to Music.” At the conclusion of the broadcasting day is a half-hour of “Music on the Night” from ten-thirty to eleven.
The jazz idiom also comes in for its share in listener interest value. Perhaps one of the most unique and original programs to come out of WNDU is the highly praised “White Plume” show. This show makes its appearance three times weekly on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at eight-thirty in the evening. This show gives an intimate and real account of the jazz scene from its original sounds to its present form. The commentary and music of this program certainly make it one of the foremost examples of imaginative radio production at Notre Dame.
22
Commerce Advisory Council Meets Today; PFA and Commerce-Law Programs Discussed
The fall meeting of the College of Commerce Advisory Council began at 10 this morning in the Rockne Memorial Lounge, and will continue through tomorrow, concluding with attendance at the Michigan State-Notre Dame football game in the afternoon.
Following preliminary business, which included the organization of the meeting, there was a discussion held on the topic: “What should the University do to help sell prospective employers on hiring graduates from the Program for Administrators?” Dr. J. W. Culliton, director- of the Program for Administrators, chaired the session which was followed by a report from Prof. T. T. Murphy, chairman of the research team, who spoke on a current research project.
A demonstration exhibiting the way in which seniors can attack a problem was shown through an unrehearsed class discussion of a case. It was conducted by Rev. James P. Smyth. Council members followed with questions and proposals for action on the morning’s problems.
Included on the afternoon agenda was a report on the advisory council’s investment trust fund; a student analysis of the combination Commerce-Law
Moreau Seminary to Conduct Annual Open 'House Sunday
For the second consecutive year, the Moreau Seminary will hold an open house for all Notre Dame students on Sunday from 2 to -5 p. m. Both the house and the grounds will be ready for inspection by the Notre Dame men and tours of the premises will be conducted by the seminarians.
Unlike last year, Sunday’s open house will be held for all four classes of Notre Dame at the same time. In 1953 the Seminary acted as hosts to the freshmen and sophomores on one date and the juniors and seniors on another day.
Located across from the cemetery on the road to St. Mary’s, the Moreau Seminary is under the direction of Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C., and houses 57 seminarians, eleven priests, and eight Brothers.
Built in the 1920’s, Moreau differs from Holy Cross Seminary in one respect—only professed seminarians who are college students live there.
Rev. Charles O’Brien, C.S.C., is in charge of the open house program. In addition to the tours, refreshments will be served.
program, directed by Ronald Mealey of Ridgewood, N. J.; discussion of debating as an extra-curricular activity for the student majoring in accounting, headed by Charles V. Doherty, Pittsburgh, Pa.; and an exploration of a philosophy for business and government relationships, under the direction of Dr. Robert Turner, former presidential economic advisor and professor F at Indiana University.
Consultation Program Tomorrow
Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University President; and Dean J. E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, followed with short addresses.
Tomorrow morning from 9:15 to 11 a student consultation program will be held in the Law Building. The schedule of topics and the rooms in which they will be held follows: “On Security Analysis,” Room 101; “Market Research,” Room 102; “Advertising,” Room 103; “Federal Taxes,” Room 104; and “Human Relations,” Room 109. The Program for Administrators consultation will be held in Room 102 of the Commerce Building.
Closing out the conference, will be t a luncheon in the Morris Inn on Saturday noon.
Among the 35 members of the advisory council, representing business from all parts of the country, are: Jerome J. Crowley, Jr., office of the president, O’Brien Corp., South Bend; Robert E. Dwyer, president of Anaconda Copper Mining Co. of New York; Romy Hammes, Kankakee, Ill.; James A. Mulvey, president of Samuel Gold- : wyn Productions, Inc., New York; Rob- I ert H. O’Brien, executive vice-president of the American Broadcasting Co., New York; and Charles M. Reagan of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures, New York.
ILLEGAL SALESMEN
Notice was recently issued by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice President in charge of Student Affairs, that unauthorized salesmen are visiting the residence halls.
Father Norton has issued a warning to all students. In the event they are approached by such salesmen, they are to inform their rector or prefect. Do not buy, or subscribe to any magazines, etc., supposedly represented by such salesmen.
The Scholastic
|| Schedule AB Ball for Nov. 12; Lk McIntyre to Supply Melodies
e The annual ball of the College of I Arts and Letters will be held on Fri-I day, Nov. 12, in the Student Center, I according to Jim O’Shea, dance chair-I man.
I Hal 'McIntyre will supply the music I and the theme of the dance will be I	“Olympia,” in a classical Greek set-
|	ting. The ball will be semi-formal and
* । tickets for the event will go on sale in rthe Dining Hall next Thursday. The price of the bids is $3.75.
A box lunch for ball-goers will be held on Saturday, Nov. 13, before the North Carolina game. The price of the lunch will be about $2 a couple.
Bert Metzger is business manager for the dance while Paul Hanlon and Bill Byrne will take care of tickets and decorations, respectively. Joe Saun-B ders will handle publicity while Chuck Collins will run the blind date bureau and George Vosmik will attend to the box lunch. Hotel rooms can be secured through Ed Kelly.
Sociology Club Maps Plans For Field Trips, Film Series
The newly-formed Sociology Club, in its first meeting of the year Monday night, made tentative plans for two field trips to a mental hospital.
Members will visit the Michigan City and Jackson Prisons, as well as the Dr. Norman Beatty Mental Hospital. Plans are complete for a series of educational films, covering marital problems and correctional administration.
Club membership is restricted to upperclassmen and graduate students. Newly elected club officers include: Phil Chinn, president; Walt Guglielmo, vice-president; Don Sileo, secretary; and Clem Devine, treasurer.
FRESHMEN ORIENTATION TESTS
Freshmen who were administered an Interest Inventory and a Mathematics Achievement Test as part of the Orientation Program may pick up an interpretation of these tests by reporting to the Department of Guidance and Testing, Room 251 of the Administration Building in accordance with the following schedule:
College of Science: Monday, Oct. 18 and Tuesday, Oct. 19.
College of Engineering: Wednesday, Oct. 20 and Thursday, Oct. 21.
College of Arts and Letters: Monday, Oct. 25 and Tuesday, Oct. 26.
College of Commerce: Wednes-. day, Oct. 27 and Thursday, Oct. 28.
Office hours are from 8 a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Audio-Visual Center Plans Added Services; Films, Slides Available for Campus Groups
In keeping pace with the nationwide trend to visual education, the Audio-Visual Center of Notre Dame is expanding its facilities to provide added services to various Departments and clubs on campus. The Center is located on the second floor of the Main Building and possesses the latest equipment in the visual training field.
Everett A. Warren is the director of the center. Since Warren took over the program four years ago, the department has “increased efficiency by 600%.” Assisting Warren are six undergraduate students who supervise the office and projection room and the small theater classroom.
The Audio-Visual Center attempts to correlate lectures and laboratory sessions of various courses offered by the five colleges here at Notre Dame.
Mechanized Education
Magnetic tape recorders, still and opaque projectors, and 16 mm. sound projectors — incandescent and carbon, are some of the instruments used in the training program.
Future plans call for an accelerated program due to the University’s new TV station on the academic, public service, and journalistic levels.
A new policy, which is expected to be inaugurated soon at the suggestion of Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., will be
Detroit Club Schedules Trip To Motor City on Halloween
The Detroit Club of Notre Dame elaborated on the year’s plans at its first dinner held at the Club Normandy last Tuesday. Discussion centered on the Halloween trip to the Motor City.
Secretary Bob McCarren announced the chartering of busses scheduled to leave for Detroit on Oct. 29. Other plans were revealed for the hometown get-together at the Club Eagle.
President Robert Roney enumerated the many benefits realized by club members and outsiders. He cited the club members enrolled as swimming instructors at the Children’s Hospital.
Miss Juana Riddle and Mr. John J. Laughlin, physical therapists at the hospital, commended the work done by the Detroit Club and the Third Order of St. Francis. Further praise was gained by the club in a letter from Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., commending them for their humanitarian service.
Student Senate supervision of the selection of films used by campus clubs.
Warren plans to start an operators' club to teach new men the operations of the Center’s machines. The workshop was made expedient by the fact that inexperienced students had been handling the valuable equipment and at times using it improperly.
In addition to his work in the Center, Warren also photographs both home and away football games for the coaching staff with a $7000 camera. He also takes occasional films of basketball, fencing, track, boxing, campus conventions, and commencements.
The Center also provides films, slides, etc., for various academic departments such as Modern Language and Journalism. Also, plans are being made to aid “to a limited degree” those departments that don’t have the funds for Audio-Visual study.
Lecture. Music Series To Close Morion Year
A program of lectures, art, and music will mark the close of the Marian Year this fall at the University.
The lecture series will open on Oct. 25, when the biographer, Daniel Sargent, will speak on the title, “Our Lady in Our Land.” During following weeks, three outstanding American theologians, Rev. Walter Burghardt, S.J., managing editor of Theological Studies, Rev. Ferrer Smith, O.P., co-editor of The Thrnn-ist, and Rev. George W. Shea, professor of dogmatic theology at Immaculate Conception Seminary, Darlington, N. J., will deliver papers on the three great defined Marian dogmas. The Divine Motherhood, The Immaculate Conception, and The Assumption.
Early in December, an illustrated lecture entitled, “The Immaculate Conception in Art,” will be given by one of the foremost authorities on this subject, Miss Mirella Levi d’Ancona, of New York City. About this same time, there will also be an exhibit of Marian Art by University art students.
On Dec. 2, the Glee Club, together with a group of women from South Bend, will sing a concert Mass, “Nostra Domina a Lacu,” “Our Lady of the Lake,” composed by Prof. Cari Mathes of the Department of Music.
Finally, on Dec. 8, the feast of the Immaculate Conception, and the dosing day of the Marian Year, the University will be solemnly rededicated to the Immaculate Heart of Mary in a public ceremony.
23
October 15, 1954
Military Dance Sales Will Open on Oct. 27
The Military Ball tri-chairmen recently announced that Chuck Foster and his band will fashion the rhythms for the Ball to be held Nov. 5. The famed “Music in the Foster Fashion” will emanate from the Student Center from nine to one to the pleasure of the men of the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC.
Ticket sales will be held in the lobby of the Dining Hall Oct. 27, 28, and 29. There will be 350 bids offered.
Blind dates from St. Mary’s College and St. Joseph’s School of Nursing will be available through Tom Mariani, Room 243, Breen-Phillips.
Though plans for the decorations are still a deep secret, it is known that the motif will be entirely military.
Dress for the dance will be uniforms with white shirts and square end black bow ties. There will be no corsages. The usual car permissions will be granted.
Queens of the dance will be the dates of the three general chairmen, Jack Tokar, Anny; Gene Wagner, Air Force; and Larry Buckley, Navy.
Other chairmen are Tom Armstrong, publicity; Paul Reed, accommodations; John Cuddy, transportation; Dave Frisk, entertainment; Jerry Massey, business manager, and Pat McNamara, refreshments. John Locht, is ticket chairman.
Included in the highlights of Foster’s career was playing for an Academy Award ball and a nationwide radio program which included the late President Roosevelt and many movie celebrities such as Jimmy Stewart and Judy Garland. Foster features music designed for easy dancing and easy listening. An added attraction to his music will be the pretty vocalist, Ann Vincent.
Infirmary Makes Changes; Dr. Crowley Added to Staff
Two changes have recently been made in personnel at the infirmary.
Dr. Joseph B. Crowley has replaced Dr. Sherman Egan as full-time physician. However, Dr. Egan will remain as part-time physician.
Dr. Crowley was born in Franklin, Mass. His pre-medical studies were taken at Middlebury College in Vermont, and he completed his education at Tufts College in Boston, Mass.
Notre Dame is the first university which Dr. Crowley has seiwed, having been in private practice since 1938.
Sister Mary Aurelius is the new supervisor on the second floor, replacing Sister Baptista.
Confraternity of Christian Doctrine Instructs South Bend Catholics, Trains Lay Leaders ,;'i
The Confraternity of Christian Doctrine is a campus organization formed in 1950 for the purpose of furthering the religious training of Catholics in the South Bend area by providing regular theological instruction, and strives to train teachers for lay leadership throughout the city.
The primary object of the CCD program are local high school students who do not attend Catholic secondary schools. Classes are carried on in the form of discussion groups to enable closer contact between the students and Notre Dame teachers.
President of the CCD, John Casey, a junior from Oak Park, Ill., works out his program with the girls from St. Mary’s aiding him. The religious advisor for the organization is Rev. Daniel O’Neill, C.S.C.
The course includes discussion of the Apostle’s Creed, the theological and moral virtues, the sacraments, and the liturgy of the Church. A reference committee undertakes to read and approve books, and gather material for use by the teachers. A syllabus is set up, but teaching conforms to group needs rather than following any set pattern. By means of tests in the beginning of the year, the teachers are able to determine the class weaknesses.
The CCD offers its seiwices to the parishes of South Bend, and is provided with a meeting place and transportation to the discussions. The pastors decide on a suitable evening, and also help to publicize the classes in their parishes.
A combination educational and so
Doh’t	AOovr HW —-
we	fat much 1
cial evening is given the students. After one hour of class discussion on religious doctrines and problems brought up by the class, a party is held at which dancing is the major activity.
The CCD requires its teachers to have completed the courses in the “Life of Christ” and “Christian Virtues,” as these courses cover most of the material handled in the program.
South Bend Lecture Series Slates Noted World Citizens
A lecture series, sponsored by the South Bend-Mishawaka International Relations Council and featuring prominent and world citizens, will begin at 8 p. m., Oct. 28 in the Central High School Auditorium in South Bend. _ \
Justice William ’ Douglas will give the first talk, to be followed by such notables as Max Ascoli, editor of The Reporter, on Nov. 11; Arnold Toynbee, Oxford historian, on Nov. 22; Abba Eban, ambassador of Israel to the U. S., on Jan. 11; Paul Hoffman, Chairman of the Board, Studebaker-Packard Corp., on Feb. 8, and Dr. Ralph Bunche, director of the UN, Department of Trusteeship, on March 4.
Ticket sales at the University are being handled . by the NS A and the W Academy of Political Science. Place of the sale will be announced in the near future. Price for adults is §2.50; for students, 50 cents. The sale will continue to Oct. 28.
In addition to lectures, membership entitles one to various letters and pamphlets.
24
The Scholastic v)
SMdsticSborts
SPARTANS ARRIVE FOR HOMECOMING BATTLE
Shaky Rose Bowl Champs Invade Stadium In Quest of Fourth Straight Win Over Irish
By JACK GUEGUEN
Michigan State, the 1954 Rose Bowl champion that has lost most of the stars out of its crown in an unimpressive start this season, will renew its grid riv-$ airy with the Fighting Irish here in the Stadium tomorrow at 1:30 p.m.
This game will mark the twenty-first meeting between the two schools since the rivalry, which has seen 15 Notre Dame wins to five for State, opened back in 1897, and will be an attempt by the Spartans to make it four wins in a row over the rejuvenated Irish.
Notre Dame, fresh from a redeeming 33-0 conquest of Pitt last Saturday, will be out to put a quick and decisive end to B State’s three-game string of . victories over the Irish. The Spartans now hold the longest current winning streak against Notre Dame, having been victorious in 1950, 36-33; 1951, 35-0; and 1952, 21-3.	•
An expected capacity crowd of 57,000 will be on hand to watch the two old rivals battle it out after a year’s layoff caused by scheduling difficulties. No public sale of tickets was needed to fill “ the Stadium for this one, since the game has been a sellout since early summer.
Neither team has lived up to pre
season expectations in the three games played so far. Michigan State dropped its first two encounters to strong Iowa and Wisconsin elevens before coming from behind to break into the win column at Indiana last Saturday. Notre
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
MICHIGAN STATE NOTRE DAME
Lewis ________ LE ....	(c)	Shannon
Schrecengost .. LT .......  Palumbo
Hallmark ....... LG _________ Lemek
Rody ......... C ________ Szymanski
Bullough ..... RG ...........   Lee
Dotsch ......... RT	  Varrichione
Kauth (c) ____ RE _______(c) Matz
Morrall ....... QB	  Guglielmi
Bolden (c) ..... LH	   Heap
Peaks .........  RH	    Studer
Planutis ....... FB	    Schaefer
Kickoff—1:30 p.m.
Dame boasts two decisive victories, over Texas and Pittsburgh, and has yet to give up a touchdown on the ground, but a 27-14 loss to a surprising Purdue squad mars the Irish record.
The grid rivalry will resume this year with two new head coaches pacing the sidelines. Hugh “Duffy” Daugherty, line coach at State since 1947, was elevated to head coach this year. Biggie Munn, who turned in a dazzling 54-9-2 record in his seven-year reign, has moved up to the athletic directorship.
Michigan State is encountering difficulty with not only an admittedly green coaching staff, but with a backfield that includes only one returnee from last year’s celebrated “Light Brigade.”
Only co-captain LeRoy Bolden, nicknamed the “Flint Firecracker,” remains around from last year’s team. The strong veteran line, where 15 of the 20 returning monogram men are located, is the main Spartan asset. A small, speedy, versatile left half, Bolden, who weighs in at only 163 lbs., led last year’s Big Ten co-champs in scoring, rushing, total yardage, and kickoff returns. But so far this season, he has no standout performances to his credit. The senior back performed well against Iowa, but in last week’s game with - Indiana, an injury kept him on the sidelines. Bolden, how- , ever, should be ready for tomorrow’s game.
Matsock Capable Sub
Another senior, Johnny Matsock, turned in a highly creditable performance replacing Bolden in the Indiana fracas by turning a 74-yard punt return into a tally and by rushing for 78 yards
SPARTANS READY TO TACKLE EAGER FIGHTING IRISH. CO-CAPTAIN DON KAUTH . . . TRICKY EARL MORRALL . . . PLUNGING GERRY PLANUTIS . . . AND HUSTLING HANK BULLOUGH	'
I	A BEAUTIFUL RIGHT
Ik
£	One . . . Two . . . Three
i
I	in 16 carries, a five-yard average. He
s	is the team’s number two passer, and
equally good on offense and defense.
| Junior Jim Hinesly was the Spartan | sparkplug against Wisconsin. He came 1 close to setting a school record for pass | receptions in one game by grabbing five J aerials and running for 123 of the team’s total of 166 yards rushing.
I
■ Morral I Will Call Signals
* *
I Earl Morrall, starting signal caller, * is an excellent ball handler and current-| ly leads the State aggregation in the l passing department. He could cause i trouble for the local men by teaming up | with Hinesly or co-captain Don Kauth, ■ a good defensive man as well as pass J receiver.
! Clarence Peaks, a sophomore find in i last week’s Indiana game, is rated high i on both passing and receiving. Peaks ■ scored on a 70-yard pass play last week. । With a different Spartan displaying ! brilliance in each game so far this sea-‘ son, it is not unlikely that State may i uncover yet another hero in tomorrow’s :	game. It could be speedy Ellis Ducket,
who was slated to be one of the season’s :	outstanding pass catchers in the country
by East Lansing experts in pre-season talk. He starred in last year’s Rose Bowl win.
Roland Dotsch and Randy Schrecen-gost man the tackle posts for the Spartans. Schrecengost is a fine kicker and a standout offensive performer. Dotsch first gained attention for his defensive performances.
Hank Bullough, who has been touted as the top State lineman, will open at right guard. He started as a defensive specialist, but rapidly rounded into a < smart offensive lineman. Ferris Hall, mark is the guard who is credited for
opening most of the holes last year for the pony backs.
Fred Rody is the Spartan’s hard-hitting center who is especially adept on offense. He has played three positions during his football career.
Michigan State has retained the “Munn System” of field strategy this fall. This includes a basic T-single wing, which allows the team a great degree of versatility. This system, in which a team can easily move from an unbalanced T to a single wing has earned the reputation of being the most complex in college football.
Pi++ Falls Easily
Last Saturday the 'Irish of Notre Dame returned to the victory trail with a convincing rout over the University of Pittsburgh, 33-0, before a near-capacity crowd. The bright spot in the game
LeROY BOLDEN
Should Be Ready for Irish
was the Irish pass defense which limited the Panthers to only two completions in 16 tries for a mere 18 yards. The Irish once again proved their alertness as they recovered three fumbles and intercepted two passes, that led to four of their five touchdowns.
Coach Terry Brennan used all but two of his players, and was especially pleased with the way the reserves handled themselves. Sophomores counted four of the scores and indicated that they are capable of filling in and holding theii- own when called upon.
The Irish forward wall constantly opened up the holes that enabled the backs to gain a total of 267 yards, which is only 25 less than they made in their first two games. These same linemen limited the Panthers to a mere 69 yards
rushing, to prove their complete dominance in the game.
A pass interception by Joe Heap towards the end of the first quarter led the Irish to their first score. On the fourth play of the second period, Tom Carey eluded the grasp of end Bill Walton, and hit Sherrill Sipes with a 24-yard pass for the score.
-The Irish moved 58 yards in five plays toward the end of the second quarter
for their second score. This march was made possible when Salvaterra fumbled after he was hit by Dan Shannon, and Sam Palumbo recovered on the Irish 42. Ralph Guglielmi hit Joe Heap with a 34-yard pass to the Pitt 24. Don Schaefer gained four yards through center, and on a keep it play Guglielmi ran 17 yards down to the Pitt four. After Dean Studer- gained three, Guglielmi sneaked over guard for the score. Schaefer kicked the extra point which made the score 13-0 at the half.
In the third period Shannon again hit Salvaterra, forcing him to fumble. Paul Matz recovered it on the Pitt 18-yard line. Dean Studer climaxed the march
on the fourth play when he swept right end for five yards and the score. Schaefer again kicked the extra point.
Pitt Falls Easily
In the fourth quarter the alertness of the Irish defense again paid off in a score. Nick Raich recovered a fumble by Ford on the Pitt 17 when the latter-was hit by Don George. After Jim Morse and Sherrill Sipes had moved the ball to the eleven, Paul Hornung bolted through right tackle for the score. The final Irish march started late in the fourth quarter, as they moved 74 yards in ten plays. The climax came when Tom Carey threw his second touchdown pass of the afternoon, this time for ten yards to Jim Munro, as the gun sounded the end of the game. Jim Morse completed the 33-point scoring by kicking the extra point.
HEAP ELUDES DEFENDER
Veteran Stars in Pitt Game
The Scholastic
Navy Remains as Lone Undefeated Opponent; Michigan Dumps Iowa, 14-13, in Week's Upset
By JACK
I While Notre Dame was tempering |the Panthers last week, three of their future opponents also posted victories. Four others, however, became victims themselves.
Michigan State, tomorrow’s opposi-► tion, finally broke into the victory column with a 21-14 triumph over Indiana, even though they had to come from behind.
The Spartans drew first blood, but at the end of the half were on the short end of a 14-7 score. State’s initial tally was the result of a 70-yard pass play. With the ball on their own 30, Michigan State’s Earl Morrall passed to Clarence Peaks who carried the > remaining 55 yards to pay dirt. Gerry Planutis converted.
Both Hoosier scores were accounted for in the second quarter. The first was set up by a State fumble, recovered by Indiana’s Bob Fee. Ten plays later the quarterback, Florian Helinski, plunged over from the one-foot line. He also kicked the extra point.
Indiana’s second touchdown followed a pass interception by John Roberson. The payoff play was a toss from Helin-ski to Roberson. He in turn lateraled to Bartkiewicz, who carried the ball into the end zone. Helinski added the point.
State bounced back with two TD’s in the third quarter. A 74-yard punt return by Johnny Matsock, outstanding player of the day and understudy of the injured LeRoy Bolden, knotted the score shortly after the third quarter got under way. Morrall converted. The final margin of victory was supplied | on a one-yard plunge by Pat Wilson and a conversion by Planutis.
Gattuso Paces Middies
Navy, opponent of the Irish when the student trip invades Baltimore, remained the only undefeated team that will meet ND in the following weeks, by trouncing Stanford 25-0.
Big man for the Middies was Joe Gattuso who contributed a touchdown, intercepted pass, and a gross of 93 f yards.
Jim Royer blocked a Stanford punt in the early minutes of the first quarter and Ron Beagle recovered in the end zone for the Navy. Quarterback Dick Echard accounted for the other Middie touchdowns with tosses to Jim Owne and Dick Guest. The first pass covered nine yards while the other was J good for 44. After Guest took the latter, he ran the remaining 14 yards for the score.
MULLIN
Pennsylvania tasted defeat for the third straight week when they were dumped by Princeton, 13-7.
Princeton, who took advantage of seven Red and Blue fumbles, opened the scoring in the second quarter when fullback Dick Martin went over from the 15. He also converted.
Penn tied the score in the third period on a 28-yard pass play from Jim Manley to Jim Castle. Walt Hyno-ski added the point.
A Tiger recovery of another costly Penn fumble resulted in the tie breaking tally. Royce Flippin scored from the six but the try after touchdown was missed.
Hawks Finally Fall
Michigan pulled the upset of the day by edging Iowa, 14-13. The Hawk-eyes got off to a rocketship start, but soon ran out of gas. They dented the Wolverine defense twice in the first period, but that was the extent of their scoring. Both tallies followed recovered Michigan fumbles and were accomplished in seven plays.
Bill Reichow crossed the stripes from the one-yard line for Iowa’s initial score, but Jim Freeman’s attempt missed. Two plays later John Hall’s recovery of a Michigan fumble on the 33 set
IRISH RESERVES PUT ON GOOD SHOW
Jack Witucki Scoots for Nine Yards in Fourth Quarter
up the second touchdown. Earl Smith went around end for six yards and the score. Freeman’s kick was good.
Michigan then started to move. They
drove 57 yards in twelve plays with fullback Dave Hill finally plunging over from the three. Ron Kramer made the conversion.
The second Wolverine score came on a 30-yard pass play. Kramer was on the end of the toss from James Maddock. Kramer then added the winning margin.
Texas Christian finally pulled an upset by topping Southern California, 20-7. The Horned Frogs were just too much for Jesse Hill’s Trojans as SC suffered their first 1954 defeat in five starts.
Notre Dame’s final opponent of the season, Southern Methodist, racked up a 25-6 victory over Missouri. It was the first victory for the Mustangs against one defeat, a 10-7 loss to Georgia.
Duane Nutt passed SMU to the victory as they scored in each period. Blake Tucker scored from the two-yard line late in the first period to start the scoring. Then Nutt hit Don Mcllhenny on the nine-yard line for the second touchdown.
Frank Eidom’s one-yard plunge counted for the third score. Missouri’s tally came after an 80-yard drive. It was in the fourth quai-ter that fullback Gene Roll carried the pigskin into the end zone for the Tigers.
A scoring, pass from John Roach to Tom Gentry with only three seconds remaining closed the game.
I October 15, 1954
27
splines ftasbn
HUGH DAUGHERTY
by Paul Fullmer
The test of a real champion is his ability to get up after a knockdown. —GEORGE DICKSON.
The Irish proved last Saturday afternoon on the gridiron at Pittsburgh that they have the guts and determination to get up and reset their sights. Admittedly the Panthers didn’t have a powerhouse, but the Fighting Irish took them apart very methodically.
The victory brought them, up to the game that many of the seniors have been waiting two years for. The Michigan State Spartans under Biggie Munn gave Notre Dame its lumps and Frank Leahy his worst defeat as a coach here. The 35-0 defeat in 1951 is a scar on the Irish record that time will have a hard time healing.
But the genial Munn has gone his way and Hugh “Duffy” Daugherty has moved into the driver’s seat. He had been Munn’s first lieutenant for seven years and was the logical choice. Daugherty commented quite sagely after taking over the flashy Spartans, “Well, 1 feel kind of like a pilot on a long flight who has just passed the point of no return. There’s no looking back. Every-
thing, success or failure of the mission, lies ahead.”
Irish Remember All Too Well
But Daugherty had better look to the past for an explanation of the determination on the Irish squad that he will face tomorrow. Dan Shannon, Paul Matz, Frank Varrichione, Sam Palumbo, Jack Lee, Dick Szymanski, Ralph Guglielmi, and Joe Heap have all met the Spartans before and are eager to turn the tables. All have gone down twice before Munn’s steamrollers and will be ready to go all out tomorrow.
Munn willed a Rose Bowl champ to Daugherty, but failed to include all the bright stars of that 1953 eleven. Only LeRoy Bolden remains in the backfield, and he has been hampered all year by injuries. The line is small, but a typically fast State crew. Iowa and Wisconsin have rubbed much of the luster off State’s crown in early games, but the Green and White will be anxious to extend their spell over the Irish to four games.
The experts can’t figure out why the Spartans haven’t looked better this season. Bolden and Gerry Planutis, however, are hobbled by injuries and Bert Zagers has not come through at right half. This has forced Daugherty to go with inexperienced backs who didn’t get their chance last year- when Munn kept his “Pony Brigade” in action most of the way.
Terry Brennan used Pitt for an experiment and the result was convincing, although certainly not startling. The Irish still didn’t look real sharp and their blocking and tackling left much to be desired. The passing game also hit the skids as Guglielmi failed to locate his receivers.
Brennan May Have A Few Surprises
On the bright side, however, Brennan came up with Dean Studer, a hard-running halfback. Studer stepped in and ran like a veteran. Pittsburgh sport writers noted that he was one of the best sophomores to hit the area in years. Gene Kapish, perhaps the best Irish offensive end, will see extensive action tomorrow for the first time this season. He may surprise the Spartans with his pass-catching techniques.
The Fighting Irish should be way “up” for this one and could take the Spartans into camp by two touchdowns, but we’ll be a little conservative and call it, 20-14.
Guglielmi Tops Scoring As Schaefer Closes In
After Notre Dame’s first three games, quarterback Ralph Guglielmi continues to lead in the scoring department with 18 points. “Gug” has carried the ball 23 times for a total of 80 yards and a 3.5 rashing average.
Halfback Don Schaefer follows close behind Guglielmi, having scored eleven points on one touch down and five extra points.
In the rushing department, Dean Studer leads the Irish attack with a six-yard average, carrying the ball 12 times for 71 yards. Another soph, Jimmy Morse, is second with a 4.5 yard average on 77 yards in 17 carries.
Tom Carey leads in passing percentage with five completions in eight at-tempts, closely followed by Guglielmi who has attempted 39 passes, completing 20.
Punting has shown improvement in the last two games and Hornung’s 37-yard average is tops in this department.
Morse has Heap five to partment.
Schaefer Heap ____ Guglielmi Morse ___ Studer ...
Guglielmi .. Schaefer .... Shannon ____ Raich ______ Hornung .... Studer _____ Sipes ______ Munro ______ Morse ______
Hornung Schaefer Morse ..
Morse Heap Matz
Guglielmi Carey ..... Hornung
caught seven passes and lead in the receiving de-
RUSHING
SCORING
T.D.
...... 3
...... 1
...... 1
...... 1
...... 1
______ 1
..... 1
...... 1
...... 0
Times		
Carried	Yds.	Avg.
.. 28	105	3.8
.. 24	93	3.9
.. 23	80	3.5
.. 17	77	4.5
.. 12	71	6.0
PAT	FG	Pts.
0	0	18
5	0	11
o 0
0 0
0 0 0
0 0
0 0 0
0 1
6 6
6 6
6 6
1
PUNTING
No.
4
4
3
Yds. 148 124
82
Avg. 37 31 27
PASS RECEIVING
No Caught Yds.
5
4
94
105
41
T.D.
0 0
0
PASSING
Att. 39
8 12
Comp.
20
5
3
Yds. 213 68
9
Avg. .513 .625 .250
FOOTBALL TICKETS
There are still approximately 6,000 tickets remaining for the Nov. 13 North Carolina game according to Ticket Manager Bob Cahill.
Tickets may be procured any day in the Breen-Phillips ticket office. This is the only remaining home game that has not been sold out.
28
The Scholastic
Scouting Michigan State's Spartans
Here is the play to watch for tomorrow:
i The multiple offense of the Michigan State Spartans enables them to run from ; the straight T, single wing, and variations of the T. The favorite Spartan play this season features fullback Gerry Planutis skirting left end after taking a handoff from Morrall.	•
Michigan State calls this illustrated play the “38 Tear.” The Spartans line up in a winged-T with the line overbalanced to the right, and right half Bert Zagers split wide to the right. Morral is under center, with Bolden and Planutis tight , behind him.
1 The ball is snapped to Morrall who retreats, fakes to Bolden, and then hands off } to Planutis. He circles wide to the left behind Bolden’s blocking. Right guard
Hank Bullough, who has been touted as the best State lineman since Don Coleman, j	has the key blocking assignment on this play. He must pull out and knock out the
|	defensive right end. Tackle Roland Dotsch also pulls out and moves to the left
and hits the line backer to clear the way for Planutis.
it So when the Spartans have third down and they need that “Big” play, watch for the “38 Tear.”
$
Phy. Ed. Club Will Sponsor Cross Country Meet Oct. 24
The first Physical Education club athletic event will be an intramural cross
country race that will be held Oct. 24 at 10 a.m. on the golf course.
October 15,1954
There will be no limit to the number of men each team may enter, but only the first five men will count in the scoring.
Medals will be awarded to the first five men and to the five men of the winning team. Entries should be turned in 15 minutes before the race begins.
Sailors Coast to Close Win In Big Michigan Invitational
The Notre Dame sailing team won the University of Michigan Invitational Regatta at Ann Arbor’s Base Lake last week-end. The Irish came on fast in the last two heats to edge out Dartmouth and Michigan, who tied for second.
The final standing was Notre Dame 66, Dartmouth and Michigan 59, Michigan State 57, Oberlin College 37, and University of Detroit 32.	■
The four skippers for the Notre Dame team were John Chomeau, Don Matthews, Ray Nelson, and Paul Miller. Each skipper had three heats.
The crewmen that assisted the skippers were Joe Chalhoub, Ray Sweeney, Bob Sargent, Frank Dwan, and Dave Goodfellow.
Regardless of the bad start, the team came out with a very high percentage of .789.
After the first race the ND team never placed below third to insure their first regatta victory of the current
season.
After the first ten heats in the * twelve heat meet, the Irish were tied with Dartmouth with 53 points. Next came the University of Michigan with 52 points, and again just one point behind them was Michigan State, who had garnered 51 points at this crucial part of the meet.
In the last two rac-js Dartmouth and Michigan had a very good chance to catch the handicapped ND squad.
The Irish, however, swept through with a first and second in the last heats to pick up 13 points and insure victory.
The team will make their second start of the season in two weeks at the Purdue triangular meet. Indiana, Purdue, and Notre Dame will participate in the regatta that will be held at Lafayette, Ind., on Oct. 24.
The Irish hope to be able to break in their freshmen skippers in this meet. Purdue and Indiana, however, have strong teams and are expected to give the Irish a tough tussle.
ND Harriers Face Michigan; Seek Third Straight Victory
The Notre Dame cross-country team will seek its third straight victory today when they meet the University of Michigan on the golf course. Coach . Alex Wilson’s harriers have posted 2037 and 20-35 wins over Wheaton and Michigan Normal, respectively.
The Irish seven-man team will include Jim Daly, Bill Squires, John Michno, Jack Gits, Al Porter, Neil Wallace, and John Linehan.
29
Fencers Begin Drills Minus Seven Veterans
The Notre Dame fencers, hit hard by graduation, will be out to alleviate the many graduation losses when they answer the first call to practice next Monday afternoon in the Fieldhouse.
Recent teams have been ranked as some of the best fencing aggregations in Notre Dame history.
Over a two-year span, they swept to victory in 25 of 27 matches.
The nucleus of that great team, however, has left via the graduation route. Of the nine starting positions, seven were left open by departed seniors.
Rod Duff, John McGinn, and John Malfa all must be replaced in the epee. Duff, last year’s captain, won 29 of 34 matches.
Dick Hull and Jerry Brainerd left two starting spots open in the foil. Like Duff, Hull also compiled a 29-5 record.
Sabremen Jerry Finney and Tony •Mandolini round out the seven former starters who have to be replaced by Coach Walter Langford.
Finney, an all-time great in Notre Dame fencing history, set a school record by winning 32 of 33 matches.
To form the core of this year’s squad, Coach Langford is counting heavily on his five returning monogram winners.
The seasoned veterans are co-captain Tom Dorwin, Gene Gase, and Ed Koester in the sabre; co-captain Bud Waters in the foil; and Don Todrowski in the epee.
To add to Langford’s woes is the fact that most of this year’s opponents have lost little and are expected to be stronger this season.
Langford quickly added, however, that “the prospects are not as dismal as they appear. We have quite a bit of promising material in the junior and sophomore groups that could come through for us.”
The season opener is slated for January 15.
Favorites Wrap Up Openers In Delayed Tennis Tourney
The Intramural Tennis Tournament, slowed up by the Indiana weather, got into full swing this past week.
Bill Griffith of Zahm swept past Hugh Vargon of Dillon, 6-4, 6-2. Farley’s Dick Kerwin downed Dick Rooney of Lyons, only to lose to Morrissey’s Jim Rich in the second round. Other second round action saw Mike Todd of Lyons drub J. Economou of Fisher,
30
6-1, 6-0, and Frank Hennessey triumph over Harry Wasoff.
In the lower bracket’s first round, C. O’Neill and Roger Bennett of St. Ed’s won on defaults while Jack Sweeney of Farley defeated Bob Davenport, 6-0, 6-2.
Jack Sweeney came back to eliminate Roger Bennett. Dean Richards, another St. Ed’s resident, rebuffed Dick Swift, 6-3, 6-1, to complete play in the second round.
Harry Smith of St. Ed’s was seeded number one in both brackets.
Jim Rich, Dean Richards, and Tom Guilfoile are other pre-tournament favorites.
The tournament, weather permitting, will close Oct. 16.
Johnson Coaches Freshmen As Irish Prepare for Future
Such names as Kantor, Witucki, Dolan, and Lewis, may, in the next few years, make the headlines on the nation’s sports pages. Never heard of them? They are members of this year’s freshman football team coached by “Blackie” Johnston.
When Terry Brennan became head football coach, he realized the need for good freshmen teams. In “Blackie” Johnston he has a smart, reliable teacher of the Notre Dame style of football. Assisting Coach Johnston this year are Don Bucci, Gene Carrabine and Rockne Morrissey in the backfield, and Dick Riley in the line. Bucci handles the quarterbacks, while Carrabine and Morrissey tutor the running backs.
With over a month of practice under their belts, the frosh are shaping up rather well. Concentration has been on offense at present, with quarterbacks Ron DeNarda and Carl Hebert directing the attack. The halfbacks are Aubrey Lewis, Dick Wilkins, Frank Scott and Dick Lynch. These boys are all running very well, especially Lewis. At fullback the frosh have Chuck Lima, Jim Norris and Tom Sanfacon.
The line is a different story. Johnston has more backs than linemen and has been handicapped by this. With Bob Witucki and Bob Gaydos both hobbled with injuries incurred during high school all-star games, the situation is not too encouraging.
Linemen that show promise are ends Dick Prendergast and Bill Owens, tackles Pat Dolan and Jim Sullivan, guards Bill Kantor and Paul Djubasik, and centers Frank Kuchta and Al Francis. Coaches Riley and Johnston have been teaching blocking fundamentals to these men, and they are coming along quite well.
Offense is the main concern at the
Garside Leads Thurn J In Golf Tourney Final I
Freshman Tom Garside led the field | after 54 holes in the 24 annual Uni- | versity Open Golf tournament played I on the Burke Memorial course.	I
Garside shot a 73 Sunday on the I rain-swept course as he posted a 54- I hole aggregate of 222 to lead runner- I up Charley Thurn by three strokes, gg In the third slot was Paul Minnich, who carded a 74 for a 226 total. In- i cidentally, Minnich is defending cham- i pion of the tournament, having posted | 298 for 72 holes in last year’s cham- 1 pionship matches.	I
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., who g doubles as varsity golf coach and di- 8 rector of the tournament, stated that £ there is a fine crop of freshmen pros- * pects participating. “In fact,” Father Holderith stated, “six of the seven M leaders are freshmen. As a result, the 1 varsity golf team’s prospects appear very bright indeed at this time.”
The winner of the tournament will receive a trophy cup from William A. Burke, son of the man after whom the course was named. The runner-up will also be awarded a cup for his efforts.
Other players who remained in contention with 18 holes remaining: Joe Grace, the first round leader, with a third round 78 good for 227; Jim Mrus, who shot a 73 while carding 228; Pete Loda with 73 and 230; and Dennis Vollmer who posted a 77 to total 233.
TOUCH FOOTBALL LEAGUE
There will be a meeting of all teams interested in taking part in an intramural, seven man touch football league in Room 1 of the Rockne Memorial Building at 4:30 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Individuals who are interested, but who do not belong to an organized team should attend these meetings or submit their names to Mr. Fallon in the Physical Education Office of the Rockne Memorial. Medals will be awarded to the winning teams.
moment, but the defensive maneuvers are not being ignored. Standouts on defense are Lowenstien, Killian, Fili-osa, Bridenstien, Miller, Lenny, Ba-bersi, and Mugford.
There are about forty condidates out this year.
The Scholastic

f^Mike Leyden Takes Freshman Swim Meet
Mike Leyden paced the annual freshman swimming meet, held last week in the Rockne Memorial pool.
Thirty-nine freshmen competed in the meet with Leyden emerging as high point man for the evening. Leyden totaled 15 points in winning the 50-L yard-free style in 25.8 seconds; the 50-* yard breast stroke in 34.4 seconds; and the 100-yard free style in 1:02.8 seconds.
Stepan of Farley was second in the point race with ten points as he won the 200-yard free style in 2:21 and the 75-yard medley in 49.2 seconds.
Boyd, an off-campus student, who compiled 108 points in the low board diving, and Scanlon of Zahm who won _ the 50-yard back stroke in 30.7 seconds, * tied for third place with nine points each.
The 50-yard free style proved to be the most popular event, attracting 24 participants and requiring four heats.
Swimming instructor Gil Burdick announced tentative plans for two second semester events, an all-campus meet and an inter-hall relay meet featuring novelty races.
Complete results: 50-yard free style: Leyden, Van Coutren, and Fitzpatrick. Time: 25.8.
50-yard breast stroke: Leyden, Day, and Pugliese. Time: 34.4.
200-yard free style: Stepan, Scanlon, and Boyd. Time: 2.21.
Low board diving: Boyd 108 points, Lynn, 94.3 points, and Van Coutren, 80.8 points. ।
50-yard back' stroke: Scanlon, Smith, and Van Coutren. Time: 30.7.
100-yard free style: Leyden, Lamont, B and Scanlon. Time: 1:02.8.
75-yard medley: Stepan, Boyd, and Scanlon. Time: 49.2.
Alumni Defends Hall Crown
As Second Week Play Opens
The traditional Notre Dame Interhall football season moves into its second week of competition with a full 8 schedule of action carded for next week.
Alumni, seeking to defend its Interhall crown, squares off with Dillon in a Western division tussle.
Other Western division games feature Badin vs. Howard and Lyons vs. Sorin. Sorin is fielding its first team in 15 years.
Morrissey drew a bye in the seven team Western league.
St. Edward’s, Eastern division champs
9
October 15, 1954
and runner-up to Alumni last year, clashes with Off-Campus.
In other Eastern league games, the four freshmen halls lock horns. Cavanaugh meets Farley and Breen-Phillips faces Zahm.
Every hall on campus is represented in the interhall league with the exception of Walsh and Fisher.
The season got underway the latter part of this week with all teams seeing action in both leagues except Sorin, who drew a bye.
Job Interviews Listed By Placement Bureau
The Placement Bureau has announced the following interviews for the week of Oct. 18 through 22. Those January bachelor candidates and graduate students nearing the completion of their work, who have registered in the Placement Bureau office, may sign up for as many interviews as they wish.
On Monday, the Shell Oil Co., Shell Development Co., and Shell Chemical Corp., will meet with Ph.D. physicists interested in research, development, manufacturing operations and exploration and production operations.
On Wednesday, the Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. of Minneapolis, Minn., will meet with B.S. and M.S. chemical engineers and B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. chemists. The Rohm and Haas Co. of Philadelphia, Pa., will meet all Ph.D. physical and organic chemists interested in research. The New York Life Insurance Co. will meet AB and Commerce grads who are interested in the field of sales.
Thursday, Sikorsky Aircraft, a division of United Aircraft Corp, will see B.S. and M.S. aeronautical, electrical, civil and mechanical engineers.
The American Cyanamid Co., Piasecki Helicopter Corp., and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., will conduct their interviews on Friday. American will meet B.S. and M.S. chemical and mechanical engineers and chemists for research, development, sales, purchasing and production and Ph.D. chemists interested in research and development.
Piasecki needs civil, aeronautical, mechanical and electrical engineers for work in structures, stnicture test, flight test, dynamics analysis and design. DuPont want B.S. and M.S. chemical, mechanical and electrical engineers and metallurgists. Chemists and physicists for openings in production development, research, sales and design are also needed.
Liberal Education Merits Discussed by AB Council
A discussion of the basic differences between the concept and implementation of liberal education in a Catholic college and in a secular institution was featured in the first meeting of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council Wednesday. The Council met in the student lounge of the O’Shaughnessy Building.
Dr. A. P. d’Entreves of Oxford University, who recently delivered a series of lectures on natural law at Notre Dame, participated in the discussion which was led by AB Senator Jerry Hughes.
The Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council is a group of students chosen from all colleges of the University to discuss theoretical and practical problems concerning the development and advancement of liberal education at the University. The Council attempts to aid the dean of the AB school through its discussions and recommendations.
On the agenda for the first meeting was a discussion of the nature of liberal education in both Catholic and secular colleges and universities, the basic differences and similarities between the two, and the effect of these differences on the graduates of the institutions in such fields as philosophy and history.
Army Rotation Plan Brings Changes to Local ROTC Unit
The Army’s three year rotation plan, affected the University’s Army ROTC program this past summer and several new personnel moved into the vacated positions.
Col. C. J. Letzelter is the new professor of military science and tactics. Before assuming his head post here at Notre Dame, he was commanding-officer of the 86th Infantry Division, at Fort Riley, Kans.
Four others were transferred here during the summer, bringing the total of staff members to twelve. The four are:
Capt. J. W. McCarthy, recently returned to the U. S. after service in Germany.
Warrant Officer W. V. Weber, formerly adjutant of the 86th Infantry Division at Fort Riley.
A Korean veteran, Sergeant First Class B. G. Baugh.
Master Sergeant H. P. Duncan,, stationed at Camp Atterbury, Ind.
The remainder of last year’s staff is still on duty.
31
Dr. Francis: A Report From Germany
West Germany today is becoming rapidly Americanized, according to Dr. E. K. Francis of the Department of Sociology. Professor Francis, who recently returned from Europe, found that the old class society of Germany has already lost most of its significance and is being replaced by a new social structure resembling that of industrialized or urbanized America.
ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI STEAKS and CHOPS enlarged for better service
537 North St. Louis
Five Minutes from the Campus
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
J EWELERS
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation Los Angeles will interview here
November 9
32
“There is much less pro-Nazi and anti-American feeling either in Germany or Austria than I had expected from recent reports circulated in the United States,” Dr. Francis said. “This does not mean, however, that the German people are ready to repudiate altogether German national ideas, which they feel were misused by Nazism, or to accept Western liberalism and democracy without scrutiny,” he explained.
Ten million Germans have been expelled or have fled to West Germany from East Germany or other countries now behind the Iron Curtain, the Notre Dame sociologist observed. These German expellees in the Federal Republic behave very similarly to groups of alien immigrants in the United States, Dr. Francis said, and their integration into the native population remains a serious problem.
Among the expellees Catholics especially have been able to gain political importance, Dr. Francis reported. “They occupy some key positions in the social and cultural life of West Germany and seem to exert an influence out of proportion with their numerical strength,” he said. Dr. Francis sees little likelihood that the Germans would turn to Communism “even if the present prosperity should give way to a serious depression. The Russians themselves,” he said, “have been far more successful than Hitler in alienating the Germans, and in creating strong anti-Soviet sentiments.”
Letters	I
(Continued From Page 4) should have realized the folly of it— W after all, you don’t mention the fact a pitcher’s got a no-hitter going till the last man is out. By the same token, let’s give our team a break! Let’s not crown them Champions in September for something they can’t accomplish until December. One looks awfully silly losing something he hadn’t rightfully earned in the first place.	fl
Finally, concerning the group that S shouted, “Down in front!” I was one of those hundred or so men who, contrary to your inference, desired nothing more than to see the game. It had been a tradition at ND that the students stand up when the team enters and leaves the field; when they kick-off or receive; when they score a TD and the Victory March is sung; and other- comparable times. When we stand, it is (at least, r should be) a token tribute to the team. M But this jumping up every time Szymanski centers the ball means nothing but a pain for all the guys who have to ride the tidal wave started by some individual down front. Does he think he gets a better view of the play by standing straight up in the air, selfishly blocking the man behind him? To him I say, please, Ace, let’s not play jack-in-the-box anymore. Let’s lend some signifi- | cance to our standing up. Let’s keep f a good tradition alive!
Bill Toohey Class of ’52 Old College
Onions for the Editor
Editor:
What are you, a wise guy or something? I just got done reading your editorial in this week’s Scholastic and if you can’t find anything better to write you’d better throw it in. I|
I will admit that the student body wasn’t as loud as it could be last week at the Purdue game, but you must be out of your head to say that we quit on the team last week. You must have been sitting in a very u.nique part of the stadium last week, because where I was sitting nobody “quit” on the team as you say. In fact, the cheering was a lot louder at the Purdue game than it i was at the Texas game.	I’
If you want to find out where the I trouble is, go to the pep rallies. Last night a cheerleader tried to stop the cheering by pointing to his watch. Is this anyway to encourage the Notre Dame spirit?
I’m not a glory hog who wants to see his name in the paper, but I wish you would publish this so those guys in the Blue Circle, who run the rallies, would wise up.
Jack Bell
159 Morrissey Hall
The Scholastic
5
11 Photographers Club Formed;
Initial Meeting This Monday
I Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs, has authorized the formation of a student photography club. Father Nor-|J ton has provided office and darkroom I L facilities for the club on the second | J floor of the Student Center.
The club will be a student-super-\ vised organization, established in order to promote a greater interest in all phases of photography. All camera bugs, from beginners through experts, i	are invited to attend the club’s first
j	meeting in the Audio-Visual Center,
Room 219, Main Building on Monday.
The first gathering of the new group will be primarily of an organizational P	nature, and the constitution will be
|l	submitted for adoption.
Mr. Everett A. Warren, director of z	the Audio-Visual Center, will act as
adviser to the new organization. Mr. .	Warren wishes to emphasize to all
students that the Camera Club is open to all those interested in photography, i and is not limited to the various photog-। raphy staffs of, campus magazines.
; Vetville Couples 'Pot Luck' jl Will Take Place on Oct. 24
If W	monthly Vetville “pot luck”
party will be held Sunday, Oct. 24.
The party will begin at 8:30 p. m., in the Vetville Recreation Hall.
The purpose of the gatherings is to enable all married off-campus couples to get acquainted. In order to achieve utmost interest in the parties, Vetville is divided into wards. Each ward brings a different type of food, and the vets’ wives contribute their cooking talents. The evening’s main entertainment will be dancing.
Bob Brown is chairman of this month’s get-together. He can be contacted at Apt. 25A. Arrangements can also be made with Vetville’s mayor, Vic McFadden, at Apt. 25A. or phone 4-1080. Admission is $1 per couple.
Vetville also sponsors a weekly dance every Saturday night in the Vet Rec Hall.
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS
Off-campus students may pick up their Scholastic at the south door of the Student Center Fridays from 4 to 5 p.m. and Saturdays from 9 a.m. until 12 noon.
They are asked to indicate preferred delivery: mail or pickup, when receiving Scholastic, or to Off-Campus Senator^ Hugh Schaefer.
Life in 'Stalag 11
(Continued from Page 15) secutive year, and this year has added air science to his teaching schedule.
He admits that the war was a grueling experience for him, but he is not bitter about it. He claims, “I always thought of it as a valuable experience for me. Here was a group of men of all different temperaments and backgrounds living together in close quarters for the first time. It struck me as remarkable how well they got along with one another. I believe that our military training, with its forced discipline, enabled us to make the most of a bad situation. With no money and no way to get anything, we learned to live very basically. Its effect was to mature a person.”
After comparing his own imprisonment with the reports of recently-returned Korean War captives, he concludes. “It was infinitely more difficult for prisoners of the Korean Reds. We and the Germans spring from common stock, but the Koreans have an entirely different culture and, therefore, react differently. Also, the Germans were out to conquer the world, whereas the Commies want to convert the world. That’s why they employ brain-washing methods in questioning
The Capital’s tallest building offers
BEST VALUES in
prisoners; they are interested not only in learning facts, but in changing1 personalities.”
Finally, Dr. Grupp is disturbed by the attitude most of his students take toward the prospects of entering military service. He believes that most college men consider it a necessary evil, and have no hope of profiting by it. Citing his own experience, he says, “You can get a lot out of service life, or you can get nothing. It all depends on what you put into it.”
V RENT A.
ROYAL TYPEWRITER FROM ROYAL
late models. | Adjusted far new machine performance. Immediate delivery. Special rates to students.
Free delivery, pick-up, and servirOL
ROYAL TYPEWRITER CO. 309 E. Jefferson, South Bend
October 15, 1954
the beck page
by Don Yeckel
isn’t “seedy” to wear them: it’s smart.
Being in school doesn’t consist only of going to class, the Dining Hall, and the Huddle, though. There are other places to go and other things to do, and so there are other clothes that should be worn. It wouldn’t be very intelligent to say, however, that we should dress well to go to these other places just because people will say we’re “seedy” if we. don’t. There are other more important reasons, reasons that I will try to bring out in the rest of this column.
Some Basic Observations
Very likely, if anyone were to ask you what makes man different from the other animals, you would say that it is liis power of reason. This would, of course, be quite true. There are a number of other differences, however, which are in a sense even more basic, and which bear more directly on the question of how we ought to dress.
In minerals and plants, there is no freedom whatsoever: they are fixed in their environment, unable to change their surroundings in any way. Animals have considerably more freedom. They can act on their environment and, to a degree, change it. Beavers can build dams and birds can migrate. Mostly, however, their* particular* kind of life —where they live and what they live in, what they eat and how they get it —is determined by their being the particular kind of animal they are. Beavers don’t build nests and birds don’t huild dams.
In man, however, the ability to change environment is virtually unlimited. With his “tool of tools,” the hand, he con-
During the past few years there has been quite a bit said in this column about the dress of the average Notre Dame student. By and large, I would not agree with the criticisms that were made here, although there were some good points advanced. At any rate, I think it’s worthwhile to say a little bit more about the problem.
One of the things most highly criticized was the Notre Dame man’s constant use of an apparently inexhaustible wardrobe of wash khaki trousers and sweatshirts. It doesn’t seem to me that this criticism is at all fair. There is nothing as comfortable, practical, economical, or convenient as wash khakis and a sport-shirt or even a sweatshirt. Very often, they are the only clothes that the average student can wear every day without spending extravagant sums on dry cleaning. When they are clean and in their place, they don’t offend anyone except perhaps a very few hyper-sensitive people. It
structs planes to carry him across oceans and he breeds new kinds of plants and animals to please his taste. Man’s life is not given to him; he changes his environment to suit himself.
Part of man’s ability to change environment is his ability to change his dress. Unlike the other animals, we don’t have fur or feathers or scales. We have the power of choosing our outer covering.
Noi* do we choose our dress only for the sake of protecting ourselves from the elements, or for the sake of modesty. Dressing, like speaking, would be meaningless if we were not rational. Our ability to clothe ourselves, just like our ability to make articulate sounds, is a means of communication, a way of expressing ourselves. If we were not rational, we would not need to communicate.
Clothing as Communication
And dress truly is a means of expression. Look at the wonderful significance of the vestments worn by the priest. From the amice to the chasuble and from the black of mourning to the white of innocence and triumph, each vestment and each color has its own particular meaning. Isn’t this a beautiful way of saying something?
Every time we dress ourselves we are expressing our own individuality. When a man gets out of the army, the first thing that he does is put on civilian clothes, because this personalizes him— allows him to express himself. In his
book, Trial by Terror, the story of an American newspaper man “brainwashed” by the Reds, Paul Gallico describes the feelings of the man as he stands naked before his interrogators:
Shame, rage, the humiliation of his ego and indignity to his person, standing nude, ridiculous, and helpless before dressed men who looked
at him as though he were some kind of strange animal . . .
Clothing is the exterior sign of our personality.
. Our clothing also can indicate our moods. We dress differently in sorrow than we do in joy. We can dress to show respect or even to show disrespect. We don’t wear the same clothes paint
ing the house that we do when we take our girl out. As Polonius tells us in Hamlet, . . the apparel oft proclaims the man.”
And Khakis?
And so we see why wash khakis are not always appropriate. In church or on a date, they no longer are comfortable, practical, economical, and convenient: they are just plain disrespectful. Shirt and tie may not be as comfortable as a sweatshirt, but they symbolize something, whether we like it or not. They symbolize our personality and our feelings. That’s why it’s very discouraging to see students come to concerts and lectures in dungarees, to see them come to mixers at the Center in sweatshirts, to see them come to Sacred Heart on Sundays in tee-shirts. It’s not because it’s “seedy,” but because it’s ignorant, and I hate to think of Notre Dame men as being ignorant.
Industrious Student Wanted to represent Launderette on campus Call 6-0958. Paid on commission basis
"The House of Jazz"
FOR RECORDS TRY
C'i », ;n’! ‘ Line O'
JAZZ • DIXIELAND ■ POPULAR CLASSICAL • BLUES
On .4 C Ti; r‘ • >
Mall hnvuhrri In tlir ( otinrrs I n*r ( atalng*
41'2 So. Mich. South Bend Ind.
Welcome Back, Notre Dame Students. Radios, Tape Recorders, Hi-Fi Phonographs. Bonus Records Free with Phonographs.
34
The Scholastic
>
in this moment
The prayer lingers still... across the table as Dad begins to serve .. .it brushes Mother’s
i,	still-bowed head .. .it caresses Sally’s fist as she
reaches for the promised drumstick. The words of thanksgiving are being made real in this moment—the words of gratitude from a good provider to the Great Provider.
This time of security together is precious beyond all words.
The most precious gift we give or receive is the gift of security. It is the lifeblood of happiness. And only in a land like ours are we free to choose >	security as a goal of living.
And with this choice goes another great privilege —helping to achieve the security of our country. For, secure homes, one joining another, make up the security of America.
Let this be the goal of your home!
Saving for security is easy! Read every word — now! If you’ve tried to save and failed, chances are it was because you didn’t have a plan. Well, here’s a savings system that really works—the Payroll Savings Plan for investing in U.S. Savings Bonds. This is all you do. Go to your company’s pay office, choose the amount you want to save—a few dollars a payday, or as much as you wish. That money will be set aside for you before you even draw your pay. And automatically invested in Series “E” U.S. Savings Bonds which are turned over to you.
If you can save only §3.75 a week on the Plan, in 9 years and 8 months you will have §2,137.30. If you can save as much as §18.75 a week, 9 years and 8 months will bring you §10,700!
U.S. Series “E” Savings Bonds earn interest at an average of 3% per year, compounded semiannually, when held to maturity! And they can go on earning interest for as long as 19 years and 8 months if you wish.
If you want your interest as current income, ask your bank about 3% Series “H” Bonds which pay interest semiannually by Treasury check.
S7ie U.S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in cooperation with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.