The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Football Issue • 50^ December 9, 1949
Don't forget. fellows, men like Gifts tool! Hurry to GILBERT’S. South Bend’s Finest Gift Center for men.
Me Gregor Szeeaters, Campus Coats, Sport Shirts and Jackets, ranging $3.95 up: Arron: Shirts, $3.65 up; Dobbs Hats. S8.50 up: Remington Electric Razors, $17.50 up: Szeank Men's Jezcelry, $1.50 up; Seaforth and Old Spice Toiletries, $1.00 up; etc., etc.
OPEN EVERY EVENING UNTIL 9 P. M.
GILBERTS
813-817 South Michigan Street
2
The Scholastic

4
The Scholastic^
WITH YOUR NEGATIVES
you'll Like Our Extra Large Prints of Your Films . . . At No Extra Cost to You
TRY OUR QUICK MAIL ORDER SERVICE
Ault Camera Shop, i™.
122 SOUTH MAIN —OPPOSITE COURT HOUSE South Bend, Indiana	-	J
PHONE 3-5041	. >
Q Dec. 9, 1949	5
II AND - needled edge
SUITS BY VARSITY TOWN
65
America’s first suit with University men everywhere. Tailored of pure wool worsteds in vibrant new colors that have life in them! In one-button
roll Great Drape double breasted models or popular two-button single breasted styles . . . both with HAND-necdled edges and other quality features. See Varsity Town Suits before vou buv!
exeiusivo in Soni it Konti nt
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Dec. 9, 1949
7
IM FERSTEL says
SKIPPER T-SHIRTS
"Here’s another great T-formation”
ADLER COMP ANY Michigan at Washington
HECK & AKER 111 W. Jefferson Blvd.
RASMUSSEN MEN’S SHOP 106 so. Mam st.
ROSE & KATZ, INC. MainatColfaX
WYMAN’S 103 No. Michigan
Us FAULTLESS
HERE'S THE WOOL to pull over your head these chilly days. Skipper Sweaters comq in crew or V-neck. Sleeveless models, too. $3.95 to $19.50.
FOR HURRY-UP ACTIVITIES, slip into a handsome, colorful Skipper T-Shirt. They need no ironing—you can just wash ’em out yourself! $1.00 to $3.95.
There’s nothing deceptive about the quality appearance of Skipper Sportswear! And it feels as good as it looks—neat, comfortable, casual.
VERSATILE IS THE WORD for Skipper Sportshirts! Wearable anywhere, with or without a tie. Trim fitting tapered waist, broad shouldered. $3.95 to $15.00.


8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Spirit
By HENRY McLEMORE
SckolaAiic Pte&etdA,
If you peeked in my office window right now you would see me seated at my desk wearing a football uniform, complete to nu-merals on my back, with textbooks piled W around me, and tuition and spending money in my pocket. . . .
I have on the football suit today because I am going to write about Notre Dame’s football team.
It seems that the Notre Dame football team is so good that there is talk—much talk—about it not being able to get any more games.
You hear, and you hear it often, that in a few years no school will play the Irish for fear that it will get its ears pinned back by six or seven touchdowns, and so would pre-• fer to play schools whose ears it can pin back.
I do not doubt that this is true. It is also a sign, and a rather important sign whether you believe it or not, that this country is getting a trifle soft—that its citizens want the easy way to victory and momentary sops to their pride.
There was a time in this country when the hard way was the way that was wanted, because it offered a challenge. It offered boys and men a chance to prove that they were just that, with no apron strings bind-A ing them when they went out to take a - whack at what was tough.
There was a time when a football team would rather beat Notre Dame once in ten years than boast of ten consecutive victories over Podunk Poly Tech. Now they want Podunk every Saturday, with parades
after every game, and with everything aglow except their pride.
There was a time in this country when a premium was placed on perfection. No more. The time has come when to be popular you must be in the middle—not too good, not too bad. So far, Notre Dame has not subscribed to that theory when it fields a football team. It sends its men out to do their best. Heaven help us when we reach a point where we are sent out to do less than that.
I wonder if the public has ever considered the possibility that the will to win is a little stronger in the Notre Dame team. I wonder if the coaches who don’t want to schedule the Irish ever consider the possibility that Frank Leahy might be a better coach than they are.
I wonder, too, when it became wrong in this country to be the best.
There are lots of Americans left—and this I’ll bet—who’ll go to see Notre Dame play itself, if the other fellows don’t want to put the boys with the green shirts on their schedules.
And don’t give me the song and dance that Notre Dame offers more inducements to football players than the other schools who go in for football in a big way. I know better.
Notre Dame just plays the game a little harder, a little smarter, and a little better.
More power to you, Frank. Lay it on ’em.
(Reprinted through the courtesy of Henry McLemore and McNaught Syndicate, Inc.)
I Review oK. >
Dec. 9, 1949
9
The 1949
Fool ball Season
10



“We shall always want Notre Dame men : - toplay to win	;
so long as there is a Notre Dame... to win cleanly according to the rules . . . because Notre .Dame men are reared here on the campus in this spirit^ and becausethey: exemplify ' -.. thisspiritallover the world.
-	~~	‘ ’ *• ’	p ,V'»A7 t	' *
'	s ~ '"“3 f \ J ►	*
■ 4they;are^the envy..bf-the^^
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Dec.
9,
1949
11
Krause Directs Irish Athletics
Edward W. Krause . . . director of athletics and head basketball coach. “Moose” left the coaching field early in last year’s season to confine his football activities to the athletic offices as assistant director of athletics. Shortly after the '48 season, he moved into full directorship when Frank Leahy retired from the post. He has remained in his position as basketball coach. Ed was an All-American in football and basketball while a student at Notre Dame. He was line coach at
Holy Cross for three years, returning to Notre Dame in 1942. He served in the Marine Corps from 1944 to 1946, returning a second time to Notre Dame upon his discharge. “Moose” claims the distinction of being the only athlete in the University’s history to be voted a trophy by the student body. Now that football is over, he will put all his efforts behind the 1949-50 basketball squad. Practicing since October, the Irish netmen show promise of being one of his best teams.

12
The Scholastic
Dr. Pessimism Puts ND on Top
Francis W. Leahy . . . head coach of the Fighting Irish . . . has just ended one of his most successful football seasons at Notre Dame, turning out one of his greatest teams in the process. He achieved the ultimate in pessimism at the beginning of the ’49 season, predicting the Irish would lose seven games. Rather his team piled up more records and added more glory to his name. Leahy first entered the coaching game in 1931, as line coach at Georgetown the same Fall
® Dec. 9, 1949
after his graduation from Notre Dame. Ten years later, after successful stints at Fordham and Boston College, he returned to Notre Dame, head coach of his alma mater. His record with the Irish prior to this season showed only three losses in six seasons, while his lads captured the national championship three times. Frank Leahy was born August 27,1908, in O’Neill, Neb. He is married and has six children, four boys and two girls.
13
Left to right: Coaches Druze, McBride, Crimmins, Leahy, Earley and Ziemba. Joe McArdle and Fred Miller were not present.
Seven Coaches Aid Frank Leahy«
Behind the power of the Irish teams stands the finest coaching staff in college football today. As Notre Dame marches on, year after year, to greater heights in football glory the sport pages of the nation devote more and more space to the Fighting Irish and their masterful head coach.
America’s sporting public is probably
By JACK POWERS
little aware, however, of the seven unknown wonders Frank Leahy has assembled under him. All of them, Rockne or Leahy-trained, had their share of college fame. Each of them is now an expert at his specialty. For
the vital positions as assistant coaches, Leahy has chosen the best men in the business.
The only man on the staff who has not been trained by Frank Leahy is Frederick Miller, captain and tackle of the 1928 team. Capable and versatile, Fred has already made his mark in the business world. His job as assistant to
Frank Leahy
Bernie Crimmins
14
his former teammate is strictly voluntary, for professionally he’s the president of the Miller’s High Life Brewing Co. of Milwaukee. The natty Mr. Miller divides his time between business and Notre Dame.
As a student, Fred earned three varsity monograms, learning his football from Knute Rockne. His assistance to a the regular staff has been invaluable on Cartier Field, where his Rockne training becomes apparent. He’s happily married and has eight children.
Since his days at Fordham, John Druze has been closely associated with Frank Leahy. Born in Newark, N. J., in 1914, he spent four years at Irvin-ton high school, where he won monograms in football, baseball and tra^k. Johnny’s next stop was Fordham and _ once again he distinguished himself in ’W three sports. Under Jimmy Crowley and his assistant, Frank Leahy, the Rams were producing some of the top teams in the country. In 1938, Druze captained one of the best, the famed Seven Blocks of Granite.
Aftei’ graduation he played a year of pro ball and then followed Leahy to Boston College as end coach. After service in the Navy, he came to ND in his present position as end coach. He’s married and has one daughter.
V Another Fordham man who played under Leahy and latei' became one of his assistants is Joseph McArdle. Massachusetts born, the 38-year-old Irish guard coach, was a stellar athlete at Lowell High. He won three monograms at Fordham and after graduation sold insurance and worked for the New York World-Telegram. In 1939, he joined Leahy at Boston as line coach; came with him to Notre Dame in ’41.
Shortly afterward, McArdle entered
Dec. 9, 1949
the Navy, putting in 44 months of service. He served in the Pacific; spent nine months on the carrier Wasp. Discharged a lieutenant commander in 1946, he returned to ND where he resumed his post as tutor of the Irish guards. He was married in 1942, has two children, a boy and a girl.
Stalwart center coach since 1943, big Walter Ziemba is no stranger to Cartier Field. He was born in Hammond, Ind., in 1919, and played fullback, tackle and end for the local high school, along with basketball and track. Wally came to Notre Dame in 1939 and won a varsity letter his second year out at tackle. In 1941, however, he was switched to center, where he won AllAmerican honors in his senior year.
After graduation Wally joined the Marines, but was discharged for physical disability. He joined the Leahy staff soon after and has been here ever since. So far, though, he hasn’t seen too many games; he’s usually scouting next week’s foe. Wally was married in 1945 and has one child, a daughter.
Also ranking high as a scout is backfield coach Bill Earley. Hailing from Parkersburg, W. Va., high school, Bill gained prominence as an athlete in football, basketball and track. He entered Notre Dame in 1939 and won monograms in ’40, ’41 and ’42. While a player he established a reputation both as a line-bucker and breakaway runner. In the 1941 win over Navy, he dashed 60 yards to the one-foot line to set up the winning margin.
Bill served as an Air Force bombardier in Italy during the war. He was discharged in 1945 and returned here as B squad coach. He took over the varsity backfield in ’47. Bill was married in 1943, has a boy and a girl.
A native of Louisville, Ky., Bernie Crimmins had won two monograms as a back in 1940. Leahy, however, switched him to guard in ’41 and Bernie won All-American honors at the post. He started coaching high school ball upon graduation, but returned to the campus for Midshipman’s school.
He served in the Pacific as commander of a PT boat and was discharged in 1945, after winning the Silver Star. Bernie joined the Irish coaching staff in 1946 as a backfield coach. He was married in 1948.
The most recent addition to the Irish staff is tackle coach Bob McBride. An Ohio boy, Bob was born Sept. 6, 1922, in Logan, grew up there and attended Logan high. Bob won three letters as fullback and was captain in his last year, winning All-State honors. He also played basketball and baseball. At ND, he started out as a fullback but won monograms at guard in ’41, ’42 and ’46.
During the interim he was a member of the 106th Infantry Division and spent time in a German POW camp. For the past two years he has been football coach at Mt. Carmel high school in Chicago. Bob is married and has two sons.	•
Head Coach Frank Leahy gives most of the credit for his winning team to these seven men. In a sense he is right in doing so.
For although it is up to Coach Leahy to supervise the daily drills and mastermind the team, these men are responsible for the crisp blocks and smashing tackles that are the mark of a Notre Dame team. When the Leahy touch is added to this knowledge of the fundamentals, the result is another great Irish eleven.
15
Hart and Martin Lead ’49 Team*
• Leon Hort . . . This 21-year-old “Monster” has established himself as one of the great ends in Notre Dame history. Leon, a 245 pound stripling, moves swiftly on offense, blocks and tackles sharply to earn fully his All-America rating. Hailing from Turtle Creek, Pa., Leon lettered in football, baseball and basketball at high school there. He will graduate with a degree in mechanical engineering this Spring; then he plans to get married. Pro football will get his nod for a while, then he hopes to enter the engineering field in sales work. f
James Martin . . . Moved to the tackle post from his old end position this season, Jungle Jim has carved a name for himself in the Irish forward wall. A senior from Cleveland, Ohio, Jim prepped at East Tech high school there, winning letters in football and swimming. Serving 30 months in the Marines, he received a presidential citation for his action in the invasion of Tinian. Jim was heavyweight boxing champ at Notre Dame in 1947. He is 25 years old, majors in physical education, and wants to be a coach after June.
€
The Scholastic "
16
William Barrett ... A sensational sophomore halfback muscled his way into the company of Bill Gay and Larry Coutre early in the season and proved his worth. Bill played four years of football at Fenwick high school in Chicago, living in near-by River Forest, Ill. Boasting an all-state rating in 1947 and Fenwick’s leading ground gainer the same year, he stayed in the trophy ranks by receiving the Hering award for the “most aggressive back” in 1949 Spring training with the Irish. Bill is in the College of Commerce and hopes to go into business after graduation. His favorite pastime is reading.
James Bartlett ... A lanky, 195-pound sophomore center, Jim shapes up as a fine future prospect for the Irish pivot post. Already he has given a good account of himself on defense this season. Hailing from Cincinnati, Ohio, where he pulled down three football monograms at Elder high school, Jim won all-city honors under his father-coach, Walter J. Bartlett. At Notre Dame he majors in chemistry and hopes to enter the chemical research field after graduation. A bridge addict, Jim places that game tops among his favorite pastimes. Scoring on a 98-yard run after a pass interception in high school is his biggest sports thrill to date.
Gerald Begley . . . Irish senior quarterback from Yonkers, N. Y. This 21-year-old reserve signal caller, playing in the shadow of Lujack, Tripucka and Williams has seen only sporadic action with the Fighting Irish but his gumption and willingness have been surpassed by none. A product of Mt. St. Michael's high school in Yonkers, Gerry won three letters for football and four for track in his prep days. A commerce honor student majoring in domestic marketing, he has not yet laid definite post-graduate plans. He names Northwest Passage his favorite book, handball his favorite pastime, and playing in the ’49 Navy game his greatest sports thrill.
Byron Boji . . . This stocky center from Chicagoland, hampered by injuries during the early part of the season, has bolstered the Irish defense capably in the later games. He joined the other galaxy of Windy City stars on the Sportswriters High School All-America • football squad in 1947 while playing for Austin. Boj’s other prep honors include four football letters, two in track and being named to the Illinois All-State team. A sophomore in the College of Commerce, he plans to go to agricultural school after graduation. Duck hunting is Byron’s favorite hobby, and beating Fenwick high school 27-0 in ’47 gave him his greatest thrill in sports.
Dec. 9, 1949
17
c
Paul Burns . . . This tall, husky sophomore guard has seen a good deal of defensive action this year and promises to see quite a bit more in his next two years. He played two years of football at Athens high school, in his home town of Athens, Pa., and one year at Aquinas Institute, Rochester, N. Y. Burns is 20 years old, single, and is in the College of Commerce. He has a tentative eye on pro football for after graduation. Like many another ND grid man, he says his biggest sports thrill was playing with the Irish for the first time. In his spare time, he likes to stop in at the Rec hall for a game or two of pool.
August Cifelli . . . Playing his last season for the Fighting Irish, tall, soft spoken Gus has established himself as a stalwart at the right tackle post. He is after his third ND monogram this year. A native of Philadelphia, Gus served 31 months with the U. S. Marines during the war. Also a boxing addict, he won several service titles and competed three times in the heavyweight division of the University Bengal Bouts. He gained his high school experience at LaSalle in Philly, where he won letters in three sports. One of the two married men on the team, Gus hopes to work for his master’s degree in philosophy after a short stint in the pro ranks.
Richard Cotter ... A genial, blond fullback from Austin, Minn., Dick broke his leg in the Navy game and was forced to sweat out the remainder of the season on the sidelines. He played three years of football at St. Augustine’s high school in Austin, winning three varsity letters in the process, and landed himself a berth on the Irish traveling squad this year. Dick is in the College of Arts and Letters and majors in Philosophy. After graduation, he plans to go
back to the Cotter ranch in Minnesota. He names hunting as his favorite sport-pastime.
is 21 years old and

Lawrence Coutre . . . One of Coach Leahy’s most outstanding backs, Larry has improved consistently since he first gained the limelight with his 75-yard touchdown jaunt in the ’47 Old Timers’ game. This swift red-head from Chicago’s St. George high school has been a thorn in opponents’ sides throughout the season. He won the coveted Hering Award in ’48 as the most aggressive back in Spring practice. Now a senior in the College of Commerce, Scooter plans a few years in professional football after graduation; then into the ice cream business with his brothers. Larry says his biggest sports thrill was scoring against Army in ’47, a game he didn’t even think he’d play.

18
The Scholastic
Raymond Espenan ... A defensive end from New Orleans, Ray is one of the last of the men with the Irish who were eligible for four years of college competition under the now defunct wartime ruling. He attended Holy Cross High School in New Orleans and gathered letters in football, basketball and track. Ray served two years in the Navy, including service during the invasion of the Philippines. He is now 24. A senior, he is majoring in physical education and he has already accepted'a coaching job at his old high school for after graduation. Incompatible as it may seem with playing football, his favorite pastime is painting in water colors.
William Flynn . . . A junior end from Gary, Ind., Bill attended Horace Mann high school in the Pittsburgh- of the Mid-West, copping two varsity letters in football and one in basketball. Now 22, he served two years in the Marines before enrolling at Notre Dame. Bill is in the College of Science, majoring in mechanical engineering. Although he has no definite plans for the future, he states, “I would like to get into air-conditioning.” He relaxes by listening to classical music. His biggest thrill in sports was suiting up for the Irish.
Fidel Gander . . Handicapped this year by an injury sustained in the Old Timer’s game last spring, this 19-year-old defensive halfback was forced to leave football alone for the first part of the season. But since the Navy game his speed and aggressiveness have proven him a terror to ball-carrying opponents. Del attended Mount Carmel high school in his hometown, Chicago, where he earned three letters in football and one in track—he was a 100-yard dash man. At Notre Dame “Goose” is enrolled in the College of Commerce and is majoring in business administration. He hopes to go into business for himself after graduation. Hunting and fishing are the pastimes he enjoys most.
William Gay . . . Another contribution to the Irish from Chicago, Ill., this halfback has given the Irish a brilliant running season reminiscent of his last year’s performance. Bill attended high school at Tilden Tech, in Chicago, where he played three years of football and captained the 1945 Kelly Bowl championship team. Although he spent 13 months in the Army upon high school graduation, including eight months in Japan, Bill is only 21. He is majoring in business administration, having no plans after graduation. He names scoring the winning touchdown in last year’s 12-7 Northwestern game as his greatest sports thrill.	.
19
I Dec. 9, 1949
Jerome Groom . . . Tall, likeable Jerry, Notre Dame’s defensive center, has played a terrific line-backing game throughout the year. Jerry is a native of Des Moines, Iowa, where he won monograms in football and baseball and was named to all-state grid honors in his senior year. This 20-year-old junior is enrolled in the College of Commerce; his major is Business Administration. After graduation he hopes to play pro ball a while, then to enter the distributing business with his father. His hobbies include working in Summer boys’ camps and amateur camera work. Playing in the ’48 Old Timer’s game was his biggest sports thrill.
0
Walter Grothaus . . . Big blond Walt inherited the first string center post this year after Bill Walsh’s graduation and has been an offensive stalwart at that post all season. This 23-year-old senior came to Notre Dame from Cincinnati, Ohio, where he won five varsity athletic letters at Purcell high school and captained both the football and basketball squads in 1944-45. He won the Spring practice Hering award at N.D. in 1948 as the best blocking center. Walt is a student in the College of Commerce, majoring in business administration. He hopes to enter sales work after graduation in June. Like many other Irish gridders, bridge is his favorite hobby, and his biggest thrill in sports is playing for Notre Dame.
John Helwig

James Hamby ... Another promising sophomore who saw his share of action at center during this season, Jim comes from Caruthersville, Mo., although he is originally from Arkansas. He took four letters in football and three in basketball at Caruthersville high school. Jim is a member of the R.O.T.C. here and plans to major in Journalism. He recalls scoring a touchdown on an intercepted pass against East Prairie high school in his junior year at Caruthersville as his biggest moment on the gridiron. He is in the College of Arts and Letters and claims French as his favorite subject.
©
. . This 21-year-old Irish guard playing his first
varsity season for Notre Dame, Johnny has been an outstanding defensive line-backer throughout the season, foiling enemy passes and throwing ball carriers for nice losses. A shot-putter of note, he holds both the indoor and outdoor records at N.D. While attending Mt. Carmel high school in his Los Angeles home town, he set the national scholastic record with a 59’ 5%” heave, which he says was his most thrilling moment in sports. He also won letters in football and wrestling. A junior in the College of Commerce, Johnny’s postgraduation plans are yet undecided. Reading mystery stories are among his favorite pastimes.
20
The Scholastic

Edward Hudak . . . Product of Liberty high school in Bethlehem, Pa., has been one of the stalwarts in the Notre Dame tackle spot for the last two years. Winning letters and acting as co-captain in football, basketball, and track in high school, “Smiling Ed” twice grabbed all-state honors in football. Majoring in business administration, the 21-year-old senior is not sure of his future activities, but thinks he might go into coaching. His biggest thrill in football was starting on the defensive team against Southern California in 1948. Ed names ballroom dancing as his favorite after-hours activity.
Frank Johnson . . hailing from Cincinnati, Ohio, won the Hering award this spring as “best blocking guard”. At St. Xavier high school he played three years of football, and acting as co-captain his last year was named on the all-Ohio team. He also won three letters in basketball and one in baseball. Now 22 years old, he served a fivemonth stint in the army. “Rodney” has no definite plans for after his graduation from the college of Commerce next January. Playing cards—any kind—is his hobby, and he thinks his greatest sports thrill has been “playing on this year’s team, with a great bunch of fellows and coaches.”
Robert Lally . . . Bob is a senior guard from Cleveland, Ohio. I Noted for his fine linebacking, he has won three monograms at N.D. | He is in Law School and intends to practice after graduation. He graduated from Cathedral Latin high school in Cleveland, where he I earned two letters in football and three in track. He was named to I the Ohio all-state team in high school for two successive years. Bob ‘ says his favorite pastime is collecting stamps. (He calls himself a philatelist.) His most memorable moment on the football field was throwing halfback Bobby Jack Stuart for an eleven yard loss in the 1947 Notre Dame-Army game.
John Landry . . . Moving into the fullback slot this year, Jack showed his backfield versatility. A tall, black-haired junior from Rochester, N. Y., he won two letters in football at Aquinas Institute under coach Harry Wright, former ND grid star, receiving a Most Valuable Player award as well. He saw two years of service with the Navy during the war, including action at Leyte Gulf, and entered ND at the age of 21. He is majoring in Physical Education and hopes for a coaching job upon graduation. The whistling wind of a ski run and the crescendo of a Beethoven Symphony hold top place in Jack’s favorite schemes for relaxing.	•
21
John Mazur ... This sophomore quarterback has capably filled Bob Williams’ shoes for part of practically every game this season. John is 19 years old and comes from Plymouth, Pa., where he attended Plymouth high school and totaled seven letters in various sports. He is majoring in Physical Education and hopes to get a coaching job after graduation. Oddly enough, his biggest sports thrill came on the basketball floor when he tied an important high school game in
the closing seconds with a one point.)
field goal. (Plymouth won the game by
James
Ralph McGehee . .. Moving into his own at Notre Dame’s starting right tackle post this year, Ralph consistently broke through enemy ranks to throw ball carriers for losses. This quiet, friendly 21-year-old senior is a native of Chicago, where he won three football letters at Tilden Tech while playing with team mates Mike Swistowicz and Bill Gay. At Notre Dame he won the Hering award in 1948 as the best blocking tackle. A student in the College of Commerce, Ralph is majoring in marketing, but he hopes to coach after leaving N.D.
Like many another Irish gridder, he Dame his best sports thrill.
considers
playing for Notre
Mutscheller . . . 19-year-old sophomore and from Beaver
Falls, Pa., shot up out of the ranks to take over a starting defensive position in some of the games this season. At Beaver Falls high school he won monograms in football, basketball and baseball, and in his senior, year was captain of the football team and was named on the all-Western Pennsylvania team. He is majoring in business administration, and since he expects to be at Notre Dame until June, 1952, his post-graduation plans are very indefinite. Jim’s hobby is participation in any kind of athletics, and his greatest sports thrill was in learning that he would be able to come to Notre Dame and play football.
Stephen Oracko . . . Notre Dame’s talented extra point expert. Amiable Steve’s educated right foot has consistently booted the ball for points after touchdown, though the Irish seldom needed them this year. Playing from the guard position, he has also proven his mettle on defense when in games. Steve’s home is Lansford, Pa., where he won two monograms for football. He is 22 years old, is majoring in education at Notre Dame, and hopes to teach and coach after graduation this June. His favorite hobbies are dancing and fishing, and his biggest athletic thrill was kicking that all-important PAT in the Southern California game last year.
22
The Scholastic
Chester Ostrowski . . . This sophomore end is memorable as one of the “Ostrowski and Zmijewski” tackling team that blared continuously from the Notre Dame Stadium loudspeaker during the Tulane game this year. Chet is 19 years old and a native of Chicago, Ill. He is a graduate of Weber high school in Chicago, where he piled up basketball and football letters and was selected to all-city and allstate teams. He is in the College of Arts and Letters, but has not decided upon a major subject. He names playing against Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell in last year’s frosh-varsity game as his biggest gridiron moment.
John Petifbon ... A fleet-footed defensive halfback, Petitbon has shown great promise among this year’s sophomores. His speed has been a major factor in stopping several potential touchdown spurts by opponents during the season. Johnny comes from New Orleans, La., where he won three letters in football, three in track and one in baseball at Jesuit high school. He was given the Hering award for the best tackling back in spring practice last year. “Petty” is in the school of Commerce and tentatively eyes law school, and later, law practice, after graduation. His greatest thrill in sports was starting on defense against Tulane this year.
Emil Sitko . . . Hiding his red hair under a fullback helmet, this 26-year-old Fort Wayne, Ind., stalwart has been an Irish workhorse for four years. His long ball playing career includes four years at Fort Wayne Central high school and three and a half years with the Navy. He received the Most Valuable Player award for the Notre Dame-Navy game of 1948 and was picked to Grantland Rice’s AllAmerica team last year. “Red” is married, has no children. He is in the College of Arts and Letters and majors in economics. He says playing for Great Lakes in the Notre Dame game of 1943, which Great Lakes won 19-14, was his biggest sports thrill.
Francis Spaniel . . . Left an outstanding four year record in both, football and basketball in home-town Vandergrift, Pa., before journeying to northern Indiana to continue his football career. While at Vandergrift High the curly, black haired star earned a post on the all-Pennsylvania team two years running. Majoring in Business Administration, Frank hasn’t made any post-graduation plans. His unmarried status and 21 years makes him an eligible bachelor but Frank remains silent on that side of his life. Playing as fullback against his formei' Vandergrift teammates in the 1948 Notre Dame-Pitt game he experienced his greatest sports thrill.
23
Dec. 9, 1949
i
Michael Swistowicz . . . One of the hardest driving Irish backs, stocky Mike has just completed his last season for Notre Dame. Always a standout in defensive play, he has scored but seldom for N.D. but his charging runs consistently advanced the ball for valuable yardage. Gaining his prep experience at Tilden Tech in his hometown, Chicago, Mike won varsity monograms in four sports, football, baseball, track and speed skating. He was named for all-state grid honors in ’44 and ’45. At Notre Dame he won the Hering award in 1947. Majoring in economics, his plans are still uncertain after graduation this June. His biggest sports thrill is playing so long with an undefeated team.
Robert Toneff ... It looks like a new “Moose” on the ND gridiron. As a sophomore fledgling, Bob proved his ability at the right tackle post this year. He comes from Barberton, Ohio, and graduated from Barberton High School where he received letters in football, basketball and track. He is 19 years old and majors in physical education at Notre Dame. Like so many other players he names just playing with the Irish as his biggest gridiron thrill. After graduation, Bob has a possible coaching job in mind. He enjoys going to the movies, and swims every chance he gets.
Frederick Wallner . . . Fred played the fullback spot as understudy to “Pep” Panelli last year, but was moved to guard in springpractice and has shown equal worth in that position all season. He is 21 and conies from Greenfield, Mass. He won three letters in football, basketball and baseball, respectively, at Greenfield high school and received a trophy as the most valuable player in the Western Massachusetts Conference. He was named to prep all-state elevens for two successive years. Fred is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, majoring in Education. He hopes to play pro-ball after graduation.
Douglas Waybright. . . Stored his letters won in five different sports at Saugus, Mass., and set out for Notre Dame after a short stretch in the army. The crinky blonde lad then proceeded to win three football monograms as an end for Frank Leahy. Football is still in his blood, though, as he hopes to play pro ball after doing some graduate work in Business Administration. Doug can usually be found absorbed in a bridge game with partner Sitko, when he’s not thumbing through Thomas Wolfe novels. Right now Doug is preparing for his January graduation in economics after completing another successful year on the gridiron.
24
The Scholastic

William Wightkin . . . Famed for snagging touchdown passes at left end, Bill is a senior this year. He rooms with another end who also snags a few passes, Leon Hart. Bill is 22 years old and lives in Culver City, Calif. He went to high school in Detroit, Mich., at Catholic Central, where he won two letters each in football, basketball and baseball. He majors in Mechanical Engineering and has maintained an honor scholastic rating. Bill served 11 months in the Coast Guard during the war. He is genial and easy-going, with a reputation as a humorist on the team trips.
Robert Williams . .. Bob proved early in season that he is a fitting successor to the Bertelli, Lu jack, Tripucka tradition and has offered further proof in each additional game. Bob is 19 and comes from Baltimore, Md., where he attended Loyola high school. He participated in high school, football, basketball and baseball and was named to All-State teams in each sport. He is a Journalism major in the College of Arts and Letters and names tennis as his favorite pasttime. He has no post-graduation plans, but admits that pro ball is a possibility. His biggest sports thrill was the Michigan State game this year.
Ernest Zalejski . . . The pride of South Bend, came to Notre Dame highly recommended from Washington High. Starring on Washington’s football, basketball and baseball teams for three years he captured nine monograms and won the South Bend Tnbune’s award for the most valuable player in the Northern Indiana Conference in 1944 and two all-Indiana awards. The Army delayed his entrance into Notre Dame for two years while Ernie ‘toured’ the Phillippines and Japan. Unmarried and 23 years old, he hopes to enter sales work after he gets his degree in business administration. When queried, Ernie didn’t hesitate to admit that his hobby is collecting poems.
Alfred Zmijewski . . . 21-year-old senior from Newark, N. J., attained football notoriety through his knack for scoring touchdowns from his tackle position. In the 1947 Southern California game Al intercepted a lateral and went the distance, and in the 1948 Purdue game he grabbed a partially blocked pass out of the air and went for another six points. At East Side high school, Al went out for football, basketball, and baseball, winning three monograms in each sport and acting as captain of the football team his senior year. In his last two years he made all-state in football. Majoring in mechanical engineering, Al has no definite post-graduation plans. His favorite pastime, next to scoring touchdowns, is watching other sporting events.
Dec. 9, 1949
25
Nation's top sportswriters watch game.
By HARRY MONAHAN
Take the noise of a boiler factory. Give four people more work to do than the police emergency squad when the American Legion convention comes to town. Shove them all into Fibber McGee’s closet and I know just the sign to put on the door—“Charles M. Callahan, Publicity."
Charlie Callahan is the source of Notre Dame sports information for 1,100 press and radio outlets. During football season his office is the target for telephone calls, telegrams, letters and personal visits from the thousands who follow or write about football. Charlie’s cluttered cubby-hole office in Breen-Phillips Hall, with its frantic routine of long distance phone calls backed up six deep and three assistants trying to meet the needs and deadlines of every major newspaper in the country, nevei- fails to
Callahan’s Crew
Publicizing the Irish Football Team Is a Big Job For Charlie And Aides
amaze the visiting fireman from New York, Chicago or Los Angeles.
Assisted by the most publicized secretary in the country, Miss Maura Mills known to thousands of readers of Sporting News as the “girl with the million dollar legs” thanks to the press agent work of Jack Clowser of the Cleveland Press—Charlie handles over a thousand requests a season for space in the Notre Dame stadium press box. Assigning space and mailing tickets puts the staff on night work about ten days before each home game.
Charlie’s two phones ring constantly— those boiler factory rivet guns couldn’t jangle your nerves as much as that phone bell does. But five minutes on the phone with a Chicago, New York, Detroit or New Orleans sports editor can produce a few extra inches of publicity the following morning. Joe Archibald, journalism major from Chicago, is the student assistant who keeps the office clipping files up to date. He has to wield a speedy pair of shears to keep pace with the daily arrival of 15 newspapers. Press notices, good or bad, go into the big black scrapbook or the players’ and coaches’ individual files. In a week’s time, let alone in a full season, they make a tidy pile of newsprint with an Irish flavor.
My job around the office is just this, writing. It might be a short feature story or a quick rundown on statistics for our weekly six to eight page press release which is dispatched to a mailing
list of 1,100. There is fan mail to answer as Joe Football Fan wants to know who won the toss in the Tulane game, or how many Notre Dame players got into the Michigan State game, or how many times Notre Dame has played in the Rose Bowl. Sometimes it takes all four of us to find the answers but their letters are answered as the pressure of urgent business permits.
By far the biggest and most important job is supplying information to newspapers and magazines so their writers can prepare their own stories about Notre Dame. Behind 75% of the stories on Notre Dame which appear in print was a letter or a sheaf of notes sent out from our office.	’
And who’s the guy behind all this. That’s Charlie. Al Stump described him in the Saturday Evening Post as a “stringbeanish, gravel-throated young man of 33.” But that hardly scratches the surface of the Notre Dame publici-tor with his pessimism which almost outdoes Coach Leahy and the battered brown hat he has worn to every Notre Dame game since he took over the campus huckster job. He treats that chapeau as tenderly as other men do a favorite pipe. He manages to make the visiting newspaper men feel as comfortable as that old hat looks and in that lies his success with the Notre Dame publicity job. The newspaperman who is shown hospitality and given ready access to story material will treat his host fairly, even when criticizing, and that’s all Charlie asks in return.
Joe Archibald and Harry Monahan pour over grid scrapbook. Co-captain Martin reports to Maura Mills and Charlie Callahan.
26	The Scholastic
Liniment & New Jerseys
Trainer Hugh Burns and Equipment Manager McAllister Serve Bridmen
By DAN BRENNAN
“He’s the best trainer in the country— and you can quote me on that,” said one of the athletes in the Notre Dame training room the other day.
And he is. Named Trainer of the Year in 1947, Hugh Burns has stepped into the shoes of Scrapiron Young and more than filled them. He is responsible for the physical conditioning of Notre Dame football teams.
Hughie Burns was born in Seattle, Wash., on July 3, 1916, but spent most of his life in nearby Michigan City, Ind., where he now lives. He showed his inclination to sports early at St. Mary’s High School, Michigan City, where he was a leader in baseball, basketball, and football.
In 1939 Hughie came to Notre Dame, and in due course he received a degree in physical education. During his stay as an undergrad Burns worked for three years as an assistant trainer to Scrapiron Young. After continuing his studies for two years in Chicago and New York, Burns became head trainer and backfield coach at Xavier College in Cincinnati. But the war came along, Xavier suspended athletics and Buras joined the Marines. Following an 18-month hitch he returned to Cincinnati as head football and basketball coach at Roger Bacon high school.
In 1945 Hughie was snapped up by Notre Dame when Scrap Young resigned. Since then the amiable Mr.
Burns has reigned in Notre Dame conditioning.
His job is a tremendous one. For one thing he has to wind a lot of tape and gauze around ailing athletes’ injured parts. He estimates that so far this year he has used nearly 70 miles of tape. And he uses half as much gauze. He is in charge of the use of numerous mechanisms which heal Irish injuries. These machines include diathermy machines, infra-red and ultra-violet lamps and whirlpools and even a fluoroscope.
Burns disdains the use of commercially-prepared liniments, preferring to mix his own. Thoroughness characterizes all his work. For instance, when the team has a game away from home he takes some of everything he has in the home training rooms, even his own stretcher.
Aside from his work around the trainer’s table, Hugh still likes to exercise. He describes bowling as the most challenging sport he ever ran into. But he seems to have met the challenge for he sports a classy 194 average in the Michigan City Leagues. He never has rolled a perfect game,
Sixty-four-year-old John W. McAllister is superintendent of equipment for all Notre Dame athletic teams. But you’ll never get him to tell about it. The “strong, silent type” Mac is in his 26th year supervising the care of all athletic equipment.
John McAllister checks over equipment.
Each day he supervises the distribution of equipment to the players. This involves sorting and passing out four huge bags of freshly-laundered “whites,” T-shirts, sox, and so forth. In addition regular equipment must be kept constantly available.
One of Mae’s biggest jobs is preparing for the games away from home. For all these trips 18 trunks must be packed and sent on ahead of the team. The tranks contain some 125 pairs of game shoes, four changes of uniform for 36 men, 50 blankets and five changes of the whites, in addition to the rarely-used 45 pairs of rubber rain pants.
McAllister is not alone in this work, however, for he has four assistants who are invaluable. These men, John and Jim Herr. Joe Rigali, and Pat Coughlin, are the front men for Mac and do all of the routine work in the department.
In ticket office, Bob Cahill and aide check over stub numbers. Hughie Burns, expert dispenser of medical advice, tapes ankle.
Dec. 9, 1949	27.
Team attends Catholic University Mass.
By jim McLaughlin
Scholastic Staff Photographer
“Wightkin, Williams, Zalejski, Zmi-jewski; everybody’s here.” The bus roars down Notre Dame Avenue and the last twinkling lights of the University fade away. Another football trip is underway. As we sped south toward the station in La Paz, Ind., where we will board the train for Baltimore, the managers pass out copies of the trip itinerary. Traveling with the Notre Dame football team one can’t help but wonder at the precision with which your weekend is handled. Ringling Brothers are supposed to be masters of planned traveling, but their circus troupes have nothing on Notre Dame.
On a football trip your itinerary is
Aboard the Team’s Train
your Bible. It tells you where to go and when from the moment you leave the campus until the moment you return. Nothing is forgotten in the planning of the trip. One note from the Navy itinerary which will illustrate the omniscient character of this little document was, “Thursday, Oct. 27, 10 p. m. Retire (set watches ahead one hour).” Your itinerary leaves nothing to your memory, it tells you in black and white just what to do at any given moment.
The trip to Baltimore this year for the annual game with the U. S. Naval Academy is a classic example of the careful planning which goes into making a Notre Dame football trip. We left the circle at Notre Dame at 5 p. m. on Oct. 27, we arrived at La Paz, Ind., at 5:40 p. m. At 5:43 we were on the train and berths were being assigned. By 6:30 we were having dinner in the private team diner. The official party which includes team, coaches, managers, athletic office and University officials, newspapermen and guests, occupied five private cars all appropriately numbered, ND 3, ND 4, etc. Aside from the official party, several baggage cars filled with trunks carrying the vital jerseys and helmets and other football armor complete the caravan.
When 10 o’clock came the team turned in, for a busy day of practice awaits them on the morrow. We arrived in Washington, D. C., at 8:30 Friday morning. Special busses were waiting to take the party to Mass and breakfast at Holy Cross College, Catholic University. At Holy Cross—the Washington study house
for the Holy Cross order—many friendships were renewed with the seminarians who had been in class with some of us here at ND. Following Mass we breakfasted at the college and re-boarded the busses. They were special sightseeing vehicles and as we sped to Union Station we were briefed on the historic monuments of the Nation’s capital. Then the party proceeded to Baltimore and the Emerson Hotel. Police escorts were the order of the day in Baltimore and there was little trouble with traffic jams. Rooms were assigned following lunch in one of the private dining rooms, and at 2:30 the team was speeding out to practice in Babe Ruth Stadium. National Champions require good food in considerable quantities and that is exactly what was provided at dinner after practice. Once again the team had to retire at ten in preparation for the coming game.
Saturday. The big day had dawned! The team went to Mass at nine and returned to the hotel for breakfast. Special busses hustled them out to the stadium at 11:30. The game which is now history, was taken in stride and the team after fighting their way through a horde of fans outside the dressing room was whisked back to the hotel with a special police escort. After a hard fought victory, relaxation was in order, and the party was at liberty until Sunday afternoon.
The caravan entrained at 3:00 p. m. Sunday and all was over but the memories. Special busses were waiting in La Paz to bring the trippers back to the campus Monday morning.
Crowd and photographers meet Irish team on arrival in Washington. Card games help team pass time during long journey.
28
The Scholastic
Coutre scoots by Hoosier.
“Those Notre Danie fans who took seriously Coach Frank Leahy’s forecast of a bleak season found their tension relieved this afternoon . . .”—David Condon, Chicago “Tribune.”
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 24.—It took Notre Dame’s 1949 grid machine two quarters to get organized, but after that the Irish had no trouble as they rolled over Indiana 49 to 6 today before a slightly-less-than-capacity crowd in the Notre Dame stadium.
During the first 30 minutes, Indiana’s valiant sophomores fought well, and the Irish were lucky to hold a 19 to 6 margin at halftime. Statistics for the first half showed that the Hoosiers scored nine first downs to four for Notre Dame, though the home team had a little more yardage.
The Irish won the toss and chose to receive. They had little luck at gaining
Indiana Falls 1st, 49-6 *
By JOE HERRINGTON
and punted to Ernie Huggett who fumbled for the Hoosiers, Notre Dame’s Jerry Groom falling on the ball on Indiana’s 24-yard line. A moment later, however, Huggett recovered Larry Coutre’s fumble to even things up.
Notre Dame started a scoring march from their own 48 the next time they had the ball. Coutre carried to Indiana’s 17-yard line after receiving a fourthdown pass from quarterback Bob Williams. Three plays later Sitko spun over the goal, and Steve Oracko converted to put the Irish in front.
After a second quarter exchange of punts, Sebek was forced to kick from behind his own goal, and Toneff barged in to block the kick and add two points for Notre Dame.
The Hoosiers settled down to getting what was to be their only score. After marching 41 yards, Sellers broke away from Irish tacklers to go 17 yards and score. Huggett’s kick was wide.
Notre Dame’s second touchdown came aftei- four running plays and a pass. Starting on their 39, where Coutre had returned the kick, the Irish got down to the enemy 28 with 4 tries. Gay made an almost impossible catch of Williams’ pass on the 12 and went over easily. Oracko converted again to make the score 16 to 6 at half-time.
In the second half, the Hoosiers seemed to tire and the Irish had no difficulty in boosting the score. Sitko scored his second touchdown early in the third period, when he scurried through left tackle for six yards and the score.
A few minutes later, Coutre scored
from the 13, after Gay had set up the score by returning a punt for 50 yards. Oracko kicked the extra point to make the score 29 to 6, his previous attempt being blocked.
Near the end of the quarter, Sitko tallied again on a six yard dash and Orac-ko’s kick was perfect.
One of the Irish reserves, Mike Swis-towicz, climaxed a 57 yard fourth period drive by scoring from one yard out. Oracko came through again.
The final Notre Dame tally came on a pass by second-string quarterback John Mazur, who flipped the ball 17 yards to end Bill Wightkin for the touchdown. The Indiana line prevented Oracko from converting.
The victory was the 29th straight game without defeat for Notre Dame, who lost its last game in 1945. Though favored to win, the margin the Irish rolled up may be an indication that Leahy’s winning trend is to continue. Losses from the team by graduation didn’t seem important today. Williams appears to be a capable replacement for Johnny Lujack, and the Irish still have such stalwarts as Leon Hart, Jim Martin and Emil Sitko.
Although they started sluggishly, the final statistics gave Notre Dame 231 yards gained on the ground to 72 for Indiana. The Hoosiers stood out slightly in passing, gaining 89 yards on nine completions out of 17 attempts. The Irish gained 87 yards through the air with six passes. Williams and Mazur attempted 13. Strange as it may seem, the first downs were equal: twelve for each team.
Milte Swistowicz scores sixth touchdown against Indiana. Other Irish are Paul Burns (64), Bill Barrett (37) and Red Wallner (63).
30	The Scholastic
Hart's hard tackle makes Huskies' O'Leary fumble; Irish recover. Washington downs Sitko as Spaniel (28) tries to help out.
• Irish Go to Seattle and Win 27-7
By JACK MEANEY
Seattle, Wash., Oct. 1.—A fired-up pack of Washington Huskies gave 41,000 partisan fans two thrill-packed periods of football here today before succumbing to the green-clad legions of Notre Dame, 27-7.
The largest crowd ever to look in on a football game in Husky Stadium saw their favorites fight yard for yard with the Irish throughout the first half and accorded them a rousing ovation as they left the field at intermission with a 7-7 deadlock. Any hopes of a possible upset by the local forces were quickly smothered, however, as the Irish capitalized on Washington errors to register twice in the third period and once in the fourth, thus making the Huskies link number 30 in the Notre Dame chain of games without defeat.
According to statistics, it was Notre Dame’s game all the way. Irish superiority in every department was clearly evident and only the work of the officials kept the contest from becoming a repetition of last year’s 46-0 debacle in the series inaugural at South Bend.
Washington opened the scoring column in the very first period. With Notre Dame on the attack, Larry Coutre fumbled and Husky John Pre-chek recovered on his own 45-yard line. On the first play from scrimmage, Don Heinrich dropped back from under center in the winged-T formation and hit Roland Kirkby in the clear on the Notre Dame 40. The speedy Husky halfback never slackened stride until he went over standing up. Jim Ro-® Dec. 9, 1949
enzweig added the extra point and it was 7-0, Washington.
With a seven-point advantage, the Husky line became toughei’ and, coupled with numerous 15-yard penalties against the Irish that rankled even the most placid Green Shii-ts, Notre Dame’s offense became a stop and go affair. Not until the closing minutes of the first half were Leahy’s lads able to even it up.
Starting from their own 39, the Irish rolled to the Husky 21 on carries by Emil Sitko, Bill Gay and Larry Coutre sandwiched around a Bob Wil-liams-to-Gay aerial. With the minute
“Customers saw what is probably the fastest and hardest running backfield in America”— Mike Donohoe, Seattle “Post-Intelligencer.”
hand on the scoreboard clock racing toward zero, Williams dropped back and fired a strike to Leon Hart on the three and big Leon took it across. Steve Oracko’s place-kick made it 7-all at half time.
Washington took the second half kickoff and, unable to gain, kicked to the Irish 26. Notre Dame rolled up one first down before being forced to kick back and Williams’ long boot went into the end zone for an automatic touchback. Again the Huskies were forced to punt but this time Bob Toneff crashed through the Husky kick defense to block Don O’Leary’s kick, Bill Flynn recovering on the 14. It took the Irish just two plays to score. Sitko, leading ground gainer of the afternoon, hit over tackle to the six.
Leon Hart took a handoff from Williams and careened around the Husky right flank for the score. Steve Oracko failed to add the point and Notre Dame led, 13-7.
Now it was Washington’s turn to open up. Taking advantage of the Irish’s close packed diamond defense, O’Leary started whipping short, bullet passes to his two ends, Joe Cloidt and Fritz Apking. Aided by defensive holding penalties, the drive carried to the ND 29. Here the front line stiffened and dropped O’Leary for a two-yard loss on fourth down when he found no open receiver on an attempted jump pass. Never again did the Huskies threaten.
A few minutes later, Notre Dame struck again. Henry Tiedemann was hit hal’d at the line of scrimmage, causing him to fumble and John Helwig corraled the loose pigskin for the Irish on the enemy 36. Frank Spaniel ground out six to the 30. Coutre went over left tackle, hit the secondary with two blockers in front of him and romped all the way home in the best offensive play of the day. Oracko’s kick made it 20-7.
Flynn set up the last touchdown by recovering O’Leary’s fumble on the 18 after the Husky play-caller was nearly snapped in half by a vicious Hart tackle. As a reward, Williams called Hart’s play on an end-around and the giant Pennsylvanian ate up 12 yards. Spaniel smashed to the three. After the teams had changed goals for the final quarter, Jack Landry drove over for the touchdown. Oracko’s kick was true to make the final count read Notre Dame 27, Washington 7.
31
Barrett (37), circles his left end for six yards and Notre Dame s last touchdown against the Boilermakers.
Soph speedster, Bill
Boilermakers 35-12
Irish
Trip
Ind., Oct. 8.—The
West Lafayette,
By JACK VARLEY


£
I
1
56


£





Fighting Irish of Notre Dame tied the thirty-first knot in their undefeated string today by defeating the Boilermakers of Purdue, 35-12, before a capacity crowd of 52,000 here at Purdue’s Ross-Ade Stadium.
It was a great day for Emil Sitko as the redhaired fullback scampered for the first three Irish touchdowns. Taking over on the ND six after a first period Purdue drive, Sitko picked up 13 yards, but an illegal use of the hands penalty carried the ball back to the Irish four. Then halfback Frank Spaniel exploded through the Purdue eleven, racing 55 yards to the Purdue 41. The shocked Boilermakers had little time to gain their composure for on the next play Sitko broke away for 41 yards and six points. Extra point specialist Steve Oracko made the conversion and Notre Dame led, 7-0.
In the closing minutes of the first period, Purdue punted to the Notre Dame 42 and the Irish were on the march again. Larry Coutre and Sitko combined to run the pigskin to the Purdue 48 from which Coutre scampered to the Boilermaker nine to end the first period.
Coutre picked up five and Sitko catapulted the remaining four yards for the second Irish TD. Oracko split the uprights and Notre Dame led, 14-0.
Oracko kicked off and Purdue drove to the Irish 33, only to have their march halted by an Adams fumble with John Petitbon recovering. ND was off again. Coutre, Spaniel, Williams and Leon Hart combined to hammer their way down to the Purdue nine from which Sitko drove for his third six-pointer of the afternoon. Again Oracko’s kick was good.
Late in the second period Williams punted to the Purdue 28 from which
Adams returned the ball to the 45. Gor-gal then faded and passed, but it was a green-shirted lad, Bill Gay, who snatched the ball and ran 61 yards for the Purdue goal. Oracko’s kick was again good and the Fighting Irish led 28-0 at the half.
Another interception led to another Irish touchdown in the third period when Gorgal passed from the Irish 18. Johnny
Helwig intercepted and ran to the due’s 46. Williams passed to Jim scheller to place the ball on the due 34. Jack Landry and Barrett
Pur-Mut-
Pur-com-
bined to carry it to the six from where Barrett scored. Oracko converted and the South Bend lads led, 35-0.
Purdue's linebackers find that downing Fullback Mike Swistowicz isn't an easy job.
The Scholastic
y .y 5A

The Boilermakers didn’t get their machinery operating until the last period. Starting on their own 35 the gallants of “Stu” Holcomb, led by Szulborski and Bob Hartman, drove to the Irish four. Two plays later, Kerestes smashed through for the score.
With more incentive than they had previously displayed in the whole game, the Boilermakers were again on the move. Taking the ball on their own two Adams and Kerestes drove to the nine. Then Bill Skowron, on a fake punt, ran to the Irish 31. With an overwhelming thirst for another score, Kerestes and Adams pounded the Irish forward wall until the ball lay on the Notre Dame 15 yard marker. Szulborski then went the remaining yardage to score the last points of the afternoon.


I.**
32
Tulane Routed 46-7
By HARRY MONAHAN
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 15.—The big
Coutre dances; Tulane man grabs air.
There's plenty of blocking ahead as
six more moments left end, Williams
Coutre and took back Bill Bonar
a pass from quarter-to score on a 76-yard
“From the first ringing impact of knuckle upon nose . . . this Saturday’s No. 1 spectacle was one-sided as an election in Moscow.”—Walter Stewart, Memphis “Commercial Appeal.”
Green ripple Dame 58,186 Dame
ing, scampered 81 yards for points. What seemed but later, Bill Wightkin, Irish caught a looping pass from
Wave from Dixie became a little in a big pond today as Notre crushed Tulane, 46-7, before spectators crammed in Notre stadium. Tulane showed oply
•r*.
I
one spark of life — a 76-yard scoring pass play to open the second half; the other 59 minutes of the game were all Irish.
Larry “Scooter” Coutre struck the Green Wave like a red-haired lightning bolt, not twice, but three times in the first ten minutes of the game to start the overpowering Notre Dame scoring. Right halfback Frank Spaniel took a 38-yard pass from quarterback Bob Williams to give the Irish a 27-0 lead at the end of the first quarter.
A short 14-yard dash through center by Coutre scored the first of seven Irish touchdowns. A few minutes later the elusive little speedster took a pitch-out from Williams on the Notre Dame 19-yard line and, behind perfect block-

that was good to the Tulane two-yard line from where Coutre plowed through center for his third tally.
A second quarter exchange of punts gave Notre Dame the ball on their own 20. Williams put together- a 19-yard bootleg run of his own and a 44-yard pass to Wightkin with runs by Bill Gay and Bill Barrett to reach the Tulane 20. Right end Leon Hart reached high in the end zone to grab another Williams pass and Notre Dame was ahead 33-0 at halftime.
The Southerners tried to get back in the game as the second half opened. Tulane halfback George Kinek eluded
sideline dash. Euel Davis’ placement was good.
Passes to Hart and Wightkin and another bootleg run by Williams sparked Notre Dame’s return of the Tulane kick-off and Spaniel went 11 yards over right tackle for another touchdown.
Neither team was able to get a drive started in the rest of the third quarter-. A Tulane punt gave Notre Dame the ball on the Irish 39-yard line as the third quarter ended. ND 40, Tulane 7.
As the last period began, Barrett hit the line for two yards. On the next play he found a hole over his own left tackle, shot into the Green Wave secondary, reversed his field to the right sideline and, escorted by his roommate, halfback John Petitbon, raced 59 yards for the last Irish touchdown. Petitbon,
a New Orleans lad, cleared the last Tulane defender from Billy’s path with a tremendous block on the Green Wave 10-yard line.
While he missed the placement following Barrett’s touchdown, Steve Oracko did split the uprights on four of his seven attempts.
Coach Frank Leahy cleaned the Irish bench as he used 55 players in what he had predicted would be “the toughest game” since he took over the Notre Dame coaching reins in 1941.
As the game which was supposed to pit the two foremost candidates for the national championship, it was a disappointing contest. For a demonstration of the Leahy brand of perfection in football it was a thriller for the first half.
In that first 30 minutes of the game the Irish could do no wrong. Their blocks were hard and right, the Irish backs found the holes opening wide for long ground gaining gallops and the Tulane ground attack was stopped cold. Tulane’s All-American fullback candidate Eddie Price only gained 26 yards all afternoon (Coutre netted 101 yards on only four attempts), while the Green Wave ended up with a minus 23 yards gained on the ground.
Bob Williams made an impressive bid to become a dark horse candidate for 1949 All-America honors as he gave Tulane the full triple threat treatment. He completed eight of 11 passes (two for touchdowns), his two punts averaged 40 yards, and he kept two scoring drives alive with his running. His direction of the Notre Dame offensive strategy was flawless.
All-America fullback Emil Sitko goes through for a big gain in the first quarter stampede.

Middies Downed 40-0
By JACK JANOWSKI
Baltimore, Md., Oct. 29.—Not even a soggy playing field could interfere with Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish footballers as they trounced a gallant Navy team 40-0 this overcast afternoon, and the 62,413 spectators that jammed Babe Huth Stadium witnessed precision football, ND style.
Today’s win over the future admirals by the Leahy-led legions gives the Irish team an undefeated string of 33 games in a row, setting a new modern collegiate record for consecutive games without a loss.
Head Coach Frank Leahy almost missed the game because of illness, but 30 minutes before game time he was in the driver’s seat of the Irish football machine thanks to the private plane of volunteer coach Fred Miller that brought Leahy from South Bend.
Quarterback Williams, performing before a home town crowd, engineered the Notre Dame powerhouse to a touchdown as soon as it got the ball. Four and one-half minutes after the kick-off, Williams tossed a 23-yard aerial to Ernie Zalejski, South Bend speedster and surprise starting lefthalfback, who took it in the clear on the Navy 25 and scooted over for the first Irish score. Steve Oracko converted to put Notre Dame ahead early in the game, 7-0.
Navy received the Notre Dame kickoff and pushed from their own 40 with short gains to the Irish 18-yard line before surrendering the ball. When the
Irish took over it looked like another scoring drive as Larry Coutre gathered in a long Williams pass on the Navy 40 and ran to the 26 before being stopped. A stubborn Middie line held the Notre Dame machine momentarily and took over- on their 23 as the quarter ended.
Navy once more drove deep into ND territory without success as the second quarter began. The Irish halted the scoring threat on their own 14 and proceeded from there to score again. After losing five yards, Coutre tore through Navy’s tackle and sprinted 91 yards for Notre Dame’s second touchdown. Oracko’s try for the extra point was good.
A few plays later, Emil “Red” Sitko fought his way through a galaxy of Navy defenders for 44 yards to the Navy 25-yard line. It was Sitko again, scoring on a 16-yard hurdle-plunge straight down the middle. Oracko kicked his third extra point of the day and sent the Irish ahead, 21-0.
The Middies failed to get their touchdown fleet underway, so the Irish started goalward again from the Navy 46. Two Williams passes in a row were snagged by Zalejski who took the second toss to score for Notre Dame. Oracko’s try for the point failed and the half ended with ND ahead 27-0.
With Notre Dame’s second and third stringers seeing most of the action in the last half, the Irish “all-the-way” methods slowed down but failed to come to a halt. Notre Dame didn’t
Ernie Zalejski scores on Williams pass.
throw a forward pass in the final half and the ND subs got a chance to show their strength.
Early in the third period a 54-yard Irish offensive drive was climaxed by a 14-yard scoring dash by fullback Jack Landry. John Petitbon, sophomore Irish defensive ace, tried his hand at extra point kicking but failed. Notre Dame 33, Navy 0.
Ernie Zalejski became the star of the game when he sprinted 76 yards off the Navy tackle to register his third touchdown of the day. Sophomore Billy Barrett threw the key block that sent Zalejski to pay dirt. Oracko made the conversion and the score stood at 40-0 until the final whistle.
§
Landry runs — another ND touchdown.
Steve Oracko converts with Bob Williams holding. McGehee (74) and Hart (82) block.
36
The Scholastic
Irish Stop Spartans, Chandnois
East Lansing, Mich., Nov. 5.—The mighty Irish of Notre Dame parlayed the number 34 into a double victory here this afternoon at Macklin Stadium, rolling over Michigan State, 34-21, for their 34th straight game without a loss. Bob Williams, 19-year-old magician masquerading as a quarterback, did tricks for the benefit of 51,277 people sitting in on the proceedings. He completed 13 of 16 passes for 178 yards, three for two touchdowns, ran 40 yards for another, put State in a hole twice with booming punts and called plays perfectly.
Michigan State received the kickoff and got into Notre Dame’s hair almost immediately. After an exchange of punts, State, with Grandelius as the spearhead, pushed to the Irish 31. An Al Dorow to Dorn Dibble pass put the ball on the seven, and Chandnois slashed to the two. On the next play, fullback Jim Blenk-horn hit the middle and got nowhere. He tried it again and did even worse this time. He fumbled, and the ever-present Leon Hart recovered on the two.
By RAY FITZGERALD
the count, and they just did beat the clock. Highlights of the 89 yard march were a pass from Williams from his own end zone, and a jump-pass by the same gentleman when it was fourth down and two on State’s 43. Bill Wightkin, the receiver, got much more than the needed two yards. He went all the way to the State 22. Emil Sitko and Coutre ground out the rest of the yardage, with Coutre burrowing for the TD. Oracko did his chore, and it was 14-7, at halftime.
Notre Dame never did give up the ball after the second half kickoff. In 8 plays they went 79 yards, and widened the gap to 20-7. With the ball on the State 40, Williams and Sitko started off on one of their “here, you take the ball” jaunts around end. This time Williams faked the lateral to Sitko, and ran 40 yards for a touchdown.
With 23 seconds of the last quarter gone and the ball on the Spartan 12, Sit
ko burst through tackle, faked Chandnois into Row 35 of the Stadium, and waltzed across for the fourth touchdown.
Old man opportunity knocked once more shortly after, and ND opened the door to its fifth touchdown. Michigan State gambled and lost on fourth down from its own 36 and Williams took over. He threw one to Wightkin, and then pitched a scoring toss to Hart.
The over-relaxed Irish soon had a couple of touchdowns thrown in their face by the always trying Spartans. Gene Glick tossed a short pass to Chandnois who ran 83 yards down the sidelines, before John “Ten Second” Petit-bon caught up with him and threw him off stride. Spaniel caught up to the stumbling Chandnois then and pushed him out of bounds—in the Notre Dame six. Glick threw a touchdown pass to Carey on the next play.
Michigan State scored again, shortly before the final gun, after Williams had tried unsuccessfully to complete a fourth down pass from his own 45.
Notre Dame got out of this jam, traded intercepted passes with the Spartans, and then Williams got his first chance to shine. He punted from his own 46, and the ball stopped dead on the enemy four. Bill Gay took the return kick back 25 yards, behind fine blocking, to the Spartan 24. Larry Coutre picked up five, and Williams once more went into the magician’s act. He threw to Ernie Zalejski on the four, and Ernie, all by himself there, trotted over for the score. Steve Oracko converted, and ND led, early in the second quarter.
Williams astonished everyone later in the period by fumbling on his own five, and Coleman recovered for State. Two plays later, Grandelius turned his back to the scrimmage line, and jumped into the end zone for the score. George Smith hurried in, and booted the equalizer.
Notre Dame stormed back to unknot
An Irish reception committee greets Spartan Ev Grandelius on the ND two-yard line.
Dec. 9, 1949
37
Emil Sitko plows through hole during North Carolina game as Billy Hayes (47) throws a long one just in time as Jim Martin 67,000 excited New Yorkers watched Irish play the Tarheels. (38) rushes through North Carolina line. The Irish won, 42-6.

£
New York Sees 42-6 ND Victory
&
By BILL RILEY
I
New York City, Nov. 12.—For three quarters this afternoon an inspired North Carolina team pulled off heroics that equalled the efforts of the little Dutch boy who held back the sea with his thumb in the dike. But the 67,000 persons who had jammed mammoth Yankee Stadium saw the dike finally break in the third quarter as Bob Williams & Co. rushed down the field in an 85-yard march and then swamped the Carolinians in the final period to win, 42-6.
The Justice-less Tarheels primed their defense to stop Williams’ deadly passes, and they succeeded for half the game. But Billy Barrett, Leon Hart and Frank Spaniel shook wearying Carolina defenders in the third and final quarter; the Irish passing attack looked as awesomely efficient as in the Michigan State game.	-......... -	•
Before Williams, Barrett, et al., put on their show, North Carolina challenged the Irish more vigorously than had any other team thus far this season. While the stadium was still partially unfilled, with less than three minutes of the game gone, Tarheel end Kenny Powell crashed the Notre Dame line and smothered Williams’ attempted kick from the Irish ten-yard line. Dick Bunting, a tremendous tailback who shouldn’t Da playing second string to anyone, carried twice for five yards a time, and a score.
Notre Dame came back, but only to midfield or so, and Carolina again took
over. A penalty nullified a second Tarheel score, and the fireworks began. Frank Spaniel took off from his own 22 and, with brilliant blocking, went all the way, 78 yards for the first Notre Dame touchdown. The Tarheels blocked their second kick in fifteen minutes and the score remained 6-6 at the half.
By midway in the third quarter a galaxy of stars bright enough to illuminate this gray November day had pounced on a break and turned it into the first of five second half scores. Notre Dame got a tremendous break when a fourth down roughing-the-kicker penalty gave them a free first down. The Irish began
“Notre Danie was more incredible than ever while.fulfillinguts-commitment with a king-size stomping of North Carolina yesterday afternoon.” — Lewis Burton, New York Journal-American.”
to march. The touchdown came when Williams passed to Leon Hart who, while carrying a half-dozen Carolinians on his back, lateraled the ball to pint-sized Billy Barrett. The fast Chicagoan dashed the rest of the way to a score.
Notre Dame picked up two more points as Hart grabbed and then muffed a fumble by Bunting and recovered in the North Carolina end zone.
It was the fourth quarter which saw the full flood of Irish power wash over the Tarheels. Williams threw 11 yards to Spaniel for the first fourth period touchdown. And Williams threw 29 yards to Barrett for the second. In the interval Williams completed at least three passes more to fire the Irish march.
Mike Swistowicz, not designed foi’ broken field running, went straight down the sidelines for a score after intercepting a Tarheel pass on his own 15. Irish blockers knocked off potential tacklers who blocked Swistowicz’ way with the calmness and precision of skilled skeet shooters picking off clay pigeons.
Barrett scored the final touchdown of the game on a catch of an 18-yard pass from Johnny Mazur, Williams’ replacement at quarterback. Steve Oracko set up the score by recovering a Carolina fumble on the Tarheel 23.

Bunting, Billy Hayes, Iru Holdash, Powell and Art Weiner all played inspired ball for Carolina. For most of the first half the Tarheel line was over and through the Irish forward wall. But the second half told the story—North Carolina had a net minus of five yards on the ground. Altogether the statistics are not enough to praise the valiant fight •that the Tarheels waged without the help of their ace, Charlie Justice. However, they showed once again the mighty power of Frank Leahy’s great Green machine.


38
The Scholastic
Hawkeyes Lose 28-7
By JACK ECONOMOU
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 19.—For 39 minutes and ten seconds of a gruelling gridiron battle, the Iowa Hawkeyes fought valiantly to revive their jinx of a decade ago over the Irish of Notre Dame. Then, mercilessly shattering the illusion, the Leahymen drove 95 yards to pay dirt in the third quarter and finally won out, 28-7.
The 56,790 fans were hardly seated when the Irish, with ridiculous ease, notched their first touchdown. Within
four minutes after the opening whistle, Bill Gay recovered a Hawkeye fumble on the Iowa 32. After running plays ate up 12 yards, Bob Williams lofted a high aerial to Frank Spaniel in the end zone. Steve Oracko kicked and Williams held on the first of four successful conversions. The crowd settled back to witness the expected rout.
The rest of the quarter, however, turned into a punting duel as both squads were hampered by fumbles and penalties. Early in the second quarter, Louis Ginsberg, Hawkeye tackle, pounced upon a Williams fumble. Three running plays, one a 33-yard effort by Jerry Faske, put the lowans on the Irish five. Then, Glen Drahn jump-passed to Bob McKenzie for the touchdown and Don Commack’s conversion tied it up. People began to wonder about this futility of the Irish.
Shortly before half time, ND capitalized on another break to again forge ahead. A Drahn punt, partially blocked by Leon Hart, bounced out on the visitors’ 22 yard stripe. Williams and Hart teamed on a pass for 14 yards and seconds latex- bouncing Billy Barrett scam
pered around left end for eight yards and an intermission lead of 14-7.
Defensive prowess and offensive futility marked the greater part of the third quarter. However, a clipping penalty that set them back to their own five, actually ignited the Irish. With sudden fury, they moved 95 yards to score. Williams passed to Frank Spaniel from the shadows of the goal posts and the ball was out to the Iowa 41. Fourteen plays later, Spaniel rammed into the Hawk
eye line fox- the six points which obliterated any Iowa hopes for an upset.
Faced with the possibility of being held to theix- lowest score of the year, the Irish decided to widen the margin. With 45 seconds to play, Williams found Hart in the end zone and the huge crowd slowly filed out shaking their heads ovex-the second-half Notre Dame power.
Unlike in previous games, no one Irish back came out as the offensive star. Instead today’s laurels went to fleet-footed John Petitbon, the standard Irish safety man. Three times the 18-year-old sophomore caught Iowa backs from behind to prevent scores. He was superlative on pass defense, too.
Offensively, the Irish paraded an array of speedy ball-carriers. Barrett, Sit-ko, Spaniel and Hart played their usual fine game, but it was definitely Bob Williams’ day. Completing 11 of 21 attempts, Bob surpassed Angelo Bertelli’s existing record fox- total yards gained through the air. Grantland Rice labelled Bob’s signal-calling the best he’d seen. Bob also held the lowans at bay with his long-range punting.
John Petitbon breaks up Hawkeye pass.
The Hawkeyes, for all their spirited battling, were powerless when scoring opportunities beckoned. Three times in the first half their offense stalled within the ND 15-yard line. Nevertheless, they held the statistical edge at halftime, doubling the Irish rashing output of 55 yards.	,
The ND pass defense tightened when it had to and, as a result, the Hawkeye aerial game didn’t amount to much.
One of the lighter moments of the game occurred in the third quarter when Emil Sitko had his jersey ripped off. They gave him the unfamiliar number 66 to wear-, but a few minutes later a new number 14 was brought out. The then-contented Sitko proceeded to make more trouble for Iowa.
In capturing their eighth victory of the season and their fifth consecutive from Eddie Anderson’s crew, the Irish gave the Hawkeyes their fifth setback of the fall. ND’s Fred. Wallner was injured and it is feared his action in the final two games might be limited.
Dec. 9, 1949
39
maaMi
So. Cal Defeated 32-0
0
quarter
with a clear field ahead of him.
could
Frank
in the quarter
Dame had 13 points when the ended.
Making his first appearance Irish backfield in the second
be attributed to one man—Coach Leahy.
Hart added more power to a third touchdown drive. With the ball on USC’s 11 after a fumbled punt and a 19-yard jaunt by Billy Barrett, he lined up at
The Fighting Irish realized this. They A realized too that most of their greatness
By VIC DORR
u
“Make mistakes against the average team, and you’re in trouble. Make mistakes against Notre Dame and it’s suicide . . . even a perfect team couldn’t have turned back this great Irish squad.”—Braven Dyer, Los Angeles “Times.”
Powers grimaces as Hart rushes through.
Notre Dame, Ind. Nov. 26.—Playing the- kind of football that makes them the greatest team in the nation, Frank Leahy’s Fighting Irish methodically punched out their ninth win of the season today—an impressive 32-0 triumph over a scrappy Southern California squad.
Frigid November winds kept 57,214 spectators shivering throughout the game, but the Irish heated up quickly as they slammed across two touchdowns in the first quarter then cruised confidently to victory, adding scores in each period along the way.
This 21st game between the two schools saw the Trojans take their worst licking from Notre Dame; it saw ND honor the famed Four Horsemen team of 1924, and it saw the Irish extend their awesome string to 37 games without defeat. Besides that, it saw All-American Leon Hart switched from end to fullback with devastating effect on the men of Troy.
Twelve minutes of a chilled first quarter elapsed before Irish anti-freeze took effect. Then, with a third down on the Trojan 40-yard-line, Bob Williams fired a long pass to Hart, who calmly stepped
across the goal line for the score. Oracko’s kick was good. The second Irish touchdown came so quick it must have made the Trojans dizzy. Ninety seconds after the kickoff, John Petitbon, ND’s fleet sophomore safety man, plucked one of Jimmy Powers’ passes from the sky and sprinted 43 yards down the sidelines for the score. USC’s Bill Jessup blocked Oracko’s kick, but Notre
fullback to the complete amazement of Trojans, fans and press alike. When the pile-up was untangled, Leon had plowed through to the four. Hart was again in the backfield on the very next play, but Williams handed off instead to Emil Sit-ko, who skirted his left end for the touchdown. Steve Oracko’s try for point was blocked again.
Soon after the third quarter opened the Irish scored once more. This time they launched a drive that carried 60 yards in 12 plays for the tally. The march included fancy gains by Bill Wightkin, Sitko, Hart and Larry Cou-tre. Finally Frank Spaniel sliced off tackle for two yards and the score. Oracko’s placement try was wide.
A Williams to Barrett heave for 32 yards set up the final touchdown early in the fourth period. Hart, running again from fullback, powered the ball to the USC 15. Ernie Zalejski, displaying good speed and deception, made it to the six. Then Barrett churned over the goal line in two tries. Notre Dame wourd up its scoring for the day as Oracko made his last kick good.
Coach Jeff Cravath’s Trojans fought a gallant game, but the outcome never was in doubt. The only serious threat US.C. could muster came in the third quarter when a 39-yard pass from Bill Powers to Don Stillwell placed the ball on the Irish 15. But ND held for downs and put a stop to it.
Southern California found their running futile against a superb Irish line. Fine defensive play by Hart, Jim Martin, Bob Lally, Jerry Groom, Paul Burns and Johnny Helwig kept Trojan runners at bay all afternoon and USC rushing was limited to 17 sparse yards. Troy’s heralded Dean Schneider-Powers passing attack proved more formidable, however. Despite the bitter cold which obviously stiffened the fingers of all flankmen, Southern Cal completed 20 out of 36 tosses for 148 yards. Williams connected on seven of 23 for 112 yards.
But the Irish had power to spareND’s hard-charging backfield amassed a total of 316 yards. The Pacific Coast boys put up a strong fight but never came close to matching Irish strength. This was a decisive victory foi' Notre Dame, the kind of victory that left little doubt about which team was the nation’s best.
Spaniel cuts sharply and finds Trojan tackler awaiting him. Sitko sets off for long gain










SMU tacklers encircle Coutre and stop him for one yard gain. Bill Wightkin gets behind Rote to take pass and score first TD.
e Irish Take 10th after SMU Scare
Dallas, Texas, Dec. 3.—Mighty Notre Dame battled against Southern Methodist for its championship life today, and, like a champion, it won.
Powering 56 yards on the ground to break a 20-all fourth period tie and then stand off a furious Mustang drive on their own four-yard line, the Irish defeated SMU, 27-20, in the biggest thriller of the 1949 season.
The 75,428 who sat in the drizzling rain at the Cotton Bowl here expected Coach Frank Leahy’s team to roll to an easy win. Instead, they saw Matty Bell’s aroused Texans give Notre Dame its toughest contest in an unbeaten string that now stands at 38 games. Notre Dame has gone four consecutive seasons without losing and Coach Leahy’s record stands at 60 wins, three losses and five ties.
When the Kyle Rote-led Mustangs tied the score at 20-20, there were less than ten minutes to play. Left half Frank Spaniel ran the kickoff back all the way to the ND 46. Emil Sitko, All-American senior, and soph star, Bill Barrett, took the ball to the 26 in five plays. Then, another All-American, end Leon Hart, moved to the fullback post and slammed to the 20. Barrett followed with six yards. Bill Gay with six more and Barrett with another two. The SMU Jine couldn’t hold the ND backs and Barrett swung wide on the next play, chugged for the corner and went over. Steve Oracko’s third conversion practically assured the Irish of at least a tie.
But SMU hadn’t given up all afternoon and they didn’t this time either. Rote ran and passed the Texans to the ND 28. Kyle was momentarily hurt, but Fred Benners came in and threw to H. R. Russell on the five. Here the great Irish line held, and Rote’s fourth down jump-pass was grabbed by both Jerry Groom and Bob Lally, two tremendous
Dec. 9, 1949
By RALPH WRIGHT
line backers all afternoon. The Irish moved out of danger, punted and the game ended shortly thereafter.
The first half was a tea party compared to the second 30 minutes. Both Notre Dame’s first half scores came on Williams passes. One went to Bill Wightkin who got behind Rote, caught . the pass and ran 10 more yards to complete a 42 yard play. The other TD pass
“Notre Dame met their match in Rote and Southern Methodist but fought back in champion style to a hard-earned victory.”— Paul Neville, South Bend “Tribune.”
was caught by Ernie Zalejski on a play that started from the SMU 35. An opponent reflected the ball, but Ernie was behind him and caught it in the end zone.
John Petitbon set up the first scoring drive by intercepting a pass on his 27. Gay started the second by spearing another stray Mustang pass and running 20 yards to the home team’s 35.
SMU’s only first half threat was Rote.
After ND’s first touchdown, sawed-off Johnny Champion threw to end Zohn Milam for 78 yards and a first down on the six. However, four Rote rushes at the line left SMU a foot shy.
If the first half was like a tea party, the second half resembled a barroom brawl. Notre Dame’s attack looked sharp and twice they marched toward the SMU only to lose the ball on Zalejski fumbles —once on the 12 and once on the 38. The second muff gave the Mustangs the life needed.
Rote, now running like a madman, streaked for 18, then for 23 more. Then he handed off to little Champion who
squirmed all the way to the- three-yard line. Rote hit the line for one and followed with a touchdown plunge.
ND crossed the goal again in a hurry. Soph Jim Mutscheller intercepted Rote’s toss on the 22 and, in four plays, the Irish were on the three. Barrett made the first of his game-winning touchdowns by jamming through right tackle.
Less than a minute later, Champion ran a Rote pass all the way to the ND one and hard-running Kyle smashed over
A 15-yard penalty pushed the Irish back to their one-yard line shortly after the kickoff, and Bill Richards ran Williams’ punt down on the 14. In three f/ays, Rote bounded into the end zone for the third time. Bill Sullivan, who kicked the first two extra points, booted again, but Groom burst through to block the attempt and keep SMU from going ahead.
This afternoon there were heroes all over the place. ND’s whole line, especially Hart, Groom and Lally did a tremendous job. In the defensive backfield, Petitbon was sensational until he had to leave the game with injuries. On offense, Bob Williams connected on 11 passes to break an ND record for passes completed in one season—83. And Barrett, Larry Coutre, Sitko, Spaniel and Hart stood out among the ball-carriers.
Grover Walker, Franklin and I. D. Russell played their hearts out for the Mustang defensive unit, but the man of the hour was Rote. The 190-pound San Antonio junior ran for 115 yards on the ground and passed for 168 more. The injured All-American, Doak Walker, couldn’t have been better—it was impossible.
These Irish won this season with nonchalance, but, when they had to fight, they did. They’re the Fighting Irish and they’re still winning.
41
Bob and Anita Galvin "Huddle-ize."
A Williams Weekend
Football Saturdays Are Special Events For the ND All-American Quarterback
By KEN THOREN

Quarterback's parents take campus tour.
The excitement of a Notre Dame football weekend starts for Bob Williams, as with all other students, on Friday afternoon. A football weekend for a football player, however, runs a different course.
Bob’s roommate, basketball star Marty O’Connor, generally brings Red Sitko back to their room in Cavanaugh Hall after the one o’clock class on Friday. Then until practice time, the three of them shoot the breeze about the preceding week’s game and what the prospects are for Saturday’s battle. Sitko and Bob start for the dressing room in the stadium a little after- three. Bob said, “It’s during that Friday afternoon practice that I know whether or not the team is ‘up’ for the game. You can just sense it.”
After practice, chow comes next. Then either a quarterback meeting with Coach Leahy, or else the pep rally. Bob said, “It’s during the rally that the team can feel whether or not the student body is ‘up’ for the game. It’s like electricity. You can feel it running through everyone. Like the night before the Tulane game—it was the hottest that night of all the rallies.”
After the rally it’s back to the room for him. He answers some of his fan mail before hitting the sack at about 10 o’clock. He gets, on the average, about 50 letters a week. The majority of them are from kids throughout the country, asking for everything from his autograph to his helmet.
All the players are excused from Saturday morning classes. Bob gets up about 8:30, dresses and heads for 9 o’clock Mass in the Dillon Hall chapel. A hearty breakfast follows that. The menu includes steak, baked potatoes, orange juice, oatmeal, toast, one glass of milk, tea and an apple.
Bob’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Harold A. Williams, are his No. 1 fans. They travel out to Notre Dame from Baltimore every football weekend. Sometimes Bob’s steady girl, Anita Galvin, comes out with them. The star quarterback spends the rest of the morning with them and then heads for the stadium about an hour and a quarter before game time.
He dresses as soon as he gets there and then, along with the rest of the team, lies down on large mats for a short rest. Forty minutes before the opening whistle the team goes out on the field for a warm-up. “I always get nervous during this period of warm-up, but when we go out the second time, for the game, itself, I forget my jitters and feel all right.”
Coach Leahy never talks to the squad until a few minutes before the game starts. Then he “usually outlines some defensive strategy, gives a short pep talk and announces the starting defensive and offensive line-up.”
Just before the game starts the entire team and all the coaches get in a huddle
Williams and Mazur tensely watch game.
With roommate and net star Marty O'Connor, Bob reads writeup of Saturday's game
and say a Hail Mary. They pray that no one, on either side, will get injured. Then the whistle, the kick-off and the game is on.
“I don’t know about the other fellows,” Bob said, “but I never hear the roaring crowds. I sense them, especially the student section, but I don’t think I ever actually hear them. For me it’s like a scrimmage out on Cartier. A ton of dynamite could go off and I probably wouldn’t hear it.”
Bob has been acclaimed from all corners for the work he has done this year on the gridiron. Speaking about him to one reporter, Coach Leahy said: “Take Bob Williams, for instance. Most people regard him only as a great quarterback. But he is the best tackler and defensive back on the entire squad, as versatile and as finished a performer as Johnny Lujack was.” Ace sportswriter Red Smith wrote a few weeks back that “Williams is in the great tradition of Notre Dame quarterbacks. A successor in the direct line of Red Salmon, Harry Stuhldreher, Frank Carideo, Angelo Ber-telli and Johnny Lujack.”
Bob has tallied high on the annual All-American polls. Perhaps the biggest single honor was the announcement by United Press that he had been named Back of the Year. He also placed on the UP’s first All-American team and on the 2nd AP team. Time magazine put him on their consensus All-American. And he came out fifth in the voting for the coveted Heisman Memorial Trophy.
The much-honored quarterback is affable but not gregarious. He can’t remember either faces or names and is often afraid that his forgetfulness will be misunderstood as snobbery. The other day he was standing with a friend in the Huddle. As classmates and acquaintances passed by, Bob was forced to rely upon his companion for their names.
On the field Bob displays that same relaxed poise that his friends know so well outside of the stadium. When questioned about his habit of jogging his hand up and down in the air while calling the plays, Bob said, “You know, I’m not conscious of that at all. Sometimes I toss up some grass to see which way the wind is blowing, but generally I guess it’s just a habit I’ve acquired.”
At half-time oranges are handed out to the players. Backfield Coach Bernie Crimmins preps the quarterbacks on what is working and what isn’t. Coach Leahy circulates throughout the resting players, too, telling them what they’re doing wrong. Then, just before they return to the field, he gives them a pep talk and announces the second half starting line-up.
Once the game is over the squad heads back for the locker room and hot showers. Before long the place is jammed with sportswriters, alumni and a few high school players who have been invited up for the weekend to look over the campus.
As soon as Bob is dressed he goes out to meet his parents. Then with center Jerry Groom and his parents, who come from Des Moines, Iowa, for every home game, Bob and his mother and father all go out for supper.
“After eating,” Bob said, “we replay the game at least ten times. I get tired early, so I generally come back to school about 9:30.1 get a good night’s sleep and then go to 8 o’clock Mass with the folks. We go down to the Oliver for breakfast and then read all the papers. We either talk or walk around town until it’s time for them to catch their- train home.”
Bob comes back and sleeps Sunday afternoon until time for dinner. That night he said he “studies like a dog, try
ing to catch up on some of my back work.” Bob is a junior in the Department of Journalism.
The weekend is over and everything begins to point to the next Saturday. In concluding the recap of his weekend, Bob said, “I guess it’s a lot different from those that the other fellows have. I can’t relax like them; can’t go to town Friday night, or much Saturday night, either. I don’t exactly regret it, though. My biggest thrill is being able to play football for Notre Dame. If that requires some restrictions then I guess I can only show my appreciation by obeying them. On the whole, there’s nothing like a football weekend at Notre Dame. Someday I’m going to come back and see what it’s all like from a spectator’s viewpoint.”
Bob attends Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel.
Bob, a junior journalism major, listens to a
lecture in an editing and writing class.
All-American goes for gain in MSC tilt.
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by Kalph Wright
Coach Leahy
The sportswriters made quite an issue out of the fact that the Notre Dame football players carried Coach Frank Leahy off the field after the Southern California game. It was the first time they could recall having seen Coach Leahy carried from the field.
That was a special occasion. In their last home game, the players showed the large crowd that they had appreciated the privilege of playing under Coach Leahy. They also wanted to show the old timers that they thought the present Notre Dame coach is the greatest of them all.
To suggest that Coach Leahy is the greatest coach of all time, especially at a school where Knute Rockne once coached, approaches football heresy. Yet it may be true. The respect (and actual fear) that opposing coaches have for him has never been equalled. Neither has his record—60 wins, three losses and five ties while at Notre Dame. Coach Leahy’s teams are so near perfection that one loss makes a season a failure. National championships, awards, All-Americans have become synonymous with Leahy football.
Coach Leahy has great material, but certainly other schools have as much. He has fine assistant coaches, but so do the others. It’s just that Coach Leahy is always a little (or a lot) ahead of the other fellow. His double-quarterback, resurrected “television huddle” and new punt formation are a few examples. How he can keep a team “up” so often is incredible; it’s hard to fire up a squad of boys who never lose. But he does it.
They can call Amos Alonzo Stagg the “grand old man of football” and Knute Rockne the greatest personality of the game. But, for sheer coaching genius, Frank Leahy is the man. And he happens to be one of the finest gentlemen you’ll ever meet too.
Leahy Football
Many coaches come out with the old line about not being able to win without the ball. Or “the other team can’t score when we have the ball.” Coach Leahy says these things and he means them. If there’s one thing characteristic of Leahy football, it’s the fact that it is offensive
football. Try to think of the time you’ve ever seen a Leahy team punt on third down or try a quick kick. They just don’t do it.
On the other hand, think of the times you have seen the Irish pass from behind their own goal. The times you’ve seen them run the ball on fourth down on their own side of the fifty. Some of the spectators were about to drop their false teeth when ND pulled that fourth down pass when deep in their own territory against North Carolina. They’d never seen anything like that.
The amazing thing about Notre Dame’s offensive football is the way it keeps improving. Coach Leahy’s mind never grows stagnant. Opposing coaches may think he’s about run out of scoring ideas, but they’re wrong if they do. There were a lot of fancy tricks and new scoring gimmicks tried out on the practice field, but not used in any of the games. Future opponents -will see many of them. In 1946, the Irish scored 271 points, in 1947 they got 301 and in 1948 the scoring totaled 320. This year ND made 360 points. It doesn’t seem possible that the 1950 team might surpass the point output of this year’s great team. Although, in view of the ever-improving offenses of ND squads, it might do just that.
When a coach changes his huddle to get five or so more plays a game, he’s offensive-minded. It’s good football to watch, though. And it’s also good football, period.
The Team
Most of the ND seniors finished their careers without meeting defeat. One boy never played on a losing team in high school or college. They represent just about the winningest bunch of college footballers of all time.
People are right when they praise a squad that proves to be a good loser. Yet, if you praise a good loser, you’ve got to praise this Notre Dame group a little more. It takes exceptional men to work so hard, to try so hard and to fight so hard that they never lose.
We’ve purposely avoided mentioning any one player’s name in this column. We like to think of the boys as a group, because, despite all of the “big names” on the roster, these 1949 Notre Dame boys were a TEAM.
All-Americans
ASSOCIATED PRESS
End Leon Hart Tackle Jim Martin Back Emil Sitko
UNITED PRESS
End Leon Hart Backs Emil Sitko Bob Williams
COLLIER’S
End Leon Hart Back Emil Sitko
LOOK MAGAZINE
End Leon Hart Backs Emil Sitko
Bob Williams
INS OFFENSIVE
End Leon Hart Back Emil Sitko
INS DEFENSIVE
End Leon Hart
NEA OFFENSIVE
End Leon Hart
NEA DEFENSIVE
Tackle Jim Martin
THE QUARTERBACK End Leon Hart Back Emil Sitko
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS End Leon Hart Backs Emil Sitko Bob Williams
NEW YORK SUN End Leon Hart Back Emil Sitko
CHICAGO TRIBUNE
End Leon Hart	"
Back Emil Sitko
INS MIDWEST First Team End Leon Hart Tackle Jim Martin Backs Larry Coutre Emil Sitko
Second Team Guard Bob Lally Back Bob Williams
CHICAGO TRIBUNE ALL-MIDWEST First Team
End Leon Hart Backs Emil Sitko Bob Williams
Third Team Tackle Jim Martin Guard Bob Lally
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS ALL-MIDWEST
Tackle Bob Toneff
44
The Scholastic
Statistics Prove ND Might
SCORING
Sitko 				TD 9	PAT 0	Points 54
Barrett				9	0	54
Spaniel ..				. 7	0	42
Coutre -				. 7	0	42
Oracko -				0	38	38
Hart 					. 6	0	36
Zalejski				5	0	30
Swistowicz ....				2	0	12
Wightkin				2	0	12
Gay 					2	0	12
Landry ..				. 2	0	12
Williams				. 1	0	6
Petitbon				1	0	6
			——	—	——
		-	53	38	360*
includes	two safeties				
		PASSING			
			TD Yds.		
	Att.	Comp. Passes Passes Pct.			
Williams	147	83	It	i 1374 .565	
Mazur	5	2	2	1	36 .400	
Barrett	1	1	0	I	24 1.000	
Whiteside	1	0	0	1	1	0 .000
	—	—		• 				
	154	86	18	>	1434 .558	
TEAM STATISTICS
ft	10 Games
Notre Dame	Opponents
148	First Downs............... 110
2914	Yards Rushing ............ 864
1434	Yards Passing ........... 1332
154	Passes Attempted.......... 202
86	Passes Completed .......... 89
.558	Completion Average ....... 441
4348	Total Offense............ 2196
16	Ball Lost, Fumbles........	20
17	Passes Intercepted	By ...... 8
360	Total Points............... 86
RUSHING
-	Times	Yards	
	Carried	Gained	Awy.
Sitko 					 120	712	5.9
Coutre 			 102	645	6.3
Spaniel 	—		 80	496	6.2
Barrett 			 75	359	4.8
Zalejski 			 29	171	5.9
Landry 			 37	147	4.0
Hart 			 18	73	4.1
ft Cotter 				 16	64	4.0
Williams 			 34	63	1.9
Swistowicz ...		 11	53	4.8
Gander 			 10	52	5.2
Gay 			 14	47	3.4
Wightkin .....			3	14	4.7
McKillip 					 1	11	11.0
Bush 					2	11	5.5
Begley 				4	7	1.8
Dickson 			 2	3	1.5
Smith 			 1	3	1.0
Espenan 			 1	0	0.0
Mazur 				 2	0	0.0
Whiteside ........... 1	-8	-8.0
Petitbon ............ 3	-9	-3.0
566	2914	5.1
PASS-RECEIVING
Yards TD
Caught Gained Passes
Wightkin ...... 17	309	2
Coutre ........ 13	271	0
Hart .......... 19	257	5
Spaniel ....... 16	212	3
Zalejski ........ 5	151	4
Barrett ......... 6	125	3
Gay ............. 5	60	1
Mutscheller ..... 2	27	0
Sitko ........... 2	15	0
Flynn ........... 1	7	0
86	1434	18
PASS INTERCEPTION
Yards
Int. By Ret’cl.
Swistowicz ............. 1	84
Gay .................... 4	80
Petitbon ............... 3	62
Helwig ................. 1	41
Groom .................. 2	16
Mutscheller ............ 1	5
Cotter ................. 1	3
Whiteside .............. 1	3
Hamby .................. 1	2
Begley ................. 1	2
16	298
PUNTING
Williams 		Kicks 	 42	Yards 1621	Avg. 38.6
Barrett 			 8	344	43.0
Mazur 			 2	54	27.0
	52	2019	38.8
PUNT RETURNS
	Ret’d	Yards	Avg.
Gay 			 19	254	13.4
Spaniel 				3	32	10.7
Sitko 			 1	23	23.0
Begley 			 1	18	18.0
Cotter 			 1	13	13.0
Petitbon 				2	8	4.0
Williams 			 1	5	5.0
Barrett 			 1	0	0.0
Gander 			 1	0	0.0
	—	■ ■"	—
	30	353	11.8
KICKOFF RETURNS			
	Ret’d	Yards	Avg.
Sitko 					 4	89	22.5
Spaniel 			 5	70	14.0
Swistowicz 			 1	55	55.0
Coutre 			 4	48	12.0
Wightkin 			 3	30	10.0
Gay ________________ 1	24	24.0
Zalejski __________ 1.	23	23.0
Flynn ______________ 1	16	16.0
Barrett ------------ 1	8	8.0
Hart _______________ 1	8	8.0
*	22	371	16.9
FUMBLES RECOVERED
No. Recovered
Hart ------------- 3
Toneff ___________ 3
Flynn ------------ 2
Groom ------------ 1
Helwig ___________ 1
Petitbon _________ 1
Hamby ...--------- 1
Oracko ----------- 1
Gay -------------- 1
Mutscheller ______ 1
Barrett .........  1
16
1949 All-Opponent Team
Ends Art Weiner, North Carolina Jack Dittmer, Iowa
Tackles Dan Coleman, Michigan
Neal Franklin, Southern Meth.
Guards Ed Bagdon, Michigan State Don Mason, Michigan State
Center Joe Niekirk, North Carolina
Backs Nick Sebek, Indiana
*Kyle Rote, Southern Methodist Lynn Chandnois, Michigan State John Kerestes, Purdue
Best Opponent—Southern Methodist
* Only unanimous choice.
Photo Credits
The order of listing for those pages with pictures by more than one photographer is top to bottom and left to right in each row. Page 9 by Bruneau; 12 and 13 by Ferstel; 14 and 15 by Gorman; 16 by Harlan; 19, picture of Flynn by Gorman; 20 by Munger; 21—top two by Conerty, Munger and Harlan; 22 by Munger except picture of Mutscheller by Gorman; 23 by-Gorman, Munger, Gorman and McLaughlin; 24 by Conerty, Munger, Conerty and Munger; 25 by Munger except picture of Williams by Gorman; 26 by Munger (top) and Ferstel; 27 by Ferstel; 28 by McLaughlin; 29 by Munger; 31 by Acme; 32 and 33 by Murphy; 34 and 35 by Munger; 36 by McLaughlin; 37 by Munger; 38 by Murphy; 39 by Munger, McLaughlin and Ferstel; 41 by Associated Press and Acme; 42 by Gorman except bench shot by McLaughlin; 43 by Gorman except action by Munger; 46 by Gorman; 47 by Munger, McLaughlin and Munger; 49 by Brickson (top) and Munger; 50 by Bagby Studios .
45
Dec. 9, 1949
Bench coats engulf a student manager.
To that oft-quoted fixture of the American scene, Mr. Gus Fan, the words Notre Dame summon up a definite concept. It is a picture of men, superbly coached and magnificently conditioned, tackling hard, blocking sharply, running spectacularly, passing incredibly — it is a picture of a team. But to the same Gus Fan, the existence of another team is unknown or, at least, unappreciated. These are the men who attend to that myriad maze of detail which helps keep the Irish a cohesive, unencumbered unit. This is the team known as the managers.
Student Shopkeepers
By CHARLEY DULLEA
tier Field and in the stadium it is Jack’s lot to insure that the first-aid system moves smoothly, that the flow of helmets, footballs, mud cleats, and kick-off tees is uninterrupted, and that no “fifth downs” pop up on the indicator. Toss in oranges at half-time, visiting newsmen and coaches on weekends, and autograph-hounds perpetually, and it is quite apparent that this commerce senior is a very busy gentleman.
On away trips, Jack lives in a fitful daze, induced by equal parts of baksheesh to porters, vanishing halfbacks, and visions of stymied train connections. Little wonder that this year’s senior manager, when asked to name his biggest thrill, said, “I can’t exactly put my finger on it. It’s just that if a trip works out suc-cesfully, with no hitches, I feel the job’s accomplished.” And that, brother, is a mouthful.
A casual visitor to the fieldhouse some autumnal afternoon might surmise that another “St. Valentine’s Day Massacre” was in progress, judging from the rapid salvos issuing from a certain cubbyhole. In reality, within that nook is Associate Manager Don Lueck, wielding a smoking typewriter and bearing little resemblance to “Legs” Diamond. Holding the post of personnel manager, this son of Oak Harbor, Wash., oversees the reams upon
reams of paper work necessary to prevent the gridiron regiment’s routine from bogging- down.
Among his chief reasons for becoming a manager, says Don, was a love of typing. This is fortunate indeed, since all rosters, special messages, and faculty notifications pass through the hands of the personnel manager. It is Don who lets Herman Crossbuck know that he will make the jaunt to Mongoloid Teachers, while also informing the pedagogical corps that Herman will be absent from his Syrian ceramics seminar.
Down in the inner reaches of the stadium, enegetic Jim Funari, another commerce man, keeps house for a host of burnished shoulder pads, glistening helmets, and dusky moleskins. Obviously enough, his duty as Equipment Manager is to see that the squad has its gear when and where they want it. This simple statement is a large order, but one wellperformed by the Connellsville, Pa., neighbor of Johnny Lujack.
Foi- home games, his charge is relatively easy, despite the dressing of 56 men, since all apparatus is readily available. This includes a special shoe-cleaning device invented by Equipment Superintendent McAllister, Jim’s chief. However, trips present a different picture.
At Notre Dame there are some 70 student managers. Their work ranges from squiring a wardrobe of jerseys to changing the numerals in the scoreboard; from lugging the yardage chain to toting the time-honored water bucket. All are responsible to the coaches, to the business manager of athletics, and, primarily, to their directing triumvirate, in football, of one senior and two associate managers.
Presiding over this backstage brigade is Jack Finnegan, a part-time native of Los Angeles. In addition to the post of senior manager, which involves all university sports and in which he is aided by four other associates, Jack is head of football operations, this activity consuming the greater portion of his time.
From August, when the team arrives, until the football banquet marking the season’s close, Jack lives in a world of pigskin. One moment, he may be checking attendance at the squad’s1 daily meeting in the Law Building, and, the next, seeing that training table fare conforms with trainer Hughie Burns’ prolusions. Out on Car-
46
Band marks Indiana's entry into U.S. in Tulane half-time show. After snappy about-face, Hope-men parade over to Irish side.
Band and Cheerleaders Stir Irish Spirit
By LARRY McDERMOTT
Four times this year more than 56,000 fans jammed into Notre Dame Stadium to see a football game and all the sound and color that go with college football. They got their money’s worth.
Many times the Notre Dame Band ™ came marching tightly through the goal posts, then spreading wide as it moved down the field to give its show. These were 108 men, synchronized while marching, beating, tooting and blowing their their various instruments. Then during the games cheer leaders played the crowd like an organ directing crescendos of cheers and wringing rousing chants from the stands. Now, as far as football is concerned, they are done. The marching band will split into the varsity and concert bands, and the Irish cheering crew will work at basketball games during the winter.
The Notre Dame Band, cajoled and directed by H. Lee Hope, labored long and hard this year to turn out five successful half-time shows. They practiced two hours every class day since school began. Sometimes they practiced at night under Cartier Field’s floodlights. Sometimes they practiced in the mud. Then there A were times when snow covered line mark-w markers used to guide them in formations. Practice was useless in such cases. The weekend of the Southern California game the ND band trooped into the Stadium cold in more ways than one. But throughout the season their shows were excellent. Their Hoosier Heritage series this year brought rousing accolades of applause from appreciative crowds.
Besides the novel shuffle-step initiated this year in band formation, Director _ Hope’s aggregation came up with an
Dec. 9, 1949
other innovation: using a vocal quartette in half-time shows. Members of the Notre Dame Glee Club pulled this stunt for the first time at the Iowa game. Bob Ruetz, Jack Fitzhenry, Roy O’Neill and Jack Owens sang in pantomine before a dead mike while a record they cut was played over the public address system. The record was necessary because of a three-second time lag between microphone and loudspeakers. Without the record, band and singers could not coordinate, Director* Hope explained.
Notre Dame’s seven cheer leaders, chosen in rigid competitive tryouts before the season begins, are probably among the most unappreciated men on campus. Few students realize the work behind this crew, or the extraordinary effort necessary to coax yells out of a
Escorted by Shannon View Mike, Notre Dame's cheerleaders race in ahead of band.
student body used to winning football teams.
These men practice on an average of six hours a week to perfect their various cheers. They polish up calisthenics and tumbling, a major attraction along the sidelines. And they yell themselves hoarse at pep rallies and games. Theirs also is the job of taking Shannon View-Mike I, frisky Irish mascot through his paces over* hurdles. When they graduate they are awarded a ND monogram, but not until then.
Including head cheer leader Jim Mar-heine, there are three seniors on the 1949 yell squad; the others are Tom Lotze and Ralph Holmes. One junior, Dick Herrle, and three sophomores— Jack McGlinn, Mike Perino and Jack Wenning—fill out the roster.
47
Irish reserves try to head off Bill Barrett; five days a week the reserves play the best team in the nation — the ND varsity.
Bee Squad Bolsters Irish Varsity
By RALPH WRIGHT
Notre Danie’s reserve football players become the Notre Dame B team on the average of two times each fall. Otherwise, they’re the boys who work very hard out on Cartier Field every afternoon, but get little chance to play in the games. Next year it will be a different story for most of them; they’ll fill in the holes left by graduation and play a big part in varsity victories.
Notre Dame’s B squad had two games this year, both against the Purdue Bees, and, in each game, the Irish came from behind to win.
In a game at Notre Dame on Oct. 7, Quarterback George Dickson starred as ND outlasted the Boilermakers, 27-20. The game began in Cartier Field, but had to be moved to the Stadium because of the large crowd. After Purdue had taken a 13-7 halftime lead, sophomore fullback Jack Bush shook loose for a long TD gallop and Dickson hit Ray Jo-nardi for six more points. Purdue passed for a touchdown too, but, a moment later, Dickson went over standing up on a bootlegger; this play had the Boilermakers tackling everything but the goal posts. Joe Caprara, classy fullback from Turtle Creek, Pa. (Leon Hart’s hometown), did some excellent place-kicking in the game.
On Nov. 18, in Lafayette, the Irish won again, 13-7. Outstanding for ND were Guard Jim Dailer, Caprara and the passing combination of Dickson and sophomore Dave Koch. Purdue pulled the
48
ancient sleeper play on the first scrimmage and got away with it to lead, 7-0. In the second quarter, a Dickson-to-Koch pass, good for 40 yards, evened things up. Then, in the third quarter, Dickson’s passing and Caprara’s running put the ball in scoring position again. The score came when Dickson again hit Koch with a pass in the end zone. That was the ball game.
All of the reserve players aren’t exactly unknown. Boys like Leo McKillip and Jim Dailer have already seen quite a bit of varsity action. Last year, the speedy McKillip scored a touchdown against Pittsburgh and did enough ball-toting to earn a letter. Dailer, a chunky guard, got his monogram by looking good while subbing for people like Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell. Actually, most of the reserves saw action at some time or other this year.
A position-by-position run-down of the reserves reveals some real talent that will go on display the next year or two.
The B squad had some capable ends this season in Jack Connor, brother of All-American George; the aforementioned Koch and Jonardi; Bob Dolmetsch, a product of Chicago’s Leo High; Don Huml, held down by injuries most of the time so far; and Bob Kapish, a high school teammate of Bob Toneff’s while at Barberton, Ohio.
Five-ten and 195 pounds, husky John Zancha, another Chicagoan, stood out
among the tackles. Some other good ones were Jack Daut, Jim Mahoney, Tom Huber and Jack Nusskern. Besides Dailer, guards who should be in there with the varsity next year include Cleveland’s Marty Kiousis, Fred Banicki, Bill Higgins, Frank Johnston, Tony Zambroski and tall Dan Modak. Johnston was with Dolmetsch at Leo. Art Perry, the chunky redhead, might be mentioned here too though his game time shows he’s really a varsity man.
Among the centers, Jim Bartlett of Cincinnati did a lot of line-backing for the varsity early in the fall and will be a leading candidate for1 that position next year. Other good center prospects for 1950 are Phil Yanoschick and Chuck Feigl.
Tom Carter and Ed Smith were other quarterbacks sharing the signal-calling with Dickson. Bill Whiteside, a southpaw operator, plays under the center too, but saw considerable action for the varsity as a sub safety man.
McKillip, who runs the hurdles for the track team, had halfback help from Gene Smith, Bill Hovey, John O’Hara and Bill Kramer. Bush and Caprara were good enough fullbacks to earn letters immediately at most schools.
That’s the Notre Dame B team—unbeaten, untied and unnoticed. Next year most of the reserves will get more attention, the kind of attention they have richly deserved.
The Scholastic
I Saturdays Excite Crowds
By AL LAPORTE
They began arriving as early as Thursday, these fans, for the game which was to give Notre Dame the national championship. The advance guard came clad for temperate weather this weekend, but later arrivals were better prepared for the sub-freezing blasts which swept campus and stadium alike for the last Irish home game of the year.
Beginning the usual hoopla of a homecoming weekend, sundry hall decorations pockmarked the busy campus, program vendors hawked their sheets at every corner, visitors and grads milled about in festive spirits. The big influx became clearly visible at the outer doors of the Dining Hall and The Huddle, wherever food was sold. Pennants, shaven and/or smooth faces marked the guests from the residents. Notre Dame took on the aspect of a co-ed institution for three days.
Congestion reached such a point that students were leaving five minutes earlier for class than was their normal wont. Every bus from South Bend seemed to bring more recruits for the invading horde. Cars rapidly filled every available space, cabs bringing in those unfortunates who had parked beyond walking distance.
Friday’s Pep Rally drew far more than the traditional crowd of students, for up in the balcony were gathered Irish greats of two national championship clubs—this year’s edition, to be crowned on the morrow, and the ’24 Rockne team, the outfit of the Four Horses and Seven Mules.
How the classes went on those days is anybody’s guess. Some of them looked
as if grapeshot had been fired down the rows, leaving a student untouched here and there. These were the boys with no cuts, dates or any other excuse to abstain from attendance. Often roll call was reduced to taking the names of those present. It was shorter that way.
Saturday came in with dropping temperatures and increasing winds, climate wholly unsuitable for the visiting Trojans from sunny California. Even native mid-westerners donned extra sweaters for the cold afternoon ahead, exclaiming that it was perfect television weather. But football fans are a curious breed, so the stadium was packed long before the kickoff.
Sandwiched in between two halves of classic football was the last appearance of the 1949 edition of the Notre Dame Marching Band. Once again the well-drilled, fancy-stepping Hope-men put on an entertaining halftime program, though the windswept field was not the most desirable place in which to march. Highlight of the show was the presenta-tation to the members of that ’24 Irish team with silver footballs commemorating their silver jubilee. Sincere cheers followed the introduction of each player, of men who had inspired Grantland Rice’s famous story beginning “Outlined against a grey October sky, the Four-Horsemen rode again today.” Lined up at midfield were Notre Dame men,who had represented their school in another year, but who had achieved the same goal as the young bunch of greenclad warriors then resting in the locker room were about to do—the National Championship. There were a few moist c-yes
Students celebrate at victory dance.
among the greying, overcoated graduates as they received the acclaim.
Post-game activities were many, South Bend coming briefly alive to accommodate the revelers. With a suddenness that was magic the campus emptied as students joined in- the exodus. The Victory Dance was packed, but interest was centered downtown where ambitious folk tried to liven up a dozing rown. Some succeeded as business boomed in the eateries and clubs. Efforts expended, the host turned to bed, but not before rehashing the afternoon’s game and predicting dire fates for the next week’s foes, the Mustangs of Southern Methodist. Sunday the campus began its return to normal; the celebration was over and the jubilee in the books. Horsemen and Mules rode happily away and a cold, disappointed but dead-game Trojan group left frigid Indiana for greener, warmer fields. . . .
As game time nears, crowd congests outside of the stadium.
Dec. 9, 1949
Students enjoy speech during the pre-game pep rally program.
49
i
Notre Dame’s 1949 National Champions
Left to right: Front row: Steve Oracko, George Dickson, Ed Hudak Frank Johnson, Gus Cifelli, Leon Hart, Ray Espenan, Gerry Begley, Ralph McGehee, Bob Lally. Second row: William Kramer, Larry Coutre, Frank Spaniel, Bill Gay, Mike Swistowicz, Paul Burns, Don Huml, Bill Barrett, Jerry Groom, Johnny Helwig, Jim Mutscheller, Chet Ostrowski, Joe Caprara. Third row: Marty Kiousis, Jim Bartlett, Jim Hamby, Frank Johnston, Tom Huber, Bill Flynn, John O'Neil, Jack Nusskern, Ernie Zalejski, Jim Mahoney, Ernie Knapik, Doug Waybright, Jack Connor, Fred Wallner. Fourth row: Jim Funari (Mgr.), Ed Smith, John Zancha, Bob Dolmetsch, Byron Boji, Bob Toneff, Bill Whiteside, Dan Modak, Art Perry, Jack Bush, Bill Higgins, Emil Sitko, Dick Cotter, Jim Dailer. Fifth row: Don Lueck (Mgr.) John O'Hara, John Mazur, Bob Williams, Gene Smith, Bob Kapish, Bill Hovey, John Petitbon, Del Gander, Walt Grothaus, Tony Zambroski, Dave Koch, Jack Daut, Jack Finnegan (Mgr.). Jim Martin was missing when the picture was taken.
Football Roster, 1949
Name and Position	Age	Height	Weight	Home Town	High School	Class
Banicki, Frederick, G 		19	5-10	190	Chicago, Ill			Leo		Soph.
Barrett, William Carlin, HB 		19	5-8	180	Chicago, Ill			Fenwick		Soph.
Bartlett, James, C 				20	6-2	195	Cincinnati, Ohio ...		Elder 		Soph.
•Begley, Gerald Carroll, QB		21	6-1	175	Yonkers, N. Y			Mt. St. Michael		.... Sr.
Boji, Byron Bela, C 		19	5-11	186	Chicago, Ill			Austin 		Soph.
Burns, Paul Eugene, G 		20	6-2	214	Athens, Pa			Athens 		Soph.
Bush, John Lawrence, FB 		19	6-0	185	Davenport, Iowa			St. Ambrose		Soph.
Butz, Jean HB 				20	6-0	185	Lancaster, Pa. 			Lancaster		Soph.
Carter, Thomas Leslie, QB 		22	5-11	173	Los Angeles, Calif.		Cathedral 		.... Jr.
**Cifelli, August Blase, T 	 Connor, John Francis, E 			24	6-4	222	Philadelphia, Pa. ... Chicago, Ill				.LaSalle 	 	 — -			 Sr.
	21	6-0	188			De LaSalle		.... Sr.
*Cotter, Richard Adrian, FB 		20	6-1	178	Austin, Minn			Saint Augustine		- Jr.
**Coutre, Lawrence Edward, HB ....	21	5-9	170	Chicago, Ill			St. George 		.... Sr.
*Dailer, James Herman, G 		22	5-9	185	Wheeling, W. Va. ...		Central Catholic 		.... Sr.
Daut, John Donald, T 		18	6-1	205	Hempstead, N. Y....		Hempstead 		Soph.
Dickson, George Charles, QB 		26	5-11	171	S. Pasadena, Calif. .		South Pasadena		.... Sr.
Dolmetsch, Robert Emery, E 		19	6-2	195	Chicago, Ill	—		Xeo		Soph.
**Espenan, Charles Raymond, LE ....	22	6-2	188	New Orleans, La. ...		Holy Cross 		.... Sr.
Flood, David Michael, HB 		21	5-10	182	Pittsburgh, Pa			Langley 		Soph.
**Flynn, William James, LE 		22	6-2	197	Gary, Ind			Horace Mann		—- Jr.
Fox, Francis Joseph, T 		19	6-1	200	Milwaukee, Wis			...Pius XI 		Soph.
Gander, Fidel John, FB 		19	6-1	190	Chicago, Ill				Mt. Carmel		Soph.
*Gay, William Thomas, LH 		21	5-11	170	Chicago, Ill			Tilden	Tech		-. Jr.
< *Groom, Jerome Paul, C 		20	6-3	210	Des Moines, Iowa .		Dowling 		-- Jr.
***Grothaus, Walter John, C			23	6-2	192	Cincinnati, Ohio ...	.....'	Purcell 		.... Sr.
Hamby, James Harold, G 		18	6-1	195	Caruthersville, Mo.		Caruthersville 		Soph.
***Hart, Leon Joseph (Co-Capt.) RE	20	6-4	245	Turtle Creek, Pa. ...			Turtle	Creek 		.... Sr.
Helwig, John Frank, G 		22	6-2	190	Los Angeles, Calif. .		Mt. Carmel 		-- Jr.
Higgins, William Patrick, G 		22	5-11	180	Chicago, Ill				Fenwick 		— Jr.
*Hudak, Edward James, T		21	6-2	200	Bethlehem, Pa			Liberty 				-. Jr.
Holmes, Thomas Patrick, T 		21	6-2	197	Muskegon, Mich. ...		St. Mary’s 		— Jr.
Hovey, William Arthur, HB 		22	5-10	175	Lake Placid, N. Y. .		Lake Placid 		Soph.
Huber, Thomas Edward, T 		20	6-2	195	Milwaukee, Wis			St. Francis 		— Jr.
Jeffers, John Thomas, C 		20	5-11	195	Phoenixville, Pa			Phoenixville 		.... Sr.
*Johnson, Frank Albert, G 		22	6-0	190	Cincinnati, Ohio ...		St. Xavier 		.... Sr.
Johnston, Frank Anthony, G 		20	5-8	184	Chicago, Ill			Leo		Soph.
Jonardi, Raymond, E 		19	6-2	188	Pittsburgh, Pa. 			Baldwin 		—- Jr.
Kapish, Robert John, E 		18	6-0	188	Barberton, Ohio 			Barberton 		Soph.
Kiousis, Martin John, G 		19	5-11	190	Lakewood, Ohio				Catholic Latin 		Soph.
Koch, David Anthony, E 		19	6-2	190	Wayzata, Minn			Wayzata 		Soph.
**Lally, Robert John, G 		20	6-0	185	Cleveland, Ohio 			Catholic Latin 		.... Sr.
•Landry, John Warren, FB 		23	6-1	180	Rochester, N. Y. ...		 ....Aquinas 		.... Jr.
Layden, Elmer Francis, HB 		19	6-2	175	Kenilworth, Ill			Loyola (Chicago) 		Soph.
Mahoney, James Edward, T		22	6-1	204	Erie, Pa				Catholic Prep			™ Jr.
***Martin, James E. (Co-Capt.) LT	25	6-2	204	Cleveland, Ohio 			East Tech			.... Sr.
Mazur, John Edward, QB 		19	6-1	188	Plymouth, Pa			Plymouth 		Soph.
•••McGehee, Ralph Walter, T 		21	6-1	202	Chicago, Ill		Tilden Tech. 	 	-			 Sr.
						McCook 		
*McKillip, William Leo, HB 		20	5-10	175	McCook, Neb			— Jr.
Modak, Daniel, G 		22	6-1	197	Campbell, Ohio 			Memorial		Soph.
Mutscheller, James Francis, E 		19	6-1	194	Beaver Falls, Pa. ...		Beaver Falls 		Soph.
O’Neil, John Daniel, FB 		20	6-0	185	Aurora, Ill				East 		Soph.
•••Oracko, Stephen Francis, G 		22	6-0	185	Lansford, Pa			Lansford		.... Sr.
Ostrowski, Chester Casimir, E 		19	6-1	196	Chicago, Ill			Weber 		Soph.
Perry, Arthur R., G 		19	5-11	198	Davenport, Iowa ...		St. Ambrose 		Soph.
Petitbon, John Ellis, HB 		18	5-11	185	New Orleans, La. ...		Jesuit 		Soph.
Saggau, Thomas Henry, HB 		20	6-0	177	Denison, Iowa 			Denison 		.... Sr.
•••Sitko, Emil Martin, RH 		25	5-8	180	Fort Wayne, Ind. ...		Central 		.... Sr.
Schwartz, Phillip, T 		20	6-4	195	Madison, Wis			Englewood 		— Jr.
Smith, Eugene Francis, HB 		19	5-9	170	LaCrosse, Wis			Aquinas 		- Jr.
*Spaniel, Francis James, HB 		20	5-10	184	Vandergrift, Pa			Vandergrift 			Sr.
•••Swistowicz, Michael Paul, FB 		22	5-11	195	Chicago, Ill			Tilden Tech			.... Sr.
Toneff, Robert, T 		19	6-1	232	Barberton, Ohio 			Barberton 			Soph
* Wallner, Frederick William, G		21	6-2	203	Greenfield, Mass. ...		Greenfield		— Jr.
•••Waybright, Douglas Giles, E 		22	6-1	186	Saugus, Mass			Saugus 			Sr.
Whiteside, William Anthony, QB ..	20	5-10	172	Philadelphia, Pa. ...		LaSalle 		— Jr.
••Wightkin, William John, E 		22	6-2	198	Culver City, Calif. .			Central Cath. (Detroit).. Sr.	
•Williams, Robert Allen, QB 		19	6-1	180	Baltimore, Md			Loyola 		— Jr.
Yanoschfk, Phillip C., C 		24	6-0	195	Conemaugh, Pa			E. Conemaugh		Jr.
•Zalejski, Ernest Raymond, FB 		23	5-11	185	South Bend, Ind. ...		Washington 		Jr.
Zancha, John D. T 		19	5-10	195	Chicago, Ill			St. George		Soph.
Zambrowski, Anthony John, G	 •Zmijewski, Alfred Adam, T 		19 21	5-11 6-1	196 200	Erie, Pa	 Newark, N. J				Catholic 	 	East Side 		Soph. 		Sr.
Note: * Denotes Monograms Won.						
Zalejski did not win a monogram in 1948.	He earned it in 194b.					
Dec. 9, 1949
51
Signal-caller Bill Gaudreau calls a play for the Notre Dame	Czaja. In front row are Weithman, Seaman, Carter, Bardash
frosh. The back row has Benson, Whaley, Kelly, Paolone and	and Kane. On the right, Coach Ben Sheridan watches his boys.
Frosh Prepare for Future Years
It is a crisp Wednesday afternoon in October; the coaching staff is standing around on Cartier Field watching a few of the early birds go through some limbering up exercises and discussing this and that about football and related subjects. Through the gates at either end of the field the football players start to enter and give their names to the manager stationed there to check them in. Entering opposite the stadium, groups of threes and fours and sometimes single individuals pass and throw at the manager, usually not yet acquainted with all the players, “Flynn”, “Cifelli”, “Barrett”, “Bush”, “Hart”, “Wightkin”, “B e g 1 e y”, “Grothaus”, “Toneff”, and so on until all the players on the list held by the manager are either checked off or accounted for.
Meanwhile, down at the other gate, near the Drill Hall, a bunch of green-shirted players are checking in with another manager, “Carter”, “Weithman”, “Czaja”, “Gaudreau”, “O’Callaghan”, “Seaman”, and many more until this list too is all accounted for. These greenmen, green as far as the shirts go and also green as far as experience on the gridiron goes, compose the freshman football team. Some of them may have been All-League, others All-City, and a few All-State, but all are good football players.
Someone once said, “the freshman football team of any university is an
52
By BILL DELANEY
important cog in the vital football ma. chine. On such teams the high school stars of yesterday are groomed for positions as the collegiate stars of tomorrow; the boys are made into men.”
This could not be truer than here at Notre Dame. Coach Benny Sheridan and his assistants, Lancaster Smith, Phil Cantwell, and Joe Gasparella train their frosh for a season of hard knocks and bruises. All the freshmen coaches learned their football at Notre Dame and are therefore aware of what Coach Leahy expects of the green-shirted frosh when they scrimmage the varsity. No team in college ranks today, except our own B team, plays as tough a schedule as the freshman team of Notre Dame. Day in, day out, week in, week out, the frosh are pitted against the varsity for experimental purposes. Truly, they are the guinea pigs of the science of football. Each week they must learn the plays of the following Saturday’s opponents and run them against the varsity; then the varsity will turn around and run its plays against the freshmen, deployed in the defensive positions of the next adversary. Here is where the boys are made into men or else they drop by the way as useless material.
The Irish never seem to run out of top-notch backs and this year’s freshman team may well add a few more. At
quarterback the number one boy is Bill A Gaudreau who graduated from the same high school in Baltimore as “Bullet Bob” Williams did. Another great? Could be, but he will have to go some to match Bob or any of his great predecessor's. The rest of the backfield was made up of such men as Ralph Paolone, George Paulik, Bob Kelly, Murray Johnson, and Joe O’Callaghan.
An overall look at this year’s frosh crew shows a good number of boys who a should play a lot of football for Notre Dame during the next three years.
ENDS: Benson, Carlin, Caron, Cronin, Czaja, French, Griffin, Kohanowich, Lawrence, Meschievitz, Murphy, C., Whelan, E.
TACKLES: Bird, Cain, Drazenovich, Doud, Dunlay, Handley, Kerger, McInerney, Murphy, T., Wass, Weithman, Wuetcher.
GUARDS: Adler, Austin, Bardash, Bergan, Epstein, Hedge, Kelly, H., a Kraft, Seaman, Stroud, Speiler.
CENTERS: Allessandrini, Carter, Flynn.
QUARTERBACKS: Casey, Falken-stein, Gaudreau, Welch, Wise, Walniak.
HALFBACKS: Buczkiewicz, Clune, Emerich, Fredette, Jacobitz, Johnson, McKeon, O’Callaghan, O’Laughlin, Paolone, Paulik, Whelan, J.
FULLBACKS: Kelly, R., McMillen, i Rounds.
The Scholastic $
NICHOLLS PRINTERY
Complete Printing Service For All Student Activities
210 LINCOLN WAY EAST
TELEPHONE 3-1388
COURTESY BARBER SHOP
112 E Washington Ave Under Max Adler Co.
"3 BARBERS TO SERVE YOU"
MACHINE SMOKES Dr.GRABOW PIPES
FLOWERS for . ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
You can rely on
A REGISTERED
JEWELER
for . . .
Honest Value
Sound Quality
Skilled Service
HARRY E. BERG
Registered Jeweler American Gem Society
109 W. Jefferson
Investments
ALBERT McGANN Securities Company - Incorporated
131 W. WASHINGTON AVE.	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Telephone 4-1101	A. T. & T. Teletype S. Bd. 15
"Nolte
By
ARTHUR J. HOPE. C.S.C.
Here’s the only complete story of the University of Notre Dame. Handsomely bound, this is the exciting story of the founding of a great Catholic university. Father Hope has presented not only the facts but the human story behind the facts. It is a book that every Notre Dame fan should own. For the real alumni and for the millions of subway alumni, “Notre Dame” is a must for every book shelf. It makes an excellent gift book. There are 500 pages, crammed with the real story of Notre Dame. The cost, $4. Send your order to:
PUBLICATIONS
Notre Dame, Ind.
Dec. 9, 1949
53
Pack
Up Your Trunk
WITH SMART, CUSTOM STYLED OR
READY-MADE SUITS SENSIBLY PRICED
Either Ready-Made or Tailor-Made Parker-Winterrowd clothes are masterpieces of the tailoring craft because of the superlative quality of fabrics. The deft handling of color and pattern, and the exacting fit as well as flattering fashion, o
SUITS AND COATS
$50.00 AND UPWARDS
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
115/2 - 117/2 NORTH MAIN ST. SECOND FLOOR — UPSTAIRS
“SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST CUSTOM-TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS
PATRONIZE YOUR CAMPUS SHOE REPAIRMAN PAUL'S SHOE SHOP BACK OF MAIN BUILDING • Full Line of Shoe Accessories	t
tie SHOP AT BREEN’S AND SAVE $$$ Nationally Advertised Watches Diamonds Birthstone Rings Costume Jewelry Roger s Silverware Electric Appliances USE OUR LAYAWAY PLAN BREEN’S JEWELRY 406 S. MICHIGAN ST. Phone: 2-0400	n
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
0
54
The Scholastic
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
FOR STUDENTS OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
CARBON MONOXIDE... FRIEND OF MAN Thanks to high-pressure synthesis, it now leads a useful life
To the man on the street, carbon monoxide is just a poisonous gas that sometimes causes tragic deaths when it escapes from the exhaust of an automobile or from a poorly tended furnace.
Outside of the chemical field, few people are aware that, properly used, it is a very real friend of man. In the last 25 years, during which catalytic
A. H. Emery, Jr., M.S. Ch.E., M.I.T. ’49 and M. J. Roedel, Ph.D. Org., Michigan ’40 inspecting a high-pressure batch reactor taken from the shaker tube assembly after a run to make 3,5,5-trimethylhexanol.
and high-pressure chemical techniques have been highly developed, carbon monoxide has become a keystone of industrial synthesis.
Scientists have found that under the proper conditions of high pressure and temperature, carbon monoxide, in combination with other substances, can be converted to a variety of useful products. These or their derivatives range from an acid used in tanning hides to the sparkling plastics in milady’s boudoir.
You’d hardly associate carbon monoxide with anti-freeze. But at temperatures from 3C0 to 450°C. and under pressures of 1500 to 15,000 pounds per square inch, carbon monoxide and hydrogen unite to form methanol—a colorless liquid from which is made "Zerone” anti-rust anti-freeze for automobiles. From methanol and carbon monoxide as raw materials, ethylene glycol for "Zerex” anti-freeze is produced.
Plastics and Anti-Freeze
Methanol is used also to make a large number of compounds such as formaldehyde and methyl methacrylate. The former goes into urea-and phenol-formaldehyde plastics for light fixtures, radio cabinets, hardware, utensils, and electrical equipment. The latter is the basic material for "Lucite” acrylic resin with its many uses.
R. L. Stearns, B.S. Ch.E., Yale ’49 and H. Peterson, B.S. Ch.E., Northeastern Univ. ’42 checking a multi-stage carbon monoxide compressor used in semi-works operations.
The reaction of methanol with carbon monoxide leads to acetic acid, which is a well-known industrial chemical. By the same synthesis but substituting ethanol for methanol, propionic acid is obtained. From it come the "Mycoban” sodium and calcium propionates that retard mold and rope in bakery products.
Synthesis in the Future
Today Du Pont manufactures some 120 different items that are partly or wholly dependent upon elevated
A. J. Hill, Jr., Ph.D. Org., Yale ’44 and F. F. Holub, Ph.D. Org., Duke ’49 carrying out an experiment on a new method for purifying carbon monoxide. The large furnace in this apparatus operates at 1200°C.
pressures. However, the possibilities have by no means been exhausted. Just recently, for example, chemists have been learning how to use carbon monoxide in "up-grading” certain petroleum hydrocarbons to give interesting alcohols. One of these, 3,5,5-trimethylhexanol, is prepared from diisobutylene by reaction with carbon monoxide and hydrogen.
College-trained men and women interested in working in this field at Du Pont may share in discoveries as outstanding as any yet achieved.
Because of the wide scope of Du Pont’s activities, younggraduates in many different fields have opportunities to select the careers that prove to suit them best as their abilities and interests develop.
rES.U.s.pat.OFF-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, Informative—Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
Dec. 9, 1949
55
Football Issue Staff
NEWS	STAFF
Al Bailey	Rik Klein
Jack Bradshaw	Joe Lang
Dan Brennan	Dan McCarthy
Bob Butler	Lou Meece
Don Carbone	Joe Mitchell
Jim Carrig	Bill Moore
Jim Clark	Don Mulvihill
Joe Conlon	Jim Murphy
Ray Doherty	Robert Murphy
Dave Driscoll	Jim O'Brien
Charley Dullea	George Otott
Carl Eilberger	Jack Powers
Bob Finney	Ed Raque
Frank Haendler	Bill Shidaker
Tom Kelley	Don Smith
Roger	Vorce
FEATURI	i STAFF
Jim Carroll	Larry McDermott
Jim Kingsley	Robert Romaker
Al Laporte	Jack Ward
Bill Weir	
SPORTS	STAFF
Jim Brislin	Jack Keane
John Cox	Jack Meaney
Mike Cuddihy	Ted Prahinski
Bill Delaney	Frank Ronnenberg
Jack Economou	Bob Rubery
Ray Fitzgerald	Rudy Unger
Jack Varley
’S
LAST CHANCE SUPPER
A
N
D
Come to PAPANDREA’S on Thursday Nites for a special Swiss Steak for only one dollar. Have a good meal to hold you over until Saturday. . . .
SPAGHETTI HOUSE
415 North Michigan
Phone 3-0903

56	The Scholastic ®
FRESHMEN
o/^ FUTURE
KID'S KAPS
NEW — A genuine Collegiate Frosh Cap . . . made just like Dad’s (or Grandad’s), in school color felts . . . complete with school letters and the all-important query “19??”
STURDY — Made of Grade “A” Felts (70% wool, 30% cotton), the six-piece crown has lapped seams and is sewn to withstand the rough handling of small children.
ATTRACTIVE — in bright school colors and lettering; the small wearer will be a stand-out in any Kid Krowd.
Sizes 6%, 6%, 6^ and 6%.
95c each
fyrt. the
GRADUATES«/ PAST
NEW ND ASHTRAY
UNIQUE — An attracitve furniture piece in any room, this chrome-plated ashtray is topped by the distinctive crossed N. D. monogram, and has a black plastic bottom.
BUTT IN, BUTT OUT — No smashing of butts on the bottom of the tray; just place the burning end into one
of the two holes in the metal top for a quick put-out!
$2.65 ^us 15c postage
Come in or Order Them Both NOW from
THE BOOKSTORE, Notre Dome, Indiana
USE THIS COUPON
Uy-.
Gentlemen:
Please send me
Kid’s Kaps, size
and
Notre Dame Ashtrays. Enclosed you will find
my check (or money order) for $.
r f
Name____
Address..
Dec. 9, 1949
Featuring
CHICKEN IN THE ROUGH
•	Yi Fried Chicken
•	Shoe String Potatoes
•	Hot Buttered Rolls * Jug °f Honey
“Every bite a tender delight" •
ORDERS BOXED TO TAKE OUT $1.05
Open Sundays
Around the corner from the Colfax
JOE NABICHT'S Chicken in the Rough 213 N. Main St.
Phone 3-1215
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY
Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623 Sherland Bldg.
Phone 3-4269
J
3
• This is a prom trotter. All she needs for a weekend is a hop, sip, and a chump. Thinks colleges are halls of yearning. Usually' dances to meet the band... but goes wild about "Manhattan’s" Wildlife ties.
Two things every man should know I
Famous Manhattan
SPORTS SHIRTS
available in South Bend
at
Men’s Shop—Street Floor
These are "Manhattan" Wildlife ties. Hottest thing under a collar this fall.
Bright colors, gay prints— made to tie right, resist wrinkles.
3
3
3
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1949. Um Manhattan Shirt Co.

f

58
The Scholastic
SPECIAL
BLANKET
With N.D. Monogram All Wool
Would You Like Action Portraits of Notre Dame’s Great Athletes?
Mail Orders
WE CAN FURNISH PICTURES: Present Irish Greats— SITKO, HART, MARTIN, and COMPANY. Also such PAST STARS as GIPP, THE FOUR HORSEMEN, and ALL the other former NOTRE DAME PLAYERS.
Accepted
Rvsc s Katz
I x rQR MEN AND I ^VOUNC MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
Bagby Studios
110 COLFAX AVE., South Bend, Indiana
SLICK IDEAL LAUNDRY
SHIRT FINISHING OUR SPECIALTY
20% DISCOUNT FOR CASH AND CARRY FOR DRY CLEANING
317 LINCOLN WAY EAST Phone: 3-6153
The
RIGHT FLOWERS
for the •
RIGHT OCCASION
at WILLIAMS
the FLORIST
West of the Oliver Hotel Phone 3-5149
59
PHILIP MORRIS
PROVE
TO YOURSELF
I
noWgarette
HANGOVER
when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS!
few seconds you can prove
PHILIP MORRIS
IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING than the brand you’re now smoking!

Remember: less irritation means more pleasure. And Philip Morris is the ONE cigarette proved
any other leading brand. NO OTHER CIGARETTE CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.
up a PHILIP MORRIS
2. ..light up your present brand
Do exactly the tame thing —DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
THEN, iutt take a puff—DON'T INHALE — and s-l-o-w-l.y let the smoke come through your nose. And NOW ...
NOW YOU KNOW WHY YOU SHOULD BE SMOKING PHILIP MORRIS!

The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 December 9, 1949 No. 11
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI________Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA____________Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT Sports
WILLIAM RILEY.__________Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN__________Photography
LEON GARDNER_________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO_____________Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY_______________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE_______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
Kindly Notice the Collar!
ARROW OXFORDS
It's one of Arrow's campus favorites, the wide-spread "Sussex" in fine Gordon Oxford fabric.
Arrow's smartly styled and long wearing Oxfords are also available in button-down and regular collars. White and solid colors. See your Arrow dealerl
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
COVER: Emil Sitko tallies one of his three touchdowns against Indiana as the Irish opened the 1949 season -with a 49 to 6 win. The five Indiana men clustered around Red indicate the usual number of men required to stop the Irish fullback. On the ground is Dolan (53), while other Hoosiers in on the play include: Winston (85), South Bend’s Robby Robertson (46), Bosak ) (70) and Witucki (66).
Sitko, who finished his college career after the Southern Methodist game, has carried the ball over a mile for Notre Dame, since he began playing for the Irish. His average while doing so has been about six yards. The only time when Notre Dame wished Sitko hadn’t been around was in 1943 when the Fort Wayne speedster helped Great Lakes beat the Irish.
—Kodachrome by Jim Ferstel
f Dec. 9, 1949
Ifs ADLERS for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
61
CONGRATULATIONS FOR A SUCCESSFUL SEASON
WE ARE PROUD OF NOTRE DAME
fauebuf fab Cfou&tmai. Qiuiwi
We too are receiving plaudits for the excellence of our
• ALUMINUM WINDOWS
• THERMOPANE
• STORE FRONT DESIGNS
•	VITROLITE BATHS
•	GLASS & GLAZING
•	CUSTOM MIRRORS
We will gladly help you with any of your Glass or Paint Problems
Interstate
Glass and Paint Co., Inc.
SOUTH BEND
4-1164	4-1164
126 N. MICHIGAN
arvt
111'iiiuirth’s
The Holiday Season calls for ARROW Formals
Wearing black tie? Wear the ARROW SHOREHAM!
Probably the most popular dress shirt in Night Life. With semi-starched pleated bosom, and smart comfortable ARROW collar __________________$6.50
Wearing white tie? Wear the ARROW KIRK! Fully starched, with fancy pique bosom and cuffs. A two stud, neckband style ________________$6.00
ARROW Dress ties_________$1.00 and $1.50
Men’s Shop — Main Floor
62
The Scholastic
Pipes
Candies
Cigars
Sundaes
Sodas
HUDDLE
Sandwiches
Radios
on campus
Lunches
Malts
Shakes
Toiletries
'B/ossom oaf info
newP0FUlAR/7y
Be the Best Dancer In Your Crowd
There are party times ahead. Is your dancing ready for them? Arthur Murray’s amazing new discovery— “The first step to popularity”—makes learning to dance easier than ever before. For here is the basic step of all dances and once you master it the rest is simple. In no time at all, you will be able to lead or follow all of the ballroom dances.
Don’t wait—there is no better time to start becoming more popular than right NOW.
STOP WISHING . . . START DANCING Phone 2-3339 for your free trial lesson today.
Arthur Murray
120 E. Wayne
Phone 2-3339
CLUB DANCE EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT For Pupils and their guests
Dec. 9, 1949
63
pique front, S5.95
f JVide-spread Van Britt in broadcloth or oxford, S3.65
Tux ivith fine
Van Heuser >.,
"the world’s smartest” U1.1.1.JL I/O
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N.Y.
Van
for your Christmas vacation stock up on
whites!
It’s going to be a white Christmas in shirts and if you’re going to do your home town up right, you’d better be well supplied. Popular daytime shirt is the wide-spread Van Britt with French cuffs. For evenings, it’s Van Tux with French cuffs . . . white pique front and attached widespread or regular collar. Look your best this Christmas in Van Heusen shirts!
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
The Ideal Christmas Gift
PKT ■ of
We carry a complete showing of America’s finest makes of WATCHES from $24.75 and up
Student Charge o Accounts Welcomed
/ATS
111 South Michigan St.
If
T1
i
64
The Scholastic
If You Can Walk we'll teach
You to Dance
the GEORGE DAVIS WAY
Don’t pass up all the good times this year. Learn to dance now with one of our talented George Davis teachers. With just a few lessons you’ll gain confidence, relax, and really enjoy Fox Trot, Waltz, Rhumba, or any other dance.
FREE TRIAL LESSON
PHONE 3-8229 or Come In
Northern Indiana's Largest Dance Studio
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
Studio Hours: 10 a. m. - 10 p. m.
GIVE LEATHER FOR CHRISTMAS
COMPLETE COLLECTION OF
MEN'S AND LADIES
LUGGAGE .
Gift Items:
•	Billfolds
•	Traveling Clocks
•	Pipes
•	Cigarette Cases
HansARintzscw
138 N. Michigan St.
Plan ^oun 1^50 Vacation N6VJ!
12 Day All Expense Tour
NOTRE DAME
VS.
Southern California
(Los Angeles)
— Write for further details and tour route	” _
Westward Ho! Travel fBureau
EARL J. (Pete) REDDEN Oliver Hotel, South Bend
Dec. 9, 1949
65
RASMUSSEN MEN'S SHOP
South Bend’s Best
What a ^ea^l
Wear ’em to dinner... wear ’em to the stadium . . . wear ’em around the hall and wear ’em around the town. Sportcoats and Slacks are the perfect combination for smart comfort wherever you go!
I
We have good-looking sport coats in corduroy, flannels, tweeds and cheviots . . . slacks in corduroy, gabardines, coverts, flannels and checked worsteds. Stop by today and see all your favorite shades and patterns.
► SPORT JACKETS 1995,
' SLACKS 9.95 up
Rasmussen
MEN'S SHOP
106-108 S. Main	130-132 W. Washington
^Dec. 9, 1949
67