The Notre Dame Scholastic
739
NOTES ON LIVING
From time to time some of our friends have come to us, saying: “All this talk of yours about ‘real living,’ about ‘intensified life,’ is well and good—on paper. It’s nice to play with, pretty theorizing- for lack of something better to do—or write—but when you get out into real life, when you buck up against facts, you’ll forget your prettily colored little theories. Yes, you’ll forget!”
Well! There we were, facing an objection that would throw everything we had written, every idea we had been trying to advance, into the ash can—and the throwing would be done when we hit “real life.” In other words, what we have been trying to pound-home in this little column—a constant awareness of the haivk-wings of beauty ever over life, together' with a sense of the increased weight of each moment, in existence, that springs from such awareness— all we had advanced as ways and means towards more superb living, all, would crack and crumple when it hit reality.	—
The natural thing to do, when told you are wrong, is to start defending what you have said with arguments and clever piling up of points. But we couldn’t do that so very well; we couldn’t summon arguments, we couldn’t start to pile up points—because all we have said about, and claimed for the fact of more intense living, is its own reason for being, its own defense.
What is the “real life,” of which our friends spoke, but the life inside one, drawing on the best things outside one for its own happier flourishing? Buildings and business, money and merchandising, are good insofar as they give time and leisure for the exercise of this inner life.
Facts are the index of the book of life; they are valuable in that they tell on what page something is, but, of course, in order that a thing be known it must be read. And just as words may be read, may have two meanings, so the dawn, a mountain, a sea, a hill, a tree, an engine, a pile of rocks, may be read, may have two meanings.
So we do think our friends are wrong—because their “real life” is only a means to real living, and their facts, at best, but an index to a book that has neither pages nor covers.
S"‘	   mm	mi	mn	  mm	  „„„„„	mimiimmmmuuii ■		
		
=	Gh-e	
z	No^re Dame Scholas^ ic	:
•	Disee- Quasi-Semper-Vici; urus-Vive-Quasi-Cras-Moritum	x
	Founded in 1872	
	Murray Hickey Ley 		   .Editor-in-Chief Harley L. McDevitt	Graduate	Manager	x
x	EDITORIAL STAFF	•
x	T. Vincent McIntire	Managing	Editor Emil L. Telfel	Assistant	Managing Editor	x
z	Joseph B. Reedy	Assistant	Managing Editor .	x
=	J. Archer Hurley	The	Week Walter Langford	The	College Parade William Knapp	Music	and Drama Ramon G. Smith	Campus	Clubs Paul J. Hallinan	Features Editor Edward E. Brennan	Script	Editor	1
z	NEWS STAFF	
-	John Bergan, Neivs Editor	x
	James Collins	Neil Hurley	Edward Connors	-
	Howard Webster	Lawrence Dunda	William Karl	
-	Austin Boyle	George Allan	James Carmody	z
X	John Motz	Richard J. O’Donnell	Leslie Raddatz	x
z	James Kearney	s
	SPORTS STAFF	z
	.	John A. Kiener, Sports Editor	z
-	William J. Macarral	Cleve Carey '	F. Granger Weil	
	Harry A. Sylvester, Jr.	Henry B. Asman	James E. McFeely, Jr.	x
x	BUSINESS STAFF	2
-	Harrington J. Noon	Local	Circulation Manager	2
	Chester M. Ashman.	Foreign Circulation Manager	2
-	Frederick N. Davis	Local	Advertising Manager	i a
	James L. Rizer	Foreign	Advertising Manager	
s	James H. Rorke	William Sherman	John Blanda	x
x	Frederick J. Bauer	Frank J. Conboy	Andrew McGuan	
s	Merle V. Baldwin	Norman E. Duke	X
	Vol. LXIII	APRIL 4, 1930	No. 24 .	
|	TABLE OF CONTENTS	=
	Frontispiece		 740	x
	The Week—J. Archer Hurley	 741	
	Coming Events	1	 742	
£	Frederick P. Kenkel, Laetare Medalist	 743	z
x	A Man You Know—Richard J. O’Donnell	 744	x
x	Music and Drama—William Knapp	 748	z
	Monogram Showmen Scoring Hit	 749	
z	Broadway to Feature Glee Club During Easter Vacation	 750	x
=	Editor’s Page			 751	z
=	Words—Words—Words!—Paul J. Hallinan	 752	2
x	The Wink		 754	x
x	Another Boxing Show Slated for Next Friday	 755	z
x	■ Baseball Men Prepare for Opener	-	755 .	
—		
z	Roy Bailie Is Real Iron Man of Track Team—John A. Kiener	 756	
X	Interhall Items		 161	
	Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester	 765	x
x	On Down the Line	-—	 768	i
x	THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.	1
z	Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailins at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.	2
X	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.	£
|f]„m	  mi	m.m	urn	mmmmmmmmmm	mu	      mmmmin	mm		
740
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
741
EBUTANTS wondering about the eternal worry of just how many pleats a sport skirt should have, Congressmen deciding what logs must be rolled, and roommates arguing as to whose turn it is to shut off the alarm tomorrow—all of these are debaters of sorts. For debates, like the ever-present tomatoes, can be swallowed naturally and in the raw, or can be pulled neatly from cans. Canned debates sometimes have the stale taste of canned tomatoes, and then again their content may be as surprising as is that of some economical packers. It’s a wise tomato that knows its own can. Artists apologize to themselves by reflecting that they never repeat a performance, no matter how many times they re-enact. Something of the same talent has been evidenced by Notre Dame’s debaters this season. With a remarkable nicety of aim they have smeared their opponents with argumentative tomatoes, and have proved to my satisfaction that canned debates need not always taste of the tin.
ERSATILITY is a requisite of the modern college man. It is not enough that he be able to pass his courses. He must do more. To give him an opportunity to prove this versatility, Washington Hall has come to the fore. This week the Monogram Club has presented its annual Absurdities. We who have always admired the versatility of the college man came away from the performance with the realization that our conviction is well founded. The crowds that packed Soldier’s Field last fall would, most likely, be quite surprised to see their favorites interpreting Terpsichore. Whether youi' taste turns to musical comedy or to grand opera, the Monogram Absurdities furnishes you with unique entertainment. There is. a broad gap between the gymnasium and the stage, and to span that gap versatility is required. There was much versatility in evidence. To those who would charge us with sponsoring only athletic prowess, we recommend the .4 bsurdities.
■ OLLOWERS of the race track are wont to be particularly concerned about the home stretch. In a race, it’s spurt; in school, it’s endurance. Our race is an endurance test. Speed and form are sacrificed for endurance and ability. There has been no qualifying race; there has been only the stand of judges, and we who have not defaulted are on our home stretch. And it has been a peculiar sort of race, too. No grandstand, no crowds, no detailed accounts in sport chronicles, in fact some of us have nearly forgotten that there is a race, that’ there is competition. It is only at exam time that some realize that there is competition, and that their only competitors are themselves. To us, that is the ideal purpose of examinations. To enter an exam with the sole purpose of checking up on ourselves is not a novelty. Occasionally the check-up has been disastrous, but for the most part we have relished the opportunity to find ourselves. Exams may discourage you, but at the same time they make you realize that there is a race. And that is a worthy purpose, especially on the home stretch.
742
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
FRIDAY, April 4—Scholastic staff meeting, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.—Monogram Absurdities, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.—First Friday Exercises, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.—Debate, Western Reserve at Cleveland, Ohio.— Cleveland Club meeting, Law building, 7:30 p. m.	•
SATURDAY, April 5 — Monogram Absurdities, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, April 6—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 a. m.—High Mass at 9:00 a. m.—Benediction, 7:30 p. m.
MONDAY, April 7—Chicago Club’s handball tournament begins.—Sophomore Convocation, Washington Hall, 4:15 p. m. '
TUESDAY, April 8—Chicago Club meeting, Lay Faculty dining rooms, 7:45 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, Howard Hall “rec,” 7:45 p. m.— Sophomore convocation, Washington Hall, 4:15 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, April 9—Detroit club meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, April 10 — Spectators meeting, Journalism room of the Library, 7:45 p. m.—Spanish Club meeting, Law building, 7:30 p. m.— Last day for turning in interhall basketball equipment, 3:30-5:00 p. m.—Scholastic editorial staff banquet, Rose Marie Tea Room, 6:30 p. m.
FRIDAY, April 11—Girls’ Number of the Juggler on the stands.
SATURDAY, April 12—Movies, “Barnum Was Right,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.	.
❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖❖
* JUNIORS, PLEASE * *	NOTE!	♦
❖ April 15 will be the deadline ❖ ❖ for ordering Junior pins, the ♦ ♦ committee has announced. All ❖ ❖ orders must be in before that ❖ ❖ date.	❖
♦ ♦♦♦♦♦
SOCIOLOGY HEAD ANALYZES PROBATION WORK
In the March number of Probation, a monthly magazine published by the National Probation Association for the express purpose of establishing standards in juvenile, domestic relations, and other courts, and in probation work, an article by the Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., entitled “Training Probation Workers at Notre Dame,” appeared.
In this article Father Murray stresses the need of college-trained probation men, and he says that the present lack of college-trained men in the field of probation is partly because of the low salaries, the spoils system, and the residence requirements still in force in many cities. He says that another potent reason is that colleges have not encouraged college students to enter probation work. College men today are inclined to look upon social work as a woman’s job, and colleges have not offered special curricula in probation work, although college men may enroll in courses in social work in some of the larger universities.
Father Murray then gives a sketch of the training of men for probation work at Notre Dame. The probation curriculum at Notre Dame was introduced last September, and it is open only to juniors who have completed background courses in sociology, psychology, economics, politics, and biology. The purpose of the probation curriculum is “specialization in the work of diagnosis of the delinquent and in the treatment of the delinquent.” At Notre Dame field work is confined to the study of delinquency, and probation students must spend 150 hours at the juvenile court in South Bend during the school year. The boys’ probation officer of the local court is a member of the University faculty.
The low salaries in the probation work which have hindered many men from entering that field are constantly rising, says Father Murray. As a result of the reports of many crime commissions now in session, there is expected to be an increased demand for properly trained probation workers and increased salaries for such workers.
In conclusion, Father Murray remarks that the Notre Dame curriculum reflects the suggestions which . have been made by several leaders in the probation field, Frederick A. Moran of New York, and Bernard J. Fagan, also of New York, in particular.
THIRD NUMBER OF “SCRIP” ON PRESS
The editors of Scrip have finished the selection of poems, plays, short stories, and essays for the third number, which will appear next week. The book review section, which will be' introduced in this number, will undoubtedly attract the attention of many students. The section this time will contain the reviews of five books: Professor Phillips reviews “The Worn-	.
an of Andros,” Thornton Wilder’s new	'
book;- Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., reviews Maynard’s “De Soto	_
and the Conquistadores”; Reverend	\
Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., reviews the new book of poems, “The Wind in the Cedars,” published by Glenn Ward • . Dresbach; Mr. Rufus Rauch reviews Professor Phillips’ definitive edition of the writings of Ina Coolbrith; and Louis Heitger reviews “That Worth- ( less Fellow Platinov,” by Anton Chek- ‘ hov. If the Man About the Campus 2 column in the Scholastic is to be believed, Chekhov is Mr. Heitger’s favorite author.
Two short stories appear in the third number of Scrip. Cyril Mullen contributes “First Day,” a story which tells of the sensations and the ' experiences of a small boy who is forced to move into a section of the town which is much poorer than the surroundings to which he is accustomed. Joseph A. McCabe, the author i of “Breakfast,” contributes “Overtime,” a psychological sketch which tells of the life of a factory worker. “Semper Fidelis,” a play written by Charles P. O’Malley, appears in this number of Scrip. It deals with the experience of three captured soldiers.
The poetry section of the magazine will contain at least five poems: “Inventory,” by Benjamin Musser, the editor of Contemporary Verse, who will be remembered for his poem in J the first number of Scrip; “In a Doc- J tor’s Office,” by Cyril Mullen; “Quar- ’ j tier Latin,” by Joel Egerer; “Free- ’ dom,” by Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., $ , and “Milkweed Near the River,” by | John Bednar, C.S.C.	S
Ronald H. Zudeck is the author of an essay on literary style which ap- S ; pears in this number of Scrip. The frontispiece is a pen-and-ink study by S? William Heineman.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
743
Frederick P. Kenkel, Laetare Medallist
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, announced last Saturday that the Laetare Medal will be presented this year to Frederick P. Kenkel, of St. Louis, Mo. Mr. Kenkel is a Catholic who has attained national prominence through his work as director of the Central Bureau of the Central-Verein, and as editor of the Central Blatt and Social Justice. He is said to be the most outstanding Catholic in the country in the promotion of social legislation, and has consistently opposed the attempts of legislators to form a federal department of education. He also manages the editorial affairs of the Bulletin of the Catholic Women’s Union.
Mr. Kenkel was born in Chicago on October 17, 1863, and received his education from tutors, later studying at several universities in Europe. He was connected with a prominent German publishing house in Chicago until 1895, when he gave up his position to become editor of the New World. Having held the editorship for five years, he then went to St. Louis to assume a position with the Die Amer-ika, the German Catholic daily. He was connected with this publication until 1920, and in the course of his work he became associated with many German Catholic societies and enterprises growing up in St. Louis.
Frederick P. Kenkel Laetare Medal Winner
The influence of Mr. Kenkel, exerted through these publications and organizations, has stimulated Catholic thought and activity in social matters. His aim has been to arouse the interest of Catholics throughout the country in the prevailing social conditions, and to provoke study of the Catholic position on socialism, capitalism, and labor. The success which he has met with
in his labors has been far-reaching, and his accomplishments have been as numerous as they have been praiseworthy.
Mr. Kenkel was educated as a nonCatholic, but has since been converted to the Catholic religion. All of his family are now members of the Church, and three of his daughters are nuns. One of his sons is an expert in the employ of the United States tariff commission. His wife, Fraulein Eleanora V. Kamptz, is a member of a-noble family of Mecklenburg, Germany. Mr. Kenkel has received honors on two previous occasions for his endeavors. In 1912 Pope Pius X. made him a Knight of St. Gregory, and in 1926 he was awarded the Knighthood of the Holy Sepulchre by the patriarch, Barlas-sina, in recognition of his services in behalf of the German society of the Holy Land.
The bestowing of the Laetare Medal honor upon Mr. Kenkel, marks the forty-sixth anniversary of the institution of the custom. Since 1883 the University of Notre Dame has annually recognized the most deserving leader in the ranks of the Catholic laity of the United States by the presentation of the famous medal. Last year it was given to Alfred E. Smith, of New York. The award is presented as a “recognition of merit and as an inspiration to greater achievement.”
. A. S. M. E. TO CELEBRATE ANNIVERSARY
i The American Society of Mechan-' ical Engineers will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the organization on next Tuesday evening. It is expected that Presi-1 dent Hoover’s address to the Local Section at Washington will be broadcast to the various section and stu, dent branch meetings in progress that evening.
> The Notre Dame student branch of ?	the society will hold a joint meeting
j	with the . St. Joseph Valley section,
:	at the Oliver Hotel. The meeting will
I be preceded by a dinner at 6:30 p. m. * Members of the student branch who ; wish to attend should leave their reservations with any of the club officers before tomorrow noon.
4---------------------------*
N. D. Academy of Science Notes
❖---------------------------
A group of students and faculty members left this morning for Indianapolis, where they will attend the fifth biennial student meeting of the Indiana Section of the American Chemical Society. The program will consist of inspection trips, a luncheon in the morning, student and faculty meetings in the afternoon, and a banquet and address in ■ the evening. The program tomorrow will include an inspection of the Eli Lilly Co., a luncheon during the forenoon, and an address in the afternoon by Dr. S. C. Lind, of the University of Minnesota.
Last evening the Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., spoke before the local section of the American Chemical Society at the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor. His address dealt with “The Catalytic Reaction of Acetylene.”
On April 7 Father Nieuwland will attend a session of the American Chemical Society at Atlanta, Georgia, where he will speak on “The Action of Borium Fluoride on Organic Compounds.” A second paper on “The Reaction of Organic Compounds on Pyridine” will be presented jointly by Father Nieuwland, the Reverend Patrick McVeigh, and Mr. Harold Bowlus. Father McVeigh and Mr. Bowlus are graduate students.
744
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
A man’s profession, business, or position in life is not an indication of his character. We have heard of kings who were scoundrels, and beggars who were saints. That, perhaps, is why students of human nature prefer to judge men not by
Reverend Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C.
the manner in which they earn their . living, but by the manner- in which they find their recreation. Thus, if tire drug store clerk reads Plato for pleasure, we think of him primarily as a student of philosophy, and then as a mixer of sodas. If the teacher of literature, on the other hand, derives keen enjoyment from the Sunday supplements, we are inclined to depreciate his evaluation of the classics.
The Reverend Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C., made an analysis of his personality a rather simple task when he said, “I teach the classics for a hobby, and spend the major part of my time in botany and ornithology.” He said this, of course, with a smile, but it seemed that there was some sincerity in his tone. As a member of the University’s Department of Ancient Languages, he lias found ample opportunity for following up his hobby. His thorough knowledge of Latin is proof of the years which lie has spent in the study and reading of the language, and of the natural interest he has in the subject. The imparting of this knowledge to culture-pursuing freshmen and sophomores is a real pleasure to him, and proportionately as enjoyable, we are sure, to the men in his classes.
Father Hebert’s interest in botany arose from his association with Father Nieuwland. He has studied and experimented and conducted re-
MEEHAN MEDAL CONTEST
The time for submitting essays for the Meehan Medal Contest will end precisely at noon of the Sunday after Easter. Any essay entered in the contest must be typewritten, in triplicate, double-space, without the name of the author on the manuscript. Any senior in any college of the University may submit an essay-on any subject. The limit of length is three thousand words.
In 1929 the contest was won by Murray Young. The essay written by Jay Walz, “The Modernity of Chekhov,” which appeared in the second number of Scrip, took second place in the Meehan Medal Contest last year.
search in this science for the past seven years. Although he has termed his studies in botany and ornithology his “serious work,” they have all the appeal of a hobby for him. Father Hebert has in his room some one hundred and eighty botanical specimens which he has collected. They are artistically set up. The specimens are in themselves an extensive lesson in botany, when accompanied by7 the explanations of Father- Hebert.
A collection of butterflies which Father Hebert gathered, is at present in a school museum in Detroit, a tribute to his learning and ability in this field of -science. Although he has neglected his ornithological work of late, he modestly admitted that he is still familiar with more than one hundred and fifty species of birds.
Father Hebert has no degrees resulting from his work in botany and ornithology, but he is a member- of the Indiana Academy of Science. The degrees with which he has been rewarded for his studies are: A.B., S.T.B., M.A., and Ph.D. He is secretary of the University Committee on Graduate Studies, and is the compiler of a text, Selections From the Latin Fathers, which is used in the Latin courses here.
Pinneborg is the poetic name of the town in Michigan which is Father Hebert’s birthplace. He received his elementary education there and his high school training at Notre Dame. In 1901 he enrolled in the University’s College of Arts and Letters. Since he was ordained, all of his teaching, with the exception of a year at Columbia University in Portland, Oregon, has been done at Notre Dame.
FATHER WENNINGER LECTURES ON EVOLUTION
On March 21st the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., lectured to a large gathering of students in the north room of the library basement. His discourse on evolution was the culmination of eighteen years of reading and study, especially the last two years which he has spent at the University of Vienna, where he studied anthropology under Father Wilhelm Schmidt and other -leading European professors.
Beginning by telling of the various theories of the creation of the earth, he approached the subject from the biological point of view. He drew the observation that even today in the movements of the physical world about us, there are evidences of changes. He reviewed special creations and then passed to an explanation of catastrophism which was so popular about a hundred years ago when certain discoveries were made in a • stone quarry near Paris. Its proponents argued that God, dissatisfied with the results of his first creation, swept them away and began , anew. Lastly, Father Wenninger treated organic evolution.
Because certain facts concerning evolution exist, he contended that the question cannot be reasoned metaphysically. Five considerations stand as evidence of evolution: classification, domestication, comparative anatomy, embryology and blood tests, paleontology (the study of fossil organisms), geographic distribution, and experiment.
Throughout the lecture the fact that evolution was merely a theory, ■ a scientific hypothesis, was stressed. In conclusion the students were told to avoid dogmatism by not trying to be more Catholic than the Catholic Church which never makes a statement on a scientific theory “so long , as science presents theory as theory s and not as fact.”
Outside of the College of Science, ' this was the first opportunity of the year for the students to hear Father Wenninger; the room in the library ♦ was crowded and on completion of 1 the talk, the audience was given the opportunity of asking questions.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
745
March Issue of “Lawyer” Appears on Campus
■ The March issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer was recently released for distribution. The following men are * represented in the issue: Professor. James F. Kirby, Joseph Urquico, Austin C. Gildea, Louis C. Chapleau, ~ and Marshall F. Kizer.
s “Whither Goest Thou” is the title _ of the article written by Professor । Kirby, a member of the faculty of the J	Hoynes College of Law. The article
■,	is concerned with the effects which
’ changing conditions have upon the law.
•	- He begins the discussion by enumer-t ating various practices which are being carried on today in an attempt to j- enforce the law and administer justice; and he states that these practices, and similar ones, were rebelled against - by the American colonists. Professor Kirby realizes that as changes in society are being brought about, changes in the law should be made likewise;
<	but in an attempt to reach the satisfactory results, he says there is danger of undermining human liberty.
-	■ Joseph Urquico, a prominent alum' nus of the Hoynes College of Law, has submitted his thesis for the degree of , Master of Law, and it appears in this issue under the heading “Parol Evidence Rule.” Mr. Urquico defines his '■ terms and tells us that the chief rea-I	sons for the Parol Evidence Rule are:
f	(1) The uncertainty of memory, and
t (2) The danger of falsehood. One is able to realize the importance of the rule when he reads a quotation from Justice Dean, who says, “If it were not for the rule, no man would be able £ to protect himself by the most solemn forms and attestation against false' hood, misrepresentation and perjury.”
In the course of the thesis, the writer refers to numerous cases re-| lated to the Parol Evidence Rule; and I he cites the instances in which parol fi evidence is admissable; where it can-| not be introduced; and the types of I cases in which it is always allowed. I The dedication of city streets by I the owner of property and the obliga-I tion on the part of the city to care £ for such streets, is discussed by Austin I Gildea, a senior in the Hoynes College of Law and an associate editor of
the Lawyer. In the course of the discussion he tells his readers the meaning of dedication, the difference between statutory dedication and common law dedication, and how the various states decide upon cases in which dedication of streets is involved.
“Negotiable Instruments Pledged as Collateral Security for Loans” is the subject chosen by Louis Chapleau, a senior in the Hoynes College of Law. Collateral security is demanded by those institutions which, lending money, require the utmost safety in protecting their loans. The writer of the article states that the most common form of collateral security is negotiable instruments, and he enumerates some of the rights and duties of the pledgor and pledgee of negotiable paper which acts as security.
Marshall Kizer, a senior and honor student in the Hoynes College of Law, indulges in an interesting discussion under the heading of “Discrimination Against Persons Because of Race or Color.” Congress passed the Civil Rights Act in 1875 in an attempt “to control the activities of individuals in their relationship with other individuals.” Later this act was declared to be unconstitutional, it being stated that Congress did not have the power to pass the act.
The writer of the article considers the Thirteenth Amendment and its relation to the Act, why the Act was declared unconstitutional, and how its influence has spread among the States.
The editor-in-chief of the Lawyer, Francis T. Ready, concerns himself with “The Judiciary and Politics.” He comments upon the fact that the three departments of the government were formed with the intention that they should remain separate and distinct in their respective functions; his editorial is primarily concerned with the judiciary department.
The editor believes that judges of the state courts should hold office by appointment—a factor which is not provided for in the Constitution. He believes “that judges of State courts should be chosen by the Bar, the members thereof alone being qualified to choose a candidate upon his merits.” He further states that “the fathers of the Constitution never intended that our courts should thus interpret our laws, as constitutional or unconstitutional, with changes in public whim.”
ENGLISH MAJOR EXAMIN-
ATIONS SEE 22 PASS, 12
CONDITIONED, 6 FAIL
The results of the fourth qualification examination for the English major were announced last Sunday. Of the forty students who took the examination, twenty-two passed, twelve conditioned and six failed. Louis A. Brennan, a sophomore from Portsmouth, Ohio, received the highest grade, his grade of 91.2 being more than a point better than the grade of 89.9 made by Francis X. Nulty of Brooklyn, N. Y.. John H. Wilson of Chicago, Illinois, received third honors. Nulty beat Wilson’s mark of 89.8 by a slim tenth of a point.
Brennan is on the board of editors of Scrip, the University’s literary quarterly. He is also a member of the Scribblers, and has written some fine short stories and essays.
After the grades had been given out Sunday morning, the Reverend Joseph L. Carrico, C.S.C., head of the English department, and several members of the English faculty, spoke to the candidates for the English major about the selection of courses for the school year 1930-31, outlining the prospective program for students majoring in English.
The list of the approved and conditioned students follows:
Approved—Louis A. Brennan, 91.2; Francis X. Nulty, 89.9; John H. Wilson, 89.8; John R. Fox, 88.1; John E. Hart, 84.2; Francis J.’ O’Malley, 83.7; Robert E. Gorman, 82.5; Joseph D. Grogan, 82.4; Brother Regis, C.S.C., 82; Victor J. Boisvert, C.S.C., 81.8; Thomas L. McKevitt, 80.3; James M. Carmody, 79.6; Paul J. Hallinan, 79.5; Joseph B. Siemer, 79.3; Joseph A. McCabe, 79.2; John H. Murphy, 78.7; Francis H. Reilly, 77.9; Henry C. Johnson, 77.3; Brother- Aquinas, C.S.C., 75; Frank J. Conboy, 75; John E. Ryan, 75; Robert J. Law, 75.
Conditionally Approved — John A. Scharbach, 73.8; Thomas A. Steele, 73.7; Howard A. Miller, 71.2; Joseph F. Willis, 71; George A. Higgins, 69.3; Joseph S. Petritz, 69.1; Thomas E. Meade, 66.9; Thaddeus S. Xelow-ski, 66.5; Aloysius F. Gorman, 66.2; Edward T. Riley, 64.5; Philip H. Dunleavy, 63; James B. O’Shaugnessy, grade incomplete.
746	'	The Notre Dame Scholastic
HARVARD DEBATERS IN CAMPUS TALK
“East is East and West is West” according to Mr. Kipling, but when he made this well-known statement, he forgot to consider such gentlemen as those who represented the Harvard Chinese debating team in Washington Hall last Tuesday evening. The two Chinese speakers, Peter K. Kiang and Victor K. Kwong, were essentially a contradiction: they wrore a rather picturesque native garb, but they spoke English with hardly a trace of foreign accent. The question was again that of disarmament. And by their facile handling of this timely question, the Chinese debaters ' showed themselves intelligent citizens of the world, as well as scholars.
The Chinese speakers, upholding the Affirmative side of the discussion, argued that armies and navies are not compatible with the tendency of the world toward universal brotherhood and that armaments, besides leading to suspicion and even to war, constitute an appalling economic burden. John Keefe and Thomas Keegan, representing the Notre Dame squad, answered that the seeds of war are too deeply sown in human nature and human institutions to be done away with overnight, and that even though the armies of the world were limited to biting each other or were eliminated altogether, there would still remain the hatreds and rivalries that cause war. Mr. Keefe attributed war not to arms but to three dangerous political “isms”: nationalism, militarism, and imperialism, while Mr. Keegan pointed out the practical difficulties in the way of disarmament and the necessity of some armed force to carry out our general international policies. No decision was given. After the debate a brief open forum was held, in which the Chinese speakers were asked for their opinions on such subjects as Confucius and Mr. Hoover’s noble experiment to make the world safe for hypocrisy. Professor Clarence Manion served effectively as chairman.
Three other contests were held within the past two weeks. On March 23 the Negative team—James Walsh, William Kirby, and John Keefe—in its final appearance here this year, ’ won a meet with Western Reserve University. This debate was held in the Senior High School Auditorium in South Bend, and it was judged by Professor P. E. Lull, director of debate at Purdue. The Hon. Dudley
SOPHOMORE CONVOCATION APRIL 7 AND 8
“It is a Faculty requirement that all sophomores elect their major subject before entering upon the work of the 'junior year. This choice should not be made hastily, but only after mature reflection and consultation with the heads of the various departments who, by virtue of their official position, are best qualified to provide all necessary and useful information. In order therefore that all sophomores may have the opportunity of meeting these officials, they should present themselves in Washington Hall, at 4:15 on the afternoon of Monday, April 7th, and Tuesday, April Sth. On the former date, brief addresses will be made by the heads of the departments of Philosophy, History, Sociology and Journalism; on the latter, by the heads of the departments of Economics and Politics, Ancient and Modern Languages, Education, and by the Directors of the Schools of Physical Education and Fine Arts. Attendance at these convocations is required of all Arts and Letters sophomores, except those who have already been admitted as major students in the department of English.”
Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. -
Dean
LAMPORT TALKS TO COMMERCE STUDENTS
Mr. William K. Lamport, president of the Lamport-Fox Advertising Agency of South Bend, lectured this afternoon to students of the Commerce School, and visitors, in Washington Hall. The lecture was well attended and proved to be of interest to those present because of Mr. Lamport’s wide experience in commercial fields.
Shively acted as chairman. On the following evening the Affirmative team won a victory over speakers from New York University. Professor John McGee of Purdue awarded the decision to Notre Dame on the grounds of superiority in argumentation and technical presentation. The members of the Notre Dame team were Walter Stanton, Francis Mc-Greal, and Thomas Keegan.
Last Friday evening the affirmative team defeated Northwestern University in Chicago. The debate was judged by Professor E. R. Nichols, for many years director of debate at the University of Redlands, California, and an outstanding authority on debating. -
AUDIENCE PLEASED WITH
GLEE CLUB CONCERT
One of the most evenly balanced programs ever presented by the University Glee Club was given Sunday evening in Washington Hall when Director Joseph J. Casasanta presented his 1930 organization to the students in its first campus appearance of the year.
The versatility of the club was shown by its ability to successfully interpret songs of the Church Liturgy, as well as many old favorites and campus songs. The singing of Bantock’s arrangement of “Song of the Volga Boatmen” was one of the finest bits of ensemble singing heard on the campus during the year. It was easily the outstanding number on the program, although “Matona Lovely Maiden,” by Orlando di Lasso, and “In Old Nassau,” by Murchison, were well received by the crowd which filled Washington Hall to its doors.
An enthusiastic reception was given the formal presentation of Director Casasanta’s new song, “When Irish Backs Go Marching By.” The entire club was brought back on the stage to sing this number a second and third time. The words of the piece were written by the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C.
A new idea was tried out for the concert when Director Casasanta had a seven-piece orchestra on hand to accompany the club on two of its numbers. “Land of Hope and Glory,” the words of which were written by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell,, C.S.C., was sung with the orchestra, which also accompanied the singers on “When Irish Backs Go Marching By.”
Three old favorites with college glee clubs were cleverly interpreted by the entire ensemble. “John Peel” by Andrews, and the rousing “Sea Song” by Gaines were cleverly put over. “Has Sorrow Thy Young Days Shaded,” with Thomas S. Kerrigan singing the solo, was harmoniously sung.
John Beljon, pianist, and Zeno Staudt, banjoist, put plenty of rhythm in their encores. The trio of Ronald Zudeck, William McAleer and Jerome Roach sang several novelty songs. 5
The entire club closed the concert with the singing of the three songs 1 , of the campus, “Hike, Notre Dame,” “Down the Line” and the “Victory ® March.” .	&
The Notre Dame Scholastic
747
CONNOR SAYS K. OF C. FORMAL PLANS “NEARLY
COMPLETE”
General Chairman Edward D. Connor announces that preparations for the annual Spring Formal of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus are practically complete. The scene of the dance will be the Palais Royale Ballroom, and the date Friday evening, May 2.
Assistant chairmen and committees have been named, and negotiations are now under way with one of the leading orchestras of Chicago.
Judging from past years the Spring-Formal will be one of the most outstanding social events of the year. John Chevigny, Grand Knight of the local council, has called a special meeting for Monday night in the council chambers, Walsh Hall, and final arrangements for the dance are to be made then. Tickets are to be distributed at this assembly, and will be on sale Monday, April 7. Attendance will be limited to Knights and their guests.
The following committees have been assisting Mr. Connor in his preparations :
Ticket—Nicholas Bohling, chairman; Frank Gartland, William Harrington, Walter Scholand, Edward Brennan, John Nelson.
Program—John Rocap, chairman; Martin Travers, James P. Lyons, William J. Simmons, Fred Rahaim, Gerald Smith, Edward McKeever.
MUSIC—Thomas Cunningham, chairman; Francis P. Dayton, Thomas Gorman, Walter A. Mortenson, Phillip Flynn, Joseph P. Nugent, Bertram Metzger.
Patrons—Robert Streb, chairman; Frank Carideo, William Miller, Russel Scheidler, John O’Malley, Edward J. O’Mahony, Thomas J. Moore.
Publicity—Arthur Kane, chairman; Robert Andres, John Bergan, Austin J. Boyle, William J. McGeory, Joseph R. Munnizzo, William B. Rowen.
Entertainment—Malcom McVean, chairman; Joseph Deeb, Francis Flannery, Louis J. Adessa, Donald Lusardi, Charles Hanna, Edward O’Brien.
Reception — William Kerrigan, chairman; Jack Cannon, Thomas Keegan, Vincent Ponic, Joseph A. Klefe-ker, John P. Manning, Frank McAdams.
Arrangements—James T. Conners, chairman; Joseph A. Lauerman, William O’Malley, Austin J. Barlow, Vincent J. Donohue, Robert Ruppe, Stanley Obelmus.
MAXWELL, LAMONT, LAZ-ZARI GIVE CLASSICAL
CONCERT
For the second time within a week we have been treated to some extraordinary singing. There was the very well done Glee Club concert on Sunday evening, and then on Monday a program given by three finished artists of the Chicago Civic Opera Co., Vergilio Lazzari, basso; Margery Maxwell, soprano, and Forest Lamont, tenor.
No presentation of the year has received so much genuine applause. The singers were forced to return for encore after encore, their “recalls” being an unusual tribute to their ability. They possess such excellent voices, and theii- selections were so well chosen, that applause was vigorous and sincere.
Miss Maxwell sang pleasingly in her soprano selections. From the lofty arias of operas to homely Irish ballads there was the same fine tone and mastery of range. Especially effective were “Hallelujah” and an aria. Mr. Lamont, tenor, was superb, both in the solo and in the duets, and he descended from operatic heights to give a vocal dissertation on “red noses” that drew surprised laughter. Mr. Lazzari’s basso version of the “Song of the Volga Boatmen” was the outstanding number on a program of splendid songs. Especially well done were tenor and basso duets and a trio from “Faust.”
The Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C., in charge of the concert series, is to be congratulated on the excellence of his selections, and on the securing of such unusual talent for campus presentation.
| College of Law Notes
❖—----------------------------*
Judge M. M. Oshe, of Chicago, will lecture before the Law students on next Tuesday afternoon at 2 p. m., in the Law Building. The material of the lecture will be the problem of conveyancing. The lecture is given under the auspices of the Law Club.
Also on Tuesday, April 8, in the evening at eight o’clock, the annual contest for the McInerney prize of fifty dollars, donated by William McInerney, attorney at law will be held, and the prize presented to the student in the College of Law who is judged the most excellent in Public Speaking.
FISK GLEE CLUB PROGRAM WELL RECEIVED BY
AUDIENCE
One of the most pleasant and most enthusiastically received musical programs ever presented in Washington Hall was given last Friday night by the Fisk University Glee Club. The young gentlemen from the south rendered a number of selections in the course of the evening which, in the parlance of the theater, “brought the house down.” The storms of applause which they evoked were well merited, for the proteges of Professor John W. Work showed that they were deserving of the high reputation which they have established for themselves.
Their repertoire was divided into three groups of songs. The whole chorus gave the selections in the first and third groups, and the singing in the second group was by an octet. The greater part of the program consisted of - Negro spirituals and folk songs, with a classic or a song of lighter vein intervening occasionally. The spirituals were especially impressive. The singers gave to them that depth of feeling and warmth and emotion that only the Negro can express in this type of music. Among them the spiritual of the Nativity, “Glory To That New Born King,”-was the most excellent. In this selection the roll of the basses was like the sweep of a mighty sea, and the sweetness of the tenor’s voice was more beautiful and more lyrical by contrast. “Stand The Storm” was another spiritual superbly sung, and was marked by the delicately shaded course of the program were “Water Boy” and “John Henry.”
Th.e selections given by the octet were appropriately of a less solemn character. The singers in this group were well chosen, for their voices blended perfectly. The numbers they contributed to the program were “Li’l Gal,” “Mandy Lou,” and “Gonna See My Sarah”: all Negro folk songs. These met with what was probably the greatest appreciation of any of the evening’s renditions. Other folk songs that were later sung in the course of the program were, “Water Boy,” and “John Henry.”
What was perhaps the finest bit of ensemble work was the “Song of the Volga Boatman.” “0 Caesar, Great Wert Thou,” and Rachmaninoff’s “C Sharp Prelude” were rendered with the perfection that their classical standing deserves. The program ended with the singing of “Gold and Blue,” the alma mater of Fisk University.
748
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I Music and Drama
i
*---------------------------------4
Three grand opera stars from the Chicago Civic Opera company entertained the students in Washington Hall last Monday evening. They were: Margery Maxwell, soprano, Forrest Lamont, tenor, and Vergilio Lazzari, basso.
The finale to the first act of “Madame Butterfly” was the first number on the program; various selections from famous operas as well as lighter pieces followed. One of the notably prominent features of the evening was Margery Maxwell’s rendition of “When Ireland Was Mother to Me,” written by the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C. “Love’s a Merchant,” as well as a selection from “Don Juan,” was outstanding. The program concluded with the singing of the trio from “Faust.”
The student body received the concert very enthusiastically; encore followed encore. The Reverend William Molony, C.S.C., is responsible for securing these three opera stars of national fame for Notre Dame; it is because of him that we have been so fortunate this year in hearing the outstanding musical organizations of the country.
“MY PROM SWEETHEART” RECORDED
Wayne King has recorded “My Prom Sweetheart” on Victor Records which will be released in the near future. Arrangements have also been made with the Brunswick Recording Laboratories to have the number recorded in time for a release before the summer vacation.
Beljon and Staudt, the composers of the waltz hit, “My Prom Sweetheart,” which was introduced at the Junior Prom this year, appear in a radio skit in the Monogram Absurdities of 1930. Jack Cannon and Cy Matthews are announcer and singer respectively in this feature.
The Melrose Publishing Company, the publisher of the Notre Dame songs as well as of the songs of nearly every other university in the country, has been selected as the official publisher* of this song. The Melrose Company also published “The Sweetheart of Sigma Chi,” and it is to be hoped that “My Prom Sweetheart” will soon have a national circulation equal to that of this fascinating college waltz and will be placed upon the music counters of the coun- . try as another standard college song.
SPECTATORS ANNOUNCE
MEMBERSHIPS OPEN
The Spectators Club announces that several memberships in the club are now open. Prospective applicants are asked to secure questionnaires from either the secretary, Mr. Murray Hickey Ley, 327 Sorin Hall, or the president, Mr. Louis L. Hasley, 325 Sorin Hall. These questionnaires must be returned to either of the above mentioned men by midnight, Monday, April 14.
The questionnaire to be filled out is as follows:
Name	Hall
Course	Major
Year	Gen. Average
(Note of explanation: The Spectators Club has for its object the discussion of current events and develop-emnts in the arts, sciences, philosophy, sociology, politics, religion, and like fields.)
In which of the fine arts are you particularly interested?
How far does this interest take you?
In what subjects of a more practical nature are you interested?
How far does this interest take you?
In what campus intellectual activities have you taken part? (e. g., Debating, Wranglers, Scribblers, Players Club, staffs of magazines, etc.)
Do you read extensively?
In what does your reading chiefly consist?
If you care to do so, mention your high school intellectual qualifications.
Do you attach more importance to facts or to ideas?
Why do you want to join the Spectators?
Do you think you could add something in an intellectual way to the club if you were to be elected?
Supplementary Remarks.
EUGENE T. LIES SPEAKS HERE
Last Wednesday, Mr. Eugene T. ■Lies, special representative of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, spoke to the Boy Guidance students, Physical Education seniors, and the Sociology students majoring in. probation work.
Mr. Lies emphasized in his talk the importance of adequate opportunities as an important means to prevent delinquency in boys.
4------------------------
Gleanings 4------------------------<
“Red” Smith of the class of ’27 has recently been appointed head baseball coach at Georgetown University, sol now there is a reunion of Notre. Dame / alumni at Georgetown, for Tommy Mills, Tim Moynihan, and John Col-erick are also there as members of the football coaching staff.
Bernie Abrott of the class of ’27 is * in the throes of becoming a big league baseball manager. In the California Winter League he was running a team, but we do not know how they came out; perhaps they were put out. f
Joe Whalen, of the class of ’27, who is now studying at Harvard, has been listed as an honor student. Perhaps this is partly because of the salutary influence of his training at Notre Dame.
Reports from the Fordham district declare that the women at New Rochelle College wish that there would be a Junior Prom every night so that Bus Redgate of the class of ’29 could attend.
John de Roulet of the class of ’29 is now a genial pedagogue, initiating the freshmen at Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago into-the mysteries of the English language. His chief worry about his work is that whenever he demands a written assignment he has the correction of 197 papers on his hands.
Al Thomas of the class of ’28 returned to Notre Dame long enough to enjoy the Lawyers’ Ball and the Junior Prom before he again took up the study of law at Michigan.
If the- reports of Charley McDermott of the class of ’27 are to be credited, he is wholly responsible for the market crash last fall in New York.
Bob Lane is another member' of the class of ’29 who has “gone professorial,” for he is now teaching at Santa Clara.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
749
HC M CI AM M < HHI > SCCI IM HIT
r, The Monogram Club presented its “Absurdities of 1930” last night in Washington Hall to the accompaniment of the roars and chuckles of a vastly appreciative audience. Stalwart huskies of the Notre Dame athletic squads pranced through their 5 skits and dances in hilarious fashion. •, The annual “Absurdities” never had such a wealth of talent and material on view as does the current issue.
The entire Monogram Club appeared behind the footlights in the opening number with a line of cleverly composed patter. Next came a Hindu dance by those comely Orientals, George Vik, Tom Kenneally, Bert Metzger, Paul Enright, Nordie Hoffman, and Bernie Conroy. A Hindu himself would be amazed by the performance.
Tom Cunningham’s clever skit, “Something Different,” followed and *' drew its share of the generous applause. The Monogram Club’s own radio station, NDMC, presented Zeno Staudt and John Beljon, campus composers, in a group of popular tunes, with Jack Cannon announcing. One of the hightlights of the evening was ‘ the Monogram Trio, made up of those pulsating troubadors, Nordie Hoff-■ man, Larry Mullins, and “Art” Mc-Manmon. The boys have been com
pared to Dennis King. Each of them is bigger and can sing more loudly.
The Notre Dame Jugglers supply music during the intermission, with Professor Casasanta directing, before the curtain goes up on the hardy chorines in a fetching gypsy dance. The chorus later pushes over another touchdown against Old Man Gloom, doing a fast “Bottoms Up” and “Breakaway” number. Heartier cheers for their spirited performances have never greeted the members on any football field. Some prize or other should go to the “Italian Street Scene,” featuring Frank Carideo and Joe Savoldi. These actor-athletes are supported by other Monogram men in this number.
The Juggler Trio holds the center of the stage in the next scene, with Jack Folks, Bill McAleer, and Pat Mangan harmonizing melodiously. Their feature is called “Reminisce,” and is sung by permission' of the music committee of the Senior Ball. The song, with music by Walt Philipp, well-known campus musician, and words by Jack Folks, is dedicated to the Senior Ball of 1930. The number will soon be featured by such nationally known orchestras as CoonSanders, Isham Jones, and Freddie
Hamp. It is a smooth, fast-stepping fox-trot, and Walt Philipp may be congratulated on composing this catchy melody. He and Jack Folks have done the musical score for the “Absurdities.”
Two Monogram men, Jack Cannon and Dick Donoghue, have taken their pens in hand themselves and written the “Pullman Scene,” a rapid-fire skit showing the football men enroute to one of the big games. After this the Monogram Club assembles for the finale, and closes the show with a rousing rendition of “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” Joe Casa-santa’s latest piece. Mr. Casasanta has charge of the musical direction of the show.
It was the task of Mary Grace Mohn of the Fine Arts Studio to train the hefty Monogram chorus and put the members through their difficult dance routines. The production was arranged and directed by Joe Abbott, president of the Monogram Club. His business manager was John Quinn, and Frank McAdams was stage manager. The highly successful “Absurdities’ ’will be staged again tonight and tomorrow night at eight o’clock in Washington Hall. Reserved seats are seventy-five cents, and general admission, fifty cents. .
ORDERS POUR IN FOR SEASON FOOTBALL
TICKETS
Last -Tuesday, April 1, found the athletic office flooded with applications foi' season tickets for the Notre Dame games in the new stadium. It was the first day for answering the letters sent out some time ago by J. Arthur Haley, explaining the new plan of three year and one year tickets.
Mr. Haley announced that there will be no distinctions made in the matter of assigning seats for the games and that applications will be considered in the order in which they are received. Already the requests have exceeded the applications of the first day of 1928, the last year that Notre Dame played a home schedule. Orders have come from neighboring cities in large numbers, with the greater portion from Chicago, Indianapolis, and Cleveland.
ACCOUNTANT OFFERS PRIZE TO COMMERCE STUDENTS
As an especial inducement to seniors in accountancy accounting the University has announced a prize of fifty dollars to the student who shows the greatest talent in his field. The reward is to be made annually, and it is to go into effect this year.
Mr. F. S. Willet, a resident of Mishawaka arid a member of the firm of Willet, Fick, and Whorton, public accountants, is the donor of the annual award. The purpose in offering the prize is to show the confidence of the business world in the abilities of the college-trained accountants, and to emphasize the fact that expert accountants are produced only through intensive college training.
A committee consisting of expert accountants will award the sum to the senior chosen, at the close of each year. It is to be noted that the com-
“ROCK” MAY RETURN IN THREE WEEKS
In spite of the fact that the newspapers have carried stories to the effect that Coach Rockne will be back on the campus directing the spring drill by April 10, the athletic office today stated that “Rock” has set ho definite date for his return.
Mr. Rockne’s condition is such that it is inadvisable for him to return to the colder Indiana climate. Herb Jones stated that it is unlikely that “Rock” will return for some three weeks. In the meantime the team is being shaped and selected by “Hunk” Anderson, Jack Chevigny, and Ike Voedisch, and there will be a finished squad awaiting Mr. Rockne’s return, petition will also be open to those students who do not intend to -be public accountants, but who show the greatest proficiency in general accounting.
750
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BROADWAY TO FEATURE GLEE CLUB DURING EASTER VACATION
The most extensive tour the University Glee Club has ever taken will open at the Hippodrome Theater in New York City, April 19, and will continue at that place until April 23, when the club will begin its appearances in a number of cities throughout New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. This was the announcement made yesterday by H. Jerome Parker, general manager of the club.
This is the first time that the Glee Club has signed a contract with any of the large Metropolitan theaters. The Roxy Theater was first con- • sidered, but due to the necessity of opening there on Good Friday the offer was passed up in favor of -the Hippodrome. S. L. Rothafel, owner and manager of the Roxy Theater, wanted the singers for an entire week, but on account of the long itinerary this was impossible. The contract with Mr. Benjamin Piazza, manager of the Hippodrome, calls for four days appearance.
The other eastern cities where the Club will appear have not been named by Mr. Parker, but he implied that six or eight cities are under consideration. The complete . schedule will be completed during this week-end, he said.
Two of the talent experts of the Radio-Keith-Orpheum circuit, with which the Hippodrome Theater is affiliated, will come from Chicago Sunday morning to review the club on
..•••••■■•■■■■.in.        ■■■■■■.............           „„
ROOM RE-RESERVATION “SCHOLASTIC” STAFF TO
APRIL 2 TO 30	* BANQUET
Students wishing to reserve for next year the room in which they are now living, may do so by following this procedure:	'
Pay the reservation fee of $25.00 to the Secretary of the University, accept a receipt, and present the receipt at the office of the Registrar.
Students living in Freshman, Carroll, Brownson, Howard, Sophomore, and Sorin Halls may not re-reserve their rooms.
Rooms may be re-reserved from April 2 until April 30.
the Palace Theater stage. They will choose the program which the club will sing in New York from the program of the campus concert, as well as from the large number of other songs which the men have been practicing daily since last September.
Director Joseph J. Casasanta announced early this week that many of these men are veterans of concert trips of the past two years They were chosen this week by tryouts in quartet combinations wherein every member was given a chance to show his ability while pitted against men singing the other parts. The men are:
First tenors: Thomas Kerrigan, Frank O’Neill, Ronald Zudeck, James Collins, Herman Ziffrin, Francis Staudt, Arthur Glasaw, Maurice Scanlon.
Second tenors: William McAleer, Donald O’Toole, Jerome Parker, Zeno Staudt, John Beljon, Herbert Petzel, Jerome Crowley, Jerome CuDigan, Francis Maas, John Hickey.
First basses: Joseph Butler, Jerome Reidy, Jerome Roach, Morton Goodman, Harry Merdzinski, Robert Alge, William Waltz, C. R. Schmidt, and Alvaro Ferlini.
Second basses: David Barry, Rudolph Sturm, Raymond Ziliak, Edward Phelan, Peter Wacks, Francis Coogan, Francis Brown.
The Club will be featured by the Hippodrome during the club’s stay at that theater. Mr. Piazza said that the entire lobby of the theater would be turned over to a display of colors, pennants and pictures of the Glee Club and of the University.
Next Thursday evening the members of the Scholastic staff will banquet at the Rose-Marie Tea Room, Lafayette Avenue. The affair is the first of its kind in many years.
Members of the editorial, news and sports staffs are invited to attend. Paul J. Hallinan has charge of the arrangements. Those who plan to attend should notify him before Wednesday.
The banquet is being sponsored by Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications.
GIRLS FROLIC IN NEXT „ “JUGGLER” ISSUE
Girls—more than a hundred of them—frolic in the next .edition of the Juggler, the Girls’ Number. Contributions in art work and writings from all parts of the country came in , response to the invitation of the Funny Fellow, and from the wealth of that material the staff has organized a number that may be the most astounding number ever issued by any college comic. Among the features of the number will be a process cover, . ) in full colors, of a pastel drawing. A special two-color off-set insert will be an entirely new treat for- readers in the inside section of the magazine, and the Juggler's announcement of the winners in its own particularly ’ private Personality Girl Contest will ,= create a lot of comment.
The theatre section this month’ is written by Miss Catherine Moylan, the girl who, through the publication of her picture in the Juggler, secured a 'fine movie contract with Metro- 1 Goldwyn-Mayer. Drawings by girls,	.;
and written material by girls, fill up the number with plenty of different • and clever satire.
The issue will be on sale Friday, April 11, on the campus. The next and last issue of the Juggler will be the Commencement issue, which will be out the night before the Senior Ball, on May 8. This will require ? early preparation, and contributors are urged to submit material before the Easter recess for this number.
CHEMISTRY CLUB HOLDS
MEETING	’
The Chemistry Club met in Chemistry Hall, Wednesday night, April 2, 1930. The meeting was conducted by Gerald Ball, owing to the illness of the President of the Club, Wm. Ginder.	.
The speakers for the evening were B. Hamilton, C. Wilson and Prof. Hinton. Hamilton spoke on the source of mercury, giving the history of its discovery. Mr. Wilson gave an . interesting dissertation on the use and manufacture of radium. Prof. Hinton, the outstanding speaker of j the evening told of his various trials | and tribulations encountered while I working with acetals in the securing I of his Ph. D. The speakers were well received by the members of the B club present.	ft.
At the close of the meeting refreshments and somkes were served. „	®
The Notre Dame Scholastic
751
THE LAETARE MEDAL WINNER
Frederick P. Kenkel, of St. Louis, Missouri, has been awarded the Laetare Medal for 1930. Mr. Kenkel is the third St. Louis man to win the award which is given annually by the University of Notre Dame to the Catholic layman who has won distinction in the fields of science, art, or literature.
The University, after careful consideration, decided upon Mr. Kenkel for the honor because he, more than any other American Catholic, has aroused special interest in social legislation. Mr. Kenkel has always actively contested any movement tending to create a federal department of education, as being a dangerous increase of federal power.
Mr. Kenkel is connected with the Catholic Central Verein at St. Louis, and he edits the Central Blatt and Social Justice. He also manages the affairs of the Catholic Women’s Union. He has made these organizations radiating centers for the promotion of Catholic interest in social conditions, and the study of the Catholic position on various sociological questions.
In 1912 Pope Pius X made Mr. Kenkel a Knight of St. Gregory, one of the highest honors a Catholic can receive. He was also awarded the Knighthood of the Holy Sepulchre by the Patriarch, Bar-lassina, in recognition of his services in behalf of the German Society of the Holy Land.
The name of Mr. Kenkel is a worthy addition to the long list of Catholic men and women whose achievements have added lustre to the already gleaming banners of Catholicism; in him the Laetare Medal finds not only a sound, but brilliant and versatile recipient:	E. L. t.
SDCCETL
This talk about a person’s success in life after graduation depending on grades, seems to be a subject causing a deal of controversy. One man says that success is inversely proportionate to one’s grade. Another takes the opposite view, that if a student makes good grades in college, he has a better chance to succeed in later life.	.	'
On the surface either may be right, using only mere figures to reckon his decision upon. Looking further, it would seem that the matter goes deeper than numbers and statistics. A student may make no unusually good record in college, at least as far as grades are concerned. At the same time, however, he may have applied himself to his subjects, getting the essentials out of them. What matter then if his grades are in the seventies? The big thing is that he has something to carry away with him, something on which to start his foundation.	•
The student who has made an average of “90” may have studied hard, but perhaps he has not really learned the foundation of the subject. What chance will he have when thrust into the world if he does not have a firm foundation? .
It would seem that it is an intangible thing, this business of calculating a man’s success. The real truth lies not in the grades but in application of knowledge to work. This application may be obtained in college even though a student does make low grades, of course not “flunking.” The requisite is to get the fundamentals in mind, fixing them, and then not worrying about the ultimate grade. In any case, statistics are at times misleading, and need not dishearten anyone.	J. E. B.
Page 752—The Notre Dame Scholastic
MARCUS FOOTE was sitting on a a bridge, fishing, and considering the classical twist in his name. The bridge was intended for the transition of locomotives: sooner or later one was destined to come. It did. Marcus was alarmed, but like all true Notre Dame men, he set his teeth at the danger, and ran. The train won, however. Marcus and his fish
ing rod were catapulted from the bridge.
“All his old associates regret the accident, and may they all learn a lesson therefrom, viz: to go no place without permission.” Plot and moral—courtesy of “The Scholastic Year” of 1867.
This charming Aesopian tale and hundreds like it fill the yellowed pages of a curiosity which is known as Vol. I (18671868) of “The Scholastic Year.” Take a look through this book before you leave Notre Dame; you can say you had your index-finger on a land-mark, and, in these days, landmarks are becoming rare.
Before Marcus and his locomotive, Notre Dame’s efforts in journalism were halfhearted and prematurely doomed. There had been “The Literary Gazette” of Messrs. Collins, Bigelow, Barron and Fleming. This rarely passed the manuscript edition. Then appeared “Progress,” whose enterprising-head, John Collins, saw his brain-child banished and burned. At intervals, several “sheets” (in the strict sense of the word) followed, including the ephemeral “Weekly Bee” and the “Olympic Gazette.”
Pioneers all! Came 1867 and Father N. H. Gillespie and “The Scholastic Year,” the first sheet of which is printed here. Every year there was an argument whether the name would be “The Scholastic Year” or the “Notre Dame Scholastic.” There were also heavy discussions over the motto: Labor conquers all, some wished it, while others insisted that it should be Life without Letters is Death. The sloganeers finally secluded themselves for days, read voluminous books, and the result
~ ~_____~	___47,^	»
brds-a&ords--'
was the rallying cry of the Scholastic of today: “Learn as if you were to live forever; live as if you were to die tomorrow.”
There’s a lot of wisdom in that line; especially in the words that follow the semicolon. Editors-in-chief, editorial writers, conductors of satiric and humorous columns have read into the adage on the mast-head a solemn warning. “Live as if you were to die tomorrow”—the sentence has a sinister sound, and the result has been that these men have led decorous journalistic lives; unexcited and unexcitable, they perform their duties from week to week at a very even tenor.
Skeptical students piously affirm that there hasn’t been a story “break” on the campus since the fire of April, 1879—that is, a story which came to know the chatter of Scholastic linotypes and the roar of Scholastic presses. ^Being a weekly, the Scholastic cannot live up to “The News— While It’s News.” Mechanical limitations see to that. “All the News that’s Unfit to Print”—hardly. So the Scholastic, considering the lilies in the field, toils not, neither does it spin, yet the New York Times in all its glory, looks nothing like it.
Is the Scholastic a magazine, a journal, a record, a periodical, or what? It used to be a flourishing magazine, the extent of the flourish dependent upon articles of a more or less literary nature. Many a campus unknown has become a “writer,” if not an “author,” overnight by the publication of his opus in the literary section. Until last fall such copy often crowded the news into a few columns “up front.”
^By ^au,
To .relieve the growing pains, the ASTIC underwent a surgical treatm<J October, 1929, and had its poetic adc’ its essay appendix and its short-story.
The Sch^
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME
VOL. I.	NOTRE DAM 1^
SALUTATORY!
We gleet the friends of Notre Dame at Mary’s.
It may be well to explain to them the obj The Scholastic Year:
It has been undertaken in order to give rents frequent accounts of the institute which they have placed their children; r tions in which the parents’ hearts must/; long as their children ■ remain, and of whi who have visited it retain, we hope, a pl remembrance.
We wish to convey tx> parents, in a less j way than by the Monthly Bulletin of Classi Conduct, which is sent to the parents of eac dent, all the news that may concern their ch
We shall give an account of all the arriv the College and Academy, both of studeln friends: of the general and relative progr the classes: of those students who distil ■.hemselves in class, in study, and athletic sp< ’ and many other interesting items, which, i not of importance in the great world, are o*’ , moment in the “Student-World,” and will tremely interesting to parents. They (t’ ’ rents) will see la vie rntime—“the Family । —of the College, and can form a good idea life their children lead.
As the year goes on we shall also give, . entire, if short, or in part, if long, the bc-s positions from the classes. In order to nia Scholastic Year a healthy and long-lived we have connected it with the Ave Maria. 1 established periodical. We have engraft?' tender bud on a strong and vigorous trea The Scholastic Year will be adjoined < the edition of the Ave Maria intended for i
However, as the Ave Maria is a strictlj_ olic paper, if any of the parents object ’to it, we beg them on the reception of this firs ber of The Scholastic Year, which is sen1 to inform us of their unwillingness. Much ■ are interested in the cause for which the? Al ria is published—much as we wish to inc^ circulation—we do nof wish to force it : by tacking it to this publication. We begMo
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 753

I 3
PART I
&{allinan
'deleted. Scrip was founded to care for deletions and its two issues have ed that a “Lit” magazine should be
, that. Lou Heitger has seen to that 7
tic Year
TED TO THE INTERESTS OF STUDENTS.
'.JITY, SEPT. 7. 1807.
jSFO. 1.
lediately, if any one Tias an objection to receiv-the Ave Maria with The Scholastic Year, we shall send, if desired. The Scholastic .r without the Ave Maria.
Thie Scholastic Year, either with, or without Ave Maria, is §2.50 for ten months—postage >aid and included in the S2.50.
n the other- hand we do not wish it to be --ght that we are making the Ave Maria a Jal medium for advertising the College and xJ^my. We have carefully avoided mention-
in the pages of the Ave Maria, every thing aining particularly to the College and of no ‘rest to the vast majority of the leaders of paper. It is true that on the cover of the Maria, among the other advertisements, may ound the advertisements of Notre Dame and ’“it Mary’s, but no fault can be justly found h that; for we advertise all institutions that $i?st us to do so.
/'e are thus explicit, because always in the in-,‘.ion of an undertaking, there are many specu->ns concerning the motives.
ur Mothe in publishing the Ave Maria, is 'id in the Prospectus of that paper—and any g ihat would interfere with the object of paper is severely left alone.
ur motive in publishing The Scholastic Year • been stated above.
ur motive in adjoining it to the Ave Maria, jalso been stated, viz: that a connection with ■ Paper may ensure a long and vigorous life ^he Scholastic Year.
,e presume that nothing more is necessary to 4 the parents of the students a correct idea of iobject of The Scholastic Year, and to secure Lvorable reception for it from them.
)e naturally take pride in our College and [demy—not only in the buildings we have [ted for the accommodation and comfort of students, but particularly in the efforts we i made to procure experienced educators for -1. heart and body, and in the success that has
, .'ned our efforts.
e hope also that
we may become known in
4 es where hitherto we have not been known; '	‘	’ places where our name is
i better known in
5 yet a familiar household word 1
lastic Year,” issued Sept. 7, 1867.
detail. The Scholastic subsequently “carried on,” all the news departments profiting in space, if not in journalistic quality, by the change.
A frontispiece of some eye-soothing scenery—inherited from the more affluent Dome —usually prefaces the book. A page of
comment, created five years ago to free Jim Armstrong’s mind of “side-lights on campus events,” still appears as “The Week,” and, at times, it waxes satiric. A funny column,
once “The Safety Valve,” then “Hobnails,” is now the sportive “Wink.” Recent addenda to the magazine include miscellaneous columns about “Men You Know,” “Men You Don’t Know,” “Men About the Campus,” “Men You Don’t Want to Know,” and so forth. Other departments include: “Campus Clubs,” which is read by the Club secretaries; the various sport columns which are digested by the monogram men; “Editor’s Comment,” which is noted by the intelligentsia; “Music and Drama,” which is ' scrutinized by the critics of such things; “The College Parade,” which is explored by the exchanges; the many feature articles, which are perused by the proof-readers; and the “Calendar- of Events,” which is read
by everybody.
The Dome comes annually; Scrip, terly; the Juggler, monthly; the Scholastic of course is in the category “weekly.” That Notre Dame had a “daily” two different times; that it appeared, nominally
quar-
J
5
(See next week’s issue for Part II.)
>. J
.5
fl
4
As the Main Building looked, when the “Scholastic Year” was in its hey-day.



each day, but actually on Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday mornings; that the second “daily” flourished as a student-publication for over a year—these things are not generally known. The first real newspaper at Notre Dame shouted its headlines to the campus 32 years ago, while American soldiers were rushing the capture of Santiago, Cuba. Alive to news value, the “daily” published wired reports of action in Cuba, direct from the battle-line or from Washington. Judge Howard, we read, won the Laetare Medal that year, 1898. The first gym was ready for its dedication, and Brownson and Sorin boatmen were straining over their oars on St. Joseph’s Lake.
The “daily” was published for only a month at the end of the school year, June, 1898.
Twenty-five years later, while the Four Horsemen were still in then- footballic in
fancy, the real “daily” appeared, on Sept. 25, 1923. An attractive make-up, a speedy news service, a few timely editorials, two clever columns, “Thru the Looking Glass” and “Parachuting on Parnassus,” and an abundance" of advertisements made up a real four-page campus newspaper.
They tell us now—“they” being those who knew the “daily”—that when it enjoyed a year-long popularity, there was very little of the “ho-hum” attitude when it was distributed. Campus life with its high and low spots demanded—and still does demand —an outlet that is more than a weekly recording of facts.	’
Thus ends Part One of the story of the “printed word” at Notre Dame. Next week will come the rest of the publications in as orderly a parade as can be expected of such a heterogeneous group.



754
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WINK’S ROAMALOGUES
Undoubtedly the world’s most peculiar job belongs to the insidious Augustus Umlauf. He works nights and is employed by the rich Eric Schnitzelbaum. The extent of his duties is to awaken Eric every two hours in order that he may snatch a short rest. The density of this is cleared up when we consider the fact that Eric has acquired the very bad habit of dreaming that he is in a six-day bicycle race every night.
—o—
The Scotch joke of the week has been unanimously selected by the committee. It is the one concerning the fellow who was electrocuted while trying to extract the pennies from a fuse box.
“LUCIE”
You’re only a name, but a name that can claim A heart that must surely be gold.
You’re the girl of a dream, but a dream so supreme; Supreme in abstractions untold.
If fate could but bend, these dreams would soon end. These dreams which could easily come true
_ Would be but a thought in my memory caught, If chance couldTbiit lead me to you.
I’ll wait for aivhile, but though mile upon mile
Shall keep you jusT merely a -name;
I’ll wander some day, I know just which way, To prove you’re a dream just the same.
THE ROMANCE OF THE LETTER “X”
X is the Roman notation for ten;
X is the mark of illiterate men.
X is a ruler removed from his throne;
X means a quantity wholly unknown.
X may mean xenun, a furious gas;
X is a ray of a similar class.
X is for Xmas, a season of bliss;
X in a letter is good for one kiss.
X is for Xerxes, that monarch renowned;
X marks the spot where the body was found.
—IU.INI Pat.
Our world famed committee has gone farther than selecting the most popular Scotch joke of the week; they have also decided upon the world’s dumbest man. This man, when asked in a recent questionnaire if he ever practiced meditation, answered that he never had because they didn’t have a piano in his home . . . O-h-h-h-h-h rotten.
—o—
Bring out the fatted calfs, prepare your feasts, we have a prodigal among us . . . But instead of coming like the proverbial prodigal he comes to us weighted down with opro—no I mean a deal of talent. We welcome Number 55 and Wazmus who have been absent for oh so long, but knowing them both as we do, we know that they have been absent for the last time.	_
“Oh what a jolly time a baker’s life must be; Baking every morning for a most outrageous fee.
Here we have three sons o’ guns
Tryin’ their best to bake some buns.
Rest assured they’ll not succeed
But nevertheless, on buns we’ll feed.
What a lotta fun to bake them, But how very hard to break them.” And now children, our next song will be the one about the little brownies. All right, ready . . . one, two, three . . .
—o—
“AN ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATION”
Noiv please don’t you make fun o’ me—
Poor student of astronomy—
Because I like to watch the heaven’s stars.
You stick to your Geology,
Your Logic or Ontology,
And let me have my Venus, Moon and Mars.
There are tasks, I knoiv, much finer
Far, than sighting Ursa Minor,
Or calculating orbits out in sjmce
Yet, give me a telescopic
View of Grus: I’ll find a topic
That will astonish half the human race.
I’ve learned all heaven’s story
From my observatory,
And tvhat I can tell of worlds would set you wild;
I knoiv Piscus Australis;
Corona Borealis-—
The ninth planet was my secret as a child.
And when the grave apocalyptic
Horseman stops my life’s ecliptic,	.
Write on my tomb: “Your fears, Good Friend, dispel, For he has left this lowly Solar
To join the lofty Circumpolar—	• -
’Twas easy .... for he knew the place so well.
—Number 55.


The Notre Dame Scholastic
755
ANOTHER BOXING SHOW
SLATED FOR NEXT FRIDAY
A card of eight boxing bouts to decide the champions of the University will be presented by the Students Activities Council a week from tonight, Friday, April 11, in the University gymnasium. Johnny Burns, matchmaker foi' the initial boxing tournament of the season sponsored by the Council, is again in charge of the fisticuffs and is to conduct the eliminations next week, in order to narrow down the number of contestants.
Only eight bouts will be on the program to decide the school champions and these eight will bring together the cream of the University boxers. Winners in the first tournament last month are to be entered in next week’s scraps and they, for the most part, will furnish the opposition for the lesser lights. A hearty response to the Council’s call for boxers has resulted, and even though some of the fighters won their bouts handily in the earlier meet, they will buck up against some very tough competition when they step into the ring next Friday.
Bob DeVault, conqueror of Jerry Duwan in the final heavyweight bout in the initial tournament by virtue of his fifteen-second kayo, has been keeping in trim working out daily with the grid squad and he is anxious to repeat over Duwan. That is, providing they meet again in the finals next week.
Johnny Preece, fast 135-pound boxer, is expected to meet a worthy foe in the bouts next Friday night and he should put up a hard-fought scrap worthy of his past performances in the squared circle.
In the 118-pound class, Billy Magarral has been meeting difficulty in finding opponents to face him but
Jimmie Kelleher, whom Magarral outpointed in their previous go, may be the man selected to face the gamut of Billy’s punches in the title match.
Willie Hendricks and Leonard Dunn have been casting furtive glances at each other as they climb the stairs of St. Edward’s hall wondering which one has the advantage in their 160-pound “grudge” battle that ended in a draw. The large crowd which roared its approval of the scrap put up by these two lanky boys will no doubt await with great eagerness another mixup between the two fighters.
Johnny McElwee, game little 147-pounder, is anxious to trade blows with Harold Shumate to whom he was forced to default when he injured his hand in winning the decision ovei-Louis Godoy in the preliminary bout of the 147-pound class last month.
With this crew of scrappers keeping themselves in trim for the bouts and the increased number of other contestants reporting, every indication points to a championship boxing card of eight high class bouts with each boy striving determinedly for the campus title in his individual class.
The great success of the boxing show held on March 14, the first venture of its kind by the S. A. C., prompted them to sponsor another, and those making the arrangements promise that the class of entertainment will be of even greater quality than in the first meet. Johnny Burns has been working hard and faithfully in lining up the various boxers and if he is as successful as in the last fights there is every assurance that the scraps will be as evenly matched as it is possible to make them.
Baseball Men Prepare For Opener
With the weather permitting the Notre Dame ball tossers to cavort on the varsity field after long w’eeks of training in the field house, the men are already pointing for the first home game which will be played here against Armour Tech on April 14.
Coach George Keogan has three complete infields that are fighting for the berths on the varsity squad. Keo-gan states that a wealth of enthusiasm has been aroused by the competition and the infielders are trying to outdo each other in scooping up the sphere on the run. The race for the infield positions is so tight that there will be difficulty in choosing a starting combination, Keogan said.
The roster of the varsity squad now’ includes about 40 players, fifteen of whom are pitchers. The inclement vreather has not hindered the hurlers who have been loosening up the working parts of their arms for the past month
During the last week the varsity ball tossers practiced the art of bunting as well as learning to properly field a bunted ball. The squad is being rounded into shape for the Florida trip which will take place during the Easter vacation. After the southern trip the Fighting Irish will return to the old sod and earnestly begin to put Notre Dame on the baseball map by engaging with nines from several universities.	•
A call is issued for freshman baseball candidates on next Monday. Many freshmen have signified their intentions of playing on the yearling outfit this season. Joe Jachym, varsity hurler for three years and basketball co-captain last year, will be in charge. of the freshman activities in the realm of the horsehide, it was said. The initial meeting will be held Monday at 12:30 in the South room of the Library. All frosh interested in baseball are urgently requested to attend.
156
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ROY BAILIE IS REAL IRONMAN OF TRACK TEAM
Teammates Have Named Him Coach Nicholson’s
“ W orkhorse’ ’
ROY BAILIE has been called “Coach Nicholson’s workhorse” but a glance at the list of his activities during his three years at Notre Danie will convince the most skeptical one that “Nick” is not the only coach for whom Roy has been working.
Entering Notre Dame in the fall of 1927 from Fairfax High, Hollywood, California, where he won monograms in football, basketball, and track, Roy was one of the 250-odd who reported to Coach Rockne for freshman football. He survived all of the cuts and was awarded a numeral at the end of the season. He turned his efforts then to the cinder paths. By his ability in the hurdles and the broad jump Bailie was soon attracted by Coach Nicholson’s eye and between Bailie and John O’Brien, “Nick” knew his hurdle worries were over for several years.
Last year, Roy’s first in varsity competition, he set a new track and meet record in the low hurdles at the Central conference meet in Milwaukee, besides capturing the Indiana State championship at Bloomington a few weeks later. He was not devoting all of his time to the low “sticks” though, for “Nick” was depending on him, not alone in the high hurdles, but also in the broad jump. He capped his first year of varsity work with a brilliant victory over Morgan Taylor, former Olympic star, in a special 220-yard low hurdle event in the Invitation meet on Cartier Field last June.
When Coach Rockne and his assistants were molding the 1929 Champions into their championship stride last fall, Bailie made his presence felt again by his sterling end play.
Bucking up against such experienced men as Colrick, Vezie, Collins, and Murphy, his task was not an easy one, but after playing a few games with the reserves, Roy became a member of the varsity travelingsquad and made several trips before the season closed.
When the first call for trackmen was issued in December, Coach Nicholson figured that with O’Brien taking care of the heavy work in the high hurdles and Bailie in the lows, and each helping the other in his specialty, the coach’s worries were
Bailie is Member of New York Club and Officer of the
California Group
over in that department. And Nicholson’s reasoning worked out well enough until Johnny pulled a tendon in the Wisconsin meet, with the conference championships only a week away. Naturally “Nick” turned to Bailie and Roy had to race in both events. To run just two races would not have been so stiff, but three preliminaries in each event before reaching the finals is a strain on any runner. Roy responded, however, by setting a new gym and conference record in the low hurdles after being-disqualified in the finals of the highs.
Apparently not satisfied with running four races in each meet, he was next given a tryout in the quartermile. So good was his trial that in three contests he ran a leg on the mile-relay team.
With the start of outdoor practice last Monday, Roy began preparations for defense of his State and Conference crowns. He appears sure to retain them, and stands an excellent chance of lowering the present record marks.
To give an account of Roy’s activities outside of track and football would probably make this article entirely too long. Suffice it to say that besides holding an office in the California Club, he is a member of the Metropolitan Club, having joined the New Yorkers when his family moved “cross-country” a few months ago. He was recently elected vice-president of the Monogram Club, and is one of the most popular members of that organization.
Bailie is a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters. He expects to take up Law upon receiving his degree from Notre Dame.
^Rock” Is Improving
The Sports Editor of the SCHOLASTIC is indebted to John Kieran, New York sports writer, for the following article on Coach Knute Rockne. Under “Sports of the Times,” in the New York Times, Kieran devotes the column to the following:
(Tune: “On the Road to Mandalay”)
On the beach at old Miami, looking eastward at the sea,
There’s a football coach a settin’ and his thoughts are roaming free.
When the wind is in the palm trees and the sun is on the surf,
He is dreaming of a halfback dashing down the Autumn turf;
Where the iwlicans go flazzping from the ocean to the bay,	,
He is planning shifts and cutbacks and a nezo off-tackle play.
On the road to football fame, Where the college colors flame, . You zvill recognize the picture azid
—Knute Rockne is the name. Oh, the road to football fame, You can hear the zvind acclaim As the cheers go zip like thunder foz' the lads of Notre Dame.
MIAMI, Fla., March 2. — Knute Rockne, the Bald Eagle of South Bend, bronzed like a Seminole Indian,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
757
was seated in an easy chair and gazing out the window of his apartment overlooking Miami Beach.
“Doesn’t look much like football weather,” said the Notre Dame coach, gazing at the swimmers in the surf and the sun worshippers on the hot sand, “but I’ve got to be getting out of here soon. Must be at school for Spring practice.”
“What are the prospects for next season?”
“We lose the whole line. We’ll have to rebuild from end to end.”
“What about the backs?”
“We lose two, including Jack Elder. But we’ll have plenty of good backs.”
“But a team depends on its line, doesn’t it?”
“To a large extent. We won’t have as good a team as we had last year, but it should be fair to middling.”
“What was your hardest game last season?”
“The Army game. That is, it was hard on the boys. Nobody could play football on that frozen field and in that temperature. Cleats were useless. The boys would have been better off with basketball shoes. They were all helpless out there. We were lucky to win and lucky that nobody was hurt.”
“What was your best game?”
“Against Southern California. We knew they were good, so we prepared for them. I think we were better than the score showed. But we won and have no complaint.”
“Do you still have a beefsteak dinner to the winning team in Spring practice?”
“I’ve changed that. Instead of splitting up the varsity squad among the various teams, I form a varsity team, and any other team that beats it gets a beefsteak dinner.”
“Sounds like a scheme to cut down the meat bill.”
“No, siree. I may have to pay two or three meat bills if the scrubs come through. And I always found that the scrubs destroy more beefsteaks than varsity players do.”
“Have you had any football visitors?”
“Yes, Chick Meehan dropped in. He was here for the fight.”
“Ah, the psychology twins, you and Chick.”
“Add in Zuppke, too. But no. He’s a philosopher. He has taken up some new subject now. I can’t even pronounce it. I’ll admit I pulled a Mike Murphy on the boys before the Southern California game. Said .1 was sick and might not be with them next year,
but I’d like them to make me happy that night at least. I don’t know whether they fell, for it or not, but they played as if they did. They were great that day.”
“But you’ll be in shape for next season, won’t you?”
“I hope so. I can’t stand on my feet for any length of time yet. I can go down to the beach and sit in the water, but the doctor forbids swimming. I play one round of that Tom Thumb golf a day. Takes about a half hour, and I sit down once or twice during the round. But I’m sure I’ll be all right by September.”
“How is the new stadium coming along at South Bend?”
“Fine. We’ll be able to seat 60,000 there, and we play five games at home this year. Then, we play two in Chicago, which is practically at home. The boys only miss Saturday morning lessons for the Chicago games. That was the idea in switch
, fo* Nunri-Bush
KLINGEL’S MEN’S SHOES
112 N. Main St. — Oliver Theatre
ing the Army game to Chicago. I hated to see the game leave New York. It was like an institution there. But Father O’Donnell was right. It meant too many trips and too much time away from class. I was looking at it from a football standpoint, and he was looking at it from a scholastic standpoint, which was more important.”
“How’s the schedule for the coming year?”
“As soft as the rock of Gibraltar.”
“Harder than last year?”
“You bet.”
“That doesn’t seem possible.”
“Well, we won’t have as good a team. You can start with that. Then, our first game is with Southern Methodist, and there will be more footballs in the air than there are fish in that ocean out there. You sit on the bench arid wonder where all the footballs come from. They sure throw ’em.”	'
758
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“And after that?”
“After that, Navy, also at South Bend, and always a tough game. Then Carnegie Tech and then Pitt. Just imagine that. Four high hurdles in a row. However, the next is an off Saturday—we play a Big Ten team.”
Here Rock leaned back and led the laughter. He was giving one of his sly digs at the Conference crowd.
“Yes, we play Indiana. Then Penn at Philadelphia and then Drake and then another off Saturday.”
“Another Big Ten team?”
“Sure. Northwestern,” said Rock, with a wide grin.
“Well, they were tough last year.”
“Not for us. They had no reserves. Their regular team was good.”
“Then what?”
“Oh, nothing at all. Nothing at all. We merely play Army at Chicago and Southern California on the Coast. We’ll be lucky to save enough for the pall-bearers.”
“Oh, it won’t be as bad as that.”
“Well, maybe not. Anyway, don’t order flowers for the funeral until they’ve counted us out.”
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made hy Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
healthy, and he’s healthy inside too. No man can have a system clogged with waste, and do his best.
Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN, a pure, wholesome cereal, is guaranteed to prevent constipation. Two tablespoonfuls a day are enough. ALLBRAN is delicious with milk or cream, mixed with other cereals, or with fruit or honey added. Ask that it be served at your fraternity bouse or favorite campus restaurant.
ALLBRAN
WEST COAST RELAYS TO BE A NIGHT EVENT
The nationally famous West Coast Relays, to be held in the Fresno State College Stadium, California, on April 26, in connection with the Raisin Day celebration, is to be a night event this year. This will permit the automobile races to be held that afternoon, and will make the track meet the first major one ever held at night.
A battery of floodlights that will give an intensity of five-foot candles over the entire area is being installed at the stadium, and in the fall the projectors will be adjusted so that an intensity of eight-foot candles will be projected on the football field alone for night games in that major sport.
The lighting installation includes sixty General Electric projectors with 1000-watt incandescent lamps, mounted in batteries of ten atop six 90-foot steel towers. Power is supplied by an underground cable system. Each lamp will be individually fused and provided with a disconnect device at the top of the tower. A master switch with fuses will be provided to control the whole system.
4^
I* ALL-BRAN
GRIDDERS ROUND INTO SHAPE; PRACTICE TILT TOMORROW
Swinging into action following a week of inactivity, the Notre Dame grid men now in spring football session are again hard at work, getting the “hang” of the ball and brushing up on their knowledge of the game under the tutelage of Coaches Hartley Anderson, Jack Chevigny, and “Ike” Voedisch. The latter has recently returned from a prolonged trip to Florida. Rockne is expected to return from the sunnier climes within the next few weeks that he may get a good look at the timber for the 1930 squad before the end of the training period.
The line is being shown the rudiments of the game by Anderson, while Chevigny is working out a fast backfield. Voedisch is coaching the ends, as he did during the last season. Several members of the 1929 squad who will not be seen in the Fighting Irish moleskins this year are assisting the coaches in whipping into shape several teams that furnish opposition for the numerous scrimmages. The first of the practice games will be held tomorrow afternoon if the weather permits, it was said.
Grouping of the candidates into four divisions has been accomplished in order that three of these teams may present the plays of the Notre Dame opposition for 1930 in the scrimmages against the varsity. An effort was made in the choosing of these outfits, which are known as Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, and Southern Methodist, to make one as strong as the other in order that the chosen varsity team may have plenty of competition when the opponent’s plays are used against them in the scrimmages.
Coach Rockne has offered an award of a steak dinner to every member of an opponent team which records a win over the varsity. The varsity will receive a like award for a win over an opposition team. Indications point toward a busy season in steak buying on Coach Rockne’s part.
The teams, the players, and their positions are as follows:
Varsity squad: Centers — Yarr, Cavanaugh, Agnew, Gorman; Guards —Kassis, Harris, Greene, Metzger, Herwitt, Pierce, Teriaak; Tackles— McNamara, Hoffman, Goldstein, Mc-Manmon, Smithers, Donoghue, Kurth, Cousano; Ends—Host, Vik, Beirne, Kosky, Conley, Mahoney, Abbatemar-co, Grisanti; Quarters — Carideo, Christman, E. Murphy, Jaskewich;
The Notre Dame Scholastic
759
Left Halfbacks — Koken, Schwartz, Leahy, Banas; Right Halfbacks— Brill, Kaplan, Tobin, Sheketski; Fullbacks—Capter, Staab, Morrow, Kremer.
The Carnegie Tech. team is composed of: Centers—Butler, D’Avignon, Ryan; Guards — Van Roy, Coughlin, Lyons, Massey; Tackles— Bassett, Ledding, Carmody, Gallagher; Ends—Holman, Lagura, Rohrs, B. Murphy; Quarterbacks — Cronin,
Marino; Left Halfbacks—La Bourne, Bodo; Right Halfbacks—Dilling, McCabe, Flanagan; Fullbacks—Pigott, Furlong.
The Pittsburgh combination: Centers—Hogei-s, De Vault, Enright; Guards — Bloemer, Kersjes, Lynch, Matthews, Whalen; Tackles—Kozak, Blind, Manley, Vyzral; Ends—Bice, Casper, Judge, Griffin; Quarterbacks —Gavin, Bosco; Left Halfbacks— Shumacher, McKeever; Right Half
backs—Gosselin, Bransheau; Fullbacks—Blake, Griffin.
Those on the Southern Methodist team are: Centers—Meade, Carey, Aug; Guards—Kruez, Mahaffey, Zoss, Wunsch, Thornton; Tackles—Gleason, Mann; Ends — McQuade, Willigan ; Quarterbacks — Foley, Vejar; Left Halfbacks — Lukats, Shimmins; Right Halfbacks — Larkin, McGee; Fullbacks—Krusiec, Meyers.

Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
§
&
Your good deed for today
- LISTEN IN
Grantland Riee Famous Sports Champions -•'Coca-Cola Orchestra —Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m. E. S. T. —' Coast to Coast NBC Network
Pause
that refreshes No matter how busy you are—how hard you work or play—don’t forget you owe yourself that refreshing pause with Coca-Cola. You can always find a minute, here and there, and you don’t have to look far or wait long for Coca-Cola. A pure drink of natural flavors—always ready for you— ice-cold—around the corner from anywhere. Along with millions of people every day, you’ll mid in Coca-Cola’s wholesome refreshment a delightful way to well-being.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-6
9 Million A Day-it had to be good to get where it is
The Notre Dame Scholastic
760
Say it With Flowers
South Bend Floral Company
111 S. Mich. St.
Flowers telegraphed anywhere on Short Notice
111 S. Mich. St.
Telephone 3-8227
In the May Elections
Vote for
W. N.
Wolanski for justic •: of the PEACE
A former Notre Dame man who is now a prominent local lawyer. CHAPIN STATE BANK BLDG.
Phone 3-3466
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of . Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
Duneland
Perhaps you are like many other people—living close to- some remarkable place but unfamiliar with it.
Get acquainted with Indiana’s Duneland—Nature’s unique wonderland.
Take a South Shore Line . train to Tremont, Gateway to the Dunes, and enjoy a day rambling. Take your camera for a permanent record of your outing.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

ZI
:r

k
The Notre Dame Scholastic
761
^Tjl 111 1111 ■■■ It Hill I! 11111 III 1111 111 ■ 111 nt mi ■ 111111 Illi 11111 Ilin 111II ■ I ■ 1111 ill 11111111111 ill l| 111 li t Illi 11II i I i 11IIIIII >11 III 11111 It 111111 tl II111 til IIIII i
| INTERHALL ITEMS I
Interhall swimming has been very well received to date and the large entry list for the two preliminary meets assures an even larger one for the prelim which is to be held Monday night.
Father Lavin’s boys are already laying plans for a big surprise in Interhall swimming ranks. A number of former varsity swimmers now in Sorin have already given the younger blood of St. Ed’s, Carroll, and Brownson, some fast races.
.	—o—
Several excellent times were made in the initial swimming contest. In the 40-yard breast stroke, Sexton and Murphy of Howard easily bettered the numeral time of 29 seconds flat; the former made the fast time of :25 and the latter was clocked in :28.1.
Sullivan further strengthened How
ard’s championship hopes by swimming the 40-yard free style in :21.3 beating the numeral time by two-tenths of a second.
Owing to the Monogram Absurdities and the S.A.C. boxing show, the third preliminary swim contest has been postponed to Monday, April 7, and the finals for the Interhall title to Monday, April 14.
—o—
The first call for outdoor track was issued last Monday and the chances are strong for the largest interhall outdoor track competition that has been staged at the University. Over four hundred entrants competed for places in the recent indoor meet.
Interhall basketball equipment is being received at the-equipment office every day from 3:30 to 5 p. m. and the dead line is April tenth.
Cunningham, Kegowicz, and Sullivan—Sorin’s big three swimming team—scored thirteen points among themselves with ease in the second meet and are sure to be heard from in the final events.
Interhall track medals are being distributed every afternoon at the manager’s office in the gymnasium.
Playground baseball will get under way shortly. The present plans call for one team from each hall and twelve teams from the Chicago Club to play on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays at 6 :30 and twenty teams representing the various other clubs to play on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Diamonds are being laid out and schedules will be posted the first part of next week.
Captains and managers for each club should be appointed at once and their names sent into the Physical Education Department so that they may be notified as to schedules and rules for play.
762
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Quality By Kuppenheimer
SODAS	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
—und—
Soda Grill
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS -	CIGARETTES
What do you look for in a suit of clothes?
Correct style, first, don’t you? Next a good looking long wearing fabric that will keep its shape well—
Reliable handcrafting is another essential. Then look at our Famous Fifty suits—You’ll notice at once the superior styling of each spring model—
.00
other handcrafted suits $35 to 65
PRESENTING
A NEW SERVICE
By Notre Dame Men for Notre Dame Men
CLEANING PRESSING REPAIRING of
Suits, Overcoats, Dress Clothes, etc.
Unexcelled Workmanship Standard Prices -Insurance Against Loss Satisfaction Guaranteed
See Our Representative in Your Hall.
The Student Tailoring Association
Phone 3-0580	Office, 128 Walsh Hall
Dan Halpin Jos. Thornton Dan Cannon
Good Clothes For University Men
The Notre Dame Scholastic
763

THIRD SWIM PRELIMINARY CARDED FOR MONDAY
Freshman, Sophomore, Corby, Off-Campus, and Morrissey Halls will meet Monday night in the University natatorium in the third and final preliminary meet to the championship interhall swimming contest, which is slated for April 14.
In the first preliminary meet, Howard won by a large margin, amassing a total of 35 points. Walsh was second with 19, and Morrissey third with 3. Lyons took fourth position with one marker.
Brownson was the victor of the second preliminary contest, scoring' 39 points, with Sorin amassing 16, and St. Edward’s 16. Patterson of Brownson was the individual star, winning both the 40-yard free style and the 100-yard free style races, besides swimming a leg on the winning relay team.
Results of the Interhall swimming meet held Friday, March 21:
40-Yard Breast Stroke—Won by Sexton (Howard); Murphy (How
ard), second; Rolfe (Howard), third. Time :26.
40-Yard Backstroke — Won by O’Shaughnessy (Howard). Time :29 4/5.
40-Yard Free Style—Won by Sullivan (Howard); Dea (Walsh), second; Winkler* (Walsh), third. Time :21.
Distance Plunge — Won by McCarthy (Howard); Dea (Walsh), second; Gosselin (Lyons), third. Distance, 52 feet.
100-Yard Breast Stroke—Won by Murphy (Howard); Zimmers (Morrissey), second; Dea (Walsh), third. Time 1:19.5.
100-Yard Free Style — Won by Cassidy (Walsh); Winkler (Walsh), second; Slater (Howard), third. Time 1:10 3/5.
220-Yard Medley Relay—Won by Howard (Butler, Sexton, O’Shaughnessy) ; Walsh, second; Morrissey, third. Time 2:36 1/2.
Results in the second preliminary interhall swimming meet held March 28:
40-Yard Breast Stroke—Won by Oelrich (St. Edward’s); Kegowicz (Sorin), second; Terry (Brownson), third. Time :28 1/5.
40-Yard Backstroke — Won by Blackwell (Brownson); Kennedy (Brownson), second; Goi-man (St. Edward’s), third. Time :27.4.
40-Yard Free Style—Won by Patterson (Brownson) ; Rossie (St. Edward’s), second; Sullivan (Sorin), third. Time :20 3/5.
100-Yard Backstroke — Won by Kennedy (Brownson). Time 1:29 2/5.
100-Yard Breast Stroke—Won by Terry (Brownson); Oelrich (St. Edward’s) second; Kegowicz (Sorin), third. Time 1:28.5.
100-Yard Free Style — Won by Patterson (Brownson) ; Sullivan (Sorin), second; Cunningham (Sorin), third. Time 1:05 3/5.
Distance Plunge—Won by Len-nartz (Brownson); Kegowicz (Sorin), second; Cunningham (Sorin), third. Distance, 51 feet, 8 1/2 inches.
220-Yard Medley Relay—Won by Brownson (Terry, Lockland, Patterson); Sorin, second. Time 2:49'2/5.
5c Candy Bars
3 for 10c
Baby Ruth, Clark, Bit-O-Honey, Oh Henry, Old Nick, Milky Way and others.
Corner Michigan and Colfax
Exams Are Over — Get out your Camera
KODAK PRINTS ENLARGEMENTS
PICTURE FRAMING COLOR WORK MOVIE FILM
Leave Films at N. D. Cafeteria
PROMPT EFFICIENT SERVICE
Schilling’s Photo Supply
329 So. LaFayette St.
764
The Notre Dame Scholastic
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
TOWERS FISHBRAND SLICKERS Green-Yellow or Black $7.50 values
Sizes 5 to 11 — Sizes for all Calfskin, Goodyear, Welts, Tan and Black, Kid-skin Leather and Rubber Heels.
EVERY PAIR NATIONALLY KNOWN
Where Notre Dame Men Meet
“Always in the Crowd”
---STARTING SATURDAY-
Warner Baxter
in
ELINOR GLYN’S
Famous Story
“SUCH MEN
ARE
DANGEROUS”
---STARTS WEDNESDAY-
‘Framed’
with
Evelyn Brent
-----COMING SOON-
“No, No, Nanette”
“Spring Is Here”
“High Society Blues”
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 North Michigan Street
“The Cuckoos”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
765
Splinters from the Press Box
—---------------------------<>

Many people considered Ray Rud-die’s new world’s record for the 440 in the N.C.A.A. swimming meet last Saturday, the outstanding feat of the meet, which was, incidentally, one of the greatest ever contested. But competitive swimming, as such, is too new a sport to get excited over a world’s record. Rather, it seems to this scribe, Al Schwartz’s three triumphs in the 50, 100 and 220 yard events was the most outstanding performance. All of which brings up the question of over-emphasis as regards record-breaking. When an athlete breaks a record in a track or field event that is fairly standard, it is fitting and just that he be accorded recognition of the highest character. But when an athlete breaks a swimming record, we fail to see why some papers shout so much about it. Intensely competitive swimming is a new sport, and as such cannot have been perfected to the extent that track and field has been, either in regard to the best performances or
in regard to the technique of the sport. Scarcely a major meet goes by without a world’s swimming record being broken. How often is a world’s record broken in track? In time swimming records may justly . cause the same commotion that a track record now does, but the time is a long way off. Swimming records ■will first have to be built up until they are durable, before the athletic world gives them real recognition.
When Cy Leland beat Claude Bracey a couple of times earlier in the season, even the most observant of track fans thought it was merely a flash in the pan, and that it was too early for Bracey, who always takes quite a while to reach his best -form, to be at his best. But when Leland beat Bracey last Saturday in 9.6, and ran an extra yard to do so, the last vestige of doubt was removed from most people’s minds that . Leland’s performances were merely lucky breaks and that he would probably not repeat them. Messrs. Simpson, Tolan and Wyckoff will have a third man to watch the first Saturday in June.
No one could fail to be impressed by the times and marks made last Saturday while Southern California was swamping California at Berkeley Oval. It looks as though the Trojans, more so than Stanford, will be the best bet to maintain for Western supremacy when the I.CAAA A.’s roll around this May.
Rugby as an American game was revived last Saturday when Yale,, led by four English students won from the Philadelphia Marines, 7-0. Rugby is a very fine and a very old game, but it is doubtful if it will ever take the place of football. But can any game ever?
The supremacy of the Southwest in intercollegiate wrestling is almost as iron-bound as was the old Eastern supremacy in football. For the second successive year, the Oklahoma Aggies took the team title, while third place went to the University of Oklahoma.
Doggy Trenchard, Captain of the Amherst College baseball team this spring, and one of the best catchers in collegiate ranks, is another axam-ple of second generation athletic
See the new
“St. Moritz” very narrow brim —snap in front —curled in hack
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St. .
766
The Notre Dame Scholastic
At Last She Speaks!
A ND you are held spellbound! Fas-ciliated by the rich melody of her low-pitched speaking voice! Captivated by the magnetic allure of her breathtaking beauty! Thrilled by the intensity of her dramatic acting! Enchanted by the most vivid performance this famous artist has ever given to the screen!
M. G. M. Presents
Greta Garbo
in her
FIRST ALL-TALKING PICTURE
“ANNA
CHRISTIE”
with
Charles Bickford
Marie Dressler
STARTS FRIDAY thru TUESDAY
\	*	~	I
3 DAYS COMMENCING SUNDAY
All Girl Revue
20 - Beautiful Girls - 20
Qirk= TH
1 1 VW COMEDIANS • • •
Beautiful Scenery—
Beautiful Costumes—
Beautiful Girls
----------ON THE SCREEN--------------
Corinne Griffith
in
“Lilies of the Field”
with
RALPH FORBES—JEAN BARRY
VU INNIE—the girl who made you ™ roar in “Gold Diggers of Broadway”—in an even more hilarious role!
WINNIE LIGHTNER in “She Couldn’t Say No” with
Chester Norris WEDNESDAY thru FRIDAY
fOLFAY
THEATRE VW
One of the Publix Theatres
COMING WEDNESDAY
HEY!! HEY!! WHAT!! WHAT!!
Some Fun
El “Swede” Brendel
in
“The Golden Calf”
Get Ready to Laugh
And a Big Bill of Vaudeville
The Notre Dame Scholastic
767
greatness. His father, the original 4 Doggy Trenchard, was one of the greatest ends that ever lived, twice captaining the Princeton eleven. He and Father John Farley of Notre Dame were considered the two best ends of the time.
Things we would like to see: George Godfrey fight Primo Camera —Alex Wilson in the 440 and 880 and in the I.C.A.A.A.A.’s this spring— John Preece in the Intercollegiate Boxing Tournament—Carls of Southern California, Kieselhorst of Yale, Sentman of Illinois, Rockaway of Ohio State, and Bailie of Notre Dame in the finals of a 220-yard low-hurdle race.
NEW INTERHALL SPORT BEGINS TOMORROW
Tomorrow, April 5, will mark the beginning of a new Interhall sport at Notre Dame. From then until April 16, qualification rounds for the different Interhall golf teams will be played.
All students desiring to compete on an Interhall team are to turn in score cards for three eighteen hole rounds before April 16. A box marked “Interhall Score Cards” has beeen placed in the starting house for these score cards
Each contestant must play his three rounds with at least two other contestants from the same hall and have his own score attested to by them.
During the Easter vacation the personnel of the hall teams will be determined from the three lowest score cards of each contestant, and the regular schedule matches will start on Sunday, April 27. A banner will be given to the hall winning the Interhall Championship.
“DOME” PICTURES DES-
TROYED BY FIRE
Last Friday evening the Russell Studios of Chicago were destroyed by a terrific explosion, and subsequent fire, which rocked Michigan Avenue, shattering shop windows and rousing members of the University Club, adjoining the studio, from their sleep.
Following an investigation it was found that the complete files of the Dame, used from year to year were destroyed, and that several groups of the photographs to be used in the 1930 Dome were ruined by the fire. Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications, has announced that the Editorial Board, under the direction
of Robert L. Pendergast, the editor, is ❖ making every effort to have the annual off the press on schedule, which is May 20. It will be necessary for re-sittings to be taken in several instances and the members of the student body are asked to lend every cooperation in this emergency.
‘DOME’ CIRCULATION CANVAS UNDER WAY
During the next ten days the Circulation Board of the 1930 Dome is to make a final canvas of the undergraduate body to make sure that every student desiring a copy will be listed before the Spring vacation.
★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★
Go Grade A tourist third cabin . . .
LEVIATHAN
This season, brand new Tourist Third Cabin on theLEVIATHAN, World’s Largest Ship... the entire second cabin assigned to "Tourist Third”... all its beautiful public rooms and staterooms... its elegant, open upper deck social hall which gives you a full sweep of the sea... its charming cloistered smoking hall... its vast open and enclosed decks for play and promenades ... luxuries and spaciousness exceeding former standards for this class. Second Class, as a class, abolished • •. new Tourist Third Cabin rated"Grade A”and the LEVIATHAN the only liner to offer this peerless rating! Make haste in booking this new, luxurious way on the mightiestfiveday flyer to Cherbourg and Southampton. Rates low.
Excellent Tourist Third Cabin Accommodations also on United States Cabin Liners . . • for as little as 910.25 a day!
★
OFFICIAL FLEET OF 103 COLLEGE ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS FOR EUROPEAN TRAVEL
ir Consult your local steamship agent or >
I UNITED STATES i
i LINES t
7 CHARLES KRCILEK, General Agt. * J 61-63 W. Jackson Blvd, Chicago, HL ★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★A
To pipes, Men, to Pipes!
Tradition has it that ye shall know the fellowship of pipes with seasoned, masculine, mellow men of every age and degree.
Some try to join this brotherhood, yet fail, and are absolved as bom to pipeless lives. But honest effort is required—each man’s own test with good tobacco in a good pipe.
That is the formula. Both pipe and tobacco must be good. The pipe must be pure of bowl, and the tobacco must be----
Well, Edgeworth, if you’ll permit —good old Edgeworth, Class of’04.
Tried Edgeworth yet? Now’s your chance! Use the magic coupon, and we’ll rush right back to you a free-for-nothing packet of genuine Edgeworth to fill your good pipe with.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavornever change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms— “Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”—15e pocket package to pound humidor tin.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
f-------------------------
•	LARUS 8s BRO. CO.	I
।	100 S. 22d St.. Richmond, Va.	J
1	I’ll try your Edgeworth.	And I’ll try I
J	it in a good pipe.	•
J	'
j	Name_____________ I
I	Street____________ J
1	i
I	Town and State________ i
I	।
I	Nov let the Edgeworth come! V ।
!_________________________________j
768
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SAWYER’S RAINWEAR
YORKTOWN COAT
The Yorktown Coat is the latest addition to the Frog, Brand family. This smart wet-weather coat has a convertible military collar—radian shoulders and is a serviceable garment light in weight & flexible.
A genuine oiled Frog Brand Slicker is the leading wet-weather protection for college men and women.
See these garments at your dealers’.
H.M. SAWYER & SON
East Cambridge :: :: Mass.
THE
ANNUAL
MID WESTERN
UNIVERSITIES
TOURS TO EUROPE
^MONTREAL ANDANIA
JUNE 20 th
ATHENIA
JUNE 27ib
39 DAYS
52 DAYS
Send Coupon below for Complete Free Information.
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS CO.
70 E. Randolph St. Chicago, III.
Gentlemen : Please send me, without any obligation on my part, complete details on the Third Annual Midwestern Universities Tours.
Name__________________________
Street _______________________
City--------------- State_____
-----------------------$
I	1
| On Down the Line
i	i
*-----------------------4
. . . ART CHAMBERLIN, Seattle sports writer, has picked the winner prior to each baseball world’s series during the past 16 years . . . who’s it gonna be now, Art? ... A nine-hole golf course has been completed at the Beni-Mora oasis in the Sahara desert . . . And if you slice . . . what a nice sand trap to get out of . . . PEDRO CADDIOTI, Argentine swimmer, recently completed a 64-hour endurance swim from Goya Province Corrientes to Santa Fe, near Buenos Aires . . .
. . .ABIE COLEMAN, Brooklyn, N. Y., and CLETE KAUFMAN, Columbus, Ohio, met in Dallas, Tex., recently in a wrestling match ... At the start both men made a simultaneous lunge . . . Their heads met with a sharp crack that could be heard in the ticket office . .. both were knocked cold . . . After a few minutes COLEMAN sat up dazedly and fell across the body of his opponent . . . then the match was called off . . . Captain MARSHALL CRAIG, of the Univ, of Missouri cage team played 720 minutes out of a possible 725 in 18 games during the past season . . .
. . . One of our alert Sheecawgo sports contemps sidetracked thusly, “HUGO BEZDEK wanted to eliminate the running back of intercepted forward passes until some one told him that JACK ELDER had left football” . . . ha, ha, joke’s ovah . . . University of Maryland has an ambitious spring schedule ... 38 varsity contests in its three major spring sports listed ... 23 of these baseball, lacrosse and track events will be staged on the Old Liners’ home field ...
. . . “Most overswinging is not that at all, but merely breaking the wrists at the top of the swing,” DAVE LIVIE tells golfers . . . And we were just reminded that the schedulemakers had at one time arranged a game with Minnesota baseball team to play here last Wednesday ... -
. . . The “South Bend” basketball tournament looked more like an all-Notre Dame competition . . . fully four-fifths of the players were students here . . . Which brings to mind
the feat of WILLIAM HOSACK of Grove City, Pennsylvania . . . this chap played with six different basketball teams this winter . . . Here’s a bout we all can miss . . . YOUNG STRIBLING and PHAINTING PHIL SCOTT have been matched to fight in London next month . . .
Fordham Law School
Woolworth Building, New York Co-Educational Case System, Three-Year Course Two Years of College Work Required for Admission Morning, Afternoon and Evening Classes
Write for Catalogue CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar Room 2853
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST
Dentists
405 Associates Building Phone 3-1254
The Notre Dame Scholastic
769
History Certainly Does repeat itself
Last year the best Doubl’ Rich Malted Milks in the world were made by the Walgreen Company.
Thisyearthebest Doubl’ Rich Malted Milks are again being made by the Walgreen Company.
Make Us Prove It	Make Us Prove It
Tear off this bottom section. Wrap 20c in it and walk into Wal-green’s any day. Stride up to the soda clerk and, with the 20c in your hand—a cynical smile on your face, have at him with, v “Here’s my money. Lemme have one of them there world’s
greatest Doubl’ Rich Malted Milks made the Walgreen way.”
P. S. — You got just what you asked for didn’t you?
770
The Notre Dame Scholastic
George L. Miller
103 North Main Street South Bend, Indiana
Suits and Topcoats, 'hand-tailored from the worlds finest -worsteds and woolens, chosen, especially for the man who appreciates the finer things of life.
Our finest Irish imports Atkinsons Royal Irish Poplin Ties Peterson Pipes
Imported and Domestic Mens-Wear
The Notre Dame Scholastic
771
REFRESH YOURSELF!
There’s a certain amount of mental stimulation in slipping on a fresh pair of black-and-white or brown-and-white oxfords. Above is a new sport pattern on the new BRISTOL last. Genuine white buckskin with perforated trim of brown or black calf. As advertised in Vanity Fair. S10.
Quality By Kuppenheimer
The Safeguard of
Easter Clothing Satisfaction
You’ll find it here in the exclusive Kuppenheimer designed and controlled fabrics—in the faultless
styling, but most of all in the steadfast quality of Kuppenheimer
Suits and topcoats
111 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST.
ASK ABOUT MAINaSPRING ARCH<SHOES
attractive furnishings too!
JS^inaAtanA'
When doing your
Easter Shopping
look in the clothier*s advertise
Good Clothes For University Men
ments for what you want
772
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Easter Season is the Fashion Season
Increasing Emphasis is being laid on the importance of good appearance for the man of today. Correctness in apparel is indispensable to the modern gentleman’s make-up.
Hart, Schaffner and Marx’s clothes have at all times been worn with distinction. You will find none more suitable for the Easter parade.	.
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
Soiith Bend, Indiana


The Notre Dame Scholastic
773
When You Step Out In The Raster Parade
—be sure you are properly attired. If you really want to be sure about what is correct let us show you the New Braeburns for Spring.
The distinctions which set Braeburn University clothes apart from other clothing are those all important trifles so easily overlooked.
The turn of the lapel, the drape of the body, the swing of the trouser leg, just those things that the man who knows looks for, and always finds in Braeburn University clothes.
$35	$40	$45
With Two Trousers
MAX ADLER
Inc. On The Corner	Michigan and Washington
774
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introduce yourself to fashionable comfort
... Super-Shorts
THE ST. REGIS fl THE EUCLID fl
THE DRAKE fl THE ARLINGTON fl
5
“Nc Center Seam Discomfort'*9
WILSON •KOTHCKS Haberdashery
ttf™
Buffer heel and toe hose, also garters, by Wilson Brothers
Canary-Blend-Suit, with Super-Shorts, in cludinga harmonixing shirt of finest Tubixe rayon. In Canary, with bandf of deeper color at waist, arm-holes, ana neck.
eet Super-Shorts. Then try them out under any conditions when ordinary underwear crawls up and binds . . . motoring, playing tennis, sitting through a long exam.
Whatever test you put them to, you will know a new freedom in crotch and seat. A Wilson Brothers Style Committee orgina-tion, a back -panel, eliminates the harassing center seam. Super-Shorts always feel like
they are part of you ... and look the part, too, in their trim tailoringand new colorings.
Of the smart patterns in Super-Shorts, offered now by men’s wear merchants at school and back home, your attention is directed particularly to those here shown ... the St. Regis, Euclid, Drake, Arlington, and the Canary Blend-Suit. Introduce
Ask also to see the new Wilson Brothers
Super-Seat pajamas.	,


ns
J-laberdashery	■
CHICAGO . NEW YORK • SAN FRANCISCO	PARIS
GUARANTEE—If any article bearing the Wilson If your haberdasher does not carry Super-Shorts we shall gladly supply them to you through Brothers trade-mark is unsatisfactory for any reason the nearest dealer upon receipt ofyour waist measurement, color preference,and check. (Shorts you can exchange it at any Wilson Brothers dealer.	75c,$1,1.50 and 2. Blend-Suits J2.50).AddrcssiWilson Brothers,53oSo.WellsStreet,Chicago.
Sold by Livingston's, South Bend, Indiana
The Notre Dame Scholastic
775.
THE UTMOST IN
STYLE — IN QUALITY — IN VALUE
Man after man
has told us
A'-

6 6 never before have I found such satisfaction in clothes”
“It’s the first time in my life that I’ve had a suit that was completely satisfactory I” Such expressions come to us constantly from new Society Brand wearers. There is a profound integrity in the woolens, in the tailoring, in every skilled hand-operation that goes into its making. But style and quality do not tell the whole story. Society Brand values are exceptional as well. These clothes give you the pleasure of getting something far finer than you expected for the price you paid.
SOCIETY BRAND TWO TROUSER SUITS
ADLER BROTHERS
776
The Notre Dame Scholastic
TREES ON FIRE