No. 40.
Vol. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 13, 1885.
An Ode
Written by Miss Eliza Allen Starr, for the dedication of the monument to the late Col. f. A. Mulligan.
And as the bugles sound
To-day, across this grass-grown mound, Impetuous youth, grave manhood, age will cry, ' “ For God and country happy thus to die! ”	.
O comrades brave,
Well may this grave,
Though crowded with honors which can never die, Demand a sigh;
For gentler dust
Earth never took in trust,
And ne’er resigned
A mortal mind	-
Of temper more heroic or more kind. ’
Malice could harm not, envy could not stir, Nor mammon tempt this soul to worship.her; Brief honors paled before his generous heart; For such rare souls, earth has no price, no mart.
O brave, true heart! O pulses, strong and good, Which throbbed as Christian patriots’ only could; O calm, wise will! O swift, impetuous thought! O valorous joy which deeds for history wrought!
O nobler presence, with a chieftan’s grace • Lighting, the tall grand form, the poet’s face;
O sweet, clear voice, which through hoarse battles rang
With all a trumpet’s gladness, not its clang!
Mourn strong men must
. For one so just, Though green the turf above the crumbling dust.
Years but conceal, They cannot heal Thy wounds, O death!	,
But, hark! a breath— An “ Alleluiah! ” born of Paschal tide Which tells us how he died. .
Drenched in his life’s blood, still the flag his care: “ Save, save the flag! ” and from the field they bear One who could die in life’s full flush and pride, Nerved by his faith in Jesus crucified.
Wide let the banners fly above his grave, -	;
For better than long life the blood he gave..
For freedom’s cause,
For country and its laws. . . There shall the statesman, soldier, poet stand, The votive bay or laurel in his hand;	,
Col. James A- Mulligan.*
Twenty-four years almost have passed since a splendid regiment, organized in swift response to the call of country and to the high promptings of duty, marched proudly through the streets of our city on the way to the distant and perilous field of conflict.
There are many around me in this assembly who will recall, with emotion, that bright July . morning in 1861 when the “ Irish Brigade ”—for as such it was even then known and designated— marched down Wabash avenue, nearly 1,200strong, their bayonets glistening in the morning sun, and two bright banners gayly floating, side by side, over the column—one the glorious stars and stripes, the other the green flag;- of-Erin—tokens of the twin devotion and loyalty of the men who marched beneath their folds. No regiment ever made a braver show as it marched along, amid the mingled cheers and sobs of the crowds of friends and spectators assembled to bid farewell and to do honor to the “Irish Brigade” on its departure from Chicago.	- w '
At the head of the column rode an officer, who looked the hero that he was—the very beau ideal of a military chieftain—tall, handsome, chivalric, brave and pure in heart, Colonel James A. Mulligan, who recruited, organized and led that regiment into service, twice reorganized and recruited it, and fell at its head on the fatal and disastrous field of Kernstown, three years later—July 24,1864.
It is my duty to speak of him here over the grave where all that is mortal of him lies buried; here, in the presence of the few remaining survivors of that gallant regiment and of the comrades and friends who knew him in the years of his brilliant young manhood; and in the presence, too, of the wife of his heart’s best love, and the three children of that happy, but, alas! too early blighted
* Substance of an Oration delivered by Hon. W. J. Onahan, LL. D., ’76, on the occasion of the dedication of the monument erected by the State of Illinois and the citizens of Chicago to the memory of Col. T. A. Mulligan, May 30th, 1885.	■
630	THE M6TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
union. Will you marvel that I should confess to a deep sense of embarrassment in attempting under these conditions to raise my voice to give testimony of one whom I knew in the intimacies and opportunities of an early and enduring friendship, and whose memory will always remain with me in honored and shining remembrance?
Grateful though the duty is, in the light of early associations, I feel how lamentably inadequate I am to do full justice to his memory. It is true I have a hero for my theme and a sympathetic audience. The subject, the solemnity of the occasion and surroundings, the grave before me and the monument which now at length fittingly surmounts it, the countless graves of his companions and friends, who were also mine, all these admonish me of the gravity of the task to which I am assigned.
When I first met James A. Mulligan, in the wintei* of 1854—5, was alrea(3y a young man of brilliant parts and promise. Born in Utica, N. Y., June 25,1830, of Irish parents, he inherited, along with a stalwart, physical constitution in a heroic mold, the intense love of Ireland and the devotion to his ancestral faith which is the unvarying characteristic of the children of the Irish exile the world over. His parents removed to Chicago in 1836, and thus were among the earliest of the honored band who laid, in toil and struggles, the foundation of the great city which -has since grown to be the wonder of the nations. At the opening of the University of St. Mary’s of the Lake, Mulligan was entered one of the first of students on its rolls, as subsequently, in 1850, he was the first graduate.
His fellow-student, the lamented Bishop McMullen, has testified to the beauty of character, the studious habits and brilliant promise which marked the college career of his friend and companion. The .influence of that college career and training remained with, and governed him through life. It molded and fashioned a character which already, under the guiding and directing influence of a wise mother, gave early token of future excellence—a character pure, high-minded, chivalrous, loyal to faith, and hence loyal to every duty of life.
Leaving college, Mulligan adopted the profession of law and applied himself in the office of Judge Hugh T. Dickey, with eager and close industry to the mastery of its principles and formulas. But the desire for adventure and the glamour of faraway lands drew him from the office, and he sought fame and fortune in an expedition undertaken by John L. Stephens for the survey of a railroad across the Isthmus of Panama. After a year’s absence, Mulligan returned to Chicago and resumed the study of law, this time in the office of the late Isaac N. Arnold, of honored memory. His literary tastes and inclinations led him to essay his ready and flowing pen in local journalism, to which he had an instinctive aptitude. He edited the Western Tablet in the years 1854—5, and was a frequent contributor to other periodicals, East and West. His articles at this period showed high literary excellence, and were marked by a copiousness and felicity of illustration and a vigor and force
of thought which gave evidence of a highly cultivated intellect.
He was, moreover, a decidedly brilliant public speaker, and his lectures and addresses in those years were always received with marked popular favor. It was during the winter of 1854—5, shortly after my arrival in Chicago, I was first privileged to meet and know James A. Mulligan, an advantage due to congenial association in a Catholic library—the Catholic Institute. The first impressions formed regarding him remained just and true to the last. The lapse of years and more intimate acquaintance only strengthened and confirmed them. His principles were high, noble and chiv-alric, and in the purity and elevated standard of his personal character and conduct he was truly “without fear and without reproach”; in a word, he was a gentleman. High-minded, courteous, considerate for others, pure in thought and in speech, scrupulously exact as to his personal habits and associations, devoted to his parents and family, faithful to his religion and to the duties it imposed, he was, without qualification, a model Christian gentleman. In society he was always sparkling and animated, the charm of every circle and the admiration of all who were brought into association with him. Blessed with an exuberant flow of spirits, a playful and rich fancy, and a never-failing flow of humor, he was naturally a favorite in every circle and was always a welcome guest in every home. In the debating clubs and in the Catholic Institute he took a prominent and leading part.
In politics, Mulligan was a Democrat, and his first vote was cast for the Pierce and King electors, in 1852. To this Democratic faith he remained loyal to the last. During the early part of Buchanan’s administration Mulligan was in the Interior Department at Washington. His letters from the national capital—many of which were written for publication—are racy and sparkling characterizations of public men, with keen, discriminating comments on the drift and current of public affairs and descriptions of society. He was an ardent admirer of Douglas—the “Little Giant” of the West—shared his views on questions of public policy, and was willing to share his political fortunes also. So, when divergence came between the President and the Illinois Senator, Mulligan resigned his place at Washington and returned to Chicago, there again to try his fortunes at the bar.
His military instincts and ardor found an early bent in his association with the Shields Guards, a local volunteer organization of the state militia, of which he subsequently became Captain. While in this connection he acquired the technical knowledge and familiarity with the methods of drill and military discipline. He possessed the confidence of self-resource and the genius of command, as demonstrated in his subsequent career in the army from the gallant defense of Lexington down to the disastrous day at Kernstown.
At the outbreak of the civil war, Mulligan was engaged at his law practice, stimulated to increased exertion by his then recent happy marriage and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	631
by the responsibilities opening before him. His future seemed bright with promise, made all the more radiant by the domestic felicity which he was privileged and so well calculated to enjoy. It is not for me to dwell on the joy and felicity of his home and domestic life, nor may I more than allude to the devoted and romantic attachment to wife and little ones which characterized him to the end.
In devotion to the duties of his profession and in the opportunities of public and political life there was for Mulligan every prospect of near and certain success and fortune. The rewards and honors of his profession alone promised ready distinction. With his acknowledged capacity and steadiness, the result in a few years could not be doubtful. On his side, he possessed youth, energy, abilities of a high order, with qualities of mind and character well calculated to win for him universal esteem and favor.
In public life there was no place beyond his capacity, and justly might he look forward to high political honors in the course of a not distant future. Such was his situation and condition when the war summons came. He did not hesitate. Puttingaside every other consideration but that of duty to his country,-he threw himself, with characteristic energy and enthusiasm, into the work of recruiting a regiment under the call issued by the Government, and naturally it should be an Irish regiment.
The Chicago militia in the ante-war years was chiefly composed of Irish-American citizens, a fact sufficiently attested by the names of the local companies—the“ Montgomery Guards,” the “ Emmett Guards,” the “ Shields Guards,” and the like. These militia organizations, in fact, became the basis and nucleus of the “ Irish Brigade,” the officers of the brigade having generally served in one or other rank in the companies referred to. To form an Irish regiment was in the bent and line of his associations and feelings. He was familiar with the historic renown of the Irish Brigade that fought in the French service in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and no one ever recounted the story of their valor and gallantry with more en-thusiam. From Dunkirk to Belgrade he knew the story by heart. He aspired to repeat and renew on American fields the splendid feats of arms which had made the Irish brigades of history world-famous; and he, moreover, aimed to demonstrate that the Irish-American citizen was equally as ready to sacrifice his life for his adopted country as was the native born. Elected Colonel, and surrounded by officers, line and staff, well known to him, and of undoubted bravery, capacity and high character, with men of the rank and file who would never falter or turn their backs to an enemy while he lived to lead them, need we wonder that he looked forward to a career of honor and distinction? You may be sure he had vowed, under the protection of God, to do his full duty wherever he should be assigned, and to win renown for the “ Irish Brigade ” on every field. He sought to do honor to the State he loved, and to save from dismemberment the Union. He adopted the dying appeal of Douglas as his motto: “Defend the Union and
support the Constitution and the laws?’ He wrote at this time: “ Grant that we be again one people, happy in our love of union, in our obedience to Constitution, in the great future that thirty millions, loving God and respecting each other, merit.”
It was in this spirit, with high motives and heroic resolves, Colonel Mulligan led the gallant regiment away from Chicago to the scenes and theatre of danger. The disasters and .defeats suffered by the Union armies in the earlier stages of the war, and especially the crushing overthrow in Virginia, had filled the North with dismay and almost with despondency ; nor was it until the news of the gallant and heroic defense of Lexington flashed over the country in the early days of September, 1861, that the people of the North recovered from the effects of the defeat at Bull Run. Light broke in on the prevailing gloom from a quarter where it was not looked for. With 2,800 men, Colonel Mulligan for nine days held the town against an overwhelming force of the enemy under the command of General Sterling Price. The story of that gallant defense electrified the North, and as the details of the struggle came to be fully known, the name and the praises of Colonel Mulligan were on every lip.
This Christian monument to a Christian soldier will stand in the coming years, recalling and perpetuating for future generations the story of his life, the lessons of his brave career, the heroism of his glorious death on the field of battle. It will serve as a silent and an impressive monitor to inspire all who shall kneel or pause before it to seek to imitate the rectitude of his lofty character, the high and elevated standard of his principles, the purity and beauty of his life, the depth and earnestness of his religious faith. His example will stir and enkindle in every heart.a spirit of greater zeal and a more intense devotion to the country and Constitution which he fought to preserve and died to maintain; nor will his deep and earnest sympathy for the cause and hopes of his ancestral land be without its suggestive appeal, for the heart will thrill with emotion as the memory and services of his Irish-American hero are recalled. '
This Celtic cross will remain a faithful sentinel here by the restless waters of our lake, standing' guard in the lonely watches of the night over his dear and honored dust; and under the light of the silent stars as under the glow and radiance of the noonday sun, amid the falling leaves of autumn and the snows and desolation of winter, it will still proclaim to all who shall come in reverent pilgrimage to this honored and hallowed spot that here repose the earthly remains of a soldier whose career was without stain and whose character was without blemish; whose death was glorious, and whose memory is immortal—a shining heritage to his country, to his children, and to all future time.
Ou, 0 Hugo, huchera-t-on ton nom?
Justice enfin rendu, que ne-t-a-t-.on ?
Dans ce grand corps, qu’Academic on nomme, Quand mont’ras-tu, de roc en roc, rare homme?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Study of our Planet.
BY C. C. KOLARS, ’85.
We boast of our knowledge and advancement: yet, learned as we are, we know but little, and of the universe in its infinite expanse we can have no conception; its millions of mighty spheres in their law-governed motion, are to our eyes but tiny glimmering specks in the spreading dome of night. Our earth, little as it is, presents its beauties to our view, and offers its innumerable wonders for our study; in more intimate contact with us, its mysteries are more patent and seemingly more manifold than those of the more distant members of the universe; its more minute details are brought to our notice, and with them the fuller realization of our ignorance; we see, indeed, beauty and mystery, but how much can we say we understand? We see effects whose causes we do not know, and causes whose effects we cannot trace; we realize that a law and perfect, unvarying order exist, but the full significance of either we cannot comprehend.
And that man should seek to unravel the seeming tangle of unknown truths surrounding him, is 00	O J
merely in accordance with his nature. Seeing effects, he endeavors to find their causes; seeing causes, he watches to discover their effects; and, catching a glimpse of a reigning law and its resulting order, he aims to understand that law and to embody it in an expression intelligible to mankind. From man’s creation to the present day he has been, from his very nature, an investigator. Beginning with the realization of certain prominent facts, searching for and discovering other facts not so apparent, he began the work which the student of to-day is so vigorously endeavoring to push foward. Slow and laborious has been the progress into the-unknown; step by step has man moved forward, encountering on every side obstacles which stayed his advance. Boldly working his way through these, he found himself in the midst of others no less formidable. Perceiving first through his senses the material objects which surrounded him, he gradually came to realize that certain immaterial elements must enter into the composition of the world. Phenomena which he saw about him could not be explained by the simple existence of pervading matter, and thus, reaching the highest realm of thought, he inferred the necessary existence of the principles which he could not perceive; and, in investigating these, laid the foundation of philosophy. Studying at the same time those things in more intimate contact with him, he slowly reared up the grand temple of science.
But he did not stop here; he was not satisfied with observing the grandeur and mystery of the present: he wished to know the past; he desired to know the history of the globe which he inhabited, not only as the . abode of man, but also as -the home of all existing, things which preceded his advent. In seeking to obtain this knowledge, he brought forth the new and beautiful science of Geology. .	.... -
Stretching back to creation itself, on the world is written its own history; and among the various studies which engage the human mind, few, indeed, are more attractive than that of this history through the science of Geologv. It leads us into the depths of "the earth, and there, unfolding to our view a long series of strange, unwritten records— records impressed on world-extensive monuments by the hand of nature,—-it leads us back, step by . step, in the history of our globe, and slowly brings before us scenes from the buried past.
The object of Geology is to examine and record the appearances presented by the crust of the earth, and, by the aid of these appearances, to trace out the chain of events by which it has been brought into its present condition. It belongs to the geologist first to investigate the phenomena which the crust of the earth exhibits to the eye. For this purpose he descends into the mine and the quarry, he visits the lofty cliffs, the deep ravines, and,.in a word, every spot where a section of the earth’s crust is exposed to view. He observes and notes the phenomena presented to his view; he gathers specimens from the earth’s crust—specimens which are, as it were, sentences clipped from the book of history which he is studying; he arranges these specimens, giving each its proper place, and then he endeavors to interpret this history, supplying, as best he can, whatever omissions there may be.
He tells us that the materials of which the earth’s crust is composed are not heaped up together in a confused mass, but are distributed with evident marks of systematic arrangement. He tells us that the crust of the earth is made up of successive layers, or, as they are called, strata.
Geologists hold that these. strata, or layers of rocks, were not always as we see them now, but have been successively deposited by the operation of natural causes. They have even divided these rocks into different classes, and they undertake to explain the particular process by which each has been produced. They tell us that some were formed by the action of water, and others made up almost exclusively of the remains of animals and plants; that some retained their original form and position, while others were altered and displaced by the ac-. tion of heat.
We have considered the crust of the earth as a great structure, slowly reared, up by the hand of nature; we have spoken of the rocks that compose it, of their origin.and of the order in which they are disposed. But there is another aspect under which this marvellous structure may be considered; for we are told by the geologist that it is a vast sepulchre within which lie. buried the remains of life that has long since passed away. Each series of strata is but a new range of tombs, and each tomb has a history of its own. Here a gigantic monster is disclosed to our view;. there, within a narrow space, millions of animal frames are found closely:compacted together. In one place, whole skeletons are . found entirely imbedded in solid rock; in another, we have an aggregation of shells and bones. There is . no ^scarcity of relics in the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	633
. cemetery of nature. For nearly a century the work of plunder has been going on without relaxation—the tombs have been yielding up their dead; every city in the civilized world has filled its museums nearly to overflowing; but the spoils which have hitherto been carried away bear an insignificant proportion to those which remain behind.
Geologists maintain that these fossils, as they are termed, represent the animals and plants that i	flourished on the surface of the earth when that
[	stratum in which they are found was in the pro-
cess of formation. There they lived, there they died, and there they were buried. Their descen-i	dants, however, lived on, and new forms of life
were called into existence by the Omnipotent, making it, as it were, a connecting link between the new age of the world coming in, and the old one that was passing away. But the latest died in turn, and were buried in the stratum then forming, ।	and so their period passed away, like that of the
1	rest, and another came. Every age was repre-
sented by its own strata, and each stratum was in turn covered over with a new deposit. The tombs with their innumerable dead were closed up, and massive .monuments with strange inscriptions erected by the ever busy hand of nature. At length, man appeared on the scene, and it is now his privilege to descend into this wonderful sepulchre, to wonder amidst these strange monuments and to strive to read the inscriptions thereon. In our - own day he seeks to assign each fossil exhumed its proper place in the order of creation; to trace the rise, the progress and the extinction of every species; and even to describe the nature and character of all the various forms of life that have dwelt upon the earth from the beginning.
Such, briefly, is the science and theory of Geology, as expounded at the present day by its most able and popular advocates. What its future may , be, time alone can tell. It is safe to say that a science so beautiful and so magnificent—a study bringing so vividly before us the mysterious gran. deur of creation—can never be neglected.
Naval Armament.
One of the most important questions that presents itself before the present administration, and one, to which.it has pledged itself, is that of providing the United States with a serviceable navy—one that may be of some service in case of a sudden foreign war. It is a fact not generally known that the Government does not own a single vessel that would be of any service in case of such a war. The country has enjoyed such a season of peace, in resources and numerical strength .it has become so powerful, that a sense of security has settled upon the people. • They seem to believe that they never will be called upon to defend their, rights. While this may be true in part, wisdom would dictate that a nation should ever know the exact position it is in, and be ready to meet any emergency. The
present United States navy would be about as useful in case of war as, to use a homely phrase, a dude on a western ranch.	‘	-
There are in the navy at present eighty-nine vessels of all grades, including sailing vessels, tug-boats, dismantled hulks, vessels being built and undergoing repair, and, last, but not least, the venerable Talla'poosa^ which sank last summer while performing the weighty task of carrying the Secretary from one navy-yard to another. Of these the Tennessee is the largest, and the only one ranked as first class. She is a wooden vessel of 2,840 tons, carrying 22 guns. There are in the navy five iron vessels. The best of these is the Monocacy, of 747 tons, and carrying 6 guns. Secretary Chandler, in his last report, says that this vessel and two others—the Alert and Ranger, iron vessels of 541 tons and carrying 4 guns each— are the only ones in the navy that will be fit to do any duty in a few years hence.	•	.
The naval armament is in keeping with everything else. The Secretary, in a recent report to Congress on this subject, says:
“There are in the navy 2,233 smooth bare common muzzle loaders of various sizes: 77 Parralt, 40 pound muzzle loading rifles; 26,780 pound rifles; 26 breech loading 40 pound rifles; 1,080 pound breech loading rifles. Of these, 87 have a fair power, and may be considered useful for the present. They may, in an emergency, serve a subordinate purpose, but are in no sense suited to the needs of the present day. The smooth bare guns are incapable of contending with rifles throwing one half their weight of shot. With notone modern gun in the navy, and only 87 of an inferior grade worth retaining, the importance of action for procuring naval ordinance is apparent, if the navy is longer to be maintained.”
It is well to know what we would have to contend with in case of a foreign war. During the past ten years all the nations of Europe have given this subject great attention. The result is that all have good, and many of them great fleets. Of these, England heads the list with 57 steel and iron vessels of the first class; France follows her closely with 45. Should these nations continue strengthening their naval armaments during the next 15 years in the same ratio as during the past 10, France will be the first naval power on earth, and England will lose her proud title of “ Mistress of the Seas.” Germany, since the Franco-Prussian war, as a naval power, has taken a long stride forward. Her fleet of first-class vessels numbers 24; and this she is rapidly strengthening. The. number of first-class vessels in the other European navies is, Russia, 21; Holland, 15; Turkey, 14; Italy, 13; Austria, 10; Denmark, 8; Norway and Sweden, 8; Spain, 5. Besides, these nations have each a number of vessels of an inferior', grade. Although the probabilities of a foreign war are not imminent, yet there is a possibility of one at any time. Almost before we are aware we might find a hostile fleet in our waters, shelling our cities,, and destroying our commerce. ' The history of the past century has taught us that nations have come to disregard the old tradition of issuing a formal declaration of war. The custom of late years seems to be that a nation, having fully determined on attacking another, strike the first blow under
634	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
some pretext or other, and then declare war as existing;.
Another fallacy which seems to have gained credence during the past few years is, that harbors and sea coasts may easily be protected by means of torpedoes, or explosive agencies of like nature. This is a mistake: torpedo boats are yet little more than an experiment, and it is doubtful if they will ever be of much practical service. They were extensively used in the late war between Russia and Turkey. Ample opportunity was had for testing their efficiency, but they proved to be of little service. During the war, the only damage effected through their agency was the destruction of two small vessels. The commanders of each were censured for negligence. The exigency of the times does not demand that the United States should build and equip an extensive navy like those of England and France; what the country does need is the nudes of one—that is, a few first-class vessels of high speed. . The cost of constructing such a fleet is not so great as might be supposed. Two years ago, Congress appointed a committee to inquire into this subject. After an exhaustive research, they proposed the following fleet: two first-class double-decked steel cruisers, of 5,870 tons each, with battery of 418 inches, and 216-inch guns—cost of the two, $3,560,000; six first-rate steel cruisers of 4,560 tons each, with battery of 48-inch and 156-inch guns—cost, $5,320,000; ten second-class steel cruisers of 3,043 tons each, with battery of 166-inch guns—cost, $9,300,000. Also a number of torpedo boats of various sizes. Total cost of proposed fleet, $25,000,000. But this, like many other- wise measures of late years, was gently consigned to oblivion by being laid on the table. The cost of maintaining and keeping in repair such a fleet would be no more than that required now to maintain the present dilapidated fleet called a navy.	G.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A number of Goethe’s posthumous writings, released from obscurity by the recent death of his grandson, will soon be published.
—A commemorative tablet is to be affixed to the house in which Beethoven resided for a considerable time at Heiligenstadt, near Vienna.
—A discovery of an important archaeological character has been made just outside of the Porta Salara. It is a mausoleum, circular in form, and dedicated to a prefect and master of the horse, named Licilio.
—Mozart commenced his musical career at the age of 12; Weber and Carafa, 14; Zingarelli and Galuppi at 16; Generali,Pacini, and Petrella at 17; Rossini at 18; Boieldieu,Handel,Mehul, Cherubini, Salieri, and Donizetti at 26; Scarlatti, Paer, Meyerbeer, and Ponchielli at 21; Paisello and Spontini at 22; Bellini, Cimarosa, and Wagner at 23; Per-golesi at 24; Gretry, Herold, Mercadante and Massenet at 25; Piccini, Adam, Thomas, and Verdi
at 26; Flotow at 27; Gluck and Halevy at 28; Auber at 30; Gounod at 33; Lulli at 39; David at 41; Tritto at 45; and Rameau at 50.—Ex.
—The correspondence of Petei- the Great is being prepared for publication. A commission of Russian literary men .was appointed to bring together the materials for such a work, and so thoroughly have they accomplished their task that they have collected more than 8,000 letters and documents of the highest interest relating to the great Czar. Among these documents are some of the exercise books in which the young Peter wrote his writing lessons. There is also a letter dated 1688, in which Peter, then only six years old, describes to his mother the works which he had seen in progress in the ship-building yards at Pereislawi.
—The oldest newspaper in the world, the Pekin Gazette, has lately taken a new lease of life. Established in the year 911, it has been published regularly since 1351. Under the new arrangement, three editions are published—the first, the King-Paou, printed upon yellow paper, constitutes the official gazette of the Middle Kingdom; the second, the Hsing-Paou (commercial journal), also printed upon yellow sheets, contains information interesting to the trading community; while the third, the Titani-Paou (provincial gazette), printed f upon red paper, consists of extracts from the other two editions. The total circulation of the three issues is 15,000 copies. The editorship is confided to a committee of six members of the Academy of -Han-Lin.—London Tablet.
—Among the rare and curious relics which will make the loan collection of music at the Inventions Exhibition, one of historical interest will be the famous Skene manuscript. This, the oldest collection of Scotch tunes extant, belongs to the Faculty of Advocates of Scotland, who, according to an application made by the Marquis of Hamilton, have consented to send the precious little volume to be exhibited at South Kensington. The manuscript came into the possession of the Faculty of Advocates along with an antique chest of documents bequeathed by Miss Elizabeth Skene of . Curriehill and Hallyards, in Mid Lothian. She was the last representative in line of the family, and great-great-granddaughter of John Skene of Hallyards, who died in 1644, the original possessor, and probably also the writer of some parts of the manuscript. It consisted originally of seven distinct parts, but these have since been bound together and now form a small oblong volume 65^ inches by 4*4 inches in size. It is written in tablature for a five-stringed lute, a mode of writing which was very convenient for the player, as it showed the string to be struck and the fret to be pressed. This manuscript still further illustrates the beauties of Scottish folk music discoverable in the Gordon manuscripts which were * of somewhat earlier date. Of those, however, only a copy remains, which is also in the possession of the Faculty of Advocates. The Skene * manuscript is the more correct, and, without	:
counting dance tunes or any not of home origin,	|
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	635
there are no fewer than forty Scottish airs. It contains the ancient and pathetic melody of “ The Flowers of the Forest,” believed to be nearly coeval with Flodden, “ Aye waukin, O,” “Waly, waly,” « Barbara Allan,” “ Ca’ the yowes,” “ Gala water,” “ I had a horse,” and others as old, if not still as popular.—London Times.
Scientific Notes.
—Luminous trees are reported to be growing in a valley near Tuscarora, Nevada. At certain seasons the foliage gives out sufficient light to enable any one near at hand to read small print, while the. luminous general effect may be preceived some miles distant. The phenomenon is attributed to parasites.
—Dr. Theodore von Oppolzer of Vienna announces the early publication of a very extended list of the dates of solar and lunar eclipses, which has been prepared under his direction. There will be 8,000 of the former, and more than 5,000 of the latter class of phenomena, and all included between the years 1207 B. C. and 2161 A. D.
—«A Warning from the British Coal-fields” is the title of a pamphlet published in Liverpool, which advocates the formation of a national association, the purpose of which should be to inquire into the exhaustion of our coal. At the present rate the author thinks British coal will come to an end in 110 years. It is to be regretted that such an alarming statement should be made except on the most trustworthy authority. We call attention to this pamphlet mainly to remind our readers that the Royal Coal Commission, whose report was published in 1871, gave nearly 450 years for the duration of the coal to the depth of 4,000 feet. In the zone exceeding that limit a quantity of coal which amounts to 48,465,000,000 tons is believed to exist.—Athenaum.
—A marvel of nature is noted in a letter from Florida to The Troy Times:—“We turn a sharp angle in the St. John’s, which is here a broad stream, and pass near a bed of water lettuce, which is often carried by the wind or current into sheltered spots, until it forms great masses of bright green vegetation. This plant is rightly named, for it closely resembles lettuce in its appearance. It floats with the roots near.the surface, and grows without any dependence on the soil. In fact, that is one of the marvels of vegetable life down here. Air plants of great variety grow on the trunks of trees, and it is a matter of no importance whether the tree is alive or dead; in fact, tie the plants to the posts of a veranda, and they flourish just as well, bloom and then die. Other plants grow pinned to a curtain; moss grows in air, and luxuriantly, if damp enough. The Spanish bayonet, tipped over, and with no root in the ground, continues to shoot out its thick-spiked
—The French are about to erect the “ biggest thing ” in the shape of an electric light that the world has ever yet seen. It will consist of an enormous base, upwards of 200 feet in height, to be surmounted by a six-story column of more than 900 feet in height, on top of which an enormous electric light is to be placed. The lower part of the building is to be used as a laboratory of electricity. The total height of the building will be 1,180 feet, or more than twice that of the monument lately erected at Washington. When completed, night in Paris will be the same as day, for the enormous electric light on the top of the. column will be nearly the same in power as the light of the sun over an area as large as Paris. As the French very seldom speak of any mechanical or engineering operation which they do not complete, it is pretty certain that the real eighth wonder of the world will soon be an accomplished fact in the enormous electric sun tower of Paris.—Ex.
A Taste for Reading.—Were I to pray for a taste which should stand me in good stead under every variety of circumstances, says Herschel, and be a source of happiness and cheerfulness to me through life, and a shield against its ills, however things might go amiss, and the world frown upon me, it would be a taste for reading. ' I speak of it, of course, only as a worldly advantage, and not in the slightest degree as superseding or derogating from the higher office and surer and stronger panoply of religious principle, but as a taste, an instrument, and a mode of pleasurable gratification. Give a man this taste and the means of gratifying it, and you can hardly fail of making a happy man, unless, indeed, you put into his hands a most perverse selection of books. You place him in contact with the best society in every period of history—with the wisest, the wittiest—with the tenderest, the bravest, and purest characters that have adorned humanity. You make him a denizen of all nations, a contemporary of all ages. The world has been created for him. It is hardly possible but that the character should take a higher and better tone from the constant habit of associating in thought with a class of thinkers, to say the least of it, above the average of humanity. It is morally impossible but that the manners should take a tinge of good breeding and civilization from having constantly before one’s eyes the way in which the best bred and best informed men have talked and conducted themselves in their intercourse with each other. There is a gentle but perfectly irresistible coercion in a habit of reading, well directed over the whole tenor of a man’s character and conduct, which is not the less effectual because it -works insensibly, and because it is really the last thing he dreams of. It cannot, in short, be better summed up than in the words of the Latin poet:—
“ Emollet mores, nec sinit esse feros.”
It civilizes the conduct of men, and suffers them not to be barbarous.—Ex.
636	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
mwschoimr
Notre Dame, June 13, 1885.
The’attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate tor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.	•
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—We may be pardoned for again calling the attention of our readers to the new work just published by our esteemed contributor, “Justin Thyme.” “Vapid Vaporings” is the title of the book, and the collection of poems contained therein will be read and re-read by all who once begin their perusal. To all the old students it is sufficient to mention the name of Prof. Stace to assure them of the great merit and excellence of the book, despite its strange name. It is elegantly bound, and sold at the moderate price of $1.00. Send in your orders early, as the edition is limited.
—Yesterday (Friday) was the Feast of the Sacred Heart, the Titular Festival of the Con^re-gation of the Holy Cross, and therefore celebrated with great solemnity at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. Father General Sorin, assisted by Rev. President Walsh and Rev. D. J. Spillard, as deacon and subdeacon, Rev. M. J. Regan acted as Master of Ceremonies. The stately figure and sonorous voice of the venerable celebrant imparted additional solemnity to .the impressive ceremonies. An eloquent sermon on the devotion to the Sacred Heart was preached by Rev. Father Fitte, who showed the grand motive upon which the devotion is based—that the Heart is the symbol of the infinite love of the God-Man, and that the devotion, though in its
present form, being comparatively recent, can really be traced back to the first ages of the Church as the devotion to the love of God.
—His Holiness Pope Leo XIII recently wrote an important letter which, though specially referring to the promotion of theological, literary and scientific studies in the Roman seminary, is one full of instruction for all classes of readers. In particular the words of the Holy Father in regard to ancient classical literature are of great value, and possess a peculiar interest in view of the recent diatribes against the study of the classics.
After referring to the importance of literary studies, which “should be held in honor, for the merit of letters is of high excellence,” His Holiness continues: “When we say that literature should be assiduously cultivated by the clergy, we do not intend to speak solely of our own literature, but also of Greek and Latin. There should be a greater attachment to the literature of the ancient Romans, both because the Latin language is the organ and auxiliary of the Catholic religion throughout the West, and because the greater number cultivate it less or not thoroughly enough, so that the merit of knowing how to write Latin with the desired dignity and elegance seems to become gradually eclipsed. It is necessary also to study the Greek authors carefully, for their examples are so superior and excellent that we can scarcely conceive anything more finished and perfect. It is to be remarked, too, that amongst the Orientals, Greek letters have continued to live and are manifested in the monuments of the Church and in daily practice; and it is necessary also to take into account that those who know Greek literature possess also greater depth of ancient Latinity......... The holy Fathers of the Church, in so far as they were permitted by the times in which they lived, have all cultivated literature; and amongst them there has not been wanting those who have so excelled by their talent and taste that they seemed to be but little inferior to the most celebrated Greek and Roman authors. To the Church is also due this sovereign benefit that it has saved from ruin a great part of the ancient books of Latin and Greek poets, orators and historians-No one can forget that at the period when literature fell into forgetfulness through carelessness and negligence, or when it was reduced to silence by the clash of arms which shook all Europe, it found a refuge, in the midst of such confusion and barbarity, in the monasteries and the abodes of priests.”
The St. Cecilians.
On Saturday evening last, as previously announced, the twenty-seventh annual summer entertainment of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society was given in the Academy of Music. The. St. Cecilians are always the creme de la cremey the elite of the Junior department, and, as might be expected, their entertainment this year was as good as could be expected from persons of their age, and was fairly enjoyed by the audience.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
At o’clock the hall was well filled, many ladies being among the audience. The programme opened with the American National March or '	Hymn, by Keller, in which the combined strength
i	of the University Cornet Band and Orchestra, un-
‘ der the leadership of Prof. Paul, showed to excellent advantage. For amateur college musicians the Band and Orchestra of 1885 have undoubtedly reached a high grade of excellence; they will compare favorably with the same organizations in ; previous years, and undoubtedly surpass many of - them. Keller’s American Grand March on this / occasion was played at sight, without rehearsal, and excellentlv rendered. Nothing is more execrable than bad music—unless we except a bad dinner—and we were glad to have such an agreeable musical treat from Band, Orchestra and vocalists.
The play chosen.for the evening was the historical drama of “ Major Andrd,”—the same in 1 which O’Neill, Tinley, Orrick and others, of Thespian fame in later years, won their spurs as Ceci-lians in June, ’81, as we learn from the Scholastic record of that year. The play was modified and arranged for them by their worthy director, Prof. J	Lyons, but, excellent as	it is, we think that still fur-
7	ther modifications	and	curtailment would be ad-
vantageous. The monologues should be shortened, j-	and in our opinion	the	references to religion and
1	religious opinions	are	too frequent, and out of
4 place in a play. In other respects, the play is an -excellent one. The plot is good, and the dramatis ; persona are worked to the best advantage.
The Cecilians’ personations of the various j characters were, in general, as good as could be ■ expected. The central figures of the play, Andre, Sir Henry Clinton, Andre Sr., and Benedict Ar'	nold were spiritedly personated by Messrs. Frank
J	J. Hagenbarth, C. J. Stubbs, J. Monschein, and
•;	C. R. Harris. Stubbs made a good “ Clinton.”
h	The prison scene between Major Andre and his
S	aged father was excellently done by Messrs. Hai	genbarth and Monschein. “ Arnold’s ” soliloquy
J	lacked fire and irony at times, and the face of the
J	personator was kept towards the audience a little
too much for realistic effect. This was, of course, ;; with a view to being heard, but both objects should ? be secured without serious compromise. Bluff old ?	“ Gen. Putnam” found a good representative in T.
? ■	E. Cleary, and “ Gen. Lafayette ” in Cavaroc; Mul-
kern’s “ Gen. Green ” was fairly good, with a little J	too much of a monotone, however, in the delivery
’!	to secure the best effect—a common defect in young
i speakers on the stage. Courtney’s “ Knyphausen,” [ fairly good, would have been better at times if the college boy were more deeply sunk in the stately I; German officer. Leon Grever presented a splendid “Van Wert”; Wabraushek made a very fair at-j s	tempt at the Irish brogue in “Williams,” but missed
I J	it, and evidently got one from the “ Land o’ cakes ”;
| Holman’s “ Paulding” was good, but we think all ! three of these young gentlemen should have paid j	a little more attention to the by-play with their
’	muskets. Daly in “Gen. Washington,” V. Mor-
; rison in “ Colonel Jameson,” Darragh in “Gen.
Robertson,” .and others, gave evidence of a nat urallv good voice, and used it to advantage. In one-or two cases the articulation was much too’ rapid and tended to spoil the effect. The list of the other names is too long to permit of attention being called to excellencies or defects in the personations, but all did fairly well.
The character of “Eland, the Courier,” (H. Ackerman) with his song, '•'■AtT WicderseJIn^ —first introduced in this representation—would have produced one of the finest scenic effects in the play but for the lack of a proper introduction and the incongruity of its surroundings. It must have been an after-thought, and in consequence lacked a proper setting. Just think of a courier captured by a band of Mohawks in the streets of New York!—and this with a plenty of woodland scenery at command. Somebody blundered here. But even as it was, the effect could not be’entirely spoiled. The scene itself was too realistic. Shaw, Cooper, Dorenburg, Johnson and Mason played the Indian to the life, and their yells and antics around their prisoner took the galleries by storm.	.
The intervals between the acts were enlivened with music by the Orchestra or the Cornet Band. The Orpheonics, too, contributed materially to the evening’s entertainment. The quartette, “ Home, sweet Home,” was finely given; Messrs. Geo. O’Kane and A. T. Smith sang first and second bass: Messrs. Edward Reilly and Albert Marion, tenor; and Willy Devine, soprano. The duet in “ Homeward Bound ” was well rendered by Messrs. Reilly and O’Kane,—chorus by the Orpheonics. At the close of the second act the audience were favored with a choice morceau, a duet on violin and piano, by Prof. Paul and Mr. Anthony Miller. Of Prof Paul’s violin playing it is unnecessary to speak—it is always of the first class; Mr. Miller’s part on the piano was given with much expression. Hermann’s “ Enchantment ” was given with splendid effect by the full Orchestra—eighteen instruments.
Exchanges.
-----The Hesperian Student is the first to adopt the novel method of placing its Exchange notes on the first page of the paper.
—The current number of the Wooster Collegian is well filled with interesting matter. The article of Dr. Morehead—“ The Student’s Tools—Books and Reading”—is especially valuable.
—The Cornell Daily Sun has been doing the students good service of late by publishing the “ Notes of Prof. Corson’s Lectures on Shak-speare,” which ran through several numbers of the paper.	’
—The Kalamazoo College Index contains a good essay on “Tendencies of Modern Philosophical Thought,”—one which well repays the reading. The Local, Exchange, and Personal departments of the paper receive careful attention.
638	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—A writei- in The Portfolio discants eloquently on “ The Disadvantage of Beauty,”—meaning, of course, the beauty of face and figure in women,— “ the perfume and suppliance of an hour,—here to-day, and gone to-morrow.” The fair writer states that “ it is quite time this kind of beauty should be brought to task for its manifold offences against the welfare of society, and the solid claims of homely people acknowledged.”
—The series of interesting letters from Leipzig, dealing chiefly with the University,—with the exception of Heidelberg, the oldest in Germany, being founded in 1409,—are still continued in the Acta Victoriana. In the current number we find also a full report of the address of Chancellor Nelles at convocation, in which various phases of education and educational work are dealt with at some length. Acta is a good college paper.
—From the confident manner in which the Exchange editor of the Bethany Collegian spoke of and condemned the Niagara Index we were led to suppose that those papers exchanged with one another, and that our Bethany confrere spoke from actual observation. From the following note, which we find in a recent number of the Index, we are now led to infer the contrary:
“ There’s a concern out West called the Bethany Collegian, so we learn from the Scholastic, that is continually taking falls out of us. It is well to observe that we don’t exchange with it, and this may account in a measure for its great and persistent success. If anybody will please send us on a copy of the paper, or a likeness of the doughty editor that thus presumes to play hero with a chained grizzly, we might furnish them with a bit of information worth clipping. Be generous now, friends.”
The Index' mistakes in calling the Collegian a Western paper; it hails from Bethany College, West Virginia, and, barring the Exchange department, we do not hesitate to say that the Bethany Collegian is a very good college paper.
—The Indiana Student for May publishes the excellent address of President Jordan, on The Value of a College Education,” in which are narrated some interesting incidents in the President’s own collegiate career as a student. From the editorial columns of the Student we learn that the course of studies at the Indiana State University has been rearranged with a view of securing more thorough and earnest work in the various branches. Under the direction of the new President—a man who has made himself an honorable name as a naturalist—it is held, and very properly, that “it is better to take a somewhat exhaustive course in three studies and attain marked excellence in one or more of them, than , to acquire a diluted notion of many topics.” The great fault of students in general is over-eagerness to crowd too much work into a brief college course, the consequence of which must be that they will leave college with a very imperfect knowledge of the various branches through which they have gone. Comparatively few take a finishing or post-graduate course, so necessary after the crude labors of the class-room and laboratory.
—The College Transcript contains a number
of short but well-written essays, entitled respectively “Davy Crockett,” “The Puritans,”-“A Forgotten Landmark,” “Alice Cary,” and “Macaulay,”—some of them too short, however, to give a fair idea of their subjects. “ E. J. K.” makes rather vain efforts to. boom the Puritans and to induce his readers to believe that they “struck the spark of liberty.” Among other things laudatory of the Puritans, E. J. K. says that “ Harvard, Yale and Brown, so long as their foundation stones shall stand, will sing praises to the Puritans, for to them we owe their birth and existence.” In this, as in much else that he has written, E. J. K. hits wide of the mark. We think Yale College was not founded by the Puritans, and we are sure that Brown University, formerly Rhode Island College, was built by the Baptists, the followers of Roger Williams, who on account of his religious belief was expelled from the Puritan colony of Massachusetts. While condemning “Bloody Mary” in quotation marks, E. J. K. shows very bad judgment and a poor knowledge of history by extolling the infinitely bloodier Oliver Cromwell, a fiend who spared neither age nor sex, who ranks with Nero and Domitian in the shedding of innocent blood. E. J. K. would do well to read up a little before attempting such subjects in future.
•—The Harvard Daily Crimson says in one of its recent editorials:	.
“In looking at the many colleges in the United States, one is led to compare them and inquire why it is that this particular college occupies a higher position than that. They are all engaged in similar work, have the same end in view, and teach mainly the same subjects. Why is it, then, that this one assumes, and has a right to assume, a title of supremacy over all the others? At first there seem to be many causes that act together to give this result. Fortunate location, rich endowments, noted professors, are some of them. One of the principal causes of college supremacy, however, is found in the students. These young men go to college to be moulded into something better, and the success of this moulding process depends more on the ambition of the student than on the skill of the professor. A generation of earnest, wide-awake students will do more to raise the standard of any college than abundance of money and a long list of eminent professors combined.”
The Crimson is undoubtedly right. The responsibility of four-fifths of the work rests with the student himself. Given good natural talents and industry, the student can do a great deal even under poor teachers, but the ablest faculty in the world could not force a thousand dollar education upon a, twenty-five cent boy,—in other words, could not put brains into a blockhead, or make a good scholar of a lazy, indifferent student. With a student possessing a fair share of talent, industry, and good will, an able teacher can do a great deal.
Books and. Periodicals.
The Crest of the Continent. By Ernest Ingersoll. Chicago: R. R. Donnelly & Sons. 1885.
This is one of the many descriptive accounts of the Rocky Mountains that are beginning to pall upon the palate of the much-abused general reader. The author writes in an agreeable, chatty style. He has his wife with him during his journeyings, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	639
he passes it off as a joke, which .proves that he can be cheerful under adverse circumstances. In depicting Indian life among the Pueblos, the author has made some very good points, although he sometimes mistakes the effect and influence of Catholic teachings: and has not troubled himself to go much deeper than the surface. The engravings which illustrate the work are really very excellent. . Persons familiar with the localities represented recognize them at once. The typography and style of binding are handsome, and worthy of the artistic printers -whose firm name graces the title-page.
Drift. By Jean E. U. Nealis. With a Preface by Mrs. James Sadlier. St. John, N. B.: T. O’Brien & Co., 53 King Street.
In her preface to this beautiful little book, Mrs. Sadlier expresses so well the poetic merit and the deep sentiment underlying the verses now presented to the public that we cannot forbear quoting from it.
“To my thinking, a preface is hardlv necessary to such a collection of poetic flowers, springing direct from a tender, loving heart, and shedding their own sweet perfume of love and sorrow and religious fervor on all who may come within their gracious influence. Yes, truly, these charming versicles do. in the words of our greatest American poet,
“ ‘ Gush from the heart, As rain from the clouds of summer, Or tears from the eyelids start.’
“What Ossian calls the ‘joy of grief’ runs, like a deep undertone, through the poetry of Mrs. Nealis..Amid this ‘ Drift ’ which goes floatingout from the quiet ways of a gentle, unobtrusive life to the mighty stream wherein all human lives and human interests commingle, much genuine poetry may be found, especially by those whose hearts are tuned to the sad music which forms the ceaseless monotone of the World’s great voice. It is a modest message of love and peace, and yearning sympathy to those who have, like the author, suffered much and loved much, and whose hopes, blighted on earth, are anchored in heaven.”
The book is elegantly bound, and suitable as a premium, holiday or birthday gift.
—St. Nicholas for June contains the opening chapters of “ Sheep or Silver?” a new serial by the late W. M. Baker, author of “ His Majesty, Myself.” The story deals with and compares the experiences and final achievements of two brothers who seek their fortunes in the West,—one on a Texas sheep-ranche, the other among the silver mines of Colorado. The other serials are carried on in interesting;- installments: E. P. Roe, in “Driven Back to Eden,” keeps abreast of the season with pleasant accounts of outdoor work and play; J. T. Trowbridge tells how “ His One Fault ” involves the hero in still more trouble; Lieut. Schwatka gives a further account of the sports and occupations of “The Children of the Cold ”; and Edmund Alton, in “ Among the Law-makers,” informs us how' senate-pages and senators have a great deal of fun in and out of hours. Haydn is the subject of the third “ From Bach to Wagner” sketch. In addition to all this, there is a full quota of short stories and articles, poems and pictures.
—Tn the June number of The Popular Science p'lonthly^ Henry Gannett opens with a brief
article on an irrepressible topic, in which he returns a negative answer to the question, “ Are we to become Africanized?” The eminent London biologist, Professor Flower, expounds “Whales, Past, and Present,” with illustrations, giving much freshness to an old topic. “The Fuel of the Future,” “ Sulphurous Disinfectants,” “ Concerning Kerosene,” and “ The Mediterranean of Canada,” are very readable papers. “ The Ways of Monkeys ” is an entertaining study in a fascinating branch of natural history; and Professor Grote’s “Moths and Moth-Catchers ” is a timely paper by one of our first entomological authorities. Mattieu Williams closes his valuable series of papers on “ The Chemistry of Cookery ” by giving us the chemical story of maltose and the science of puddings and porridges. There are a sketch and portrait of Dr. Alfred Brehm, the distinguished German naturalist and traveler, recently deceased; and the closing departments are full of critical discussion and varied miscellaneous scientific information.
—In pictorial and literary* features the June Century is not behind recent issues in timeliness and general interest. A finer portrait than that of Sir John Herschel (the frontispiece, engraved by T. Johnson) has rarely been printed in The Century. Two other full-page portraits, of William, the father, and Caroline, the sister of Sir John, accompany Professor Edwin S. Holden’s authoritative paper on “ The Three Herschels.” Amusement and information are mingled in Eugene V. Smalley’s second paper, “ In and Out of the New Orleans Exposition,” and the illustrations, by Kemble, are full of character and humor. Mr. Howells’s third paper, under the title “A Florentine Mosaic” (to which the artist Pennell has contributed some of his best works), has the grace and humor of his travel stories combined with a fine historical sense. The interesting war papers are contributed by Generals D. H. Hill; Fitz John Porter and Imboden, and Colonel J. W. Bissell.
Examining Committees.
{Under the General Stifervisionqf^EV. T. E. Walsh.)
Classical Board—Rev. N. J. Stoffel, presiding; Rev. S. Fitte, Secretary; Rev. F.Duhalde, Rev.J. O’Brien; Prof. Stoddard, Prof. Hoynes, Prof. Edwards.
Scientific Board—Rev. J. A. Zahm, presiding; Rev. A. M. Kirsch; Prof. Devoto, Secretary; Prof. Stace, Prof. A. Zahm.
Commercial Board—Rev. J. M. Toohey, presiding; Bro. Marcellinus, Bro. Philip Neri; Prof. Lyons, Mr. E. A. Otis, Secretary.
Senior Preparatory—Rev. M. Robinson, presiding; Mr. J. Thillman, Secretary; Mr. J. Scheier; Bro. Emmanuel, Bro. Marcellus, Bro. Aloysius; Mr. N. Ewing.	_
Junior Preparatory—Rev. M. Regan, presiding; Bro. Leander, Secretary; Bro. Alexander, Bro. Paul, Bro. Augustine, Bro. Anselm, Mr. F. Claffey.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—George H. Crawford, of ’77, paid a flying visit to Notre Dame, last Wednesday.
—A. Breckenridge (Com’l), of ’68, is Ticket Agent of the Pittsburgh & Ft. Wayne R.R., at Ft. Wayne, Ind.
—Rev. F. A. O’Brien, Rector of St. Augustine’s Church, Kalamazoo, Mich., passed a couple of days at the College during the week.
O	O	t
—Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C., editor of the Ave Maria, returned last Thursday, after a short vacation, greatly improved in health and strength.
—In speaking, last week, of the anniversary of Very Rev. Father Sorin’s ordination, we should have said the “ forty-seventh ” instead of the “ fortyeighth.”
—Hon. Emery. A. Storrs, and ex-Congressman Calkins, accompanied by Alf. B. Miller, of the Tribune, and his son Fred, visited Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, Tuesday afternoon and evening. It was Mr. Storrs’ first visit there, and he was highly gratified, not only with his cordial reception, but in finding every evidence of their occupying the first rank among the educational institutions of the country.—South. Bend Tribune.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Miss M. McVeigh, Covington, Ky.; Mr. and Mrs. J. Regan, Minneapolis, Minn.; the Misses Cora and Minnie Congdon, Bristol, Ind.; A. F. Rose, O. E. Aleshire, Buchanan, Mich.; W. J. Aleshire, Vermont, Ill.; Dr. T. F.H. Spring,Buchanan, Mich.; George Crawford, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. M. L. Howell, and Dr. Otis Moore, ’66, Cassopolis, Mich.; Mrs. David and Miss Le Blone, Laporte, Ind.; Miss Alice Clement, Rising Sun, Ind.; Miss Forrester, Laporte, Ind.
—We are pleased to learn that J. E. Farrell, of Lorain, Ohio, a student of last year, has passed with signal honor his examination for admission to practice in the courts of Ohio. The examination was a searching one, and held before a board presided over by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, who complimented Mr. Farrell on his success and thoroughness of the instruction he had received at Notre Dame. We hope that the success which Mr. Farrell has met with thus early in life will attend him throughout his whole career.
Local Items.
—Examinations!
—Who will.get the ring?	, .
—Another week, and we part.
—The air smacks of Commencement. .
—The Whites have the lead for the championship.
—All is not quiet along the Potomac (St. Joseph).	.
—The last bulletins of the year were read on Wednesday.
—The air resounds with the sighs of relief escaping on all sides. ■
—The St. Cecilians, in glory and triumph, closed the dramatic .exercises .of the year.
—The grand annual Banquet of the St. Cecilia Association will be given next Tuesdav.
—The Minims have a beautiful altar of the Sacred Heart erected in St. Edward’s Hall.
—The Prince of Portage Prairie was captured on Saturday evening by a band of unfriendly Utes.
—An army of elocutionists are going to make their descent, Commencement week, to snatch the laurel crown.
—Messrs. McKinnery, Dexter and Reach were appointed as delegates to represent Notre Dame at the Temperance reunion in New Albany.
—-Lines of care are seen on the members of the Surveying Class, owing to the ordeal of plots and figuring through which they have passed within the last week.
—The Minims had a most pleasant trip to St. Joseph’s Farm on Sunday last. They return a special vote of thanks for the kindness shown them by all at the Farm.
—Speculations are now rife as to who will be the fortunate winners of the various class medals. All success to those who are aspiring, as application and merit deserve reward.
—The grand national tableau which closed the play on Saturday night produced a good effect, and, coupled with the stirring, patriotic music of the Band, excited great enthusiasm.
—The profusion of beautiful flowers and plants that decorated the high altar, on the Feast of the Sacred Heart, were from St. Edward’s Park, an ex-voto to the Sacred Heart from the Minims.
—Next Thursday the Seniors’ annual picnic will take place. Great preparations are now being made for it, and, like all of Bro. Paul’s undertakings, it promises to be a success. See the Committee on Finances as early as possible.	■
—The members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association return a vote of thanks to Rev. President Walsh, the Rev. Prefect of Discipline, and Prof. Edwards, for favors received in connection with their late entertainment.
—The nth regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association ‘was held June 8th. An animated debate was. conducted by Masters McPhee, McVeigh, Berry, Cobbs, Noonan, Garrity, E. Kelly, Piel, Smith, Henry, Weston.
—The St. Cecilians held a grand reunion after their play. Profs. Edwards, Hoynes, Stoddard, and other members of the Faculty, were present. Prof. Hoynes entertained the boys for about three quarters of an hour by his interesting reminiscences of college and camp life.
—The great capital prize, baseballian lottery for the benefit of the Baseball Association, occurred last Tuesday evening. The lucky winners were M. Livingston, W. Campbell, and Phillips,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	'641

the latter of whom received his box of Havanas with an intensely audible smile of delight.
|	—The second and third championship games of
I	baseball between the two first nines in the Minim
11	department were played on the nth and 17th inst.
The first score stood 4 to 9 in favor of the “ Sorins,” and the second 5 to 10 in favor of the ; “Walsh ” nines. Some fine playing was done by J.
Kelly, W. McGill, B. O’Kane, G. Landenwich, C. Inderrieden, and F. Garrity.
—The Juniors played the 2d championship ■ game on the 7th inst. The game was won, after a hard struggle, by the “ Blues,” with a score of 13 to 12. The Umpire made several ; strange decisions, but this was to be expected of one of his youth and inexperience. Messrs. Dor-enburg, Cartier, Robinson, Bauer, Cooper, Menig, Courtney and Johnson distinguished themselves.
IN TIME OF COMPETITION.
Sit still, my heart, sit still!
'	No skiving now, the skiver is twice driven:
For unto him that skove was promptly given Endless detention, and of marks—his fill;
,	Nor honors now are his for having skiven.
Sit still, my-heart, the trying hours are fleet; Therefore, my heart, sit still—O, keep 5 our seat!
' **
—A delightful entertainment was tendered the Seniors on Last Tuesday evening, through the 1 kindness of Bro. Paul. After dancing, refresh-ments—including Bro. Paul’s own brand of lemon-	ade—were served up and every means taken to
make the evening pass agreeably. Our ever genial “ Chas.” loomed in his only original character b of Master of Ceremonies. Professors Hoynes and < Stoddard dropped around to see the boys, but did not engage in the “ mazy.”
—Yesterday (Friday) evening the students had the pleasure of listening to an address from the Hon. Emory A. Storrs, the distinguished lawyer of Chicago. The remarks of Mr. Storrs, though made extemporaneously, were very instructive, dealing- with the duties of the student and the grand mission of Notre Dame. A short address was alsd made by Mr. A. Anderson, of South Bend. We regret that the hurry of press-work prevents us from giving a detailed report of the proceedings of the evening.
—The Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Railway will sell either single or round trip tickets to Professors and students, to any point on its lines, at two-thirds of the regular fare. Single trip tickets will be given the usual limit, and round trip tickets p will be limited to suit the requirements of the 1	purchaser. In order to get the benefit of these
!	reduced rates, it will be necessary to present a cer-
; tificate or letter of identification from the President of the University. These certificates or letters | will be honored at the city or depot offices in Detroit, Toledo, Ft. Wayne, Chicago, St. Louis, I Kansas City, and all principal points on the line of Is	the road.
,	—The fourth championship game of baseball
between the “Stars of the East” and “Universities” was played on the 12th inst. The game
t	■
i1
was fairly well played on both sides up to the seventh inning, at which time the score stood 4 to 4. In the seventh, the “ Stars ” secured three runs through the wild playing and errors on the part of the “Universities”; this practically settled the game and the championship, as the “ Stars ” have won three games and will be awarded the gold medals on Commencement. The “Stars” owe their victory to their superiority in fielding, and may well feel proud of their success. On the part of the “Universities,” Guthrie and Burke, as pitcher and catcher, have exhibited skill that would do credit to players of greater pretensions.
Innings:—1 2 3 4. 56789
Star of the East :—o 1 o 2 1 o 3 2 0=9	.
University:—o 2 1 1 o o 1 o 0=5
Time of game, one hour and forty-five minutes. Umpire H. Dean.	;'
—The thanks of the Lemonnier Library Association are given to Mr. P. T. Barry, of Chicago, Ill., for the following volumes: “Froissart’s Chronicles”; “The Road.to Success,” by Prof. Nelson Sizer; “ Chinese Classics,” A Translation by James Legge, D. D.; “ Works of Confucius ”; “ Works of Mencius”; “ Plutarch’s Lives,” 3 vols.; “ Cooper’s Leather Stocking Tales,” 3 vols.; “Paralysis and other Affections of the Nerves,” by Geo. H. Taylor, M. D.; “Fifteen Decisive Battles,” Creasy; “ American Humorists,” by Rev. H. R. Haweis, M. A.; “Chamber’s English Literature,” 3 vols.; “Prescott’s Ferdinand and Isabella,” 2 vols.; “Heroic Lives and Great Authors”; “Carlyle’s French Revolution,” 2 vols.; “Schiller’s Thirty Years’ War”; “Greek Authors,” Ramage; “Bacon’s Essays”; “Macaulay’s Frederick The Great” ; “ Education,” Herbert Spencer; “ The Highways of Literature,” David Pryde; “Hamerten’s Intellectual Life ”; “ Milton’s Prose Works”; -“Guizot’s History of Civilization”; “Lossing’s Eminent Americans ”; “Ancient Egypt Under the Pharaohs,” by John Kenrick, M. A.	.
—The 27th annual summer exercises of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association were.held Saturday, June 6. The following is the...	•
programme :
Introductory March (National)............_ .N. D. U. C. B. Grand Chorus...........................•..■.:.	..■._Orpheonics
Address of the Evening....'..........F. J. Hagenbarth
Music.....................................Orchestra
Prologue.................’..........................S. O’Brien
MAJOR ANDRE.
An Historical Drama in Five Acts.
Major John Andre.....................F.	Hagenbarth
Sir Henry Clinton............... C. J. Stubbs
John Andre, Sr,......................J.	Monschem
Benedict Arnold...................  C.	R. D. Harris
Gen. Geo. Washington.......•.............W. Daly
Gen. Green..........................;M.	B. Mulkern
Gen. Lafayette........  —	.....C. Cavaroc
Gen. Putnam............................T.	E. Cleary
Gen. Hamilton.............................. E. Porter
Gen. Knox.....................................Joseph	Garrity
Gen. St. Clair........................  H.	Sedberry
Gen. Steuben........................J.	H.Dempsey
Gen. Parsons....................... ...D.	C. Regan
Col. Clinton......................  .'.B.	Morrison
Col. Jameson...................................  .V.	Morrison
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
___W. Berthelet
' S. Holman
Leon Grever
W. Wabraushek
Joseph Courtney
Major Talmage...................
Paulding )
Van Wert V Andra’s Capturers.
Williams ) Gen. Knyphausen.................
Gen. Robertson..........,.................E. Darragh
Admiral Graves..............................G- Myers
Col. Carleton...........................W. Congdon
Major Leandro.............................S. O’Brien
Hezekiah Smith (a Tory)...............Carlisle Mason
Sylvester (Page to Sir Henry Clinton).....R. Oxnard
. Cornwallis...........................J.	D. Crawford
Lieut. Warren Paul Jones Schuyler Spaulding ' Harrison Marion > Forbes
Aides-de-Camp to Gen. Washington.
L. Chute
E. Ewing
W. Arts
G. Cooper J. Dorenberg J. Soden T. E. Shaw
British Officers.
Manning Oneida...
H. Long P. Johnson
Eland (a Herald).......................H. Ackerman
Jubal................................Frank Thurston
Couriers, Guards, Soldiers, Indians, etc.
Grand Tableau.
Epilogue...............................  C.	Cavaroc
March for Retiring....................N.	D. U. C. B.
—The third championship game of baseball, between the “ Universities” and “ Stars of the East,” was played on the yth inst. The “ Stars ” were first to bat and scored three runs. Porter in this inning struck, the only two-base hit made during the eame. From this time forward there was a rego	o
ular tug-of-war between the nines, and the game was the best- of any that has been played on the College grounds in a long time. Burke and Guthrie, the battery of the “ Universities,” exhibited skill that surprised even their friends; Guthrie played a game that would have done credit to a professional. After the first inning, his opponents were not able to strike him for a base hit. On
the part of the “Stars”’the fielding was fine; Browne especially distinguished himself in centre, securing every ball that came anywhere near his field. The following is the score:
Star of the East.
Coghlin, r. f.....
F. Combe, ist b...
Porter,p.... .....
McCabe, c.........
Tully, 3d b.......
Murphy, 1. f......
Devoto, 2d b......
Browne, c. f......
Goodfellow, s.s...
Total.
University...
McNulty, 2d b.. Guthrie, p....
Hotaling, 3d b... Burke, c...... McGill, Lf.... C. Combe, s. s.._ Loomis, r. f.... Dolan, c. f... Chapin, istb...
A.B.	R.	I.B.	T.B.	P.O.	A.	E.
4	2	I	I	1	I	O
4	O	O	O	9	I	O
4	I	I	2	1	3	4
4	I	O	O	3	1	2
4	O	I	I	0	4	0
4	O	O	O	I	0	0
4	O	O	O	4	2	0
3	O.	O	O	•, 6	0	0
• 3	O	O	O	1	3	1
•• 34	4	3	4	26	15	7
A.B.	R.	I.B.	T.B	. P.O.	A.	E.
4	I	I	I	0	4	O
■ 4	I	2	2	6	IO	O
• 4	O	I	I	0	0	I
• 4	' O	O	0	8	2	O
■ 4	O	O	. 0	1	0	O
• 4	I	O	0	0	. 1	2
- 4	O	O	0	0	0	O
- 3	O	I	I	3	0	O
- 3	O	O	0	9	2	O
- 34	3	4	4	27	19	3
3 4	5	6	7	8 9		«
.00	1	■ 0	0	0 0=4		
0 0	0	0	0	1 0=3		
Total—..................
Innings :—1 2
Star of the East :—3 o
University :—1 1
McGill out on foul.strike; two-base hit by Porter.
Time of game, one hour and thirty-five minutes. Chas.
Finlay, Umpire.	...
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
senior department
Messrs. Arce, Ancheta, A. A. Browne, Baca, Becerra, M. Burns, F. Brown, F. Burke, V. Burke, Callaghan, Conlon, Walter Collins, Crawford, Creel, F. Combe, Cusack, Cartier, Campbell, De Groot, Dexter, Dwan, Dickerson, Dory, Dolan,* Finlay, Flynn, Fox, Goulding, A. A. Gordon, Guthrie, Garcia, Goodfellow, A. Grodon, Horn, Ham-lyn, Harless, Halligan, Howard, Hausberg, Hasson, Johnston, Jess, Kolars, Kleiber, Kavanagh, Keys, Livingston, McCabe, McMillian, McKinnery, McGuire, Meyer, McCartney, McMurray, Marion, McGill, Murdock, Miller, Morrison, Jno. Murphy, Noonan, O’Kane, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Perley, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, H. Porter, C. Porter, Rothert, E. Riley, Rahilly, Ruppe, Roth, G. H. Smith, Sheridan, Steis, Snapp, Jno. Troy, J. S. Troy, W. Williams, Wagoner, White, Woodbridge, Wilson, Werst.
* Omitted for three weeks by mistake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arts, Adams, Amoretti, Borgschulze, Berthelet, Baur, Congdon, Cummings, Colina, Chamberlain, Cavaroc, Chute, Dillon, Dempsey, Dougherty, Donnellan, Daly, Darragh, Devine, Emmons, Ewing, Finckh, Fehr, Flood, Frain, L. Grever, Harris, Hieronimus, Hibbeler,* Holman, Houlihan, Johnson, Kegel, Kenny, Luther, Loya, Lewis, H. Long, F. Long, Levin, Martinez, Mulkern, Muessell, McCourt, B. Morrison, R. Morrison, Monschein, Menig, Myers, Mullane, Meehan, Oxnard, O’Brien, O’Kane, Portillo, Prudhomme, Regan, Real, Rose, Ruffing, Reynolds, Robinson, Rhemish, Rogers, Redlich, Stubbs, Spencer, Soden, Shaw, Sedberry, Senns, Thompson, Talbot, Vanselow, Wabraushek, Wagoner, West, Zollars.
* Omitted one week by mistake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Bunker, Berry, Bull, Barger, Crotty, Campau, Cobbs, Chute, Dunford, L. Doss, Ernest, F. Falvey, T. Falvey, E. Falvey, Garber, Henry, Haney, Hopkins, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Jones, McPhee, McVeigh, Morgan, McGill, C. Mitchell, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Millard, Mainzer, McGuire, Mooney, Nester, Nussbaum, J. Peck, Piero, Paul, Quill, Ramsey, Salman, Sweet, Scherrer, Stone, Tracy, Weston, Williamson.
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters J. Peck. McGill, Mooney, Nester, Ramsey, E. Doss, J. Mitchell, McCourt, Garber, Nussbaum, Perkins, T. Falvey, Hopkins, Tracy, Quill, Stone, Bunker, Henry, McVeigh, McPhee, E. Kelly, O’Kane, Scherrer, Cobbs, Bloomingston, C. Inderrieden, J. Kelly, Blakeslee, Sweet, Piero, Ernest, Carnahan, Moncada, Murphy, J. Doss, Crotty, C. Mitchell, Bull, Campau.
. List of Excellence.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
’ Arithmetic—Masters Bunker, McPhee, E. Kelly, Scherrer, B. O’Kane, McVeigh, Henry, F. Peck, C. Mitchell, Shoneman, Bloomingston, Baker, Murphy, Landen wich, C- Inderrieden, Boos, Smith, Nester, Piel, Mooney, Kellner, Blakeslee, Nussbaum, Tracy, Quill, Garber, Perkins; Grammar—Masters McPhee, McVeigh, Henry, Bunker, .E. Kelly, Scherrer, Ernest, Crotty, Landenwich, Weston, Rugee, F. Peck; Penmanship—Masters C. Inderrieden, J. Doss, J. Kelly, E. Doss, McNulty, F. Peck, Williamson, Barger, Hopkins, Campau, Carnahan, Sweet, Ernest, F. Falvey, L. Doss, T. Falvey. .	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JHary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—On Saturday the examinations in Music were opened.
—The examinations in Catechism and Christian Doctrine will take place on Sunday the 14th.
—A very pleasant call was received from Mr. and Mrs. Regan, of Minneapolis, Minn., and Miss McVeigh, of Covington, Ky.
—The Hon. E. A. Storrs, a distinguished member of the Chicago bar, and Major Calkins, of South Bend, paid a most welcome visit on the 9th inst.	-
—In entertaining the young ladies at the picnic, the Misses Virginia Barlow, Marie Bruhn, Marie
( Fuller, Agnes English, Lily Van Horn and B. Morrison distinguished themselves.
—The adornments of the entrances to the
1 Academy buildings, in honor of the Feast of Corpus Christi, were very artistic, and the taste of the
. pupils, as that day exhibited, is certainly worthy of i high praise.
—On Sunday, at the evening Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, Very Rev. Father General gave some very important instructions on matters: of vital interest to the pupils who are soon to leave - . for their distant homes.	•
—Thanks are due from the Infirmarian to Mr. Beale, of Laporte, for very convenient culinary utensils; also to Mrs. Stumer, of Chicago, for table-covers, and to Mrs. Ducey, of Muskegon, Mich., for cutlery, and other articles valuable to the sick.
—Miss Kate Young, of Class ’74, who is now on a visit to her Alma Mater, has presented a beautiful painting in the new style of “broad handling,” to the Academy parlor—tulips so crisp, fresh and true to nature that one is almost startled at the power of art to simulate reality.
—Those who drew for the Roman mosaic cross were the Misses E. Balch, Erlenborn, Hertzog, Norris, Murphy, Preston, Prudhomme, Regan, Richmond, Snowhook, Sheekey, Searls, Smith, Trask and Van Horn. It was* won by Grace Searls, who gave it to E. Balch. Last week it was worn by Mary Murphy.
:	—One of the most beautiful selections used by
the young elocutionists is “ The First Te Deurnf-by Margaret I. Preston. It is to be found in “ Catholic Flowers from Protestant Gardens,” edited by James L. Tracy. Some fine readings are are also found in “ Tributes,” lately issued by the same compiler, and published by F. Pustet & Co., x New York.
.	—To the great disappointment of all at St. Ma-
ry’s, a heavy rain prevented the Corpus Christi pro. cession, for which elaborate preparations had been made. The adornments were of unusual beauty. The arch left to the charge of the Children of Mary
was very lovely. It was of blue and silver, with a canopy of pearl. Miss Bruhn devoted many happy hours to render it as perfect as possible. Miss Agnes English furnished charming paintings for the altar in front of the Academy. She is to be warmly congratulated on her cheerful readiness to employ her marked artistic skill for the good of others.	•
—The morning of the 9th inst. was one of the the finest of, the season. The extreme heat of Sunday had led the projectors of. the anticipated pleasure to fear that the enjoyment of the proposed trip to the beautiful picnic grounds of Mr. A. Coquillard would be marred by the sultry weather. The clear, bracing “ breath of the morning breeze, as it floated over the meadows ” green and tossed the fragrant branches of the white blooming locust trees to and fro, whispered the glad tidings of a promised beautiful day, and the hours spent’ by the French and German classes at Mr. Coquillard’s on Tuesday will be long and pleasantly remembered. Cordial thanks are extended to the kind host and hostess for the delightful pastime, and the ice-cream and refreshments partaken at their residence.
Miss Starr’s Lecture.
On Wednesday evening, Miss Starr took for the subject of her lecture the great mural painting of Raphael—Theology, or La Dispitta del Sacramento. In the painting, the central object is the Sacred Host, exposed upon the altar in the osten-sorium. Above are represented the Three Adorable Persons of the Blessed Trinity. At the right of the Eternal Son is His Holy Mother; at the left His Precursor, St. John the Baptist, who, in the language of the speaker, «we always see pointing Him out ‘ the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world.’ ” Surrounding the' Eternal Father are innumerable seraphic spirits, and the four books of the Gospels are borne in the hands of angels to the right and left of the Eternal Paraclete, the Dove which overshadows from the heavens above the consecrated “little Wafer in the ostensorium.” Patriarchs and prophets, saints, sovereign pontiffs, doctors of the Church, painters and poets are all to be seen in attitudes of the most lively and intense interest. There is no idle bringing out of noble figures,.but each one is placed in the fresco on account of some active and distinguished part taken in the promotion of clear ideas respecting the Hol}'- Eucharist— the divine homage due to the Saviour of a fallen race, under His Sacramental veils.
Miss Barlow, from memory, has given the following impressions received from the beautiful lecture:
“ The productions of the great masters, under all circumstances, awaken the deep emotions of the heart; but these works of Christian art, when viewed in the light of faith, carry the soul far above the mere admiration of the beautiful to the contemplation of what is far more important. It
644	the Notre Dane scholastic.
is not the rich and varied coloring, the delicate and exact delineation of figure which enchain our admiration, but rather the thought of the artist— the inspiration revealed in the master-pieces conceived in the soul of genius, and lovingly executed for the greater honor and glory of God. Raphael’s great work which you see before you, and which is to be found in the Stanza.della scgnatura in the Vatican, though called zLa Disputa, must not be understood to have been so named in any other sense than that of a ‘ Discussion concerning the Blessed Sacrament? Even this conveys too forcible a meaning. The painting is, in reality, the testimony of successive ages, brought to bear upon, and to establish beyond controversy, the sweet assurance that our Divine Lord is really and substantially present in the little Wafer in the osten-sorium. You see the painting divided into two parts, the upper representing the celestial glory of heaven. The Eternal Father sits upon the clouds and bears the world in His left hand, blessing it with His right. He is surrounded by the choirs of angels and seraphs, which compose the atmosphere of paradise. Just below is the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity. At His right sits His Mother, her calm and serene countenance beautifully portrayed. St. John, the Precursor, is on the left. Below hovers the Dove, so soft, so gentle that not a single feather is visible, so true and perfect is the blending of the plumage. Surrounding the Holy Spirit on either side are the four books of the Gospels—St. Matthew, St. Mark, St. Luke and St.John—supported by beautiful angel figures. On the left are St. George the martyr, St. Lawrence with his symbol, the gridiron, Moses with the tables of the law, Abraham with the sacrificial knife in his right hand, St. James and St. Paul.
“ At the extreme right is St. Peter, with the keys of heaven. Next him Adam, so calm, so joyful since his deliverance from limbo! Then come thebeloved St.John, with his eagle’s plume; David, with his harp—and who has a better right than he who has sung so gloriously of the Majesty of God ?— and, lastly, St. Stephen, the first martyr. Below, on either side of the altar, are St. Jerome, St. Ambrose, St. Augustine, St.. Gregory, St. Anacletus Pope, who promulgated the decree that all the faithful, under pain of being placed outside the pale of the Church, should receive the Blessed Sacrament at least once a year. Here are also St. Thomas and1 St. Bonaventure, and Pope Innocent III, who deputed them to compose the Office of the Blessed Sacrament. St. Thomas, as the youngest, read his first—the two great Doctors kneeling before the Holy Father. As St. Thomas read, St. Bonaventure tore that which he had written in pieces; but the act was concealed by the large sleeves of his Franciscan habit. 'When, called upon to read his office, he raised his hands, and the fragments of paper were. scattered. ‘ There it is, Holy Father,’ said he. ‘After what Brother Thomas has written who could add anything?’ We see how free true sanctity is from any feeling of envy, or desire to push one’s claims.”
Roll of Honor..
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, M. Alwein, M. Bruhn, Blair, Brady, L. Blaine, E. Call, Carney, C. Cox, S. Dunne, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, Dillon, M. Fuller, D. Fitzpatrick, C. Ginz, B. Gove, Griffith,. Alice Gordon, A. Heckard, B. Heckard, Hutchinson, Hale, Keenan, Kearney, N. Kearns, Lange, T. McSorley, McHale, O’Connell, Ramsey, Rose, A. Richardson, Sheekey, M. Scully, C. Scully, Schmidt, M. Shea, C. Schilling, F. Thornton, L. Walsh, E. Walsh, White. 2d Tablet—Misses A. Gavan, A. McSorley.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses B. Erlenborn, Hertzog, M. Murphy, Norris, Prudhomme, Preston, M. Paul, Richmond, G. Regan, E. Sheekey, Snowhook, Searls, M. Smith, L. Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Miss L. Trask.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin, Hopkins, E. Hammond, Johnson, Lindsey, D. Lee, Murray, Schmauss, Spencer, S. Van Fleet.
Class Honors.
. Graduating Class—Misses Call, Dunne, Gove, Ginz, Sheekey, Ramsey.
ist Senior Class—Misses Barlow, A. Heckard, M. Ducey, E. Carney, N. Keenan, M. Munger, L. St. Clair.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Griffith, Horn, Kearney, Kear-sey, Dillon, Shephard, Wolvin, J. McHale, C. Scully, E. Sheekey, Morrison, M. Fuller, O’Connell, Hale, A. Keys.
3D Sr. Class—Misses N. Kearns, B. Heckard, N. Brady, T. McSorley, C. Fehr, C. Cox, A. Gavan, B. Snowhook, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, G. Regan, Thornton, C. Richmond, M. Schmidt, E. Rose, F. Carmien, B. English, L. Trask, C. Ducy, L. Van Horn.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses M. Shea, M. Blair, L. Hutchinson, O’Halloran, G. Stadtler, Dwan, F. Hertzog, M. Barry, Blaine, E. Balch, Erlenborn, B. Haney, A. English, M..Smith, McEwen, B. Lauer, A. McSorley.
2D Prep. Class—Misses A. White, G. Searls, M. Murphy, L. Norris, M. Ducey, A. Schmauss, B. Murray.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses T. Balch, M. Lindsey, F. Spencer, E- Chapin, C. Prudhomme.
ist Jr. Class—Misses F. Johnson, E. Blaine, Dot Lee, S. Van Fleet, E. Preston, O. Boyer.
BOOK-KEEPING.
ist Class—Misses B. Kearney, A. Heckard, D. Fitzpatrick, E- O’Connell.
2D Class—Misses I. Alcott, B. Morrison, M. Dillon, L. Blaine, G. Regan.
3d Class—Misses F. Carmien, J. McHale, M. Scully, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, L. Walsh, A. Keyes, A. Dwan.
4TH Class—Misses E. Rose, C. Cox, G. Faxon.
.	PHONOGRAPHY.	-
Misses M. Kearsey, Adderly, G. Searls, I. Alcott.
.	FRENCH.
ist Class—Misses Call, Bruhn.
2D Class—Misses O’Connell, Barlow, Wallace, Adderly, Morrison.	-
3d Class—Misses Van Horn, Snowhook, Richmond.
4TH Class—Misses Kearns, McSorley, Lange, English, Kearsey, Hertzog, Brown, Servis, Norris.
5TH Class—Misses Stumer, Johnson, Murray, Balch, Prudhomme.	t
.	GERMAN. ’	'
3d Class—Misses C. Lang, E. Taylor, G. Stadtler, A. Donnellyj I. Bubb, M. Wright. -	-
5TH Class—Misses F. Thornton, C. Schilling, N. Quill, 1 E. Balsh, A. Schmauss, D. Lee, E. Blaine, T. Haney.