

Contents 
November 20, 1,986 Volume 128, No. 9

Scholastic 

Cover Stories 


6 
Searching For An Identity By Phil Wolf 
Rivers' quickness is back in the Irish lineup, 
but the young front line needs game experience 
11 
He Rules The Court By Kathleen McKe~nan 
A strong desire to win should make Donald Royal 
an effective co-captain for a young Irish squad 
14 
A Whole New Ballgame 
By Larry Burke 
Without Trena Keys, Coach Mary DiStanislao's Irish must develop a more balanced attack if they are to overcome a tough schedule 

Departments 
3/Letters 5/Week In Distortion: Today's Adventure 16/Calendar 21/Music: Impressive Compilations 25/On Other Campuses: Spiced Tea or Hashish? 26/Interview: The World According to Falwell 30/Movies: A Misadventure in Comedy 32/Final Word: A Stranger in a Strange Land 

Sports 
31/Scoreboard 

News 

18/ Monk's Gameplan An Interview conducted by Keith Harrison Jr. and Frank Lipo 
22/A Matter of Trust 
By Greg Miller 


Student Life 
28/Meeting the Needs of the Elderly By John Perie 
Cover Photo by Lucian Niemeyer 

.\\'~.: :-;}{ 
:\_l[( 

i•"cc .,::. :.; 
;.i.·\,·.••.',·.•.·;· ;.~,-'';·,k'· ;.;:·:
:-rF .'~:.::-J-i~, .._._.,. Hf,::-.. i::\< f> 
,fa:n~~,.,; ,;~::!~~~~!f~i!I~i~ti!tf~~!~i~!~:~~!~~~i,~, 
•· ·. II1ade.. s.o.• me. r~commendations••.fo.r... :,re·f·orm.>'Pb .. ect1.veXtest.S·.•.m,.J...· · fS•/·1·•·· e·•·
i::;t~t ;::1:tir. <~ ;v~ ~-'.;.;;;; 
;: . :~( 
Scholastic 

Letters 
Editor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouasher 

Managing Editor 
Keith Harrison Jr. 

Design Editor 
Alex Peltzer 

Production Manager 
Matthew Bradley 

General Manager 
Phil Coghlan 


Editoria 1 

Larry Burke/Sports Catherine Coffey /Departments Frank Lipo/News Greg Miller/Student Life Lucian Niemeyer/Photography Aimee Storin/Copy Chief Bob Winn/Student Life 
Administration 

Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Julie Gschwind/Advertising Mike H;oban/Circulation 

Layout 
Jim Doerfler Steve Traubert 
Art & Photography Maria Murphy Jim Doerfler Joe Vitacco 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the. authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame; its administration, faculty, or student · body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the ·majority of the edi­
torial board. · 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc, Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18. 75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All. unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 

November 20, 1986 
'Professional' Sound Not Necessarily Bad 
Dear Editor, 
In Tim Adams' music column (Nov. 6: A Louder Voice Is Not Necessarily Better), he suggests that WVFI DJs be allowed to have "fun" and to "be themselves" dur­ing their shifts. WVFI encourages this, and one would be hard pressed to find a DJ who does not have fun with his radio show. In the selection of DJs, we look for not. only a pleasant voice and knowledge of music, but also an interesting personality. 
We also encourage what Tim might disapprovingly call a "pro­fessional" sound, because we feel this is t!J.e best way to present the music. And that is our purpose: to entertain with music; not to pro­vide play time for DJs egos. When 
Members Respond Truth''  of to  WVFI "Sonic  
Dear Editor,  

More than ever, WVFI is try­ing to respond to criticism from inside and outside the station. In fact, some of the points raised in Tim Adams' music article (Nov. 
6: A Louder Voice Is Not Neces­sarily Better) are valid concerns that we · have been working on during past months. However, we fin,d it necessary to clarify the confusing or mistaken infor­mation in this column. 
WVFI will be rece1vmg approximately $35,000 this year to rebuild a deficient trans.mis­sion system. Renovation of this system and our move to LaFor­tune Student Center will take place early in 1987. 
DJs move away from this "profes­sional" sound, their shows can become self-indulgent and alienat­ing to the listeners. 
For example, one such DJ went so far as to insult a caller who requested a song by the Cure. This DJ went on the air and rudely expressed his distaste for this par­ticular band, which disturbed the listener enough to make him com­plain to the station manager. 

As a matter . of fact, this incident occurred during Tim's show, and the rude DJ was his guest. When I spoke to Tim in regard to the complaint, he agreed that this was inappropriate on-air behavior. So certainly Tim should be aware of the necessity for some self-restraint on the part of the DJs. 
Kara J. O'Neill WVFI Chief Announcer 
WVFI is not in the process of "going 'all-cart' in its rotation." WVFI has placed some songs on· cart in order to stop album theft -a perennial problem for college stations. Carts have been our most effective solution to date. 
In addition to 95 songs on cart, the rotation still contains nearly 70 albums (roughly one­third are on independent labels), 40 twelve-inch singles and an assortment of 45s. That's 750 songs from which a DJ chooses 12 per two-hour show. The remaining half of the show may be programmed from rotation, nearly 5,000 albums in the studio or the DJ's personal collection. 
Our philosophy of "profes­sionalism" is not to sound "like a minor league U-93." Rather, it promotes on-air quality and ded­ication to the challenge of good 
3 



Letters 
broadcasting. WVFI encourages DJs to. develop their own styles. It is a matter of pride for us to sound professional whether we are considering broadcasting careers, or providing a "fun, exciting break from the mono­tony of classes and commercial radio stations." 
As a student-run organization, we hope that we are more open to suggestions and constructive criticism. We have a responsibil­ity to our listeners, but we can't fix a problem until we know it exists, and it is partly up to our listeners to help us out. 
Our goal at WVFI is be the Voice of the Irish. 
Sheila McDaniel Station Manager 
John Rogers Program Supervisor 
Donald Seymour Music Director 
Patrick F. Murphy Sales and Promotions 
to truly Fighting 

Do you have a complaint, comment or opinion? Tell the world! Write a letter to Scholastic. 
Addn·ss ,ill il'IIC'rs to: Editor Scholastic Magaz\ne Lafortune Student Center Notre Darn<', Indiana 4(,556 




Scholastic Needs 
Advertising Sales Persons 

Gafn valuable business experience and make some extra · cash by selling ads for Scholastic. No prior experience necessary, but access to a car is preferred. 

Contact Julie Gschwind at the Scholastic office, 23'9-7569 for more information. 

Scholastic 








Holy lceballs, Batman!­
In the end, a comfortable couch is more inviting than the annual South Quad vs. North Quad snowball fight 
about to to smash his face into the pitch hits you square in the face, 
By Michael Q. Keegan snow, you find out the culprit is sending you to la-la land and back. not a he but a she. You think of With stars dancing before your the times mom always told you eyes, you struggle to stand. Once 
that striking a lady was wrong. on your feet, you run, dodging snowballs, for the closest tree. Suddenly, a devil pops up on Behind the tree, you regain your

=================-·) :) 
is midnight. Outside the IIt weather is miserable. Bliz­
I 
zard snow drives across the 

i 
quad while the temperature falls to 
ll 
minus five. You look outside at 
ii
the first snowfall of what is going your !cf t shoulder and an angel strength and decide to give it the ,! to be a long winter. Depressed by pops up on your right one. The old college try once again. the thought, you turn back to the argument begins: :1 only thing that can satisfy you all The battle has moved from the I winter long: your couch. "Take her face and smash it south quad to the north quad; ri:: 
into the snow. Don't be a While you are running to the other wimp," yells the devil. quad, you bean a few innocent
Suddenly, an unidentified bystanders to regain your confi­
object, resembling a snow covered '.'I)on't you dare do that to that dence. You arrive at the scene,
golf ball, comes crashing through your window. Upon further exam­poor young girl," replies the angel. only to realize that the battle has seemingly stopped. 
ination, you realize that it is a snow covered golf ball! Curious at "Don't listen to that fairy. Look what kind of maniac would be at those rosy cheeks. Grab her by Not wanting to be deprived of throwing these objects through the pony tail and plow her face the action, you walk up to any windows, you cautiously lift your into the snow until it turns blue." dorm and throw a snowball head and look outside. On the through a window. Suddenly, hor­quad, the.re must be 500 domers "If you even so much as touch ror grips you, as you realize that 
throwing snowballs at anything or that girl, I will never speak to yo~ you just threw a snowball through anybody in their way. You know again." Tyrone "The Terror" Smashface's now that the battle lines have been window. Instead of running, you drawn. The annual North Quad vs. As the argument rages on, you freeze as Tyrone approaches you. 
South Quad snowball fight has let anger overcome you. Reaching He picks you off the ground and b~ua · out, you pull the girl's hair and corkscrews you into a snowpile smash her face into a snow pile as leaving only your feet visible. Not wanting to miss any of the the angel faints and the devil 
Groggy and in pain, you head

action, you grab your coat and run laughs uncontrollably. back to the dorm. While on the
for the door. Not getting two steps way, a few well-directed missiles
out of it, someone drives you into Feeling victorious, you rush out the ground, smashing your face onto the field of battle. A few glance off your head. Finally, you into the snow. Dazed but mad, you dying snowballs fall harmlessly at arrive at your freezing cold room grab the person and prepare to your feet. But then an iceball trav­and fall on the couch, hoping that bury him. But just as you are eling faster than a Nolan ·Ryan next year doesn't come too soon. 
November 20, 1986 5 

Sports 


Scholastic 
.•a:& A &&£ 

·.j 
! 
' 


Sports 

Searching For An .Identity 
By Phil Wolf. 

Rivers' quickness is back in the Irish lineup, but the young front line needs game experience 
,I 


It's about 5:45 on a Thursday afternc,on. Notre Dame basketball practice is almost over, and the team runs through the final minutes of a game-situation 
scrimmage. David Rivers walks into the ACC arena, sweaty and tired. He looks at the team on the floor for a moment and then goes off in a corner to do sit-ups and push-ups by himself. No one on the team pays any attention to him. That's strange considering the thoughts of Irish basketball fans around the country are with the junior point guard. 
Is Rivers ready to play? Can the team survive without him? Yes and yes are the answers from Head Coach Digger Phelps. 
Rivers, the team's leading scorer last season and the spark that has ignited the Irish offense for two seasons, was in an automobile accident August 24. He has spent the past two months recovering from abdominal injuries and Just began practicing with · the team last week. He did not play against the Sibenik club from Yugoslavia last Friday, but he will play Friday against Western Kentucky in the opening game of the Coca-Cola NIT Classic; 
Phelps says he doesn't know how much playing time Rivers will see in this weekend's game, but he says the team is prepared to play without him as much as is necessary. "We're just practicing like he's 
· in foul trouble,,.:Phelps says. "We have to move for­ward and assume he's not going to play all year. We're not going to call off basketball, we just have to go out and get things done, and when he plays, obvi­ously that's abig bonus for us."­
Even with Rivers playing, though, the Irish mtist improve on many aspects of the game, particularly· the play of the front line, which is missing the ser­vices of graduated seniors Ken Barlow, Tim Kemp.;. 
Voce and the rest o( the front line will have to get up for some big opponents. Rebounding and post defense will be essential ror· the young Irish, who must compensate (or the loss o( last year's strong 
senior class. 

November 20, 1986 

I 
I 

I 
I I 


'! I 
; 
·' 
i 
·I 
I 
! 
Phelps can smile knowing Rivers is ready to trade his street clothes for his uniform. 
ton, Jim Dolan and Joseph Price from last season's team.· 
· Rivers says he will be ready to play Friday. It has been a long trip since August, progressing from a hospital·· bed to a rehabilitation program to ,full basketball practice. He says he's at 60 percent of his regular level of fitness, but, he points out "I guess I'm very fortunate because at 60 percent I feel above average as far as what I can do on the court..•~ 
"I tell you, there were days of frustration;" Rivers says. "I was really eager to get out there and run with the guys and I wasn't able to physically. But. men­tally, I wanted to go. I would run around the gym, taking· faps for 40 minutes, shooting foul shots and 
7 


Sports 


jumpers on the side; doing things that to the average viewer would appear that I was ready to play, but I wasn't." 
Rivers' rehabilitation began with a stationary bicycle and wor­kouts in a swimming pool. Even­tually, he regained enough strength to run long distances at a · slow pace. Next he began sprinting and shooting the ball. Finally, when he rejoined the team last week, Rivers began to participate 
in full-contact drills. 
The "conditioning" for the rest of the team has involved a lot of back-to-the-basics drills. With only two seniors and two juniors, Phelps has a young, inexperienced team to work with. Gone is Bar­low, the team's No. 2 scorer with a 
14.9 points-per-game average. 
f 
g·n 
z ~­
~.. 
... 

Gone also is the re bounding strength of Kempton and Dolan and the outside shooting of Price. 
Phelps' biggest concern, there­fore, is with the front line, which 

is anchored by co-captain Donald Royal (page 11 ). The 6-8 senior was the No. 3 scorer on the squad last year with a 10.6 points-per­game average. He is joined by center Gary Voce, the team's big­gest player at 6-9, 250 pounds. For a junior, Voce is relatively inex­perienced, though. As a bench player last year, Voce averaged only 6.5 minutes per game. Sopho­more Scan Connor, who plays the other forward spot, also has little game experience under his belt. 
A good portion of this fall's practice has been spent on re bounding and front-line defcnse. Repeatedly, Phelps has said the key to the success of this team will be rebounding. The Irish led the nation last year in rebounding margin, hauling in an average of 
8.6 more boards than their opponents each game. This year, the small front-line players will have to concentrate hard on box­ing out if they expect to get as many rebounds as their larger counterparts did last year. And Voce, who is up 15 pounds from last season's 235, will be expected to throw his weight around inside. 
"I think I'm strong enough now," Voce says. "I have to try to take up some of the slack that those guys (the graduated seniors) left. Coach wants me to be a leader now." 
Thinking of himself as a leader may be Voce's biggest task as the season starts. He has never had to maintain his concentration for more than a few minutes in a game, but he says he always has been ready to try. "I always thought I could play," he says, "I just never had the chance. Now I do have a chance, and I think just by concentrating I can get some of the job done. 
"It's going to be hard at first," Voce concedes. "I don't really know how to react out there when the whole place is depending on me to do this and to do that. It's not just fun anymore where I can say 'well, I can mess up and he'll 
Scholastic 


Sports 

put somebody else in.' It's really serious now, and I want to get the job done." 
Voce, who scored 11 points and grabbed 12 rebounds against Sibenik, will have to get rebound­ing assistance from the forwards, who also will carry much of the team's offensive burden. Royal has the necessary quickness inside, and Connor is "as good a shooter as Barlow," according to Phelps. c'onnor hit six of his IO shots · against Sibenik for I 2 points to go 
with eight rebounds. He also 
played solid defense without being 
whistled for any fouls. 
With no experienced frontcourt players on the bench, the referee's" whistle must be avoided at all costs by the Irish. Phelps has worked on post defense with the big men almost constantly this fall. Still, Phelps said Voce was "a little sloppy" on D last Friday, and he got his fourth foul with 17:12 remaining in the game. 
With Voce in foul trouble, Phelps has to turn to freshman Scott Paddock, who, at 6-9, 235 pounds, has reminded many observers of Kempton. In his debut with the Irish, Paddock grabbed eight rebounds and scored IO points on five-of-nine shooting. He had some trouble on post defense, but-he seemed to fit in well with the offensive system. Phelps refers to Pacidock, who will turn 18 on December . 29, as a "baby" who has great potential. Maturity will come fast for Pad­dock if ,the Irish find themselves in foul trouble often, because he is the No. 2 center for the squad. 
Whatever happens in the frontcourt, though, Phelps will be counting heavily_ on the guards to help out. Once he is fit to start, Rivers will be joined in the backcourt by sophomore Mark Stevenson, who earned his starting 
November 20, 1986 

Senior co-captain Hicks will run the offensive show when Rivers needs a break. 
crowds for three seasons, and hisspot last season. His 8.7 points per methodical passing can keep thegame ranked fourth on the team, Irish players from losing their con­
and his quickness complemented centration in close games. 
Rivers' transition offense. He has a good outside shot, and, at 6-6, It will be important for Hicks 210 pounds, he can muscle inside 
and the other guards to crash the for points. 
boards on defense to get the offense started. This season's team Senior Scott Hicks is the guard may have a slight advantage in the who will be calling the offenses quickness department over the when Rivers is on the bench. The Kempton-Dolan squads of _ the Notre Dame offense is more past, so the transition game will be predictable with Hicks at the helm at full speed. Phelps says he maythan it is with Rivers in charge, be forced to rely on that quickness but Hicks has the game experience to compensate for his team's lack the Irish need this season. The of size. The Irish stand to gain by senior co-captain has excellent their . quickness not only on poise; as well as the ability to con­offense, but on defense as well. 
tribute points when needed. His If Notre Dame· is not able to
slam-dunks · and one-handed hold its own on the boards, Phelps
rebounds have excited ACC 
t 
j ' 
Sports 

says he will use full-and half­court pressure on the ball in an attempt to pull opponents out of their offensive formations. Although the Irish frontcourt bench is thin, there is no lack of quick guards on this team. When Phelps finds his squad in a situa­tion where he wants to press, he can substitute freely to keep fresh players on the court and replace the slower big men. 
Among those who will be ready to come in for such situations are freshmen Tony and Jamere Jack­son, who are unrelated except in quickness. Tony, a 6-6, 205-pound forward is "a raw talent," accord­ing to Phelps. He is a good rebounder and shooter, but he will be counted on primarily for press defense, Phelps says. Jamere, a 6-2 guard, has quickness on offense and an accurate long jump shot, and Phelps says he hopes to convert him to a press player as well. 
Sophomore Michael Smith and freshman Joe Fredrick are other guards who can come off the bench for the Irish. Smith saw only a small amount of playing time last season, but he does know the Irish.system, and he has quick­ness to add to the press. Fredrick "has a lot of John Paxson style in his play and a personality like Bill Hanzlik," according to Phelps. He is counting on that witty personal., ity to help the "chemistry" of the team, and he says Fredrick also has the green light to take the long jumper. 
Relps 

says he likes the schedule Notre Dame will play this season. The Irish have no regular road . games scheduled before Christmas, so players can concen­
i · trate their efforts on academic concerns. Although the Coca-Cola NIT Classic could take the team to New York for a third and fourth 
10 

Connor must perfect his Barlow-style jumper. 
game, those games will be played during. the Thanksgiving break, and no classes will be missed. Once the team gets into its road schedule, things will get a little tougher, but not as tough, Phelps admits, as last season's schedule. 
"I. think we softened up the road schedule on the Eastern trip with Penn and Yale," Phelps says, "just to give us confidence. I think that's something this team needs early in the season: confidence that they can do things. And at the same time we can correct some weaknesses before going to DePaul or playing at Creighton." 
Phelps also seeins happy about playing in the preseason NIT. He turned down an invitation to take last season's squad to the tourna­ment, but this year, the timing was right. "I think this year it will be good for us because of our green­ness in the front line," he says. "November 21 you know what you have right away, and that · still gives you a couple of weeks before you play Indiana (December 2)." 
Phelps refers often to his team's search for an identity. By midsea­son, he says, the squad should be in a groove. He will know by then how good the rebounding is, he will know how much he can rely on quickness, and he will know if he has that "chemistry" that he wants. The sooner the Irish find that identity, the better off they will be. And the end of the season may find them in the NCAA tour­nament. 
"They're just going to be inex­perienced as a team," the coach says. "That's something I think people have to realize. Don't expect this team to go 23-5 and be ranked in the top 10 at the end of the year (as last year's team fin­ished the regular season)." 

"This is the type of team that I'd like to see seeded eight to 12 in the NCAA tournament," Phelps says, "because then you know who you're playing against. You know, seeded third last year we played (Arkansas) Little Rock, and we said 'Aw, it's Little Rock;' the next thing you know, we got a ball game. This is the kind of team .that ends up playing the fourth-place team in the Big Ten or the PAC-10 or the ACC. That gives you the confidence to go out and compete against somebody that you know. And that's our goal." 
. As Rivers regains his strength arid endurance,· and as the front line matures, the Irish squad will be able find that identity for which Phelps is searching. Then the only question remaining will be, "Who are the fourth-place teams in the Big Ten, the PAC-10 and the ACC?" 
"We've put the expectations on ourselves," Rivers says. "Provided the guys do the little things that count to make us a great team, we can expect an NCAA bid. We can expect a great year." 
Scholastic 
Sports 

He Rules The Court 
By Kathleen McKernan 
A strong desire to win should make Donald Royal an effective co-captain for a young Irish squad 

Donald Royal has become an addict. No, this is nothing of con­cern to the NCAA. 

The drug addictions of other col­lege athletes in other programs don't apply to Royal. His addic­tion is not illegal and it's defin­itely not fattening. It could be called immoral, but only to his competitors. 
It has become a great sportswriter's cliche, but Donald Royal really is addicted to win­

•ning, whether it's on the court or on the computer terminal. His MacIntosh solitaire game has become his latest challenge. 
"If I start playing this game," 
Royal says. "I'll be playing it for 

hours. I just really need to win. ·The computer always finds a way of beating me. I hate losing. I get addicted to the game." 
Royal wants to .win in other less · solitary pursuits as well, most notably as co-captain for the I 986-87 Irish basketball team. He shares. captain's duties with Scott Hicks, the only other senior on the team. 
Royal, at age 20, is your..g for a senior, and finds himself lead­ing a young squad. Last season he was one of the youngsters on a 23-6 team that graduated four important players: Ken Barlow, 

Royal powered his way to a game·high 19 points against Zoran Kalpic and Yugoslavia's Sibenik. 
Jim Dolan, Tim Kempton and 
11

November 20, 1986 

Sports 
Joseph Price. 
At 6-7 and 205 pounds, Royal was one of the smaller forwards on the Irish front line last season. His strength inside was a luxury which enabled Barlow to display his outside shooting touch more often. 
This year, Royal will be counted on to play the power forward position and possibly fill in at center. He brings last year's respectable average of 4.9 rebounds per game (third on a team of board-crashers) into a situation where he'll be expected to lead the team in more than 
just the fine art of rebounding. 
This season's leadership role brings Royal full circle from previous years. Now the New Orleans native will try to encourage in the freshmen a little of his own addiction to winning. Although Royal had basketball idols like Julius Erving when he was younger, he found his true models once he came to Notre Dame. Former Irish all­American and assistant coach Gary Brokaw, now head coach at Iona, and teammate Barlow, a first-round NBA draft cholce now playing professionally in Italy, became real-life models for Royal. 
"Dr. J was always my favor­ite," Royal says. "I used to go to the New Orleans Jazz games before they moved to Utah just to see him play. But once I got here, Gary Brokaw and Ken Bar­low helped me a lot. Dr. J is incredible, but I learned a lot from watching those two first­hand. They taught me hard work and consistency. They never got complacent as ballplayers, and they 'worked just as hard as everyone else." 
A few weeks ago, Royal 

.. 
~ 
:ie 
i:: 
·.;"' 
::s 
~ 

sprained his ankle arid had to sit out for two practices. In those practices, both. Royal's adapta­tion· of the leadership role on the team • and his · desire to win revealed themselves in his reac­tions to sub-par performances. 
"He got on the (other players) because they were not respond­ing," Head Coach Digger Phelps says. "That just took pressure off me because now they're hearing things from him. When they're hearing it from me all the time they just think, 'Aw, Digger's on me.' But now, when the captain gets on them and he sees what's wrong, he says, 'Now I know why Coach gets upset' -which is what they needed to hear. Donald wasn't afraid to tell them that. He wasn't going to hide it from them, because I think he wants to have a good year." 
Phelps recognizes the need for a mental leader as well as a floor general, a role filled by point guard David Rivers. With the young team, a little more discip­line becomes necessary, espe­cially in the mental aspects of the game. Royal's emotional leader­ship complements his physical presence ii:i the frontcourt. 
"I think Donald's going to be the guy who is going to get in these guys' heads," Phelps says. "I've been very impressed with him as a co-captain." 
But too much emphasis on Royal's emerging leadership and his desire to win might detract attention from his sheer ability. The senior came around in his sophomore year when he won the team's most improved player award. That capped off a season in which he earned a starting spot and finished second to Bar­low in overall rebounding with a 
5.5 average. 
Last year, Royal was the team's third-leading scorer, behind Barlow and Rivers, with a 10.6 average. In the. New Orle­ans game, Royal overcame the hometown jinx to contribute 11 points in a 75-67 Irish victory. 
Scholastic 
Sports 
His free throw consistency (14­of-l 7 from the line) keyed Notre Dame's upset of Syracuse in the Carrier Dome last season. 
Free throws have become Royal's specialty. In last week's exhibition game against Sibenik of Yugoslavia, Royal was 7-of-7 from the line on his way to a game-high 19 points in Notre Dame's easy 89-68 victory. Royal credits Brokaw with helping him develop his free throw touch. 

But he says practice is a big help as well. 
"I do shoot a lot every day," Royal says. "It's a matter of con­centration -going up there knowing that you're going to make those shots." 
Quickness, another one of Royal's strengths, has helped him under the basket. Phelps has said that Royal "has the quickness of a (Orlando) Woolridge inside. He has become the active kind of player you want around the basket because, so often, he's either going to get two points or draw the foul or both. He's not afraid to take it to the hole and work hard inside." 

Off the court, the Irish for­ward has developed a taste for a variety of different music. Currently, he's gotten into the new funk of Cameo and Luther Vandross' R & B. 
Since coming to Notre Dame, Royal has become a facetiously self-proclaimed jazz buff. His predisposition towards jazz is new. Before beginning his col­lege career, his taste was rela­tively mainstream. He came into jazz completely by accident. 
"I had a friend who liked this sort of thing," he says, as David Sanborne plays on the turntaqle; "but I thought it was junk. One day when I was testing out a stereo, I needed an album to bor­row, and I found one of his. I started to like this after that." 
The senior government major is planning to get into industry in the future. He recently has inter­viewed with Procter & Gamble for a sales management position. But the addiction to basketball that has dominated his life is revealed in his hopes for a possi­ble NBA career. During the pre­season, Dick Vitale ranked Royal as the eighth-best frontcourt player in college ball -more evi­dence that a shot at the pros exists for Royal. 
That shot is not as easy to per­fect or predict as the free throws Royal sinks, but for a young man of wholesome addictions it's the final push into the footsteps of his idols. And of NBA possibili­ties, what does Royal say? . What else can a determined card­player say? "I have to give it a chance." 
13 
Sports 

A 
hole New Ballgame 
By Larry Burke 

Without Trena Keys, Coach Mary DiStanislao's Irish must develop a more balanced attack if they are to overcome a tough schedule 

On the Notre Dame women's basketball scene, things just aren't the same 
without her. When Trena Keys graduated last May, the Irish lost their all-time leading scorer -a player who holds 15 different marks in the team record book and led the team in virtually every offensive category. 
Clearly, Keys was the most dominant player in· Notre Dame's nine-year history of women's basketball. Most importantly, she was instrumental in putting the program on. the map. So what does her absence mean to the Irish? 
"All it means is that we have a different team, which is called progress," says Head Coach Mary DiStanislao, whose team posted a 23-8 mark and a third-place finish in the Women's National Invita­tional Tournament last season. "We're not going to have that same person to count on for those same 20 points every night. Instead, we've got to look for it different places every night, which I think is a real opportunity for the younger players. 
"To me it's very appealing. I mean, we've got to see other peo­ple start playing basketball all the time now. I think this is a team that I'm real curious to see how they're going to be this year." 

DiStanislao has a squad that is ~ young, but experienced. Team f captain Lavetta Willis is the only . :i senior, but juniors Sandy Botham i:: and Mary Gavin are a pair of -a returning starters who played in ..:i :l every game last season. 
Heidi Bunck and Diandra Toney are two more players that DiStanislao will be counting on to fill the scoring void left by Keys' departure. Willis, Botham and Bunek should form an imposing frontcourt; Gavin and Toney are a combination that will provide quickness and ball control in the backcourt. But will any of these five develop into the next Trena Keys? 

"You can't make a person into 

/Trena," DiStanislao says. "We've got quite a resource in Sandy, Heidi, Mary and Diandra. I think we're going to be fine as long as we can count on points from Heidi and Sandy inside and as long as we can count on· solid offensive rebounding and solid point pro­duction from Lavetta. We've got to count on a solid balance of scor­ing. Then I think we'll be fine. We'll be back to an equal­opportunity offense to see who steps forward and carries the load." 
Overall, the front court appears to be the team's strength, parHcu­larly where the inside game is con­cerned. Botham, a 6-2 center. set a 

Gavin is closing in on the team assist record. 
school record by scoring in.double figures in 19 straight games last year. She finished sixth in the nation in field goal percentage at 
63.3 percent and earned a first­team spot on the All-North 'Star Conference team. 
The 6-4 Bunek had to overcome a stress fracture and the flu last year, but rebounded well to earn a spot on the All-WNIT team. Willis, a 5-11 forward, is one of the team's best rebounders and prob­ably its top defensi.ve player. 
DiStanislao also has·-size and experience on the bench, in the persons of 6-3 junior Kathy Brommeland and 6-5 junior Beth Morrison. 


14 
Scholastic 


.< I 
I 
Sports 

"Sandy has to become a con­sistent force inside," DiStanislao says. "Her experience has certainly dictated that she should be able to do it. She has a good shooting touch, she has good strength, and she has good timing. She should be pushing herself into a dominant role. And with 'Heidi coming along they have the potential to be signi­ficant factors inside. However, there's a defcnsc for every offcnse. So Lavctta has to make a successful transition to playing in the perimeter when she needs to." 
Indeed, Willis' performance will have a significant influence on Irish fortuncs this year. As the team's captain and its only senior, her leadership will be needed. And as the smallest forward in the front line, her ability to adjust to a perimeter role will be instrumen­tal. 
"We'd like to have a player like Lavctta out there," DiStanislao says. "She's been a very solid player for us for three years. She's one of the best defensive players . we have, and she's one of the smartest players we have. But she's got to make a niche for herself on the floor. We'll move her to the perimeter, and it would be great if she could get a 20-foot jump shot, but I think what we need to count on her for is having a solid mid­range jumper, cleaning up on the offensive boards and making the good pass offensively. Defen­sively, she can contain anybody." 
In the backcourt, DiStanislao will be counting · on Gavin to orchestrate the offense, but also to score some points herself. The 5-6 junior point guard is just five assists short of the school career record, and set a team mark with 72 steals last year. 
"Mary has got to take on a real leadership position with the basketball and make sure that she 
November 20, 1986 
gets the ball to people in scoring position," DiStanislao says. "It's not going to be a question or get­ting the ball to one player nnd let-i:: ting her create. It's going to be ·Q question of getting it to everyone, .:i and in position to score. And Mary 
has got to become more of a scorer 
herself." 
DiStanislao says she hopes the 5-9 Toney, a sophomore, can help fill the outside shooting void left by the graduation of Lynn Ebbcn and the pre-season knee injury to sophomore Lisa Kuhns, who is out for the year. Two other guards, 
5-9 junior Kathy Barron and 5-11 
freshman Julie Garske will also get 
a chance to display their outside 
shooting touch. 
"We've just got to find the out­side scoring someplace else," DiS­tanislao says. "Mary can shoot it, Diandra can shoot it, they just have to become consistent at it. Julie Garske can shoot it. She's got to provej her worthiness on the other en~ of the floor. We're not talking about three people with the same kind of pure-shooter disposi­tion, but again, we're just going to be a different team. We're very different without Trena." · 
".Both Lavctta Willis and Dian­dra Toney have to become more prolific scorers. They've got to pick up a little more of the scoring burden. And we've got to get good minutes out of Kathy Barron and we've got to get solid minutes out of Beth Morrison. · That's what we've been pointing toward in the preseason. We're just counting on. that all coming together for us." 
Besides Keys, there ·are other formidable obstacles that the Irish must overcome. The schedule is one such challenge; it includes top teams like Ohio State, Rutgers, Indiana, Washington, Oklahoma, Maryland, St. Joseph's, UCLA, Tennessee and defending national champion Texas. 
Willis is the team's captain and its only senior. 
Improving the team's concen­tration is another necessity. The Irish averaged 21 turnovers per game last year, and were plagued by inconsistency at the free throw line (67 percent). These arc two areas where DiStanislao says she wants to see her team improve. 
Other elements are beyond the coach's control. Injury and illness are two variables that have hurt the team already; both Toney and Bunek have missed considerable practice time because of pre­season ailments. DiStanislao has learned to expect such problems. But on the other side of the coin, she isn't banking on any pleasant surprises like one player leading the team to the promised land, a la Trena Keys. 
"I'm not counting on any 

surprises," DiStanislao says. "As 
far as Mary, Sandy, Heidi, Lavctta 
and Diandra are concerned, if 
they don't perform up to their 
personal abilities, that will be a 
.

surprise. " 



;" 
CONCERTS: 
Jerry Jeff Walker Park West 322 W. Armitage Nov. 22 at 8 p.m. 
Love And Rockets Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark Nov. 22 at 7:30 p.m. 
Buckwheat Zydeco Biddy Mulligan's 7644 N. Sheridan Nov. 21 at 8 p.m. 
James Brown Park West 322 W. Armitage Nov. 23 at 7:30 & 11 p.m. 

General Public Riviera Night Club Broadway & Lawrence Nov. 22 at 7:30 p.m. 
Mike Cross Holsteins 2464 N. Lincoln Nov. 21 & 22 at 8 p.m. 
THEATER: 
"A ... My Name Is Alice" Ivanhoe Theatt!r · 750 W. Wellington Nov. 20-22 at 8 p.m. $19.50-23.50 
"Bards, Broads, And The Sacrifice" Cross Currents 
-3204 N. Wilson Nov. 20-22 at 7:30 p.m. $8 
"Forbidden Broadway" Gaslight Cabaret 17 E. Monroe Nov. 23-26 at 8 p.m. $17.50-19.50 
"Corpse" Body Politic Theater 2261 N. Lincoln Nov. 20-22 at 7:30 p.m. $14-17 
"Zoo Thousand One" Goodman Theatre Studio 200 S. Columbus Nov. 20-23 at 8 p.m. $12.50-14;50 
"Pump Boys And Dinettes" · Apollo Theater Center 2540 N. Lincoln Nov. 20-22 at 8 p.m. $19.50-24 
OPERA AND DANCE: 
"Un Balle in Maschera" Civic Opera House 
20. N. Wacker Nov. 21 & 24 at 7:30 p.m. $10-66.50 
"Lucia di Lammermoor" Chicago Lyric Opera Civic Opera House 20 N. Wacker Nov. 22 & 25 at 7:30 p.m. $10-66.50 

,, /.7.-::: • :,;,:. 
~i~;~i~~i;, ·,,.<F ·+>~ ):\ii)X i~~d:;,;. ~d-t;~; 

Jazz Tap Ensemble Dance Center of Columbia College 4730 N. Sheridan Nov. 21 & 22 at 8 p.m. $11 
r 
"Cinderella" Chicago City Ballet Auditorium Theater
I 70 E. Congress Nov. 26 at 7 p.m. $12-25 
SPORTS: 
Hockey: Blackhawks vs. New Jersey Devils Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison Nov. 23 at 7:30 p.m. $7-25 Basketball: Bulls vs. New York Knicks Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison Nov. 21 at 7:30 p.m. $7-17 
Basketball: Bulls vs. Washington Bullets Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison Nov. 22 at 7:30 p.m. $7-17 
Football: Bears vs. Green Bay Packers Soldier Field 
S. Lake Shore Nov. 23 at 12 p.m. $17 
CONCERTS: 
Eddie Money Morris Civic Auditorium 211 N. Michigan Nov. 22 at 8 p.m. 

Philip Isenberg, Flute Recital IUSB Northside Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Nov. 20 at 8:15 p.m. 
FILM: 

"Sleeper" IUSB Little Theater/Recital Hall 
1700 Mishawaka Nov. 23 at 8 p.m. $1.75 
ART: 
Henni Akkerman: Mixed Media 
W.A.L. Gallery 120 S. St. Joseph Nov. 20-21 12:30-4 p.m. Nov. 22-26 12-5 p.m. 
Calvin Neimeyer Warner Gallery 120 S. St Joseph Nov. 20-26 12-5 p.m. 

:1 
I 
! 
!' I Monk's Game Plan 
Notre Dame's president-elect answers questions about the fanfare, his philosophy and the future 
ii ather Edward Malloy was elected the 16th 
ii 
ll preside11t of Notre Dame last Friday by a
F 

;J u11a11imous vote of the Board of Trnstees. He 
n: spoke to Scholastic Sunday night i11 his first-floor room in Sorin Hall.
!f 
I 
in the course of the interview, MalloJ''S warm relationship with students became apparent: several Sorin residents came to his room seeking schedul­ing advice, reference materials or comersation with "1\1onk." 
In the following excerpts from the hour-long interview, Malloy speaks at length about his i11terests, his philosophy and his plans for the future. 

Tell us about what happened Friday, the day you were chosen to be the University's next president. 
Friday we had a Board of Trustees meeting in the morning. And there was a luncheon afterward with the trustees and their spouses. Then they showed the movie "Notre Dame 1985-86 in Review" to everybody, at which point the five candidates left and went up to the Room 208 in the CCE. 
We waited while the nominating committee made the presentation to the trustees as a whole. And then they had the vote, I guess. Then five people came up into the room to tell us what had happened: Don Keough and Andy McKenna, Father Dick Warner, our provincial, who is a trustee, a fellow and a member of the nominating committee, and Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce. Don Keough announced that I had been elected unanimously for a five-year term. And then everybody hugged and congratulated everybody. 

Then I went downstairs to the auditorium and spoke to the trustees for 20 minutes. I started off by saying something about each of the other candidates and how impressed I had been by the cordiality and support that we had been able to provide for each other. 
Then I talked about what I thought the role of the trustees has been, what I'd like it to be and how it evolved. And at the end I asked for the trustees to approve Bill Beauchamp and Tim O'Mcara as execu­tive vice president and provost for a time equal to my five-year term; at ·which time they all approved that unanimously. 
Have you had any meetings with Father Hesburgh? 
No, he just flew to Chile for the week, because it's the 50th anniversary of St. George's College down there. So they're down there as part of those 

celebrations. I've been on the phone; I've been inter­viewed by all kinds of people. There haven't been too many spare moments. 
When did you make the decision that Father Beau­champ would be your executive vice president and why? 
First of all, Dave Tyson, Bill Beauchamp and I have been meeting for over four years, because we all went into the administration together. Within the last year, Tyson, Beauchamp, Mccafferty, Bartell and I had met with our provincial a number of times. In the course of those conversations we had talked about various possibilities. 
More recently, I had indicated to Bill that we had worked together in a lot of situations and that if I were chosen I would invite him to be the executive vice president, and propose that to the trustc,::s. Bill had told me that if that's what happened, he would accept. I did not have the same opportunity with Tim O'Meara, but I had been working with him for over four years and we had a good working relationship. 
I thought looking at the alternatives, that it was important to establish the right kind of signal about what kind of administration it would be. The more speculation there was about all those jobs, the more difficult ·it would be to settle down. It was clear to me in the last week before the choice there was a lot of anxiety, and that it is understandable. I thought by making that decision quickly it would quiet some of those fears, but I planned to make that decision eventually anyway. 
I also thought the three of us together would pro­vide a nice balance. We all have different skills that ·we bring, different expertises. Bill is very strong with his financial and legal background. He has worked closely with Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce, so he knows that side of the University. I thought it was important to have a priest in that posi­tion; I think that worked well for Father Joyce and Father Hesburgh. 
I thought it was also important to have a major position filled by a layperson right from the start. Tim overall has done a fine job. I think he and I have enough differences in our perspectives that we bal­ance each other. 
So this was something you had only speculated upon earlier? Going into the election, had you heard that the nominating committee was leaning toward you? 
There was no definitive choice until the election. All of us could have some inclination about how things might be going, but there is no way anyone could tell us anything beyond what their own personal preference might be beforehand. So when the article came out in the Chicago Tribune, it was sheer speculation. 

Father Hesburgh has said that all five candidates would play major roles in the future of the Univer­sity. Do you know yet what their roles will be? 
It is true that it is my intention that they would all have major roles. Hence, what Father Hesburgh has said is accurate. I have not yet met with any of them individually to begin that process of conversation, because we have a good deal of time before May. There is no urgency about making those decisions. 
I intend to 'invite the other three men to have a significant role. But what particular form that will take will depend on what I think they would be good at and what they would be willing to do. 
19

November 20, 1986 


News 

You have stated your intention to continue living in Sorin Hall. Do you see any potential problems with your duties as president interfering with your dorm life? 
Yes I do, but like I have in any other stages in my life, I'll just work it out. But I would like to maintain enough visibility and presence in a locale that stu­dents can get to . If it works, I think it's a good sym­bol of what I'd like our administration to be all about. 

Tell us about the transition process. 
There are some obvious things. I have to learn a lot from Father Hesburgh. Not only everyday things, but a lot of advice. I need to talk to all the officers and continue my conversations with other adminis­trators and with the faculty. I'm going to find some
I 
vehicle, some forum, in which I can meet with groups of faculty. I've already made contact with
I 
them individually in the past, except for the newest ones. I probably won't be able to 
continue talking to each one indi­vidually all the time, but I will try to build on what I've already done. 
I think it's important to recog­nize that I'm going to try to remain fairly behind the scenes, because we do have a present administration that will be in place up until then. 
Personally, I want to do some concentrated reading. I also want to do some traveling and visit other universities, particularly 


FR££ PARKING
Catholic universities, but not 

fllOHT & Rf.AR
exclusively, to talk to presidents 

219 Dllll£ WAY
there and others to kind of get a 

NO. IN RCl>°ftl,,fiD
sense of the way they structure their administrations and to see what kind of advice I can get from 

You have said that you want to have a collaborative style of leadership. Does this mean you will have some sort of cabinet? 
There was an administrative study group from the trustees that existed along with the nominating com­mittee. They have a report which I. have not seen that is due out soon. It will be offered as a recommenda­tion about structure and that sort of thing. All I can tell you is that I would like my style to be very con­sultative. 
Will that report be made public? 
I haven't seen it yet, so I don't know whether it would be advisable to make it public. But it's directed now simply to me. 
You will become the University president in May. What are you looking forward to most? 
I think it provides a vehicle for speaking on behalf of higher education, particularly Catholic higher education and allows the Church to have a presence in the intellectual and cultural life of the nation and the world. I hope that, in some way, I can find within my own talents a chance to do that well. 
Interviewed By Keith Harrison and Frank Lipo 
ACE IS THE PLACE­WITH THE HELPfljL HARDWARE MAN 
• GARL>lN 
sunuts 
• HC'1!Sf.\\" ARtS 
• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPC,R flNG 


GOOl>S 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 


• Pl '.1M!IING & [I I C!RICAL 
<;•11·~1 lfS 
272-7535 
them, 
20 
Scholastic 

Impressive Compilations 


A positive reaction to God's Favorite Dog and Only Breathing, and the word on Run-DMC's latest single, "You Be Illin"' 
By Tim Adams 


W
ell, Boston did it. No, I'm not referring to the World Series, I'm talking about the rock group Boston. They now have the number one album and single in the country. Geez. Man, lay that heavy "I'm gonna take you in my arms" trip on me one more time, Tom. 
Once again, as an antidote to radio's excuse for music, here be two albums currently taking up a lot of turntable time and a single that's trying very hard but not succeeding. 
Various Artists: God's Favorite Dog -God's Favorite Dog is an impressive compilation of previ­ously unreleased material from "underground" artists as diverse as Chicago squawk-mongers Big Black· and A ustin's legendary Butthole Surfers, the current kings of tribal drum acid rock. 
Out on the Touch and Go label, this 12-song sampler does a dandy job in compiling works by some of the finest unconventional rock groups in the land. Perhaps the most normal of the six groups is Hose, a power-chord group reminiscent of hard rock groups from the '70s, only less excessive. 
Contributing a convoluted cover versiori of Led Zeppelin's "How Many More Times" and a sludgy tune called "Down by the River" (no, not the Neil Young 

Scholastic 
song), Hose engqges the listener to some extent, but lacks the ori­ginality displayed by the other groups on the record. 
Tops of all are the Butthole Surfcrs, whose genius and experi­mentation probably will continue to keep them two or three years ahead of their time. On "Eindho­ven Chicken Masque," they layer vaguely Oriental-sounding horns over a somber, heavy drum beat, but decide to skip the formalities and quadruple the pace halfway through, resulting m pure Buttholes magic. 
Hailing from the same town as the Surfers, Scratch Acid rock harder and , with more purpose. "The Final · Kiss" and "Holes," both re-recordings of songs from their most recent album, are omi­nous, Western-ish numbers featur­ing the great screaming voices of David Yow and Brett Bradford. 


Only · Happy Flowers, a two­man outfit from Charlottesville South Carolina, r'uins the soup'. Their infantile noise collages "Colors in the Rain" and "All I Got Were Clothes for Christmas" are funny in a crude sense, but anybody could produce similar material. If any of the good stuff you've been hearing about banct's like Big Black and Scratch Acid~\ has your curiosity piqued, God's \ Favorite Dog is an economical way to find out about 'em. 
,,---·--­
0 Positive: Only Breathing·_ Steve 
just broke up with his girlfriend. 
He plops down in a fat, cushy 
chair and puts on his headphones. 
He turns on O Positive's Only 
Breathing and mellows ... Sooth­
ing, melancholy and warm tunes 
are this Boston group's specialty, 
and five exceptional ones make up 
this year-old release. What sets 0 
Positive apart is their skillful 
songcraft and ability to create 
moody textures that flesh out the 
songs. Definitely a group to watch. 
Run-DMC: "You Be Illin"' -As far as comedy goes, Run-DMC's latest single does a decent job, but it also illustrates the problem rap groups have (and will continue to have, apparently) "crossing over" to the pop charts. Were it not for this song's obvious novelty, Profile Records probably would not have released it as a single, mostly because it's one of the weakest songs on the Raising Hell LP. 
Fact is, however, far superior songs like "Peter Piper" and "Raising Hell" wouldn't do nearly as well on the radio, because those are more purely steeped in rap's ethos -word interplay and rhyme take · precedence over the song's giggle factor. Still, "You Be Illin"' clobbers anything by radio main­stays like goof-popster Huey Lewis and Phil "vapid" Collins. 

AMatter Of Trust 
By Greg Miller 

The Academic Council de bates the possibility of the return of an Honor Code to the University 
February 1969 theIn 
members of the Notre Dame 

Honor Council resigned and wrote in ari open letter to the Notre Dame community: "The current situation makes it apparent to us that the community is no longer committed to (the concept of honor). We are further con­vinced that, while most individu­als seem to uphold personal honesty, they do not consider the possibility of an Honor Code. The Academic Council, the most powerful board under the Board of Trustees, has made this discus­sion one of its priorities this year. 
Yet a majority of students, in response to a survey last year, claimed that an Honor Code will not work because students will not turn in their peers. "There is a failure upon the students to take 


honesty of others to be their con­cern." This letter spelled the end of the Honor Code at Notre Dame, which had been in effect begin­ning iri the spring of 1964. 
Discussion has once again sur-. faced at Notre Dame about the responsibility for each other to maintain a community of honesty. Students do not feel that they will be turned in for cheating. Nor do they feel intimidated or pressured by other students," said Doug Wurth, student government execu­tive coordinator for Academic Affairs and a member of the Exe­cutive Committee of the Academic Council. 

Nevertheless Wurth and other members of the Academic Coun­cil, comprised of students, faculty, deans, and administrators, have made this discussion one of their priorities for the year. "I would like to see an Honor Code," said Associate Provost Father Edward Malloy. "The Honor Code creates a climate in which the values of honesty and trustworthiness are promoted and students are given a proper preparation for what is entailed by professional integrity." 
Discussion about an Honor 
Code began in the Academic Council when the University Honor Committee submitted its report last March. This commit­tee, chaired by Malloy, was esta­blished in the fall of 1985 to investigate the sources and causes of cheating at Notre Dame. "We thought there was too much cheat­ing at Notre Dame," said Malloy. 
The committee gathered input from as many people as possible, according to Malloy. Surveys of the faculty and students were con-' ducted and the councils of the four undergraduate colleges were consulted. "We listened first, then 
Scholastic
22 
News 

tried to formulate the central issues," said Malloy. After almost a year of listening, the committee prepared its report, which Malloy called a "consensus" document. 
The report mentioned a number of causes for cheating and also made recommendations to better structure the University's approach to cheating. (sec graphic) 
The report stated the need to promote a "climate of honesty" at Notre Dame. Yet the committee reported that it "has decided not to recommend adoption of an Honor Code at this time." The report continues, "Since the effec­tiveness of an Honor Code depends upon the willingness of individuals to support the system and function within its rules, the committee believes that lack of widespread student (and faculty) support for such a system indicates that it would not work well." 
At the Academic Council meet­ing on October 15, the deans of the four undergraduate colleges and student government represen­tatives presented their reactions to the Honesty Committee Report. The majority of council members viewed the report as a good start­ing point for a discussion of academic honesty at Notre Dame. But some felt that much more would have to be done before any of its recommendations could be implemented. 
At the Academic Council Exe­cutive Committee · meeting on November 3, the issues in the report were again ·addressed. But at this meeting the discussion cen­tered on the report's dismissal of an Honor Code. It was determined that discussion about the possibil­ity of an Honor Code at Notre Dame be renewed.· Michael Loux, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said, "The sense is that the committee report is good to get things going. But we shouldn't 
November 20, 1986 
Some Recommendations of the University HonorCommittee's Report 
There should 'be clear policies and procedures which promote a climate of 
honesty · 
In each college one honesty committee will replace all departmerital honesty 
committees. 

The individual professor should have the primary responsibility for defin-· ing· standards of honesty. 
There should be a pledge of honesty accompanying all work submitted by 
students as part of course requirements. Blue books should include such a 
pledge. 

As a norm, examinations should be proctored. 
Students should be encouraged to report anonymously any instances of 
cheating to the committee of the appropriate college 
When a case of dishonesty is discovered, the following steps should be 
implemented: 

I) The individual professor assigns an appropriate penalty or submits the violation to the appropriate college honesty committee. 
2) The individual professor submits to the office of the appropria.te dean a letter indicating that a determination of 
cheating has been made. 

The penalty for a first instance of cheating is left to the discretion of the 
individual professor or to the college honesty committee. The penalty for a 
second instance of cheating is suspension or dismissal from the University. 
Source: Notre Dame Report 1985-6, No. 16 
conclude without discussing the present policy toward honesty veryHonor Code." 
seriously, that is, demand that 
"As an initial report it certainly teachers ask and require honesty has focused the conversation," in their classrooms and that stu­said Wurth. ·"In that sense it has dents realize their own responsi­served its purpose very well. It bility in an honest environment. addressed the fact that there are Or we need to make a significant unacceptable levels of cheating at change in policy which reflects a the University. It revealed that different philosophy. That entails both students and faculty at this an Honor Code." point would have difficulty with 
Provost Timothy O'Meara also 

an Honor Code. And it outlined said academic integrity can be dis­features in the classroom which cussed on two levels. He said he are conducive to cheating." 
feels that the issue can · be 
Wurth also expressed his reser­approached with the emphasis on vations with the report. "This discovering the most effective document tries to satisfy too many safeguards against cheating or the people. Because it is a consensus emphasis on the fundamental document it seems to me that it notion of honor within a commun­hasn't made any hard choices." ity -an approach which leads Wurth added, "We need to take the directly to a discussion of an 
News 
Honor Code. 
This second approach dom-. inates the discussion at this point. "We have left the report aside. It is 
now a question of honor, not a question of how people should take exams. The Honor Code is distinct from honesty on exams," said O'Meara 
Malloy outlined the options that the Academic Council can pursue: "Do we want to entertain an Honor Code? Or concentrate on the recommendations as they are? Or stay with what we already have?" No matter what option is pursued, Malloy said that the current approach to cases of cheat­ing should be strengthened. 
The general reservation with the present system is that the bur­den for maintaining an honest environment rests almost solely in the hands of professors. Thus stu­dents caught cheating in the same autonomy and trying to establish a sense of fairness throughout the various colleges," said Wurth. 

"I believe that if both profes­sors and students enter into an Honor Code sincerely, an Honor Code best expresses the impor­tance of academic integrity and personal honesty," added Wurth. Loux said, "We're members of a Catholic university. We take notions of values and the concept of virtue very seriously. If other schools can implement an Honor Code successfully, there should be questions about why we don't have one." 
On this level, Malloy, O'Meara, Loux and Wurth all support an Honor Code. Loux, a former faculty member at the University of Virginia, which has the oldest Honor Code in effect, felt that this Code "worked splendidly." "Based on my experience the Honor Code plays a pedagogical role. It 

way by different professors can receive different punishments. This subjectivity is further encouraged by the many honesty committees within the various col­leges and departments, each of which can decide its own methods of dealing with cheating. 
"There is a delicate balance between respecting professors' 
24 
sensitizes students to high stan­dards and plays a part in moral education," added Loux. O'Meara said an Honor Code, "instills a social concern -a concern for society among students. In turn, it upholds the values of society." 
An Honor Code at Notre Dame would most likely contain the fol­lowing aspects, according to the committee's ·report: students would sign a pledge stating that they have neither given nor received aid; students would be required to report on fell ow stu­dents if they are seen cheating; exams would not be proctored; and appropriate sanctions would be established and administered by a . peer disciplinary board. 
Both O'Meara and Malloy say University President Father Theo­dore Hesburgh has spoken on the topic. According to Malloy, Hes­burgh argues that a violation of honesty is a very serious moral matter, just as committing a crime is a serious moral matter. Yet when we see a crime committed, we report it to the police, both for the betterment of the community and ultimately the betterment of the offender. As Loux asked, "Why make a moral exception in the case of a violation of academic honesty?" 
"To have an Honor Code at Notre Dame will take a lot of effort, time, and savvy. We would have to do a lot of groundwork for an Honor Code," said Malloy. Such groundwork would require some careful promotion. "We need education of both faculty and stu­dents," said Loux. "The only way to educate is to attempt to make clear that honesty is a fundamental virtue .that requires attentiveness to oneself and others," added Wurth. 
Whether or not all this discus­sion will one day lead to the estab­lishment of an Honor Code at Notre Dame remains to be seen. Malloy said it 'Yas too early in the discussion to tell if Notre Dame would adopt such a code. But Wurth said, "I think there is a good chance that we will see an Honor Code at Notre Dame, espe­cially with the new leadership of the University. I believe that Mal­loy and O'Meara see the merits of such a system." 
Scholastic 




~~f,.-.M_.,_,,iashisb? •·. 
~ 

. . .. J~ll:itil\ttilftllfffJi},
j,\\~itW·l~sh:'iridictme~l~;;:I;sJ:,een \\ O'Harr caused. campus officials·. at. 'an'de~l ito· thei nation'-'f,undef~taM. ,· "N1emphis·'St~te~>tJn:iver;ity;f:to 
close 
the . B.s..:. Supreme' /Plll:>l~c;' s~fio91s\'fro~•• 

mission/:Of
·, .. :-. •'. ·••,• :· .:_.:.-.:'-··:·..,,:,.--.·•:;:,.;·(, .., ... ··-·:·­

~;~~~:;~~fi~:;·;i~i~t.(f '.61\:: .. 




The World According To Falwell 
The leader of the Moral Majority voices his opinions on divestment, President Reagan and his Liberty University 
The Reverend Jerry Falwell is one of America's most controversial public figures. He is praised by conservative fundamentalists who belong to his Moral Majority and its offshoot, the Liberty Federation, and damned by liberals who disdain his mixture of religion and politics. Falwell, who was on campus last week to speak at Washington Hall, spoke with Scholastic shortly before his speech. 
What is your opinion of divestment and the situation in South Africa in general? 
Well, my opinion on divestment from South Africa hasn't changed from the beginning. I think it's a childish, juvenile, foolish approach. We'd hurt the very people we say we want to help. We wouldn't hurt the government, we'd hurt the blacks, the non-whites in South Africa. 
It's not a very popular position, because the media has painted that position as a racist position. That is absolutely unfair, it's untrue. As a matter of fact the last poll showed a majority of blacks in America are not in favor of divestment because of what it does to non-whites in South Africa. 
I don't know anybody, unless it's·a KKK member somewhere, who's in favor of apartheid. That's not the issue. The issue is how to solve the problem, hurting the fewest people in the process. 
I for one believe that Reagan's policy is the only sensible one when you consider the change that is now being effected there. The pass system is over, citizenship· has now been granted. They've got a long way to go until there's full participation. But they've been 35 years at it -_we were 170 years old before we finally became a desegregated society and we st_ill have our problems. 
26 


Jerry Falwell, pictured here at his Washington Hall speech last week, is the founder of the Moral Majority, the Liberty Federation and Liberty University. 
In addition to being the leader of the Moral Majority and the Liberty Federation, you are also the chan­cellor of Liberty University. Tell us about this school. 
Liberty University is in Lynchburg, Vir­ginia. The school opened its doors in 1971 with about 
Scholastic 





150 students. It began basically as a Bible college, then quickly became a liberal arts school. Our enroll­ment this year is 7,350. 
Do you have to be a member of any particular reli­gion to become a student? 
You have to be a born-again Christian. But we have students from just about every church ima­ginable. And all our students commit to what we call the "Liberty way," which is our code of behavior. 
Is there a dress code? 
There is a dress code. Men must wear ties and jackets to class and chapel. Gals must wear dresses during that same time. In their leisure time, jeans are fine. 
What about alcohol? 
No alcohol, no tobacco, no illegal drugs. First offense: expulsion. 
Is there any rule about rock music?­
Officially, rock music is not allowed, although that's not really enforced. Christian rock is all right, and several Christian bands have played at the school. 
What is the reasoning behind that 
rule? 
A lot of the lyrics have a pro-drugs, anti-Christian emphasis, especially a lot of the heavy metal garbage stuff. 
Does that justify a ban on all rock 
music? 
Well; I don't think it does,and that's why they don't -enforce· it. It's a statement. In fact, whenever I see any of the kids out running with earphones on, I always joke that they must be listening to one of my sermons. 
How would you assess the Reagan presidency in terms of its efforts on the issue of prayer in schools, -which has been one of your main goals in the past? 
I think the President has done a magnificent job in that area. Equal access was passed two years ago, which means that any religious group, or non­religious group, can meet before or after school in facilities which are not being used for the school's regular curriculum. Well, that really is what we wanted and we are very happy with that. 
What about the abortion issue? 
I think the president's appointments of San­dra Day O'Connor and Tony Scalia have put us within one vote of a pro-life court. I think we have to be very pleased with that. The President's legacy is going to be a reconstructed judiciary, which will make for a good, conservative court into the 21st century. 
How do you feel about the Meese commission on 
pornography? 

It was marvelous. I commend Attorney General Meese and the President for -the commision's statement to the nation. Because of what Meese has done, and because of grass roots activity by groups like tlie Moral Majority, 25,000 retail outlets which used to sell pornographic literature no longer do so. 
Interviewed By Keith Harrison Jr. 


27

November 20, 1986 

·Student Life 
Meeting The Needs Of The Elderly 
By John Perie 

Notre Dame's GERAS Center and student volunteer programs focus efforts on meeting the increasing needs of the elderly 
Bob enjoyed h~s life. When he was young, 1t seemed that the world was before him and anything was possible. But as he began to grow old, Bob became lonely. His children moved away. As the years went on, most of his friends passed away. There was no one Bob could spend time with, no' one he felt really cared about him. Bob became depressed, and started to think he had nothing left to live for. What Bob was having problems dealing with is one of life's natural phases -old age. Old age can be a time of happiness, but for many elderly people it is a time of lonel­iness and despair. Despite taking care that they are financially prepared for life after retirement, elderly men and women often are not prepared mentally or emotion­ally for old age, and suddenly it is upon them. By then it can be a traumatic adjustment, perhaps an overwhelming one. Dr. John Santos, director of Notre Dame's Center for Geronto­logical Education, Research and Services (GERAS), has dealt for over 40 years with the various problems that accompany old age. Santos said that his work in this area has become especially crucial in today's society. In the face of this growing need, Santos said that people must be made more aware of the the needs of the elderly. G ERAS was established to stimulate the development of programs at Notre Dame which would effectively address some of these needs. 

GERAS deals with a wide spec­trum of problems that can accom­pany old age. The center has been involved in research on suicide among the elderly, drug misuse and isolation. Other studies have focused on minority aging and public housing for the elderly. "We've been most concerned with the needs of those who are falling through the cracks of the formal support system. That's where GERAS comes in. Our goal is to try to fill some of those gaps," said Santos. 
Training, service and research have all been a part of GERAS since its establishment. Grants and funds have been awarded over 
the years to sponsor research. 
Paraprofessionals and profession­
als train volunteers to visit the eld­
erly and to help the elderly with 
their daily needs. · 
"There are simply not enough 
physicians, nurses, psychologists 
and social workers available to 
deal with the problems of the eld­
erly," said Santos. "We need 
increases in a number of profes­
sions to do even a decent job." 
This volunteer work is critical, 
given the magnitude of the con­
cerns of aging and the aged. "Only 
five percent of the elderly are in a 
nursing home, but what about the 
other 95 percent?" asked Santos. 
"There are more older people 
needing assistance than · we have 
government funds or professionals 
to help. With the (Reagan) 
administration presently cutting 
more· funds from social and train­
ing programs, . the elderly won't 
have their needs met from federal 
programs and will have to look 
elsewhere for aid." 

Cleo Mellinger, assistant pro­gram manager at GERAS, said that GERAS-sponsored volunteer programs help provide such aid. Mellinger has worked with the elderly for many years and feels, like Santos,that as people get older, their needs increase but are rarely fulfilled. 
Advances in medical 
Scholastic 
Student Life 

technology have increased to the extent that soon there will be a much larger percentage of the population between the ages of 85-95. This increase will present special problems for society to handle, said Mellinger. 
Mellinger feels that GERAS programs have been successful. "Success does come in many forms," Mellinger said. "Alberta was under the care of a doctor in a nursing home. For every different pain that she felt, the doctor prescribed a new drug. Soon she was taking all kinds of pills. I took her to another physician for an evaluation and he was able to cut her dependence on drugs in· half. 
With rehabilitation, she became more mobile. She overcame her depression. Now she sings, dances and is enjoying life." 
With proper assistance and help · for those who need it, older per­sons can certainly gain a new lease on life, said Mellinger. She cited several cases in her work with the ailing elderly where common sense, personal contact and con­cern, and physical therapy bene­fitted the patient more than inef­fective medications, often pur­chased with precious savings. 
In addition to addressing the physical needs of the elderly, GERAS also deals with the mental health of the elderly. "We need to­find more effective ways to help November 20, 1986 those who are mentally incapable of handling themselves in society, those who are falling through the cracks of the so-called safety net," said Santos. "Only recently have we begun to study many of the medical, psychological and social problems associated with aging, like depression and Alzheimer's disorder." 
A major reason for the success of many of the programs spon­sored by GERAS is the dedication of student volunteers at Notre Dame. Doug Wurth, student direc­tor of Student Advocate Volunteers of the Elderly (SA VE), feels that student volunteering is important for both the elderly and 
t" 
~ 
~­
~ 
a 
~ 
~ 

the stude:p.ts themselves. 
"Students--at Notre Dame are living in a protective environment. They get a distorted sense of what really exists outside the campus. There are a lot of old people out there and most of them need help," said Wurth. 
Wurth has been with GERAS for three years and has seen 450 students take part in SAVE under his guidance. He, too, feels that his job helps to meet a crucial and often overwhelming need of society. "The elderly constitute a critical and large segment of our society, a part that we just cannot forget. The very society we neglect is the society we will one day become," said Wurth. 
The main goal of SA VE is to help the South Bend community address the needs of the elderly. Students take part in a variety of work programs. They do things which range from raking leaves J:o helping with the shopping. Some students take part in dinners, par­ties, and dances sponsored for the elderly. 
SA VE also arranges for regular student visits to nursing homes in the South Bend area. "Students are trained with the intent to volunteer for at least one semester. They visit two or three hours a week and from this encounter there ste.ms a certain friendship between the student and the eld­erly person. There is a sharing of ideas between two different gen­erations. Not only does the student learn more about himself, but about life from somebody who has already lived it," said Wurth. 
The high student participation rate is evidence that more and more students are becoming aware of the problems that the elderly face. But Wurth feels that there is still room for improvement. "In order to become more successful as a student volunteer program, more students have to be aware of the usefulness that SAVE has upon the South Bend elderly commun­ity," said Wurth. 
Santos also feels that awareness within society itself is needed to better deal with the problems of the elderly. Society will have to change some of its attitudes. "We live in a youth-oriented society. Technology and progress are emphasized. We want to avoid fac­ing the inevitable realities of aging and death." 
"We are a death-denying society." said Santos. "Many of our stereotypes about aging and the aged will have to change and opportunities with respect to work and education will have to be opened to them if advanced age is to mean anything more than lonel­iness, boredom and neglect." 



A Misadventure In Comedy 
"Jumpin' Jack" doesn't create enough flash to make "Jumpin' Jack Flash" a memorable movie 
By Alex Peltzer 


Jumpin' Jack Flash," starring Whoopi Goldberg and Jim Belushi, is a good movie that, unfortunately, falls just short of greatness. The commendable aspects of the film are countered by its glitches, preventing it from becoming a memorable movie. 
The biggest difficulty with the movie is that it is suffering from an identity crisis. "Jumpin' Jack Flash" centers on an unlikely, comical main character who becomes involved in some kind of intrigue and in the end winds up the hero. While attempting to pro­duce an Eddie Murphy-style film, complete with comedy, the film fails. Whoopi Goldberg is simply not Eddie Murphy. And the plot, while being fresh and at times captivating, just does not have the same punch intrinsic in a movie like "48 Hours". 
Goldberg plays Terry Doolit­tle, a computer operater for a foreign exchange bank. One day a British spy -code name "Jumpin' Jack Flash" -taps into her com­puter and requests her help. Dool­ittle cannot resist the foreigner trapped in Eastern Europe, and the story unfolds from there; 
It is not difficult to accept the fact that Goldberg is a computer operator or even that she is a con­tact for a spy. But the two occupa­tions simultaneously begins to be a problem. The weakest part in the plot -as well' as in Goldberg's act­ing -occurs when Terry exerts her entire mental capacity to decipher Jack's code key (which apparently takes all of two minutes). The scene resembles a Hewlett-Packard commercial gone hay•wire. Whoopi never stops to ask . . . "What if?" 
But from here the movie takes 
,. 't­
,\ 


a turn for the better. The plot, other than the oceassional return of Terry to the computer, is surprisingly captivating and Gold­berg manages finally to be a con­vincing spy. Great little unex­pected twists and turns in the story create the effect of a James Bond flick in all its elaborateness. Goldberg's comedic talent lightens the drama and provides more than a few good laughs. 
One of the more memorable scenes is where Terry, after being drugged with truth serum, manages to escape from her cap­tors, one of whom is played by Jim Belushi. In a drugged stupor Terry bumbles her way through Elizabeth Arden's in search of a contact for Jack. Here Goldberg's talent is at a peak, as her own brand of comedy is intertwined with drama and the mixture becomes irresistibly funny. 
The movie is directed . by Penny Marshall, of "Laverne and Shirley" fame, a fact which seems to make even the lhnited success of the movie surprising. Marshall is apparently riot one to forget her roots, as one scene in particular, the computer office, resembles the slapstick mayhem of Laverne and Shirley's apartment. Also, Lenny, of the bothersome Lenny and Squiggy duo, has a cameo role in the film as an embassy guest. 
If the occassional glitches of this movie were taken out it would be one of the fall season's bright­
est films. Flash is although ·movie.  As still not  it is, Jumpin' Jack an enjoyable, very memorable,  
Scholastic  


Scoreboard 
i.:~!lf§J,,1.cli!f,;?fjM!Il}~;f~ k··•·.ri~•. s.pdr•t~r•.: 
. . .·. '•.·..N<i)•~~oerd ol16 ' . . 

Irish Take North Star Crown 
\'OLLEYRALL -The Irish won the North Star Conference Invitational Tournament last weekend, defeating Valparaiso, Dayton, Cleveland State and DePaul on Friday and Saturday. They then returned home to sweep Rhode Island on Sunday, 15-0, 15-13, 13-15 I 15-6. 
Notre Dame continued its drive for an NCAA bid with the five victories in three days. Coach ART LAMBERT was named NSC Coach of the Year, and Scholastic Athlete of the Week ZANNETTE BEN­NETT took the tourney's MVP award. 
The Irish won four of the five weekend matches in three straight games, to register their 19th sweep of the year with the 15-1, 15-0, 15-5 victory over DePaul on Satur­day. They won 12 straight games without a loss in the North Star Conference tourna­ment. The Irish cruised to the tournament victory, outscoring their opposition, 180-54. 
Standout players include TARYN COL­LINS, a freshman who came up with six digs, three kills, and 32 assists in the Valpo game. KATHY BAKER contributed 13 kills in two games of Notre Dame's 15-5, 15-11, 15-11 victory over Dayton. In the definitive 15-3, 15-3, 15-2 win against Day­ton, MAUREEN SHEA had three blocks and nine digs. 
COLLINS' performance earned her a first-team berth on the all-conference team. MARY KAY WALLER, along with SHEA and .BAKER were named to the second team. 
The Irish will finish their home season 

. Friday with a match against Northern Illi­nois. They travel to Purdue Saturday for a season-ending match against the Big 10 power. The Boilermakers took the Irish fo 
·three games in the second match of the sea­son, 15-11, 15-6, 15-7. 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY -Notre Dame finished its season last weekend with a 15th-place finish out of 22 teams· in the Dis­tric IV cross-country championships in Nor­mal, Ill. 
The Irish ended up with a 1-3 record in dual meets with· a victory over Michigan State and losses to Ohio State, Houston and Rice. Sophomore RON MARKEZICH suffered a sprained ankle mid-race and could not finish. DAN GARRETT's 40th­place finish paced the Irish while freshman MIKE O'CONNOR came in 48th. 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY -The Irish women finished 20th in their portion of the District IV Championships last weekend. JULIA MERKEL finished 53rd to lead the Irish with a 18:21 performance. THERESA RICE placed second for the Irish at 19:21, and KATHLEEN LEHMAN came in third. 
HOCKEY -Notre Dame took second at the Pointer Classic in Stevens Point, Wisc. with a 6-2 victory over St. John's last Fri­day. In the winner's bracket, the Irish lost to Wisconsin at Steven's Point by a score of 5~2. 
In the victory over St. John's, the Irish got their offense in gear. They took 38 shots on goal, with six different players contributing to the scoring drive. Scholas­tic Athlete of the Week, LANCE MAD­SON, allowed only two goals out of 39 shots. 
Saturday, the Irish lost 5-2, but stayed close through almost the entire second period. MATT HANZEL's goal kept Notre Dame in the game until Wisconsin broke through with four unanswered goals. The Irish also lost the services of defensemen KEVIN MARKOVITZ, MICHAEL LEHERR, TIM CADDO and LANCE PAT­TEN. Those four enter this weekend's series against St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minn. with questionable status. Coach LEFTY SMITH comes into this weekend's action needing only two victories to break the career 300­win mark. 
MEN'S SWIMMING -After a week's layoff, the Irish (0-1) will try to even their record at Ferris State in Grand Rapids this week­end. Notre Dame lost its first meet to Denison (98-119) and came in second in the Notre Dame Relays two weeks ago. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING -Northern Michi­gan will challenge the Notre Dame swim­mers Saturday in the neutral site of Big Rapids, Mich. Notre Dame was off last weekend after an impressive 200-point first-place finish in its own relays the previ­ous week. 
WRESTLING -The Irish opened their 33rd season competing at a varsity level Wednesday at home against the Air Force Academy. Coach FRAN McCANN solidified his starting lineup with fr~shman ANDY RANDENBAUGH in the 118-lb class and sophomores JERRY DURSO (134 lb), PAT BOYD (142 lb) and CHRIS GENESER (177 lb). Rounding out McCann's squad are juniors RON WISNIEWSKI (150 lb) and DAN CARRI­GAN (158 lbs). Seniors GREG GLEMING and DAVE HELMER will wrestle at 126 and 190 lbs, respectively. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL KAREN ROBINSON, a 5-6 point guard, signed a national letter of intent to attend Notre Dame and play basketball beginning next fall. The sixth-team all-America selection from Turnersville, N.J., attained all­conference and all-South Jersey recognition last year. 
Athletes of the Week 

ZANNETTE BENNETT 
The middle blocker on the vol­leyball team was named NSC tourna­ment MVP last week after the Irish took the tourney crown. ;, The 5-10 sophomore lfj'J' A1 leads the Irish in kills with 347 on the sea­son. Bennett also paces the Irish with 37 service aces. 

LANCE 
MADSON 
The 6-1, 
formance at weekend's Classic. The man allowed two goals posted 37 saves in Notre Dame's 6-2 victory over St. John's last Friday. 
November 20, 1986 


A Stranger in a Strange Land 
. By Markus Knipp 

Foreign student -describes some aspects 
S 
o how do you like it here?" This question is usually the first thing people say to me when they learn that I'm an inter­national student. Everytime the question is asked, it evokes in me an automatic thinking process evaluating· the pros and cons of living in a culture different from my native one. But since a con­crete answer would be in the form of an elaborate speech, my answer to the question is usually a cliche ­"It's different!" 
The question seldom boils down to whether or not living here is better or worse; most of the time it is simply a question of adapting to something different. And dif­ferent it is. The list starts with such banalities as food, fashion and behavioral patterns and con­tinues with such items as politics. 
A simple example is eating manners. In my native country of West Germany it is unacceptable to use a fork only for eating and a knife only for cutting meat. The fork is always kept in the left hand, and the knife in the right. 
While I was at a restaurant in Florida with a friend, I overheard a comment about my eating manners, a simple "Barbaric!", spoken by a middle-aged gentle­man wearing black and white checked .pants. I asked myself what right this walking chessboard had in calling me a barbarian, while he was using his fork as a shovel, transporting large amounts of food from his plate to his mouth. 

of his experiences at Notre Dame 
But this is nothing of real understand that I was now living importance. Problems arise when in a culture with different moral more important life \patterns are values and more regulation of peo­suddenly challenged. 'My experi-ple my age. 

I undoubtably evoked anger in 

my rector, but it was uninten­
tional. All of a sudden my actions 
were thought to be wrong and 
immoral, something I hadn't even 
considered. Even :though I still 

don't see anything wrong with it, I know that I have to accept this · cultural difference and adapt to it. 
Another example is the legal drinking age in this country. I never quite understood why it is legal for a 16-year-old adolescent 
ences during the very first week of to drive a car but illegal for the my freshman year at Notre Dame same person to consume alcohol. show this. During this week, I did The culture in which I was raised not spend a night in my dorm approaches this problem the other ·room but instead chose to sleep at way around -first you can drink my girlfriend's house. and then drive. 
There were two reasons for So which is better, first becom­this. I was going through a stage of ing a responsible driver and then great sadness as a result of the learning the effects of alcohol, or break I had just made with my vice versa? I personally do not own culture. Secondly, my have an answer to this. Again, it's girlfriend's parents were out of a change that must be adapted to, town, and I didn't think that it and acceptance of such differences 
would be a good idea for her to be in culture can be quite hard at alone in the house. times. 
At that time I didn't think It becomes clear to me that much of it, but I know now that I there is no simple answer to the must have worried my hall rector question, "How do you like it?" quite a bit, even though my room­After all, I doubt that the majority mates knew where I was. When of people asking this question are questioned about my behavior by willing to listen to a long speech. the rector, I was at first quite puz­Therefore, I have decided to sum­zled, because I didn't think it was marize feelings and thoughts into any of his business where I spent one short sentence: "It's different, my nights. It took me awhile to all right!" 
Scholastic 
Life In Hell 

iiAA iEM?iiiiiiiiiiWW¥4s& &Wt¥¥HH@W&&&F /Mrii&iiiiiMiMPiA-ii1AIMi1fWk4tzM &P4&4MA i4&%¥8M5§F@Mdiii 
©1986B!J S( 
MATT ~ 
GR-o,1111NG, g: 


i,.1,.~o l<NOWIJ AS: MA..rJ•c.eGU!:l, FA-'11L".) /ViA"-1, HO'-ll:.'1, DA~Llo..lC:,, SOFT"-80tLEO E~, S,vUC,(,1,cPvP. APV'A>-lTPo~t;: \>lEI..I..· ~HAVED; lf"'"'S O.,JJ.J SH•~S. 
DRAi.JBAC.l<S: IRll.tTAT1,-i(,L'1 ,o,..~.S:Sto,JA°fE;'->•l'IP"), 




ALSO l<JJ0wJJ AS: TR!:MS!.".l, CR.'t.lV'IPUl'F, i-lE'1 '?OV, 
Ai>VAt,/!"11(:,!,S: JUMPS l:.J"fUTl\i..J1,J(,L':, '<JHEN STAl!TL£D. DRA"-'SA,~S: C.ASIL'? SPo~o. soU,,-ooeRs win{­' 0<JT" A S'rR.t.J66LE, 

ALSO kNOIN'-1 A<":,: fV\ll. P'c:11.FGC.i, JtM OA.i~, l'\.iSwte."TO A \,JOMA•l°S ~~~'1.S. 0RAWSAC.K~: ~vNTE:D TO cXTINtTIOi.J. 
...... 
RIA .COM 






