■NomF;iWMr;§fimg.5Tir
•pis;E’Q\^si*se/v^,^Q'A^s’ VivfrQv^si\fv<S7^oi\4^
Vol. XXIX.
NOTRR DAME, INDIANA, November 9, 1895.
No. 10
A Breath of May.
">UT in the night
Soft winds are blowing,—
Coming and going
Up to the light,
Down where the slight
Spring-flowers are growing
Out in the night.
Soft winds are blowing,
Dancing in flight,
Far from the glowing
Sol, from the crowing
Chanticleer’s sight.
Out in the night
Soft winds are blowing.
E. J. M.
The Monroe Doctrine and Its History.
DANIEL P. MURPHY.
What is the Monroe Doctrine? A hundred times, since our little unpleasantness with England in regard to the Venezuelan affair, have we heard this question on the lips of anxious inquirers. A hundred times have we heard attempts to answer it, but they-generally took the shape of dire threats against the British, or any other nation so foolhardy as to transgress on our rights as a nation in this direction. Whenever we mildly suggested that we were looking for facts concerning this great principle of our Republic, and not about our military and naval resources, and the political condition of Europe, we were met with a look which seemed to show great pity for our ignorance; but never have we heard the facts for which we, sought. The truth is, and to our shame be it said, the notions of the American people re
specting this doctrine are extremely vague and misty. It is the object of this paper to give a few ideas regarding the Monroe Doctrine, under what circumstances it was declared, its relation to the history of the times, and in what light its formulator and chief-defenders considered it.
President Monroe, in his seventh annual message to Congress, on the second of Decern-ber, 1823, gave expression to his views on certain subjects which were then attracting the world’s attention; these declarations constitute the famous doctrine which now bears his name. We have not sufficient space to make more than a few brief quotations from this message, nor is it necessary so to do. Two important propositions were set forth: the first in regard to the future colonization of the American continents by any European power, and the second concerning the intervention of European powers in the political affairs of the American nations.	.	.
The first great principle was stated by Monroe in these words: “In the discussions to which this interest has given rise, and in the arrangements by which they may terminate, the occasion has been judged proper for asserting, as a principle in which the rights and interests of the United States are involved, that the American continents, by the free and independent condition which they have assumed and maintain, are henceforth not to be considered as subjects for future colonization by any European power.” Let us see what was the immediate cause of this first declaration. In 1822, both Russia and England claimed that, the northwestern portion of ,pur continent, including what is now known as Washington and Oregon, was open for colonization by European nations. We claimed a portion of this territory as our
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■	,t46
I ' ■ j	own, with the right of absolute sovereignty
5	- over it.'" This was afterwards pithily expressed
s	in the famous cry: “ Fifty-four, forty or fight.’
In John Quincy Adams’ “Memoirs” we find |	that under the date of July 17, 1823, he wrote:
I	“At the office Baron Tuyl came.' I told him
specially that we should contest the'right of g	Russia to any territorial establishment on this
f	continent, and that we.should assume distinctly
the principle that the American continents are no longer subjects for anj^ new colonial establishments.” Herein lies the essence of the first declaration of the Monroe Doctrine. This was purely the work of Adams. It seems to have I	been his pet notion, and when an opportunity
|	came to present it to the world he grasped it
|	without delay. John C. Calhoun', who was ^Mon-
l	foe’s Secretary of War, in a speech delivered by
J	him in the United States Senate, May 15, 1848,
i	explicitly declares that this branch of the‘Mon’s	roe Doctrine originated entirely with Adams,
*	and that it was never submitted to-the Cabinet
I	for its consideration. He further'stated that
|	this portion of Monroe’s message had special
I	reference to the northwest settlement, and the
j	rest of the continent was included because the
<	whole of it, “ with the exception of some settle-
•	ments in Surinam, Maracaibo and thereabout,
j ■	had passed into independent hands.” Shortly
|	after Monroe’s message appeared, Russia gave
I	a tacit consent, at least, to the claims of the
j	United States, as she thereafter made no preten-
i	sions to any territory south of Alaska. The
I	United States and England settled the matter
|	between themselves somewhat later. However,
we did not get “ fifty-four, forty,” nor jdid we fight- '	.
But that is not of so much importanance . to-day. That phase of the question disappeared with the history of the times. By far the more interesting to us is the second proposition set forth by Monroe, in regard to the' intervention ■	of foreign powers in the politics of American
i	nations. Since' the day the Monroe Doctrin e
I	was declared/up to the present tiihe, this has
1	been a burning- issue, and it will continue to be
|	such until Europe finally recognizes the con-
J	terition of the United States;' for some day,
sooner dr later, recognize it she'must. '
J	In: this regard, Monroe had the following to
say in his celebrated message. “We owe it, therefore, to candor and to the amicable relations existing between the United States and those powers, to declare that we shbuld consider any A attempt on their,part to extend their system to \ . any portion of this hemisphere as . dangerous to
our peace and safety. With the existing colonies or dependencies of any European1 power we have hot interfered,and shall not interfere.-But with the governments who have declared their independence and maintained - it, and whose' independence we have, on great consideration and on just principles, acknowledged, we could not view any interposition for the purpose of oppressing them, or controlling in -any other manner their destiny, by European powers, in any other light than as the manifestation of an unfriendly feeling toward the United States.”
In order to understand why Monroe gave expression to his doctrine at all we must make a brief study of the history of his time. Immediately before Monroe sent his message to Congress, the world had witnessed many stirring events. The Napoleonic wars had been brought tb a close, and Bonaparte had been banished to St. Helena. Europe began' again to breathe easily; but she had many princes just as ambitious as Napoleon, though not possessing a tithe of his genius. On the twenty-sixth of September, 1815, in Paris, a coalition was formed by the emperors of Austria and Russia and the king of Prussia, which bade fair to control the political world. France afterwards joined this alliance, and, at first, England by no means looked askance at it. The avowed object of this union was to make politics subordinate to the Christian religion, hence it received the name of the “ Holy Alliance.” Its real object was the extension of the monarchical system, and, incidentally, each sovereign resolved to get as large a share of power as possible. -
After the French had invaded Spain, overthrown the constitutional government of the Cortes, and placed FerdinaridVII.onthe throne, the “Holy Alliance” resolved to take a hand in the affairs of the New World, and help Spain to win back again her American colonies which had revolted. These colonies had been recognized as belligerents by the United States almost as soon as they had declared^their -independence, and, in- 1822,-the United States'sent’ ministers to the seats of their governments/ . thus; recognizing; them as independent sovereignties. At; this juncture ' England • became frightened, and began to cast about for a plan to defeat the purpose of the “Holy Alliance.” It was. not that England loved Spain-and the “ Holy Alliance ” less, but because she loved her own pocket-book. more. She was not imbued with a desife to see the whole world enjoying the fruits of a well-earned liberty, but she did not atall relish the idea of losing her

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	147
South American trade. She was growing rich on this, commerce, and she well knew. that if Spain once;reduced these states-to their former dependency, her shipping interests, as far as the Spanish American states were concerned, would go to pieces. It was then that she began to make overtures to the United States to see what could be done to prevent the interference of the “ Holy Alliance” in behalf of Spain.
Canning was then Prime Minister of England, and he resolved not to let the English maritime commerce suffer so severe'a shock, if any act of his could prevent it. He opened negotiations with our minister at the English court, Mr. .Rush, suggesting that Great Britain and the United ‘States join hands in an effort to prevent the intervention of the “ Holy Alliance ” in the affairs of the Spanish American states.. Rush" sent the correspondence to President Monroe, and he, before coming to a final decision, presented it to Jefferson and Madison for their consideration. Both were favorably impressed with the scheme and so wrote Monroe. After fully debating the subject in the cabinet, • as John C. Calhoun tells us, Monroe finally incorporated his doctrine in his message to Congress in 1823. To John Quincy Adams has generally been ascribed the credit of writing this instrument; but, after all, we must admit that it was at the suggestion and instance of an Englishman that this doctrine was proclaimed. It can, however, hardly be supposed that Canning ever dreamed that his idea would be stretched to cover the ground that it does. He simply wished to have our help in keeping the “ Holy Alliance” out. of Spanish America; we were willing to give it; we are just as willing, to-day, to do the same thing for England.
This, in brief, is a history of the Monroe Doctrine. Let us see how it was understood by the men who- helped formulate it, and how it has been applied since 1823. Was it meant that we should, at all hazards, insist, on a strict enf,or(ceijient oLthis principle,-and that it should cover-every ;mode, by which the monarchical1 countries of Europe might endeavor Ao extend, their system in the.New World?. Were.we.to assume a sort of protectorate over-our weaker, brethren of this continent to defend them at all times against the enchroachments of European, nations? ■
. The testimony of John Quincy Adams, Monroe’s Secretary of State, on this point, .is interesting. . On Dec. 26, 1825, Adams announced, in a message to Congress, that the Spanish American States were about to hold a conven-
tion on. the Isthmus of Panama, and that the ' United States had been invited to send , dele- " gates to it. In speaking of the object of. this . conference he said: “An agreement- between . the parties represented at the meeting, that each :will guard, by its own means,against the " . establishment of any future European colony , within its borders, may be found advisable,	- ■
This was more than two years since announced by my predecessor to the world as a principle resulting from the emancipation of both American continents.” Each country was to guard against this evil by its own means; he did not ' intimate that the United States should make it their business to see that this was never done . . under any circumstances.	.	r
; Webster, in a speech on the Panama mission, April 14, 1826, endorsed the Monroe Doctrine, and eulogized those by whose help it had been adopted. He, however, was very evidently not.	.
in favor of our armed-interference in behalf of our sister, states in .every case. He looked upon ;. the doctrine as a policy of self-preservation, and just as the danger to us resulting from any actions on the part of European nations decreased, so	7
would, our resistance to these acts decrease. He	. .
says that if, any army were sent against Chili or Buenos Ayres, we might content ourselves . . with a remonstrance; but if armed men should be “ landed on the shores of the Gulf of Mexico, .	- ;
and should commence the war in our immediate	•.
neighborhood,” it would be a different case. •	’
“ Such an event might justly be regarded as dan- . •• gerous to ourselves, and, on that ground, call . .	, .
for decided and immediate interference by us.”	\
. John C. Calhoun, Monroe’s Secretary of State, in a speech before the United States Senate, in,	.
1848, gave a lengthy exposition of the history	..
and meaning of the Monroe Doctrine. In . . 77 regard to efforts to be used by the United . ,; . States in preventing the encroachment of the . J European powers, he said: “ Whether you will'	.77
resist it or not, and the measure, of your resist- 7. ance—whether it shall be by. negotiation, . I remonstrance, or. some intermediate measure, '	. 7
or by a resort to arms—all this must be deter- 7 . •. mined and decided on the merits of the question , itself. This is the only wise;course. We'are 7777 not to have quoted, on us, on . every occasion, '	j;7
general declarations to which any and every •	.
meaning may be attached. There are cases ; 7-7.7.7-of interposition when-1 would resort to the 77'7 hazard of war with all its calamities.”	.	7
These are the opinions of a few of. our lead- A -<’7. Ry ing statesmen, on this question. Now, how has. R R 77.R the, Monroe Doctrine, been applied? ; In 1848 . . t \
-	'	.	.•	7;R. .RRRRj
148
iVOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Yucatan was offering itself to the United States, to England and to Spain; the'President recommended to Congress the establishment of a temporary military protectorate in that country to prevent its falling into the hands of either England or Spain, but Congress refused to act according to Polk’s advice. We all know the history of the Clayton-Bulwer treaty, -and how * the provisions of the Monroe Doctrine were disregarded in that instrument. When Maximilian entered Mexico;the United States was in a sad condition indeed, cut in twain by its own internal dissensions. Yet, notice was promptly given to France that we would not allow this unwarranted inteference in the affairs of our sister state. It is true, we had to temporize with France; but when our civil war was ended active preparations were made to oust Maxi-, milian. We all know how his sad end rendered further action on the'part of the United States unnecessary. The later questions, which have arisen under the Monroe Doctrine, are still too fresh in the public mind to require comment here.	'
Europe makes a mistake, as she will discover, when she imagines that the Monroe Doctrine is simply a paper declaration, nothing more. It is true that it has never obtained express sanction by any act' of Congress, but it is a principle dear to every American heart. The American people demand that it shall be enforced, and’ our legislators must pay heed to the wishes of the people. In what manner. it shall be . enforced, as John C. Calhoun has said, must depend upon the gravity of the case; but a surrender” wilLnever be tolerated for a moment. This is as active a principle to-day as it was when declared by Monroe in 1823, andjt will always live in the hearts of the people. For seventy-two years we have upheld this,- doc. trine;-and while the United States has money to buy a musket or a .hand to aim it, she will maintain her stand in the face of the world. '>
My Last. Duchess.”
picture ofhis dast wife. He: draws aside .the curtains which'cdncealsut;and} quite unmoved
JBfowning lias;, been- accused; of ydbscuri^	by ^recollections, places a-chair forhis com-
Weyread one of Eisjpoenis/and because w panion. pointsfout the, heauty of the vvork friot at once grasp his meaning;-we' jmpatiently - before him.y ^	upjno pleasant.
EhutftheEobk and rail ht what.weEallE	memories’Tor himhe views itmerely?as a work.
YubtHsK.ycTd’be sure;heT^	- otyart; f thdfprpductr offas p.ainte	and
us dt faify to ty	he;is obscure-thro^^^ ? colptyr^JEy	nameri seems, f rpm, :
. JAMES BARRY1- 97.
His subjects, for the most part, have to do with abstractions and fleeting psychological phenomena, which, from their very nature, elude direct, outspoken language. He tries to dress his thoughts in fabrics of substantial texture; but they will endure no such restraint, and prefer a gauzy, dreamy; garb. Let us study his work as we would study a picture, and examine the result. The outlines become more pronounced; the features assume a reality hidden before, and in the end the figure stands unfolded. The dream proves to be not “half a dream.” Even “ My Last Duchess,” one. of the clearest of his poems, has not escaped the rod, although most of the critics bear witness to its beauty.
This poem is a’ marvel of condensation;.every word of it is laden with meaning. It is clear beyond doubt; simple beyond complaint. It is. subtle, too, and delicate. The tragedy it-suggests calls up the strongest feelings of sorrow and indignation,—sorrow for the unhappiness and death of that lovely woman and indignation against the monster who was her husband. Besides the quality of density—if I may use the term to describe the style of “ My Last Duchess”—there are in the poem a hundred suggestions, if the reader will, only look for them. It is a life-drama complete in itself, and its two characters could not be better presented. It is not overstepping the truth to say that there is more between the lines than in the lines themselves. Another poet would fill a. goodsized octavo with a description of such a tragedy as Browning. suggests, and still not make the impression which the latter gives us bf the Duchess’ life and death; With a few stroke's he draws out- the. lovely character of the woman and the villainy of her husband.
The poem is intelligible throughout, but it requires; several readings. to make the sense clear. Such, at least; has been my experience.. The Duke,'.with his. nirie-hundred-year old name, of . which Tie is: as proud as if it owed to him the lustre of all preceding,generations, is entertaining some J friends’ and takes, one of. them—before ; dinner, ! presume—to see the treasures of'his;house. He. comes to a certain room, dm whose wall is ^painted a life-like ;
St

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
149
the manner in which he emphasizes it, to be of greater Jnterest to him than the picture.
His coldness is admirably presented here. While we admire his judgment of art, we can not help feeling hatred for his shallowness. It requires a master-hand to paint that trait of a man’s character; but when we discover that there is absolutely no mention of the coldness in the Duke’s heart,’Our admiration for the poet is the more intense.
. The Duke goes on to explain the cause of that “ spot of joy” upon the Duchess’cheek. He says that it was not for him; perhaps it came there because the painter-monk, by some little courtesy, called it up. Here is the key to the lady’s character. She was gentle and affectionate, and to everyone that passed she. gave a smile. She was a delicate, sensitive woman, pining .for love, but formed in so entirely different a mold from her old spouse that she found nothing congenial in his nature. He was incapable of- appreciating her, and too heartless to understand her fine feelings. She was young and fresh, he, old and crabbed;
she was gentle, he was severe; she was a woman, he was not a man.
Her virtues provoked the jealousy of the Duke; for he could win from her no sweeter smile than that which she bestowed upon the meanest of her servants. He would have confided her smiles to one object,—himself; and because she could . not help being kind, he became furious. He blamed her for being “too easily impressed.” She thanked men as if she considered their little kindnesses equal to the gift of her husband’s, anpierit name. Thus she aroused^ his jealousy, and was brutally com-marided to desist. I consider these lines to be as-terse as any in literature:
.	. “Oh! sir, she smiled, no doubt,
Whene’er I passed her; but who passed without Much the same srhile? This grew; I gave commands; Then all smiles ceased together.” ...	.
He gOes on to say with as little .concern* as lies the art of the poet. The verse, though;' though the picture in front of him were that of occasionally harsh, is often almost perfect. The ’ one of his .greyhounds: “There she stands as if cadences are unusually harmonious for Brown- . alive.” ’	. .■ L ~. T ing, and the ccesuras are well placed. The first .
Idaresayhe said this with a suppressed yawn, four lines afford a good example:	.
WRen. we come thus far in the story we begin
to; wonder, why the. envoy did not knock, him . down,-though, it were in his own? house; • Did
riot the'lovely face of that flower-like . woman One who reads "Browning must give his whole and . the thought of ; her - martyrdom; suggest attention to the task, for he is learned and anything like . physical force to the Count’s difficult^ T shpuM say that Longfellow is the. . ambassador? ; I j presume . that - it -. would2 have ’direct opposite of , BfowriihgL' In “ My . Las t been against his interests in the?negotiation 7 Duchess” iFis;not so- much}obscurity as it is
then pending to have given vent to his feelings, . if any feelings were aroused.	- ..	' .
The Duke, is very .polite, though, for he says to his friend: “ Will’t please you rise? •
As they go down the stairs he assures his companion that he will find no difficulty in securing a large dowry from the Count with the hand of his daughter. So he intends to make . his “last Duchess” not the last, and he mentions his purpose in such a cold-blooded and. self-confident manner that he makes our blood boil, even though we have no right to take an . interest in his business. I take his preparations ; for the approaching marriage to represent, his character more clearly than even the murder of ; his wife. I have no doubt that his stern commands killed her; for, when such a woman . ceases to smile, her end is at hand.	.
There is great art in the poem. For instance, the Duke is an unconscious witness against himself. He can no more speak without betraying his character than could the Duchess live without shedding the warmth and brightness of her soul upon all around.’ The sun ilium-inates and warms the world by his rays, thaws ;
■ out the' icy coldpess, and invites verdure and flowers and foliage upon the earth. Woman, ’ too, brings out all that is good and noble in man; but, sometimes, like the Duke’s heai;t, the soil is barren, and fails to respond to the beams showered upon it. There is no introduction, to the poem, no key with which to enter, arid yet how easy it is to understand. The whole tragedy • is strongly impressed upon the mind without a word of explanation. Ideas are suggestedjat / every word—ideas which go to fill out the com- . pleteness of the poem.	-	.
That “ My Last.Duchess ” is poetry is beyond a doubt. It touches the affections and fires the iriiagination with anger and pity. . It openly points out no moral; -but who does not feel the -iniquity of the Duke? The moral is surely < there, though hidden; sb ingeniously. - Herein .

“That’s my last Duchess painted on the wall, Looking as if she were alive. I call	.
That piece a wonder;, now, Fra Pandolf’s hands Worked busily a day, arid there she stands.”



I5O
NOTRE DAME' SCHOLASTIC.
difficulty that oppi'esses the reader. It is this which has prevented Browning from becoming popular. His meaning is clear, but hidden so deeply that only a careful search can bring it to light. This very act of discovery makes file poem all the more pleasing, just as the finding of the correct word pleases a writer after a long search. I am sure that had Browning written this sketch in such a style as would clearly present every detail to the reader without putting him to the inconvenience of thinking, he could not have produced an effect so strong and lasting, but would have lost the wonder of his art.
Varsity Verse.?	.
_	‘ OUR GREATEST GIFT. ’
F70R Notre Dame in days of-old.	;
P la When through the forest, uncontrolled .
The red-man roamed, and wild wolves bayed A band of workers tried and staid,
With iron wills and spirits bold, Spent years of toil in snows and cold, • Their trust in God, the while they .prayed,
For Notre Dame.	- .
■ Oh! let their names be now enrolled On history’s page, in honor’s fold.
Their labors have been well repaid, For Heaven sent them bounteous aid
And blessings for the Blue and Gold— For Notre Dame.
J. R. P.
NOT ON THE LIST.
I have been asked to write a verse, But really I’m no poet,
So I’ll be frank and tell you, for My verse would surely show it.
I
And if you will excuse me now, Perhaps it won’t be long,
Before my muse will teach me how	'
To write a clever song.
’	P. J. R.
OUR COLORS.
The Gold and Blue! the Gold and Blue!
That waves above the football field, Where knights contest the tourney through ■
Without a helmet or a shield;
Where steady brain and ready heart
Are truest tests of every knight, '	.	'
And bone and muscle play the part .
Of lance and broadsword in the fight. .
..	. P. W. B.
THE LONE “SHORTY.”
.His face told a story . In scarlet and black.
Of a battle-field gory— .
= .His face told a story,— ’
Where his team rushed to glory, " But liever came back. .	;
His face told a story	.
In scarlet and black.. W. P. B. ’
By the Biver.
M. JAMES NEY, ’97.
“Jax, I have never seen the 'mountains’ look	।
lovelier than they do this evening. I wish we	|
could get ‘30,’ that we'might take the moonlight | excursion through the canon’'to Boulder.” The * speaker was Joe Hutchinson, familiarly known I as Hutch, and he addressed these words to the I telegraph editor, Jackson, locally known as “Jax.”
The young men were sitting in the editorial ’ room of a Denver daily, from which they commanded an excellent view of the distant moun- : tains and the sleeping city. On the desk before Hutch was the nickel-plated sounder clicking off the events of the day at a terrific rate, and Hutch’s movements in writing them down were equally terrific. Before Jax was a large pile of abbreviated press reports which he was making ready for the type-setters on the morning edition. Occasionally Hutch would have a few minutes in which to light his cigar, and then
. far-off Omaha would give that signal “Wap,” which raises all press-men from the'ir slumbers like an electric shock. The literal meaning of j “Wap” is Western Associated Press, and it is	]
almost an unpardonable offence not to be on	j
hand to answer when “ Wap ” is called.	i
Of all the signals that came over that wire the i most delightful to Hutch and Jax was that magic ; number “ 30,” which is well known by all press- j men and telegraph editors to mean: “The end; j good-night.” It comes sometimes at midnight, i frequently at two o’clock, but oftener much later	1
in the morning. Then, if Jax were behind on	!
his reports, Hutch would help him to finish, and together they would saunter down to the “Silver Bar” for their midnight lunch.
But their nocturnal wanderings seldom ended after lunch: no, indeed; morning more often found them playing poker at “ Manhattan BeSch” than abed in their rooms at the Windsor. It mattered little, however, to Hutch and Jax whether they made hay or sowed wild oafs, the harvest at the end of the month was always the same, and their bank accounts never perceptibly . increased. .	_ .
A year and a half of late hours, together with midnight draughts of ardent spirits, began to work mischief on Hutch’s young constitution.
: At the earnest entreaty of his friends, he ; decided to leave Denyer for a time, and go to the mountains. Being a first-class operator he
NOTRE .DAME SCHOLASTIC.
soon secured employment on a mining railroad as agent at Anita.
Tax laughed at the idea of Hutch’s leaving Denver and gding into the mountains as a o o
railroad agent. “You might as well,” said he to the managing editor, “ expect a fish to live out of . water, as expect Hutch to remain long from Denver. But I do.hppe he will stay away for awhile; he n,eeds a rest, and the mountain air will do him a world of good.”
With difficulty Hutch tore himself away from his Denver moorings. His first night at Anita gave anything but an encouraging forecast of the future. The town consisted of seven buildings:—two stores, two railroad section houses, a coal shed, a blacksmith’s shop, and the station house. Hutch was occupied during the .day in being “ checked into ” the mysteries of railroading, and when night came he began to look for living accommodations. There was .no hotel at Anita, and the only place at which board could be had was the section house, a dilapid xted affair with an antediluvian roof and a broken chimney.
Hutch’s rap was responded to by a tall, powerful woman who was smoking a clay pipe. She had scarcely opened the door when out bounded a ferocious bull-dog, but Hutch saw ,him in time to jump .on top of an ash barrel that, stood near .by, and from .that vantage ground began to explain his mission to the masculine mistress of the section house.
“You see,” said Hutch, when he had caught his breath, “ I am the new railroad agent, and I came to see about boarding here.”
“But come off the barrel; this dog won’t bite,” said the woman with a hearty laugh. But a Mexican who sat smoking beneath a tree a few feet away said: “That dog won’t do a thing to you if you come off that barrel, young fellow.”
“Will he bite?” said Hutch.
. “.You know it! ” replied .the Mexican shaking with ..laughter, and Hutch believing, that the Mexican knew enough of American slang to be intelligible, remained on the ash barrel. .
“Getaway from here., Cerberus,you blinkety blank—x y z! ” said the woman, hurling a chunk of coal at the dog. Cerberus sneaked away, and Hutch was shown into the house.
. “Another diamond in disguise,” thought Hutch, as he contrasted the bright interior of the dwelling with the outside. What was true of. the. house was true also of its mistress, Mrs.~ Barclay, the section foreman’s wife. She -smoked a pipe and used bad English; but she had
x5r
a kind heart and a gentle nature, and never .did a beggar go hungry from her door. To. Hutch the environments of Anita were anything but congenial.. His duties in the office were scarcely heavy enough to keep him from being lonesome, and longing for Denver,.Jax and the “ SilveCBar ”; but he had brought his bicycle with him intending to take plenty of recreation. To the east of Anita was a range of snowcapped mountains, so high that the sun never rose before nine o’clock. East of the station stretched a broad road made smooth by the wide-tired wheels of ore wagons. '
On Hutch’s first trip through the canon he stopped at a ranch about two miles from town to get a drink of water. The house was massive and stately, and he learned from one of the laborers in the field that Don Josef Palma, the wealthiest Mexican in that section, lived there. The lawns about the residence were things of beauty, and luxuriant flower-beds stretched the entire length of the walks on each side. Hutch left his wheel at the gate, and walked up to the pump near the eastern end of the piazza. But there was no cup at the well, and Hutch turning toward the house saw a girl of about eighteen summers reading in a hammock behind the vine-covered lattice-work of the portico. “By Jove,” said .he to himself, “here’s another Rebecca at the well!” She rose when she saw Hutch and came to the railing. She was a typical Mexican girl, with dark liquid eyes, and long black hair. “ Your pardon, please. May I have a cup? ” said Hutch, in Spanish, as he took off his hat. The girl smiled, made a slight courtesy and said very sweetly, “ Si, Senor.”
In a few moments she brought Hutch a cup. He thanked her, took a drink, got on his wheel, and soon disappeared in the canon. That night he dreamed about the sweet girl he had met, . and resolved to make her acquaintance. This resolution he fully carried out, for before month he was passing the long evenings with Don Palma and his charming daughter, Loreto Hutch’s life became brighter. Loreto seemed like a lovely star that shed her radiance over his gloomy existence in .the. mountains. But Hutch had a dangerous’rival in Loreto’s affection. He was Jago Perilazo, a young Mexican herdsman whose estate" joined that of Don Palma’s, and who was held in great favor by ,Loreto’s father. The venerable Don hoped some day to join his vast farm with'that of Perilazo, by the rnarriage of his.daughter to the young ranchman. But his great love for his only child would, not allow him to be arbitrary
SCHOLASTIC.
NOTRE DAME
with her on so personal a matter. Loreto’s affection for Hutch grew daily. Perilazo, who was naturally jealous, made threats against , his American rival, and said he would challenge him to single combat on first sight.
It was half-past nine on a beautiful-August evening; the twilight had just faded from the valley, and the moon hung, a lovely crescent, above the craggy top of Mount Katherina, filling the deep canon with a sort of dusky splendor. Loreto and Hutch were taking a stroll besi'de the little creek that sang a thousand ditties as it dashed on over its bed of pebbles. Not far away it fell over a rocky precipice and mingled with the Rio Grande River. Hutch was pushing his bicycle with his left hand, while with his right he held Loreto’s hand. ' The rippling of the stream drowned the footfalls of an approaching horseman, neither saw him until very close, when the - animal shied at Hutch’s bicycle, throwing his rider heavily to the ground—it was Perilazo.
“I Beg your pardon,” said Hutch, stepping toward him. “We did not see you; are you hurt?”
“ I am. not so small as to be 'invisible,” retorted Perilazo in the gruffest Spanish. As he arose he flourished a dagger, and sprang at Hutch; but just as his hand was descending Loreto shrieked: "O mi muchacho!” threw herself between the two men, and received the blow aimed at Hutch. She fell to the ground apparently lifeless; the two men grappled with each other, and a dreadful fight ensued, in which Hutch, wrested the poniard from the savage Mexican, and utterly vanquished him; and, like Bunyan’s pilgrim, he saw him no more. . When Hutch carried Loreto home, summoned the physician and had her wounds, which nearly proved fatal, attended; her devotion to him was stronger than ever, and their mutual glances ;bespoke an attachment that could not be severed this side the grave: But Loreto’s father has long since passed away, and when the traveller in those parts asks who lives in thatjsplendid residence among the hills he is told “Mr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Hutchinson.”
The Vision of Sir Percival—A Paraphrase.
T. B. REILLY, ’97.
’ ; . ... IF THE HORSE DOESN’T STUMBLE. . . ... .
Moto-cyclesmay.beal I right ... ?	. . A
.. .. . For. others; butl'say ,	; . :	.
' . . That in a	' '
; y The:“hdrses” wilLw
The story of the quest of the Holy Grail is simple and full of interest. The poet sang his sweetest lay when, with master-touch, he put in verse the ancient legend. The tale is told by Sir Percival to a fellow-monk, Ambrosius, on an April morning. The narrator and his listener sat beneath the old yew-tree in the abbey yard, far from the noise of tournament and list. A mutual love was theirs. Scenes of another life at times arose before them, and in the fulness of his heart each told a wondrous story. And this was Percival’s:
“ I was once a knight in Arthur’s hall’, and at his table often did I sit. There our king with . all his knights sat and feasted. A mighty home it was, built by Merlin long ago,	.
“‘For all the sacred mount of«-Camelot . And all the dim rich city, roof by roof, Tower after tower, spire beyond spire, - By grove and garden-lawn and rushing brook, Climbs to the mighty hall that Merlin built.’
“There did I dwell and feast with him who called me Pure. Mine was a happy life, until there came the Vision of the Cup. I thought it best to give, my strength. to spiritual things. The shouts of victory no longer stirred my heart. The praise of those who watched me, in the jousts, lay low some haughty foe, had lost its. sweetness. I sought the Holy Grail, yet knew not where to seek. I did but know that at the last sad supper, our dear Lord drank from its golden lips, and that Joseph of Arimathaea had brought it to .Glastonbury. I knew to look upon it and have faith would cure men of their ills.. When the world grew bad it disappeared. And then if came to pass that a holy nun, who . prayed and fasted much, saw the sacred Thing; she was my sister. L went to her and. heard the, wondrous tale. How, at dead of night, she woke and heard the sound ‘ of a silver, horn from o’er the hills.’ How there came a strain of music as from angel-land, and through her cell : a ‘beam of silver light,’ in sparkles broke upon the wall, while down the beam the ‘ Vision stole/ \ i“ She bade me pray and fast arid tell my brothers likewise, that we might; see ‘ rind all the world be healed.’ Thus did we fast rind pray, and on a sumirier night there came the Vision . in our hall, with glory so wonderful that none . could look upon it. And We swore a vow. to .
\	J* -<,•*'-.^,1. -r* ‘	Tr' ■ <	5	"
.... '
NOTRE DAME
ride a twelvemonth and a day that we might see the Cup as had my sister done.
“We told our vows to Arthur, and his heart -grew sad as from his table we went forth'upon ’our quest? ‘Many of you,’yea, most of you, return no more; for you follow wandering fires.’ This was our parting. ‘I was lifted up in heart, and thought of- all my late-shown prowess in the lists.-’ How oft I had beaten down the lance of him who braved my arm. ‘Many and famous’ were their names. The heavens never seemed so fair, the earth so green. My blood danced within me and I knew that I should light upon the Holy Grail.’ . .
“When I thought of Arthur’s warning and before me rose my sins, so hideous that I felt the . quest was not for me. Qn I went, and with me, as a‘driving gloom,’ ‘every evil thought and word and deed that stained my past life. The vision passed, and looking up, ‘I found myself alone’; all around was sand and thorns, and a great thirst was upon me. Fancy put before me running streams, and orchards where the ripe fruit lay upon the ground, and there I stopped to drink and eat, when, lo! ‘all these things fell into dust, and I was left alone.’ I wandered on. past pleasant scenes, but all I saw fell into dust. On I went, and in a‘lowly vale,’ came upon a chapel and a hermitage. I told the hermit of my phantoms, and he said: ‘ 0 son, thou hast not true humility,’ and when he finished the chapel door flew open, and Sir Galahad, in silver armor, shone before us.
“ There we prayed, and the hermit slaked my thirst, before the Mass began. The solemn moment of the change had come. I saw naught but the ‘ holy elements,’ while Galahad saw the Grail, and said: ‘ Far in a spiritual city one will crown me King,’ and when I go thou shalt see ” the vision.’ At close of day we went, and soon ‘ before.us rose a ‘hill that.none but men could climb.’ A storm was at its top, and lightnings played around us; here and there, and awoke the fire in many trunks that lay about us. Atits base we found a 'great - black swamp,’ partly-filled with the rotting bones of men. No way * to cross- except by the bridge, built on a =thou-sand piers. But Galahad fled along them,; and as he left each bridge, it sprang into fire arid vanished. :	~	J
“I saw;him like a silver star far off, and. Over his/head hung the object of my quest. ; Beyond .the star I saw-the city, ‘all her. spires and’;gateways in a-glory..like one pearl,’ and from the star there shot a rose-red sparkle to the? city/ arid, there dwelt; and F knew it was/
SCHOLASTIC.	153
the Holy Grail.’.I watched it.till the floods cf - . Heaven pouring-down shut.th.e:vision’ from;my . view. Of how I recrossed the ridge, I have no memory. I know I reached the chapel doors at morn, and thence returned to Arthur’s gate.
On to the. hall I went, and there.sat Arthur on	-
his throne, while around him stood but a few of:. those bold knights that took the vow. A hailbf : gladness came from, his lips, and then he asked: ‘ Hast thou seen the Cup?’ And when I told 1 him all, he answered not, but asked the rest in turn, and said: ‘And spake I not too truly, O my knights, when I said that most of you would follow wandering fires? Lost in the ... quagmire!—lost to me and gone. Many times will visions come, until: the earth, seems not earth, the air not air, but vision. So spoke the king. I knew not all he meant.” o	.	,	. -	.
Book Notes.
Cicero De Senectute. Edited by E. S. \	—
Shuckburgh, M. A. Revised by James C.Eghbert, Ph.D.; . .. . - J MacMillan & Co. New York.	.	-	\	”
This edition of “ De Senectute” deserves spe- ;	/
cial mention. Prof. Egbert, has made use of. a \	:
goodedition, has removed what might be objec- , tionable, and shown excellent judgment in the ? ; ? ?"4 selection of notes. The analysis prefixed to ■ the whole treatise and the resume at the head . : . L ' ; of each chapter are a welcome feature. The .	-
notes are grammatical, historical, critical, philological, and replete with interesting details.
The mistake which is made on page 102, where ,.'	y?/
a spondee, occurs in illustrating the last foot of an iambic senarius, is, possibly,a mistake of the printer, as on page 90, the rule regarding this ~ particular foot is laid down correctly, and sat esL is an imabus. This edition ought to be introduced - "... into, every school and college, and*.it should serve as a model for future: editions of other . f / classic writers. / -	-	-	'	.	-?•" y r.;; ; -
.	'	•	-	' ■	'	>	- "	-	-	"• tv
.	'.	*'	, *	■ ’	'	- -	. ’	~	'	-	-. ■ ;	n
Parvum Missale. Benziger Bros. .New:York. :•
The Parvum Missale, is a complete.; Missal? . - ’EE- W The book is the size of an ordinary prayer- ? X. book,and it is well-bound;.- The type is'perr • fectly clear. There is no-better way to assist;
at Mass than.to unite with the priest, and say. the same prayers that/he says, if :it <cari be done. Therefore, no more appropriate: prayer?/ book could be placed in the,harids/oLstudents/ and all other persons that understand;/Latin than the Missale. Price $i.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i54
Notre Dame, November'!), 1895/	"
■	i. ■-	,	'■ L,
Publtsijrt) rfarrn Satuf&an burins IE erm Ehnc at'll. D? Elntifl-rstln.
Entered as second c'ass matterat the Post Office. Notre'Dame, aid.
Terms, $r so per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: . EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, .
Notre Dame, Ind.'
Dr. Zahm’s Work Recognizsd. by the Vatican-
The Roman correspondence., of Le-Patriots, Brussels, Belgium, contains the following item of interest to our readers -	. --. - • j „
“The Pope has ordered to be translated a^very remarkable article in the American Revue d ■ Deux blondes— The North American Review—on the democratic movement and the Papacy. The author, Dr. Zahm,, is a friend of the Pope and of Cardinal Rampplla, who have for him the highest esteem. Leo XIII. .has; been: specially well ■ pleased with this study,-which shows'that..the educated Protestant world professes the. deepest..sympathy for his social ideas. This article, which refers also to the Belgium democratic school, is conceived in accordance with the ideas defended by Le Patriote''	' .
The French journals, from the Figaro down, and the Italian papers, have .been profuse in their commendations; many of them, L Univers, of Paris, among others, reproducing the article almost in its entirety in addition to calling special attention to it editorially. A writer in one of the Parisian journals declares that “ never before has an article in an American review been so universally praised.” . .
—The < Hon.yWilliam.'.P. Breen, ’77, whose oration/*.‘‘ Our Alma Mater,” ;was ;orie - of; the most delightful features of the Jubilee celebra-, tion, spent a few; hours htjthe University on'All Saints’: Day.. Mr.*."Breen is a Type. of>“Notre Dame men ” whom we .would: wish: to see multiplied many times:/Successful., lawyers who are gentlemen and scholars are’none too numerous, and Notre Dame* takes especial -pride in. Mr. -Breen’s record as - lawyer,: judge,-and: citizen. And, with all his cares, his heart -is-as young, his interest in Notre Dame and her welfare, in class-room and on campus/is as:great..as.when
he himself wore the Gold and Blue. He never loses an opportunity of encouraging student athletics; and more than once checks from his bank-book have saved the Boat-Club front all ■but insolvency. He is a. representative college man, a true and loyal son. of our A Inta Matter, and-if there . is a>warm spot .for. him in the student-heart, .he well, deserves it.
* —Miss Eliza Allen Starr is, perhaps, the best known of our Catholic lecturers on art. She is an enthusiast, and if. there is anything which appeals to the hearts of young men, it is enthusiasm. In the lecture which she read before the students on Monday last, she took for her theme the beauties of the glorious tower which Giotto raised in the city on the banks of the Arno, “ the lily of Florence blossoming in stone.” Not content with word-pictures, Miss Starr illustrated her lecture with a half-hundred large photographs of details of the tower. We regret that we were unable to take any but the briefest notes of the lecture, and, as Miss Starr is soon to bring out a volume of lectures and essays, it would be unjustyto publish them.-The lecture was - delightful, and Miss Starr achieved an unqualified success.
.. —When the Business Manager announced that the Scholastic was to have a new set of types, we .chuckled a bit at thought of the defective . ‘ e’s and “m’s” that, would torment us no more; but when we saw the unfeeling “typos” who handle the Scholastic “sticks,” dump case after case of italics arid small “caps ” into the waiting boxes, the pathos of the scene, was too much for editorial reserve. After all, it is a solemn thing—this discarding of a worn-out garment which has done faithful service for generations—editorial generations—and we listened, unconsciously, for the slow music which should, have_ .been its accompaniment/. Poor old.types! dear , battered mutes and liquids,.
. consonants and vowels, it' was by your kindly aid that we made our first awakward bows To the world, arid stammered our first halting sentences. We’ love you 'for your-very griminess; you grew dull and sad, that our words might live and burn.' .What your fate will be, no one. can guess. You may be doomed, after your transformation,, to wear out your lives. and your remodelled faces bn sorrie cross-roads daily; of, worse still, be cast in “art” molds, and used to publish the peculiar merits of a new brand of rubber-boots. You were, good and - faithful servants,—may your.riew masters be as loving as were ..we! ; .

S3
HOTRE^DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, 18;—Illinois Cycling Club, 2. ;
Tofootball enthusiasts at Notre Dame, Thursday’s game was full of significance. It revealed theTact that our Varsity this season will be the strongest the University has ever produced. Every man played for all that was in him, and it would be impossible to pick out anyone as excelling the rest. Three features of our Varsity’s playing stand out most conspicuously: the interference, tackling and defensive work. The team has made such marked improvement in interference that it isz safe to predict the closest, kind of a game with Northwestern. Time and time again, the backs were guarded down the field for twenty, twenty-five and thirty yards. The men played with a snap and dash they have never shown previously, and before the visiting players so much as fingered the .ball; two touch-downs and goals had been made in rapid succession. Casey, Cavanagh, Kelly, McCarthy, Mullen and Murphy swept around the ends in a way that set the “ rooters ” wild with delight. Our opponents were simply helpless before that human snow-plow, and if the good work is kept up, Van Doozer and his champion cohorts will experience an unpleasant surprise in trying to pierce our interference.
The tackling was simply superb. Words cannot describe it. In nearly every tackle made, the runner was nailed in his tracks. It seemed as though a pack of demons had been let loose, for that is about the only way to describe it. Every man contributed his share. Murphy, Walsh and Mullen, however, showed up slightly the best, though Wheeler and McCarthy made two phenomenal tackles back of their opponents’ line. Goeke, too, saved a touch-down by bringing down Murphy after the latter’s great spurt of thirty yards. Twice in succession Murphy of Notre Dame dove through his opponents’ interference, and tackled the runner without any gain; and -a little later Mullen downed Diener in'a way that made the' latter wonder where he was..	*	.	.
Our. backs showed wonderful quickness, in getting off as soon as the ball was. snapped. Wheeler and Brown played the ends behind interference and also made long plunges through the line. Both men kept on their feet well and often went ten yards after being tackled. This is where Brown’s great strength lies, and he showed it every time he. was tackled. Goeke bucked the line in his old form, and even better. It is a-game.in itself to, watch him.. Just as
every one is expecting to hear “down!” his head and shoulders come struggling out of- the fallen mass, and.he is good for five yards more. In opening holes for the backs, Casey and Kelly worked together to a unit.. They, boxed the opposing tackles and guards every time they were called upon. Casey did excellent work in dragging along the runner after the latter had been tackled. Cavanagh and McCarthy also made great openings and did very creditable work. Walsh is, by all odds, the best quarter-back we ever had. During the entire game he made but one fumble, which was quite excusable, and such a record deserves the highest . praise. He is steady and quick in passing the ball, and interferes well. Rosenthal, at centre, clearly outclassed his opponent. Besides that, he and Cavanagh contributed greatly towards breaking up their opponents’ interference and blocking the runner.
’ It must be confessed, however, that our defen- • sive play was rather ragged. There is plenty .of room for improvement here, for which only the hardest kind of practice will suffice. Then, too, the men become winded too easily. In the second .half the Varsity was all. played out. Hard training will eliminate this fault. It must, be eliminated, if we expect to hold Northwestern down under twenty-four points.	.
If Gallagher, Palmer, Wensinger and Chase keep up the pace they have set the last week, some changes in the team will likely result. Gallagher is a new man, and is just beginning to understand the fine points of the gam^and his playing has risen fifty per cent, accordingly. Palmer has no superior at ground gaining,, but he has only begun to practice of late. At present he is giving the other backs a very close race for a place on the team, and it will be surprising if he does not make it. Chase at end, and Wen-singer at half are putting up a stiff quality of football, and have good chances for the team. Corby, too, is making his presence felt at right end and is a hard tackler. Gallagher-and Galen replaced- Rosenthal and Kelly, injured^a few minutes before the close of the second -half, and played their positions^well;' but the .time was too short to severely’-test' their .playing qualities. The game should be called at halfpast two instead of three, as it grows dark.too soon to permit of thirty-minute halves. .
For the Cycling Club, Smith. Murphy, Gross and Chisholm showed up the best. The whole team, however,, played well, and showed the effects of steady training, in offensive play. Their interference was their best groundgainer,
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
and it was worked constantly. But, like our Varsity, they were weak in defensive work.
The game was called at 3.15. . Cycling Club kicked off thirty yards to Mullen, who brought the ball back ten yards before he was tackled. Brown went around the left end, behind good interference, for fifteen yards. Goeke tried the centre for two. and Brbwii, assisted by Casey and Kelly, went through right tackle for fourteen yards. Wheeler went around the right end for five, and Brown circled the left for three. Goeke made fifteen yards through right tackle, while Wheeler and Casey advanced the ball four yards further. Murphy, and Brown made big gains around the ends, assisted by excellent interference. Wheeler made five more around the right end; and on the next play went through line for a touch-dowri. Casey kicked goal.' Time, 3% minutes. Score, . 6 to 0.
' Cycling Club kicked off thirty' yards, to Goeke, who. succeed in bringing the ball back ten yards. He then went through the centre for seven, and Brown added five more around the left end. Good interference brought •Wheeler thirteen yards around the right end, and Murphy took seven more through right tackle. Brown went through the same place for fifteen a moment later. Gains by Wheeler and Goeke and five yards for off-side play landed the ball on I. C. C’s thirty-five yard line. Notre Dame lost four yards on a fumble, but Goeke regained the lost territory through centre. Brown made successive gains through right tackle and around left end, while Casey advanced the ball fifteen yards between right tackle and guard. Brown, Wheeler and Casey advanced the ball ten yards more, and on the next play Brown was sent over the line for a
touch-down. Casey kicked goal. Time, 10
minutes. Score, 12 to 0.	■	-	- eight? Brown and Wheeler advance the ball
• Murphy kieked.out of-bounds twice, and the twelve more. Gains of five and fifteen yards ' ball went to Notre Dame. Casey first kicked by Brown follow.
out of bounds; but in a second trial kicked forty- four, and after Brown fails < to gain at centre, five yards: to Diener who returned eight.- The
. left end was thien fried with;no effect; bubon a
ffain. Diener then tried the right end with even worse results; for he was pushed back two yards by McCarthy and Wheeler, and the ball went to Notre Dame. Brown went through the.right tackle for thirteen, while Goeke and Wheeler found four more around the ends. Brown carried the ball twenty yards around the deft end, and Wheeler found twelve more through the line. Brown, Wheeler and Murphy added-twenty-eight yards more to gained terri- ' tory,.with the assistance of Cavanagh and McCarthy. Brown scored a touch-down, and Casey kicked goal. Time, 13 minutes. Score, 18 to o.
After a .’kick off-of thirty-five yards Goeke returned fifteen. Wheeler went around the right end: for twenty, the interference of Cavanagh, McCarthy and Murphy being particularly good. The ball_ was then pushed- steadily forward, gains of one, three, seven and two yards following in rapid succession. When time was called at the end of the first half, the .ball was on I. C. C’s forty-five yard line.
■	<	: ; SECOND HALF.	.
Casey kicks forty yards to Gross who returns fifteen. Cycling Club then tries the right tackle for four, but loses three on a fumble. The left end -is then tried for three, but in the next play the -same amount “ of territory is lost on an excellent tackle by Murphy. An off-side play by Notre Dame gives the cyclists five more. Good work by Rosenthal, Murphy and Brown prevent a gain around right end, but bn the left ninetyards are netted in two consecutive trials. Gross tries the right tackle for three, but can make no gain at left end, owing to McCarthy’s tackle. Murphy makes four, and a half on the criss-cross, but oh the next pass he fumbles the ball, which Walsh is not slow in capturing for Notre Dame. Brown goes around the left end for twenty-five, while Murphy tries the right for
K
5
Wheeler tries the centre for
Notre Dame gives up. the ball on:downs. Then Gross.tries right tackle with no gain, but Dwyer nets six around the right end. Gains of ten and two yards follow, and Murphy goes through right tackle for thirty yards. Gross tries the
second trial,'after a gain; of one yard through the centre, the ball was; carried twenty- yards, excellent, tackles by Walsh and Cavanagh preventing more groundTrom being gained by the left end for four;and gains of four and fourteen Cyclists. Gains of four, fifteen and five yards yards follow: through right tackle and five and ifoBowed-^the criss-cross, netting thre Gross one through left:’ Three yards are lost on a - gained fojir yards through t right *	. tackle? by-'Wheelerg but'^	regained
k ■ 'threeAhrou^^^	Murphy followed with = through left tackle; and five;and four in succes-
“ ; <	at left end was unsiic- sibri through right. Gross again advances two
7 ,	by Munen^preven^j^g yards; but the ball gobs to Notre Danie bn downs


NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC. •-
I57
two feet from her goal line. Galen replaces Kelly, and Rosenthal retires for Gallagher. Notre Dame snapped the ball,.but in the darkness it was fumbled, an’d a safety was scored. At this point the game was called on account of darkness, with the ball in Notre Dame’s possession on her twenty-five yard line.	'.
.	‘ THE LINE-UP.
Ill.-Cycling Club	"
Right End Right Tackle Right Guard
Centre
Left Guard Left Tackle Left End Quarter Back Right Half Left Half Eull Back
Chisholm Kinsley Jackson
Richardson
Waugh Hager Wood Smith
Gross Diener Murphy
Notre Dame -Mullen Kelly, Galen Casey Rosenthal Gallagher Cavanagh McCarthy Murphy
' Walsh • Wheeler
. Brown . Goeke
Umpire, Brennan. Referee, Bennett. Timers, Shiveley and Mott. Reporters. McDonough, Burns, and Slevin.
Exchanges.
The young ladies of St. Mary’s Academy are to be highly praised for their Chillies. ' A school paper is, we take it, a right standard whereby, to judge the care’ and efficiency with which instruction is given in a school. St. Mary’s Academy has reached a very high degree in both’ respects; for there are in the Chimes originality
in thought, logic in development, neatness and	_
strength in expression, in both prose and verse, class-man at the Military Academy.
of no ordinary degree for beginners. The poetical contributions, especially, show the solidity of older heads and the cunning of more practised hands. We read the Chimes over several times ■ to find room for attack, but the painful conviction is forced upon us that in journalism the * girl mind is equal. to the boy mind. Those among us young fellows who are to be the lions of the coming pen will have to meet lionesses ' who, it is to be feared, will be fully their equals.
It behooves us, then, to exert’to the utmost whatever is within us to keep for man that mastery which has been his during the centuries. Our rivals,'in :the opposite camp, will, in the
coming tussle, strive tooth and nail that they be not conquered. The Chimes before us is the first of the year. The freshness and vigor tQ Mfss Blanche Helena; Fugef, the accom-froni the holidays may account in some measure, plished daughter of Captairi and Mrs. Frederick -for its. all-around excellence. If;the succeeding	er.-of Washington, D.C. The marriage is to _
numbers do not show a falling off, our exchanges be solemnized on the evening of November, will haye. to look to their laurels.	, twentieth; in St Dominic’s Church, Washington.
...	.	The Scholastic, extends; its best wishes for a
’ ThecMountairieenhas two very.readable articles, long and . happy ■ married . life; to . the. gallant ; one in which1 .Dickens’.works are ably consid- lieutenant and-,his fair .bride. Many.of the bld ered; the other on the ?real. and ideal in litera- students .will .kinclly;remember.Mr.?Cusackfor; . ture. “Vita Brevis ” is a-touchingspoem with a 1iis 'efficient jserviceto the military, companies; noble, lesson., < ; .. . '	during the;time of. his;capt^incy in the eighties.
Personals.
—Mr. and Mrs John Kerwin, of St. Paul, Minn., are visiting their son, of Brownson hall.
—Mrs: Hawkins, of Indianapolis, paid a most • pleasant visit to her son Buchard during the week.	. •
—Miss Helen Hake; of Grand Rapids, Mich., visited her brothers, of Carroll hall, during the past week.
—Frank. W. Davis, Lit. (’95), a member of last year’s Staff, paid a short visit to the University last Monday.
—Mr. and Mrs. J. Koehler, of Chicago, spent a few days during the past week at the University visiting their son John, of Carroll hall.
—James M. Brady, B. S. (’92), is .a member of ...the firm of Jos. J. Brady & Co.., dealers in general merchandise, in Cedar Vale, Kansas.
—Edward J: Gainer, of Carroll hall, entertained his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Gainer, of Chicago, during the' early part of the week.
—Miss Mary Wagner, of Lafayette, Ind., a last year’s graduate of St. Mary’s Academy, spent Sunday with her brother Frank, of Brownson hall.	’
—In the examinations held recently at West Point, Pierce A. Murphy,C. £.(’92), stood among ■
the foremost in his class. Pierce is evidently sustaining the excellent record he made at. Notre Dame in years gone by. Last June he was- promoted to the rank of First Sergeant, the highest office within the reach of a junior
—Mr. James Cooney, M. A. (’88), who occu- . pies the responsible position of head BookKeeper in the manufacturing company of M. J:. Conney & Co., Toledo, visited his -numerous friends and Professors during the past .week. Though Mr. Cooney has been absent from college-some years, he has .lost none of the old- . time interest which characterized him here on ' the diamond and the gridiron. In the leisure. " moments given him from business he. has won in his native place much praise .in both, sports. / Mr. Cooney: glories in being called an. old Notre Dame boy.	.	.
—Invitations have been received to attend
the wedding of . Lieutenant Joseph Ei Cusack, B. S.tJ.’Sq). of they Fifth Cavalry; U;.S.'Army,
158
Notre dame schoeastic.
Local Items.
—The List of Excellence from St. Edward’s hall will be published in our next issue.
-=-A man in Brownson hall was asked to give an' example of an unpleasant occasion; he said: “When twelve husky fellows bump against one frail but ferocious chap, who is trying' to make a cigarette, the occasion is likely to prove unpleasant.
—The new barn is almost completed. It is a model—all the arrangements are perfect. The old sheds around it are being torn down and new ones are being built nearer the lake. • When the buildings are erected the ground will be graded, and Notre Dame will then have a model barn-yard.
—In the November issue of Donahoe's Magazine is an article captioned “ Athletics in Catholic. Colleges.” Three columns are devoted to Notre . Dame, and they give a brief .glance at the. athletic spirit which prevails here. There are two illustrations,’ one showing our boat-clubs preparing for a practice spin, and the other, Jewett ready for a start. Mr. Joseph A. Marmon, ’96, did the writing.
.	o	’
—Among the relics found in the church at Bertrand were altar-cards which were printed at Notre Dime in 1845. They comej probably, from the first printing-press established in Indiana and from the second in the West. The exact date of the founding of this press is not known. It was probably set up twelve • years after the first press in the West had been established by the pioneer priest of Michigan, Father Richard, in 1832.
—The Band will give a grand concert in Washington Hall next Wednesday afternoon. Thirty members will play. The rehearsals give promise of an excellent performance. Among the numbers on the programme - are several difficult pieces, never before attempted by a band at Notre Dame. The concert will be given ' for the benefit of the Athletic Association.-Tickets may be procured at the students’ office or from members of the Executive Committee.
— Now that the days are being chopped off by the nights ah effort should be made to begin football gameis before three o’clock. Too much time, is’wasted in getting the Varsity on the . field.- Preliminary practice should begin at two, and the teams should, dine up at. half-past two sharp. It is not right to have the visiting eleven waiting on -the.field while the Varsity, players . are arranging their hair?-It :was fifteen minutes past three before pur. men; appeared on the field1 last Thursday—and the game was sched-.
‘ uled for three o’clock sharp. ?	.
. —The Director of the Historical Museum
has received from Bro. Angelus a ring made. *_______.______________________________...___
from; the wood of the tree under which General against the team from St. Joseph’s hall. The Grant and General Lee held the conference game was hard fought. Several times the latter
which led to Lee’s surrender; from Mrs. Arthur Keeffe, of Naugatuck, Conn., specimens of hard tack, inclosed, in; glass,jiised ’ during the civil war, by Co. G., 17th Massachusetts Infantry; from Mrs. F. J. Heer and Miss N. A. Walsh, of Waterbury, Conn., a representation, of one hupdred dollars in United States gold coins, and a lot of rare coins and medals illustrating events that have taken place in the United States.	’	•
—The combined Lake Forest-Rush Medical eleven will play Notre Dame on Brownson
exciting. Rush was defeated here last fall by a score of 18 to o. We will, probably, meet Indiana University ‘ on the 20th, Northwestern on the 25th and Albion College on Thanksgiving Day. Nothing definite, however, has been arrived at in regard to these three games. And the reason? Simply because the manager entered upon his duties too late to arrange a schedule. If the members of the Athletic Association would do the sensible thing, let them select the Executive Committee for ’96-97 next May, and we can. then count on a coach and a definite schedule? This Committee, too, should be elected for one-year; this will give them a chance to arrange a series of baseball games for the spring. Now is the time to be thinking about the baseball schedule and the nine. Who is the captain? Whom will we; play? Seemingly, these are not the questions troubling the minds of the Association. What the members are seriously bothered about is the election of officers—will Jim and Bill and Joe be members of the Executive Committee? will' Josh be manager? etc. The time has come to stop such childishness and do some work.
—Football.—Varsity- is improving. There is a general limbering up and .quicker and better playing; but in “ tactics ” the men are wanting. However, they will soon be taught to play with, as well as against, their opponents, for Hadden, covered with the gore and glory of the East, is looked for to-day. He will be with us this time for the balance of-the season, if we can keep him. . He is sorely needed to coach? the interference and to teach trick plays. And the men must learn defensive work—last Thursday’s game showed that. -Palmer is doing well-, at half. "’.If he learns to start better-he.-willbe a tower Pf strength andTn'ay supplant Wheeler. The latter runs well, but he doesn’t play as hard as he should.-—There are? twenty-seven men at the training tables. Certainly there is no lack of material, and all' are eager for
the sport —The'Carrolls . defeated the ex-Gar-rolls oh Brownson campus on then st; the score , was 4 to o.—The following, games were played, on Carroll campus—A7, Carroll Antis 7/r. 2d ' eleven of St. Joseph’s hall; score,.6 to o in favor of the Antis; 3d, the Specials, lined up
NOTREVEAME SCHOLASTIC;
i59
were within a few yards .of their opponents1,' goal; but-.the plucky Carrolls* made a stout resistance, and held thc enemy at bay. The game.' was Miiarred’ 'by frequent -disputing and much talking of all sorts. Though the St. Joseph" men had a much'heavier team, the Carrolls were their superiors in general playing.' In’one-place was the Carroll line:particularly weak— Leonard was straw in the/hands-of his opponents. He should be replaced. The Carrolls claim the victory by two points—they claim a safety in the first half. Neither • side. scored more.—The Carroll third eleven worsted the Minims on the 1st and the 3d by scores pf 10 to 0 and 6-0. The Minims assert that the umpire had much to do in defeating. them.—jth on Carroll campus—Second eleven Special vs. 2d Anti-specials; score,0-0. Specials vs Antis,* o to 0. Third Carroll eleven vs. Minims; 6 to 0, one half. - f	■
.. :	DEPARTMENT NOTES.	. .
Art Class.—Frank O’Malley has finished a clever pen-and-ink drawing, entitled “.The" Present Hero.” It shows a football player dressed in canvas with long hair, standing on a pedestal. Around him are grouped admiring ' dames.and damsels, showering upon him languishing glances and the praise that-, melts even the hard hearts of football men. In the background and “over the fence” are seen a baseball player and a jockey. Their look is woe-begone, for nobody cares for them, now.. O’Malley has also on.- exhibition some clever imitations of Charles Dana :Gibson’s work. A faithful pen-and-ink portrait of Father Sorin is the work of R. Fox. * The same artist is engaged on a crayon study of a head. A.’Fcra has sent for acceptance to the Northwestern Horseman a design for a heading. A jury of award will decide its merit.
' Engineering.—The Engineering.class has run; a proposed line of railroad two miles long, containing half a dozen curves. Mr. Hotchkiss, the-local engineer of the Michigan-Central Road, o	o	7
paid the class a visit in the field a short time ago. He reviewed their work, and was very profuse in his compliments on the accuracy displayed by the young engineers. The work, interrupted during the past two weeks , by-unfavorable, weather, was taken up. last.,Thursr. day,by the levelling division.---When,-this-part:., is completed arid the notes worked.up, a profile.-of the line.will.be made,the cross sectioning^ done, and - earth-w.ork completed.. . Everything ’ will then be. ready for .the workmen.; A.rce.. and Delaney are engaged on a topographical drawing-of St.;Joseph’s Lake and. vicinity. :
English.—During the week Dr. O’Malley lectured to the Criticism Class on tone color in' English verse. On Wednesday he gave a-very interesting lecture on the modern painters, showing the relation between painting and poetry.—During the past week Dr. O’Malley lectured to the Class of Literature on the
Allegory. “On a Football Field” was announced as the subject of the. next essay.
SOCIETY NOTES.
... z V ;	■• *	•
Law DEBATiNG-T-CThe Law'Debating Society met on-Saturday evening, November 2,. Colonel William. H dynes presiding. After the proceed--ings of tfiq previous meeting and the critic’s report had been read. the. regular programme for the evening was in. order. On motion, the debate, which was to have taken place, was postponed until the next meeting, because of the illness of one, of the participants.’ The evening was therefore given over to readings1 and recitations. The' impromptu programme was opened by S. H. Frazer, who' delivered “Antony’s Farewell to Cleopatra”.in an able, manner. He was-followed by Messrs. Hennebry, Gaukler. and Murphy who read some humorous incidents of legal life.’ The work of the evening, although' a digression from, the regular routine: of business,', was,"nevertheless, -heartily, enjoyed by all. :	‘
. -Philqdemics<—T-fie •. /Philodemics met - last Wednesday ..eveningvaiad • carried ;out an especially interesting programme. Thomas Bailey Aldrich was the author of the evening. A . biography ofi. his life, was read by Mr. Paul Regan. That delightful story, “ Marjorie Daw,” cleverly read^yMr-Wm. P. Burns, pleased the members greatly. Mr. Elmer J. Murphy gave a criticism . of hi.s .works.,. The pathetic poem,. “ Baby Bell,”-its^pathos.nicely brought out by Mr.. Charles B. Bryan, was the next number on . • the programme. Mr. Daniel P. Murphy closed the exercises, of the evening by reading “Miss . Mehetabcl’s Son.”	t
* • St. Cecilians.—A meeting of the St. Cecilians was held-lastWednesday evening. The reports of several committees were tendered A mandolin solo by A. Pendleton was enjoyed by all, and a violin, selection by J. Naughton was also . much appreciated. The other numbers of the, .. • programme were well renderei, and showed that.there .is in the society much talent that can , be developed. . After.the regular programme. . had been .finished, a synopsis of the play, to be given by the St. Cecilians, was made out, after . which the meeting adjourned.:. ....	.	. •
/PHiLOPATRi/tNS^TherPhilopairransT. met-'oh last Wednesday evening do distehetora debate,■ “Resolved: -That steam-boat-travelling is more:. pleasant than, travel by raik”TGood -speeches • were riiade on both sides: Mr.-Stearns’ paper was;-especially clever. -The. judges‘:gave:their award.	.:
in : favor- of.'.-the. affirmative' -side.; -Mr.f Krug -recited “Trouble, in :the Amen -Corner,”'with = feeling and ability; he has elocutionary power- , f in no small degree; and vvill .make a.good. show-- . in the annual-contest.- The. President read Guy de; Maupassant’s “The.Piece of String” and a , "humorous/- selection . called “Spring HouseCleaning.” '	.	...	' b y
o	-	-	-	. -	-	•_	-
i6o	NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
List of Excellence.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Chu ch Hist ry—Messrs. Costello, J. Barry, Bryan; Advanced Christian Doctrine—Messrs. Arce. J. H. Browne, Kegler, R. O’Malley, Sanders, Cornell, Fennes-sey, Schoenbein; Moral Philosoph —Messrs. Slevin, Stace; Logic—Messrs. Costello, Wilson, L. Wurzer; Lati —Messrs. Slevin, J. Barry, Ragan, M. Campbell, E. Murphy, DeLormier, Gallagher, Trahey; Greek— Messrs. Slevin, Ragan, Stace, J. Barry’, Nieuwland, Reilly, Schumacher, Fennessey, Lowery, M. Oswald; Astronomy —Messrs. J. Murphy, Slevin; Civil Engineering—J. B. Murphy; Mechanics of Engineering—J. B. Murphy; Descriptive Geometry—J. Miller; Chemistry—Messrs.
. Ragan, Sheehan; Anah. Chem,—J. Rosenthal; Calculus— Messrs. Haydon, McKee; Analytical Geometry—Messrs. Arce, Steiner; Trigonometry—Messrs. Delaney, Steiner; Geometry—Messrs. Davila, H. Wurzer, Wensinger; Physics—Messrs. E. Murphy, McDonald, Delaney, Reilly; Al. gebra—Messrs. Steiner, J. Flynn, Geoghegan; Belles-Lettres—Messrs, J. Eyanson, Stace; Literary Criticism— Messrs. Reilly, F. Murphy, J. Barry, Haydon; English Literature—Messrs, F, Wurzer, L. Wurzer, Fennessey; Rhetoric—Messrs. E. Browne, Steiner; Philosophy of,History—Messrs. Slevin, Shannon; Political History—Messrs. Stace, Marmon; Mythology—Messrs. E. Eyanson, Ney; His oty—Messrs. Bryan, Wilson, L. Wurzer; Mineralogy—W. Fagan; Metal urgy—TL. Palmer; Botany— Messrs. Delaney, E. Kelley, Neville; Physiology—Messrs. E. Campbell, Sullivan, Trahey; Advanced Botany— Jl Rosenthal; Bad riology—V. Fagan; Histology — Messrs. B. Daly, Harrison; Human Anatomy—Messrs. Barton, Fagan.	.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Ancient Hstory—Messrs. J. Browne, Foulks, Sammon; Composition—Messrs. Long, j. O’Malley, Hollander, McDonough Clendenin;Latin—Messrs. Hollander, Forbing, H. Wurzer, Britz; Merz, F. O’Malley, Sullivan, Wells, Herman; Greek—Messrs. Gallagher, Byrne, Hollander, McGinnis, W. Monohan; Algebra—Messrs.. Dowd, F. Smbger, McIntyre, F. O'Malley, Hay; Christian Doctrine —Messrs. J. Berry, T.- Naughton, E.- Campbell, Thiele, R. Weitzel, L. Hake, Hierholzer, Landa; Book-Keeping— Messrs. Schoenbein, Costello, Smith, Wigg; Arithmetic— Messrs. Oberly, Sirigler, J. Hagerty, Ball, J. O’Malley, • Schoenbein, Dinnen, M. Oswald, Bartel, Tabor, Ten
Broeck, Thiele, Curtis, Reinhard; Grammar—Messrs. ’ Walsh, Fralich, Jones, McIntyre, McKinney, McNamara, Hennessy, Stemmle, E. Berry, Bump, Coquillard, Dinnen, Thiele, Mathewson; Readi ^—Messrs. J. O’Brien, Brennan, Ten Broeck, Pietrzyskowski, McNamara, Noonan, Syzbowciz, .McKinney, Beardslee, Hawkins, Cuneo, Co-quillard, Loshbough; Orthography—Messrs. J. O’Malley, E. Hake, , L. Hake,. Haley, Tuhey, Sniith, Thiele, Ten Broeck, McNamara, Noonan, McKinney, Hawkins, ■ Beardslee, Smith, Coquillard, F. Loshbough, McElli-, gott; .Geography—Messrs. P. Kuntz, Schoenbein, Fuhrer T. McNichols, Jones, Oberly, Jameson; United States History—Messrs, Smith, Schoenbein, Stare, F. McNichols, Bounces, Jones, T. O’Brien, Blackman, Powers, Singler; / enmansh /—Messrs.Moran, J. Barry,. Goeke, Singler, Coquillard, Erhart, Garza,. Summers, E., Hake, F. McNichols, Reinhard, Szybbwicz. /,	. .
.	' SPECIAL COURSES.. '
. French—Messrs. DeLormier,Fennessey, Mihgey, Fagan, Nieuwlaiid,'Marmon,'Scliiirhacher, E. Kelly; German— Messrs, F..Eyanson, H. Bennett, P. Kuntz, Barthel; Lan-, try, Boerner,-’ E. Browne; Telegraphy—Messrs.- Pietrzy-: kowski, Wensinger; Type-Writing—A.; Ball; Drawing —Messrs. Palmer, Fox,: Fera, ,F. O’Malley, Wagner, Delaney, Arce,Atherton,Crilly; Instrumental Music— Messrs. Cornell, Long, Brincker, Ragan, Schultz, Wilson, . F. McNichols, Leach, Dugas, Hawkins, H. Rasche, Far-.. , rell, Hays; .Tong, JTubhey,; Gaukler, Taylor, Loomis, Pendleton, Mattingly'5 Wagner, Wigg, J. Kuntz; . Focal,, Music—-Messrs. .Wilson, Fera,'A. Kasper, Wheeler, Me-' Hugh, Myers, Foulks, Blanchard.	'
Roll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.	g
Barton, Barry, Brennan, Barrett, Bennett, Burns, Bryan, a Costello, Cavanaugh, Fagan, Gaukler,-Lantry, Mulberger, g Marmon, E. Murphy, J. Murphy, Mott, McManus, McKee, | McDonough, Pulkskamp, Prichard, Reilly, Reardon,, g Ragan, Rosenthal, Sullivan, Sleviri, Steele,* Weaver, 1 Wilson.	.	-	J
BROWNSON HALL.	g
Arce, Anders, Anderson, Armijo, Atherton, Byrne, | Barber, Britz, Ball,. J. H. Browne, Brinker, J. W.Browne, | Brennan, Burke, Blackman, M. Campbell, E. Campbell, I Cypher, J. Corby, Clendenin, Carney, Cullen, Crane,[Confer | Davila, Daly, Delaney, Daly, Dowd, Duperier, Eyanson, I Fitzpatrick, Flannigan, Fox, Fitzgerald, Farrell, Goeke, ’ Gibson, Gilmartin. Geoghegan, Golden, Galen, Hay, ■ Hesse, Hagerty, Hayes, Hoban, G. Hanhauser, Harrison, i Haley, Heirholzer, Hennebry, Hengeh, Hesse, Henry, Kegler, Kelley, Kelly, F. Kaul, I. Kaul, Konzen, Kirwin, Landa, Lindau, Mingey, Mattingly, Medley, Moran, H. A Miller, Mathewson, Monahan, Maurus, Murray, Meyers, McGinnis, McCarty, McCarrick, McHugh, McPhee, McKenzie, McCormack, Niezer,Nevins, Naughton, O’Malley, O’Brien, W.O’Brien, J.O’Brien, T. Powell, Pietrzykowski, Putnam, R. Putnam, J. Piquette, Pulskamp, Quinn, J. Ryan, B. Ryan, J. Regan, Rauch, San Roman, Sammon, Smith, Schemerhorn, Strauss, Steiner, Sanders, Spalding, S. Spalding, R. Sheehan, Scott, Schultz, Stuhlfauth, Smoger, Tong, Tuhey, Tuttle, Thiele, Wurzer, Walsh, Wallace, Wilson, Ward, Wagner, Wade.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Abrahams, Armijo, Beardslee, Brown, W.Berry, J. Berry, J. Barry, Burns, Bump, Burke, Curry, Crowdus, Cave, Cuneo, Coquillard, Curtis, Crepeau, Devine, Dugas, Dinnen, Druiding, Erhart, Franey, Furher, Flynn, Fennessey, Girsch, Gimbel, Goldsmith,. Gainer, Garza, Gon-.zalez, Hermann, Hawkins, Herron, Hagerty, E. Hake, L. Hake, Hayes, Healy, Hoban, Howard, Jelonak, Jonquet, Keeffe, Kay, P. Kuntz, J. Kuntz, C. Kuntz, Klein, A. Kasper, G. Kasper, F. Kasper, Koehler, Landers, Lovett, Langley, Lichenwaiter, Lowery, Land, Leonard, Loomis, Moorhead, Meagher, Moss, Mohn, Monohan, Murray, Morris, Monarch, Merz, McNamara, McElroy, McKinney, McNichols, Noonan, J. Naughton, D. Naughton; T. Naughton, O’brien, Plunkett, Page, E. Regan, P. Regan,. W. Ryan, A. Ryan, Reuss, Reinhard, Shiels, Smith, Scott, Schoenbein, Summers, Sheekey, J. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Spillard, Szy-bowicz, Schaack, Stare, Thams, Tescher, Walsh, Watterson, Wimberg, R. Weitzel, ‘H. Weitzel, Ward, .Wells, Welker, Zaehnle.	:
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.	-
Abrahams, Allyn, Bloom, C. Brissenden, Bullene, Bullen Bergeron, Breslin,. Bode,. C. Bode, F. Campau, Cotter, Campbell," Catchpole, Cressey. Clarke, Coquillard, Caruthers. J. Caruthers,’F. Davis, G. Davis, B. Davidson, Dugas, Ernest; Elliott, Ehrlich, Fitzgerald, Finnerty, Fetter,. Flynn, A. Flynn,/M. Garrity,. M, Garrity, L. Goff,- Giffin, Hart, Hubbard, Hammer, Hall, Hess, B. Hess, R. Hess.F. Jonquet, Kelly, C. Kelly, L/Kasper, Kopf,.Lawton, Lovell, Morehouse, Moxley, . McIntyre,: Marshall, Manion, P. McBride,L L;' McBride;.. J. McBride, Martin, Maher, O’Loughlin, W. Pollitz, H; Pollitz, Pyle, Plunket, Polk, Paul, Phillips,.Quertimoht, G. Quirilan, Quertimont. E. Rasche, . L? Rasche, D. Sontag, Spillard; Swan, Sexton, Van Sant, R. Van Sant, E,!Van Dyke, J; Van:Dyke,‘F. Welsh,’ Weidman, G. Weidman, F. Weidner, Waite, R. Brissenden.
