'7t!"V;,·-=:;·,-.--•-~,--~---~r., 
'/ I -I ' / 
, T1WINS WIN ... ON THE COURT SIX FEET UNDER: THE CEDAR GROVE CEMETERY · 
. ' 



,..,, ·up
... ".' 
't gtufmnt
J 
vh ,ll_is. J~bllij
·,,, .. I 
our ,!.C4••HO) 11/ 
•·..·.·ri·.e.·.,·.••.·.:...•1 )J)fi. c·... s.. •. 1._ e,.id 
T . '''din .. fl 3,~21
..weJJ.• m· . •o·· ..JI....·,:,·•···,
Uc1 ·-.. •. 11•e, ai'n'Edri P~ 
., 

'fie: .s~-~~i.t~H)ll. .. ·, .. ' ·1 
eect.: -~~l1,o 1ltS$h have-scor 
vi( . ·_ _ . ··-=,1,,!~l~lr ,lifst_ hv~ 
•· •• . c .. . _; . . _' i~~:0~nF~~;J 
.. ll•·· .. ·. -'·· ·_ Ji't /;. :c':.· .~~ '•·•.',\111.."'-".-g.,,·/·,:;·., ;,:, 
. ., ..-~!\'.!Ftarnr•.. : . :... . /
' ---~----~~ ,, ,, . \:-. ·. -. _.. >-..,...... ·. ., ... -· ··w1·-.-·~11u '8;-•nl'!l[,•guu, ..~..;..o~ llldinnll a:%:,, 

-.1~ • 
'f}af11:e:'~:a-.-').... @·: · '... ·~ ·_·all b,ts..liut~ln~--~~~~~!cft,Sidf·,, 
~,,--. •._ · · th~, .o~·tli_e.fiela .ro_r:;opposmg!Jor.... <c•., · · Is ·., ' 1 , ._ ~'liiJ\ds, JuniQi' .(lelolid~! K~vln •• _ 4t;r_;i A/. ·. -. ,-id'a{'' ~fll:~,d ,:IJ'.8' E~t/ • 
h~s.' . ~ ,. ,,,• ,.-· . ~'J •J f •:)Ji"v, ;-~AJh-~i,W~H~i'>
8· //.-•' \ ~-· ,:;,,:,: ..,.. ):u.:e·inQm{na• --!,111~·•' •• ~ ._ • -,~va . ,=:::. ~"·*:s~.-~~~9..~....·..:.: 
~ • ~ V .•, >;. k. 
,()~ . 



-' 
. Il::IE.bllN_TI::LOED~CIO~
.-1 Sideline Support :; i ": · · . -'. 
·. by Lauren Wilcox -. . . •. ·. ·..· .

TABLE 0f_.CON-1ENTS ·10. 
; °Jhe p~rks and pitfalls ofbelngaNotre Dam~ athletic student manager. · · · 

» On Hallowed Ground by Jennifer Osterhage 8 
A Governing Body? 

» It's a Dog-Eat-Dog Book by Halle Kiefer 13 
by Mike·Borgia. COVER: Alook at the inner workings 


» Two of a Kind(er) by Megan Connelly 24 
ofNoi:r¢',Pame-student government. Wha1:·ai:-e its str:-eiigthsand wlfat are its •·•.:

» The Perfect Defense by Jimmy Atkinson 26 
weakne~!!es?•• • . . . . .. ­

IDroppi~g t:he<Curtain -·.·• by Lauren Kiehna ' ·.­A fond rai:ewell ~o the historic home e>f ND Notebook . . . •.... 4 Week in Distortion 34 _Notre Dame•~ performing arts. .. Campus-Watch . . . . • • • 14 Calendar .. . 35 Splinters -. . . . . . . . • • . 22 FinalWord ... . 36 
From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Out of Bounds . . . 28 



Vol. 145, No. 04 • 09 OCT 2003 





SCHOLaSTIC 
r· 
Editor in Chief Matt Killen 
Managing Editor 
Annie Robinson 
Executive Design Editor 
Ryan Greenberg 
Executive Editor 
Mike Borgia 
News 
, j Christopher Kelly, editor 
Jim Ryan, assistant Eileen Varga, assistant 
i · Campus Life · 
Jennifer Osterhage, editor Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
Sports
I Jimmy Atkinson, editor :.j Mike lselin, assistant 
Entertainment Tracy Evans, editor Ryan Greene, assistant 
Departments 
Meghan Gowan, editor 
Mike Healy, assistant 
Design Nick Abrams, Cover David Redenbaugh 
( 
Vanessa Arita 
I" 
Alice Bonifield Megan Rolfes 
Vanessa Saenz Ellen Voglrieder 
Photography Mike McNary, editor Phil Hall, assistant 
Graphic Design Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Kelly M. Faehnle, chief 
Mo Ertel, assistant 
John Hadley, assistant .. 
1 Cassandra Meyer 
' Casey Stanton Kim Thompson Tom Tiberio 
Jennifer Wadkins 
f_ Distribution !.._, Mik~ McNary, manager I -i Business ,·:j Jessie Potish,manager 
!IJ Mary Ursu, manager l-Online
I.·. Jimmy Atkinson, manager t-· Advisor i · Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victtm1s Vive Quasi Gras Morittm1s 
r:~ 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, NotrE! Dame, IN, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine are copyright 2003 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.To be published in the next Issue, letter:s must be received by 
5:00 p.m. Monday before the issUe. It was Murder Akimbo. 
All letters must include the writer's name, address and 1 phone number.All letters must be signed. Names will be : withheld upon request In certain Instances. Scholastic j reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for 1corrections made more than 21 days after publication 
, } cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per! Iyear.Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; pleasei specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual 
--i football review are available at $5 per Copy.Advertising j rates available on requestThe opinions expressed In
l
l Scholastic magazine arc not necessarily those of the 
l University of Notre Dame or the student body. 

''Governating'' Bodies 
It is something that has always been there. From those 7th-grade popularity contests to the vicious campaign for that all-important Sophomore Secre­tary spot in high school, student government has always been a ubiquitous part of education. Sometimes those grade school and high school positions can effect change, but it's usually nothing more than a fun diversion: Plan some dances, beefup that resume. In college, however, student government has the ability to do something more. Student government can go beyond planning a dance or decorating the cafeteria. A university's student government has the power to bring about actual change within the school's administration, to speak with a clear voice and to advocate for the student body. But does it work that way here? Like so many things, student government at the University of Notre Dame is unique. From its structure to its relationship with the administra­tion, there is little that seems to resemble the system of other schools. In look for the wake ofrecent controversial administrative decisions over alcohol policy 
ISSUE 05 
and the treatment ofthe university's RAs, questions have been raised about 
on 
OCT30 just how effective Notre Dame's student government is. This week, Mike Borgia digs into the issue (p. ~ 6), analyzing the structure and purpose of Notre Dame's student government. 


So Long and Farewell 
An era is ending this week for Scholastic. Mike McNary is ending a six­year (you read that correctly) career as our Photo Editor. We thank him for his lengthy service, and wish him luck in the future. He leaves us with a final, unforgettable image in the back of the magazine this week. Meanwhile, we're excited to announce that Phil Hall is stepping in to replace him. Phil has served as Scholastic's Assistant Photo Editor since last semester, and we look forward to continue working with him. 

Break it Down
This is the last issue ofScholastic before fall break. Good luck on the mid­terms, and we'll see you after fall break. 

Matt Killen, Editor 
Correction: In our previous issue, the article titled "Field oflrish Dreams" stated that stadium security was a "big problem." The article should have said stadium security was a "big program." Scholastic regrets the error. 
2 SCH0LASTICFROMTHE EDITOR 
09 OCTOBER 2003 




Afraid you 're not worthy? 
Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. founder of the University of Notre Dame at age 29. 
So was he. 

w·ww.n .. 
.!1tli oc.a.tion 

J.M.J, 

Be Not Afraid! 

iI I; 
~ 
\ 
N THE 

;;-=-~,:~._;:-:--;::::::;:.::·-;;::::-----::~--;-----;;:;--::;;::;;::;;;:--~,~;;::::.,,....~:::;;::::::;--;:::::;-~~~~;:7'l \;'~~~-,
__ ....... 
-·,•·· ---:.•. ·=•-~: ·. ·;.''···: . •'· ·.·"'..'. ':, ·..-. '"'.' -.-•.. ,; ' ' ..-_.-_,,..· ., •'. ··•·.-•. ~--.•.•, /-:._·, •,,,-, ,·...:.J.;.i:.....L.~~. -~--.•,·-.._, ...., ... .' -•· .•,. ~. ,•. ,·.--' -,,: ..., ... ,• •. '-·_-.-. . • . . ~-.,,• -· ,, ., -· . ,.;;,_. ·:-·--" ·, ..--,· ,· -.-.'.··-_.....·,.·.. -J· ',• '•'· ­
I Denied: Password Protected 
ti The computers of Cushing Hall are engineered to keep you out 


ANNEHELTZEL 
We've all heard tales of the students who walk into the engineering building only to get sucked in forever. However, is this same building, legendary for trapping the unsuspecting, now becoming inaccessible to those who do venture forth? In both the Engineering Learning Center and the computer lab, located in Cushing Hall, it is now necessary for students wishing to access the computers to log on using both an AFS ID and an engineering ID. This makes the comput­ers completely useless to students who do not have an engineering ID. The policyis new this year, and, according to Natalie Gedde, manager of the learning center, the change makes sense because all the computers are purchased through the engineering department, and much of the software on the computers is specific to engineering students. Despite this, some students suspect that part of the change was due to non-
The Top Ten List 
From music to muzak 

-.. . ·==;=1.,·=-o=·v=e==r=p=la=y::::::·~=d=:.j 



engineering students' tak­ing advantage of the free printing offered in the learning center. Gedde says that learning center printing is free, but denies that the increased security on the computers is for the purpose of keeping non­engineers away. 
Paul Go, a faculty mem­beratthe engineering build­ing, says that the reason for the change at the learning center is due to the upgrade of the learning center PCs 

SECRET CODES A student works on a Cushing Hall computer.
to Windows XP. Go also says that the password is fair because the engineering computers are not part of a campus cluster system, as are the DeBartolo or Hesburgh Library clusters. 
Despite the apparently innocuous rea­sons for the more limited access, some students feel slighted. "It makes me feel very excluded from the engineering com­munity," says sophomore business major 
We've all experienced it. Packed, humid dorm room. Bin ofNatty Light in the cor­ner. Random hook-ups everywhere. And, ofcourse, the same old songs being played over and over again. These elements are the cornerstones of a classic Notre Dame party. Scholastic racked its brain to come up with the tunes we've all heard one too many times. But remember: We're not saying they're bad songs; just overplayed. 

"Piano Man" by Billy
I O 
Joel It's 9 o'clock on a 
Saturday, you and your dearest friends have joined arms in sweaty embrace, so sing us a song tonight. Just not this one. 

JoeMcFarlane. "I°thoughtwewerein this together." · Whatever the faculty's intentions, the · 
. restrictions placed on the computers located within Cushing-Fitzpatrick only serve to add to the aura surrounding the ominous structure and those special stu­dents who spend obscene amounts oftime within its walls. D 

9"Girls Just Wanna Have Fun" by Cyndi Lauper 

No matter how many times you say it, the axiom ri:ever changes: Indeed, girls wish only for fun. Got it? Girls. Fun. Enough already. 

8"Come on Eileen" by Dexy's Midnight Runners . "Too-ra-loo-ra-loo-ra too-ra­
' 

loo-ra-li?" Never before has gibberish been more popular -or more annoy­ing. But the real question is, how did it become the official Notre Dame Band anthem? Oh well, we'll just let them have their fun. 



._Y•~>­





111 Years Ago 
,rii~~ber 

•->~~jz;~;·bil!l9l'~'t;Ji~:i1:8~qm;ritidd··,_.~;te:•to•i~r,~;self a magic 
:>< ·· · ·•• <J;i; \ philosophy professor 

"What does that symbolify?" · -overheard student in O'Shaughnessy Hall 
i'l'm a pyscholoi{~ajor, so when we graduate I can help you with· your :screwed-Jj{!\x,e.$:' . ·-• · · · .\;/,.it,!f::::" >:.·· : · f: overh.eard student to two FIT majors 
"You guys, don't use th~ b.ithi:9om. It's like s6rtteone's butt exploded:' . ....,. overheard student in Lafortune 
7"You Shook Me All Night 4"Baby Got Back" by Sir Long" by AC/DC .. Mix-a-Lot Liar. You haven't been shaken. Make sure to scream the lyrics at 
Not at this school. the top of your lungs, as if you're the only college student who knows all the 6"Crazy Game of Poker'~ by words. Girls, the vast majority of you
O.A.R. 

possess neither an "L.A. face" nor an You say revolution _and we say die, 
"Oakland booty." 
5
song, die. Now go row yourself away from here. Far, far away from here. 3"Pour Some Sugar on Me" by Def Leppard."Ignition (Remix)" by R. This song is like a bomb, baby.
Kelly. 

Sure, freshman dorm parties do get hot Listen, R., you tongue-kiss babies. 
and sticky, but the mental flashbacks to And that's why we won't contribute to 
big-haired '80s metal bands is enoughyour kiddie porn camera fund. 
to make us cringe. 
Fun with Computers 

The Notre Dame campus was not up in arms over painfully slow afternoon Webmail access. In­stead, it was thrilled at the prospect of communicating via the computer. From October 8, 1992: 
[Brennan] Murphy is an enthusiastic'llSer uf e-mail. ''It's such a neat thing. There isjustso much there to use. It is so z,ser-friendly that it is easier t;o use than thephone." · 
Murphy, who 1lSZtally responds right away to hisincomingmail, eventurns on the mailsearch while he writes papers in the compzeter lab .... ''Iput it on so I can write back immediately. It is easier to talk to the person when they are sit­ting right there at the compztter wo." On some systems, 'llSers can t,ype in "talk," a split screen is set zp, and those logged on to the system can write messages to each othersimitltaneo'llSly .•.• ''You can get really distracted, and itcan really getozetufhandifyouarealwayswritingbackand forth," hesaidas he accessedthe eightmessageshe had received that day. 
Oh the things that change ... the things th~t stay the same. · '.:..Megh~n G01JJan 
2"Like a Prayer" by Madonna 
Maybe we're just bitter about finding out that the song ·really isn't about praying, but rather a certain sexual act that occurs outside the sanc­tity ofmarriage. Like an angel sighing, indeed. We still say give those in the adjoining dorm rooms a choice whether to hear your voice. 


I"Livin' on a Prayer" by Bon Jovi 

Pump those fists and scream, freshmen. 
09 OCTOBER 2003 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK S 
I 
0 


Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 

FINDIT 
It's still here, but the sparse 
song selection means the RIAA 
has subconsciously scared a lot 
of Domers away from "friendly" 
file sharing. 


FAIRWEATHER 

FOOTBALL FANS 
Knocking your own quarterback, leaving the game early when we're losing, calling for a new coach ... leave that to disgruntled alumni. 


ETHANOL, SWEET 

ETHANOL 
Even the South Bend Tribune is on board with Scholastic ... a year after promising to reduce the smell drastically, New Energy Company's stale, toasty odor still wafts over campus. 

0 THEGAPADGUY ! So he wears tight jeans and is 
· ··-· known as the "Italian Brad Pitt:' But girls, do you think shrieking every time the commerical comes on ups your chances? 

Q
-LADYBUG INVASION 
. ' There's nothing more attractive 
· . ~ -than waltzing into class, taking a seat, only to find yourself infested with crawling critters fresh off the quad lawn. 
IDomeLights COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN 


the season to be jorry. Fa ra ra ra 

a, ra ra ra ra." That's right, you know 

you've laughed at that Chinese restau­rantscene fromA ChristmasStury. American pop culture has always loved playing with foreign culture, but is that indicative of genuine fascination, superficial envyor crass exploitation? 
Judging from recent offerings in film and television, it's a little of all three. Take Lost in Translation, starring Bill Murray as a movie­
looks to be justsuch afilm. Anhomage to the belovedkungfuflicks ofTarantino'syouth, it features Uma Thurman as a character known as "The Bride:' who struts abouton agleefully violent quest for revenge against a bunch of flashy villains likeher former lover, Bill. 
Steeped in over-the-top action sequences, bands of assassins and gallons of fake blood, Kill Bill appears to be little more than a styl­ish mish-mash of what Americans think of as Asian pop culture. Tarantino tosses in 
scenery that looks as ifit 

star-turned-whiskey­were lifted directly from
Kill Bill appears to be little 
ad-model in Tokyo. Crouching Tiger, Hidden
more than a stylish mish-mash
On the surface, the Dragon and the obliga­
of what Americans think of as
film seems to use tory anime scene, justfor everything from the Asian pop culture. good measure. height of the Japanese YetKillBillstill appears 
people to the astonish­ingly flashy backdrop as a vehicle for cheap laughs. 
As hilarious as the encounters are with the prostitute who demands Murray to "lip" (as inrip) her stocking and the '1ohnny Carson of Japan's" hyper, psychedelic talk show, Translation still manages to impart a sense of respect for the culture clash. Director Sofia Coppola does an excellent job ofreminding. the audience that the American characters are ill-adjusted foreigners in a world of karaoke palaces and boundless hospitality. 
Overcoming typical American ethnocen­trism is no small feat, but Coppola succeeds admirably, poking fun at the staid, goofy Americans and the overly polite, exuberant Japanese in the same gentle manner. 
Other directors are somewhatlessinterest­ed in cultural substance as in style. Quentin Tarantino's upcoming two-part epic, KillBill, 
to respect the subject matter far more than television tends to do. 
·­
When it comes to foreign culture, TY, more often than not, has nq_shame. 
Just look at that Seinfeld episode where he had to sign all those 12-cent royalty checks from the absurdly named Japanese comedy show, The Super Terrific Happy Hour. Even the new sitcom Whoopi batters its viewer over the head with crass, ham-handed "humor" about every foreign culture its writers can get its hands on. It seems one main character's main purpose is to spew a barrage of poorly writtenjokes about his time in the Iranian militia. Really people, when is enough enough? 
Still, whether American pop culture's ob­session with all things foreign is inherently detrimental is up for debate. Unless it stars Bill Murray. That man makes life worth liv­
in~ . 
Source: Greg Durham and Knights of Columbus Web site 
As long as some can remember, the Knights of Columbus have been selling steak sandwiches before home football games.The profit from the sales of what some Knights call the "Cow, Bread and Coke" is sent to charity. Here are some figures: 
Average number of steak sandwiches sold per game: I. ,800 Cost of steak, bun and soda: $6 Total number of steak sandwichs sold per season: about I 1,000 Average income per season: $75,000,  Average profit donated to charity: $35,000 ­Time Knights begin setting up: 7:00 a.m. Time steak sales open: I0:00 a.m. Average number of workers at stand: 20  $45,000  
6  SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK  09 OCTOBER 2003  


''just get it down on paper, aod then we'll see what to do with it" 
-

Submit to ... 

Do you have a short story, poem, painting or photograph? Submit your work to The juggler, ND's student literary, art and design magazine, and "we'll see what to do with it"... it might appear in the Winter 2003 issue! 
Please submit artwork to Robert Sedlack in 212 Riley Hall. Supply slides for pieces larger than I I "x 17" or 3-D work. 
Written work can be submitted to the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall or e-mailed via attachment to juggler@nd.edu. No entries of more than 2,500 words please. All submissions should include title of piece, author/artist's name and an e-mail address. 







University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 

Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 

University Counseling Center 

(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
Back _issues for sale 
The 





Freshman Register 
Classes of 2004, 2005, 2006 $15 at LaFortune info desk 
(ND/SMC students only) 


LIVING IN THE PAST The Cedar Grove Cemetery includes the gravesites of many well-known Notre Dame alums and benefactors. 

The tales from the tombs of Notre Dame's cemetery 
JENN IFEROSTERHAG E might sound familiar. The remains of Edward (Moose)
Aman places his hand on a tomb-Krause, former Irish athletic director, stone and begins talking to it. head basketball coach and All-Ameri­"What are you doing?" the cem-can football and 
etery sexton asks after observing the man basketball player; · fora while. "The stones started talking to --Romy· Hammes; 
me, so I talked back," the visitor replies. 

Events like this one are not uncommon 
for Leon Glon, who has been answering 
genealogy questions, preparing graves, 

selling plots and maintaining Cedar 
Grove Cemetery for almost 15 years. 

Sexton of Notre Dame's community 
cemetery, Glon has witnessed a man 
draped in cloth reading blessings over 
gravesites. Another day, a woman got 
out of her car in the cemetery, did a 
dance, then returned to her car and 
drove away
· 

"I guess I am just in a position where 
people do those things," Glon says. :::_ The 22 acres Glon maintains on the 
southern edge of campus go largelyunno­
ticed by Notre Dame students, but several 
of the names etched into the tombstones bookstore bene­factor; and Joseph Casasanta, former band director and composer of the Alma Mater and "Hike Notre Dame," are buried in the cemetery. 

Other notable figures buried in Cedar Grove include: Leon 

GRAVE SCENERY The cemetery grounds are well:tended year-round. 
Hart, 1949 Heis­man Trophy winner and three-time NFL championship winner; Dominic Napolitano, instrumental in the first 55 years of Bengal Bouts; Lucius Tong, mayor of South Bend from 1878 to 1880 and co-founder of the first Notre Dame business school; Alfred Talley, founder of Ave Maria Press; and Joseph Armstrong, designer of Chicago's Lincoln Park. 

Contrary to popular belief, Knute Rockne is not buried at Notre Dame, but instead in Highland Cemetery in South Bend. However, one ofhis players, Moo~ Mullins, a fullback on the championship 

8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
09 OCTOBER 2003 


teams of1929 and 1930, is buried in Cedar Grove. 
Former student Megan Beeler is also buried there. Beeler and Colleen Hipp (not buried in Cedar Grove), another student, died in a bus crash in January 1992 after a women'sswimmeetatNorth­western University. 
Some of South Bend's early settlers and even some Native Americans are buried on campus. Alexis Coquillard, a fur trader, wagon maker and mill owner, and his family were the first permanent white settlers in South Bend. The Co­quillards and a fe~ other families are buried in crypts ·beneath the cemetery chapel.The graves of Pierre Navarre, a white settler and fur trader, and Joseph Bertrand, a fur trader and map maker, are also in Cedar Grove Cemetery. 
When Father Edward Sorin arrived in South Bend, he saw the need for a Catholic cemetery in the area, so he established Cedar Grove in 1843, one year after he founded the university. In its early days, the university could not support itselfon tuition alone, so he began a mortuary, acquired a hearse and even made coffins to increase rev­enue. In 1911, the university sold the mortuary business and the hearse to J.C. McGann, a local funeral home still in business today. . 
Some of the burials in Cedar Grove are older than the cemetery itself, Glon says. Father Sorin inoved the graves of Catholic settlers and Indians originally buried off Angela Boulevard to Cedar Grove because heclid not deem the original site fit for_a cemetery. 
Brother Francis Xavier Patios, a self­taught architect who came to South Bend with Father Sorin, built the cem­etery chapel in the early 1850s. He used the famous yellow Notre Dame brick, made with the clay from the bottom of St.Joseph Lake, in the chapel. Brother Patios also served as the mortician, cemetery sexton and coffin maker, and designed several ofthe 19th-century buildings on campus. 
A fire destroyed much ofthe roofand interior of the chapel in 1926, causing $1,500 in damages. The cemetery lost many of its records as well. The uni­versity immediately rebuilt the chapel and in 1992 restored the exterior. The building, which holds approximately 40 people, originally served as a mortuary, chapel and cemetery office. Now it is only used twice a year -for Mass on Memorial Day and All Saints Day. 

The university is currently renovating Cedar Grove Chapel, so that it can again host funeral and memorial services. The remodeled chapel will have air-condition­ing and heating, a new steeple resembling 

SANCTUARYThe chapel before its renovation. 
the old one, wainscoting along the walls and back-lit stained-glass windows. The plans also include moving a statue from the front of the building to allow easier entry, widening the front steps, lowering the floor to make the chapel handicap-ac­cessible and replacing the old pews with individual seats. 
Today only Notre Dame faculty and staff can purchase plots, but Cedar Grove was a public cemetery until 1976, when the plots nearly sold out. The university added 1,200 grave spaces and expanded the cemetery again in 1999. 
Glon estimates that 40 percent ofcur­rent burials are for cremated remains. He has seen an increasing number of families cremating a loved one and then waiting for the spouse to die to bury a married couple at the same time. People with close relatives buried in Cedar Grove can be cremated and buried at the head or foot of their relatives. 
The cemetery contains approximately 12,000 graves. There are another 1,000 to 1,500 gravesites sold and room for another 3,800. The university expects Cedar Grove to be full in 65 years, Glon 
says. 
Many of the grave markers have be­come worn after withstanding countless years of the harsh South Bend weather. Tombstones from the 1800s were usu­ally made of limestone. In the 1900s, granite and marble stone, inexpensive iron crc,sses and .even. etched portraits became popular; .Some families ·have--··-·:·: replaced deteriorating tombstones, which explains the fairly new tomb­stones marking graves of people who died in the 1890s. 
Incorporating cryptic symbols into tombstones became popular at the time of the Civil War and heightened in the Victorian era, Travis Childs, director of school programs for the Northern Indiana Center for History, says. The symbols tell about the lives of the people they commemorate. One marker describes the life ofa machinist ­and attorney,-his family and his activi­ties. Sites with stone tree stump mark­ers symbolize lives that were cut short. A Victorian tombstone has a basket of stone flowers on the side. By identifying the flowers, Victorians could determine the qualities of the person's character. A stone for a member of the Coquillard family features an anchor, meaning that person's soul was anchored to God. An empty cradle marks the grave ofa child who died in 1918. 
The names on the gravestones reflect the history of South Bend. French, Irish, Polish and Hungarian names dominate the cemetery. Many ofthem, like Chap­in, Peashway, Howard, Navarre, Boldan, O'Brien and Talbot, also appear on local street signs, schools and in the names of parks. "Most of the area cemeteries provide a snapshot ofwhat life was like here," Childs says. 
Not many places on Notre Dame's campus have survived since the university's founding. Though it has accumulated more gravesites over the years, Cedar Grove Cemetery is one of the few remaining ties Notre Dame has to its birth. . 

09 OCTOBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 
LAURENWILCOX 

Junior Ashly Cumberworth stands on the 20-yard line in front of the entire Notre Dame football team minutes before the kickoff of the Washington State game. As the last note of the national anthem echoes throughout Notre Dame Stadium and the band trots offthe field, she looks up at the thousands ofpeople energetically cheering around her. At this moment . she feels like part ofa team and realizes all her hard work, dedication and long 
practice hours are worth it. Cumberworth plays a vital role in the Notre Dame football program, 
even though she is not a football play­
er, band member or sports writer. She works longer hours than many sports 
players, making sure all equipment, 
uniforms and drills are set up and ready for practices and games. 
; l 
As a student manager, Cumberworth 
serves as one of the hidden forces be­hind the football team's work. She sets up necessary equipmentfor the coaches 
at football practices so coaches and 
players maximize the benefits of their drills and workouts. 
The Student Managers Organiza­
tion makes experiences such as Cum­berworth's possible for committed and 
hard-working Notre Dame students. The behind-the-scenes responsibilities 
qf the student managers allow sports to run smoothly. An entirely student­run program, the process ofbecoming 
asenior manager requires perseverance and significant time commitments. But 
I. many student managers feel the ben­efits ofthis program outweigh the long hours and hard work. 
The extensive process of becoming a senior manager starts freshman year. 
Every freshman receives an invitation in the mail from the Student Managers ·brganization in the spring. 1;:>urin,g the 
last month offreshman year, interested students work at various spring sports 
practices and, occasionally, at games. As students continue to progress each 
10 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 

THAT'S SOME HIGH-QUALITY H20 Student managers help keep football players hydrated. 
year, they are given more responsibili­ties and time commitments. 
Returning managers spend sopho­more year working primarily at foot­ball practices and games. Sophomores work on the field for at least two foot­ball games. Before every game, they also help prepare the helmets in the locker room. 
Sophomores typically receive one assignment every two weeks for a dif­ferent sport. They do basic jobs such as filling water bottles for the players. Taylor Stuckey is one of two sopho­more student managers chosen to work in the coaches' locker room. He works at all home football games, paints hel­mets and prepares for pep rallies. 
"I've always been really into sports and I can't play varsity athletics so I de­cided to get involved with [the Student Managers Organization]. Those guys on the football team_ are my heroes so it's cool to work with them," Stuckey says. . 
Sophomores work about three hours at a time for each assignment one to two times per week_. Stuckey works for seven hours at a time when preparing the locker room and painting the hel­mets before games. At home games, he prepares for the game for about two hours before every game. 
"Last time we painted~ wrapped and taped helmets, cameras were filming us from PBS and also ESPN for The Seasori; Stuckey says. "It's cool that we get to be on TV." 
Sophomores receive a few benefits,) such as shoes, shirts and apparel, but: their work is primarily voluntary. The select student managers who persevere 
09 OCTOBER 2003 
throughout the entire four-year pro­cess receive significant benefits. All se­nior student managers are guaranteed at least a 65 percent tuition scholarship, and the top male and female managers receive a 100 percent tuition scholar­ship. 
At the beginning of spring the sophomores continue to work various practices and games. During football practices in April, sophomores undergo a tryout process and take leadership po­sitions to demonstrate their managing skills and commitment to their peers. 
Because the Student Managers Or­ganization is a student-run program, the cut that indicates who will continue past sophomore year as a manager uses a system ofpeer evaluations. Peer evalua­tions take place at the end ofthe spring semester. AU managers must fill out an evaluation for all the other managers with a set criteria for ranking each one. After the peer evaluations are finished, the three senior football managers look over them and decide which students will continue as junior managers. Only the top 21 ranked are invited back to manage their junior year. 
Junior year, the football ~anagers are in charge of the sophomores at practices. Each junior student manager is assigned to a specific coach. This al­lows for consistency and productivity since each manager knows the specific drills and equipment necessary for his or her coach. Some student managers will throw the footballs ar.ound with the quarterbacks to warm up. Since juniors work five or six days a week with the team, they are issued almost all the same apparel the players receive. Juniors also travel with the football team to two away games. 
"We are not supposed to be noticed. We are not there to be the center of attention ... just make sure things go smoothly," Cumberworth says.. 
Every Thursday before a game, ju­nior student managers buff and wrap the football helmets. They paint the helmets on Friday if it is a home game weekend, otherwise the helmets must be painted on Thursday night. 
Painting the golden helmets before football games has been a long-stand­ing Notre Dame tradition. Before the helmets are painted, the student man­agers must place tape over all the holes to prevent paint from leaking inside the 
09 OCTOBER 2003 
helmets. Then all the wrapped helmets are buffed with a lacquer thinner to ensure a smooth finish. 
Designated painters paint the hel­mets with two coats. The first coat consists of a general gold spray paint and the second coat contains a "mys­tery" formula that actually includes gold dust from the Golden Dome. After the helmets dry, the student managers unwrap them. 
"Before I started any of this I was kind of intimidated. The Notre Dame Football program is a huge thing. But it's really, really down to earth and it's very easy to work with and a lot offun," Cumberworth says. 
The student manager schedule leaves little flexibility in Cumberworth's schedule. Her typical day consists of attending morning classes, meeting at the stadium by 2:00 p.m., carrying over balls for practice and setting up the fields. By 3 :45 p.m. most football players arrive and start practicing. When practice ends at 6:00 p.m., the work still is not over for CumberwQrth, she must help clean up the field before heading over to South Dining Hall for dinner with the other student managers. 
"It really doesn't ever get old. We do it every week, and every day I get excited about going to practice," Cumberworth says. "I get excited for the games, win or lose, because it's really about the football and nothing else." 
Despite the program's restrictions -preclu­sion from study abroad programs and demands for time commitment -many student manag­ers remain enthusiastic about their jobs. "It's one of those experiences you really couldn't get anywhere else," Cum­berworth says. "I kind of just stumbled onto it when I was a freshman, but I'm so glad that I've been able to stick with it for this long because it's really incredible." 

After the last football game of the season, the junior student managers fill out peer evaluations again and rank the 20 other student managers. Based on the rankings, the managers pick which sports they want to manage senior year. 
"It's kind oflike a draft. When your spot comes up, you get to pick from the remaining sports," Jesse Kirkpatrick, senior hockey manager, says. 
Typically the three senior football manager positions of head football manager, personnel manager, and equipment manager, are picked first. Michael Schultz, the head football manager and recipient of the full tu­ition scholarship, deals directly with the coaches and team. 
He acts as a liaison between head football Coach Tyrone Willingham and the team players and attends all meetings with the football team. He joins the team on the road to every away game. The head football manager position is a full-time job even when he is not on the practice field: his uni-versity-issued cell phone stays 

on at all times. 
"I am al~ays on call. At 
any time I could get a call to 
come on in and help the team," 
Schultz says. 
Even though he has no 
Monday, Wednesday or Friday 
classes, Schultz typically goes 
into the football office at 10: 
00 a.m. and leaves at 9:00 p.m. 
on those days. 
"I'm the kid who always 
wanted to go to Notre Dame 
and play football for the Irish. 
Since I can't play football here, 
I still wanted to get involved 
with the team," Schultz says. 
"Just being out there every day 
and feeling like a part of the 
football team gets me through 
the day." 
Schultz says that the worst 
aspect of his job is knowing 
that he can only do it for a 
year and then he has to give 
it up. 


WHATTHE PUCK? A student manager for the men's hockey team visits with some young Irish fans during a recent game. 
Though the university sup­

plies all senior managers with leadership experience that will prove the field to set up the equipment for 
tuition scholarships and pays for their helpful for their future careers. Matt practice. She commits about 20 to 30 
textbooks and gear, they earn their Gilsinger, senior manager of women's hours per week during the fall. 
keep in different ways. soccer, hopes to manage his own busi­In the spring, her time commitments 
The job responsibilities for senior ness someday. increase to 40 or 5 0 hours per week plus 
hockey managers, for example, vary "[Student managing] gives me con­travel time. She organizes meals, ho­
from the duties of football managers. . fidence _in my ability as a manager. tels and travel arrangements and travels 
Kirkpatrick makes hotel and meal res­It's just a great experience," Gilsinger with the team. Both the junior and se­
ervations, confirms the bus company says. nior student managers accompany-the 
reservations, documents the trips and Gilsinger also commits around 35 to baseball team to away games. 
makes sure the team doesn't practice 45 hours per week to women's soccer. "I'm kind ofa go-between person for more hours than it is allowed. He is He works four and a half hours per the players and coaches. I'm the one . in charge of accommodating visitors day Monday through Thursday with the players go to to ask questions and when they come into town, repairing practices and management issues. He the coaches give me drill instructions," 
equipment, handling laundry and dis­arrives four hours before the games Doyle says .. 
tributing issued gear. begin and leaves one hour after games The chance to interact with the play­
"I really love having a smaller team end. ers and coaches is the best part of the 
where there are 25 players and three His responsibilities include handling program for Doyle. But, she says, the 
coaches," Kirkpatrick says. all the equipment for the team, helping worst part ofher duties involves clean­
Kirkpatrick commits 35 to 45 hours with practice, making travel arrange­ing the indoor hitting facilities with a 
per week to managing hockey. Typi­ments and videotaping games. big, slow, awkward vacuum. 
cally, Monday through Thursday he "I used to be one ofthose people who Nevertheless, she feels lucky to be 
devotes five hours a day to managing, studied a lot when I was a freshman ... involved. "It doesn't seem like work 
and on game days he worl<s nine-hour had a clean_ room, had time for video when I'm at practice," Doyle says. -days. -. ·-.. games. :, . That doesn't happen now," Even though the Student Managers One of the rewards ofs'tudent man­Gilsinger says. -Organizatiori involves a substantial aging is celebrating with the team's Even in.the off-season, student man­time commitment, Gilsinger views .triumphs. "You're just having fun ... agers are hard at work. During the fall, it as a good investment of his time: being in that celebratory locker room Katie Doyle, senior baseball manager, "[Time] is something you're ah\1"1ays afterward. You really can't replace it," spends six weeks helping the team with struggling with. You don't sleep as Kirkpatick says. practices. She passes out laundry in be­much; you spread yourselfpretty thin. Student managers also gain hands-on tween her classes and then goes out to I just figure it's worth it." . 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 09 OCTOBER 2003 





It's a Dog-Eat-Dog Book 
The story behind Notre Dame's ever-present Freshmen Register 
HALLEKIEFER 
Whether looking up the names ofnew classmates or searching for a hottie (or not-so-hottie) to go to a dance with your roommate, a freshman's new best friend is what the stu­dent body lovingly calls the "Dog Book." Referred to by the administration as the Freshmen Register, the annual directory features the eagerly smiling faces of St. Mary's and Notre Dame's finest. With close to 2,400 copies printed, this year's book features pictures of 1,460 first-year Darners, as well as 293 freshman Belles. Officially, the Register is a way to famil­iarize incoming freshmen with their new classmates. Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities, sees the book as advan­tageous for the student body: "It is a way for the first-year student to see the rest of their class community." Coughlin points out the added helpfulness ofNotre Dame club and department listings also included in the book. When asked for his take on the origins ofthe book's canine association, Coughlinsays, "I don't call itthe Dog Book. I call it the Freshmen Register." Printed by the Walworth Publishing Company, as it has been from its inception, the current Freshman Register is produced by Walworth employee Valerie Tanke. Tanke has assembled,a.esigned and format­ted the directory for the past 12 years. In order for her to cull the necessary materials, a first mailing is sent to incoming freshman around Memorial Day, requesting pictures. A second appeal is sent out two weeks later reminding freshmen ofthe July 1 deadline. The pictures are then laid out, with letters from the Reverend Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., and the student body presidents, as well as photos of campus life unused by the yearbook. Tanke then reviews and revises her work with Student PrintMedia Coordinator Robert Franken. Finally, the Register is proofed and printed in early-to mid-August,and freshmen can then order the final product. The Register has changed in the years Tanke has headed its production. For ex­ample, in the past, students submit.ted a list of their hobbies and intended majors with their pictures. However, this was done away with nearly a decade ago. Often, Tanke ex­plains, students changed their listed majors, rendering the information incorrect. The hobbies, too, were often inaccurate or in'."" appropriate: Many students fabricated pas­times, or expressed an interest in activities not quite suitable for print. 

This year's edition marks the first Reg­ister to include the names ofall freshmen, not just those who submitted photos. Despite multiple requests, many students do not send in pictures. This year, 668 Notre Dame students and 155 St. Mary's students are listed without a photo; 
Tanke 

creative in terms of cover design and theme. Recent themes have included "We Are" and "Pathways to Suc­cess." 
The administra­tion's reluctance to use the popular nickname does not keep students from calling it by the alias, nor from using it for finding dates for one's "SYR," another phenomenon whose nick­name is hardly approved ofby administra­tors. According to alumni, the Dog Book got its derogatory name in the early days of coeducation at Notre Dame, when the brainy reputation of the first women to at­tend the university created a stereotype for the physical appearance of the women. 
Today, many students feel that both the university-sanctioned and superficial quali­ties associated with the Register are intrinsic to its usefulness. Freshman Abby Strange expresses appreciation for the Register. "It's helped me find someone's name if I only remembered their face," she says. Fresh­man Erin Housing shares her enthusiasm, saying the Register has improved what she calls her "stalking abilities." According to Housing, the Register is notalways used for harless purposes. "I like to laugh at people I've learned to dislike," she says. 
Sophomore Ben Zerante is grateful for the Register. "[The Register] saved me from what would otherwise have been disastrous blind dates, or 'mistakes,"' he says. In the past, the Register has been used in conjunction with another Notre Dame freshman favorite, Domerfest. Students signed names and numbers on class­mates' T-shirts, who would then peruse the Fresh­men Register in order to identify who they would contact in the future. "My fresh­man year was the first year they didn't have 
sen10r 
Ni­
e o 1 e 
Dugan, an RA 
inWelsh Family Hall. 
"I remember everyone saying 
how fun it was." 

Some students, such as sophomore Ka­maria Porter, disagree about the "fun" of the DogBook, feelingthatitsunofficial title still fosters undue disrespect. "It's a vehicle for the objectification that occurs between the sexes," says Porter. 
Whatever personal meaning an indi­vidual may project onto the Freshmen Register, beginning this year, all students will be able to purchase back issues of the book for the current four undergraduate classes. These editions will be available soon in LaFortune at the Information Desk at $15 an issue for all those who have misplaced this treasure trove ofhigh school senior pictures. D 
09 OCTOBER 2003 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 13 


Fall's foliage has been thrus. t upon us now, and it seems that we're in a season of change. New colors are creeping into our beloved leaves, and the extra pounds are creeping onto our unsuspecting freshmen. Anyhoo, the Gipper's multiple sets of eyes were very busy leading up to this edition, so the Gipp will just shut up now and let your actions speak for themselves. 
"I was just kidding, Your Honor" 
Over the years, the Gipp has heard of many unique methods of attempting to get out of trouble, but a recent effort even got Old Man Gipp's attention. The heroine ofthis tip, who must be straight out offinishing school, is a first-year stu­dent who had reportedly made six -yes, count 'em, six -uncordial visits to the Main Building for behavioral infractions within her first three weeks under Mary's supervision. By the Gipp's recollection, that's a record. 
But, amazingly enough, that's not the punch line of this tip. During a recent run-in with the campus authorities, the polite princess supposedly made her ac­coster an interesting offer: you let me off, I'll get you off. You release me, I'll release your -okay, you get the point. Well, now the Gipp's heard them all. And, no, pathetically desperate males, the Gipp has not (yet) obtained this angel's phone number. Give him another week. 
In an unrelated public service an­nouncement, the Gipp would like to remind certain freshgirls that it's not too late to transfer across the lake. 
All in the Family 
Earlier this year, the Gipp was in­formed that an ambitious lad managed t~ have some fun that crossed generation lines. Our source divulges that our. sub­ject had some personal time with a 32­year-old married mother of two, which "didn't quite stop at making out either." (Note to future tipsters: don't tease the 
Gipp; if you're gonna spill the beans, let us know exactly what happened.) 
The kicker is that this tuls happened to be the aunt of a friend of his. The kicker on the kicker is that he also got dirty with his friend, the younger mem­ber of this esteemed family, that same night. So, to summarize: one night, one morally casual aunt, one morally casual niece, fifteen minutes of Gipp-induced campus fame. 
The Gipp has to admit disappointment, though,broughtaboutbysomeapparent failures ofthis Graduate. There's no rea­


· son that the two sessions could not occur simultaneously. If kids and a ring don't stop you from throwing your worthless self onto the first 20-year-old who winks at you, is anything going to stop you from asking a younger relative to join in? The Gipp would have loved to publish some snapshots of this trio. The real losers in this whole incident, though, must be the poor children of this modern Mrs. Robinson. Can you imagine the field day that future classmates will have when the "yo mama" jokes start hitting the play­ground? Gipp sure can. Those brats just better pray none of their peers ever gets his hands on this old rag. 
Buckle Up Recurring characters can always make 
for a funnier sitcom. With that in mind, the Gipp reintroduces an old Dawgwho's been very generous to the Gipp during his time here. It's jackasses like him that 
make this job a whole lot easier. 
It has been brought to the Gipp's attention that on the morning of this institution's first American football match of the season, a member of our golfteam was hitting the links with some Buds -and reportedly nine of these little friends found their way to the bottom of his stomach. So, after finishing his prac­tice round, this tiger came to the natural conclusion that a golf cart was the most efficient means of transportation (Where were you, Safe Walk?). So he cruised all the way to the stadium,··brews in hand, picking up parents along the way. As our source tells us, he assured these bewil­dered bystanders that "it's fine, saddle up." Perhaps most confused were_ the NDSP "police officers" who witnessed the joyride on Juniper. (On a side nbte, the Gipp never knew there was a dough­nut shop on Juniper.) 
The cart spent the night alone on a quad, but its absence was noticed by team coaches and golf course officials. Our bandit and his teammates supposedly had to pay the early-morning price for his crime the following week. But keep your chin up, Sport -you'll take that memory to the grave. 
According to the Gipp calendar, we won't meet again fo.r three weeks. So your lusting minds will have to entertain themselves over fall. break. Currently, Gipp has no original suggestions for time-wasters, but he trusts his constitu­ents will drum up some good hell-raising one way or another. But keep in mind this session's learned lesson: Whether yb;u're dealing with beers on a golf course or incoherent interfamily impugents: the more, the merrier. . 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 
09 OCTOBER 2003 

_I. 

Yes, he's STI-LL around ••• V 
V V ...-and you can join him! V 
Now hiring for the following 



-positions: -Assistant News Editor -Assistant Campus Life Editor -Assistant Entertainment Editor 
Pick up an application outside -the Scholastic offices in the · · 
basement of South Dining Hall.Applications due November Ist. 


Soon after the Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., vice president for Student Affairs, announced in the spring of 2002 that hard alcohol would no longer be permitted on the University ofNotre Dame's campus and that in-hall dances would no longer take place in the dorms, the campus attention quickly focused on student government. The drama and debate began. _.,, A protest organized bystudentgovernment that included more than 600 students, duLac burnings and, fugry chants of "We need a voice!" had seeminglylittle effect on the ad­ministration.Astudentgovernment-initiated petition signed by more trum 4,000 students demanding that in-hall dances be reinstated failed to influence the Office of Student Af­fairs. TheCampusLifeCouncil(CLC)voted fl to seven in favor of recommending t_o the Office of Student Affairs that the in-hall dance ban be overturned -one vote short Libby Bishop include a proposal to reinstate in-hall dances for a one-year probationary period in her upcoming report to the Board of Trustees. Bishop vetoed the measure by refusing to sign it into adoption and omitted the resolution from her report. This set off massive disagreementamongstudentgovern­mentleaders her chief-of-staff, Pat Hallahan, resigned inprotest. 
So the questions were raised: does student governmentserveanyrealpurpose? Canitef­fectivelyrepresentthe needs and desires of the studentbody? Canits perceivedshortcomings be fixed? Direct answers were not found. 
Just over a year and half after Poorman first announced the new policy, student gov­ernment is in the process ofself-evaluation. Student government leaders are asking these questions and others in hopes of creating a more efficient, meaningful representation of the students. 

ASSESSING STUDENT 

of the StudentUnionSenate, "We, theuiider­graduate students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac ... endeavor to make efficient and effective use of the resources available, to communicate student convictions clearly and 'YiJ]fully to faculty,_ administrators and trusteis, and to achieve consensus within the university_ community on formulation and execution of poliqr. We labor with the entireNotreDamefamilytoensurethateach studentreacheshis or herfull academic, social and spiritual potential and resolve to sustain the evolvingspiritofNotre Dame byentrust­ing its care to the students." 
Many campus leaders agree with the preamble's definition ofthe role of student government. 'We have aresponsibilityto the students ... to communicate with them and to communicate with the administration for them," says StudentBodyPresident Pat Hal­lahan. Hesays thatstridentgovernment must create quality programming for stude'hts, as well as workwith theadministrationforpblicy change "inall areas of student life." Poorman, who received alistof potential questions prior to his interviewwithScholastic, agrees, saying 
09 OCTOBER 2003 



that two prominent r()les of student govern­ment members are to advance the personal and educational opportunities of their fellow students and to represent the interests of the students to a number of university constitu­encies, includingfaculty, staff, administrators and trustees. . 
Buthoweffectivejs student government in fulfilling this role? Manyleaders believe that student government has at least some signifi­cantfailings, offeringtwo general criticisms: apathy and inefficiency. 


APATHY 
"Student government is as powerful and purposeful as the leadership, ideas, determi­nation and energy of the people involved," saysPoorman,notingthat"fulfilling[student government obligations] takes long hours, hard work and great organization." Yetsome studentleaders believe thatthisvitalityis sig­nifi.cantlylacking in student government. 
"We. are not taking ourselves seriously," says junior Charlie Ebersol, board manager of the Student Union Board (Slffi). "It's a matter of attitude." Many student government leaders have grown apathetic, Ebersol says, because they don't believe they have time to effectively meet all_ their duti!!S and don't believe thatany change can be made. But, he says, ''Theidea that students don't have time for student government because we work so much harder [at Notre Dame] is arrogant. [Studentgovernmentleaders] are not entitled to theirposition, theyneed to create their own worth." They must, he adds, approach issues with the mentality that the leaders need the university but that the university does not
-
need the leaders. Maintaining this mindset will push officers to work harder and prove themselves essential. 
Some contest, however, thatstudentleaders might not believe change can be made be­cause the administration will not field their demands seriously. "The Office of Student Affairs ·is not willing to budge or open up discussion on issues that are important to students," saysJeremyLao, student bodyvice president, citingtherecentResidentAssistant training controversy as an example. 
Howard Hall senator Brin Anderson, who investigated the RA issue, shares Lao's frustration. She says the Office ofResidence Life and Housing, the subdivision of Student Affairs responsible for RA employment, told herthatitwas "awasteofmytime to lookinto the RA process. [The administration] is not willing to listen to anything that's important to us," she says. Knott Hall Senator Brian Agganis agrees: "Until what the administra­tion thinks of us changes, nothing is going to change." Agganis also does not believe that student government leaders are gener­ally apathetic. "There is an understan~g of our limitations and that may sometimes give the appearance ofapathy. But there are very driven, vocal members of student govern­ment," he says. ''We're not going to change things running around with guns blazing, so we take the pathways we can, which, most of the time, seem quiet." 
Still, Ebersol maintains that student government's major problems lie within. "I'm not saying that the administration isn't guilty but we need to look at ourselves first," hesays. "Father Poorman is thesingle biggest scapegoatonthiscampus ... anyonewho does one week of research on student government would see that the problem is internal." He argues that student government could have made legitimate opposition to the 2002 hard alcohol and in-hall dance ban-perhaps the most commonlysighted example of adminis­tration inflexibility-had it begun working on theissuewhenitsurfaced, rather thanafter the changes were made. ''The alcohol policy was going to happen, but I think we would have tempered the response had we been proactive with the university," Ebersol says. "Rightnowwe're not putting up a fightwhen the fight is going on. We're talking about the fight afterwards." 

Ebersol says that legislation is needed to make the CLCs work affect students more directly. ''We must take away the ability to say 'We can't do anything,"' he says. 
The issue of apathy does not end with student government leaders. Also a major concern is the apathy of the student body. Louis Ayala, assistant professor of political science, says thatstudentswill onlyparticipate in campus politics if the perceived benefits of doing so outweigh the perceived costs (see sidebar for more details). 
The problem of participation with many governments, particularly a student govern­ment, explainsAyala, isthatpotential partici­pants do not see the benefits to participation readily. No matt~rwhowins the student body presidentelections, explains Ayala, "thelights will still be on the day after." 
The result is a sort of "catch-22." Since it is naturally difficult for students to perceive benefits of participation, many students will 

ALL THE PRESIDENT'.S MEN Student government works closely with the Campus Life Council to make decisions concerning many campus issues. 
09 OCTOBER 2003 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 17 

THE BUCK STOPS HERE Bills passed by student government must eventually meet the approval of the Rev. Fr. Poorman, C.S.C., vice president of Student Affairs. 

notparticipate because, to them, the benefits do not outweigh the costs. However, because they do not participate, student government has great difficulty presenting itself to the administration as an effective representation of student interests. "The lack of participa­tion sends a message to those [administra­tors] dealing with student government," he says. "Legitimacy depends on participation." Therefore, student government will have great difficulty accomplishing anything sig­nificant, with perceived benefits ofparticipa­tion being so low. "Students don't participate because they don't perceive a benefit," says Ayala. "But there will never be a benefit if students don't participate." 
What is needed, says Ayala, is. a way to motivate students and encourage them to participate through fostering a sense ofduty and solidarity among the student body. "Stu­dent government needs to do a better job of showing students how things benefit them," he says. Hesuggests thatstudent government 
niusteither set its sights low and keep students -constantly informed or set its sights high and stick with it. "Voting isn't enough, but it mightget[theadministration's]attentionto hold rallies and sign petitions afterwards." Ul­timately, student government must convince 
18 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
the student body that the benefits are higher than the costs, both through motivation and effective action. 
Ramzi Bualuan, a concurrent associate pro­fessional specialist in computer science and engineering and management who serves on the Faculty Senate and Campus Life Council, agrees that student government must motivate students to participate ifit hopes to besuccess­ful. "There is a disconnection between high energy of student government leaders and low energy ofthe general students," he says. Bualuan believes, however, that it is unfair to say that the general student population is naturally apathetic. To be admitted to Notre Dame, one must generally be hardworking, determined and thoughtful, he says. "Maybe student government isn't doing a good job at showing students what it is doing," he says. 
To accomplish this, Bualuan says thatstu­dent government leaders must make more direct attempts to connect with students, suchas visiting dorms. "[Student government leaders] go and see students when they need their votes and not again. That's ridiculous." Student governrnentmust,says Bualuan, send a message to the student body that "we are coming to you." This will allow student gov­ernment to plan events and raise issues based more closely on student interest rather than onwhatlooks impressive ona resume orwhat can easily be accomplished, he explains. 

Bualuan also believes that motivating students will improve student government's relationship with the administration. While he acknowledges that there is a perception among students that the administration is inflexible and accepts that such a perception "must have come from somewhere," he says that the administration may be reluctant to field demands. "You have to startfrom a po­sition ofstrength, and that position is in the unity ofthe students," he says. ''Administra­tors will see a proposal in a better light ifthey see a clear mandate from the students." 
Noteveryone agrees,however, thatstudent governmentis solely responsible for combat­ing student apathy. "We were elected by the student body to represent the student body," says Lauren Williams, Welsh Family Hall senator and CLC member, "not to connect directly with them.'; Williams believes that students must take initiative themselves if they want an effective student gov'ei:nment: "Students need to be more willing to approach students with issues they have.'' She maintains that student government already uses effective methods to determine student opinion, such 
09 OCTOBER 2003 



The 






Struct.u-re-
Passed Resolutions go to ... 
of 



. Student Body President ·?~~:f~~(~f~ ~tf":?Y~If:?1:;;.1~ 

Government 
B 
t! 



l0---­

•--•Judicial C<;mncil President !:.'.; 
'''"t~1lf:"f1'.:~;!!fl,>"!ttf'.fit-1JWfft@.f..~rf" 
as communicating through hall senators and conducting surveys. 
INEFFICIENCY 

One of the goals"ofstudent government is to "coordinate efforts ofclubs, organizations and the various divisions of student leader­ship opportunities," ;ys Poorman. These divisions includeresi~encehallgovernments, class governments and various campus-wide studentgovernmentbodies suchas thesenate, the Hall President's Council, SUB and the Office of the Student Body President Many student leaders are not convinced, however, that student government coordinates the ef­forts ofall thesevarious bodies efficiently. 
"Right now our main problem is ineffi­ciency," says Hallahan. "We have too many groups doingthesame thing, sowe can'tpres­ent a unified student voice." Members of the various student government bodies often work towards the same goals, but do not act collaboratively; says H;illahan. For example, both the senate and the Office of the Presi-­dent have committees focused on the issues ofacademics, diversity and gender-relations. Hallgovernmentsmayalsohavecommission­ers examining theseissues. Although officials from thesebodiesmaybeaddressingthesame 
09 OCTOBER 2003 
-

---~~ -----•~---~ --~ 
issue, theymaynotbeworking together. This allowsforconstantwastes ofmoney,resources and the efforts ofstudent government offi­cials, says Hallahan. 
Studentgovernmenthas given this problem ofoverlappingefforts a great deal of attention thisyear. Althoughno specificstrategies have beenadopted, Hallahansays that student gov­ernmentis looking into bringing the various bodies together in several ways. He says that studentgovernmentwillconsidersponsoring larger events and projects on which there is room for a great degree ofcollaboration. He also hopes to see moneyused more efficiently throughinvestingin"larger, more coordinat­ed events open to a variety of students." This way, thevarious bodies of student government dealing with a similar issue can pursue their goalswhileconcertingeffortsandconserving resources. Many of the possibilities will be considered in the Collaboration Committee of the Executive Cabinet. 
Hallahanalsosaysthatstudentgovernment may need to consider streamlining itself by combining bodies with similar functions. This, he admits, would require compromise and dedication on the part of many student government officials. "So many people get involved, and though everyone has good intentions, there's a lot of resume-building," hesays. "Somepeoplewillhave to acceptthat those titles might not be there ... but that the students might be better for it." 
The senate is also examining the problem of overlap," says Williams. She says that the senate's Steering Committee is currently looking into ways to "make sure that every­one is on the same page." The chairs of the senate committees are also planning to meet with the chairs of the Office of the President committees in ol'der to better coordinate efforts. 
Hallahan ultimately hopes that improved efficiencywill both help student government reflect student interests more accurately and give it more legitimacy in the eyes of the administration and the Board of Trustees. ''We need to fix ourproblems. And when we do, we're going to say to the administration and the trustees thatwe're becomingmore ef­ficient and we're ready to accomplish things," he says. "Too often the administration dis­cards us and that's unfortunate, but we'll step up and show them that we're willing and able to workwith them on bigger issues." 
He plans to announce the final strategies for improving student government in a re­port to the Board of Trustees this year. The 
SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 19 

main subject of this report, explains Lao, is that "the administration must give [student government] more respect and listen to our issues," particularly now that student leaders are attempting to demonstrate a stronger commitment to serving the students. · · 
Hallahan and Lao also hope to gain a greater influence in the Board of Trustees. Thestudent body president and vice president currently serve as non-voting members ofthe board and leave its meetings after the student body president's report has been made. "We need a greater say in policy," says Hallahan. "[Serving as non-voting members] is a great opportunity, but I thinkwe can do more." 
FOCUS ON THE CLC 

The debates surrounding student gov­ernment concern not just how issues can be handled but what issues can be handled -particularly in the realm of university policy. Any examination ofthe scope ofstu­dent government must focus on the CLC, as it is the most powerful government body in which students are voting members and serves as a liason between student government and the administration. 
The Student Life Council (SLC), the CLC's predecessor, was created bythe Board ofTrustees in 1968 and placed directlyunder the university president. The SLC passed resolutions thatwould become campus policy unless they were vetoed by the president. 
In 1977, however, the SLC was weakened when the council determined that "there [was] no longer a need for 
[this council to serve by] mediat­ing the studenti administration relationship with faculty members in order to create a forum ofdiscus­sion" The SLC was thus replaced by the CLC as 
a "forum where 


students, faculty, DECISIONS, DECISIONS A meeting of the minds at a CLC meeting. 

and administrative personnel could discuss matters affecting student affairs .... " Now, rather than drafting policy directly under the university president, the CLC could only make recommendations to the vice president for Student Affairs. 
The function and effectiveness of the CLC has been questioned by students since its creation and has, in recent years, come under close scrutiny. The CLC's By-Laws Committee was formed in1997 "to examine the role and purpose and effectiveness ofthe CLC and research necessary changes." The committee found that the scope ofthe matters that the CLC considered was too limited for the council to fulfill its purpose. 
This year, the Committee on the Compo­sition and Makeup of the CLC was created to evaluate the effectiveness of the CLC, to examine thereasonswhyorwhynotthe CLC has been effective and to provide recommen­dations to make the CLC more effective. These resolutions are to be included in the student body president's report to the Board ofTrustees as part of the discussion on the effectiveness ofstudent government. 

According to research conducted by Eb­ersol, a member ofthis committee, the only significant resolution to pass through the CLC and be enacted by Student Affairs in the last four years concerned increased choices in Grab 'n' Go. 
The main cause ofthe CLC's ineffective­ness, say several ofthe committee's members, is that CLC members do nothave a consensus on what issues can be discussed. ''We don't know what's expected out of us," says sena-. tor Brian Agganis. "We don't know what we can and can't touch." As a result, he says, the CLC endsup either arguingwhether anissue is within their scope or dealing with trivial issues that could be answered by making a phone call. On the one hand, he says, CLC members could not agree if the RA train­ing controversy was an appropriate topic of discussion. On the other, the CLC spent time discussing the placement of toasters in LaFortune, an issue better referred to Food Services. 
Further, Agganis says that because the CLC does not know which issues it should discuss, it often debates· a topic that would more effectively handled,by another govern~ . ing body. He cites the example of Teacher · Course Evaluations (TCE) publishing, anis­sue which has already moved m~t-<?fthe hands ofthe CLC and now is being debated by the Academic Council. 
To fix these problems, Hallahan, who 




' ·Trustees wiiLbe open tq '.the:: charig~{a11~·':.'fti~'to:~i:iidentdesires,,~~ys i\f)l'g~nste.rn, ~ut tration. Students will only participate if the 
If;;~Jfif~tBi~!tii~-~tl!B:,,:~:::0;::~:~:;~nghtsid·e·•of. Still, Agganis mainfairis that iio atllount·•·. P~fil}'~e,yi~wc;o~t_y<e/~}µ,q~~2D~~-9f <S.1M:9rg:~pst¢qi)il,sp)anx~bute5::the_..suc~ess_~ : . . of restruct:uring wilLmake the·.CLC .more ·. stucl,entsan4.a<lnl.ifii~tif~~pr~;:ls,<l,ir~¢tlf:~1~r:ia9f~fu4,ehti?zefl;lfue!l.t:: ~8,Bl~-}ttitu.d~:·of),-·• · ,i 
•effective until the administration becomes ...Student_Affiµrs, Wlule:Wis do~AQt cjir¢~tlyt~.:th~fahlderit-J:ipdy. (;1V'e're a pr~~•erig-ag;ed~}, <:<1 ~:~';:.:'~!!'~~,!~i~t~1~ .·t:::!;~\%'.~ttJ:~~Jff~~~t~~~!~,:t4fITtt~.;t11l~
this ·campus,. and m many ways,>we •have . . . gen,sterµ s?ys"~;i~ aclpnpist;rat?.1:3-Pff~n B~C!f~.ff 7:hf pfl5~t~s~~9l1Il,pri9,:t-Jotre/D¥p,.<s.~:.tt :\l 
;~~i~~tc~:1~i~::;;eb:~~1~:~;;1;::t::.··.·.. ~;~,~;;~:iW!~~di;;~;i1~~~Jg\;i<it;i1~1f~~,{~\ir;~~i1!fe~r{~lJ1;IT~clf\;?{! issues,". he.say~.• "Wfve. got such.-a knq~l-c..• ,:£oi-1;11I!~!~'.§~~1-wJy~p~gP.sa~.M;?rgen-::.:/takipg:.a,:~~118~,J:ii.\:f6spectw~.lopF,·P0.4g~7·\. :)\Y/ 
•·····•·\·•··<./ilie piirpose\l'lli~c:Lb'.with_!lj~:Soafci ()e-.y:(t~:rYPENT.c:;gy1:~l'IMt;.NT AT·. 
. <•.Trustees;«The"Boardofcr:rusteesmandated •'·•': GEORGEJI;OWN:HP'#DO:~E;· .. ,_ _thisgroupandweneedtoasktliemwhatthey·~-" ,_;,_" ·..· ··:::·'cbMP,i\lfE?:·,.:.-·:-·:: <_.__, ..· 

,/~iiJi!\l~~1:;r~~ifiltllitf. membei-s,Six rectors (tjir~"e'inale,·and thre,e.c::.c-··--~_though George,JQWn does. not have a' female) and one represehta.t:ive ffoi.n the Of.,:; -~:Iigi~Ia~;e.~l;io4y=~o~paraBlftci'"i:he~.c::LC, fice of Student Affairsi Hallahan says that Brian l\1orgehsterri;' their stuoertt)3#dy;' he would like to see a wider array of rep-president, w'orks directly with their ad,.: resentatives. included in the CLC, s~ch as. lllinistration: 1'It's .very much a· coopera­Food Services officials and facultyrriembers ·.... rive effort. Lwork regularly with the Vice from m?re departments. This, he s~YS,.i_f:ig);:.:l?:I_e.s,i<;J.~nt of $tlldent Affairs;'' Comparable allow the CLGto broaden its scopian.d acl+: ,}i:i"thi.Sp.ideiitUnion Senate is the Elected dress more issues quickly and e.fl~$fiyely. :._~;; ,4,s{e~kh~\which is made up offc;mr rep-Hallahan also says.that the mef11b:e1:i!~!1_d,~i}j~~~titiy,E;s from each class. This body, to vote along two qmps -on~;ofsq'ia.eitts]T:Iw.w"t;y~r~i~ currently undergoing reevalu-, andfaculty and theother of re~~br,s_a1,1-'9:k.d-; 'Citiqi,1 and)s trying to work out a specifically millistrators. -This.•division, h~' '.s~ytt.ends/ ( .1e~nedrp.l~; says Morgenstern: .·.·... to stifle discussion. "There's aps9lut~lypo: :.L"'"'T'Y?Jesentcontroversies demonstratehow discnurse," says Agganis. "We .. a"r~_what 0 ~Georg~t9'.wn's student government.works. the administration makes .us_:::}Ve ·don't .. Lasty~ar; i:he administration passed a new ·even have avoice. Everything gets\vai:ereclT _:securityie>licythat dfinied students who did down." . ..· .· •· ..··.··.··. ·.. ........... .-.• • · notlivei!1~particulardormcard-swipeaccess Not everyone agrees, however, thatthe··. tothatbliilding.Theregulationwasiflterided CLC is really so ineffective;-''There.was :, toincre.~fsecuritybutmanystudentsargued some tension in the first m~~tjrig 9ec~11s~· :. _thatstudyn,ts could belocked outofdorms late some issues were.raised, byt.PY.~E~_ff;(it\ at~ght~dthus be put in danger.Morgen:­firie] ," says. the Rev. Jim L,ewjs;: ~~..:g., __ §tern ni.et with administrators directly·and a rector of Carroll Hall and member oftlif--com.p"roinise was reached. Students can now . Composition and Makerip ,C9111ri1itte~. gaiii cflftl-kipeaccess to a dormatanytime, . "There is a lot of respect ohthe·. <::0111mit-' butinust Sign in with. aguard between the tee; and I've enjoy~d the ongqitig dialb_g11e!' )'. hoµts pf9;00 p.m. ~d 9:00 a.m.. · . . Poor111an agrees: '''Deterrpif¥p-g P.8M&! tr ;Tr:~-1~1thod used _~oresolve the dispute clearly the domam of Stul:lei:it Affa.irs, .l:illt : 1s 1:Yf>tc~ pf howtherr student government .I think students have a g:r.~~tVbici~ll~~e,~~:~-·operate.f says Morgel15tem. "PersonalTela:. CLC to make recommet14~ci,ons f§:p8lio/'')1''.tj§ii,~Ip~f We just contact them. directly," 

. . affecting studentlife;" .. ; ,i r .::.. :_;.{},; \i}:{Ji~}fi°Yii W'.s a decent workingrelatio11:5hip." · ·Hallahan.is .hopeful t)iafth~B,qard_qf: G_etir'@t9wnadrl.1ii1istrato~.do notalwayslis-•. 

·Formula 
for

Participation 
•professor Louis Ayala explained to Scholastic that students will only participate in campus politics if the 
following formula holds: C<B x P+D . 
C -the cost of participation in campus politics. For students, this is primarily an "information cost" -the amount of time a student must spend to properly inform themselves on candidates and issues -and an "opportunitycost" of participation-the forgoing of all the other activities available while participating in student government. 
B -the benefits of participation. This could include one candidate being elected over another, a policy changed because of a student rally, etc. 
P -the probability that a single student's participation will make those benefits hap­pen. The more people participating, the smaller the impact of a single participant. Thesmaller_thatprobabilityis, the more dif­ficult it is to outweigh participation costs. 
D-themore abstractreasons people par­ticipate, such as a sense of duty and a desire for solidarity with other voters (i.e. they see 
0ther people participating). 
This formula is used universally to weigh the costs versus the benefits of participating in any political process. In this case, partici­pation represents anything from voting to attending student government-sponsored events to signing petitions for the adminis­

Well, now that this football sea­
sonis hopelessly over, students 

on campus can finally get back to the real joys oflife-studying for midterms, spending Saturdays sleeping in and planning a trip home early for fall break. There's no need to stick around for that Southern Cal game any longer. 
But wait just a minute! Those ofyou who have given up on the Notre Dame football team, you might want to think twice. The Irish have several historical factors working in their favor heading into the remainder ofthe 
season. A big midseason turnaround would not beunprecedented. Someofyoumayre­
call that in 1997, the Irish began the season 1-4 before winning six of their next seven games to finish the regular season 7-5. Additionally; the Irish, for one reason or another, have owned the month ofOctober 
during the past five seasons. They have racked up a 19-1 record during the month, the only loss coming in 2001 to Boston Col­
lege, 21-17. 
Also working in Notre Dame's favor is their bye week. (No, that last weekend that came and went without an Irish defeat did not mean that the season had thankfully ended.) Since 1984, the Irish are 21-2 in games fol­lowing a bye week. Infact, the 23-16 loss to eighth-ranked Florida State in 1994 was the last time NotreDame failed to earn a victory following a week off. 
Now, this is not to say that Notre Dame does not have their work cut out for them. In the next two Saturdays, the Irish will face two ofthe best wide receivers in America in Pittsburgh's Larry Fitzgerald and Southern 
The fat lady hasn't sung the final.note on the Irish season yet.

IJinibo's Jabber 
by Jimmy Atkinson-jatkinsl@nd.edu 
Cal's Mike Williams. Both teams are ranked in the top 15 as well. Both Pitt and Southern Cal, however, have faltered in recent weeks, showing signs that they are not unbeatable. Pitt stumbled Sep. 20 at Toledo, squander­ing a 31-21 fourth-quarter lead to lose to the Rockets, 3 5-31. Plus, Notre Dame has won 10 ofthe past 11 games against the Panthers, while outscoring them 414-154. 
Although Southern Cal seemed unstop­pable following a 23-0 shutout over Auburn, the Trojans have shown signs ofbeing human 
1--------------------------

The Irish have owned the month ofOctober during 
the past five seasons;racking up a 19 -I record during 
the last five._Octobers. 
in the last couple of weeks..Southern Cal, 
whose Web sitestill·celebrates lastyear'svic­
tory over Iowa in the Orange Bowl, tripped 
up in Berkeley onSeptember 27. The Tro­
jans committed four turnovers and eventually 
lost to the Golden Bears in overtime, 34 -31. 
Lastweekend, they struggled against Arizona 
State;. arid were tied at 17 late in the third 
quarter before blowing the game apart in the 
fourth.to eventually win, 3 7-17. 
Anyway,, one can delve into statistics 
and historical research for hours, but the basic t:h4ig to' keep in mind is that this is collegMootball.and anything can happen. Notre Dame's offense has.started to show '.:signs of'1ife under freshman quarterback Brady Quinn. And now that he has a game ofstartlllg experience under his belt, it is clear thathejs the Irish quarterback ofthe 
future. 
As devastating as the 38-0 loss at Michi­gan was to Notre Dame's aspirations for the season, the Irish offense has improved in the last two weeks, while the defense has continued to play solid football. The loss at Purdue, as painful as it was, at least left Irish fans with a better taste in their mouth. The Quinn Era has begun and the young 
•quarterback offers new hope to a struggling offense..Despite throwing four intercep­
. tions, the freshman Quinn was poised in the pocket, fired 
sharp passes and ended the game with297 passing yards. 
Certainly,· the main goal of the Irish right now is to stay confident and calm with a positive attitude. Head Coach Ty-· rone Willingham acknowledges this: "You can't accomplish anything, I don't believe, in a negative state of mind. So you've got to stay positive, ·you've got to be motivated to be positive. That's one oflife's lessons, as I call it; that the game offootball hopefully teaches you." 
And so the Irish march into October with new hope and a goal in mind, to win the remainder oftheir games. So, while the breaks may be beating the boys right now, remember Irish fans, this season is far from over. College football is a crazy game and this reporter is not ready to throw in the towel just yet. D 

Cross Country: Notre Dame men's and women's cross-country teams both swept the Notre Dame Invitational this past Friday,marking the third time that they have swept the event. The women were led by Molly Huddle and Lauren King who finished one-two overall, while the top finisher for the men was Tim Moore. Both teams will compete next in the Pre National meet in Cedar Falls, Iowa on October 24.· 
Women's Soccer ( 12-0-1 ): Notre Dame senior Melissa Ta~redi was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week. She earned the honors by helping the Irish post shutouts against Indiana State (5-4­3),Villanova ( I 0-3-0), and the fifth ranked 
09 OCTOBER 2003 


Seni.orVontez Duff is in his third seaso~ as 
. starting cornerback. Last_ year, he became the.first player in.Notre Paine history to return a kick, a punt and ari interception for 
, touc~downs in asingle season. A Copp.eras ;'.;?" Cove.Tex.as native, Duff ~rings speed and vo_cal · ·• le~~ers~ip to fhe defensive secondary.,On · · special_ teams, he is averaging 9.3 yards:j,~r t;' punt return, with a lopg of 46, and 23.2 yards · 
_.; ~ per. kic:koff return, with a long of 43. 
'., ~, ._. .c;', ' .... 
'· 
··" Whatis your mindset going l:lP against Pitt WRLar1;(Ei'itzge~d?!t's going • · . to be a great battle. It's a.match-up that I'm lookingforward·to, ari~l'.m pretty sure 
•heilooking forward to it as. well. I'm just ready for this opportunity to showcase my skills,·a,-id}et the nation know who Vontez Duffis. ··· · ·· •· · ._. · 
Haveyo~~~~-~een,a vocal leader ofdie s~ndary?No, mffirst: ~i~i.::­. at COf,1tff~~lt~il-~j:1.1Stk~~fr?t:? the o~er gi:iys ~d ihaking &rni1:rie k,µ~f) 
-Butµq~ Jjye!g<?~,to spe:µc up a little bit and _tellsoµ;'Y~t my l13.U!e 1s: · •. ·· 
..: -. ~:~.:_·-,t~· --~)t!t!?ft/~-'.:~, ~~ ' :, . ::. ,._. :_~--?-:.-~:..?.-<~ >-,,-~----\::-:.· ...." Why di,ijyqµ_.come toN9~e D~e? Ho11cestly,:I:W.Qtight I was going to stay c;lose :; .t6hom,e;·but comin'.g -1:!P hfte, [ there was] just s9meiping aboudt. My mcimwas/ . talkiiig about SO)Jlet:qm,g with my dad, saying tjlat J.ie, always wanted to go here; but .•. 
•he ri¢ver had the oppot,tµnity. • · · . .• . . · . · : . \;;" . .. .
I ,··:·;' .'• :._-· {.;_ ' . . :' ' .-· ' -. ·'• '!:: ' i::..:.. :i-. . ', '"·.C,;;:~ '\' '~ . 
Biggt!_st ,nomel_!f i:n,career? When my best friend, CharlesTillinan; got ~ed /, .to tljfChicago B.~_ars. "(hatwas my biggest xuoment bei?use we ha~ alyra~ tajked .. , -aijo1ffgoing'_foth~:NF.Laiid5¥he.rihe didit,Tjustsaid itwasmynmiriext. -,> :< ::... _;--~ 
.·: -._. ~ '~-: . . . . . · 1 . . . -,. . . ,• . ::. 
Favorite player? B.arry Sa11cleri.'. ~e~de everyone iboklilicl o~ t:h{fi~ld'ajig~~eit said aword; I think [he retired too soon].I would have liked to see.himj~_ifew .• [more] people because I'~ all aboutjukiY,.g,people. ••• ·. · ·-,<\. · ·· · · 
. ~ . . 
·;--:--~ 

One word fo describe you? Wow. 
Are you frustrated with the way the season has gone so far? No, I'm not frustrated with it. I just try to think about what I can do as a player to get everything going in the right direction. Everybody is giving great effort, but you just have to have attitude and be more aggressive about getting those victories. 
Are the Irish going to win on Saturday? Most definitely. 
WestVirginia (I 0-2-0) last week. The 2-0 victory over Pittsburgh (3-8-0) this women are still ranked number t>No in the past Sunday. The next match can be seen country behind North Carolina { 15-0-0) Saturday, Oct. 12, at Alumni Field against and will next face Georgetown (4-8-0) at another Big East opponent in Rutgers · home on Friday night. (6-3-2 as ofTuesday). The Irish currently 
are ranked sixth in the nation and are Men's Soccer (8'." 1-4): Seniors Justin undefeated in their last eight games. Detter and Chad Riley each put a ball 
in the back of the net in Notre Dame's Volleybail ( 12-2): The Irish won their 


Our Calls 
Football 
OPPONENT: PITTSBURGH WHERE: PITTSBURGH, PENN. WHEN: SATURDAY, 5:00 P.M. EST 
Notre Dame is in a bit of a rough spot right now. But I couldn't ever ) pick the Panthers to get the better of 
us.The Irish defense creates scoring 
opportunities off turnovers, while special teams scores a touchdown of their own. Irish win a nail-biter at the Ketchup Bottle, 22-12. 
JIMMYATKINSON SPORTS EDITOR 

Notre Dame football goes into 
) Pittsburgh and gets back on a winning track. The bye week has given the Irish time to get healthy and work on their weaknesses, and they will come out ready to play on Saturday. Notre Dame 20,-Pittsburgh 17. MIKEISELIN ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
Key Matchup: 
Larry FltZgerald vs.Vontez Duff 
) This game showcases the best wide receiver in the nation in Fitzgerald, who already has nine touchdowns in four games, against an All-American candidate for cornerback in Duff. Look for Pitt to throw early and often to Fitzgerald to try to open up the running game. 
fifth consecutive match in four games against Connecticut ( 11-7) to move to 4-0 in the Big East. They had help from sophomore Lauren Brewster, who finished with a career-high 17 kills. The team is now ranked 17th in the country and will play t>No matches this weekend against Seton Hall (14-6) and Rutgers (7-10). 
09 OCTOBER 2003 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

MEGANCONNELLY 






'.;':lLti~-­
'I,I',1 q .;: i ~  'Men nd  Jessica Kristen  
Kinder joined  
the Notre Dame women's  
volleyball  program  in  
2000, they immediately  
made history by being the  
only identical twins ever  ..  
to play for the Irish. This  
year they hope to make  
the record books again  
by captaining the Irish  
to their most successful  
season ever:  
Jessica  and  Kristen  
grew up playing volley­ 
ball together in California.  i  
They were both members  
of the 1997 USA Volley­ 
ball Youth National Beach  
Team and the Fresno Vol­ 
! ;  leyball Club, which they  
'  led to fifth place finishes at  
the 1999 and 2000 junior  . i,  

P'~')i~iiffc~:~t~i~r~;r&Wh:j~;~:(S)-K;,,:~: ,,u.,:.·~,,;,,,..,,., 
/ oFro~o ~~;U ~~tio~al ra~-fi~'g as.highla1~'o wa;te .. t~ go to'a g~,~~;-~~~ --~ic·,--~~s ~!ways go1ng"to -r~n t~~dt"6ut···r ....., c..: as 11th. school and Notre Dame combines ath-ended up tearing my hip flexor and it What made two California girls letics and academics so well," Kristen just wasn't going to work out for me." trade beaches and sunshine for Mid-says. Kristen decided to end her track career west weather? The sisters were plan-Jessica echoes her sister's sentiments: to focus solely on volleyball, hoping ning to go to different schools. Jessica "After visiting schools and talking to that she would experience similar sue­says that she was thinking of attend-people, nothing else really compared to cess. ing University of California -Santa Notre Dame. It's such a strong school,_ The Kinder twins indeed have found Barbara, while Kristen had her mind both academically and athletically." a great deal ofsuccess on the volleyball set on University of California -San Volleyball hasn't always been Kris-court. As a sophomore in 2001, Kris­Diego. A major reason for the sisters' ten's sport of choice. She ran track for ten was ·named the Big East Setter of decision to make the move from Cali-11 years before she began competing the Year and also earned All Big· East fornia to Notre Dame was head Notre in volleyball. Kristen didn't just run second team honors. As juniors, both Dame volleyball coach Debbie Brown, track, though; she was one of the pre-Jessica and Kristen posted big numbers i!c California native herself. She was a mier runners in the nation. She won for the Irish.Jessica, arguably the best highschoolphenomenonatElSegundo a national championship in the 1500-athlete on the team, 'e~rned a starting High School and served as team cap-meter race when she was in seventh role at outside hitter. Playing in 107 tain at the University of Southern grade. "It was really a case of being games that year, Jessica led the team California. a good runner way too early because with 53 aces, and her 0.5 (ace per­"She's just a great inspiration to me. I burned out," she says. "I thought I game-average) placed her fourth in 
24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 09 OCTOBER 2003 

th.e·•Notre .•Danie•· ;ingle·-seasofrreco1·d·.·. ,· cerned•.witlfthJ.e11tirete.an1's..gafa~.~na·· •..··••··•..•:•.·whileJessisas.ays··that..everf··game•ii:··•··.•··_··•· .:•1 
•pC>ok Kdsten continued her O)Vll stel-> myteam1nat¢s and focu~ .more. onlllap. . i biggame/Kristen specificaHyp.Qints •· ·. •.· i . lar.play, setting the tean1.Jq a .271 h.ir,, ··i11gthbnbettet While at.the Saflle timi .Jo t4e victorythe Irishhad?veriotK-·. 

·..ti~g•...perc.entage,. wliile .. SllEpassing .the··.·.....·..JJ1alci1Jg.··sAre<tliatT_execute:i.s\yeU.:' .•. '. ·1,Q00.-'as~L~!_.gi~!~~_:; .· She· was,sele~_!~~L-~ c_~A-tforPersOnal g:2s~l~_,_Kri~!.~Ij_~:1nt~ 
for the All Big East second-team for the second consecutive year, and was named the team Monogram Club MVP. 
Both girls do an outstanding job of competing in the classroom as well as on the volleyball court. As a junior last year, Kristen, a computer science and sociology double-major, earned the team's Knute Rockne Scholar-Athlete Award and was named to the Big East Academic All-Star team. As a psycho!­ogy and sociology double-major, Jes­sica also earned a spot on the Big East Academic All-Star team. "I feel like you need the same attitude in academics as you do on the court. You have to be will­ing to· give 100 percent and work your hardest to get anywhere," Jessica says. 
This year marks the second season that Kristen has been named co-cap-. tain, while Jessica is enjoying her first run after being named co-captain with her sister this year. "Being mimed cap­tain puts a bigger emphasis on being focused all the time. You can't slack off because you have 13 other people look­ing up to you. I'm aware that I always have to be setting a good example," Kristen says. · 

___,~~jessi-ca-agrees·~"I've-h:rd-:to-step .out··-1:hat·I've-beerrfrere-" · ·· ~ -· · ' -------,\ 
f b • · · d. . h : ··· · K . · ' . DOUBLE-TAKEThe Kinder twins have their opponents seeing double a~a: 
o e1ng concerne wit my own game, and instead I've ha&to start being con­

•. ·t< · · ·· · , · 
. • • --• • -• 
ON THE MATSThe Kinder twins fight for a point. 
09 OCTOBER 2003 

to be as consistent as possible this sea­son. "My goal is to always be a leader. Whether it is in practice or in games, I want to just be reliable and to be a leader, " she says. 
Jessica says: "I want to improve my all-around game and make confident strides forward throughout the season. Stepping up into a leadership role is most important, because it makes a 
bigger impact on 
the team." The girls hope that their individual goals will help the team to accomplish its own goals this season. "We defi­nitely need to win the Big East and its tournament as well. Hopefully we'll end· up further than we did last year, which is to go past the sec­and round [of the NCAA tournament]. That would be more successful than in the past three years . · . . i 
,nm~ed Ari~ona)n thefirst gamepfth:~.• 
·..:season a~}li,~_sj>E_l!;tgboarclfotthi$y~~r~.•--····--" success. "The win over Arizona really set the tone for the season and got us offto a great start. For us, that was just the beginning of what's to come," she says. 
The Irish volleyball team has won the Big East championship seven ofthe last eight years. In addition, the team has not lost a Big East match at home in the history ofthe program, which comes to 

nsten says.-. recent game at the Joyce Center. . , ; So far this season · · . . · : · · · . ·..tlie girls are living up to 49 consecutive conference victories at I 
1
• r 

-i:ne·nigh expectations i:liai: tlieJoyce Center. ·-···-­
they've set for themselves. The team is currently ranked 17th in the nation after victories over St. John's and Connecticut last weekend. The win brought the Irish record to 12-2 and 4-0 in the Big East. Though early in the season, Notre Dame is the only team with a 4-0 league record. The girls also are setting the standards even higher · for themselves. In the home opener against Valparaiso, 
Jessica set a school record 
BIIIII...::= for most digs by an Irish player in a three-game match, with 28. 

The sisters both say that after gradu­ation they would like to continue their volleyball careers in the professional ranks, but on the beach under the sun. 
"Beach volleyball is something that my sister and I have talked about doing together after graduation. We'd like to get in touch with some trainers and some people who have played on the pro circuit and get a feel for what it's like to play professionally," Kristen says. 
For now, the sisters will have to put 

·· their future plans on hold as they pre­pare for the Big East and NCAA tour­naments. "We're looking to go further in the NCAA tournament than we ever have in the past," Jessica says. " I think wecandoit,andithinkwecanwinan NCAA championship." . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 



ALL-AROUND ACE Vanessa Pruzinsky (5) is a stellar defender for the Irish women's soccer team and an accomplished student off the field. 
The Perfect Defense 
JIMMYATKINSON 
Her teammates just call her V. And on the soccer field, she is just one of the girls. But Trumbull, Conn.-native Vanessa Pruzinsky is by no means an ordinary student-athlete. She was named an Academic All-American in both her sophomore and junior years, only the second Notre Dame student to ever achieve that feat. Last May, she became only the third chemical engineering major to graduate from Notre Dame with a 4.0 cumulative grade-point average, the first since 1974. On top of her academic feats, Pruzinsky has battled back from injury to emerge as one of the second-ranked women's soccer team's defensive leaders and co-captains. On April 14, 2002, in an exhibition match against Nebraska, Pruzinsky was tackled from behind and sustained an injury to her right ankle. The ligaments on the outside ofher ankle were torn and the inside of her talus (the ankle joint bone) was broken. Subsequently, she was ~sidelined for the remainder of the 2002 spring exhibition season. Four months later, she returned to the team for the 2002 regular season as the preseason Big East Defensive Player ofthe Year. As the season began, however, her 

26 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
ankle injury continued to hinder her play­ing ability, and she considered utilizing her red shirt to sit out the season and preserve a fifth year ofeligibility. After playing in two matches, she realized that indeed she had notreturned to her true playing form. Her decision to undergo the four-hour surgery to repair her ankle forced her to miss the remainder ofher senior season. 
Pruzinsky's roommate, senior defender Melissa Tancredi, acknowledges that the team last season just was not the same without her. "Itwas tough in the backwith a lot ofchanges and with [junior defender] Gudrun [Gunnarsdottir] out, too," she says. "The 'Vanessa mentality' you need on the field just pushes everyone else." 
But after undergoing a second surgery this past summer, Pruzinsky has returned for her fifth-year season as an inspiration to her teammates and coaching staff. Her teammates have voted her co-captain with senior forward Amy Warner for the second straight year. "[With Pruzinsky back] we feel a lot more confident physically and mentally," Tancredi says. 
Although it has been a year and a half since her injury, she still is not at 100 per­cent. She practices and plays through pain each time she steps onto the field. "The pain that she's playing in right now just says loads about the character she has," says Head Coach Randy Waldrum. "I think most ofour team ~ees that and really responds to her because of the leadership she has, by the example that she sets." 

Despite her ankle injury and continuing pain, Pruzinsky's return to the defense has enabled the Irish to handle the loss offel­low defenders junior Candace Chapman and Gunnarsdottir. Pruzinsky's physical strength and ball-control ability have helped the Irish run off to an impressive 12-0-1 start while allowing a Big East best 0.38 goals per match average (fourth nationally) and shutting out seven oftheir first 13 opponents. Only three weeks into the season, Pruzinsky was named the Big East Defensive Player ofthe Week for the fifth time in her career after helping the Irish post shutout victories over St.John's (2-0) and Western Kentucky (5-0). 
But Pruzinsky has not always been a defender. Before college, she was named the National High School Player of the Year as a forward. She led Trumbull High School to three state titles, finishing her prep careeras the school's all-time lead­ing scorer with 79 goals and 59 assists. It wasn't until her freshrhan season at Notre 
\ 

Dame that she made the switch to defense, at Waldrum's request. "Coach asked me, 'What do you think about playing outside back?,"' Pruzinsky 
09 OCTOBER 2003 
says. "My attitude was, 'IfI can play, I'll play anywhere on the :field.' With the for­mation we play, the outside backs get up a lot, so it's nice that I can make runs up [the field]. I miss [playing forward] but it doesn't matter." 
With that attitude, Pruzinsky was able to adapt quickly to the position change. She was named the Big East Rookie of the Year in 1999 and was the only freshman on the team to start in all 26 matches. The following season, she started all 25 matches and became only the fourth Notre Dame sophomore to be named :first team Academic All-Ameri­can as the Irish posted 16 shutouts and led the nation in goals-against average (0.39). In her junior year, she missed only one match due to injury and scored the :first two goals ofher college career. She was named :first team All-Big East and :first team Academic All-American for the second straight season. And before being sidelined her senior year, Pruzin­sky was named the preseason Big East Defensive Player of the Year. 
In addition to being a team leader for the soccer team, Pruzinsky has achieved stardom in the classroom. This semester, she is taking four graduate-level chemis­try courses after graduating last May with a cumulative 4.0 GPA. But Pruzinsky is too modest to acknowledge any notion that she has any special gifts. "I do not know [how I achieved my academic suc­cess] because I am. n.ot smart at all," she says. "I guess I just worked really hard and studied a lot." 


Pruzinsky simply thinks of her­selfas an ordinary student with an extraordinary work ethic. "Things take so slow for me to learn," she says. "I'll sit in class and I'll be lost, and I'll have to sit there and study and stare at the same page for hours to understand stuff. I don't think I'm very talented. It's just the work.'' 
She also received academic advice from her mentor, the late James P. Kohn, professor emeri­tus of chemical engineering, who passed away a week after Pruz­insky's graduation last May. "He always kept me going in school," Pruzinsky says. 
But with graduation behind her, Pruzinsky is focused on the present. The Notre Dame women's soccer team is on a roll, unbeaten in their :first 13 matches, :first place in the Big East Mid­


Atlantic Division and ranked· BATTLING BACK Pruzinsky underwent two ankle · th t'· B t th surgeries before returning to the Irish for her fifth year.
second 1n e na 10n, u e · 
Irish, who made the Final Four in her insky pauses, unable to take any indi­
:6.rst two seasons, still have not achieved vidual credit for the accomplishments of 
what Pruzinsky would be satisfied with, the whole team. "I'm not a really vocal 
an NCAA Championship, which is this leader," she says. "I just try to lead by 
year's team's ultimate goal. example. I want to help the team anyway "We're doing really well," Pruzinsky that I can. My main goal is just trying 
says, "But we have a lot ofthings to work to work hard."' 
on to get to where we want to be by the And work hard she does. Waldrum end of the sea-praises Pruzinsky by comparing her son. It's amaz­to an Olympian. "When she comes to ing, the depth training, her mind is always focused," of our team Waldrum says. "I think that's why she's this year. We so good in the classroom, too. A lot ofher have players success is because she has such a work­sitting on the man-like attitude about things and she bench who is one of the hardest working players we are amazing. have on the team.'' · When they Tancredi echoes Waldrum's sentiments. step on the "You know she'll go in there, every tackle, field, the 100 percent and come out with the ball.'' level doesn't Pruzinsky hopes to help lead this year's go down at team to what would be Notre Dame's all. That has :first national championship since 1995. been the key "We need to maintain our focus and not so far.'' let being ranked No. 2 get to our heads. When [We need to] keep elevating our game, asked about keep improving and hopefully we'll get to her personal the :final four again." And with Pruzinsky's achievements focused work ethic and leadership as a sti­and role ·on fling defender, this team is not far from the team, the achieving their goal. . humble Pruz­

09 OCTOBER 2003 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27 


; 
i 

Clueless in California 
The Gray days are over in the Sunshine State 


By the time you read this, Arnold Schwarzenegger will be in charge of the third-largest economy in the world. Though print deadlines prevent me from knowing for certain the turnout of October 7th's election in California, if the polls are correct, bland cracker Gray Davis is out; Teutonic wild-man Ar­nold is in. As a partisan Democrat, I want Gray Davis to remain in office. However, as a humorist, Governor Schwarzenegger would be the best thing ever to happen to me. His accent alone is worth turning one of the most important states in the Union over to the GOP. As Republicans go, Arnold could be a lot worse. Despite early comparisons, he's no Reagan. Unlike the 
B-movie darling Gipper, Arnold is the most I think the real story is that Californians successfulactorofall cime.Hecleared$33 mil have been so shell-shocked after years of mud­for Terminator 3 alone. Plus, hes fairly liberal slides, forest-fires, earthquakes and riots that on a lot of issues. Hes in favor of medicinal nothing fazes them anymore. Their mindset marijuana and gaymarriage. (The Govema­is, "So what if we elect a Hitler-sympathiz­torwas apparently not sent from the future to ing, serial harasser as governor? At least he's terminate the munchies or sodomy.) not one of those Sacramento politicians." This 
So, with the Reagan comparison de­mindset should not shock anyone who's ever bunked, let the Clinton comparisons begin. met or spoken to a Californian for more than The Governator could be aptly renamed five minutes. They seem to have trouble imag­the Gropernator, judging from the bevy of ining that America even_exists outside of their movie industry types who've come forward lengthy, sun-baked commonwealth. to accuse him of various molestations in Freshman year I tried to date a girl from Los the LosAngeles Times. The L.A. Times is an Angeles. When I told her I was from Cincin­admittedly left-leaning paper with suspect nati, Ohio, she asked me ifl'd worked on my timing in this case, but that doesn't take away family farm growing up. I had to explain to 
from the credence of these charges. 

Myfavorite direct quote from the paragon 
of journalistic excellence reads thusly: According to theLA. Times 
article, Arnold pulled a startled crew-woman onto his lap and 
whispered "Have you ever had a man slide his tongue in your 
[anus]?" Now, let's pause a moment to savor this quote, which I, 
personally, am savoring with pure, undiluted joy. The quote is 
wonderful enough in print, but try to imagine it in Arnold's thick 
accent, and replace "[anus]" with that other ''N.' word we all know 
he probably used. There you have it. Pure joy. Next time your 
pet or a favorite relative dies, repeat that quote to yourself in the 
Arnold voice for a quick pick-me-up. 

So this is the situation, as I write this column, a day before 
the election. Apparently for 20.-odd years, Arnold's been glee­fully groping every female on his film sets, from his co-stars . down to the beverage cart ladies. The L.A. Times ran this story with the clear implication that his indiscretions make the actor 
0 u T 
28  SCH0LASTICOUT OF BOUNDS  
,  •  ,  '  c  
- ,­ .  '  .  .  

a bad politician and a generally bad guy. Here's the catch -his popularity has not been impacted at all. Nobody cares. It seems that the whole state knew about it already, possibly because most Californians have already been groped by him. 
This is heartening to me, because as a film major, I may one day be part of an industry in which the most powerful figures can indiscriminately fondle a never-ending parade of strange breasts. You don't find this, by comparison, in the accounting industry. The head auditor at Deloitte & Touche would probably cause a mild uproar ifhe reached out nonchalantly and caressed the crotch of the girl who had just brought sandwiches into the board room. 
Only in Hollywood, baby. 
her that my family owned not one, but three 
whole motorcars, arid that when I wanted milk, it came from a plastic one-gallon jug, and not the teat of "01' Bessie." 
That's just one errant example. I don't mean to say that Califor­nians are bad people, or naive, or anything like tl1at. The simple fact of the matter is that only in California could a man be elected to the highest office in the state after,being caught on film doing the kind of things Arnold has done. And I'm not talking about his testosterone-fueled uber-molestings. I'm talking about my favorite Arnold movie moment of all time. The movie is Predator, which, interestingly enough, also features Minnesotan Governor Jesse Ventura. In the movie, Arnold throws a knife from across the forest and it pins a guy through the chest and against a tree trunk. "Stick around," says Arnold with a smile. 
Bythe time you read this, we'll knowwhether Arnold has done the same thing to the Davis administration.·. . 
0 F 
09 OCTOBER 2003 

.~ \ ~ _, • ;' • v 
. . . 



Capture the moments ... 




January 2004 


GOING OUT IN STYLEThe actors in this fall's Mainstage production Tartuffe rehearse on stage. It will be one of the last Mainstage shows in Washington Hall. 



dr-qim!I! the curtain 
·-·· . . -.. ,--. , ·....•.. .:,.:. "! .,,., # • ~..--t,• .~~· ~ 1•.,'<j).•· ,t;• ~;:<,.,,..,., 
The Mainstage Production enters its final season at Washington Hall 
LAURENKIEHNA 

'Men the lights in the theater I im and the curtain rises on 
I his year's Mainstage produc­tion ofTartuffe, a major era in the history oftheater at the UniversityofNotre Dame 
I·' will begin to draw to a close. Theatrical productions have been taking place on the campus of Notre Dame for more than 140 years, and this season marks the last of 
: I,. 
Mainstage productions inhistoric Wash­ington Hall. As the Film, Television, and 
J 
" Theater department readies for the move next year to the new Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, students and professors alike are taking a·moment to remember the rich history of theater in Washington Hall. 
The legends that swirl about the auditorium are as captivating as the plays performed on the stage. Built .,in 1881, after the second devastating fire in the young life of the university, Washington Hall was a state-of-the­-art facility housing classrooms, prac­tice rooms for the orchestra and the marching band, and the large theater 
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

that became synonymous with the building's name. The building was named for George Washington, one of Father Sorin's political heroes, and the orjginal theater decor included a large mural of the former president. 
Even more famous than the actors and audience members who have taken the stage in Washington Hall are its supposed supernatural residents. Three ghosts are reputed to haunt the rooms ofthe hall, including a steeplejack who plummeted to his death while doing work on the building. The infamous George Gipp is another suspected specter: The Gipper reportedly caught the pneumonia that took his life while sleeping on the steps of Washington Hall. In 1922, a student living in the Science Hall (now LaFortune Student Center) reported seeing a figure on a white horse riding up the stairs and through the front door of Washing­ton Hall; he insisted that the ghost had been George Gipp. 
Another reported ghostly tenant of the hall is Jim Minavi, a trumpet-play­ing student professor who was living in Washington Hall when he became sick and died. Since his death, there have been reports of a clear b-flat trumpet note sounding at midnight in the hall. A practical joke mimick­ing this purported haunting led one Notre Daine brother in the 1930s to order an exorcism iij Washington Hall. Though he declared the hall to be free of evil spirits post-exorcism, students and visitors have continued to be en­thralled by the idea ofthe Washington Hall phantoms. 
Along with its famous ghostly in­habitants, such figures as presidents, playwrights, musicians0 and actors have all shared the stage at Washington Hall since the late 19th century. Guest speakers have ranged from President William Howard Taft and Tennes­see Williams to the first president of the Irish Republic, Eamon De Valera. The first play to he performed on the stage was 1882's pro~uction of Oedipus Tyrannus, and since then, hundreds of plays, concerts and lectures have taken place in the theater. Beginning in 1916, the building was also used as a movie 
09 OCTOBER 2003 
theater..Before "talking pictures" were invented, an orchestra was brought to the theater to add music to silent films. South, Bend theater owners became worried:about profit losses and enacted a contract that prevented a movie from being shown in Washington Hall un­til it had been screened three times in South Bend theaters. 
The theater underwent a major r.enovation in the 1950s: The intricate murals,and portraits of artists such as Shakespeare; Mozart, and Dante were painted; over. The. auditorium today seats. nearly 600. people, only about lUO fewer: than the original configu ­mtion allowed. Even though some of die. original elegance was lost with the changes, the beauty and sophis­tication ofthe old'-fashioned theater still have the power to impress. In 1978,. Washington Hall was listed as part of a historic district on the Na­tional Register of Historic Places. As a part ofthe district, Washington Hall was denoted as a critical structure to the original plan of the campus and an example of the university's modern Gothic architectural style. 
The professors and studertts of the FTT department are paying tribute to the historicity of Washington Hall in their firial year on the theater's stage. This year's Mainstage season is com­prised solely of plays that have been performed on the -Washington Hall stage in seasons past, including Ten­nessee Williams' The Glass Menagerie and George Bernard-Shaw's Arms and the Man. Actors from the London Stage return for their final Washington Hall performance, Romeo and Juliet, in the spring. The first student show of the season, Moliere's Tartuffe, opens on Wednesday, October 8 and will run until Sunday, October 12. 
The first production of Tartuffe by the University Theater was an Eng­lish translation in 1964; since then, the play has also been offered in its original French text by students from the French department and again in English by Mainstage actors in 1989. One ofMoliere's.most famous works, Tartuffe is a satirical look at religious hypocrisy. The main character, Tar­tuffe, is a charlatan and a swindler who attempts to insinuate himself into the household of Organ, a rich, middle-aged man. Tartuffe fools 
09 OCTOBER 2003 
Organ into offering him access, not only to his money,. but also to his daughter, Mariane" Organ sees Tartuffe for his true:self. only when Tartuffe attempts tmse.duce Organ's 

· wife, Elmire. Tartuffe'was written in the mid-seventeenth cent:ury, but its humor and brisk pacing make it as en­joyable for modern audiences as it was for viewers in Molier;e)sslifetime. One of the earlies·tL plays to be performed on campus was a pre­Civil War presentation,, of Moliere's Bourgeouis Gentilhonmze · by the Notre Dame Thespian Society. Other Mo­liere plays presented· at Washington Hall have included· The Upstart, The Imaginary Invalid, and The School 

for Wives. One of the original artist portraits on the walls of Washington Hall was of Moliere. By presenting a production of Tartuffe, the students of Mainstage are helping to carry on the tradition ofMoliere at Notre Dame and in Washington Hall. 
The director of the 1964 production ofTartuffe, Frederic W. Syburg, retired from the university in 1991. He has returned to direct this year's cast for the final Washington Hall season. The 1964 production was inventive, adding Moliere himself as a character in the cast of the play. The actor who played Moliere, Dave Clennon ('65), has gone on to have a long and successful career as an actor, appearing in such televi­sion shows as thirtysomething, Once and Again, and The Agency, as well as films like Coming Home and AntiTrust. 

This year, senior Sean Nelson is tackling the part of Organ. Of his · character, Nelson says, "Organ is com­pletely alien to every character I've ever played before. I have to watch myself constantly to make sure I don't lapse back into a younger personality. It's extremely challenging, but that's what makes it fun." Adel Hanash, a senior who is playing Tartuffe, admits that the character is not always easy to play. "It took me time to develop a balanced character," he says, "one that was not the same all the time. Tartuffe plays different characters to different people, so I had to develop several different personas. Also, I am not a funny person in real life, so performing in a comedy is always a good challenge for me." The actors offer a few reasons that students should attend. "The church banned it, for God's sake! That's enough of a reason to do anything," jokes Nelson. Hanash adds, "The showhas an amaz­ingly talented cast, crew and director. There are several fantastic freshmen making their debuts in this show. The cast has gotten along really well, and our chemistry comes out in the show. Ifanything, i!will be entertaining and funny." 
When the Mainstage actors take their final bows at the end of this season, the FTT department will be finishing preparations to move their productions to the new Center for the Performing Arts. Students are ex­cited about the new building. Hanash remarks that he is "glad that there has been a focused effort to increase artistic development and creativity at Notre Dame.'' Nelson also gives the new Center positive marks. "I think it's great," he says. "It's about time Notre Dame started taking the department seriously.'' Even as Mainstage departs, Washington Hall will still be alive with the dialogue and music of theatrical and musical productions. The hall will continue to be utilized for orchestral concerts, lectures, and plays, and its simple elegance and tradition-filled past will continue to be.celebrated by members of the Notre Dame artistic community. . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31 

r ' • f ~ • • • • ' : • • : , l • -,-----:;---------=-~ --• ­
~--· -~ ------­




The Honorable John T. Noonan, Jr., Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, distinguished historian of the law and Christianity 

Deepening the Doctrine 
Eight_ Lectures on the Development of Catholic Moral Teaching 
September 23 Father Newman Startles September 25 The Unknown Sin 
September 30 A Girl Named Zita and Other Commodities October 2 The Obstinate Hill Climbed, with Edat_ October 7 F;lly, . Championed October 9 Out of Deeds Comes Law October I4 Out of Difficulties Comes Development October 16 The Test of the Teaching 
! ; 

All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the Law School Courtroom and begin at 5:00 p.m. 

Funding for the Erasmus Institute c,omes from the generosity of our donors, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 



Greasy Lightn~n' . 
Fast, greasy and cheap are on th~ menu at a local all-night coffee shop 
MARKBESCHER 
W en that in-' vitable 3 a.m. raving hits,. and 
Reckers and Sbarro's just w~n't cut the mustard, you nJ~d only utter two words to you1:'cabbie: "Fat Shirley's." Offering food full of flavor and fat at a fair price, the 24-hour diner remains a traditional favorite among Notre Dame students and is the perfect end to any collegiate evening. 

Actually named the White­house Diner, it is like any traditional "greasy spoon": cheap, delicious and simple. The sign over the counter asks that you pay when served and the denotation of"pop" instead· . .. of"coke" or"soda" remindsyou PLAIN AND SIMPLEThe coffeehouse's food and prices, not_ its decor, are what attracts patrons. 

that you're in the Midwest. _ building on the comer of Mishawaka and · 
than a buck. The menu mcludes tender~om ($1.90),chee_seburgers($2.20!andsloppyJoes ($1.65). TherrchocolatecakeIStheperfectlast
· ke · · b ck.
b1toffattoensureyou epcommg a. 
Fat S~ley's ?urgers are juicy, _the grilled cheese 1s JUS~ like m?m,J,!?-akes 1t, and the Frenchtoast1sasm01stasasponge.Foran extra buck, you can have your plate covered in gravy. It's a little spicy, but ifyou'~e go­ing to down a plate of grease! you nng~t ~s well g? a~ out. The only thing to.av01d 1s anything m the form ofstew. . 
Despite the decent selection of dinners,
th 'b 1 b £ th b · k£ t
e est pates y ar are e rea a~ 
dishes ($3-4). The most popular plate is the "Trucker's ~pedal.:' For $145 you get two eggs, American fries, meat (sausage or 
bacon) and toast. 
. . . , . " 
Whitehouse Dmers mckname, Fat 
Shirley's," is an unflattering, yet accurate, ~escription of the diner's famed waitres~. 'That woman was so fat, w_e used to sit ~d laugh as, she ~ied to g~t through the aisle," says a 79 S;untMarys graduate and current Notre Dame employee. 
The diner itself fits_ the stereotype of a greasy spoon. Occupying a run--;down 
and the smell offrying eggs, bacon, fries and 
onion rings. The diner's small interior has 
two booths and 20 stools that sit close to the 
griddle,butgettingaseatonlybecomesachal­
lenge after parietal hours. The atmosphere 
is as casual as itgets, and the service is quick. 
The-waitresses manyofwhomlooklikethey 
could deep-fi/a buffalo infive seconds ("But 
I want it now!"), are ever-present, ensuring 
your glass is always full. 
Among veteran patrons, there is even a 
certain art to ordering. Say you're in the 
~~od for that Trucker's Special with eggs 
. .
sunny-side-up, bacon, wheattoastandaglass 

ofwater: yourordermightgosomethinglike this: "Hey Barb, sorry you're still working .'_tjllJesus returns. I'll have the TS. Up. Ba­
. Wh H2O,, Tr. ·ta 

-~on. eat. • vot · 
. While it's not rare to find a few Notre Dame students inhaling the Trucker's Spe­cial, Fat Shirley's is still a nice, late-night . getaway from the typical hangouts. Feel free to take your parents over on a football -weekend: The food is fattening but delicious, · and a lot cheaper than guest meals at the 
dining hall. · 

Though the food is great, be warned: Fat Shirley's is not for the weak of heart. Yo~ meat will come out of~ drawer .. Butter 1s plastered onto toast usmg a pamtbrush. Pools offat develop /Th Wh"t h · .· · o· 


~~-,\ 
. 1 e _1 e ouse . mer ,
on plates and on 1 .. · · ·· · .·• ·. · 1 
~oast. Everything 
***ofS

1s cook~d on t~e <== ·::. -.· • , ... · i same griddle with ·.·.·· .. · Locati.on.. >. .. j Barb's bare hands, Corner of_MishaV,(aka.and .i so vegetarians be-L. _· Twyckenh_~m; ..• J w_are. This isn't the I · :: .<> Pricei; · <>~ : kind ofplace whe~e )11,~m meal:J$ig! fr~~ !2j you ask for a mmst i · · •. . . . ' towellete. r.. . · . · > . H_ ohu.. rs . d ·... · · ·,
Wh h I . Open 24 ours a ~y..

et er you 1, . _... • _ >-. . _ . ··., call it Fat Shirley's, i: ~ood_ foo.c:1-, ·J•d•~ulo:gl~': the 24-hour Truck ! : ~6ii:~?~/k!~'.F¥-"s~:1ey's'.~,;; Sto~ Cafe or. the ! . on.e of the areas b.,e·.st r~.s-... · WhitehouseDmer: I taurants_ fqrthe starving.
' Lcollege kid; . • · • .· · · . . . 
they all amount to ·---·----· ·· · ·--~ ­the same thing: a 24-hour ~it stop for the tired, the weary and, most nnportantly, the hungry. As long as you don't ~nd a touc~ of 8:"ease and a few extra calories, Fat Shirley's 1s the place for good cheap food. 
-With reporting by Ryan Greene 

09 OCTOBER 003 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 33 . -------=---~===-~ ­
•. ,r • • • '•--------~------­
-~ 

''I love you -man ... '' 
Love without the itching, burning sensation 
MIKEHEALY 
Not many people are aware of this, but in 2002, Chicago White Sox first baseman Paul Konerko was 
named "One ofthe Most Eligible Bachelors In Chicago" by Chicago magazine. When, at a White Sox game, I attempted to inform my sister of this, as well as various other amazing statistics, she said, "Ewww! It's like you have a crush on Paul Konerko!" 
Now, whether or not she was correct in her assessment is irrelevant (that is between me and Paul). What is significant, though, is thather accusation led me to fully under­stand for the first time the phenomenon of the Non-sexual Guy Crush (NGC). For those ofyou who are unfamiliar with this topic, NGC is a situation common among males in which adulation and desire to impress another male develops into asitu­ation of high emotional involvement, yet lacks the potent eroticism of heterosexual infatuation. This intense (and celibate) affection manifests itself in emulation of, desire for the approval of, and a tendency to make uncomfortable comments ("Do you know how strong you have to be to swing like Paul Konerko? He must have the body of a Greek god") concerning the object of one's "affection." 
The first documented case ofNGC ap­peared in a 1992 episode of the television show Seinfeld, in which the hapless George Costanza becomes enamored with the ultra-masculine and Mimbo-esque Tony, played with stirring conviction bylongtime Rock'n'Jockhero DanCortese. Most likely though, this incident was not the first in­stance ofNGC throughout history. Thor­ough research has revealed therelationships among our founding fathers to be rife with NGC. James Otis only signed the Decla­ration of Independence so John Hancock would thinkhewas cool. Paul Revere orga­nized the Boston Tea Party solely because Sam Adams made a remark about anyone who would do such a thing being-"a Sam 
.... Adams kind ofguy."JohnAdams' obsession with Benjamin Franklin was so intense that he went through a bizarre period in 1777 during which he forced his house servants to ca:11 him "Ben Jr." 

Non-sexual Guy Crushes afflict not only the great men of history, or those under the spell of the enchanting Paul Konerko, but also between even the most unassuming combination ofmen. In fact, not even our own serene campus is free of this affliction. While there are obvi­ous cases existing between many varsity 


athletes and over-zealous fans ("athletic 
supporters"), these are often not genuine 
cases ofNGC, as they frequently have het­
erosexual motivation ("Hey, Kirsty, want 
to come over tonight? See ifyou can also 
bring a girl for MYFRIEND, VONTEZ 
DUFF, because he'll probably be there, be­
cause WE ARE FRIENDS."). 

One is more likely to observe true instances of NGC within normal soda! contexts. Often, an NGC will exist be­tween a group member who, being un­sure of his status within the group, will ·attempt to mimic a charismatic member of the group, in an effort to replicate his success. Unfortunately, this ploy usually is detected easily by others, who begin to 
dislike the copycat even more for his bla­tant unoriginality and disturbing desire to please another :guy. Noting his own lack of success, the -emulator becomes increasingly amazed:as to how his idol is able to do so well with.the same persona that is failing him. ''.IJhe impersonator soon begins to attribute:thesuperhuman characteristics to the man he was formerly attempting :to become. Eventually, he comes to think ofthis·,person as the Sec­ond Coming ofJesus, or Bill Cosby. It is at this point that the.-Crushor will begin desperately to seek the :approval of the Crushee, laughing at whatever he says, taking interest in his "interests, and ex­cessively boasting ofhis.accomplishments and_ abilities, even to strangers. 
Guy 1: "Man, that weight is heavy." Guy 2: "I know, I don't think I could even lift it." 
Crushor (interjecting): "Dude, Paul Konerko could lift it. He could probably lift like three times that" 
In extremeiy severe cases, the Crushor will compromise ev.en his deepest mor­als and beliefs in order to achieve better standing with the Crushee. For in­stance, while ho sexual attraction exists in an NGC, if, for whatever reason, the Crushee decided to kiss the Crushor, the Crushor, while not being a homosexual, would probably go along with it in an ef­fort to please the Crushee. I know, that is messed up. Keep in mind, though, this situation is likely to arise in only the most extreme situations (Don't even think about it, Konerko). 
Strangely. enough, this phenomenon fails to manifest itself in females. There are a variety oftheorjes as to why this is. Perhaps the NGC is simply conducive only to the competitive culture ofmales. Perhaps the natural rivalry that seems to exist between females precludes its occur­rence. I personally think it is just because there is no woman who can compare to Paul Konerko, and I mean thatin a strictly heterosexual way. \ · · . 


Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 09 OCTOBER 2003 



COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN 



,//',
/ £, '<.· 


__,,.,. ·,., 
.:-r_.-'~ 
c'JJ 
. t 

~::;--'· fi'; 4':,,<l_; • .-.r. 
EDITOR'S CHOICE 

Vice-Presidential Possibilities 
It's very rare that a single on-campus event can attract both 
suit-dad future State Department members and yellow-shirted 
peaceniks alike. On '.:[_hursday, October 9, however, Mr. Dick 
Cheney will be gracing our very own Joyce Center with his 
Vice-Presidential presence for a fundraiser for current House 
member Chris Chocola. Ifyour ears are presently fully perked, 
there are two ways in which you can participate. 
Way#l: Luncheon with the VP and Representative Chocola 
at 12:00 p.m. at theJ.A.C.C. Cost is $250 per plate. For a more 
personal encounter, $2,000 will buy you a photograph for two 
with Mr. Cheney. 

Way #2: "Raise your voice for justice in Iraq: Demand a new 
course of action for the Bush Administration" in non-violent 
protest. Meet at Stonehenge at 10:00 a.m. for a peace pep rally 
ofsorts: speakers, music, free hot chocolate. Protest in the "First 
Amendment Area" from 10:30 a.m. until 1:00 p.m. · 
09 OCTOBER 2003 
AESTHETIC 

• CHICAGO SHAKESPEARE ON TOUR: ROMEO AND JULIET 
Thursday, October 16, from 8:00 -10:00 p.m. at 
Washington Hall. Public -$25, ND/SMC Students -$15. 
Purchase at LaFortune Box Office. 
• "WOUNDS;' FILM FROM BOSNIAWITH ENGLISH SUBTITLES 
Tuesday, October 28, at 7:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. at 
Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Free. 
ATHLETIC 

• INAUGURAL "FIGHTIN' IRISH FIGHTIN' CANCER" RELAY 
Friday, October 10, at 6:00 pm. until Saturday, October 11 
at noon. 

• DROP-INVOLLEYBALL 
Wednesday, October 15, from 7:00-11:00 p.m. at Court 
4 at Rolfs. 

INTELLECTUAL 
• "MORAL PERFECTION ANDTHE EXEMPLARY SAGE" LECTURE 
Prdfessor Stephen Affeldt responds to Professor David O'Connor's paper, "Emerson and the Representation ofGenius." Wednesday, October 15 from 4:30 -6:00 p.m. at McKenna Hall, Rooms 210-214. 
• LECTURE:"COUPLING SIGNAL TRANSFUNCTION AND MEMBRANE TRAFFICKING AND EMERGING FEATURE OF ENDOCYTIC PATHWAY" 
Philip Stahl speaks Thursday, October 16 from 4:00 -5 :00 
p.m. in Room 283 of Galvin Life Sciences. 
SPIRITUAL 

•THE MAN'SWEEKEND RETREAT 
Rejoice and discern the implications ofthe possession of a Y-chromosome. Friday, October 10, at 3:00 p.m. until Sunday, October 12. 
• BEAUTIFICATION OF MOTHERTERESAAND 25TH 
ANNIVERSARY OFTHE PONTIFICATE OF JOHN PAUL II Sunday, October 19, at St. Peter's Basilica in Rome at 
10:00 a.m. 


SUBMII your event for Scholastic '.s Coming Distractions. E-mail your submissions to Meghan Gowan at gowan. l@nd.edu. 
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35 


by Brian Moscona 




Lafortune to L.A. 
Imagine yourself walking into a silent, empty room at 7:00 a.m. knowing thatyou are about to face one ofthe toughest challenges ofyour life. The sun is barely visible in the smog-filled sky, and there is fresh dew on the grass. (I realize that many ofyou, especially ifyou're in the Colleges ofBusi­ness orArts and Letters, are noteven aware thatthis hour ofthe "day still exists, unless you have experi­enced itjust getting home from a bar or an off-cam­pus party. I was a business major ... I know howitis!) In about 45 minutes, 30 children, nine or 10 years of age, will enter the room. These young kids are in your care. Their learning, devel­opment and safety are in your hands. This is the real world! There is no bubble anymore! This situation is my reality five days a week (Unlike college, I do have class on Friday!). As a participant in the ACE program, I have been teaching fourth graders at St. Gertrude School in Bell Gardens, Calif. for the past two months. The program has been wonderfully supportive, and my community members never cease to amaze me in demonstrating that Christ truly is presentinmylife. Despite these positive factors, I have had a some­what difficult transition from South Bend, Ind. to Los Angeles, Calif. The cities are not very similar! -.. -. _m_y_g_o_a_l_w_a_s_a-lw-'--_-a_y_s-to____;;;__s_e_r_v_e_t_h_e The physical challenges ·of leaving my home and
students and to make Notre Dame a 
family at the Univer­better place. In retrospect, I can see sity of Notre Dame to vividly that serving as a student leader live in an unfamiliar city, had a much larger impact on me than one of the largest in the it had on the university. world, could be over­

Brian Moscona '03 was the Student Body 
Vice President during the 2001-2002 school year. Currently, he is 
an ACE teacherfor the fourth grade at St. Gertrude School in Bell 
Gardens, Calif. , 

whelming obstacles in and of themselves. 
In addition to these struggles, my daily routines, responsibilities and priorities have completely changed from what they were a few months ago, as a senior at Notre Dame. At times, these chal­lenges have stared me in the eye, questioning me as to whether or not I was ready to step out ofthe bubble and face "the real world;'' Despite the feelings of displacement, the fear, the stress, and the pains that come with walking away from Notre Danie, I have found comfort and security in the realization that I was blessed with some very special gifts dur­ing my four years as an undergrad that have helped and will continue to help me stand up to these chal­lenges with confidence and courage. One of these blessings was the opportunity to serve myfellow stu­dents as their representative instudent government. 
It may sound a little strange, especially to the undergrads, but student government became my classroom, my arena for learning and growth. My participation in student government helped me develop invaluable skills that I need on a daily basis in the "real world." 
While serving on countless committees and sitting through hundreds ofmeetings, my goal was always to serve the students and to make Notre Dame a better place. In retrospect, I can see vividly that serving as a student leader had a much larger impactonme thanithad on the university. I learned essential skills of time management, organization, workingingroups, relationship building, budgeting, planning, public speaking and many other crucial skills in all areas oflife outside ND, at home and in my professional environment. Every day requires the use of these skills. When I entered ND as a freshman, I possessed immature versions of these. 
Every day, I attempt to assess the gifts and talents of my students, my fellow teachers and my housemates, praying that the Holy Spirit will help me create an environment that brings out the best in others so that everyone benefits. I learned how to do this through my leadership opportunities in student government, working with talented student leaders, self-giving administrators and the most amazing student body in the world. 
Honestly, when I look at my life after Notre Dame, there are no aspects that have not been affected by my days spent in LaFortune, working long hours-in the :student government office. Many form the opinion that student government is ineffective simply bec:iuse university regulations such as parietals still exist. In order to comprehend fully the value of student government, one must look to the personal growth of those who have participated in the organization. Some of the most successful, most holy and ·most developed alumni experienced much of their growth through their service in student government. 
The lessons I learned and 1;):ie skills I developed through my service shaped me into the person I am today, a teacher in "the real world." To all of those critics of student government, stop thinking so selfishly. It's not always about what you get from your student leaders; It·may even be more important to look at what the world is getting as a result of your giving them the opportunity to grow as people through then\service. If you have always wondered what happens on the second floor of LaFortune, please let me give you the answer. University rules are probably. not being changed -people are being changed! . 
09 OCTOBER 2003 
36 SCHOLASTICFINALWORD 








