The Notre Dame

Scholastic
October 25,1957
w £%<
iX


A:
>»■


£


IVKN osocuo
rf$
’•lit
**^3 $*1
THE IMPORTANCE OF LOOKING CASUAL
A man’s best friend is his sport coat . . . and the right sport jacket can make a lot of difference ... in your comfort and in your appearance. You’ll find a big selection of sport coats now in the Campus Shop — by America’s finest makers . . . in a wide selection of smart patterns and in the new fall colors. Why not drop in and look them over soon. ’
On the Campus — Notre Dame
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . .
, j „	Your charge account is always at your
service at the Campus Shop. Get what '	* you need in the way of clothing and
’	furnishings now and use this convenient
way of paying: One-third in January one-third in February and the balance in . March. Of course^ there is no carrying ,	charge.
I	o
I	.
i
ii
October 25, 1957
3
Only Viceroy gives you
2Q000 FILTER TRAPS
FOR THAT SMOOTHER TASTE
THE VICEROY FILTER
Actual photomicrograph of Viceroy filter section.
These simplified drawings show the difference . . . show that Viceroy’s 20,000 filter traps are actually twice as many as the ordinary filter!
© 1957. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
Look! Viceroy gives you only golden brown tobacco, Deep-Cured through and through for extra smoothness!
Twice as many filter traps as the other two largest-selling filter brands!
Compare! Only Viceroy gives you 20,000 filter traps—twice as many as the other two largest-selling filter brands—for that smoother taste!
Plus—finest-quality leaf tobacco, Deep-Cured for extra smoothness!
Get Viceroy! 20,000 filter traps, for the smoothest taste of all!
VICEROY
k*NG.$ize
4
The Scholastic


■7
mixed up
by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
I feel confident that you, my younger brothers-beneath-the-Dome have assiduously studied my last article. I know your clean hearts would not permit you to ignore the sacred collegiate demands of furthering your social education. Consequently your thirst for the means and end of this wisdom must have strongly led you to my sage advice. I also hope that none of you, because of your fervor and zeal, have attempted to apply this newly found knowledge before reading this complementary guide, for a little knowledge can be a dangerous thing. These words have been affirmed by many campus politicians. They are always worried about the student body.
And should there be any young miscreants that believe they can graduate from this institution without paying homage to the belles of St. Mary’s, I beseech them to cease clutching those blankets and sucking their thumbs. This is not security. There are other things to do on a Saturday night besides haunting the Huddle and Washington Hall, or making faces at roommates. So take to heart these words of advice and return to the masses before someday the instincts of man cause you to run the gauntlet of blind dates.
, > ADVANCED LESSONS
I If you have sufficiently practiced the ' art of being a complacent conformist, the initial stages of having a bearable mixer are now accomplished. You are , polished, inside and out. It is now time |	for you to start over to the Student
j -t	Center, but first you had better cut
out that movie section of the Scholastic. r This will save you the trouble of either I carrying the whole magazine with you p or memorizing the column. After finish! ing this, meet some of the other fellows who are going to attend the mixer. Due k to the application of the previous guide, ; your ego is inflated, but the dangers of ♦ deflation at a mixer are many, so you and your acquaintances must strengthen one another. While walking along, exchange tales of all the girls that are home waiting for you. Do not let the mere fact that there may be only two eligible girls in your home town deter * you from emulating any tale told. Remember, you are a Notre Dame man, you have blossomed, your fame has spread, and girls will now travel many miles to be graced by your presence.
So if none were waiting when you left, they are now. The reason is truly a mystery, but they are waiting and you can truthfully tell of them. These tales are meant only to strengthen your ego and reassure you of your basic appeal to the opposite sex. They must not lead you to the conclusion that the same attitude will prevail at the mixer. You must not ignore the powerful effects of environment. The St. Mary’s girl is not awaiting your arrival. She is magnanimously making herself available. You must prove your mettle. Proceed slowly and with caution.
Upon reaching the door of the Student Center, I feel it permissible to offer two paths of advice. The first pertains to the economic minded gentleman, the second, to the determined and dashing. According to the theoretical plans of a successful mixer, there should be present an equal number of males and females. This is an arrangement conducive to a maximum amount of mixing, and you of the first class do not care to spend your fifty cents unless this equality, in number, has been accomplished. If you have anticipated my advice by thinking that all that need be done is to ask the first member of student government that presents himself— he will be recognized by the fact that he is the same fellow who wears a coat and tie even when he isn’t going to dinner — if the conditions are favorable, in reaching this conclusion you are incorrect. You are incorrect because you have forgotten that the student governor is renowned for his belief in theories, which faith has conditioned him to automatically answer you affirmatively. You must not be too credulous. Choose some member of your group, and have him examine the conditions. If he does not return at a prearranged time, you follow. If he returns with a negative report, divvy the scout’s price of admission among the group, check the movie section, and go downtown.
GREAT ODDS
The path to be taken by the determined and dashing is to rationalize that the money is going to a worthy cause; remember, “What though the odds be great or small, ol’ Notre Dame will win over all,” and rush right in — where angels fear to tread.
After walking through the entire
Center about three times, you shall have sufficiently surveyed the grounds. But remember, when so doing, it is against the rules of social etiquette to turn the head and stare. Keep it properly erect, move only the eyeballs. By this time you shall have found the girl that coincides with your tastes — if you have altered them to fit the occasion. The ability to adapt himself to the environment is one of man’s greatest gifts; be thankful and convince yourself that you are satisfied, not resigned. All that needs be done is to ask the belle to dance. If someone is holding her hand, do not do so. She is taken, find another.
If you cannot find any available girl, even after you and the girls decide to settle for the de facto instead of the de jure, reread the movie section, mark the fifty cents as a bad investment — debit to the left, credit to the right — and meet your friends downtown.
But should you be rewarded in your quest do not participate in more than two dances. While dancing you are in imminent danger of being bird-dogged. Suggest a coke and a cigarette. If she neither drinks nor smokes, award her the class- Bible, that is, except if she chews. Then recommend window-watching. This is a quaint Notre Dame tradition in which the couple just looks out of a Student Center window. It sort of means they don’t wish to be disturbed. I recommend the windows overlooking the Court because you can then have a race counting the flagstones below. This race also negates the necessity for conversation, which can be tedious. But if conversation should arise, do not feel compelled to make any revealing statements, such as the fact that your brother is an accounting major, or your sister goes to Rosary, or that you stutter. If you have more than one date, she will have more fun discovering these things over a period of time.
Should you be dissatisfied even after accomplishing the above, cannot bear to sit through another movie, and don’t relish making faces at your roommate, do not try, try again. Why be a stubborn fool. Try something different, like studying. I hear it has been done. But now I must bid you good night and pleasant dreams, because it is time for me to attend a senior mixer, that is, equal parts of conversation and beer.
5
October 25, 1957
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 99 October 25, 1957 No. 5
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized Tune 23. 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS .............. News	Editor
HARRY McKEE .................. Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY ................ Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK ........... Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS ...............   Photography
LORAN SHEFFER   Business Manager JOE DEZELAN    Circulation Manager TOM BANCHOFF ..........   Assistant	News
WALT RUDGE ............   Assistant	News
JIM YOCH ................ Assistant	News
JERRY LEPPECK............ Assistant	Copy
JIM SCHUH ............... Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS ........... Assistant	Features
TOM LAMONT ............ Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH ............. Assistant	Sports
TED THOMPSON ............ Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner. Alan Bosch, Art Dechene, Luino Dellosso, Mike Dudgeon, Ron Dvorak, Geremy Kaye, Bob Maruyama, Bob Messinger, Gil Paprocki, Ed Plunkett, Lyn Relph, Charles Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Dave Samudio, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Chris Watters, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Dave Cole, Jack Dolan. John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon. Greg Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Mike Kuras, Bob Pruett.
•	1,000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ sizes 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
365 day wonder
WR/Sr MOTION WINDS IT
The sturdy water-resistant case of the Seamaster shields the fine Omega movement within from every hazard of dust, moisture, heat, cold and shock. 18K gold dial-figures. Luminous markers. Models in stainless steel and 14K gold.
from $100 Fed. tax incl.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
121 W. Washington
Authorized Omega Watch Repair CREDIT OR LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct.	11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct.	25;	No. 6,
Nov.	8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov.	22;	No. 9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan.	17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13,	Feb.	14;	No. 14,
Feb.	21;	No.	15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No. 17,
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
6
The Scholastic
HOW YOU GOT OUT FROM UNDER —Back in the old days you could hardly drive 100 miles before you had to "get out and get under”. You sweated and fumed to get the balky thing perking again.
Today you stop your car because you want to. To watch the sunset or eat a picnic lunch. Faster, safer, more dependable cars are giving Americans a new way of life. More leisure and more places to enjoy it. It’s what we call Better-ness—the American conviction that "good enough” isn’t.
We know about Better-ness in cars because we help put it there. Timken® tapered roller bearings practi
cally eliminate friction in wheels, pinion, differential and steering gear. And because they’re tapered, Timken bearings take all the loads—up and down and sideways.
Timken bearings play a vital role wherever wheels and shafts turn. A role that has made us the world’s largest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings.
Want to help create Better-ness—make the most of your skills and imagination? Find out about the fine opportunities the Timken Company offers college graduates. Write for our booklet "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company”. The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio.
Every make of American car bat one cues Timken tapered roller bearings.
This is BETTER-ness
TTlfWlT
America is for it and B B HUB BK BQ llluJlEli
g
bearings help you get it
See fhe next Timken Televent hour, ’’The Innocent Years” over NBC-TV, Thursday night, November 21st.
October 25, 1957
— ’--------------
OnCampis W Shubnan I
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
SCIENCE MADE SIMPLE: No. 1
Though this column is intended to be a source of innocent merriment for all sexes and not to concern itself with weighty matters, I have asked my sponsors, the makers of Marlboro, whether I might not, from time to time, use this space for a short lesson in science. “Makers,” I said to them, “might I not, from time to time, use this space for a short lesson in science?”
They agreed with many a kindly smile, the makers of Marlboro, for they are the most agreeable of men. Their benevolence is due in no small measure to the cigarettes they smoke, for Marlboro is a cigarette to soothe the most savage of breasts. I refer not only to the flavor which, as everyone knows, is a delight to the palate, but also to the Marlboro container. Here is no fiendishly contrived device to fray the fingernails and rasp the nerves; here, instead, is a flip-top box that opens like a charm. Add to all this the best filter ever made, and you can see you get a lot to like.
Let us begin our series of science lessons with chemistry. It is fitting that chemistry should be the first, for it is the oldest of sciences, having been discovered by Benjamin Franklin in 468 B.C. when an apple fell on his head while he was shooting the breeze with Pythagoras one day outside the Acropolis. (The reason they were outside the Acropolis and not inside was that Pythagoras had been thrown out for drawing right triangles all over the walls.)
They had several meetings outside the Acropolis, but finally Franklin said, “Look, Pythagoras, this is nothing against you, see, but I’m no youngster anymore and if I keep laying around on this wet grass with you, I’m liable to get the breakbone fever. I’m going inside.” Pythagoras,
friendless now, moped around Athens for awhile, then drifted off to Monaco where he married a girl named Harriet Sigafoos and went into the chuck-a-luck business.
But I digress. We were beginning a discussion of chemistry, and the best way to begin is with fundamentals. Chemicals are divided into elements. There are four: air, earth, fire, and water. Any number of delightful combinations can be made from these elements, such as firewater, dacron, and chef’s salad.
Chemicals can be further divided into the classes of explosive and nonexplosive. A wise chemist always touches a match to his chemicals before he begins an experiment.
A variety of vessels of different sizes and shapes are used in a chemistry lab. There are tubes, vials, beakers, flasks, pipettes, and retorts. A retort is also a snappy comeback, such as “Oh, yeah?” and “So’s your Uncle Oscar.”
I have now told you the most important aspects of chemistry, but there are many more—far too many to cover in the space remaining here. However, I am sure there is a fine
GRRR!
Editor:	■
Being a regular attender of the movies at Washington Hall, I would like to express my thorough disgust with those among the audience who lack the common courtesy to keep their mouths shut during the progress of the film. Not only do the purveyors of “clever” remarks betray their own immaturity, but they spoil the enjoyment of those who *• are interested in the movie and present a deplorable picture of the student body to any parents or guests who happen to be in attendance. Is it too much to ask that those who do not like a movie either . keep quiet or get out?
Mike Franz	4
233 Lyons
NO ‘93'—NO IDEAS
Editor:
The student government is currently recommending to the University that a select group be created and placed on a pedestal for all to imitate. The members of this clique are to be viewed as paragons of wisdom.
Why? Because their superior average denotes superior intellect. All will recognize these wearers of “93” pins as the intellectual lights of the University. Not only will this inspire the average Notre Dame man to new heights of academic achievement, but also, the outside world will realize that our University is producing more than gridiron stars, (Continued on page 11)
ON THE COVER: Halloween is just < around the corner and so Ivan Osorio this week salutes the spirits of the other world (including the erstwhile Martin T. Francis). However one wonders if Ivan has not gone modern on us. Strange as it may seem the witch is not riding a broom at all but some- * thing which looks quite like “Sputnik”. What will the Russians say when they r . see this? Ivan, beware! But which '
Ivan?
chemistry lab on your very own campus. Why don’t you go up some afternoon and poke around? Make a fun day out of it. Bring ukuleles. Wear humorous hats. Toast frankfurters on the Bunsen burners. Be gay. Be merry. Be loose ... For chemistry is your friend!	© mhx shuiman, 1957
The makers of Marlboro, who bring you this column regularly, are tobacconists, not scientists. But here’s an equation we do know: Marlboro plus you equals pleasure.
Classified Advertising
J
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at	I
the University Press Office . in Farley Hall at	j
a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising .must be presented . ' by Monday of the week of insertion.	•‘j
ANNOUNCEMENT: Club meeting, ticket sales, lose something? Save time and expense of posting 4 notices on the bulletin boards. Do it the easy, cheap way with Classified Ads.
TICKETS for Naw game. Need two very badly. Gerald Broderick, 146 Dillon Hall.
8
The Scholastic
Zdriobudi
The success of a university depends for the most part upon the intimate cooperation of three elements: the ‘ administration, the faculty, and the students. These three parties come together to seek the truth; and in fact they must integrate in order to reach this goal. It does seem that if each group were to work separately a segment of truth would be attained. However, that is hardly the ideal.
। From our point of view the academic family atmosphere, ■ although frequently referred to as a tradition, does not exist at Notre Dame. At times there is a complete separation of the three groups to such an extent that none of them know what the other is thinking. Various members of the faculty have bemoaned to us that student personalities are ■ only known to them through experiences in the classrooms.
Students do not know the members of the faculty or the administration, and in some cases have exhibited a species of fear. A week from today the faculty in cooperation with the administration will study the problem of forming a true
; intellectual community. Here is a step in the correct । direction, but also an indication that something has been ‘ missed in the makeup of ‘our family.’
The alleviation of this problem remains in further studies | * such as next week’s seminar. However, we hope that the students will be included in future studies, and that action |	will evolve from them. It is understandable that we can
i	not have the ideal situation of the professor on one side
of a log and the student on the other, but, nevertheless, we must establish a rapport among the three elements.
r One suggestion might run along the lines of a weekly smoker or a monthly dinner sponsored by a club or group which has a common interest to which it invites members of the faculty and administration. Different halls have had A professors come to informal gatherings in the hall to speak, but this idea has never been fully exploited. Area clubs 4 could ask two men, either members of the administration or faculty, to debate a pertinent question before their movies. We are sure that these men will be more than willing to cooperate.
H We call upon the student leaders to work with the faculty and the administration in order to find a solution
* to this problem. We call upon them to use their powers to encourage this worthwhile project. The editors of the Scholastic will be more than willing to aid any program.
—D. L. K.
mid-semesters
A lmost a month and a half has gone by the boards since XX the first classes were held back in September. A good deal has occurred in the meantime. Most of the upperclassmen have fallen into their old ruts. The freshmen meanwhile have been busy in discovering what life at college is really like and in digging the rut they will fall into for the next four years.
Now is a good time for all, but most especially the freshmen, to consider just what they have accomplished so far this semester. Near at hand are mid-semester examinations and the mid-semester reports. For the freshman this will be your first experience with “pink slips” — those warnings which the University hands out halfway through the semester.
The purpose of the “pink slip” is, in the main, to warn the student that unless his work improves during the remainder of the semester he will fail the course. It is not, however, intended that the student give up all hope of passing. On the contrary the “pinkies” are intended to alert the student so that he may make the necessary improvements.
Each year many freshmen, far too many, receive the omnious warnings. In many instances it is almost entirely the fault of the student. Despite possessing the necessary talents, many students just will not work. College life, especially at Notre Dame, is not one big party. The student must realize that his primary purpose here should be to study. And so to those students who wish to get by with as little work as possible only the words that you are cheating yourselves and your parents need to be said.
On the other hand many students simply have difficulty with a particular course, in organizing their study time properly, or do not know how to study. This is an unfortunate situation but it can be alleviated. Freshmen, this year, were provided with student advisors and special senior advisors. Contact these men and see if they can help you. They have willingly given their time. It is up to you to take advantage of it. Also a push should be given to some students to go see their professor if they are having difficulty with a particular course. In almost every case these men are quite willing to give the student important advice as to where the trouble rests.	.
It is not too late to avoid getting “pink slips.” All it takes is a little extra work, or just plain work, during the next few days. And it certainly is not too late to avoid failing a course. It is up to you and it is your duty to take every step possible.	—J.S.
October 25, 1957
9
UNIVERSITY SHOP
OUR
ESTABLISHED 1B1»
Hate JWshinsa, Kate
346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y. BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
Suits, $60 to $75 • Tweed Topcoats, $72
Sport Jackets, $45 • Worsted Flannel Trousers, $1 8.50
distinctive college and prep school styles moderately priced for undergraduate budgets
We have greatly expanded our popular University Shop this season in response to the ever-increasing demand for this fine clothing. Here you will find everything from traditional flannel and cheviot suits to interesting new colorings in sport jackets...and an exclusive new outercoat of heavy tan cotton with raccoon collar that promises to be big news on campuses this Fall. Older boys’ sizes 35 to 42, Catalogue upon request.
*
I ’ ! '■
*
4
Repercussion
(Continued from page 8)
but scholastic all-Americans as well.
Is the real student seeking knowledge or acclaim? Is not knowledge for its own sake the idea of a university? Or is such a university outdated by the demands for recognition? Are the students of today pursuing an intellectual maturity or are they merely collecting merit badges?
Newman’s object of the university is
the exchange of ideas among its members. Should this exchange be limited to a select group? Is this benefit to be withheld from the majority of the students?
Must Notre Dame create its own Phi Beta Kappa society in the imitation of others? Does this University need to assert intellectual equality by creating an impression through an Academic Honor Society? To be big, must one imitate bigness?
Does Notre Dame have to create a
false ideal for its students to strive toward, oi* can it instill ideals, individually and truthfully?
Is education a rewarding of endeavor or a perfection of nature?
Frank McGraw Alumni Hall -
Editor’s Note: The Scholastic by no means considers the question of an Academic Honor Society a closed question and, indeed, encourages comments from the student body on both sides.
SENIORS, GRADUATES
IN ENGINEERING, PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS
MEET THE MEN FROM
AMERICA'S MOST DIVERSIFIED ENGINEERING FIRM
Wednesday, November 20
I-	■ -
RESEARCH • ENGINEERING • MANUFACTURING
Electronics.....Electro-mechanics.....Ultrasonics.......Systems Analysis
Computers.......Automation and Controls.....Nucleonics.......Hydraulics
r	Instrumentation.....Solid State Physics....Combustion........Metallurgy
Communications......Carburetion.......Radar........Structures
4	1	•
BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION Division* Located Throughout the United State* Executive Offices: Fisher Bldg., Detroit 2, Midi.	.
October 25, 1957	11
LAST CALL
BURROUGHS
FOR
APPOINTMENT
corpora™
a worldwide leader in the manufacture of business machines, electronic computers, data processing systems and other electronic equipment for both industry and defense . ..
Burroughs
WILL OFFER YOU EXCEPTIONAL CAREER OPPORTUNITIES HERE ON
NOVEMBER 7,1957
See or phone your college placement office now for your appointment.
I Sales
I representatives
A rewarding future with a rapidly expanding firm. After initial practical training and experience, you will work with leaders in business and industry as a sales counselor on figuring, accounting, and systems problems. Your opportunities are multiplied by a continuing development program. With branches from New York to California, Burroughs provides widespread opportunities for a resident location in the sales area of your choice.
I
Accounting and Finance
Growth opportunities for men in Business Administration and allied fields. Burroughs Corporation offers you positions leading to a topflight career in Corporate Accounting, Financial Planning and Control, Distribution, Cost Accounting and Analysis, Manufacturing Accounting, General Auditing, or Methods and Procedures. Good starting salary. Plenty of chance to know the corporation inside out, from every point of view. If you want to start as a traveling auditor, you can see the country, too. And promotions come fast because we’re expanding fast.
Exceptional opportunities for men with a BS, MS, or PhD in Ind. Eng., ME, EE, Chern. Eng., Math, or Physics. From the very start, you work on some of today’s most challenging problems in ballistic missiles, electronics, computation, data processing, optics, magnetics, communications, and electromechanical equipment for defense, business, and industry. Burroughs, with 9 divisions including a research center and 36 plants from coast to coast, offers engineers a wide choice of interesting-places to work. Excellent starting salary. Realistic promotion-from-within policy. Professional recognition.
4
12
The Scholastic
Campui. Scutt
MISS MARY ANN TINSLEY
1	‘Indian Summer’ queen
4	First Degree Initiation Scheduled by Knights
Knights of Columbus Grand Knight I Bob Porst announced that the initiation ceremony for the newest members will l;. be held Oct. 29. The First Degree Exemplification will be put on by a team from the South Bend Council.
During the past year the Notre Dame Council received four awards. Council :	1477 was awarded a first place trophy
in Division 7 for membership and in, surance. It was also one of 74 councils that appeared on the Century Club list » as a result of adding 210 members.
The Council was granted the Star Council award for organizing a 6-Point program and for meeting the programing requirements in the fields of Catholic activity, council activity, fraternal activities, public relations and „ youth activity. For the most insurance additions the University Council also . received a special award.
The various chairmanships have now been filled. Tom Lopina is this year’s 6-Point chairman while Carl Edmund-r' son is chairman of membership and insurance. The Catholic activities chairman is Al Weinsheimer. Public relations is to be handled by Paul Remi, while youth activities is under the chairmanship of Steve Harvath.
Membership chairman Edmundson will • be in his office every day from 3:30 to
5	p.m. in the K. of C. quarters in the • basement of Walsh Hall to receive in-
quiries from prospective members. The membership drive will run through November.
‘INDIAN SUMMER’ FORECAST AT STUDENT CENTER TONIGHT
'Tiny' Hicks to Play For 250 Couples at Science Ball; Pitt Game, Communion Breakfast Set For Week End
“Indian Summer” will be the theme tonight as 250 science students and their dates attend the 1957 Science Ball. Sol “Tiny” Hicks and his orchestra will provide the music for the affair, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Miss Mary Ann Tinsley of Wilkes-Barre, Penn., date of general chairman Frank Pugliese, will be crowned queen of the Ball. The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president, will crown Miss Tinsley, a freshman at Smith College in Northhampton, Mass.
Sol “Tiny” Hicks and his new, larger band have played at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago, the Shroeder Hotel in Milwaukee, and in ballrooms and colleges throughout the country.
Tomorrow afternoon the Science men and their dates will attend the Pittsburgh game. In the evening there will
Prof. Maxwell to Head Audio-Visual Aid Dept.
The appointment of Prof. Frank R. Maxwell as director of the department of audio-visual aids was announced Monday by The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president for academic affairs. Everett A. Warren, who has been supervising audio-visual matters at the University, will continue as a technical specialist in the department, Father Moore said.
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1942, Maxwell is an associate professor of physical education. He holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Notre Dame and is a candidate for the degree of doctor of education at Indiana University.
Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty, Professor Maxwell taught at Nazareth Hall Military School, Toledo, Ohio, and at Livonia Central School, Livonia, N. Y. He is a member of the American Association for Health, Physical Education and Recreation and Indiana State Teachers Association.
Prof. Maxwell, a native of Rochester, N. Y., is married to the former Doris Stein of Toledo. They have four sons.
be a victory dance in the Drill Hall from 8:30 to 11 p.m., with Gene Berton-cini and his band.	-
The theme of “Indian Summer” will be carried out in decorations through autumn leaves, cornstalks, and pumpkins on an orange and black background under a Harvest Moon.
A Communion Breakfast will be held in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. The Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C., will be the featured speaker at the Breakfast.
Other committee members besides general chairman Pugliese are: publicity, John Choby and Dave Cook; entertainment, Bill Scanlon; publications, John Bottiglione and John MacDonald, and Communion Breakfast, Jim Esch.
Also included in the committee are: business manager, Joe Birkenstock; blind dates, Pat Hogan; decorations, Jim Rascher; hotels, Jim Butcofski, and Science Senator John Kennedy.
Architects Sponsor Series On Urban Planning Problems
A lecture on “The Solution of a City Planning Problem” will be presented at 8 o’clock this evening in the Engineering auditorium by the department of architecture.
The lecture is the fifth of a series on the role of the architect and civil engineering in urban planning. In the coming weeks, lectures will be presented on such topics as “Urban Design” and “Metropolitan Planning.”
The lectures will continue throughout November with one being given Dec. 6.
Prof. Frank Montana, head of the department of architecture, urges everyone to attend the lectures and stresses the fact that they are open to all.
Tonight’s lecture will concern the background structure and organization of a work program in reference to an actual problem.
The purpose of the lectures is to acquaint the students with the careers they can find in the field of urban planning.
October 25, 1957
13
Sophomores to Revisit Ancient Rome Friday; Carlyle to Play for 500 Couples at Cotillion
The LaFortune Student Center will turn into a replica of ancient Rome in all its glory next Friday night when 500 sophomores and their dates will attend the annual Sophomore Cotillion from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. .Russ Carlyle and his orchestra will provide the musical background for the formal. The usual car permissions extend from Friday noon to Saturday noon.
The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, will crown Miss Linda Lambur, a freshman at St. Xavier College in Chicago, queen of “Eternal Rome”. She will be escorted by Tom Lamont, general chairman of the dance. He is an arts and letters student from Chicago.
Russ Carlyle’s orchestra records with ABC Paramount at the present time. Their most popular recordings have been In a Little Spanish Tozvn and Stashu Pandowski, which was a big seller early this year.
Featured with the group is Dorothy Ferguson, a female vocalist. Another well-known member of Carlyle’s orchestra is Michael Caranda, the pianist.
Carlyle has appeared before most of the colleges and universities in the midwest and immediately after the dance will leave for the University of Minnesota.
Recently the band has performed at the Blue Room in New Orleans, the Cavalier’ in Virginia Beach, the O’Henry and Melody Mill in Chicago, and the Skyway in Memphis. Before forming his band in 1946, Carlyle was a vocalist with Blue Baron.
YCS Holds Symposium On Value of Apostolafe
The Young Christian Students Federation presented a symposium on “Catholic Action” in the student lounge of the O’Shaugnessy Building last Sunday night. The purpose of the symposium was to show the value of the lay apostolate by pointing out what YCS at Notre Dame has done and what other Catholic Action groups are doing at the present time.
Speakers included Tom Fogarty, YCS president; Conrad Kellenberg, professor at the Notre Dame Law School and president of the South Bend Christian Family Movement; John Foley, chairman of the National Catholic Action Study Bureau; Jerry Brady, student body president, and Gene Geisler, author of Father of the Family and editor of the Fides Publishing Company.
In keeping with the Roman motif, the main decoration will be a model Roman temple serving as a throne room on the first floor of the Center. The second floor will be transformed into a grape orchard by overhanging simulated grape vines.
The pillars by the entrance to the Center will be draped with olive branches criss-crossed with gold lashings. Gold lights will be spotting the pillars. The color scheme for the dance will be done in purple, gold, and white, the colors of imperial Rome.
Refreshments this year include simu-
MISS LINDA LAMBUR Queen of ‘Eternal Rome’
lated champagne, grape juice in reality, and cookies.
Saturday’s activities include the Navy game and the victory dance in the Drill Hall from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.
There will be a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Guest speaker will be Frank Leahy, former head football coach.
This year’s Cotillion invitations, in keeping with the Roman theme, are large sheets of parchment suggesting a Roman proclamation or epistle.
Lamont’s committee includes: Jack Salandino, decorations; Frank Kennedy, ticket; Ken Bourgon, refreshments; Tom Hirons, business manager; Mike Henderson, accommodations; Bob Beranek, publicity; Dick Sapp, Communion Breakfast; Len Muller, entertainment; and Eddie Butler, football tickets.
American Catholicism Subject of New Book
A controversy which split the American hierarchy and culminated in a papal letter of censure is the subject of The Great Crisis in American Catholic His- t tory, 1895-1900, a new book written by ' Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the department of history, and published by the Henry Regnery Co.
The crux of the heated controversy, according to Father McAvoy, “was the extent of the adaptation of Catholic practices to the American milieu.” A * group of liberal prelates, headed by Archbishop John Ireland of St. Paul, favored such adaptations, the Notre Dame historian writes, whereas theii’ more conservative fellow bishops, led by Archbishop Michael Corrigan of New York, regarded this as “heretical.” J
In 1899 Pope Leo XIII intervened with a letter, “Testem Benevolentiae,” addressed to Cardinal Gibbons of Baltimore, condemning what had come to be known as “Americanism.” The Pope spoke not of “Americanism” as it is popularly known today, Father McAvoy «' emphasizes, but as representing the idea that the Church in America should be different from the rest of the world.
The effect of the Papal intervention was to suppress open conflict, Father . McAvoy notes, but it did not end “the bruised feelings and attitudes of hostil- ) ity” among partisans on both sides of the controversy.
“To have hoped that the conservative and more traditional Catholicism of western Europe would accept the practical, rough, and democratic notions of American Catholicism in the closing decades of the nineteenth century probably was too much,” Father McAvoy observes. 4 1 “It was unfortunate that there was not a better exchange of ideas between these two Catholic peoples. Only after fifty years, despite the continuing agreement on essentials, have European Catholics been urging the social and practical reforms which Americans have always found rather easy. And American Catholicism is growing in theological awareness, in liturgical splendor, and in appreciation of the high cultural inheritance of the older Catholic communities of western Europe.”	4
VICTORY DANCES
Victory dances will be held both this Saturday and Saturday, Nov. 2, from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. in the Drill Hall. Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen will provide the music for both dances.
Special entertainment is being planned for the Navy victory dance.
14
The Scholastic
Joe Meany: Pilgrim
From April to June this past year newspapers across the country carried articles about the Mayflower II, the wooden replica which was built in England and was being sailed across the Atlantic, just as her ancestor had been 350 years ago.
The voyage, of course, was a success and Notre Dame numbers among its students the only American officially on board ship. He is Joseph M. Meany, Jr., a freshman double-E student from Waltham, Mass. Joe won this rare honor by being chosen for the Junior Citizenship Award of the Boys Clubs of America. Joe was chosen on the strength of a nomination for good service by the local director and by an essay on the meaning of the Mayflower.
It all began on Sunday, March 10, when ex-President Herbert Hoover announced in his New York office that Joe had won the award. After that came a succession of newspaper and television interviews and banquets. In one hectic week he appeared on the Dave Garro-way and Will Rogers, Jr., shows in addition to three TV news programs, one in New York and two in Boston. Mayor Wagner presented him with a letter and the city flag to give to the burgermeister (mayor) of Leyden, Holland, where the pilgrims lived for some ten years before returning to England for the voyage.
On March 16 Joe left the USA for Holland via KLM, the Royal Dutch Airlines.
When he arrived in Amsterdam it was late and wet but this did not put the damper on festivities. During the week Joe saw many of the places where the Pilgrims lived, watched a soccer game between Holland and Luxembourg, and attended some ceremonies.
Arriving in London on the twenty-fifth of March, the future Notre Damer was met by the usual number of VIPs and also by his aunt and uncle, who is a major in the USAF.
Foi- the first week and a half Joe was again engulfed in the whirl of meeting people, getting costumes for the voyage, and, finally, a quiet week end with his uncle and aunt. After that he went down to Brixham, where Stewart Upham had built the ship and signed on board. From then on in the picnic was over.
Aside from his chores as cabin boy which included serving meals, Joe had
by BOB SEDLACK
to perform the duties of a regular crew member. The toughest job of all in the days preparatory to sailing was loading ballast of pig iron or steel rails into the hold by hand.
Finally, the days of practice in handling the outdated vessel were over on the seventeenth of April when the Mayflower II sailed for Plymouth from Brixham.
At Plymouth ceremonies were held on the steps where the original pilgrims are thought to have departed fox- the, then, New World. On April 20 the ship began its maiden voyage.
The first day, Easter Sunday, was spent becalmed in the English Channel. Two days later the winds came and the voyage was undeiway. For the first three days or so about half of the crew was seasick, including Joe. Once he got his “sea legs,” however, he was all right even though he lost twenty pounds en route.
After that things settled down to the regular routine as the ship proceeded south to the Canary Islands, turned west, and picked up the trade winds. The Trades were odd friends, strong for days and calm for days. On the calm
Joe Meany: . . . “then west towards the Caribbean. . . .”
HUBUU
days the crew went swimming — but shark lookouts were posted.
During these calm, shadowless days, deck work was kept at a minimum because of the heat. It was hot below deck, too, but the direct overhead rays of the sun were eliminated as the men began scraping oil, tar, and pitch in preparation for painting the vessel.
Near Bermuda the first ship since the English Channel was spotted and, when the island was more closely approached, Navy Flying Boats came out to take pictures. After this the Navy planes were daily visitors except just before and after the storm near Hatteras.
The Mayfloiver II proceeded between the mainland and Bermuda, picking up the Gulf Stream which added four knots to their - sailing speed.
A short while after this, off Cape Hatteras, occurred the most exciting incident of the voyage according to Joe. The morning broke with rough seas. As the day progressed the seas became worse in the rain and by night the ship was heaved-to (all sails taken down) for-twelve hours. The little wooden craft, says Joe, bounced around like a cork in a washing machine.
Finally, at eight the next morning, the forecastle was set but location was unknown. Soon, however, the course was plotted. Reporters from Boston came aboard and the crew scanned the horizon, anxiously looking for Nantucket, the sight which would bring to the discoverer an extra half-bucket of water with which he could wash up that night.
(Continued on page 28)
October 25, 1957
15
Across the Highway:
home economics department will supervise the construction of costumes; Howard Lord is technical director. Nor-
Culture
by PAULA LAWTON
man Laliberte, whose one-man exhibit enchanted viewers last year and who is currently with the Saint Mary’s art department, will design the sets. The female lead, incidentally, will be handled by Lourdene Becker who has heretofore had unspotlighted tasks playing the piano in the orchestra. Brigadoon opens on Nov. 21 and will continue through Nov. 24. On Sunday the players will do both a matinee at 2:15, and an evening performance at 8:15.
Broadway is still in Manhattan, but some good theater has wended its pilgrim way to Indiana. In Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium, the eager pursuer of culture will find a variety of productions, guaranteed to suit his tastes. Whether he is most pleased by comedy or by tragedy, something is sure to appeal to him, since the range of selections offered is wide. Incidentally, O’Laughlin can claim off-stage virtues as well as top-notch on-stage qualities: it’s one of the few auditoriums anywhere in which a long-legged audience can watch the performance in comfort, without tucking knees under chins.
Already theater-goers have applauded performances of three operas by the NBC Opera Company. The Company plans to return next year for another festival. Erik Kuehnelt-Leddihn has lectured on the Church and world affairs. This past week, Alice Curtayne, an Irish author, spoke on Gaelic culture. The calendar lists Oct. 27 as date for a duopiano concert benefit for Cardinal Wyszynski. Slated for November are a number of events: Richard Pattee is coming on Nov. 4 at 4:30 p.m. to lecture on international affairs. SMC students recall Mr. Pattee’s last talk on Israel; he impressed the audience with his views as a journalist and a student of world politics. William Warfield, famous to many collegians for his memorable rendition of “Old Man River”, will be guest baritone when the South Bend Civic Music Association gives its concert on Nov. 5. Both the South Bend Civic and the South Bend Symphony will hold their concerts in the Moreau Fine Arts Center this year.
Sunday, Nov. 10, will be a busy day for Raymond Massey, Agnes Moorehead and Martin Gabel, stars of Paul Gregory’s pre-Broadway production of The Rivalry. The trio will present a matinee at 2 p.m. and an evening performance at eight. The play centers around the Lincoln-Douglas debates and promises to be highly absorbing fare. Elliott Marin Browne, an English religious diamatist, will be at Saint Mary’s on Nov. 12.
Those who thundered an ovation in approval of last year’s production of Carousel will be happy to know that the student musicale this year is Brigadoon. Lerner and Loewe, the same gentlemen responsible for My Fair Lady, authored Brigadoon. The challenge of the musical is being answered by interdepartmental collaboration; the result should be a glittering production. Rocco Germano, member of SMC’s music department, will direct the musical end; James Cronin, from the drama department, is general director and will employ the talents of students both within and without his department; Janetta McNamara, who teaches modern dance at Saint Mary’s, is choreographer; the art department will contribute by constructing and designing sets; Jean Cain, who designed Carousel costumes, will again fashion outfits for Brigadoon and Sister Verda’s
OPERA PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR
The Christian Culture department at Saint Mary’s cordially invites all who can to attend a Nov. 25 lecture by the Reverend George Flahiff, a Benedictine, who will speak on medieval art and Mariology. The pre-Christmas presentations are guaranteed to warm Indiana’s chill December. On Dec. 1, Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, famous lieder singer, is to appear with the South Bend Symphony at their 4 p.m. concert. The voices of ND and SMC Glee Club members will join the combined schools’ symphonies on Dec. 9, in what should be a truly stirring production of Handel’s Messiah. The next day, the South Bend Civic Music Association has scheduled a concert with Jean Madeira, a star of Metropolitan and Viennese opera. The Moreau String Quartet will play on the twelfth. From Dec. 3 to 8, the Oberammergau Players plan to be at Saint Mary’s. In the lobby of the Little Theater, which is on the north side of the Moreau Fine Arts
16
The Scholastic
MOREAU STRING QUARTET
Center, different artists—both students and professionals are continually on exhibit, with changes about every two weeks. -Anyone may mosey through to admire the displays.
After Christmas vacation, on Jan. 12, Ruth Page’s Chicago Opera Ballet Festival will commence. They plan to dance ballets based on opera themes, including Suzanna and the Barber, El Amor Bru jo, and The Merry Widoiv. On Jan. 15, Chester Bowles, former ambassador to India and ex-governor of Connecticut, will visit SMC. For a party man, Mr. Bowles is admirably non-partisan in his analysis of international affairs. Even the Republicans listen to him. On Jan. 30, Jose Greco and his company of Spanish dancers will take full advantage of the technical benefits of O’Laughlin’s ,
Hilde Gueden will give a concert on March 3. Also, during the first week of March, the SMC spring drama, perhaps a Chekhov play, is on the agenda. The music in the air on Feb. 15 will be emanating from the Saint Louis Symphony Orchestra. A capacity crowd is expected to throng O’Laughlin on March 17. The Little Gaelic Singers of County Derry, Ireland, will celebrate the Feast of Saint Patrick with their- songs. March 20 is the date listed for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s combined glee clubs concert. William Doppman, a young American pianist, will play with the South Bend Symphony on March 23. James Eldridge will be on campus on March 25.
April seems a long way off from this
October vantage point, but several events have already found their way onto the program. April 17 is the day chosen for Jacques Vooiz, a pianist, from the Oberlin Conservatory. An all-day workshop and rehearsal on April 19 will culminate in an evening concert sung by the several colleges joining the Indiana Catholic College Choral Festival. In previous years, Marian College in Indianapolis, St. Francis of Fort Wayne and St. Joseph’s in Rensselaer have participated with Saint Mary’s. April 24 is the day that Wolfgang Schneiderhan, a European violinist, will perform for the Hoosier audience. On April 25 and 26, The Christian Culture department will conduct a symposium. The guests currently expected to attend include Dr. Karl Stern, the renowned author of Pillar of Fire, drama theorist Ferguson and Pauline Flanagan, a young actress who will do some readings from Irish poetry, and others. The symposium will end Saturday evening with a concert by the Moreau String Quartet. The Quartet is also scheduled to give concerts during February and March; their performances are ordinarily at 7:30 p.m. in the Little Theater. On April 27, Lourdene Becker, of Brigadoon. fame, will return to her more accustomed perch on the piano bench when she plays in concert with the South Bend Symphony.
The college orchestra plans a presentation on May 1. The Moreau String Quartet will offer their last concert of the year on May 15. May 17 is circled on the calendar as date for the Indiana Conservatory Piano Recital. In tune with the cun-ent revived love of Shakespeare on a box office basis, SMC will again do one of the great bard’s plays. Robert Speaight, witty and capable British director, author (Hilaire Belloc’s (Continued on page 29)
spacious stage as they swoop, stomp, swish, skate, shuffle, pirouette and prance through their program, sponsored by the South Bend Civic Music Association. Still in the Hispanic mood, on Feb. 2, Claudio Arrau, South American pianist, will play with the South Bend Symphony. Thomas Patterson, on Feb. 4, will pose a knotty question to his audience, “Are We Losing the Cultural War?” Mr. Patterson is .the father of the Stratford, Ontario, Shakespearean Festival.
Later in February, on the tenth, the men’s chorus from Saint John’s University plans to present a masque, Carmina Burana by Carl Orff. The next concert in the South Bend Civic Music Association series, on Feb. 20, will feature the Budapest String Quartet. Clara Haskel, billed as a celebrated Bucharest pianist, will appear on Feb. 24.
The Metropolitan Opera’s soprano
SAINT MARY’S O’LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
October 25, 1957
17
October 25, 1957
19
How tough is tough:
Gaelic Football
by PHIL ALLEN
“There was Gaelic football, and it was good.” All of a sudden, mixed in with the red hair, leprechans and shamrocks — there was Gaelic football. Begora, it must have been there forever. How else would it have been possible for the Irish to have developed so many men of fabulous strength and courage, and such great physical skill, through so many centuries? Ah, well...
The truth, however, is that Gaelic football is an offshoot of football as it was played about 800 or 900 years ago in England. The Irish would never admit that they ever borrowed anything from the English, so they added a few variations of their own. Now it is a national sport.
. The game was an odd mixture. Its formulas run thus: take one large round ball, two groups of robust Irish lads, two cheering sections of comely lasses, and mix that with an amount of Irish whisky. There you have a cross between a mixer in the rathskeller and a sandlot football game.
The thing that made the game unique was the variation that the Irish put into it. Put it this way: the men of Notre Dame decide to have a little contest with the ladies across the road. A ball
one of the greatest defensive and offensive moves of the game was to punch the opponent in the face a good number of times (though of course you are aiming at the ball), and in this way the poor gentlemen’s eyes become rather swollen. But as the saying goes, two swollen eyes could not follow the ball as well as one good one.
Another aspect of Gaelic football that made the game unique, was its ceremonial aspect. First the colleens had a dancing contest. After that the MC would come to midfield and give a salute to both teams. Sometimes it was even in the form of a poem, perhaps like this:
I wish to say to you fair gents
We’d like to see some blood and dents; Let’s kick that ball throughout the day, Let not your head get in the way;
And if it does, remember me
A mortician man named Dan O’Lee.
And so the Irishman wages his battles on the green turf, and in the other countries people are wondering. “How did this game really get its name?” Now don’t resort to that old meaning (kicking ball with feet, much trite).
About one century ago this physiological phenomenon was referred to by
many different titles. Some of them expressed it adequately with a few harshly enunciated grumbles, but none was quite exacting enough to suit the bone-bruising intricacies and techniques of the game. It was about this time that the mystifying spirit of the leprechon, personified in the figure of a lad mis-nomered Date’ O’Mockagin, began to work in wild frenzy.
On a damp, foggy October eve, Date’ trudged the long cinder path to Mrs. McKeon’s boarding house for the express purpose of meeting the lovely colleen he was to take to the game on the following afternoon. Much to his disappointment, dismay, and distress she had been stricken by the dreaded English flu. Although he had not met his escort, he felt he knew her well for Patty O’Donny, another roomer of the boarding house had briefed him abundantly. She told Date’ of her keen wit, her fiery and unleashed temperament and also of her startling beauty. How was he to cope with such a woman? Was there no way to prepare for the forthcoming witticism and degrading verbage?
The next morning • Mr. O’Mockagin was in a turmoil. His date book suggested no technique nor plan of strategy for dealing with a pretty girl with such a repetoire of intellectual sharpness.
He met her on the glen where the game was to be played. The greeting was short and the girl as sweet as promised. During the next few hours there took place the most vicious game in Ireland’s history. It was finally halted for the simple reason that none of the contestants could see out of their swollen and scarred eyes.
Terry — a lovely name thought Date’ — sat near the post-game bonfire match-
(Continued on page 29)
would be placed on top of the Army ROTC building; and standing there would be the petite lasses of St. Mary’s and the robust men of ND. The object of the game would be for the little lasses to push the ball into 117 O’Shaughnessey or the robust lads to roll it into the east parlor of Holy Cross hall. I hope you are getting the general idea now. The size of the team was not limited. All the able-bodied in one town played against those of another. Even the parish of Father Dennis O’Brian O’Coughlin O’Lawdy might play the parish of Father Patrick O’Shally O’Murphy O’Well.
The rules provided that the game start at a point in dead center between the two rival parishes. That might have been two miles or ten miles, from the parish lines. The team that was first to advance the ball across the boundary line of the rival parish won. This sounds like a very nice Sunday outing doesn’t it? Let me fill you in on one of the fine tactical points of the game. It seems
20
The Scholastic
Student Senate Announces Election Results; Inauguration Is Scheduled For Sunday Night
Wranglers Evaluate
Education, Theology
Twenty-five new senators and hall I presidents were elected for the sophomore, junior, and senior halls on Oct. 17 in the annual campus elections.
The newly-elected student officers will . begin their work for the year with a ' day-long discussion of student problems beginning at 2 o’clock Sunday afternoon in the ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center.
At this discussion the general setup ; of student government will be explained ‘ as well as various Senate policies and । constitutions. The majority of the time, ' however, will be given to the informal discussion of the concrete things which student government must do in the coming year. The notes from these discussions will then be combined with the notes taken at the student government workshop earlier in the year to form a basic working plan for the coming year. ' The inauguration ceremonies will begin > at 7:30 Sunday evening. The Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., author of Notre Dame 100 Years, will give the main address. His talk will deal with the history of the University and will be slated in , such a way as to be beneficial to the 1 men of student government.
v All the members of the University ad; ministration have been invited. The ' deans of each of the schools have also been invited, and also members of St. Mary’s student government.
Rev. James E. Norton, vice-president in charge of student affairs, will give 1 a short talk as will Student Body Presi-, dent Jerry Brady. The day will be climaxed with the inaugural oath being administered by Remy Fransen, chief justice of the student activities court.
In Alumni Hall, Robert Schwenker was elected president and Rick Ninne-man senator. Anthony Schork is Walsh’s president and Joseph Knott, senator. John Foley will be senator from Fisher Hall with Gerald Dahle president.
Dillon Hall chose Bob O’Meara for president and Charlie Phillips senator. Karl Mangold and Terry Lamb will be president and senator, respectively, for Pangbom Hall. In Sorin Hall, John Boyce was elected president and Mike Halpin senator.
James Wysocki is Lyon’s president and William Scheckler senator. Badin has as senator, Thomas Greene and as president, Ken Adamson. In Howard John Dorenbush will be senator and Wayne Sullivan president. Morrissey picked Dick Corbett for then- senatoi-and Leonard Muller president.
Stanford elected John O’Hara president and Thomas Lamont for senator. In Keenan, Frank McCormack ranked first in the presidential race while Herb Riband was elected as senator. Nick Barlolini won the Off-Campus senator race.
PHONE NUMBERS
New student telephones have been installed in Keenan and Stanford halls, and students are requested to copy down the phone numbers in order to relieve the burden on the operator.
The first floor number for Keenan is 612; second floor, 613; third, 615; and the fourth floor number is 618.
Stanford’s numbers are: 288 for the first floor; 289, second; 291, third; and 294 for the top floor.
“The Theology of Education in Action” was the title of the second Wrangler paper of the year, presented by Martin Murphy on Oct. 16. The paper and discussion were directed to an evaluation of the educational environment at a Catholic university, particularly our own.
After defining education as “the development of a necessary personal image of the whole of reality,” Murphy explained that as God must fill this image, it is theology and not philosophy that must order education. Basically he said that there are three kinds of educations, moral, intellectual, and physical, in that order of importance, and that the second, intellectual education, is the proper end of the school. But this is too often apparently in conflict with the end of Notre Dame which is.to educate “the whole man,” to be the instrument of all three kinds of education.
It is necessary, said Murphy, for the University as a school to meet these three needs, but to be the direct instrument of intellectual education, and as far as possible, to be the indirect instrument of the other two. He added that it must be remembered that the University exists as a social community and can in this function be the direct instrument of moral and physical training, but it must, at the same time be said that the social community exists only for the school or this is no longer a university at all.
In this light, the Wranglers found many problems for their discussion. Among them were “To what extent can Notre Dame assume the role of indirect instrument of moral training in the classroom proper without reducing the strength of her intellectual training?”
$
h

THE PASSING SCENE . . . COMING SOON IN “ESCAPE”
October 25, 1957
I
21
Courtesy Barber Shop Welcomes
Notre Dame Men
YOU WILL LIKE OUR SERVICE AND FRIENDLY ATMOSPHERE FRED CRAVEN—JOHN ZENTZ Basement—112 E. Wash. Ave.
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
Foreign Film Series Planned By Department of Languages
The department of modern languages will present a series of foreign films (with superimposed English subtitles) during the semester. All will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium, at 6:15 and 8:15 on the appointed evenings, with the exception of the German film, which will be shown at 7:30 p.m. only. Admission is a nominal 25 cents.
Monsieur Vincent is one of the most famous French films of the decade, and will be presented on next Wednesday. The Little World of Don Camillo, an Italian film, will be shown on Nov. 13. “Little World” is from the book of the same name, and is a story of conflict between the Communist mayor and Catholic priest in a small Italian town.
It stars the internationally known French comic, Fernandel.
The Marriage of Figaro (German) is a screen adaptation of the opera which appeared recently at St. Mary’s. The date of its performance is set at Dec. 2. The General and the Senorita is a Spanish movie, filmed in Mexico, and the setting is the days of the Spanish revolution. It will be shown on Dec. 11.
NO ‘SCHOLASTIC’
The editors and their staff express regrets that there will be no SCHOLASTIC next week. However, with true faithfulness to the student body, they will return the following week. They hope that the students will be able to endure their absence.
Top men go to TEXACO
leader in the constantly expanding field of petroleum
BUILD A REWARDING CAREER for yourself with The Texas Company.
FIND OUT FIRST HAND the broad range of opportunities and benefits in the fields of your particular studies, made possible through TEXACO’S nation-wide and world-wide scope of operations.
TEXACO'S REPRESENTATIVE will be interviewing on your campus soon. Sign up now.
SEE “Opportunities with Texaco” booklet —and interview dates posted—in your placement office.
Your Opportunity:
Refining
Chem Eng Civil Eng Meeh Eng Metal I Eng
BS MS BS MS BS MS BS MS
Research & Technical
Chem Eng Meeh Eng Chemistry
MS PhD
MS
MS PhD
Sales	
Bus Adm	BS MS
Liberal Arts	BA MA
Chem Eng	BS
Civil Eng	BS
EE	BS
Industrial Eng	BS
Meeh Eng	BS
Metall Eng	BS
Accountants	BS
Economists	BS
Bus Adm	BS
Liberal Arts	BA
THE TEXAS COMPANY
The Scholastic
i 'Night in Hawaii' Set For Lawyers Friday; Ken Morris to Play For 200 Couples at Ball
“A Night in Hawaii,” the 1957 Law Ball, will be held at the South Bend Country Club next Friday night from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., with Ken Morris’ orchestra providing the music.
As an extra feature, 200 orchids are । being flown in from Hawaii for the dates of the law students, courtesy of Mr. and Mrs. Chan Tam and United a Airlines.
g ' Miss Carole Wrona, of Dearborn, | Mich., will be crowned queen of the dance by John Marchal, president of the Student Law Association. She is a graduate of Michigan State University, and is presently employed as a department store buyer in Dearborn. Frank Prebenda, chairman of the Law committee, will escort Miss Wrona.
The Ken Morris orchestra is a popular local group which has played at many I campus dances throughout the midwest. This is their third consecutive appearance at a Law Ball.
‘ ‘ In addition to the Ball an informal party is planned for Saturday night at the Erskine Country Club. On Sunday morning there will be a Mass in Alumni
Political Science Club Holds k Meeting Tuesday in Center
The Academy of Political Science will meet in the LaFortune Student Center Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. At this meeting membership fees will be accepted and the nominations and election of the secretary and treasurer will be held.
“Every junior political science major should be present at the meeting,” states > Jack Carpenter, president of the academy, and adds that anyone interested in this field is welcome to attend the meeting.
Members of the academy have agreed to sponsor a banquet in conjunction with the Indiana Clearing House, which is a nation-wide agency designed to develop an interest in politics on the part of college students. Alumni of the University will be invited and a prominent political figure will be the guest speaker. This banquet is planned for the early part of December.
Among other activities that will be discussed in detail at the coming meeting is a tentatively planned field trip in January to East Lansing for the Michigan state legislature. It is possible that there will be a similar trip to Washington, D. C. between semesters.
I Dr. Paul Bartholomew is in charge of ’ all arrangements.
The question of a Christmas party will also be discussed and decided upon i at the meeting.
. October 25, 1957
Hall followed by a Communion Breakfast at the Morris Inn. The guest speaker will be Moose Krause, director of athletics.
Instead of favors at the Ball, mums will be distributed to the dates of the Law students. Following the game there
CAROLE WRONA
Hawaiian Queen
will be a reception for the students and faculty. The Law faculty and their wives are invited to attend the Ball.
The Student Law Association has planned a reception for the Hon. William Brennan, associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, on Oct. 28. A reception for law students, law alumni and the faculty is planned after each home football game.
It is also hoped that the third Sunday of each month will become Communion Sunday for the law students. A closed retreat is being planned at the Notre Dame Retreat House for February.
Moran-Stettler Take First In Masterpoint Tournament
Brian Moran and Lou Stettler won the monthly masterpoint bridge tournament held last Sunday afternoon in the LaFortune Student Center.
Fred Lavin and Tom Hellrung captured second place and the team of Ed Kennedy and Bill Moran took third. There were twelve pairs entered in the tournament.
There is a bridge tournament held every Sunday at 2 p.m. in room ID of the Student Center. All bridge enthusiasts are invited to participate.
Student Senate Praises Volunteers at Infirmary
Commending the many volunteers who worked at the Infirmary during the recent epidemic and proposing remedies for the probable losses they would accrue from No Time For Sergeants formed the major part of the discussion at the Student Senate meeting of Oct. 15.	]
The night before the performance, the Senate attempted to avert the serious financial loss they were about to receive from the presentation of the Broadway-play, which was the first of an intended series of “big name” entertainment on campus. The following day their remedies failed. Approximate loss: $1200.
The Blue Circle, YCS, Third Order of St. Francis and several other groups and many individuals who donated their time to relieving the acute congestion at the Infirmary because of the flu were praised by the Senate.
Dave Link, commissioner of public relations, suggested in his report that the Senate conduct an investigation into the attitude of campus policemen towards week end guests.
Also recommended at the meeting was the need for a readily available and reg- 1 ulated tour service. This was recently I demonstrated by the ease with which volunteers were found to guide Miss Connecticut of 1957 around the campus, and the comparative lack for some other tourist groups.
125 Seniors Will Depart On Michigan State Trip
The seniors will embark on their last football trip at 3:30 pan. on Nov. 8. Buses will convey 125 of them from the circle to East Lansing, Mich., where they will be feted at jMichigan State over the week end.
After signing in either at a dorm or the YMCA, their sojourn will begin with the rally and then they will attend a party beginning at 8 p.m.
Saturday morning they will hear Mass and receive Communion in a body at the new Catholic Student Center just off campus. They will then have breakfast in the short-course cafeteria and spend the rest of the morning as they wish. That afternoon, of course, is the game between the Spartans of Michigan State and Notre Dame.
The Newman Club will sponsor a mixer for the Notre Dame men and the Michigan State University girls in the Catholic Centei- in the evening.
After Mass on Sunday in the Center, the rest of the day is free. The buses will leave from Lansing at about 2 pan. and will return to campus at 6 pan. Sunday evening.
23
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
Ill SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
Senate to Hold Contest For Huddle Room Name
The Student Senate Physical Facilities commission is conducting a contest among the student body to name the room in the new Huddle in the La-Fortune Student Center which contains tables and booths and lias a large football mural on the wall.
This contest, a part of the Navy game homecoming celebration, began last Monday and will run until next Thursday.
Ballot boxes will be set up in the Huddle and in both Dining.Halls. The student’s name, campus address, and the name he wishes to submit in the contest is all that is necessary to enter. .
There will be a prize of $10 awarded to the entry judged best.
ROTC Units to Participate At Coming Pitt, Navy Games
Thirty-two Army cadets, all members of the AROTC drill team, will drill in a short exhibition during the half time of the Pittsburgh game tomorrow.
The drill team is made up of approximately 50 men including 35 new cadets.
At the Navy game the following week, the entire battalion of Naval midshipmen, under the direction of Lt. Commander William Hohmann, will parade onto the playing field before the game. _
Prior to the game the battalion will salute both Navy and Notre Dame and will join in on the flag raising ceremonies with a unit of midshipmen from the naval academy.
hair groom tonic
Grooms your hair while it treats your scalp. Controls loose dandruff. 1.00 plus tax
HAIR GROOM TONIC
SHULTON New York • Toronto
AVAILABLE AT THE
Notre Dame Bookstore
on The campus
24
The Scholastic
thuAli Seen*
UNBEATEN IRISH FACE PITTSBURGH TOMORROW
Rested Irish Go After Fourth Straight Win Against Twice-Beaten Panthers in Stadium
by TIM O’REILLY
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, fresh from a spectacular victory over Army, will be going for their fourth consecutive win when they meet the University of Pittsburgh tomorrow afternoon at Notre Danie Stadium. Coach Terry Brennan’s boys enjoyed a well-earned open date last Saturday and have spent two weeks in preparation for this meeting, the twenty-fourth in a series which goes back to 1909. The Irish will be seeking revenge for last year’s 26-13 defeat at the hands of the Pitt Panthers.
The return to the line-up of halfback Aubery Lewis and co-captain center Ed Sullivan will strengthen the Irish. Both players were injured in the opening game of the season against Purdue and did not play in the following two games.
Pitt lost 15 lettermen, including eight first stiingers, from 'last year’s squad which finished the year with a commendable 7-3-1 record. Consequently Coach John Michelosen faced a rebuilding problem with this year’s team. He stated prior to the opening game that, although his squad was strong in certain spots, lack of depth and a big question mark at quarterback would make it difficult to better last year’s record. However, he has received fine quarterbacking this season from Bill Kaliden, and competi
BILL KALIDEN
Pitt Quarterback
tion for starting berths has been so rough that out of the four returning regulars from last year’s team only one, co-captain and center Charley Brueck-man, is in the starting lineup this year.
Last week Pitt lost to Anny 29-13 in a game which was expected to settle the unofficial eastern football championship. Both of the Panther’s scores were registered on long pass plays by second-string quarterback Ivan Toncic. The first was a 37-yard pass-run play to end Dick Scherer and the second on a 53 yard pass-run to Dick Haley, junior left half. Pitt’s giant line pushed Army all over the field, but twice Panther drives were stopped inside Army’s 10 yard line. Sophomore half back Bob Anderson headed the Army scoring -with two touchdowns.
The Panther line, heaviest in the country, averages 230 pounds from tackle to tackle. The end spots are held down by Scherer at 205 pounds and Jim Zanos at 195.
Brueckman, at 225, anchors the center of this formidable line. A two-year letter-man, he averaged 50 minutes a game last year. One of the best centers the Panthers have had in 25 years, he is considered a definite All-American candidate. Outstanding at his defensive line backer post he has already been drafted by San Francisco.
At right guard is Dick Carr who beat out returning regular Dan Wisniewski for his position. Carr at 220 is the smallest man in the Pitt forward line. John Gusik holds down the left guard slot. A 230-pounder, Gusik is fast for his size and one of Pitt’s most aggressive linemen.
Right tackle and co-captain Jim McCusker, is one of the biggest lineman in college football at 245 pounds. The team strong man, McCusker is rugged and capable. Left tackle Ron Kissel, weighing 230 pounds, is one of the most improved players on the squad.
Scherer at left end is an exceptional pass receiver while Zanos at the opposite end of the line is a very strong defensive player.
The quarterback spot, which was a question mark at the beginning of the season, has been filled. Bill Kaliden and
JIM THEODORE
Panther Halfback
Ivan Toncic share this spot. Kaliden, who stars in basketball and baseball as well as football, started in Pitt’s previous games, while Toncic is known as an exceptional passer.
Left halfback Dick Haley, a 180 pound junior, has been described as “faster than a shotgun barrage.” He played only 88 minutes last year but was impressive enough to earn his letter. A great breakaway runner and good pass receiver, he is also a threat on defense, excelling in intercepting passes.
Returning regular Jim Theodore held down- the other halfback slot at the start of the season but was injured in the first game against Oklahoma. Jim Scisly, a junior, took his place. Filling in for the injured Theodore, Scisly scored two touchdowns against Nebraska. Theodore, incidentally, outgained All-American Jimmy Brown in last year’s Pitt-Syracuse game.	.
The fullback starting position is still undecided after five games. Dick Bowen,, a returning regular, was beaten out by Fred Riddle, a third string player who had not figured in this years plans at the end of spring practice. And second-string Bob Stark has also been in the thick of the fight for the starting berth.
Pitt runs from the T and, with two fast-stepping half-backs, will probably use a number of roll-outs and wide endsweeps to take advantage of this speed. They pass well with Scherer and Haley the favorite targets. • '
October 25, 1957
25
Sexagonal Test Faces Undefeated Harriers This Afternoon on Notre Dame Golf Course
Pietrosante, Lynch Lead Statistics Race
This afternoon at the University golf course, Notre Dame’s undefeated crosscountry team plays host to Bowling Green, Michigan, Loyola of Chicago, Central Michigan and Western Michigan in a sexagonal meet. Starting time is slated for 4 p.m. The Irish and Western Michigan will rule as favorites though strong competition is also expected to come from Michigan.
Notre Dame’s harriers won their second straight meet of the 1957 season last Saturday in a duel with a strong Indiana squad on Burke Memorial Golf Course. Senior Ed Monnelly outdistanced the Hoosier’s Dick Pond by five yards to pace the Irish to the 25-30 victory. Monnelly’s winning time for the four mile trek was 20:21. He was also the individual winner in Notre Dame’s opening victory over Marquette.
Indiana also gained third place but the Wilsonmen captured the next three places which proved to be the margin of victory. Sophomore Dave Cotten placed fourth for the harriers, followed by Mike Haverty, a junior, in fifth and senior John Burns in sixth. Veteran Vic Dillon came in ninth to round out the five point-gatherers for the Irish.
Coach Alex Wilson termed the victory “important and encouraging” for the harriers since Indiana is highly rated and is expected to be a power in the Big Ten this fall. The Hoosiers defeated
Notre Dame twice last season, once in a dual meet and then again in the state meet. However, the Irish placed higher-in the NCAA at the close of the 1956 season. The ND victory was made more impressive by the fact that it was won without the services of Captain Dale VandenBerg and sophomore Galen Cawley, both out with injuries. VandenBerg will be ready for today’s sexagonal but Cawley’s participation is questionable.
Next Thursday afternoon, the crosscountry will journey to East Lansing, Mich., for a dual meet with Michigan State. The Spartans, defending NCAA champions, have already been defeated by state rival Western Michigan, though in this meet several of their runners were unable to compete because of illness. Last fall Michigan State turned back the harriers 19-36 on their way to the national championship. Two years ago, at East Lansing, the Wilsonmen upset the Spartans. Wilson expects Michigan State to provide the stiffest competition to date for the Irish.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Dartmouth over Harvard Navy over Penn Yale over Colgate Army over Virginia Holy Cross over Boston U. Texas Christian over Marquette Miami over Kansas Notre Dame over Pittsburgh Michigan State over Illinois Oklahoma over Colorado Michigan over Minnesota Ohio State over Wisconsin Iowa State over Kansas State Missouri over Nebraska Duke over North Carolina State Tennessee over Maryland North Carolina over Wake Forest Georgia Tech over Tulane Auburn over Houston Texas A&M over Baylor Oregon over California Oregon State over Washington UCLA over Stanford
So. California over Washington St.
UPSET OF THE WEEK: Northwestern over Iowa
LAST WEEK:
18 right; 7 wrong.
SEASON:
77 right; 21 wrong; 2 ties. Pct. .786.
Fullback Nick Pietrosante and halfback Dick Lynch lead the Irish in rushing and scoring after three games. Pietrosante boosted his average to over < six yards a carry with his sensational 65-yard run from scrimmage for the second touchdown against Army. The juniorfullback has netted 245 yards in 41 carries.
Besides tallying three touchdowns to lead the team in scoring with 18 points, / Lynch is second in total rushing with 155 yards in 38 tries, for an average of better than four yards a crack. Included in his total are the 19 yards he gained on five successive tries for the third Irish touchdown two weeks ago.
Pietrosante has picked up two touch- . downs and is the only other member of the team with more than one score so far this season.
Frank Reynolds, who has filled in excellently for the injured Aubrey Lewis at the left halfback post, has picked up 92 yards in 31 carries, good for three yards a try.
Quarterback Bob Williams has connected on 14 of 30 for 190 yards and a completion percentage of .467. He is clicking at a rate of 13.6 yards per completion. He has thrown one touchdown pass to Frank Reynolds for the M second touchdown against Purdue, and has had three of his thirty intercepted.
Frank Reynolds and Dick Lynch have completed nine passes between them for 84 yards. Reynolds has hit six of nine for 58 yards. Williams’ pass to Reynolds is the only Irish score through the air this season.
Lynch also leads in number of passes / caught with seven good for 84 yards.
Pietrosante has done almost all of the Irish punting this fall. He has kicked 14 punts (of the team’s 17), 520 yards for an average of over 37 yards a boot.
Pietrosante, Lewis, Jim Just, and George Izo have each intercepted one pass, with Lewis owning the longest runback of 36 yards. Reynolds and Lynch have returned two kickoffs apiece, totaling 53 and 35 yards. Lynch is the only back to handle two punts, but Reynolds has the longest run back, 14 yards.
Whereas last year linebackers and halfbacks were leading the team in tackles, this season 13 of the 15 leaders in tackles are linemen. Junior guard Jim Schaaf paces the squad with 20. Bob Scholtz and Bronko Nagurski are right behind him with 19 and 18 respectively. Pietrosante leads the backs with 14. Others in double figures are Bob Gaydos with 12; Lynch and Gary Myers, 11; and Dick Royer, Chuck Pun-tillo, and Dave Hurd, 10.
26
The Scholastic
(
i The Great Panther-Irish Rivalry
by Joe Bride
y
Through the years football games be-i tween Pittsburgh and Notre Dame have been titanic gridiron struggles. The powerful Panther lines and elusive backs have troubled the Irish coaches, from Knute Rockne to Terry Brennan, with smart, hard-fought football.
The Irish have won 15 of the games, lost seven, and tied one, but from 1930 to 1937, in the era of Jock Sutherland’s coaching reign at Pitt, the Panthers won five of the eight games.
‘ Notre Dame won the first game, 6-0, in 1909.
Rockne’s first meeting with the Panthers was as a left end on the 1911 squad. The highly-touted Panthers met the Irish on Forbes Field in Pittsburgh, and the two teams battled to a 0-0 tie. ' Rockne provided the thrills for the crowd, taking the second quarter kickoff 40 yards for a touchdown, but the referees ruled the whistle hadn’t blown to open the quarter, and the touchdown wasn’t allowed.
The following year the two teams •’ battled in the snow and cold, and a 25-yard field goal by quarterback Gus Dorais in the waning minutes of the third period gave the Irish a 3-0 victory. One of the defensive stars for the Irish was left end Rockne.
Rockne’s final team, the 1930 national championship eleven, blasted the Panthers with 35 first half points. The powerful backfield of Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz, Marty Brill and Joe Savoldi charged through and around the Panthers. But a fighting Pitt team never quit — held the Irish scoreless in the second half and, in a wild melee of last period scoring, tallied 19 points.
From 1932 to 1934 the Panthers completely handcuffed the Irish. They scored consecutive shutouts of 12-0, 14-0, and 19-0 as Warren Heller, Joe Skla-dany, Charles Hartwig and George Shotwell paced Sutherland’s teams.
Those three Panther victories set the stage for the 1935 contest, the classic battle between the two teams.
The year 1935 was one of Irish comeback victories. On November 16, they came from behind in the final three minI utes to tie Army, 6-6. On November 2, they scored three times in the final period, in an all-time gridiron epic to beat Ohio State, 18-13. And, on October 19, in Notre Dame stadium, Marty Peters booted a 28-yard field goal with
four minutes left to give the Irish a 9-6 victory over Pittsburgh.
Booming punts by Bill Shakespeare kept the Panthers in their own territory most of the afternoon and helped to set up the Irish touchdown.
Pittsburgh dominated the first period and most of the second. They marched to six of their eight first downs in the first half and late in the first period began their touchdown drive from the Notre Dame 48. A nine-yard pass put the ball on the Notre Dame two. Panther fullback Frank Patrick cracked over from the two, and for the fourth straight year the Panthers led the Irish.
The Irish stands pleaded with the team to block the kick. The first attempt was blocked, but the Irish were offside, and Patrick got another chance. This time, Wayne Millner, one of the heroes of the later- Ohio State game, crashed through from his left end spot and knocked the ball down with his right arm.
The Irish fans had something to yell about immediately after this score. Failing to make a first down after the kickoff, they were forced to punt. Shakespeare, standing in his own end zone, booted an 80-yard punt. The Pitt safety man stood looking up at the ball as it
PITT-ND SERIES Memories of the post
soared by him and bounded dead on Pitt’s 20-yard line.
The Panthers fumbled on the first play but recovered for ’ a four-yard loss. When they attempted to punt out of danger, the hard-charging Irish line forced Arnold Greene to hurry his punt. It was high and went to the Panther 40, but the Irish let it bounce, and it came right back to the Pitt 21.
Fred Carideo recovered an Irish fumble on the first play and then smashed to the ten for a first down. He carried it to the four-yard line in two more smashes. On third and goal, Shakespeare broke through for the touchdown, and Notre Dame’s first score in four years against Pitt.
A bad pass from center prevented Wally Fromhart from making the conversion, and the score was tied at 6-6.
Following the game’s two touchdowns, Notre Dame dominated the second half, and the stage was set for Peters’ dramatic field goal.
Late in the fourth period Shakespeare punted deep into Pitt territory, and the Panther return kick came out only to the 33-yard line. With about six minutes remaining in the game, Notre Dame moved to a first down on the 22. But the Panthers managed to stop the attack, and the Irish were faced with a fourth down situation.
Peters was selected to attempt the only field goal of his life. Center Fred Solari’s pass from center was an accurate spiral. Peters booted a wobbly kick that tumbled high in the air and over the cross bar. The Irish led 9-6.
The Panthers didn’t give up. Using double laterals and reverses they moved to the Notre Dame 48 with 17 seconds left. But Solari intercepted a long pass, and the game was over.
Two years later, Notre Dame was trailing a great Pitt team, led by AllAmerican Marshall Goldberg, by only 7-6, going into the fourth period. Pitt, along with Minnesota, was rated the top team in the country, and the week before Notre Dame had defeated Minnesota, 7-6. But, the Panthers scored twice in the final period and defeated the-Irish, 21-6.
Notre Dame then won eight consecutive games until 1952 when Pitt won, 22-19,. in a year when the Irish had beaten Oklahoma and Texas, the country’s ranking powers. The Irish won in 1953 and 1954 and lost to Pitt last fall.
October 25, 1957
27
DRRWTURBOW
\PPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
BREEN’S JEWELRY . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Men’s and Women’s Costume Jewelry Four Ways to Buy. Cash, Charge, Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan	AT 7-3630
Kegler Races Tight In All Four Leagues
After five weeks of competition, the races are beginning to shape up in the various Kampus Kegler leagues. Both team and individual highs have been established, and leaders in all leagues have been determined. Contrary to the usual procedure, team leaders are not necessarily ranked according to winloss percentages, but according to total points. A point is given for each game won, and an extra point is earned by the team which spills the most pins in each three-game match.
In the Wednesday 6:30 league, the Detroit “A” team is leading with an 8-1 record and a total of eleven points. The Motor City team also boasts a 852
DAVIES
Offers Special Student Discount
DAVIES
Choice of Eight Style Cummerbund Sets Open Evenings by Appointment Drive In Parking
DAVIES
WeaA, Retrial 117 South Lafayette	Telephone CE 4-9644
average. The Chicago Club has thus far-posted the league’s three-game high of 2887 and one-game high of 987. Nick Ranieri of the Chicago Club has posted the individual highs of 642 in three 1 games, and 223 in a single game.
The St. Louis Club, with a 7-2 record, an 836 average and a total of nine points, is pacing the Wednesday 8:30 league. This team has also posted the highs in its league with a 2709 three- ( game score and a 954 single-game score. Lou Solomon of the California Club has spilled a high of 541 in three games, while Don Flannery of the Cleveland . Club has hit 220 in a single game.
The number one club of the ASME’s tops the Thursday 8:45 league with its 5-1 record, 794 average and seven points. The runner-up Gutterdusters have posted highs of 2696 and 931 in team , competition, while Virg Minnick of the De-effers and Ted Nekic of the Cleveland Number Two team have paced the individual scorers with 572 and 222 respectively.
Dennis Casimer of the Villagers has bowled a high game of 205 while leading his team to first place in the Friday 6:30 league. The Villagers, in winning eight out of nine games, have amassed a total of 11 points and an average of 794. The Lakers, in second place, have , recorded a league high of 2581 for three ? games and the Strikers have rolled a high game of 911. The other high in the league goes to Father Davis of the Padres with a score of 540 for three games.
SPRING SEMESTER IN VIENNA
SI 195
PRICE INCLUDES:
Round trip ocean passage, room and board in Europe, tuition at Univer-
sity three
of Vienna, study tours.
THE
iv m i n
01 El HOPE W
Please send ns your name and address for more information and application forms.
1 Naw			
1 Address			Ti E.i-i H.n'M'r
1 city	Zone	State 1	1 ti11 .i_i। . i. lii
•" 1			
Meany—	m
(Continued from page 15)
The next day was the most exciting on board ship for Joe and the rest of the small ship’s company. Ahead of her the Queen Elizabeth cut its engines and drifted gracefully by. Behind, the Coast । Guard ship Eagle led escort crafts of many varieties, among them a power launch with Joseph M. Meany, Sr. All day long the escort was present, helicopters, blimps, radar ships, new de- -fense jets, the works.
* 1
On June 12, after a 54-day journey the ship arrived at Provincetown, R. I., awaited high tide, and sailed into Plymouth about noon.
After the welcoming ceremonies Joe went home and took with him the English cabin boy. Two weeks later they *” sailed to New York City and the memorable experience, a re-creation of history, । was over.
The Scholastic I
28
i
Gaelic Football
(Continued from page 20)
ing him in hyperbolic insult. The conversation was diverted to the proceedings of the afternoon. Each tried to outdo the other in accurate description. Finally, Date’ O’Mockagin, red with rage and humiliated by the constant lambasting, stood up and threw his corned beef sandwich on the turf.
“Don’t ever call that great spectacle ‘action with a litharoid coise.’ I’m not going to let a mere female refer to the man’s game of Ireland in such a degrading manner.” There was a sputtering of green flame in the dying fire and a strange look in Date’s eye. “My dear Terry, we’ll call it ‘Gaelic football.’ Don’t ever forget that from now on I’m the boss.”
Mr. O’Mockagin went on to become the driving force in standardization of the rules and the forming of an association for the furtherance of Gaelic football.
History does not give, nor even partial credit to this man, as in the case of Lief Ericson; but the true Irishman will never forget that boy on the glen where ' the name was screamed forth. And history will never forget, and never should, that wonderful game.
ENGINEERS...
NEW FLIGHT-TRACKER RADAR, ordered by C.A.A. for airways surveillance installations at major airports -one of many interesting Raytheon projects. Raytheon also has prime missile contracts for Army Hawk, Navy Sparrow III.
Let's talk about your future with Raytheon
Important new projects ... excellent opportunities for advancement_suburban living and working in beautiful New England, Tennessee or California. Enjoy these and many other advantages at Raytheon, one of the largest and fastest growing electronics companies. Make arrangements with your placement officer for campus interview on
NOVEMBER 12
Radar—Guided Missiles—Countermeasures — Communications Microwave Tubes—Semiconduc-tors—Electron Tubes ...
Culture
(Continued from page 17)
-■ biography, among other works), and gifted Shakespearean actor will return to direct Twelfth Night. As in last year’s Midsummer Night’s Dream, interdepartmental co-operation will produce a play that is technically as well as artistically fine-honed.
That’s it—the year at a glance. Many more speakers will undoubtedly be sched-f uled. The policy for Notre Dame stu-I dents attending SMC function was announced in an earlier issue of Scholastic. At a recent meeting of student government representatives on both campuses, the students present decided to j improve communications between the > campuses concerning academic and spiritual affairs. The mechanics of publicity are still not settled upon, but it is hoped that both student bodies will be better informed from here on as to time, place and availability (i.e., who is eligible to attend) of lecturers, artists and * other guests at the College or at the University. SMC has a student advisory committee for the Concert and Lecture series so that the girls may express opinions on past productions and suggest ideas for future ones. The whole aim of a Concert and Lecture series is to ■i broaden the intellectual horizon of the. student. To have such a purpose and then neglect to share the benefits that visitors bring to the campus would be a contradiction.
(RAYTHEON!
Excellence in Electronics
It's easy to select the field you want at Raytheon. We'd like to meet you and tell you more about it.
RAYTHEON MANUFACTURING CO.
Waltham 54, Massachusetts
''WILLYOU LET ME SHOW YOU THE WAY
TO POPULARITY?
it's fas/- learn to dance THE ARTHUR MURRAY WAY."
Over a million people have found new popularity and confidence thanks to Arthur Murray and his Magic Step method of teaching dancing. Why not visit Arthur Murray’s today and see for yourself how quickly you can become an assured dancer.
Come In for a Free Trial Lesson
. Studios Air Conditioned 1
120 E. Wayne ARTHUR MURRAY CE2-3339
October 25, 1957
29
“Make Cyr’s your headquarters for haircuts.”
Cal) CE 3-0678 for appointment
CYR’S
BARBER SHOP
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100-102 S. MAIN St.
W. E. CYR, Prop.
gewbls
South Bend’s Largest Surplus Store
PARKAS — BLITZ CLOTHS
BRASSO
HEAVY CLOTHES FOR WINTER
512 S. MICHIGAN	AT 7-6277
mnos LIIIRAin and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
4^04 qMJi clcM y^eldl blip qoM cluJA It&Hte.
CHARTER A
Oa/uiuud Bui
John Birk, agent, 158 Alumni Hall
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
University to Hold First Faculty Day Nov. 1; Program to Promote 'Intellectual Community'
For the first time here at Notre Dame, a Faculty Day has been arranged for Nov. 1 by members of the faculty with the cooperation of the administration. The over-all purpose of the day is “to provide an opportunity for the faculty to withdraw from their daily round of tasks and to consider matters which go to the very heart of their lives as scholars and teachers, matters which alone can give full meaning to the daily, sometimes routine, activities of the academic world,” according to the Faculty Day committee.
All parts of the program are designed to contribute to the common theme of the day, “intellectual community.” The major features of the program will be two addresses and an afternoon Mass and sermon. Small group discussions will follow each of the two addresses. These discussions will explore more fully the ideas presented in both addresses.
Prof. Yves JR. Simon of the University of Chicago will give the first address entitled “The Community of the Intellects.” In it he will consider the general problem of achieving a real intellectual community in the face of the increasing specialization and fragmentation of modern intellectual life; the problem posed for the faculty of this or any other university, Catholic or secular, in trying
Weismantel Sets Date For 'Technical Review'
Guy Weismantel, editor of the Technical Review, announced that the first issue of the engineering magazine will come out on Nov. 15.
The magazine was awarded a prize for the best single editorial at this year’s convention of Engineering College Magazines at Northwestern University. The editorial was written by Bill Reeve and appeared in the March ’57 issue.
A major subscription drive is now underway. Plans are set to contact all the professors, five-year AB men and graduate students to interest them in subscribing. Engineering alumni who have graduated within the past five years will also be contacted. The subscription drive will likewise be extended to the entire student body. The cost of subscriptions will remain at $1.
Features are written by members of the staff, while articles are usually contributed by engineering students, but anyone who feels he has an article or paper of interest to engineering is invited to submit them. The deadline for the next issue is Jan. 17.
to create any semblance of a “community of scholars” among men from widely diverse and highly specialized disciplines.
The second address will be given by Prof. Matthew Fitzsimons of Notre Dame. He will discuss the unique meaning, or meanings, of the term “intellectual community” as it applies to a Catholic university.
Both addresses will be delivered in Room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall and the small group discussions will be in O’Shaughnessy Hall. More than 150 faculty members have already agreed to participate in 15 concurrent discussion sessions both in the morning and the afternoon. Other faculty members will join these groups to discuss a wide scope of topics ranging from‘“The university as a creative source of cultural value for society” to “Religious affiliation, scholarship, and the Catholic university.”.
The Mass will be offered in Sacred Heart Church by Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne. His sermon will explore the relation of community worship to the life of the academic community at a Catholic university.
Campus Groups Reminded Of Regulations For Meetings
The office of the Vice-president of Student Affairs reminds students of the University regulation which states that “Monday and Tuesday of each week, the period 6:30 to 7:45 p.m., is reserved for night prayers and convocations in the residence halls. No academic, social, or extracurricular activities or meetings shall be scheduled to conflict with this time.”
It has come to the attention of the University that this regulation is not being observed, especially with regard to campus and area clubs.
TICKET SALES
Season ticket sales for the 1957-58 Concert and Lecture Series will start on Monday and continue through Thursday. The Washington, Hall ticket office hours are 3:30 to * 8:30 p.m.
Prices for students, faculty, and campus employees are $7.50 for orchestra seats and $5.25 for balcony. If the tickets are bought individually the price increases one dollar for all the performances. Thus T by buying a season ticket, the buyer saves the price of one admission and also is assured of a good seat.
The Scholastic
SOPHOMORE COTILLION
LOUIE'S TUXEDO
RENTAL
222 Laurel
FIVE SHORT BLOCKS WEST OF MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
Special Student Rates
St. Mary's to Present Brigadoon Nov. 21-24
Lourdene Becker and Bob Vrancken have been chosen to portray the leading roles of Fiona and Tommy Albright in the St. Mary’s College production of the musical, “Brigadoon,” to be presented Nov. 21-24 in O’Laughlin Auditorium. James Cronin, director, has announced the comedy leads of Meg and Jeff to be played by Angie Fazio and Bernie Lyons.
In the action of the musical, two American hikers, Tommy and Jeff, stumble upon a village in Scotland, which mysteriously appears only for one day every hundred years. Tommy soon falls in love with the captivating Fiona, while the cynical Jeff becomes involved with Meg, an ambitious local lass. Complications set in when Harry Beaton, the disillusioned villain, attempts to leave the confines of the village and break the spell, making the village disappear forever. The climax of the story comes when Tommy Albright has to make a choice between remaining in the village with Fiona, and returning to his hectic life in America.
Fred Gade will sing the role of Charlie opposite Peggy Barnish in the charming role of Bonnie Jean. Howard Lord, technical director for the show, has been cast as Mr. Lundie. Harry Beaton will be played by Gene Pisano. Maggie will be portrayed by Gaynell Bordes, Mr. MacClaren by Ed Sullivan, Jane Ashton by Grace Rembush, and Angus by Joe Mayer. Jim Feeny will solo on chorus parts. Mr. Rocco Germano will act as musical director, and Miss Janetta McNamara will be choreographer.
Sets will be executed by Norman La-liberte. Costume design is by Jean Cain. The stage manager is Michael Koch and his assistant, John Carlin.
no lever ...
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Trave! with flTA
Unbelievable Low Cost
*
60 Ooy*
43*65 D«y»	$998
Also $149
Many tours include college credit low-cost trips to Mexico
up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Europe
tram $585
Orient
Ask Your Travel Agent
25tk
Year
L 332 So. Michigan Ave. INC. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
Floats. Decorations Set For Homecoming Game
Floats from each of the classes, the hall decorations contest, Sophomore Cotillion, a campus-wide parade to the stadium, all climaxed by the Navy-ND game will compose the Homecoming week end next week.
Forming in front of Sorin, the parade, headed by the floats, will move to the freshman quadrangle. Gathering momentum, it will return across campus to Morrissey and absorb the sophomores and their dates. Then it will group about the dressing rooms for a last volley of cheers and then go to the game.
Saturday morning, professors from architecture and fine aits will judge the hall decorations contest. Judging on the basis of originality, appropriateness, and workmanship, they will announce the winners during half time at the game.
HANDBAGS
LUGGAGE
Hans/-Rintzsch
2-5881 PHONE CE2,58°2
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
LEATHER GOODS	GIFTS
Notre Dame Bookstore
no ink bottles!
SHEAFFER^
NEW
October 25, 1957
31
“Variety is the spice of life." Enjoy
GOOD—WHOLESOME
DELICIOUS & DIFFERENT
CANTONESE FOODS
Steaks Chops
Fried Chicken
Sea Foods
REASONABLY PRICED
Mark’s Cafe
134 N. MAIN ST.
3>Minnte Pizza Pies PIZZA BURGERS
CARRY OUT ORDERS Eve’s Drive In SOUTH BEND AND EDISON RD. OPEN 5:30 A.M.—1 A.M. BREAKFAST—LUNCH—DINNER
lew York Strip $1.25
TUESDAYS — THURSDAYS
ALBOO’S
415 N. MICHIGAN
STEAK SPECIALS — on —
Tuesday and Thursday
A Long-Time N.D. Favorite
Bestamt
610 NORTH MICHIGAN Open Sunday
32
At the Movies
COLFAX
The Joker Is Wild: (B). Frank Sinatra plays the role of Joe E. Lewis, the still reigning King of the Night Clubs. The story sticks to the facts and doesn’t try to glorify Lewis’s hard knock story, although some will think it probably should have. The sadists, however, will revel in the fact that there isn’t any happy ending. The show poses the problem: Can a top-notch actor like Sinatra save an otherwise run-of-the-mill biography?
AVON
An Alligator Named Daisy: (A-l) Diana Dors. The plot of this English slap-stick is unusually simple for a British film. Perhaps the reason is that it is overshadowed by the two female leads—Diana and Daisy. The photography in this one is superb and includes some exceptionally fine shots of the Irish Channel and other English sights.
GRANADA
The Ten Commandments: (A-l). Taking the Old Testament story of Moses and Promised Land as the plot, Hollywood technicians turn in a tremendous job of recreating the parting waters, fiery bushes, and pillars of fire. The result is that the ordinary low-cost science fiction films are put to shame.
PALACE
The Palace Theatre has decided that it no longer wishes to have its movies reviewed in the Scholastic. The Scholastic will cease to perform this public service and comply with the theatre management’s wish.
RIVER PARK
Slightly Scarlet: It’s a long way to the River Park.
Co-hit: Bengazzi.
Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter (Oct. 27) (B). This is the uproariously humorous story of a young advertising executive’s frustrating existence in life’s dark jungle. However, with Jayne Mansfield leading the way, our young hero survives the ordeal. Suggested as co-curricular work for the Commerce men. The rest should go to it for the laughs.
Co-hit: Walk the Proud Land: Audie Murphy. Audie scores another smashing hit in his spectacular film career.
Unguarded Moment: (Oct. 31). This one has Esther Williams trying her first role as strictly a land-bound creature. The total effect is quite similar to the proverbial fish out of water. It flops.
Co-hit: The Treasure of Ruby Hills.
STATE
The Oklahoman: This gives an excellent account of how a friendly Indian teams up with the frontier doctor to rid the peaceful little town of the villianous brother of the local cattle king. Wonderful photography.
Co-hit: Spook Chasers: The Bowery boys score a sensational dramatic victory in this one. Recommended for graduate students and mature-minded faculty members.
The Disembodied: (Oct. 27) (B).
Co-hit: From Hell It Came: Although these two admittedly sound like some of the best Hollywood has to offer, something much more artistic in purpose and effect is Dante’s Inferno.
WASHINGTON HALL
Wings of Eagles: John Wayne and Maureen O’Hara. Isn’t there some old-time ballad about wings of eagles and prison walls or something?
—George Oess
The Scholastic
lib. SPECIAL
TUESDAYS AND THURSDAYS T-Bone or Sirloin $1.50
DROP DOWN IN THE MANHOLE. FRANKIES NEW PARTY ROOM (Atmosphere in its original state)
1003 N. Notre Dame CE 3-0444
FISH FRY FRIDAY
Pizza, Spaghetti, and Ravioli Italian Style
Simeri's Cafe
410 NORTH HILL STREET
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Welcome Bock
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11-1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
WSND News
During past weeks this column has spent most of its time describing behind the scenes activity at WSND and discussing some of the special programs and departments.
Now let us say a few words about the men who are the real “voice” of Notre Dame’s student operated radio station—the announcers.
Bill Sigler, an AB senior, is chief announcer at WSND this year and head of the 17-man announcing staff.
Forming the nucleus of the department along with Sigler are Stu McKeever, John Casey, Jim Rhadigan, Frank Banton, George Hahn and Pat Keating.
An announcer’s job at WSND includes the disc jockey shows, most remote broadcasts, interview programs and station breaks. Announcers are on duty seven days a week from noon until 11 p.m. comprising 83 hours of air time per week.
A new announcer begins by helping out at the station at a multitude of jobs and learning about the technical facilities. He watches a few programs being produced and then is given his first chance on the air. Usually on these occasions he is teamed with an experienced announcer who can help him over the rough spots, if any. A short shift at the beginning leads to a longer shift and a more appealing air time.
Each man on the staff is urged to strive for constant improvement, to familiarize himself with all types of announcing, and to develop a high degree of professional proficiency in his work. Sigler has this to say of his department:
“The announcing staff is one of the finest departments at WSND. Although they are a very real part of the entire station’s staff, the announcers have grown into a very close fraternity of men, bound by ties of understanding and sensitivity towards each other’s problems and achievements. Lasting and wonderful friendships arise from being a member of the announcing staff.”
Jim Dillan
THE NEW EDDIE’S Dilii* Roon &Leuge WHERE DINING IS TREATED AS THE PLEASURE IT WAS INTENDED TO BE
MORE ROOM FOR PARTIES TOO
1345 N. IRONWOOD Just a few minutes from campus
KffPAlfATfOK A ana romAntAsa Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books’*. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes^ you’ll be your normal best... wide awake ... alert! Yout doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
TABLETS, 35c
15
'NO^OZ
AWA KINERS ,
hbicht Bros.
FAMOUS FOR THEIR FOODNOW IN CAFETERIA STYLE
1415 LINCOLNWAY WEST
713 East LaSalle	CE 3-0951
OUR SUPERBLY DELICIOUS OLD-WORLD PIZZA WAS CREATED FOR THOSE WHO ENJOY THE FINEST IN ITALIAN DELICACIES
FOR
Real Italian and American Food
Enjoy a Private Party in the Seclusion of Our Hideaway Room
October 25,1957
33
Rack
an academic society
by BRYAN WOODS
reconsidered
Last week there appeared in the pages of the Scholastic an article entitled ■“Notre Dame Needs an Academic Honor Society.” It occurred to me, as I am sure it occurred to a number of others, that there were several ideas and opinions expressed therein which are, to understate the case, debatable. In fact, I myself consider the whole idea of an academic honor society very much an open question. Accordingly, I first wish to discuss a few points brought up in this article, and then follow with a few considerations of the whole idea.
The article opens with a discussion of the presently existing Dean’s List, and proceeds to make the assertion that “a few students at the lower end of the list are often there primarily for the convenience of cutting classes.” This is quite an assertion to make, and would seem to require some sort of justification or proof. On the contrary, it is stated categorically. Two questions immediately present themselves. First, how does the author know this interesting little item of information, and second, granting that this is the fact (which may be, people being what they are), how is it ascertained that this selfinterested minority is confined exclusively to the lower end of the Dean’s List.
OBSCURE RECOGNITION
The author’s next complaint concerning the Dean’s List is the fact that:
In the situation of those students toward the upper part of the list, the second and more important limitation appears. The students in this upper group, most of whom deserve recognition for superior scholastic achievement, are named within the entire group, which is often large. Their deserved recognition as scholastic leaders is obscured.
To be quite frank, this sounds like some sort of intellectual snobbery, a little akin to the social snobbery of “The Lodges speak only to the Cabots, and the Cabots speak only to God.” If by superior scholastic achievement the author
34
means merely the collection of an impressive series of numerical lottery tickets, then I venture to suggest that the true point of education has been overlooked. If, as I consider much more probable, he means the acquisition of some small amount of wisdom and understanding and love of truth, then to imply that this considerable achievement is not sufficiently valuable for its own sake, but must have some sort of public recognition, is an admission of a subordination of knowledge to the values of the world. It is almost comparable to stating that the student, who, during his stay here, has led a rich and worthwhile spiritual life, needs honor and recognition of this fact in the eyes of men. But if the life of the mind, as well as that of the soul, is not worthwhile for its own sake, then I for one feel that I have been the victim of quite a snow job, and in fact have wasted four years and ten thousand dollars. And there are men teaching here who have wasted their whole lives.
The second section of the article deals with the need of an exchange of ideas between students of the various colleges. I ■will agree that this is a desirable thing, but that it can best take place “among one certain group of students” (later identifiied as the scholastic leaders), is another point that the author has failed to clearly demonstrate.
But so much for “Notre Dame Needs an Amademic Honor Society.” There are a few matters that the article brings to mind that seem to need a little discussion. I present my views for what they are worth.
DISCOURSE ON DEAN’S LIST
The Dean’s List is an institution which is in common use in a great many colleges and universities in this country. It is a list of those who, from the standpoint of grades, have reached a certain level. To the best of my knowledge, the minimum is set at 88 or better, or its equivalent in other marking systems. In this respect Notre Dame is following common practice. Whether- the level should have been set higher or lower is
a rather arbitrary thing. I don’t really think it makes much difference.
You will notice that I said that the Dean’s List is based on grades. I don’t think this is the only way of judging the progress of a student, or even the best way. However, it is one way, and a fairly ■ convenient one. Here at Notre Dame, being on the Dean’s List carries with it the freedom from compulsory class attendance. This is not a reward for good grades, or even a wholesale admission that grades are the best way to judge which students should be compelled to . attend classes, and which students are capable of using their own judgment. It is merely a recognition of the fact that a number of students are capable of judging for themselves how often it is valuable for them to attend any particular class. Once again, the Dean’s List is a convenient, if somewhat arbitrary, way of making a distinction. The ideal situation would be one in which all of the students were capable of making this judgment for themselves; in that case there would be no such thing as compulsory class attendance. Since this ideal situation does not yet exist, at least in the eyes of those most qualified to say, we have the limited cut system, exception being granted to those on the Dean’s List. Any attempt to make more of the- Dean’s List in this matter of cuts than the convenient dividing line that it is, is unfair and unwarranted.
A NECESSARY EVIL	'
To sum up, let me suggest that the Dean’s List is not much more than a necessary evil forced upon us by prevailing custom and the fact that whether we like it or not, we have to in some measure conform to the standards of the world of today. Our society does not, for the most part, recognize the value of learning per se. It demands proof in black and white. Let us conform if we must, but let us not adopt their standards for our own. The Dean’s List may be a necessary evil, but do we have to compound that evil? And that, I am ri afraid, is what an Academic Honor Society, a “Dean’s List of the Dean’s List,” would be.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
No bind, no sag no wonder they’re so popular!
Arrow shorts give you comfort in any -position. The new contour seat provides total freedom of action, prevents sagging and binding. Choose the boxer type with all-around elastic, or the snap front model with elastic at sides. Solid colors, stripes, miniature plaids, checks and novelty designs. $1.50. Arrow Tee Shirt, with special non-sag neckband, $1.25. CluettyPeabody 6?Company, Inc.
ARROW
first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR
Choose from our Arrow
Underwear collection
Enjoy the solid comfort of our new no-sag, no-bind Arrow contour seat. Pick your favorite patterns—dashing, daring, colorful or conservative.
The choice is yours at
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
A new idea in smoking
refreshes your taste f


5:
Created by R. J. Res nulds Tobacco Company


•	menthol fresh
*	rich tobacco taste
*	most modern filter
It’s a new idea in smoking — a ref resiling idea for every smoker. SALEM’s pure white filter brings you rich tobacco taste with new surprise softness . . . menthol-fresh comfort... a smoke as refreshing to your taste as Springtime is to you. Next time you light up — switch to SALEM and smoke refreshed.
Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem