

Thanks for comingto the Jos 
Be on the look o SUB's upcoIDing 

broogilt:toyoo b>p the student union boa.rd 


features 
4 On Flunking 
Why the GPA is failing students 


12 Warming the Heart 

Students spreadwarmth to cancer patients. 


1(6 Decade in Review 

Ten events that define today's Notre Dame 


34 Staying on Goal 
The secrets to a successful soccer team 



3(6 Becoming "Luuuuuke" 

Harangody's journey to Big East Player of the Year . 
43 How to be an ND Student 
Taking lessons from the law school imposter 


sections Opinion News Culture Cover Story Sports Huinor 
7 

13 . 
22 31 3~ 
10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC j 1 


I'm only a partial heretic. I'll tailgate like a champion, taunt opposing fans in the port-a-potty lines and ifyou need a point-girl on push-ups, then look no further. But as far as the actual game of football goes, I am clueless. 
Senior year, I had my high school heart set on going to Notre Dame and wore my ND hoodie religiously. An Indiana native, I was frequently accosted by Notre Dame fans and foes -always about football. "What's the deal with Charlie?" "That Brady's quite a looker, eh?" My reaction was always the same: sheepish grin, avert the eyes, bolt. 
Is it possible to be a fan ofNotre Dame and not football? Last week in my history class, we discussed historic institutions and how their identity at inception determines their ultimate trajectory. This doesn't mean that the institution will remain the same, but rather that certain character traits determine trends early on. Ifthat's true, it would then seem that for better or for worse, we're with God and football for the long haul. 
This also means that we will never be content with a mediocre football team. If the sons ofNotre Dame don't bring home the glory, something must be wrong. Look at The Shirt of2006 (the inspiration for our cover). Notre Dame's football history is legendary and in this issue, managing editor Marques Camp examines our underwhelming performances as oflate and what it might take for Notre Dame to recapture the legend. 
Speaking ofhard to catch, turn to page ten for the assistant news editor Lisa Bucior's true story of "Gary Steady," a suspected con artist who had a brief stint 
as a Notre Dame law student. Once your appetite for adventure has been piqued, 
try copy chief Claire Reising's harrowing account ofa near-pre-teen riot at the "New Moon" premiere. And, as usual, do not forget to check the opinion section 
for your bi-weekly dose ofwisdom. Webmaster Daric Snyder proposes that Notre 
Dame "flunk the GPN' and promote students to a higher education. 
And a crucial part of education is dialogue, so ifyou see something in Scholastic that you would like to discuss, please feel free to e-mail us directly, scholast@ nd.edu. We would appreciate all comments and will try to address them as best we can. 
GOOOOO Irish! 
Jen Wulf 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 10 DECEMBER 2009 


SOAPBOX 
ON 


n 
An Essay by Daric Snyder 

Here's an idea to consider while visions 
offinals dance in your head: Let's get 
rid of grades. 
Face it: The GPA is a mostly arbitrary, deceptive way of signifying mastery of academic material, and worse yet, grading creates a variety of perverse incentives for students and faculty alike. 
The current system generates grade inflation, stokes sycophancy among students, and provokes pedantry among professors. Intellectual curiosity is sacrificed in favor of the Sisyphean quest for an ideal 4.0. · Like precocious Falcon Heene floating away in a silvery balloon, grades at Notre Dame have been drifting towards the stratosphere. But back on earth, the nauseating reality is obvious: It's all just for the show. 
Sure, every year, Notre Dame admits its best and brightest class yet, loaded to the brim with high school valedictorians, SAT mavericks and Harry Potter superfans. It seems to make sense that with better students, naturally, grades should get better too. Yeah, just like Charlie Weis's apt recruiting led to more national championships. 
If the increased academic profiles of incoming students explained the rise in GPAs, the inflation would be noted fairly evenly across all majors. That is, of course, unless all ofNotre Dame's smartest students are concentrated in the English department. Grade inflation across programs is suspiciously uneven, implicating other causes for the skyward trend. 
Thanks to teacher evaluations and a cornucopia of courses available to students, professors are pressured to grade lightly. Students want high GPAs to tout in job interviews; low scores for students lead to negative TCEs and vitriolic comment_s on NDToday.com. 
The worst reputation a professor could Likewise, intellectualcuriosityis punished muster is not that of an indecipherable by the system. The threat ofmediocre grades lecturer, but of a miserly grader. Poor discouragesstudentsfrombranchingoutinto evaluations from students can damage a different disciplines or pursuing challenging professor's ability to attract a class, get a raise material. Keeping a narrow mind is good for or gain tenure. And like that, cocooned C's your GPA; the last thing the world needs is metamorphosize into B's like butterflies. another polymath barista. 
Liberal arts and business students, with a Many classes, particularly in the College curriculum that's less structured than in the of Arts and Letters, should be graded pass/ sciences, have more leeway in deciding which fail. Rather than creating a bean counting classes to avoid. Faced witl1 tl1is Darwinian breakdown of how points are scored, landscape, it's not surprising that grade professorsshouldinsteadclearlyoutlinewhat inflation is often at its worst in majors that students are expected to learn in the course. offer students the most flexibility in picking Exam~ a11d other classwork should serve only courses to meetrequirements. to gauge a~ student's understanding of the 
Additionally, professors are coaxed by. materiai. When the semester is finished, it's administrators and students to specifically simple: Either you get it, or you don't. If this lay out the scoring structure of a course. system isn't enough to satisfy the competitive With a need to quantify everything, nature ofNotre Dame students, exceptional professors must devise all sorts of busy work could be noted in a student's transcript, work in order to create a false metric for but only a small, locked percentage of a class progress. Studying syllabi, it's not unusual could receive these commendations. to see that the majority of a course's points Notre Dame's "God, Country, GPN' are mired in exercises, projects and quizzes mentality is a troubling phenomenon. Our that do very little to prove a student's actual high priority on grades undermines the very understanding of the material at hai:id, but ~ature of the university. Is Notre Dame's merely provide an opportunity to rack up mission to develop our minds and hearts, or points as if playing a video game. merely ;o pad our resumes? 
Students have little choice but to play Undoubtedly, if Notre Dame did little to the game. Repeatedly warned that low prepare us for the workplace or for further GPAs will scare away job recruiters and ·schooling, we'd all sue for our tuition back. medical schools, Notre Dame students t<>il ., Bui: it's unlikely that GPA is an adequate endlessly to obtain the highest possible m·easure of whether or not we're actually score. The prospect of a career ruined learning anything. before it even begins is too great a risk to At worsti all GPAs tells us is how good bear. So, undergraduates grind away at a stud~nt is at jumping through arbitrary every mundane task, more concerned with hoops set by a self-concerned superior. doing well on papers than with mastery of Then again, this might be the skill a the course's subject. As such, it's rational for corporate recruiter desires in the hunt for students to seek courses where they can score tomorrow's middle managers. Our Notre the highest with the least amount of effort. Dame education should help us to become It's physically impossible for Introduction to leaders and innovators, rather than mere Psychology to fill up any faster. workhorses and desk jockeys. 
The views ofthis author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. 
4 I SCHOLASTIC I 10 DECEMBER 2009 

OPINION 

Jury Still Out 
· on Obarna's Guantanamo Policy 
' Guest Author: Profes;~;,,i-Doug··ca~sel _is_ Di.r~ctO'!'. oJtlie:'Cente;fp,,;-_ · -, Civil and ·Human 'Q:.ights-."at_ Not~e Dame Law School. -·_ _ . · . 
• L ­
From the day it opened in 2002, the prison camp for suspected terrorists at the United States Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, betrayed American values while miscalculating our interests. Americans believe in liberty. But Guantanamo stood for an executive claim of right to imprison suspected terrorists indefinitely, without charges or trials, on the basis of secret and unreliable intelligence information, for as long as the "war on terrorism" might last -perhaps for life. Americans believe in independent judicial review. But the executive chose Guantanamo precisely in an effort to evade judicial review by habeas corpus of the lawfulness of detention. No fewer than three Supreme Court judgments between 2004 and 2008 were required finally to secure the right of habeas corpus for prisoners at Guantanamo. Americans believe in fair trial. But for those relatively few 
~ L ~ -' , • 

prisoners who were to be brought to 
trial at Guantanamo, the executive 
planned to try them before military 
comm1ss10ns, where they could be 
convicted on the basis of secret, hearsay 
and even tortured evidence. Only a 
Supreme Court ruling, and objections 
by the American Bar Association and 
others, produced reforms limiting secret 
and hearsay evidence, and banning 
evidence extracted by torture. 
Americans believe in human rights. 

But the executive chose to torture 
suspected terrorists by "water boarding" 
partial drowning. 
It also 
, • -• , 
authorized a range of inhumane interrogation techniques. Far from securing critical information, in most cases these techniques instead yielded misinformation. Suspects told interrogators whatever they thought they wanted to hear -never mind the truth, anything to stop the pain. 
Americans believe in equal treatment. Yet the executive chose to authorize indefinite detention at Guantanamo, to deny judicial review, to impose trial by military commission, and to impose torture, only on foreign citizens, not on Americans. This had the intended effect of dampening domestic political protest. 
But it signaled to friend and foe alike 
that America is discriminatory and hypocritical in matters of human rights. And it enraged Muslim 
populations worldwide, generating countless recruits for anti-American extremism. 
The Obama Administration has 
partially reversed this derailing of American values and interests. In its first days, it barined torture and promised to close Guantanamo -the symbol of all that was 
10 DECEMBER 2009 j SCHOLASTIC j 5 

,.l OPINION
l;) 
I! 
iJI. offensive and illegal in American counter­ii,, terrorist policy. Later it dropped the 'I 
rhetoric ofthe "war on terrorism" in favor 
! ofthe rule oflaw. Obama abandoned the claim of inherent executive power that the previous administration had used to order detentions and torture regardless of our laws and international treaties. He took the CIA out of the detention business. Most recently he announced that leading al Qaeda suspects will be tried before civilian federal courts in New York. This change ofdirection is welcome. It vindicates our values and recognizes our broader interests in not alienating the world and inflaming young Muslims. But the change is only partial. Based on the congressional authorization of the use of force in September 2001 (rather than inherent executive authority), the Administration maintains the right to continue to detain indefinitely those prisoners at Guantanamo who are neither tried nor sent to other countries. It still plans to try some by military commissions and to convict them on the basis of hearsay. It still resists judicial review of the detention of prisoners at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan ­even those brought to Bagram from other countries, just as prisoners were formerly brought to Guantanamo from elsewhere. Granted, much ofthis is a consequence of the Administration's having to clean up a legal mess inherited from its predecessor. Were the Obama team writing on a clean slate, perhaps they would not invent indefinite detention, or authorize military commission trials or seek to evade judicial review. But those are matters on which we can only speculate. What we know -and what the world sees -is only a partial repeal of prior abuses. If we are to reclaim fundamental principles, regain our credibility in the world, and refrain from fanning the flames of anti-American hatred, our deviations from basic values must be ended as quickly as possible. Will this Administration understand and act on this historical imperative? The jury is still out; only time will tell. 0 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I IO DECEMBER 2009 







Keeping it Cool 
Meagan Drapalik 
Debates are not my forte. 
It's not just that speaking 
in front of groups usually induces clown-like blushing and dive­bombing butterflies in my stomach or that confrontation makes me about as excited as the Grinch when he realizes stealing Christmas is not cool. I don't like having to pick one, distinct side and defend it at all costs against people who believe just as much as I do that they're right -and whose voices are probably shaking a lot less than mine. 
In general, I'm not this wishy-washy, opinion-less jellyfish. I do have a lot of strong opinions about things like elliptical etiquette at Rolfs (don't steal other people's time slots and wipe off those sweaty germs, please!) or how learning to analyze avant-garde poetry will actually help me in the real world (wowing people at cocktail parties, obviously). 
I'm just wary oftaking strong stances on big issues like capital punishment, gun control and the appropriateness of wearing white after Labor Day. I admire people who can and do speak out against what they think is wrong and defend what they think is right. And I appreciate those who are educated in their opinions and can explain to me why Obama's commencement speech was a heinous affront to our Catholic values or why the 2002 hard alcohol ban on campus has ruined their lives. 
Notre Dame students are notorious 
for having strong opinions. You can almost mark your calendar for the ­
impending Observer Viewpoint war over the "Vagina Monologues" (February~ ish) or brace yourself for the abortion 
crosses on South Quad. Scanning the list of student clubs shows how 
like-minded students gather, whether concerned about animal rights, violence against women or pride and unity amongst twins. 
But does your vehement defense of South Dining.Hall over North Dining Hall blind you from acknowledging that round tables may not be the kiss of death just because they don't make you feel like Harry or Hermione and might 

in fact be conducive· to conversation? 
Does having strong opinions dilute issues that should be considered and 
appreciated for their complexity? 
While I'm not advocating putting away your table tents and abandoning your values, a helping of perspective and moderation could be beneficial. Even ifyou get blisters, Atticus Finch's recommendation to put yourself in someone else's shoes may at least give you insight into why he or she feels a certain way. I've learned more about the war in Iraq from people with boyfriends and brothers there than CNN and political science classes could ever teach me. And almost everyone has been guilty of making bold statements about family problems, immigration or homos·exuality to people for whom these issu~s are present and personal. 
Taking a step back doesn't equal giving in; backing down from a strong opinion doesn't mean you have to start making your own clothes and .·i flashing peace signs. Being moderate and open-minded shows that you respect your own opinion enough to consider others' and that what you believe in is worthwhile and merits an educated, rational discussion. 
So feel free to hug trees, wear your "Gay? Fine By Me" shirts or read the Irish Rove1: Just don't expect me to join the picket line anytime soon. I'll be too busy singing "Kumbaya." 0 
The views expressed in these columns are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Magazine. 


the stories we live 
10 DECEMBER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 7 
Lady Gaga's Christmas Tree 
For a while we were willing to consider your antics "art," but now you've tarnished Jesus' birthday 
-----Tiger Woods jokes Did you hear he changed his name to Cheetah? Sorry, we couldn't resist 


Jimmy Clausen's decision 
Dude, you promised four national championships. Almost tying USC doesn't count 


, ____ 
---------Freshmen during study days
'~ --= =--== 
----It's funny how stressed out you 

, ____ 
----guys are. Refer to page 4 
Relationships 
~~§~~-g_-§""~~§ 
8 I SCHOLASTIC I 10 DECEMBER 2009 
----__,, _____ ------­
_ ­-' ~ . 

HOWTO 
Awkwardly Gift That Random Person in Your Life 
Alyssa Morones 
As the Christmas season sets in, so does the realization that the Christmas shopping season is also upon us. While writing up your Christmas shopping lists, however, you may encounter some troubles in coming 
up with an acceptable gift for those random acquaintances hanging out on the fringe of your social circle. Here's your guide to gifting that random person in your life with the least possible amount of awhvardness. 1The professor from whom you'9" like a better grade: Any other time of the year, this would be called a bribe, but a little extra holiday cheer never hurt anything (especially not your grade). Cultivate a little warmth in -your professor's heart with a nice pair of Notre Dame Croes. The benefits of this are actually two-fold: Not only will your professor feel obligated to appreciate the "kind" gesture, but you will give yourself the gift of laughter the first time you see him actually wearing them.2Your strictly platonic friend of the opposite sex: Gifting a friend of the opposite sex is always a toughie, since you could very easily send the wrong message. Stay away from gifts such as scarves or hats, as these gifts imply that you care whether or not that person is warm, which hence implies that you care whether that person is alive, which, of course, implies that you're in love with said person. I suggest sticking ~ith something cool and impersonal, such as a pair of stolen dining hall tongs or a souvenir magnet you picked up in O'Hare after your last trip home. 3The random girl/guy you hooked up with at Legends: In this case it is best to accept the awkwardness pervading your relationship, and nothing says awkward like a Notre Dame Snuggie.4The North Dining Hall Grab-n-Go card swipers: Use your grab-n-go points to gift the grab-n-go card swipers! What would they love more on Christmas day than to unwrap a box filled with seven mini Nestle Pure Life water bottles or a few bags of pretzels and popcorn?5NDSP: You may have a few ideas of things you'd like to give NDSP, which may not exactly be in accordance with the general "holiday spirit," but it is probably in your best interest to refrain. Instead, make their campus patrolling a little more cheerful for everyone with a reindeer hat (antlers and all). Bonus points ifyou give them some kind ofbell collar so we can all hear them coming... so we know when to say hi. 6Jimmy Clausen: His ego's probably big enough as it is and that angry fan already gave him the gift ofhumility (i.e. a punch in the face). Better for you to opt out of this one. ?Charlie Weis: Nothing. Your tuition money is already going toward his 18 million dollar pay out. (Yeah, I went there). 


Serving it Up 
UOL~ ~~uw~
Notre Dame ranked 16th best value 
Laura Kraegel lies Notre Dame students tell 
An early entry in the "Things Notre Dame Students Like" blog declared that Notre Dame students like to steal things. They steal from the dining halls, they steal from the dorms, and they feel entitled to do so because they're paying around $50,000 in tuition, board, and other fees. 
At such a high.cost, Notre Dame's ranking as the nation's 16th best value private school for the 2009-2010 school year may surprise the paying parents and pilfering students. 
In this recent ranking, K.iplinger, a personal finance publishing company, placed Notre Dame among the top 50 private schools, examining educational quality as well as affordability to determine which universities give as good as they get. 
"Obviously nothing is a bargain if you're not getting a good education," K.iplinger writer and editor Jane Clark says. 
With this in mind, Kiplinger weighted quality measures like graduation rate and student-to-faculty ratio more heavily than tuition costs. "A degree from a good quality school is going to get you ahead even in a bad economy," Clark says. 
And in this bad economy, Notre Dame's financial aid was one measure that contributed to its best value ranking. "The University's Trustees and Officers have made continued undergraduate scholarship support a very top priority this year ... " Director of Student Financial Strategies Joseph Russo says via email. 
A beneficiary of this support, freshman Jennifer Sanchez could enroll only after receiving substantial financial aid. "I was so happy because I got a full scholarship a~d I didn't have to worry about my parents selling the house to get me to school," Sanchez says. 
This emphasis on undergraduate scholarship aid is "expected to maintain and grow [throughout] 2010-2011, if the difficult economy remains the same," Russo says. 
Though Notre Dame's aid may increase, it actually fell in Kiplinger's rankings from the No. 14 spot it held last year. However, this drop doesn't necessarily translate into declining quality. "[Moving] a couple of slots doesn't usually mean a big difference," Clark says. "Every school jockeys for position, particularly in the top quadrant." 
At the top ofK.iplinger's rankings were California Institute ofTechnology and Princeton and Yale Universities, while Notre Dame was joined by Northwestern and Vanderbilt Universities at the 15th and 17th spots, respectively. 0 
each other 

. I'll call you on Friday! 

Pshh...Of course I drank in high school. 

I actually don't remember what I got on my SAT. 
4 
Oh man, I was pretty drunk. I ' don't even remember what he 
' looked like. 
5 
I think we have a legit chance at the BCS next year. 
10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 
How a man successfully posed as a Notre Dame Law student for two months 
This is not a joke. This past semester a man named Gary Stearley -or so he claims -was an imposter in the Notre Dame law school for two months before being caught. Stearley entered the law school on October 29 with one of his roommates and introduced himself to another law student, Law School Associate Dean Michael Kirsch says. Stearley then proceeded to introduce himself as a first-year law student to other people throughout his visit, claiming that he was friends with the students he had met before. "He came in and started talking to some people, and then he used that person's name when he talked to the next person ­. which is someone he just met," Kirsch says. "He tried to convince people he knew a lot of law students and was a lL (first year law student)." Kirsch became aware of the incident when staff informed him of the situation. "The school isn't small, but it was small enough that people knew he wasn't friends with the people he said he was," he says. "VVhile the school is open to the public during the day, we became concerned when he seemed to put on a show." Before sending out an email to law students and staff warning them of the imposter, Kirsch says he used the internet to search the name "Gary Stearley" and found that someone of that name was convicted or suspected of similar scams in Florida, Washington, Virginia and Pennsylvania. Both the Law School and NDSP say they believe this was for the most part a one-time incident. "He might have been in and out of the building," Kirsch says. "Someone had said they had seen him recently before t~at, but it is not like he was hanging out here all the time." Stearley's former roommates, however, have a different story. Allen Klein and Justin Baker say they used their cab service to drive Stearley to the law school on a daily basis from when they first met him in September through the end of October. Klein and Baker met Stearley when he responded to a "roommate wanted" ad they posted on Craigslist. They say Stearley told them he was a late transfer because of health reasons, and the university was allowing him to make up the work he had missed. "I thought it was kind of odd that he was starting so late," Baker says. "But when he went there every day, I figured everything was all right." The roommates say Stearley also bought a large amount of Notre Dame Law apparel and textbooks he needed for classes. "He was doing homework," Klein says. "He would go into his room for a few 
10 I SCHOLASTIC I 10 DECEMBER 2009 
hours each night and we would see all his stuff laying around." 
Baker accompanied Stearley when he first entered the law school where Stearley was greeted by name, and occasionally hugs, by multiple people in the building. 
Baker says Stearley opened a locker where he kept some of his belongings and entered codes both to use an office fax machine and to open a side entrance to the law building. Stearley also discussed cases he was analyzing in class with some of the law students. 
Despite Baker's account, Kirsch says there is no reason to believe Stearley had any special access. The law building is open to the public during business hours, and all the doors are unlocked. Furthermore, University Locksmith Services says even if a door was locked, the keypads can be used only in conjunction with swipe card access; Stearley would not have bee_n able to open the door with a code only . Kirsch says the locker Steadey showed his roommates was assigned to a different individual and does not have a permanent lock. 
Kirsch also says there is no evidence Stearley attended classes. "I asked a few colleagues who teach first-year courses someone had rumored maybe he was in. No one had any recollection ofseeing him in any lL classes." 
"I can't swear to you that he never set foot in the classroom, but to the extent that he was convincing his roommates he was attending classes, we have no reason to believe that is true," he says. 
Stearley fled South Bend shortly after the October 29 visit. His roommates say the three were watching the local news together the following Friday night when the story broke. Stearley admitted that he was hot really aNotre Dame student and said he would turn himself in to the police on Monday. 
"We asked him why he did it, and he told us 'I just want to have a normal life ..My life is crazy. I just want everyone to leave me alone,"' Baker says. 
The roommates ~ay Stearley snuck out of the house the next clay, taking only his computer. 
The Law School and NDSP still do not know why Stearley decided to pose as a student. The South Bend Police Department, which was called in to help investigate the situation, has said they found no evidence that Stearley broke any laws, and no students or staff have reported any missing valuables. 
"He wasn't stealing anything," Dave Chapman, the assistant director of NDSP, says. "He wasn't trying to gain access to files. We don't know what he was trying to do." 
Kirsch says that if anything, the incident should remind students to always be aware. "It's a reminder that despite our pleasant, quiet campus setting, you have to keep an eye out for unusual situations," he says. 

NEWS 
Adistinct passion for Irish football drives many juniors studying abroad during the fall to hurry to their laptops after weekend travels to check the score of Saturday's football game, desperate for anfrish victory. It was with this same enthusiasm that senior Katie 
Teitgen checked her email from Australia last winter after the 
2008 Aidan Project. "I just love this project," Teitgen says. "I was 
abroad last year in -the fall and I hated not being able to help out. 
I remember I was traveling in Australia the day it happened and I 
couldn't wait to get to the Internet to figure out how it went. I just 
knew when I got back I was going to take charge of this." 
And take charge she has. Teitgen, 2006-2007 president of Circle 
Kand current President Emerita, along with other current Circle K 
board and committee members, planned the 2009 Aidan Project that 
took place in ,South Dining HaH on Sunday, December 6. 
The project started in 2006, the same year current senior Aidan 
Fitzgerald was diagnosed with stage II testicular cancer. The 
Aidan Project is now ,the largest service project on campus and the 
Association of College Unions International named it Outstanding 
Service Project of the Year for 2009. 
After receiving }1is diagnosis, Fitzgerald was forced to take a 
year off to have two surgeries and undergo chemotherapy in his 
hometown of Indianapolis. After a phone call from his roq1nmate, 
then~president of Circle K, the Aidan Project was born. The former 
"blanket bash" was reinvented into an effort to make fleece blankets 
for chemotherapy patients. 
"It started off and I thought it was just going to be 30 or 40 of 
my friends from Knott Hall being like 'I'm sorry,' or 'I've gotta 
go. to Aidan's cancer thing,"' Fitzgerald says, "but it turned out to 
be a couple hundred people the firs·t year and it's grown every year 
since." 
Funds raised from t-shirt sales and many of the hundreds of · blankets that are made are donated to the Riley Children's Hospital 
in Indianapolis. Other blankets are taken to area hospitals. For the · 
first time this year, participants were encouraged to bring blankets 
eart 
home to their local hospitals or to friends or family members battling cancer. Encouraging participants to bring blankets to their home communities increases awareness and understanding of the project's importance. 
"I think delivering the blankets is a great thing," Teitgen says. "Unfortunately it's hard for us to involve everyone in that. I ,vish everyone that makes a blanket could help out delivering them, but that can be hard to coordinate. There have been a few times we've been able to deliver to actual patients and that's just incredible, but even just walking into a hospital and carrying 25 or 50 blankets, amazes the staff. ViThen we're going in and describing the project to them and giving them information about it they're just blown away and so it's so exciting to see how much they appreciate it." 
Fitzgerald will graduate in May and continue to stay involved with · efforts to increase awareness about cancer. "There's a lot of political activism that goes on with cancer research so I do some ofthat stuff," Fitzgerald says. "I actually have a handwritten thing from Lance Armstrong. But I'm most active in this project." 
Circle K plans to continue the project after Fitzgerald's graduation. So many people are already invested in the project, and Teitgen believes that students have come to expect the blanket drive at the end of first semester, hopefully allowing it to continue successfully into the future. 
The blankets generated by the Aidan Project are invaluable to the hospitals that receive them and patients that use them'. The project is just one of the positive outcomes of Fitzgerald's trials. 
"It has changed my life," Fitzgerald says. "I wouldn't want to do it again, because it sucked, but I'm glad I did it. It's defined me, -I'm glad it happened. I'm thankful for the opportunity to have had that experience, to see myself in that light. It's actually kind· of weird to say but I was close to dying. I was very close. There were a couple of times that I had a near death experience and not in a cheesy or sappy kind of way or like I was outside my body or whatever, but I was very close and that just kind of changed things. Before I was worried about my classes and my tests and stuff, but now it's just not as important." 0 
10 DECEMBER 2009 SCHOLASTIC I11 

NEWS 
Lauren Krick/
With thousands of sleep-deprived and stressed-out young adults living in close proximity, college campuses are infamous breeding grounds for illness. So when the HlNl "swine" flu broke out at Notre Dame last spring, students were hit _hard. After the first positive case of swine flu was reported this April, there have been 22 confirmed cases on campus this semester -in addition to 786 presumptive cases, according to Patricia Brubaker, Assistant Director for Clinical Services at St. Liam's Hall. Due to the pervasiveness of swine flu across the country, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) has "told us to stop testing and classify [the patient] as a presumptive case if he has the written symptoms of a fever of 100.4 degrees or greater, cough, or sore throat," says Brubaker. Classification of a presumptive case by these guidelines is generally accurate, she explained, considering that about 95 percent of the five weekly random samples sent to the CDC since April have tested positive for swine flu. Junior Kaitie McCabe had a presumptive case of swine flu in September and was quarantined for two school days. "I felt like I had the normal flu," McCabe says. "It just hit a lot more suddenly. My teachers were all really understanding though. They didn't want me to infect anyone else." To prevent the further spread of the HlNl virus, St. Joseph's County began distributing the vaccine to Notre Dame in early November. "The swine flu shot is being handled differently at each college in the country under the jurisdiction of the state and county," Brubaker says. "St. Joe's County is making a special effort to distribute the vaccine so that any college student can get it before Christmas." So far, a total of 1,775 students have taken advantage of this special opportunity and received the vaccine. Currently, about 40 doses are still available at St. Liam's for members of the Notre Dame community 24 years of age and under, as well as those 25 -65 years old with high risk. Brubaker says Notre Dame Health Services expect to receive even more doses from the county soon. "I don't see why you wouldn't [get the vaccine] to be honest," says 
12 I SCHOLASTIC I 10 DECEMBER 2009 
McCabe. "You have no idea how bad it is to be confined in a small space until you really can't leave." 
Sophomore Liz Chaten says, "l got the vaccine because I can't afford to n:iss school and my mom was worried about me getting sick." 
At the same time, however, many people on campus view the vaccine as unnecessary. "We're so healthy. We think we're invincible and can't catch anything," says Brubaker. "We've become blase about hygiene -we share concentrated space and are not careful with our germs in common spaces." 
After hearing rare horror stories from the media, others worry that the vaccine itself may cause a detrimental reaction. However, this fear is generally misguided, explained Brubaker. "It's a dead vaccine so it can't make you sick," she says. "But you may feel sick since your body is busy making antibodies that will give you that run-down feeling and perhaps a low-grade fever." 
Still others are under· the impression that the swine flu scare was a thing of the past, that it is no longer as big ofa threat at Notre Dame. "I used to be more worried about the swine flu," sophomore Beth Werley, who did not get the shot, says. "But it's become old news to me so I've let my guard down, which is probably bad." 
While the number ofpresumptive cases at Notre Dame has in fact subsided between O~tober and November -reduced from 289 to 209 cases, according to Brubaker, the s~ine flu still remains prevalent on campus. However, most cases here are very mild, reaching only a score of 1 out of 5 on the severity scale determined by the CDC. "So despite high numbers of infec.tions, the cases have not been severe enough to cancel classes or events," Brubaker says. 
Since the virus is contracted mainly from person to person through coughing or sneezing, the best way to prevent the spread of swine flu -besides getting the vaccine -is to practice good hygiene by "washing your hands often and keeping your hands away from your face," Brubaker says. 

the things we do 
10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 


.. •' ·. . 
ere: Snite Museuril · · 
. . ·_. -,'.
en: Th:rough 12/20, 10 
. , 
Exhi1>ithighlights
· illia .· ···.· ·.· · ' 
ofre Dame tak Michigan. F 
-~. ' ' . ' ·. 

No one knows what to call this decade. Was it the 2000s? The zeros? The aughts? The noughties? Time Magazine recently called_ it "The Decade from Hell" in a story about the terrorist attacks, natural disasters and financial meltdown of the last ten years. 
At Notre Dame, it was the decade of growth. Notre Dame grew with new buildings, a greater national presence, and a more talented incoming class each year. · As we close this decade, whatever you want to call it, Scholastic reviews the top ten events that shaped us over the past ten years. 
New construction sprouts up all over campus. Over the past ten years, Notre Dame has invested $1.5 billion in campus construction. Notable projects include the new
n®law school addition, Jordan Hall of Science, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Joyce Center renovation and Ryan Hall and Duncan Hall. Some were not pleased with the new look, given Notre Dame's commitment to tradition. Others saw it as a necessary progression -keeping up with the times and accommodating the needs of current students. With the new buildings have come new traditions: don't speak under the law school arch; Duncan Hall's 
signature event, the Highlander Games; and walking with your dormmates through the cold to get real food at Eddy Street Commons. 
Greg Ramsower, a 2008 graduate of the law school, thinks the changes over tl1e years have been positive and consistent with Notre Dame's character. "Well, let me put it this way: Unless they took down the Dome, knocked over the library and Touchdown Jesus, blew up 
. the stadium and razed the Grotto and Basilica, there's no way this place could ever be mistaken for 'just another college campus.' The essence of campus -the heart (Stadium) and the soul (Grotto) of Notre Dame ­remains. Now we just have a few more ways to get around campus in the winter without going outside," he says. -Jen Wulf 
Hard alcohol banned from dorms in 2002. 
When current Notre Dame students eventually reminisce about their glory days at Notre Dame, their stories will likely not include mornings in the hospital after a night ofhard drinking. In the spring of 2002, Notre Dame officially banned hard alcohol from campus in an attempt to reduce unhealthy binge drinking. Vice President of Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman says, "The decision to institute a policy prohibiting hard alcohol from the residence halls was prompted by a series of constructive conversations among the senior staff of the Office of Student Affairs, rectors, department d_irectors, students and others. Many people felt that the availability of hard alcohol in the residence halls contributed to one aspect ofalcohol abuse on the campus 
-intoxication or even alcohol poisoning because of inexperience with or intentional abuse of liquids that are high, in alcohol percentage and low in volume." According to the University Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, there was an immediate impact on dorm drinking culture, withonly21 reported instances of alcohol poisoning in the fall of2002 compared with 51 cases the previous year. "Students and others were skeptical about the possibility of implementing the decision and enforcing it, but they clearly understood the rationale for the policy change. We have had some modest success in addressing the kind of intoxication and alcohol.poisoning that prompted the change in policy," Fr. Poorman says. Whether students lament the policy change or espouse its benefits, Notre Dame's decision to ban hard alcohol on campus profoundly impacted campus social life. 
-Courtney Ball 


CULTURE 
Football team loses in the final seconds to #1 USC at Notre Dame Stadium in 2005. 

Notre Dame 31 -USC 28. This is what the scoreboard read as the clock wound down to zero on October 15, 2005. The impossible had happened. Notre Dame had defeated the No. 1 team in the country. They had snapped their archrival's 27-game winni11g streak. In only the fifth game of his career, Charlie Weis had returned Notre Dame to 
the top of the college football world. Students rushed out onto the field to greet the players already celebrating in the end zone. 
But it was all too soon. Referees ruled that the clock should have stopped with seven seconds remaining. USC would get one more chance to take the lead. As running back Reggie Bush pushed his quarterback Matt Leinart across the endzone, Notre Dame Stadium fell silent. Never before has a crowd swung so quickly from total jubilation to the lowest levels of disappointment. USC had won once again. 
Chris Wilson, editor of the Notre Dame sports blog RakesofMallow. com,· sat in the sophomore student section that day. "I don't think it's hyperbole to say it was just a surreal experience all the students there will never forget," Wilson says. 
While the game left thousands heartbroken, Wilson says a different outcome may not have significantly changed the trajectory of the football program. "IfNotre Dame wins that game and loses to Vince Young in the Rose Bowl, does Charlie Weis keep his job if the last two seasons go the same way? Maybe winning that game is the extra push that gets us the big defensive tackle to plug up the middle, but I'm not sure it changes the opinion of a lot oflrish fans. 1-4 against Southern Cal is better than 0-5, but I still think Weis gets canned after three, seven and six-win seasons in succession," Wilson says. 
-Milee Tresnowski 
ii 
Campus closes for a day after Sept. 11. and students gather on South Quad for an all-school Mass. "We can tell our children the stories, ours and our friends' and neighbors', and that will help them understand, but they 
will never know for themselves what it was like to hear the bells of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart toll 3 o'clock as the entire congregation of people on the grass fell deathly silent in reverence for the fallen. ·We can tell them about how the flag flew at half-mast behind the altar, how the sun was as warm on our backs as the tears in our eyes, how we held each other and cried through the readings -messages of hope in this time of loss and of fear -but they won't know how tightly we held each other • at the sign of peace." So wrote Jenny Wahoske of the Class of 2002 in the September 27, 2001 issue of Scholastic. 
September 11 is undoubtedly the defining moment of the past decade for Americans. Our grandparents' lives were shaped by Pearl Harbor, our parents remember when we landed on the moon. We will all remember where we were when we first heard the news of the World Trade Center attacks. 
While most current undergraduates were sitting in grade school classrooms at the time, the Notre Dame community was brought to a halt by the events of September 11. Administrators decided to cancel all classes and campus activities. Roughly five hours after the last plane crashed, 6,000 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, staff, faculty and their children gathered on South Quad for a Mass said by university president Rev. Edward Malloy C.S.C. "All I can do is to draw on the well of faith we share," Malloy preached. 
Inspired by President George W. Bush's call for the country to ·get back to their everyday lives, administrators decided to resume classes on Wednesday. Students and faculty reported that class gave people a place where they could start to make sense of the national crisis. 
Assistant Provost Susan Ohmer says she has perceived a lingering impact from the events of September 11 on the lives ofNotre Dame students. "I think that 9/11 sharpened our students' commitment to service, and in some cases,·to military service. I know of one law student who joined JAG upon graduation in part because of9/ll," Ohmer says. 
-A'like Tremowski 
® Notre Dame student Chad Sharon goes missing in Fall of 2002 and is later found dead in St. Joseph River. On February 12, 2003, freshman Chad Sharon's body was discovered in the St. Joseph River. He disappeared after a party
D during fall semester finals week and for two months, no one on campus knew what had happened to him. The events that occurred that night are still unclear. According to a 2003 story in Noti·e Dame Magazine, Sharon was found with a blood alcohol content three times the legal driving limit, but Notre Dame Security Police said that the legal limit for driving isn't especially relevant to someone who was on foot. Sharon, a Fisher Hall resident, was known as "Smiling Chad," and acquaintances said that he was typically in "good spirits" and had a strong GPA. He was also involved in several clubs and had been hired that 
semester as Scholastic's webmaster. The university held a memorial Mass, established a fund in Sharon's name and offered counseling services to students coping with his loss. 
Kyle Burdick ('05) was a sophomore when Sharon disappeared. Though he did not know Chad personally, he said that the entire campus was affected. "At least me, and I know some of my friends felt the same way, that after this occurred I would always think about Chad when deciding to leave campus. It was just a terrible thing, and the whole student body felt the saine way," he says. 
-Jen Wulf · · · 
10 DECEMBER 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 17 




Renowned Islamic scholar Tariq Ramadan hired to teach at Notre Dame but is denied entry to the country by U.S. Government. 
InJuly 2004, Swiss-born Muslim scholar and activist Tariq Ramadan and his family had gathered their belongings and were ready to move to South Bend in preparation ofNotre Dame's fall semester. InJanuary 2004, Notre Dame had offered Ramadan a tenured position as the Henry R. Luce Professor ofReligion, Conflict and Peacebuilding in its I<roc Institute oflnternational Peace Studies. The university was excited to welcome one of the world's foremost Muslim intellectuals, a man who would eventually be predicted by Time Magazine to be one of the most influential people of the 21st century. 
Ramadan had been granted a specialized non-immigrant visa to teach at Notre Dame in May 2004, but on July 28'\ only nine days prior to his move, his visa was mysteriously revoked. Though the U.S. State Department refused to give an official explanation for the revocation to either Ramadan or Notre Dame, a Department spokesman would later cite the "ideological exclusion provis_ion" in the Patriot Act. 
"It's still not clear to him or us who turned him down and on what grounds," said the Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., Notre Dame's president at the time. "He seems to be an-above-ground, forthright advocate ofwhat some refer to as moderate Islam and we see him as a really good fit for our peace institute." 
In an interview with the Associated Press at the time, Ramadan said the revocation was "unjustified" and stemmed from "political pressure." Though Notre Dame filed an appeal on Ramadan's behalf, they never heard back from the government and Ramadan was forced to resign from the position he never had a chance to start. 
-Marques Camp 
"The Vagina Monologues" performed on campus for the first time in 2002. 
Ever since "The Vagina Monologues" was first performed by Notre Dame students in 2002·, The Obse1·ver's Viewpoint section has been rife with contentious debate over the play's place at a Catholic university. The overtly sexual nature ofthe play led some to question whether it really did help to end violence· against women, while others praised it for its ability to bring a repressed issue to light. The show continued to be performed until 2008 despite continued criticisms and a move off-campus in 2007, prompting President Fr. John Jenkins, C.S.C. to issue a "Closing Statement on Academic Freedom and Catholic Character" that permitted the play to remain on campus, but only in an academic setting that included a panel discussion afterwards. This 
past spring, it was announced by the director of 2008's performance, Miriam Olsen, that the "Monologues" would not be shown this year, as the controversy on campus prevented any discussion of the show's ultimate mission -to raise awareness ofviolence against women. Ann Astell, a Notre Dame theology professor who served on one of the academic panels implemented by Jenkins, argued that the "Monologues" failed to qualify as an academic event. "Notre Dame's students showed by their actions that they did not take the 2008 performances of'The Vagina Monologues' seriously as an 'academic event.' Each night more than three-fourths of the audience left immediately after the performance and did not stay for the panel 
. discussion. (In comparison to the small 'walk out' protest on the opening night by an estimated fifty students, this second 'walk out' by the majority of attendees, repeated nightly, was given little notice by the press.) Only a small group remained _for the panel -at best, a hundred out of an estimated 450 present at each performance. Sponsoring departments also apparently had difficulty :finding faculty members from their own ranks who were prepared to speak from a Catholic perspective on the performed play. Lacking a much more serious academic interest and commitment on the part of faculty and students alike, the President of the University and the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters have little basis for authorizing the performances of "The Vagina Monologues" as an 'academic event,' in keeping with Fr. Jenkins' guidelines.'' 
-Molly Kring 

Tyrone Willingham suddenly fired as head coach in 2004 after 6-5 regular season record. "ATTENTION NOTRE DAME: TYWILLINGHAi\11 HAS BEEN FIRED.'' Even without the kid with a megaphone in Alumni Hall acting as South Quad's public address system, word of Coach Ty 
Willingham's firing spread quickly across campus on Tuesday, November 30th. Days earlier, Willingham capped his third season at Notre Dame with his third 31 point loss to rival USC. After a promising 10-3 debut season, Willingham's Irish went 11-12 over the following two seasons. It was a frustrating era for Notre Dame fans: The team would pull off exhilarating upset wins over ranked opponents, 
only to fall to inferior squads the next week. In addition to poor performance on the field, Willingham fielded several anemic recruiting classes after an initial class stocked :with future stars like Brady Quinn and Jeff Samardzija. 
At the press conference announcing Willingham's firing, Athletic Director Kevin White praised Willingham for his· ability to develop successful student athletes, but noted that "we simply have not made the progress on the field that we need to make.'' 
Across the Sports universe, columnists took aim at Notre Dame, criticizing the firing ofWillingham after only three seasons, instead of the five year opportunity usually promised to new coaches. Critics argued that the decision proved Notre Dame, rather than holding a special place in college athletics, was just another "football factory," and worse, that the hasty decision to fire the university's first African American football coach was tinged with racism. Assistant to the university present Chandra Johnson shaved her head in protest ofthe decision. Even university president Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. seemed ashamed ofthe decision a week later, saying, "In my 18 years, there has only been two days that I've been embarrassed to be president ofNotre Dame: Tuesday and Wednesday of last week.'' 
-Daric Snyder 

CULTURE 

John Jenkins named university president in 2004. 
OnJuly 1, 2005, Notre Dame was given a new face when Rev. John Jenkins, C.S.C. became the university's 17th president and began his mission to "unite and integrate these two indispensable and wholly compatible strands of higher learning: academic excellence and religious faith," as he stated in his inaugural address. To this end, he created the Notre Dame Forum, a place 
where Catholicism and academia could meet to discuss pressing issues each fall. Since his inauguration, 

Jenkins has initiated large building and research initiatives, including Eddy Commons, Geddes Hall, Stinson-Remick Hall of Engineering and Innovation Park. 
InMay 2008,Jenkins created the "Spirit ofNotre Dame" capital campaign, a $1.5 billion fund-raising effort that has already surpassed its initial goal. Recently, he has received some criticism for allowing President Obama to speak at last spring's commencement ceremony and the "Vagina Monologues" to be performed on campus. 
Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. held the office ofpresident before Jenkins, and praises his successor for his warm personality and dedication to the university's mission. 
"In my judgment Fr.John Jenkins has been an outstanding president and I was delighted when he was reelected for another term by the Board of Trustees. He has focused on sustaining and enhancing the undergraduate learning experience, on carrying the professional and graduate programs and the research environment to the next level and on enhancing the Catholic character ofthe University. He has also been a successful fundraiser. As a person,John is bright, gentle of heart and humble. He has great credibility with faculty and students. I am confident that he will lead Notre Dame to a greater realization of its goal to become the greatest Catholic University in the world and one of the great centers of scholarship, learning and service," Malloy says. 
-Molly Kring 
n 
President Barack Obama named as commencement speaker for the Class of 
2009. 
If there is an accurate indicator of the 
atmosphere on campus, it is certainly the Facebook mini~feed. Never was the mini-feed buzzing more than the day that President Barack Obama was named the keynote speaker at the commencement ceremony for the Class of2009. The lines were drawn immediately in Facebook groups: "Notre Dame Alumni in Support of President Obama," "Keep Obama Out ofNotre Dame," "Notre Dame Students for Barack Obama (Official Chapter)." The protesters were predominantly Catholic and upset that Obama was invited to campus and given an honorary degree despite his pro-choice stance on abortion. At least 62 bishops condemned the invitation and degree. Notre Dame students, though divided, were largely supportive of the President. Obama had won the mock presidential election on campus in the fall of 2008 with 52% of the vote. 
For many, this episode illustrated the tension between Notre Dame as a Catholic institution and Notre Dame as a nationally prestigious university. Ultim.ately, Notre Dame President Rev. John Jenkins, C.S.C., stood by his decision. Commencement was heavily protested and covered by the national media, but during the ceremony Obama delivered a conciliatory speech to an audience that was receptive and respectful overall. 
Abby Wilgenbusch ('09) thought that her commencement 
was indicative of Notre Dame's character. "First of all, it shows that we are willing to 
acknowledge the great achievements of someone, regardless if we agree with all of their 
actions. I think it is a step in the right direction towards a more accepting view and 
invites openness to difficult subjects. I think this showed that the university is willing to 
engage in dialogue about these issues and work to find a positive outcome that everyone 
can agree on. I believe this incident shows that as a university, we are working for social 
change, and we aren't afraid to address difficult subjects that exist today," she says. 0 
-Jen Wulf 
10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 19 



New playwrights workshop stirs Up+;t 
Kristy Cloetinght 
This past semester marked the revival of the New Playwrights Workshop, a showcase with over eighty 
years of tradition intended not only to enhance students' experiences in the field of playwriting _but also to bring get new works to on-campus audiences. The workshop was created in 1998 by Professor Mark Pilkinton, who felt a deep need to create drama right here on campus. "The New Playwrights 
_Work.~l;to . Jts an outgrowth of a course I began. to teach in ~l..,,Y.'i"c¼ ··:~d Screenwriting in 1997," says Pilkinton.. "[It]
·· ..1,,,..,•.,,/~,.., ., -h 1.'i9P~ii "'""'·'•',_!the five years I taught t e course." As the Fi m, >:JqtJji;~i1'iW':itand Theatre program grew and developed, courses such as Playwriting were taken over by more specialized faculty members. In 2003, Jessica Chalmers, an accomplished artist and scholar who won an Obie Award in. 2000 for her play "Jet Lag," began teaching the couise, taking it in a n~w direction and abandoning the New Playwrights Workshop 
r. a differe Theatre major, says. Ultimately, Cooney says, the class and the . workshop were incredibly worthwhile experiences. "Putdng · on plays forced me to think about theatre from all aspects, not just from an actor's perspective," Cooney says. The ten students in the playwriting class this fall each playe'd the parts. of writer, director, and even. o·ccasionally actors. They read . through scenes from the sludents' plays to audiences in the · . Philbin Stu_dio·Theatre, ope~ing themselves up. t~-critique•: not only from one another but also from strangers; ''Itreally• opens your Inind/' Coo_ney says _pf the workshop. "Plus; now I · can say .'I wrote a play.'-And .that's a really exciting thing." ....· . 
it :is uncertain whether the New Playwright Workshop< tradition will continue next semester because Professor Juan_,. will be teaching in London. It seems as though the fate.of th_e workshop will be ·up to .the discretion of the 'profess_C>r. . One thing, however, is certain:,. ·reating and introduciif 
.· \i •1'· '· art is essc::"' · ··· iowth ·,/· 
hur.d 

CULTURE 

Campus Chati:er 
DEPARTMENT OF TWEEN STUDIES 
I've never been a "Twilight" fan. Once, I picked up the first book to see what the hype was about, and 10 pages of awkward dialogue and angst-ridden narration quickly killed my curiosity. The plotline of the series leaves much to be desired. (Undead) boy seduces girl. Girl gets married at age 18. Girl almost dies having undead boy's baby. Not the best role model for millions ofyoung readers. 
But despite my aesthetic and moral objections to this franchise, my friend suckered me into seeing the "New Moon" premiere. My foray into vampire territory started with a text message: "Wanna go to opening night of"New Moon"?" 
Absolutely not. I asked my friend why she would subject herself to screaming children, large crowds and a mediocre movie, but she argued that all her friends were going and we could annoy everyone when we laughed during the serious parts. Immaturity and peer pressure won out, and I found myself on Fandango.com, wasting $9 on cinematic garbage. 
Two weeks later, we stood in a snaking line inside Cinemark 14, my 5'2" friend blending in with the crowd much more easily than I did. Twelve-year-olds flaunted their artistic skills with homemade "I 
• Edward", "I•Jacob" and "Mrs. Cullen" t-shirts, as they debated whether the vampire or the werewolf was the hotter leading man. Another pack of giggling girls overwhelmed me with their excessive eye makeup and jeans that glittered more than vampires in sunlight. I was surprised to see a strong showing ofNotre Dame students (read, Vera Bradley ID holders) and a few teenage boys who looked like they hadn't left their Xbox in years. And, of course, police patrolled the crowd, in case the fans' enthusiasm erupted into chaos. One of the vampire fangirls shoved my friend out of line. "Edward Cullen isn't real!" my friend shouted, almost driving the preteen to tears. 
Tickets in hand, we finally made it into the theater at 11:30 and scanned the crowd for an empty row. No luck. I wasn't surprised, however, as I remembered my junior high years, when I arrived two hours early for "The Lord of the Rings." 
At 12:03, the theater darkened. High-pitched screams pierced my ears, as adolescents released months ofpent-up anticip.3tion. Screams continued throughout the movie every time Edward and Bella kissed or Jacob removed his shirt. I quickly lost patience with the film. The first "Twilight" movie was terrible, yet somehow entertaining, but "New Moon" was just bad. It lacked the prolonged, awkward stares and the ridiculous lines ("Hold on tight, spider monkey!") that I had expected, and there was no melodrama for me to laugh at. Tired and bored, I tried to fall asleep, but squeals jolted me out of semi­consciousness when Jacob, once again, appeared shirtless. 
A few scenes later, the Cullen family appeared upside clown on screen, and I wondered what the director was doing. \?i/as this a trippy dream sequence? An attempt at creativity? The film continued in upside-down mode, and I sensed something was wrong. 
So did 100 angry tweens. 
Their irate babble grew louder, when they realized that Edward and Bella were not supposed to kiss upside-down. One particularly enraged pre-teen ripped off her jacket and started waving it in front of the projector screen, and my friend joked that we were about to witness a tween riot. This ceased to be a joke when a teenage boy climbed a railing at the front of the theater and attempted to rouse the undeacl troops into a "We want Twilight!" chant. I suddenly understood the need for police presence. 
An officer entered the theater and told the crowd that the reel was broken and the film would recommence in half an hour. (Clearly, a mere theater usher was not powerful enough to separate these fans from their favorite vampire.) The theater gave away free tickets to despondent girls up past their bedtime as their parents dragged them out of the theater. 
The remaining moms in the theater harassed the cops when they . announced that the movie wouldn't start until 2:30. My friend with the car asked me if I wanted to go home. "Ifyou want to," I said, while silently pleading her to rescue me from the potential mob. The rest of our group stayed, but as much as I wanted to see Bella glare at the screen for two more hours, I'd had enough teenage angst for one night. 
-Claii·e Reising 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views of Scholastic Nlagazine. 




COVER STORY 
the wrong guy." 
Evan Sharpley, now a fifth-year senior and one of former coach Tyrone vVillingham's final recruits, says there was an unmistakable change in mentality that Weis brought to Notre Dame upon his hiring. "That's what all of us and that's what everybody in the Notre Dame family wanted to hear. It wasn't good enough. Especially at this place where expectations are so high and they have to be met so quickly," Sharpley says. "The mentality he brought in there was totally night and day to what I had heard in the past from other players." 
Notre Dame, however, had been through this song and dance before with Bob Davie, a former defensive coordinator who eventually led the Irish to an underwhelming 35-25 overall record in five years as head coach; George O'Leary, the former Georgia Tech head coach who was found to have lied on his resume and was fired only three days after being hired; and Willingham, a hire from Stanford who was dismissed after three years at the helm with another underwhelming 21­15 overall record. 
A 1978 Notre Dame graduate, Weis had never played college football, nor had he ·ever held a head coaching job above the high school level prior to being hired by then-athletic director Kevin White and university President Rev. John Jenkins. His hiring followed an embarrassing two week period for the university as it dealt with protest and public fallout over the firing of Willingham, the university's first black head coach in any sport, as well as being spurned by Utah head coach and former Notre Dame assistant Urban Meyer, the university's first choice. Meyer instead decided to sign with the University of Florida, whom he has since lea to two national championships. 
vVeis brought with him a love for Notre Dame, a champion's confidence, and a knack for attracting top-tier high school recruits, but his five-year run with the Irish only seemed to bring more of the same. Despite leading the Irish to consecutive Bowl Championship Series (BCS) appearances his first two years, the team fell to a 3-9 record in 2007, the worst record in school history, followed by 7-6 in 2008 and 6-6 this past season. 
The transition for vVeis from the NFL to the college coaching ranks seemed to have been much more difficult than anybody could have anticipated. Despite repeated concerns that the Irish were underachieving with Weis, he managed throughout his past five years to inspire votes of confidence from university administrators, partly because he had proven he could recruit top talent, but also because of an expensive contract extension he signed with the university after only six games into his inaugural season. 
Game of the Century 
It was only Weis' sixth game as head coach ofthe Irish, but the 2005 match up against the University of Southern California at Notre Dame Stadium had been hyped as the game of the century. The No. 1 Trojans, coming into the game with a 27-game win streak, seemed as invincible as any college football team in history. The No. 9 Irish, however, were armed with a 4-1 record and carried a swagger that had been missing for years -much a result of the confidence Weis brought with him to South Bend. This was the game, if any, that Weis could use to prove his mettle not only to the Notre Dame faithful, but to the rest of the country as well. 
On the final series of the game, with the Irish leading 31-28, Irish linebacker Corey Mays appeared to have knocked the ball front USC quarterback Matt Leinart's hands 

COVER STORY 
at the Irish 2-yard line as the clock ran out. Chaos ensued as students rushed the field, but referees soon instructed scorekeepers to put seven seconds back on the clock. On the last play of the game, Leinart attempted a sneak into the end zone rather than have the Trojans tie the game with a field goal. Though he appeared to be stopped short of the goal line by a group of Irish defenders, eventual Reisman Trophy winner Reggie Bush pushed Leinart irito the end zone for a Trojan victory and a shock to a bewildered Notre Dame Stadium. 
Mike Coffey, a 1991 alum who has covered and chronicled Notre Dame sports as operator of the fan Web site NDNation, wonders if Weis' career may have taken a different turn had the Irish walked away with a win. "USC 2005 is certainly a touch-point. [With a win] Notre Dame may have played Texas in the BCS championship game that year instead of going to the Fiesta Bowl, and who knows how Weis' career may have turned out?" Coffey writes in an e-mail. 
Though only a freshman at the time, Sharpley deeply felt the sting of nearly upsetting one of college football's greatest teams, but thinks the game still inspired the Irish. "I think it was a little bit of both, where we learned we could compete with the USCs of the college football world," he says. "We learned a lot about ourselves and what kind of team we were." 
The game certainly provided enough hope for the university that Weis used it to help leverage a contract extension worth a reported $30-40 million. Though it seems to have provided more job security for the first-time head coach and protected against him leaving for an NFL head-coaching job, Coffey wonders if an extension so early into Weis' tenure was a wise strategy. 
"This guy was supposed to be a grad who loved the school and the program and had plenty of reasons to stay," Coffey says. "Why did we need to sweeten the pot for him barely five games into his inaugural season? Yes, he was winning games, but there was concern we were painting ourselves into a corner. It's difficult to portray yourself as being part of the family when you've got your hand out after five games." 
Coming up Short 
Though Weis now had more job security than any college football coach, he and the Irish struggled to build off the momentum of the near-victory against USC. Though they won all of the remaining games on the regular-season schedule to earn a spot in the Fiesta Bowl, the Irish were soundly defeated by Ohio State 34-20. This is when a lot offans, · according to Coffey, started to wonder if Weis was really the coach who could lead the Irish to victories in big games. 
"It probably started noticeably after the Ohio State game when he was slow to do anything about Rick Minter (then-defensive coordinator)," Coffey says. "The defense was having problems, but he didn't seem to have a sense of urgency about fixing it." 
Despite the loss to Ohio State, the Irish entered the 2006 season with a renewed sense of purpose. Weis' mantra, "9-3 is not good enough," echoed throughout Notre Dame Stadium each Saturday and was printed on green towels fans waved in support. After a 41-17 drubbing of No. 23 Penn State in the home season opener, the Irish came into the next week vs. Michigan looking to embarrass their rivals. Instead, it was the Irish who were embarrassed, losing 47-21. 
"We came out with high expectations again that year. Going into Michigan we had high hopes," Sharpley says. "This was one of those key games in the run of games where this could be a special season for us. The way we played, it was a very deflating loss. It was 

COVER STORY 

a tough loss to take." 
The Irish, still holding on to slim hopes of reaching the BCS title game even after the loss, saw those hopes dashed with another loss to USC, this time a 44-24 shellacking. Though they earned an invitation to the Sugar Bowl, they were soundly defeated again, this time by LSU, 41-14. 
Soon faint whispers turned into conversations, and conversations turned into concern. Two years into Weis' tenure, despite two BCS bowl game appearances, the Irish had lost the five biggest gam~s on its schedule -USC and Ohio State in 2005, and Michigan, USC and LSU in 2006 -all opportunities to prove, for Weis, that he 
26 I SCHOLASTIC I 10 DECEMBER 2009 
was the long-sought savior to Notre Dame's ·The Irish ranked 118th out of 119 Division I troubles. te,ams in scoring, with a measly 16.4 points per With the team losing 13 starteis'to-.game.Itrankeddeadlastinoffensiveyardsper 
graduation, 2007 was expected by many to be a rebuilding year for the Irish. Many were alarmed that Weis' predecessor Willingham only received three years instead of the university's customary :five for head coaches -how much slack would they cut Weis? 
Into the.Abyss 
The 2007 season was by almost any stretch of the imagination the worst season in the history of the Notre Dame football program. 
game with an average of279. It ranked 114th with an average of75 rushing yards per game. For a supp·osed offensive genius, 'disastrous numbers were startling. 
The Irish lost five games t open the season, a school record, and also set the school record for total losses with nine. Out 
. of the four quarterbacks that competed for a starting position that season, one (Zach Frazer) transferred prior to the season and one (Demetrius Jones) started the opening game but mysteriously left the team two weeks later and eventually transferred. Their-departures 
COVER STORY 
" The Irish finish outthe 2009 ~season with .. a/AS-38 loss. 
··10 Stanford,· qroppi11gtheir·. record to 6:-6~ 
Npvember.22, 2008 
D#J'.n a snow-filled Senior Day at itNotre parne Stadium, the Syracuse ii'i:?r,c1rygemen upset the lri$Q 24:-2~, /·Notre Oame's first loss ever.to a teani }Nthcttbad lostat lea$t eight ame~~, 
PHOTOS BY GASPAR GARCIA DE PERDES, KRISTIN KEVE, JULIANA HOFFELDER, CONOR BIN ONER, COLIN HOFMAN, COURT.NEY SULLIVAN, COURTNEY BALL 
left the Irish with Sharpley and a highly­
touted but clearly o;ermatched freshman in Jimmy Clausen. 
The Irish opened the season with losses of 33-3, 31-10, 38-0, 31-14 and 33-19. Fans temporarily pushed hopes for a first win aside, and instead prayed for their first offensive touchdown (which came in a 31-14 defeat to Michigan State). A win finally came on the road against UCLA, but the season reached a low point with a three-overtime loss to Navy at home, its first loss to Navy in 43 years. Its only other victories came at the expense of Stanford and Duke, who had a total of four wins between them. 
"Even though 2007 was supposed to be a down year thanks to Willingham's poor recruiting, there's no way it should have been that bad," Coffey says. "That's the point where a lot of people jumped off the bandwagon." 
Junior wide receiver Golden Tate, who gained a cult following for his acrobatic plays as a freshman that year, remembers the frustration of being blown out nearly every week. "I feel like my freshman year we were kind of helpless," he says. "No matter what we did we were going to get beat by a lot of points. Having a freshman quarterback, a few freshman receivers and a freshman starting running back, it's hard to come in and succeed." 
The middle years of the Weis era were a period ofimmense change. Not only had the veterans from Willingham's teams graduated, but Weis found himself tinkering with the coaching staff, firing Minter after the 2006 season and hiring former Michigan player Corwin Brown to coach the defense, while also replacing quarterbacks coach Peter Vaas with former Irish quarterback Ron Powlus. After the disastrous 2007 season, Weis hired Jon Tenuta as co-defensive coordinator with Brown. Weis briefly surrendered his play calling duties following the 2007 season, only to take them back nine games into 2008. 
No matter what Weis tried, however, he could not seem to find the right answer and struggled to build a sense of consistency. 
10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 27 
For some players, especially on defense, the constant change wore on them. 
"Everything that got me to come here, I felt like every year a piece of it fell off," says Richardson. "Whether it was my recruiting coach, or position coach, or another coach on the staff I really liked, to see the whole coaching staff change year to year is frustrating." 
Though the team began the 2008 season more optimistic with a 4-1 start, the wheels suddenly fell off, and the Irish finished the season 7-6, including an ugly loss to Syracuse, a school that had fired its coach the week before, on a snow-filled Senior Day at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Sharpley, a senior at the time, says, "It was one of those games where I was just like, 'This isn't good'. The game ended, and I started kind of tearing up a bit. Why? Why am I going to cry? At that point I was kind of bitter with my whole experience here. I had my own expectations coming in, and those didn't come to fruition. And in my last game at Notre Dame Stadium, I didn't get to play. Whatever those reasons were, I was bitter at the whole situation. You can't have losses like that if you're trying to go to the next level." 
It was after the loss to Syracuse that the wagons started circling around Weis. One significant hurdle stood in the way: Weis was due the last six years on the contract he e~tended in 2005, and a buyout figure was rumored to be in the neighborhood of eight figures. Finding itself painted into a corner 
28 ISCHOLASTIC I 10 DECEMBER 2009 
with Weis, Notre Dame seemingly had no -choice but to stick with him. 
The most encouraging sign for the Irish 
that season was a 49-21 victory over Hawaii in 
the Hawaii Bowl, the first bowl game victory 
for the Irish in its last nine tries. The-Irish 
had hoped to parlay this momentum into 
finally achieving the return to glory Weis had 
promised back in 2005. 
2009 would be perhaps Weis' final 
opportunity to prove he was the right man 
for the job. 
Mayday! Mayday:! 
Weis seemed to have regained the confidence 
of many as the Irish began the 2009 season 
6-2, with only last-second, heartbreaking 
losses to Michigan and USC keeping them 
from being undefeated. The offense, featuring 
the likes of Clausen, Tate, sophomore wide 
receiver Michael Floyd and junior halfback 
Armando Allen, proved to be one of the 
most dangerous in the country. The defense, 
though inconsistent, played well enough to 
keep the Irish competitive -nine out of its 
11 games were decided by less than seven 
points. 
Then along came Navy. 
Though the Irish had confidence their 
potent offense would be more than enough to 
take care of Navy, the Midshipmen stunned 
the Irish crowd by controlling the ball with their own potent triple-option offense and upset theirish 23-21. 
"Th;t ~vas bad, Michael Jackson bad. We didn't see· that coming," says Richardson. "Have you ever seen the movie 'Black Hawk Down'? It was kind of like that. We thought we would be back off the field by 6:00." · 
The game seemed to confirm to many what had already been said about Weis -his teams were chronic underachievers. Junior defensive tackle Ian Williams sparked controversy after the game, saying the Irish were out-schemed. Senior safety and team co-captain Kyle McCarthy came to the coaching staff's defense 
. and Weis sided with his captain, remarking that there was a reason why McCarthy was a captain and Williams wasn't. 
"We had a meeting the next day and · addressed those comments," Tate says. "Coach Weis spoke on accountability. I guess Coach 
--:Weis thought there were some guys on the team that felt,. 'I played hard, so it's not my fault that we lost,' which is not the case. It takes all of us to win that game and we all put in work." J 
Richardson believes that 1;,he confidence Weis had instilled in the Irish was at times a detriment. "I don't know if we ever gave our opponents the respect they needed, outside of USC," he says. 
Sharpley, who had started in 2007 against Navy, could only watch from the sidelines this time as the Irish imploded. "I think this year's loss was worse than the first loss. Thatyear, we weren't doing very well to start with. Going into this year, with so many expectations, with so many things that make us think we should obliterate these teams, we didn't." 
A Domino Effect 
The stunning loss to Navy precipitated the four-game losing streak to end the 2009 season and spelled doom for Weis as a coach. Many believed that no matter what happened in the season's final three games, this season would be Weis' swan song. Those who might have thought his tenure was salvageable following the loss were certainly convinced after heartbreaking losses on the road to Pittsburgh and Stanford, with yet another loss on Senior Day, this time to a Connecticut team quarterbacked by Notre Dame refugee Frazer, sandwiched in between. 
"After the loss to Navy it popped in my mind that there's a chance he might not come back," Tate says. "Obviously, being a junior I don't want to be going into my senior year with a new coach; a new offense, a new mental approach to the game." 
"[Navy] was the spark that started the fire," Richardson says. "Butwe could have put it out. It would have been controversial, but he still would have been here." 
Swarbrick admitted in an interview with ESPN that the loss to Navy was a significant factor in his dismissal of Weis. "Certainly the Navy loss shifted the balance and made it critical that we demonstrate that we can come back from that loss and have a better performance in the last couple of weeks," he said. "After Connecticut I was pretty sure what the recommendation [to Jenkins] would be." 
Losing Weis was like losing a part of the family for many players, including Tate. "Off the field, I felt like I could talk to the guy about family, friends and my personal life," he says. "One of the things that I admire about the guy is that he spoke to me like I was his son, Charlie, Jr. He always wanted what was best for me. Not what was best for the university, or what's best for him." 
Others recognize that Weis' time was up. "Was it a needed change? Probably," Sharpley says. "It's still tough as a program to let a coach go, because what's going to happen next? Is the next guy going to come in and fix the problem? He might, he might not. Nothing is guaranteed. I feel for the guys that are here, because aV these guys who were recruited by Coach Weis, they have nobody to turn to for leadership." 
Others believe, however, that part ofWeis' trouble was his inability to relate to a lot of his players. 
"Of course when you take out people like Jimmy, or Golden, or [tight end Kyle] Rudolph, those guys who were critical to the success ofthe team, those might be their true feelings," Richardson says. "But there's two sides to every story." 
"I never got to know Coach Weis as a person, in four years. It's not the way it should be," he continues. "Ican't tell you one personal thing about him. I can't tell you what his likes and his dislikes are. Any type of one-on-one conversation outside of football, that never happened. [I wish] he was more personable and easy to talk to." 
Finding a Legend 
Notre Dame now finds itself precisely where it was a little more than five years ago -as a formerly elite football program that's searching desperately for answers. Once one of the most coveted jobs in America, Notre Dame finds itself struggling to attract top­tier coaching talent. It had thought it found a diamond in the rough in Weis, but his tenure only seemed to bring more questions than answers. Unlike Notre Dame's previous two hires, however, many people believe Weis has built enough ofa foundation oftalent to make the university optimistic going forward. 
For a school that has built its reputation on tradition, it has yet to find the next success in the bloodline of Knute Rockne, Frank Leahy, Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz. They had hoped to find it in the Notre Dame man from New Jersey, but as they discovered over the last five years, confidence and bravado are only half of the equation. 
As ofpress time, Swarbrick has yet to find a successor to Weis. Among its rumored wish­list are Meyer, Oklahoma's Bob Stoops and Cincinnati's Brian Kelly. 
"AtNotre Dame, you have the opportunity for a meteoric rise or a precipitous fall. Nothing is done halfway," Coffey says. "I think Notre Dame is one of the best college coaching jobs in America. If you coach well at Florida or Southern Cal or Texas, you're well-known. If you do it at Notre Dame, you're a legend." 
As Notre Dame has also discovered, finding legends isn't as easy as it used to be. 
r 
PARENTS: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 

i 
I 
Published Since 1867 
Serving the Notre Dame Community SCHOLASTIC 
a----------------­
I I
National· Pacemaker Award Winner 
I I 
IO ISSUES 35 DOLLARS 
SEND THIS FORM AND
First Class or Foreign Subscribers: add 15 dollars. 
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 315 LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER) NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 )
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST. 
OR . NAME::----------------­ORDER ONLINE AT 
HTTPS:/IMARKETPLACE.ND.EDUI
ADDRESS:--------------­
STUDENTSHOP/ 

10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 
SPORTS 
IRISH EYES ON: MICHAEL FLOYD 
Matt Formica 
\Vhen five-star wide receiver .Michael Floyd announced his decision to attend Notre Dame, Irish fans expected great things from the Minnesota native. But nobody could have predicted the success Floyd would enjoy during his record-setting freshman season. Floyd burst onto the scene in 2008 and established himself as an explosive target while setting three Notre Dame freshman records: most receiving touchdowns, receiving yards and catches. Floyd carried this momentum into the 2009 season-opener, in which he hauled in a career~high three touchdown receptions, including an 88-yard strike. Despite missing five games due to a broken collarbone, the sophomore recorded 795 receiving yards and nine touchdowns in 2009. \Vith the 2009 regular season in the books, Floyd cannot wait for a chance to give Irish fans something to cheer about next season. 
Yo11 really bad the opportuni'ty to attend any football powerhouse in the nation. Why didyou choose Notre Dame? 
Basically because ofthe tradition and because I wanted to play football and also get a great education at a top school. People made it feel like home here. I felt really comfortable. 
_Can you describe the emotions yo11 experienced the first time y011 charged out of the tunnel at Notre Dame Stadium? What do you remember ab01tt yourfirst career touchdown catch? 
I was a little nervous coming out of the tunnel because it was my first college game experience. \Vhen I scored my first touchdown, I was really excited. Getting that out of the way so soon was really exciting for me. 
What areyour th01,gb-ts 011 the team's 6-6finish in 2009? 
I'm disappointed. vVe played our hearts out and the games always came down to the wire. \iVe put in a lot of effort this year, but we just want to get back out there and start working out for next season. 
' 
How do you feel about Mr. Swarbrick's decisi011 to fire Coach Weis? Can you describey011r relationship with Coach Weis? 
Coach Weis and I had a good relationship. Being a wide receiver, I · worked a lot with him on the offensive side of the ball. He reached out to a lot of guys. It was a decision the athletic director had to make -I didn't really have a voice in it. 
Do you think the media places too much pressure on college athletes? 
Some people might say that, but I like to keep it nice and short when I talk to the media, so it doesn't really bother me. They can't really screw me over because I don't say too much. 
What is one aspect oflife as a ND football player that the average student doesn't see? 
\Vhile everyone is having fun over summer break, we have training camp. We wake up at 5 :3 0 or 6 a.m. for meetings and workouts. You're pretty much at the Gug (Guglielmino Athletics Complex) from 6 a.in. to 7 p.m. practicing. That's what we do while everyone is relaxing. 
How bard was it to miss five ga11zes with a collarbone i11jU1y in 2009? 
Emotionally I was all right. I was playing through the other guys. Some inexperienced guys got a chance to go out and perform, which was good to see. I went to physical therapy two or three times a day and did whatever they told me. I stretched it out a lot and followed all of their instructions. 
Describe Ji.mmy Clamen and Golden Tate in a sentence. 
Jimmy is a really laid back kind of guy. Golden is an energetic kind of guy. 
How difficult do yo11 think it will be for you and your teammates to adjust to the coaching change? 
I see players reacting to it in a positive way. We just need to form good relationships with the new coaches. We need to support one another in whatever we do. 
What are yourfeelings on playing in a bowl game? 
We see the bowls we've been offered as ones that we don't think we should be going to. We expect more from ourselves than going to those bowls. Most guys don't wan_! to go to one ofthese bowls because they're not BCS. · 0 

32 I SCHOLASTIC I 10 DECEMBER 2009 
SPORTS 

ur 
ey Says ... 
Matt j "Feliz 
A pair of Nike Indianapolis Indoor Track & Not very "Beautiful" by 
SCHIPPER j Navidad" by 
running shoes Colts Field Nationals productive Akan
Track and Field j Jose Feliciano 
j "All I Want 
Megan 
: for Christmas : L"C s· : : "Body 
: . Yi ,, b : 11e 1ze Being a second : The best days : L ,, b
FARRELL 
Boston Red Sox · · anguage y
: is ~u Y : Barbie 
semester senior : of the semester : J M C
Swimming : Manah Carey : : : esse c armey 
Time Travel 
Kristen Stoutenburgh 
Dece1nber 1 & 3) 1995 
For the 1995 Notre Dame women's soccer team, the road to the College Cup was anything but smooth. The team started 8-0 before hitting a few road bumps, and finished 10-2-2 going into the playoffs. What stood between the Irish and the championship game? The daunting task of defeating the North Carolina Tar Heels, a team that had won nine consecutive NCAA titles and was riding a 31-game NCAA Tournament winning streak. To make things more difficult, the College Cup was held in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, giving the Tar Heels a distinct home field advantage. As Irish Coach Chris Petrucelli put it, "There were only 24 people who thought we could win this game and they were all in our locker room." The Irish upset UNC 1-0, with the only goal of the match coming when North Carolina forward Cindy Parlow accidentally headed the ball into her own net. Coming off this stunning victory, the Irish quickly turned their attention to beating Portland in the national championship game. The two teams remained tied at zero after 90 minutes of regulation, two 15-minute overtime periods and five minutes in sudden death overtime. That's when junior midfielder Cindy Daws drilled a free­kick past Portland's goalkeeper, propelling the Irish to an exhausting 1-0 victory and their first women's soccer national championship. "For a long time we had talked about winning a national championship and we finally did it," Petrucelli said. "The thing that came out of it was that we find out how much character our team really had ... we fought back." 0 
10 DECEMBER 2009 j SCHOLASTIC I 33 

SPORTS 

Elizabeth Flood 
II when you pull on that jersey," the Kurt Russell version of Herb _ · Brooks says in the movie "iVIiracle", "the name on the front is a hell of a lot more important than the one on the back." This sentiment -self sacrifice 1s certainly not limited to just an underdog hockey team of 1980 or to a Hollywood studio. No, this romantic notion of teamwork is alive and well, and while it is indeed a mark ofall Notre Dame athletics, we have amongst us a program that shines particularly bright: the perhaps understated but brilliantly successful women's soccer team. While this team is one consistently packed with standout players, the backs of their jerseys remain nameless. Everything is for that hallowed "Irish" printed on the front. Even though this program has seen· two of its proteges (Anne Makinen and 2009 graduate Kerri Hanks) walk away with three of this decade's Hermann awards, awarded to the country's top player, even though its recruiting classes are always highly-regarded, and even though the program has sent many of its players to national soccer leagues, the focus remains on the team. "We know that we cannot accomplish anything alone, and that team victories are of far greater worth than individual victories," junior midfielder/forward Erica Iantorno says. "At the beginning of every season, we pick a team slogan that becomes an acronym. This year it is 220, last year's was TNT, and 
34SCHOLASTIC10 DECEMBER 2009 
in 2004, when we won the championship, it was GOAT. The meaning of the acronym, liowever, is always kept within the team. Broadly, we always remember that we are not just playing for ourselves but also for the university and for all ofthe incredible alumni before us who left us a legacy ... We are truly blessed to have such a close-knit team and such an amazing legacy. It is an honor to play here." 
Senior goalkeeper Kelsey Lysander says, "Everyone, including the high profile players, understands that it takes more than just one player on the field to be successful. Everyone has a role on the team and it takes all 28 players and the coaching staff for us to achieve what we aim to do every season: winning the national championship." 
It's no secret on campus that these ladies are the real deal; especially after last year's inspiring and near-perfect season, this· 
the new millennium with high expectations. 
After advancing to four ofthe last six College 
Cups (NCAA Championships), they found 
theinselves in the midst of a reloading year 
-:--yet, they still fought their way to a No. 1 
national ranking and to the semifinal game 
of the NCAA tournament. Anne Makinen 
won the prestigious Hermann Trophy, and 
later that year four Notre Dame players were 
drafted in the first round of the inaugural 
WUSA league. Several more Irish players 
followed these four into the league. In 2001, 
the team's tournament run ended early, but 
four players were honored with invitations to 
train with various national teams. 
· A few years later, in 2004, the Irish had a dream season, establishing themselves as a pei;ennially excellent program. They captured theirsecondnationalchampionship, . and in doing so became the second team in ,women's soccer, after the University of 
team has rightfully earned the respect of North Carolina Tar Heels, to win multiple 
the student body. 'ii\That people might not realize, tl10ugh, is that the women's soccer team has maintained this standard of utmost excellence for the past decade. 
The women's program was founded in 1988, so it is still fairly young-but its short life has been a dazzling one. The team won its first Big East title in 1995 (the first such title for any Notre Dame sport), and then followed that up by winning its first national championship later that season. In 1999, the team hired current coach Randy Waldrum. 
This promising Irish program entered national titles. This squad was again one of superstars. It included three All-Americans and Coach Randy Wald;!umwas named, for the second year in a ro , a finalist for National Coach of the ear. The women lost in the NCAA quarterfinals in 2005, but tl1e astounding skill of their players was on national display when the fifteen finalists for the Hermann Trophy were announced. Four of these finalists were Irish. 
In 2006, the team once again flirted with a national championship, falling just short with a loss to an esteemed North Carolina 
SPORTS 
team in the final game. Kerri Hanks, though only a sophomore, walked away from the season with the Hermann Trophy, the youngest player (male or female) ever to do so. The team made another valiant run f6r the NCAA championship in 2007 
before losing to Florida -their fourth consecutive year in fltr"--. State (a . the final four, and the eleventh in the .--------program's history. Alas, the Tar Heels / proved their soccer superiority for the 

.,,,-----­
school the current team 
defeated two weeks ago 
in tournament play) in 
the semifinals. In what is 
quickly almost becoming old 
two players on the Irish roster garnered All-American honors. 
Then there was the magical 2008 season. The Irish were a force to be reckoned with, tearing through their season undefeated and sitting pretty atop the NCAA rankings. Their run crumbled in the waning minutes of the heartbreaking championship game, when a familiar foe -the fifth-ranked North Carolina Tar Heels -robbed them ofa third national title. Nevertheless, the phenomenal Kerri Hanks won her second Hermann Trophy, a feat that landed her amongst elite company. She was only the fourth woman to win the prize twice; the first three players to do so were Mia Hamm, Cindy Parlow, and Christine Sinclair. 
This year has been wildly successful for the Irish. The second-seeded team, with a thrilling victory over Florida State, earned 
a coveted place in the Coilege Cup 
Irish 1-0 last Friday in the semifinals. 
Despite this, the Notre Dame women's soccer team is -and has always been ­one made of stars, outclassing most other programs around the country. But this team is one far too committed to perfection and far too dedicated to each other to waste time being "flashy," senior captain Courtney Rosen says. "We believe that if we always work hard, both on and off the field, good things will come. Unlike other teams who may be flashy, we believe we can outwork any team in the nation," she says. 
Indeed, when asked to describe their team in one word, Rosen, Lysander, and Iantorno offered, respectively, the following: 
"Committed (Committed to each other. Committed to excellence. Committed to being the best)." "Blue-collar." "Close." 
That's really all that needs to be said about this team. For all this program's success, they 
are still focused on their daily regimen of 
hard work. These extraordinarily talented 
young women have submitted to grueling 
discipline and the selfless idea of a team · 
striving, academically and athletically, to be 
the best that they can be. 
"In our old locker room, there are huge pictures of the two teams that have won the National Championship before us. Everyday, . when we are getting ready for practice or a game, we take a second to acknowledge the foundation that these great women have laid for us. It is ·our duty, responsibility and pleasure to build a legacy to pass on to future generations of Notre Dame women soccer 
players," Rosen says. 
You can be certain that when these players pull on their jerseys, only "Irish" will be on their mind. After all, "the name on the front is a hell of a lot more important than the one on the back." This team, though, isn't one that needs miracles, or really even any of that Irish luck. What they need -the only thing these great Notre Dame women's soccer teams have ever needed -is what they've got, and that's each other. 0 

10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
SPORTS 
w 
c:: 
C. 
~ 
m 
~ 
:;;! 
J: 
~ 
C. 
Andy Gray 
When a 6'8", 250-pound Luke Harangody strode onto the Joyce Center floor for the first time three years ago, some fans probably wondered, "Is that boy a lineman? What's he doing out here?" Few likely guessed he would become the first Irish basketball player to record 2,000 points and 1,000 rebounds in his career, as he did on December 1 against Idaho State. And you might guess even fewer thought to themselves, "That Harangody has a lot of growing to do." But in order for the senior forward fondly known as "Gody" to become established as the basketball powerhouse he is today, that's exactly what needed to happen. Metaphorically, of course. The growth process, however, was one that had started for Harangody long before his arrival in South Bend. His older brother Ty made sure of that, 
36 I SCHOLASTIC I IO DECEMBER 2009 

from their very first one-on-one game obvious now, wasn't so widely known at in the backyard. "I was never very the time. "The team and the staff were successful against him," Luke says. "But very welcoming, and I felt like [Notre I think it made me better, tougher, more Dame] . was a place where I belonged," competitive." Harangody says. "And the proximity to 
Fortunately for Notre Dame fans, this the school was important." tougher Luke Harangody was honing /., his skills just a short trip down I-80 bi. ~ · I think it made 
Schererville, IN. He earned all-state . • • • h?n~rs ~t Andrean ~igh School in ho.th ~e better tougher.
his Jumor and senior s_easons. Yet not . -----' _"­
everyone was sure about Harangody's 
more COfilpetitive.''
prospects in collegiate basketball. 
"There were always people doubting, -Luke Harangody especially when I came in, whether I / could play at a high level like in the Big But motivated (a:ncl power-forward East," Harangody says. "[Or] whether I sized) as he might have been, Harangody should be at a smaller school or even on still had plenty of growing to do after a football field. But I just took that as his arrival on campus. He spent the first motivation." half of his freshman season coming off 
Harangody didn't have to look far to the Irish bench after struggling in early find a program and a coach that could season practices against teammate Rob see . his potential -which, though Kurz, and remained reluctant to start 
SPORTS 
despite impressive performances at the me out a lot." season's outset. After the loss of Kyle That year, Harangody earned McAlarney to indefinite suspen~ion, Big East Player of the Year honors, however, the Irish needed their freshmen quite a milestone for a 6'8" forward to step up. from Schererville. As a sign of the 
Harangody did just that, earning immense improvement of his game, Big East All-Rookie Team honors by the award represented a meaningful the end of the year. But he knows his accomplishment and another confidence game wouldn't have developed so much boost. without a little push from those around "It was huge," Harangody says of him. receiving the honor. "Never did I see 
"All the players and coaches helped me myself in that picture, being Big East get more confidence, letting me know Player of the Year. It was a great thing what my role is and what I need to do," for me, especially early in my career, he says. "It helped me become the player and I still cherish that a lot." 
I am today." Rarely, though, is a career a simple series of wins and accolades. After
Of course, Harangody's personal another untimely exit from postseason
drive is no small asset, either. That play, the Irish entered Harangody'simpressive freshman season ended in junior season experienced, motivated, a disappointing first-round loss to and ranked in the top ten nationally. But 
Winthrop in the NCAA Tournament 
a seven-game losing streak in Big East in which Harangody notched only four 
play made that year a different kind of points and a single rebound. He would learning experience. later admit to reporters that he had hit "You just have to look to the next 
a physical wall in the game, which came after a season more demanding than any ~ ~"\T. h I k he had experienced before, and he was · · I.OU ave to 00 to 
unable to perform atthe highest level. · Yet this only inspired Harangody to 
the next game [and] 
amp up his practice and conditioning the following year. Seeing what he had 
forget about the last 
on his hands, the coach that had brought Harangody to Notre Dame stepped in to one'J~ -Luke Harangody encourage and direct this growth of the 

game [and] forget about the last one," Harangody says. "I tried to step up and have a calming effect on guys, because it's a tough thing to go through." Adversity was forging a leader. 
But even in a difficult year, Harangody logged impressive numbers, averaging 23 points and nearly 12 rebounds per game. He had also spent the past two years matching up with NBA-caliber talents in the post like Hasheem Thabeet, DeJuan Blair, and, in a game Harangody cites as a real jump-off point for his career, Michael Beasley. As a sophomore against Beasley's Kansas State Wildcats, Harangody scored 19 and grabbed 14 rebounds, outdoing the KSU phenom en route to an Irish victory. 
Wondering whether he had grown 
sufficiently to make the jump to sophomore's game and mindset. professional basketball as Beasley had 
"I remember Coach Brey calling me done the previous year, Harangody put into his off.ice and telling me about the his name in the 2009 NBA Draft pool, player I could be for this program in the only to withdraw in June. At the time, Big East," Harangody s~ys. "That helped hi_s father Dave Harangody told Sports 

Illusti·ated that the previous season had left Luke with "unfinished business" at Notre Dame, but the senior star cites another reason for returning to school. 
"The NBA will be there," he says. "I'm not always going to have my senior year back with my teammates, to be able to be at Notre Dame one more year. I thought I'd regret it if I didn't come back and get my degree." 
Plus, he knows there's still room to grow before making that step. "Everyone wants to see if I can step up and lead this team," Harangody says. "I can score from any part of the floor; my outside shot is improving, rebounding, I think I could be kind of a 'motor' guy in the NBA. But my defense needs to improve. Lots of people have told me that, so I continue to work on it." 
Despite the loss of four key seniors from last year's roster, Harangody maintains confidence in his leadership and hope for the year. "I see us improving every week, getting better, helping the young guys, and getting into the NCAA Tournament," he says. 
Harangody is already in the illustrious Irish record books. If he can lead· this year's team to their final goal, maybe, just maybe, he will have done all the growing he needs to do here at Notre Dame. 
10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 37 


HUMOR 

My dear ferocious little fledglings, 
Like a proud papa parakeet, I couldn't be any more thankful to be a part of this Notre Dame family with you. You've all been faced with a rough few weeks but have barreled through with unwavering courage and stupidity: 
You've adopted the most productive of academic procrastination tactics: complaining so much about the amount of work you have to do that you in fact never actually do the work. 
You've resolved the conundrum of having to decide between going to class or watching SportsCenter from your futon by strategically registering your cell number to receive up-to-the-minute text messages when any story with the words "new coach" appears on ESPN.com. 
And you've successfully employed a turkey-and-stuffing combo to distract your significant other from the majority of your grandmother's racist comments at Thanksgiving dinner, salvaging your shot at a ring by spring (gross). 
But for those of you who haven't fared quite so well, cheer up and take a tip from the 01' Gipp: Wear a tacky Christmas sweater to a non-tacky Christmas sweater event (like your accounting lecture, or The Backer); stash a pair of scissors in your pocket and opt to turn even the ugliest exam papers into pretty snowflakes; or -because this time of the semester nobody has anything better to do -grab yourself a pint o' Rockstar and take a moment to chuckle at these whimsical tales: 
With the craziness of the holiday season bearing down upon us, it might do us all some good to take a step back from life's trivialities and focus on what's truly important: bun runs and Taco Bell. 
This is not a story about a bun run to Taco Bell (although that would be epic and "bravo!" to anyone bold enough to try). But this first adventure proves that with a sweet smile and convincing verbal communication 
. . 
-------~ ~ --· -­
skills, even the most obstacle-ridden late night Taco Bell trip can be as easy as winning the Nobel Peace Prize. 
It begins on a quiet Wednesday when three lively lassies decided on a girls' night out. They dolled up and rolled out to Cheers, one of their favorite bars if only for the fact that their flimsy "IDs" were happily accepted as authentic. But the scene inside wasn't quite bumpin' and the available specimens were uninteresting at best. So they downed enough cocktails to take the edge off the cold and set out for the alluring beacon in the not-so-far distance: Taco Bell. 
It wasn't until they reached the glowing faux-Mexican Mecca that they realized their impending predicament: it was clrive-thru only hours, and they were on foot. They attempted the walk-up method to no avail. They tapped on the window glass only to be ignored. And it was at this exact moment that a South Bend police car pulled into the Taco Bell driveway. 
The ominous officer approached the lassies and demanded to know their inte~tions ­"Getting fourth-meal, of course, sir." 
"Well then why are you standing in the parking lot empty-handed?" "Because they won't serve us if we aren't 
in a car." 
And that was all it took. Maybe it was the desperation in their voices, or their feminine wiles, but good old Officer Tony's composure broke. Three minutes later the girls were standing in inebriated amazement as Tony returned with three Crunch Wrap Supremes. 
"Do you girls have a ride home?" 
"Well, we called a cab, but it hasn't showed up." "It's cold out here, I'll give you a lift." Living life one hot sauce packet at a time, 
the ladies climbed into the back ofthe cop car with gooey (yet still crunchy) delicacies in hand. The altruistic officer drove diligently to Main Circle where he deposited the lassies and bade them farewell and happy eating. Seriously, you couldn't make this stuff up if you tried. 
Okay, on to the bun run! Here's a comical quickie for you (because who doesn't love a quickie?): 
It was a quiet weekday evening on North Quad. Some students filtered into the dining hall for an early meal while others slouched back from class. But in the dusky light of the Daylight Savings afternoon, one Domer stood out from the rest. Maybe it was because he was running, or maybe because he was naked, but like a third-grader on Pixie Stix, a lanky and unfortunate fellow clashed frantically across the Quad toward Farley Hall. In a flash he had reached his destination, slapped the outside wall of Farley, and darted back across the quad into Zahm where his defeaters howled with delight. 
Thankfully the details are a bit blurry, but without question he was 100 percent in the nude and clutching his boxers in his hand. Some passersby stared incredulously at one another on the sidewalks before erupting into laughter, but others missed the scandalous spectacle altogether. 
Our poor Zahmbie suffered a loss in one of those "never ever played on campus" drinking games, only to be fated for the one thing more humiliating than not hitting a single beer pong cup: a North Quad bun run. 
Before I sign off for the year, a quick note about this column and why the Gipp writes it to begin with: it's intended to entertain, to highlight the ludicrous mishaps that are a daily (orweekendly) part ofyour weird Notre Dame lives -not to harm or hurt feelings ­and the characters remain anonymous for good reason. Last issue some concern was expressed about one of the "I wish I hadn't ... " moments of Notre Dame Halloween 2009, concern that 01' Gipp will surely keep in mind. This is just a friendly reminder to all you Scholastic junkies that the Gipper shared those shameful stories to ridicule -not condone -the Halloween shenanigans that took place. 
On that note, don't forget to share your stories with the Gipp!. Charge through, young dames and dudes -it's almost over! 
Happy freaking holidays, 
The Gipper 
TfPTH0g;PP 
0 ® o ® at gipper@nd.edu 10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 39 

HUMOR
-..:--------------------'-------------~~~~~~ 

Need some tips when it comes to dressing for the cold and dreary days ahead? Look no further, Scholastic has answered your prayers. We now present your guide to collegiate winter fashion, just in time for the holidays. 
Winter's In and J:gggings are Out 
Opening with the topic ofleggings seems like an obvious choice. Don't act like you don't know what I'm talking about. Little boots, leggings, top that barely reaches below the cheeks. Is the word pants a part ofyour vocabulary or is your vocabulary even shorter than your shirt? I feel obligated to call out this ensemble that reached its peak in Grease because girls are making this drafty mistake all over again. We accept the winter body fat in hopes offeeling slightly warmer. But let's not kid ourselves. Save yourself from the breeze and the rest of us from the view. BUY PANTS. 

fiats Offto J?ou...J?ou Cultural Mosh <Pit! We've all heard that most of your body heat is lost from the top of your head, but solving that problem is another story. Now that football season is over, sporting your ND beanie should be at most a once-a-week affair. Besides, we all know your tresses don't appreciate the flat helmet head look any more than you do. Might I recommend dead animal? Pop culture has given a nod to Russian fashion with the popularity offur-lined trapper hats and headbands. And ifyou're more ofthe PETA type, or just don't have a shotgun, try the knit French beret. Lightly knitted caps should provide ample head coverage and still maintain your fashion status. Ifhats are just not your thing, Canadian ear muffs are back in style! News flash: There's actually no difference between the Canadian ear muff and any other ear muff. 
10 DECEMBER 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 41 



University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 


HUMOR 
HOWTO,JIJJE 
Ill&. . 
A . \ I . STUDJENT
·~ •.
By Kathleen Toohi/1 . 


EXIT INTERVIEW 
Professor Anre Venter 

Jason G'Se/1 
Professor Anre Venter serves as the Director of Undergraduate Studies in the Department ofPsychology. Since receiving his Ph.D. from Notre Dame in 1996, Venter has served in a variety ofpositions, primarily 
'I 
advising students and teaching classes ranging from Intro to Psychology to upper-level seminars. A native of South Africa, Venter led Notre Dame's first summer study abroad program to Cape Town, South Africa last summer. He is loved by studentsfor his biting sarcasm and penchantfor controversy, racking up an 8. 7 out of10for "sense ofhumor" on NDToday.com. Scholastic decided 
to catch up with Venter to see what makes him tick. 
What attribute do you most admire in another person? 
People who have come to terms with themselves, with who they are. 
Who is your hero? 
Joseph Campbell, the mythologist, because he was a very intellectual free thinker -not constrained by the requirements or the demands of the environment around him. 
What do you like 111ost aboutyourjob? 
The relationships that I've been able to form with people -and students particularly-over the years. 
What isyourfondest 1ne111ory? 
The birth of my children. 
What is the most useful piece of advice you have received? 
To be yourself, to be true to yourself. 
What isyour idea ofa pe1fect day? 
On the beach in Hawaii with nothing to do but sit on the beach and swim. 
You can invite any three figures, living or dead, to a dinner party. Who would they be and why? 
I would really like to meet Nelson Mandela... I would have liked to meet him as a young man, active in the ANC (African National Congress) and going to jail, and then meeting him across his lifespan at three different time points to see the development and to get some se~se of what this man has that allowed him to deal with apartheid and South Africa. 
Ifyou could have any one superpowe1; what would it be? 
For the sake ofhavfr1g it;-the~ability to fly would be extraordinary-in a way freeing and liberating. 
.What is yourfavorite quotation?_ 
The first is by Camus: "Beginning to think is the beginning to be 
undermined." The second is by Umberto Eco: "I havci come to believe 
that life, the whole world, is but an enigma, a har~ss enigma that is 
made terrible by our own mad attempt to interpret it as though it had 
some underlying truth." 
You are stranded on an island and discover a backpack with a single book in it. Which book do you hope to find when you reach in? A book by Laurens Van der Post called The Seed and the Sowe1: 
44 I SCHOLASTIC I 10 DECEMBER 2009 




· Regular 6''Sub with Chips& Fountain Drink Only $4.99 
Monday: Turkey Tuesday: Meatball Marinara Wednesday: Spicy Italian Thursday: Black Forest Ham Friday: Tuna 
$1 Value Size Taco 

$1 Spaghetti Side 

$1 Double Cheeseburger 
~~G3],·.,•·,·,·•ili
.....'-.-,,',i,iP'~~~;:;;;;;;;;:::;::;:::;::::::;;:====
t~:!t 








