If YOU like perfection . . .
THE VESTED
SUIT FOR FALL
Tailored by Palm Beach
*60
upward
The university man’s favorite everywhere ... a handsome, trim fashion that is ideally suited to current temperatures. Styled with natural lines, narrow lapels. Tailored by Palm Beach in a new fall and winter fabric and patterns.
^GILBERT'S
On Cantos WShulman
{Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
DIARY OF A COED
MONDAY: Prof. Pomfritt sprang quiz in English lit this morning. If Shakespeare didn’t write Canterbury Tales I’m a dead duck ... Lunch at the house— turkey hash. Question: how can we have turkey hash when we never had turkey? ... Smoked a Marlboro after lunch. I dig those better makin’s the most!... Played bridge with sorors in afternoon. When game was over, my partner stabbed me several times with hatpin. Must learn weak club bid ... Dinner at houselamb hash. Question: how can we have lamb hash when we never had lamb? ... Smoked a Marlboro after dinner. What filter! What flavor! What pack or box! ... Chapter meeting at night. Motion made to abolish capital punishment for pledges. Motion defeated ... Smoked more Marlboros. Quelle joie!... And so to bed.
TUESDAY: Faculty tea at the house. Spilled pot of oolong on Dean of Women. She very surly. Offered her a Marlboro. Still surly. Offered skin graft. No help ... Dinner at Kozy Kampus Kafe—24 hamburgers. But no dessert. Have to watch waistline ... And so to bed.
WEDNESDAY: Got our marks in English lit quiz. Lucky for me Shakespeare wrote Canterbury Tales!. .. Afternoon date with Ralph Feldspar. Purely platonic. Ralph wanted to consult me about love trouble he’s having with his girl, Nymphet Calloway. I assured him things would get better. Ralph said he certainly hopes so because last four times he called on Nymphet, she dumped vacuum cleaner bag on him ... Smoked several Marlboros. Wonderful cigarette. No confusion about which end to light. Saves loads of time... Dinner at house—bread. That’s all; just bread ___And so to bed.
* *
Yes, the college life is a busy one and you may be having trouble choosing the cigarette that’s right for you. Here’s a handy guide: For filter plus flavor—Marlboro. For flavor without filter—Philip Morris. For filter plus flavor plus coolness—Alpine... All made by the sponsors of this column.
THURSDAY: Three packages from home—laundry, cookies, records. So hungry I ate all three ... Quiz in American history. If Millard Fillmore didn’t invent cotton gin, I’m in big trouble . . . Dinner at house. Big excitement—Nymphet Calloway announced her engagement to Ralph Feldspar. WTiile sorors flocked around to congratulate Nymphet, I ate everybody’s side meat... Then smoked Marlboro. Oh, what a piece of work is Marlboro!... And so to bed.
FRIDAY: Got our marks in American history quiz. Was shattered to learn that Millard Fillmore did not invent cotton gin. He wrote Canterbury Tales ... How very odd! Lunch at the house—bread hash ... Marlboro after lunch. Great smoke. Must send valentine to manufacturers ... Spent entire afternoon getting dressed for date tonight with Norman Twonkey. Norman is dall, dark, loaded—a perfect doll! Only thing wrong
is he never tells a girl where he’s going to take her. So I put on a bathing suit, on top of that an evening gown, and on top of that a snowsuit. Thus I was ready for a splash party, a dance, or a toboggan slide ... So what do you think happened? He entered me in a steeplechase, that’s what!... Would have taken first prize easily if I hadn’t pulled up lame in the last furlong_____And so to bed.
© 1959 Max Shulman ♦

RULE CHANGES
The response to this year’s “Repercussions” column has been most gratifying. To insure prompter publication of letters in the future we request that henceforth all letters be addressed to 1 “Repercussions” c/o the editors, 207 or 203 Fisher, Notre Dame, Ind.
We also request that all letters be signed with the writer’s name and address. Unsigned letters will be printed only in exceptional instances. In these cases, we cannot guarantee that they will be published as the reader intended them to appear in print.
SUCCESS
Editor:
We would like to congratulate the ND team and managers on their gentlemanly behavior while they were in San x Francisco. We had the honor to have them at our dance at the St. Francis Hotel which they helped to make a great success. I would in particular like to congratulate Jim Crotty, Myron Pottios, Monty Stickles and George Izo who along with their dates added to the gaiety of the evening.	,
We only hope that the St. Mary’s men can act the same when they are away from school.
We are looking forward to seeing the team again in San Francisco in the near future.
Bob Schultz
President St. Mary’s . College Student Body St. Mary’s, Calif.
$64,000 QUESTION
Editor:
If you can’t understand why the student senate gets so little done in the average weekly meeting, try looking at the agenda for one of those meetings. (This will be difficult because your hall *• senator will be ashamed to show it to you.)
Is someone afraid that if the senators have time to think about a topic before it is discussed some good might actually come out of student government?
The senate isn’t a TV quiz show, men. We don’t care if you do some work be- « fore the meetings.
It doesn’t look like some of the people who were elected want to do as much work as they claimed.
Paul F. Slattery
148 Lyons
(Continued on page 32)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. Ilie magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is, printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors. Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All submitted material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic

|l-4
9 I
The Notre Dame

OoHUHMtafUf
3
•I

Vol. 101
No. 7
NOVEMBER 13, 1959
Founded1867
I
Thomas Barthel John Bechtold Richard Corso Jerry Hewitt ' George Voris
NONE OF THEIR BUSINESS: By this time all of the campus knows of the unfortunate incident which occurred in a local restaurant a week ago today. Most likely they have heard also of the great storm this action has stirred up in the chambers of Notre Dame’s student government. Resolutions condemning the restaurant and its owners are both glowing and numerous. We believe, however, the blame should be affixed where it belongs, upon the student body. Certainly students present saw this situation developing and yet they did nothing until it was too late. These students knew of the harm this was doing to the name of their University and themselves, but they did nothing to stop it. Should student government then step in, after the incident is already history, and bring bitter wrath upon the owners of the restaurant? On what grounds does student government even consider such resolutions? As often as we have patronized this restaurant we have noticed the concern of the management that such situations do not develop. We have noticed many times how stringent the waitresses in this restaurant are as compared to those in other South Bend establishments. Yet student government has the audacity to condemn the management. Student leaders, place the blame where it belongs: upon yourselves.

THROWBACK: Rumor has it that the surreptitious publication known as the Thursday Throivback will soon be circulated among the upperclass residence halls. We admire the publishers for all of the time and trouble they have spent in publishing the paper, but we hardly think it was time well spent. In the past such publications have been little more than a recording of a symposium on “What is Wrong at the University?” Certainly not everything at Notre Dame is perfect nor is everything done the way the students would choose to do it. But then, for what school does this hold true? Instead of printing up their caustic criticism of everything about the school which they dislike, it appears to us that the editors of said newspaper might more profitably spend their time attempting to alleviate their problems through established channels. It is slow, but as students will find out soon, it is infinitely more effective.
SCALPED: We were pleasantly surprised last week to see the athletic department flood the market with several hundred tickets to the Georgia Tech game. As many of the scalpers soon found out, this completely cut the demand from under them and before Saturday afternoon we saw signs to the effect that the going rate on game tickets was $4. Although the ticket sellers did not primarily intend to crash the middle men, they did such a good job that we feel that they should be heartily congratulated for doing it. We wish it were possible to do this every game, for certainly the menace of the scalpers would soon be put under control.
.ecRtor-in-chief AAj'A’
? A/A RONALDBLUBAUGH
associate editorsA'	-
v E. (TED) THOMPSON
; CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor arid 'staff.’	"-7'
ROY RUBELI	J
? Wade Clark ; Arthur Graham	- -
Thomas Weiss
features editor and staff CHARLES RIECK Francis Smith Thomas Sullivan <-i William Sweeney WilliamVeeder
< sports editor arid staff ? i THOMAS ROSE ’ J; William Cary	A
J. (Jay)- Kilroy
copy editor and staff WALTER RUDGE
'	George Casey'' '•	,
■* VPetw.Gfemoss^ .? k),'
. Thomas Mardniak
< art editor .	<5 •'' - J;
JERRY FLORENT A
photographer	A'A "A /-A
WALTER DALY, Jr.
; business manager and staff
ROBERT HORN A'A A A Joseph Finnigan Aa A circulation manager A . A „ y LAWRENCE LEACHA'? A > '	* A "" -. AA'A-A* A* '
v ''■MkAjlAemlUMi	v'»	A
mocraiuiu!	a’ '
A REV. CH ARLES CAREY, c.s.c.
" ris^'Importers'''s
Philip Larrabee John Ohala Thomas Schelereth William Sparks Michael Woods -
OUR THEATRE: Last Thursday evening, we had the opportunity to attend the first performance of the University Theatre’s initial production, The Hasty Heart. After watching a very fine show, we were somewhat disturbed to note the extremely small crowd that was present for that performance. Upon checking into the question, we learned that only 25 tickets were sold and the rest of the meager crowd attended the show on complimentary passes. It seemed, indeed, a shame to us that the first night audience was so completely non-existent. Anyone connected with the Theatre will attest to the fact that the first production is the most important one and the actors are very “keyed up” for it. This is their first audience; this is the audience which could “make or break” them. Intent upon making good, the actors give their all to this first night crowd and yet at Washington Hall they had almost no one to give to. Certainly this affected the cast, for the first two acts seemed to show a battered confidence. However, they got hold of themselves and the production came to an excellent conclusion. It seems to us that if several thousand students can devote an hour to a pep rally on Friday, several hundred should be willing to devote an evening to intellectual pursuits on Thursday.

AWAY FROM THE GALLERY: This week the annual “Festival of Arts” sponsored by the Arts and Letters college is being held in the O’Shaughnessy art gallery. During this time musical concerts, lectures and exhibitions of nineteenth-century French paintings will be offered to the student body. Most of these events will be well attended. Yet during the year, the various departments of the University’s colleges will present numerous other cultural and intellectual activities of this sort. These will not be well attended. The student must realize that all of these lectures are planned to benefit him as well as the few graduate students and professors who always attend such functions. Education, as has been pointed out so often in the past, is not confined to class work. These discussions are the University’s attempt to assist the student’s effort to educate himself. Whether his interests lie in thermo-dynamics or seventeenth-century Chinese literature is unimportant. The important thing is that he attends those lectures which interest him.
— B.T.&T.
5
SHIRTS EXPERTLY LAUNDERED
for
$1.00 RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
OUR COVER: Here come the Irish — home from what we hope will be a most successful and enjoyable student trip. Sophomore architecture student Dick Gemperle has ingeniously captured the spirit of the return bus trip in this, his first SCHOLASTIC cover, and we are looking forward to future examples of his. work.
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING YOUTH WCPk f a r m । n a clerical * cr * a o n by Brothers are in ca' neec todav m the U S ana n s
For information and literature write:
BROTHER EYMARD, GS.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
QBDB EBE HEBE EBBE SE1BE1HBG1B BBBDEBDDDniSBB EBB I--1 BBS
SBEEBB	SB
SSBEE __ SEE
bbbs s B^Mbed EBB anm ebebbb

ESnBS □□3D □EDDSBESSBEEB BBE1BBBE1S DUMB □BPS EBB IBBBCT
ISMSNVTGDM
KODL KROSSWORD No. 7
ACROSS
1. Speed of sound
5. Gas makes a comeback
8. Plate that’s sometimes slipped
12.	French friend
13.	Cause of less fond hearts?
15. Kind of welcome Kools never get
17.	River girl
18.	Kind of active
19.	To get to Paris you must go______
22.	Gal who’s almost married
23.	Small
24.	Forever (archaic)
25.	It’s handy in the hole
27.	Self ender
28.	Stick around
29.	Little dealer
30.	Terry type
31.	Half a year
32.	Beatnik adornments
33.	It's a kind of relief
34.	Snake in the grasp
35.	Vulnerable spots
43.	Bilko had ’em
44.	Movie part
45.	Movie star
46.	A start in Georgetown
47.	You____me
DOWN
1. Prefix meaning son of
2-1 love (Latin)
3.	Worn by union lettermen?
4.	Greetings
5.	Verb gold diggers dig
6.	Box found in
a carcass
7.	Whiz word
8.	Discourage, but partly determined
9.	Hazer
10.	For who’s counting
11.	Game found in Kenyon
14. Floral offering
16. Start reading
19.	Felt about Audie?
20.	What grouses always have?
21.	Kools leave you________
22.	Min’s opposite number
26. Good lookers
28. Salesmen who deal in bars
30. Gears do it
32.	What Willie’s voice isn’t
33.	Bachelor’s better half
36.	It’s in a league by itself
37.	Lloyd’s Register (abbr.)
38.	Record not' for DeeJays
39.	Compass point
40.	Slippery customer
41.	Meadow
42.	Roguish
12
15
19
24
23
27
29
35
43
45
13
22
'are you KODL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
33
32
34
MILD menthol
e 1859. Brown * Williamson Tobacco Corp
When ywr throat tells ysu i& time for a change you need a real change
YOU NEED THE

°KODL
KGDL
The Scholastic
in which pauline flunks
by D. JIM AUSUM
DOES NOT begin this sentence. I put it in because I knew it was going to be one of the large, impressive letters, like in the Bible, and it also starts my name. And speaking of names, I’d like to mention all of those ladies who wrote to me about my last column. Speaking to them as a body, I must say that my reaction to the comments, and my feelings toward them, can be expressed in just three little words, seven little letters, so do you. But really, I’m happy to see that the campers took the ribbing very well, and I know they did, because I thought quite a lot about it. In fact, since that column, I have been free to think about all sorts of things, like how come I’m staying in on a football Saturday evening, and whose lipstick was that near my bicycle when the tires were slashed?
REPERCUSSIONS
The editors of this magazine have often said that there are not enough letters written to them, and that the few letters they do get are not spirited enough. The purpose of a “letters” section is to stir up intelligent controversy, and usually they get neither. So, I would like to offer praise to Bernie McElroy and Fred Gade, who are slugging it out in the front of this thing every week. Now Fred is heavier than Bernie, but McElroy is clever, and definitely not a quitter. Lest they stop publishing, let’s all get together and send them enough stamps to cany on. Otherwise, they might deteriorate into simply leaving notes under one anothers’ doors in Fisher Hall, or even worse, into fist fighting. Then the column would have nothing left save Marcia Kuras, who uses large words with all the dexterity of a mute hod-canier. But then, we need those hods carried, so let’s give Marcia a pat on the back too. Good going, Marcia.
A NOBLE PROFESSION
With the Grace of God and the Wilson •Fellowship board, I hope to devote my life, such as it is, to college teaching, and we do all know the many difficulties involved in trying to drink on ten dollars a week. And yet, there are attractions in this life. Think of them — years of study, punctuated with interesting sidelights of real merit. Why, only last Fri-r day I saw just how fine study can be. : The department of English cornered a few tickets for the appearance of T. S. Eliot in Chicago, and a bus was chartered for those who wanted to go. As
November 13, 1959
the department head explained, it would have been silly to charter a bus for those who didn’t. But let me show you here a diary of events I kept on the trip, in which I have attained stylistic perfection at no increase in price.
It is now 5:00 pan. Friday, Nov. 6. I am about to board the bus and just as soon as I.can get up out of the gutter, I’ll join the crowd. I wish that Salvation Army band would stop shaking their tambourines in my face; I can’t cha cha anyhow.
5:30 pan. Still in gutter, but I will have to move soon, as the bus is directly over me and I dont’ know its habits. Oh my, it is dark down here.
6:00 pan. I am on the bus, and it is still dark. Someone is saying something, but what is it, Lance, Dance, Aunts?
6:02 pan. Much lighter. I had my trousers on upside down.
6:30 pan. We’re about half-way there. All of us. I hope Eliot is good. I liked the book a lot.
7:00 pan. The bus has stopped. Well, it’s like I always say, @c****&x%. I don’t say this nearly as often as I used to though.
8:30 pan. I have never seen such a concert hall. There was a guy at the door checking to see if you were twenty-one, and now there is a rock ’n’ roll band playing.	.
9:00 pan. T. S. Eliot has come on stage. She is lovely, but I am afraid she will catch cold. I guess not, at that. There, that’s better. The professors seem to be enjoying every minute of the show. They’ve already asked for more. I’m sure I’ll like teaching, too.
12:00 pan. T. S. is back, better than ever. The graduate students think highly of the performance I know. They must be planning some research, and I hear allusions to Bruno the dancing bear. I picked up the evening’s program a little while ago, and she told me about another such moving poet down the street. I wonder if Rose La Rose is of the same school?	.
BE A STORM TROOPER, VIRGINIA
Or at least, be some kind of a trooper. I mean, about these football games, and echo yells, and handkerchief waving — now I think these are very nice, but you know very well how noses tend to run in the cold weather. Think of the germs which are being cast about and into the midst of the football players. How would you like it if Jim Crotty were to break into the open, run ninety-five yards, be
ready to score, and then have to stop and sneeze, just because one of you showered him with fungi? He might be tackled, or fumble, or possibly even fall over in the cold, horrible sweat that comes with influenza. Please have a little consideration, the injury list is far too long already.
DO YOU MISS MOM'S COOKING?
Of course you do. Who wouldn’t, in our situation. But a great deal can be done about it, as many fat upperclassmen can attest. Of course, you freshmen probably have not been told about this, but as of November 23 you will have been in class for two months. This has been a testing period, and when it is over, you will become eligible for CARE packages. Imagine — they are just like the welfare packages dad used to take from the warehouse, except these don’t contain any oatmeal cookies. If you know where to find oatmeal cookies, please let me know. I’ll buy a quart of milk, and we can have a-party.
AND SPEAKING OF PARTIES
You can satiate your sadistic tendencies by becoming a member of Lennie’s Raiders. Learn to spy, and you may even be able to get rid of a whole wing or two. Why, I remember one fellow in my sophomore year who was so successful that he got rid of the entire second floor of Morrissey Hall. He probably would have been even more successful, except that he made the mistake of wearing a Beretta when he went up to check the fourth floor, and he was pitched out the window onto the sidewalk. Yet he lives even today, for if you will examine the walk between Howard and Morrissey, you will see a large stain; and there is an official policy concerning these remains. It reads, “Please do not wear rubber soled shoes on this part of the campus. We must not erase immortality. Most Grave penalty.”^
IN CONCLUSION
I will tell you that yesterday was my twenty-first birthday, and I would like to take this occasion to thank Ronnie and Amie, who have been more than kind for the past four years. And thanks to you too, Ed Thilman. I would also like to issue a plea to our maid, Dude, who has been away due to illness. Please , come back, Dude, your replacement reminds me of the locker rooms at Stillman’s Gym.	. \	.
• ■	' '	7
SPECIAL! CHRISTMAS SALE
until December 24
^otre 'Dame JOO years
by Arthur E. Hope, C.S.C.
Only $1.29
DURING THIS SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE
This is the deluxe, illustrated, cloth-bound edition that regularly sells at $4.00.
A GIFT THAT WILL BE PRIZED BY ALL FRIENDS OF NOTRE DAME
For mail orders, enclose 25c extra for each copy to cover cost of mailing.
The trim classic beauty of a Hamilton watch for women. Perfection of styling, the ultimate in performance, a watch for the woman truly loved. Someday you, too, may be given a Hamilton.
It will be a day you will never forget
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
The gift of a Hamilton —reward of love
8
The Scholastic
! CHANNEL II' TO BEGIN OPERATIONS ! IN NEW STUDIOS THIS WEEK END
WSND Affiliate to Present Cultural, Academic Aspect;
Purchase IOO New Albums to Enhance Record Library
by JOHN OHALA and ART GRAHAM
Channel II, the new and additional frequency of the student radio station, WSND, will begin broadcasting about * November 15. The new channel, which has necessitated the installation of a new studio, as well as $2000 worth of new equipment in turntables, consoles and connections has already begun testing and trial runs.
Although the target date for broad, casting, was originally planned for the middle of October, it has been delayed for a month, due to the difficulty of obtaining the necessary equipment during the steel strike. This new addition to WSND has been instituted to serve as a medium for cultural and academic exI pression. The majority of air hours will be devoted to classical music.
Long Range Plans. Realizing the need for cultural programming on the Notre Dame campus, WSND began planning six months ago for their new Channel II.
Neil Stalter, station manager; Tony I Chessick, chief technical engineer; and f Mike Divney can be credited with the original idea. From there it went to », Channel Il’s Program Director Tom
TOM MUSIAL
• Policy maker likes jazz
\ November 13, 1959
- *	.
1	'
Musial and Bob Fulton, technical director. Tom Musial prepared the program schedule and stocked the record library. Bob Fulton spent his summer on campus working out the details and testing the many aspects of the system. During the next week the new equipment will be taken up into the tower of O’Shaughnessy Hall where the radio station is situated. Fulton and the other radio technicians will install it and so complete the final phase of the idea.
The purpose and aims of Channel II have been well stated by Station Manager Stalter: “We believe it will contribute to the academic and culture growth of the University and serve as a new outlet for student creativity. We hope, too, it will give impetus to other campus activities of this nature, creating a larger audience for them. Our purpose at WSND is to serve the students in all their groupings and all their tastes, and at the same time, to justify our existence through our contribution to the University’s academic process.”
Channel II is an effort to better serve the whole University, more perfectly fulfilling the Station’s raison d’etre; from S-N-D—“Serving Notre Dame.”
Unique System. WSND’s unique carrier current transmission system, while introducing many day-by-day difficulties, has enabled WSND to build Channel II with minimum cost. Transmission of the twin WSND signals works on the same principle as a telephone line — two messages travelling over the same wire at different frequencies. While reception of the new channel will be limited to the Notre Dame campus for the time being, it will eventually be extended to St. Mary’s when the transmission has been perfected.
Beginning at 9:30 in the morning until “lights out” Channel II will broadcast over 610 kilocycles classical and serious music, lectures, panel shows and other cultural events on the campus. From 9:30 until 12 noon a special broadcast of music from Chicago FM stations WEFM and WFMT will be presented. From 12 noon to sign off time, Channel II will follow the schedule as shown in the program guide. Feature shows of in-
BOB FULTON (left) and NEIL STALTHI Filling a cultural Hole
teresting cultural events will be featured at other times during the day.
Jaw As Art. “It is the policy of the station that jazz is to be considered as a serious art form and will be treated as such,” said Program Director Musial. In view of this, the staff is planning on 10 hours of jazz weekly. From 8 to 11 pan. every evening classical music of a soft
(Continued on page 30)
International Club Elects Officers for School Year
A new slate of officers was elected by the membership of the International Relations club to serve for the current school year, and a program for this year’s club has already been mapped out. Elected as president was Paul B. Kus-bach, a senior history major from New York City. The new vice president is Charles Tausche, also a senior history major. Mark Thompson, a junior economics major is secretary, and L. David Otte, a senior commerce student is the new treasurer.
The club, which meets periodically to discuss events of importance on the international scene, is composed of twenty-five students carefully chosen through a series of interviews. Topics of discussion range all over the globe in interest. Student papers and faculty speakers provide the impetus for group discussions. The third meeting of the year will be held on November 24, when James McVeigh will give a paper on “Allied Occupation in Japan, Success or Failure?” Dr. Walter D. Gray of the history department is moderator of the . group.
9
Students Flee Campus on Chartered Planes; Campus Clubs Pay $60,000 for Transportation
From behind stacks of worn books and late term papers the glassy eyes of Notre Dame students are searching calendai- pages for November 25 and December 19, the dates of the annual fall and winter homeward migrations. In fact, a recent survey of the Scholastic shows that the Notre Dame men are willing to spend over $60,000 on eight planes, provided by campus clubs alone, in order to flee from the campus over these two vacations.
In order to make the trips homeward as safe and swift as possible, a great many of the geographic clubs on campus have already completed or will draw up final plans for these trips.
280 Flyers. The Metropolitan club of New York will charter a plane which will let 140 of its members eat dinner in the city, 3% -4 hours after leaving South Bend. While all, the seats on the Thanksgiving flight are taken, the club president, Ed Paulsen, announced this week that a few vacancies are left for the pending Christmas trip. To take care of the surplus of students wanting to go to this area, the Met club will also have a train available for approximately 300-400 students. The Jersey club will join with this section of the Met club and its members will go home on this same train.
Other clubs have similar plans and openings. The Westchester club, which is providing a plane for Thanksgiving and one for Christmas, still has a few openings for the Christmas flight. The New England club will provide trans
ONE TO FLY HOME ON
Sixty thousand for gas, runway, and pilots.
portation over Christmas only. And there are ten openings left on their plane.
The Cincinnati club is offering plane and bus openings to students, with only a few seats now available on the bus. St. Louis residents have the choice of a plane or a train at Thanksgiving and the use of a train at Christmas.
Let Us Drive. Buses will be the most popular means used by Notre Dame students to reach the home town areas. Men from Detroit and Cleveland will be able to make it to their homes at both breaks. Sharing this advantage will be the Pittsburgh and Western Pennsylvania clubs. The Ohio and Chicago groups will run two groups of buses to the homeland also.
Trains will be used by the Buffalo club, while the students from the California area are planning a car pool out of Chicago. They will meet in Chicago and rent cars to drive to the coast. Members of the Colorado club are working on a similar plan.
Finally, there are a numbei- of geographic clubs who have not completed their plans for the type of transpoi-ta-tion service they will be offering and could not give details at this time. To be certain of what the particular organizations are doing or if any vacancies exist in their proposed plans it has been recommended that the students contact any one of the officers of the group which is representative of their areas as soon as possible.
Tom Schelereth
Organization Meetings Begin Sunday for Mock Convention
Early, but definite organizational meetings have now begun for Notre Dame’s nationally nown mock political convention. This Sunday there will be a meeting in room 2A of the LaFor- i tune Student Center for all students interested in being chairman of their state delegations.
On Monday, the first meeting of students from New York and Illinois who are interested in participating as members of their state delegations will be held in the Engineering auditorium. New * Yorkers are asked to appear at 7:45 p.m. and students from Illinois at 8:45 p.m. These two delegations will be formed first because the greatest number of students is from these areas and those who cannot be seated with then- state will be assigned to other delegations which might be short.	i
By following the quotas set up by the National Democratic Committee for the official convention, 2200 Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students will be needed to fill the delegate and alternates positions.
The Academy of Political Science, who is organizing this convention, has selected the Democratic convention as their model 1 because of the greater number of potential candidates.
Tomorrow is also the deadline for those who wish to act as campaign managers for the different candidates. They are required to submit a letter of application to William Leser, 31 Sorin, stating their qualifications and the contracts through whom they plan to get necessary campaign material.
Invitations have been extended to Frank Clement, 1956 Democratic Convention keynoter; Paul Butler, chairman of the Democratic National Committee and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. । , There are also hopes of local and na- | tional TV and radio coverage as well as I participation by NBC Monitor.
Chicago Club to Present Thanksgiving Eve Dance
The annual Thanksgiving eve dance J sponsored by the Chicago club of Notre I Dame will be held at the Sherman Hotel ; in downtown Chicago on Wednesday night, November 25. •
Lou Breeze and his orchestra will provide the music for the gala affair and there will be dancing from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Tickets for the event can be purchased in the various halls beginning	!
next week and will cost $4.50 if they are	i
bought here at school and $5.00 if pur- j chased at the door.	;
As in past years, the dance will be “the” social event of the Thanksgiving week end especially for those students who are staying on campus or in the Chicago area.
Chairman Pat Phelfan and his committee are hoping to duplicate the successful affairs sponsored by the Windy City organization in the past.
10
The Scholastic
Army ROTC to Introduce Training Program; New Idea to Prepare Cadets for Encampment
£. ^auid. Otte
; The Army ROTC has introduced a I new program for MS III (junior) cadet training. The objective of this program i is to give maximum preparation for summer camp to all MS III cadets, but pari	ticularly to those not scheduled for a
I	position of leadership with the cadet
corps.
There are 88 men who are members either of the brigade staff, battle group ' staffs, band, drill team, or who are com? pany first sergeants or platoon sergeants. These men will participate only in ten hours of training in the spring for all MS III cadets. These ten hours will involve practical field exercises during the week ends.
The remaining 127 juniors are divided into two increments of equal ability. In addition to the ten hours of spring weekend training, these cadets will prepare for summer camp during the normal drills. During the first semester the members of the one group take the summer camp preparatory training, while the members of the other group are i squad leaders. During the second semester these two groups reverse their positions; that is, the second group takes summer camp preparatory training, while the first group act as squad leaders.
As summer camp training the program will stress voice and command exercises during the noon battle group drills. At the Monday evening brigade
Seventeen Buses Transport Students to Pittsburgh Game
For the benefit of those stay-at-homes the Student Trip to Pittsburgh is already under way. Seventeen Greyhound buses, L carrying over 600 excursionists, left the campus at 12:30, 2, 3 and 4 p.m. today. Trippers having afternon classes were allowed excused cuts after 3:30.
Priced at $27.95 for transportation, room and game ticket, the trip promises a full and exciting week end. The first buses will arrive at the Penn-Sheridan r Hotel by 9:30 p.m. and the last buses by 1 a.m., leaving the N.D. visitors on the earlier buses enough time to see Pittsburgh Friday night.
Saturday afternoon the Pitt Panthers will meet the Fighting Irish in Pitt Stadium. After the game, many Notre Dame students will atend dinners in the homes ’ of girls from Mount Mercy College in Pittsburgh. On Saturday night from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., there will be a dance in the Sheridan for the visitors and their dates, marking the climax of organized trip activity. Sunday morning the trippers will attend a Mass for them in the Mount Mercy chapel.
" Students will be free to tour the city all day Sunday if they wish. The returning buses will leave in two groups — the first, ariving here before midnight and the second before breakfast Monday.
drills, classes and practical exercises will be conducted which will progressively cover subjects. Such subjects include physical training techniques, guard, combat formations, battle drill, familiarization with barracks procedures, etc.
A presidential review in the spring will be the last formation which the seniors will command. The juniors will take over as brigade and battle group leaders with brevet cadet officers rank for the last two weeks of May. During these last weeks, platoon sergeant will be the lowest position held by a junior.
Notre Dame’s Army ROTC unit, largest ROTC unit on campus, is commanded by Mike McKee, senior from Topeka, Kansas, and recent winner for the Distinguished Military award. McKee also directs the ROTC Drill Team which recently took fourth place in national competition in Chicago.
Law Candidate Exam Required for Entrance
The Law School Admission Test required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law schools, will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States tomorrow morning, and on February 20, April 9 and August 6, 1960. The test will be administered on all four occasions at Notre Dame.
A candidate must make separate application foi- admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of each whether it wishes him to take the Law Admission Test and when. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised ordinarily to take either the No-vembei- or the February test, if possible.
Prepared and administered by the Educational Testing Service, the test features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning ability rather than acquired information. It cannot be “crammed” for. Sample questions and information regarding registration for, and administration of, the test are given in a Bulletin of Information.
The Bulletin, in which an application for the test is inserted, should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau St., Princeton, N. J., or from the department of guidance and testing, 251 Main Building. Bulletins can also be obtained from the Dean of the College of Law. Completed applications must be received at least two weeks before the desired testing date in order to allow ETS time to complete the necessary testing arrangements for each candidate.
PLEASE,
50 TEMPERAWE
Last week the Senate asked for ideas. This week they got them, plus a little bit of excitement. It handled both well, and most of the 40 spectators left with an impression that the Senate knew what they were doing. For the first time in quite a while the amphitheatre was filled, and some heated interest in the issues made itself known. Even WSND was there.
What caused all the enthusiasm? A local sociological problem, no less. Ed Butler was chief protagonist. He felt that the renowned Rathskellei- at Frankie’s is a “temptation to intemperance” caused primarily for commercial reasons, and that it encouraged “a negative attitude of self-responsibility.” Thusly, he moved that the University place Frankie’s “off limits” until things are corrected.
Bill Scheckler was not in favor of such a move, and said the whole thing had been “blown out of proportion.” Neither was Dennis Murphy in favor. In fact, he sponsored an alternate motion which parliamentarily removed Butler’s from the floor. Murphy proposed that SBP Babbitt write a letter to Frankie apologizing for past student misbehavior, and request that he “take positive steps to maintain orderly conduct in the future.” Greg Walsh, Keith Hauge, and Chris Lund concurred.
John Keegan believed that Murphy’s was the answer, and any stronger move would force the problem into other area, and be an injustice to the students. Butler, of course, retaliated, saying that a letter would be totally ineffective.
Student spectators were present also. Paul Hundt posed the question of what would happen if Murphy’s plan didn’t work. Fred Derocher agreed it was difficult to bring about student responsibility and cited the lack of success in the past. Jim Pottmyer spoke against Butler’s ideas on behalf of the “stewed” body, but John Cihak was merely trying to protect his “hangout.”
After Babbitt coolly maneuvered around all the complicated parliamentary procedure, and everyone had had his last say, the Senate voted. Murphy’s motion passed by a 20-2 margin, and forced Butler’s motion into nonexistence.
Now the world finally knows that the Women’s Christian Temperance Union can never get even a toehold in at Notre Dame. Butler denies that he raised the controversy just for controversy’s sake, but if he did, it seems like the wrong area in which to seek it. I suppose Frankie will be angry only until he’s deposited the extra money the issue has caused.
The meeting also featured a lively, and (Continued on page 33)
November 13, 1959
11
Concert Pianist to Play Beethoven in Art Gallery
Theodore Ullmann the noted concert pianist, will be featured Tuesday at 10:30 a.m. in the Art Gallery at O’Shaughnessy Hall in a concert sponsored by the music department of Notre Dame. He received enthusiastic receptions at two previous appearances at Notre Dame, one year and four years ago.
Besides being a talented musician, Ullmann has many other notable accomplishments to his credit. He has had concert performances on every continent and in each of the 50 states, making several successful college appearances. He is a winner of more than a score of competitive awards in music, has earned both music and academic degrees and counts himself an alumnus or faculty member of ten different universities, among which are the Biarritz American University in France and the Julliard School of Music. During his five years of service in the United States Army he was twice-wounded and eleven times decorated.
Beethoven’s Sonata Pathetique and Sonata Appassionata are the two featured works of the program. The Sonata Pathetique, characterized by elements of deep emotion and conflict, is one of Beethoven’s earlier works, though of a very mature aspect. The well-known Sonata Appassionata is aptly titled for it is full of rich, colorful passages and grand climaxes.
Ullmann’s concert appearance is supported largely by the Music Foundation Artists Bureal of New York City which aims among other things, to provide cultural supplements to the education of young people, especially at the college level.
The music department of Notre Dame’s Arts and Letters College, headed by Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., invites everyone to attend the concert. It is one of many such musical events held each year on campus.
ASCE Chapter to Meet Professionals at Banquet
A chance to discuss actual application of problems often discussed in class is being presented to students in the department of civil engineering. There will be a joint banquet between the Northwestern branch, Indiana Section, of the American Society of Civil Engineers and the student chapter of Notre Dame, at the Capri Restaurant, November 13, at 7 p.m.
The Northwestern branch consists of professional engineers from the Indiana cities of South Bend, Gary, Valpariso and Elkhart.
F. J. Cordova, a civil engineer originally from Puerto Rico, will give a talk on “Foundation Investigations for Projects in Northern Indiana.” Prices for the Capri’s steak dinner for students _ attending will be $2.50. Those who desire tickets are to contact Paul Carroll in -room 250 Sorin Hall.
REMINDER
All copy for the SCHOLASTIC must be in by the Sunday before publication. SCHOLASTIC office hours are Sunday and Monday evenings from 7:15 to 11:15 p.m. At other times contact news editor, Roy Rubeli, 42 Pangborn, features editor Chas Rieck, 319 Badin, or sports editor Tom Rose, 337 Walsh.
English Department Presents Two Distinguished Lecturers
The second and third speakers, in the series of lecturers to be presented by the English department, will be George Barker and Nevill Coghill. The first set of talks was presented several weeks ago by Professor Robert Heilman of the University of Washington who delivered four lectures under the general title of “Tragedy and Melodrama.”
As an English poet and critic, Barker is scheduled to deliver a lecture on the general topic of the poet versus the world. The guest lecturer will be spending the week of Dec. 6 to 12 at the Notre Dame campus and in addition to his lecture he will meet with several groups of students and teachers on an informal basis.
The othei- speaker, Coghill, is a Merton professor of English literature at Oxford University in England. His visit is scheduled for sometime next spring. The professor, who is an authority on Chaucer and Shakespeare, is perhaps best known to English students through his translation of the Canterbury Tales which appears in a Penguin edition.
Professor Sessler Returns From Show in New Orleans
Professor Stanley S. Sessler, head of Notre Dame’s art department and sculptor Ivan Mestrovic have recently returned from Xavier University in New Orleans, La., where they attended the “Young America 1959 Aritists’ Show.”
Sessler served as one of the judges for the competition including over 500 entries. Mestrovic was an honored guest at the show which featured a special exhibition of nine of his works. ■
The young artists at the show competed for college scholarships including a full tuition graduate art scholarship to Notre Dame.
MANY NEEDED
The University Theater announces auditions for the cast of Tiger at the Gates, a satirical comedy about events leading up to the Trojan wars, to be held Wednesday, November 18, at 7:30 p.m. at Washington Hall. A large number of roles are open and a total of 23 players will be needed to fill the cast.
WSND SCHEDULE
The following is a schedule of the programs to be heard on WSND’s regular 640 channel during the current school year. Another completely different schedule of programs will be heard over the new Channel II at the 610 spot on the dial. This schedule will be circulated later. (For details on the new Channel II, read the lead story in this issue.)
WEEKDAYS
A.M.
7:00—Black Coffee
8:00—News and Sports Roundup
8:15—Top o’ Mornin’
9:00—Morning Musicale
12:00—High Noon News
P.M.
12:15—The Diner’s Club
1:00—Music of the Masters
3:00—Just Music
5:00—Five Star Final
5:15—Sports Report
5:30—Dinner Date
6:00—The Penthouse
7:00—News and Sports
7:15—Monday: Music America
Tuesday: Calling Them Close Wednesday: The Inside Story (rel. show)
Thursday: Open Line
Friday: Music America
7:30—Monday: Music America Tuesday: Controversy Wednesday: On the Line Thursday: Open Line Friday: Music America
8:00—Command Performance
9:00—Herbert, and all that Jazz
9:45—Night Edition
10:00—The Eleventh Hour
SATURDAY
A.M.
8:00—Week End
8:30—Saturday Sports Special
8:45—Week End (continued)
12:00—High Noon News
P.M.
12:15—Meet Your Opponent
1:00—Game—Music
4:00—Musical Scoreboard
5:00—Five Star Final
5:15—Sports Report
5:30—Relax
6:00—Musical Reminiscing
7:00—News and Sports
7:15—Just Jazz
9:00—Music Till Midnight
9:45—Night Edition
10:00—Music Till Midnight
12:00—Sign Off
SUNDAY
A.M.
8:00—Sunrise Serenade
9:00—Hour of Saint Francis
9:15—Sunrise Serenade (continued) 10:00—Bill Isherwood Show
12:00—High Noon News
P.M.
12:15—Calling Home
1:00—Festival of the Arts
3:00—Broadway Cavalcade
6:00—Musical Reminiscing
7:00—Sunday Showcase
11:00—Sign Off
12
The Scholastic
Our Lady of Gethsemani Picked for Retreat; Students Travel to Kentucky at Mid-Semester
The century-old Abbey of Our Lady of Gethsemani, located in the Kentucky hills, will be the destination of an estimated 40 retreat bound Notre Dame students over this year’s mid-semester break.
Leaving the circle on the morning of Friday, January 29, they will make the trip to the southeast on a turnpike cruiser bus. Late that same afternoon the Trappist abbey, located 40 miles south of Louisville, Ky., will loom into view. They will be back on Sunday, January 31.
The abbey, which has been a retreat center for over 35 years, is located in a quiet setting with an atmosphere promotive of profound recollection. Known
as the home of Rev. Thomas Merton, author of such books as Seeds of Contemplation and No Man is an Island, the abbey was called “the ideal setting for a spiritual retreat” by the late pope, Pius XII.
Chairman of the retreat, sponsored by the Y.C.S., is Junior Art Dechene. Information on the trip, which has openings, for 41 students, may be obtained at the Y.C.S. office or at 311 Badin Hall. The total cost of the trip will be $25. This includes the $1 bus transportation fare and a $15 donation to the abbey to cover pi-ivate residence and meals. The fee must be paid by December 16. The applications will be accepted on a first come, first serve basis.
Academy of Sociology Elects DiRenzo to Post of President
At the first meeting of the Graduate Academy of Sociology, Gordon J. DiRenzo was elected president, and Roger Toth was elected secretary-treasurer. New faculty members were introduced and a discussion took place on the role of philosophical concepts in sociology.
The Graduate Academy is an organization which originates in the department of sociology. This club, made up of faculty members and graduate students, meets monthly to discuss problems and questions, of a sociological nature.
Professor Thomas S. Broden will speak at the next meeting which will be held on Thursday at 6 pan. in the Capri restaurant.
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won’t dry up before you’ve finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves... try
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
Old Spice Smooth Shave!
122
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
: November 13, 1959

on New ILS. Savings Bonds
4.
now in effect
and the Bonck you already own are better than ever, too!
Now U.S. Savings Bonds are a better buy than ever in three important ways:
•	All Series E and H Bonds bought since June 1, 1959, now earn 5 %% interest when held to maturity.
•	Older Bonds will also pay more—an extra l/i%» from June 1 on, if you hold them to maturity.
•	All Series E Bonds, old or new, now carry an automatic extension privilege; they’ll keep paying liberal interest for 10 years beyond maturity.
Three big new dollar benefits that make it smart to buy new Bonds—and hang on to the ones you have!
40 million Americans now own Bonds
But a good return isn’t the only reason so many people buy Bonds. They’ve discovered that there’s no easier, safer, more American way to save.
You can buy Bonds automatically, through die Payroll Savings Plan where you work; you can buy them at your bank; your youngsters can even buy them at school, through the School Savings Plan for U.S. Savings Stamps.
The U.S. Government guarantees that the cash value of your Bonds cannot drop; it can only grow. And if your Bonds should be lost, stolen, or destroyed, the Treasury will replace them free.
Finally, every Bond you buy does a big job for America. Because today peace costs money—money for military strength and for science; and money saved by individuals to keep our economy sound.
Your Bonds help provide this money—help America keep the peace. So, to build a brighter future for yourself and your family—and to protect it—save with U.S. Savings Bonds. They’re better than ever.
HELP STRENGTHEN AMERICA’S PEACE POWER
SAVE WITH ILS. SAVINGS BONDS
The U.S. Government does not pay for this advertising. The Treasury Department thanks The Advertising Council and this magazine for their patriotic donation.
7x10m. 100Screen SJ».-27O-C
~ The Scholastic
14
Joe Harrington exlodes at surprised Fred Tromp.
A UNIVERSITY theater, especially one that has been operating for a com-t paratively small number of years, is always hard put to choose a play for presentation. On one hand they are faced with the danger of undertaking a great play, only to prove inadequate to ; it, and on the other by the temptation to avoid complications by doing an easy and unimpressive piece of work. In the T current production now completing its run in Washington Hall, Fr. Harvey, director of the University Theatre,, has chosen to steer a middle course. The Hasty Heart is certainly not a great play, but neither is it by any means a bad one. It is billed as a “comedy-, drama,” which when boiled down yields ■ a comedy that has a few sober moments of serious relief. It is undoubtedly more f;11 successful in the former department than in the latter.
The central plot element concerns a j fiercely proud, bag-pipe tooting Scottish J soldier who does not know he has only i a few weeks to live. He is put in an 6 army hospital with a patchwork cross-j section of the English speaking and not [T quite English speaking world, and a beautiful, if motherly, British nurse. His t ways of getting along and not getting [ along with them provides the stuff for J proceedings, comic and otherwise.
[ The author, John Patrick, has a crafty way with a witty line, and if the characters and situation are somewhat run-’ of-the-mill, the dialogue is always spirited and full of original humor. The i comic results do not depend half so much | on the foibles of the characters as on the individual oif-hand remarks they
I ’ make, and the play succeeds mainly be-' . cause it contains a sufficient number of ; these to keep things fresh and lively.
'1 I But when it sobers up, The Hasty Heart r keeps dangerously close company with | sentimentality and as a result, can be-i come uneasy and strained. It does not ; send you out of the theater thinking or j November 13, 1959
■i	• - '
/J Review-:
'HASTY HEARTS'
c?
by BERNIE McELROY
feeling anything in particular, but while you’re sitting there, it is for the most part, good, honest fun.
And we can hardly dispute the wisdom of Fr. Harvey’s choice, since he and his cast do such a truly fine job of putting it across. This is a very significant production for the University Theatre, since it gives graphic evidence of rising standards and the rapid acquisition of polish. We were not presented with simply a group of people, each playing his part as best he can, but with a well-trained and disciplined company of actors who know that they have to blend their performances into a whole unless the result is to be crazy-quilt drama. There was a consistency here and uniform level of quality which is difficult to achieve and very admirable to say the least.
Fr, Harvey has found just the light touch for this show, and applied it skillfully throughout. He has paced his show briskly and the all-important timing which can determine whether a line is funny or a flop, is just about perfect. He has devised a whole gallery of comic bits and business, but seldom if ever allows the tail to wag the dog. That is, the play does not become simply an excuse for goofing around on stage.
The performances are all good, and
Joe Harrington and John Smith give especially good accounts of themselves mainly because they have been given the juiciest roles. As the doomed Scot, Joe Harrington displays much the same fire-brand intensity which impressed audiences in Hatful of Kain, and the character he creates is a singularly individual and complete one. One gets the feeling there is very little here that he has left unexplored, and he never for a moment forgets what he’s out there for.
This same quality of completeness is captured by John Smith as Yank, an American soldier whose lot has been thrown in with the British. He acts with good humor and considerable comic skill, but never lets the comedy run away with him. The character he creates is real enough that there is no incongruity in the switches from the humorous scenes to the rather overcharged drama at the end.
As the nurse, Mary Armbruster is also more than adequate. The character is not always too well defined, but this I suspect is more the fault of the play than of the actress. She has just the right combination of warmth and restraint, and if she is not completely at ease in the more maudlin moments, once again a good deal of the blame can be (Continued on page 23)
Rudy Hornish casually watches Mary Armbruster intervene between Joe Harrington and John Smith.
by GERHART NIEMEYER
THE Western world is buzzing with the excitement of Christmas expectations: Will there be a thaw? Can a relaxation of world tensions be achieved? Could the Summit Conference spell the end of the Cold War? Have Eisenhower and Khrushchev laid the foundation for a real Soviet-American understanding? What are East-West relations likely to be in the future: co-existence, modus vivendi, the growth of mutual trust, a glimmer of genuine cooperation?
How far this kind of speculation lags behind the times! The Thaw, friends, is no longer a prospect. It is already here. The relaxation has begun. The leaders of the two hostile camps have met in a friendly visit, leaving a trail of conciliatory remarks from Camp David to their capitals. Krushchev has given visible indications of being seriously annoyed with his hot-blooded Chinese partners. He and Eisenhower have impatiently strained to renew their talks in-the more formal setting of a summit meeting where concrete problems could be settled. There is a marked softening of gestures on both sides. Soviet jamming of our Voice has been curtailed, Robert Murphy is no longer in the State Department, Chiang Kai Shek has been talked into not running for office any more, arid Adenauer is under censure for excessive stubbornness. From now on, we shall see a long series of meetings work with great earnestness for “settlements.” We shall negotiate on Berlin, atomic tests, disarmament, Germany, location of troops and bases, and — who knows? — possibly even Formosa, Korea and Vietnam. This time everybody seems to have confidence that such efforts will be rewarded by significant results. The ice has begun to move. Spring cannot be far away!
Just how did the ice get broken, though? This is a long story. Back in 1955, there was another “friendly” meeting at the summit in Geneva. That conference was esteemed a success. Amiability, smiles, sincerity abounded, and something called a “spirit of Geneva” was said to have been born. Hopes ran high that a cumulative growth of “mutual confidence” had been started. Subsequent events, though, ran a lower course. The Soviet Union stirred up the Middle East, suppressed the free government of Hungary, moved to encourage its partner in an attack on Quemoy and Matsu, as. well as in the invasion and conquest of Tibet, finally issued an ultimatum on Berlin, all the while keeping up diplomatic and propaganda pressure on Finland, Scandinavia, Greece, Turkey, Iran and others. The Cold War showed no signs of abating.
THE PUZZLE IS SOLVED
What had gone wrong? The Geneva Conference had been prompted by the assumption that Soviet Russia had been aggressive mainly because of genuine fears for her security. The sincere attempt to re-assur^ Jhe Soviets on this point had
THAW
been acclaimed a success by both sides. The spreading of Cold Wai* tensions all over the world, after Geneva, proved that the assumption about Soviet policy motivations had been wrong. But what, then, was Khrushchev’s real motive? Why would he, who had nothing to fear from the West, stir up continuous conflicts which brought him and all of us closer to the very danger which supposedly worried him most? Soviet policy after Geneva became an enigma to Western statesmen.
New light seemed to fall on the puzzle of Soviet mentality after a number of prominent Americans had a chance personally to see Khrushchev in long and “frank” conversations. They brought back startling news: Soviet policy, they said, ultimately results from the “ideological rigidity” of Khrushchev’s mind. No argument, no communication can penetrate the thick armor of his doctrinal suspicions. Conflict will continue as long as Russia’s policy maker is in the grip of his ideological idees fixes. This discovery prescribed an objective to Western policy. Hope for peace focused on a chance to disabuse Khrushchev of ideological preconceptions. Here, then, arose the idea of a personal visit to the United States which would demonstrate to Khrushchev how utterly false his dogmatic views of the West had been. The visit would be the instrument by which to break the Soviet leader’s “ideological rigidity.”
ROAD TO PEACE . . . OPENED?
Khrushchev came. He saw, and he played the part assigned to him in advance by Lippman, Harriman, Stevenson et al. He displayed all the symptoms of a mind that, though clinging from habit to wonted formulations, is reluctantly changing its most basic assumptions. To Chinese and Soviet journalists he spoke as if his visit to America had opened his eyes about something. He did not cease to proclaim the new Gospel of the Thaw. The expectations of Khrushchev’s American interlocutors seemed to have come time. Exposed to the bright facts of life, ideological crusts around the heart of Soviet policy seemed to be cracking. Here, then, if later developments should confirm the first impression, the vista of a “road to peace” seemed to open!
Khrushchev will see to it that later developments do indeed confirm the first impression. There will be a bigger and better “successful” summit conference. Inklings of “liberalized” Communist attitudes will be conspicuously strewn about. Berlin, an issue on which Khrushchev has by now run into an impasse, will be transformed into a model example of “mutual concessions.” A formula of conciliation might happily be “achieved” between India and China. In an atmosphere of rising peace hopes, there will be token hints at significant “settlements,” just as Austria was the sacrificial gambit leading to Geneva. By the time Adenauer dies, negotiations on Germany may be ripe. Once the currents of co-existence have begun to boil through the crumbling floes of Cold War ice, Khrushchev will see to it that they do not freeze over again.
Because long before his visit to the United States, Nikita Khrushchev had prepared the channels into which the waters of East-West relations, once unfrozen, should flow. In staggered arrangement, one behind the other, he set up position after position designed to catch the flow of “rising confidence” and to deflect it into the direction the Soviets desired. Basic among these positions is Khrushchev’s 1956 proclamation of the principle of co-existence or the peaceful victory of socialism. Next comes disarmament and abolition of atomic weapons, flanked by East-West non-aggression pacts. Further ahead rises the position of disengagement, embodied in the Rapacki Plan. Just in front of it, over to one side, the com
16
The Scholastic
bination of the “two Germanys” into a joint structure, and* most advanced, the “free city” concept of Berlin. All these are offered as potential formulas for East-West “settlements,” or, at the very least, for discussion. Thus, as the hope for “continued improvement” is skillfully stimulated and EastWest relations move forward from talk to talk, the agenda at each new level is already prepared by previously proclaimed Soviet proposals. With nothing but symbolic agreements the ■ waters of negotiations can be kept unfrozen, so that they spill over from the Summit to Berlin, from there to disengagement, further on to non-aggression pacts, disarmament, and prohibition of atomic weapons, until they finally fall into the pool of an East-West agreement on the peaceful victory of socialism.
Because we of the West have nothing that could compare with these pre-arranged Soviet positions, we have not thought of a step-by-step progression toward something that can in all sincerity be honored by the name of peace. We have no progressive chain of objectives which we desire to obtain in EastWest relations. We cannot conceive of such objectives as long as we do not aim at winning the Cold War. We do not dare to entei-tain the vision of a world freed from the Soviet threat. In the midst of intolerable tensions, all oui- hope is fastened on the happy but unlikely event of a change in the Communist > mind. This hope, the sole driving power of our present policy, serves Khrushchev as a handle by which to maneuver us into going his way. As he pulls us along the “road to peace,” we find the only concrete notions of “settlement” to be embodied in Soviet proposals, for we have never thought of peace in terms other than Communism-turned-soft. As long as Khrushchev can keep up the impression that the situation is “hopeful,” “improving,” showing “real promise,” we are likely to » be clay in his hands.
At the end of this road, Khrushchev will have wrung from us a legal and moral agreement that the Cold War is utterly and definitely liquidated, that there is no more Soviet threat, that Western defense is no longer needed, that a Western alliance cannot do any good and may do great harm, and that ' war is forever impossible. At this point, the Soviets leave East-West relations on the basis of the principle proclaimed
by them in 1956: the peaceful victory of socialism. There will then be no Western program to counter-balance the Soviet one. For, unlike the Soviets, we do not walk the road to peace with a clear notion of goals for peace. We do not aim at things like peaceful liberation, or the peaceful defeat of communism. Peace to us is not a concept of order, but merely the absence of war.
As long as the Cold War lasts, our resistance to Communism is strong, because the mainspring of our actions is the threat of a Soviet attack. But precisely because there is no more than the fear of war* to sustain our efforts, we are prone to scrap our resistance to communism as soon as Communists can convince us that they will indeed not resort to war. Thus, once Khrushchev succeeds in leading us from conference to conference until we finally consent to a declaration of peace, he will have liquidated the last ounce of our- resistance, the present basis of our national policy.
The Soviet Union, though, oriented .by a political goal, will remain girded to struggle, with all its energy, for the “peaceful victory of socialism.” Having achieved our moral disarmament, it will move on, strong with the motive of a militant cause, a goal, a program. It will be able to rally its supporters with renewed vigor, with redoubled allegiance to that socialism which is expected to conquer peacefully when the forces of resistance are dismantled.
The “road to peace,” which began at Camp David, leads along a Soviet-prepared agenda of negotiations, and ends with leaving us without a cause, policy, or hope.
The Thaw has indeed begun. Beware of the running flood!
Professor Gerhardt Niemeyer, J.U.D., is a permanent appointment to the Liberal Arts faculty in the department of political science. He received his degree from the University of Kiel, Germany in 1932 and came to this country in 1937 to teach at Princeton University. During the war he worked in the State Department’s Office of Research Operations specializing in international relations. His recent published works include An Inquiry Into the Soviet Mentality, Praeger (1956) and A Handbook of Communism which he edited with Fr. Bochenski, O.P., to be released in English this year.
Concept and deduce:
Archer Beguiled
Next Friday, November 20, Frances Archer and Beverly Gile will initiate the 1959-1960 Notre Dame Artist Series with their popular program of interaational songs and ballads. Tickets will go on sale November 18 through November 20 from four to nine p.m. Many distant parts of the world are visited musically in the form of heartwarming folk songs selected from thirteen countries. In this musical tour, the Archer and Gile duo will rove through such gay and exotic lands as France, Spain, and Italy, then travel around the world for a touch of the fascinating and exciting Japanese folk songs. Of course, on the return trip, an array of the traditional, familiar American songs and ballads will be presented in style and rhythm. Here is an exciting musical adventure. The audience will be taken great-great distances from the University and enjoy faraway places by listening to and observing Frances Archer and Beverly Gile as their voices, and instruments, portray the moods and feelings of interesting people. Blond Miss Archer and guitarist Gile have been so successful in this attempt that sophisticated New York audiences have been captivated to the point of tears by their performances.
This type of cultural entertainment is an important part of every student’s education. The greater percentage of a student’s time at Notre Dame is spent in training the mind; its responsibility of developing an appreciation definitely falls into this category. Consequently, the experienced singing ability of the Archer and Gile duo in an enjoyable selection
। November 13, 1959
Frances Archer and Beverly Gile
of folk songs and ballads can foster one’s appreciation of this type of music.
According to critical notices from newspapers large and small throughout the country, Frances Archer and Beverly Gile have achieved a high degree of perfection and success in presenting their unusual repertoire of bal-
lads and songs.	-
Their audiences have thrilled at this rare combination of mu
sicianship, charm, warmth, and obvious love of singing. It is a certainty that the Friday night performance will be a musical treat worth experiencing; so make plans to attend now.
17
The Day Frisby
DIED
by VITO NIGRELL!
It was a day that will be remembered forever in the annals of sport history. It was a stunning climax and a dramatic finale all rolled in one. But let me begin some time before that fateful day. Let me begin at the beginning.
The game of Frisby arrived on the American college campus in the mid-50’s. Schools on the Eastern seaboard were reputed to be the birthplace of The Game. Within a very short time The Game was being played by small groups of eager students on campuses in all sections of the country. This was no fad!!
Large groups of enthusiastic spectators soon formed at every Frisby game. The result: lawns on every college campus were being trampled! I
In 1961 the Skyline Conference and the Big Ten elevated Frisby to the status of varsity sport. Within twelve months there was a varsity Frisby squad at every college and university in the country (even the University of Chicago). Frisby had arrived!!
The American public fell passionately in love with The Game. They flocked in droves to every game. Frisby was a sophisticated sport. And so Frisby enthusiasts were sophisticated also. Proper spectator attire as decreed by Frisby Illustrated were coats and ties for the men and cocktail dresses for the women. Of course in the East it was strictly formal. In the Frisby stadiums hot dogs and soda pop were replaced by martinis and canapes. The public loved Frisby!!
Of the many, many Frisby teams across the nation, the most successful were from Notre Dame. Yes, the 60’s were known as the “golden era of Frisby” in the history of the Hoosier University. The Irish played their first intercollegiate game in ’62. From that opening game in ’62 until their final regular season game in ’69, Notre Dame remained undefeated!!
It was at Notre Dame that the greatest of the great Frisby players played. The story of how John “the wrist” Johns was discovered is a saga in itself. He was an obscure NROTC regular- on his way to the Navy Drill Hall, when a Frisby sailed over the fence of Cartier Field and landed at his feet. The great N.D. Frisby coach, Patrick McPatrick, called out those fateful words, “Hey, kid, toss it back.” Johns picked up the Frisby and with a casual flick of the wrist sent it soaring back over the fence of Cartier Field. As McPatrick looked on in awe the Frisby sailed across the entire length of Cartier Field, arched up and over and finally came to rest on the roof of the
18
The Scholastic
O’Shaughnessy Art Gallery. McPatrick turned to his twelve assistants and said, “Get that kid.” The kid was got and the rest is in the record books. Johns led N.D. to its most glorious and most spectacular victories.
But, back to my story. After the ’68 season, the NCAA drew up plans for a nation-wide Frisby tournament to be held the following year. When the news was released, Notre Dame was immediately picked by the sportswriters to capture the . 1st National Frisby Championship. After all, they had not lost a game in seven years. Who could possibly beat them?
The ’69 season came and went. As predicted, the Irish remained undefeated for another year. Only Marquette and the Air Force Academy gave the South Benders any trouble during regular season play. The Post Season Tournament was at hand.’!
In the Midwest the four regional finalists were Michigan State, Missouri School of Mining and Metallurgy, Mundelein, and of course Notre Dame. Mundelein was paired off against State and pulled the first major upset of the tournament. They defeated the Spartans by one point. A deciding factor in that game was the eighty-one holding penalties against State. The Irish swept by M.S.M.M. and then walloped Mundelein (only seven holding penalties) for the Midwestern Title. Other regional winners were U.C.L.A., T.C.U., and Harvard, which > upset favored Bryn Mawr for the Eastern Title. The vast majority of the country’s sportswriters predicted the following:
N.D. over T.C.U.
U.C.L.A. over Harvard.
Instead, this occurred:
N.D. over T.C.U.
U.C.L.A. under Harvard.
, Notre Dame was to meet Haivard for the 1st National Frisby Championship in Chicago’s Soldier Field!!
On that never-to-be-forgotten afternoon, 110,000 Frisby fans jammed into cavernous Soldier Field. Needless to say, the crowd was rather partisan. The Irish were in home territory. Harvard came onto the field first. Their cheering sec-i tion of 52 fans gave them a rousing ovation of warm applause. Then the Irish charged out, and the thunderous cheers of the > other 109,948 were heard all the way to the East Inn. Oh, it was a beautiful day!!
Haivard was surprisingly good; they jumped into an early lead. The Irish tied it but Harvard scored again. And so it continued in a most thrilling manner. The lead changed
hands constantly. At half time Haivard was ahead by one point. So exciting and nerve tingling was the game that by the half every tranquilizer concession stand was sold out.
There was delightful entertainment for the patrons at halftime. The grass in the middle of the field was rolled up; out of the ground rose a huge turntable. At the same time, three large helicopters flew into Soldier Field. Out of the helicopters stepped the popular Lester Lanin band. The entire group sat on the turntable. And as they revolved at 33 1/3 rpm, the Lanin men played all the tunes from their hit stereo album “Lester.” It was a stunning halftime performance!!
The soothing music wore off quickly and the crowd became tense again. Once more the teams came, and charged onto the field; Haivard to the warn applause of their -52 fans, and the Fighting Irish to the deafening roars of the other 109,948. This was it!!
The second half was as thrilling as the first. Notre Dame tied the score; Haivard went ahead; Notre Dame tied the score; Haivard went ahead. Back and forth went the lead. Bedlam was rampant in the stands. Hundreds were choking on olives. Precious minutes ticked by. It was the Irish, then Harvard, then the Irish, then Haivard, and then . . . the game was over. Haivard had won!!
A thick veil of silence hung over monstrous Soldier Field. Then Haivard left the gridiron to the warm applause of their 52 fans. The other 109,948 sat in stunned silence. After eight years of victory, here was defeat!!
That night bars all across the country closed in observance of that momentous game and its surprising finish. Victory parties in Chicago and South Bend were canceled. The following day California Olives Incorporated dropped twelve points on the New York Stock Exchange. And in monstrous Soldier Field 109,948 people still sat in stunned silence.
The following year only the Skyline Conference, Big Ten, and Haivard had varsity Frisby teams. During the next twelve months these teams disbanded also. Frisby had had a fast and exciting climb to the top. For a few fleeting years it had its place in the sun.
Today on a few college campuses across the country, one will find small groups of healthy American students playing frisby. And you can be sure that those who play will now and then reminisce about the golden era of frisby, and especially about that memorable day. No one will forget that day, especially the 109,948 who still sat in stunned silence in cavernous Soldier Field.	—Vito S. Nigrelli
ANCIENT H IK I
90 Years Ago
YLy. Deehan next presented himself to the St. Cecilia Philo-t mathean Society for admission, and after reading his essay was elected unanimously. Proceeding to the reading of essays, etc., Master Foote gave his, entitled, “A Good Cause Makes a Stout Heart,” a neatly written and well delivered piece, doing honor to the head and heart of its young author; this was followed by “Lines on the Death of a Boy in Prison,” read by Master Ingersoll; the “Fourth of July Oration,” by Master Wetherbee; the “Village Pastor,” by Master Ryan; all of * which were delivered in a manner to draw forth the applause of all present.
The subject of the next debate was then brought before the house:
Resolved, That the Indian possessed a right to the soil.
!	70 Years Ago
4 “It has been suggested that Notre Dame should modify its ‘yell.’ The time-honored ‘hurrah,’ or ‘three cheers and a tiger’
I	ought to be good enough for all practical purposes. It cer-
!	tainly displays more hearty and enthusiastic feeling, and is
• recognized and appreciated by all peoples.”
, November 13, 1959
50 Years Ago
“Gentlemen: — I have read with no little surprise the bland announcement in the Scholastic of Januai-y 15, that ‘the idea of a Knights of Columbus Council at Notre Dame is crystalizing, slowly, of course, but surely.’ It further remarks that now ‘there is no apparent doubt as to its feasibility.’
There are some who have voiced theii- protests against the proposed idea, but it seems they have been ignored. Since last Saturday, we have even more reason to object, for we have witnessed the process of semi-coercion by which candidates are secured.	.
The organization of a Council, with club rooms on the University grounds, is diametrically opposed to the idea of democracy which Notre Dame has always so rigidly taught and. practised. Fraternities have been strictly forbidden, and yet a K. of C. Council is organized in our very midst. Finally, I fail to see how the society can ever attain any degree of stability, since it will be most entirely transient in character. This K. of C. organization here is at present in its effervescent state. The momentary enthusiasm created by a few smooth, orators is its only cause for existence, and when this influence ceases, the idea ‘that is slowly crystallizing’ will die a natural death.”
19
Pink SUp
In No Easy Lessons
by William J. Grupp, Head Department of Modern Languages
Learning a language is something all of us here have done, to varying degrees of perfection. We didn’t come equipped with a built-in ability in American English. We learned it. If we had been born and brought up in some other area of the world, we would have learned the language of that area. If we had been born to English-speaking parents in a French-speaking area, we would probably speak both languages, with equal ease and perfection. So, the first thing you should consider is that the foreign language you are studying is not the first language you have learned and that it is within your abilities.
There is no easy way to learn a foreign language, nor is there any language which is, in any meaningful way, easier than another. Learning a language has something in common with constructing a building, or putting up a log cabin. Each word, each phrase, each expression that you are learning in these opening weeks is basic as the foundation for what you will be learning in the weeks and months ahead. It is essential that you learn these basic patterns as they are presented; it is virtually impossible, in the nature of language learning, to “cram” for a test or a final exam. Learning a language has to be a gradual accumulation of meaningful words and phrases, through a process of memorization and constant reuse which will eventually lead to complete familiarity and automatic response. This is the way you have learned to speak English.
For some this process will be easier than for others. But for none of you should it be impossible. There will be periods of discouragement and fatigue. However, when you understand the nature of language learning you should not be discouraged if you cannot understand or speak the language you are studying within two or three or four weeks. And you should try not to prolong the periods of fatigue, when you want to forget the whole bedevilling process — this can be academically fatal.
The good educator — the teacher — will never allow you to feel that you have grasped the whole. The material he offers will always be slightly beyond your reach; he will be trying constantly to “lead you out.” This may be disturbing in varying degrees to all of you, but a moment’s reflection will
allow you to see for yourself the reason for it. For example, when you are first given an assignment in a reader, completely different than the work you have been doing, you will find it quite difficult. Well, it should be; it is your first experience with reading in the foreign language. If it presented no difficulty, you might well wonder why you are studying a foreign language if you know it already.
This year, for the first time, we have a language laboratory in operation in the department of modem languages. We think of the lab as a very valuable instrument which we are pleased to make available to the students of the basic, six-hour a week AB language classes. The lab offers an opportunity to hear* the language, thus improving your understanding; to repeat the models you hear, thus improving your speaking ability; and to listen to your own, recorded voice and compare it with the model, thus hearing your mistakes as they would sound to someone else listening to you. During the two periods spent in the laboratory each week, every student can be actively engaged in listening or speaking for the entire time. Consider this in contrast to the regular classroom situation ; in which each student has only slight opportunity to speak, i or to listen individually. If used correctly and prudently by i student and teacher, the lab should be of great assistance in the language learning process. Make good use of your time in the lab; at the end of the year there will be an oral/aural proficiency test which must be passed for successful completion of the course. Your experience for this test will be gained, in large measure, in the laboratory.
Why are you studying a foreign language? The most important reason is that language is basic to the exchange of ideas, to the study and understanding of the people around us, in the past, present and future. Just as English makes it possible for you to understand and be understood by your j fellow students, so the foreign language will give you an understanding of the people who speak that language, thus making you a better person with a broader basis for judgment and appreciation. This increased awareness, this broadening of your view, is an almost automatic dividend which even an imperfect knowledge of a foreign language gives us.
On a more practical level, the fact that there is an ever-increasing demand for people with a good, working knowledge of foreign languages should be a great incentive to every student. Evidence of a great and growing need in the area of foreign languages is the National Defense Education Act of 1958 in which federal funds are specifically allocated to all levels of education for the improvement, strengthening and extension of foreign language study. There are numerous opportunities in governmental service — State Department, National Security Agency, United States Information Service — | as well as in commerce and industry. Finally, it should be of great immediate interest to you to realize that, for the AB freshman, his foreign language course represents just slightly less than one-third of his total semester-hour schedule. Thus it would seem that this language course merits something more than casual concern for each of you.
(Continued on page 31)


INS AND OUTS by Ludovico Arrighi
ROUGE ET NOIR
b
A PROGRAM entitled “French Songs and Keyboard Music” was given last Tuesday evening in the O’Shaughnessy | Hall Art Gallery as part of the 1959 Festival of the Arts. The j Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., tenor, presented a recital of | French Art Songs. He was accompanied by James Bastien, ; resident pianist and instructor of the University’s department | of Music.
| Father Maloney sang a program of Debussy, Faure, Du-£• pare, Chausson and Berlioz. The recital, well balanced as it was, began with Berlioz’s L’Absence, from the Les Nuits d’Ete cycle. When I heard this particular cycle a few months ago, L’Absence fared quite a bit better than it did at this performance. Father Maloney seemed to lack the caressing powers of the voice, necessary for its successful execution.
| The following two songs by Gabriel Faure were very ( pleasant. The poetic beauty and simplicity of Faure’s music ri was brought into focus very successfully. Father’s sustained tone was especially pleasing in Lydia, while Fleur Jetee, an exciting and dynamic piece of writing, suffered somewhat from a lack of precise intonation so essential to this number due to rapid tempo and split-second entrances. Incidentally, this lack of intonation was not an uncommon pitfail throughout the entire recital. The composer of the second group of songs, Henri Duparc, is virtually unknown except for his plaintive and dreamlike art songs. Of the three presented in this concert, Extase was perhaps the most effective. It was, unfortu-I nate, however, that the audience was lost; this was due not to ' the soloist, but rather to the long piano interludes within the piece itself. L’Invitation au voyage is a number which I find enjoyable and moving regardless of the number of times which
I1, I have heard it. It offered peace, security and sheer beauty of II sound to those fortunate enough to hear Father Maloney’s ini' terpretation. No one could resist this promise:
;	La tout n’est qu’orde et beaute,
;	Luxe, calme et volupte!!
• The last number of the Duparc trilogy was titled Le Manoir de • Rosemonde. Mr. Bastien, a sensitive accompanist and artist in '	his own right, just couldn’t blend with the soloist. What should
u	have been an integrated whole, turned into a slight conflict,
I. but a truce was called somewhere near the end, and “Bien loin, bien loin” with its shaded coloring and purity of tone redeemed ; both soloist and accompanist before the intermission began.
:	After the intermission, Father Maloney returned and em-
i barked on a treacherous little piece entitled Mandoline which j Debussy had written for his beloved Madame Vasnier. The ij tempo is unbelievably fast, and the entrances have undoubted-। ly caused many a tenor and soprano to shy away from this i “Serenade”. Father Maloney and Mr. Bastien both seemed to j sense the difficulties of the piece, and Mr. Bastien fared much
by G. P. SCARP1A
better than did the soloist. This number seemed to have gotten the least attention in the practice room and was ragged except for the middle section, (Clitander and Damis).
The two Chausson pieces were perhaps enjoyed by many in the audience. I don’t particularly care for Chausson’s music, but Father Maloney’s interpretation served to temper my indifference. The first song Le Temps des Lilas was refreshing and Le Colibri was caressed with some very beautiful tone, especially in the upper register. That upper register which Father possesses is quite intriguing. His head tone displays a crystallike purity and resonance, which I find very pleasing.
The finale was taken from Claude Debussy’s cantata L’Enfant Prodigue. It was this same cantata which won for Debussy the Prix de Rome in 1884. Azael’s Recitative and Aria was clear, expressive and demands a laurel of praise for Maloney and Bastien alike. Bravo! ! ! !
Mr. Bastien performed three solo pieces at the recital last Tuesday, and for those who heard him last year there must have been an element of surprise. He looked quite tired, but his performance was filled with fire and ai*ticulate technique, and he did justice to the impressionistic Debussy and Ravel as well as the Franck.
Cesar Franck’s Prelude, Fuge and Variation was written for the organ, and the transcription was interesting. The Prelude was accurate and delicate but the Fuge suffered from the transcription. The bass coloring so necessary especially in the final development of the fuge was absent, but this could not be avoided on the Piano. The Variation was delicate and charming.
The next solo piano work presented was Debussy’s L’Jsle joyeux. This was the most enjoyable number which Mr. Bastien offered, and it was precise and delightful. Bastien played with verve and technique seldom found in youthful pianists. His interpretation significantly increased my appetite for Debussy.
The last work for piano was Maurice Ravel’s Sonatine. The Modere was firm and convincing while still retaining a necessary amount of sensitivity. The Mouvement de Menuet is one of my favorites in the repertory of piano literature, and Mr. Bastien was not disappointing. The Anime was fiery and at the same time precise and brilliant, and was brought to a stunning climax. For those who are impatient with Mr. Bastien’s emphasis on technique a word of warning: his sensitivity becomes more acute with every performance and within a short time he should be counted among the nation’s more mature young artists.
So fa tot Mb Ab Out Wt buck ih
(to be continued)
Hawn WORLD of FUN!
Travel with TITA
Unbelievable low Cost
Many tours include college credit.
Orient
43-65 Oay»$t’^r from $998
Europe
60 Day. X><n $675
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up, South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $598 up and Around the World $1898 up. 27th Year Alk Your Trove, A9<nt
fM	Michigan Ate.
■ ■ WW Chicago 4, HA 7-2557 WORLD TRAVEL

Sheraton Hotels
STUDENT-FACULTY DISCOUNTS
Here's money-saving news for students, faculty and all other college personnel. During weekends and college vacations, Sheraton offers you special low rates — even lower rates when two or more occupy the same room. Special group rates are provided for athletic teams, clubs, other college organizations.
You get these discounts at any of Sheraton’s 54 hotels in the U.S.A., Hawaii and Canada. Just present your Sheraton I.D. card when you register. To get a Sheraton I.D. card, contact:
JAMES NAUGHTON 213 Sorin Holl Notre Dome, Ind.
AT THE THEATERT
Welcome, my friends, to laugh week. As I sit here gloating over my persecuted i typewriter and feeling the cold, steady stare of theatei’ managers at the back of my j neck, it seems to me that our never-too-popularized cinemporiums are out to make you ‘ laugh yourself to death this week. This is competition, with everybody (except one striking dissenter) fighting for your ticket to enjoyment.
At the Avon Art we find Jacques Tati, as big as life, fumbling his way through some sort or other of mildly funny slapstick. Actually, My Uncle (Oct. 12-18) has never been considered a very funny person, but yours might be. (Lousy joke, I agree.) So much for that.
The Colfax, out to make you laugh last week with the ridiculous The Best of Everything, in tear-jerking living color, takes a somber look at the world this week and examines Odds Against Tomorrow (Oct. 13-19). Harry Belafonte, Ed Begley, and Robert Ryan star in this study in black and white. Begley is a sloppy ex-policeman with visions of $50,000 dancing in his head. He knows where they are, and takes Belafonte and Ryan in as partners to rob a bank. It turns out that Belafonte’s color offends and overly irritates Ryan, a typical racist. My, how passions flare up. They get out of hand at the inevitable showdown and — But I won’t tell.
For our Sleeper of the Week, the Granada’s offering (at last) of Pilloiv Talk (Oct. 12-25) is the all-around winner. Leaning heavily toward sex and the light treatment of large doses of it, the movie comes through the test eveiy bit as hilarious as its predecessors. Rock Hudson tries to be funny in a bathtub, Tony Randall runs a little bit too wild, and Doris Day suffers the consequences of the rat race. She’s the “intended” to Tony, who spends the better part of his time collecting wives and alimony receipts. Rock is a songwriter with an irresistible charm who collects proof of it, and comes across Doris through a party line he monopolizes while lining up the week’s conquests. He wins Doris over to the ranks of his fan club, she finds him out, is infuriated, and ends up being literally carried away by him.
Alfred Hitchcock, who seemed to have lost his bearings on humor in his never-say-end Vertigo, has set his compass to read North by Northwest and has come up with a really funny witches’ cauldron. Cary Grant is seen playing the part of a subtly-confused Jimmy Stewart as he chases across the U.S. after James Mason and Eva Marie Saint. Eva, possessing chaims more obvious that Mason’s, catches her man Cary on the 20th Century Limited and for a while it seems peace has been found. But off and running they go again as soon as they get to Chitown. Finally, Eva and Cary are just another tear running down one of Mount Rushmore’s eight cheeks and just about as they are to be rescued, they are once again aboard the train on their way to New York starting again where they left off. All this at faraway River Park the week-end of October 12-15.
All around, from top to bottom, from left to right, and inside-out, But Not For Me (Oct. 13-19) has it. It is funny and clever; and at this time of the year, with winter coming up, this is the formula for success. Clark Gable plays an aging theatrical producer who fancies himself something of a satyr, and whose secretary (Carroll Baker) has fallen hopelessly in love with him. Barry Coe finally gets this girl, and Gable returns to his estranged wife, Lilli Palmer, our White Owl award winner of the week. She has been using his alimony checks to back his latest dramatic venture and in addition offers some wry and timely discourses on the subject of males plus females. Lee J. Cobb, as ever, is extremely funny even when he dosn’t want to be. As the very, very tipsy has-been playwright he steers Gable away from Carroll’s hands into Lilli’s clutches. All in all, this MOVIE OF THE WEEK is sure to please everyone who is able to laugh even when it hurts.
This is it. Hoping this column has added to your complete consternation, I pick up my bag and baggage to return again next week. That is, provided no unfortunate accident befalls me at the hands of some vengeful persons. See you.
— Tony Wong
the student body .
ACADEMIC COMMISSION
Welcomes any proposals by students and faculty members with regard to topics and speakers for the Student Fora and lectures. Address correspondence to
ANDREW J. LAWLOR Student Government Office, Notre Dame, Indiana
22
The Scholastic
'Hasty Heart'
(Continued from page 15)
layed at Mr. Patrick’s doorstep.
The subordinant roles were all well , filled with Don Zeifang and Fred Trump gaining special honor. Zeifang plays the British army surgeon who at last must tell Lachlen his days are numbered. This is done in one brief scene which he plays with simplicity, taste, and feeling, and which forms a striking contrast i with Harrington’s tense, impassioned re-; actions to make this scene a highlight of S the play. Trump plays an Asian native * who can speak no word of English but » his name, Blossom. Virtually without I the use of his voice, Trump created a I character both amusing and touching, and always made his presence felt even though unheard.
I The flaws in the production are main-| ly technical ones, such as Ivy League I pants t.nd the use of a modern brand * filter cigarette in those pre-cancer-scare days. Also, the accents of the assorted cockney’s, New Zealanders, and Australians tend to vary considerably throughout the evening. These are of course
but very minor detractions from a very unified production that hung together amazingly well.
One of the principle, though perhaps most unsung elements of this success is the excellent setting designed by Gil Rathbun. It, along with the lighting, is but another example of the unfailingly good and highly imaginative way in which he frames the Washington Hall productions.
As noted before, this production is
Georgetown University Presents: INTERCOLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL — the first open competition for young jazz groups —
Featuring, among other prizes, DATE AT THE 1960 NEWPORT JAZZ FESTIVAL* . . . BOOKING AT BIRDLAND . . . RECORDING OF AN LP TO BE RELEASED BY A AAAJOR COMPANY . . . INDIVIDUAL AWARDS
Groups to be judged by such authorities as: DIZZY GILLESPIE AND DAVE BRUBECK No cost to applicants. $25 award for anyone responsible for entry of a group that becomes a finalist. For further information write: Intercollegiate Jazz Festival, Georgetown University, Washington 7, D. C., or contact this newspaper.
* Subject to Final Approval of Directors in December, 1959.
signal of the increasingly good work done by the Theatre, and leads one to look with even greater anticipation toward the next one. The Hasty Heart is fairly light work, but Tiger at the Gates is matter- to try the mettle of the strongest group of professionals. If they can do as much justice to it as they have to the present productions, the people at Washington Hall might well be in for the most successful season of their short history.
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
for Seniors and Graduates in
!-
PHYSICS APPLIED MATHEMATICS ENGINEERING MECHANICS ENGINEERING PHYSICS AND
AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, METALLURGICAL, and NUCLEAR
ENGINEERING CAMPUS
INTERVIEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30
Appointments should be made » arfwmee through your College Placement Office
4
PRATT A WHITNEY AIRCRAFT
November 13, 1959
Eat at Our Own
$1.50
STEAK SPECIAL Tuesday and Thursday
SPECIALS EVERY NIGHT
1003 N. Notre Dame Ave
SPRING SEMESTER 1960 Institute of European Studies arranges English taught courses through the University of Vienna. Emphasis on learning German. Students live with Austrian Families, take meals at the IES student center. Three Study Tours through 8 countries when the University is not in session.
5% MONTHS IN EUROPE $1395 Price covers round trip ocean travel, room, board, tuition and study tours. SAILING: Maasdam, Feb. 4, New York APPLICATION DEADLINE: Dec. 10.1959 For farther infonaafioe, write to:
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES
35 E. Wacker	Chicago 1
SEND THIS COUPON FOR IES BULLETIN
name		
oddms		
city	zone	stat*
school
ANSWER IN 25 WORDS OR IESS
SEND YOUR
Campus Yacht $4.95
WIN 4 YEAR WARDROBE
261 PRIZES IN AU
1st prize—A famous Botany “500’’ wardrobe every year for 4 years (2 Suits, 2 Sport Jackets, 2 Pair of Slacks, and 1 Topcoat.)
Next 5 prizes—Ultra-precision imported Sony Transistor Radio
Next 5 prizes—World-famous pocket size Minolta “16” Camera
Next 250 prizes—Kaywoodie Campus Pipe
Pick up an official entry blank at your regular tobacco counter, or write Kaywoodie Pipes, Inc., New York 22, for one.
HINTS TO WIN: Why ma smoke pipM
There’s a rich, fulfilling, “all’s well’’ feeling that a man gets only from a pipe. A relaxed, calms-you-down contentment that’s associ* ated exclusively with pipe smoking. And you get all the pleasure of smoking without inhaling.
Why pipe smokers choose KAY WOODIE
Kaywoodie Briar is imported, aged, selected, hand crafted, hand rubbed, tested, inspected, and only then does it earn the coveted Kaywoodie Cloverleaf. That's why Kaywoodie hefts airily light; always smokes cool and sweet. The exclusive Drinkless Fitment inside the pipe condenses tars, moisture and irritants as nothing else can. Try a Kaywoodie. One puff is worth 1,000 words.
CHOOSE YOUR KAYWOODIE
from the famous campus collection.. .*4.95
other styles and shapes *5 to *50

KAYWOODIE
accents the male look
24
The Scholastic
Picta^
KUHARICH GRIDDERS FACE HEAVY PANTHERS
■j	------------------------------
-----
I Toncic-Ditka Passing Threat [ Poses Chief Defensive Worry
|	by BILL CARY
J Temporarily halted last Saturday in T their quest for a winning season by the : Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech, the Irish tackle perenially tough Pittsburgh on the Panthers home field tomorrow afternoon. The Kuharichmen show a • 3-4 standing as opposed to Pitt’s 4-4 ledger. Notre Dame leads the series started in 1909 with 16 wins, eight losses and one tie. Pitt is coached by the very able Johnny Micheloson. Kickoff time is 1:30 EST.
Student Trip. The Irish will be playing with added incentive provided by the 500 students making .the annual student trip. The last two student trips ' have seen the Irish beat Army on a Monty Stickles field goal at Philadelphia in 1957, 23-21, and last year- Navy was all but blown off the field at Baltimore as the Irish, led by the long-throwing Barberton Bomber, George Izo, whipped ■ the Midshipmen 42-20.
'I This Pittsburgh team should not be "	taken lightly. It is true that they have
'	been soundly beaten by Syracuse and
,	Southern California also losing to West
;	Virginia and TCU. But they have beaten
;	UCLA, Duke, Boston College and Mar-
j	quette. Remember Duke is the team
i	that leveled Georgia Tech, the Irish
;	tormentor of last week end. The
?	Panthers rallied last Saturday to beat
•	a good Boston College team, 22-14. You
can rest assured that the Panthers will
IVAN TONCIC
Veteran returns to haunt Irish
be playing with sharpened claws tomorrow afternoon.
The Panthers are led by the fine passing combo of Ivan Toncic and Mike Ditka, the hard running of a bevy of good backs and a line led by Bill Lindner, Ken Montonari and Norton Seaman.
Toncic is one of the most talented quarterbacks in the country. A 5-11, 178-pound senior, he holds the school record for most touchdown passes with 16 and he broke the record for most touchdown passes in a single season against Boston College when he completed his eighth scoring toss of the current campaign. He has connected on 50 of 117 passes for 588 yards and the eight touchdowns. Thirteen of his aerials have been picked off by the opposition.
When Toncic goes to the overhead game, his favorite target is a 6-2, 208-pound end whom Buddy Parker calls “the best college end I have ever seen.”
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS	
Notre Dame Stickles (80) .... Flor (72) 	 Sabal (65) .... Scholtz (55) ... Adamson (67) Williams (76) Heenan (83) .. White (6) 	 Ratkowski (35) Scarpitto (37) Perkowski (38)	Pittsburgh ....Ie	  Ditka	(89) „..lt....Montanari (78) ...,1g.. Coustillac (68) 	c	 Fazio (51) ...,rg	 Vignali	(62) ....rt	 Lindner	(75) ....re	 Delfine	(86) ...qb	Toncic (14) ....lh.... Reinhold (25) ....rh	 Cox	(28) ....fb Cunningham (42)
1:30 p.m. EST; Pitt Stadium, Pitsburgh, Pa.
He is supposed to be Pitt’s best in the last ten years. Mike Ditka is the man being described in this superlative manner. He put on a great show last year against the Irish and has continued to perform in extraordinary fashion this year. He has caught 16 of Toncic’s aerials for 249 yards and four touchdowns. Mike also does the punting for the Panthers, averaging 38.3 yards a kick this year.
Talented Sophomore. Last week against Boston College, Pitt got a great performance from sophomore Fred Cox who scored 16 points and helped swing the game in the Panther’s favor. Cox leads this bevy of runners referred to earlier. He has ample help from four other good halfbacks in seniors Andy Sepsi, Curt Plowman and Joe Scisly, and junior letterman Chuck Reinhold. Jim Cunningham and Fred Riddle give
the Panthers two good, experienced fullbacks who can gain consistently.
Cox has moved ahead of Scisly at the right halfback spot. If he continues to display his talents as well as he did last week, he may become one of the great backs in Pitt history. Part of the Panther’s trouble this season has been their inability to find an adequate replacement for the graduated Dick Haley. Cox might be the answer. Reinhold holds down the other halfback spot and has Sepsi to relieve him. Plowman is employed at either halfback slot.
Cunningham has been sidelined* for most of the year with ankle miseries so the bulk of the fullback duties have been carried on by Riddle. A senior from Robinson Township, Riddle is majoring in Pre-Dental courses. He is a 6-0, 195-pounder. On 39 carries this year he has picked up 145 yards, a 3.7 average.
Pitt Forward Wall. The Panther line charge is led by Co-Captains Montonari and Lindner. These two boys give the Pitt squad consistent tackle play. Both of them are seniors. Lindner is 6-2, 215, while Montonari is slightly smaller at 6-1, 200-pounds.
The rest of the interior line is composed of guards Norton Seaman and Larry Vignali and center Serafino Fazio. Vignali is such a highly-regarded sophomore that the Pitt officials consider him All-America timber. Seaman has been the outstanding lineman in recent games and also handles the kickoff, extra point and field goal chores for the Panthers. Fazio, from Corapolis, Pa., is a much improved performer for the Panthers this year.
MIKE DITKA Panther All-American candidate
November 13, 1959
Harriers to Compete in CCC Against Top Midwest Talent
With his squad back up to full strength this week, cross-country coach Alex Wilson takes the Irish harriers to Chicago today for the first half of a weekend doubleheader of championship meets. The ND runners, who last Friday placed second to Indina in the Big State meet at Indianapolis, will compete for the Central Collegiate Conference meet crown this afternoon, then move to New York Monday for the IC4A race.
In last week’s encounter, the Irish, missing the sendees of their number two man Dave Cotton, picked up third, fifth and sventh places to finish second behind the Hoosiers. The meet, run in a light, driving snow and sub-freezing temperatures, produced a new state meet mark, when Wabash’s Waren Hall took the blue ribbon with a 20:19.8 clocking for the four-mile South Grove course. He was spurred on to his record-breaking performance by Indiana’s Buss Lash, who was runner-up at 20:11.0.
Junior Ron Gregory, the first Irish runner across, took third followed by teammates Tom Dempsey, a sophomore, in fifth place and Galen Cawley, a senior, seventh. Cotton, another senior, sat out last- week’s meet because of a heel injured in' practice the previous Wednesdy, but he should be in good shape for this afternoon’s run.
1958’s IC4A contest saw Gregory’s top long-distance performance as he placed second.
The ND thinclads, who now have a 1-2 dual meet record, and two seconds in multi-team contests, finish out their season a week from Monday at the NCAA championships in East Lansing, Michigan.
WHITE LOOKS DOWNFIELD FOR RECEIVER
Don White, Irish field general, gets set to unleash one of the 22 passes he attempted against Georgia Tech last week.
Zahm and B-P Tangle In Sunday Grid Battle
The interhall footbal season once again this year is filled with excitement and hard-fought football games. The teams in the two divisions, the East and the West, are all battling for the right to represent their division in the championship game in the Stadium in early December.
In the western division, defending champion Dillon leads the pack with a perfect 3-0 slate. Alumni is second with a 2-0 standing, followed closely by Morrissey’s 1-1-1 record. Zahm heads the eastern division by virtue of its 3-0 record. Breen-Phillips is tied with the Zahmites with an identical 3-0 mark. Keenan is in third place with a 2-1-1 standing and Farley is a half-step behind at 1-1-1.
In a recent game Breen-Phillips showed strong striking power and an alert defense as they whipped a good Farley team, 27-6. The Breen-Phillips backs, operating behind a smooth and hard-hitting line, displayed some very fancy running to go with the stout line play. Stanford Hall, last year’s eastern division champ, gained their first triumph of the campaign with a well-deserved 8-0 win over Cavanaugh. It was also the first touchdown scored this season by Stanford.
Swinging over to the western division, Morrissey had indifferent luck, tieing Off-Campus and bowing to Alumni. The Off-Campus team held Morrissey on their one-foot line in the first quarter. Then in the fourth quarter, the Off-Campus boys switched to a spread formation and traveled 80 yards to knot the game at 6-6. Morrissey then held fast and
(Continued on page 29)
ODDS and ENDS
The Russians might be interested in purchasing the man who has defeated both the U. S. Army and the U. S. Navy. He is none other than Notre Dame’s own Monty Stickles who has kicked game-winning field goals to beat Army and Navy. He has made good on four of six field goal attempts in his college career, his only misses coming in the Southern Cal and Pittsburgh games of last year. . . .
Well, we seem to have come up with another comment from our favorite quipster Duffy Daugherty. Said Mr. Daugherty on being complimented on his team’s fine goal lines stands on successive Saturdays against Notre Dame and Indiana: “I like those goal line stands of ours, but I wish they’d make ’em up around the 50-yard line where I can see ’em better.” . . .
Don’t look now but basketball is just around the corner. Head cage mentor Johnny Jordan and his charges have been drilling nightly in the Fieldhouse since practice commenced October 15. The opening game against Western Illinois is less than three weeks away. It is scheduled for Thursday, December 3, in the Fieldhouse. The Irish hardcourt schedule calls for 25 games this year as usual. . . .
Mike (Mauler) McKeever was a reformed boy last week as the Trojans of Southern Cal white-washed the West Virginia Mountaineers by a 36-0 score. He played his usual fine game and was penalized with only one 15-yard violation. More significant is the way he purposely avoided piling on any fallen Mountaineer ball carrier by keeping a safe distance from all such objects. This was in direct contradiction to his roughhouse play in the controversial California game. Whatever one thinks of Mike personally, all must admit that his playing statistics prove he is a whale of a football player. He is a strong candidate for AII-America honors and is being hailed as the greatest thing to hit Los Angeles since talking movies. . . .
When Dick Naab made his presence felt in the Tech game by his fine running, someone remarked that he was the eighth fullback candidate for the Irish this year. We checked and can verify the statement. The Irish lost Danny Griffith and Mike Lind with injuries before the season. Six boys have seen game action at this trouble spot this year. In addition to Naab, Jim Crotty, Gerry Gray, Frank Garguilo, Joe Perkow-ski and Pat Doyle have fullbacked for the Irish. Crotty, incidentally, should be ready for full-time duty tomorrow for the first time since the Cal game. . . .
Bob Scholtz, Kenny Adamson and Bob Scarpitto played the full 60 minutes last week against Georgia Tech. Both Monty Stickles and Don White played in excess of 59 minutes.......
The Michigan City Prison team continues to have its hands full with too much competition from the weekly visit of Notre Dame’s interhall teams. Last Sunday it was Zahm Hall which spanked the “lifers,” 38-8. Other teams that have triumphed are Farley, Breen-Phillips and Morrissey. The lone loss to the Prisoners was when defending interhall champ Dillon bowed, 20-12.
The Scholastic
26
SI Article Gives Survey Of Up and Down Sports
Your attention is called to an interesting and humorous article in last week’s Sports Illustrated. Mr. Stephen Birmingham divides the 20 most accepted Eastern college sports into the categories of “Up” and “Down.”
According to the article, a sport can he “Down” for any one of three reasons:
1.	“Any sport that is Up as a high school sport is Down as a college sport, (e.g. basketball)
2.	“Any sport that is elaborate, that requires special equipment or money is a Down sport.
3.	“Finally, any sport is Down if it is inordinately popular with a large section of the American public, the kind of sport that attracts a following of beer-drinking, hot-dog-munching fans, that consumes quantities of newspaper space and television time. Baseball, the number one sport nationally, is in the cellar on most campuses for this reason.”
“An Up sport,” says the magazine, “is a clean sport, a gentlemanly sport, but, more than anything else, it must be a casual sport. It must not take itself too seriously. Enthusiasm, excess zeal — called ‘Gung Ho’ — is out of fashion.”
While Mr. Birmingham’s survey reports football in last place among the first ten Up sports, there is some evidence that it may have already begun starting up the escalator of social standing. This is because having hit the bottom as a “muscle head” endeavor, it became so generally unpopular among the Ivy League masses that it is now gaining in stature because it is supported by only a small group of very loyal aficionados.
TIME OUT
Special praise must be given to Captain Ken Adamson, Bob “Beast” Scholtz, Monty Stickles, Don White and Ollie Flor for their heroic perform
Scholtz
ances against the Georgia Tech Engineers last Saturday. All of these seniors played over 50 minutes of the game with Adamson and Scholtz going the full 60 minutes. Bob Scar-pitto also went the whole game without rest. Such courage and desire must be singled out and elevated above any consideration of winning or losing. The Georgia Tech drive in the fourth quarter is very understandable when you consider the fact that Bobby Dodd had substi
Adomson
tuted regularly throughout the game and the tiring Irish were at a tremendous physical disadvantage.
Notre Dame Sailsmen Take First at Purdue
The Notre Dame Sailing Team took first place at the Purdue Invitational Regetta, Nov. 7-8. To do this, Notre Dame had to beat Ohio State, Michigan State, University of Michigan, Wayne State, General Motors Institute, De-Pauw, Ohio Wesleyan and Purdue.
Racing was closely contested, and second place Wayne fell short of the Irish’s 126 points by only four points. Purdue was third with 107. Skippers for Notre Dame were: in the “A” division, Dan Schuster, high point skipper for the regatta; and in the “B” division, Mickey Pavia. Crewing for them were Jim Kuras, Jim McCarthy and Fred Bremer.
On November 14, the team returns to Purdue for the eliminations for the Tim-mie Angsten Regatta which will be held in Chicago over Thanksgiving. The Angsten Regatta will determine the unofficial champions of the Midwest.
LINE-UP SHUFFLE
Last week this column dealt with the controversial subject of the national rankings of college football teams. It was discussed briefly whether LSU or Northwestern should be rated as number one. So naturally enough both LSU and the Wildcats got beat the next day. I am writing this article on Monday and the polls have not yet been published for this week but I am sure that Wisconsin and Northwestern will be ranked side by side in the middle of the line-up, LSU will slip to fourth, and USC, Texas and Syracuse will come stumbling up to the top of the ladder.
Ranking teams in the Big Ten solely on the basis of selective comparative scores is very interesting and ridiculous. Here is one example: Michigan beat Illinois, 20-15 — but Illinois tied Purdue, 7-7 — but Purdue beat Wisconsin, 21-0 — but Wisconsin beat Northwestern, 24-19 — therefore, it is obvious that Michigan is thirty points better than Northwestern and should be ranked at least number two.
The folly of such a procedure is rather obvious to most people. Football coaches are always aware of it but many kibitzers often lose sight of it. Just last week after the Georgia Tech game Coach Kuharich said: “You can’t guess or compare teams on the basis of records. Coaches must go deeper than this in their preparation for each opponent.”
SOUTHERN TACTICS
While the game last week was rather unexciting from a spectator’s point of view, Bobby Dodd revealed himself to be a very shrewd tactician. Proceeding on the assumption that it is hard for any team to march eighty yards without making a mistake which will cause the loss of the ball, Georgia Tech decided that it was better for Notre Dame to have the ball at any time when a Tech mistake would be costly. This is a different attitude from that taken by most teams, especially those outside of the South and accounts for the fact that there are very few high-scoring games in the South.
It’s hard to say whether this cautious strategy is better than that familiar to our section of the country. Mostly it would seem to depend on the personnel available. None of the pro team follows this philosophy because the offensive potential of these teams is so great that it would be foolish not to use every play available in an attempt to score. Certainly Dodd’s point of view proved to be valid against Notre Dame — a young team which makes mistakes.
MORE EXCITEMENT?
Tomorrow the Irish should win their fourth game of the season to even up the slate at 4-4. The last two Notre Dame-Pitt games have been thrilling. In 1957 an Izo-to-Aubrey Lewis pass in the last few minutes brought the Irish from a 7-6 deficit to a 13-7 win. Last year the situation was reversed as Bill Kaliden raced around end from five yards out with eleven seconds left for a 29-26 win. A good day against Pitt tomorrow would set the stage for an upset over Iowa, something which would send joy to the hearts of all Notre Darners. — T.R.
November 13, 1959
EN GARDE!
by Tom Barthel
Notre Dame’s fencing team opens its season against Case and Indiana Tech on December 12 in the Fieldhouse. The Irish have six lettermen returning.
Coach Walter Langford stated that, “If the saber holds up as well as the strength of the foil and the epee, we should have another fine season. By a fine season, I mean winning thirteen out of the sixteen matches.”
Co-Captains Jim Russamano and Jerry Johnson lead the list of returnees. Terry Laughlin, a junior monogram winner in 1957 who did not attend school last year, will also be a strong competitor. Laughlin heads the epee division.
In addition to Russamano, Johnson and Laughlin, the Irish have Norb Spitzer. Spitzer had a six and two record in his bouts last year. Russamano was 34-4 in his bouts and Johnson was 29-7 for the season. Russamano and Johnson both competed in the foil division.
In the epee division, John Donlon ended up with a four and three record. John Royane led with a 6-1 mark and Pete Giaino, another monogram winner, battled to a 7-6 record.
In the saber division there are no returning lettermen. However, there is a list of promising candidates battling for the top positions and this should bring an improvement. Ted Debaene, Rudy Ehrensing, Gene Spejewski and John Worsta have displayed the outstanding sabers thus far.
The Irish fencers are of course hampered by the loss of so many lettermen. However, the foil and epee divisions appear to be well-manned. And as usual,
JIM RUSSOMANO All-American fencer
JERRY JOHNSON
Expert with the foil
the expert tutelage of Coach Langford will be valuable.
Last year the fencers’ winning streak was broken by the Air Force Academy. The Irish will meet the Airmen again this year in a triangular meet here at the Fieldhouse. Michigan State will be the third participant.
Although there is really no easy opponent this year, the Irish can expect especially tough competition from the Air Force, Illinois, Wayne State and Wisconsin.
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Army over Oklahoma Clemson over Maryland Dartmouth over Cornell Wisconsin over Illinois Indiana over Michigan LSU over Mississippi State Northwestern over Michigan
State
Purdue over Minnesota Washington over California Navy over George Washington Yale over Princeton
USC over Baylor Syracuse over Colgate Notre Dame over Pittsburgh Georgia Tech over Alabama Mississippi over Tennessee Texas over TCU Pennsylvania over Columbia
GAME OF THE WEEK Iowa over Ohio State
UPSET OF THE WEEK Georgia over Auburn
LAST WEEK
Twelve right, seven wrong, one tie
63.2 per cent
TOTALS TO DATE 76 right, 36 wrong, eight ties 67.9 per cent
Irish Basketball Schedule
Dec. 3—Western Illinois at Notre Dame
Dec. 5—Michigan State at East Lansing
Dec. 7—Wisconsin at Notre Dame Dec. 9—Northwestern at Evanston Dec. 12—Air Force at Colorado Springs
Dec. 14—Nebraska at Lincoln
Dec. 18—Loyola at Notre Dame HOOSIER CLASSIC
Dec. 22—Indiana at Indianapolis Dec. 23—Purdue at Indianapolis Jan. 2—North Carolina at Charlotte .
Jan. 5—Butler at Notre Dame Jan. 9—Detroit at Notre Dame Jan. 12—DePaul at Chicago
Jan. 16—St. Francis at Notre Dame Jan. 19—Detroit at Detroit
Jan. 22—Bradley at Chicago Stadium
Jan. 30—Illinois at Chicago Stadium '
Feb. 2—Canisius at Notre Dame Feb. 6—Army at Notre Dame Feb. 13—Kentucky at Lexington Feb. 16—Butler at Indianapolis Feb. 20—DePaul at Notre Dame Feb. 23—Evansville at Evansville
Feb. 27—Louisville at Chicago Stadium
Feb. 29—Creighton at Notre Dame
Irish Defeat Valparaiso In Initial Bowling Match
The Notre Dame intercollegiate bowling team won its first match of the season when it defeated Valparaiso by a score of 7-4 last Sunday in a regulation
NIBC match.	.
CLASSIC LEAGUE	<
Schwartz’s ................... 16-4
Glovna’s ..................... 14-6
Tom Schroeder, 209-211-193—613; Jim Flannery, 192-199-204—595; Jerry Albers, 225; Larry Naymik, 224; Ted Mid-dendorf, 224; Ted Nekic, 217; Paul Scagliarini, 214; Greg Schwartz, 213; Mike Gilbert, 205-200.
KAMPUS KEGLERS — RED
Rochester Club....................15-5
Glee Club “A” ................... 13,7
Chern. Engrs. “B” ............... 13-7
Don Dvorak, 188-202-184—574; Dan Halloran, 233-155-178—566; Ron Howard, 222; Ron Drevich, 218; Dave Leicht, 203.
KAMPUS KEGLERS — WHITE
Sixty-Niners.................... 16-4
Five Aces ...................... 13.7
Frank Prantil, 160-192-199—551; Denny Panozzo, 176-205-162 — 543; Dave Czulewicz, 195; P. McMahon, 192.
KAMPUS KEGLERS — BLUE
Detroit Club “A” ............... 16-4
Shameless Five ................. 13-7
Joe Ryan, 207-200-148—555; Terry Keating, 176-206-151—533; Earl Moss-ner, 182.
28
The Scholastic
a Swingline Stapler no bigger than a
Interhall Football
(Continued from page 26)
Millions now in use. Unconditionally guaranteed. Makes book covers, fastens papers, arts and crafts, mends, tacks, etc. Available at your college bookstore.
thwarted the Off-Campus extra point try. Alumni shut out Morrissey, 14-0. Dick Orsi, a member of Dillon’s championship team last year, stood out for Alumni with his fine play.
This Sunday the big game pits the undefeated and untied powerhouses of Zahm and Breen-Phillips. The winner of this game will be the favorite to represent the eastern division in the stadium playoff.
The standings of both divisions follows :
Eastern Division
TEAM	W L T PCT.
Zahm ................. 3 0 0 1.000
Breen-Phillips 	 Keenan 			 3 	 2	0 1	0 0	1.000 .667
Stanford 			 1	2	0	.333
Cavanaugh 			 0	3	1	.000
St. Edward 			 0	4	0	.000
Western Division
LONG ISLAND CITY, NEW YORK. N. Y.
Dillon .............. 3 0 0	1.000
Alumni .............. 2 0 0	1.000
Morrissey ................ Ill	.500
Howard ................... 011	.000
Off-Campus .......... 0	2 1 .000
Walsh ............... 0	2 1 .000
BERMUDA
College Week 1960
wWtettttKMKI!
•	As always, the “Mixer” — College Day at the Beach.
•	And the All-Day Cruise to an ancient fort with calypso, luncheon, gombey dancers and native bands. AND FOR THE FIRST TIME
•	INTERCOLLEGIATE JAZZ SESSIONS, with competition between jazz combos of leading men’s colleges.
•	COLLEGE WEEK REVUE-amateur college talent (YOU?), directed by a professional.
•	Barbecue Luncheon and Games Afternoon.
•	Special TROPHIES for Fishing, Golf, Tennis.
ALL WITHOUT CHARGE.
The
BERMUDA
Trade Development Board
620 fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.
■November 13, 1959
J
Channel II
(Continued from page 9) undistracting variety, conducive to study, will be broadcast.
One of the features of Channel II will be a daily panel discussion covering literary, philosophic and artistic topics, as well as student creative writing and a
Classified Advertising
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
BENDIX AVIATION CORP.—November 16
INLAND STEEL—November 16.
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT—November 17.
PRATT & WHITNEY—November 30._______
All interviews are held at the Placement Office.
HIP, HIP, HURRAY for the
weekly book review. Moderator of literary discussions will be Bernie McElroy, well known as last year’s winner of the Mitchell Award for the Best Student Play. Other moderators include: Bill Jungels, student creative writing; Charles Ladner, political science, literature and philosophy; Jerry Krieghauser, musical discourses. The panels will consist of students and members of the faculty.
A Fine Music Guide will be published by the station to accompany the programming. Managed by Tony de Haro, it will be sold on a subscription basis. A sample copy of the new publication’s first issue will be delivered to each room on campus.
In order to help out with the many problems that will certainly arise from
a project of this magnitude, a faculty board has been appointed to serve in an advisory capacity.
Since the idea for the station was originated last April, 100 albums have been added to the classical record library which now numbers 500 albums. In or-der to handle the doubled amount of programming, scores of new announcers, record librarians and technicians have been recruited. New personnel were chosen on the basis of an objective test of their knowledge of the classics and oral auditions. The new staff numbers approximately 25 members.
Summing up his hopes for the future, Staffer said, “WSND’s unique position of broadcasting over two channels brings about the possibility of stereophonic transmission. This can be accomplished by broadcasting a single program over-both frequencies. This may eventually lead us into FM and from there perhaps into educational broadcasting with the possibility of television.”
SIMON ON PHILOSOPHY
Professor Yves Simon will be present at the University next Friday, the thirteenth, to give a lecture on “Jacques Maritain: The Growth of a Christian Philosopher.” Professor Simon, who is a member of the Committee on Social Thought, University of Chicago will speak at 8 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
New New New
GREYHOUNDway to save money!
Got the good word about Greyhound Scenicruiser Service®? It's the latest, the greatest way to go... with air-conditioning, picture windows, air-suspension ride and complete restroom! You’ll have a ball headin’ home on a Greyhound —it’s often faster than other public transportation, and always less expensive!
St. Louis	$ 9.30
New York	23.35
Pittsburgh	12.60
Louisville	8.60
*Tax not included
CASA • PIZZA
on the campus
DELICIOUS PIZZAS by Luigi Rappelli
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!
ITS SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS...AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
Greyhound Terminal, Main & Monroe, AT 7-6541
Try One Soon!
Bring your date for a late snack!
GREYHOUND
HOURS MON.-THURS. 5:00 P.M. to 11:00 P.M. FRI.-SAT 5:00 P.M. to 12:00 P.M.
VETVILLE REC. HALL
The Scholastic
r i
T
f
t 1
I
YOUR NAME BRAND JEWELER IN SOUTH BEND . . .
Watches by
• OMEGA
• BULOVA
• LONGINES
• LE COULTRE
• WITTNAUER
• PATEK PHILIPPE
Diamonds & Wedding Bands by Keepsake & Artcarved
•	GOLD & STERLING CHARMS
•	RELIGIOUS JEWELRY
•	BIRTHSTONE RINGS
•	COSTUME JEWELRY
•	MEN'S JEWELRY
•	GIFTS
WATCH AND CLOCK REPAIR HAND ENGRAVING
121 WASHINGTON	CE 4-1311
Pink Slip Primer
(Continued from page 20)
There is one more very important point which you should realize and keep in mind: your language class should be, must be, a cooperative effort between student and teacher. To a very high degree, your success in the language class, or in any other class, for that matter, will be in direct ratio to the effort and concentration you put into it. Your teacher will usually be available and will always be willing to help you over the pitfalls in the way of learning the language you are studying. You should never feel any hesitation in asking your teacher for his assistance in solving the difficulties which will surely arise.
William J. Grupp, Head
Department of Modern Languages
DETROIT DEAN TO SPEAK
Father David C. Bayne, S.J., dean of the Detroit University Law School, will be the principal speaker at a symposium this Wednesday evening. The topic for the symposium is “The Catholic Lawyer” and appearing with Fr. Bayne will be a federal judge and two prominent Catholic lawyers from the Detroit area. The talks will be given at 7 p.m. in the Auditorium of the Notre Dame Law School. All are cordially invited to attend.
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
*	WFEBNKL REVENUE
Angelo
*	CONTEMPORARY LITERATURE Heiney
‘ PRINCIPLES OF ART HISTORY Wofflin
*	SILENT LIFE
Merton
*	ABRAHAM LINCOLN Sandberg
*	BUT WE LOVE YOU CHARLIE BROWN
Schulz
*	USELESS INFORMATION Steiner
‘ WRITERS AT WORK
Cowley
*	TOCQUEVILLE IN AMERICA Pierson
*	DRAMATIC CRITICISM
Shaw
*	RUSSIAN REVOLUTION Moorehead
*	JUGGLER Save Time and Money at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-fhe-compus
A

See the Big News for ’60... Here By Popular Demand RAMBLER AMERICAN 4-DOOR SEDAN Lowest-Priced in America!
RAMBLER AMERICAN PRICES
START AT
*1795
Car illustrated is new Rambler American 4-door sedan
Get new 4-door convenience in the 100-inch wheelbase Rambler American for ’60. Save on price, on gas, on upkeep. Get highest resale value. Easiest to turn and park. At Rambler dealers now.
Drive the New Standard of Basle Excellence
Mm suggested delivered price at Kenosha. Wisconsin.. State and local taxes, if any, automatic transmission and optional equipment extra.
SEE YOUR RAMBLER DEALER TODAY

-November 13, 1959
it
minis LIBRARY aid mi shop
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend
A Nonprofit Organization
NOTICE
Award Jackets
GOLD STEERHIDE LEATHER SLEEVES 24-OUNCE WOOL NAVY MELTON BODY IRRIDESCENT RAYON LINED BLUE AND GOLD TRIMMED
Special $17.95
MINKOW'S
303 So. Michigan St.
NEXT TO PLANTERS PEANUTS Home of Adam Hats, Massagic Shoes, and Campus Sports Clothes.
wvKvnw
HOTEL
J^ckerbocker
JUdson 2-4200
Everything new for your comfort end convenience. Completely new rooms — most modem furnishings including air-conditioning. Radio * * Television in every room.
r ♦ hc hear* of Times Square NEW YORK
Advertising Firm to Hold Madison Avenue Contest
“Motivational research” is the new password among the Madison Avenue boys and Robert Starch Associates, advertising consultants, are not planning to be left out of the clubhouse.
In connection with the Marketing club of the College of Commerce, the advertising firm is running a Consumer Reaction Contest, which will continue until the beginning of Thanksgiving vacations.
Set up in the lobby of the Commerce building are five sets of advertisements which consist of two ads dealing with the same products, but using different approaches, such as Oxford Paper, Dodge Reports, and Air France. All of these ads appear in current magazines and in the best tradition of “Running up the flag to see who salutes,” the advertising firm is trying to find out which produces the best reaction.
The contest and the $10 award will be decided on the basis of five choices and the reasons given for making the selections. However, contestants aren’t given the ad man’s privilege of saying a lot about a little and instead, are limited to a total of 150 words.
In an attempt to reach “The mass public,” the contest has been opened to all students and the entries may be submitted to Box 431, Notre Dame University or turned into Room 111 of the Commerce Building.
As a tie-in with the contest, the Marketing club held a well attended meeting which included faculty members and the regional manager of General Outdoor Advertising Corp., who was the principal speaker.
WHAT THEY ASK ABOUT
mixed marriages
Order the coaphW set and have all the aatwart in one package. Especially the answers to questions people ask
NakCtathoiic
MARITAL LIFE
or won't ask in regard to these important subjects. Tins series of twelve two-color booklets has toe! answers to reel questions in language you will understand and with a style you will appreciate.
An excellent addition to the heme library er as material for
• discussion roup. Ml of answers to ever 200
AVE MABA NESS NoItoDm*, fediMO
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
RESPONSIBILITY?
Editor:
For the first time, the student Senate has taken specific action to altei- student conduct. Some may think that the Senate is seeking a sensational issue, others may call it siding with the administration. The fact is that a specific situation is in need of correction — it is with this in mind that the Senate acted.
The underlying question in its simplest form is — does the Senate have the responsibility to legislate on student behavior? Surely it would be foolish for student government to legislate on individual conduct or on individual instances of group misconduct, but when an undesirable situation exists persistently, I believe the Senate has the responsibility to speak out on behalf of responsible students.	j
Many may question the degree of action taken. Nonetheless, I am convinced that a realistic approach has been taken, and I shall do all within my power to compel the proprietor to improve the atmosphere and to present the situation to concerned students. With individual concern on your part, it will be unnecessary for the Senate to take further action.
Bruce E. Babbitt
Student Body President
(ED.: This letter was written before the author saw either “Commentary” or the Dave Otte column.)
FROM WAY OUT WEST
Editor:
I have read with interest the Back Page article in your latest issue bn the subject, “Steel Workers and the President.” Following as this does the reported attiudes of Liberal Arts candidates, I should probably not be concerned. However, I offer for “Dean-Listed” Gannon the following premises:	<
1.	I submit that it would take a tenuous stretch of the interpretation of these moral principles to arrive at any conclusive yes.
2.	Under such circumstances, Mr. Gannon’s article might well have been completely omitted.
I am enclosing my renewal to the । Scholastic. I would hate to miss any such intellectual treatises in the future.
W. R. Sidenfaden, Class of 1929
President, Suburban Gas Co., Inc., Pomona, Calif.
GEOGRAPHICAL UNION
Editor:
Congratulations on your editorial, “a closer union.” In my dealings with the alumni I have found them willing to aid' and assist the students in any way they could. A necessary condition for this cooperation between the alumni and stu- । dents is contact between the two groups. This contact should be a major goal of every geographical club.
Michael Brienza 202 Fisher
32
The Scholastic
TELEPHONE INVITATION
Notre Dame students have been invited to visit the shops and buildings of the Indiana Bell Telephone Company. Student groups interested in this invitation, extended by Mr. R. A. Holmes, Class of 1930, may obtain an appointment by calling AT 9-1203.
| Chicago Professor Presents x Second Commerce Seminar
Now in its tenth yeai’ of existence, the Cardinal O'Hara lecture series continues to bring top speakers in the fields of business and economics to the University । each year. Phillip Hauser of the Uni-I versity of Chicago spoke this Wednesday j. in the Law Auditorium. Dr. Hauser is f a noted authority on population problems and has also written a book on the sources and uses of governmental statistical data. His talk was entitled: “Market Implications of the U. S. Population Increase.” This was the second in this | ; year’s series of lectures. The first lecture was given on October 15 by Dr. Willard Graham of the University of North Carolina.
Plans for two more lectures during the coming semester are almost complete. The Committee on Outside Lecturers of { the College of Commerce has already ari ranged for the appearance of Professor । Milton Friedman next March. Friedman will speak on “The Borderland Between Economics and Politics.”
A fourth lecturer to appear in Febru-• ary has not yet been named. The choice | has been narrowed to two: Robert May-J nard Hutchins, ex-President of the Uni-‘ versity of Chicago, and Robert Calkins, President of Brookings Institute.
The series itself was named after Cardinal John O’Hara of Philadelphia who was the first Dean of the College of Commerce. Each year, the committee on : outside lecturers handles the job of contacting these first rate speakers and inviting them to speak here. This committee consists of: Herbert E. Sim, chairman; William Eagan, publicity; George ) Viger, physical facilities; Sherman Shapiro, corresponding secretary; Ray Powell, recording secretary.
— Ron Bukowski
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
*
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
A
See: JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main SL	IMS. Bldg.
L. David Otte
(Continued from page 11) unnecessarily long, discussion of a motion on the lottery system of buying dance bids. It was merely a suggested system, the result of a study by the social commission. But many members, Butler especially, didn’t like it because of the lack of provision for dance preference, probably a valid argument. After tossing it back and forth, they voted down Tom Moran’s motion to table it indefinitely, which in effect kills it. Moran felt that, inasmuch as it is only a suggested system, why put it in the dance policy. It was finally tabled for one week in hopes that a better Senate study of the proposal will result.
Bill Scheckler gave his usual report on the latest doings of the NFCCS. This time it concerned the National Academic Program, a study of our academic problems. Member schools are undertaking this study, reporting to Scheckler, and a pamphlet report will result. Locally, three administration and five faculty people met with seven students for this analysis.
John Clark gave an up-to-date financial report, and the 1960 Collegiate Jazz Festival had their self-sustaining budget approved.
The outstanding nuisance of the Senate was the honorable senator from Cavanaugh Hall. He was just generally “out of it,” and continually urging the unnecessary. For this Patrick Powers gets the White Owl Award for the Week. Have a White Owl, Patrick.
WUM00T CRENHML
KEEPS HAIR GROOMED LONGER! MAKES HAIR FEB. STRONGER!
“Surface | renewing Hair Tonics ! Wildroot Cream-Oil
Gendel's Surplus Sales SPECIAL—A Used Alpaca lined Parka—Only $7.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
ROCCO'S NEW Restaurant
STEAKS - SEAFOODS Also the Finest Italian Dishes
MODERN PRIVATE ROOMS AVAILABLE Call for Reservations *
Open Sundays	CE 4-7224
18142 South Bend Ave.
Still Operating at Our Old Location
537 N. St. Louis
“Surface” hair tonics merely coat your hair. When they dry off, your hair dries out. But the exclusive Wildroot Cream-Oil formula penetrates your hair. Keeps hair groomed longer... makes hair feel stronger than hair groomed an ordinary way. There’s no other hair tonic formula like it.
MAKE HAIR OBEY ALL DAY WITH WILDROOT CREAM-OIL»
November 13. 1959
31
Back Page.
steel: the final word
As a final chapter to the current series of discussions on the steel strike, the “Back Page” this week is presenting a few of the letters and other comments regarding the last two articles which have been submitted to the editors.
The articles folloiv in alphabetical order, and the name of the author is given under each section.
IN the last two weeks, articles on the present steel strike presented controversial but conflicting conclusions; certainly it was apparent that both writers in reaching their conclusions had argued from different premises. These premises in turn seemed to reflect and represent the political sympathies and affiliations of the authors; every point made had its following counter-point, what was salient and of primary importance in the first article was of irrelevant and only secondary importance in the second article.
After controversy through the expression of student opinion via the “Back Page” we are faced with a conglomeration of facts negated by counter-facts. Both writers have run the full gamut of the issues and forces involved and responsible for the present controversy. For enlivening and adding color to their polemics we have further seen a liberal assassinate the character of the “corporation-inclined” President only to be counter-maligned by a conservative who harrangues him for his “Pravda-like attacks.” In short, we are bogged down in generalities and a maze of unsupportable if not contestable facts; the discussion of this strike through the medium of the Scholastic has been deadlocked in every sense as much as at the conference or bargaining table at Pittsburgh.
To discuss the steel controversy and its accompanying problems while we are in the midSt of the strike itself of necessity reduces the significance and reliability of “stated facts.” Moreover it commits us to a sacrifice of objective standards and impartiality. Many of the questions involved are in the realm of economic theory and speculation, there are economists for example who argue that a rise in the steel worker’s wages does not necessitate a corresponding rise in the price of steel —there are also economists who also argue the reverse of this. But in any case, management is cast in the role of the great experimenter of either proving or disproving clashing economic theses; change on the part of the steel companies could produce beneficial results — it could also seriously impair the corporations and anger its stockholders.
Concessions are necessary on the part of both parties 'involved; but the extent of these concessions can be best deter
34
mined only by a thorough and objective report carried on through the medium of fact finding board — up until now they have been the only disinterested party involved.
— D. Edivard Chaplin
A MATURE NEW-DEALER
Mr. Thomas Gannon’s Back Page article “Steelworkers and the President” will, I hope, be balanced by one taking a rather more conservative point of view in some future issue of the Scholastic.
The article is lean on facts and avoids the most pressing issue in the entire steel and indeed in many contemporary industrial strikes; in its place is substituted an issue which the author asserts is more revealing; that being: should the President apply the coercive force of government to pressure a settlement between labor and management. The heart of the problem, on the other hand, is this: who has the right to run the steel mill. I must assume that Mr. Gannon is a socialist or at least a very mature New Dealer, based on his statement the “the President pledges his devotion to ... an economic system which proved its utter worthlessness in 1929.” That worthless system could be none other than capitalism, the methods of which include free bargaining. The desire to apply force and coercion in this steel strike is typical of those who assume that socialism and New-Dealism with accompanying political action can solve all the world’s problems.
—James S. Kolb
GHOSTS AND MEDIATION
The recent articles on the steel strike have left some fairly important things left unsaid. Both sides thus feel they are bargaining about principles, rather than mere issues. In such a case it is clearly the government’s duty to do all that it can to reach a solution, and particularly to encourage mediation with the government as a third party. Only in this way can one or both parties get off the hook gracefully.
Mr. Gannon is to be congratulated for reminding us that this is not just a battle of two giants who are for the moment acting like spoiled children. A whole nation’s economy and the welfare of thousands of ordinary people are the question here as well. All of the country knew that we were in for a long strike; the stockpiles bore witness to this. Yet the government never did its share to bring the parties together, or to exert its influence with the public and the parties themselves. Thus the strike was allowed to drag on and on. A strong chief executive could have rallied so much support against a strike that it
would have been necessary for both V sides to settle.
Mr. Tausche has dragged up the ghost of socialism and invoked the magic name of freedom. But the fact is that the companies and the unions do not have the freedom to jeopardize a national economy and the welfare of so many people for the right to bargain together. And the fact is that the government's first obligation is not to protect unions or management, capitalism or free enterprise; its duty is to protect the freedom and welfare of every man. Mr. Tausche would do well to remember that it is a long way from the government’s exerting effort to settle or prevent a strike to the place where the government takes over industry “on a more or less permanent basis.”
The present administration — particularly the Vice-President and Secretary of Labor used to pride itself on averting strikes — whatever happened to those good old days?
— W. Dennis Shaul
WHOSE SIDE?
Now that the reader has heard this year’s quote of righteous arguments in the annual strike of import, he has no doubt made up his mind which side is , good.
This decision made, it naturally follows that he has aligned himself with the virtuous faction which is conducting the noble fight against the forces of darkness. We might venture to suggest that many readers will find themselves on the same side this year as last year , and as they will be next year. Indeed, if we are able to investigate the back- < IL ground of each individual, we should be ! able to determine in which direction his prejudices will develop. It is in the nature of things that there are only two sides to this question and that these are diabolically opposed. Everyone falls into one category and is therefore, a defender of good and virtue as he feels it. ( , With the fire and zeal of missionaries they will seek to enlist us on their side in the crusade against blackness. Girting themselves with emotional appeals and repeating ejaculations of hatred, they are ready to argue with anyone of the deciples.of iniquity whom they may meet. However, it seems strange that we have < / yet to witness a conversion.	I
Indeed, we would propose a theoreti- I cal problem. Let us predicate mature I individual out of nothing. To this hypothetical being let us give the physical	I
and unbiased mental developments of	;
twenty-one years. One wonders on which : side our theoretical friend woud chose to V • cast	his	lot. Which arguments would	j
convince	him? Or	would he need the	:
aid of a coin to make his decision.	i
— Everett W. Wells	;
The Scholastic	1
New Kooks from Notre Dame
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR, edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. The issues of American identity and the world’s image of the United States are the chief concern of the articles in this volume. The authors’ evaluation of American institutions, ideas, and purposes should eliminate many of the stereotypes that so often becloud the world’s vision of what America stands for. $4.75
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD, edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. Diplomacy must play an increasing role in the negotiation of the differences of a changing world. The problems and resources of diplomacy in a world characterized by a radical departure from the past are surveyed in this volume, which holds forth the hope that with sacrifice, perseverance, and imagination diplomacy may be flexible enough to tame the furies of the contemporary world. Dag Hammarskjold, George F. Kennan, Sir Pierson Dixon, and Hans Morganthau are among the distinguished diplomats and scholars who have contributed to the volume.	$7.50
FREEDOM AND REFORM IN LATIN AMERICA, edited by Frederick B. Pike. Provides an insight into some of the changes that have shaped Latin America’s recently commenced struggle to erect a society in which the values of individual freedom are safeguarded at the same time that social and economic reforms are achieved. The essays range from a philosophical consideration of the concepts of freedom and reform to an economic study of urbanizing and industrializing Latin America.	$6.00
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940, by Edward N. Tarulis. In 1918 Red troops attacked Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania but were 7 repelled and for more than two decades the Baltic peoples consolidated their statehood. This fascinating book tells how these three nations were finally overpowered and annexed to the Soviet Union; it is a story of broken pledges and broken treaty obligations, diplomatic duplicity, connivance between Com-munism and Nazism, application of force in international relations, and the most naked and brutal imperialism.	$5.50
ETHICS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES, edited by Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. Positivistic social science, standing by itself and denuded of ethics, can contribute little to the world’s major problems. Scholars who are authorities in both ethics and various social sciences discuss the inter-relationship of the two in this symposium.	$3.25
THE IMAGE OF MAN, edited by M. A. Fitzsimons, Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., and Frank O’Malley. A selection of some of the best essays to appear in the Keuiew of Politics during its first 20 years which show why the Review has become one of the world’s most influential journals.	$6.00
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925, edited and translated by Boleslaw Szczes-niak. This comprehensive collection of documentary material is intended to give an understanding of the historical change inflicted on organized religion by the Communist revolution from 1917 to 1925. The introduction is a concise historical survey that points out the complexity of the problem.	$6.75
THEORETICAL ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, edited by William T. R. Fox. International relations have to be viewed as a subject which is something more than contemporary history if it is to yield results relevant to the major choices which governments and opinion leaders must make in world politics. This collection of essays grew out of an inter-university seminar at Columbia and is a speculative approach to the study of international relations.	$3.25
INTRODUCTION TO MODERN POLITICS, by Ferdinand A. Hermens. The discussion of various patterns of government, both from the historical and functional viewpoint, is useful and even indispensable. Professor Stephen K. Bailey of Princeton states: “The book brings together in brief compass one of the best statements on the historical and philosophical background of democracy that I have ever seen.”	$3^0
THE CONGRESS FOUNDS THE NAVY, 1787-1798, by Marshall Smelser. The author traces the acrimonious debate in Congress and throughout the young nation that preceded the birth of the navy. He shows how the Algerian piracies, French privateering, and the flouting of neutral rights in an Atlantic war aroused the nation and finally forced Congress to “provide and maintain a navy.”	$5.00
THE EARLY LITURGY, by Josef A. Jungmann, SJ. This is a fascinating outline of the history of the Church’s worship to 600 A.D. by the foremost litur-gist of our day. This period surpasses all others in importance because it is concerned with the formation of the ground-plan of the present Roman Rite. Rev. Gerald Ellard, S.J., himself a renowned liturgist, has this to say: “The climactic last chapter, a brilliant sketch of the Latin Mass at Rome from about 400 to 600, will be conned most carefully by readers. There are many other matters treated with distinction by the Innsbruck scholar.”	$5.75
Coming in April, 1960:
ROMAN CATHOLICISM AND THE A
k: i *
ICAN
WAY OF LIFE, edited by Thomas T. McAvoy, CJ3.C. April selection of the Thomas More Book Chih. Distinguished Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish authors assume that Roman Catholicism is an accepted part of the life of the nation and discuss the social problems, Church and State relations, and the Americanization of Roman Catholicism which have resulted from this acceptance.	$4.56
Order from the Notre Dame Bookstore and all leading booksellers.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Are yon smoking more now Bnt enjoying it less ?...
CHANGE TO CAMELS-A REAL CIGARETTE
Id
01 R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
5'
j TURKISH & DOMESTIC
| BLEND >	CIGARETTES

The best tobacco
makes the best smoke.
Start to really enjoy smoking again. Enjoy real satisfaction from each cigarette—every time you light up. The Camel blend of costly Turkish and domestic tobaccos has never been equalled for rich taste...for easygoing mildness...for real enjoyment with each and every puff. Isn’t that what you want from your cigarette ? Of course it is! Change to Camels!
Have a real cigarette—have a CAMEL