CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
<
1/3 IN JULY ... 1/3 IN AUGUST . . .
1/3 IN SEPTEMBER
NO CARRYING CHARGE
<
Here's all the wardrobe you'll need for your southern spring vacation ...
PALM BEACH
FASHION FIVER
The 3-piece suit you wear 5 ways
$59.95
for 3 pieces
Here’s a great idea . . . for your southern	1
vacation, around the world, or a week end. One handsome suit plus harmon-	*
izing slacks that you can wear five great ways: as a suit ... as a sports outfit ...	«
sport coat with odd slacks . . . suit pants alone . . . contrasting slacks. Versatile, * yes . . . and so very handsome. Wrinkle resistant . . . handsomely tailored. In a wide range of color-keyed combinations.
Palm Beach Wash 'n Wear Suits........ 39.95 Palm Beach Slacks, from.............. 9.95
Palm Beach Sport Coats, from....... 29.95
i
On the Campus—Notre Dame
April 8, 1960
3
On. Campus W Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
A GUIDE FOR THE LOVELESS
Gentlemen, take warning. June is almost upon us—June, the month of brides. Have you got yours yet? If not, don’t despair. You don’t have to be rich or handsome to get a girl. All you have to be is kind, considerate, thoughtful, and obliging—in short, a gentleman.
For example, don’t ever call a girl for a date at the last minute. Always give her plenty of advance notice—like three months for a coke date, six months for a movie, a year for a prom, two years for a public execution. This shows the girl that she is not your second or third choice and also gives her ample time to select her costume.
And when you ask her for a date, do it with a bit of Old World gallantry. A poem, for instance, is always sure to please a young lady, like this:
I think you’re cute, Daphne La France. I’ll put on a suit, And take you to a dance.
In the unlikely event that you don’t know any girls named Daphne La France, try this:
I think you’re cute, Winifred Jopp. ' I’ll put on a suit And take you to a hop.
In the extremely unlikely event that you don’t know a Winifred Jopp either, try this:
I think you’re cute,
Isabel Prall.
I’ll put on a suit,
And take you to a ball.
If there is no Isabel Prall, Winifred Jopp, or Daphne La France on your campus, it is quite obvious why you’ve had trouble finding dates all year; you’ve enrolled in an all-male school, you old silly!
Next let us take up the question of etiquette once you are out on a date with Isabel, Winifred, or Daphne. The first thing you do, naturally, is to offer the
* * *
We can’t give you rhyme but we’ll give you good reason why you’ll enjoy Marlboro and Marlboro’s unfiltered companion cigarette, Philip Morris. One word says it all: flavor, 4
young lady a Marlboro. Be sure, however, to offer her an entire Marlboro— not just a Marlboro butt. Marlboro butts are good of course, but whole Marlboros are better. You get an extra inch or two of fine flavorful tobacco—and I mean flavorful. Do you think flavor went out when filters came in? Well, you’re got a happy surprise coming when you light a Marlboro. This one really delivers the goods on flavor, and when you hand Isabel, Winifred, or Daphne a whole, complete, brand-new Marlboro, she will know how highly you regard and respect her, and she will grow misty and weak with gratitude, which is very important when you take her out to dinner because the only kind of coed a college man can afford to feed is a weak and misty coed. Latest statistics show that a coed in a
normal condition eats one and a half times her own weight every twelve hours.
At the end of your date ■with Isabel, Winifred, or Daphne, make certain to get her home by curfew time. That is gentlemanly. Do not leave her at a bus stop. That is rude. Deliver her right to her door and, if possible, stop the car when you are dropping her off.
The next day send a little thank-you note. A poem is best. Like this:
For a wonderful evening, many thanks, Isabel, Winifred, or Daphne.
I’ll take you out for some more merry pranks
Next Saturday if you’ll haph me.
© 1960 Max Shulman

FLASH!
Editor:
Warmest thanks to all those who SUPPORTED ME IN THE MOCK CONVENTION. Eegret that I was not considered A SERIOUS CANDIDATE BUT THE ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORT ACCORDED TO MY CAMPAIGN HAS WON FOR NOTRE DAME A PERPETUAL WARM SPOT IN MY HEART. I SHALL RETURN.
Leonard J. Fingerman
BROTHERLY NEIGHBORS
Editor:
Included in last week’s “Repercussions” is a letter plainly in favor of the controversial article by D. Edward Chaplin. I have my own views on the subject, having resided in Central America for five years, but I do not wish to interject them here. My reference is to the similarity of the names of two of the signees on page 32 of the last issue. Both are Chaplins, both Pennsylvanians, both of Clearfield and almost of the same address (see Student Directory). Now not ' considering myself as a “crackpot,” (others may disagree), and not agreeing or disagreeing with the article, I just might conclude that the Chaplin of Lyons, in no uncertain terms (“best article in two years,” “keen, perceptive mind,” “his talents,” “his caliber,” “intelligent, well-informed man”), possibly related and even biased concerning the Chaplin of Walsh and his article. I hope this letter does not discourage the Walshite, either, and watch out for those unfair critical crackpots, Andy!
Larry Hanrahan, 104 Walsh
(ED: Mr. Hanrahan is very perceptive and also correct.)
Editor:
Mr. Chaplin never guessed how correct he was when, in last week’s “Repercussions,” he admits that he insulted the national honor of Messrs. Fuster, Hermida, Ramirez, Silva and de Haro. With the exception of Silva, they are all American citizens.
Tom Schwartzbauer 131 Stanford
MISREPRESENTATION?
Editor:
Although we do not consider ourselves opponents of the Negro or of civil rights for the Negro, we do believe that perhaps the merits of the sit-down strikes (Continued on page 22)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame. Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising > by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is _ printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year.	*
Please address all manuscripts to the Editors,	J
Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHO- .« LASTIC.	S
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame

CommudafUf
Vol. 101 No. 22
APRIL 8, 1960
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief
RONALD BLUBAUGH associate editors
E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor and staff
ROY RUBELI
Wade Clarke .	,
Arthur Graham Thomas Weiss
features editor and staff ■ CHARLES RIECK .
Francis Smith
Thomas Sullivan .
William Sweeney
William Veeder , sports editor and staff
THOMAS ROSE ; William Cary .	/ ...
. J. (Jay) Kilroy .
. copy editor and staff
WALTER RUDGE .
George Casey Peter Geniesse	/
Thomas Marciniak
art editor	.
JERRY FLORENT photographer
WALTER DALY, Jr.
business manager and staff
ROBERT HORN .	Thomas Carey
/	Joseph Finnigan > :
. circulation manager : ;
LAWRENCE LEACH
MEANINGLESS MOCK: In spite of the tremendous amount of work and time put into the recent Mock Democratic Convention by the Academy of Political Science and the convention chairmen, the political contest must be judged a failure. It was npithm- -a true indication nr what will happen in Los Angeles this summer nor a true expression of the-political-oninions of students on campus. The Catholic influence provided the first crag which the Convention failed to scale. An overwhelming endorsement of a Catholic candidate, at a Catholic school by Catholic students has little meaning. If the voting had in any way reflected the likely regional preference of the delegations to this summer’s National convention, and John Kennedy had still emerged victorious, then the results would have been significant. Obviously, however^regional considerations—were flagrantly ignored. Southern. Protestant, agricultural OidahonKrt' is a case in-Point—It. wenrion all five ballots, to Northern. Catholic, industrialist Senator John Fitzgerald-Kennedy of Massarbncpffc—This is most unlikely indeed. But Oklahoma was not alone; there were others.
Still another hurdle tripped the delegations. This was the overpowering influence of former Student Body President W. Dennis Shaul. A Stevenson man from the beginning, Shaul did an admirable job of securing support for his twice-defeated candidate. Shaul and his committee began early on what promised to be a difficult straggle, and they obtained the support of a number of influential state chairmen. The question is, nevertheless, how many of these chairmen were pro-Stevenson and how many were pro-Shaul? The answer can perhaps be found in Shaul’s withdrawal address to the delegates. Releasing the Stevenson votes because of the obvious fact that the former governor had dropped from serious contention, he initially stated that he did not wish to commit these votes to any other candidate. He should have concluded his remarks at this point, because his next sentence ended the race for the nomination. Said Shaul: I am voting for Kennedy. Immediately the stampede began. In the last analysis, personal magnetism pushed Kennedy to an early victory. While Shaul certainly cannot be criticized for improper tactics, his action only served to defeat the purpose of the Convention.
One final barrier served to impede the work of the delegates. This was the large amount of absenteeism which played into the hands of some unscrupulous state chairmen. In complete disregard of the formal policy regarding the casting of votes for missing delegates and alternates, each state leader set his own policy. In some instances the absentee ballots were cast by the delegation’s chairman and represented neither the feelings of the student delegates nor the probable choice of the state at the National Convention this summer. The fault undoubtedly lies in the disinterest of the absent students as much as it does with the chairmen. But it all served only , to reiterate our contention that the Mock Convention merely degenerated into a mockery.
KING LOUIS: From the moment he walked onto the basketball floor last Saturday night, it was apparent to all members of the “swinging” audience why Louis Armstrong is more than just another musician. This man with a seemingly endless amount of wind and enthusiasm has received world-wide acclaim in his many concerts in this country and abroad. Yet, here at a concert before college students (in a Fieldhouse, no less) he was unassuming, affable and above all “real hep.” Dressing in the same manner as the rest of his combo, he made no effort to hog the spotlight. On the contrary, he went out of his way to allow his fellow musicians an oppoi-tunity to demonstrate their- great talent, and he even led the cheering for them. Satchmo particularly sparkled during the appearance of his rotund soloist, with whom he sang a duet. All in all we can make two conclusions: Congratulations to the social commission for arranging the concert and vive le roi.
moderator
REV. CHARLES CAREY, news reporters	.
Philip Larrabee John Ohala " Thomas Schlereth s	William Sparks ,
sports reporters..' ‘-L ;	. <'
1	John Bechtold' \;
; ?<^rge
‘ 'T^omai-'^lfalsh^
C.S.C.



ON THE LIGHTER SIDE: the Notre Dame Mock Convention emerged somewhat unsuccessfully (see above), but there is one other complaint about the conclave wo would like to enter on behalf of those who could not do so themselves. By now the name of Leonard Fingerman is no longer strange to students on this campus, but the refusal of the Convention officials to take this darkest of horses serious must be questioned, (see “Repercussions”) Who knows? Perhaps, if nominated here Fingerman could have gone on to sweep the Democratic convention at Los Angeles this summer? Then there is the case of Lar (America First) Daly of Chicago. This gentleman, a bona fide candidate for President on both the Democrat and Republican tickets, pleaded with Convention officials for an opportunity to address the convention. He was refused. Although Daly’s chances have been somewhat diminished since his disqualification from the New Hampshire primary, his colorful Uncle Sam costume would have lent a certain amount of decor to the Mock Convention. It is our hope that the students of the University will realize that the Mock Convention did not express all shades of opinion. But then no one paid attention to Harry Truman in 1944 either.	'
—B. T. & T.
5
Baliot
QmHtaaauMMamaMtmHMaitmmtammauamtMmiiMWttHwmMMtMWMMWWMNMMMmmaiietauwmMMtmimMmttUMHMinHmtni
□EQ] HBHBB DEE BQDnBSQEB BBQ H0E3SGJHBB0 Em BBSS HHDSB
□EBB I--lEEaaE
bbbh	snnm
□□	B0
nans toad bdbbe khes	nnasH
□BHB0 E3HS SHn BBB0BG1B0H
DOIS SHE
BBEIIHBBBB BSHES EEE
I	Contents
I	At the Theaters_______19	Escape ______________ 7
|	Back Page_____________34	Odds and Ends________28
|	Campus Scene _________ 9	Our Cover------------13
|	Commentary_____________5	Repercussions________ 4
I Critical Horizons______.15 Sports Picture ____-____27
M3MSNV TQDX

KGDL KROSSWORD No. 11
ACROSS
1. Pasture palaver 4. Take on 9. Small change
(abbr.)
12. Hipster’s ultimate
14.	Brigitte says “yes”
15.	Like
Susan Hayward 16. Ex-miss 17. Brando’s earthy beginning
18. Colorado resort 20. Breezy call
to arms 22. They’re behind
Wagon Train 24. Hires for tears 25. Lovers' quarrel 26. Small Air Force 27. Sound from
Willie the Penguin 28. What Mom wants to know why you don’t 32. Constable’s
finish 34. It’s good for a squeeze or two 35. Killed a lot 36. Star in Virgo and in despicable 38. To be in
Latin I 40. Song of the 20’s 41. Come__________
____up to the Menthol Magic of Kool
45.	Stevenson’s initials
46.	Just the thing for a fifth wheel (2 words)
47.	Anti-bug juice
48.	Sen. Kefauver 49. It’s profitable
for Olmedo
DOWN
1.	Sea (French)
2.	Alone without Al
3.	He’s definitely out (2 words)
4.	Avoids
5.	Where to put your finger on her number
6.	Like a TV movie
7.	It goes begging
8.	Williams, Mack, Busing
9.
to
Kool’s Menthol Magic
10.	DeeJay necessity
11.	Girl you left behind
13. Crank’s last name
19.	Little pairs
20.	Talk, Southern style
21.	Howyour throat feels, when you're smoking Kool
23. Scatter
29.	Tax
30.	You (French)^
31.	Wrap up in Law School?
32.	It can be frozen;
a Kool is
33.	Came to
town (2 words)
37.	High places
38.	French for
38 Across
39.	“____my
Annie...’’
40.	Lots of dough
42.	Short
for Latin
43.	Common verb
44.	Still
15
20
24
26
28
34
40
45
46
48
ARE YOU KGDL
ENOUGH TO
BRACK THIS?
12
19
22
25
32
35
33
YOU NEED
47
THE
O196Q, BROWN A WILUAMSON TOBACCO CORP. .
ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT
FILTER
When your throat tells you its time for a change^
you need a real change
of KGDL
KGDL
The Scholastic
leonard, here’s to you
by D. JIM AUSUM
1HAVE dedicated this thing to Leonard Fingerman, and I wish to apologize to him for the first part of -it. The second part is fine, but this early stuff is sop to the editors, who demanded that I make some awards. I’d like to make an award or two to them is what I’d like to do, but I must maintain the “ level of dignity to which I have so carefully adhered. Therefore I shall begin with my Awesome Awards.
UNDESERVING AS HE IS
the first recipient of an Awesome ( Award is Beetle Feldstien. Years ago, in high school, Beetle headed a group of students to first place in the Junior Achievement whiskey making contest; at Notre Dame he has become known as the local agent for the Allen Ginsberg sandwich. His award: A light-weight portable money changing table for quick , escape from the Walsh Hall Chapel.
Thomas Francis Harvard, Jr., is the winner of the second award. He has, in his junior and senior years, won every graduate fellowship in existence. The monetary value of these awards totaled $111,000, with which he purchased a chicken farm on the outskirts of Irma-r thebody, New Jersey, and retired. His award: Thirty years in jail, for fraud.
Third on the list is Neil J. Stupider. Neil has been selected for his outspoken tastelessness during the recent Mock Convention, but buck up, Neil, I have solved your problem. Your award: you may have permanent use of my three . censors. I can’t even get anything funny
April 8, 1960
past them, let alone something in poor taste.
Somewhere along here I have to give a sort of Siamese award to the Bobsey twins, Bobbie and Gordie, who ran away from school a few weeks ago. The awards: to Bobbie, a mirror, so that he can see for as long as he has his head screwed on backwards. To Gordie, I won’t give anything. I believe that his draft board is arranging something special.
THIS IS THE PART I LIKE
There was this chick and she was a kick but the wrong kind of a kick I mean it was misdirected but I dug her and her unadulterated self of dripping sophistication. She had class. She didn’t say hot dog, she said frankfurter with a broad a, and I dug it. She didn’t say gimmee a beer but bring me an Ahh See and I dug it. She didn’t say no, she said yes I will yes I will yes and I dug it. Now I have been here and I have been there but never a girl with such a wild pair of eyes have I seen they were green but the scene roused my spleen for the girl was thirteen and I dug it but her father big daddy Vladimir I called him didn’t dig it at all not at all. She was a prodigy, and all the cats in the Huddle saw and knew and understood for they were like mystics, and they were jealous of this woman who could live I mean arrive on doublemint .like they couldn’t do on horse. I remember one afternoon we sat together in the Rock and read the complete works of Victor Appleton to one another but it
was defaced destroyed it was flashed . upon because there were intruders the -athletic department came and listened but they didn’t know, they didn’t feel, . there were no tears in their eyes when Tom gave the patent to the govt. We cut out of there and we made the , afternoon mixer but that was no good < cause the group was all squares and .. they made so much noise call it chaos even that you couldn’t hear the cat read;
his poems man even before it started . -out in front they were milling around . like it was Woolworth’s I don’t think a million bongos could have drowned them and their idolatry. We went to Rosies but they were all there with : spaghetti hanging out of their ears.	"
which is good but not for her she had class and sometimes it was hard to tell ' which was spaghetti and which was her -7' hair, and I didn’t care for the taste of her hair tonic which was good in the? = old days but they spoiled it when they . . ' added V-7. We went to the Chateau and , . • ? rolled for drinks five dice four three two ■ one none and still we rolled until the ? natives came in so we cut out for the Town Tavern pausing only to pAea ?? hole in the ceiling. But we never got* to the Town Tavern, and this is the blow 7'??? the agony the unhappy ending to a frus-';;7?; trating bleeding deathstained day.. was late she had to be back we -ran and we ran until her little heart burst' < ?;?; never will she see me graduate never ? will she see them read that famous ter at half time of the old timers* game and never will she know of Leonard???^ Fingerman and his difficulty at the’gaheiffi® of Gaul.- ■	. 7
RON BLUBAUGH LOOKS AT
LIFE
South Africa is the subject of LIFE’S article of the week. Following the bloody pictures of the Sharpville massacre in last week’s magazine, this issue gives an insight into the historical causes behind what could end in the “blood bath” of the decade. For 300 years the conflict has been brewing and its roots can be traced to the days when the Boers settled the Northern interior of the country.
In their “Great Trek” these Dutch settlers began a power struggle which is quite similar to that of our own pioneers. However, their pilgrimage is likewise radically different from - that of the American Westerner. Before the Dutch arrived the area was uninhabited and their settlement was coincidental with that of the black Bantu tribes from the North. As LIFE concludes the article, “For the white
You’re a natural wonder in the H-I-S
Sport Coat
Afrikaner, the final tragedy is that, however badly he has managed things, this is his native land too.” The solution is not determined but from the
point of fact, the problem clearly has two sides.
“DAVY, DAVY CROCKETT—KING OF THE WILD FRONTIER”
“The Legendary Feats of the Pioneers” is an interesting little article on the good old days when men were men and women were. . . . Take for example, Mike Fink. Fink was a prankster with a taste for the eccentric and his wife was a comely young thing with a wandering eye. As the story goes Fink pulled his wife off their keelboat one day and, at rifle point, made her lie down in a ring of leaves. Fink set fire to the leaves. As Peg’s dress and hair began to blaze she got a little unnerved and lept into the river. Said Fink as he fired a shot over her head, “That’ll lam you to wink at them other fellers.” But Fink is just one of many American heroes. Some of the others weren’t quite so drastic in their methods but all are equally entertaining.
Nelson Rockefeller appears again this week. A politician with a flare for the flashy, Nelse has been campaigning for Fallout Shelters. His goal is to get the state legislature to enact a law requiring all the homeowners of the state to build shelters. However, his plans have met with tremendous opposition and so Rocky has compromised. The new bill will make the plan voluntary with tax deductions for the cost.
“OUR MAN IN HAVANA”—POOR FIDEL
In recent years since Fidel Castro has become the Savior of the South, his popularity has been a sometime thing. His fans have become his enemies and to the embarrassment of the U.S. State Department, the Florida coast has become the point of embarkation for anti-Castro
rebels. Small airplanes have left the mainland for Cuba carrying guns,, supplies, and leaflets. From the other direction comes the refugees. LIFE, this week, gives an inside view on the Southern Shuttle.
The cover story features Silvana Mangano as a sheered sheep. Staring in a new movie, Five Branded Women, the Italian actress portrays one of five Yugoslavian girls who have committed the crime of falling in love with German soldiers during the Nazi occupation. As punishment they are all shorn and cast into the streets. Not quite reaching the perfection of Yul Brynner, four of the girls are actually mowed. However, in looking at the pictures one must wonder why LUB E makes such a big issue of it. We at Notre Dame have long ago grown accustomed to St. Mary’s girls with even worse hair styles.—Adv.
jacket. It’s a deftly cut 3-button model with natur- .. ally slim lines ..,. accented	।
by the narrow lapels, neatly flapped pockets and side vents. At your favorite campus shop... $12.95 to $19.95 depending on the
fabric of your choice.	“
P.S. It’s washable!
8
The Scholastic
RIECK NAMED NEW EDITOR OF ‘SCHOLASTIC’
Designates Roy Rubeli As Editorial Associate
by ART GRAHAM
Chas Rieck, a junior A.B. math major' from Chicago, and this year’s features editor, has been named to the position of editor-in-chief of the Scholastic for the 1960-61 school year. Named as associate editor was Roy Rubeli, a junior English major from White Plains, N. Y.
Rieck, who is a National Merit Scholarship winner and under the Committee for Academic Progress, will succeed the present editor, Ron Blubaugh, at the end of the year. Joining the staff in his freshman year as a reporter, he was quickly moved up to assistant copy and last year was named features editor.
In with the new. Under his direction a number of innovations were made in the features section. These included critiques of student fora, more faculty articles, and increased student opinion on national, international and academic topics.
Rubeli, who is also under the Committee for Academic Progress, has been with the Scholastic since his freshman year. Originally a reporter, he was made assistant news editor in his sophomore year. Under his direction the news department has emphasized creativity in layout and readability in news articles.
News editor for the coming year will be sophomore Tom Weiss, an A.B. engineer from Evanston, Ill. Weiss has
ROY RUBELI
To serve as associate
served on the magazine as a reporter in his freshman year- and as assistant news editor this year. He is on the Dean’s List and a member of the student forum committee. Assisting Weiss next year will be Philip Larrabee, Sacramento, Calif.; Thomas Schlereth, Pittsburg, Pa. and William Sparks, Park Ridge, HI. All have served as freshman reporters this year.
Named to the position of features editor for the next year was Tom Sullivan, a sophomore philosophy major from Cincinnati, Ohio. Sullivan joined the staff this year and has served as assistant features editor. He is also a member of the Bookmen and holds a position on the A.B. Advisory Council. Both Weiss and Sullivan are under the Committee for Academic Progress.
Name sports head. Jay Kilroy, an economics major from Charlotte, N. C., has been announced as next year’s sports editor. Kilroy joined the Scholastic in his sophomore year as a reporter and has served as assistant sports editor this year. Kilroy will be assisted by sophomore Bill Cary from Milwaukee, Wis.
Tom Marciniak, a junior majoring in mechanical engineering, nuclear option, has been appointed copy editor for next year. Marciniak is active in the student chapter of the Amei-ican Society of Mechanical Engineers. He joined the staff as a reporter in his sophomore year and has served as assistant copy editor this year. Assisting Marciniak next year will be junior George Casey from Boston, Mass.
Joe Finnegan, a junior in the College of Liberal Arts from Grand Rapids, Mich., has been named as next year’s business manager. Denny Luczak, a junior majoring in fine arts from Chicago, will be taking over the position of art editor. Circulation editor for the coming year will be Jim Hickey, junior engineer from Forest Hills, N. Y.
Policy stated. Looking to next year, Rieck commented on future Scholastic policy: “The Scholastic must attempt to reflect the refinement of Notre Dame life that has been effected in recent years on campus. Foi' the past several years, the Scholastic has more fully represented what has now evolved into the center of Catholic thought in this country.
“This attitude of the only campuswide publication must be refined, perfected, and extended to touch the important student activities that have not been reached, and this, combined with a positive and dynamic editorial policy by the editor and his associate, will further add to the significance of the Scholastic on the University scene.”
CHAS RIECK
Striving for refinement
Band, Glee Club Plan Tours For South, Southwest States
Notre Dame’s two musical organizations, the University Concert Band and the Glee Club, both plan concert tours during the Easter vacation.
The Concert Band will leave the campus next Friday, and after stopping for Saturday night in Wichita, Kans., will present its first concert in Trinidad, Colo., on Easter Sunday evening. On Monday the band will perform in Amarillo, Texas; from there it will proceed for concerts at Roswell, N. M. (April 19); Santa Fe, (April 20) and Albuquerque (April 21).
The band will have a free day in El Paso, Texas on April 22 and will present a concert there on the next day. Turning back to Notre Dame, the band will play concerts in Wichita, Omaha, Des Moines and Belleville, HL On Thursday, April 28, the band will present a concert in the Navy Drill Hall at 8:15 pan.
The Glee Club’s Easter tour will take it through the south this year. The Club will appear in New Orleans on Easter Sunday; in Greenville, Miss., on April 20; in Jackson, Miss., on April 23; and in Florence, Ala., on April 25. The Club will return on April 26. The thirty-six member travelling group will use many of the numbers that it will use on its planned European tour. Members of ‘ this group are chosen from the eighty Glee Club members on the basis of tryouts, attendance, and seniority.
April 8, I960
9
Students Choose John Keegan as President; 'Non-Apathy' Shown By Huge Voter Turnout
A refreshing note of “non-apathy” was struck in the recently held student elections when almost 90% of the student body turned out to elect John Keegan as next year’s student body president.
Marked by one of the most aggressive, yet cleanest campaigning of recent years, the election also determined the four college senators as well as the officers for the three upper classes.
Novelty appeal. Besides the usual flyers and wallet cards with phone numbers or mathematical values printed on the back, the candidates used such novelty ideas as “Don’t Disturb” signs and “Charlie Brown” cartoons to woo the voters.
Keegan, who stressed a specific platform covering academic, social and service functions was opposed by Chris Lund, president of the junior' class.
The new SBP is a junior in the General Program from Kearney, N. J., who has been active in the Senate since his freshman year. Running on the basis of his Farley Hall presidency, Keegan was elected president of the sophomore class. Last spring he was elected by the senators as secretary of the Senate.
During his three years in campus politics he has chaired or served on 37 different committees.
Equally well contested were the class officer positions. From among four candidates Pat Nee was elected president of the senior class. He is an English major from Boston and this is his first elected position. The junior class president will
BRUCE BABBITT AND JOHN KEEGAN
Past President congratulates new student leader.
be Chris Buckley who is an AB student from Scarsdale, N.Y.
It took two elections to pick Bob Hellrung as the sophomore president. In the first one he tied Pete Aylward, but in the balloting on the next day he edged ahead by 42 votes.
For AB senator, Tom Colleton defeated four opponents while Oliver Williams trounced two others for the Engineering spot. Among the businessmen, Tim Hinchey was chosen to represent the Commerce college and in the Science school it was Dennis Cantwell that swept the opposition.
THE WINNERS
SBP ..............
AB Senator...........
Commerce Senator... Engineering Senator. Science Senator...
...John Keegan ...Tom Colleton .Tim Hinchey ..Oliver Williams Dennis Cantwell
Senior Class Officers
President ......................Pat	Nee
Vice President..........Chuck Schuler
Secretary ..............Nick Palihnich
Treasurer ...................George	Bott
Junior Class Officers
President ..............   Chris	Buckley
Vice President...........Dennis Sweeney
Secretary ..................Dick Meece
Treasurer............Ron Nahser
Sophomore Class Officers
President ................Bob	Hellrung
Vice President......................Tim	Hadinger
Secretary .............  Dave	Kennedy
Treasurer ...............Bill	Sparks
JOAN O’BRYAN
To hold scepter over Junior Prom.
Juniors to Hold Prom With Caribbean Motif
Campus social activity will begin anew after the Lenten lull as juniors and their dates dance to the music of Ralph Marterie at “Caribe,” the Junior •' Prom, in the North Dining Hall on Fri- I day, April 29.	|
Sand, thatched huts, palm trees and waterfalls (complete with sound effects) will replace the dining hall tables and chairs for the evening, as the decorations committee, under Don Chmiel, creates a facsimile Caribbean village. J
Miss Joan O’Bryan of Chicago, a • senioi* at St. Mary’s College, will be ’ prom queen and will be escorted by general chairman Armado Loizaga, a third year A.B. student and Blue Circle member from Mexico City.
Saturday afternoon offers the juniors and their dates a trip to the Dunes of ! Lake Michigan, followed by a dinner I dance at the Erskine Park Country Club in South Bend in the evening. Dinner dance queen Sarah Foxley of White Plains, New York, and Manhattanville College will be escorted by dinner dance chairman Tracy Osborne, a junior premed and Blue Circle member from Omaha, Nebr.
A communion breakfast in the Old ’ i Dining Hall following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church will mark the j close of the week-end social activities. , Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., I president of the University will address I the juniors and their breakfast guests. I
Tickets for the week end will be on i sale in the Student Center on Tuesday, ? I April 26, from 7 to 8 p.m.
Assisting general chairman Loizaga are: John Cooney, executive chairman; j Bob Brown, tickets; Jack Whitaker, publicity; Dick Lochner, entertainment; Don Veckerelli, refreshments; John Walsh, Communion breakfast and Pat Hickey, accommodations.
10
The Scholastic
Shaul, Banchoff, Scanlon Take Top Awards; Yearbook Announces Annual Dome Honors
J Denny Shaul, Tom Banchoff and Tom ■ Scanlon were recently announced as the J recipients of the annual Dome Awards ! presented under the sponsorship of the j Notre Dame yearbook.
| In the selection of these men three \ qualifications are stressed. First, the / candidate must be academically a su-| perior student. Second, a notable :	achievement in the realm of extracur-
t ricular activities is a necessity. Finally, ■ the selecting committee looks for char; acter traits befitting a Catholic gentle; man.
y The selection committee is made up of students representing the various cam-
DENNIS SHAUL
Annual Dome awards . . .
pus activities. Chairman Ken Murphy heads the committee, aided by the secretary of the student body and the president of the Junior Class. Also, the Dean of each college sends a representative, as does the Scholastic and the Dome.
Denny Shaul, a senior from Akron, Ohio, carries a 4.9 average as a Dean’s List student. Last year’s Student Body president, Shaul is active in the National Student Association and has twice turned down its presidency to become more active here on campus. He is a Rhodes scholar and was instrumental in the formation of political clubs on campus. Shaul has been selected as a member of Who’s Who and has served as president of Farley Hall and president of his sophomore class two years ago.
Tom Banchoff, a senior A.B.-Math major, hails from Trenton, N. J. Attending Notre Dame on a GMC scholarship, Banchoff carries a 5.4 average. He is a member of Wranglers and the Debate team, and a winner of a Danforth scholarship. A member of Who’s Who,
TOM SCANLON presented by students . . .
Banchoff works with Fr. Sheedy for the co-ordination of the A.B. college and teaches several classes.	.
Tom Scanlon, also a student of the A.B. college, is from Scranton, Pa. Presently the chairman of the Blue Circle, Scanlon has served on various committees in the Senate. He holds a 4.89 average, is a membei- of this year’s Who’s Who and is a winner of a Wilson Fellowship.
The winners will be presented plaques at the annual publications banquet on powered to bestow on his fellow students. May 17. The Dome awards are the highest honor which the student is empowered to bestow on his fellow student.
TOM BANCHOFF to outstanding seniors.
To Discuss Midwestern Position This Week End
Is the Midwest a bastion of independent thought or merely a geographical classification of a homogeneous United States? This is the question to be explored in “Midwest: Myth oi* Reality,” a symposium to be held at the University of Notre Dame today and tomorrow. Discussion will cover the political influence, economic growth and mentality of the Midwest.
Notable authorities on various aspects of life in the Midwest will speak at the symposium in the Law Auditorium. The sessions will be sponsored by Notre Notre Dame’s Faculty Seminar in American Civilization and the department of history. Prof. Aaron I. Abell, chairman of the American Studies Program at Notre Dame, will preside at the opening session tonight at 8 pun.
Senator Gale William McGee of Wyoming, a Midwesterner by birth and a specialist in foreign affairs, will open the symposium with a paper entitled, “Is the Midwest Really Isolationist?”.
The economic welfare and future of the Midwest will be the subject of the second symposium session tomorrow morning at 9:30 a.m. Among those speaking at the morning session will be Donald Murphy, a specialist in agricultural research, who will estimate the plight of the fanner in a paper, “Is the Cause of the Midwestern Fanner Lost?”
The actual image of the Midwest will be the subject of the final symposium session tomorrow at 2 p.m. Prof. John T. Flanagan, of the University of Illinois’ English department, will address himself to the question, “Is There a Midwestern Literature”?
Sharing the aftenioon platform will be Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., professor and former head of the department of history at Notre Dame and director of the Faculty Seminar in American Civilization. Father McAvoy will attempt to answer the question, “What Is the Midwestern Mind”?
The achievements of the symposium will be summed up finally by Prof. John T. Frederick, head of Notre Dame’s English department.
WRITERS!
Any students desiring to write for the SCHOLASTIC the remainder of this year or next year are urged to submit material now. “Back Pages,” “Escape” columns and feature articles are being sought.
“Back Pages” can be on any topic of interest to students, particularly controversial ones. They should be typed 40 characters wide and should include enough information about the writer and his activities to use in the introduction.
“Escape” writers are asked to submit sample columns for next year’s humor column.
April 8, 1960
11
Whitney Appointed President of Debate Team; Director of Forensics Names 1960's Leaders
Jay Whitney recently succeeded Jerry Goudreau as president of the Notre Dame Debate Team for the school year 1960-61. The announcement was made by Professor Leonard Sommer, director of forensics here at the University. Also named was Guy Powers, who will take over the vice-presidency of the club.
Whitney, a chemical engineering major from Burbank, Calif., has participated in 198 debates throughout his three years as a member of the debate team. His personal goal of 300 debates could possibly be attained during the next year. He is a member of the Navy ROTC Regular program, a Dean’s List student and active in the Blue Circle Honor Society.
Forensic laurels. Whitney, who served as the team’s vice-president this year, has won fifteen personal public speaking awards participating in various tournaments. A great honor was bestowed upon him last year as he was the first sophomore to be awarded the Doyle monetary award. Valedictorian of his high school graduating class, and with two years of high school experience added to that gained here at Notre Dame, Whitney has participated in many tournament winning teams for the University. Among these are the Notre Dame invitational in 1959, Miami, 1958 and ’60; Mobile, 1958 and ’60 and Kentucky, 1960.
Following his graduation next year, Whitney is considering the possibility of Naval Aviation. Also, sometime in the near future, he is planning to enter Law school.
To aid Whitney in his various duties next year will be Guy Powers, a junior from Forest Hills, N.Y. Powers is a
JAY WHITNEY AND GUY POWERS
New president and vice president discuss debate team tactics.
member of the General Program, a Dean’s List student and an active member of the Wranglers. He has had three years’ experience in intercollegiate debating here at Notre Dame. Powers plans to travel abroad for graduate study before following a teaching profession.
Administrative backbone. Professor Sommers also named several administrative officers to coordinate the team’s activities. Dick Meece, who was recently elected secretary of the junior class for next year, was appointed chairman of the Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament. Meece, a Commerce student, hails from Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.
Maurice O’Sullivan, from Kansas City, Mo., will serve as freshman coach. Three freshmen, Chris Lane, Ray Kelly, and Martin Gordon will assist in publicity and other details of the team.
The debate team will enter next year’s competition as defending champions of four intercollegiate tournaments. The eyes of many will again be turned towards our campus as our tournament, rated one of the best in the nation, will again be held. Also, a new facet of campus debating will be developed next year to aid the members of the team not on the traveling squad. Their radio program on WSND, “Controversy,” will also be continued.
To complete this year’s activities, the Debate Team will travel to tournaments at Cincinnati and Marquette. Also to be held are the finals in the interhall tournament. Finally, the year’s work will be brought to a close with their annual banquet in May.
—Bill Sparks
Four Grants Awarded To Profs and Students
Dr. Jerome Taylor, a faculty member of Notre Dame’s English department, was one of the recipients of four scholarships given this past week to Notre j Dame professors and students. Others ' chosen to receive grants included a recent graduate^ Michael Skop and two graduate students, Joe Martellaro and < Paul Body.
Professor Taylor, associate professor of English, has received a grant for post-doctoral research at the University of Chicago from the Danforth Foundation of Saint Louis, Mo. He will study the relationship of religion and belief to modern literature and literary cri- < ticism.
Co-editor of Chaucer Criticism,: The Canterbury Tales, an anthology of critical essays to be published by the Uni- , versity Press in May, Taylor has also translated a mediaeval treatise on the liberal arts soon to be published by Columbia University.
Michael Skop of Lakewood, Ohio, who received a Master of Fine Arts degree from Notre Dame last June, has been awarded a Fulbright grant to study at the Academy of Fine Arts, Florence, Italy. Currently he is studying sculpture in Denmark on an American-Scandinavian Foundation Fellowship.	J
Fulbright awards also have been made | to Joseph A. Martellaro, of South Bend j and Paul Body of Omaha, Nebr. Martel- I laro, who is a teaching fellow in eco- i-nomics at Notre Dame, will study at j the University of Naples, Italy. Body, | a graduate history student, will take I advanced work at the University of | Vienna, Austria.	I
Set Main Library Hours For Easter Study Break
Students planning to use the Easter vacation for serious research work, should take note of this announcement concerning the main library:	—
Two-week books checked out from April 9 through April 12 will be due on April 25. All reserve books checked out on April 11 and 12 will also be due on April 25. Journals, periodicals, and reference books will not circulate. The number of books that may be taken home will be limited.	4
The main library will close at 5:00 pm. on Tuesday, April 12, and the following vacation schedule for service will be in effect:
Wednesday and Thursday, April 13 and 14—8:00 am. to 5:00 pm.
Friday, April 15—8:00 to 12:00 noon.
Saturday and Sunday, April 16 and 17 r — closed.
Monday-Friday, April 18 - 22—8:00 to 5:00.
Saturday, April 23—8:00 to 12:00 noon.
Sunday, April 24—closed.
The Architecture Library will be closed for remodelling from April 18 through April 24.,
12
The Scholastic
>
r
>
OUR COVER: Hosanna filio David: benedictus qui venit in nomine Domini . . . this Sunday, as has been the custom on Palm Sunday at Notre Dame -for the last three years, these words will begin the service for the blessing and procession of the palms, initiating Holy Week. As a change of pace, the SCHOLASTIC this week depicts on its cover this liturgical function in the hope that it will convey a sense of the basic spirit of the Easter season.
In addition, we want to wish everyone a most happy Easter, wherever
CAMPUS AND JV ATTRACTIONS PRESB4T A GALA
pj I FEATURING \	-
RALPH FLANAGANy and orch. with his FLAT-BUSH FIVE (tops in Dixie) ELUE RUSSEL • JIM HARPER
CO-STARRING
CAPITOL RECORDING ARTISTS THE FOUR PREPS (26 Miles, Big Man, Down By the Station) EXTRA EXCITING JOHN LASALLE QUARTET vocal and instrumental group from Capitol Records Added Attractions: The Cavaliers, The Limbo Dancers Visit with Playboy's lovely Playmates and comedy favorite Woody Woodbury
Door Prices: Free Trips to Hessen, free IPs » Surprises* MC: Charlie Worded, WOAM



you may saecula!
be.
Vivant corda vestra in
ADMISSION $3 00 PER PERSON • DRESS O»" O TICKETS AVAILABLE AT BOX OFFICE
Men who face wind and weather

choose the protection of..
AFTER SHAVE
LOTION
Skin protection, that is. Old Spice refreshes and stimulates, guards against the loss of vital skin moisture. Feels great, too. Brisk, bracing, with that tangy Old Spice scent. It does setm to attract female admirers, but what red-blooded
man needs protection against girls? 1.00 pbutn	S M U k T O N
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
April 8, 1960
8:06 PM Come, Jim; Come, Jane! Come, Brent; Come, Belle! It is Time for Another Party! Put on some music to make them Happy. Try Nat King Cole’s new album, for in it he sings ballads-with-a-beat that exude friendliness like it was the 70-cent spread. The 12 songs include For You, This is Always, Crazy She Calls Me and Until the Real Thing Comes Along. New ones are in there, too, to pique the general pleasure and allay anxiety that may arise from wondering whether Nat, as shown on the cover, is trying to line up a Golf Game or a Lady.
8:43 PM If fraternizing still be sluggardly, do this: Toss this latest Paul Weston Release on the turntable as you toss around the dance wax. The record’s dozen standards are agreeable, danceable. and cordiality’s very mother. Weston cagily contrasts sweetly-soaring strings with some swinging counter-melodies from a male chorus. No real frenzy of social aggressiveness can be guaranteed, but the party should pick up to Blue Moon, Bye Bye Blues, Linger A while, Sometimes I’m Happy and the rest. If it doesn’t, pick up and go. Why be associated with a punk party?
9:23 PM Don’t be confused by the title. The percussive pandemonium heard here is designed to accommodate dance extroverts and bongo-pounders of all ages; the name on the cover merely reflects a Capitol/Baxter attempt to capture a reasonable share of the teen-age action. The tracks were cut with a crack crew of West Coast drummers—jazz, Afro-Cuban, Brazilian and Puerto Rican specialists—who play like there’s no tomorrow. There’s no written music, either, though sax, guitars, bass, flute, etc., are heard from time to time in a forlorn attempt to introduce a note of sanity.

10:11 PM Rest up with the new off-Broadway musical that pokes fun at old musicals, made The New Yorker’s Donald Malcolm lose his mind, and gave Walter Kerr, of the Herald Tribune, pain. Malcolm: “Opening night found me among those who were stamping their feet, waving the programs around, giggling, and generally spreading themselves around.” Kerr: “I felt pain; pain that I almost never see anything so easy and foolish and delightful on Broadway and more.” (Poor Mr. Kerr; this show won’t be on Broadway, either. They put in 100 more seats where it is.)
10:50 PM “Sold Out” doesn’t mean to infer The Kingston Trio has taken banjos, guitars, and talents over to some disreputable competitive label. Only that, college circuit or nightclubs, indoors or outdoors, rain or shine, it’s hard to get tickets.to hear them. The humor and vitality that brought the boys to this state of blessedness may diminish this month when they meet the- cuddly old income tax man for the first time really face to face. Meanwhile, the record has El Matador, With Her Head Tucked Underneath Her Arm, Bimini, nine more, and is very nice.
11:22 PM It’s spring, getting late, and would seem to be getting time to slow the tempo. Hear the Shearing quintet (piano, vibes, bass, guitar, drums) embellished with four trumpets, four trombones, a tuba and two French horns; bluesy music includes songs like A Ship Without a Sail, Chelsea Bridge, In the Blue of Evening and Stairway to the Stars. Shearing plus brass is by no means soporific, but these gentler melodies and purposeful arrangements should create a relaxed, contemplative aura that hopefully will banish last traces of social reserve. That’s good. Anybody knows .that.
14
The Scholastic
This week’s featured article comes as a timely rationale for the integration movement.
* With the recent national “sit-in” strikes, and yesterday’s demonstrations by Notre Dame students, a re-examination of the principles motivating the activists appears necessary both to explain the wide-spread spontaneity of the movements and complete commitments of the participants to the basically Christian principles involved.
EQUALITY RECONSIDERED
TODAY we live in a troubled world where the threat of total human destruction by nuclear wai’ hangs heavily over our destiny. Democracy versus. Communism — each is vying | for world-wide supremacy. The newly-clamoring throngs of Asia and Africa are up for grabs. To date Communism has extended its rule over 800 million people, one-third of the world’s population, by conquest and by suppression of man’s natural rights with its concomitant degradation of human dignity. For the future, Communists plan peaceful co-existence and world supremacy through evolution. On the other hand, Democracy promises to achieve reign not by conquest, but by continued conversions. Democracy holds a supreme belief in man’s freedom of choice and his inborn sense of obligation to God through man. Both of these political ideas aim at ameliorating certain conditions of man, but one does it through , sacrifice of human rights while the other does it through freedom and salvation of human liberties. If we, as believers in Democracy, expect to win, it will only be by the grace of God and our own actions.
Presently, there exists a disease in the heart of America more deadly than Communism ever dared to be, because this disease is bred from within. It takes on many forms and is spread nation-wide. When it attacks one America, all America is hurt. This is the problem of racial segregation. Certainly,
by Jim Goodwin
same time, it degrades their humanity, a practice also employed by Communists. In the North, East, and West, racial segregation is practiced in the United States by discrimination. Under this method the perpetrators somehow seem to forget that they also share in the same human nature as those to whom they give offense. By some sort of inhumane conspiracy, they manage to exclude certain citizens from full enjoyment of what a democratic way of life can bring. Minorities suffer discrimination in jobs and housing. One glaring example occurred recently here in South Bend; a law professor from Howard University in Washington, D. C., was invited by the University to teach, but turned down the offer with much regret after all white realtors refused to sell or even show him a suitable home. Yet, it is the Northern hypocrite who points the finger at the Southerner and accuses him of wrong-doing. The South, however, speaks out loud and clear. It stands for racial segregation. The Southerners cry out thtat “it’s a way of life, and come hell or high water it will remain unchanged.” To them, Negroes are to be kept in their place, and their place is the kitchen, the shoeshine stand, the yard lawn or the cotton field. “Negroes are happy,” they say. “We treat them good.”
we must rid ourselves of it completely if we are to grow strong enough to save ourselves and the world from Communism. If we whip it, we are one step further on the road to converting peoples to the democratic way of life, our way of life.
Racial segregation is aimed at denying part of our citizenry the full rights and privileges of American citizenship. At the
April 8, 1960
DEMOCRACY, NOT MOCKERY
But the conscience of all America is disturbed. Things aren’t so good. The current demonstrations by Southern Negroes and sympathizers, the economic boycotts, the “sit-ins,” and the moral support given by our national and regional government leaders all help to exemplify this fact. These are people of peaceful means trying to bring to fruition the democratic ideals. Their actions are directed not so much against the unjust laws as against “unfair and morally wrong” social customs.
In 1954, when the United States Supreme Court ruled to end segregation “with all deliberate speed” in public schools, quite a reaction of Southern resistance occurred. “The Supreme Court,” they declared, “has done more harm than good.” If we reflect a moment we may conclude (as some of our political leaders have) that they were saying the right words, but interpreting them wrongly. The Supreme Court did more harm not to the good, but rather to the evils which endanger our very survival and our place as a leader among nations. In a land which proclaims justice, swaying other peoples to our side will not be done by the existence of unjust laws. Instead, these people will hold us in contempt and distrust. To them America will be a mockery—not a democracy.
Indeed, racial segregation is an evil, and we as Notre Dame men must do something about it. We have a threefold duty to fulfill: (1) as Americans, (2) as Catholics, and (3) as students. Fulfilling our duty as Americans, let our aim 'be focused in this light: Not long ago there was a white American who darkened his skin and went down South to live. He recalls most vividly how he went home and - cried himself to sleep each night, thinking about the indignities which he had suffered because of racial discrimination. This was an American facing an American fight Which must be solved by us
15
Americans. It is a double fight — to save America from her internal enemies and the world from Communism.
Today, the American Negro tirelessly battles to wipe out his second-class rating, not by violence, but through law and order. And this is the way it should be, for any and all men can love the American ideal. Increase that love by giving others a chance to understand and love more deeply, and America grows stronger and her call becomes clearer to other peoples. Given his rights, the American Negro will prove to be as “red-blooded” as any American. Provide him with equality of opportunity and a gain in the creative and skillful man-powei* of America will result.
CATHOLICISM — THE BASIS
Our generation has been born in freedom and has not felt the trying days of war and weakness which our fathers suffered for our sake. As young Americans and future leaders, if we do not sustain the high hopes of our Republic — “equality for all and malice towards none” — then we will have failed both our heritage and our prosperity. Unless all of us can fully cherish the democratic principles of freedom and equality, we are as strangers in a foreign land, and targets for domination by Communism. But look around you! Even though there are Negro athletes, teachers, airline hostesses, diplomats, judges, government officials who symbolize that the problem of racial segregation is on its way out, it will not be solved by our inaction.
As Catholics, we cannot be complacent. Father Bernard F. Meyer points out in his book Lend Me Your Hands that lack of responsible participation in Catholic action today “explains the inability of so many to stand up against the evil influences around them.” We fail to remember that “the dynamic of the Mystical Body is the unity of love, not only between God and man but also between man and man. It is not the oneness only for the moments of prayer and worship together, but animating all life and action, all the social relationships of men. The
Mystical Body cannot be built up by prayer and worship alone.”
Christ’s human relations are ideal. He established universal brotherhood and taught us that our only way to salvation is by love of man. Christ is the Supreme Champion of the individual. All of us know that there will be greater rejoicing in Heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine who have no need of repentance.
If Christ had such high regard for the individual, we as Christians must root out, by action, any evil which any individual is made to suffer.
Racial segregation is an evil which cannot be rooted out by laws only. Hearts must be changed and we, as Catholics, must change them by commitments through charity and works of mercy—that is, if we want to win people over to Christianity and not lose them to atheistic Communism.
As students, the narrow outlooks and senseless prejudices of our immature days are ripening into broader, more refined ideas. It is up to us to educate our associates who lack true understanding of man’s relationship to man. As students, we have been grounded in the principles of democracy, integrity and fair play. We must speak and live as we have been taught to live, that others might learn.	•
In the South, school desegregation moves slowly. Negroes desire better education in order to live better lives. The great resistance to their efforts which amassed at first, is slowly but surely breaking down.
Some say that they can find no moral justification for integration. If one looks at the evils incurred under segregation and attempts to remedy them, what is the solution? It is most logical to assume that the opposite of segregation, integration, will do the job, just as an evil is removed by a good.
Truly, racial discrimination infects the very health of America. It weakens her constitution and thereby gives Communism food to thrive upon. We, as Americans, as Catholics, and as students are obligated to make our country strong in the service of God and Notre Dame.
TEACHING ABROAD	by Jerry Murphy
How can I, as a young American, aid people of the underdeveloped nations of the world? (This is a common question among many students today.) We are in a great period of awakening to the many problems facing free men everywhere, as backward areas seek to quickly develop their standards of living in imitation of Western nations. The peoples of these areas are in great need of assistance, of private individuals interested in their future, and not merely in massive economic aid which passes between ministers of state, and provides no personal contact.
As a practical means of achieving this end, Senator Gale W. McGee of Wyoming in a recent address proposed an alternative to compulsory military service. This alternative would be realized in an extended period of special services overseas, particularly in undeveloped nations and in non-military roles. The feasibility of an effective program patterned along these lines is presently being studies in the House of Representatives.
The needs for a program such as this are wide and varied. Millions of people
throughout Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and Asia are extremely desirous of learning English. With this language as a tool, these people will be in a position to study American ideas of freedom, of successful government, of plans for economic and social success, and thus lead their countries in search of freedom. Freedom will come, the burning question is who will help these people in their pursuit of its principles. The average American college graduate is well qualified to go abroad and teach the English language to people who possess a basic knowledge of it and are desirous of improving their conversational ability.
The visitor abroad is struck by the foreigner’s pride in his ability to converse in English. For those Americans adept in languages, an intensified course in area languages will be necessary since they will be the ones to teach English to those who have no experience with it whatsoever. Schools and language institutions are in existence throughout foreign areas, and facilities exist for the accommodation of teachers. The United States Information Agency has
cultural missions open in many foreign areas, and these missions are continually frequented for knowledge of the United States. The young American who participates in these programs will live as closely with the people as he can, for this is the best way to establish confidence and friendship. This is not to say that he will not have decent quarters in which to live, but only to discourage living in American compounds, which creates a barrier to true cultural exchange, and is often a source of offense to foreign peoples. He need not consider himself as giving all and receiving nothing, for the knowledge and experience gained will be of the utmost value to us in our future lives, as American and “world” citizens. Industry, business and the teaching profession will welcome the man or woman who has thus furthered their self-development.
The opportunities for the students of science and engineering are hundredfold. Underdeveloped nations are pushing programs for flood control and irrigation for agricultural success, for
(Continued on page 20)	_
16
The Scholastic
WHAT do I want to get famous for? What do I care about famous, that don’t mean nothing. The public does that. That ain’t me. Man, I just blow. I don’t care who I’m playing for or where I’m playing. My mind never leaves that tailgate. Every time I pick up that horn, I can see Joe Oliver, Bunk Johnson, Baby Dodds,” thus spake Louis Armstrong.
An international legend now in his sixtieth year, Louis has been both king and court jester, the popular personification k	of jazz, ever since a small Chicago record company released
'	his Gut Bucket Blues and Yes, I’m in the Barrel in No-
vember of 1925.
“I’m looking for to be on no high pedestal. I’m just appre-, ciating what I’m doing, you know. Yeah, I’m happy. Doing ' the right thing, you know. Yeah, I’m happy. Doing the right thing playing for the highest people to the lowest. That’s the way it’s supposed to be. That’s all that’s necessary. ’Cause I k got my life. They got their categories.”
His life has rarely been his alone; his personal warmth and devotion has drawn millions to his side. He can’t help but overflow.
> They with their categories will take issue with his present abilities, and well they might; Louis Armstrong probably hasn’t improvised a solid chorus in ten years. Listening to his “jazz” today the purist calls him a fraud, yet even in his , early years when he virtually invented the true jazz break, separating himself from the strict ensemble function of the original New Orleans tradition, he was the master showman, Louis the clown, Louis the actor, in short, and above all, he has always been and will always be himself. It is the man rather than his music that never ceases to amaze: living testament to American democracy.
His present small group dates back to the spring of 1947 when he had rid himself at last of the bigger bands that had been more of a hindrance than a help ever since Lil Hardin Armstrong (the first of five wives) had brought him to New York and Fletcher Henderson’s popular Roseland Band more , than 20 years before. With clarinet, trumpet and trombone up front; piano, bass, drums behind, the traditional Dixieland attack, Batch has converted three-fourths of the world to his brand of entertainment. And anyone who wonders about Louis Armstrong’s adequacy as an ambassador of good will might well glance at this report in a London paper.
Asked if he is a religious man, Armstrong replies: “Yeah, I’m a Baptist and a good friend of the Pope and I always wear a Jewish star a friend gave me for luck.” Asked which is his favorite European country, Armstrong replies promptly:
, “All of ’em.”
In Europe, especially, he is idolized. When on tour in 1950, armed guards had to be called out in each of nine countries. His worshipers threatened to trample him down. He had an audience with Pope Pius XII that year, who inquired kindly about his children. Louis replied that he had no children but that this state of affairs was not due to lack of effort (a remark deleted from the version appearing in Holiday Magazine, . June 1950).
REPORTS on the Hamburg riot during Armstrong’s 1955 tour vary. According to Belair in the New York Times, the riot was caused by the crowds which were turned away. The U.S. News and World Report quotes Armstrong as saying: “People just wanted us to play on some more. We played an encore. I took a bow with my shirt off, but they still wouldn’t go. Nobody was hurt. I was supposed to play two concerts that night, but they broke up the chairs—they got tired of applaudin’ with their hands and started applaudin’ with the chairs. . . Then the police turned the fire hose on them. The hall was a mess. The same thing happened in Roubaix, France. And in Lyons, too. . . We played for three hours in Lyons and the people clapped from 1 to 1:30 in the morning.” Another riot followed in Oslo.
Louis’ first concert in Accra, on the Gold Coast of Africa, drew 100,000. The formal greeting, preserved on a Columbia, L. P., Satchmo the Great, is most notable for its reference to Velma Middleton as a “—uh—Crooner.” After the show, crowds lined the streets and a mile-long procession followed Armstrong to his hotel, to the repetitive chanting of an ancient Gold Coast melody renamed All for You, Louis, All for • You.
Some of the implications of the incidents were brought
April 8, 1960
home to many Americans by Belair’s special to the New York Sunday Times which appeared on the front page: “United States Has Secret Sonic Weapon—Jazz.” Commenting on another sold-out concert by Armstrong, this time at Victoria Hall in Geneva, Belair wrote, “America’s secret weapon is a blue note in a minor key. Right now its most effective ambassador is Louis (Satchmo) Armstrong. . .This is not a pipedream from a backroom jam session. It is the studied conclusion of a handful of thoughtful Americans from Moscow to Madrid. . . . The disappointed customers were not Swiss hepcats but sober adults willing to pay almost $4 to hear musical individuality. . . they find in jazz a subject for serious study.. . A German Swiss of Zurich came closest to the explanation. . . “Jazz is not just an art,” he said. “It is a way of life!” Belair suggests a reason for the appeal of jazz: “The contest between musical discipline and individual expression it entails symbolizes modern existence.”
Indeed, jazz has come to represent a kind of international brotherhood. As far back as 1949, over 110 magazines devoted entirely to jazz had appeared in such cities as Reykjavik (Ice-
1 TRIBUTE
land), Dublin, Batavia, Gothenburg (Sweden), Barcelona, Sastra (Argentina), Antwerp, Columbo (Ceylon), Tokyo, Melbourne, and Zurich, while the number of “Hot Clubs,” named after early American “hot” jazz as symbolized by Armstrong and his internationally famous “Hot Five” and “Hot Seven” recording groups of the 1920’s runs into the thousands throughout the world. The world conquest of jazz, originally patterned after this one man, seems complete.
What does this great jazz man say to all these claims, knowing full well his significance? “Man, all I know is my horn, I got a trumpet and a young wife and I ain’t got time to think o’ no more!”
From street urchin Back o’ Town New Orleans, picking up small change singing and dancing on Rampart Street, to King and court jester of a music he had no small part in creating, the saga of Louis Armstrong continues. Today he’s in Boston, in a month, Beirut, laying the foundation for a solid world march of American music: jazz, that indefinable good sound, the fusing of European and West African musical traditions that could have happened, in those choice words of Harry Golden, “Only in America.”
17
THE FIRST MOVE:
Beginning Tomorrow
A
by Al Pinado, Secretary, South Bend NAACP
MRS. EURILLA WILLS, President of the local branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, has announced a patronage withholding campaign for the Michiana area as of April 5. Mrs. Wills urged every citizen and organization in the area to join with the local branch and branches across the nation in withholding retail patronage from all units of the chain variety stores which maintain a policy in theii- Southern stores of refusing to serve Negro customers at lunch counters on the same basis as other customers.
Local units of those chains which publicly announced on March 15 their continuation of this policy are:
S. S. Kresge Co., 201 South Michigan
F. W. Woolworth Co., 127 S. Michigan,
109 L.W. West, Mishawaka
W. T. Grant Store, 117 S. Michigan
Mrs. Wills stated that the South Bend branch in choosing this action in accordance with the association’s national policy, urges that no purchases be made
in these stores until the policy is changed and Negroes are accorded the simple dignity to which human beings are entitled and the rights as citizens which our Constitution proclaims. She continued in saying that this is in the spirit of the Montgomery, Ala., bus boycott which showed the economic strength in unity and led to abolishment of that humiliating form of segregation in Montgomery.
It is the feeling of the branch that private business establishments have the opportunity to be leaders in the field of human rights. Indeed stores in several Southern cities changed their practices and are now serving Negro customers at their lunch counters. But the stores mentioned above steadfastly refused the opportunity thereby leading to special laws rushed through city councils and state legislatures leading to the harrassment, persecutions and arrest throughout the South of hundreds of American citizens seeking their God-given and constitutional rights in peaceful, orderly fashion.
Mrs. Wills told The Scholastic that the South Bend branch cannot remain
silent in this fight for human rights. In reference to a charge of communism often made against the Association, Mrs. Wills emphatically stated that the N.A.A.C.P. is not now and has never been on any list of subversive organizations, that the association is not communistic nor does it seek or accept any support from left wing organizations. She stated that branches are forbidden to participate in any known leftist functions such as the 1959 Vienna Youth Festival. As a result of communist influence in seven branches in 1950, the charters were seized and branches reorganized as wholly noncommunist groups. Mrs. Wills noted that the secretary of the local branch, Alan E. Pinado, is a Notre Dame Alumnus, receiving the Master of Business Administration degree in 1958.
On Saturday, April 9, the local N.A.A. C.P. Youth Chapter will stage public demonstrations against the South Bend variety stores in order to publicize the withholding campaign to show support for the students in the South. Senior Branch members will assist.
$
t-
f
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE ANNOUNCES A CHRISTIAN CULTURE SYMPOSIUM
APRIL 29-30, 1900
• CHRISTOPHER DAWSON	• MIRCEA ELIADE
Harvard University	University of Chicago
Christian Culture and American Education
History and the Cyclical View of Time
•	VERNON J. BOURKE
Saint Louis University
The “City of God” and the Christian View of History
•	RANDALL STEWART
Vanderbilt University
Doctrines of Man in American Literature
• SIR HUGH TAYLOR
Princeton University
Science and Religion: Towards Unity
18
The Scholastic
Happy Jdla’
“The Most Happy Fella,” the musical adaptation by Frank Loesser of the Pulitzer prizewinning comedy, “They Knew What They Wanted,” will be the next production at Washington Hall. The show, which contains a recordbreaking 35 gay and stirring songs and was an overwhelming Broadway hit for 86 weeks, will open May 5th and continue through the 6th, 7th, 12th, 13th, and 14th.
Mike McKee ( Tony) will be starred as the vivid and earthy Italian winegrower around whom the plot spins in California’s Napa Valley. He will be seen as a middle-aged rancher who has enticed a weary San Francisco waitress to come and many him at his vineyard by sending her a picture of his handsome foreman. This action leads to heartbreaking complications for him when the hopeful mail-order bride finds that her husbandto-be is not the young and handsome man she thought he would be.
Myrna Walker (Rosabella) will be seen as the waitress, and Joe Harrington (Joe) as the virile foreman rounding out the triangle at the center of the story. Karen Koehnemann (Cleo) has an important role as the heroine’s hashslinging friend, and Tom Karaty (Herman) another as an amiable vineyard worker. Others in the large cast include Mary Kay Vranken (Marie) as the winegrower’s jealous sister, Charles Brussels, Fred Gade, and Bob Reaume as a postman, a doctor, and a priest respectively; Phil Jones, Bill Flaherty, and Dick Nowery as melodic chefs, Dick James, Jack Pehler, John Kearney, George Kevin, Bob Koches, Terri Crosina, Dick Kavanaugh, Hans Grauert, and Jim Smith.
In the singing chorus are: Mary Lou Brunette, Helene Cicciarelli, Diane Crowley, Judy Durlak, Chris Gladis, Betty Haenn, Barbara Piedmo, Kitty Quinn, Marilyn Wolter, Jack Bland, Charles Brussels, Jack Egan, Bill Flaherty, Fred Gade, Phil Jones, John Kearney, George Kerin, Bob Koches, Dick Nowery, Bob Reaume, Mike Sennott, and Gregory Weismantel.
The dancing chorus includes: Terri Corsina, Judy Jackson, Sally O’Brien, Jane Sazama, Tom Karaty, Dick Kavanaugh, Lawrence McGinniss, and Tony Mileto. The stage managers are Gregory Rogers, Joel Phillippi, and Tom Kohl.
The show is a musical all the way through, with hardly any straight spoken dialogue. This accounts for the abundance of thirty-five songs — though five are set numbers. Some of the most beloved favorites of these songs are “Standing on the Corner,” “Like a Woman Loves a Man,” “Young People,” “I Like Everybody,” and the song that may * yet get Frank Loesser elected governor of Texas, “Big D,” referring to Dallas.
(Continued on page 20)
AT THE THEATER/
Most of you will probably go home for Easter, but in the meantime you might have some time to go see a movie. So here’s what’s showing:
The Mouse That Roared is entering its third week at the Avon and everything points to a record just shy of BB’s worst. A lighthearted farce criticizing almost everything, Mouse pokes fun even at Columbia Pictures’ trademark. Peter Sellers plays all his three roles with gusto, and Jean Seaberg has something to offer to admirers of the fair sex.
Goodie, goodie gumdwop I The Colfax is having The Snow Queen for an indefinite stay at their emporium celluloidis. This lady, who looks alarmingly like the witch, in Sleeping Beauty (I’ve seen stills of some scenes — not the movie), is accompanied by the voices of Sandra Dee and Patty McCormack. I might be overestimating ND men by saying they probably won’t go see the movie, but you never know. Then there’s always the other side of the Dixie.
Last Thursday afternoon, using advance information from the manager of the Granada, I went to see Our Man In Havana. Fidel must have revoked his visa, because he didn’t show. Instead, they are showing Walt Disney’s fabulous epic: Kidr-napped. Perhaps this was done to meet the Colfax competition, but even so, it seems rather stupid. This week, not even the manager wants to commit himself on what on earth they’ll be showing, so I resort to my old method: their phone' number is CE 3-7301. Swamp them with calls and ask for the head White Owl. They probably won’t know what you’re talking about, but then they don’t know what they’re talking about. That makes it even. In short, it wasn’t my fault. I was misled.
Well along with the State’s tradition of excellence they are having what they called “Academy Award Week.” They are having two pictures with Academy Award nominations galore between them, Anatomy of a Murder and The Nun’s Story. What a combination! Well, they’re both excellent, though very different, pictures. As you know from last Monday’s Oscar-telecast, The Nun’s Story was up for several awards, best picture and best actress to name a few. There is no doubt of the fact that this is a very good motion picture, and any of you who may have missed it should definitely take this second chance to see it. Up for just about as many awards, Anatomy is certainly worth seeing. General Jimmy Stewart is his usual self, mumbling himself to an award nomination, and Arthur O’Connell and George C. Scott both do fine jobs in a supporting role. Of course there is also Lee Remick and Kathy Grant (that’s the Crosbys’ stepmommy) for those of you who appreciate the finer things in life. Without a doubt they are two fine motion pictures, and it is so hard to choose between them that we’ll have to give them both the Movie of the Week award. It should be noted, however, that Anatomy has been placed in a separate classification by the Legion of Decency.
Have fun at Ft. Lauderdale, you sun lovers, and I’ll see you right after Easter. I need a vacation myself.
Tony Wong
Not this: a student who studies drowsily no matter how much sleep he gets.
This! Perspicacious.. . sharp! NoDox keeps you awake and alert—safely!
If you find studying sometimes soporific (and who doesn’t?) the word to remember is NoDoz®. NoDoz alerts you with a safe and accurate amount of caffeine—the same refreshing stimulant in coffee and tea. Yet non-habit-fonning NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable.
So to keep perspicacious during study and v
exams—and while driving, too— always keep NoDoz in proximity.
5
The safe stay awake tablet—available everywhere. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
April 8, 1960
:___________i
19
SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNTS
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Tenth Year
'Most Happy Fella'
(Continued from page 19)
The Bev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., is the director of the musical that comes as close to being opera as a musical comedy can; Allan J. Powers has staged the dances; the Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., is serving as choral director of the compelling score; Dr. Charles Biondo is directing the orchestra; and Gilbert Rathbun has designed the settings for the eleven sunlit California locales in which the plot is told.
The box office opens May 2. Student prices are: orchestra and balcony center $1.50 and balcony side $1.00.
As Walter Winchell so aptly put it “‘Most Happy Fella’ is a Most Happy Smash.”
•	1,500 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•No Deposit for ND Students
•See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
•
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend hi the Oliver Hotel
Teaching Abroad (Continued from page 16) modem highway systems, for planned construction of dwellings and industrial plants, for modem mass production manufacturing facilities, in short for improving their citizens’ well-being. The handful of trained personnel in these nations need the friendly and energetic “desire to help” of young Americans. Blessed with prosperity, the most fortunate inhabitants upon this earth, we are anxiously looked to for assistance. In a recent discussion with visiting Latin-American students, I was impressed with the idea that these fellows want to meet Americans. They want to feel that North Americans are genuinely interested in personally aiding them to build a firm order of economic and social prosperity in their countries.
Senator McGee decried the lack of university courses which study the great nationalities and cultures of the East, particularly the Chinese, Indian and Arabian, and of course the civilizations of Africa and Latin America. I might add that concomitant with this lack is the lack of student interest in these areas. “The new nationalism of the independent areas of the East becomes the first best hope for mobilizing resistance against the encroachments of Communism or of any other form of imperialistic venture. “It is certainly only with a knowledge of these emerging peoples and the problems which face them that we are going to be at all equipped to offer them the help which they so earnestly desire. We may be sure that many thousands of dedicated members of the Communist party are at this very moment rising to the challenge which Asia and the rest of the world are offering. Only by education in the history and culture of underdeveloped nations are we even capable of considering proper actions which may be taken. I could imagine nothing more disagreeable than immigrants with absolutely no idea of that nation’s traditions. Actions and attitudes which would stand in direct opposition to long established custom would only serve to alienate the people. One doesn’t, for instance, tear
down an honored place of worship to	j
make easy access for a new road, an	>
action not out of line in American road . building programs. There is a wealth j of inexpensive and delightful material \ > available concerning underdeveloped	;
world areas, and the few hours a week j devoted to becoming acquainted with	j
these areas will reap great dividends in our education.
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL HEP AIBS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Ai
<
COSTS
Sheraton Hotels
STUDENT-FACULTY
DISCOUNTS
Here’s money-saving news for students, faculty and all other college personnel. During weekends and college vacations, Sheraton offers you special low rates—even lower rates when two or more occupy the same room. Special group rates are provided for athletic teams, dubs, other college organizations.
You get these discounts at any of Sheraton’s 54 hotels in the U.S.A., Hawaii and Canada. Just present your Sheraton Student I.D. Card or Faculty Guest Card when you register. To get your Sheraton card or make reservations, contact:
JAMES NAUGHTON
213 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
Phone: CEntral 4-9011
•• cemacr mums wtumoNS MMHTNtifr
DNCNATON COOP., 470 ATLANTIC AVK.
•OOTON, MASS.
The Scholastic
YOUR HEADQUARTERS EXCLUSIVELY IN SOUTH BEND FOR EVENING STAR DIAMONDS by___________
rtcarvec
WE HAVE EVENING STAR DIAMONDS “Round — Oval and Emerald Cuts’* Priced from $225 to $600
Many other engagement ring and wedding band
ARTCARVED available
Credit (without interest) and lay away available to Notre Dame men

121 W. Washington CE 4-1311 South Bend, Ind.
The most beautiful new look in diamonds
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
You have to see it to believe it! Looks like a diamond star floating on her finger. And it makes any diamond look bigger, brighter, more beautiful. Don’t even think of any other engagement ring until you see the dazzling "Evening Star"* collection at your Artcarved jeweler's.
And, for real proof of value, ask your jeweler about Art-carved’s famous nationwide Permanent Value Plan. It gives you the right to apply your ring’s full current retail price, should you ever desire to, toward a larger Artcarved diamond—any time—at any of the thousands of Artcarved jewelers throughout the country. •
IMPORTANT. Every genuine "Evening Star" diamond is guaranteed in writing, for color...cut...clarity...and carat weight and only Artcarved stamps, the exact diamond weight in the ring. It's a genuine "Evening Star" only when-the name is stamped in the ring.
Beloved by brides for more then one hundred years (1850-1960)
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
J. R. Wood ASonMnc, Dept CP, 2« E. 45th St, New York IT, NL Y.
FREE: Send me more facts about diamond rings and “WEDOINQ OUIDE FOR ■RIDE AND MOOM.” Also name of nearest (or home-town) Artcarved Jewrter.
. ■
Address,
City,
.County or Zone-—State.
•**mamasna» eona mt. m*ub roe. mesa aamaatorotaoweraw. com. MaKxa.neeaaaaaa>amb
April 8, I960
2<
i 4
campus character:
MANNING
MOTION
Manning is fierce as a tiger on offense, strong as a bear on defense, and wise as an owl in the huddle. Everybody’s All-American selection, he makes the AllAmerican selection when he chooses his underwear.
He knows you can do most anything in Jockey skants brief. Jockey skants are cut high at the sides, low at the waist, and tailored of stretch nylon to provide maximum comfort with minimum coverage.
You can’t beat them for sports, for travel, for comfort in any pursuit Your campus store has them!
$1.50.
coorers, INCORrOtATED-KENOSHA, WIS.
® BRAND
SKANTS* brief
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
so popular with the Negro in the South are at least questionable. We feel that the merits are questionable from the Negroes’ point of view as well as from that of the community as a whole.
For this reason we strongly object (and we feel that we are not alone in this sentiment) to Mr. Babbitt’s implication that the student body is united behind him in his endorsement of the Negroes’ tactics.
We are curious as to whether or not this directive was discussed by the Student Senate prior to its delivery to the Southern schools. If it was the case that discussion preceded the action, we would then like to know whether an adequate poll of the student body was taken in order to determine an intelligent and reasonably reliable opinion regarding the advisability of such action.
The Notre Dame Scholastic’s commentary on this directive has called for the students and the University to take the next step. We would like to suggest that perhaps a better and speedier solution to this great problem could be reached if the next step is taken in a different direction.
Patrick Amoult, 48 Sorin
Robert Marschall, 115 Sorin
Eugene A. McDermott, 49 Sorin John R. Lang, 251 Sorin Briana Shannon, 254 Alumni Barry M. Fitzpatrick, 115 Sorin
Editor:
In last week’s “Commentary,” you
printed a copy of the letter written by SBP Babbitt to a number of Negro schools in the South.
It would be useless to make any kind of comment concerning whether or not Mr. Babbitt did the best thing in writing the letter. The fact is that the letter has already been mailed.
However, we do feel that Mr. Babbitt would do well to remember that the students at Notre Dame are from all parts of the country and have opposing views on certain national problems. Therefore, he should be much more cautious in the future of predicating his views as those of the entire student body. It would be wise for him to consider these things carefully before yielding to another letter-writing urge.
Will Pfeiffenberger Tony Hyder 434 Morrissey (Continued on page 25)
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR!
Rasmussen Men's Shop MAIN & WASHINGTON STS.
WILDERNESS CANOE TRIPS
We furnish everything for a thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wil-
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates. (P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!) Border Lakes Outfitting P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leadin? Barber Shop •
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair
•
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BARBERS	MANICURIST
FOR THE
Independent Traveler...
Here is an opportunity to join a unique organization made up of people interested in unregimented European travel. Members have a source of travel information and referrals with no commissions involved; bases of operation in New York and Europe as well as a meeting place for members to socialize and have fun; shopping tips and discounts, lists of English speaking doctors and dentists; low cost travel insurance, hotels and food .sources; social activities, and many other services. If you are planning to travel to Europe .. • send for full information on the benefits of membership to...
Overseas Guest Club
509 FIFTH AVE., N.Y. 17 / OX 7-5157
The Scholastic
22
CONTRIBUTORS are urged to contact the new department heads. The following men have been appointed: Tom Weiss, news editor; Tom Sullivan, features editor and Jay Kilroy, sports editor. However, the previous department heads will still assist anyone desiring to contribute material.
FACULTY members and department heads are reminded that SCHOLASTIC office hours are limited to Sunday and Monday evenings from 7 p.m. until midnight. This will be the last issue of the magazine until after the vacations. The next issue will go to press Sunday midnight. May 1.
ATTENTION
SENIORS JUNIORS
FRESHMEN
★
BE READY FOR THE BIG DANCE AHEAD!
TUXEDO RENTAL
in conjunction with
GINGOSS BROTHERS of Chicago
Latest Style
Summerweight formal complete with Coat, Trousers, Cummerbund, Tie and Suspenders only . . .
$760
for college undergraduates OUR *346* DEPARTMENT AND OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
These two fine departments offer a wide choice of practical, good-looking clothing and furnishings, reflecting our taste, exclusive styling and unmatched experience in outfitting undergraduates. We invite you to visit our stores during Spring vacation, and make your selections.
OUR "346” DEPARTMENT (sizes 36 to 46)
Tropical Suits, $75 • Woollen Suits, $85 to $95
Tweed Sport Jackets, jrom $60 to $70
OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP (sizes 35 to 42) Tropical Suits, $60 • Washable Suits, from $42 Odd Jackets, jrom $35 • Blazers, $40
Khaki Chino Odd Trousers, $9.50
(STABUSMSOHia
*
fhniisMngS^ls * Shots
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
April 8, 1960
While you’re on vacation, see IBM about your future.
If you’re a senior or graduate student who still hasn't found out the facts about the varied career opportunities at IBM, now is the time.
You’ll get a warm welcome at any of the more than 200 IBM Branch, Regional, and District Offices. Just call, ask for the manager, and make an appointment
He will tell you what sort of company we are ... what we do . .. how rapidly data processing is growing. And he can tell you what we offer qualified graduates in earnings, career training, job satisfactions and opportunities for rapid promotion.
We want ambitious men and women with good scholastic records for openings in direct and in* direct sales, applied science, administration, programming, systems, manufacturing, engineering research, and product development
See your Placement Officer for more information, and please feel free to call me for the location of the IBM office nearest your home:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager International Business Machines Corporation 234 N. Michigan St, South Bend 1, Indiana Telephone: CEntral 2-8251
DATA PROCESSING DIVISION IBM : ©
CLASS OF ’60
"Everything in Social Printing”
3 Line Engraved (BOTC) Calling Cards $5.50/100
WEDDING INVITATIONS
Contact: PAUL BADDE 23 Morrissey HUDSON’S 428% N. MAIN
SAVE 20%	.
Use Your Student Discount Gird At
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFBISON Downtown—on the Bus Line Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
<>
Best dressed
the Prom
He rents his formab
. . . and you'll know why when you see our complete, modern selection of formals and accessories. Tastefully tailored, correct in the smallest detail—and comfortable! You'll find our service convenient and economical, too.

LOUIE’S TUXEDO RENTAL
Phone AT 7-0575
9 Blocks West of Michigan St. Between Washington and Western on Laurel
Repercussions
(Continued from page 22)
Editor:
I was extremely surprised and disappointed to read Bruce Babbitt’s letter to thirty southern schools and your wholehearted support of it. I think that there are two very important points which you and Mr. Babbitt have failed to consider concerning your actions.
The first point is the fact that the actions of the students of these thirty schools which you have supported are as illegal as much of the discrimination which has been going on in the South. As Governor LeRoy Collins of Florida says, “Under our free-enterprise system and under our laws, a merchant has the legal right to select the patrons he serves.” Whether or not this is morally right, it is the law and not only should, but must be observed until it can be changed.
The second point and I thing the more important, is that in this letter, Mr. Babbitt claims that he is “speaking in behalf of a Catholic University,” implying that he has the support of the whole university. I, for one, do not support this action and in a matter of such great importance, I think the student body or, at the very least, the Student Senate should have been consulted.
Joe Baroody, 308 Lyons
A BETTER APPROACH?
Editor:
I shall not murder
The Mankind of [his] going with a grave truth
Nor blaspheme down the stations of the breath
With any further
Elegy of innocence and youth.
—Dylan Thomas
Although in complete agreement with James Rose’s condemnation of capital punishment in the March 25 issue of the Scholastic, I feel his argument could have been more properly broached if he had addressed his remarks to his subject rather than to Time magazine.
But perhaps this is excusable when one realizes that, for all practical purposes, the arguments both pro and con have been presented and debated ad infinitum, thereby leaving little to be said. It would seem that it is now up to the citizenry to decide whether or not they regard such punishment as barbarous.
Some of Mr. Rose’s remarks are certainly unfounded in fact, however, particularly those which, on their face, seem best to support his contentions.
In the first place, “all available evidence” does not prove that the death penalty has no deterrent effect. It is generally true that in those states which have abolished the death penalty (some -of which have since reinstated it), the number of crimes formerly punishable by death have declined, though not to a marked degree. But no causal connection has been shown. Indeed, such a contention is probably not capable of proof.
But even more disturbing is Mr. Rose’s
apparent subtle cynicism about the condition of “the Law” in general. He would be hard pressed to prove that a poverty- -stricken condemned man “would have been executed long before,” particularly in light of the great attention which the Supreme Court has given to the subject of “Civil Liberties” in recent years. In- -deed, a “criminal lacking Chessman’s . misguided andr egocentric intelligence” very possibly wouldnot be confined within tiie walls of a death cell, as is the subject of Mr. Rose’s article.
Finally, by labeling the practical op- . plication of any body of law as “tenuous and inexact,” I cannot help but feel that Mr. Rose has fallen into the age-old “reformer’s error” of “having a false view of the landscape by looking at the waste spaces only, and refusing to see the acres already sown and fruitful.”
John C. Hirschfeld (’58) 1625 Sunnymede South Bend 15, Ind.
OPINION
Editor:
In your March 18, 1960 Scholastic “Repercussions” you answered Joe Bride’s letter with a note to the effect that in (Continued on page 33)
Now Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
MNWofFOH!
April 8, 1960 '
Are these gold bars worth two more years of study?*
As a college sophomore, you’re nearing the mid-point. Halfway through college—halfway through Army ROTC. Now you face a major decision: Are the gold bars of a Second Lieutenant worth two additional years of study in advanced ROTC?
That question is yours to answer now—before you register for your junior year. As you explore the facts, carefully weigh the traditional responsibilities and rewards of serving as an Army officer_____
1.	Traditional responsibilities. To meet the command responsibilities of an Army officer, you apply the leadership principles absorbed during advanced ROTC training. And your executive potential grows as you gather leadership experi
ence. That’s why employers often prefer men who served as commissioned officers. These men already have proven « > their capacity to shoulder executive responsibility.	'
2.	Traditional rewards. In every organization, greater respon- I sibilities mean greater rewards. Thus the traditional respon-	?
sibilities and prestige of an Army officer are matched by material advantages. For example, if you plan to marry soon after graduation—an officer’s salary can be a distinct advantage. A married 2nd Lieutenant earns a minimum of '■< $355.68 per month—plus substantial fringe benefits.
Need more information? Check with the Professor of Mili- • tary Science and Tactics at your college or university.
He’ll be glad to discuss your decision with you.
^Lastyear, 14,436 sophomores answered “yes” to this question—and entered advanced Army ROTC.
26
The Scholastic
SpoiU Pictu^
BASEBALLERS OPEN CAMPAIGN TODAY AT CARTIER FIELD AGAINST HOOSIERS
The 1960 edition of the Notre Dame baseball team will make its debut today in the role of host to the visiting Hoosiers of Indiana. A three-game set is scheduled with a single game this afternoon and a doubleheader tomorrow. The series will start the Men of Jake Kline off on a 30-game schedule.
Opening victories. Indiana started its season last Saturday by swamping Indiana Central in a doubleheader, 13-0 and 4-2, at Bloomington. Pitching was the strong point for the Hoosiers as their hurlers fanned 32 batters in the course of the two games.
Pitchers Paul Deem, Bob Bradley, Ernie Wilhoit and Dick Persinger combined to whiff 15 batsmen in the first game. In the nightcap, basketball star Charley Hall, Paul Michaels and Bob Kyff notched 17 strike-outs in the seveninning affair.
Hoosier captain, centerfielder Don Foreman, blasted an inside-the-park home run in the first inning of the second game.
The Irish are well stocked in the hurling department with all the front line pitchers back from last year. Leading the way is junior righthander Nick Palihnich with a 6-2 won-lost record last year and a glittering 1.25 earned-run average. Last year Palihnich led the team in games pitched (12), innings pitched (64), strikeouts (48) and least walks (12). Jack Mitchell, another junior, had a 1.86 ERA to go with his 5-1 record. Senior Jim Hannan was another busy moundsman last year, working 49 innings while posting a 4-3 slate. Char-
JACK GENTEMPO Switch from short to second
CLARENCE “JAKE” KLINE Veteran Irish baseball mentor
lie Scrivanich, a senior left hander, was injured much of last season and he, along with the promising sophomores, add depth to an already deep position.
Experienced infield. The infield returns intact with the exception of coCaptain Dick Selcer. Selcer’s timely hitting and fine glove work will be hard to replace. Jack Gentempo, a junioi- who swatted at a .338 clip last year, has been moved over to second with football halfback Bob Scarpitto taking over Gentem-po’s shortstop slot. Danny Hagan, the nifty junior third sacker, hit .286 in his initial season and should be even better this year. John “Klu” Caretta at first base rounds out the infield. The big first baseman gives the diamondmen good power at the plate with his .315 average and 21 RBI’s last year. He is the lone senior in this infield quartet.
The big problem in the outfield will be replacing diminutive Gene Duffy. Duffy not only hit .348 in leading the 1959 aggregate in hits, triples, home runs and RBI’s, he was also the outstanding outfielder, by far one of the finest players ever to patrol the outer garden for the Irish. Cage star Mike Graney returns to one outfield post as the leading hitter of the regulars of last year’s team with a .359 mark. Junior Chuck Lennon, a regular in the last four games in 1959, and senior Frank Finnegan are the leading candidates for the other two posts. If these two fail, Kline will probably look to his infield for help.
The Irish have two fine catchers in senior Captain Ed Wojcik and soph Walt Osgood. Wojcik is a fine veteran receiver and Osgood has been outstanding so far.
Irish Win Second Spot In Medley Relay Event
Notre Dame’s track team experienced their poorest showing of the 1960 season last Saturday at the Texas Relays in Austin, Texas. The Irish were represented by an eleven-man delegation in the relays, their first outdoor meet of the season.
Ron Gregory, Notre Dame’s junior distance “iron-man,” participated in all four relays in which the Irish were entered. The only individual entry for Notre Dame was senior pole vaulter Tom Reichert. Reichert vaulted 13 feet, six inches, but this was not enough to place in this widely-represented meet.
Notre Dame’s entry in the sprint medley relay was composed of Gregory, juniors Jerry Fitzpatrick and Frank Hemphill and sophomore Steve Schwartz. The Irish were doing well in this event until a dropped baton automatically disqualified them.
In their best event of the afternoon, the Irish distance medley relay team of Gregory, Schwartz, senior Galen Cawley and junior Dan Rorke placed second behind Abilene Christian with an excellent time of 10:05.2. Gregory was outstanding as he came from behind to beat Al Lawrence, an Australian who holds the world record for the two-mile run.
Notre Dame dropped out of the four-mile relay. Trailing badly as the relay entered the final anchor dap, Gregory ran only a few yards before leaving the track. It had been decided that he should save his strength for the 1,500-meter ran. The University of Houston went on to win this four-mile event in the time of 17:54.5. Only two other teams were able to finish.
In the 1,500-meter ran, Gregory did a good job of overcoming a slow start, but his overpressing cost him as he dropped out of the top six positions within the final 15 yards. The winner in this event was Archie San Romani, Jr., an unattached contestant formerly of Wichita, who posted a timing of 3:53.8.
The Wilsonmen’s next outdoor meet will be on April 23, when they ti-avel to Columbus, Ohio for the Ohio Relays.
Sports Columnist Red Smith Will Talk in Law Auditorium
Red Smith, syndicated sports columnist, will speak at 8:15 p.m., Monday, May 2, in the Law auditorium. The talk, sponsored by the Department of Communication Arts, is open to the public.
After graduating from Notre Dame’s Department of Journalism in 1927, Red Smith worked on newspapers in Milwaukee, St. Louis and Philadelphia. He began his sports column in the New York Herald Tribune in 1945.
April 8, 1960
27
ODDS and ENDS
In the Olympic basketball tryouts held last Thursday, Friday and Saturday in Denver, the College University All-Stars proved to be the class of the eight-team field as they breezed to the title. The Stars, under the able guidance of defensive genius Pete Newell, showed they had plenty of offensive savvy as they walloped Bartlesville, 96-69, Akron, 103-88, and Peoria, 124-97, in the finals Saturday night. As expected, Oscar Robertson and Jerry West led the collegians with 73 and 65 points respectively, in the three-game tourney. In the final against Peoria, West set a tournament mark with 39 points with Oscar turning playmaker and adding 20. The ten-man Olympic team includes six members of the winning University All-Stars, two from Bartlesville and one each from Peoria and Ohio State. The All-Stars placed Jay Arnette of Texas, Walt Bellamy of Indiana, Darrall Imhoff of California and Terry Dischinger of Purdue, in addition to West and Robertson. Les Lane and Burdy Haldorsen represent Bartlesville, with Bob Boozer of Peoria and the redoutable Jerry Lucas of Ohio State rounding out the dream team. Yes sir, a coach’s dream but an opponent’s. . . .
Last week. Odds and Ends noted that Dallas Long had thrown the shot 64 feet 6% inches. Well that mark stood only one week until Bill Neider decided to do some hefty heaving of his own. At the Texas Relays last week end, the 240-pound former Kansas star hurled the 16-pound shot 65 feet 7 inches, to better Parry O’Brien’s recognized world mark of 63 feet 2 inches. Neider got off his record heave on his first throw. He was using a borrowed shot since his own shot, which is fitted to his hand and balanced with mercury, was being repaired. Right now our old friend Mr. O'Brien must be tearing his hair out (if he has any left, that is) what with Long and now Neider making a shambles of his record. . . .
John Thomas, the high jumping phenom from Boston University, has been named honorary sports chairman of the 1960 Massachusetts multiple sclerosis drive. Thomas as everybody knows, holds the world indoor high jump mark with a leap of 7 feet 2% inches. . . .
The Milwaukee Braves have announced that Tommy Ferguson has been named the new equipment manager, replacing Joe Relays last week end, the 240-pound former heart attack at the age of 38. Taylor had been the Braves head equipment man since the team moved to the beer town in 1953.
Steve Clark, a 16-year-old schoolboy from Los Altos, Calif., bettered the American record in the trials of the 100-yard free style in the national AAU meet at New Haven, Conn., last week end. His time of 48.8 bettered the old standard of 48.9 set by Robin Moore of Stanford in 1956. However, in die finals, young Clark placed fifth as Olympic hopeful Jeff Farrell won the event in the fantastic time of :48.2. . . .
Irish Golfers Open 1960 Schedule April 23; Five Double Monogram Winners Pace Squad
Notre Dame’s 1960 golf team started practice officially last Monday as the Burke Memorial Golf Course was opened by Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., the golf coach. The team’s first meet will be against Northern Illinois at the Silver Lake Golf Course in Chicago on April 23, two days before the student body returns from Easter- vacation.
New assistant. Assisting Father Holderith this year will be Rev. Clarence R. Durbin, C.S.C. Father Durbin was the golf coach at Portland University for eight years and is now teaching Economics here at Notre Dame.
The squad itself is bolstered by the return of six lettermen, including seniors Captain Terry Lally, Christie Flanagan, Frank Hund, Budd Zesinger and Tom Rose. Each of these seniors has won
RAY PATAK Only returning junior letterman
two monograms. The lone junior letterman returning is Ray Patak. There is a whole host of promising sophomores led by Tom Grace, brother of Joe Grace who co-captained the 1957 and 1958 Irish golf teams. Sophomores expected to do well besides Grace are Bruce Odlaug, Craig Vollhaber, Russ Beaupre, Al High-ducheck and Eddie Schnurr.
Non-monogram upperclassmen that are likely to figure in the picture include seniors Skrzyski, and juniors Phil Schuster, Jim Kenny, Joe Blake, Bill Buse-meyer and Jack Valicenti.
Captain Lally is from Louisville, Ky., and he averaged 78.1 strokes per round last year. He has been a regular for two years and has had a great deal of experience in national tournaments.
Hund had the lowest average per round of the team last year with 76.8. The Galesburg, Ill., senior is a fine competitor and rarely has a bad round.
Flanagan, an easy-going Texan whose father was an All-American football
player at Notre Dame, chalked up a 77.7 average last year. He is known as a very fine putter who can come up with a sensational round occasionally.
Zesinger is a senior and a native of South Bend. Short and slim, he is regarded as a very fine short iron player and a dogged competitor. Last year he averaged 78.8 strokes per round.
Rose, a senior from St. Paul, Minn., finished the 1959 season with a 79.2 stroke average in earning his second monogram.
Patak, a junior from Dallas, Texas, played exceptionally well last year. He finished with a 77.6 average. Over the ■ summer he made national news by carding a 68 in the first qualifying round for the National Public Links tourney. He is a long hitter for his size. Patak won the University Open this year with a four-over-par 288, eight strokes ahead of the second-place Lally.
Sophomore star. Grace, who won the University Open as a freshman, could very well take over one of the three top spots on the squad. The Lathrup Village, Mich., sophomore is exceptionally skilled in almost all phases of the game.
This is the 28th year that Father Holderith has been golf coach. During this < time his teams have compiled a .703 winning percentage.
The 1960 schedule follows:
April 23—Northern Illinois University at Silver Lake, III.
April 29—DePaul and Bowling Green at Notre Dame.
May 2—Western Illinois and Iowa at Iowa City.
May 7—Bellarmine and Northwestern at Notre Dame.
May 9—Hillsdale College at Notre Dame. May 14—Indiana and Purdue at Lafayette. May 16—Michigan State Univ, at East Lansing. May 21—Tri-State College at Notre Dame.
May 23—Western Michigan and Detroit at Detroit. June 19 thru June 27—National Collegiate Tournament, Colorado College, Broadmoor Golf Club, Colorado Springs, Colorado.
CHRISTIE FLANAGAN Set for final year
Irish Host Kalamazoo In I960 Net Opener
Haffey, Anderson, LukHsch Win Fight Prizes; Quinn Upsets Former Champ in Bengal Finals
Notre Dame’s NCAA-Championship tennis team begins defense of then-crown with a match with Kalamazoo College tomorrow afternoon. The match starts at 2 p.m. on the cement courts of the Irish.
Number one singles player for the Irish will be Junior Don Ralph. Ralph, a second team All-American last season, hopes to lengthen his regular season unbeaten mark established in one year of varsity competition.
Also unbeaten in regular season competition last year, Bill Heinbecker, an-
BILL HEINBECKER
Number two singles player
Notre Dame’s 29th annual Bengal Bout program came to an end last Friday night as champions were crowned in ten different divisions. The Bouts, fought before a capacity audience in the Fieldhouse, were sponsored by the Notre Dame Council No. 1477 of the Knights of Columbus.
In the first fight of the evening, the 139-pound class, Mike Morrow of Morrissey Hall won a close split decision over Brian Richardson of Stanford Hall.
The 147-pound division produced one of the most exciting fights of the evening. Sam Haffey of Badin Hall edged Ross Franco of Alumni Hall. Haffey’s right hand punch had put Franco on the canvas at the end of the first round, but the stocky competitor fought back gamely.
Joe Srholez of Cavanaugh Hall produced the first knockout of the evening when he gained a TKO over Len Hanlock of Sorin Hall in the 152-pound class. Srholez had knocked Hanlock down twice before the fight was stopped after 56 seconds of the second round.
Feature attraction. The 157-pound class fight featured one of the best boxers competing in this year’s Bouts. Tim Reardon of Cavanaugh Hall, a polished performer with previous amateur experience, battled to a unanimous decision over Bob Fitzsimons of South Bend.
Bob Biolchini, an off-campus student, used a left jab to good advantage in winning a TKO over Pete Rosi of Morrissey Hall in the 167-pound class. Biolchini, hitting consistently with great proficiency, had Rosi’s eye so securely closed at the end of the second round that the referee wisely stopped the fight.
In the 172-pound class, Jim Gmelin, a very strong puncher from Lyons Hall, was awarded a unanimous decision over Ray Deluca of Cavanaugh. Gmelin carried the fight all three rounds and was never in serious trouble.
John Quinn, Vetville’s only entry in the Bouts this year, used a solid right hand punch in gaining a split decision over Joe Anderson of Fisher Hall. Quinn is an army veteran who played football for Notre Dame several years ago. He just started boxing this fall. He had Anderson on the floor at the end of the second round after landing a quick right hand shot.
In the 191-pound class, Tom Brennan of Dillon copped a unanimous decision over Tim Brennan of Breen-Phillips.
Barry Leone battled fiercely in his Friday night championship encounter to gain a TKO over Jack Eatinger in the Jr. Heavyweight division. The one-sided battle was stopped after 1:22 of the second round.
Viola comeback. In the Grand Finale of the evening, the Heavyweight championship bout, footballer Gene Viola got up off the canvas in the first round and won a split decision over Tom Gardocki of Howard Hall.
The winners in each division were awarded suitably engraved trophies. Three individual trophies were also awarded., Joe Anderson was awarded the Huddle Sportsmanship Trophy. Haffey, in winning the honor as the outstanding boxer of the evening, was awarded the Lany Ash Award. The Father Ryan Trophy, awarded annually to the boxer who is most outstanding in preliminaries, was presented to Joe Lukitsch.
other junior, will occupy the number two singles spot. Heinbecker was named to third team of the college All-American.
Irish captain Ray Bender, a senior, will hold down the number three spot. Fourth place goes to Senior Pete Heinbecker, Bill’s brother. Dee Stevenson, a senior, comes next. The final berth goes to another’ senior Brian Campanaro.
Ralph and Bill Heinbecker will be the number one doubles team. Two seniors, Bender and Campanaro, will be on the second team. Representing Notre Dame in the final doubles match will be Pete Heinbecker and Stevenson.
Kalamazoo College is of a somewhat unknown quality, but Notre Dame Coach Tom Fallon expects them to come up with their usual “very good team.” Fallon feels this will be a good test for his defending champs.
Kalamazoo will be out to avenge last year’s two defeats suffered at the hands of the championship Irish squad. They also will be trying to even the all-time series between the two schools at four victories apiece.
LEONE GOES IN FOR THE KILL
Jack Eatinger is helpless under barrage of Barry Leone’s powerful punches.
April 8, 1960
29
BOOK SALE
Save up to
<2
or more on BOOKS & PRINTS
2nd Floor
^Notre Dame^
BOOK STORE
Sale Begins April 1
Fencers Place Seventh	?
In NCAA Championship	i
Led by Jim Russomano, who achieved	j
All-American status for the third	j
straight year, Notre Dame’s fencing	j
team placed seventh in the NCAA chain- ( pionship meet last Friday and Saturday i at Champaign, Illinois.
As expected, New York University and Navy ran off pretty much to themselves and had a battle for the top spot. 4 The favored Violets’ 65 points were enough to take the crown from the de- I fending Middies, who tallied a total 57. I Princeton with 50 points took third. |
The fourth through sixth places were j taken by Wayne State, the only team • from the Midwest to top the Irish and I a 14-13 winner over the Irish during the £ regular season, Columbia and City College of New York. Wayne State earned its fourth place position with a 47-point total, while Columbia scored 46 and 1 CCNY 45. The 44-point accumulation of the Notre Dame forces was good for seventh, although only seven points shy of third place honors. Team totals are * computed by adding the number of wins of each member of the three-man team.
Jim Russomano, 20-6, finished sixth in his specialty, the foil. Actually, Rus- j somano was involved in a four-way tie !' for third in the number of bouts won, !i but was placed sixth as a result of ii touches scored, the method used to break ties in fencing.	’
Pete Giaimo with a 14-9 record tied for seventh in the epee while Ted De Baene finished with a 10-13 record in J the sabre after facing some of the day’s toughest competition.
Bill Scheduler, dominant force of the Na- 1 ’ ! tional Foundation for Calorie Controlled i I Sandwiches and elder statesman of Walsh j Hall commits himself concerning Beetle > sandwiches: “When the busy work day of ; a student leader has come to its end, there 1 is nothing I like better than to relax with I a Beetle sandwich. It’s a shame more students aren’t aware of the advantages of eating Beetle sandwiches. If only each stu- 1 . dent would pay the moderate sum of $50 at registration, he could have a Beetle Sandwich delivered to his door every night ■ of tiie school year. Talk to your hall senator about this, and while you’re waiting ,1 for the motion to be debated, try a Beetle i i Sandwich!”	’ |
The Scholastic J
30
DON’T PANIC!
For those who ore about to push the panic button over the upcoming final exams, the YCS tutoring service will be available. Students who feel the need of a tutor, may come to the YCS office located in the basement of the Student Center. The office will be open from 3:30 until 5 p.m. on Monday through Friday. They may make arrangements for individual or group aid. There is a slight charge.
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
ARE YOU SUFFERING, FROM ITCHY PALMS ??
STUDENT DISCOUNT SERVICE saves youthai paiN in the pain iJheN you trade*"* . AT
Reco Sporting Goods Nicola’s Pizza
Eddie’s Restaurant Simeri’s Cafe Louie’s Tuxedo Rental Sheehan TV Sales and Service William’s Furniture Store Portage Sunoco Service Station
Rubin Cleaners
Palais Royale Bowling Washington Shoe Repair Walgreen’s Drug Store (Michigan and Colfax)
Abril X. 1960
the pen that’s worth writing home about!
Imagine—being shipwrecked on a deserted island without an Esterbrook pen! Even a sun-tanned Robinson Crusoe would turn pale at the thought.
Just sampling Esterbrook’s 32 custom-fitted pen points until you find the one suited to your writing personality is more fim than opening coconuts.
The Esterbrook Classic fountain pen starts writing instantly the minute it touches the paper. Feels so “right” in the hand... and looks good, too! Choice of six colors.
If somehow you’ve missed owning an Esterbrook —get with it! Dig the message in the bottle. Get an Esterbrook. Get lost.
THE CLASSIC FOUNTAIN PEN •2.95 Other Esterbrook pens slightly higher
9imA
• T. M. The Eaterbrook Pen Co.
THERE'S A POINT CHOICE OF 32-ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTEO FOR YOUI
31
6 exceptionally — superior achievement
4 above
H average achievement
■ most of us
listen to................
WSND
Local Knights to Hold Anniversary Banquet; National Board will Assist in Celebration
Council 1477, Notre Dame, of the Knights of Columbus marks its 50th anniversary this week. Founded on April 22, 1910 the campus branch of the national fraternal order was the first college council in the United States. Its history is long and distinguished and this week the national organization pays special tribute to the local branch.
Having voted to hold its quarterly business meeting on the Notre Dame campus, the Supreme Board of Directors of the national group arrived here yesterday and is currently partaking in a rigorous schedule planned for it by Council 1477. The Supreme Board is composed of 22 directors who govern the activities of the one million members in the national organization. In addition to these men, the officers of the other college councils have likewise been invited. All will partake in a special banquet tomorrow evening in the South Dining Hall. Those interested in attending should contact Tom Medland in 309 Walsh.
The Notre Dame Knights were chartered by a small group of 41 including the recently elevated John Cardinal O’Hara. John Tully was selected the first Grandi Knight and permanent quarters were established in Walsh Hall. Since that time the Council has grown
greatly and lists several yearly events on its calendar.
Foremost of these is the annual Bengal Bouts. Coming under the sponsorship of Council 1477 in 1946, the bouts are an annual spring boxing tournament. Their goal is the solicitation of money for the C.S.C. missions in Bengal, India. In the 14 years since the council took over this activity, the tournament has netted nearly $50,000 for the Indian Missions. This year’s tournament has been recently concluded.
Another annual Knights activity is the spring picnic. For members it is “one of the big events of the year.” Members of the organization have many stories to relate about the activities at past such events.
Annually the Notre Dame Council has received numerous awards for its activities. Last year the council was given the Century award for acquiring over 100 new members. This honor has been received for each of the past 16 years. Another award recently received by the local group was the Star Council award. This was one of three such awards presented at the state convention. Finally, Council 1477 has received the State Deputy’s award for being the outstanding K. of C. council in the state of Indiana.
Too Many LARGE BILLS for Big Cars?
QUARTERS CRAMPED in Small Cars?
th6 ®est °f ^th: Big Car Room and
WComfort, Small Car Economy and Handling.
Lowest-Priced U.S. Car—
RAMBLER AMERICAN
Cut car costs by hundreds of dollars with the compact Rambler_____save when you buy, save when you drive, save when you trade again. Get room for six big 6-footers. High, wide doors. Turn more easily, park anywhere. See Rambler soon ... first to understand and meet your new motoring needs. Choose 6 or V-8.

’1795
Dttat Sadan, akoaa. State and local lam, t ar/, aptiaaal •ttipawat, extra.
GET FREE AUTO X-RAY BOOK AT YOUR RAMBLER DEALER'S
32
The Scholastic
BOOKSTORE CLOSED SATURDAY, APRIL 30 INVENTORY
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING YOUTH WORK farming clerical work acne b / Brothers are in great need today m the U S and foreign missions
For information and literature write:
BROTHER EYMARD. C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
Repercussions
(Continued from page 25)
all probability the students of ND will choose John Kennedy as their nominee at the Mock Convention. I heartily disagree with this statement.
I think that the men of ND are not to be fooled by a young man who is real cute and who combs his hair in such a way as to get the women’s votes. ND men will look at the records and the issues. They will vote for and nominate Lyndon B. Johnson.
Bill Markwell
Campaign Mgr. for LBJ
DISSENTING VOICE
Editor:
In view of the recent evidences of apparent disharmony that have occurred in the relations between St. Mary’s and Notre Dame, I am happy to report an instance of complete cooperation between the two schools. The event I refer to is the recent Science Open House, when, through the gracious assistance of the girls from St. Mary’s, we were able to accomplish most of the aims of the Open House. Therefore I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those St. Mary’s girls who participated for their interest and help.
Chairman
Science Open House
■ APPLIED PHILOSOPHY 221
Thought Process of Women
Dr. A. Tract
Emphasis on philosophy of getting dates. Background of dateless students who use sticky hair creams or alcohol hair tonics. Fundamental logic of students who have discovered that ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic takes care of hair even when used with water. Philosophy of the Enlightenment: one may use all the water one wants with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. Students who use ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic think—therefore they are sought after by lovely females. Cause: ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. Effect: Dates.

Vaseline
HAIR TONIC
In the bottle and on your hair the difference is clearly there!
•VASELINE' IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH POND S INC
April 8, I960
33
Back Pap
vacation
by JOSEPH CLARK k
Joseph Clark, author of this week’s ^Back Page,” is a senior A.B. physics major from, Lancaster, Pa. Active in the Blue Circle, he is also a regular NROTC student. Clark has contributed regularly to the Scholastic including a short piece of fiction a few weeks ago.
In this article he discusses the problem of the relationship between the life of a student at Notre Dame and its connection with his attitude toward his home community as manifested during vacation periods.
THE eagerly anticipated days of freedom have almost come again. Within the number of days we are finally counting on one hand the opportunity will at long last arrive to vault the gates of this strange educational world of Notre Dame. Wearing our ND jackets or collegiate trench coats the crowd of us will stream out — in more or less disorder — across the Indiana plains to little homes throughout the nation of which we’ve dreamed these many days.
To the “well-adjusted” many who have found — or know they will find — their supreme contentment in the quiet communities or bubbling cities that await them under rosy colored clouds . . . there is no worry, nothing more to be said than their adopted University gloriously anticipates their return again with dean sheets and open, fatherly arms.
QUEER UNEASINESS
It is to those humble few who find within themselves a queer, uneasy doubt about the lands of little families to which they will return—not having found the deep conviction or easy money that would justify escape to sunny southern dreams
34	‘
— that this thought may hold a slight appeal.
As we have fought to hold our faces among the crowds at Notre Dame we have each contained ourselves with sights on goals ahead. For some, here lies the chance to earn the intellectual tools that will be needed “to get a job.” Others have seen the safe security of the college halls as barriers to soften or delay that contact with the “outer” world. Many have set their minds to finding on this campus the “sensible” view of life, a few just stay (or leave) for the pleasure of it all.
For whatever vague, uncertain reasons we have detained, we have found ourselves not unchanged by our contact with the friendly strangers who met us freshman year — strangers who tried to tell us what to do as well as those our own age that made sure we held no sublime convictions uncontested as we worked together in our efforts to escape our old traditional world with the help of the promised dreamland of the intellect.
Now that the moment has arrived again to take our very brief vacation we know what we must be prepared to face when we come home. There will be the hours spent in meeting all the family friends again, learning all the not-too-important news that the past four months have made us miss, continuing the vague conversations with everyone— conversations left almost sterile without the exciting Christmas topics of just past football games at Notre Dame.
Some will, of course, try to avoid it all with rounds of get-togethers among their other college friends. But in the long week ahead they too will slowly fall — fall with the rest of us back into the old routine “at home,” back to the detailed life of “making arrangements” and doing some work around the house.
This, from all reports it seems, cannot be helped. Especially in the lukewarm bathtub atmosphere of our benevolent spring we hardly can be expected to hold our own against the old traditions of our own large social worlds. By the time the Easter services have passed their way we will stand and chatter with the oldest pals of tales from high school days and pretty friends.
FAULT FINDERS
But to you, who dare to find a fault within the structure of the “good old...” life, there is really only one thing left within your power to do. As you feel yourself falling into the old ways again, you needn’t rebel or fight to escape it, instead just begin to watch those curious ways they choose to lead you on. Let them plant you deeper in the involving situations of the neighborhood (it will make them happy). But watch them as they plan their leading remarks while you stand attempting to reach them with your conversation. Watch them as they smoothly make suggestions for your day. Try not to scare them into letting you alone — it will only make them be more subtle.
You will hardly be able to make much sense out of most of what they do, but there’s no need to judge their reasons right away. Perhaps when the short vacation’s over you will still be able to remember just a few strange ways they acted . . . just a few odd thoughts to contemplate within the long weeks of our continuing scholastic retreat before the next and longer vacations . . . just a few interesting curiosities that will — it might be the case — give us our own ideas to play with more seriously the next time we go home.
The Scholastic

S A GREAT FEELING
To Wiar An Arrow Sport Shirt



Neat, masculine,
comfortable
Adding a bit of dash to the campus scene are these traditional sport shirts that boast easy good looks, lasting comfort. Fine “Sanforized” fabrics enhanced with Arrow’s authentic buttondown collar. Carefully tailored in pullover style, $4.25, and regular models, $4.00.
See our new Arrow sport shirt collection designed especially for the college man. Many traditional prints with wash and wear convenience ... tailored for trim good looks in quality fabrics. Drop in while we still have a wide selection. $4.00 up.

Whonvor you 90 ... you look batter in an Arrow thiH
GILBERT'S
IN THR SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
FILTER-BLEND and only Winston has it!
Yes, Winston was the first to recognize that further improvement had to come in the tobacco end, ahead of the filter IIfilter-blendI is Winston’s own formula of fine, mild tobaccos specially processed for filter smoking. That’s the key to the smooth, satisfying taste that makes Winston America’s best-selling filter cigarette. Try Winston!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
Winston tastes good like a cigarette should!