


Artist at Work 

The April 1984 issue of Schola,stic kept the magazine's Art Editor, Kathleen Keifer, very busy. Here she is photographed by next year's Head Photographer at Schola,stic, Scott Bower. In addition to her art­work for the cover, Kathleen organized the Gallery section and the illustrations for the Kathleen Walker poems in this issue of the magazine. 
Albert Einstein did not realize the future impact his invention 
. would have. This month, Schola,stic explores the nuclear issue and its possible effects at Notre Dame. Also, Schola,stic looks at the admis­sions system at the University and offers a glimpse at Camelot in South Bend (a piece on the Student Players production which was, inciden­tally, also written by Kathleen). 


Vol. 125, No. 8, April, 1984 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 
8 The MX and Counterforce Strategy 
11 The Effects of Nuclear Detonation on the 

Campus of the Uniuersity of Notre Dame 13 lnteruiew with Hesburgh 14 lnteruiew with Halloran 18 The Admissions Game 13 Theater/"For one brief shining moment..." 19 A Humorous Look at Growing Up 3 I Perspectiue/The Way We Were: 
Notre Dame in the I9S0's 


REGULARS 
1 . The First Word 3 Arts Calendar 4 Scholastic Notables 6 ND Focus/Fort Lauderdale 7 SMC Focus/"The W" 

16 Gallery 14 Poetry 16 Fiction/Deep Like the Riuers 31 The Last Word 
Paul Komyatte 
Dominic G. Gabaldon Laurel-Ann Dooley Jim Basile Tom Sapp Kathleen Keifer Paul Nobrega 
John Bustamonte 

Kathy Curran Kathleen Keifer Keuin Donius, Patti Drabick Barb Steuens Mary Beth Hocks James Keifer Kathleen M. Walker Bud Luepke .Jim Ganther 
The opinions expressed ·in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do. not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the Univer• . sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vaca­tion and examination periods. Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $9.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the prop­erty of Scholastic. Copyright © 1984 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 



The First Word 
by Kathy Curran 
Saint Mary's Editor 
When I was nine y~rs old I was swept away by an -undercurrent while body-surfing in the Pacific Ocean. As I was being dragged through the water, sheer terror engulfed me. I realized nothing I could do would stop the force of the waves -I was drowning. While my sisters were digging for sand­crabs I was about to be devoured by sharks. 
With the end of the school year coming I am beginning to feel that way again. It seems impossi­ble to fulfill every demand -forces are pulling on me and I am losing ground. There are papers to write, tests to study for, and activities to plan. I cannot charm my way through these things; yet, I do not see how I can get them all done well. 
And I am getting tired of this. Horseback riding sounds a lot more inviting than sitting through another class. I would joyfully opt for baking in the sun over spending an afternoon in the library. Feasting upon a Baskin-Robbins ice-cream cone would make me a much happier girl than attending a meeting. 


Scholastic Correction 
. Dr. Anthony Ostric, in an article in the March 1984 issue, wrote as follows: "It is stated in [Philemon's Problem, by Rev.James Tunstead Burt­chaell, C.S.C.] that His Excel)ence Leo E. Pursley, 
D.D. (sic), Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend, gave his Imprimatur, i.e., official approval for the publication of Father Burtchaell's above-named book. When asked about that, this now-retired Bishop, otherwise known as faithful and totally loyal to the Church, declared that he never gave his approval (Imprimatur) for this book, that his name was put there intentionally, without even asking him; that 'this represents' as the Bishop stated, 'the betrayal of my trust' " (p. 16). 
In reply to a query from Father Burtchaell, Bishop Pursley has stated that in conversation and in correspondence with Dr. Ostric he had affirmed that his Imprimatur appeared in the book because it had been cleared by his censor. He had further clarified that if a censor would knowingly approve a book that contains doctrinal error, then he would betray the Bishop's trust. 
Scholastic regrets any error in this matter, and notes that ecclesiastical authorization for the publication of Father Burtchaell's book was duly obtained. 

2 
SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 

It would be easy to sit here, complaining about the present and worrying about the future. Yet nothing can be accomplished that way except in­creasing the likeliness of an ulcer. This is a difficult time of year -but it is succeeding in these times that allows a person to shine. 
We should not do only what is required of us -but "give it our all." We should meet tasks not with the objective of getting th~m done but with the idea of accomplishing them to the best of our ability. That extra effort is what distinguishes the conductor from the maestro, the cook from the chef, the player from the champion. 
But there is a deeper realm of living beyond simply fulfilling responsibilities. We are called not to function, but to live. And living requires an ac­ceptance of God's role in our lives. Our actions should not be products of self-determination ~nd selfishness, but demonstrations of our love of Him. We should study to "ace" an exam not to improve our graduate school-bound G.P.A., but to glorify God. We should thoroughly research topics not in attempt to prepare us for future pursuits; but to manifest our God-given talents. 
Life will be full if we keep our purpose for liv­ing in perspective. If our actions are attempts to do the will of God, and not that of ourselves and others, there will be no failure. Our goal in life is to surrender to God. That objective will keep us from being swept away by currents -just as my father's hand saved me from the waves. 0 


., 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
1983-1984 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
James S. Ganther 
GENERAL MANAGER Thomas M. Sapp 
ST. MARY'S EDITOR Kathy Curran 
Photo Editor Michael P. Leary 
News/Sports Editor Kevin Donius 
Culture/Fiction Editor Laurel Ann Dooley 
Copy Editors Kathleen Doyle· Janet Drobinske 
Art Editor Kathleen Keifer 
Advertising Manager Jeannie Euch 
Business Manager Jim Dever 
Distribution Manager 
Brent Kruger 
Editor-Elect 
Kathleen McGarvey 
Head Photographer Scott Bower 
Advertising Staff Reginald V. Daniel 
Advisory Board 
Dr. James McDonnell 
Prof. Elizabeth Christman 
Mr. Michael Garvey 
Prof. Marjorie Kinsey 
Prof. Robert Schmuhl 
Dr. Linnea Vacca 
Photo Credits All Scott Bower, except pp. 5, 7-St. Mary's College Public Relations 
Mike Leary, p. 2 I 
Illustrations 
Kathleen Keifer, pp. 3, I I , 23 
Mimi Korbuly, p. 24 
Chip Crowe, p. 2 5 · 
Liz Meyer, p. 26 
Pat Conboy, p. 27 . 
Cover Kathleen Keifer 

s Calendar 
Student Exhibition of Art April 15-28 Snite 
19th c. European Photo April 8­Snite 
Faculty Portraits April 8­Snite 
Camelot 
April 26, 27, 28-8:00 p.m. Bendix Theatre Notre Dame Student Players 
William Windom plays "Thurber I" April 25-8:00 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
SMC Student-Faculty Show April 27 . Moreau Gallery 
Shoot the Piano Player 
April 25-7:00 O'Shaughnessy Loft 
The Face of Another 
April 26-7:30 p.m. Washington Hall·_ 
We All Loved Each Other Very Much 

t.•'.
April 27-7:30 

I
Annenberg Auditorium 
Zelig 
May 4-7:30 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium 

Godspell 
May 3, 4, 5, 17, 18-8:00 p.m. Saint Mary's Campus 
St. Mary's Senior Art Comps. Until April 27 Moreau Gallery 
Karl St. Clair, guest conducter April 28-8:00 p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
Midwest Pops; Lerner & Loewe Show May 6-8:00 p.m. Century Center 




Notables 
University of Notre Dame 
by Kevin Donius 
News/Sports Editor 

Professor-Governor Gilligan 
John J. Gilligan, former governor of Ohio and Thomas and Alberta White Professor of law at Notre Dame, will leave the White Chair to become Fran­cis J. O'Malley Professor and special assistant to the president for public policy. 
Gilligan, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1942, earned a Silver Star for gallantry as a Navy officer in the Sec­ond World War, and received a master's degree in English literature from the University of Cincinnati in 1947. He served on the Cincinnati City Council as well as in the U.S. House of Representatives before being elected governor of Ohio in 1970. He has held the White Chair at the law school since 1979. 
The Francis J. O'Malley University Chair was established last year to memorialize one of Notre Dame's most famous and admired faculty members. O'Malley died in 1974 after 42 years as a member of the English department, in which he specialized in the relationship between religious belief and literary im­agination. 
Gilligan, a former student of O'Malley, will be required to teach one class in the Freshman Writing Program 

Military Justice 

Notre Dame Law School professor Kenneth F. Ripple was recently ap­pointed to the Military Justice Study Commission by Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger. 
The commission of nine members, three of whom must be civilians "who are recognized authorities in military justice or criminal law," was established to study the changes in court-martial procedures and sentencing process pro­posed by the Military Justice Act. The commission will meet periodically to hear interested parties and will submit a report on this and other matters to Con­gress before September. 
Before coming to Notre Dame in 1977, Ripple served as a special assis­tant to the chief justice of the United States and as a legal officer of the Supreme Court. 

The commission of nine members was established to study the changes in court­martial procedures and sentencing pro­posed by the MWtary Justice Act. 
_. __., , . :9,t\.O~ ·.'· :::1_'<,!/, 


Senior Scholarship 
Curtis Milhaupt, a senior government and international studies major, has become the sixth Notre Dame student to win the Japanese Government (Mom­busho) Scholarship. Milhaupt, a native of Chilton, Wisconsin, was one of seven students of the Japanese language who qualified for the scholarship after a three-hour examination taken by 35 graduate and undergraduate students. Ellen Ryan, a Saint Mary's government major from Scituate, Massachusetts, qualified as an alternate recipient of the award. · The scholarship offers the opportuni­ty for research study at a Japanese university selected by the ministry of education for a period of 18 months to two years. It provides transportation fees, tuition, board, field trips and a . monthly stipend of 168,000 yen ($730). 
Last year's Notre Dame awardee, Frederick Dickinson, a government ma­jor from Lebanon, Indiana, is currently attending Kyoto University. 


John J. Gilligan, former governor of Ohio and a 1942 graduate of Notre Dame, will become the ·rrancis J. O'Malley Professor and special assistant to the president for 

public policy. 

Saint Mary's College 
by Patti Drabick 

Recitals 
Two senior music majors presented recitals at O'Laughlin's Little Theatre during March. Rebecca Ann Wilson, a native of Mishawaka, presented her piano recital on March 8. Wilson's pro­gram includes pieces by Scarlett, Liszt, Beethoven, Ginastera and two works by Chopin. She is currently studying under Dr. Jeffrey Jacob, associate professor of music at St. Mary's. 
Ann Harvey, a native of Cotuit, Mass., studied voice last summer at the American Institute of Musical Studies in Graz, Austria. Her program included songs by Joseph Marx, Rachrpaninoff, Chabrier, and Menotti. Harpist Susan Davis accompanied her for three Irish country songs. A member of Saint Mary's Women's Choir, Harvey will serve as cantor for the Baccalaureate Mass during commencement exercises on May 19. She will also play the part of Hansel in the music department's opera "Hansel and Gretel" in April. 

Vacca Wins Fellowship 
Linnea B. Vacca, assistant professor of English at Saint Mary's College, is one of eleven college and university members in the state of Indiana to • receive a Faculty Open Fellowship from the Lilly Endowment, Inc. 
The fellowships, started a decade ago, allow faculty members to pursue 

Phone-a-Thon 
The ninth annual Alumnae Phone-a­thon at Saint Mary's College generated pledges totaling $71,500 during its four­night session this March. 
Volunteers consisted of students, faculty members, staff, and local alum-

Commencement Speaker 
May 19 is the day of commencement for seniors at St. Mary's College this year. Abigail McCarthy-writer, lec­turer, and women's rights ad­vocate-will address the 1984 graduates. McCarthy, who was recently selected as one of America's fifty leading women, will be among 4 to receive an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree from the college. Author of the critically acclaimed memoir, "Private Faces/Public Places" McCarthy has also written the novel, "Circles, A Washington Story" and currently writes a regular column for Commonweal Magazine. She has co-authored three other books, among them "Why Catholic" and is now working on another novel. A collection of her col­umns and essays will soon be published by Atheneum. 
/ 
innovative research and work-study pro­grams in the United States or overseas. 
Vacca, a member of the Saint Mary's faculty since 1969, will spend the com­ing school year at the Institute for the Advanced Study of Religion at the University of Chicago. A native of Chicago, Vacca received her PH.D. from the University of Chicago. She has also taught classes in humanistic studies and religious studies at Saint Mary's. 
nae. They contacted almost 2400 SMC alumnae across the nation and 68 % of those contacted promised contributions. The average pledge was $44.51. The goal set for the phone-a-than ($65,000) was exceeded by 9 % . 
All the monies received from the an­nual. event are used to offset the high operating costs of the college. 

superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who will receive an honorary doctorate of humanities; and Evans Woolen, often referred to as the "dean of Indiana's architects," who will receive an honorary doctorate of fine arts degree from Saint Mary's. 
Mary Kelly McLaughlin, leader of California's Education for Parenthood Project and '42 graduate of Saint Mary's, will receive the President's Medal. 

McCarthy was the founding president of the Washington-based Clearinghouse on Women's Issues and has served on an advisory committee for the Women's Political Caucus. She is also vice­president of Church Women United and the National Conference for Interracial Justice. A graduate of the College of St. Catherine, and currently a member of their Board of Trustees, McCarthy received her master's degree from the University of Minnesota and has done graduate work at the University of Chicago. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, Mrs. McCarthy has received six honorary doctorate degrees. 
Other honorary Saint Mary's degree recipients include: Robert Beck, chair­man of the board and chief executive officer of the Presidential Insurance Company, who will receive an honorary doctorate of laws degree; Sister Olivia Marie Hutcheson, C.S.C., 





~ Focus
M 

Fort Lauderdale: 

The spring break crowd invades the scene and the natives don't mind 
by Barb Stevens 

Miles of green sea flank a narrow strip of white sand almost completely covered with towels and sunburned bodies. A wide road, looking like the city at rush :1 hour, stretches between the beach and a row of bars, restaurants, and shops.
ii 
Known also as "The Strip" this section of road remains active 24 hours a day. At

I! 
daybreak the die-hard members of theii night crowd straggle home past early
I: 
beachgoers and morning joggers. In the

!.i 
evenings, many people linger · on the beaches long after others have arrived for happy hours or dinner. At all hours of the day, the poor guys who never did find a cheap place to stay and are still sleeping in their cars can be seen lathering up their hair under the beach side showers. Even the most mundane experience, like driving, becomes an adventure on the strip, the only place in the United States where people think that U-turns are legal and that a red light means enough time for four more cars to shoot through the intersection. Even more hazardous than cars are the bikers who weave through traffic popping wheelies and shooting water pistols at every driver with the window down. This place is Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The occasion 
-spring break! 
The crew of college kids in Fort Lauderdale for spring break have only one short week to get a savage tan, and they waste no time. Early every morning people arrive at the beach, plunk down on their towels, blare their boxes, and try to add to the two hours of sleep they got the previous night. The industrious pre­med students, already thinking ahead to MCATS, spend a laborious hour brushing up on their anatomy -concen­trating on the girl in the leopard bikini and her blond friend in the fringe. By 
11:30 the beaches are so crowded that when people rotate their towels to stay in the direct line of sun they end up lying on 
6 .SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 

the people next to them, who wake up wondering how they got the white strip across their legs. The warm, clear ocean offers a refreshing break from the sun for anyone whose suit is made for swimming, and during .the afternoons, groups like the Beach Boys, Modern English, and Heart give free concerts at the far end of the strip. By midafternoon mariy kids have to take a break from the relentless Florida sun. These people can give themselves pseudosunburn. by entering the belly flop contests or just relax and get something to eat or drink at any number 
of places across the street. 

Night lift in Lauderdale begins before night even arrives; in fact, many doubt that it ever ends. In a variety of bars along the strip kids dance, drink, and socialize. Even walking or driving along the strip provides as much entertainment as a live show. Many of the guys lounging along the walls give the impression that they have never seen girls before or have spent the past year locked away in Pangborn Hall. For girls, driving down the strip at night is like driving through a safari park. Unless they keep their win­dows tightly closed a:t all times, something may try to enter the car. 
In the middle of the strip, within easy walking distance of everything, sits the Sheraton Hotel where the students on the Student Union-sponsored trip stayed. Featuring spacious rooms, a pool, and ex­press elevators that stop magically on every floor whether or not anyone pushed that button, the Sheraton was a choice spot. Right outside, the alumni van parked for the week -with a message board and a free Watts line for students to call home. 
With a different batch of college students invading their city and beaches every week, crowding into their restaurants and jamming their roads, it would seem likely that the natives of Fort Lauderdale would resent them. However, the elderly man out for his daily walk has nothing but smiles for the 
"The ·crew of college kids in Fort Lauderdale for spring break have only one short week to get a savage tan, and they waste no 

· time. Early every morning people arrive at the beach, plunk down on' their towels, blare their boxes, and try to add to the two hours of sleep they got the previous night." 
girl in the leopard bikini bouncing along · the sidewalk in her morning jog. The local restaurant owners and shopkeepers are friendly and eager to ple·ase the throng of students mobbing their businesses. The . shopkeepers, taking a lesson from college bookstores, stamp Fort Lauderdale on any common item, jack up its price, and sell it by the hun­dreds. Even the bartenders, a · little frazzled by 3:00 A.M., feel only good will for their customers, especially the happy boy at the end of the bar waving a twenty dollar bill and shouting "Drinks for everyone on me." 
No, the natives of Fort Lauderdale don't seem to mind the spring break crowd. In fact, during the other months of the year they probably get quite lonely for the rowdy college students and even more lonely for the green pieces of paper the kids bring down to Lauderdale to 
blow. . 
Barb Stevens, a ;unior Arts and Letters ma;or, spent her spring break in Fort Lauderdale and returned with this report for Scholastic. She is from Pitman, New Jersey, and frequently contributes to this magazine. 



. .
~-r _· .·· 
~-.OCUS 




''The W'': 
The unique writing­program since 1972 
•. Mary's programwas evaluated favorably by Mary Beth Hocks . by an external comrpittee in 1_982. Saint Mary's offers W -courses ih a · variety of · subjects,._· rarigfog from 
The. writing program at Saint Mary's Philosophy and History to A~t and Music, may not be great table talk but, surpris-and ideally, a· student should choose a ingly enough, it has been the subject of subject which interests her and study· party talk upon occasion_.. Mysterious writing within that course's content. rumors about something callecl "the W" Saint Mary's students thus avoida much­float around dorm rooins, dining halls, hated horror at many universities called Professor Ann Loux and yes, even parties! Here's a typical ex-Freshman . Composition .. The · Writing ample:· On one. of my r~re and. daring Committee, comprised of professors from helpful and demanding. She points out visits to a capacity-packed party room, a various departments, goes through train­that writing classes are limited to 20 guy I knew, as he was squeezing past, ing which better qualifies.them to teach students, a personable · atmosphere stopped to talk a minute. With him only writing, and this same group awards ''the which, coupled with the help of tutors a nose0 length .away, we were in a .great W" to students at the end ofthe semester. · and student assistants, helps provide the position to do the tango, but instead, he The process culminates.jn reading port­personal. attention so vital to writing in­yelled in my ear, "Heyl I just met a senior folios of each student's work, with two struction. The use of computers has 
· from Saint Mary's who seemed kinda professors . other than the 'individual's added a new dimension to some writing quiet-a little down. Finally, she just teacher --~eading each one. Students who classes. Two professors are currently hav­burst out, 'I didn't get my W,' and then have achieved the committee's standards ing students write and revise all papers on took off!" I let out a loud laugh, theri · of writing are then ~warded a W. Those computers, and Professor Loux looks for­regretted it: that poor gid ... a senior?· who don't "get Ht _however, face the ward to more utilization of computers in 
· But my friend wasn't finished: "What is ''.puriishmeni:" of another writing course, future writing courses. the 'W thing,' some kind of award? I and possibly a lot of.heartache! The mysterious "W,'' representing an always · thought it. was like a Professor Ann Loux, founder and cur­interdisciplinary writing . program withdrawal-you know, a punishment." rent director ofthe program here at Saint suitable to a liberal arts education, is an 
My imaginary inquiring. friend Mary's, . understands that heartache.· award well worth having. Although, like unknowingly got right to the true, and · ''Writing is terrifying,'' she sympathizes, finals and senioritis, it seems another almost paradoxical, nature of "the W" as "and it doesn't always work!" She stresses hump to get over on the road to gradua­seen from t_he students' point of view. It is that an educational· institution can en­tion, "the W" is not impossible to get: we an award; it can also be a punishment· courage students to-wri_te, n:iaking it just have to put up with a little writer's (the old torturing kind, the rack!). That rewarding and productive rather than ·cramp! . bold-faced W that attaches · itself to frustrating and pointless. The difficulty,. course numbers (103W) eventually she says, is "how to produce good stan­belongs on the transcript as an award of dards but not produce t]::ie effect". of sorts. But for that poor senior (and she discouragement. As a tutor· in . the isn't alone), that W, or actually lack of, Writing Clinic, which buttresses the W. has become a real burden: without it, she courses, I myself can certainly see the risks no less than graduation! frus~ration of _students whose insecurity 
"The W," translated as Proficiency in about their writing abili_ties often stems Writing, is actually the. emblem of a from poor high school training. Typical unique writing program at Saint Mary's. comments from frantic students. are: "I Formed in 1972 as a "metadisciplinary" · .hate wrifing"; 'Tm a terrible writer";· method of teaching college~level writing, "My teacher ha,tes my writing!" While the Saint Mary's Writing Programjs one trying to encourage my fellow students of the· oldest cross-curriculum programs not to give up, I still can't deny that, for in the country. Writing across the cUr-some,' "the W" is· hard· to get arid. that riculum has become quite popular since these heavy writing courses are tough. Mary Beth Hocks'is a junior· at Saint educat0rs have emphasized the value in Professor Loux · remains optimistic Mary's College and is an out.standing both learning and practicing writing in about the success of the program. She musician who frequently performs at the context of disciplines other, than cites the objective standard and wide au­"The Empty Keg." Mary Beth haUs from English. Not surprisingly, the Saint dience created . by the committee as Columbia, Missouri. 
SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 
7 
·­




by Paul Komyatte 
In his papal encyclical Peace on Earth, Pope John XXIII decreed that "the fun­damental principle on which our present peace depends must be replaced by another, which declares that the true and solid peace of nations consists not in equality of arms but in mutual trust alone." Unfortunately the two super­powers in the world have an immense amount of progress to make before Pope John's goal can even resemble reality. With the United States and the Soviet Union possessing stockpiles of nuclear warheads capable of annihilating each other several times over, they have historically relied on the strategy of deterrence to uphold the state of peace between them. The strategy of deterrence holds that neither the U.S. nor the 
U.S.S.R. would initiate the use of nuclear weapons because the retaliation inflicted by the other side with warheads that sur­vived the first strike would devastate the attacker, thus deterring the attack in the first place. 
The current superpower balance thus relies not on trust but on the sheer ability to annihilate one another, thereby discouraging or deterring nuclear at­tacks. The nuclear balance therefore ap­pears to more closely resemble a balance of terror or a precarious nuclear stalemate, threatening to unleash a tor­rent of destruction if deterrence fails. In­deed, fears are growing that this strategy of deterrence could break down, doom­ing the world to an unprecedented calamity of destruction. In its recent Pastoral Letter of War and Peace, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops analyzed our current situation and set up guidelines as to what course our deterrent policy should take in order to avoid an untimely death of society as we now know it. 

Current trends and programs in our government's nuclear planning strategy, however, appear to compromise not only the policy of deterrence itself but also the goals of the Bishops' letter. A good exam­ple is one of the more recent additions to the U.S. deterrent force: the MX missile 
SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 

program which unduly threatens the 
balance of deterrence and hence the goals 
of the Bishops through its destabilizing 
qualities. 

The MX essentially has its roots in two 
areas of our nuclear strategy. Initially, 
the MX was designed to reaffirm the 
strength of the strategic triad. The U.S. 
has historically maintained its nuclear 
forces in a triad of land, air and sea based 
weapons. The U.S. currently: maintains 
inter-continental ballistic missiles 
(ICBMs) as the land based segment, sub­
marine launched ballistic missiles 
(SLBMs) in submarines as the sea based 
segment, and B-52 inter-continental 
bombers as the ~ir segment of the triad. 
Utilizing three basing modes was ra­
tionalized as best maintaining sur­
vivability of our nuclear forces and thus 
as best upholding deterrence. While the 
Soviet Union could develop the ability to 
strike and knockout one leg of the triad, 
U.S. strategic planners felt that it was highly unlikely that the Soviets could . develop the capability to simultaneously destroy all three legs of the U.S. triad. 
While the triad served the U.S. goal of 
deterring war for nearly three decades 
after World War II, increasing doubt 
about the survivability of the land based 
force began to surface in the mid-1970s. 
As fears circulated that our land based 
ICMBs could no longer withstand or sur~ 
vive a Soviet first strike attack, the MX 
was proposed in order to !1olster and to 
reaffirm the survivability of the land 
based segment of the U.S. triad. The MX 
is a super-accurate and highly powerful 
land based ICBM, and US planners felt 
that its deployment would once again 
make our land forces survivable and thus 
a credible part of the deterrent force. · 
In addition to bolstering the sur­
vivability of our land based ICBMs, the 
MX missile also finds its roots in the more 
recent and still evolving counterforce 
strategy of the US deterrent force. 
Counterforce targeting embraces the 
posture that weapons be targeted on 
Soviet military targets like hardened ICBM silos as opposed to population centers like cities. Counterforce strategy itself evolved from the need for a flexible and credible deterrent. 
While during the 1960s and early 
1970s, US doctrine stressed that credibili­ty of our deterrent force depended on be­ing capable of withstanding a first strike and then retaliating with devastating im­pact against Soviet economic and popula­tion centers, this doctrine was modified to incorporate counterforce capabilities when the previous doctrine began to lose credibility. US strategists became con­cerned that leaving the president with the single option of a massive retaliatory strike against Soviet cities and industry after any level of Soviet attack was not only becoming unrealistic but also less credible. 
Would a US president, for example, launch a devastating retaliatory strike against the Soviet Union after a very limited Soviet attack of about 10 missiles on the US? President Nixon put the scenario in perspective when he asked Congress in 1970: Should a president in the event of a nuclear attack "be left with the single option of ordering the mass destruction of enemy civilians, in the face of the certainty that it would be followed by the mass slaughter of Americans?" Strategists maintained that, in order for the US deterrent to be credible, the US must have the option to respond in_ kind to a limited Soviet attack, through a retaliatory but limited strike on Soviet military targets instead of cities. Counterforce thus provided an option so that if deterrence were to break down, the US would not be doomed to a. mutually suicidal nuclear war with the Soviet Union, but would instead be able to employ a limited attack on Soviet missile silos in an attempt to bring the war under control and to thus minimize the number of resulting civilian deaths. 
The MX program fit into the counter­force arena by being an ideal weapon for the kind of strategy that counterforce im­plies. Since military targets like Soviet ICBMs are often placed in super strong hardened concrete silos, a warhead must be necessarily accurate and powerful to hit · and destroy the target. Land based ICBMs have inherently been the most suited for this job of "silo busting" (as it is commonly called). The MX itself is ideal for the job. Given the missile's pinpoint accuracy° and awesome explosive power, it is estimated to have up to a 99 % kill 
-~----. ~-.-. . 
' . . . 
"The current superpower balance thus relies not on trust but on the sheer ability to annihilate one another, thereby discouraging or deterring nuclear attacks. The nuclear balance therefore appears to more closely resemble a balance of terror or a precarious nuclear stalemate." 


probability against Soviet missile silos. 
Counterforce capability became firmly embodied in US doctrine with the Carter Administration's promulgation of Presidential Directive 59 (PD-59). According fo PD-59, signed in July of 1980, the US would now be prepared to fight a long but limited nuclear conflict by using precise nuclear strikes against military targets, employing silo-busting weapons like the MX missile. US strategic doctrine thus came to be fighting and prevailing in a possibly lengthy but limited nuclear conflict, striking against military targets instead of population centers. Since it was believed that deter­rence may indeed someday break down, US strategists thought that we should at least plan to limit the resulting destruc­tion. Counterforce strategy and the MX missile would provide the pos~ibility of fighting a limited nuclear conflict and thus of minimizing casualties in the event that deterrence between the US and USSR did fail. 
The MX thus evolved from a dual pur­pose of re-strengthening our increasingly vulnerable land based leg of the triad and of providing an ideal tool in the newly emerging US counterforce strategy. While the goals of the weapon are, ad­mittedly, easy to rationalize and to justify, the accompanying destabilizing aspects of the missile lead me to conclude that it would merely increase the chance of a catastrophic nuclear holocaust. 1n: itially, a strategy of planning to fight a limited nuclear war makes the results of nuclear war less abhorrent and thus more likely. The capability to destroy enemy nuclear forces will make nuclear weapons appear more useable in the form of precisioned nuclear strikes which would minimize civilian deaths. Once the effects of nuclear weapons are made to look less catastrophic, the nuclear threshold is lowered, for one factor that deters the use of these weapons is their horrendous .destructive capability. Policy-makers may feel less hesitant, especially in the event of a future crisis, to use nuclear weapons if they are portrayed as being useable and not terribly destruc­tive. 
The tragic result is that nuclear war will not likely remain limited, and thus, increasing the likelihood of nuclear weapons' use increases the chance of world destruction. PD-59 itself employs the targeting of Soviet bomb shelters pro­tecting Soviet officials with the authority over atomic forces. It is somewhat bewildering to think how such a war is to be kept limited when Soviet command and escalation control centers have been destroyed. 
Policymakers themselves appear dubious over the prospects of keeping a nuclear war limited. Former Secretary of Defense Harold Brown appeared to close the case .on the very PD-59 strategy he helped promulgate by stating in 1980 An­nual Report that he was not at all per­suaded that "even a tightly controlled use of the strategic forces . . . could be kept from escalating to a full scale ther­monuclear exchange." Robert McNamara, Secretary of Defense in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations and largely responsible for a great deal of our current strategic thinking, wrote an article in Foreign Affairs last year at­testing to the sheer unlikelihood of ever keeping a nuclear war limited. 
The Pentagon itself has simulated war games in which the initial use of a single nuclear warhead has escalated to the point where Europe as well as the US and the USSR was devastated._ Simple logic dictated the unlikelihood of any nuclear conflict remaining limited. Planning to win a limited nuclear war not only in­creases the chances of such a conflict by making it less unacceptable, it also prom­ises to be certain death for millions since a nuclear exchange-once started-will most likely not remain limited. 

While the goal of using the MX to fight a limited nuclear war is dangerous in itself, perhaps even more destabilizing to deterrence are the qualities of the missile itself. Initially,, the close resemblance of the MX to a first strike weapon threatens US-USSR stability. A first strike entails the firing of one's missile fleet in order to wipe out the other side's missiles and to effectively disarm it. By its nature, a counterforce capability implies this very ability to destroy enemy warheads before they leave the ground. Since counterforce entails the targeting and the destruction of enemy warheads, the counterforce strikes must be fired before enemy missiles leave their silos, making them in­distinguishable from a first strike attack. 
While US strategists, of course, deny the intention of ever launching a first strike against the Soviet Union and claim that our counterforce planning is strictly for retaliatory purposes, the Soviets are not easily convinced. Donald Snow puts the situation bluntly in his book on nuclear strategy: "Any Soviet planner who takes the (former Secretary of Defense) Schlesinger justification and distinction between counterforce and disarming first strike seriously would have to be a palpable fool. "2_Perhaps the most convincing proof of our policy being synonymous with a first strike one is the comments of US strategists themselves. When defending Carter's SALT proposal in 1977, Secretary of Defense "Brzezinski said that the Soviets should recognize that the MX system 'could be extremely threatening to them' with its 'first strike capability against their land based system.' "3 Statements like this are hardly reassuring to the Soviets. 
Should we actually deploy the MX, we would definitely be one step closer to possessing a first strike capability. Nuclear strategist Desmond Ball as well as Herbert Scoville, the former head of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, has attested that the MX pro­gram would pose a serious disarming threat to the entire Soviet land based missile fleet. While the MX plans have been substantially scaled down from the initial proposal of deploying 200 missiles, and even though there are numerous uncertainties concerning whether an ac­tual disarming first strike capability is at­tainable, the addition of the MX to our current ICBMs will be perceived as nothing but threatening by the Soviet Union. 
In terms of deterrence, this prospective US first strike capability is extremely destabilizing. If deterrence is to work, both the US and the USSR must be able to absorb a first strike and still have enough weapons left to launch a substan­tial retaliatory strike. The US counter­force policy with the MX, however, will undermine this situation. According to Department of Defense figures, the USSR 
SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 



. . 

has over 5,300 land based warheads com-radar systems showed the entire Soviet placed in current ICBM silos, making pared to only 1,334 submarine launched fleet streaming towards the US. While thein just. as vulnerable as our current missiles, thus relying on land based forces these breakdowns were quickly detected IC13Ms. Herbert Scoville explains in his for 75 % of their overall deterrent. A US and solved, 1t is always a possibility that a book on the MX that vulnerable first strike ability against. S.oviet land future · ·malfunction would not be weapons, especially ones like the MX that based missiles will therefore threaten the detected until it was too late'.· Tite pros~ · are seriously threatening to the Soviet majority of what the Soviets depend on · pect of .a Soviet "launch on ·warning" .deterrent, · "become flashing beacons for deterrence. . . · poUcy placing the.World at the·mercy·of drawing enemy fire."4 The MX would do 
The ·last 25% of the Soviet deterrent the infallibility-of computer anq radar nothing more than invite a Soviet first spread· among sea based missil_es and systems is irtdeec:l a troubling oile. · strike upon the US. bombers can hardly .be reassuring to While a "launch on warning"· posture Having reviewed the MX qualities, it them in the event that their land segment is one possible Soviet response to the MX, becomes obvious that it is extremely is knocked out. Soviet submarines. are the US first strike. potential will also destabilizing. Not only do plans for mu~h more vulnerable than ours a·re, and -greatly .increase the risk of a Sov"ietfirst .· limited nuclear war increase the risk of their bombers are old and outdated, strike against the US. In a future crisis, if war, but the threatening nature of the making them ext~emely vulnerable if the Soviets feel that the US is preparing to MX to Soviet ICBMs also increases the caught on the ground. It thus becomes launch a first strike, they would be more risk .of a nuclear war. It now becomes clear that if the Soviets are to inaintairt. a · inclined to launch a first strike themselves necessary to examine the specific goals of credible deterrentforce, theirland based in a pre-emptive fashion_. The-reasoning ._ the Bishops' letter to realize just how far ICBMs must retain a high rate of in-behind this analysis is that it i_s better to US doctrine is straying from peace vulnerability, something which becomes strike first than· to be caught unaware. towards a catastrophic holocaust. One more unlikely ifthe MX is deployed. Since·:a successful US first. strike·_ against stipulation in the letter concerns rhetoric 
As we move into the time period where the Soviets would leave them virtually in-about a limited nuclear war. The Bishops Soviet ICBMs lose their vulnerability capable of a. credible retaliatory . argue that the concept of nuclear war as (because of MX dep_loy1,T1ent), the only response,. they-will be . more apf to a viable defense strategy must be resisted. plausible effect wiU be _a drastic_ increase eliminate this US. p·ossibility by ~triking Citing their extreme pessimism about the in the risk of nuclear. war. The.MX will first in the future. It would be extremely likelihood of any nuclear conflict remain­provide the US ·with a potential first unfortunate if the US· were _to· put the ing limited; the Bishops place the burden strike ability along with a ·counterforce Soviet leadership in such a predicament, of proof "on those who assert that mean­doctrine that is indistinguishable from a yet our counterforce doctrine is indeed ingful limitation (of nuclear war) is possi­first strike one. In order for the Soviets to . moving .us to the point where _we may in-ble."s be assured of their security; they are like-vite a Soviet ~ttack upon nurselves simply In addition to .urging resistance to ly to take moves which would be counter because ·of· our threatening capability plans for limited war, the Bishops also lay to US security. The simplest and initial -posed on Soviet ICBMs. . down specific guidelines as to what measure the Soviets could take would be The only other likely route _for the course future weapons systems should to adopt a "launch on warning" posture, Soviets to take is -simply one of playing take. Initially, the Bishops oppose ensuring that their missiles are not caught the. same game. If .the -MX makes Soviet weapons which are vulnerable to attack, sitting idlyin their silos by a US surprise ICBMs vulnerable, they can simply add yet which also possess a "prompt hard­attack. "Launch on warning" means that to their forces a~ they see fit in an attempt target kill'' capability that may seem the Soviets would launch their missiles as to give them more warheads and launch-useful in a first strike. e Th.e Bishops also soon as their computer and radar systems ers than the US could target. A Soviet iii-oppose weapons which are planned to be detected US missiles bearing down on the crease in warheads in l'.esponse to the MX · used in a nuclear war-fighting capability Soviet Union. Many strategists have deployment wouid simply _exacerbate the which "encourage notions that nuclear warned that as Soviet ICBMs become arms race,. leading to· a· constant pursuit war can be engaged in with tolerable ... 
vulnerable, t.he Kremlin will be tempted to see who could attain•the inost missiles. · ,,7
· · consequences.
to adopt such a policy in order to Use The final destabilizing aspect of the The final goal of the Bishops is to op-their missiles before· they lose them. MX is that it itself is vulnerable and thus pose weapons that seriously threaten 
The unfortunate implication of this a tempting target for the Sovie.ts. While arms control, and they write in_ the letter policy is that it would greatly increase the the initial Carter MX proposal would that each new weapon must be assessed chance of accidental nuclear war. The have employed a multiple mobile basing precisely in light of its effect on "steps US has already· experienced numerous system that was supposedly invulnerable, toward progressive disarmament."s The computer malfunctions in which our it now appears as if the missiles will be Bishops view deterrence as only a tem­
porary situation which must be used to 
pursue meaningful arms control. Any 
weapon which threatens arms control 
must therefore be rejected under this 
criterion. 
Having summarized the stipulations of 
the . Bishops concerning our deterrent 
force, it becomes more than obvious that 

· the MX seriously violates every one of 
them. The explicit goal of PD-59 and 
counterforce is to use the MX for limited 
nuclear options, something the Bishops 
adamantly oppose. The burden of prov­
\ ',; 
ing that limited nuclear war is possible
.,mr, 
which · the Bishops placed on its pro­




--"-·ttt;·---, 

ponents is also not met, for people likeAi·:};~ Harold Brown who helped formulate our f 1 plans for limited nuclear war-fighting
I \ 
r.; \ 
I'.:\ 
i,, r_-~\ ­
The Strategic Balance 
1. Deliverable Warheads In the Tree Segments 
ICBMs SLBMs Bombers 

5,900  5,000  ~  
~o  I  ~o  
US USSR  US  USSR  US USSR  
1 LAND  l'"---A-------. SEA  +AIR  2. Total Deliverable Warheads - 

Source: Living with Nuclear Weapons  us 9,900  
The Harvard Study Group  
Bantam Books, New York, 1983  USSR  
7,800  

admit that any nuclear exchange will not likely remain limited. 
The MX also fails to meet the re­quirements concerning new weapons systems. The Bishops oppose weapons which are vulnerable and threatening to the Soviets as well as weapons which make nuclear war seem more tolerable. The MX, however, seriously threatens the Soviet deterrent force and will only invite Soviet attack because of its glaring vulnerability. The MX is also designed explicitly for limited nuclear options which make nuclear war appear less unacceptable and horrible, a quality the Bishops vehemently oppose. 
Finally, if the MX is to have any effect on arms control, it will only serve to stimulate a new era to the arms race as the Soviets race to shore up their impend-. ing ICBM invulnerability by stockpiling more weapons than the US can target with the MX. The MX will make real arms control less likely if not impossible and, the Bishops feel, must be rejected on these grounds alone. 
In conclusion, it becomes clear that the MX missile program violates every stipulation which the Bishops urge should be met in order to best avert nuclear war. While the Reagan administration claims the MX is needed in order to reaffirm the strength of the strategic triad and to im­prove our counterforce ability, its likely effect will be to push us closer to the prec1p1ce of a nuclear Armageddon. Planning to fight a limited nuclear war is only likely to become a self-fulfilling prophecy of disaster, and US official counterforce strategy is seriously destabilizing to the nuclear balance because of its first strike potential. 
US nuclear policy is thus being transformed into a strategic doctrine which may well prove fatal. Even if Con­gress decides not to appropriate funds for the entire MX program, limited nuclear war fighting and counterforce strategy have become ingrained as solid elements of official US policy. We are thus heading directly away from what the· Bishops urge should be done to achieve peace and are instead pursuing policies of limited nuclear war and war-fighting ability which seriously increase the likelihood of a nuclear holocaust. 
Each of us has a duty to pursue peace and tQ resist being dragged into a chasm o·f nudear disaster just because our leaders have developed strategies they deem politically useful and viable. The Bishops conclude in their Letter that each of us is "called to be peacemakers" and that "the purpose of defense policy is to defend the peace." If the world is to achieve the peace of which Pope John spoke, the US ·and the USSR should refrain from programs like the MX which seriously undermine a stable deterrence situation. As Bernard Brodie wrote just one year after Hiroshima and Nagasaki, "Thus far, the chief purpose of our military establishment has been to win wars. From now on its chief purpose must be to a':ert them." . 


Paul Komyatte is a junior Arts and Letters major. He is a Hoosier hailing from Munster. 
SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 11 
Ii 
ii 
ii 
11 
:I 
i!.
,.Ii 
I
:f
ir I 




h~ Effects tQ)f a Ntmc~ t n tic nth Uni r it if 




by Dominic G. Gabaldon 
Educating people about the real and present dangers of nuclear weapons can go a long way in coming to grips with the problem, yet the problem is so monumen­tal that everyone must be constantly made aware of it, lest they allow it to become an issue in the backburner of their everyday lives. It is unfortunate that any issue, be it great or small, is given full attention or the attention it deserves only when it hits close to home. Only then can people see the conse­quences and realize how the issue at hand will affect their livelihood. Such is the case with the nuclear issue at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. Hundreds of hours have been spent educating students about the nuclear dilemma, but more often than not the students have treated the material presented as merely subject mat­ter to be learned in the never-ending quest for a liberal education. Little thought is given to the possibility of nuclear war occurring, for we as human beings tend to shun visions of horror from our minds. We categorize the nuclear issue into the "theoretical" portion of our minds, not being able to imagine any such disaster occurring. We don't realize that nuclear warfare is closer to reality than many of the things we take for granted as being real. We can take a class about the nuclear dilemma, but somehow it ends up fitting that 4:15-5:30 time slot in our Monday and Wednesday schedules, with little other time spent on so urgent an issue. This graphical representation is an attempt to bring the nuclear issue closer to "home," a try at in­stilling into the minds of people forever the reality of nuclear devastation in a way that would constantly remind them throughout their journeys in their "home," the campus of the University of Notre Dame. 
As most of us know the Notre Dame environment very well, and have even come to revere the place and everything it stands for, we tend to become threat­ened when some "outside" force tries to downgrade or even destroy the sense of place that Notre Dame is in our minds. We identify with almost everything we 
12 SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 
see here, be it the Dome or our dorm rooms. With this identification we feel an aura of security and stability. We could never imagine a Notre Dame being brought to its knees by some force, for as a force, Notre Dame itself is one of the more powerful in our minds. But a nuclear weapon is just the thing that brings the mightiest of places down. A nuclear weapon does not respect the sacredness or formality of architecture, 
but rather reduces all works to the state they were at before the influence of man or nature. What if the Notre Dame cam­pus was indeed brought to its knees by a nuclear detonation? Would we only then realize the importance of the nuclear issue, or is it enough that we hypothesize this scenario in order to bring the issue to the point of reality in our minds? For the sake of this study, and for life itself, the second route seems more appropriate. I will hypothesize such an instance. 
Imagine that after a dramatic escala­tion of a conventional conflict between the superpowers in Western Europe, the Soviet Union decides to launch a counter­value nuclear attack against the United States to destroy the fighting will of the American people and to coerce the United States into ceasing further hostilities, lest the Soviets continue their countervalue attacks. In the Soviet countervalue attack, American cities are selected as targets for their industrial capacity· and population and for their psychological and sentimental value to the American people. South Bend, In­diana, is one such city selected, noted in the United States for its contributing role in the industrialization of the Midwest and also for one of the more famous universities in the country, the University of Notre Dame. 
The warheads used in the countervalue attack are I-megaton equivalents detonated at an altitude of 6000 feet, and are directed at the heart or downtown areas of the American cities. The weapons are airburst-detonated to max­imize the area of destruction. The main component that causes the damage in an airburst detonation is the diffraction loading of the blast. As the bomb is detonated, a blast wave. is formed, and when the front of this blast wave hits the edge of a building, reflection occurs. As a result, the air pressure builds up quickly to at least twice the pressure in the blast wave, and the blast wave bends or dif­fracts ar·ound the structure so that the building.is engulfed by the blast. Damage occurs due to the great pressure dif­ference between the exterior and interior of the building, depending on the number of openings the building has. 
In the case of South Bend, Indiana, ground zero for the detonation is the River Bend Plaza area of downtown. The campus of Notre Dame is located approx­imately 2.5 miles from ground zero. Damage caused by an airburst to struc­tures is divided into three categories. The first category of damage is labeled "severe." In this category, the degree of damage is such that it "precludes further use of the structure for its intended pur­pose without essentially complete reconstruction." The collapse of the building is implied in this category. The second category of damage is moderate, 
. which denotes "a degree of damage to principal structural members that precludes effective use of the structure or object for its intended purpose unless ma­jor repairs are made." The last category is slight, which denotes "a degree of damage resulting in broken windows, slight damage to roofing and siding, blowing down of lightinterior partitions, and slight cracking of curtain walls." 
The categories of damage due to a I-megaton airburst detonation at an altitude of 6000 feet apply to South Bend, Indiana, and Notre Dame in the.follow­ing manner. At a distance of up to 1.8 miles from ground zero, the peak over­pressure developed by the blast wave is 20 lb./in.2 Conditions of failure of peak overpressure-sensitive structural elements require at the most 7.0-8.0 lb./in.2 over­pressure to cause structural failure. At a distance of up to 2.7 miles from ground zero, the peak overpressure is 10 lb./in.2, still enough to cause failure to peak overpressure-sensitive elements. The damage within these two distances would lie in the category of severe, with each building for the most part being totally destroyed. At a distance of up to 4.0 miles from ground zero, peak overpressure is 


t>::-·'. '.Father?~_,~durgh,.·Preiident·of the University of tfotre·: .· ;, Da111e,, •.11as be,i\H'I outspokttfr against nuclear w,arfare .. L~i:'leb .. ·•·.· ...·.•· 
. . Ann Dooiey, Scholastic~s c,llturelflctlon e,dlto.r; spoke wltli < ·••· ·•· ··. · Father He~_bur,g'h at le11gth;c~ncernlng these.~lews. ·. -". -.. 
{illi:.:;n'.ltifa:~1il'i~~~li~'~J( i:i~~:uwb:;~Jn~t6~',h~•::;;'/::!J~t::':,.·• •. 
•.···...·.·/·'-··.·.··.•···.·.•···.······.'.·· ... ·.. .. •· ....• ...·.·a.····.t ..n.·.··ts··•···.·.··O.n ....· ..d·i.·a·.··.··d···.·· ..·.·.

..••.·.·.·.·.·.1.·..n ·.•·.·•.t.e.rm.·.s of ..e··.d··.·. u·c ..···.i.ng··•. st·.··ude····· ...·.·•·..·.·.th...~.·.....i.·.s.s•.u···.e.ia·n····· ....-.·•···...•.·•.··.···.·.·.·· {l~:i1\;!~1/:tlfa°/tl;t(!B~lt£1?:flfiif/jt:;y:··
;terµiJ.&tCfTflY,,a~d. if.Jhe 13~ci.1if~o/,lt,,CfloiJgi:h~'d•... 
__,.· 

auvon it:.•A.t•l'east be,ciinsdo,us·.? '.',forth,;,although rn 'hapeJto;say<thilt,in<abo.ut'.8.0.%,,,;/, 
~}li~rii~e?lt~J~fil[C!!':O}ti{((li~t~tliif~ii;:f~t()lizi~~%~~{filiitt*r~~:~c1tlitlJf1l~~:f~jf
····· r{!ates.t.•moral,,proble11t.. thattmercjaced mank.irig.;,t,;,.. t-:~nd-T thmk'thats/gott(!•Pe.stopp~d;,,too; Cl• •.::;· c/?lfi'if'.f 













~~~·~~~I 
5.0 lb./in.2, and the amount of damage is classified into the moderate range. The campus of the University of Notre Dame lies approximately in the range of  overpressure that is critical for the failure of such pressure-sensitive structural elements. The Notre Dame School of Architec­ facades of the building, as the site of the building is North/Northeast of ground zero. The two dormitory buildings adja­cent to the Architecture Building  r. I I I  
2.5 to 3.0 miles from ground zero. Most  ture is located approximately 2.6 miles  (Howard  and  Morrissey Halls)  would  
of the buildings located on campus are  from ground zero on the campus of the  create a shadow effect on the blast wave  
either  multistory  reinforced  concrete  University of Notre Dame. The building  as it hits the Architecture Building, but  
buildings  with  concrete  walls  or  itself is a multistory reinforced concrete  the pressure would be so tremendous that  
multistory wall-bearing buildings. Since  structure  with  concrete  walls  and  the  blast  wave  would  engulf the  Ar­ 
the structural elements in these two types  limestone  veneer.  The  plan  of  the  chitecture  Building  with  little  conse­ 
of  building  constructions  are  peak  building is an Italian palazzo type, with  quences from this shadow effect. Due to  
overpressure-sensitive elements, and the  the center portion of the building being  the nature of the plan of the Architecture  
campus would be subjected to a range of  an  open volume with  rooms  arranged  Building, the wave front would not only  
overpressure from 5 to over 10 lb./in.2 ,  around  this  volume  in  a  "doughnut"  act upon the usual four sides and roof of  
the damage to  the buildings would be  fashion. Throughout the interior of the  the building, it would also act upon the  
classified in the severe category, which  building, marble is used as the primary  four sides of the central interior volume  
generally  denotes  the  collapse  of  the  material for the flooring system.  Win­ · of the building, resulting in a nine-sided  
building. Only those buildings which lie  dows are single-glazed wood frame type.  overpressure  effect  on  the  building.  
sufficiently out of the 2.7 mile/10 lb./in.2 limit might be subjected to a damage  Upon being subjected to the blast wave of the airburst detonation, the Architec­ Because the building lies within the 10 lb./in.2 overpressure range, the building  
labeled as moderate, but there are few if any that would escape the 8 to 10 lb./in.2  ture Building would at first experience overpressure on the south and west  would collapse either immediately or in­cipiently, with only the interior rein­ 

· . ~chol~sti~•s Ji~ Basil; also talke~ 1~1tlli~r11ard ...• , <' Halloran9'Speclal Assistant at the.US Arn'ls Control a~·d,-.· 
•Disarmament Agency.·.·. . i ' 
;-;.· ~:-=-;;;>, . ~::_, i(i{[i::&c~-:0iJ:')Y 

·.• SC.HOLASTIC: bby~ll perc~i~fthe .ct1henflJS-. •··. ·..•·11i'as'.•1Je~nOp<J~iibility,sd·w/·~'.usi·b~..•rJady,i~(deitl. USSR strategic situation as one ()f parity?i· . .· ·o : . w,it,h it. i/i· .•> . ;:h/ . ·: ·. • .,• .HALLORAJ\l: Ncf;\The Bovie ts achieved:parity tn >The M}(has bee~ aroung}o(thie!l gerier:atig11S.7 
.1972 forgelydue'·tii ·adecisjonon .. the part of·.the·us ·:1'he Scowcroft•·•Com11tissiop.··recently.pointed .. out•···• ·..·...·. .governmentin 19.~~. to allow· thew, .to acl;iteve .par1:; 't~t•the MX,. iiJ'as·an essenti,91 weapon.asabedge>.· ty.§uch '11ten as'joriner Secretary'<if Defense Robert against possible vul11erability ofour Trident fleet~: to . 
· McNamam ,believeatharonce. theSovietsachi,eved iguara~tee extended de,t~r:rence in terrns ofthe<<ii ... parity we. fO.uld liCllf the.Clrms. rac:e.,siricf giutu al,;:. . • .de[.ense oj..E.urope;: and .t,<>idefen(j,,<lgainsIJl Sovii!f\ det,erre1wewouldfe assufifcl.. NcnJJ)the pfoblemiis:> 
ji'i-ststrike;iiapability;· MX;iloes iiofriatJe,ailyth.in[I to thai people look ai specific numbers of delivery ... ,do with•limited·.riucleqr war> Thejact•.is,,that wt···.·.·•·•ii .. veh,icles and. warhea@and assume thati]ithe. · <> •n~~iJ:MXJo,maintainthe;traditipnalpolicy ofdeteic·.· numbers are.dose that parity exist§. In reality the" r¢riqt!, unless ,we.w.antto ~aseour, p<>licy.onb.luff.. .. ·· . 
... ke.y is not the riiimbers .but,the. capability of·.. · 'SCHOLASTIC: ·How .do you see ~~ new.· Ru~iar1 •··· .··... wecipons,and:theit.survivability.. In this area the,••·· 1lellc}ership as affecting the~prospE!cts for arms, con: Soviets have gone '!J.e.yong parity and hav,l! at­
6:q!2 . ' '. . . . ,. < . .•. '.•.·.· .•..•.. 

•.ternptedto reach·ajirst-strike capability, ·. ·rHALLOHAN: Ldon'tsee ifajjepti.ng>it orie way or•, 
SCIIOLAS'J:'IC: Qoyou.see. the.gre>.wihg,~i,nphasis ;<ff.JJ.thei an(! it is to() earJ~.:£0 ·tell ifit will make any . · ... oil.Hmited'riuclea.I"·war and pro~ams li~ifhe ~· >;;; sigriificarjfd,ijjereii,~e. ;/!iYiL ·-:0J: ·. : >.. > •••.·• ·.·. •~.consistent V11Hffdeterrence? .· < -< : .. '. <. i / ..·.. ·• SCHQLASTIC: C,iven the ~urrenfdeadlock in,the ....••......... 
. " HALLORAN: .The issue oflimited nucle.ar war. goes. tall.cs; would you c<>nside:(.~ unilateral ge,sture such.·.·.··• backJq;thel(lte,1950'swhen many 71.eople q~tside of. ( as the·non~deploymen~,of Et1romissiles? ··• •.··· ./ X / ·.,· · . the govemmenisucJi;asHenry Kissinger.r<>qlized .. · .. HALLORAN: Defin,itely;not\ThepoUcy. of our .·.· ,. that theUS and the [f~SR would. reaph parity<The .•... · goverriment is to proseedwiththe dtq1loym,ent. The. 
• questiqi1,.thenti.Jpulo.JJe whetlier the,·US woil{clbe ... /;. Sovie.ttivalkedawaytrom ·tJfe talksjor no.good .. ·forced'to.engage inbrtisrtfire w<lrs·across·theivorld. . .. reason; To not de.pfoy tbe 11tissi.les would be:Uke ··•. and bf! sta{einated by the• Sov.fot :nuclellr. th~eat. To ··...···• ·.. ." ..:rewarfling•a spoiledp~i.[d.·· T;h,e/UShasalready•• 
· avoid·.this pd~~ilityj{wasJelfthat:ii,ri. intei'f,i.ediatf •· F((t!nde,r,f~ken s_epe,ral ufiilaterq[f'rnoves.stich as con~' ' lev.el,'below geri'eral.nui:lear w.arwasneeded: ,This.·•· i .. ·. ··•· tinuing to negotiateivhile the Soviets proceeded i ··• · wizs'.liinited•nuqlear;war_'The qu¢stiqnis iioi .. ··· · < ··•· · < with th.e. deployment of the SS-20. Our.Job is not to . •... 
+ wh.ethef limited·nuc{ear wardSconsisteni .. 1'h.eJact· is that for deterrence}o be effective it inus(exist . 
I
across the specfrurri,' If deterr:e.nce breaks_ ilo1JJn at · . ·soinep<>int there mustibe aninterin.e<.liate step,: .......... 
I
before total weir. Hiftoricczlly Umited r.ucleil1\riwr: .. ··•.•·· .·· 
ff 
r 
I 

1 
14 SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 

"Upon being subjected to the blai,3twave ofthe: '', airpµrst'getonation; thElJ\rchitecti.Jre Building.·· .. WC>IJldiaFflrst·exper[enceoverpre;,sure' on Hie·,· South and \Nest facades ofJhe.bi.Jilding, a,:s the· 
, · site' ,of ·the·. building is North/Northeast ot . gr~und zero..The two dormitory buildings adja0 :> cent to. the Architecture Building, Howard ahd: . Morrissey Halls, would create a shadow effect · · ordhe<blast wave as :it hits the Architecture ,Building;but the:pressure would be so tremeh~; > · dous·.that the. blast,.wave··•.would engulf. the cc··· Architecture Building with littie consequences . .frpm this shadow effect" . .. . . . . . 
forced concrete columns and portions of the exterior reinforced concrete walls left as a reminder of what once stood there. 
In researching, writing, and doing the drawings for this article, I came to a bit­ter realization of just how powerful a nuclear weapon is. Previously, I had thought that if a "bomb" were to be detonated "over there," there would be no possible way that it would affect me or my surroundings, because I was far enough away!from "it" (the detonation) that I could continue my life in my own little environment. The nature of a nuclear blast is such, however, that distance or any of the other factors that limit the effects of conventional weapons do not apply or apply in some radical way. Notre Dame, our own little world inside the real world, is not immune from such effects, no matter what the place stands for or how beautiful it is. Yes, even a campus that took decades tg build and design can be a victim of a nuclear blast. Suddenly, the reality of nuclear warfare has come closer to the place many of us call "home," and hopefully this proximity will awaken people to the seriousness of the nuclear issue. Maybe by taking a stroll throughout campus might people realize the preciousness of life, either by seeing the man-made works of art presented as buildings or else by expe­riencing the natural beauty of the area. It was truly difficult drawing up the ruins of the Architecture Building after the ef­fects of a nuclear blast, for I live in the building and no one wants to envision their house being destroyed, but in doing so, I now appreciate Notre Dame so much more. Because of this love of the place, I have come to a full awareness of the tragedy of nuclear warfare, and I will go to almost any extreme (such as doing this article) to convey this alarming 
message. . 

Dominic G; Gabaldon is a fifth-year 
'architecture student from Belen, New Mexico. This article was originally presented as the final project in the mul;!disciplinary course "Nuclear Dilem­ma. 
SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 · 15 




., 
There are many guides which are

by Tom Sapp. published by the Yale Daily News, says
designed to provide high school students 

General Manager that "competition pervades" in the 
with profiles of different colleges. These 
academic life of the University. The In­
profiles are usually brief and filled with 
siders Guide notes that football is theFather Edward Sorin's dream in 1842 statistics. Barron's Profiles, for example, social highlight and criticizes South when he founded the University of notes that "Notre Dame was established Bend which they say is not a typicalNotre Dame was that no boy should in 1842 . . . affiliated with the Roman college town with bars and theaters ad­ever be denied admission to the clearing Catholic Church ... located in an ur­jacent to the campus. 

in the wilderness of northern Indiana ban area on a 1,250-acre campus, one 
The Insiders Guide profile of the 

called "L'Universite de Notre Dame du mile from South Bend and 90 miles University concludes, "Notre Dame lifeLac." from Chicago ... 92 percent Catholic." 
can be an extreme hassle at times. TheTimes certainly have changed. Now The Comparative Guide to Colleges big finger points most often at the ad­women have been admitted along with and Universities adds that the Universi­ministration playing the lead role in"the boys" and admissions standards are ty "is determined to raise the quality 

Father Knows Best. Often complete 

tougher than ever. Father Sorin's vision and status of Catholic higher disregard for student input accompanies of admitting everyone who applied is education." It further states that decisions which directly affect student lost today in Notre Dame's competitive academic pressures are "strong but not life. But Notre Dame has many goodselection process. overwhelming" and that "football re­people and provides the opportunity for And the admissions process is getting mains a major campus interest." 
a good education." 

tougher, at least to the eyes of outsiders. Notre Dame does not always fare 
Another recent book on the market, This past year, the University of Notre well in these college portraits, either. The New York Times Selective Guide to Dame was moved from the "highly The Insiders Guide to Colleges which is Colleges, now in a new 1984-1985 sec-competitive" category (which includes universities such as Northwestern, 
Chicago, and Georgetown) to the "most 
competitive" category (along with the 
Ivy League schools, the military 
academies, and Stanford, for example) 
in Barron s Profiles of American Col­
leges. 
Notre Dame has steepened its admis­sions standards in the past two years. Beginning with this year's freshman class of 1987, Notre Dame requires three College Board Achievement Tests in English, Math, and another of the student's choice in addition to the SAT, transcript, and teacher recommenda­tion. · 
Also, the. Undergraduate Admissions Office has instituted a new "Early Ac­tion" option for Notre Dame's freshman applicants. Outstanding students who are satisfied with their junior year SAT scores and who have selected Notre Dame as their first college choice, are encouraged to apply by November 1, instead of by the regular application deadline of March 1. 
Early Action applicants receive their letters of acceptance or rejection before Christmas, but they have until the regular confirmation deaqline of May 1 to accept enrollment. This last aspect is relatively unique; most colleges who have an early actioE option also have an earlier confirmation date. 925 ap­plicants for the class of 1988 applied by November 1 of this year and 625 students were accepted, The acceptance rate for early action candidates was about 66 percent, a statistic which is much higher than Notre Dame's· average acceptance rate of 35 percent. 
John Goldrick Notre Dame's director of admissions 


ond edition, rates various colleges using a scale of one to five stars. Notre Dame received four stars for academics, but only three stars for the social life. The author of the book, Edward Fiske, writes, "Notre Dame was strictly a men's school until 1972, and that is painfully obvious after one look at the uneven sex ratio. Social life is a big sore spot. Dating is described as 'infrequent and unrelaxed,' and only the presence of 1600 women at St. Mary's College across the street rescues the social scene from near oblivion. Unfortunately, once paired up, there's little to do on weekends except drink." 
Ninety percent of Notre Dame's students are Catholic, Fiske says, "and, while plenty of them are non-Irish, vir­tually all are middle-and upper-middle 
class, with 'pitifully little deviation from this norm.' Almost half of the students come from private and parochial schools, and a quarter are the children of alumni.'' 
Fiske calls Notre Dame students "serious scholars . , . more than three­

"We have an obligation to bring students here who will not fail. It's not fair to admit a student whose record and test scores indicate that he won't succeed at Notre Dame. I think the trauma of being forced to leave this place Is far greater than that of not being accepted." 
-John Goldrick 
quarters have an A or A-average in high school, and a third place in one of the top five spots of their graduating· class.'' 
The writer is complimentary 


towards Notre Dame's Freshman Year 
of Studies, the Foreign Studies Pro­gram, and the Center for Social Con­
cerns, Fiske also notes the theology and 
business departments, along with the Program of Liberal Studies. Fiske adds, 
"At a time when many universities are 
retrenching, Notre Dame is completing major building projects" and "pouring money" into the library. · 
Fiske writes, "With the religious statues and devotional paintings adorn­
ing its old imposing buildings, Notre Dame even looks Catholic-not inap­propriate for a student body that welcomes religion as an extra dimension to an already outstanding undergradu­ate experience." 
As the catalogues all indicate with . statistics, Notre Dame is a competitive school with regard to admissions. Often complaints are heard that Notre Dame 

I 
i 
I 
I 
I 
I 
! 
~ 
i 
Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Mean Mean Applicants A~plicants Students Who SAT SAT 
Enrollment Accepted nrolled Graduate In Verbal Math Five years 

University of Notre Dame 8889 35 66 96 564 634 
California Institute of Technology 1715 28 57 68 650 750 Columbia University 18,626 40. 48 85 620 640 Cornell University 19,120 32 52 79 583 644 Harvard University 22,371 17 76 95 684 697 Johns Hopkins University 9853 46 40 83 627 673 Princeton University 6167 20 56 81 638 670 Stanford University 13,592 19. 63 85 610 660 
U.S. Naval Academy 4509 15 81 67 572 655 University of Pennsylvania 22,612 40 48 85' 620 680 Yale University 10,201 20 60 90 670 690 
Boston College 14,431 35 49 80 512 555 Catholic University ·of America 8031 62 45 509 531 Georgetown University 11,939 32 48 80 603 624 Marquette University 11,366 82 47 472 527 University of Dayton 10,755 79 41 64 467 529 
20 SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 has no "cut-and-dried" admissions stan­dards, that many students who are ac­cepted have poorer qualifications than some who are rejected. 

So what does it take for a high school senior to be admitted to Notre Dame? Obviously, scholastic achievement, class ranking, SAT scores, and.recommenda­tions are important. But a student is not likely to be admitted if he shows only academic ability. "We're not in­terested in bookworms, the type who is involved only in studies," John Goldrick, Notre Dame's director of ad­missions, said in an interview in Notre Dame Magazine in May, 1980. 
The admissions office looks for leadership abilities and extracurricular activities in applicants. The admissions office also evaluates student writing through a short essay that is required as part of the application. Students in­terested in entering the class of 1988, for instance, had to choose one of the following topics for a 500-word essay: 
1. If you could meet any historic per­son, whom would you choose? Why? 
Size of Percentage of Percentage of Campus Students Who Students Who In Acres Live on Campus are in-State 
(In-City) 

1250 76 10 
112 34 21 304 0 41 734 34 51 
93 20 156 47 24 548 96 14 
8180 54 44 329 100 223 45 30 165 57 12 
161 38 46 190 23 30 101 57 5 70 40 47 76 44 56 
1111 
' -.
' . --~-~-~ . . ' 

In making all acceptance or rejection decisions, Goldrick keeps one thing par­ticularly in mind. "We have an obliga­tion to bring students here who will not fail. It's not fair to admit a student whose records and test scores indicate that he won't succeed at Notre Dame. I think the trauma of being forced to leave this place is far greater than that of not being accepted." 
Notre Dame is concerned with the composition of the undergraduate stu­dent body and addressed the situation in the PACE Report, which embraces the University's priorities for the next decade. The Report asks, "What should the University do to attract more of the most outstanding and exciting high school students to Notre Dame?" 
The University recognizes that Notre Dame "can expect to attract a greater share of outstanding and exciting students as departments improve in quality, as the institution continues to develop as a major university, and as its reputation is enhanced and spreads. In addition, however, outstanding students must find at Notre Dame not only strong departments and faculty, but an environment supportive of intellectual and creative effort." 
The PACE Report also examined the undergraduate enrollment figures. It recommended that enrollment remain at 7,300 during the 1980's, but that the University reevaluate the proportion of men to women in the student body. 1982 freshman class statistics show that of the 4933 men who applied, 2171 or 44 percent were accepted. On the other side, 2735 women applied and 837 or 31 percent were accepted. Interestingly, 59 percent (1271) of the males offered admission matriculated at Notre Dame, while 62 percent (520) of the women enrolled. 


SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 21 



Indeed,' the PACE Report asserts that Notre Dame's student body is unique as is Notre Dame. Despite mentioning several of the University's downfalls, most of the college guides assert this uniqueness, also. It may be tough to be admitted to Notre Dame, but those who finally do enroll are provided a good education. Fiske in his Selective Guide to Colleges adds, "While most of America thinks that Notre Dame is where smart Roman Catholic men go to play football, the administration likes to say that Notre Dame is where the Church does its thinking. In reality, Notre Dame is both and more. Above all, it provides a rigorous education to a set of highly motivated, competitive undergraduates." D 



"What is this place called Notre Dame? 
And why does It mean so much to so many 
people? A thirst for knowledge, a convic­
tion that not all truths are contained In 
textbooks and a desire to foster that thirst 
and conviction In others-these things form 
the keystone of Notre Dame and have 
always been at the heart of its pursuits." -The Notre Dame Bulletin of Information, 1983-1984 
"The University of Notre Dame finds itself 
on the threshold of becoming a great 
university, and all our efforts should be 
directed towards crossing this threshold. 
Our purpose In this report Is to think 
through anew the mission of the Univer­
sity, to consider the state of the University 
today, to consider our potential for the 
decade ahead, and to make specific recom­
mendations on how that potential might be 
achieved. All the recommendations of the 
report can be condensed Into these three: 
we must excel as a university In the full 
sense of the word, actively engaged in 
teaching and research; we must maintain 
our Catholic Identity; we must remain con­
scious of and faithful to our mission In all 
our actions and decisions." 
-Provost Timothy O'Meara, The PACE Report, May, 1983 

"Notre Dame can and must be a crossroads where all the vltal Intellectual currents of our times meet In dialogue ... where the great Issues of the Church In the world today are plumbed to their depths ... where every sincere Inquirer is welcome, llstened to and respected by a serious consideration of what he has to say about his belief or unbellef, his certainty and uncertainty ... where difference of culture and religion and conviction can . coexist with friendship, civility, hospitality and especially love ... where the endless conversation is harbored, not foreclosed." 
-Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Faculty Handbook, 1983-84 



Theater 
''For one brief shining moment...'' Camelot in South Bend 
by Kathleen Keifer 
Art Editor 
"A law was made a distant moon ago here, July and August cannot get too hot, Summer lingers on until September In Camelot. 
The rain can onlyfall 'til after sun­down, Winter exit~ March the second on the dot, In short there's simply not, a more con­genial spot, For happy ever aftering than here in Camelot." 
The very concept of a Camelot is hard to imagine after five months of March in South Bend. Ironic as it sounds (or as magic), Camelot-for one brief shining moment-has penetrated the muck and mud of Midwestern Pre-spring and landed at Notre Dame. The Notre Dame student players are presenting the musical April 26, 27, and 28 at 8:00 p.m. in Bendix Theatre. 
Yet somehow the rehearsals, half sewn costumes, and partially built sets have begun to look too real, too mystical. An incredible synthesis of folklore, myth, magic and reality has been peacefully united to create the unreal authenticity found backstage. Perhaps the spring­cleaning breezes are partially responsible for combining and revitalizing the Ar­thurine legend's new life. (After all, who else manages the mystical waves that bring a creature like May each year?) But it isn't just April, not entirely the winds that brought Arthur back to life. Something subtle in the breeze with deeper magic is giving the production a soul. 
While backstage I discovered it-or rather him_:_ gleefully dancing in the shadows creating and editing Camelot . 
. Merlin, self-proclaimed producer and director, had tired of men who meddled with Arthur's history and rearranged the tapestries. The magician started when he felt my eyes on him and froze guiltily-like a child caught with one arm in the cookie jar. However, I couldn't miss the twinkle in his eye as I 
,· 
. 
-~-~-----~ 
watched him skillfully manipulate the stage crew. 
Just as Merlin carried Stonehenge from · Ireland to Britain, he somehow managed to transport Camelot to South Bend. King Arthur (who was once, most scholars agree, just as alive as you and me), and his court have been reassem­bled; the once and future King lives. Ar­thur won't be donned in chain mail to suit the stock Norman romances, or sar­dined into 14th-c. French armour. There won't be any brambly ruins w/ wispy Victorian damsels handing knights in stainless steel armour a wispy Victorian token of affection. The Arthurian legend can still exist without peacock feathers 

Merlin and King Arthur 
. 
. 
and romantic Elizabethan poets. 
Merlin will bring us the Arthur of the 5th c; the King who was interested in culture and civilization in the midst of the dark ages. Only Merlin, who has seen the past and the future, can transcend time to bring Arthur to South Bend. The production promises to be an eyewitness account of the mystery, magic and pathos that embody King Arthur and his court at Camelot. 
Kathleen Keifer has been the Art Editor of Scholastic for this past semester and will be continuing her tenure next year. A sophomore at Saint Mary's Col­lege, this is her first written contribution to the magazine. 




Poetry 
The Rover 

The sailboat skims, 
This month, Scholastic highlights the poetry of Kathleen Mary Walker, a student at Saint Mary's College. She Is from In• verness, lllinols, and the poems were written from 
1981-1983. Scholastic · also Is highlighting the work of several Notre Dame/St. Mary's artists. 


The St:rar., 
What w guJation if I tied ;uld You do . around y nd knotted . slqueezed ~urdwooden fY R.ed ribb 
a I the c n Wren lirJbs, ons 
Until . harcoaJ b ched 
. I'd it fe]J fro ark cross and rn Your tru k 
toot· Wrap h n ?
curdJin 1ght-s oots bruisin g sweet sa and _g srnooth JP,
Wither ,, eaves
b JOU 
rown d ' 
11] e and d. 
but I'd :?st dead r1ed. stretchi 1]] keep . Unt·1 ng and h Pulling 1 rny If.ea r'bbUrting ' stain d 1 on
they'd e sati s,
I'd break ns, 
crv · 
ana J Salted t
I swear ears 
A..n~as sorry 
What WouJa · You do? 

24 SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 
The Welcome 
Finest thread of lightning Zig-zags down into ruby petals, Curling so rose and so gentle. They open wide for the shiny streak, Smoke waving, whirling white Where the flashy and mild meet In the midnight blues and blacks Of the grassy meadow shadows. 


The Baptism 

Has anyone seen Aquarius? Those who search among the stars and moons, I implore you, stop! And sink your eyes 
from the haze of the heavens 
to the clear waters of the Earth. For I have seen him, and I know him. . I drown with the dying, and swim with the babe 
from his mother's womb ... and am the limpidity of a diamond. 
And can moisten, sprinkle or soak, like the Water Bearer, with my buckets of spate. 
And every drop sparkles goodness, no two alike. 
I am neither solid nor vapor, I am the fluid of all .people, circulating and flowing with deathless essence; They do not know Neptune, but I do. 


Every splash sends a ripple . . . tiny billows of reflection, currents of thought. 
For me all the lovers that pick roses for vases, 
For me the boy that spits out his chewing gum, 
For me eyes that have cried, brows that have sweat, 
For me swollen bellies of mothers, and perfumed oils of embalmers. 
What name do you give yourself? 
Do you believe in Neptune, God of the sea? I do. And I tell you, I know him . as I know Aquarius. 
The waters welcome you with great waves of joy. Unmask! Come to me barefaced so I may dribble water on your forehead. I can offer you life. Shall not you rejoice in the Salvation Bath? 
The tiny fist punches the pink balloon, I watch the rich· water gush from the hole, and smile when he whines. 
The brown-skinned boy shoves the sun-kissed girl off the white pier. · I see them tumble into the warm tides. 
The giggles shake the tree's branches ... the ponytailed darling· drops red and. gold apples into the gurgling brook. 
The crinkled, old man smashes his worn heel 
· through the frozen stream . . . his line is lowered . . . I watch the water ·bubble over his boots. 
26 SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 
The moist sculpture, the artist with his earthen fingertips, the squeak of the potter's wheel with each new twist; 
The rainbow of umbrellas, the plopping, ~lopping 
. of misty raindrops; The cheers for undaunted divers . . . The taunts for deliberate drowners; The splash of the wooden oar -the Skipper 
aboard, born for a sailor's grave, The school of peewee pupils, the little tickle, the leak and then, the gentle stream; The thirsty gardener catches the jet · of cool wetness from the fountain 
in his parched mouth; The crumbling sandcastles wash and flatten· . • upon .Plutocratic shores, . · The slippery fish swim along . . . can you 
catch them with your lips? What sighs of tear-stung lovers who plunge in pools of desolation, What grunts of women scrubbing violently, who too quickly squeeze their sponges, 
·What murmurs of beauties rubbing sweet soaps· in their tresses, while foamy suds · trickle down their backs. · 
Can a man learn to swim again, once he is old? 
I solemnly assure you, ·no one can enter into Neptune's kingdom without being begotten of the waters. 
Death begets death. Life begets life, I heed them and echo their waves . 
I roll ashore with each tide, And I splash barefoot in muddy puddles, everyone. 



Candlemas of Jeffrey ~ 
Cold candles we had of you. 
Just twisted tallow but twenty-two 
For a memory, and such an icy memory: 
The snub nettled and the smolder choked, 
For the very death of flames. 
And the kindred inhaled torpid fumes, 
Pinching thumbprints in your melted wax. 
Our soft puffs we bewail. 
The dancing flickers on braided wicks 
And the dripping girl striking matches. 
Then the burnt-aligned men braying and bearing 
And praying, and wanting their Kindler and Son 
And the whitewashed sticks allaying, in our woodbox 
And the gasping bellows and blackened eyes 
And the table dark and clouding ambrosia and Nectar: A soft wafer-seal we impressed on our hearts. Crying in violent streams, With your heat flushing our backs, breathing "That wetness extinguishes me," Luminary. 


Fresh 

Sweatshirt girl swings her ponytail, Swishing, swishing a bitty-breeze Across her sun-soaked neck. Smelling warm and sprinkled wet, She slumps comfortable Before the whistling window To catch some soft cool On peachy, misty cheeks­Shaking, shaking sneakers from sticky feet. , 
,/0·'
;"I,·'. 
.,_ . 
..~· . 
•·-.t-?=:::,-=:,~:~.i ,,-:.;, . 

SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 27 


by Bud Luepke 
I've known rivers I've known rivers ancient as the world and older than the flow of human blood in human veins 
My Soul has grown deep like the rivers. The Negro Speaks of Rivers -Langston Hughes 
Hi. My name is James Sidney. Generally, Tm a pretty good guy I guess. I play basketball for my high school. Basketball is a fun game, but I take it a little seriously. But just look at it a minute. You can play by yourself, or against somebody, or with somebody, or on a team playing in big games for big crowds. Each time you're doing the same things, but it's different. The mind and soul is what does it to you. Actually, I'm also kind of a strange person. 
James ponders the inner depths of reality but is deterred. It is like a dream that James can only sense but is not in. To break in is too difficult, so James is not in the dream that is more than a dream. 
James is now in the game that is more than a game. He plays hard and is tired, but the game is ending badly. Barn! Then a buzzer. It's over. 
Well, it happened. We lost, and the season is over-for good now. I still can't believe it. Everyone thought we were going to the championship; then we lose in the first round. Like someone turned the lights out, and we were left grop­ing around in a dark, empty room. Anyway, the game was close, overtime. You should've seen it. Fifteen seconds left in 
0.T., and we were playing for the last shot. Then a little guard steals the ball and dunks one. Just a little guy. Barn! The lights go out, and I felt empty as hell. 
The locker room reeked of disillusionment as James stumbled in. "Crap," he thought out loud. He felt lost, and his mind drifted. 
The dream is dark and very, very deep. It surges over the :! jagged rocks but never sparkles in the sun, but there is no sun; and it crashes loudly in its roughness though there is no
i 
sound, or maybe no hearing-it's difficult to tell. Now the 
dream stirs and is alive and moves through the haze which 
cannot be seen. Its long shadow slithers up the cracking walls of darkness, and its silent footsteps echo around the depths into infinity. 
After the game, James peered into the deep blacktop of the parking lot. Flashes of the game spun through his mind, and he wondered in disbelief. 
I walked out to my car after the game in a daze. Just a game, you say? Ya, I know. But there's something else ... or more. Being in the game, inside the action, it's different. The reality is different from just watching. Things mean more and you sense them more; you are more. Everything is like that I guess. I don't know. It sounds weird, but it's true. 
He dips into the dream briefly, but the darkness hurts his eyes. He departs sensing a slight chill in his lungs. Exhaling a ghost-like mist into the cold air, James walks toward the front door of a suburban home. 
There was a party after the game. Well, everyone called it a party, but it wasn't much of a celebration. I thought it was nice though. Everything seemed to change when I was 
28 SCHOLASTIC/ April 1984 







1€tl()fl 
Deep Like the Rivers 
no longer in the game and just around the talking people. Like a whole different world. Maybe it was because Claudia was there. Claudia is the girl with an accent that I was dating at the start of the season. She's a little different I'll admit, but she's not phony like most girls. Really, she's kind of mysterious or something. Anyway, I was glad to see her because she's always happy no matter what. 
Claudia spots me in the party, I wave, and she glides over smiling truly. 
"What's up, Claud?" 
But she doesn't say anything back. She just stands there smiling like she can see right through me and like she sees something I can't. She really is bizarre to tell the truth. 
Falling. Falling. The dream has cut its path into the un­seen canyon that James plunges through. Deeper. Darker. James is lost in it; is filled with it. 
I was feeling pretty peculiar with her looking at me like that. Everything started to seem real strange. Like in a dream. 
"Do you want to go outside?" I asked fatigued by her stare. Then she turns sharply, confident in the truth of her actions, puts on her coat and walks out and still not a word. I couldn't believe it. "Cogito ergo sum," I kept telling myself without any result. A little tense, I walked into the night. 
The screen door slammed shut. 
Barn! And I was in it, filled with it. Claudia was there, but it was as if she were more of an abstraction than a per­son. I heard her laugh though, and it was real. No sight or sound existed, but I sensed all. My heartbeat echoed off the canyon walls as the dream heaved in unison with my chest. This was all happening truly, and I was part of it; I was in­side the action. Then I did see Claudia even though my eyes were .useless in the dark. But inside, I could sense more, so I knew she was there because she was very real. She said nothing, but her hidden stare spoke the truth, and I studied the hidden meaning. 
I felt myself to be very deep, but I also felt a soothing peace of mind, and I fell asleep on the rocky banks of the dream. 
Yours truly, 
James Sidney 
Bud Luepke is a freshman from Saint Louis, Missouri. He previously contributed to the Culture/Fiction sec­tion of Scholastic. 


' -.------~---~ -. 
. . . 
A Humorous Look at Growing Up: Baa Baa Black Sheep 
by Paul Nobrega 
It all started in my early childhood. My brothers would get "cooler" toys at Christmas, they'd carefully put them on their shelves, and two years later they still had their "cooler" toys. I'd get cheesy toys, blow-off the instructions, and break 'em the next day, then spend most of my time trying to bor­row theirs. Later childhood continued this trend. My brothers would read and do "constructive" things around the house. I'd abscond with a handful of oreos and bootleg them downstairs to watch Gilligan's Island and Hogan's Heroes (Johnny Quest, on Saturdays). My brothers would play "Bat­tleship" and "Monopoly," I'd tear my jeans "horsing around" in the backyard. I learned later that at this young age my black sheep disease was but in a mild incubation period. 
By eighth grade, the disease reared its ugly head everywhere, even in the classroom. I still hear those comfort­ing words of my eighth grade science teacher ringing so tact­fully in my ears: "YOUR BROTHERS NEVER HAD TO STAY AFTER SCHOOL AND WASH THE BLACKBOARDS, NO SIR! YOUR BROTHERS NEVER GOT AN 'F' ON THEIR WORM DISSECTIONS, YOUR BROTHERS...." Ah yes, by eighth grade I was a rule­breaking, cartoon-loving, scientifically inept, self-conscious adolescent, who liked to watch t.v. and eat oreos more than he liked to read or do constructive things around the house. My parents wanted to try psychoanalysis. My brothers just kept their distance. During my now-infamous adolescence, I proceeded to break my arm going down the 9th avenue hill "no handed" on my "bitchin'," black, cast-iron Schwinn. My brothers rode strictly two-handed, and practiced their safety turn signals twice a day. I broke my wrist (other arm) a year 
"Ah yes, by eighth grade I was a rule-breaking, cartoon-loving, scientlflcal­ly Inept, self-conscious adolescent, who liked to watch t.v. and eat oreos more than he liked to read or do constructive things around the house." 
later, going "no handed" down the 10th street hill, just after they'd sanded the streets. My black sheep disease was ob­viously the cause of these incidents. Oh, and my brothers went up and down the 7th street hill, because it wasn't as steep, and was safer. They'd never venture to the 10th street hill. Mom didn't like us to. 
My brothers would offer to set the table, mow the lawn, empty the dishwasher, and clean their rooms, without being asked. I, on the other hand, usually waited for a threat of physical injury before I'd do my chores. Naturally, when I did my chores, I didn't do them well. By high school my brothers were accelerating academically at a Newtonian pace, while I thought a C-average was a guy's best friend. What we had was a skinny 10th grade, C-average, blow-off, raised on oreos and Starsky and Hutch. At Notre Dame, the story is just as bad. My brothers both double majored in pre­med, one with philo, and the other, with econ. I was pre­med for two weeks freshman year. I thought I was a "double E" in a sick dream once. Naturally, I wound up Arts and Letters. My oldest brother graduated "summa cum laude"; I'll graduate "soona ifum luckie." So the story goes. My . brothers are both in graduate schools now (i.e. doing "con­structive" things again). I'm just a second semester senior who can tell you where to get quarter-beers five out of six nights a week. Dining hall cookies ain't oreos, but they're okay when I'm watching He-Man and the Masters of the Universe at 4:30 Monday through Friday. Well, I guess some things never change. I'll always be the black sheep of the 
family. . 
Paul Nobrega is a senior from Rochester, Minnesota. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 


1" 
'I 

. Good Thru May 84 
IDqe Qtnlonial f ancnltt ]{ouse . ~ ~ 
$1 OOOFF With~ 
• .. ··This Ad . 
OUR SPECIALTY Limit 1 OVEN-BAKED per person APPLE PANCAKES 



BIG@ 
LUMBER CENTER 
• ARMSTRONG CEILING TILE • POWER TOOLS 
• CABINETS • LUMSU 
• P1.YWOOD • HARDWARE 
• Ol YMPIC STAIN • FtUMBING & 
• PANELING ELECTRICAL SUPPLIES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE ... 
We make "doing ,t yourself' 
EASY 

¦-¦¦ 11811 ¦ 1
~--==-::.::===.:.
..-.-:-=--=----••
ma@ 
LUMBER 
CENTER 
• 
-1'111.•,1~1 
¦ 
ll,',l:ll.'il:J:lH'l::l-1-'-I 



272-6500 
125 DIXIE WAY NORTH ROSELAND 
30 SCHOLASTIC/ April 1984 





Perspective 
The Way We Were: Notre Dame in the 1950's 
"Ifa freshman missed the 

10:00 p.m. sign-in, he was campused for a week. The 
electricity was turned off at 11 :00 p.m. to ensure the undergrads got eight hours of sleep. But, study halls in 
the freshman dorms were open until midnight and as late as necessary in the upperclassmen's dorms." 
by John Bustamonte 
Is Notre Dame going back to the strict parental environment of the fifties? The University at that time was governed by a code known as in loco parentis where the priests had authority nearly equal to that of the parents. This philosophy included strict dorm rules. Freshmen were allowed to stay out until midnight two nights a week. All the other nights they were re­quired to be in for 10:00 p.m. night check. If a freshman missed the 10:00 
p.m. sign-in, he was campused for a week. The electricity was turned off at 
11:00 p .m. to ensure the undergrads got eight hours of sleep. But, study halls in the dorms were open until midnight in the freshman dorms and as late as necessary in the upperclassmen's dorms. Alcohol was not allowed in the dorms, but it was sneaked in often.· One risked getting bounced ifcaught, but that threat alone•usually made it worthwhile. There are countless stories to be heard by alum­ni who graduated in the 50's, everything from "skiving-ouf' after curfew to run­ning a still in an elevator shaft made out of materials from the chemistry stock room to the legendary "Sneakin' Deacon" who wore one hard shoe and one soft shoe so as to be able to walk twice as fast to catch unwary undergrads sneaking a nip. According to Fr. Michael Murphy, who has been rector of several halls, daily Mass was never·. actually .mandatory. Morning check hlid the Domer up. and dressed and signed in by 7:00 a;m. so he could have breakfast and get the day off to a good start. In 1957, Fr. Hesburgh began a policy that was generally well accepted by the student body. Students were expected to wear a coat and tie to all evening meals and Sunday meals in the dining halls. This was true with all the Ivy League schools and added a touch of class to campus life. It lasted for about 10 years. 
The social life of a Domer included many mixers with SMC and "Victory Dances" after the football games. The stiffest drink available, of course, was a Grape Nehi. 
Those numerous short silver posts strung with cable and surrounding the small sections of grass did more than serve as a friendly reminder to keep off the grass. A short hop over the wire or a casual stroll across the grass landed you a visit with the dean to retrieve your con­fiscated ID card. 
In comparison, things are obviously a lot different today. But major changes didn't come until the late 60's and early 70's-and when the changes came, they were substantial: women were admitted to the university, alcohol was allowed on the campus, curfews were eliminated to name a few. 
Although the University has officially said little except that it is reviewing its policy on alcohol, many students may wonder whether the strict life that typified Notre Dame of 30 years ago is returning. That seems unlikely. Change at this University (as with other univer­sities) comes in response not only to fac­.tors within the university, but factors within America. Notre Dame is a microcosm of America and the world. People and times change and Notre Dame is no exception. A return to the 50's doesn't seem any more likely than Ike's reelection in '84. D 

John Bustamante is a junior History major from Dearborn, Michigan. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC/April 1984 31 



,-·•­
•' 
I.; 
by Jim Ganther 
Editor-in-Chief 

As I slip another piece of erasable bond into the typewriter it occurs to me that life is like that: a blank piece of paper caught between the rollers, waiting to become something significant. Sooner or later (I hope) we will all be second-semester seniors, and the question of What am I go­ing to be? will be before us. And shortly thereafter will come the realization that it is too late to be asking that question: almost invariably, what we will be we already are. After 21 years or so of rough drafts it is time for the final copy. Graduation comes and it is time to begin being what we have prepared ourselves to be. It is deadline time. 
What we will hand in when that deadline comes depends a great deal on what we glean from our time here. Much is offered; what we embrace forms us. Surrounding us are countless influences, both positive and negative. And even the positive opportunities compete for our time and atten­tion. Choices need to be made not only between good and evil, but between good and a greater good. We can spend ourselves at the Rock to strengthen our bodies, at the Library to strengthen our minds, in the dorm chapel to strengthen our souls. The best products of this University pursue all three. 
Over the four years I've spent at Notre Dame I've seen a lot of friends and acquaintances grow and graduate. They have all profited from the basic education offered here-all received a diploma-but not all realized that Notre Dame offered them something more than just a place to veg out and drink beer or otherwise live for themselves alone. Not every diploma was or is conferred to a success story. 
Take Karen (all names have been changed to protect the columnist) as a case in point. Her social life beneath the Dome, was dismal because she had to put her studies first. In her four undergraduate years nobody had asked her out on purpose. She was not bitter, merely honest. Karen felt the sacrifice was temporary, for the rewards would inevitably come upon graduation. Most seniors look forward to gainful employment, but she took it to the extreme: for her 




The Last Word 
money= security, and everything was subordinated to that 
ideal. When I asked her if she couldn't think of a more lofty 
ideal for which to spend her life, she admitted that 
materialism is rather shallow, "but once I'm rich I'll 
change." 
Unfortunately, the human animal doesn't work that way. We cannot decide one moment to be altruistic and then be so forever more. Change and improvement take time, and the best time for change is the present. We can turn around when we're older, sure, but the process is easier for the young. The university setting is a made-to-order environ­ment for the young to examine themselves as well as their curricula, to examine the possible and cultivate great dreams. 
Mark was one such dreamer. He graduated in Economics last December with a respectable GPA and three job offers. I will forever remember him at the Grotto, where he would frequently relight the candles blown out by the autumn breeze. After making sure that all the tapers had healthy flames, he would tuck his in a holder and go about his business with an infectious smile. I remember that image of him because he blew off the job offers to go to Phoenix and work with the Spanish-speaking poor. This dream of his began with his sophomore year experience in Mexico City. Though to many the people he will be serving are just illegal aliens, to Mark they are people from whom the world has taken something as surely as the wind had taken the flame from those candles at the Grotto. Mark wants to bring that something back to them. 
Beteen the two extremes represented by Karen and Mark rests the bulk of our student body. Some will graduate and get jobs, others will graduate and jobs will get them, and either way life will go on. The blank page will fill with some kind of message for whoever reads such work. But the quality of the job can be improved at its very inception, right here, right now, and probably should be. . 
t}i
(~}!\
)
"/,\'..·;'">,_,,'· t, ' '' 
.:f/iip)( _·:,~~~ 
-. ., ,·, 
' .. ;,:.:: 'i ·,. 
,, )':: 





ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
272-7535 
-HOURS­7,30 AM To 5,30 P.M. Clo~cd Sunday 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 


• 
PLUMBING & ELECTRICAL !SUPPI.IES 


• 
GARDEN SUPPLIES 

• 
HOUSEWARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPORTING GOODS 




FREE PARKING FRONT & REAR 
219 DIXIE WAY NO. IN ROSELAND 

130 Dixieway North 
277-4519 
Mondays and Wednesdays 
ONLY 
16" pizza, 2 toppings 



for $6.95 
FREE delivery to campus 
Open 4-10, Sun-Thurs 4-12, Fri & Sat 









