

i 
SCIHOLASTIC
. . I 
Th e 
Se v e n th o f D e c e m b e r 2 0 0 6 
. . .·· . 1 -=l=-=l.=--=e=-.,w'--'--'s=---o=-4.,_________ 
···········:···:·:;·'.·j······-WANTED: A LEADER IN RESEARCH 
: Daric Snyder .·1 1 Notre Dame searches to fill the position of research vice president in order to raise university rankings. 
-COVER: POWER STRUGGLE 
Michael O'Connor How energy efficient is Notre Dame's campus? And what is Notre Dame doing to keep energy costs down? 
-
Culture 19 
. . ' !
.·•· 
:······•············ ARTIST SPOTLIGHT: MEEG CONROY
'' .. ·· . ! : ..·•·. ,j Katie Keefer Scholastic interviews senior printmakingmajor Meeg Conroy. 
CAMPUS CD REVIEWS 
Andrea Borrego, Molly Slavin, Maddy Zollo With anumber ofNotre Dame student releasing albums, Scholastic rates the campus talent 
S orts 26 \(...::_......... -LACKING A LEGION 
. ,. . Christy Laufer 
· · Lookingtoward the future, the men's basketball team ·fights lackluster ticket sales, a spotty record and low­ranked opponents. 

Hum.or 33 
-ALL THE HOTTIES GO TO ROLFS 
Elisa Suarez You know you've spotted them. There are some weird people in the campus gyms. And ifyou don't know who we're talking about, we're probably talking about you. 
I 
l 
·:_ >.>-> I 
. From the Editor . . . . . . . . . . . 2 NDTV. _-.....,• .......•. 16 
_: StafEEditbriil . ·..........• 4 Snapshot ..._............ 18 It is_ Better t~ Give . . . . . . . . . 6 Gipper ............... ;34 Campus Chater. ........... 15 SQ.................. :36 
.. 1 
. •. I
_·,:·.i. 
I 
Vol. 148, No. 6 • 7 DEC 2006 

SCHOLASTIC 
Editors In Chief Christopher Meskill David Pooll 
Managing Editor 
Doug Schlarman 
Executive Editor 
Mike Laskey 
Associate Editor 
Claire Sobczak 
Executive Copy Editor 
Regina Gesicki 
Executive Copy Assistant 
Kate Dresser 
Executive Design Editors 
Julie Ruffin 
Jana Stewart 
News 
Daric Snyder, editor 
Kato Furlong, assistant 
Eric Gomez, assistant 
Culture 
Michaol O'Connor, editor Sarah Barrett, assislant 
Sports 
Megan Teigen, editor 
Brittany Lash, assistant 
Humor 
Mike Healy, editor 
Joe Lattal, assistant 
Design Emma Daug~erty, assistant 
BothAnn Visceglia, assistant Kathleen Dilenschneider 
Carolin Hubscher 
Jane Lee 
Mandy Miller Doug Schlarman 
Jamie Schulte Chris Sebastian 
Ellen Voglriedor 
Photography Kristin Kave, editor Juan Muldoon, assistant Courtney Sullivan 
Business 
Bryan Lowery, manager 
Jemini Patel, assistant 
Distribution 
Bryan Lowery, manager 
Online 
Michael King, webmaster 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
COVER STORY 
I 
MICHAEL O'CONNOR 
COVER DESIGN 
JANA STEWART 
' 
Disce Quasi Sempei· Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moritunis 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2005 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. Woodland Critter Christmas. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any man­ner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 6:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Britney Spear's vag. Scholastic reserves tho right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed. The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Gloss­ing over racism. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not. necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
7 DEC 2006. 

LLI 
:c DornerDollars 


fjJlfJ!i!liJ?
I­




® 
lltlOtltE 
11D:BO)E
HUDDLEMart 

NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICES 
food.nd.edu 

Abnormal Distribution 
Restructuring of football ticket sales restricts 
parents to one game per season 
·o n November 27, 2006, the university athletic department 
announced plans to restructure the ticket plans for 
alumni and parents for the 2007 football season. The 
rearrangement will result in a reduction in the number of parent 
games and the addition ofa senior alumni game for those graduates 
at least 35 years removed from the university who continue to 
contribute to Notre Dame. 
At first glance, this change might seem harmless. After all, the 
university is giving its older alumni a chance to attend a game 
each season. But considering Notre Dame's promotion of family 
values, this announcement seems to contradict the purpose of this 
institution. 
Notre Dame alumni already have ticket lotteries to gain admittance to football games. Associations like the Sorin Society and the Monogram Club ensure tickets to alumni that make substantial donations to the university. The addition of this senior alumni game -which is hinged upon older, wealthier alumni donating more money to Notre Dame -is simply an excuse to generate more funds. Today at Notre Dame, you can get first class treatment, but 
you have to pay for it. 
As students, we notice how much of the administration's efforts are geared toward alumni and benefactors. While the alumni of this university are invited to reunions, cocktail parties, high society dinners and other functions, the parents of the students only get Junior Parents Weekend. The alumni can purchase football tickets to big-time games against teams like Michigan and USC while parents invariably wind up with a game against a service academy. 
Indeed, alumni were once students here and are the purveyors 
that established it as a bastion of Catholic higher education. They 
continue to contribute to their alma mater and root for their Fighting 
Irish today. But why are we punishing the individuals that give to 
the current status of the university? After they have given $40,000 
a year and their talented offspring to Notre Dame, parents deserve 
more than one visit each fall. 0 

7 DEC 200.6 


December Diplomas 
Students who graduate in the middle of the 
.. 
academic year weigh the positives and negatives 
•ChrisAbot
W hile most seniors wait until May to receive their Notre Dame diplomas, a small percentage of seniors 
choose to graduate a semester early, completing all the 
requirements Notre Dame students must fulfill before expected. 
According to the Office of the Registrar, about 100 seniors elect 
to graduate early each year, a stable trend over the last few years. 
Among the reasons students opt to graduate early are saving money 
and pursuing,unique academic, athletic or career opportunities. 
Lauren Armstrong, a sociology major planning to enroll in law 
school next fall, says that a combination of advanced placement 
credits and summer classes enabled her to graduate early. Like 
others interviewed, Armstrong says that saving over $20,000 in 
educational costs is the main reason for leaving a semester early. 
James Martin, a current science pre-professional major with a 
science and technology values minor, cites the expense in addition 
to his intention to work in a South Bend hospital before continuing 
his education at medical school next fall. Biology major Ann 
Pressprich, while also looking to save money by graduating early, 
had the added motivation of her upcoming December marriage 
and service work in Chicago. Greg Dalby, who will graduate from 
Notre Dame with a double major in theology and Film, Television 
and Theatre, is headed for a professional soccer career and will 
depart in time for the January draft. 
While the university does not recommend graduating early, those 
who choose to do so say that they sought advice from their families 
and weighed the pros and cons before making their final decisions. 
All stated that they will miss the community and their friends when 
they leave as well as the carefree life of a student. Ultimately, most 
seniors chose to graduate early out ofan earnest assessment ofwhat 
will be best for their futures -not out of any regret during their 
Notre Dame careers. The Notre Dame experience "exceeded [her] 
expectations," Pressprich says. Dalby deems his time here as "one 
of the most amazing experiences of [his] life." 
The seniors cautioned that the student who chooses this path will 
sacrifice half of his or her senior year and the special experiences 
it brings, but they also advised the student to think critically 
about what will be best for the future and then act upon that 
insight. They also counseled against making this decision alone 
and recommended turning, perhaps, to sources including divine 
providence for guidance. "God knows best," Pressprich says. 0 
7 DEC 2006 
. . . I 
Holiday offerings from Campus Service Groups 



i,H!e~ti=ez 
· ~. 'ti?~is holiday season, a numb« HABITAT FOR HuMANITY'ii' · i ·of campus projects are captur-· This past semester, over 200 students > _ ·.. ifig the spirit of giving. They worked on the 13th home constructed offer stuclents a variety of alternative by Notre Dame's Habitat for Humanity gifts Jo P,urchase whose proceeds will campus chapter in its 15 years of exis­benefit nbedy people across the globe. tence. "This project seems, to me, veryfit­By providing service opportunities, these ting because everyone goes home for the 
. :.-._-.1
qrganizations enable students to give back holidays, and. this is just an opportunity ·· tq uiid¢rp~ivileged communities. to provide a family with one," says senior 
:•· ·. '·· . l
•· · · · · ' Ryan Iafigliola, the group's president. : EiStlADDAI ORPHANAGE Of the over 700 Habitat for Humanity >(Nofre ipame students studying abroad campus chapters located across the globe, this semester are luckily able to shop for very few have matched the proficiency unique h~liday gifts in exotic foreign and success of Notre Dame's. Though locales. :f\or everyone left behind this the chapter helps support its local South fall, a couple ofsocially conscious juniors Bend affiliate, it is one of the only chap­
.·decided: to bring some unique gifts back ters that actively tries to independently of this year's house. · ..-from abrdad. Michael Kozak and Patrick fund and build a house each year through -C:ogigad did their holiday shopping private donations and its own fundraising 
early thiJ year, returning from Africa projects. This achievement prompted ' with ·beatit1fu.l handicrafts locally made Habitat for Humanity's founder Millard 
~ .~0~0 . . · 
::a(thesite'.of theirlnternational Summer Fuller to call the Notre Dame chapter, 
•§erJic;\~arningProject (ISSLP) inJinja, during a recent visit, "one of the most :Uganda'.-They are offering these wares of dynamic and successful campus chapters . ac9ijfinh~tion oftheir ISSLP in conjunc-in the world." 
;tiqn)y-iththeyoungartisans ofEl Shaddai Over the past 10 years, housing costs prph~ria.gr in Uganda. have more than doubled. Today, simply >7'h,e :~.~ Shaddai family home is an buying the materials for a single house orph:ma.ge founded by Stephen Wante, costs the chapter over $60,000. Having . an:Orpha* himself. The home cares for succeeded in organizing and erecting the 
<apprnxinr,ately 3 0 children who would basic framework ofthe house, the chapter 
BLITZ BUILD Volunteers work on the roof. 
have ·otherwise been abandoned. Relying has launched a holiday umbrella fundrais­/~J!f~ht.:6in donati~rts, Want~ covers all ing campaign to·:raise the last $10,000 1,_tpt!e,;'pe1.1ses the children reqmre. Former required to finish the building. One as-f~liii:l';s"½'rrint memb_ers of the orphanage pect ofthe campaign is an alternative gift 
niake alLthe handicrafts. Items for sale project, ~hich offers gifts of donations . · 
)nthidi yibrant cloth paintings kn;\V; · made in the name of the recipient. All who · ~s\bfti¥s,j whic~ depic: native African donate will receive a special card upon · an,11TI,als:and village life; banana leaf request, and an anonymous donor will thristrria~ cards illustrating a Madonna match the total amount raised. "It's really ':'hith, f~~w; and colorful sarongs ta~te-a special thing because a home means so ,JuUxA~c:qrated for warmer days. Pnces much to a family. We're very fortunate Joftlj.es~ p.andmade gifts range from $5 to be able to make that size of an impact, :i:cJ$35·ahq all proceeds go directly to the something that will affect them for the 
,·.. ,,-, .••.,. j . . . ..... 
,';:EL;$J;i~dq~i orphanage. · _-· rest oftheir lives/' Iafigliola says: 
/{:(ffoij{/r#or,e information, co1ztact Michael For more information, email habitat@nd . 
. 
ikozJk/afiJJ,kozak@nd.edu. edu. 
_Humani~ypose ~utside their handiwork .....
.~~1ff!1f! 
7 DEC 2006 




Another alternative gift idea benefiting· charities in Jinja., Circle K, Notre Dame's largest student-run seryice. bi~.~ Uganda is the knotted rosary project-organized by junior nization, is sponsoring its annual Christmas parFY,:i~):li~i;§~­Patrick Schenkel. Schenkel's project benefits the St. Jude's Mary's convent for the nuns in the Queen of Pe1ce prog~8:1?f school and orphanage run by the Congregation of the Holy on Friday, December 8. The program includes elderly min~ Cross, which has long maintained a .close relationship with in the most advanced stages of Alzheimer's diselse:or those 
--·--~0:::r~e~1n;;i~~~~~;r:r:1:;:~~;~~i~~:t:~i;:~~ir~---:~tl;::e::it;::~~~e~e:~:s~~:~~!°:-fZe~~~:r~tt;r~t~.~tt-­
_­_-high school'/Sci.t~n~eLanaa handfulofvohmteers' have spent for the diseases the nuns have,_but most ofit is debj~~ti:~"tft~i _ i hours creatirigki]otted rosaries out ofcofored' twine that they way they treatitis through fostering a social envitfo,vfili{\1Jtr,~ _-__ i, 
1
·. --~--'--;~:-~e~.1~:~!~r1;~:~:~:P~;~:~~:e;:fc~;~:/t:~~:~d!"!::;:~--~:c~:k~l;:~~;~::Y~t~e~;~;X:~t~~:~-~h~~~::i11~ti·-.. ___,__________ .. 
: in the U.S., they can make the major repairs and restorations all Notre Dame students and will include makid-iq;iifts,iagd they need to maintain their vital facilities," Schenkel says. decorating Christmas cookies. :',' ::{.;·:?}I For more information, contact Patrick Schenkel atpschenke@nd. For more information, email circlek@nd.edu. :: ; ' -·• _ :;'~ 
,du .... ····· ... . . . . 


~;fi\\!l 

• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (ij)Scho/asticNewsAnalysis 
WANTED: A LEADER IN RESEARCH 
Notre Dame Begins Search for New VP, but Other Improvements Need to be Made 
• Daric Snyder 
T he search is on. Last month, Notre Dame announced its search for a vice president of research, a new position created by the university based on suggestions from a faculty committee. The committee was assembled in November 2005 by University Provost Thomas Burish to explore ways of improving Notre Dame's research efforts and graduate education. Meeting during the spring semester, the committee presented Burish with a report entitled 
"A New Beginning" in May. The report called for a variety of ambitious changes in order to enhance the university's graduate school and research capability. Prominent among the suggested changes was the division of the role of vice president of graduate studies, which also served as dean to the graduate school, into two distinct positions: the vice president of research and the dean of the graduate school. In the interim period, Don Pope­Davis is holding the position of dean to the graduate school. 
An additional faculty committee was established by the provost to lead the search for a new vice president. "The expertise you need for this position is pretty considerable," committee member Cornelius Delaney says. For the search, the committee is working with an outside consultant to find applicants for the position, as potential candidates will most likely already hold high-level positions elsewhere. The university used the same consultant when searching for a new provost in 2005 (pulling Burish from his role as president of Washington & Lee University). According to Delaney, the committee is looking for an academic with a prestigious record of research and administrative leadership, as well as a strong understanding of the significance 
i of interdisciplinary studies. 
z 
0 The creation of an Office of Research ~ at Notre Dame, to be led by the new vice 
:5 
0 president, was only one ofthe suggestions 
:c 
of the report. For Notre Dame to excel research and graduate education, much 
·········8 
more work will have to be done over the upcoming years. Examining the bar set by Notre Dame's role models, peers and competitors reveal the ground the university must cover in order to become a first-tier research institution. 
Most notable among these benchmarks is total research dollars. While Notre Dame spent $80.8 million on research in 2005 in a 47.7 percent increase from 2002, this amount pales in comparison to funding at top schools. Reaching deep into their pockets, some higher­ranked schools spend exponentially more on research. Role model schools Cornell University and Northwestern University each allocated over $300 million for research in 2003, according to the University of Florida's "The Top American Research Universities" report. 
"A New Beginning" aims to increase funding to $160 million in five years and double that figure in 10 years. To succeed, the university will need to find private donors and corporate partners. Earning increased federal funding will also be critical to this goal, as Notre Dame ranked 143rd in federal research dollar expenditures in the report. 
Another goal the university wishes to attain is acceptance into the American Association of Universities (AAU). The organization consists of 60 public and. private universities in the United States that excel as research institutions. Mem­bership to this exclusive group is by invitation only, and to .,/ date Notre Dame _,..,..-­has been 
left out. While Notre Dame does fairly 
well in many of the areas that the or­
ganization considers, the university 
needs to stand out more if it hopes to be 
included. 
The creation of both the Office of Research and the role ofvice president of research is one step in a process that will take many years. The "ANew Beginning" report reveals many places where Notre Dame lags behind its peers, which should not be overlooked. At the same time, Notre Dame must carefully retain its devotion to undergraduate teaching and Catholic identity. The report suggests that research efforts can provide new opportunities for undergraduate learning. "Our undergraduates are sufficiently 
talented [to do research]," Delaney says. 
Improved research could also involve 
Notre Dame's Catholic mission. For 
example, current research about malaria, 
as well as programs in Haiti and Uganda, 
enhance Notre Dame's research 
capabilities while fortifying the goals 
of a Catholic institution. While schools 
such as Yale and Harvard abandoned their 
religious mission on the way to becoming 
elite institutions, Notre Dame has an 
opportunity to be different. Following "A 
New Beginning" could lead Notre Dame 
to unparalleled success. 

Scho/asticNews (~) ·· · · · · · · · · · · · ·· 

eating Back the Flu 
Health Services takes measures to prevent flu transmission on campus 
• Sarah Barnes 
s if remaining classes, papers 
and finals weren't enough to 
handle in the last few weeks of 
the semester, the looming threat of the 
flu also stands between students and a 
stress-free Christmas Break. In the midst 
of study groups and all-nighters, they are 
forced to pray that their health is still 
intact upon waking in the morning. 
As in previous years, Notre Dame 
Health Services is primarily concerned 
with combating transmission of the 
influenza virus on campus. Two years ago, 
Health Services started the Germ Fighter 
Campaign. Their mission was to inform 
students about the spread and prevention 
of disease. This year, while there is no 
such campaign, the same information can 
be found on flyers and on Health Services' 
Web site at http://uhs.nd.edu. 
Influenza is an upper respiratory illness. Often when people experience vomiting and other unpleasant symptoms, they assume it is from the flu, but gastroenteritis may actually be the cause. People often confuse the two illnesses, which is unfortunate because if sickness occurs after getting the vaccination, many are tempted to think that it didn't work. However, under such circumstances it is likely that they have gastroenteritis and 
A 

--~~~~-~-. ~-· iiL_ 7 DEC 2006 

not the flu. 
In pastyears, vaccination programs have been limited due to nationwide shortages, but this year the national supply is rela­tively plenti­ful. Earlier this semester, Health Services 
1,...,-----~ 
offered flu vac-!HOUSE OF HEALING Health Se:;ices tries to keep flu cases to a minimum. 
cinations for three days. Information about acquiring the vaccine was distributed via emails and flyers posted around campus. There are less than 50 doses of the flu vaccine left, which can be received at Health Services. Additionally, drug stores and walk-in clinics in the South Bend com­munity are offering the vaccinations for a reasonable fee. 
According to Patty Brubaker, assistant director of clinical services, the best way to prevent the flu other than vaccines is simply by handwashing. Also, carrying waterless hand sanitizers is a convenient means ofkeeping hands clean and is just as effective as soap and water. Given the proximity of Notre Dame students to one another, the flu has the potential to spread rapidly. With countless people touching computer keyboards, door knobs and railings, diseases can spread quickly, especially since germs can survive on inanimate objects for multiple hours. Additionally, Brubaker encourages students to cough into either their elbow or a tissue and to refrain from sharing eating and drinking utensils with others. 
Brubaker also reminds students to remember the health of their families. While Notre Dame students are typically healthy, and it is doubtful that they will be greatly harmed by the flu, the same cannot be said for students' family and friends that they see during the holidays. Many students will be in contact with young children and elderly family members who are the people most affected by the flu. Students should work to keep themselves healthy, which will also help keep their loved ones healthy. 
According to Brubaker, 1,500 people in the Notre Dame community. were infected with the flu in 2003. Fortunately, the virus has not been as widespread since then. So far, only a few people have reported to Health Services with influenza symptoms. 
While Notre Dame students are trying to dodge the flu this season, Health Services is trying to find it. According to Brubaker, Notre Dame is involved in a study by the Center for Disease Control. Cultures taken from this year's flu sufferers will be used in developing next year's vaccinations against the rapidly mutating influenza viruses. Those who get sick can take comfort in knowing they may help someone avoid the same fate next year. Of course,. chicken soup may help too. 0 
! 
z 
0 
~ 
::i 
0 
:c 
0 
(J) 




.ScholasticCove;Story (~) • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • 




POWER STRUGGLE 
ENERGY uSE AT NOTRE DAME 
• Michael O'Connor
Notre Dame is legendary for its many traditions, but what most Notre Dame aficionados are not aware of is the university's leading role in power and electricity throughout history. Inhis book, "Notre Dame: One Hundred Years," the Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., writes, "It seems probable that Notre Dame was the .first American college to have electric lights [ ... ] The [New York Electrica[J Review pointed out that the arc light had been in use at Notre Dame since 1881 to illuminate the recreation grounds and that tlie incandescent lamp had been in use since 1885." These breakthroughs were implemented under then-president the Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., and the university has continued to grow and develop its energy resources to meet an ever-expanding campus with increasing technological capabilities. But in today's world, power and energy aren't so simple. Emissions, air quality, alternative energy and conservation are popular catchphrases, but the truth ofthe matter stands that fossil fuels are-slowly running out and are not the cleanest forms of energy. The push for alternative energy sources, such as wind and solar power, are quickly being adopted in the U.S. and worldwide, but its growth is continually inhibited by the rising costs of these cleaner alternatives. As Notre Dame continues into the new millennium, projects such as the Notre Dame Energy Center and new committees are being formed to evaluate the questions and issues at hand. And amidst all of this, people need to ask what they can do to _help. As new -technologies arrive and cleaner possibilities are available, will Notre· Dame become an energy -leader 
-and model once again for other academic institutions and the nation? 

The Notre Dame:Power Plant 
Since the first steam plan.twas built here in the late 1800s, Notre Dame has seen 
7 DEC 2006 

"IF WE COULD GET CO2 CAPTURE SOLVED HERE, THIS WOULD BE GROUNDBREAKING FOR THE ENTIRE WORLD." 
-DR.JOAN F. BRENNECKE 
numerous changes and additions to the power plant. In 1900, a new steam plant was built where the Health Services buildingis now located, north of the Main Building. Increasing power demands from the campus led Notre Dame to break off from the power grid in 1953, when the university acquired a steam turbine generator and two diesel generators in order to be entirely self-sufficient for electricity. These . generators had the capability to use both coal and natural 
. gas as fuel to produce electricity. The university produced all of its own power from 1953 until 1970, when rising demands required the university to begin purchasing some electricity from outside sources. The original generators from 1953 are still in use today. 
The power plant is operated as a Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Power Plant and uses "cogeneration" in order to operate at maximum efficiency. "Unlike a 
_public utility, the university uses the steam produced from its processes to not only · create electricity, but also to heat and cool campus, thus achieving two tasks with the same steam," says Paul Kempf, director ofutilities at Notre Dame. By using this process of cogeneration for electricity, 

-• heating and cooling; the university is able to produce all ofits own heat and chilled water (which is used for air conditioning and refrigeration) as a byproduct of the production of electricity. 
In addition to its own heat and chilled water, the power plant produces about 55 percent ofall electricity used on campus. The university acquires the remaining 45 percent from outside sources, mainly from the grid, which is supplied by local plants using fuel sources such as coal and nuclear power. The only downfall to the CHP plant is the emissions produced, namely sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (NOx), which the university is continually trying to minimize. 

Today, the power plant is run with 
three main principles in mind: first, to 
meet the demands for energy on campus; 
second, to guarantee that the power plant 
is run with complete environmental 
compliance; finally, to be cost-effective 
by continuing to improve the production 
and distribution of energy, including 
increased efficiency efforts on campus. 
To meet these principles, the _power plant has maintained fuel diversity by using coal, natural gas and fuel oils to create electricity. "In recent years coal has accounted for approximately 85 percent of the fuel input to the power plant, natural gas 10 percent and fuel oil five percent," Kempf says·. "With the significant volatility and high cost of natural gas and fuel oil over the past few years the cost savings of coal over the other fuels has averaged nearly $~5 .million per year." 
Notre Dame's power plant has been 
successfully meeting all emissions requirements, going above and beyond what is expected in_ an effort to be as clean .as possible. "As far as sulfur· dioxide, we 
11 •••••••••. 
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · (i1)ScholasticCoverStory 

produce a lot less than the university's Title V permit allows [ ... ] 46 percent less during the most recently published reporting year in 2003," Kempf says. In addition, the university is accountable for less than 0.2 percent of the total emissions in the state oflndiana. Recently, construction has begun on a new Ultra­
Low NOx Burner for long-term use and back-up power without sacrificing the goals of creating cleaner systems. 

The Notre Dame Energy Center 

Although Notre Dame's power plant runs more efficiently than the average plant with its cogeneration processes and makes great strides to reduce emissions, a group of engineering faculty members have also acknowledged the worldwide need for energy research. In November 2005, the group became a recognized entity by the university administration and began receiving funding to conduct energy research. Currently, the Notre Dame Energy Center is headed by Dr. Joan F. Brennecke. "Our main focus is energy efficiency," Brennecke says. "And not just the fluorescent light bulbs that people can see. We work towards finding more efficient industrial processes." 
The two main projects being researched at Notre Dame are cleaner coal technology and carbon dioxide (CO2) capture. Although coal is in plentiful supply and is expected to last for approximately 400 more years, it produces harmful contaminants such as sulfur dioxide and NOx. In addition, the burning of fossil fuels inevitably leads to CO2 being released into the air. "Ifwe continue using fossil fuels, and we will continue to do so, there's no question about that, what we need to do is capture the CO2 and 
use it for additional energy purposes. But the problem is that it costs money to do so," Brennecke says. 
The center is currently in year three of a nine-year project working toward new CO2 capture research. "This 
is a worldwide issue. If we could get CO2 capture solved here, this would be ground-breaking for the entire world," Brennecke says. To aid in the funding for this research, Notre Dame was recently awarded a substantial grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to "focus on the development ofa new liquid absorbent for efficient post-combustion capture of CO2 from coal-fired power plants." 
In addition to cleaner coal and CO2 capture, other faculty members are actively researching alternative forms of energy, including solar, wind and water power. Students have become involved with these projects, and about 50 are now working with various faculty members. All of the projects are relevant and applicable to current worldwide energy situations. The projects in wind and solar energy become more applicable to Notre Dame when researchers suggest that the administration should adopt certain new alternative methods to complement the energy produced by the power plant and the energy acquired from the grid. For example, there are currently plans for the construction of a new engineering building, and a proposal was made to use solar cells in order to power a small fraction of the building. For that small area of solar cells alone, the initial cost would be $700,000. "You don't have solar power everywhere because right now it's just too expensive," Brennecke says. But 


CLEARING THE AIR: 

STADIUM LIGHTS USE APPROXIMATELY 400 KILOWATTS OF ENERGY TO POWER THE FIELD LIGHTS FOR THE LENGTH OF A FOOTBALL GAME IN NOTRE DAME STADIUM. ALTHOUGH THERE HAVE BEEN RUMORS THAT THE POWER PLANT HAS TO REORGANIZE THE CAMPUS POWER SUPPLY TO MEET THE DEMANDS OF THE LIGHTS, THERE IS NO RE­ROUTING OR TURNING OFF OF POWER TO CAMPUS BUILDINGS DURING FOOTBALL GAMES. THE COST OF OPERATING THE FIELD LIGHTS IS 
ROUGHLY $30-40 PER GAME. 

"ENERGY CONSERVATION IS NOTJUST A 
'LET'S GET EXCITED IT'S ENERGY WEEK' CONCEPT." 
-PAUL KEMPF 
she believes that the university's CHP power plant is sufficient until research allows for ·alternative energy to be more cost-effective. "We're using our primary energy twice as efficiently as people normally do. The problem is only seven percent of the energy produced in this country is the result of cogeneration. It's not very common at alL That's the benefit of having a power plant on campus. We can use all the waste heat." 

The Administration's Views 
Cogeneration is certainly something to be proud of, and the Notre Dame administration realizes the benefits of the power plant's processes for a largely residential campus. With approximately 80 percent of students living on campus, more energy is required for on-campus purposes than at other universities. John Affleck-Graves, executive vice president ofNotre Dame, acknowledges the importance of producing enough energy but also notes the struggle with the university's ability to meet the costs. 
"We have to strike a balance between what we'd like to do and what we can afford," Affleck-Graves says. "It's equating 20 students' financial aid packages to the ability of acquiring solar panels for a small portion of a building. We have to find the balance." In addition to the economics of energy, Affleck-Graves firmly supports meeting emissions regulations in all of Notre Dame's energy processes. "The concern for me isn't coal availability, but what it does to the environment. We are committed to being compliant with all environmental laws." 
The administration is aware of the Notre Dame power plant's effects on the environment and is committed to seeking campus-wide feedback when assessing new ideas, procedures and desires. In the past, an Air Quality Task Force was formed, which found that Notre Dame is a low emitter ofhazardous materials (such as sulfur dioxide and NOx). Despite the emissions, no reports of more frequent respiratory illnesses were found when Notre Dame was compared to the rest of 
7 DEC 2006 


Indiana. "Even though we're not a source 
of any major problems, we can do more," Affleck-Graves says. 
To do so, Affleck-Graves is forming an Energy and Environmental Issue9 Committee composed of faculty members, a student from both student government and the engineering department, and administrators, including Kempf. Affleck­Graves says he expects the committee to serve three main purposes: to help develop an energy strategy for the campus and hold regular discussions of the strategy; to monitor energy conservation on campus, pub,licize information and results from the studies, and determine what is necessary to get students and the entire Notre Dame community to become involved; and to advise Affleck­Graves on specific issues that arise on other energy issues, including sulfur dioxide emissions, improving energy efficiency in new buildings and bringing hybrid vehicles to campus. "I hope to brief them [the committee] before Christmas," Affleck-Graves says. "I hope to have a strategy brought to me by the end ofthe spring and then release information to the public." With the formation of this committee, Notre Dame's administrators are attempting to seek more feedback from the student body and general university population as more decisions are made concerning energy and the environment. 


The Student Perspective 
For many students, the search for an environmental voice on campus is long overdue. Senior Morgan Dill, president of the Students for Environmental Action (SEA), stresses that students need to strive to be more aware ofNotre Dame's environmental situation and join together to make themselves heard. "We need to have more dialogue," Dill says. "We have 
Scho/asticCoverStory l]) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 


Energy Use by Building 
250,000 
200,000 

Q) OJ 150,000 ·1--'-C-;_:_:_.c..;.f.~""--'"+.J.;_:_:_;_:_:_'-'--~'-"-'+--""'~;_:_:_"""'""='-""--'~ ----·CAVANAUGH HALL C
(lj 

IJ) --DILLON HALL D ::i ------MCGLINN HALL M I 
--KEOUGH HALL K --LAFORTUNE L
3 
---· DEBARTOLO DB
~ 



JUL  AUG  SEP  OCT  NOV  DEC  JAN  FEB  MAR  APR  MAY  JUN  
2005-2006  
INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY PAUL KEMPF  

a right to know the long-term plans for the university. Right now, most students who are interested don't even know the right people to talk to." 
Yetsufficient knowledge of publicity and communication efforts concerning Notre Dame's energy efforts is still lacking. Dill was not aware of the committee Affleck­Graves was forming, nor did she know that the Notre Dame Energy Center existed. Along with the need for greater visibility, Dill believes Notre Dame needs to push for implementing alternative forms of energy, which involves establishing cleaner standards that Catholic Social Teaching supports. She also believes Notre Dame needs to look at wind energy in particular, an economically practical alternative and supplement to traditional fossil fuels. She stresses that by experimenting with alternative energy, there would be several additional benefits for the university besides cleaner power. 

"Other universities, such as the University of Michigan, already have solar energy systems in place and use them as an educational tool," Dill says. "We could be doing this research while also promoting alternative 
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · f§)ScholasticCoverStory 


energy." In the end, however, Dill says the issue is not simply about money or research. "In the Catholic Social Tradition, we're taught about the common good. We're a Catholic university and we should be doing our best to uphold these teachings and be a leading example for others." 
Leading By Example 

On November 28 and 29, two dorms on Notre Dame's campus did just what Affleck-Graves, Dill and others have been calling for -they brought the energy issue to the campus' attention. Breen­Phillips Hall and Cavanaugh Hall had a "48 Hours of Green" environmental awareness event. Katie McAnany, a sophomore and president of Breen­Phillips, wanted to ensure that the event affected all of the two dorms' residents. 
"We're encouraging people to turn off their AIM, turn off their computer when they're not using it," McAnany said prior to the event. "Then we'll monitor the energy readings before we start, during and after to see the effects." She hoped that in doing so the students would see tangible results in the energy readings so that they would realize that their efforts to conserve energy have real ramifications in daily life. 
McAnany received the results of their conservation event and although the peak demands dropped from 78.4kW (kilowatts) to 73.6kW, power plant officials said, "the resolution of the metering [was] not enough to see a difference over such a short duration," and that "the change in peak demand is something, but it's hard to definitively attribute this to anything based on one data point." 
Although the results are still being discussed, McAnany believes the event was a success. "I really 
.think I've noticed an effort in the dorm. More lights than usual were off, especially in the bathrooms. I really hope that the girls continue their healthy habits." 
Events like this 
have happened before but have not 

received the necessary publicity. SEA 
says it will help other dorms and groups 
spread the word so that the remainder of 
campus realizes that events such as this 
are taking place. 
"We have to think of the environment 
now," McAnany says. "If we just think 
of the economic benefits, we'll never get 
to where we need to be." McAnany, who 
learned about alternative energy efforts 

through her Appalachia service seminar, 
says that Catholic Social Teaching has 
also greatly influenced her views on 

energy and the environment. "Part of 
the Catholic Social Tradition says that 
stewardship is a central part of our 
responsibility as humans," she says. "We 
need to start putting this into practice 
here as Notre Dame students." 
Is Alternative Energy Possible for Notre Dame? 
Mike Sloan, a 1984 Notre Dame 
graduate and renewable energy consultant 

in alternative· energy. for Virtus Energy 
in Texas, where he has seen successful 

alternative energy policies been passed. 
Recently, Sloan came to campus to 

discuss energy issues in a lecture titled, "Emerging Renewable Energy Markets: What is Notre Dame's Role?" "People only look at short-term costs when looking at energy," Sloan says. 
"Is it really too much to invest now in alternative energy like wind and solar? What about the future costs for coal and natural gas? What about the indirect costs from• having to meet environmental regulations passed in the future and resulting health problems from pollutants?" 
In his lecture, Sloan discussed the 
2006 College and University Green Power Challenge established by the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). According to the EPA, "Green power is a marketing term for electricity that is generated from environmentally preferable renewable energy sources,· such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass, biogas and low-impact hydro." Throughout 2006, the EPA collected the measurements of green power use by different universities across the nation. Sloan pointed out that alternative energy clearly can be used to supplement Notre Dame's current energy processes, since schools like Northwestern University, the University ofPennsylvania and Syracuse University are using approximately 20-30 percent green power for campus energy sources. 
The Ongoing Effort: Striving to Conserve 
As dialogue concerning campus efficiency and conservation takes place, the administration is committed to examining other modes of energy and conservation. "Alternative energy sources that are viable, affordable and beneficial will continue to be considered," Kempf says. While these questions are considered, research is conqucted and the campus community increases awareness, there 
.. are still everyday steps that members of the Notre Danie community can take to be more efficient and protect the environment. Turning off lights and computers when not in use to save energy is one way to do this. 
Another step is to make sure thermostats in dorm rooms are properly working. If they are, setting· them at a lower temperature and .wearing a sweater can conserve heat. If thermostats are not working, students should make the 
··effort to have them repaired.' "One ofthe biggest complaints is the thermostats," Brennecke says. "Ifthe thermostats don't work, why don't students do a survey in the dorms to. try and find out how many thermostats don't work and see .if they can't get them fixed using that information?" Once changes begin to take place, the key is consistency. "Energy conservation is notjusta 'let's get excited, it's energy week'. conc~pt,"·Kempf says. "Meaningful ·CO~servation will require behavioral changes that last a lifetime." 0 
7 DEC 2006 


Scho/asticCulture @····· · ··· · · · · ·· 


DEPT. OF CONTINUING EDUCATION A MEETING WITH "LEFTY" 
As students in the first class of the day filed into DeBartolo 155, an elderly man clad ina U.S. Marine's athletic jacket and stiff-brimmed baseball cap quietly made his way to his seat in the back of the room, opened his knapsack and neatly emptied the contents onto his desk. Clearly undisturbed by his presence, a group of girls filed in and chirped, "Hey Lefty!" in harmony as they took their seats a few rows down. Seventy-six year-old Lefty Guillette is a part-time undergraduate here at Notre Dame, taking courses with students young enough to be his grandchildren. After purchasing a hot chocolate from "the teacher cafe" (a.k.a. Decio Commons) a few days later, Lefty sat down across from me, gave me a kiss on the hand, and began to tell his story. Born and raised in Burlington, Vt., "from the other side of the tracks," Lefty's life has been anything but conventional. A husband, father of four,· Korean and Vietnam War veteran, and Hallmark channel enthusiast, Lefty ·was facing the ever-daunting challenge of putting together a PowerPoint presentation for his theology class, "Rich, Poor and War." 
"I have no clue," he said, with a look of bewilderment. ' "In 1966, a nurse in Vietnam asked me 
7DEC2006 

what I wanted to do with my life. I was only 36, but I had no idea. So, I made a list of 36 things that I wanted to accomplish in my lifetime. To be a student at the University. of Notre Dame was one of them," he said. Rejected three times, Lefty was finally admitted last fall for the real-world experience that he could bring to the classroom. Tearing up, Lefty remarked, "What they have given me far surpasses what I have given them." 
Like a true Notre Dame student, Lefty proceeded to wax poetic on what Notre Dame meant to him, quoting Benjamin Franklin on the importance of education, and on dreams, goals and God-given talents. While his war expertise must have provided fodder for an interesting admissions essay, Lefty's insight has a far greater reach than just the military. His resume includes acting· on "The Lucy Show," "Family Affair," and "Rat Patrol," singing and piano-playing professionally in San Diego, competing in baseball for 13 year~, and owning a nightclub in the late 70s. 
Having come a long way from his wife in Vermont, from his job at IHOP in the 70s and from his baseball game in Russia. in 1994, Lefty returned home this week to his wife and Department 56 ceramic Christmas village collection. 
Before.leaving, he kissed my hand in farewell, gave me an autographed copy of his Dodgers summer-camp baseball card, and said, with a tear in his eye: 

"Notre Dame is not the stadium, Notre Dame is not the library or the reflection pool, and Notre Dame is not the Huddle. Notre Dame is the student body. IfI could gather the entire community into the stadium for one minute, all I would want to say is 'Thank you."' -Sarah Barrett 

w 
C: 
::, 
!:i 
::, 
u 
u 
~ 
::s 
0 
I 
~ 
15 ......... 


•Jen.n.ifer Wulf

If you've ever spent a night loafing around the dorm channel surfing, chances are that you've stumbled 
across Notre Dame's NDTV. Depending on what time you stopped on channel 53, you could have seen anything from an interview with former president, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., to a Rod Stewart impression performed by a very secure male in leopard print leggings. Before it made its way onto television sets across campus this fall, NDTV was simply a biweekly half hour show produced in the closet­sized darkroom of Scholastic. Times have changed and funding has increased since the station took root. And for upcoming classes, the sky is the limit. 
Founded in 2002 by Lance Johnson ('04), NDTVwas not officially "Notre Dame Television," but rather "New Dimension Television," due to the administration's hesitance to affiliate itself with the station. "There was a real lack of anything visual-media related," News Producer Melinda Leonard ('07) says. Programming Director Michelle Lewis ('07) agrees. "It's pretty important for students to have a voice in TV, and it's a good creative outlet," she says. 
After Johnson started the station, NDTV's progress was spearheaded by Executive Producer Adam Fairholm ('07) in 2004. According to Sports Producer Kaitlin O'Connor ('07), Fairholm's direction was essential to the station's survival and success. "It's 
rown exponentially since I've been here," says. 
•..•••• 16 
When Fairholm took over, he was working with no money, one computer, two cameras and a makeshift studio in the basement of South Dining Hall. Due to the lack of equipment and airtime, there was not much of a fan base either. This became a running joke among the 
_,.-· 
,-,~;.~,~~ ","•••r,~~~:~~;~~••.• --::: 
staff now consists of about 100 people, shows run around the clockin the dorms, and due to a more open-hearted and open-walleted administration, NDTV has finally found a home in Washington Hall. But the road to stability was a 
rocky one. According to Fairholm, because of the relative novelty of college television, they had to figure much of the process out for themselves. "Now we're a little more standardized, but it's still very much our own," he says. This academic year marks the end ofan era for NDTV, since the seniors who organize it and keep it running ~ill be leaving. It will now be the responsibility of the upcoming classes to keep it afloat. "I'm optimistic, but I'm going to be sad to leave it," O'Connor says. "We have some talented underclassmen, and I think it will turn out well." "I'd like to see the upcoming class take . everything we've done and refine it," Fairholm says. For him, the main goal of NDTV is to become a staple of campus media. Faith in the upcoming classes seems to be 

..· . . , ERA, ACTI N An N,DTV filniographer guides.the ( the general consensus recording oLa show.;v ''. • < _'~·_,, .. > '---~--among the graduating
:, ·. . . • .
4 
NDTV staff, and there was even an article in The Observer poking fun at the miniscule audience. According to Leonard, the spoof stated that terrorists had taken over the station, but no one had noticed because of the lack of viewers. 
But times have changed since then. The 
. seniors. "I'm really happy with the way things turned out; the only thing I wish was different was that I had anotheryear," Lewis says. 0 
7 DEC 2006 




University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact:Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu 

S: SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
roduced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
2004 Indiana C~llegiate Press 

SCHOLaSTIC
n News Magazine of the Year 




_., ,;}F'ancl}Jctip. front of a large crowd. This 
1

I;f~~.fE;;'~~!1E~f~ 
L, 3y1 add_r,~ssmg sensitive race issues m
' .• ., · · .· .. ·. ,.. 1 
: .··>.:Teri-e119eiMcNally's musical "Ragtime." 
;;\;~:;,· .C 
So-why "Ragtime"? PEMCo director 

!.<·,·.• ,,11< ',.
_.L-2.::,i.}ack~Calcutt emphasizes the company's desire to choose a "big and ambitious" production for its 10th anniversary. ''Ragtime" is challenging to pull off · because it not only requires a wide array of talents, but also focuses on racially sensitive subjects. Co-president and producerTimMastertonadds, "'Ragtime' 
is ambitious on all fronts -a big, diverse cast is required, lots of music, heavy themes, controversial terms and language, challenging technical aspects. And there will be four performances for this, our 10th anniversary year." It's hard to ignore the passion and pride that comes from the members of PEMCo when they speak about this 

a socially conscious musical, and these wondering if they were too a'II?:bisfous··
sa~~::'f:~:~ ~~~~~i:l :;:;';iiFf:i:~;~;~f~f1:"_ 
'Ragtime' relates to Notre 1
:;:~.,.;X,~:ctc:0-;;,i, 1 

Dame because as the show t goes on, the residents of I, the main all-white town of New Rochelle encounter people who are different than them; 'Ragtime' tells the story of three different groups coming into contact with one another for the first time," Masterson says. 
"'Ragtime'is about accepting 
people for who they are and ·rehearsal · · 
learning to embrace each 
other's differences," says Kelly Rice, a 
freshman member ofPEMCo. 
With its passionate cast and crew, PEMCo strives to act on its desire to unify the campus. The company members believe that using their musical to bring together different groups on campus has not only made the company more diverse, but has also enriched them as individuals. In order to establish good race relations, Notre Dame relies on students' willingness to diversify their own social circles; students must "go outside their perceived comfort zone to invite in and meet new, different people who may challenge their preconceived notions of race, religion, ethnicity, etc.," Masterton says. Wendy Pepper, who plays Emma Goldman, describes how "Ragtime" has encouraged her to expand her relations with other students, saying, "this production has allowed me to really interact with different groups on campus. And I feel as though I have learned something from them, as I hope they have from me." In short, the company serves as a microcosm ofwhat it hopes the Notre 
· 

sophomore Kyle Carter walked in on the last day of auditions, the officers knew they had found their lead. The rest ofthe cast has nothing but praise for Carter, gushing about how passionate and vibrant he is starring as Coalhouse, the lead male role. As Pepper expresses, it is his enthusiasm and dedication to the group that makes this production such 
a success. 
The company asserts that the audience will be hard pressed to find anything that this February's production won't offer. With its dynamic and committed cast members, a pit orchestra, popular musical selections, vibrant acting and "eccentric" dances, "Ragtime" has the potential to be successful as both a theatrical production 
i

and as a socially conscious statement. It 
i 
w

will be performed February 2, 3 and 9, 0: 
::, :

10 in Washington Hall. The entrance fee will be $6, and the proceeds will ~I 
u 

go toward local charities. Besides, as 0 i==' Masterton lightheartedly adds, "it's the :s<fl' I best damn show on campus." 0 I O' 
u 
<fl: 
21 •••••••••


7 DEC2006 

· · · · · · · · · · · · · @Scholastic Culture 
confronting the silence 
Notre Dame plans to host forum to discuss eating disorders 
•Claire Sobczak 
Judging from the multitude of svelte bodies jogging around St. Mary's Lake and the recently filled Nalgene 
water bottles hanging from every other backpack, the University ofNotre Dame seems like a healthy place. But when mix­ing the student body's highly competitive mentality with a limited knowledge of sexual and dietary health, alcoholism, sexual assault and eating disorders be­come rampant on campus. In response to these issues, students, faculty and the administration are campaigning to make the student body more aware and better informed. Lizzi Shappell, Notre Dame's student body president, is at the forefront ofthis mission. 
"Though I think that a lot of students' health problems, like alcoholism, eating orders or depression, can begin to develop before they even get to Notre Dame, I also think that the competitive, perfectionistic environment ofthis school greatly contributes to these problems," 

'i Shappell says. "We live in a culture here 
': 
where nobody wants to talk about serious health issues. We have always been perfect and have succeeded at everything, which makes it hard to accept our weaknesses." 
The disparity among the different types ofproblems that the Health Center treats every year reflects Shappell's observations. In 2005, Health Services treated 1,404 dermatological, 3,302 musculoskeletal and 5,046 upper respiratory problems, while in the same year gynecological exams totaled 497 and psychological cases totaled 400. 

"A lot of the problems stem from the fact thatstudents don't know what Health Services provides, and they are afraid to ask about things that may contradict Catholic teaching," Ruthann Heberle, assistant director for Medical Outreach at Notre Dame, says. "But, in fact, the w physicians on staff are very open to talking ~ about any ofthe students' concerns, and ~ they all have family practice backgrounds 8 and can treat psychological problems that 
1 ~ can lead to eating disorders." , 0 Shappell has been trying to create g new ways to address health concerns at 
1 ~
Notre Dame that students may be too 
•••..•••• 22 
afraid to confront themselves. "In past years, the student government has been really big on awareness weeks, but those typically go unnoticed by the students they should affect. That is why this year we are trying a new, more integrative approach to health awareness, centering on the Notre Dame Eating Disorders Conference which is happening this February," Shappell says. 
Notre Dame is one ofa few universities to host such an academic forum this year. "The Eating Disorders Conference is hands down the most ambitious item on my administration's agenda," Shappell says. "We hope that by approaching · eating disorders from an academic as well as a student life standpoint, we will attract more attention to the issues and will create increased discussion around 
· campus." 
Ali Wishon, a senior who is working closely with Shappell on this project, is also optimistic about the awareness an academic forum on eating disorders will create. "I had to withdraw from Notre Dame for a year and a half to seek treatment for anorexia, and I want other students to have more knowledge about the disorders than I had," Wishon says. 
"Lizzi and I wanted to do something that would have a greater effect than what Eating Disorders Awareness Week had accomplished over the past two years, and we thought that taking a multi­disciplinary, academic standpoint would be more conducive to creating dialogue among students." 
Aside from the statistics provided by the Health Center about psychological treatments per year, eating disorders receive little attention at Notre Dame. 
"Much of the problem right now is thatlittle is known about eating disorders because the university has very few statistics on how many of its students suffer from eating problems," Wishon says. "This makes sense, though, especially because we go to school in such a competitive environment where most students are too proud to admit they have a problem." 
The Notre Dame Eating Disorders Conference will be held February 8-10 . 

Students and faculty are encouraged to submit papers for presentation at the conference and can submit them to aweiss@nd.edu until December 10. 


ScholasticCulture @ • • • • • • • • • • • •: 


oKatie Keyser 
.he weathered yellow 
brickand old lettering on 
the exterior ofRiley Hall 
make the building anything but 
captivating, and it is easy to pass by 
without a second glance. However, 
on the other side of the doors of 
this seasoned edifice, there exists 
a completely different world. 
Numerous sketches, paintings and 
drawings decorate the simple white 
walls and enliven this place that art 
students at Notre Dame often call 
home. For Meeg Conroy ('07), a 
double major in anthropology and 
studio art, Riley Hall provides a 
welcome refuge for her socially 
conscious art. 
"Most people don't even know what Riley is. But the ones who do rarely leave -even to run to LaFun," says Conroy, who is a candidate for a Bachelor of Fine Arts in printmaking. Art students in Riley often work day and night, mastering their techniques and finishing projects. "I spend more time in Riley than anywhere · else," Conroy says. "I have more 
belongings here in my studio than in my house." Yet long hours quickly become irrelevant when artists begin to concentrate on their creative approaches and . consider the purpose ofwhat they 
seek to create. 
T 


$°11'1'',Uix~J,1/r<I ~ · ;J,i . · 1t:,c.,7 n,' Meeg Conroy's "Stuart" attempts to encapsulate the individual worth of everyday humanity. 
with people from around the world influenced many of the pieces she is currently working on. "My experiences abroad made me aware of our lack of awareness of the world around us," she says. Conroy's fieldwork and research in anthropology has provided inspiration and subjects for her senior thesis, in which she is combining anthropology and studio art to cr.eate a visual ethnography. "I wanted something that everyone could approach," she says. "I want to show ordinary people with a passion doing what they believe in and what they want to do because you never hear about them." 
One of Conroy's most recent .pieces, "Stuart," is a digital and silkscreen print that she created this summer in preparation for her thesis. Conroy interviewed and talked with the subject, and then translated a photo she took of him onto four color silkscreen prints layered with a digital print. "The transparent digital print helps to provide context for the subject beneath it," she says. The viewer makes eye contact with the subject at first 


"A lot ofwhat's going on in the world today influences what glance, provoking an emotional response in the viewer. The text I do," Conroy says. Through her prints, she tries to create a at the bottom also provides information about the subject and commentary on global situations and events that she believes illuminates some of the social commentary that is characteristic have been misrepresented· by the media. "I want to capture of Conroy's work. w humanity and make people aware of it for the good and the The piece celebrates a common man and captures the grace § bad," Conroy says. Many ofher prints, woodcuts and silkscreens and glory of everyday life that Conroy seeks to communicate ~ have examined the events in Iraq and the current president's through her prints. She hopes her work will help viewers administration. "A lot ofmy work has been anti-Bush and anti­recognize the passion ordinary people put into their lives and ti war," Conroy says. inspire them to foster a greater awareness of the world around ~ 
In addition to political work, this year Conroy is focusing them. 0 CT , on people's everyday Jives. Her experiences and encounters 
~ 
7 DEC 2006. 
23········· \( 11 

Notre Dame's Own Musical Artists and Their Recording Pursuits 
· John _Conroy //"My Home'' ·. 
Sophomore John Conroy's album extracts the best out of the acoustic pop genre, which he then personalizes to fit his own creative style. Conroy's vocal range provides his music with fierce flexibility and emotion. .-Robbie Hazen// "Remedy"
. . ' 

Following in the musical style of artists such as Jason Mraz and Gavin On his debut album "Remedy," it is DeGraw, Conroy's songs are tinged clear that guitar-slingef Robbie Hazen with the influence of pop, rock and jazz. takes his music seriously .. Heavy on the keyboard and the electric Recorded over the course ofsix months, and bass guitars, "I Want To Be With Hazen teamed up wii:h peer musicians You" clearly depicts the imprint ofpop in southern Florida to produce .a five­rock in Conroy's musical style. Strong track EP that radiates Hazen's diversity instrumentals characterize "To:the as both.an artist and a songwriter. The Moon," which echoes the instrumental third track on the album, "Heartache rock subgenre. The album also includes and Pain;'' is the most impressive for its an instrumental version of this track, unique sound, as Hazen changes up his 
Conroy masters most ofthe instruments · vocals, adding an element of distress to handled in his music. Though his parents· . his yoic~ as he sings. The song projects forced him to take lessons as a child, · a Dashboard Confessional feel, but the Conroy taught himself how to play sound is his own. the guitar as a teenager. At around the In addition to his vocal dexterity, same time, he also became interested in . Hazen prides himself on his songwriting songwriting and has composed all of his abilities. His song "Dreary Eyes" was songs. inspired by the many lectures he attended 
Conroy's lyrical style conveys freshman year regarding date rape. The contemporary and relatable situations. lyrics tell the story of a girl raped by a "Believe in You" tells the story of a· male in one ofher classes. Hazen's words beautiful girl who cannot help. but be reach out to the survivor as shown in his insecure about her looks. Alongside this lyrics, "He recognizes her / She didn't track, "My Home" is the other standout seem to know that / She had his dirty song of the album, which unravels the drink and / He would have never told." story of a boy's devoted and admiring There is not a solely acoustic track on love. the album, showing that Hazen is trying 
Conroy matches the content of each to build an image of himself as more than song with perfect vocals, rhythm and just a student with a guitar. He has been instrumentals. The sensual lyrics of "To signed by Mint Musik, an independent The Moon" -"Crazy, everything is so dance/trance label and is planning to go crazy I but you will concentrate on me / on tour this summer to increase his fan and I will concentrate on you / and we base. "Remedy" is a good starting point for will fly" -are matched with sultry piano Hazen, and with more work on his lyrics and guitar solos. Conroy's well-rounded and some strengthening of his vocals, artistic talent delivers strong material. Hazen could make a name for himself. 
-Andrea Borrego -Maddy Zollo 
......... 24 
P.J. Bruno II "Bo~·na for Troy" 
Multi-instrumentalist PJ. Bruno, a Notre Darile junior, did not let the restrictions of college living. stop him from recording his third album, ''Bound for Troy," which he completed entirely on the GarageBand program on his Macintosh computer .. 
Bruno describes his music as a blend of acoustic, emo and in die. Mostofhis songs are about people he knows, adding a depth of emotion to the music and personalizing it for his audience. Bruno has played the guitar since his junior year of high school, but he also plays the harmonica, piano and organ. · 
With 11 tracks, "Bound for Troy" features an eclectic assortment of sounds. Most feature the guitar, except for the second song, "A.Jedi's Plight," in which Bruno experiments with the organ. The sound is a bit off-putting at first, but after one or two listens, the song and its effects really work. The song that stands out on the album, infused with intense energy and rhythmic complexity is the fifth track, called "Bridges and Balloons." The album is a great acoustic sample ofthe music scene at Notre Dame. 
-Molly Slavin 
7 DEC 2006 


T .Left: "-~ 0.bbie Hazen ·iop · h Conroy · Right: Jo n . PJ Bruno
. Bottom Left. . .. 

•._,_,_; ___ ·~-~~~~r~~.~~~f1~~~4iliI~[~~~-·~~-'--'-­
,n preparation for the Sugar Bowl, Irish fans wonder what lies ahead 
•Christy Laufer 

he No. 2 Fighting Irish hadn't yet kic.ked off the 2006 football season, but!. 
Notre Dame fans were already lookmg forward to the last game. Many; 
expected to leave Los Angeles with better than a 10-2 record. Expectations. surrounding the USC game were sky-high from the start, as the Jan. 8 BCS National[ Championship in Glendale, Ariz., seemed within reach. Trojan quarterback Matt Leinart's last-second touchdown in 2005 only added to the storied rivalry between the teams and set the stage for another classic battle. 
But when dreams become expectations, and those expectations are abruptly1 • 
T 

shattered, reality bites. On Saturday, Nov. 25, the Irish had their dreams shattered, as i · USC defeated Notre Dame 44-24 in front ofa capacity crowd at the L.A. Coliseum. i · The victory catapulted the Trojans past Michigan in the BCS poll to capture the( coveted No. 2 spot, which they subsequently surrendered to Florida after a 13-9 loss: to archrival UCLA on Dec. 2. · Did Notre Dame honestly have the talent to go all the way in 2006, or were! Irish fans too euphoric in the early stages of the Charlie Weis era? After all, USC' has been at the top of the recruiting list for years, and the Irish resurgence is just 
.­beginning. Even after last season's near-win, were the Irish really good enough to win in USC's own backyard? Was Notre Dame merely a good team about to play a very good team? , 
Charlie Weis' approach has been consistent: Take it one game at a time. But even he 1 admitted that as he was talki~g about Army, he was preparing to face the supremely\ talented USC squad. Weis said that two-thirds ofpractice time the week before the: Army game was spent working on plays for the game against USC. . 
Weis' game plan was to "counter [USC's] speed up front by draws and play actions. The Irish had some success moving the ball on offense, but red zone production, which had been strong all season, stalled on two of the first three drives. 
Defensively, Weis planned to "jam [USC's] receivers and get safety help over the top," which left the Irish defense vulnerable inside. USC took advantage, as Trojan quarterbackJohn David Booty completed many of his early passes up the middle. . 
After the game, it was execution -not the talent gap -that was most talked, about. "There were a lot ofmissed opportunities," quarterback Brady Quinn said in\· a post-game interview. "We were inconsistent with our production, and just didn'ti make the plays when we needed to." i 
Weis, as usual, was the most direct about his team's performance. "We didn't win( on special teams. We didn't win on offense. We didn't win on defense," Weis said. f : Safety Tom Zbikowski agreed. "It's execution," he said after the USC loss. "We can play with anyone in the country. We got outplayed today, and we didn't execute ·! when we should." ·l 
The BCS National Championship is now out of reach, but Notre Dame will still.·. 1 face a well-recruited powerhouse in the Sugar Bowl. Notre Dame will try to end its · · season with a bowl win for the first time since 1994 against the LSU Tigers, one of! j college football's hottest teams. Despite disappointing losses to Michigan and USC, i j the Irish will have one last chance this season to prove to doubters that theyreally[< 1 can play with anybody in the country. ' 
:.:I 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect! ·li the views ofScholastic. ,j 
•....•••. 26 


The women's soccer team lost a close match, 2-1, to North Carolina in the championship round of the NCAA Women's College Cup on Sunday, Dec. 
3. Sophomore Brittany Bock scored the . only Irish goal in the 81st minute. The · previous evening, sophomore Irish 
forward Kerri Hanks and men's junior forward Joseph Lapira were awarded the prestigious Hermann Trophy, the highest individual honor in college soccer. Hanks and Lapira are the first players from the same school to win the award in the same year since the award's inception. Hanks is the firstto win as a sophomore in the history of the award, and Lapira is the first Irish men's recipient. He led Division I-Ain goals scored (22) and total points (50), while. Hanks leads in goals (20) and assists (22) . : . · 
Last Frid~y, Brady Quinn received this year's Johnny Unitas Golden Arm Award for the top senior quarterback 
7 DEC 2006 
in college football. Quinn: beat four other finalists -including Ohio State's Troy Smith -to win the esteemed award. According to the award's Web site, "Candidates are judged upon character, citizenship, scholastic achievement, leadership qualities and athletic accomplishments." Other notable award finalists include John Carlson for the ,Mackey Award, given to the top tight end in college football, and Jeff Samardzija for the Biletnikoff Award, given to the nation's top wide receiver ... 
Notre Dame football is headed to the Big, Easy and the Allstate Sugar Bowl for the first time in 15 years to. play against No. 4 LSU. The Irish are 5-4 all time against LSU, with the most recent meeting ending in a 39-36 Irish victory inSouth Bend in 1998. Thegame will be 
0 
telecast January 3 at 8 p.m. on Fox ... 
7 DEC2006 

]I:JRJr~H
EYES ON... Patrick Smyth. 
•Brittany Lash .. 

In.November, Irish sophomore cross country 
· runnerPatrickSmyth became Notre Dame's 30th. men's cross country All-American after finishing ._36th in the 10,000 meter NCAA championship with atime of-31:41.7. This sea.sbr1,Smyth posted 
. foudop-12 finishes in five races, won his second All~Big East conference plaque and his second All~Great Lakes Region certific:ate:A native of,Salt Lake City, Utah, Smyth. wifli:ontiriue to comp_~te, as a distance runner inthe:upcoming indoor and::. 
outdo.or track seasons; . . . . . 
What draws you:to,running?., What do people typically mis1,md.erstand 
I~m drawn moreto ra.cir:ig and competition · about you,:!!I~q.rt?. . .. : 
. than to running'. Running is just the means .· Few· pe6p(~W~}iize that there is no off-by which I am able to compete. There season.Wetia.(f{~nd compete year.:round. is something so raw a:nd savage about Other sports rp~y}lo some conditioning in taking off at the ~o~nd of a gun with one the oft{~e.~~oh/bufthey aren't expected to· goal in mind -tq beat everyone else in perfot;rNit'~)gl:i;1~v~l1, until their season. In the race, no matterwhatpa1njtiivill require; corr.ipgtitive'r;l:inning;irhost athletes· spend I also enjoy the strategy and trainir:igthat. , m9f~)than th:ree}foui~hs of their year goes into accomplishing thaf'goaL . . J~ai~1ing and ra~.ing atthe highest levels. 
f.h: ~::r~1~~~1r::.:ire tAuSi~alian Ai~~JJili~$~t.ttryou lllost . 
Olympic distance runner] C~aig Mottra~//)MX first AII-America1_9¢ptiM~~e i~ one of Mottram is cocky and confident, yet ,tJe ·.. \ n,y proudest accom13h;,hmepts;>~1ven the always lays it all on the line ev~ry:rac_et: )ard~1work and7;8~8i¢ationt~~:t,1~n~:into 
The way he competes without feafofwlicr ~·" ~achieving it ·: ~,,., ,. ---·-·"--......,...._.~._,,,.__'. __J . may be in the race iswhat I strive for in my · · own career. In life, I admire my parents. 
1:1 .··. 
:·1 •••••••• ,,,,.@'ScholasticSports
:.i . 
•Kaitlin O'Connor 
ans dressed head-to-toe in Irish 
apparel pack the stands. The band 
leads the crowd in cheers, and the screaming student section does its best to distract the opposing team. It is a sold-out game with record-breaking attendance, and a few dozen unfortunate fans without tickets stand outside, attempting to catch even a brief glimpse of the action inside as the Irish end the game victorious. While this scene is typical at Notre Dame Sta­dium, where thousands flock to cheer the Irish football team onward to victory, it is becoming increasingly common at the 
Joyce Center when the men's hockey team takes the ice. Whathas inspired this sudden onslaught ofhockey enthusiasm? A winning team is 
F 


.-,,~·····.. ··28 


The Irish men's hockey program is in the middle of a major turnaround, developing from a five-win team in 2004-2005 to a nationally recognized powerhouse that has jumped to the top 10 in the rankings this season. In only their third game of 2006, the Irish squad upset No. I Boston College 7-1, surprising fans and building anticipation for what many hope will be a pivotal season for Irish hockey. "The Bos­ton College game was definitely the first time that we knew that we could maybe do something special this year instead of just build for the future," junior center/ 
forward Mark Van Guilder says. · 
This major turnaround has generated much speculation, since many starters are returning members from last year's team. The players have some theories about 
-
..·.··'~'1tt~f{?:,:_~::..:? ·.. · 

their recent success. "The workout sched­ule is really challenging, but I think that's part of the reason we're better this year," Van Guilder says. Senior defenseman Wes O'Neill cites other reasons for success. 
"I think the attitude of our team and our confidence every time we step on the ice has made a difference. Having played a full year under Coach Jackson also helps. We have a pretty good freshman class this year, too," O'Neill says. 
While talented team members -some of whom have been drafted by the NHL..:-and an attitude adjustment cer­tainly benefit the Irish hockey team, the most frequently nientioned factor is the arrival ofJeffJackson, now in his second year as head coach.Jackson has had much success in his extensive coaching career. 
7 DEC 2006 



After coaching for six years at Lake Su­perior State, where he won two NCAA championships, Jackson left the college scene for 10 years to coach the U.S. Na­tional Team and the NHL's New York Islanders before returning last season to 
college hockey. 
"I enjoyed my time coaching in the NHL, but I like coaching college because 
I get to work with the players every day in practice and help them with challenges both on the rink and in the academic and social aspects oftheir lives," Jackson says. 
"You are helping to develop the whole person, not just the hockey player." 
Because he is so committed to his team's development,Jackson expects the same kind ofdedication from his players. 
"You have to have the right leadership, the right attitude as ateam and chemistry[ ... ] You have to have a great locker room and good people in it willing to pay the price and make personal sacrifices for the suc­cess of the whole team." On this year's team, both seniors and underclassmen have become leaders, ..and Van Guilder agrees that the team's chemistry has aided the improvement. "I've noticed 
7 DEC2006 
more confidence in the team. Guys aren't afraid to make mistakes and be creative. In the past they were kind ofuptight and worried to mess up." This confidence, he says, "comes from getting used to our coach's philosophy and just winning hockey games." 
Jackson's philosophy is simple: out­work, out-discipline and out-think the 
opponent. "You have to be able to com­pete hard, too," Jackson says. "You can work hard and still not compete; there's a difference." Lately, the team has been competing well. They are currently ranked No. 5 with an 12-3-1 record -a vast improvement from last year, when the team won only 13 games all season. 
In addition to talented players and an experienced coaching staff, a complete change in players' attitudes was essential. 

"I don't think it was a matter of changing the mentality so much as it was a matter of nurturing what was already there. It took half a year for most of the players to buy in, but that's part ofthe process of building a program. Starting this season we are much further ahead than we were a year ago," Jackson says. 
ScholasticSports 0 · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· 

The players have also noticed a change. 
"Now, we expect to win each game, we don't hope to win. Going into every weekend, we know that we can play with anybody," senior goaltender Dave Brown says. Sophomore center Erik Condra echoes this sentiment. "This season we won't accept anything but a win; whereas last year we might have been happy with a tie or a close game [ ... ] This year that doesn't fly," he says. 
The players are going to great lengths to keep winning. Some go through the same pre-game rituals every week, which include practicing mental focusing exer­cises or always taking a pre-game nap at the same time. "When I get to the rink I have a cinnamon raisin bagel, and then I drink anything Gatorade. I ate a cin­namon raisin bagel before the first game when I scored a goal, and I've been doing the same thing ever since," freshman wing Ryan Thang says. 
Condra is even more superstitious. 
"There's a lot oflittle stuff that I have to do before every game. Like I can't tie my dress shoes, I dip my bagel in coffee and I have exactly three straws in my coffee. I also have to put my hand on [teammate] Tom Sawatske's left shoulder when we say 'Go Irish,"' Condra says. 
Whatever they're doing, they aren't likely to stop anytime soon. The Irish added two wins last weekend against No. 14Alaska and play two games against No. 7Michigan this weekend. Although many games remain, the team and its fans are optimistic about the program's post sea­son potential. "We anticipate going to the NCAA Tournament, and we're not going to settle for anything less. Expectations are really high right now, and anything less than an NCAA appearance would be a let-down for this team," Thang says. 
WhileJackson fully intends to win the NCAA national championship with the Irish hockey program one day, he is not sure exactly when that day will come. "I don't know how soon or how late it's go­ing to be; it's a matter ofhow things come together. I know that this year's team is doing very well and anything is possible, but everything has to fall into place." 0 


• Grant Schmidt otre Dame men's basketball has 
done some impressive things 
in its history. The Irish have 
made 27 NCAA tournament appearances 
and won two national championships; 
they snapped UCLA's historic 88-game 
winning streak in 1974; and they have 
featured such greats as Adrian Dantley 
('76) and Austin Carr ('71). So why can't 
N
they fill the seats for home games? 
Seven games into the basketball season, many student ticket booklets re­mained unsold. Students seem to have multiple reasons for not attend­ing the majority of the men's home basketball games so far this sea­son, but many can't ex­plain this year's decrease in interest. "The games are on random days, not only on Saturdays," fresh-
Cf) 
man Bridget Mahoney ,~says. "So if I had home­work, I would miss games and buy­ing tickets would be pointless." 

Other students simply feel that Notre Dame is still in the midst of the football season and that it is not quite time to fo­cus on basketball. But even when football season ends, other varsity sports in action may still overshadow basketball. "The hockey team has cop.flicting games [with 
· the basketball team] and considering the hockey team [was] fourth in the nation, I enjoy watching them more," freshman Brent Neville says. 
While many students emphasized the lack of rank or quality opponents to start the season, junior Damon Jason had a different complaint. "Honestly, 
· ·you· don't really see anything exciting 


or spectacular," Jason says. "No big plays or big dunks. Maybe we'll see 
·an occasional big win, but too many disappointments come along with it." 
Factors outside basket­ball also play a significant role in the lack of student interest. Freshman Cait­lin Harrington, echo­ing others interviewed, 
· says, "Sixty dollars is a lot of money for basket­ball tickets."· Additionally, some students prefer to purchase only individual 

LOYAL LEGION Recent basketball games have left the Legion less than excited. 
game tickets. "I figured 
7 DEC 2006 




WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR DATE? 
MAY WE MAKE ASUGGESTION? 
JEN CHAPIN DISR & THIE MBSSOON TOMMY MAKEM AND KENNEDY'S KITCHEN tell. GRAN COMBO PAUi!. YAYII.OIR ID.ANCIE. COMP.ANY BAYANIHAN PHILIPPINE NATIONAL DANCE COMPANY THE CAPITOL STEPS DTZHAK PIERLMAN IVO POGORELICH ROYAL DRUMMERS OIF IBIIJl!UllNIDD MAR~{ O'CONNOR'S FBDIDILE CIELIEIBRATBON ACOUSTIC AFRICA CARLOS FUENTES/ SAN ANTONIO VOCAL ARTS ENSEMBLE SAVION GLOVER: Cll.ASSDCAll. SAVHON . THIE VBENNA CHOHIR BOYS LONDON PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA CC·HUS TD-m.rE AND EDGAR MIEYIER NEW ORLEANS JAZZ ORCHESTRA HUNGAIIUAN STATIE !FOLK IENSlEMBILIE JUILLIARD STRING QUARTET PERLMAN, SCIHl M Ul'li & BAI i!.IEY DECADANCE VS. THE Fl REB IR D NA.TAU IE MACMASTER SFJAZZ COLLECTIVE TIEMIPO LDBRIE RAVI SHAN KAR PARSONS DANCIE COMPANY 
HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
DEBARTOLO -~ ON IVERS ITY OF 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER · ffi NOTRE DAME 
,-----. . . ' 
" . -. . . 



"'===i,=,..===~~~~===----.......,3-­
r· _------_ -------_---· ---. ----•"'7 
, _ ist~2!i11gl!!-.,-1 
¦ 
How do you spell "masochist?" ! -curious student filling outTCE 

¦ 
James Aldridge is a large, blackJesus. 


-overheard male student at a football game 
¦ That grrl is trashed! I -one usher, to another usher,
I 
ij 

referring to a student at a football
ij 
game
" 

~ j ¦ Everybody goes crazy during exam week. I feel like the 
• world has been hitting the crackpipe. -overheard student in SDH 
i1 

·ll ¦ I wouldn't even eat that stuffdrunk. 
' 

i -Huddle worker, in reference to 
il 
u quarterdogs 
N 
ti 

Scho/asticHumor(D •······· •·· •· • 

Forty-Seven Years Ago 
Forstudents, the end of the semesteris astressful time, full offear over exams-frustration about the South Bend weather and nervousness regard­ing the holiday season. However, the Irish can always find awayto alleviate this stress: friendship, family, prayer, God ... cigarettes? Look, ifyou will, at the story of Blossom, a young St Mary's student with problems on her mind and a pack of :freshly rolled cigarettes in her pocket. Ah, inhale the February 13, 1959 issue ofScholastic. 
"Weekend afterweekend, while her dassmates went frolicking, B/.ossom sat alune, S{ll}edfrom utter despai1­only by herpack ofMarlhoros,for even an exchequeras slim as B/.ossom}can affordthejoys ofMarlhoro-joys far beyondthepaltryprice: rich, melluw tobaccoskrvingly cured and carefullypacked, a new impnwedfilter that works like a charm. However Mar/hara} nwst pas­sionate admirers would not claim that Mar/hara can enti.rely replace love and roma1ue, so Blossom grew steadily morose1:" . 
So as you're sitting in Hesburgh, cramming for your Italian final, remember: It could be worse. You could have emphysema. 
-Doug Sch!arman 

Oh, Notre Dame :freshmen. Innocent in childlike awe and wonder. Easily impressionable in their willingness to take pictures. Oddly discomforting for a variety of reasons. 
0:: 
0 
:E 
::, 
:c 
0 
~ 
5 
0 
I 
·.-0­
C/) 


7 DEC 2006 33 ......... ,a,­
-~ 
____ _, 

,. ' ~ -------·-·~ , ...., ~"--"-------­
............. l~Scho/asticHumor
j ~ ,.n,:. 
:i' 
.,,:121.r.o •'lf .. 
Jt~~.l!]O~r~1j,/~ ~~~n ~ . s.
1:~~ ~1i~:;;_:*t-if:}:·~;-~~~~: ·, ~
·•1111111!.I'

'I ~:. ·lf ~-. :;S•· :;.'}, ~---i··~.......#-. ·t~ _.,_ ij•·~ ~ ~ ~. ..:N ,; .... ~-b t, --~-.... -:_,~­
l!UlU]i~t~:~~:i~i ~att!HPl~rr i
~.1•f 

· j I 
~--.,, \....J·.·
.. · 
~ 
~~ ~ 

I !Iey Gippsters, it's t~e Gipp her~, ready to regale you with more of his .greatest hits. You mig~t remem~er,,the k . 'ffl\ Gipp from past tales, like "That Time Your Roommate vVoke Up Sandwiched Between Two Asian Towmes or .•~. "That One Story Involving Body Fluids, Phallic Objects and Club Fever." As Uncle Gippy knows too well, all Irish F:t . students are in the Hesburgh Library 13th floor stairwell "studying," so BigPoppaGipp is here to give you a nice ~.··• .· ~\\ study break and maybe -just maybe -make you fall in love with him. Prepare yourself. Stuff's about to get really JJf,, real, really fast. ,;-;.. ;~~ Shortly after every male student's favorite extracurricular activity, "the case race" -obviously due to the aesthetically •.~ • ' pleasing rhyme scheme, as all ND men love good alcohol-related wordplay-the victor participated in the traditional ~ i;,!i .·,,1 celebration ritual by passing out in a not-so-private space. He arose several hours after his victorious slumber to 1,. ·:•···:".~.' i.·, discover he had fallen asleep in the basement of the dorm. Hey, don't judge. It happens. Our hero (in the style of ,)-1, i 1 ·~ Flava Flav, let's call him Toasteee) was three stories away from refuge, but a member of the hall staff presented a ;~ ·.~.~ barrier betwe11n Toasteehe andhsweet, sbweet fre~do~d· In a1kn attempt tofhidehevid,~nAclehof thhe ~ght's earhlier fehsthivities, f"
..•.:·,· .·..-~·· e 1 .. our tipster te s us that t is c aracter egan a weir wa -run away rom im. t oug .LOasteee t oug t e was 
,;;.­

sly, he was as conspicuous as Paris Hilton sitting on the altar in the Basilica. When our intelligent friend lost his j shoe without even noticing, the hall staffer pursued the trail. Did you know that Notre Dame RA's can actually smell out intoxication from over three miles away? True story. Toasteee ascended two flights of stairs with one shoe, and, thinking that a room on the second floor was actually where he lived, accosted a student minding his own business. The groggy, Natty-infested character demanded an explanation of what had happened to all his possessions, when 
: suddenly the staffer appeared, asking if he had lost his shoe. Determining it best to exude confidence rather than ',~ l arrogance, our fellow responded with an assertive, "No, I did not, sir!" Don't say his mother never taught him .;'.j manners. MommaToasteee should be proud. Despite the convincing argument, the staffer threw the shoe at him, ;t;t1. left and reported the incident to ResLife. In another brilliant judgment, our shoeless hero decided to mention in 
,:; the "additional comments" box of his report that he once had a heroin-addict cousin. The reward for such bravado? .,. A weekly appointment with a psychiatrist for the rest of the semester. Much like TCE's, the Gipp thinks the moral of this story is to always write as little as humanly possible. 
The next story has been shared by several students already, but the Gipp -like the Christmas• fairy that he is -would like to put this golden nugget in your stocking. Ourtipster was watching the notorious call-in show, "Talk Sex With Sue Johannsen" one evening (obviously a gerider studies project made possible by dorm cable). Seeking enlightenment from the oldest pervert in cable television, this friend suddenly heard an on-air caller identify himself as 
---. someone from Notre Dame, Ind. But caller, pray tell, wouldn't duLac prevent anything relevant to Sue? The question 
. "''1 was one for the records: Is it normal that his girlfriend ~ould like him to drain his lizard on her person? Um ... yeah. The Gipp doesn't know what to say either. On the plus side, after scouring duLac, the Gipp can find no reference to this particular act. But Sue responded with composure and compassion, stating that this action was perfectly fine, as long as the girlfriend would be willing to return the favor. The Gipp stands assured that Sue, the psychological hero that she is, might've saved an. ND relationship that night... .f' ~ · l 
Happy Holidays to.all f~om the Gipp. Drink a lot ofeggnog, have a happy J./ . ,i -~ , New Year, and you might JUsthave a couple ofpresents to bestow1'Jfa.. i 0.IVfr . upon the Gipp next semester. . . {,-/ . .. ... . d edu «-:'1Jc,:-"'~ex@n • 
. ,fi!";::•"'' ­
e;\°\t' 

~ R?>"-:> 
T/PTHEGW 
7 DEC 2006 


Scho/asticHumor fID ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · 
'i ;!::?~/:~· (~ 
' >·~ ~ 
,, 


• Elisa Suarez 
_A s a girl who has only neglected to eat the peanut butter rice 
krispie bars from the dining 
hall once in her whole life, I'm not going to play with your minds right now. I know Rolfs arid all its occupants like 
Joanie loves Chachi. But seriously, you have to pass all the hours spent on the treadmill somehow, and I use this otherwise wasted time to partake in my all-time favorite hobbies: people­watching and people-judging. Read and learn, kids. Read and learn: 
THE INTENSITY GUY: 
These are usually the weird-looking guys that go for the elliptical sundae topped with 2,000 crunches and a triceps exercise or seven. They usually wear approximately one· article of uncommon clothing to cement the fact that they.are 
"intense" (i.e. spandex, sweat banq; ·elbow brace). To the guy who wears tfi:e bh1e bandana, this is you. I keep thinking · that you should've graduated two years ago, but you keep coming back for more. Years from now, when we all return to the Dome for our 35th reunion, you will be the one who is recognized for running that Iron Man competition. Good job. I'll be the one recognized for eating the most Cheetos while watching all four seasons of "Felicity" in a row. 
THE SCREAMER: 
This is the goudy, stout gentleman who feels the extreme urge to squat that extra 420 pounds. And to do it he must let out some kind of roar/squeal that's like the sound of a small deer caught in the death grip of a wild mountain lion's jaws. The screamers are the kind of people who take the small things in life (drinking games, class projects, pick-up games of flag football, FlipSide events) way too seriously. These guys also don't pick up on normal social cues because they don't realize that everyone else actually hears and is creeped out by the guttural noises escaping from their mouths. Girls, if you date a screamer, the way to gain the upper hand is to tell him that his guns look like.they dropped· a quarter inch in size from last week. Works like a charm. I'm also thinking-Napoleon complex 
7 DEC 2006 
(short, big muscles, you know the drill). 
P.S. Guys, is there a reason you go to the water fountain every 30 seconds? No, really. Seriously, is that like, a muscle thing? 
THE INTENSITY GIRL: 
Watch out! These cardio crazies are Homeland Security Advisory System Threat Condition Red, aka "Psycho." Kind of like Jack Nicholson in "The Shining" -only a little more attractive and toned -these girls are in shape. Intensity girls are barely keeping it together -at any point they could turn crazy. They live in fear of the day when the dining hall workers mix the regular and fat-free ranch at NDH. So don't 
neurn1 
hover within two feet of their treadmill or they might stab you in the stomach with their rib bones. I won't lie; those stomach wounds ain't no picnic. Just watch your back, and don't dangle any cookies around. The smell makes them · rabid. 
THE HOT GIRL: This is the gorgeous girl with the perfect body that we all secretly suspect 


doesn't even need to go to Rolfs. I say this because she has the perfect body, but all she ever does is walk around the track twice and then spend about seven minutes on the Stairmaster. Given her perfect (perfectly engineered?) genetics, the only reason I can think of that a girl like this would go to Rolfs is because they have an instinctive need to wear spandex shorts at least twice a week. 
THE NEWBIE: 

Sorry freshmen, but everybody hates the new kid. You all come into Rolfs, don't know how to swipe your ID cards, mess with the sign-up system, try to talk to pe~ple or change the TV channels. Remember these tips: Eyes down! 
· Exercise and friendliness don't mix. Also, TVs are for the Food Network, "Friends" reruns and at least two news programs that nobody watches, and for God's sake, get off ofmy treadmill! --, .... 
THE MOTLEY dRUE: 

These are th~ rand-o's that you see once in a blue moon. You know, the old lady who wears the black spandex and matching black weightlifting gloves, the lassie that blatantly sings to her iPod music, the kid who laughs uncontrollably at the sitcoms on the TV, or the girl who runs with her hair down? We've all seen them. To the girl who runs with her hair down, let me just say, come on. You are NOT the soccer player from "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants." 
THE NAME-ERASERS: 
These people are the lowest ofthe low. Yeah. The time slot that you signed up for/just blew two hours waiting for by jogging around the track (twice) and doing a thousand (more like 50) half­hearted crunches is now gone. Upon rechecking the sign up sheet you notice that your name is kind of scratched out/erased -with someone else's initials sloppily written over it ­that drunken hookup you've always tried 
to cover up but everyone knows about anyway. Damn you, Stealth Erasers! I suspect the Intensity Girls. 
The Rev. Joseph Amar holds a joint professorship in both the department of classics and the department of theology. Amar specializes in classical and Christian Arabic, Syriac and historical interactions between Christians, Muslims and Jews. Scholastic sat down with Amar this week to discuss the strained relations between the West and Islam. 
\Vhy is the current state ofMuslim­Christian relations so poor? 
For a variety of reasons, it's at an all-time low point in history. There have been times when we've gotten along much better, but this isn't one of those times. Fundamentalist Christian support for Israel is a big factor. It's common knowledge that Christian fundamentalism in this country has a theological and a political agenda. And recent American administrations, as well as Israelis, have embraced that agenda. It's made Christianity in the minds of Middle Easterners very closely associated with American foreign policy. So it has fed anyone who has any kind of radical notions about Islam or Christianity. Of course it doesn't help that America characterized its so-called intervention [in the Middle East] as a crusade. 
\Vb.at was the net effect of Pope BenedictXVI citing a controversial passage about Islam in his speech at Regensburg, Germany last September? 
I thinkthe Muslim world sawitas the latest salvo in an ongoing problem they had with him when he was Joseph Ratzinger and started to go on record against Turkey entering the European Union [a position the Pope has since changed his stance on]. It is very unfortunate that he made the statement that he did, and I'm sure because ofit the Vatican will be very, very careful in the future about what it says and how it says it. 
Do you think the pope's recent visit to Turkey, a predominantly Muslim nation, helped ease tensions between the faiths? 
The pope went there at the invitation ofthe ecumenical patriarch of Constantinople, who is the head of the Greek Orthodox Church. We have improved relations with them, but that [the pope's visit] was interpreted by the Turks as sort of a slap in the face because the Turks don't recognize the ecumenical patriarch for what he is, and they recognize the pope only as the head of Vatican City state. They recognize him as a political leader, not a religious leader. So there are two levels of things going on at the meeting. On the one level, the pope strengthens Catholic ties with the Greek Orthodox Church and continues to improve those ties and that's a good thing. But that doesn't go toward enhancing the relations of Christianity with Islam at all. That's another issue altogether, and it's much bigger than anything the pope can do, or did do. 
Is there any way to salvage this fractured relationship, and what steps will it take? 
We have to stop dealing with people out of fear and threat. We have to start respecting people for what they are, not for what we want them to be. And then maybe in a generation, 30 or 40 years from now, there will be Muslim-Arab leaders who can see a way to be less confrontational. But right now, just as we are acting out of our ideologies, they're acting out oftheir ideologies. And so that can't pave the way to dialogue. Everyone has to back off, put their Bibles and Qurans away, and talk rationally. 
Are you optimistic about this dire situation, or are we in the midst of a "clash of civilizations?" 
I'm neither pessimistic nor optimistic. I'm realistic. And I know intimately what's happening to Christianity in the Middle East today, and it is disappearing before our eyes and throughout all of western Asia. And that is largely due to American foreign policy. Christianity in the Middle East is disappearing because of Christianity in the West. Christians who visit the Holy Land step over the 
· Palestinians to get to the shrines and churches without realizing that some of the people they're stepping over are Christians. Those people don't even register with -western Christians. Yet Christianity and Islam coexisted since the 7th c_entury in the Middle East and continued to coexist well until the middle of the 20th century. So the notion of a clash of civilizations is entirely fiction. It's bogus. What we have here is a history that's brought about the demise of Christianity in the Middle East. And it's a history that has a western Christian component as well as an eastern Muslim component. Ifthere is a clash it's becau~ we've created one. · 
7 DEC 2006 








