NOTRE DAME MEN Here are the
NEW SCHOOL BELTS
with YOUR SCHOOL MONOGRAM
in SCHOOL COLORS
on buckle
Belts by HICKOK Buckles by
HERFF-]ONES
Plus 19c Tax

XTOW you can get one of these distinctive belts—of fine flexible leathers by Hickok—buckles by Herff-Joncs. Individualized with your school letter enameled in your school colors on highly polished buckle. Get yours now and be among the first to wear this handsome school belt.
Shop Tonight!
— TAXI FREE —
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
D ’
R G
TORE FOR
2
Jhppp j^efai .©ear
You are Always a Guest Here Before You are a Customer
Home of Famous Names in Men’s Quality Clothing Hickey-Freeman ... Society Brand ... Burberry .. “GGG”... Alpagora...British-R...Dobbs
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
3
iHerrp Cljristmas
Sir:
It’s too bad you didn’t make Don Bir-ren take a good and very long look at’ Johnny Lujack before he did the Football Issue cover. Tsk. Or do you really believe it looks like J. L.?
Noel Digby
Off Campus
The Scholastic editor, not the artist, fumbled the ball. Don Birren made no attempt to picture Johnny Lujack, nor anyone else, rather drew a “representative” football player.—Editor.
Dear Editor:
For several weeks your letter column has been full of plaintive laments from nostalgic old-timers, who wept bitter tears of woe bewailing the lack of spirit in our lethargic student body. In days of yore, it seenis, the bright and shining-

ELECTRICON LABORATORIES
Present the Custom Made
A new and distinctive portable electric phonograph, attractively covered in a combination fabric of solid tones with rich, authentic Scotch plaids.
Student Price $33.50 30 day guarantee
f mt r n c v* m m r v d v v a v n s gt-
I
spirit of Notre Dame blinded all comers.
In the first place, I think that these individuals are victims of self-imagined hallucinations concerning what things were like way back before the war. I, too, was here then; and outside of a thinner veneer of outwardly manifested “spirit,” things were about the same at that time. I distinctly recall that the “old-timers” of these years were also gnashing their teeth about the decline in the old college try.
One enthusiastic individual, carried away perhaps by the moving strains of “Notre Dame, Our Mother” from a nearby shower room, profoundly suggested that the student body carry the football players about on our shoulders. Very well, my dear sir: you may begin by carrying Moose Connor.
Another sage hangover from the iceage bemoans the fact that N.D. hats stay on during the playing of the Victory March. Alas, I was always taught by the good nuns in grammar school, and by the yardstick of etiquette, Emily Post, that
hats come off only during a burial service or while the National Anthem is being played; this, of course, outside of the normal times when masculine heads are bared. Anyhow, why quibble over such a minoi’ matter? Spirit is present in a sufficient degree without being mawkishly sentimental about it.
These suggested vestiges of the mad era of do-or-die-for-dear-Old-Siwash are as archaic as Chaucerian English. These conservatives cannot turn back the clock. An adequate expression of collegiate spirit no longer entails the temporary abandonment of rationality nor exposure to the elements. College students now are more desirous of being educated, less of making nuisances of themselves with their outlandish exhibitions of juvenile throwbacks to the jungle. Try as you may, relics of the past, you will not get them worked up to the hysteria of the ’30’s.	-
For my part, I will cheer at ND football games; I will join in all other activities of the student body as long as they remain within the bounds of common sense. But I will carry no football players on my back and more likely, I will keep my hat on.
Eric Fitzwilliams
Editor:
Stunned to read that Ziggy and his “It Behooves Me Greatly” are to leave the Scholastic. I’d like to see this excellent column by an exceptional man a permanent fixture in the Scholastic.
Lawrence T. Appelbaum, 430 Howard Hall
Sir:
I was much interested in Richard C. Leon’s letter to the Editor in the November 22 issue of the Scholastic, for his letter dealt with a subject parallel to an idea on which I have long mused. Whether students should remove their hats during the playing of the “Victory March” is a debatable matter which should certainly be settled once and for all, one way or the other, to effect a concerted action from the student body in place of the dubious, half-hearted hat-doffiing evident at recent games. Therein lies my idea.
Many large universities prescribe the appropriate show of allegiance toward their various school songs. In most cases, there is a “rouser” used to inject spirit into the crowd and team and to cheer each touchdown made by the home team. The crowd stands, but there is no hat
(Continued on Page 31)
5
jUIerrp ©jristmas
THE WEEK
John A. O'Connor
stripes, like Cary Grant wears); and, in addition to an increase in the Government allowance, a passing grade in History.
Just how important Saturday night can be was brought forcibly home to ND men last weekend when Mayor Dempsey’s emergency orders curbed all public gatherings, padlocked all store and soda-fountain doors at 5 p. m. and generally administered a knockout blow to South Bend nightlife. Even Walgreen’s shut down, and by 7 o’clock the only activity on that usually bustling corner was a mild December breeze playing at the skirt-hems of a few lorn but hopeful St. Mary’s girls, waiting to catch their bus. Saturday night was indeed the loneliest night of the week.
On campus the evening was saved by the invasion of a couple hundred girls from Chicago colleges, attending an Inter-American Affairs convention, listening to the usual lectures, touring the grounds, visiting the Rockne Memorial,
I
| Say "Merry Christmas" with FLOWERS
B	from the
if
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY
- Flowers wired anywhere 114 South Michigan Street	Phone 3-8227
Paris
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
CLEANING Pressing While You Wait DYEING
One of Our Specialties:
Cold weather ahead ... Topcoats and Overcoats beautifully cleaned and pressed.
Conveniently located at
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe
Log Chapel, and cafeteria, and winding up at a dance open to all interested stags. The fems were from Rosary, St. Vincent’s, Nazareth and Cardinal Stritch’s College, but the cutest aggregation hailed from Mundelein.
South Bend’s stores were bursting at the seams with a swollen influx of eager Christmas shoppers. ND men, along with the town’s tiny tots, lined up at the toyland courts of the various Santa’s to put in their belated requests. Most Notre Darners’ lists went something like this: Wanted from Santa Claus: One doll (about 5 feet 4, loaded with personality, bubbling with enthusiasm, resembling June Haver); one little red wagon (Buick model preferred, convertible, with 42 inch doors); one new Sunday suit (pre-war Hart-Schaffner-Marx worsted fabric in dark blue with white pin
Vets, gobbling up copies of last week’s Collier’s (which - picked a rather allappeasing sectional All-America team), hummed an I-told-you-so while perusing the mag’s article exposing foul conditions in Army mess halls. Every ex-soldier knows that regardless of brass-bonnet propaganda to the contrary chow in the Army, with rare exceptions, was putrid. The lowest, mangiest, drunkest boors and blackguards in the service usually wound up 'wielding cleavers and ladles in some mess hall. Not even the M.P.’s could boast of such a crummy crew. To the stolid defender of U. S. Army tactics and policies "who gloats “Well the Army won the war, didn’t it?”, we can only refer him to our statesmen and historians who are having some difficulty deciding 'whether it has been won or not.
. ❖
Margaret Mead sounds off in this month’s Fortune on the rough life a 'woman leads these days. She complains for the housewife who must do her chores alone, and seems to cry for the old days when laundry was done by a flock of gabbing women on a river bank. She advocates a socialization of housework, trying everything to get hubby in on it after he’s come home from a hard Jay’s work. Listen to her moan: “Women in our society complain of lack of stimulation (they consume about as much liquor and coffee as men), of the loneliness, of the dullness of staying at home. Little babies are poor conversationalists (some big babies are too) ; husbands come home tired (what does she expect?) and sit reading the paper (better maybe they should stand reading the paper?), and women who used to pride themselves on their ability to talk find on the rare evening they can go out that their words clot on their tongues.” (We’ve yet to run across a woman who strangles on words; they usually have a little trouble along this line.)
❖
A survey of the greeting card stock disclosed that the Scotty dogs are up there ahead of reindeer and fir trees in the race for Christmas card supremacy. The Baby Jesus is left out in the cold. Not much of a change since the housingshortage days in Bethlehem.
6
Sapp? jUeto gear

I
On a winter's night long time ago
(The bells ring loud and the bells ring low),
When high howled wind, and down fell snow (Carillon, Carilia).
Saint Joseph he and Notre Dame, Riding on an ass, full weary came From Nazareth into Bethlehem,
And the small child Jesus smile on you.
II
And Bethlehem inn they stood before
(The bells ring less and the bells ring more),
The landlord bade them begone from his door (Carillon, Carilia).
“Poor folk" (says he), “must lie where they may. For the Duke of Jewry comes this way. With all his train on a Christmas Day."
And the small child Jesus smile on you.
Ill
Poor folk that may my carol hear
(The bells ring single and the bells ring clear), See! God's one child had hardest cheer!
(Carillon, Carilia).
Men grown hard on a Christmas morn;
The dumb beast by and a babe forlorn.
It was very, very cold when our Lord was born. And the small child Jesus smile on you.
IV
Now these were Jews as Jews may be
(The bells ring merry and the bells ring free).
But Christian men in a band are we (Carillon, Carilia).
Empty we go, and ill be-dight. Singing Noel on a Winter's night.
Gives us to sup by the warm firelight. And the small child Jesus smile on you.
— By Hilaire Belloc
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
jfflerrp Cfjristmas'
TH€ HOTR€ ORI SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper IGcturus Vive Quasi Cras Morilurus
Founded 1867
iiitiiiiiiiiintiiiiiiiiitiiii mitt ittiiiitttii i	tut tm ititiiniitiittti
VOL. 88, NO. 11	DEC. 17, 1946
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. S, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber_____________H. Smith Keel
tiiiiiiiitiimiiiiiitiiiiiimmiiimiiiimiimtmmmmmiiiimiimmi
James Clemens________________News	Editor
Frank Keenan______Associate News Editor Joe Cheney________Sports	Editor
foe Wilcox________________Feature	Editor
Frank Cacciapaglia.—Photographic	Editor
REWRITE
Bob Stock_________________Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
COVER
"Lucca Madonna" _________Jan van Eyck
Process-printed by Brother Martinus, C. S. C., of Ave Maria Press
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_______________________Faculty Advisor
Tom Gargan, Bob Kopf Circulation
M. E. Varga___________________Advertising
tiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiHiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiii
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC Is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame. Indiana.
8

The spirit of Christmas is one of innocence and utter simplicity. Even to one as gifted with words as Saint John it meant simply that the Word was made Flesh. Before the wonder of Christmas the human tongue finds itself unlettered and helpless. Perhaps, it is better to rely on unspoken sentiment and the mutual ability of friends to interpret the overtones of cheer and blessing implied in such a simple, forthright phrase as— “Merry Christmas.” If the Scholastic says to its many friends simply, “Merry Christmas” and “God rest you, merry gentlemen,” it hopes you will read in between the lines.
Corporal Chester R. Perkins, a former Indianapolis high school athlete, was hopelessly blinded by a land mine in Germany and afterwards spent twenty-one months in Valley Forge Hospital. Recently he has written his first letter to Santa Claus in which he asks for “two bright, shiny blue eyes.” The Scholastic reprints his letter from the Indianapolis News with the hope that it will remind us, who are apt to take God’s gifts so casually for granted, that really Christmas comes every day.
“Dear Santa Claus:
“Aren’t we all children? Can’t all of us, though some of us are adult in mind, ask for the things we want most in life? I can’t remember ever writing to you before, but I have found it so increasingly difficult to obtain this thing which I want, that I thought perhaps you could help.
“As a small child, I can remember wanting playthings and candy; as a teenaged youth I wanted smart clothing and athletic equipment; now, I want something entirely different. It’s not as childish as a plaything, or as temporary as a piece of candy; nor is it as ostentatious as smart clothing, or as energetic
as athletic equipment. It is practical. Most people would think it a necessity. It isn’t. Only the person who doesn’t have it can understand that. He knows it is a God-given luxury.
“In asking for this, I have to think of you as an intermediary between God and me, for I have already said it is God-given. He gave it to me once before, when I was born, but I lost it. I have missed it so much, and would like to have it back.
“Dear Santa, if God chooses, let me find beneath my Christmas tree two bright, shiny blue eyes brimming over with good health and true vision. Let me place them in my head, then let me look out through the window at the snow lying deep and crisp and even, as far as those beautiful eyes can see. Let me drink in the looks of joy on the faces of those who love me, who have seen me groping and stumbling in the dark for so long. Let me hold those eyes aloft to the Christmas star that I might not forget the true meaning of Christmas. Let me see all these things so that the memory of the last Christmas I saw might be blotted forever from my mind. Replace the screaming of shells, the rumbling of tanks, the sound of tired marching feet with the singing of hymns, the laughter of little sisters, and the voices of thankful people. Replace the filthy, smelly mud of battle and the drawn faces of dying men with the cool feeling of fresh, clean sheets and the hopeful faces of men born anew.
“Bring me those eyes for these purposes, and I will be grateful forever to Him who once gave them to me. If, on Christmas morn, I should not find them there, I won’t really mind, and I will still be grateful to God, for haven’t I still a good mind, a strong body, friends who love me, and a desire to justify the reason for existence. After all, aren’t these the important things in life?
“So, Santa, there it is. That’s what I want for Christmas. Please try, won’t you.”
“From a grown-up little boy, Corporal Chester R. Perkins.”

^appp j?etD ^ear
4*4*4*414*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*414*4* 1&1&1&T&. 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4*4* 4*4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4*4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4*41»?
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 11
DECEMBER 17, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
National Student Congress
To Organize in Chicago
The future of American student participation in the international field of student affairs, and the role Catholics will play in such participation, will be largely determined during the Christmas vacation at an American student conference which will be held in Chicago. The feasibility of establishing a national student organization in the United States, which would greatly strengthen the American voice in the world student picture, will be discussed. It is hoped that the conference will elect a committee to draft a constitution for- the national organization and make detailed plans for a national student congress to be held this summer, at which time the organization will be formally instituted.
This is not a new idea on the American student scene; there have been attempts in the past to set up such an organization—mostly under Communist auspices. They have all failed precisely because the needs of students were for
gotten in the clash of political ideologies. The people who are preparing this Chicago meeting are not the same individuals who were active in previous organizations, but the same tendencies appear—with one notable addition.
First, however, a few words about the American delegation to the World Student Congress, held this summer in Prague (Scholastic, Oct. 25) for these are the people doing the current organizational work. There were twenty-five members, selected on as widely a representative basis as possible; fifteen were from national student organizations and ten from non-sectarian Universities. The task of gathering this delegation and working out the details of its preliminary session in New York, etc., were handled by the American Preparatory Committee, directed by Miss Alice Horton of New York City, member of the United States Student Assembly.
That the group was forced to be po
litical-minded was clear from the first day; the delegation could be characterized by the term “liberal” in the widest political sense. There were no members who were not left of . center, but the degree of “leftness” varied from the four representatives of Catholic student organizations (close to the center, “which has now been moved to the left”) to the two known Communists at the extreme. It was definitely not a Communist delegation, but the program adopted by
(Continued on Page 16)
4 Irish Debaters Given High Honors At Iowa U.
Four Notre Dame debaters scored heavily last week in the Iowa University Intercollegiate Conference on Problems of Peace held at Iowa City, la. All four Irish speakers rated in the top classifications in- discussional meetings and the Notre Dame negative debate team in winning three and losing only one debate was rated as one of the outstanding teams in the tourney which saw over 170 students from 21 colleges participating.
Scene from the International Student Congress at Prague, Czechoslovakia last summer.
Frank Finn and Sam Hazo, who comprise the Notre Dame affirmative debate team, were both adjudged “superior” in the discussional meetings which were held Friday, Dec. 6. Al Sommer, Jr., and Tim Kelly, the Notre Dame negative squad, were one step behind their teammates as they were named “excellent” in this phase of the tourney.
The Notre Dame negative team in being named one of the “excellent” debate teams in the Saturday debates gained added distinction when Sommer was named as one of the tourney’s outstanding debaters. Hazo and Kelly were rated as “excellent” debaters in the final standings while the affirmative squad won two and lost two debates.
Mr. Leonard Sommer, professor of speech and debate coach, accompanied the four team members on the trip.
9
jjHerrp Wjristma^

Colonel Riordan, Ex-Registrar, Dies;
Military Honors Mark Funeral
John L.'s Coal Strike Chills All But ND
Notre Dame last week mourned the death of Colonel Robert B. Riordan, F.A., United States Army, former registrar of the University, who died Dec. 4 at Tilton General Hospital, Fort Dix, N. J., from the effects of a rare disease incurred while serving in the Pacific theatre last year.
Col. Robert B. Riordan
Full military honors were paid Colonel Riordan at the funeral services held Dec. 9 in Sacred Heart Church. The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, celebrated the Solemn Requiem Mass and Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies, and Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., Registrar, assisted as deacon and subdeacon, respectively.
Colonel Riordan was ordered to active duty in 1941 after having served as registrar and associate professor of economics at Notre Dame from 1929 to 1941. Prior to 1929 he edited The Bengalese, publication of the Foreign Mission Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Brookland, D. C. He was a 1924 graduate of Notre Dame.
From 1941 to April 1944 Colonel Riordan was stationed with the ROTC unit at Purdue University. Further assignments carried him to Fort Hayes, Ohio, and eventually to the Pacific theatre
where he participated in the closing phases of campaigns in the Philippines and Japan as commanding officer of the 13th Field Artillery Battalion.
He is survived by his widow, Mrs. Dorothy Stoddard Riordan and nine children, two of whom, Robert and Thomas Riordan, are students here.
'Twas a Tough Week-end For the N. Y. Alumni, Too
Remember, remember, the eighth of November . . . thievery, treason, and plot. Before that fatal date the Notre Dame Club of New York City possessed an expensive Notre Dame banner. At the pre-game rally, foul fiends made off with same expensive tapestry. The alumni brethren of New York, with un-filial suspicion rankling in their souls, have suggested that the banner might even now repose upon a campus wall, deprived of home and loved ones by the perfidy of a mirthmaking N.D. man at the rally. Far be it from us to suggest that a student could be guilty, but no questions will be asked should the banner be returned, by mail, in care of the president, Mr. Edwin A. Berkery, Vice-President, Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank, 51 Chambers St., New York City, N. Y. Upon its arrival Mr. Berkery has promised to do a dance at midnight with the little people for sheer joy.
Veteran Missionary Dies After 34 Years in India
Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart Church recently for the Rev. Matthew S. Kearns, C.S.C., veteran foreign missionary and the first American Catholic priest ordained in India. Father Kearns, who was 64, died suddenly on Nov. 21 at Holy Cross Novitiate, North Dartmouth, Mass.
A native of New York City, Father Kearns received his early education there. In 1904 he joined the Congregation of Holy Cross, and was ordained at Dacca, India, in 1913. He spent more than 34 years in mission work in the Province of Bengal, India, before returning to Notre Dame last July. There are no immediate survivors.
By ED SNYDER
At Notre Dame, rumors were flying, and the administration was not denying.
In Washington, “Eyebrows” held pat despite judicial coercion.
Elsewhere, panic gripped coal-hungry cities as Old Man Winter knocked at the doors of homes, where the coal bin looked like Mother Hubbard’s cupboard.
Drastic regulations to save fuel and electricity were instigated in Washington. Denver’s school kids, between running around the house to keep warm, heard their daily lessons over the radio. (One commentator said that at last the kids could shut up the teachers when they so desired by a mere flick of the wrist.)
Back at Notre Dame, scuttlebut was as thick as warmed-over gravy. Everyone was packing as the word spread that Christmas vacation would begin early. The heating plant, students learned, ate up 85 tons of the black stuff per day. The coal pile was under constant surveillance and it wasn’t growing. Finally, the Student Council could hold back no longer. It approached the administration and found that however small the coal pile might look, it would hold out until Dec. 20. If other parts of the nation froze and the River Styx turned into ice, Christmas vacations would not begin ahead of time. The die was cast and high flying rumors plunged to ignominious destruction.
But South Bend wasn’t in as perfect shape as Notre Dame. The mayor passed along regulations to close down all public gatherings of entertaining nature come Saturday. Then came the happy ending.
After 17 days of vacation, John L. ordered his miners back to the pits. Since the mine labor mogul was heading for the Supreme Court, he felt that the nine judges might be more lenient if economic hysteria was not prevalent.
However, despite the surprise end to the strike, South Bend resembled a morgue Saturday night. Signs were dimmed out. Theatres, bars, and dance halls operated on short schedules or not at all. Only restaurants retained immunity from the order.
By Sunday, the city was back in full swing, still a temptation to N.D. students who endeavored to catch up on back assignments in preparation for Christmas vacation, which would start as scheduled—Dec. 20.
10

^appp j^eto ^ear
PERRIN, SULLIVAN, QUARTET TAKE TOP PRIZES IN K. C. VAUDEVILLE
executive assistant to the president and pep rally speaker extraordinaire; Rev. Bernard McCarthy and Rev. William Grant, both of whom are pursuing postgraduate studies here.
By JACK MILES
Chuck Perrin, Pat Sullivan, and “The What Four Quartet,” in the order named, copped the lion’s share in the recent vaudeville show sponsored by the local council of the Knights of Columbus in Washington Hall. The prizes—§30 for first, §20 for second place, and §10 show money—were to be awarded at the Knights Christmas party Monday, December 16, in the clubrooms of the South Bend council, at a command performance at the party.
Perrin, an off-campus resident, appearing ninth on the ten-act card, caught the audience’s fancy with his professional impersonations of Bob Hope, Jimmie Durante, Charlie McCarthy, Wallace Wimple of Fibber McGee fame, and Al Pearce’s Elmer Blurt. Chuck had won second place in last year’s show, so is not new to the prize circle.
Occupying the difficult last position on the evening’s fare, Pat Sullivan nevertheless transcended the restlessness of his audience to take command of the situation with his romantic Irish tenor tonsils. He mixed his repertoire cleverly, including Irish ballads, popular songs,
Chuck Perrin
and classical numbers. Pat was third prize-winner in 1945, and is even now receiving the plaudits of his St. Ed’s chums.
“The What Four Quartet,” led by the personable John Klocke, solid citizen from Cavanaugh, frolicked on the raised platform to the accompaniment of their
barbershop harmonies. Their antics alone were responsible for the honors accorded them, though the vocalizing was above average. The remaining three members of the quartet were Gene Jones and Chuck Lienhart, both of Cavanaugh, and
• Larry Metcalf, of Zahm Hall.
Other acts in the two-night show were: “The Agonizing Four Quartet,” comprising Dick Blaumeier, Bob Wink, and Bill Sahm, all of Breen-Phillips, and John Koewler, the lone representative in the group from Cavanaugh;
Pat Sullivan
Charles Tierney, hailing from Walsh’s elite fourth-story set, a tap-dancer; Nolan Sheehan, of Morrissey Hall, another Irish tenor; Joe De Spigno, a magician from Brooklyn by way of Lyons Hall; Ed Dixon, chief chanter of Casey’s praises as a batsman and living off-campus; Johnny Frampton, Morrissey’s lyric baritone; and Benny Kozlik, Howard Hall’s only entry, who did amazing things with a baseball.
Jack Galloway and Walt Garrity, coinhabitants of room 220, Alumni Hall, ran the show, the former in his capacity of promoter, and the latter as master of ceremonies. Piano accompaniment was by Jack FitzHenry, of Walsh, and Bill Gibbons, of Zahm. Intermission music was supplied by the Bob Olcese quintet, who will probably be long remembered for their better-than-average rendition of “Stardust,” with Bob himself doing a Billy Butterfield stint the first time around.
Judges were the Rev. Robert Sweeney,
The What Four Quartet
Grid Season, Homecoming Close With Last V-Dance
On Saturday night, Nov. 30, the victory dance of victory dances was held in the Navy Drill Hall as a culmination to the Homecoming Weekend celebrations. The huge building was decorated from stem to stern with gay colored streamers, and to typify it as being strictly Notre Dame, the stage was backdropped by large blue and go: I draperies. Two fairly good size goal posts stood behind the band to make sure of the prevailing football spirit as though there were any doubt about it.
Bob Strong and his celebrated orchestra of Chicago fame provided the merrymakers with their favorite tunes. Mr. Strong with the many instruments of which he is master, and to be sure, Miss Jo Ann Tally vocalist with the band were most entertaining. A unique touch came with the highlight of the evening when a 15-minute broadcast from 10:45 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. over radio station WSBT of South Bend was given. The audience did its share by giving out with applause when the signal was given. .
The Belles of. St. Mary’s were conspicuous by their absence due to their Thanksgiving recess. However, a few of the young ladies from across “The Great White Way” did manage to scare up a skeleton crew.
A good time was had by all, but a nostalgic air prevailed when the dancers considered that the great football season with all its color was at an end.
11

jfWerrji Cfjristtnas
^4 a4 ^4^ £A 14 14 14 14 i
Book by Prof. Shanahan Lauded by Noted Critics
Professor William Shanahan of the Department of History has been praised highly in current historical periodicals for his study of German military history, Prussian Military Reforms, 17861813 (Columbia University Press, 1945). The volume required an intense knowledge of Prussian military history during the period of Napoleon’s domination of Europe. He examines particularly the methods by which the defeated Prussian army was able to reform itself for the War of Liberation in 1813, and disproves the old notion that the new army was built up solely by the Kriimper system, iy which the troops were trained and then furloughed to allow the training of a larger number- within the limitations of number set by Napoleon.
Writing in the American Historical Review, Professor Hans Rothfels of the University of Chicago says: “The author has acquired an unusual understanding of the task which Prussia faced in the Napoleonic era and of the democratic implications of universal service. . . Writing in the Journal of Modern History. Alfred Vagts, a noted authority on military history, calls Professor Shanahan’s study “the first comprehensive tableau of these reforms which is up to date and up to the standards of scholarship. . . .” Professor Gordon A. Craig of Princeton University calls the study a “penetrating analysis of existing evidence” in the September issue of Social Research.
Sorinites Entertain 300 Guests After Cal Game
On Nov. 30 all roads led to Notre Dame, Ind., football capital of the world. Among the 56,000 who watched Notre Dame apply the finishing touches to its national championship season by taming the Trojans of Southern California, 26-6,-were 300 parents, relatives- and friends of the sons of Sorin Hall. It-was the most enjoyable and successful homecoming since pre-war days.
Headed by Rector Father Forrestal, two very energetic prefects, Fathers Sweney and Sheedy, and Bill Tully of
track and tennis fame, ancient but undying Sorin extended a warm, welcome hand to its guests. Immediately following the game the visitors were treated to sandwiches, cake, and coffee which were served at a make-shift counter just outside the hall chapel. Among the more notable visitors were Dick Wakefield and Dizzy Trout, who were the guests of their Detroit Tiger teammate, Johnny McHale.
Fr. O'Brien Outlines Need
For More Catholic Writers
The United States needs a larger number of outstanding Catholic scientists and Catholic writers, the Rev. John A. O’Brien, Professor of Religion at the University of Notre Dame, declares in a new pamphlet, “Why Not Be a Scholar?”, published recently by the Queen’s Work Press in St. Louis, Mo.
The pamphlet has been designated as the new selection of the Pamphlet-A-Month Club and is being sent to the 20,000 members of that club throughout the United States.
The new publication is an appeal to youth to regard the career of scholarship in science, literature and the arts as a vocation wherein young people with intellectual talent will render outstanding service to the Catholic Church and to Society.	-
Dr. Smith of N. D. Museum Lectures to Niles Lions
. At a meeting of the Lions Club in Niles, Mich., Dr. Knowles Smith of the University museum gave a talk on the Mineral Resources of Michigan. He described the unique character of its copper deposits which are located in one of the world’s oldest geological lava flows near Lake Superior. No similar occurrence of copper has ever been found in the world as this deposit is in the form of pure metal.
There is abundant evidence of prehistoric men having extracted copper from the rock in the form of numerous stone implements. Beneath their shallow pits there are now mines over a mile in depth. This great depth is largely responsible for the present prohibitive cost of mining which has resulted in the closing of the mines until a sufficient price advance in copper affords an operating profit.
Byrne Elected to Vacant Lay Trusteeship Post
Hon. Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., vice-chairman of the Port Authority of New York and prominent Notre Dame alumnus, has been elected to the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, it has been announced by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University.
Commissioner Byrne, who also is widely known in financial, insurance and philanthropic circles, was elected to fill the vacancy among the Notre Dame trustees caused by the death on April 28, 1946, of Grattan T. Stanford, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1904, and former Vice President and General Counsel of the Sinclair Oil Company.
In receiving this new honor, Commissioner Byrne follows in the footsteps of his father, the late Joseph M. Byrne, New York financier, who served on the first Associate Board of Lay Trustees of Notre Dame from 1911 until his death in 1924. Commissioner Byrne’s father also was an alumnus of Notre Dame.
Sponsor College Essay Contest on Industry, Peace
In order to stimulate college students to constructive thought on current problems, the Tamiment Social and Economic Institute has recently announced its first annual essay contest—Roads to Industrial Peace—-with prizes of $1,500, $750, and three of $250.
Open to all undergraduate students, entries should be from 5,000 to 8,000 words and submitted as soon as possible to Tamiment Institute Contest, 7 East 15th Street, New York 3, N. Y. The closing date is April 25, 1947.
In sponsoring the contest the institute believes that college students, especially when so many are veterans, should have definite viewpoints on present events and make their viewpoints a vital force.
Judging the contest will be Henry Hazlitt of Newsweek, Algernon Lee of the Rand School of Social Science, Selig Perlman of the University of Wisconsin, Sumner H. Slichter of Harvard University, and Ordway Tead of Harpers Brothers.—Shaun McDermott
12
^appp gear
PROFESSIONAL COMPOSER-MUSICIAN STUDYING FOR MASTERS DEGREE HERE
By JOE WILCOX
The unhappy lot of the traditional composer or musician, in need of a shave, ' a haircut, and a bowl of soup, is not that of Notre Dame’s own composer, Ralph Miller. Ralph, who has written longhair as well as popular music, is a far cry from the legendary garret-inhabiting, Bohemian composer who mutters in his beard as he writes never-published bits which further impoverish the lover of the Muse.
Mr. Ralph Miller
Already a professional musician, Ralph began his composing hobby shortly after he went to work for Bendix in 1940. The long arm of General Hershey and his friends and neighbors didn’t let him get much of a start, and he spent the next forty months in the Army. However, durance vile didn’t curb his musical activity, since from the first until the day he was discharged he played and continued his hobby.
In Camp Hulen, Texas, Ralph was placed in charge of all Christmas music, organized the only choir in the camp. Overseas, where he spent more than thirty months, he was pianist for the allprofessional revue “Stars and Gripes.” He saw service in Africa, Italy, and France. In Florence, Italy, he studied organ under the famous Italian master Luigi Sadelmeyer.
After his discharge, Ralph returned to home-town South Bend where he went back to work at Bendix. He intends to
resume his musical career, and to that end he is studying pipe organ here at Notre Dame, with an eye to a Master of Arts degree in Music.
Prior to 1940, Ralph had travelled all over the country with various bands as a pianist and sometimes doubled in brass as an actor in theatrical performances. Once he found himself leading Simon Degree’s famous ferocious bloodhounds across the ice on the heartless trail of little Eva in Uncle Toni’s Cabin.
When he returned to civilian life, Ralph was appointed organist at St. Paul’s Methodist church in South Bend. While he was still in the Army, he had written an Easter Canata, “The Easter Story.” This 24-page work, his opus magnum, was performed on last Easter Sunday by St. Paul’s Choir. In addition to a beautiful overture, this religious work has tenor, bass, soprano, and contralto solos, soprano and tenor duets, and soprano, tenor, and baritone trios. The finale, with a full chorus, is entitled “Christ is Risen, Alleluia.”
Not one to spurn the common touch, Ralph has also written and had published popular music. Two of his best are “The Little Old Man With The Bright Red Nose,” a rollicking Christmas song, and a nostalgic ballad of the Emerald Isle, “My Irish Colleen.”
History Dept, to Discuss Early Modern State Ideas
Professor Frank O’Malley will preside as Chairman and Professors Willis Nutting and Matthew Fitzsimons will lead the discussion in the third meeting of the Department of History, Wednesday evening, Dec. 18, at 8 o’clock, in the Lay Faculty Dining Room. The theme for the discussion will be: “The Notion of the State in Early Modern Times.”
Mr. Nutting, who is a specialist in French history, will center his paper about Cardinal Armand de Richelieu, and his notions of the State which played such an important part-in the development of modem France prior to the era of the Revolution. Mr. Fitzsimons, who has devoted his studies chiefly to the field of English history, -will discuss the formation of the Liberal State
in England. These two factors, the rise of France under- Richelieu and the internal political developments of. early modem England, are the foci of most of the political movements in early modem Europe.
The second of these discussions, which was led by Professors Corbett and Ladner and presided over by Father Gerald Phelan, drew such an increased attendance that the third discussion has been moved to the Lay Faculty Dining Room. Both the papers and the discussion on the Mediaeval period were on a very high plane and included not only the strictly political theories but also the whole Mediaeval civilization from St. Augustine to Dante. The third discussion will continue the series on the notion of the state in the various periods of history by discussing the very important period of transition from the Mediaeval ideals to the modern State.
Novel By ND Prof Lauded By Critics
A new novel by Associate Professor of English Richard Sullivan, The World of Idella May, which was recently published by Doubleday, Doran and Co., has received high praise from many critics. In this, his third book, Mr. Sullivan depicts the life of egocentric Idella May, the prototype of self-worshippers.
A member of the faculty since 1936, Mr. Sullivan has also written The Dark Continent, which was serialized in Cosmopolitan, and Summer After Summer, as well as numerous short stories, the latest being Old Pal, which appeared in the Septembei" 14th issue of the Neio Yorker. In addition, he is a regular contributor to the book review sections of the New York Times and the Chicago Tribune. Aside from his professional achievements in the literary field, Mr. Sullivan received the annual lay faculty award for- distinguished service from the University last June.
Excerpts from reviews of The World of Idella May follow:
Nona Balakian in the New York Times “Without venturing to satirize the “world of Idella May,” Mr. Sullivan has made his point -with sincerity and intelligence.”	,
' Fanny' Butch errin' the Chicago Tribune:
“This is young Mr. Sullivan’s third novel. It proves him not . only a skilled but a genuinely gifted novelist.”
—Shaun McDermott
13
fthrrp ©jjristmasi


Dr. FitzGerald Speaks to Graduate Students
“Science and Philosophy: Yesterday and Today” was the topic of a lecture and discussion sponsored by the Gradu
Dr. John J. FitzGerald
ate Students Association in the Law Auditorium on Monday evening, Dec. 16, at 8:00. Dr. John J. FitzGerald, Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University, was the guest lecturer.
Dr. FitzGerald has done consid
erable work in mathematics and modern physical theory at the University of Louvain, Belgium, and more recently at Harvard and is also a student of the physics and epistemological theory of Aristotle and St. Thomas Aquinas. He developed his talk by presenting the chief views held at Notre Dame and elsewhere on the relations between science and philosophy and the logical consequences of these various views.
As there is no more important problem in contemporary philosophy than the critique of scientific knowledge and no more pressing problem in science generally than the clarification of the nature of its theoretical procedure, Dr. FitzGerald’s lecture held a wide appeal.
Among those present in addition to the graduate students, were their guests, faculty members, and interested undergraduates.
Glee Club Scores Hit With First Concert
Notre Dame’s Glee Club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, presented its first concert of the season last Wednesday evening before a capacity crowd at Washington Hall.
In an effort to please a wide range of tastes, the club offered a varied program that included practically everything from long hair to boogie-woogie. The heaviest number sung by the 110-man group was “Oh, What Delight!”, the Prisoner’s Chorus from “Fidelio,” the only opera ever written by Beethoven.
. The audience also got a taste of what’s new on Broadway when the Glee Club gave a highly entertaining rendition of “Let Us Gather At The Goal Line,” one of the hit numbers from the musical comedy, “Toplitzky of Notre Dame.”
The most difficult number on the program was “Arise, Oh Ye Servants of God,” by Jan Sweelinck done in six pait harmony.
Soloists for the evening were Ray O’Neill, tenor; Jack Sheehan, tenor; Larry Madigan, baritone; Jack Owen, bass; and John Commerford, bass. William Hall Gibbons was the accompanist at the piano.
The remainder of the program consisted of the following:
Angelus ad Pastores, a Christmas motet, by Jan Sweelinck.
The Green Eyed Dragon, by Wolsey Charles.	.
Carol of the Bells, a Ukrainian Christmas carol, by Leontovich.
De Glory Road, a negro spiritual.
Crucifixus, by Lotti.
Pilgrim’s Song, by Tschaikovsky.
Ave Maria, Arcadelt’s arrangement.
A medley from Sigmund Romberg’s “Student Prince” including Gaudeamus Igitur, Serenade, and the Drinking Song.
The program closed in the traditional manner with the Glee Club’s symphonic arrangement of the Victory March.
Between semesters the Glee Club will tour the Midwest, and has arranged to hold a concert in Indianapolis on March 9.
—John Waters
"Christophers" Carry Christ Into Communications Field
Believe it or not, an organization has , been formed that holds no meetings and doesn’t charge dues.
A Maryknoll missionary, named Father James Keller, is director and the organization’s name is “The Christophers.” According to Father Keller, a Christopher, by prayer and work, strives to bring Christian principles into the fields of communication (publications, radio, movies), labor, social service, government and education.
“Much of the tragedy of our times is due to the fact that anti-Christian elements have swarmed into key positions in every field of human endeavor. These anti-Christian crusaders are causing
Prof Gains Membership In Pontifical Academy
Dr. Yves Simon, professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, was recently selected to be a member of the Pontifical Ro-
| man Academy of i St. Thomas Aqui-| nas, a society of I the most promi-| nent Catholic I philosophers o f I the world. A I member of the I faculty since I 1938, Dr. Simon 1 came here from
Dr Yves Simon the Catholic Uni-
versity of Lille, France, where he had taught since 1930. The Academy, presided over by a cardinal, was founded in 1880 for the diffusion of Thomistic doctrine by Pope Leo XIII, when he undertook the restoration of scholastic philosophy and theology.
In addition to being recognized as one of the foremost philosophers of the present time, Dr. Simon has written The Road to Vichy and The March to Liberation, depicting the fall of France and the beginnings of the liberation movement in France during the recent war. He was known as the philosopher of the resistance movement.
Born in Cherbourg, France, Dr. Simon received a Licence et Lettres in 1922, Diplome d’Etudes Superieures de Philosophic in 1923, a Certificat d’Etudes physiques, chimiques et sciences naturelies in 1927, and his doctor’s degree in philosophy in 1934 from the Catholic University of Paris.—Shaun McDermott
hundreds of millions over the earth to have a false outlook on life, to ignore their eternal destiny,” says Father Keller in the Christopher circular.
To be a Christopher, one need not join any additional organization since each membei* works as an individual. As mentioned, there are no meetings, no dues. Father Keller is certain that the Christopher’s friends by donations will be able to take care of the small central office expenses of the organization. For information, write to: “The Christophers,” 121 E. 39th St., New York 16, N. Y.
14
^appp Mete ^ear

ND Aids In Unique Catholic Program
Bi-Regional Inter-American Meeting
Attracts 250 Student Delegates
Notre Dame men are engaging in a unique Catholic Action radio project which it is hoped, eventually will become national in scope. The Knights of Columbus Council 553, of South Bend, bought as an experiment, a few months of radio time on station WHOT early last June for the purpose of brief discussions concerning the Catholic answers to the major political and economic questions of the day, as well as to bring to its listeners current Catholic news from all over- the world and information on Catholic Doctrine and practices.
Spearheaded by the organizer and chairman of the project, George P. Koch, Notre Dame, ’25, an instructor in business education at Riley High School, and assisted by John P. Moulder, Notre Dame, ’34, Frank Gootee, Thomas O’Malley and Fred Smith, all South Bend business men, the unique program, appropriately entitled “Catholic News and Views,” proved an immediate success. After six months of experience and noticable appreciation by its estimated 25,000 listeners the period of 12:45 to 1:00 p.m. on Sunday has become an institution. It is thought to be the first program of its kind in the midwest and second in the nation.
In Septembei- of this year K. of C. Council 553, invited the Notre Dame Department of Publicity, now the Department of Public Information, to assist in the preparation of scripts to be used for that month. The Department under its director, John V. Hinkel, accepted the invitation and since then has played an important role in the production of “Catholic News and Views.”
Mr. Hinkel has procured excellent writers from the student body. William H. Slavick, head script writer, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, is following his Dad’s footsteps for the elder Slavick is manager of station WMC in Memphis. William A. Madden, feature writer, hails from Cincinnati, Ohio, and at present is doing graduate work in English. John G. Cashman, news writer and junior in the Department of Journalism, represents our Maple Leaf neighbors since his home is in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. This team of Slavick, Madden and Cashman prepares all scripts, under the direction of Mr. Hinkel.
The Reverend Archibald McDowell,
Approximately 250 delegates were registered at the Third Annual Congress in Observance of the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, held at Notre Dame December 7 and 8. The congress was held by the Bi-Regional (Chicago and Fort Wayne regions) Commission on InterAmerican Action, a division of the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
The congress opened Saturday afternoon at 4:30 o’clock with a general meeting in the auditorium of the Law Building. The principal speaker at the session was Senorita Maruja Cabrere, of Asuncion, Paraguay, and instructor in Spanish at the University of Wisconsin, who delivered an address on “Woman’s Place in Inter-American Affairs,” the theme of the congress. Three factors, she declared affect the position of Latin American women: geographical situation, historical tradition, and the tendency of the women themselves to be satisfied with their lot. Too many of them, she maintained, are content to do their appointed duties and remain in seclusion, rather than attempt to advance the cause of woman’s rights. However, she revealed, the women are gradually coming into their own in Latin America, especially in Chile.
Prior to Senorita Cardus’s talk, Miss Ethel Dignan, chairman of the commission and a student at Mundelein College, Chicago, opened the meeting and called on Luis Beltranena, of Notre Dame, vicechairman of the commission to give the opening prayer. The welcome was delivered by George Igel, chairman of the NFCCS local council at Notre Dame.
At 6:30 o’clock after dinner in the Faculty Dining Room, the delegates heard Martin M. McLaughlin, secretary of the Joint Committee for Student Action of the National Catholic Youth Council, outline the purposes of the forth-
C.S.C., moderator for the Notre Dame Radio Club, has aided Mr. Hinkel in obtaining announcers, and to date Bob R. Uhl, of Decatur, Illinois, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters; William E. Boss, of Franklin, Ohio, a graduate student; and Dan Gentile, of Waterbury, Conn., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters have distinguished themselves in that capacity.
coming national student conference, to be held December 28-30 on the campus of the University of Chicago.	'
At 7:00 p.m. the delegates were entertained in Washington Hall by the showing of a religious movie in Spanish, San Francisco de Asis. Following this a dance was held in the Rockne Memorial.
The program for Sunday was opened with Mass and Holy Communion in Dillon Hall chapel at 8:00 a.m. Rev. Ger-vis Coxen, M.M., gave the sermon, narrating a few of his mission experiences in Pera. Breakfast followed in the Faculty Dining Room.
At 10:00 a.m. the main part of the two-day congress took place. It consisted of eight sectional meetings, each one dealing with a different phase of Woman’s Place in Inter-American Affairs and each one conducted by delegates of one of the various colleges. Participating colleges were St. Francis, Cardinal Stritch, St. Xavier’s, Nazareth, St. Mary’s, Rosary, Mundelein, and Aquinas. A general meeting in the Law Auditorium followed, -consisting of the reports and conclusions of the various sectional meetings.
Benediction was held in Our Lady’s Chapel at noon, celebrated by Rev. Archibald McDowell, C.S.C., and a campus tour conducted by Tom Dooley wound up the congress. -
Journalism Majors Form University Press Club
John Regan, senior journalism student, was elected president of the Notre Dame Press Club in a special election Wednesday, Dec. 4. Other officers elected are John Hupf, vice-president; Jerry Colligan, secretary; and Richard Whiting, treasurer.
The Press Club, now active for the first time since pre-war days, boasts the largest membership in the history of the organization. Membership is open to all students of the University majoring in journalism.
First meeting of the club was held Wednesday evening, Dec. 11, in the Journalism Room of the Library. Several committees were named and plans made for future activities. Among other activities, the club is planning to publish a newspaper.
15
Cfjristmas
Political Science Profs In 3 Talks
. By SHAUN McDERMOTT
In the final of a series of three weekly lectures in the Law auditorium, sponsored by the Department of Political Science, Dr. Ferdinand Hermens last Tuesday night urged that a return to the principles of the Atlantic Charter be made in the occupation of Germany. Stating that the present policy has failed, not because of the mistakes of individuals, but rather due to the original misconception of principles, Dr. Hermens continued to show that the Morgenthau and Potsdam plans were a frontal attack on German industry as a whole rather than a crushing of war potential. This is contrary to the Atlantic Charter’s declaration of economic equality for all nations.
At the first lecture of the series on Current Political Problems, Dr. Walde-. mar Gurian, after tracing Russian history from the Revolution in 1917 to the present time, stated that a policy of appeasement toward the USSR would eventually lead to an unavoidable war. Maintaining a utopian attitude that Russia is always right, the Soviet has a basic distrust of other powers which makes cooperation difficult. Since a crisis in the capitalist world would present the greatest chance for Communist parties, they do not desire a return to normal conditions.
Dr. Paul Bartholomew, acting head of the department, speaking last week on Current Constitutional Problems, attacked the present Supreme Court, claiming that, although essentially not a policy making body, it is too politically minded and does not always limit itself to judicial judgment. The present court has set a new record on dissenting opinions and has overruled 24 previous decisions.
With internal feuding and the fact that only three of its members have had judicial experience, the Court has sunk to the lowest ebb in its history. To remedy this situation, according to Dr. Bartholomew, an articulate and informed public must demand the appointment of competent and judicial minded men, detached from political controversies.
16
80 Candidates Initiated
In KC Exemplification
The exemplification of the second and third degrees of the Knights of Columbus took place Sunday, December 15, in the council chambers of the Mishawaka council. More than 80 candidates received the honors of these degrees.
Among those in the new class were the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., VicePresident of the University; Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline; Rev. Edmund Murray, C.S.C., Assistant Prefect of Religion; John “Pep” Panelli, of gridiron fame, and Bill Leonard, outstanding miler on the track team.
The day’s activities began at 8:00 Sunday morning with Mass for the class in Sacred Heart Church, followed by a Communion breakfast at which Father Murphy delivered the principal address.
The official welcome for the newly-initiated'members will be tonight at 7:30 in the council clubrooms in the basement of Walsh Hall. All new members are required to attend the meeting, which will be the final one of 1946.
STUDENT CONGRESS (Continued from Page 9) the group at the New York meeting agrees substantially with the familiar party line of the Soviet platform. Two factions had definite programs and a systematic approach—the Communists and the Catholics; the rest were sure only that they were liberal.
To be liberal meant generally to disagree with the “jingoistic” foreign policy of the United States at the time; it also meant to be pro-Soviet and anti-traditional. Those composing the great middle group were apparently so afraid of Catholic domination (a fear expertly accentuated by the Communist elements in behind-the-scenes propaganda) that they bent over- backward in the other direction. Although there were only two known "Communists, it is felt that the team consisted actually of six, who were able to control the majority of the votes cast. All issues upon which the Catholics and the Communists were opposed were decided in favor of the latter.
The' democratic spirit of the delegation appeared to extend to the machinery only; so long as the trappings of democratic procedure were observed at the Congress, the delegation seemed satisfied. Only one man arose to defend the American point of view as such. The delegation as a whole could be described
as non-Communist and pro-Soviet, liberal, susceptible to Soviet propaganda, and either unable or unwilling to perceive the Communist party-line when it was presented (or to be concerned if they did perceive).
This is the group which is planning the Chicago conference. The one notable way in which it differs from previous planning committees is in the active participation of Catholic students. Cooperation in the preparation of this Chicago conference has been approved by the two national Catholic student federations —the National Federation of Catholic College Students (for students in Catholic colleges) and the Newman Club Federation (for Catholic students in nonCatholic colleges). The experiences of their delegates to several student congresses in Europe during the summer have convinced the national officers that the Catholic student has a clear responsibility to make his important contribution to the rapidly developing national and international student community.
The American student committee is convinced that effective participation in international student affairs can be most surely strengthened by the formation of a national organization; in that organization Catholic students must have a voice—not only because they form a sizable minority, but also because they have the greatest contribution to give to other students and to the student world as a whole—where truth is obscured and subversive elements are firmly entrenched. American Catholic effectiveness within the American group has been hampered for a variety of reasons: (1) the traditional policy of remaining aloof from non-sectarian organizations has made outsiders suspicious and given point to the criticism of Catholics as “non-cooperative,” and as “reactionaries;” (2) the initiative in the delegation has been in the hands of Communists and , leftist-sympathizers, who had been active from the very beginning.
The present situation gives an opportunity to eliminate both of these handicaps. The first objection will be answered if the Catholic college students fulfill their quotas of delegates and appear in Chicago with a concrete, constructive program of student action. The second can be met if the Catholic students will participate in sending delegates from their own colleges and in supporting reliable candidates on other campuses.
^appp ^riu gear
By JACK FRAIER and BILL PFAFF
This year’s Christmas Seal glue is really tasty. The other- evening, sending an early card out, we tried it. It was so good we nibbled on them all evening. Ruined thirty-five. It was one of the better meals this semester.
That part of your collective author who lives in south Florida was unnerved, to put it mildly, on reading the Sunday papers and seeing South Bend’s maximum temperature Saturday to have been 68 degrees; Miami’s somewhere around 56. It’s one of four things: The Tribune’s South-baiting complex; the reform movement in Indiana; an apologetical miracle; or a Quisling in the Miami weather bureau.
Having been assured by an unusually sophisticated edition of the Religious Bulletin that Santa is a Catholic (something that had been preying on our mind, as you can well imagine) we dropped everything and made out a list in full confidence that we were patronizing only native industry. Among other things (as Horatio Alger would say: too numerous to mention) we would like to find these cramming the sweat sock we plan to leave hanging over the radiator: beds made for adults; more warm weather; cockroach powder (1g. size); a Papal Bull excommunicating electric razor users; more, bigger, and better mail; an end to the revolting cycle of frankfurters, lunch meat, frankfurters, ad zigh. While on the fertile subject of the dining halls we report the crack Father Laskowski made the evening the Trapp family appeared here. Baroness Trapp remarked that the Trapp household cooks are chosen on the basis of their singing ability. Father L. immediately piped up that half of the local kitchen force must be made up of the Don Cossack chorus.	•
Father John A. O’Brien’s “Faith of Millions” may be out soon in a digest edition we hear. It will be called “Faith of Thousands.”
The three ‘Apocryphas,’ or ‘Apocry-phae,’ that appeared recently in the Scholastic have caused quite a bit of comment. Many thought they were a
local sewer cleaner’s contribution to the literature of the ages. Tripping over a member of the English Department the other day we took the opportunity to query him on their origin. “Well, ahh,” he said, tugging at his collar, “they were written by some character, (heh, heh) in the middle ages who palmed them off to old wives and Bologna freshmen as documents of the early Christian period.” We asked him about the selections that have been seen in the Scholastic. “Oh ahh, those,” he replied, blushing like the morn, “ahh, those were discoverd by Father McAvoy while prowling through incunabula searching for a missing copy of ‘Religion and the Rise of Capitalism’.” Wishing him a joyeux noel we padded away through the dust.
We danced with mingled joy and pride Sunday, when we received the glad news that Our Sunday Visitor had singled out Notre Dame from the galaxy of American Catholic colleges for the singular honor of being the first to be shown to the great reading public in the Youth Section of the Visitor. We can’t imagine what prompted this consideration, but buck up, gentlemen, we understand Pravda also sent some feelers to the publicity office.
The latest rumor we have heard is that Christmas will be postponed two weeks. It doesn’t sound too probable so we’ll take a chance and, in the words of the Statler Hotels’ advertising agency, wish “Merry Christmas to all, and to all a good-bye.”
COLUMNIST TURNS ANNOUNCER
Jerry OIwell. "Scholastic" columnist, has taken over an announcer's post at radio station WHOT, and with this week's "Campus Clubs" bows out of Notre Dame publication circles.
OIwell joined the "Scholastic" staff last May and inaugurated "Campus Clubs," a column devoted to reporting the news of campus organizations. He was also one of the guiding hands behind the "Man About Town" column.
Political Science Head Wants One-Term President
The Constitution should be amended to lengthen the term of presidency of the United States to six or seven years and to limit the president to a single term, according to Dr. Paul Bartholomew, Head of the Department of Political Science.	.
Dr. Bartholomew expressed this view -Dec. 3 before students and faculty at the University of Notre Dame attending the weekly Political Science Forum on the Notre Dame campus.
“The recent elections,” declared Dr. Bai"tholomew, “have brought to the fore a number of proposals for amendment of the provisions of the Constitution regarding the executive. There are proposals for a change in the president’s term and a limitation on his reeligibility. There seems to be a rather general agreement that such a limitation is desirable, the only real controversy being over whether the limitation should take the form of a single six or seven year term or two four year terms.”
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, head of the Department of Political Science, and Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Professor of Political Science, are scheduled to appear on the program of the National Convention of the American Political Science Association in Cleveland on December 27, 28 and 29.
Dr. Bartholomew will take part in a round table on the subject of Technocracy in Politics, while Dr. Gurian will participate in the round table devoted to the subject of Russia.
Philippine Alumnus Cites Religious Literature Need
After a long war-time silence, Rafael P. Alvarez, one of the Notre Dame alumni in the Philippines, has contacted the University alumni office.
In a letter to alumni secretary James A. Armstrong, Alvarez told of the joy experienced by the people of his island when they were liberated by American forces. Alvarez lauded the work of Catholic relief and missionary organizations for the aid they gave- to Kabankalan, his home island.- -
In closing, he cited the need of Bibles and religious literature on the island for use in the educaton of Philippine youth.
17
jHertp Cljristmas
Cagers Off to Flying Start With Wins Over Franklin, Ball State and Indiana
By ED SNYDER
“Although the Irish quintet may lose several games early in the season, it is expected to provide keen competition for opponents . . . once it moves into high gear in mid-season.” So wrote Ray Don-novan, director of basketball publicity, in his summary of cage prospects for the 1946-4/ season. To date, seven former monogram winners and a pack of promising other candidates have proved Mr. Donovan’s pre-season outlook a trifle conservative.
years in the Navy. Gordon and Kelly lettered on the ’43-’44 squad before going on duty with the Navy and Marine Corps respectively.
Barnhorst and O’Shea are newcomers to the varsity. Barnhorst, a 6' 3" sophomore center from Indianapolis, spent his freshman year under the Dome and then entered the Army Air Forces. An all-state guard while in high school, he is a clever ball handler and a demon on rebounds-.
Moving with the teamwork and precision of an expensive watch, Notre Dame’s cagers rolled easily over Franklin (86-38) and Ball State Teacher’s College (81-31) in their first two starts, then polished off Indiana after a shaky start, 70-60, in the first test of the ’46-’47 court campaign.
As education-weary Notre Dame students scurry off for the Christmas holidays, the Irish buckle down to a three-game vacation schedule that will pit them against Drake on the home floor Dec. 21, Dartmouth at Cleveland, Dec. 27, and St. Louis University at St. Louis,
O'Shea A Surprise
“Mr. Surprise of the Year” is O’Shea, a freshman guard from San Francisco’s St. Ignatius High School, where he was touted as another Hank Luisetti. He not only starred in high school, but also was a luminary of the Alameda Coast Guard team. Despite a game knee that requires heavy taping, court-wise Kevin is all over the floor on defense, sets up the offensive maneuvers with tricky dribbling and clever passing, and occasionally tries a crazy one-handed shot that splits the cords with uncanny accuracy.
Jan. 3. To herald the return of the student body, Jan. 7, the Krausemen entertain Purdue University at the field house.
Lettermen Bolster Te
ie 1945-46
It isn’t hard to see why Jire-seasqn prognosticators foresa^^. drearv__out come of the opening gangs..High-scoring Leo Klier had been gra ated. Vincek
Coach Moose Krause inserts a second team midway through the first and second halves with Leahy-like regularity. Thiswquintet is drawn from a list of eight caggrswoe Sobek, Jim O’Halloran, John ejf^^Anthony Kaufman, Buster Hil-
Foley, Carl Loyd, and Ratter-
ye
h
asket-^ it di(®i
3Jr
With the football successful close team receiving it top of the football p the hardwood wher assembled anothe which proved so Monday night by c defeat Indiana 7 the Irish played I 1931-32 season v on top, 23 to 18.
Basketball has the past ten ye been the result ticularly the disc ter jump after has speeded up centers are still team. What they up on both bac Dame starting li feet tall or moi small, but as so customed to short ers, I think that t ball squad will look bigg at the opening game.
Frank Curran of Sterli appears to be heading for^
Boryla, the other big gu team, was in the Army?^bh transferred to Loyola white Bud sett, last year’s captain, and Eran^^J? hooley were ineligible. Geox^JBaHer-man was the only monogram^ from the ’45-’46 squad return couldn’t be expected to snap^E before mid-season because football delay ed his starting cage practice. However.

® X; A
a monog1,am 011 the 1941-
<^i^^ile Loyd picked up his letter ^44 combine. Foley and Bren-nan^^^Ianky freshmen candidates for center post. Sobek, one of three cag-brothers, is a senior who saw limited y on the ’42-’43 squad. Kaufman and Halloran are sophomores who played freshman basketball at Notre Dame before entering service.
Dame scoring record. If KevrrT~HiShea_. has been slowed down with his injured leg, I wonder what he would look like with two good legs. And he’s only a freshman! John Kelly’s feeding ability has been outstanding in the first three games. Leo Barnhorst is all over both backboards, using his 6' 3 to tap ’em in and pull ’em down. Paul Gordon is a demon on defense and wide awake for fast breaks. Some of the boys playing second string are as good as the first stringers, but the rules definitely state that only five men can start for each team.

1
I
th k< a< w 01 st te th
of
Ratterman has come around in surprising manner and, at this writing, was playing with the second team. What the prognosticators could not foresee is the harmony with which Frank Curran, Paul Gordon, Leo Barnhorst, John Kelly and Kevin O’Shea operate.
Curran earned a monogram on the 1942-43 team, then shoved off to three
Ratterman played in the first two games with the third and fourth teams. George Connor, the All-American tackle who played center on Chicago’s De LaSalle basketball team, was delayed in starting practice by a leg injury. If and when Connor gets into shape, Notre Dame should have not only a sharpshooting squad but also a bone-crushing one.
The Man Who Knows Coy McGee
With a dozen or more friends stand-
ing around Coy McGee after the South-
ern Cal game, the youngster, smiling and happy, gently pushed his way through the crowd to a corner of the dressing room where Bill Earley, the B team coach, was standing. “Thanks, Bill, for getting me my chance,” he said as he firmly shook Bill’s hand. This was a dramatic scene witnessed only by two

th lil w
Ft
w' of be so wi of
18
Ihippp JBeto §ear

Y—Scholastic Sports Editor
Jac
took a
PteM. P>ojc
That’s the kind of a ill told me with a lump throat. “That last gesture made on a complete success in my
sket t di
climb from B team to var-range story. The kid season but he didn’t otball player.” At least jority of the coaches arley tried to get lly, Coach Leahy ance and he ran hog Lons on Cartier Field.
Ted on the travelyards per try7 in terrific running Lu jack’s great o’s fine line play, ips to Baltimore s he still didn’t Iyer.” Along came IGee got another if running through so he was again mg squad which left
Fencing Comes Back After Three Years; Eighty Candidates Report for Practice
The Notre Dame Fencing Team, inactive since 1943, will resume matches in inter-collegiate competition in January. Most colleges were forced to drop fencing in 1943 and 1944 because the shortage of metals and steel greatly curtailed the output of fencing weapons. Some colleges resumed the sport last year.
About 80 hopefuls, including some prewar vets, came out for the team. This number has been slightly reduced. Almost 50 newcomers are trying out now. Fencing requires such intricate skill that it will take the newcomers at least a year before any of them will break into the line-up.
Professor Walter M. Langford was fencing coach before the war. At present
he is faculty advisor. Herbert Melton, who is in the N.D. Law School, is the new coach. Professor Langford will advise the team and assist, in making out the schedules. Teams under Professor Langford achieved the enviable record of 57 wins and 25 losses in 10 seasons. The 1942-43 season was the poorest at Notre Dame. The team won 2 and lost 4 bouts, two of which were by the close score of 14-13.
In all there are 27 fencing bouts .in a match. There are nine each of foils, sabers, and duelling swords (epees). Normally, there is little chance for a tie in an entire match but it is possible because the scoring is such in the duelling sword bouts that the entire match of 27 bouts may be tied.
Fencing was started at Notre Dame in
issue, I felt the same way7 Coach Leahy did about having a winning team this
1934 by7 Professor de Landero. Born in Mexico, he graduated from Notre Dame
HOTS j, Tort'e Shea— iured like ly a jility three both m in is a ; for tying first state each

^o*uNeW Orleans a week later. He scored h is Jfiaisf—Notre-"Dame touchdown that   afternoon -againsCTulane, but Ernie Za-wland McGee found hjmself in this back s^at again.
fil- Cal team arrived and the sports pages carried stories that Sit-ko, ZalejSki,l^and^Martin would not see action against the Trojans. Replacements were mentioned but Coy McGee was not one of them. You know the rest of the story—Mister McGee scored two important touchdowns, the first one and the third one. When the final statistics were figured for the afternoon, McGee had carried the ball six times for an average of 4 yards per try.
He’s still not very big but I kind of think that the coaches feel that he “looks
like a football player” now. Wonder
;and-suth-
what Mr. Blaik would have said had he seen the Longview Texan in action.
7 and ough ssing team , foils he as a two
Football—Notre Dame Style
At the beginning of the season I wrote why Coach Frank Leahy closed the doors of practice to the Notre Dame student body. At that time I was criticized by some of the students for falling in line ■with the athletic office. When I knocked off those paragraphs in the October 11th
year, and anything that could possibly be done to secure that goal should receive the full cooperation of the student body. BUT as the season progressed, I changed my7 mind about the whole deal. The students’ team, and it is the students’ team as well as Mr. Leahy’s, was heading for a national title but the only times the students could see who was actually7 on
in 1911. He came back to his alma mater as a professor in 1927 and started a fencing team in 1934. He coached from 1934 through 1939. Professor Langford took over in 1940 and remained as coach through 1943. Two of Professor- de Lan-dero’s sons were outstanding fencers at Notre Dame.
The first match will be fought Janu-
the squad was four times during^the--^~^ury*~T8~^th the season winding up whole season.	|	aroru^ the end of March. The schedule
When the eastern sports writers aA-	., been made up yet but several
rived on the campus before the Xrm|7|	Nind^and other college teams are
game, they7 were given the courtesy	expectjsdxtoh^ on the schedule. General-
watching the squad work out. lwhy^6- dy-^fou^ ifflrehes are fought at home, couldn’t the students who wanted toy	' jQilhwestern, Chicago, II-
watch the Irish be given the same cour^ .	e, Michigan State, Cincin-
tesy? After all, it was their team so-	rquette are listed as possible
they were led to believe, anynvay. It’s	Tom Eagan
one of the privileges of the pres^to gain entrance where others	Soccer Team
ed. But isn’t it also a student	tL^g^7 .	. _
lege to watch his team practice?/^^^.’^	LOCdl lOUmCy
I questioned the players on ho^t^y ~	‘ ed^ls^viH be awarded to the
felt about allowing the students yinto	i J. ^aza Club soccer
practice sessions, they were all for .it.	winners of the four-
I admit that I only questioned a few,	sdccer league championship,
but the ones that I did question-*veerds^*^'*The Phy Ed I team finished second, with
first and second stringers. I doubt if Tom Potter, Vince Scott, and fellows like these who scrimmaged against the varsity almost every day would mind the rest of the students watching them keeping the varsity sharp for those Saturday afternoon encounters. Theirs was a thankless job but they performed it to perfection.
two victories and one loss; Phy Ed II came in third, with one win and two defeats; and the Dujarie Brothers wound up last, -with three losses.
La Raza medal recipients will be hooters Serpa, Rey de Castro, R. Duarte, Samaniego, Villavicencio, Martinez, Company, Ibanez, Pinto, Pallais, Gonzalez, Ortiz, N. Duarte, and Coach Luis Clement.
19
jiHerrp OnStmas?
Indoor Track Team Begins Practice
By BOB STOCK
Amid the thumping of basketballs and the chirping of birds high in the fieldhouse rafters, ND’s indoor track team began workouts last week in preparation for the defense of the Central Collegiate championship it won last March. And things are looking bright.
Coach E. R. (Doc) Handy saw a good-sized convocation of about 50 hopefuls lined up for the first day’s calisthenics, approximately 30 of them back from last year’s title squad. Among the newcomers is Johnny Helwig, the high school shot-put sensation who holds the national scholastic twelve-pound record.
First meet for this year’s team will be sometime in late January or early February. Coach Handy was in Chicago last Saturday lining up a schedule at the Central Collegiate and Big Nine meetings, but no announcement has yet made its way out of his Breen-Phillips sanctum.
Strongest in returning material are the distance events ■where the Doc has 23 runners back. In the two-mile there are: Jim Murphy, Cornie Styers, Ed Denning, Bob Mitchell, and Gerry Johnson. In the mile: Bill Leonard, John Lyons, Bill Tully, Merle Fleming, Tom McGuire, and Louis Tracy. In the half-mile Ed Drauge-lis, Ray Sabota, Larry Keenan, Pat Wagner, Leonard, and Tully. In the quartermile: Pat Kenny, Joe Bergthold, Bob Schirmer, Dave Murphy, Bill Rooney, Ernie McCollough, Paul Schwetschenan, and Bob Owen.
Thompson Returns
Among veteran sprinters, Handy greeted Jack Hunter, Bob Smith, Brad Bennet, Alex Smith, and another Murphy—Babe. The second semester will make a valuable addition to the ranks of the dash men in the person of Tommy Thompson, Indiana 220-yard outdoor champion and the only Negro ever to win a monogram at Notre Dame. Thompson was awarded letters in 1945 and 1946 and then dropped out of school for this semester. He returns in January.
Hurdlers on hand from last winter are John Smith (that makes three Smiths, loo), Jack Collie, Bob McDavid, and Joe Matthews. Cornie Greenway is the only pole-vaulter back and Joe Painter^ the only high jumper, while Hunter and Des-
idero will be-ready for the broad jumps.
In the shot-put, besides Helwig, we’ll have gridders George Sullivan, Floyd Simmons, and Luke Higgins.
Outside of the aforementioned Helwig, who promises to rival the memory of the late, great Al Blozis, Coach Handy doesn’t yet know much about his 25 or so new7 prospects. Time and practice sessions—“4:20 every day and get here on
time!”—alone will tell how many potential Greg Rices are galloping around the old gym. But with all those experienced men back, plus the usual few talented freshmen, the Irish should fare well this winter.
“I don’t want to make any predictions,” says Doc Handy, “but I think we’ll have an average-to-good team. Yes, we’ll be representative.”
Basketball Featured In Interhall Sports
Big items on the intramural agenda for December are over and the next phases of the program have been announced. The Freshman swim meet was held on December 5th and the All-University wrestling championships were staged on December 10th. Interhall basketball under the immediate supervision of Mr. Szekely wnll occupy the spotlight for the rest of the winter months but plans have been formulated for other attractions which will include an Interhall Swimming Relay shortly after the holidays. This meet will be organized on an interhall basis and teams of 15 to 20 men will compete.
Hukin Swim Star
Steve Hukin was the big star of the Frosh swim meet but he had a worthy competitor in Dick Repper and these two swimmers practically monopolized the field. Hukin won four of the six events and although Reppei* won only one, he finished 2nd in two others. The events and the winning times are as follows: 50 yd. free style, Hukin in 28.4 sec.; 50 yd. breast stroke, Repper in 36 sec.; 50 yd. back stroke, Dave Robinson in 39.2 sec.; 100 yd. free style, Hukin in 1:13.5; 75 yd. medley, Hukin in 1:05; diving event won by Hukin with 162.2 points.
The wrestling tournament under the supervision of Mr. Napolitano featured events in seven collegiate weight divisions. Only the final matches are shown in the following listing: at 135 lbs. John Kramer of Lyons won over Phil Hahn of Zahm; at 140, (Mike Connelly of Howard won from Lyle Meals, an off-campus student; Lorin Bullock, off-campus, stopped Charles Christen of Cavanaugh in ' the 145 lb. class; at 155 lbs., Edwin Resler of Howard beat Jim Hart of Cavanaugh; Robert Hayden of Zahm topped Chas. Lowrick of Dillon in the 165 lb. class; in the 175 lb. class, Will Connor from off-campus whipped Paul Boulous of Sorin; and in the heavy-
weight division, Wilmer Russell of St. St. Ed’s won over John Nusskern of Howard.
In inter hall basketball Breen-Phillips should be early favorites if numbers mean anything as they had over 70 candidates at their first practice. Alumni and St. Ed’s also had big turnouts. Official league games will not begin until after the holidays. The league will be divided into an eastern and western division and playoffs will be held at the close of league play. There will be competition in both the lightweight (under 150 lbs.) and the heavyweight divisions. Tentative arrangements show that 2 games will be played at 5 p. m. and another game scheduled for 7:15. In addition to the regular hall teams there will be many other teams who will play independently oi* in the overflow league.—Joe Doyle.
Chicagoans To Hold Dance
John Allen, president of the Chicago Club, has announced that plans have been completed for the Windy City’s annual Christmas Dance. The holiday affair will be held Thursday evening, Dec. 26, in the Grand Ballroom of the Continental Hotel on North Michigan Ave. The orchestra of Paul Meeker, which has just completed successful engagements at the Camelia House of the Drake Hotel and the Mayfair Room of the Blackstone, will furnish the music. Tickets, which may be obtained from Hall representatives, are now on sale at $5.00 (plus tax) per couple. Dress for the distaff side will be formal, and optional for their escorts.
General Chairman for the Dance is Jack McGowan, assisted by Robert Wagner, who is managing the sale of tickets.
In addition to Allen, other Chcago Club officers are: Zygmont Czarobski, Vice-President, and Ray O’Connell, Treasurer.
20
21
Football Leftovers—In Satire
student ....
Bill Lyman
Coach Leahy might have sounded a little pessimistic when he said that Notre Dame would only have a “fairly” representative team next year, but it must be rememberd that only ten of the eleven starters on his 1946 National
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1907
Feb. 9: Our own Edward F. O’Flynn won the State Oratorical Contest. In other universities the notion was beginning to circulate that the amazing success of Notre Dame in any contest which involves the art of talking might be due to the great number of Irish that attend the school. . . . Mar. 9: A new series of traditional N.D. “smokers” was inaugurated last week. Even the fellows who can’t afford the expensive habit of
GOOD WORK TEAM!
•
STORE HOURS Tues.-Sat — 8 a. m. to 5:30 p. m. Monday — open till 8:30 p. m.
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES
Orfetmasi Otto
With your favorite Photo on each card.
Ault’s photo service in the Cafeteria
AULT Camera Shop Opposite the Courthouse 122 South Main St Phone 3-5041
smoking were invited this year. . . . Apr. 6: The debating team talked to its thirteenth straight victory Wednesday night. . . . Apr. 27: Last week the varsity baseball team beat Illinois for the first time in nearly ten years.. . . May 11: Edward F. O’Flynn won the Inter-state Oratorical Contest putting the fame of the Talking Irish of Notre Dame on a nationwide scale. . . . June 8: The baseball team became co-holders of the Western Championship with Illinois. The record for the most successful season in N.D. history stood: 25 won, 2 lost. Particular satisfaction was gained by the Irish victories over Illinois and Beloit, their big and little jinx.
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT Foresight
A snail once started up a cherry tree— 'Twas in the late December people say; The cherry bark was cold and slippery And the poor snail could hardly make his way; He lost his hold a hundred times or more And had to cover all that ground again. His climbing apparatus got quite sore And in his back there was a numbing pain.
A beetle stuck his head out of the bark And told the snail that he was nuts for fair, “You’re climbing this old tree from dawn till dark When there ain’t any fruit to eat up there!” The snail said, as he started a new drive, ‘There’ll be a lot up there when I arrive.”
T. E. B.
Hard to Believe
We think this remark heard at the caf the other day tops anything we’ve heard this year. The speaker, an ordinary looking fellow of indeterminable class, was explaining to his pal that he had come in a few minutes late from a weekend and had been campused for two weeks. Then with a completely candid countenance, he went on to say, “Well, I deserved it!”—P. M. Belmont.
From Smokes to Jokes?
In recent weeks I’ve noticed that the Student Prints has been working its way farther and farther towards the back of the Scholastic. Imagine the possibilities if they ever lost that Chesterfield ad.
—Don Lee
Champions will be back again.
—John McKinley
Army’s Earl Blaik was rated over our own Frank Leahy as Coach of the Year —in recognition of the fact, that in four years his team has yet to score a point against any Leahy-coached Irish eleven, I suppose.—Jerry White.
Proof Positive
More time is spent in the library on History than on all other subjects combined. No other department can make this statement.—I. D. Testit.
Class Bells
They ivake me up at six o'clock
They drive me through the day, They torture me an awful lot—
Awake or in the hay.
With my free will it's hard to be
The subject of a bell;
So just for fun I'd like to see
If they have them in hell!
But Christmas time will soon be 'round
—When I’ll not have to bide
By rule of that same cursed sound Which just now bums my hide!
—Attentive Abie.
Send or deliver’ contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.
Medical Aptitude Tests Given Here on January 11
All premedical students who plan on entering the 1947 Freshman class in a college of medicine must take the Professional Aptitude test which will be given here on January 11, 1947. The association of American Medical Colleges which is sponsoring this test have demanded it as auxiliary evidence of the student’s potentiality for medical study.
Students planning on taking this test must register before 12:00 noon, Friday, December 20, in the Office of the Dean of the College of Science, Room 202, Chemistry Hall. For special inquiries regarding this test, applicants are referred to the Institutional Examiner, Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, Room 109, Law Building.
22

^appp j^etu gear

President's Secretary, Law Student to Wed This Month
Miss Martha Abberger, secretary to the president, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., will be married Dec. 28 in St. Monica’s Church, Mishawaka, to William T. Daly of Waterbury, Conn., a student in the Law School.
Miss Abberger was graduated from St. Alary’s in 1941, the same year that the prospective bridegroom was graduated from Notre Dame. In January of 1942 she became secretary to Father Cavanaugh, who was then vice-president of the University, and she held this position until her resignation on Jan. 1, 1944. On Aug. 1 of this year, she returned to serve as secretary to Father Cavanaugh.
Mr. Daly entered the armed forces immediately after his graduation from Notre Dame and completed 54 months service. He was a lieutenant with the amphibious engineers, serving in the Pacific Theatre.
Inter-American Affairs Club Publishes Paper
The first issue of the Notre Dame Inter-American, a small monthly magazine published by the Inter-American Affairs Club, came out last Saturday, Dec. 7. According to Editor-in-Chief Samuel Adelo in his editorial, “this modest effort has no other object than to create a mutual understanding among the peoples of all the American nations.”
Besides containing a news section and Napoleon Duarte’s sport page, the first issue contains three features: “Peruvian Industry” by Luis Pallais, “Retail Trade in Latin America” by Robert Poisson, and an article entitled “Llamas” by Eric Rey de Castro.
Assisting Samuel Adelo on the staff are Antoni Ortiz, Albert McAhron, Her-milo Gloria, and Carlos Colon. Rev. Wil-lian F. Cunningham, C.S.C., is faculty advisor.
CHRISTMAS GREETINGS TO ALL
ZIPPERS REPAIRED AND REPLACED LEATHER OR CLOTH JACKETS
New Zippers Installed Collars, Cuffs, Waistbands and Linings Replaced
RE-WEAVING ALL TYPE DAMAGES
GLOBE REPAIR ~
SERVICE
313 Platt Bldg.. Cor. Wayne * Mlefc.
South Bend. Ind.
Thanks
to all Notre Dame Men
for your splendid cooperation
and
TO ALL
A Very Merry Christmas
and
A Happy New Year
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Irie.
Customer Tailors and Clothiers 115^4 - 117^4 N. Main — Upstairs
South Bend, Indiana

23
jMerrp €fjristmas

Last week it took Ziggy over half a page to tell you all that it was his last column. I can do so in just a few words. But in doing this I want to thank the fifty-nine campus club members who have so whole-heartedly cooperated with me, in making this column any success it has been. Whoever takes over after I have finished filling myself with Xmas cheer, I am sure, will get the same support I did. Thanks once again.
OBSERVATIONS:
But, before leaving here are some personal opinions that are not necessarily those of the editorial staff, in fact the editors will probably retract them shortly. First of all the football season is now over. That Southern Cal game was really a wow! I only hope that the game the
officials were playing, by themselves, was an interesting one also. I had a good seat. Of course I had to pay for it. I got it from one of my fellow students. He had about twenty tickets, or at least so he said. And he made no bones about his desire to scalp from his fellow-students. Names aren’t important here for he has already developed a bad name in his hall. The reason I mention it, is just a few fellows like this joker give the rest of us a bad name.
WALGREEN'S CORNER—DECEMBER S:
This portion of my column is being composed in front of Walgreen’s during the coal strike. My land-lady didn’t have any coal and there wasn’t any heat, so I decided that this place was the spot to finish my writing. The warmth comes from the eyes of the boys around here, as they glare after the gals from that little Red School House across the lake. But as far as this coal strike is concerned it taught me a lot. I never realized how important a piece of coal was until one Johnny L. (for long lashes) told me. And to think I used to wrap a piece of coal up in a snow ball to throw at my high school teachers. Tsk, tsk. Anyway, we all know now that coal is the life blood of the nation. I think that only a special doctor should be allowed to tamper’ with this blood, and not some unexperienced quack. And I don’t think J. L. was ever graduated from medical school; in fact, I often wonder if he graduated from any place.
CLUBS IN THE PASSING:
They call this Campus Clubs, so here is something about the clubs. During the last two semesters I have tried to report on about fifty-nine active clubs. The Wranglers are active, but they are constantly in hiding, or at least it seems that way, for we just can’t get anything
WILL DO TYPING for Students —
Call 3-1942 between the hours of 9:30 and 4:00 P. M.
MRS. KELLER
Desk Lamps Christmas Cards Leather Goods Gifts Book Ends

ALL AT
The OFFICE ENGINEERS, Inc
£	116 S. Michigan St.
&	South Bend
118 S. Michigan St.
24
^appp
printed about them, ’cept that they all went out and hired some fprmals and had a nice cultured party down at the Oliver. One of their members fell and hurt his leg after their last party, so I helped him home. . . . The Met Club is having their annual Yuletide shin-dig at the Essex House on the twenty-sixth. Harry Arnold ■will provide the noise, and a long table in the rear of the establishment will take care of the rest of the entertainment. . . . Only about twelve clubs haven’t had their photos taken for the Dome. They will be notified soon, so don’t worry. . . . Also, hardly any clubs have fulfilled the request that they must have a photo or two of their home town. Get them in boys or your Dome page will be mighty bare. . . . Movies of the Tulane game highlighted the Philly Club’s last last meeting. . . . Art Coughlan is still faithful with publicity for this group. . . . The Rural Life Club, a conglomeration of hale and hardy men, had the pleasure of hearing a talk on “Erosion and Flood Control” by Dr. Archie Mac-Alpin, assistant professor of Geology. . . . Many thanks to Dick Herberg for his aid in securing news.
The St. Louis club held a Mass in Howard Hall Chapel Sunday morning on the feast of the Immaculate Conception. The Mass was said by Rev. Joseph Huels, and a talk was given by Rev. William J. Grave. The Mass was offered for those who gave their lives in World Wai- II. Breakfast followed in the west dining hall.
The Boys from St. Louis will gather in the famous Coronado Hotel for their annual Xmas Formal Dance. Over 650 guests are expected, and boys I hope you make it. . . . Congrats to Babe “Mouse” Murphy and his Mrs. on their early Christmas present. Wonder what they are going to call it ... I guess that should be “him,” but I’m not sure it is a “him.” ... St. Louis’ leading social tabloid, The Censor, carried over a column of news about ND’s St. Louis Club. . . . Now there is a good publicity agent. . . . All trains carrying special groups and clubs home for the holidays have been re-scheduled. . . . The Rebels from Louisiana, Miss., Ala., Tenn., Arkansas and Georgia have decide to make it a bus trip home. They have also made some plans for an informal dance and, now get this fellas, a SLEIGH RIDE. “Just where you all agoing to find snow down there, pardner?” . . . Sister iM. Dositheus of St. Mary’s Infirmary, Galveston, Tex-
(Continued on Page 31)
3
J MERRr CHRISTMAS TO ALL *
’	AT NOTRE DAME
F	:
I	*
I Headquarters for —	THE BOOK SHOP t
Books, Stationery, Fountain	1	,
5 Pens, Religious Articles	130 N. Michigan St.	’
JO	• 1

j®lerrj» Cfjrtstmas
JIMMIE'S Watch Shop MOVED to
Badin Sub - East
Watches Repaired
Conveniently Located A. J. Warner. Proprietor
«
DESK LAMPS f
'W*h’’!******!****!^
LOG LOG DUPLEX |
SLIDE RULES	I
S
’	?
ZIPPER RING BOOKS |
PENS and PENCILS
DESK SETS
•
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
126 S. Main Street
Across from the Court House
CCLLE6E IAIAII
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
'TIS THE SEASON TO BE JOLLY ...
With only six more days before the trek to Tonawanda and all points east, we’re looking forward eagerly to our 17-day interim—and the annual visit from St. Nick. Funny thing about S'anta Claus, he’s the only guy we know that can run around with a bag all night and not get himself talked about.
Now that it’s time for all to hang up their socks we envy men like John Trave. We don’t like to imply that his feet are big . . . but when “Big John” takes his socks off, he’s half undressed.
But since this is our Christmas issue, we’d like to supply a Christmas-y flavor to the College Parade this week by jotting down a few gift suggestions for Santa Claus:
Father Sweeney—a new sweat shirt for next year’s football season.
John Hickey—a new spread formation—likewise, for the next grid season.
John A. O'Connor—a few more wel-dressed men about campus to be nominated as “The Best Dressed Man Of The Week.”
Marguerite Varga—a few assistants who will do more work and less loafing.
Frank Leahy—a breakaway runner (Sitko, Brennan, Gompers, Zalejski, McGee, Cowhig, Simmons don’t count, you know).
Ziggy Czarobski—a brand new copy of Roget's Thesaurus.
Neil Kelly—a few more autograph seekers.
Student Body— better chow.
Almasi and Higgins—better jokes (more meat and less corn).
ON THE HOME FRONT . . .
Last week came and went and with it, the K. of C. Vaudeville Show. Jack Galloway took up where the mighty John Power left off and showed himself to be a worthy successor to “Uncle 'Mike.” It seems however, that the esteemed judges didn’t hold the same opinion as the worthy audience, for Ed “Casey” Dixon (who drew the most applause) was struck out by three swift votes of the judges before he could even get his bat on his shoulder.
❖
After reading the nice things that
Dave “The Eye” Warner said about Bill Stern in the Scholastic’s Football Issue, it has been reported that Stern has been busy all week penning an article entitled “I Broadcast For Dave Warner.”
Two hundred leading grid writers from all over the country participated in the selection of All-Americans for The Quarterback, football weekly. Fightin’ Irish who made the first team were Connor; Strohmeyer, Mastrangelo, and Lujack. Irishmen receiving honorable mention were Martin, Zilly, Czarobski, Sullivan, Fischer, Brennan, and Mello. That’s a neat batting average for the Golden Domers.
In addition, George Connor walked off with honors as the No. 1 lineman in the country. And last Saturday he was selected by the Football Writers of America as the winner of the Outland Trophy.
Stop blushing Moose, and take a bow!
OSCAR MEETS ANASTASIA ...
Oscar Birdbrain, pride of ND, invaded the tea dance last Sunday and paired off ■with the “Belle of St. Mary’s,” Anastasia Glotch. During the intermission Oscar took her into the lounge and while he played the “Zeebee’s Concerto for One Finger” on the ivories with his big toe, he brought the conversation around to an intellectual level:
Oscar: “Ya like to read?” Anastasia: “Yeah.”
Oscar: “What cha like to read?” Anastasia: “Oh, Joe Palooka, Little Orphan Annie, and Superman.” Oscar: “Ya like O. Henry?” Anastasia: “Naw, the nuts get in my teeth.”
THE FINGER POINTS .. .
We have been asked by certain interested individuals to inquire why some characters persist in wearing their high school letter sweaters around our fair campus. Isn’t there supposed to be a rule against that at this noble institution?—Perhaps the jokers can’t bear to part with the fond meories of Pottawatomie H. S., Wauwautosa H. S., etc.
❖
ON FOREIGN FIELDS ...
“ ’Twas the night before Xmas and
26
^appp J^eto ^ear
all through the house
Not a creature was stirring ... no spoons.”
—College of New Rochelle Tatler
Now we’ve heard everything! A week ago, something new in the way of football games was inaugurated at Indiana U.—a game between two women’s teams, the Organized and the Independents. We can just see the referee being penalized
15 yards for offensive holding!
Logansport, Ind.—Flash! Fred Rovai and John Mastrangelo of Notre Dame Univ, were picked up for speeding. The pair reported . they were headed for Bloomington.
Little Jack Horner sat in a corner Eating his Christmas pie.
He put in his thumb and pulled out a plum
And said, “Oh, heck, I ordered apple.”
—Iowa State Green Gander
Ball State Teachers has a fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega, for former boy scouts. That probably accounts for the spunky Cardinals tying themselves into knots trying to keep pace with Moose Krause’s Irish basketeers.
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR!
JET DESIGNER
The Story of ALAN HOWARD
PURDUE '27
IN CHARGE of a group of G-E gas-turbine engineers and technicians, Alan Howard has directed the design and development of two General Electric engines that are today powering some of our fastest planes.
One, the Propjet, is the first propellerdrive gas turbine in the world. Alan’s second design, the T-G 180, is a pure jet engine, a departure from earlier jets in that it is designed on “axial-flow” principles which make possible a super-streamlined shape.
Gas-turbine engineering is, of course, a highly specialized field. Alan, however, is thankful today not so much for any special knowledge he learned in college, but for the solid understanding of engineering fundamentals which he gained as he worked for his B.S. degree at Purdue.
When, in 1941, Alan Howard undertook the design of the Propjet and the axial-flow engines, this sound training in engineering principles, followed by his years of practical experience with G.E., fitted him well for success.
Next to schools and the U. S. Government, General Electric employs more college engineering graduates than any other organization.
After graduating in electrical engineering at Purdue, Alan came on "Test" with G.E.
Today he designs engines like the Propjet, which provides both propeller-drive, get thrust. It may power tomorrow’s giant airliners.
GENERAL ® ELECTRIC
dfHerrp €fjristmas
Blessed Virgin Honored on Patronage Centenary
Students at the University of Notre Dame observed the centenary of the election of the Blessed Virgin as patroness of the United States with special services Sunday, Dec. 8, feast of the Immaculate Conception, in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, was the celebrant at a Solemn Mass Sunday morning to commemorate the centenary. Rev. Roland Simonitsch, C.S.C., Assistant Prefect of Religion at the University, was Deacon and Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., Professor of Philosophy at Notre Dame, was Sub-Deacon. Sermons, dealing with the centenary theme, were delivered at the various Masses Sunday morning by Rev. Archibald McDowell, C.S.C., and Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. Members of the student body attended Solemn Benediction in Sacred Heart Church Sunday night.
The commemoration of the centenary was continued through today, Dec. 17, when the annual Christmas Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament was terminated. Students at Notre Dame annually
Look To
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
for ARROWS
Here—You are always a Guest before you are a Customer
participate in Christmas Adoration services for nine days by spending one-half hour periods in prayer before the Blessed Sacrament. Adoration services at Notre Dame began on Monday, Dec. 9.
Something new in
Notre Dame Calendars
In booklet form, plastic binding. Containing 52 pictures of the campus.
Convenient for recording appointments and special dates.
Order yours before leaving for the Holidays.
AT THE BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
Arrow always gives you a
We know that the college man of 1946, especially the veteran, is interested in completing his education as quickly and as economically as possible.
For real value + highest quality in shirts, ties, underwear and sports shirts, you can save money by buying reasonably priced, long wearing Arrow products. We have the proof.
MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
Sapp? Mete ©ear
If s Adler's for ARROWS
ONUS OUKK... MKNIMN ( WSMNCUI
Yes, Arrow makes a sweet sport shirt!
Whether you’re a grizzled veteran with a hatful of battle stars or a pea-green freshman straight from high school, your old friend Mr. Arrow makes a sports shirt you will like.
College men are discovering that the same quality, style and wearability which distinguishes their favorite Arrow oxford and broadcloth shirts are present in Arrow sports shirts.
Most Arrow Sports Shirts are washable, so you will save on dry-cleaning bills too!
Every one a honey!
ARROW SH/RTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • SPORTS SHIRTS • HANDKERCHIEFS
Badin's ND Rocket Wins Hall Contest
Badin Hall’s masterful decoration won first place in the campus-wide contest held on homecoming weekend when the Southern Cal eleven brought to a close the 1946 season for the Fighting Irish.
The Ii-ish V-2 rocket ascending into the stratosphere dotted with falling stars of the teams met and conquered provided the novel design for the Badin decoration. Dillon Hall, with a bloody guillotine ready to fall on the prostrate form of Southern California and life size portraits of the Irish “executioners,” placed a close second in the contest. Howard Hall came in third with their scheme of “puppets.”
Since the judging was difficult, a point basis was established in which simplicity, originality, eye appeal cogency and craftsmanship were considered on a 3-2-1 basis. Under this plan Badin received 39 points; Dillon 30 and Howard 21.
Judges for- the event were Rev. T. M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Mr. E. A. Smith and Paul Abraham.
Campus comments were high in praise of the men responsible for the designing and construction of the projects since many long hours and . much hard labor went into each hall’s entry.
Regional Clubs Plan Christmas Parties
With the coming of the Christmas vacation season, Notre Dame men will blow parting kisses to the rector and bolt from the campus, each for his own sacred part of the country. Like partners in hardship, however, he and his fellow students will not forget each other. Through the agencies of many of the various state, city, and municipal clubs he will join at least once with fellow sectionites in some sort of blow-out, soiree, or clambake to be held in his locality during the Christmas holidays.
The underground brings word from president Tom Potter that the recently reorganized Notre Dame Club of New Jersey has completed plans for a “monstrous” affair to be held on the night of January 3 at the world-famous Meadowbrook in Cedar Grove, N. J.—hangout of showman Frank Dailey. The new band sensation of the east, Les Elgarth, is booked for- the evening and by special arrangement a complete section of the splendiferous night-club will be reserved
29
^Itvtp Cljristmas
Attention Students!
Do you want to save money on your Christmas gifts?
VISIT ...
Breen's Jewelers
309 J4 S. Michigan Street (Strand Theatre Bldg., Room 3, UPSTAIRS)
HIGH GRADE JEWELRY:
Diamonds, Watches, Rings at low prices. See our line before you buy—AND SAVE. You can use our lay-away plan.
INTROD UCING
A NEW CUSTOM-BLENDED TOBACCO
A rich mixture of choice imported and domestic tobaccos hand mixed from a private formula to give a cool, mild and naturally fragrant smoke.
Pocket size, 30c	8 oz. jar, $1.40	16 oz. jar, $2.75
SOLD ONLY BY
110 NORTH MAIN	“IN THE J. M. S. BLDG.”
for the boys from N.D. Formal bids will not be sold, the popular prices at the Meadowbrook prevailing. The expected attendance of 150 couples will dance in semi-formal attire, while Walsh Hall’s Frank Salierno performs the duties of general chairman.
Across the river, but eight days earlier, the Metropolitan Club will launch its annual “Christmas Formal” under the directorship of Will Harrs, gold-coaster from Alumni. The night of De-cembei- 26 will see the regal Essex House ablaze with lights and the welcome mat out for the N.D. revelers from the surrounding area. The popular Harry Arnold and his orchestra are expected to provide mood music. Bids are going fast at $6.00 per couple.
■Territorially closer to N.D. but still out of sight of the Dome, the crowd from Chicago, John Allen, presiding, will culminate theii- grandiose plans at a gathering in the Grand Ballroom of the Continental Hotel on the same evening, December 26. Paul Meeker’s orchestra, fresh from widely acclaimed engagements at the Camellia House of the Drake Hotel and the Mayfair Room of the Blackstone, will be in charge of the department of rhythm and tempo. Bids are priced at $6.00 a couple. The affair is formal for women, semi-formal for the fellows, with an estimated 200 couples attending. Jack McGowan, chairman, has planned a gala evening.
Over in Michigan, the Detroit Club is looking forward to their Christmas dance on December 28 at the Book-Cadillac Hotel. The dance is formal and will cost $4.00 pei- couple.
The Philadelphia Club, also planning big things, will throw its Christmas Dance on January 3 at the swank Whitemarsh Valley Country Club, Prexy Art Coughlan announced. Co-chairmen of the affair are Richard Pedrotty and James Masterson. The merry-makers will dance to the music of George Young and his 12-piece orchestra, and all for the price of $3.60 per couple, tax included.
The St. Louis Club has arranged to hold their dance at the Coronado Hotel in St. Louis on the evening of December 26. Music will be by Al Tucker and the dance and dinner party will be held in conjunction with the St. Louis alumni. Bids to the formal are priced at $10.00.
Other groups planning to have dances during the Christmas holidays are the Youngstown Club, and the Fort Wayne Club.—P. M. Belmont.
30
^appp jgeto gear
CAMPUS CLUBS
(Continued from Page 25)
as, is one of the best Notre Dame followers I have ever seen. I don’t know the history of this gentle nun, but I do know that if she misses a Scholastic, she has a special letter up here pronto.
The Rocky Mountain Club, and Frank Stermitz are still wondering when they’ll see something about their organization. Well here it is Frank. The officers of the group are A. J. Thomas, Johnny McCarvel, W. T. Miller, J. C. Hood, and Stermitz. Rev. Roland Simonitsch is their moderator. All students from Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Arizona and New Mexico are eligible for membership.
Last week they had a get-acquainted party at Rosie’s at which time it was announced that a plane had been chartered to Denver, and on to Butte, Montana.
On Saturday night, Nov. 23, the Toledo Club held a roast and hayride oh the farm of member Al Gross. Twenty-five couples attended. The farm is in a small town about 20 miles from Toledo and all the fellows who attended the affair had gone home for the weekend. The committee who took care of arrangements included Jim Simon, Ron Byersmith, Charles Comes, Harold Hoffman, Jim Murtagh and Mike Hoeflinger.
Well, there it is gang. From now on we are strictly attached to the features division of this publication. And incidentally, if you get a chance, tune in on your local radio station and let’s become acquainted again.
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 4) removing. Such a song, I believe, is our “Victory March”—a fine pep song, but not embodying the reverence demanding bared heads.
In addition to the “rouser,” most universities have a school hymn which is reverent, deeper in thought. It is played at every game in a short pre-game ceremony. Everyone stands and removes his' hat. It is extremely impressive and warms the coldest heart toward school spirit. In this capacity “Notre Dame, Our Mother” would stand perfectly. It is the most beautiful “school hymn” I know and is far too little known or used by our students.
To me there is something incongruous in reverent attitude to a fight song. And yet there is a need for 100% show of loyalty at the games. What do the rest of your readers think? E. Seger
University Library December 6, 1946 Dear Editor:
In three “Letters to the Editor” in the Scholastic this semester, slighting references have been made to the staff and policies of the University Library. The first two were of no consequence—the last, by Francis F. Evans, showed some thought, but not enough of it.
The fact that about one-third of the books requested each day are available is not news to the librarians. A typical day at the Library averages about 900 requests at the main desk, and about 325 books withdrawn there. Mr. Evans is accurate in his figures, but his conclusions show a lack of logical thinking. His statement, “This boring process— (writing the call number, title, and author of the desired book, after looking it up in the catalogue, on a call slip, and giving it to a librarian)—must be twice repeated before any book can be withdrawn,” needs no refutation. Going from the general to the particular in any situation is a procedure requiring careful
i	t
HANS - RINTZSCH
Headquarters for
ALL GIFT LUGGAGE
I r c
I

&

-Tg
f
f f
MEN
Tobacco Pouches, $1.50 up
Billfolds, $2.50 up •
Toilet Cases, $5.00 up
Key Cases, $1.00 up
WOMEN
Handbags, $3.00 up
Manicure Sets, $5.00 up
Billfolds, $2.50 up
Jewel Boxes, $3.50 up
Hans/-Rintzsch
138 N. Michigan
L
L-
1 =
L
L
-	1

to all at j^otre jBame
INDIANA ENGRAVING COMPANY
31
jJBlerrp Cfjristmas
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus — E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
BLOCK BROTHERS
The Diamond House oi South Bend
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS for over 25 years
thinking, and Mr. Evans has ably demonstrated one of the main pitfalls.
What he failed to do was a little more research into the matter. This, however, seems to be his bugaboo—the mere thought of looking through the card catalogue for a call number is distasteful to him, if one is to judge his feelings from the passage, “Typical student in quest of knowledge enters the catalogue room where he must scrounge through innumerable dog eared index cards, etc.” Just what would be a more satisfactory method of communicating to the librarian when books are desired, he failed to explain. Incidentally, the remark about the dog eared cards reflects the efficiency of the personnel. A random check of 100 boxes of cards failed to reveal a single dog eared card!
There are several good reasons why it is sometimes difficult to secure the desired book. Books, especially of the type needed for classwork and outside reading, are difficult to purchase, as Mr. Byrne, head librarian; Brother Meinrad of the Bookstore; and several of the professors and students will testify.
Overdue books are another bottleneck. For the present semester, the Library records show that 604 books were overdue in October, while 655 were overdue in November. The thoughtlessness of some students in holding out books which are needed, especially in this boom of
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
50UTH.SH0RE
outside reading assignments by several departments, does much to create the one to three situation.
Mr. Evans’ last “complaint” centers in the Reference room, where, he maintains “the books must be kept in the librarian’s sight.” The rules of the Reference room are few and simple. The one to which Mr. Evans probably had reference is that of not removing books from the Reference room during specified hours without permission, which is, after all, the main purpose in having a Reference room. As for being “impractical and uncomfortable,” no reasons are given, though the chairs might be one. Mr. Evans again failed to suggest a better method of making very frequently used books available to the greatest number of students.
Mr. Evans’ proposal of enlargement of the Library is in agreement with the future plans of University and Library officials, who have realized the need for a larger Library and Art Gallery. Such things as expansion and remodeling take materials, men, money, and time, however. Farley Hall is our present example of immediate post war, large scale building. At present, a newr or larger Library would undoubtedly meet the same fate of being held up at every stage by shortages.
So Mr. Evans’ anger, far from being “righteous,” is more that of one who is in ignorance of the situation, and having nothing better to gripe about, makes mention of a “floating crap game,” deplores the size of the books, and proposes as an alternative to enlargement, that of chucking the whole business and letting the Huddle expand. While possibly good for a few laughs, these rant-ings solve nothing and serve only to create a feeling of ill-will.
I hope this letter will clear up some of the existing ideas concerning the Library, and give some much needed information. I can be reached for further discussion at the Library.
Sincerely, Wm. F. Holton
P.S. Some last minute evidence and information from Mr. Byrne gave the following info which I think is essential to the thought of this article.
Theft and vandalism do much to aggravate this shortage of books. For the two semesters of last school year, approximately 125 books were not returned, some, such as Moody’s “Industrial Index,” worth as much as $18 apiece. Several books, including the bound vol-
32
^appp j^eto gear
umes of the Scholastic, and especially volumes in the Periodical room, have pages and articles cut out of them. Such wanton destruction of property only decreases the number of available books for quite a space of time, because these books must be sent back to the bindery, if the replacement pages are available, and today binderies cannot promise books faster than three months after they receive them.
Professors could help out by checking the Library before making outside reading assignments, and if the material directly relating to the assignment is limited, have the books placed on reference. Many times, though a whole shelf of books may be on the general topic, only five or six may have any particular value for the assignment. Five or six books among 40 or 50 students at 2 weeks per person make for many disappointments at the main desk.
W. F. H.
Dear Editor:
It may well be too late to aid me by
the time you receive this message. I have barricaded myself in the tower of Morrissey in fear of my life.
Today I ventured into the library for the first time since my letter exposing the deplorable conditions of this establishment was published in the Scholastic. After faithfully following the ritual required to obtain a book I presented my slip to the librarian. In a few moments he returned with the book, but instead of offering it to me, he pressed it to his bosom—a motherly gesture belying the fanatic gleam in his eye. Through clenched teeth he hissed that I should be denied the volume because of my “harsh” words. He relented and allowed me to withdraw the book, but I realized in what danger I was and retreated swiftly. Not, however, fast enough. Swift as the breath of death he followed me to the door of the library. Craftily he manuvered me against the wall. Then with the cunning clarity of madness he accused me of deception, explaining that my file card bore a Dillon address while my applica
tion bore a Morrissey number. He asked me to step back into the library and straighten this matter out. I fled. But as I entered the hall I distinctly saw a large man in a black felt hat following me.
“Either It’s Love Or It Isn’t’*
— Pied Pipers
“The Whole World Is Singins
My Song”	— Jack Smith
The Sonora Christmas Carol Album
—Sonora Choir
“The Girl That I Marry”
— Eddie Howard
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St
33
3®lerrp Cfjristmas
If help arrives too late, please tell the students that I gladly lay down my life that they may have a library worthy of this University. As a final request I ask that my crib sheets be given to the reference library.
Francis Fallon Evans, 124 Morrissey
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
«►
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
- „■ -............. ss:
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
Tivo Scholastic reporters, on their own initiative, hastened to 124 Morrissey, found libraryphdbe Francis Fallon Evans cowering in his room and munching on cheese and crackers. They left in disgust when Mr. Evans refused to part with his crib sheets.—Editor.
Dear Editor:
Since arriving on the shores of grid-ola I have worn out §46.85 worth of shoes. Why does all this come about? Why? I will tell you. Because there is punk leather in shoes these days, and because there’s too much cement around here.	•
We can’t do much about the leather situation, but I offer the solution to the cement problem. Instead of fencing in the lawns, why not fence in the cement sidewalks and make everybody walk on the soft grass?
This would not only save shoes, cut down on expenses, and end pedestrian bottle-necks on the narrow sidewalks, but would also keep feet from getting so sore.
What about the lawn some stupid dope asks? Begone dope. Didn’t you ever see the gardners spend hours rolling a lawn? Yes. No more of this. Now the grass will be foot rolled.
To do this we merely all walk on our soles and keep heels in air. (Very good exercise, making us stronger, with fewer colds, and so fewer classes missed, better grades, and everybody is happy.)
Fence in those walks!
Sam O’Quin, Sole Member, Anti-Cement League
Or better still, why not lay down deep rugs on all the walks?—Editor.
Dear Sir:
Just a line to tell you how eagerly I look forward to my copies of Scholastic, and I’m especially anxious to receive the Football number.
The broadcast of the games gives me many hours of pleasure, and with all the “write-ups,” and having met Coach Leahy on my birthday I’m sure right there at the game.
Did you know Mr. Leahy came to visit me, and that I am considered Toledo’s No. 1 Irish grid fan? I admit being puffed up a bit over this title, as there are several thousand Notre Dame fans in Toledo.
The K. of C. here are having a banquet on December 6th for our Central
Catholic football team, and I am going to be present for the showing of the Notre Dame pictures.	<
For the occasion I’m going to wear a Notre Dame “T” shirt with letters and a big shamrock in green. One of my N.D. student friends brought it to me this past week.
Will you do me another favor? Thru a priest friend of our family we have a “letter writing acquaintance,” a young boy, quite an athlete, who was stricken with polio in August and is confined to an iron lung in St. . Catherine’s Hospital, East Chicago, Ind.
We write him letters to help him keep up his fighting spirit, and his determination to “get the ball in the end zone,” as Mr. Leahy wishes me.
Will you send Earl a Football number of the Scholastic? Thank you, for I’ve already written him that I was sure you would. Address: Earl Demko, St. Catherine’s Hospital, East Chicago, Ind.
Greetings to all Scholastic friends.
—Tommy S'exton (by Mom)
To Fighting Irishman Tommy Sexton, long bed-ridden ivith infantile paralysis (Scholastic, March 29, 1946), Christmas greetings from the Notre Dame student body, and assurances that friend Earl Demko of East Chicago received the Scholastic football issue.—Editor.
Notre Dame of Cotabato, Cotabato, Philippine Islands November 5, 1946 Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C., Moderator, The Notre Dame Scholastic, Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana, U. S. A.
Dear Father:
You have already heard of our Notre Dame Schools in the Province of Cotabato in the Philippines through Father Francis McSorley, O.M.I. Father McSorley is the one in charge of our three schools in this Province. It was he who has built up our high schools after the spirit and tradition of the famous Notre Dame of Indiana. At present Father McSorley is operating Notre Dame of Mar-bel and is receiving your publication The Notre Dame Scholastic for his school.
I would appreciate it very much if you could put Notre Dame of Cotabato on your mailing list. The boys at school read every pa'ge of it. We have had a few copies sent to us by Father McSorley. If you could do this for us it would mean a
34
gi-eat deal for the school. Everything we give the boys we build around the wonderful Notre Dame of the States. Youi-magazine is an inspiration for our boys and we can notice a great improvement in them just from the magazine. We tell them to be Notre Dame boys is “really something.” Won’t you help us to keep up the good work through the Scholastic?
A year ago when the American troops were here it happened that a group went by in a truck and saw Notre Dame of Cotabato for the first time. Immediately they began to sing the Notre Dame Song. Some of the boys who were playing in the athletic field ran over to Father McSorley, who was then in charge, and said, “Father the Americans are singing our school song. Did you teach them?” We have our own school song put to the music of the Notre Dame Song.
With a hope that you will be able to be of assistance to us in this request, I remain,
Sincerely yours in Christ, (Rev.) Joseph B. Bilman, O.M.I.,
Director .
Sorin Hall Dear Sir:
On coming to Notre Dame we had expected to find a level of intelligence far superior to that we had encountered in the armed forces.
Judging, however, by the rowdy attendance of campus movies, such is not the case. Often consisting mainly of children, Sunday matinee audiences in South Bend’s theatres show more consideration for fellow movie goers than do some of the thoughtless students attending this University. Audiences at overseas service movies were never more noisy at the sight of beauty or more derisive of tenderness than are the students here. This is a broad statement, but unfortunately true.
We do not object to an occasional hearty laugh at the antics of “Mighty Mouse” or the absurdities of “The Voice.” To hoot at the President, however; to encourage the amorous fumblings of Sonny Tufts or Bill Williams; to whistle shrilly at the lightly-gowned loveliness of Kathryn Grayson—these are the characteristics of men whom one would not expect to find at one of the finest Catholic universities in the country.
If films excite the thoughts indicated by such vulgar outbursts, why can’t the afflicted students stay away from movies entirely, or at least repress their catcalls until afterward? Thus everyone would be able to enjoy fully the entire movie rather than only those portions approved by a noisy minority.
Robert J. Brzezinski George J. Jansen Eugene J. Phillips John F.McCormick Lawrence Turner, Jr. 0. C. Quoidbach
1914
1928
1878
1882
1892
1897	1902
1905
How many of ’em can YOU remember?
"Some of the old-timers must look pretty-strange to you. But not to me ... I made all of them.
"I started making telephone apparatus of all sorts in 1877.. .did such a good job that I was asked to join the Bell Telephone team ’way back in 1882.
"Telephone users get more and better service for their money in this country than inywhere else in the world. I’ve helped to make this possible by efficient manufacturing of uniform, high quality equipment... by volume purchasing of all manner of supplies for the Bell Telephone Companies ... by distributing to them, through my warehouses in 29 principal cities, the telephone equipment I make and the supplies I buy ... by skillful installation of central office equipment. That is a huge job ... especially now when the demand for telephone service is at an •ll-time peak.
"Remember my name . . . it’s Western Electric.”
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM SINCE 1882
35

Copyright 1946, Liggett & Mte»s Tob*cco Co.