

Within walking distance ofND campus I No appointment ever needed! 
277-1166
Back to 
1 month $29.00 
20 session $39.00 

School Student 
12beds 
Full line of tanning accelerators Specials Look great, feel great, get great grades 
And remember, please recycle 

Must present coupon *One per person* Expires Sept 19, 1~96 
Ever wonder how the Gipp got his start? 
The Gipp was once a freshman, too. (Of course, he 
was red-shirted, but that's not important.) But __ 
whether you're a freshman, sophomore, junior or 
senior, there's a place for you at Scholastic. Stop 
by the Scholastic office in 303 LaFortune today. _ 


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VoLtJMEJ.38., NUMBER 2 FOUNDED 1867 SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
FEATURE STORY .. 


.Shades of Gray ; 
When a professor is granted tenure, he or she is given lifetime job security. And while the official tenure process is a complex one, it varies from one departmental culture to another. Professors are finally raising their voices against practices that they feel leave too much room for error and bias . 
..............................p·age 16 
Miles from Home 

Seniors Maria Freiburger and Patrick Kenny spent 
their summer living and 
learning about life in · 
Kisumu,a village in 
Kenya. 

'.Thriving in the Spo~light 

The Communication and Theattedepartmenthopes · to leavecontoversy hack­stageas they kickoff their l.35th Mainstage Season. 


FEATURES Clinton, Dole and the"Feel Me" Voter...............4 
by Matt Dull 
Dreaming ofGold......•.-.............................................8 
by Kate Mcshane 
·Fall Sports Q & A ......~ .......................~.................10 
by BtianHiro ! 
Sugar-Coated Season .................................."···...........12 
by Jetemy Dixon and Brian Hiro 

by Chris Myers 
DEPARTMENTS 
From the Editor...........................~....................;...............2 

Splinters From the Press Box...............................14 
·Out of Bounds.........................~-................................................22 

·on Other Catil:puses....................................................24 

Week in Distortion..............................:......;..................26 
. . ' 
Final Word.......,, ...... ._ ...............,~ .........._ .... ,. ...............................:........2a 



Educated Discrimination 

Rumors of Professor Linda Austern's impending departure floated through my junior PLS class last fall. I remember hearing that she was leaving because she had not been tenured, but I did not quite understand the process or the implications. 
Last Thanksgiving, though, I spoke with a friend's mom about her tenure experience at Western Michigan University. She told me about having to fulfill more stringent requirements and publish more papers. She felt these discrepancies were due to her gender, and she saw others promoted before her as she dealt with an unfair system. 
The more I've learned abouttenure,'the murkier it has become to me. It's not always a clear-cut process, and the subjective nature ofapproval by one's colleagues can make for difficult decisions. In this week's cover story on page 16, Bridget Bradburn looks at some ofthe troublesome aspects ofthe process, and talks to Professor Austern about her experiences at Notre Dame. 

New Beginnings 

This issue marks the beginning of a new printer and layout process at Scholastic Magazine. Ave Maria Press, located just north of the power plant, is now printing the magazine. Over the course ofthe year you will see higher quality photos and graphics. In addition, you will be able to see the magazine in its entirety, exactly as it is now in your hands, on the Web. Check out our site at http://www.nd.edu/~scholast/. 

Back in the Saddle 
We're back. Look for us every Thursday all over campus. 
Steve Myers 
Editor in Chief 




SCHOLASTIC 

MAGAZINE 
Volume 138, Number 2 September 12, 1996 http://www.nd.edu/ ~scholast/ 
Editor in Chief: Steven J. Myers Managing Editor: Bridget S. Bradburn 
News: 
Matthew W. Szabo, editor 
Campus Life: 
Kristin M. Alworth, editor 
Sports: 
Jeremy R. Dixon, editor Brian P. Hiro, editor 
Entertainment: 
Christopher E. Myers, editor 
Departments: 
John J. Infranca, editor 
Copy Editor: 
W. Patrick Downes 
_Layout: · John J. Infranca, editor 
Gene Brtalik 
Carlyn Gray 
Nick Ismert 
Helga Schaffrin 
Emily H. Schmidt 
Julie Vodicka 

~-----------------------------1 Photography: 
39 Years Ago: 
What Happened to the 

Table Manners? 
In the September 27, 1957, issue of Scholastic Magazine, Editor Jim Steintrager wrote the following editorial after the university saw a need to require all students to wear coats and ties in the dining halls on Sundays: 
Why college students somehow feel that when they arrive on campus all the decor ofpolite society goes out the window is a mystery. I am certain that most ofthe sloppy individuals are quite neat at home. But among the peer group at college, sloppiness suddenly becomes, as it seems, the thing to do. This, ofcourse, is an improper attitude. Good dress and good manners are not things to be turned on while at home. They should be demanded, not only by the University but by the students, here at school .... It will be a great compliment to the students and a demonstration oftheir increased maturity. 
Now, stop playing with your food and straighten your tie. Even though it is "the thing to do." 
-BSB 
Stanley P. Evans, editor 
Graphic Arts: Paul Bohensky, director Business Manager: · Colin P. Smith Distribution Manager: Thomas M. Benco 
Systems Manager: 
Sean P. Hynes 
Advertising Manager: 
Jennifer L. Stachowiak 

Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Ci;as Moriturus 
Published 20 times per school year at the University of Notre Dame, and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The .entire contents of Scholastic Magazine are copyright ©1996. All rights reserved. No contents of this . magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. ScholasticMagazinedoes not assume.liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, 303 Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All letters must Include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request In certain instances. · The subscription rate, including the· annual football review, is $30 per year. Available back Issues are $1.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates sent on request. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
Ill[ 



-f-------------­


Scholastic wants to hear from you! Did Matt Dull strike a nerve? Did the Gippermake you feel part of, the inner circle? What do you think of Notre Datne 's system of tenuring professors? 
Write to: Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Bruno's Pizza . . . '' ;'. ' ...· Briln<1:s/N:Ortli Br.uno's ·sout·h­,. . ' . ' Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 -2 a.m. weekdays, Available for private parties & banquets. **1 18-INCH PIZZAS WITH 3 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR _$9.95 FOR $14.00 EVERY DAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 11 ~ U.S. 31 (just north of campus} 2610 Prairie Ave. 273-3890 288-3320 "Al/Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our ,pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. ·  








Clinton, Dole and 

I BY MATT DULL 
know why Bob Dole will lose this election. A shocking statement, I know, considering he's now 20 points behind. But it isn't a matter of the proposed deficit-ballooning tax cuts or the strength ofBill Clinton's leadership. Really, it has more to do with the characteristically cryptic comment Dole made in his response to the State of the Union last January. 
Though almost lost behind the layers of old age and creepi­ness, I distinctly heard Dole say that the election should be decided on which one ofthe candidates you would trust to leave alone.with your children. That comparison probably worked to Dole's advantage in the Republican primaries when the alterna­tives were Buchanan, Gramm and Forbes -all even creepier than Dole. But against Clinton? 
It's not just about picking a babysitter, though. It's aboutthe fact that the line even stumbled out of Bob "Leave Me Alone" 
Dole's mouth.By most accounts Dole doesn't like being touched, has approximately zero experience raising kids, and he recently celebrated his 20th wedding anniversary over the phone. At the Republican National Convention, the party tried desperately to tum Dole into a real person. I understand conventions are about making the candidate look as attractive as possible, but why was this man selling himself as Mr. Rogers? 
I think the answer rests (oddly enough) in the electorate. Instead of whining about the absence of news at the conven­tions, the bazillion reporters covering these events might have done well to tum around and look at the people to whom they were reporting. There is a news story there. 
The essential swing vote in a presidential election year isn't the fanatical C-SPAN watching ex-Peroiist, as four-year-old conventional wisdom would have us believe. The real swing vote in American presidential ·elections is a broad, amorphous group, a group I call the "feel me" vote. The way to elect a president is to indulge this group, to fulfill their desires. 
A recent survey printed in the New fotk Times asked eligible voters: ifyou could vote for any president in U.S. history, whom would you choose? The top vote-getter was John Kennedy (28%) beating all others -including Reagan, Lincoln, Wash­ington and FDR-by more than two to one. Surprised? Do you think Lincoln could be elected today? In fact, looking back over the past half-century, more often than not, the candidate with greater personal appeal has won the presidency. I think it's no coincidence that the president we say we'd vote for is the same one we'd most like to go to the prom with.'Forget cynicism; we are enamored with the president. 

But don't mistake the "feel me" for the character hawk. Feel me's aren't looking for character. Feel me's don't mind JFK's fantastic capacity for womanizing. Bill Clinton's great trans­gression is that his infidelities involved Gennifer Flowers in­stead of Marilyn Mo_nroe. 
So the mission for the Dole cam­paign is to sell Dole not only as the better man, but the more appealing man. One reporter called this the "em­pathy gap." WhenLiddyDole stepped down from the podium, it was clearly 
. , an attempt to open Bob Dole up in a way that he is unwilling to do him­self. As she embraced Dole's old nurse, the message was, "He's a sen­sitive guy, I swear" and, "Not only does this man have character, he's also got heart." Predictably, Mrs. Dole was some­what successful. The feel me's aren't focused on the candidate alone. Ev­

· eryone around the candidate is either a political asset or a liability. Hillary Clinton i_s a great example. Hillary-haters resent her not only because she's a strong woman, but because they understand she's a playerand they are unconvinced by her satcharine·sweetness in interviews and her constantly evolving hairstyle. Has anyone ever suggested that Elizabeth Dole's individual success and evident ambition ·create an image prob­lem? No, and I think it's becausewe can't imagine her insulting Tammy Wynette or hiding files'in a closet in the White House. 
Each ticket can be scored using an average appeal.Jack Kemp and Elizabeth Dole bring up Dole's average and Hillary brings down Clinton's {Al Gore is a slightly closer call). Unfortunately· for Dole, the score of the presidential nominee is weighted. 
But how did we get to where we are today? How did Oprah­ism invade the conventions? Now more than ever, the presi­dency has come to embody government. For everything from Medicare to plane crashes we either credit or blame .the Presi­dent. This factor meshes nicely with the spirited way in which we now pry into a politician's private life. The "character" 
4 

·scH'OLA:STIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
the .1.1Feel me'' Voter 
question then comes to define the nature ofour whole govern­ment. Minute details of the president's annual check-ups or 

IN ANUTSHELL
what the president buys his daughter for Christmas come to reflect the health and wealth of our national government. 

So, like· 75 percent of TV-watchin~ Americans, you 
The social science that drives political campaigns gives .missed.. the national· conventions. Not to worry. 

people what they are most likely to respond to. It gave us 

Julian Kupiec of the Palo Alto Research Center in Palo Alto, Calif. has the cheat sheet you~ve been waiting for. He has 
developed a piece of software which produces an automatic summary of text by analyzing word frequency and recurrent 
It's no coincidence that the Presi­
dent we say we'd vote for is the same 

patterns. Kupiec ran the texts from the first two nights of the Republican Convention and all of the texts from the_Demo­
one we'd most like to go to_ the prom 

cratic Convention through his program: The results are a bit 
attack ads. And, this year, it gave us the national conventions. 

absurd, but really, so were the political" conventions. Here, in 
Meanwhile, our access to information sources are rapidly a• nutshell, is a summary of the national conventions, con­

increasing. And sources such as TV, radio, newspapers and 

densed to four sente_nces each: 
the Internet are themselves made ofthousands ofvoices vying for our attention. One can'tpossibly listen to all the voices that 

·Republican Convention· 
surround us. One can 'tpossibly learn all ofwhat the rambling, instant-spin press has to say. Ultimately, we only manage to 

• We are the Republican Party -a big, broad, di~erse anddigest this information as a collection of broad forces that inclusive party with a common-sense agenda and a better man push us one way or another (see sidebar). Ask someone what for a better Aillerica, Bob Dole ..
he or she thinks of a candidate and instead of policy prefer­

. . . . -.:·
ences, you '11 almost certainly get something like, "Ithinkhe's •_We need a leader we can trust.. 

gone too far" or, "I just don't trust him." 

. . . . :
Unfortunately for Bob Dole, no amount oftouching-up will • The common sense Republican proposals are the first step inquite do the job. Worse yet, he's up against the ultimate "feel restoring the American dream because Republicans care about me" president. Even ifLincoln had a wife like Liddy Dole and 

America.
a girlfriend like Marilyn Monroe, he still couldn't win our hearts over JFK. 

• There is no greater:dream than th~ dreams parents have for. 
Whether or not Dole is a good leader, in the "feel me" race 

their children to be happy and to share God's blessings.
he's a lost cause. We are destined to fall, once again, into the arms ofBill Clinton. In 1992 Clinton asked for 


:· Democratic Convention · 
a "New Covenant"with the American people'., 

• Now, most of America believes that Bill Clinton and his 
It's no·coincidencethat 

iqcornparable vice president, Al Gore, will win the election on he's been about as faith­
November 5. . ful in this covenant as he's been in .his cov­
• 

0P.residentClinton found a way topreserve·[theDeniocratic 
enant 'with Hillary. By party's] basic principles while erasing the stigmas that have 

most accounts, a 20­

be_en branded upon oufreputation over the years. 
point victory in No-. vember· would repre­

•In.theJ.nodem history of this country,· rtC> president has done 
sent a mandate." But more· to move foward abaiancedbudget· than· President Bill·. 

for what? Are we hir­s: 

Clinton;
!l1
ing a babysitter? The 
i 

. . 
"feel me"babysitter­g 

• ln·t~e end, Bfll ~liriton sp~lls:hope and R1:!pubHcans spell 
disaster: ..· . . . .· . . . . . ·. . . .· . I ·-' · dysfunctional govern-. ment. D 
no wonder we have a 

....:... compiled by Matt Dull and Matt Szabo 


SCHOLASTIC MAG-AZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
IMSiii-iliiii 

MDILIESS FROM HCMIE 
The anthropology department sends students to a nation worlds apart from Notre Dame for a summer ofcultural immersion 
BY KRISTIN M. ALWORTH 
. eniors Maria Freiburger and Patrick Kenny were touring the Kenyan countryside this summer when a lady ac­costed them and asked for money. They refused, follow­ing a rule that visitors should never give out money. Miffed, the lady chanted angrily and walked around in a circle. When the bewildered pair asked their tour guide what she was doing, the guide merely replied, "It's very bad; you don't want to know." 

They had been hexed. And coincidentally, both Freiburger and Kenny fell violently ill that evening. 
Such experiences were not unusual for Frei burger and Kenny this past summer. They spent eight weeks in Kenya as partici­pants in the East Africa Urban Experience Program run by the Notre Dame anthropology department. Open to anthropology majors, the program sends Notre Dame students to Kisumu, Kenya to work at the Pandipieri Catholic Center. The center aims to improve conditions in the community wherever possible by running programs in areas ranging from health care to carpentry to nursery schools. 
The program began a few years ago when Dr. Daniel Towle '77 donated money to the anthropology department. "I wanted to establish some sort of possibility for students to have a summer cross-cultural experience," Towle explains. While a student at Notre Dame, Towle participated in Operation Crossroads to Africa, which enabled him to spend time in Africa between his junior and senior years. "We lead a pretty sheltered life at Notre Dame," says Towle. "I wanted students to have a life-broadening experience outside of the classroom." 
Professor Martin Murphy, chairperson of the anthropology department, stresses that the main focus of the program is not to do volunteer work. "The purpose is to give students the opportunity to experience a very different world and culture," he says. Murphy notes that the students who go to Kenya will eventually speak to many people back in the U.S. and raise awareness of the social problems in Kenya. "It's different than just send­ing money there," he says. 
Notre Dame sent its first students to Kisumu in senior this year, participated in the program in its initial year and explains that she had always wanted .to visit a Third World country. "But I don't think I realized what I was getting into," she says. "I came back humbled." 

Freiburger and Kenny found that they, too, were not quite prepared for life in Kenya, where Americans attract a lot of attention. "When we were getting off the bus in the market I was really freaked out. I was thinking, we're walking targets," Freiburger recounts. The Luos would yell "Muzungu" -white person -wherever they went, and people in the street would start chanting, "How are you, Muzungu?" 
Kenny found this treatment unsettling. "They would rub your skin to see if the white would come off. You were always reminded that you' re different," he comments."But the children don't know what they're saying-it bothered me more when it was the adults." 
The people of Kisumu were very open to the American visitors, however."They would say, 'you are welcome, you are welcome, you are welcome,' and that's all they would say for about a half an hour,.'' Freiburger remembers. She and Kenny were frequently received as the "honored guest" at the places they visited. 
The transition to life in Kisumu required some adjustments on their part, though. For one, the Luo, the local people in 
er summer m Kenya working at a
the summer of 1995. Stephanie Sluka, who is a 


local nursery school. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
Kisumu, have a different attitude about time than most Ameri­cans do. Freiburger recalls one instance when she and Kenny were going to a meeting that was supposed to start at 9:30 a.m., so they arrived at about 9:15. At 12:30, the meeting finally got underway, and some people still weren't there. "But it's not just the meetings that are laid-back, it's the whole lifestyle," Freiburger explains. 
The grave social problems in Kisumu, however, were what really unsettled the visitors. Freiburger spent much of her time working in a nursery school and witnessed many 
disturbing instances of physical punishment. "I was grading papers one day, and some kids were talking," she recalls. "The teacher just walked behind them and hit them each on the head." 
Freiburger explains that Kenya does have a law against such abuse in schools, but the law is not enforced. She had heard of one instance where a class was laughing at their teacher, so the 
. teacher left the classroom and brought three teachers back with her. They randomly selected one student and caned her to death as a punish­ment for the class. Freiburger tried to speak to the people at the schools abounhe abuse, and they were very open to her suggestions. However, she is skeptical about whether her concerns will be addressed by the school, especially now that she is gone. 
Kenny, Freiburger and Sluka all saw tremen­dous poverty in Kenya as well, yet one of the 
mission's statements is that visitors can never give handouts to anyone. Following this rule was easier said than done. Most ofthe Luo assume that white people are rich and they continually begged the visitors for money. "They said they had school fees or medical fees, and it was hard to say no to them," says Sluka. "A matter of a couple ofbucks makes a huge difference to them." 
Freiburger also faced uncomfortable situations because of this rule. The schools had a very difficult time collecting fees, so they held "Harumbae," where teachers would dance with 
"They would rub your skin to see if the white would come off." 
buckets and get parents to contribute money. However, Freiburger was in an awkward position when she was the honored guest at one Harumbae. "The parents were thinking, why isn't this rich white woman giving any money?" she says. 
The number of people living on the streets is another serious problem in Kisumu, and the center tried to combat the problem by going out on the streets at night and talking to people. They would try to convince them to come to the center, where they could have a bed, food and even an education. 
Freiburger and Kenny both participated in night street work, yet they had two very different experiences. Kenny went out with two large men, and he was offered everything from food to a seat to rest on from people who barely have anything. "I felt completely safe the whole night," Kenny comments. 

For Freiburger, the night turned out to be fairly traumatic because of the disturbing way she was treated on the street. Women receive little respect in the Luo culture, and girls are basically just sex toys out on the street. "Everyone touches you and people grab you," she says. But, Freiburger notes that it is the intrinsic cultural beliefs that are largely responsible for the 

treatment of women. "I hate to say it, but you can't blame them for it," she comments. 
One experience that evening was disturbing enough to bring Freiburger to tears. She came across a little boy sleeping in the marketplace and tried to rouse him several times, but all he did was open his eyes a little. "You could count his ribs, and I thought his shoulder was about to pop out," she recalls. "He was not more than eight years old, and he was all alone, fending for himself." 
Despite the numerous social problems in Kisumu, Frei burger and Kenny found that the Luo' s zest for life is not dampened by these challenges. Freiburger explains that the poverty and sickness are simply a part of life in Kenya, and that the people are so far removed from material cultures that they are only upset when they are hurt or sick. "They are always singing and dancing," comments Freiburger. "It's hard to feel sorry for people who are so happy." 
Murphy hopes that the program will continue to grow. "The people who have participated have been quite changed by the program," he comments. However, funding for the program is a major concern. Towle and his wife, Christen, currently fund about half of the cost, while the participants raise the other half through fundraising. 
The program has certainly left some lasting reflections about both the Luo culture and American culture. Freiburger has found that the Luos seem content without the material things that Wes tern people value. "It takes so much more to make kids -and people in general -happy in America," she says. 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 


BY KATE MCSHANEMost ofus have heard seemingly endless stories about our friends' summervacations. We have heard tales of internships, summer school, and even about visits to the Olym­pics in Atlanta. But one story is not so common. While some students paid to see the Olympics, another Notre Dame stu­dent participated in the worldwide event. Sophomore Sara Walsh traveled to the Olympics as the first alternate on the U.S. Olympic Fencing team. A Mishawaka native, Walsh began her fenci!l,g career at age 12 when she started fencing at a junior club at Notre Dame. She graduated from high school a year early to train in Italy for three months, and she has since worked her way up to the ranks of the top 32 fencers in the world. During her time as a Notre Dame stu­dent; Walsh has been a member of the varsity fencing team while continuing to compete in national competitions. She placed second at the Nationals in June, which earned her a position on the U.S. Olympic team. After Nationals, Walsh and her team­mates left for Roanoke, Va. to prepare for the Olympics. The team trained, received counseling from sports psychologists, gave press conferences and, most impor­tantly, tried to relax. "There were a lot of things going on and it was a lot offun, but we constantly had to remind ourselves to 

Dreaming of Gold 
While millions ofpeople watched the Olympics on rv, Sara Walsh _experienced the Games firsthand 
stay focused," Walsh says, 
Overall, Walsh thought the Olym­pics were a great experience, One of her favorite memories ofthe game was when she and the rest of the fencing team entered the fencing hall. "It was 
wonderful to walk in with all the fans 
applauding," she says. 
Besides watching the other fencing 
events, Sara was able to spend time in the 
AT&T Global Village. "It was nice be­
cause the village was for just the athletes 
and their families," she says. Walsh par­
ticularly enjoyed the opportunity to speak 
with the other athletes, since many of 
them had shared similar experiences. "I 
found that I could relate to a lot of them," 
Walsh says. "We talked about the con­
stant training and putting other things 
you want from life on hold because of 
your sport." 

Walsh did have some mixed feelings 
about the Olympics. "I was excited but I 
also had a bittersweet feeling about being 
there," she says. The athletes were very 
•· involved with the competition, while the tourists were just trying to have a good time. As an alternate, Walsh was a mem­ber of the Olympic team, yet she did not compete and she could not participate in certain events, like the Opening Ceremo­nies. "It was hard knowing that you were so close to participating, but not close enough," she says. 
Walsh also notes that the atmosphere of the Games was strained because of the stringent security measures. She repeat­edly had to go through security checks, such as having her bag searched every time she entered the fencing hall, Walsh explains that, with all the security, "You knew things were not quite right, because you were basically waiting for something to happen," Walsh did not witness the bombing in the Olympic village, though, because she had left for North Carol.ina the night before. 
Looking ahead to the future, Walsh has not made a decision as to whether or not she will participate in the Olympic Games in Sydney. The average age of the U.S. Fencing-Team is 28, however, so Walsh will still have' the opportunity to partici­pate in later Olympic Games. 
Walsh says that going to the Olympics has changed her perspective on the games, While she still loves the sport of fencing; she does not want it to consume her entire life. "By actually going, it put it in per­spective for me," she says. "I've seen it, and it's a wonderful experience, but I won't be really disappointed if I don't makeitintheyear2000," D 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996
8 


gipper.1@nd.edu 
~ Camrus Watch 
BY THE GIPPER 
Attitude, Allegations, and Innuendo ~ 
isten up, whoever is responsible for the Gipp's soggy shoes: Turn off the sprinklers now! You've 
been watering the sidewalks for three weeks now, and they haven't grownf ~ yet. The Gipp is tired ofplaying Dodg­~ em with the sprinklers. Last week when 
he was walking across North Quad he 
thought he was trapped in Super Mario 
Land. 
Now, a belated welcome to the land of 
religious profiteers, Gipp fans! The Gipp 
is tanned and rested from his summer 
spent in beautiful Acapulco, where he 
was a towel boy for Kate Moss. Fantasy, 
reality, what's the difference? 
CHOOSE YOUR OWN ADVENTURE, OPTION 1 
Speaking of fact vs. fiction, who knows the real reason Senior Bar is suddenly a place to drop off the kids for i l daycare? There are two possibilities ~ floating around campus -at least, what's left of campus, now that they put the stadium on steroids. One involves a student, who we'll call I. Ruineditforeveryoneelse (it's a family year-old he couldn't pick up a hard pack of Marlboro Reds, too. But that's why they have cigarette machines. Ifyou can't get a decent fake ID, leave your superego outside the bar. 

CHOOSE YOUR OWN ADVENTURE, OPTION 2 
Or is this the next step to a dry campus, as has been alleged before? Go ahead and laugh, and say the Gipp is paranoid about his liquor. But these changes are made with baby steps, and we'll be alumni by the time it happens. Ofcourse, they '11 still have a "refreshment'; tent for Alumni Weekend, and that's enough to keep us signing the checks. 
STATUTORY SOMETHING 
Those who were lucky enough to spend the summer under the shadow of the Golden Dome were treated to a fine selec­tion of sports and youth camp partici­pants. But, lest any student get the wrong idea, the university had a specific rule preventing ND students from entering dorms in which camps were staying. Not just staying overnight, but entering the 
Top 10 Convenient Places for another on-campus ATM 
That A TM at the JACC has stolen all the business from the LaFortune ma­chine. Where will they put one next? 
10. Carroll Hall basement 
9. Stepan Center 
8. St. Joseph Lake beach 
7. Room 315, Main Building (Of­fice of Student Affairs) 
6. 14th floor, Hesburgh Library 
5. Maple Lane Amoco 
4. Fitzpatrick computer cluster 3. D-2000 
2. Lewis Hall 
1. Jay's Lounge 
JAILHOUSE FOOTBALL 

Now, weallknowthatMr.Kirkpeersf ~ through his binoculars at the student ~ section during the football games. But 
now that a spaceship landed on the old 

stadium and swallowed it, he won't have 
to leave the stadium to continue the judi­
cial process. Included in the brand-new 
stadium is a brand-new jail cell. ND Se­
curity sources say rumors of a lethal in­
jection room are unfounded, but admit 
there is an iron maiden at Gate 3. 
One more item: tailgating will be con­

siderably more boring now that the uni­
versity has prohibited RVs from parking 
anywhere on campus before the morn­
ings of home football games. Wealthy 
RV-driving alums have lit up the ND 
switchboard like a Christmas tree, but to 
no avail. Supposedly there isn't enough 
parking. That's strange -26 rows and 
22,000 seats ago there was plenty ofpark­
ing for RV's. Tell your RV-owning friends 
they can have the Gipp's spot in D2. 
name), who was up-.------------------------------~ set about not being REASON #6659 TIJE GIPP LOVES NOTRE DAME: 
That's all the tips able ~o join her of­
V.P: Beauchamp, a priest (read: oath ofpoverty) trades his loaded HondaAccord 
that's fit to print, or age friends for Liq­
a few times a year for another loaded Accord from Basney Honda. 
all the tips that fit in 
uid Lunch. Miss Ruineditforeyeryoneelse talked to Daddy, who sicced some attorneys on the univer­sity. They said selling alcohol at that time encouraged alcohol abuse, and it was unfair that anyone couldn't just go in and building. Future parietals policy? The Gipp shudders and holds his 16-year-old cheerleader girlfriend tight. 

print. It was a busy summer for everyone, and the Gipp has more tips than the Development office has free football tickets. So whether you spent your summer trainspotting like some football players, or drying off Kate Moss like the Gipp, rest assured that the Gipp' s crackJeam oflegal experts will guarantee a fall chock full of tips. Help him out ­have you shared your secret today? D 




FALL SPORTS: 
BYBRIANHIRO 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Q: After winning the school's first-ever national championship and ending North Carolina's nine-yearreign last year, what can Coach Chris Petrucelli' s squad possi­bly do for an encore? 
A: How about win it all again. Despite the loss of such stars as Michelle McCarthy 

;; 
p and Rosella Guerrero, the Irish return a 
111: loaded roster and welcome one of the
ii 
most talented freshman classes ever. In addition to player-of-the-year candidates Cindy Daws and Holly Manthei, expect to hear the names of rookies Jen Grubb 
s: 
~ 
en 
~ 
ii, 
~ 
i?:: 
~ 
~ 
~ 
5" 
0 § 
~ 
g· 

and Jenny Streiffer a lot. All but Daws trained with the U.S. Olympic Team this summer. 
Q: Will anyone score on Jen Renola this year? 
A: Don't hold your breath. The senior goalkeeper shut out a record 13 teams last season and did not allow a single goal in the Big East or NCAA Tournament. Her career goals-against average is a micro­scopic 0.66. 
Q: Who made up the schedule, anyway? 
A: Someone in a bad mood, apparently. 
"Grueling" might not be strong enough to describe the '96 slate, which includes games against five of the top seven teams in the Soccer America preseason poll, all of them on the road. If the Irish defend their title this year, they will have more than earned it. 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Q: Is this the team that began last season 3-0 and ranked sixth in the nation or the one that proceeded to lose four straight games and finish 9-10 overall? 
A: Probably somewhere in between. A top-ten national ranking is asking too much in the tough Big East Conference, but there is reason for optimism with the return of five experienced seniors, in­cluding tri-captains Tony Capasso, Brian Engesserand Peter Gansler. The recent 2­2 tie with sixth-ranked St. John's did nothing to dampen the hope. 
Q: Who will replace the scoring of star forward Bill Lanza, second team all-Big East last year? 
A: A number of players are vying for the role of primary offensive threat, among ·them sophomore Ben Bocklage, who led the '95 Irish in goals with nine, Capasso, back after taking the spring semester off to train with the Canadian Olympic Team and senior Konstantin Koloskov, third in 
scoring a year ago. Freshman forward 
Andrew Aris from New Zealand has sur­prised with two goals and an assist through 
three games. 
Q: What will be the strength of Coach Mike Berticelli's team this season? 
A: Try_ the backline. Anchored by sweeper Engesser, who has started every game during his first three years, the Irish de­fense did not allow a goal in the first two contests of the year and held St. John's scoreless through regulation. Part of this success rriust be attributed to sophomore goalkeeper Greg Velho, who has played every minute so far while surrendering just .60 goals per game. 
VOLLEYBALL 
Q: Coming off a 27-7 record last year with all six starters returning, is this the year the Irish start thinking national title? 
A: Not so fast. Although senior Jenny Birkner was the '95 Big East Playerofthe Year and junior outside hitters Angie Har­

10 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
ris and Jaime Lee have as much talent as anyone in the nation, Notre Dame has not yet lived up to its number-six preseason ranking: Second-ranked Stanford taught the Irish a lesson in how to play upper-echelon volleyball last week, sweeping three games in the Joyce Center. Then No. 19 Louisville made it consecutive home defeats by coming back from two games down in the Big Four Classic. The shoulder separation suffered by setter Carey May on August 16 hasn't helped matters. 
Q: Just how big was the injury to May? 
A: Very. The setter is probably the most important position in the sport and the junior from California is a good one. Last year she set school records for assists and assist average. As Coach Debbie Brown said before the season, "Carey has to carry a pretty heavy load in order forus to achieve our goals." She is not expected back until the end of September at the earliest. 
CROSS COUNTRY _Q: How is it possible to finish third in the conference yet still be ranked in the nation's top ten? 
A: Be a member ofthe Big East. The men's cross country squad finished eighth at last year's NCAA meet yet trailed Providence and Georgetown in the standings of the nation's best cross country league. Notre Dame's hopes to win ~e conference this fall rest on the capable shoulders of senior co-captains Matt Althoff and Joe Dunlop, who own best times in the IOK of 
24:47.3 and 24:53.9, respectively. 
Q: Is it good that the best runner on the women's team is just a freshman? 
A: Yes, because that freshman is Nicole LaSelle, a three-time Ohio state champion who placed sixth at the Foot Locker nationals. If the Irish are to improve upon their seventh-place league finish last year, LaSelle and fellow freshmen Joanna Deeter and Allison Klemmer .will have to play major roles. Not to be forgotten are captain Caroline Long, Lindsay Dutton, Emily Dodds and Michelle Lavigne, all seniors. D 

IRISH ACE: An All-America candidate, Angie Harris' (top) jump serve is one of the best in the nation. 
LOOKING FOR A REPEAT. Player of the year candidates Cindy Daws and Holly Manthei (opposing page) are not planning to relinquish the trophy this year. 
AHEAD OF THE PACK. The senior. triumvirate of Matt Althoff, Derek Seiling and Joe Dunlop (left) looks to improve upon the team's third-place conference finish last year. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 11 


Sugar-Coated Se 
Despite the unimpressive win over Vandy, lookfor a January 2 date with Nebraska in New Orleans 
BY BRIAN HIRO f it's true that college football pro­
I
grams go through cycles, then Notre 
Dame is due for a generous upward swing. While Nebraska fans boast about how, yes, there are still dynasties in col­lege football, and Florida and Tennessee showcase their Reisman-worthy quarter­backs, the Irish, in the unfamiliar position of upstarts, just may sneak their way to the national championship. 

Not since the glory days ofthe late 80s has there been this much optimism sur­
rounding a Lou Holtz squad. 1994 was the year of mediocrity. 1995 was the year of respectability. 1996 might simply be "the year." 
Why such high hopes in the wake ofa 15-8-1 record over the pasttwo seasons? Start with a senior-domi­nated and depth-laden offensive backfield. Then there's the offen­
sive line, which ex-
eluding center Rick 
'Kaczenski averages
6'7", 304 pounds per man. And Kaczenski, a relatively svelte 6' 4", 
260, might be the best ofthe bunch. Toss in a defensive front seven as talented and experi­encedas Holtz has ever had and you '11 have to forgive Irish backers for being downright giddy. 
If only there were no forward pass the Irish would be locks to winitall. That's where the trouble starts. Notre Dame's prob­lems at wide receiver 
&'

:c and in the secondary !! can be summed up by 
m 

the fact that do-every­
ceiving, Autry Denson will be a key player for the Irish in 1996. 

thing tailback Autry Denson is also probably the team's best receiver and defensive back. Unfortu­nately he hasn't found a way to clone himself, so the Irish will have to be con­tent to stick him in the backfield and hope the receivers become inspired by the ghost of Derrick Mayes. 

The situation in the secondary is not as dire, with capable covermen in ever-im­proving Allen Rossum and Ivory Covington. But the safeties have virtually no experience and there is little to no depth. Opposing quarterbacks would be licking their chops if not for Renaldo Wynn and Bert Berry busting them. 
The schedule could be another pitfall for the Irish. Like last year, the three­game stretch of Texas, Ohio State and Washington will determine Notre Dame's fate. In fact, many point to the game in 
Th l[ h . h if
e Ca ere lS t at l .,the Irish can survive the trip to Texas, they will cruise to bowl season unbeaten. 
Austin and predict a carbon copy of last season's loss in Columbus. The Buck­eyes were loaded at the skill positions with quarterback Bobby Hoying, tailback Eddie George and receiver Terry Glenn. This year, the Longhorns boast similar talent in QB James Brown, back Ricky Williams and receiver Mike Adams. Texas fans have been pointing to this game since Notre Dame humiliated their team 55-27 last year, which means the stadium won't exactly be quiet. The call here is that ifthe Irish can survive the trip to Texas, they will cruise to bowl season unbeaten. 
NothinglikeNewYear'sinN'Awlans. 0 

SCHOLASTIC MA'GAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 

CENTER OF ATTENTION. If the Irish are to contend for the national title, Ron Powlus will have to be in the middle of it all. Along the way, he will probably break Rick Mirer's record for 
career touchdown passes. 

Ifthe Irish live up to their potential, nothing will block their path to a national championship 
BY JEREMY DIXONAs we prepare for another round of football Saturdays (~e phrase itself brings tears to niy eyes, or maybe just visions of brats and burgers), let us remind ourselves of the reason we drag ourselves out of bed on Saturday morning. It's not to have cocktails or schmooze with the alumni, but to watch football. Actually, a trusty associate just informed me of this fact and, needless to say, I was as stunned as the Gipp. It seems that there is . a . reason· behind the plaid pants and the beer that flows like a river, and this year we can celebrate even more as we should have one ofthe top teams in the country. Let's begin. with the offense. Nearly everybociy is back from last year, includ­ing Ron Powlus, who has recovered from last year's seasoz:i.-ending injury against Navy. The Golden Boy definitely has something to prove this year to Irish fans and critics alike, and ifhe can go injury­free di.Iring this campaign, he can take Notre Dame back to the promised land. When he's not passing the ball, Pow I us 

can close his eyes and pick any of the backs behind him to plow through the defense. Captain Mark Edwards, with 22 career touchdowns, surely wants a ring for his finger before he leaves. Fellow seniors Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer have had their problems and injuries, but at 100 percent are two very dangerous backs. Behind an offensive line that could allow my grandmother to gain 100 yards per game (of course, she's 6'2", 240 and runs a 4.4 40), the offense should have little difficulty putting points on the board. One glaring problem is the apparent in­ability to hold on to the ball. Seven fumbles against Texas or OSU will get us blown out. 
On the other side ofthe ball, the defense is very solid indeed. With seven returning starters, Bob Davie's crew should be a dominant force. Only one of the front seven graduated, leaving much experi­ence. Bert Berry, Lyron Cobbins and Kinnon Tatum all left their mark on the opposition last year, and, with the return of Melvin Dansby from injury, they are like a brick wall. Just ask Vanderbilt. 
Unfortunately, quarterbacks can throw over a wall. The weak link in this year's team definitely lies in the secondary. Jun­ior Allen Rossum is the only returning starter, with Ivory Covington and Jarvis Edison receiving playing time last year. How these young players play will go a long way in determining what type of year we will have. 
Inall, itlooks to be an excellent year for Irish football. As we all know, however, the champion isn't determined on paper, but by performance. Vanderbilt was taken for granted, a mistake which can't be repeated. The middle of the season will determine the fate ofthis team, with con­secutive games against Texas, Ohio State and Washington. If these three are all victories, then Lou Holtz & Co. can put on the cruise control until the showdown with USC on Thanksgiving weekend. 
Look for a date with Nebraska in the Sugar ·Bowl. The Irish will have to play a near-perfect game to.win, but it is possible. Maybe th~ team can kiss the Blarney Stone while they're in Ireland. I don 'tknow about the rest of you, but New Year's Eve iri the 
· French Quarter sounds good to me. D 
13 




s linters from the Press Box 
A roundup of the week in sports September 4 to September 1 O edited by Jeremy Dixon 
MEN'S SOCCER WOMEN'S SOCCER 
2-2 Sept. 6 #14 Wisconsin W 3-1Sept. 7 #6 St. John's T 
Sept. 8 #13 Washington W 4-0 Key Player: Greg Velho, who held St. John's scoreless through regulation after Key Player: Freshman Jenny Streiffer, two consecutive shutouts. who leads the nation in assists (10) and Key Stat: The team only gave up 10 points (18). shots, compared to 23 in St. John's vic­Key Stat: The team averages 6.75 goals tory last year. per game, third best in the country. Up Next: The 24th ranked Irish have a Up Next: Michigan State and Indiana. Big East matchup against West Virginia The Irish have won 22 consecutive games tomorrow before playing DePaul on Mon­against the Big Ten. day. 
VOLLEYBALL 

Sept. 4  #2 Stanford  L  0-3  
Sept. 6  #19 Louisville  L  2-3  
Sept. 7  Kentucky  w  3-0  
Sept. 7  Indiana  w  3-0  

Key Player: Jenny Birkner, who had 34 kills to lead the team in kills while making the Big Four Classic All-Tournament team. Key Stat: With the loss to Louisville, the Irish broke their streak of seven consecutive tournament championships, dating back to 1994. Up Next: The Mizuno USA Cup in Chicago, with games against top 10 teams Penn St. and Washington St. 
What They Said: "By the time I drive home, 50 people have called me an a------. Sometimes a guy will yell, 'Hey, that a------' s John McEnroe." -Former tennis bad boy John McEnroe. 
What We Read: "Atthis rate, Prairie View A&M, which hasn't won a game since Bill Clinton took office, will be clamoring to lead offNotre Dame's '97 schedule." -Tim Prister, Blue & Gold Illustrated, on Notre Dame's game with Vanderbilt. 
Dix's Pick: After a scare last week at Vandy, Holtz' s troops come out fired up. Powlus throws three TDs and Edwards picks up two. The defense once again looks impressive as the Irish romp 45-7. 
Hiro's Hunch: Purdue has been crippled by suspensions and injuries, so the Irish show their sympathy by crippling the Boilermakers further. Denson rushes for 137 yards and two TDs and Dansby gets two sacks as the home team rolls, 49-13. 
Bert Berry 
The senior outside linebacker played a major part in the defense's amazing showing last week. Holding Vandy to two yards rushing, Berry had a team­leading seven tackles and two sacks. 
Athletes of the Week 
Monica Gerardo 
The leading scorer from last year's 
championship . team, the sophomore 
had two goals in the4-0 drubbing of -Washington to tie her for the team . lead with five. · 

14 




BY CHRIS MYERSIf you missed the South Bend Times cover story about the excavated body found by the stadium, chances are you've never heard the name Frank Ramirez. Don't worry, Ramirez plans to cover the story for about another four months. Of course, the newspaper he's writing for is the South Bend Times Pennysaver, and his story is completely fictitious. "Death at the Dome" is Ramirez'.s 20­chapter serial thriller which will be printed in the Times one chapter a week until its . 

ing Me Slowly• 
Pastor Frank Ramirez unearths a 20-installment serial thriller set at Notre Dame 
conclusion. 
Shades of Stephen King, you say? Ramirez dismisses the copycat no­tion, claiming that his story was thought of even before King made his an­nouncement to write the best-selling serial The Green Mile. 
Like King, though, Ramirezwriteswithadis­tinctivelylocalflavor. The main character in "Death at the Dome," Cindy Novak Mitchell, is a St. Joseph's High School graduate returning for her reuniop. Passing by cam­pus, she reminisces about 
Notre Dame tradition before stumbling upon a group of stadium construction workers who have unearthed a body. 
An Elkhart resident for six years, Ramirez says he's able to capture the local spirit, but his knowledge as an out­sider also helps him to "pick up more·. details that may escape some deep rooted locals." 
Ramirez's own roots trace back to Cali­fornia, where he spent the better half of his childhood. A son in a naval family, he graduated La Verne College in 1976, a Theatre/Arts major and went on to Bethany Theological Seminary where he 
graduated with a Masters in Theology in 1979. He became a pastor at LaDora _Church ofthe Brethren, a position he held for over 11 years before coming to Elkhart, where he became the pastor ofthe Elkhart Valley Church ofthe Brethren in Septem­
ber of 1990. 
A freelance writer on the side, Ramirez 

admits that the idea for "Death at the 
Dome" wasn't even his. Two friends of 
his originally wanted to do the piece, but 
only came up with an outline. Working 
from that outline, Ramirez churned out 
the 20-chapter work that -yes -was 
written specifically to be a serial. In 
Ramirez's own words, "There's a 
cliffhanger at the end of each episode." 
Aside from the Times piece, Ramirez 

has some more serious credits to his name, 
including The Third Letter, a suspense/ 
mystery published in 1991, as well as 
numerous religious books, such as Wit­
ness to the Light published earlier this 
year. He is currently working on other 
religious non-fiction; however, he ad­
mits, "fiction is my first love, but non­
fiction is what's getting published." 
Nonetheless, Ramirez can be assured 

that, at least for the next few weeks, he'll 
be getting plenty of exposure. D 
The South Bend Times Pennysaver is available at no charge, and can be picked­up on campus in the LaFortune Student Center. 

Shades 


Tenure is a black and white decision about a professor's future, but the process involved is 
often not so clear 
BY BRIDGET BRADBURN Professor Linda Austern never . knew she had a problem with col legiality. fufact, she doesn 'teven know exactly what it means. But accord­ing to Austem, the Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) department and the univer.:. sity felt it was enough of a problem to deny her tenure. Austern is currently filing a lawsuit against Notre Dame, claiming that the process used in considering her for tenure was fraught with religious and gender bias and procedural error. And while she is bringing her fight for lifetime job secu­rity to court, she also hopes to bring what she sees as inherent flaws in the tenure process to the forefront of discussion 
among faculty and administration. 
Austem is not alone in her feelings of frustration with the tenure pro­cess. Across campus, debates are de­veloping over the use of collegiality as an extra and unofficial criterion in the selection process and over the secrecy that shrouds the evaluation. Many profes­sors believe the discrepancies and confi­dentiality currently built into the process leave too much room for discrimination against women and other minorities; 
Austem has been awarded money from the National Women's Studies Associa­tion for the lawsuit because, she says, "they decided mine was a terribly egre­gious case." NWSA has also sponsored other tenure lawsuits involving female professors fromNotreDame, andAustem says, "I thought Notre Dame would have learned by now ... Whenever anyone wins a financial settlement or their job back, it's admitting that Notre Dame violated something in the law_ and the negative decision is proven to be wrong. Not one person has ever won a job back through an appeal process. It seems that some­thing is built into the process that makes it impossible." 

The Collegiality Loophole 
When Austem's formal review process began in July 1994, she was told in writ­ing that she would only be judged on the three official criteria outlined in the Fac­ulty Handbook -research, teaching and service. "Collegiality was used in my case secretly," Austem claims. "I was never told what it meant; I was never told I had a problem with it." 
When Austem was told that she was denied tenure in April, 1995, she initiated the university appeal process. The appeal 
committee concluded that 
~ 

there had been gender bias, religious bias­Austem is Jewish -andproce­dural er­for 
the use of colle­' \'-,,_., giality. . , But when \ that time, Timothy O'Meara] denied that there was sex bias or religious bias ... and he denied my appeal primarily on the basis that any department that wanted to also use collegiality could do so," Austem says. "But collegiality was never defined ... There was no formal reason given to me [why she was denied tenure]." 
Rather, a letter from O 'Meara to Austem and her appeal committee stated, "The fact that collegiality is not specified, nei­ther in the Academic Articles nor in my letterto the faculty about promotions, does not mean that it cannot be consid­ered. And, given the lifetime commit­ment entailed, it is appropriate to ci<? so, when deemed desirable." 
But such vague language and flexible standards have proven problematic to Austem and other professors who are searching for conc;rete reasons behind their tenure decisions. 
The only clue that Austem has been given was in a conference with then­chairperson of the PLS department Stephen Fallon in which he told her that her habit of "speaking up at meetings in ways that were decisive in votes" had entered into the discussion during her review. The news came as a surprise to Austem, who says that Fallon had been 
supportive during the tenure process. 
Fallon would not comment on the case 
since it is under litigation. 
Austemhopesthatshewilldis­

the appeals .\ \._" , cover exactly how collegiality committee t,_...~;;;,.,~ \\. was defined in her case and recommended what her alleged .shortcom­a new review, ings are in the area when the provost's of­the court proceedings fice denied the rec-make all documents ommendation. public information. "The provost [at While the Fae­



Engl!sh professor Dolores Frese fa­vors the use of confidentiality in tenure decisions, but admits that it 
allows for abuse. "Ican see where it could cloak a gender bias, and in my case it did/' she !,ays. "Where such a bias might re~ its ugly .head, it needs to be exposed and decapitated." 
And English,professor Valerie Sayers has also seen instances where the issue of collegiality has the ability to strike fear in the hearts offemale professors. "There is the perception that the question of the way women dress comes into play [ when collegiality" is used]" she says. "It is a terrible state ofaffairs, but is it just para­
" noia or is ita legitimate complaint?" 
Many professors believe that the tenure process at Notre Dame leaves too much room for sexual discrimination. And oth­ers think that the problem starts well be­fore the arena of tenure. 
Provost emeritus Timothy O'Meara's 
. 1995 Report to the Faculty stated that "Affirmative Action at Notre · Dame is emphasized at the point of first hire. It does not play a role in decisions on tenure and promotions." Furthermore,.the Col­loquy for the Year 2000 also states that "in the tenure and promotion process, the University must consider every teacher­scholar as a full and equal participant." But many professors are convinced that this is not happening. ·· · 
While Frese has never witnessed any blatant intolerance or hostility towards 

.. women, she does think there are "little neighborhoods within the university ... that have problems knowing how to at­tract the right women and make them feel welcome and give them the right func­-tions," she says. "There are still problems ofbias from people who are unconscious ofthe bias-whichis the worst kind. But it is 180 degrees from when I came here and ran into problems." Frese was denied tenure in the late 70s, 
"There are still problems ofbias from people who are unconscious ofthe bias-which is the worst kind." 
-Dolores Frese 
and she filed a sexual discrimination law­suit against the university. Her case had a lasting effect on the appeals process. ''I did insist [as part ofthe lawsuit] that there would be a mechanism for women who feel they had been unjustly denied tenure on the basis of gender bias," she says. "I wanted it to go beyond my issue so that every woman thereafter would not have to start at ground zero." 
The appeals process created by Frese is not widely known among the faculty, though, as it is not publicized in any faculty literature. "I know that there have been Women who have learned of the process for . the first time and only by word-of-mouth [after being denied ten­ure]," she says. But Associate Provost Kathleen Cannon has made it a habit to inform women of this appeals process when they are denied tenure, Frese says. 
Frese's appeals process is one in which at least three_ of the panelists reviewing the case have to be tenured female profes­sors. This aspect was an important one to Frese, who says that not a single tenured woman was involved in her own tenure or appeals process. 
Biddick has also noticed a "vicious cycle of diminishing nul11bers C>f women in the decision-making process. Unless 
·· you're tenured, you can't be elected to [departmental] committees on appoint­ments and promotions. If women aren't tenured, they aren't sitting on these com­mittees," she says. "And the Provost's Advisory Committee is made up ofthree elected faculty members and you can only stand for that if you're a full professor. What I think needs to be investigated are statistics of renewal. In order to make up for an egregious gender gap, we will have to hire [women] at a higher level." 
-b Brid etBradburn 
ulty Handbook does not specifically men­tion collegiality, it does state that to be promoted to Associate Professor-which usually happens at the· same time that tenure is granted -a candidate "should have demonstrated outstanding teaching ability, growth in knowledge and matu­rity, salutary influence upon students, and standing among colleagues. Notable achieve111ent in scholarship, as shown by significant publication or its equivalent, or, where appropriate, by meaningful con­tributions to public service, will ordi­narily be required for this rank." 
So while collegiality has not been offi­cially defined as a separate category in the tenure process, Associate Provost Carol Ann Mooney does admit that issues of collegiality 3-\"e inherent in the other official criteria of teaching, research and service. "On the positive end, [collegial­ity] encompasses things like how sup­portive you are ofotherprofessors in their research and teaching," she says. "Are you a good colleague? Are you pulling your weight? Are you working to make things work?" 

But according to philosophy professor Edward Manier, even when these loose definitions are used, collegiality is a troublesome area bebause [it] is difficult to specify and judge from the outside." 
"It's so nebulous," Austem says. "Is being uncollegial worshiping in a differ­ent church than the rest of the depart­ment? Is it uncollegial to miss department parties? Is it uncollegial to be gay in a department in which everyone else is a married person? Is it uncollegial to be an African-American when everyone else is white?" 
One common conception among pro­

. fessors, as in Austem's case, is that ex­pressing an unpopular or differing opin­ion will cause one to be viewed as uncollegial. But Mooney denies this idea and says that being uncollegial goes be­yond simply disagreeing with others. In-
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
17 
stead, uncollegiality more often includes undermining the work of another in the department, or being "extremely disrup­tive to your colleagues in the depart­
"Is being uncollegial 
worshiping in a 
different church than the rest ofthe 
department?" 
ment," she says. 
Part of the problem with the use of collegiality is that it is up to each depart­ment to employ it as a criterion. The government department is one that does not allow the use of collegiality to enter the review process. "We spent a year 

I deciding what the criteria for tenure would 
I 
I be," explains Professor Sharon O'Brien, who served as the department head until the end oflast year. "It's something that -every department needs to do, Whatever standards are used need to be communi­cated." 
Behind Closed Doors 
Many professors find that discrepan­cies between departments extend to the issue ofconfidentiality in tenure proceed­ings, as well. "There are quite a number of variations forwhat depart­

didate being able to respond to comments made during an evaluation. "If people were able to respond to complaints, it would be a, benefit to the university. We would learn something from the ex­change," she says. "People would have to tell the truth and own up to the truth. What does that say about us as scholars if we can't be honest about each other's schol­arship? We can't claim intellectual free­dom without taking that responsibility." 
Biddick, like Sayers, favors an open system. "The problem is that the whole process is excessively secretive," she says. "[The university's rationale] is that it assures excellence, but that is simply a justification." 
She points to the process used in the Un,iversity of 
campus,'~ she says. "It surrounds alcohol­_ism and eating disorders, and tenure is caught up in it too." 
Sayers has also seen how the high level ofsecrecy involved in tenure cases can be damaging to one's morale. "The candi­date has no chance to respond, and this becomes the kind of issue that causes the most paranoia and gossip that reaches a fever pitch in the tenure process," Sayers says. She also sees the ambiguity sur­rounding the issue of collegiality as an­other contributor to these sentiments. "It _ is the area most appropriate for people to respond, but it is the area where people feel the most fear and dread, and the one that engenders the most difficulty," she says. "Because the whole process is so 
closed, there is no way to re­
l 

California, "/s it uncollegia to assure people." where state • A t t With a new provost in the law mandates mlSS uepar, men MainBuildingthisyear,many 
that candi­partieS?'' professors hope that action dates' files be --------------will soon be taken to improve open so that they can justify or refute _ some of the problem areas in the tenure 
ments permit," says "ls it uncollegial to· be level is gener-Austern. "There is little or ally abided by no unity." gay in a department throughout the History professor higher levels of KathleenBiddickhas also in which the process, witnessed this trend. "The l • confidentiality department chair is not everyone e Se ZS a shouldbemain~ supposed to tell you the marriedperson?" tained. Making results of the departmen-------~"'---------the process an 
comments that have been made or submit better imformation. "The UC faculty is ranked in the top 10 in the nation -they far outrank Notre Dame,'' Biddick points out. "Having an open process has in no way damaged their faculty, so it's a very weak justification." 
Mooney believes that because the rec­ommendation made about tenure at the departmental 
tal review, but a lot of people don't abide by that,'-' she says. 
Austern favors openness from the be­ginning of a professor's career at Notre Dame. "It is my impression that the ten­ure process is six years long, and that at the three-year review ... if there are any problems, they should be brought up," she says. "At the end of my review no faults were told to me. There were no problems formally mentioned. I have a feeling [collegiality] entered the process at the end." -Sayers also supports the idea of a can­
18 

open one, she believes, would make a candidate's colleagues less willing to be honest in a negative recommendation if they know that their comments will be disclosed to the candidate. "It would push the tough decisions to a level further ­removed from the candidate," where ad­ministrative committee 'members would not be as familiar with the candidate or his work,'' Mooney says. 
Biddick believes that secrecy is a prob­
-process. "It is not reasonable to expect that a new provost will come in and say to open up the entire process, but we can make incremental improvements," Say­ers believes. 
"I think the entire process needs to be reconsidered," Biddick adds. "The entire process is outdated. It is a very rigid system that is not responding to the prod­ucts [ofamodernuniversity], to work that isavante-garde. They'remissingawhole new world." 
But according to Mooney, on-going discussion ofproposals made by the Fac­ulty Senate will probably not result in anything more drastic than some minor changes in the tenure process. 
"Ithinkthereisalotofpressuretohave a certain kind of intellectualtype at Notre Dame," Biddick says. "I do not think that 
"Is it uncollegial to be an African-American when everyone else is white?" 
Notre Dame tolerates diversity very well. They don't have a history of it and they 

lem that is larger than the issue of tenure, are reluctant to start a history of it. The though. "We need to focus in on what the , tenure process is about tolerating diver­broad implications of secrecy are on this sity and I just don't think we have it." . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 


Notre Dame's Communication and Theatre department 
.hopes controversy stays backstage the 
potLirjht 
BY AARON J. NOLAN 

s summer turns to fall and crowds ofdedica,ted 
students wait outside the Joyce Center inantici­
pation offootball season, a similar interest can be found in those awaiting this year's campus plays. This year, the Communication and Theatre department celebrates 135 years of ·theatre at Notre Dame with what promises to be an exception,.al Mainstage Season. Not only have ticket sales in­creased (with 15 percent of the freshman class as season ticket holders), but a record number ofpeople have auditioned for the first two plays-211 people for 21 roles. 
However, after a reasonably successful season last year, the department was not without its share of controversy. For start­ers, the department's productionSixDegrees ofSeparation, was warmly received on campus but criticized by the conservative campus publication Right Reason. The Right Reason piece condemned the play -which deals with human relati9ns and carries racial and homosexual subthemes -for being a wanton display of theater, including a male-male kiss and a half-naked man running around the stage. 

In response to the article, Bruce Auerbach, head of the Communications and Theatre department, says, "Plays describe humans and society. It doesn't mean that we want to be like all of the plays that we. show. We're just showing a picture of society." Auerbach also mentions that he didn't recall anyone having a problem with the Mainstage performance of The Bacchae two seasons ago, which portrayed women getting drunk, fornicating in bushes and viciously ripping men to shreds. "When we do plays like this, we don't want to be these women," Auerbach says. "I think [Right Reason] failed to see that art is a mirror of society." 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
19 



,, ' ~ 
' ".:"
• 
. . . , 

--_, J ' ~ 
However, more controversy is not what the department needed during what was an otherwise successful season. For now, Fr. Garrick is ·on a temporary hiatus from his associate professorship and directorial responsibilities while residing in Corby Hall and working on a book. 
Unfortunately, this is what the department must endure for being a somewhat liberal enclave on what is a predomi­nately conservative campus. "The arts, in general, tend to be the more liberal centers of university life," Auerbach says. "At Notre Dame, if you've got a more liberal group, then it's the students that tend to act most strongly ... in bringing out issues that some people really frown upon. What you really want is a nurturing artistic environment where people are going to go to the theatre and, not necessarily learn something, but think about the issues presented more closely." 
As far as the administration goes, however, Auerbach claims it takes a stance ofgeneral non-intervention. "In the six years I've been here I have never known the university to try to tell us what to do in terms of subject matter," he 
c[)Jlays 8esciibe humans ana society. OOe' ie fust shomin9 a pictuie 06 
• JJ

society. -@/Jiuce @/tueibach 
.. 

works have been adapted into similarly well-received films such as Brighton Beach Memoirs, Lost in Yonkers, and Biloxi Blues. Simon is gifted at bringing in characters and events from his own adolescence and making them come alive on stage. Barefoot in the Park is the play that brought him into the limelight and was the catalyst for an exremely successful career. The story centers on a married couple, Paul and Corie, who are just settling into their New York City apartment. A character clash between the very proper and practicai Paul and the more free-spirited Corie is the source of the majority of the conflict and comic relief in this play. Barefoot in the Park is currently in rehearsal under the watchful eye of director Mark Pilkinton (who also directed last year's Medieval Mystery Plays). As Director of Washington Hall Tom Barkes notes, "Barefoot in the Park is pretty far from Mark's play last year. It's contemporary; it's light, it's a comedy, it's Neil Simon." Barefoot in the Park is scheduled to run October 9-13. 
· In late November, the season continues with Charles Dickens' classic tale of yuletide cheer A Christmas Carol. We are all familiar with the story of the miserly Ebeneezer Scrooge and his realization that Christmas is more than an excuse for Bob Cratchet to ask for time off from work. Interestingly, this version was specifically adapted for the Notre Dame stage by 
In similar vein, the COTH department was also brought into the public eye with the coming out of one of its most authorita­tive professors, Fr. David Garrick, CSC. Well-known for direct­ing some of the finest campus productions, such as last season's The Imaginary Invalid and the previous year's Waiting for Godot, Garrick decided to bring his own homosexuality to the attention of the student body after much concern over the GLND/SMC debate. 
"To my knowledge, the university produced no information, no edict, no instructions ofany kind from the College of Arts and Letters or from the provost," says Auerbach. "Those whom I have talked to about it certainly respect Fr. Garrick for doing what he did in terms ofgoing public with what should otherwise be his right to privacy." 
6imon, ~icken.s an8 6teinbeck 
Three famous writers (and an 18-foot wall) highlight this year's Mainstage Season 


fter a season of ups and downs in the 
ampus spotlight, the Mainstage Season is 
back and, as noted earlier, better than ever. This year the COTH department, as always, provides a wide array of theatrical performances to satisfy even the most 
selective of palates. 

The season gets off to a quick start with a true classic in urban American theatre,Barefoot in the Park. The playwright, Tony­. winner Neil Simon, is well-known for his flavorful characters and witty depiction of life in New York City. Many of his 
20 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
.--~,-~---.-~--..--... 
,, . . .. . . -. ' ' . . 
I , • ' • • • 


sue that concerns Auerbach. Describing this season's prnsenta, tion of The Challenge, Auerbach calls it "an 1.musual, avant­garde theatrical presentation, the result ofwhich will be the kind of play the students will really like," Yet he notes that people 
"OOe've n(J})et: haa anythin9 
but complete suppoit jiom the 

will probably stay away from it "because of the title and it's not Shakespeare,''
a'i).ministiation on thintJS 

"It's quite possible.," continu\ls Auerbach, l'that people will miss the opportunity to see [The Challenge] because with a ' C) " more conservative clientele like we have here at Notre Dame, 
me ve fY-One. 

it's hard to convince people that it would be something worth watching." I tis that kind ofattitude that could be the department's 
~ ~aik ci})itkinton 

greatest tragedy of all. 0 
says. "They didn't keep the department from presenting The Last Temptation of Christ as a part of the film series about seven years ago. Certain people in the department received death threats and harassing phone calls at all hours of the night from people who haven't even necessarily seen the film but thought we were horrible for showing it, but the university never tried to stop us." 
Department Chair Mark Pilkinton similarly replies, "This is my 13th year here and we've never had anything but complete support from the administra­tion on things we've done. I would never expect anyone from hired administra­tion to try to do that, nor would they. You just can't have that at a university where you have academic freedom." 
Such freedom, however, does not guar­antee student open-mindedness, an is­

·<f!fJ;ilni c01nefJ-y to fJ-rama1etas.sic to · due to the overwhelming demand for tickets. The theatre department anticipates a similar enthusiasm for. this year's contempoi-a'qj,·thi.s .season i.s boun'i) to visiting troupe. TheChaltengeis scheduled to run February 27 
and 28 and March 1. · · 
.sati.srjyeventhe choosiest oj critics. Rounding off the season is the Tony-winning theatrical adaptation ofJohn Steinbeck's classic slice ofAmecicaria,The Grapes ofWrath. '!'he play follows a fomilyof Okies on a playwrightKen Jones.This will be the first time ever that this struggle-filled journey froni their Dust Bowl home in Okla~ adaptatiop. will have been performed. It is currently in produc-· homa to· a· new life ih California. Through their travels, the · tion under guest directotKassie Misiewicz. A Christmas Cqrol. · family learns valuable lessons about life, themselves, and the is scheduled to rnn November 20-24. struggle to survive. This timeless story ofAmerican life wiUbe Following up this timeless classic is a relatively new work, directedbyRegin-aldBain,directoroflastseason'sSixDegrees The Chcdlenge, presented byyisiting Montreal group Dynamo ofSeparation. The Grapes ofWrath is scheduled to run April· 

1 

· Theatre'. Theplaycenters around an 18:footwall in the middle 16-20.. · · of the stage which serYes as an obstacle for the •.characters· .· . From comedy to drama, classic to contemporary, this season involved,This allegorical presentation of t!Jehumancondition . is.hound to satisfy even· the choosiest of critics. Subscriber is a new and inn()yativ~ way ofdepicting t~e struggles 1n life . discounts are offered· for the four-play package, and single thatpebple face . ."The Challenge is an unusual, avant.garde ticket student discounts are available for all plays except The 
. theatrical presentation,'' Auerbach notes. "There's a lot of Challenge. For this play, discounts are available through sub­movement and music and ·action. involved." The department scripticih only. For subscription information, call 631-5956, 0 has had much success in d1_e past with visiting theatre groups. Lastye_aE's I_J~ese_n~ation ?_f Sh~esp~are's _Mac~~h b>7_ the. -'--by Aaron J. Nd/an
.. -··-., ____ ... 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 21 
. . ' . 


' • :,,r ' ' J • ' ' 
. --------------~"-, . ' . . .. ' 



church in Paris." By securing the rights to our namesake, Notre Dame officials can ' '. LEGAL ISSUES . cash in 6y selling tickets to Cathedral · masses, expanding the inside an extra 
2,000 pews (a two-year project funded by, what else, our tuition) and virtually roll in the extra dough received from
\'ou Gotta Fight 
related suits against Victor Hugo and 
Walt Disney. Ofcourse; to avoid confu-, sion, the new Cathedral will be renamed ·, The Ted Hesburgh Center for Worship 
(Paris) and be dedicated when Notre Dame plays a scrimmage against the Sorbonne on Bastille Day, 2000. (Can 
For \'our Rights 
A series ofstrategic lawsuits could remind the. Anthony Travel now for package de-: world that We Are ND -anddon't you forget it.. tails.) 
.,

After this summer's infamous mascot · ter cheer should be dedicated to our big • The University of Notre Dame vs. ' scanda! tha~ stripped Ohio's ~entral _ man on the sidelines, but who's stopp!ng The People of Ireland r Cathohc High Schoolof their -or Illini head coach Lou.Tepper from taking · More of a plea for· world unity than an : [ rather, our-preciousleprechaun, OOB . all of Holtz's glory (aside from Illiriciis? outright lawsuit, the University could : suggests the administration look into a inept offense, that is). By securing rights attempt to persuade Irish officials to sur­!few other questionable goings-on oficons to the name Lou, the University can avoid render the term "Irish" as an official lthatshould be officially licensed trade-confused fans and unirlteritional shifts in nickname, and thus, in these politically · ; marks of the University ofNotre Dame. momentum for the fourth quarter. · correct times, refer to all Ireland natives • 
: . . 

as. "Native Ireland People" (NIPs, for , The University of Notre Dame vs. The University of Notre Dame vs., .: short). Othernames the University might · The University of Illinois Athletic The Municipality of Paris, France suggest: "Irelanders," "The People for­
Department When pe.ople thirik of Notre Dame, they mall.y known as · Trish" or "Guinness : [It's·a given that a certain post.:third quar-"thirik of the Gold~n Dome, not the big Swilling Drunkards."·· 

t. B A N D O M . N U MB· E B C B U N: C. H I N C 
_. . CushingmovieisMission: Impossible. : · Ironic, that is, considering the real '­impossible mission will be sneaking that ; 
iDinHeir Dates 

i A sampling of the foqtb~ll team's responses when asked, .IIf. 
concealed flask into the Purdue game. ; 
; · you could in.viie"any _three people inhistory to dinner..."· Wemayneeditbecause, af(~r Vanderbilt, : OOB hopes that this season does not i
iJesus -10 .· . ·. ' \ Martin Luther King_.: 8 : [John F. Kennedy, MalcohnX -5 . [ Elvis -4 . iLotiisFarrakhan, Do~Holliday,Abraharn 
! . ', ' ' •' 
iLincoln,VinceLombardi:.-2 . . 
lKing Arthur, James Derui,, Redd.Foxx,
lBenjam_inFranklin,Adolph Hitler, Jesse .. 
! Jackson,DeionSanders,MotherTheresa,
Iuse Cheerleaders -i. ._ . . ... . 
L ,~--.. ___ ·_ .. •..· 
22 

·SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 



l•IIIBt!tl--------------------­
l,l~tlt\l 
1+£~~ 


HELL FOR 8[61 MNERS 
f\ ~R\f_t-INTROOUc.T\01\) TO 11\1~ CAg-foo.0 Fo~ ll)E.Of>!{'1T£c;' AiJO A RE.!.\E.'Dl/1.1., C()ogsE: FOR ll{oSE 11){0 HAUEi;'i't gm:i PAlfrllG AIT8YilON 

~~--------,:--------t..::::.:.....:::_____-+.-:::.,--:----::----1:; 
B1,,ll='1:S 1l,t.E(,1T,...,A,E. sop.)... !. 
~ 
0;'M BONG~ 
P\..EA.S t. STP>-12,t,)G f-.\'1 e.A.I<.., 
l'l-€.A$c. 



SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 






Mascot 
'i 
j;" 
I,I 

Alphabet Rice from Classroom 
:l 
Midwestern 

:li 
:1 
Mall! 
BY CHRISTIAN DALLAVIS 
. What a Steal! 
The stolen portrait of former Univer­sity of Chicago president Hanna H. Gray was recently recovered. For two months, the perpetrators took the painting around town and photographed it, sending the Polaroids to the school paper. Along with the photos, the paperreceived notes criti­cizing the bold, bright style of the paint­ing. Evidently, the thieves felt the style was not appropriate for a university presi­dential portrait, and stole it to make a point. Now if only we could figure out how to make off with the new stadium ... 
. Mascot Madness 
"Butch the Cougar" recently made head­lines in Seattle, where· the Washington State University mascot appeared ina gay rights rally. The university allowed the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Allies Program to use the Butch costume for the parade, since any "university-recognized. -student group'' can borrow the mascot for any non-political event. Unwilling to fall 

behind the times, Patty O'Hara recently announced that the Leprecham::i will be coloring the sidewalks for the new uni­versity-recognized gay and lesbian stu­dent 0JJganization. Yeah, right. 
. Feeding Frenzy· 
Kim II-Sung.University in North Korea canceled classes and sent students home for the fall term because· they ran out of fo.od; Record flooding has plagued the area, and the university could not afford to feed its students. One student reported, "Students living in the provinces were told to bring rice when they come back." Meanwhile on the North Quad, hundreds of freshmen could noteven find food in North Dining Hall, so they just went home. Food Services reports the food had been there, but the board ofhealth took it away before it could be served. 
. I'd Like to·Buy a Vowel 
Arts and Letters students can take some hope from the recent endeavors of some University ofKentucky students who ac-: tually made about $750 justby writing a sentence. These ingenious undergrads i:aised money by selling words to a 168­word sentence they created. That's right, 
they sold words: customers submitted fa­
vorite nouns and verbs for $10, and ad­verbs and adjectives for $5 apiece. I assume the articles, both definite and in­definite, and punctuation were free. It . should be noted that the sentence does 
include the phrases, "sloppy love at the 
Magic Kingdom," and"Tigger-masquer­
ader." 
. Mall Rats 
On·the other hand, business majors are 
probably wishing they had attended the 
University of St. Thomas in Minnesota, where up to 18 courses are being held in classrooms in the Mall of America. The 
University has a deal with the Mall which 
provides free classroom space, primarily 
for business courses. The new COBA 
building looks nice, but there.sure ain't no 
Planet Hollywood on the fourth floor. . 


I • -'• •. • '1. •. • ·, • • I • • • 
IJII -•IE••-~11: ¦f---------------------­

•

THURSDAY -September 12 • ,------,-----------~ 
Soccer,SaintMarisCollegevs.Franklin. SoccerField,Saint: 
Mary's 'College. 4 p.m. 0 Film, "Mission: Impossible." Cushing. 10:30 p.m. : 
FRIDAY -September 13 •
•
Pep Rally, Arena, JACC. 7 p.m. • Soccer, ND men vs. West Virginia. Alumni Field. 7:30 p.m. • Film, "Babe." Snite. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
Film, "Mission: impossible." Cushing. ·Band 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY -September 14 
Footba11, ND vs. Purdue. Notre Dame Stadium. 1 :30 p.m. Soccer,SaintMary'svs.Chicago. SoccerField,SaintMary's. 
11:30 a.m. 
Film, "Babe." Snite. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Film, "Mission: Impossible." Cushing. 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
SUNDAY -September 15 
Soccer, ND women vs. Indiana. Alumni Field. 1 p.m. 
MONDAY -September 16 • 
Film, "Bringing Up Baby." Snite. Film, "Christopher Strong." Snite. 
TUESDAY -September 17 .. 
••• II 
Film, "Sherlock Jr. and ·the Gold Hush." Snite. 
Compiled by Kevin Finnerty• 

On Campus: By now you too 
probably can't wait until Saturday, the long awaited first band concert of the year. It starts at 12:30 p.m. 
en on the steps of the Dome. Humor · -~ has it there's an athletic competi-. _g tion of some sort scheduled to foJ­(.) en lowi but the location has yet to be. 
n . 
d

O announce . 
;fl ­
Movies: Considering that the original was perhaps the worstfiJm 
.ever :made., I am eager to see .Kurt : Russell make a fool of himself: again in Escape From L.A. 
-JJI 

University Park West: "B' 277-7336. 
• 
"Jack," PG-13, 1 :30, 4:00, 6:30, 9:00. 

• 
"Hunchback of Notre Dame," G, 1 :45. • "Trigger Effect," R, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30. 

• 
''The Fan," R, 2:00, 4:20, 6:45, 9:15. 



University Park East: 'B' 277-7336. 
• 
"A Very Brady Sequel," PG-13, 2:10, 4:30, 7:20, 9:25. 

• 
"Rich Man's Wife," R, 2:00, 4:15, 7:10, 9:30. 

• 
"A Time to Kill," R, 2:00, 5:00, 8:00. 

• 
''The Island of Dr. Moreau," PG-13, 2:20, 4:40, 7:40, 


9:50. • ''.Bulletproof," H, .2:30, 4:50, 7:30, '9.:40. 
• 
''The Crow/' R, '2:40, 5:00, 7:00, 9:10. 

• 
'!First Wive's Club," PG Saturday Sneak Preview, 7:20~ {Replaces 7:20 "A Very Brady Sequel") 


New Student Rate: $4, Monday­Thursday with a student JD! 

THE 
55 
I C 
LR VE EE 
RN 
Movies 10: 'B' 254-9685. 
• 
'1Maximum Risk," R, 12:45, 3.:30, 5:45, 8:00, 10:30. 

• 
"Matilda," PG, 12:35, 2:40., 5:00, 7:15, 9:30.. • "Emma," PG, 1:20, 3:55, 7:20, 10:10. 

• 
"Independence Day," PG-13., 1 ;OO, 4:00, 7:00,. 10:00. 

• 
"Tin Cup,"·R, 1 :15, 4:15, 7:05, 10:05. 

• 
"First Kid," PG, 12:30, 2:50, 5:15, 7:30, 10:15. 

• 
"Spitfire Grill,"* PG-13, 1 :30, 4:10, 7:10, .9:45. • "Bogus," PG, 1:10, 3.:45, 7:25, 9:55. 

• 
"Escape From L.A.," H, 1.2:20, 2:45, 5:10, 7:35, 


10:25. • "Alaska,"PG, 12:25, 2:55, 5.:25. • "The Nutty Professor," PG-13, 7:55, 10:20. *•No Passes 




In a world full of bacteria, nice janitors conie in last 


BY KRIS KAZLAUSKASIt is dusk, and I am sitting in the Arby's by the entrance to the toll road. Unfurled from its protective wrapper, my Arby-Q glistens in the rays of a setting sun, and I am left with a feeling of helplessness in the face of this beefy temptress. With potato cakes and a chocolate shake, you would think that such heav­enly victuals might soothe me -yet I am filled with discontent. I try to drown my sorrows with Horsey Sauce, but I already feel my lip start to quiver. As I look out the window, trying to gain my compo­sure, I spy a man with an impeccably groomed Chihuahua -and I burst into tears. Most summer jobs fade away. Mine is calling my name and it is taking all of my willpower to resist her. I worked for Sunnclare Veterinary Clinic this past summer with the dream of becoming a veterinarian, and I ended up cleaning cat crap all summer. Now, I admit that it was a humbling experience, but when you see the pleasantly surprised look on a Calico's face after you have cleaned her cage, you can't help but feel . good about a job well done. Indeed, I would also not be mistaken in saying that, to most people, becoming friends with the Johnny Cat® cat litter representative does not sound overly ex­citing. But when you 're still five proofs of purchase away from the Johnny Cat® reversible satin jacket, networking can get you what you want. 

Like most people in the sanitizing busi­ness, I began the job as naively as any janitorial virgin. Yet, by the middle of July I was shameless enough to think about prostituting my cleaning services out to other vet clinics. I never mentioned this to the vet herself, and I never fol­lowed through. I think it was partly due to the fact that my upbringing has always taught me to be custodially monogamous, and even if I had wanted to work else­where, this job gave me all I could handle. 
Now, mopping was part and parcel of the job, and I am not being cocky when I tell you that I became damn good at it. Using Roccal, a commercial disinfectant that can eat through sheet metal intwelve seconds, I waged a personal war on germs. Wielding a top of the line mop, I made Mr. Clean look like a pansy as I sanitized everything in my path. No stray virus was safe. Itwas truly an awesome feeling, and one that could have easily gone to my head had it not been for a divine sign. 
One toasty July evening while I was mopping, I noticed an unidentifiable chunk on the floor. Upon closer inspec­tion, I recognized the small, kidney bean­shaped organ, and suddenly I felt a wave of nausea sweep through me. It was a testicle! Sweet Jesus! How it got there was a mystery to me, although I didn't rule out the possibility that there was a dog out there who was tough enough to run out of the room halfway through sur­gery. I only hoped that his owner had an ice pack and plenty of gauze. Needless to say, I kept a wary eye open lest the vet should try anything tricky. Luckily, the 
stray teste never came up in conversation, 
and I found no other body parts except for 
the end of a puppy's tail, which pales in 
comparison. 
Sometimes, when you get really good 
at something, people think you should be 
good at everything. It was hard to play 
down the fact that what Michael Jordan is 
to basketball, I was to mopping. Yet, the 
vet recognized that I had a gift, so she 
bestowed another duty upon me -taking 
the temperatures of her patients. Be it 
cats, dogs or poisonous snakes, Lwas in 
charge of making them feel uncomfort­
able. 
Unfortunately for the vet, I was not as 
successful at this operation and was re­
lieved of my duties after about five ani­
mals. In hindsight (pun intended), I can . laugh at the fact that I almost lost a ther­mometer in a German Shepherd when he decided to sit down, but that was truly one of the rockier moments during my stint at Sunnclare. 
Yet, it would be wrong for me to end on 
a bum note when I had so many enriching 
experiences there, including developing 
an X-ray of a cat's abdomen and sam­
pling various types of dog and cat food, 
from the flavorful "canine growth for­
mula" to the more sophisticated taste of 
"feline maintenance formula." 
Yes, life at Sunnclare was as pleasant . as a fresh litter box, and as far as I'm 
concerned, the entire experience was re­
markable -no ifs, ands or butts. D 
This is a humor column. These views are not necessarily the views ofthe edito­rial staffofScholastic Magazine. 
26 

• • -4 ,._ '-' • • • • • • ' • 1. : ' • ' . •
~ ~ 


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
· "Hey, I'm funnier than that guy who worked at the vet!'' So, you think you're funny? 
PROUE IJ. WriteaWeekin 
Distortion column. 
· "Hey, I have a really insightful . point to make.'' 
PROUE IT. WriteaFinal 
Word. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SEPTEMBER 12, 1996 
27 

--. ;., 
• I • • • ~'-' 
-~ ----·--___,._--\ 

No.. ·. w·.-.···-1·. L·a:.. ·y··---··--·· ·M····· .··.e····.. ·
.. 
' -. . . . -~· 
by Kim Smith 
.. 1.·

Down to :S e·e·-.p··_···
. .. . 

'Kim Smith is a saphom·ori ft'Om Edmond, Ok. Sh·e 
Uv-es ,zn Lyons 
Hail. 

.··· very night before i drift off to
E

sleep, I spend a Huie time reflect­
. i:rtg ort the important things in life. I guess 
you could caii it downtime or, mote simply, time 
to he alone wlth my thoughts. Actually, it1s mote 
like a modified versl.on 'd:f prayer in whlch I crui 
express myself whhout the fornality tif memo~ 
rizetl prayers. 

Duth:ig middle s'chool, i d·eveloped a 
short) easy~tcHem:embet _prayer at ·a 
dme in my Hf·e when my world 1,iras · 
smalh~r :and everything was less compli­
•c:atetl th:an it is today. "bell.r 'God1 th·ank you rot everything that is gMd arrd espe~ daliy fur my faniil'.)\ my Mend, m1dmyca:tFluffy..~• Fli.imly) merrds :and Fluffy are what l 'Call the 
three F)·s that ·stlll help ·shape my prayer life. As 
most oflis would trgree, two ofthe ttrost important 
thlttgs inlife·are family andfdettds. thethirdthltrg 
is spedfic to each person) and the beauty 'Of my 
prayer ts that ·alm:o's't evet:yorte ·can th1nk of a few 
'other reason's why he m· she is thankful. 
Your third "F.,.' mtght be foothall1 Flann:er boys, 
Farley Hall-, flshhrg 'Or evefi rettucdn:e :alfredo. it 
touldbe:absolmeiy any'thifig thatm:akes you happy. 
ln hlgh ·stlrcYoi~ Imade too little 'time for prayer 
and nrany thnes twould ·simplyforget. When l'did 
· find tlrne for prayer,mythoughts wouldtltift from thanking tiodto Wo'ify1ng ab'out my lrom:ew<'.>rk to thh'tlditg ·abou't which boy l had a tllfte with thA't Fdday.. 
·When l cmne to Notre Oarne last fali, my shnple prayer sttuctured around· the three F's began to change. AsNotre bam.e students1 we are fortunate to have reminders ·of ptnyet all 11round mi: the Grotto, Virgin Mary t>fi the Uolden Oom:e1 Touch" down Jesus and the Basilica of the Sacred B:eatt. 
lnook a while, but I finally-realized that it was time to :s'ay thanks for people and experiences irt my life that could Mt be cl:assifred as one of the three F1s.. I started concentr:atihg on m:y thm1ghts and putting :aside tire minor details by fo-custng ·specifically ·on my pui;pose -~ thoughtful,, ttre:an~ mgful prayer. 
tt''s ,the b'ergbmhtg t)'f :anew school year and if's itim:e to·start things t>f:fitght. Toomrufy:tlm:edfind myself losing sight ·of what's truly 'important. When this happens) it ~.lways helps me to redis~ tovet my prayer lire and strengthen my relatioil• ships with family Md friends. lt doesn't take :any extraordinary effott·othugeanroum oftim:e to:give thanks through prayer 'Or ,const:imrs reflection, 
Although my prayer that includes 'Fiui:i'y might be :a little ·outdated., l ha'i'e yet to find sc>m:ething <else whi'ch \v<)tks :as wen plron:etit:ally with family :andfrlends. I have begun to thank 'God for :all the 'other thl:ngs in my Hre: it just takes rne awhile longerto ret'.l:ed: ·on what t:am thankful for hecause the list has :grown longer.. lf i ct>uld just keep myself from falling :asleep at night, ·1 would prob• :ably be :able t0 giw thanks ror hours 'Oh ·end.. :Cl 

Tell your parents to subcribe to Scholastic and cut your phone bill in half! 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
You'll find: 

• 
The latest campus news and sports 


• 
National and campus entertainment ONLY$30 coverage 

• 
Controversial campus issues . AYEAR 

• 
Weekend happenings 

• 
Humor, commentary, and the Gipper 



Name:
¦YES! 

Address: __________ _I .want a year-long subscription -to Scholastic Magazine so I can _keep tabs on my child. 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 








