

~ir l\icbarb's Hair Designs 
417 Dixieway North 
½ mile north of campus -Across from Wendy's 
Girls and Guys 
277-0734 
Walk-in or call for an appointment 
• 
Wire Service 

• 
Corsages 

• 
Gift Items 

• 
Arrangements 

• 
Plants 

• 
Silk Flowers 

• 
Free SMC delivery ­50c ND delivery 

• 
Centerpieces 

• 
Accessories


•~
[t4)
IFwRAFAXj 


11111 l.UJ. ll'MS 10 fUII.Ull flOlfU:S IJID Pt.V:!SOfllr.  


GUARANTEEDFRES!i I SERVICE WORLDWIDE 
ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 

• PAINTS 
• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING & ELECTRICAL 


FREE PARKING 
SUPPLIES 
FRONT &REAR • GARDEN SUPPLIES 
• HOUSEWARES219 DIXIE WAY 
• HARDWARE NO, IN ROSELAND • SPORTING 
GOODS 





SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 123, No. 7, March 1982 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 
3 Catholic Education as Renewal Sparking the New Pentecost ... Sister Ann Ida Gannon, B.V.M. 5 The Catholic Curriculum, What to Teach? Education in the Catholic culture ... James Hitchcock 8 The University as a Religious Establishment 
The Ultimate Authority in Catholic Education Edward J. Murphy, Prof. of Law 
9 The Evolution of a Catholic University 
Notre Dame's coming of age. . . Dr. Timothy O'Meara, Provost 

Four Viewpoints: How Catholic a University? 
18 Robert Vacca, Asst. Professor of Modern and Classical 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertisin.g Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. . 
copyright © 1982 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 
page 9 

Languages 19 Alven Neiman, Visiting Assistant Professor, 
Core Course 20 Stanley Hauerwas, Professor of Theology 22 Dennis Moran, Assistant Professor of Humanities 26 El Salvador Part II 
East-West paranoia ... 28 Photo Essay 


REGULARS 
Perspective/Are We Learning to be Christians Here? 
10  Questioning Notre Dame  
11  Disillusionment (and Hope)  
13  Saint Mary's: Image and Responsibility  
14  On Becoming a Wise Fool  
16  Gallery/The Art of Silkscreen  
24  Poetry  
25  Culture Update  
32  Last Word  

Christopher Barrett Julie Wroblewski Tom O'Toole 
Teri Schindler 
K. C. Goerner 
Chuck Wood 
Dan McGrath Jeff Rade 
r
Alice Douglas 
,.,.., 
Sean F. Faircloth Tara Jones ,... 


Letters to the Edi tor 
Dear Editor, 
I am writing this letter in protest of the Scholastic magazine's decision to publish the photographs found on pages 6 and 9 of the February issue. I feel that by such a decision, Chuck Wood has injured the credibility of his magazine, and Dan McGrath has only shown his lack of tact and per­haps insight. 
think that in your attempt to reach a balance between sensational­ism and "the desire to show the truth," you have failed miserably. Despite the fact that I personally find the publishing of such photo­graphs inappropriate for such a scholarly magazine as Scholastic, I can appreciate your desire to present the news as the truth. 
In your quest for the truth, you described in your article several acts of atrocity committed by military men in El Salvador. Fine. However, nowhere do you give any informa­tion about the photographs. Do they pertain to the events described in the article? Who are these people? Who killed them? How did Scholastic magazine obtain such photographs? On whose word, if any, did you take these photographs to be representa­tives of the truth you proclaim in your article? 
These are dead people, but you say that this will make us "understand the magnitude of the violence in El Salvador." Sorry, but I fail to see how these photos enhance my under­standing of the magnitude of the situation. They are horrible, I'm not denying that; but you're not showing the magnitude of the El Salvador sit­tuation. Do you think that only in El Salvador people die violent deaths? 
In printing such photos, without credibility and proof, you have made a circus of your magazine and the issue as you present it. This is why I disagree with your decision to pub­lish these photos. 
By your including these photos with this article, you have deviated from using truth to support your views, and have instead utilized at­tention getters and shockers. Unsub­stantiated, these photos are not a viable substitute for the truth in journalism. 
Philip Perkins 

Editor's Response: Though I was the editor whom the other three had to convince, as one of the four who decided to run the pictures, I stand by that decision. We knew they would probably "cause a stir," but we did not run them for the sake of that stir. 
Our mistake was one of layoot, not editorial irresponsibility. In pointing out our mistake, I must also correct Mr. Perkins. We do cite the source of the photos, in the "photo credits." There, where photos in Scholastic are always credited, anyone can find that our source .was the Human Rights Commission of El Salvador, of which Paulita Pike was a mem­ber. For such extraordinary pictures, we should, perhaps, not have relied on the ordinary means of identifica­tion. 
-Chuck Wood 

Author's Response: The photos in the February issue are, as credited, by the Human Rights Commission of El Salvador, which has documented the photos as being the result of paramilitary violence. The actual stories behind ·these are unknown and often cannot be known. All that we know is the terrible results of the brutality ( and this was the point of the article) which is strangely aimed at the poor and, more recently, aimed at women and children. 
Dear Editor, 
I wish to commend you on your. editorial decision to print the photo­graphs depicting atrocities in El Salvador. They are a stark document of the cruelty that man is capable of inflicting on h'is brother, a cruelty which we are not naive enough to believe is exclusive to any one politi­cal affiliation. For those of us who are so separate from such horror we could only have associated it with clean Hollywood violence. You have done your readership a great service, though many will not appreciate it. 
Michael Molinelli 

. . ! 
.. EDITORIAL BOARD 1981-1982 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
.Chuck Wood 

GENERAL MANAGER 
Clay Malaker 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Jane Zwerneman 

News/Sports Editor 
Ed Kelly 
Photo Editors · Pat Pitz Mike Delany 


St. Mary's Editor 
Elizabeth Bradley 
Copy Editors . Dan McGrath Mark Bustamant~ 

Advertising Manager 
Brian Graham 



Distribution Manager 
Randy Raciti 

Business Manager 
•• Pat James 
layout Editor · Mike Mulligan 



Art Editor 
Tamera Mams 

Staff 
·. Beth Healy, Alyson Hritz; Barbara Stevens/ :Bryan Cashman, Jim Wasilak, Joe Hildener, Karen .Trapp_e11, Beth ·oeSchryver, Ducan Meyers, Jim Rickert, ,Allen Brenzel, Scott· .Rappold, Bill Muller, Julie Wodarcyk, Mary Sloan, Greg Bachhuber, Tim Judge, ·Bill Mans, Bob Vanderheide, Mark Boennigh­hausen, Donna Teevan,. Charles van Rav­enswaay, Tom Wrobel, Dan Bell, Michael Meeks, Michael Marz,· baniel--Ferris, Philip Allen,. Andrew Gan, .~jke . Stuart, B~th; DeSchryver, Chris Keller;· Beth Mcinerny,' ,'\nn Nicgorski, Thomas Wood · · 


CREDITS 
Illustrations: 
p. 24, Laura Stover. 

Photos: 
p. 
1, 9, Eileen O'Meara; p. 1, 32, Mike Delany; p. 4, courtesy of Sr. Ann Ida Gannon; p. 5, courtesy of James Hitchcock; p; 10, 20, 21, Pat Pitz; p;.J3, courtesy of Bri~get Bradley; >iV 16, Tamera Mams;., 

p. 
i1, 27,. Steve Kaine. . ; 


Cover: 
Pat Pitz 
Adivsor: · Fr, Mario Pedi, Q;S~-~· . 
truths from the cultural expressions which they had assumed in the 
course of history it is important for us to contemplate and to understand those truths so· that we may under­stand how to deal with change: What
Catholic Education as Renewal 
In the course of her rel-igious life Sister Ann Ida Gannon, B.V.M., has taught in Catholic elementary and high schools and has spent the past thirty years at Mundelein College. She served as President from 1951-15 and then returned to the classroom to teach Philosophy. Sister received the Laetare Medal, the highest na­tional award for American Catholics, from Notre Dame in 1975. She is the Chairman of the Board of the Reli­gious Education Association of U.S. and Canada. We are privileged to have Sr. Gannon write for Scholastic. 
"Renew your wonder in our time as though for a new Pentecost ... the Council now beginning rises in the Church like day-break, a forerunner of most splendid light. It is now only dawn and already at the first com­mencement of the rising day how much sweetness fills our heart ... This will be a demonstration of the Church always living and always young which feels the rhythm of our times and which in every century beautifies herself with new splendor, radiates riew light, achieves new conquests." 
Pope John XXIII 
12/25/61 ... 10/11/62 

The theme of a new Pentecost, of a new spring, is typical of the Chris­tian optimism which runs through­out the Council documents. It is an optimism which is open to the world, ready to dialog with it and is at home in it. It reflects a spirit of youth expressed in the Church's eagerness to "read the signs of the times" and interpret them to and with her contemporaries. 
Yet now, twenty years since Pope John's announcement of the new Pentecost we find many who have never shared his spirit of joy and op­timism and who seem to have found in his "sudden flowering of an un­
by Sister Ann Ida Gannon, B.V.M. 
expected spring" only a winter of 
discontent. The changes of the past 
two decacles have puzzled and dis­
tressed many. For the young the 
Council is history; often, a few 
facts are remembered but the vivify­
ing spirit of joy is forgotten. 
During this period the Church has changed. She had faced several al­ternatives at the Council. It was con­ceivable that there would be no changes at all -that the Church might simply become a marginal witness to the past, a monument of Christian culture as it had been. The Church might have settled for sur­face changes, external adaptations to the times without serious efforts to change the attitudes of her members. In fact, the Church of Vatican Coun­cil II chose to make radical changes, to confront our times, its new cul­tures and new problems in order to make contemporary the Body of Christ. 
It is this change of mentality ­metanoia -which lies at the root of the problem for many Catholics. For while Americans accept new things, in fact demand them, they do not as easily adapt to a change of attitude which challenges deeply rooted as­sumptions or customs. Also, there are differing rates of change not only among the laity but among priests and hierarchy as well. Some would like to turn back to the simpler past; for others the changes are not occur­ring rapidly enough and are too few and too unsatisfying. The Church as "Rock" is the ideal for some; the "Pilgrim" Church for others. For the Catholics who found security in "practicing" their religion the thrust for social justice and activism in the name of the Gospel ( which charac­terizes others) is distressing. 
It is because the Church did stress the need for a change of heart, a new approach to the world, and a deepened understanding of the scrip­tural basis of our faith that Catholic education is needed more than ever. The great Constitution on the Church in the Modern World (Gaudium et Spes) provides an unfinished blue­print for a curriculum of the future for every Catholic. As the Church attempts to distinguish unchanging 
must we relinquish? What must we 
add? What must we retain and live 
and die for? 
I have lived through many changes. My experience with Catholic educa­tion began in the fall of 1920. My first-grade teacher, Sister Mary Digna, had entered the Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary in 1875 (not long after Vatican I). She seemed to us to be almost as old as the Church itself since she could remember the Civil War, the Spanish American War and World War I (as well as more than forty years of minor wars in the classroom). In later years she reflected on some of the changes she had experienced in the Church: until 1897 the Canon of the Mass could not be translated into English; reading the Bible was for­bidden; daily reception of the Holy Eucharist was approved for the first time in 1910; she and other members of the order (founded in 1833) were granted the right to take perpetual vows in 1915.... However, basically, she viewed the Church as unchang­ing, stable, with pastors often as in­fallible as the Pope. 
She and her generation of Catho­lic teachers viewed their task to be to provide a strong solid foundation in the fundamentals of education and a training in the practices and doc­trines of the Church. At a time that only about half of the students in parochial schools finished eighth grade, this education was a forma­tion for life and work which was geared to the needs of the times. She and others like her taught with con­viction the principles of the cate­chism, of spelling, arithmetic and reading, the virtues of obedience and punctuality and the evil of eating meat on Friday and chewing gum in church. In her person as in her teaching she conveyed a sense of absolute authority and unswerving certainty about the changeless truths of the Church. 
I have now been teaching for a period longer than Sister Mary Dig­na's in 1920! I, also, have lived through three wars, many cultural changes and a Vatican Council. The Church of my experience, however, reflects the growing, dynamic na­ture of the Body of Christ, of the Pilgrim Church. As early as the forties, Pope Pius XII was challeng­ing us through his encyclicals to ex­plore outmoded traditions, to renew and deepen our understanding of scripture and the Church. With the announcement of Vatican II and the experience of the warm and vital message of Pope John xxm, a new vista was opened for the Church and a new role for Catholic education was outlined. 
The Church and Catholic education have both entered into new paths, have made mistakes, failed in some ways, but have taken seriously the role of Pilgrims who must dispose of needless baggage ( outmoded cus­toms, traditions, etc.) in order to be faithful to a vision which leads into ways which have not been traveled before. 
What is that vision? What is the future of Catholic education, espe­cially higher education? When the editor-in-chief of the Scholastic in­vited me to write on the present and future vision of Catholic education I was tempted to send him the sum­mer volume of Current Issues in Catholic Higher Education which deals in depth with purposes and leadership in that field. That issue takes its place with other recent studies which have analyzed the role of our institutions and are indi­cators of the vitality of both the theory and the practice of Catholic higher education. My personal vision is colored by my reading but even more is the result of my own experi­ence in the past decades. I have chosen to select a few of my thoughts realizing that it is impossible to in­clude them all in so short a space. 
"... It is now only dawn ..." 
American Catholic Higher Educa­tion, although it has roots in the nineteenth century, has experienced most of its growth in my lifetime. Fewer than six in one hundred teen­agers even went to high school in 1900; it was ,after World War II that the major growth in enrollment in all institutions of higher ,education took place. Catholic colleges and uni­versities grew in enrollment and in professional competence at that time and their variety reflected the va­riety within the Church itself. The period saw the development of some major Catholic universities and an overall strengthening in most of the institutions. 
What of the future? It is danger­ous to attempt to forecast an exact future in this period of change; even now, Reaganomics is threatening the viability of many institutions. How­ever, I believe that it is possible to share realistic hopes and that this kind of sharing is an important force in ensuring a meaningful future. 

For even as the shared vision of the founders enabled them to cope with crises and call forth all of the re­sources of a religious congregation, so, today, the shared dreams of a wider group -laity and religious ­working and sacrificing together can ensure that our time is indeed the dawn (and not the demise) of a challenging era. The readers of the Scholastic will be among those who have the power to build the future; articles such as those in this issue should help them to decide if it is worth the effort. 
We have to be clear about what we believe in and what we expect from our Catholic colleges and universi­ties. The editor asked questions about how a class in a Christian school would differ from that in a state school. I do not see that ques­tion to be as relevant as to ask what is the sense of vocation of those who serve the Catholic college or univer­sity. Every university has some scholar-teachers; a Catholic institu­tion should have a good proportion of its teachers who, in addition, give personal witness through their lives to the relevance of a life of faith in the life of an intellectual. In the past decades we have made major efforts to increase the professional competence of our faculties; the challenge of the future 'is to make an even greater effort to deepen the commitment of each faculty member to the underlying reason for our ex­istence. The purpose of such an ef­fort is to strengthen the Christian "presence" on campus, to provide a supportive atmosphere in which in-

tellectual inquiry and spiritual growth can coexist. 
". . . a demonstration of the Church always living and always young ..." · 
An institution dedicated to the in­tellectual life as well as to a belief in the validity of the truths of faith is an important witness to the fact that there need be no contradiction be­tween deep faith and free intellec­tual inquiry. The personal witness mentioned earlier is important, but this institutional witness to the rele­vance of God to the world is even more important; how weak our so­ciety would be if the only institu­tions dedicated to intellectual inquiry were "secular'' or agnostic. 
The heart of the message of Gaudium et Spes is "man's activity in the world." It stresses our obliga­tion to work for a better world, to cooperate with others in seeking an­swers. It describes the church as de­pendent on the world for insight into many truths drawn from science, art and technology and notes that we must so educate the scientist that when he speaks of God it will be a relevant God and not one simply constructed by the minds of men. 
A Catholic college or university, maintaining its proper independence as an educational institution .can help the Church-the community of believers -to achieve this ideal. Through its various disciplines it can explore current cultures and serve as critic, interpreter and liaison for both society and the Church. Alive to 
(cont'd on page 30) 




The Catholic Curriculum: What to Teach? 
James Hitchcock, Catholic scholar, educator and writer, is the author of several books, including The Recov­ery of the Sacred and Catholicism and Modernity. He has writte~ for the New York Times Magazine, Com­mentary, and other journals. He serves as editor of the Catholic jour­nal, Communio and as Chairman of the Board of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights. We are honored to have him contribute to 
Scholastic. 
The history of religiously affiliated higher education in the United States does not provide much hope for the survival of Catholic colleges and uni­versities into the next millennium. The vast majority of private institu­tions in America were originally founded under religious auspices, for the purpose of providing religious and moral edU'cation for their stu­dents. Most of the older ones (those founded before the Civil War) were designed primarily to educate clergy. Yet in the vast majority of cases this religious character has eroded over the years to the point where it is at best nominal, and often nonexistent. 
One reason for the great prolifera­tion of private colleges in America has been precisely this se·cularization process. As older religious colleges were perceived as no longer serving the purpose for which they were founded, new ones were started. In time these also became secular'ized, or were perceived as such, and still newer ones were begun. In modern times only two kinds of religiously affiliated institutions exist in any meaningful numbers-Roman Cath­olic and Evangelical Protestant. 
On the whole Catholic colleges a:re somewhat older than the Evangelica'l institutions, and thus they face the prospect of secularization more acutely. The reasons for this are complex and difficult to summarize. Besides factors distinctive to the American e:x:perience, the turbulent life of the Catholic Church since about 1960 has obviously had its effect. The key to the character of most Catholic colleges has· been the religious communities which operate them. Few communities have escaped 
MARCH, 1982 

James Hitchcock 

racking crises of self-identity in the 
past twenty years. Many have 
agonized over whether they should 
even be involved in higher education, 
and a number of Catholic colleges 
have been closed. 
But from all the mass conferences, committee reports, position papers, convention speeches, etc., which have dealt with Catholic education, no consensus has emerged as :to what a Catholic institution might or should look like in practice. The reasons for this uncertainty are partly educa­. tional, but even more religious. It is not really possible to define what a Catholic university might be like without a fairly clear idea of what Catholicism is. Disagreements over educational policy and pra'Ctice are, more often than not, disguised dis­
agreements over belief. 
The pressures for the seculariza ­
tion of religious colleges are mul­
tiple, and to a large extent they are 
unconscious -only in a relatively 
few cases have Catholic colleges 
made a deliberate decision to secular­
ize. Two factors in particular might 
be pointed to as crucial. 
by James Hitchcock 

One is professionalization, which has affected all of American life, and especially American higher educa­tion, quite profoundly since World War IL Professionalization is a com­plex process, but whatever else it means it means a situation in which the criteria for what constitutes good education are set outside the institu­tion itself, generally by professional associations of physicians, lawyers, historians, philosophers,· etc. Al­though in a time of shrinking enroll­ments colleges like to talk about how they are distinctive, professionaliza­tion tends to work against distinc­tiveness. It posits uniform standards for all institutions. Thus, all other things being equal, it gives the ad­vantage to the institution with the most money, since meeting profes­sional criteria is usually the function of money, expressed in the scholarly reputation of .the faculty, the size of the library, 1:he quality of the scientific equipment, etc. 
To a lesser extent student expecta­tions have also influenced the pro­cess. As Catholics "arrived'' in American life by around 1960 young Catholics became increasingly con­scious of the remaining gaps which separated them from the mainstream of their culture, and especially of factors in their background which might retard full 'acceptance :into that mainstream. Some decided that Catholic education itself was a handicap. Others, perhaps more often than not imbibing an attitude first held by faculty members, decided that Catholic education still had a future, but only to the degree that its distinctiveness was minimized. The goal, often not stated, was to transform the Catholic colleges so as to make them as much as possible like private colleges which had al­ready undergone the secularization 
_ process. 
Catholic institutions in the United States have never been able to find the proper balance between commit­ment and openness. Prior to the 
(cont'd on page 6) . 




1960's there was much of the former, little of the latter, as indicated, for example, by a reluctance to hire fac­ulty from outside the Catholic tradi­tion. Since 1965 there has been no end of openness, with few institu­tions willing to tackle the difficult (and highly sensitive) issue of main­taining identity. 
Obviously any education worthy of the name has to open students' minds, enable them to relate to a complex and variegated world. How­ever, an education which merely does that ill equips the student to live in such a world, because it gives him little basis on which to discriminate, judge, choose, or evaluate. Leaving the dogmatic claims of religion aside, liberal education itself cannot be the now standard smorgasbord of courses, nor can it be merely a smor­gasbord of opinions, all of them more or less equal to one another. Prior to the 1960's even the secular univer­sities believed they possessed a core of common wisdom, derived from the entire Western cultural tradition, which could serve as the basis of all education. Now, despite widespread desires to recover such a core, as ex­pressed, in particular, in curricular requirements, there is no agreement as to what it should be. Catholic in­stitutions ought to be in an advan­tageous position in trying to recover such a core, both because of the -true claims of the Faith itself and because the Catholic tradition can serve, at a minimum, as a principle of organ­ization, a center of intellectual focus. 
The ideal of "objectivity'' in schol­arship -a kind of passionless, de­tached scrutiny -no longer holds sway. Its existence is difficult to jus­tify in theory, and in practice schol­ars do tend to have commitments which they may or may not recog­nize, or else they study subjects in which they invest nothing of them­selves, the results of which are likely to be desiccated and irreevant. 
What students have a right to ex­pect from faculty is not objectivity but honesty. A professor may have a strongly held position of his own, which he defends in his teaching. In­deed it is usually desirable that he have such a position, for in this way alone can education truly become "relevant." However, the committed scholar, all the more because of his commitment, has an obligation to treat other positions as honestly as he can. He must not omit, distort, or caricature. He must be ready at all times to engage in genuine dialogue with others, which in no way implies compromising his own commitment. 
For years Catholic educators have been nervous about the charge that they engage in indoctrination, not education, and that religious ortho­doxy is incompatible with free in­quiry. This nervousness is merely a reflection of the persistent inferiority complex of many American Cath­olics, despite their having supposedly "come of age." Among other things, it blinds them to some of the realities of American higher education. 
Despite the official rhetoric about total openness and freedom of ex­pression, working orthodoxies oper-
The key question is whether the Catholic tradition does provide a valid focal point for education. If the answer is no, then there is no excuse for Catholic colleges. 
ate in even the most prestigious sec­ular universities. For years logical and linguistic analysis has dominated most philosophy departments, and few proponents of other theories are even given a fair hearing, much less offered teaching positions. In the social sciences one or anotherform of behaviorism is also dominant in the great majority of institutions. In every academic discipline there exist orthodoxies which are enforced in terms of hking, tenure, and publica­tion. (Recently at Yale University a senior professor of political science stated publicly that "There are two kinds of political theorists we don't want in this department -Leninists and Straussians," this in connection with the denial of tenure to a Straus­sian.) 
The ideal of total openness is also compromised by a brute physical fact -it is simply impossible to teach "everything.'' Colleges and universi­ties are constantly engaged in the process of deciding (sometimes for philosophical reasons, sometimes for economic reasons) that certain things will or will not be taught. Professors in the classroom cannot possibly present the totality of their subjects. They continually make de­cisions as to what to include and what to omit. 
While Catholic institutions are frequently under suspicion for im­posing religion on their students, little notice is taken of the odd anom­aly whereby many institutions of higher learning ( especially those un­der state sponsorship) do not even have departments of religious studies. 
Religion has been the most deeply rooted phenomenon in human his­tory, but there are colfeges and uni­versities which seemingly believe that it is sufficient if their students learn about it in snatches and frag­ments, in history, literature, or art classes. Not uncommonly, this omis­sion is not mere obtuseness; it reflects the antireligious sentiments of faculty themselves. Leaving aside its dogmatic claims, the study of Christianity, and especially of Catholicism, provides a key for the widest and most comprehensive ap­proach to the study of Western civilization. 
At a minimum Catholic colleges and universities ought to be able to assume a high degree of interest in religion on the part of their students. Furthermore, they have a right to assume that being a Catholic implies a certain view of the world and that is one of the major purposes of Catholic higher education to explore that world view systematically and in depth. Those who find the Catho­lic world view unacceptable or repug­nant will presumably not choose to attend Catholic institutions. Trying to accommodate them is destructive to the whole process of Catholic edu­cation. 
Catholic education does not neces­sarily presume belief -it ought to be possible to educate students in the 
. Catholic tradition merely showing that it is coherent and plausible. But plausibility is important. It should also be the purpose of Catholic edu­cation, assuming the presence of committed teachers, to show at least the formidability of that tradition, that it must be taken ser_iously and respected even if finally rejected. In the real order it is likely that a high percentage of faculty and students in a Catholic institution will be be­lievers. 6 
Catholicism impinges on the educa­tional process most comprehensively and most obviously with regard to ethics, a subject from ·which no other subject in the curriculum is entirely divorced, except perhaps pure mathe­matics. Almost every other dis­cipline has practical applications which require moral judgments on the part of its practitioners. Thus future physicians, lawyers, account­ants, physicists, and computer spe­cialists must have a solid grounding in morality, taught both as phi­losophy and as theology. A Catholic institution can never content itself with simply training its students in technical skills. 
However, the relevance of re­ligion and morality to professional training is not exhausted by ethics in the narrowest sense. One of the most poignant signs of the inade­quacies of present Catholic education is the way in which this relationship is now often discharged by a single course in ethics ( sometimes not even by that). All education is personal as well as theoretical. Especially in professional education students learn what it means to be responsible prac­titioners of a discipline by seeing others who are already such practi­tioners. Catholic professional schools will, therefore, confront their stu­dents with professors who are living examples of competent, responsible professionalism wedded to religious and moral commitment. 
Although ethics is the obvious rubric under which the moral and religious dimensions of professional education are discussed, it is impor­tant to recognize that the questions involved here are really meta­physical -what does it mean to be human? what can legitimately be done to and for human beings? what is a just society? If profes­sional ethical training is approached primarily as a specialized set of rules imposed in particular cases, it will seem to many students rather arbitrary. In every profession now the important ethical questions transcend the limits of the profes­sion itself. 
Catholic schools are in an advan­tageous position in this regard be­cause Catholic ethical theory grows out of a whole nexus of thought and belief, as well as a long and deep tra­dition, in which these basic questions have been endlessly debated and ex­plored. In the end professional ethics is unpersuasive divorced from a wider view of human nature and human society, which the Catholic tradition is almost uniquely equipped to impart. For this reason stu­dents enrolled in a Catholic profes­sional school who "lack the back­ground of Catholic education ·may find it difficult to relate to a course in professional ethics as such. For the same reason, the education which a Catholic university gives to prepro­fessional students may be even more important than that which it gives in the professional schools them­selves. 
In professional ethics as elsewhere, the most destructive temptation for the Catholic colleges is likely to be excessive professionalization. Usu­ally this takes the form of an ap­proach to professional ethics which simply seeks to justify whatever it is that professionals do. (This is most obvious with regard to medicine, but can apply to other areas, such as business.) 
The natural sciences and applied mathematics are perhaps the far­thest removed from any readily de­finable relationship with Catholic doctrine, except as they too have their ethical dimensions (e.g., the uses of nuclear power). However, in all disciplines a Catholic school 

It remains to be seen whether those institutions which have historically borne the Catholic name possess neither the ability or the will to save_ themselves. 
should boast of faculty who are highly conscious of the ultimate sig­nificance of divine creation. While this may not influence the specific way in which a professor teaches physics or chemistry, it means that he is ready to discuss with students (and with other faculty) the possible religious implications of scientific theories (as in the work of Stanley Jaki). Perhaps not a great deal of time will be spent on this in the classroom, but an occasional lecture, even an occasional passing remark, can be a great stimulus to student thinking, and towards students' being able to integrate their educa­tions into some kind of totality. 
If the social sciences are com­monly. taught in a "value-free," be­havioristic way in American colleges and universities, there is no excuse for this in an institution calling itself Catholic. As with other disciplines,. students should naturally be taught the requisite professional methods. But a genuinely Catholic education must go far beyond that. 
The key issues ·are again meta­physical -who is man? what is a just society? The social sciences can­not be pursued properly if they are pursued only in their own terms. This requires, once again, faculty who are sensitive to the entire Catholic tradition, willing to explore relationships between their disci­plines and the widest possible con­text of belief and thought. 
At a minimum Catholic depart­ments of social sciences should mani­fest a particular interest in the clas­sical traditions in their own dis­ciplines -political theory, classical social and economic thought. This is not because the masters of the past are automatically conceded suprem­acy but because it is in these classi­cal traditions that the fundamental questions are discussed. Their study thus serves to give the student a point of contact between a special­ized modern discipline and the kind of religious philosophical considera­tions which ought to inform it. 
As with professional ethics, the study of the social sciences in Cath­olic schools must negotiate a balance between absolute principles (as to what constitutes man or what con­stitutes a just society) and some­times untidy realities. (In economics students would study not only Cath­olic teaching concerning a just eco­nomic order but also the way in which the modem economy functions in practice. Every effort should be made to bring about some kind of meeting point, so that the demands of one do not do violence to the legitimate claims of the other.) 
In the humanities it can be natu­rally assumed that faculty and stu­dents have a greater than average interest in religious themes, as de­veloped in art, music, and literature. There will be an immediate recogni­tion process, whereby symbols, al­lusions and language have a sig­nificance which they may not have for non-believers. Humanities de­partments in Catholic schools will emphasize the pervasive influence of religion on the whole of Western culture. 
But humanities properly taught are not merely academic exercises. They are studied precisely to illu­mine the human situation. Thus, in a Catholic school, it is assumed that what might be called religious dilem­mas and religious experiences are real to faculty and students. Poems and novels on religious themes will be studied because they are found to have an urgency and a personal rel­evance which they may not have for others. Through them the individual · seeks to explore and ultimately re­solve the dilemmas posed by a lived faith. What may be absent from one's own life can be experienced imaginatively, and one of the pur­(cont'd on page 31) 



The University As a Religious Establishment 

The following is the text of Prof. Murphy's paper presented to a Fac­ulty Senate forum last semester. The forum dealt with the Catholic nature of Notre Dame. 
ii 
In preparing for a final examina­tion, a student assembled all of the notes which he had taken in the course. They numbered in the hun­dreds of pages. Determined to put them into more manageable form, he 
i' began a process of condensing these
d 
notes. He made spectacular progress. So much so that the day before the
:1 
examination was to be written, all
I'.I 
of the voluminous notes had been
!i 
distilled to one page. But not being
li content with this, he kept at it. One hour before the exam, he had them down to one line. And just before he was to write the exam, he had captured it all in one word. He then 
I went in to write the exam ... and 
forgot that word! 
Perhaps we should reflect ser­iously, in this faculty forum, on whether we, like this student, have not forgotten the word. I mean the Word which was made flesh and dwelt among us, who existed at the beginning, through whom all things came into being, and apart from whom nothing came to be. 
There is general agreement today regarding the importance of educa­tion, however defined, but there is little agreement beyond this. For if one asks a serious educational ques­tion, such as what should be taught (i.e., content), the answers will cer­tainly not reflect a consensus. How­ever, for a number of reasons, people are increasingly asking hard ques­tions and they are not satisfied with partial answers. I should like to think that this forum is a reflection of this seriousness and openness. 

In seeking to contribute to this forum, I do not purport to describe even the anatomy of a Catholic uni­versity. My goal is more modest. I want to submit for your considera­tion certain basic premises which must be borne in mind if any more ambitious effort is to be fruitful. 
First, I submit that every univer­sity, of whatever kind, is a "re­ligious" establishment. For educa­tion, by its very nature, is value­
8 
laden and "religious." Basic faith is the principal determiner of educa­tional content. In every educational system or philosophy there is posited an ultimate source of.knowledge, and there are fundamental presupposi­tions which largely determine the particulars. Invariably, one sees God as this source of knowledge, or one sees himself or a particular group of individuals as that source. Thus,· all education will be God-centered or man-centered in this sense. 
What I am saying is that all peo­ple, in and out of the university, are people of faith. Everyone has a re­ligion, be it theistic or nontheistic. 
R. J. Rushdoony has reminded us: 
[I]t is a fallacy to think of re­ligion as a belief in a personal God. To do so is to define all religions in Biblical terms and to impose the nature of one religion as definitive of all religions. Most religions, in fact, are not theistic. In Shintoism, there is a multiplicity of spirits, not gods, and there is nothing com­parable to the Biblical idea of a sovereign and absolute God. For Buddhism and for Hinduism, nothingness is ultimate. In the re­ligions of Hellenic civilization, the gods were not ultimate: they were deified humans whose reign on Olympus was as subject to muta­bility as were all things else; ulti­macy and therefore religion cen­trally belonged to the realm of ideas or abstract universals. In one religion after another, we have a non-theistic foundation, so that we can with justice say that vir­tually all religions in history have been varying forms of the religion of humanity, or humanism. 
The late Cardinal Wright once ob­served that man "remains unalter­ably God-centered. He cannot exist without a God, and if he rejects the true God he will invariably, instinc­tively, even perversely, create his own false god. In short, the ques­tion for man is not whether he will be guided by an ultimate authority, but who or what that authority will be. Is it to be God? Or is it to be himself? Or the state? Or a political party? Or a race? Or an economic class? Or the. stars? Or Satan? Or 
by Prof. Edward Murphy 

what? Obviously, the choice will be consequential, and it is naive to sup­pose that one does not have to choose. 
There is an understandable reluc­tanc2 on the part of many to put questions in terms of conflicting ulti­mates. For why, it is asked, engender conflict which is both unnecessary and divisive? Hence, we witness avid searches· for neutral principles or lowest-common-denominator con­cepts to which everyone will readily subscribe. But has not history taught us that such a search is futile? We cannot ignore major premises and expect to reach valid conclusions. Nor can we paper over real differ­ences, as by couching them in mean­ingless jargon, and hope to advance the welfare of anyone. .There are matters about which one dare not, and indeed cannot, be neutral. Jesus once cautioned His listeners: "He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters." "Other gods," all of them, are no less uncompromising. 
Educational neutrality is a myth. There is not a neutral atom in all of creation, nor is there a meaningless event. For God is the source of all. An English educator, Sir Walter Ivioberly, once remarked of the so­called "neutral" university: 
On the fundamental religious is­sue [the exis_tence of God], the modern university intends to be, and supposes it is, neutral, but it is not. Certainly, it neither incul­cates nor expressly repudiates be­lief in God. But it doe~ what is far more deadly than open· rejection ; it ignores Him. -::, . It is a fallacy to suppose that by omitting a sub­ject you teach nothing about it. On the contrary you teach that it is to be omitted, and that it is therefore a matter of secondary importance. And you teach this not openly and explicitly, which would invite criti­cism ; you simply take it for granted and thereby insinuate it silently, insidiously, and all but irresistibly. 
A character in a contemporary novel remarks that one cannot "fake reality." Indeed, one cannot. If there 
(cont'd on page 30) 
SCHOLASTIC 


The Evolution of a Catholic University 
by Dr. Timothy O'Meara, Provost 
-
A Catholic university in contem­
porary society must be, first and 
foremost, a univ~rsity engaged in 
teaching, research and ·public ser­
vice, committed to excellence in all 
its endeavors. In addition, it must 
be a university concerned with the 
religious dimension of the human ex­
perience; involved in the articula­
tion, growth, ~volution, and practice 
of Catholic values and the Catholic 
intellectual tradition; and imbued 
with an abiding sense of Christian 
community. 
Despite the imposing title "The University of Notre Dame du Lac" granted by charter of the Indiana legislature in 1844, Notre Dame was not then, nor for many years to come, a true university at all. One can only speculate on whatever dreams Father Sorin might have had for the future and how the Univer­sity might someday influence society, culture and the church. But as late as the .turn of the century Father 
Morrissey, eighth president of Notre 
Dame, claimed: "What we need here 
is a compact, tidy little boarding 
school. We can't compete with these other institutions that have all the 
money." In sharp contrast, Father John Zahm, Father Morrissey's provincial 
from 1898 to 1906, envisioned Notre Dame as <lthe intellectual center of the American West" and initiated a new spirit of intellectual ferment by selecting gifted young ·priests for higher studies. Among the future 
leaders he encouraged were Father 
Burns and Father Nieuwland. Burns subsequently became president, the 
first with an earned doctorate, and 
during his short term of office 
brought about "a major revolution 
in the academic development of the institution" by normalizing academic procedures and upgrading the qual­ity of the faculty. Nieuwland on the other hand immersed himself in his science. He founded The American Midland Naturalist and became na­tionally recognized for doing the basic research that led to the dis­covery of synthetic rubber. 
Graduate studies began in the 
MARCH, 1982 
summer of 1918; the Graduate 
School was officially established in 
1932. World-renowned figures lec­
tured at the University. The faculty was enriched by refugee scholars from Europe. By World War II the University had established itself as a 
good Catholic undergraduate school; 
it symbolized the coming of age of another class of immigrants in our nation; and it was challenged by new intellectual horizons on the graduate 
and research levels which had been 
initiated by individuals associated 
with the University during the first 
half of the century. Meanwhile the best schools in the nation -measured in terms of their influence on society -had already fully integrated the role of scholar­ship, research and public service into 
their mission. Notre Dame syste­
matically embarked on this trans­formation shortly after World War 
II. It was a transformation that ne­cessitated the development of a new kind of faculty -a faculty as com­petent and as interested in scholar­
ship and research as in teaching. 
Concurrently with its intellectual 
expansion and development, the Uni­
versity has preserved its residential character with the firm belief that 
education extends beyond the class­
room. The University's residential 
nature, coupled with its relatively 
small size, has enabled Notre Dame to keep a sense of Christian com­munity on campus. 
The Notre Dame of the 1980s is a university in fact as well as in name. It is a place of research, teaching and community. These three com­
ponents follow quite naturally from 
a certain distinctive configuration of 
values in Catholicism. First, the Catholic vision encounters God in all things -people, events, the world at large, the whole cosmos. It is in and through the visible . world that we come to know and experience the in­
visible God. The Catholic vision, sec­
ondly, perceives God to be working through all things, efficaciously pres­
ent for those who will avail them­
selves of all reality. Finally, the 
\i; ~ ·,, .· ----.\ &.._'\ 

Catholic vision sees the way to God and God's way to us as a communal 
way, not an individualistic way. That 
is why, for example, the Church has such a significant place in Catholi­
cism. 

It is therefore not surprising, in­deed it is to be expected, that the first universities -at Salerno, Bo­logna and Paris, for example ­emerged from a search for answers to ultimate questions which, in turn, 
had emerged from the intellectual 
life of the Catholic church. It is ironic that none of these universities claims to be Catholic today. The challenge at Notre Dame is to suc­
ceed not only where they have suc­
ceeded, but also where they have failed. The responsibility is to re­member, -0n the one hand, that great wisdom resides within the Catholic tradition itself and, on the other, that freedom for individuals to in­quire and criticize is essential if that tradition is to evolve and be faithful to the Catholic vision ·of God. 
I wish the intellect to range with the utmost freedom, and religion to enjoy an equal freedom; but what I am stipulating is that they should be found in one and the same place, and exemplified in the same persons.... It will not sat­isfy me, what satisfies so many, to have two independent systems, intellectual and religious, going at once side by side, by a sort of 
division of labour, and only acci­
dentally brought together. It will not satisfy me if religion is here, 
and science there, and young men 
converse with science all day, and lodge with religion in the evening. ... I want the intellectual layman to be religious, and the devout ·ecclesiastic to be intellectual. 
John Henry Cardinal Newman 
j
,, 

No university will remain Catho­lic by accident, so to speak, but only through the constant reevaluation 
and renewal of its purpose in a rap­idly changing world.· We at Notre 
Dame are presently inv9lved in such 
(cont'd on page 30) 
9 











Perspective 
Questioning Notre Daine 
The importance of a Catholic uni­vers'ity is that it does more for a student than any other university can. Besides training his mind -the primary purpose of a liberal arts school -it develops his mind for a specific purpose, and informs him of that purpose. A Catholic university is for the whole man in the sense that it informs him not only of the condi­tions of being alive, but more im­portantly, why he is alive. As we know, the Church possesses the full­ness of God's revealed truth and the means of salvation. She teaches us that each person is made by God for the purpose of knowing, loving and serving Him here on earth and en­joying His presence in heaven for­ever. This truth about man is at once our .greatest joy and challenge, for since we know why we are alive, we see that our lives are to .be lived for God. Secular universities may convey factual information about the world and train a student's mind logically, but only a Catholic university, by virtue of its access to Christ's teach­ing authority, can decisively answer a student's fundamental questions in 

·his search for truth. 
Some may argue that religion has nothing to do with learning the skills needed for one's career, a major part of the education of many; for instance, one may ask, "What does Catholicism have to do with learning to be an engineer?" As Catholics, we understand that our faith is integral to everything we do. Strange as it may sound, there should be a world of difference be­tween a Catholic .engineer and a sec­ularly educated engineer. The Catho­lic engineer realizes that all he does is for the honor and glory of God. He will realize his responsibility to the people he builds for, the im­portance ·of the morality of his busi­ness practices, and especially that his work is not ultimately for his own monetary reward, but is a service to God here on earth. He will graduate knowing engineering, but enriched and prepared to grow in the Catholic faith. 
This is a very different view of man than that held in secular univer­sities, and a student at a Catholic school may expect to be taught the faith that so transforms his life. Be­cause faith affects a person's whole 
10 
by Alice Douglas 

life, talk .of God should not be out of 
place in any classroom. This is not to 
say that every class should become 
a theology class, but the Catholic 
faith should be taught in its integrity 
to every student in a school that 
claims to be Catholic. Hence, the 
whole man is educated. More impor­
tantly, the student learns his faith 
and grows in his relationship with 
God, and he also gets the academic 
training of -college. A secular univer­
sity leaves religion up to the particu­
lar student, but as Catholics, we un­
derstand that the Church is a com­
munity of individuals who partici­
pate in Her life with Christ at the 
head. Christ says tha,t He is the Way, 
the Truth and the Life, so to teach 
the truth is to teach the person of 
Christ. Catholics understand "teach­
ing Christ" to mean informing peo­
ple of the doctrines and dogmas of 
the faith as Christ relates them 
through the Church's teaching body 
of the pope or the bishops with pope. 
So, to neglect to ·teach what the 
Church says is to neglect to teach 
what Christ is saying to us. 
Of course, we realize that the in­tegrity of Christ's word must be pre­served in the handing -down of His teachings. It is the privilege and re­sponsibility of Catholic educators that they have available to them in · the official teachings of the -Church a true guide in matters of faith and morals. 1't would be a grave dis­service to the students, not to men­tion a scandalous distortion of the truth, to imply that the opinion of any theologian has the same au­thority as ,a teaching given by the pope or to otherwise deny the truths of the Catholic faith. 
I expect an objection to such a school would be that -it crams reli• gion down a student's throat for his blind acceptance and to the denial of his maturity and competence to make his own decisions. I would re­ply that, as Catholics, we know that the mature Christian attitude is the acceptance of God's word and obedi­ence to His will in our lives, and that this devotion is our only true fulfill­ment since we are made by and for God. Actually, just the opposite of the objection is true. A student can­not make a decision to .practice the Catholic faith unless he knows what the Church teaches. It's not that he 

should not hear opposing views, but these should not have top priority; after all, they get plenty of voicing and practice elsewhere. A Catholic student cries out to be ,presented with the integrity of the Church's teach­ings. It is an insult to the Church and to the student's maturity to sugar-coat the true faith. If theolo­gians disagree with the Church, that is their business and their problem, but to .present this conflicting view for any other purpose than to better see the truth it opposes is not the role of the Catholic educator. 
In my own experience, I attended the University of San Francisco's St. Ignatius Institute before trans­ferring as a sophomore to Notre Dame. The presentation of Catholic education was very different there from what I have .seen here. Through the Institute, which loyally trans­mits the teachings of the Catholic Church, I learned that being Catho­lic is .so much more than observing certain traditions. Rather, practicing the faith is .a whole way of being. After twelve years of "Catholic" edu­cation, I was amazed to learn tha,t "in the Church" is truly a way to live practically. It means something defi­nite and concrete to· think and be Catholic. But it's not something I can say in a sentence or two. Rather, learning to be Catholic (which we 
understand to mean learning to Jive as Christ instructs us) is a lifelong job and joy. This was my first ex­perience of Catholic university edu­cation. Ask yourself what your ex­perience has been here at Notre Dame. In your classes, were the teachings of the Church always pre­sented in their fullness? Have the teachings ever been watered down in an effort to make "what this really means" more palatable? Have you ever been told that Catholics are free to accept or reject certain teachings 
(cont'd on page 12) 
SCHOLASTIC 





Perspective 
Notre Dame: 
Disillusionment 
(and Hope) 
by Sean F. Faircloth 

My motivations for writing this article are, in part, to deal with my own irrationality. To be blunt, I have on three occasions verbally as­saulted the assistant rector of my dormitory with rude and obscene language. I have also on those oc­casions made physically threatening statements directed at this priest. This was not only wrong, it was im­mature and counterproductive. I left my dormitory at the end of last se­mester in order to avoid the impend­ing expulsion. Having distanced my­self from the dormitory during the course of the present semester, I still feel that the extreme anger I felt (and do feel) has some basis in real and serious problems, not only with my dorm, but with the entire life­style here at Notre Dame. After all it is curious that of the five times I have been inclined to violence in the past half decade, three of those times involved direct attacks on one man in one semester. 
It seems to me that the reason I disliked this man so much is that he fits in at Notre Dame so well. He follows the rules of the University. He lives by the rules in an unthink­ing way, I believe. Unfortunately, I find the rules of the University are, in practice, defeating the very pur­pose of Catholic education. 
I do not mean this to be a con­demnation of Fr. Hesburgh. I am not particularly concerned whether Fr. Hesburgh is on campus at all. He has done a marvelous job of raising the reputation and increasing the budget of 1:he University. He has at­tracted many fine professors to this campus. Nonetheless I believe it would not be rash to suggest that at least half of one's college education occurs outside the classroom. I have found that the University and its policy of in loco parentis has not enhanced, but in fact, has been an opposing force to out-of-classroom education. Where did Christ say that Christians were not to make their own decisions and choices? Is it the belief of this University that a good Catholic is a person who obeys rules without examination? As I re­call Jesus did not command Mary Magdalene to wear a chastity belt, but he did call her to repentance and to "obey the commandments," as he did all people, especially his fol­lowers. But how did he do this? He believed in spreading his light through example and testament. This University by contrast is obsessed with the imposition of rules and ne­glects, I believe, the demonstration of Catholic values. 
In the recent elections for student body president, I ran a ·campaign calling for democratic running of dorms and campus life. I asked that students be given full democratic powers over such issues as parietals and coed dorms. Naturally, most students reacted with amusement. "Are you serious? It's so unrealis­tic." Or, "my God what a great joke, how funny!" And indeed it was a great joke. It demonstrated that the concept of democracy is so contra­dictory to the way a school is run that the idea was ludicrous. 
People would say, "Sean, you're great. What a crazy guy!" And yes, I am crazy in terms of Notre Dame society. But in the Soviet Union they call Sakharov crazy. 
Now if that comparison seems a bit extreme, it is. I am not a man of anywhere near the moral stature of Mr. Sakharov. However, the way student life at Notre Dame is run is chillingly similar to the Soviet state. Notre Dame is run by men who have little or no concern, or even under­standing, of the lives of those they govern. There is a nominal govern­ment of the people which must con­cern itself with trivial matters, be­cause it is irrelevant when it comes to important issues. 
Our student body generally ne­glects such issues as El Salva­dor. Instead the students at the Catholic University discuss kegs like a bunch of 15-year-olds. The admin­istration certainly keeps us wrapped in a web of trivialities. The Univer­sity has no respect for our opinions on any major political issues. I will go to the highest source as an exam­ple. Last year, as you probably re­call, many students were protesting 
the invitation of President Reagan to commencement exercises. Despite the fact that I disagreed with almost all the man's policies I thought it was an honor to have the president speak at our school. I saw Fr. Hes­burgh in the administration building during one of the protests and I asked him what he thought of what was going on. He hold me he thought the protesters were all "a bunch of damn fools." I could not help but think of the people I knew who were protesting, Prof. Peter Walshe, one of the most respected professors at the University; Michael Hay, a member of campus ministry; and Joe Cos­grove. Though I disagreed with them, I could not believe these people were damn fools. But at Notre Dame I've come to learn anybody who rocks the boat is "a damn fool." 
Now if this seems too lofty, let us examine the particular pieces of re­pression which are prevalent in stu­dent life. A friend of mine was ex­pelled from his dorm last semester for the following reasons: 1) He had been caught smoking marijuana, 2) he had been caught having a party at three in the morning at which a girl was present, 3) he was said to drink to excess,. 4) he, like myself, had been openly belligerent to the as­sistant rector I mentioned earlier. These rules are enforced in a curious manner. As far as the drinking goes, it seems to me that the style, not the volume of Steve's drinking was the problem. He drank openly and cas­ually on weeknights. It seems that 
N.D. alcoholism must only =be en­gaged in at the proper. time and place. You know, get so trashed in the social space on Friday and Satur­day nights that you might have the nerve to talk to a girl. 
It was the fourth problem that actually got my friend expelled from the dorm: his attitude. My friend was never too secretive about smok­ing dope or drinking. He did not think it was wrong, and he acted that way. In my hall it was fine to smoke dope, but keep it a secret, don't get caught. It was fine to have a girl in your room. But don't get caught. Drink like a fish, but make sure your door is closed on week­nights. My friend dared to point out by his actions that he thought the Notre Dame rules are a farce. 

My friend, who is one of the most honest and principled people I have ever known, wished to live his life as he chose without scampering be­hind closed doors. 
I am sad to say that hypocrisy is one of the greatest lessons this Uni­versity teaches. "Don't get caught" is the N.D. motto. This seems to be what the University stands for in practice, though certainly not in theory. I am again reminded of a communist regime. I once traveled in Czechoslovakia where it is illegal to wear jeans. Everyone wears jeans. The government accepts this. How­ever, if you challenged the idea, the insane concept that jeans should be illegal in the first place, then the government labels you insane or 

·criminal or both and carts you away. This is the way our campus life works, especially in the more re­pressive dorms. I do not find this to be very Christian or Catholic, but our University seems to live by that code. 
A resident assistant at my old dorm once sat with some neighbors of mine and had some beers from a keg. I pointed out to him that if I, or my friend, had been caught with a keg we would have been kicked out immediately. The RA explained that his friends were "discreet." Discre­tion is a very interesting word for such behavior, but· apparently such discretion is very valuable here at Notre Dame. For instance, two fellows who run 

'I food sales for our dorm apparently ,1 embezzled funds from money they were supposed to pay the dorm. Ac­cording to the Vice President of the dorm, these gentlemen stole at least 
$400. The dorm president was very understandably mad. The students were angry. A girl from the Ob­server wrote an article about the matter. She told me she received such flak for even reporting the in­cident that she would avoid ever writing anything controversial again. So much for free press. The boys "discreetly" returned the $400 claim­ing they weren't ,guilty, but just wanted the whole matter ended. A very large price for innocent men to pay just to have peace in the dorm. Whether they are guilty or not is irrelevant. The problem is there was not even a serious investigation. No one suggested expelling them from the dorm. In fact, they are receiving an even more lucrative deal on food sales rental for this semester. After all, they were discreet. They were friends with people who ran the dorm. They didn't rock the boat. My friend, on the other hand, committed a far more serious crime. He acted honestly and like an individual. 
All this makes me wonder about Notre Dame and what it means to be a Christian. I know many good Christians who are perfectly happy on this campus, because they lead life-styles which never contradict the rules of the University. However, I ask these Christians to look at these rules, not just from a personal view­point, but on a larger scale. I believe that my friend is a valua'ble addition to this school. He is someone who cares about others and wishes to make this world a better place. I would suggest that one of the most important aspects of any Christian life is the willingness to accept peo­ple for what they are and find what happiness you can bring to their lives and vice versa. I have another friend who is a Rector here on campus. He does not impose rules rigidly. It seems to me, he tries to live a life of witness to Christ through his concern for the prob­lems of the people in his dorm. Is Christ not to be better served by loving example than by Puritan se­verity? I believe so. 
Many good people, like my friend, can become almost justifiably cynical and bitter about this University. I would suggest that many other stu­dents are taught the implicit princi­ples of hypocrisy here at N.D. It is contradictory to Catholic values for people to blindly dbey rules or to sneak past them. I ask all those who believe in Christian ideals -whether it would not be better if students took full control of their own lives. Surely students would make mis­takes. Maybe things would be diffi­cult, perhaps ,challenging. But I think in the long run, it is very rewarding to act as an adult. I think perhaps in the long run the best Christians are the ones who struggle to find the Christian life-style with the power of their own minds. If that happens, maybe we could all be proud of a Catholic education. D 
Sean Faircloth is a graduating Se­nior from Huntington Beach, Cali­fornia. He does not profess member­ship in the Roman Catholic Church or any other Christian denomination. 

Questioning 
(cont'd from page 10) 
according to their consciences? Have teachings been presented in a manner to encourage you to doubt them? This attitude leads a student into a desert of uncertainty, where it is not the intention of the Church that he should wander. Doubt should be dis­tinguished from inquiry, for to see the reasonableness of faith is a wholly desirable purpose for asking "why?" Most basically, ask yourself if because of your education at Notre Dame you understand any better what it means to be Catholic -to live the life of faith in the Church which Christ instituted for man's salvation. 
As Catholic students, we should be learning that the Church is all­important for our lives and salva­
12 

tion. Perhaps after asking yourself the posed questions you are drawn to the sad conclusion that Notre Dame ,does not fulfill its promise of delivering a Catholic education as we may expect it to. What can you do? If a student is serious about his faith and wants to know exactly what he's claiming to believe and practice by being Catholic, he should check into what the Church teaches in cate­chisms, encyclicals and official news­papers. He should demand what he's paying for by asking in class what the Church says about particular issues that come up. Also, there are many people here who are dedicated to the Church and loyal to the mag­isterium, who can accurately relate the Church's word. Most importantly, not to be neglected is a student's prayer life. There is no substitute for prayer for guidance, and it is also one's responsibility to partici­pate in the sacramental life of the Church, which is abundantly avail­able here at Notre Dame. In the Mass, we encounter Christ truly pres­ent to us in the Eucharist. What could be better nourishment in our search for the truth than the Truth incarnate? Finally, since we are dedi­cated to Our Lady, we should seek her powerful intercession that her Son's -word will be lovingly and loyally presented to us students for our mature, informed embrace. D 
Alice Douglas is a graduating senior in the Program of Liberal Studies. She is from Memphis, Tennessee. 
SCHOLASTIC 
a 

-




Perspective 
Saint Mary's: Image and 
Responsibility 
by Tara Jones 

As a college freshman, I attended Arizona State University. Last Sep­tember, I came to St. Mary's. After I transferred from ASU to St. Mary's College, the differences between the two schools became very apparent. One difference is the amount of stu­dents at ASU and St. Mary's. There are roughly 37,000 students enrolled at ASU, whereas the student popu­lation at St. Mary's is between 1800 and 2000. Coming from a high school of 400 students I received quite a shock that first day of my freshman year. I don't think I have ever seen so many people in one place at one time: if fever got any­thing out of the year I spent at ASU it was learning how to walk through a mob of people, somehow always going in the opposite direction. 
Another very obvious difference between the two schools is the qual0 ity and quantity of classes offered. Although A.SU has a greater quan­tity of classes to offer the students, St. Mary's undoubtedly has higher quality in not only the classes but also within the faculty. The smaller number of faculty members at St. Mary's also makes it possible for the students to relate on a more personal level. A student attending ASU is lucky if he or she ever sees his or her teacher outside of class. 
In addition to these obvious differ­ences between ASU and St. Mary's, there is a more subtle difference that I noticed after becoming part of the St. Mary's community. Students at ASU who are Christians don't hesi­tate in letting this fact be known. They are zealous in their beliefs, speaking out even against adversity (it takes guts to be in opposition to at least 10,000 students!) and they take a firm stand on issues that per­tain to and support the Christian way of life. Because St. Mary's is a 
Catholic college, I expected this 
same fervor and enthusiasm that 
was present within the Christian 
students at ASU. I have not found it. 
It seems that one reason for this 
lack of fervor at St. Mary's is be­
cause of the number of students who 
attend, that is not to say there are 
fewer Christians at St. Mary's. As a 
matter of fact, there are certainly 
more people here who profess a 
Christian faith and practice it in an 
authentic and personal way than at 
ASU, but they are just less obvious 
and not as outspoken. Students here 
may see no need to openly ·discuss 
their faith or stand firm in their be­
liefs, · because we all rest secure in 
the identity we get from the col­
lege's Catholic label. 
But because ASU has so many students, the only way for Christians to combat being "just another face" is to become part of some group which holds the same beliefs and views as the searching individual. Being active in such a group is not a means of hiding from the world's complexities. In fact, involvement helps develop a clearer understand­ing of how to live well. 
People take part in activities at ASU through the friendships they have made with people who have similar ideals. The large size, the diverse backgrounds, ideals, morals and beliefs students face while at­tending ASU force them to choose a definite identity and way of life. A person who doesn't identify with some type of ideal becomes, in a sense, lost and is most likely to be­come inactive in the political, social or even religious affairs. The stu­dent becomes, in a figurative sense, voiceless. 
As stated before, students at St. Mary's acquire their identity from the college. St. Mary's is a Catholic institution and is highly respected. Yet, because the students are affili­ated with the school, there they may feel no need to be outspoken about Christian beliefs. By not having to take a firm stand for Christianity, the students have a somewhat am­biguous identity, taking no responsi­bilities and, therefore, suffering no consequences. In other words, the students risk nothing, yet spiritually live in a kind of limbo, or fog. Their morals and beliefs tend to be obscure to others . . . and even vague or ir­relevant to themselves. There results an all too large difference between profession and practice of faith. 
The image I had of St. Mary's be­fore I .came here was not only one of intellectual soundness among the women, but also of a group of in­dividuals with a solid faith, willing to share and be open about their religious convictions. Unfortunately, I have generally found the latter not to be true. If the St. Mary's women are willing to make a firm commit­ment to Christianity, knowing the responsibilities, the possible conse­
. quences and accepting them, St. Mary's would not be just a respected institution, but also an influence and example for other colleges and even a source of support for other women who question their faith. Because St. Mary's is a Catholic institution it is the duty and responsibility of the students to call people to a deeper and more meaningful life as a Chris­tian. I believe that if a zeal for God's word develops by living as a Chris­tian should, this can be accom­plished. D 
Tara Jones is a so-phomore from Tempe, Arizona. She will serve as St. Mary's Editor of the _magazine for 1982-83. 


Perspective On Becoming a Wise Fool 
In the summer of 1963, I was ten years old. As best as I can recall, the thing I cared about most was my af­ternoon swim at the Riverside Park Pool. The water was clear and cold. 
All my friends were there.  The pool  
itself,  with  its  inviting  sky-blue  
bottom, was my friend.  

One afternoon I went to find that the pool was closed; it wouldn't be opened again that summer. It must have been my mom who explained the event to me. 
Riverside Park overlooks the James River in Lynchburg, Virginia, my little town. In Lynchburg, black people had never dared dip their toes in white people's pools ... until the summer of 1963. And when they did finally dare, the white folks as much as said, "We'll be damned if we're gonna get in the water with them niggers." And the city of Lynchburg drained its public pools. 
That was the same summer that a man named Martin Luther King, a man I would later think of as "saint," spoke of a dream on the white steps of the white Washington Monument. That was the summer of my first memorable encounter with injustice. My parents let me know that what I was seeing was not right, was un­just. The next summer we cooled off at Lynchburg's first integrated pool. 
It wasn't just the pools and the schools that needed injections of jus­tice. In the mid-1960s, our only local newspaper had a publicly pronounced policy of refusing to cover any news events in the black community. Until 1967 the city had only one library and blacks were denied admittance. In my Catholic home and in my Catholic school, I was indoctrinated in a Christian ethic that flatly re­jected such ignorance and prejudice. 
So, at fifteen, I was especially eager and proud to be marching with priests and nuns and poor blacks from all over the South through the streets of Washington, D.C. It was the very peaceful but powerful "Poor People's March" of the sum­mer of '68 which had been spurred on by the assassinations of King and Kennedy. 

Yes, I was particularly proud to be Catholic. Growing up in the home town of Jerry Falwell, in the heart of Baptistland, we Catholics were few and, I believe, a Moral Minority. My father ran his small wood-floor­ing business as one of the area's first truly equal opportunity employers. Our nuns, the Daughters of Charity, trained us to be sensitive to social sin, especially to the racism which had been rampant in Lynchburg. (In reserving a hall for proms, we were instructed by them to cordially boy­cott any places where blacks weren't treated as children of God.) 
During senior year, our young priest directed the presentation of a modern-day passion play on racial prejudice. Father Tom chose me to play the part of the righteous lawyer championing the cause of the poor blacks. I loved every minute of it and left for college that summer thinking maybe I'd be a lawyer. A poor people's lawyer, of course. 
Eleven summers later, I know dif­ferently. If I'm alive and wen in a couple more years, I'll be a priest. A poor people's priest, of course. I'm being a bit facetious now, poking fun at myself after a slightly dramatic characterization of a boyhood that was really less exciting than the average. By recounting these few incidents from my youth, I haven't tried to suggest that I have any extraordinary passion for justice. What I have had all along is an ever­deepening gratitude to God. I grew up lacking nothing while seeing others suffer great want. 
It is at least in part as a result of the injustices that I see that I want to be a priest. But it is mostly be­cause of what I've been given that I choose priesthood. When I consider what God has done for me, I wonder what I could be but a priest. When I consider what God has done with me, I wonder what I could try to be but his poor, chaste, obedient servant. 
I'm getting a little carried away again with my rhetoric, but all I'm really doing is remembering and re­peating the words I muttered as an altar boy in the old "Prayers at the Foot of the Altar": "I will go up to 
by Christopher Barrett '77 

the altar of God, the God who gives joy to my youth!" 
Many of us have been given youths charmed, graced, and blessed with joys in superabundance. That joy has to spill over into the lives of others, not just into the lives of the poor and the oppressed, but into the lives of any who are sunken in • sorrows. When we look to our Lord, we see that this was His way: "To the poor he proclaimed the good news of sal­vation, to prisoners, freedom, and to those in sorrow, joy." (Eucharistic Prayer IV.) 
The priest, it seems to me, is not just "the celebrant" during those short periods of time in which he presides at the Eucharist. His "job" in the larger struggle for justice is to be "the celebrant" of sacred mys­teries in the midst of those who suffer. His "position" in the ranks of those who work for peace is that of "celebrant." He lives a life celebrat­ing the Father's creation, the Son's Good News, the Spirit's life. Just as Christ has captivated the priest and drawn him into a life of peaceful­ness, so the priest's celebration of nonviolence draws others into that way of life. 
I feel called in a special way intQ a life of celebration with poor pep­ple. I want to live alongside them, play with them and work with them, learn from them and serve them, sing and dance and worship with them. 
I think that I'm just one of the millions of Christians who would love to live and work with heroes in holiness. And I know those heroes are here in Holy Cross. There are heroes here among the priests, brothers and sisters of Holy Cross who will help me to become a hero for others of another generation. They are in all kinds of work. And yet the work is all the same: trying to meet the Church's needs. As our founder, Basil Moreau, wished, Holy Cross men and women are working together to meet whatever the Church's needs happen to be at a given time in a given place. 
My first experience of Holy Cross men and women at work together came my senior year at Notre Dame. Father Frank, Brother Bruce, and Sister Sue (the names are for real) staffed the South Bend Justice and Peace Center downtown where I vol­unteered for a few hours a week. Their work included: a bail-bond project to help those being held in the County Jail; the organizing of Survivors, Inc., a support group for those who were just recently out of prison ; and the provision of all kinds of emergency assistance to keep people from turning to crime and from landing in jail. 

Without a large amount of money, they did a tremendous amount of good. And they did it not as secular social workers but as spiritual stal­warts. They were working for the Church serving mostly the un­churched. They were thereby ful­filling the most fundamental function of the Christian apostle in any age­evangelization, passing the Good News on to those who haven't heard it. 
To serve the poor is very often to serve the unchurched. That is the role of those Holy Cross religious in downtown South Bend. Surely it is the role of the CSC's on both coasts who are chaplains in state prisons. It is the part often played by the priests, brothers and sisters working with Asian and African poor in places like Dacca, Bangladesh and Nairobi, Kenya. 
Bringing by example and by ex­uberance the Gospel to "the ungos­peled" is the most ancient Christian apostolate. We need only read the Acts of the Apostles to see that. I am excited every day to contemplate my future in Holy Cross-a truly global (and, therefore, Catholic) commu­nity, and an evangelica'l (and, there­fore, apostolic) congregation. 
The global consciousness so con­spicuously central to Holy Cross is perhaps its greatest strength. The gap seems to be ever-widening be­tween this superpowerful nation and the pathetically powerless Third World countries. So_ the time is ripe for Christian witnesses to stand at the foot of the cross .with the eco­nomically struggling and to challenge the economically strong. 
Holy Cross men and women are engaged in just those endeavors. In my province alone, we are led by a gentle giant of a man who spent most of his priesthood in Chile. His heart is with the hearts of all the poor. In Moreau Seminary, we are awed by the simplicity and the com­passion of our Superior, seven years a missionary in Idi Amin's Uganda. 
Of course, we minister to the rich, too. CSC's will continue to evangelize the rich and the middle class who worship in CSC parishes and attend CSC high schools, colleges and uni­versities. Many of us have our own socioeconomic "roots" with these people. They are a group much abused by "radicals" like myself who at times come off as self-righteous. And yet they are a people vital to Christ's Mystical Body. 
The quality education in "justice and peace" the Daughters of Charity gave to young Chris Barrett from his comfortable neighborhood laid the groundwork for future convictions. At the University of Notre Dame, a Holy Cross sister and a Holy Cross priest, who respectively direct volun­teer services and "experiential learn­ing" in social just-ice, provide oppor­tunities for students to get away from campus and get down to the nitty-gritty of church work. I know firsthand of the need for religious, who have taken the vow of poverty, to be with the wealthy. Th~ com­fortable and the "cushy" must be told how letting go and giving away can set them free. Some of the best news in the Good News is about the startling joy to be found in detach­ment. The poor, just as gililty of consumerist cravings as any of us, also need to hear the Good News. 
The Congregation of Holy Cross has been learning this truth through its own experiences of letting go. Re­linquishing the reins of governance at Notre Dame, the divestiture of ownership there in the late '60s serves as a prime example. Letting go of the most prestigious Church positions in Bangladesh in order to allow native leadership to emerge is another instance. 
There are also living documents, those individual models of saintly detachment. In the summer of 1976 I met such a man. 
I had hitchhiked to Montreal where there is a sizeable CSC con­tingent. I wanted to meet them, but the prospect of catching a glimpse of the Olympic Games was the real drawing card. 
I arrived late one afternoon, pretty scuzzy-looking from two days on the road. I met a man outside the priests' residence and introduced myself as a seminarian. His name was Tom, "a priest just passin' thru." Very soft­spoken and pleasant; smiling all the while, he guided me to his room where he offered me the use of his shower. (He knew there were no guest rooms available.) 
He left me there and went on his 
business. Looking around the room, 
I noticed only his small black suit­
case, barely bigger than a briefcase. 
Soaking in the sink were a pair of 
socks, underwear, and a single shirt. 
He travels light, I thought. Hmmm. 
Interesting guy. 
I soon found out from others that 
the man-stationed in Rome but of­
ten on the road-always travelled 
light, ca·rrying only one change of 
clothes. With his manifestly joyous 
interior, it was apparent that Tom 
Barrosse was an expert in detach­
ment; he was also Superior-General 
of the entire 2,000-member Congre­
gation of Holy Cross. 
Getting to know guys, or saints, 
like that makes me excited about the 
path I'm on in my own spiritual ad­
venture. I want to live with saints 
like that . . . and maybe become a 
saint myself. Pretty bold statement? 
But I can't help thinking that every 
Catholic who loves the Catholic tra­
dition must also want to become a 
"saint"-canonized or not. We don't 
just want to "be saved" as the folks 
in Baptistland say. We want to be 
saints. 

There are undoubtedly an infinity 
of routes to sanctity. The "religious 
life" is only one available avenue. I 
have no delusions about it being an 
institution devoid of scandal and sin­
fulness. In fact, I'm convinced tha:t 
the most necessary, most ongoing 
work for "justice and peace" done by 
religious has to be confronted within 
their own communities. 
I mentioned my pride in growing 
up in a Catholic family in Lynch­
burg. But I remember that we good 
Catholic Christians had our own 
problems and prejudices. And I re­
alize that Catholicism should not be 
a matter of pride. Yet I feel com­
pelled to mention a certain pride that 
I have in my second family, the 
Holy Cross family. 
In a few months I will renew my temporary promises to the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross. While I know that such a move must be humbly under­taken, I also know that I'll be par­ticularly proud taking this step to­wards making my permanent home with so many of my heroes in holi­-ness, in justice and peace. D 
Chris Barrett graduated from Notre Dame in 1977 with a degree in The­ology. He is now studying at the Catholic Theological Union in Chi­cago in the World Missionary pro­gram. 



Gallery 



Color and line. These two formal elements have allowed me to express my thoughts on paper in my most recent 
'
·I works. The combinations of ·colors and varieties of lines that I employ in my prints enable me to convey the emotions that are coupled with these mental movements. My images are created using hand-drawn stencils with the direct photo-silkscreen technique. This process, with its relative speed, allows me to build layers of colored lines rather quickly as I attempt to capture the movement of these rapid thoughts. 

Phase V; Siikscreen; 12 in. X 12 in.; 1982. 


~r,,~ ,· 
Phase I; Silkscreen; 12 in. X 12 in.; 1982. 

Untitled; Silkscreen; 11 in. X 13½ in.; 1981. 
. . -~ ­
-·--~~------~~-­

Four Viewpoints" 

How Catholic A University? 
Robert Vacca 
Robert Vacca is an Assistant Pro­fessor in the De'[Jartment of Modern and C"lassical Languages. Although the Chairman of the Faculty Senate, he stresses that the fallowing views are only his own. 
What does it mean for a univer­sity to be Catholic? 
I do not know. I have a somewhat clearer idea of what it means for a college to be catholic. The university has components where any kind of religious or moral or philosophical set of commitments do not seem to be much in play. Besides liberal edu­cation in the college we have the task of training professional specialists. Secondly there is the component of research. It is difficult to character­. ize professional education and re­search in terms of Catholic, whereas it is a more promising effort to look at it in terms of the liberal education 
component. 
The phrase "Great Catholic Uni­

versity" is used by a lot of people, 
and if you ask what makes any uni­
versity great, it is those with strong, 
well-known research and profes­
sional components. If Notre Dame is 
going to be .great, it will have to be 
great on that plane, and in that 
sense it will be no more Catholic 
than Harvard. The input of Catholi­
cism is located somewhere else. 
Do you see a problem with the requirement that all theology chairs must be filled by Roman Catholics? 
The word "Roman" is the difficult word here because what it means to be catholic is clear. As John Yoder said, since Vatican II the movement of the Church has been to try to minimize the difference between capital "C" Catholic and small "c" catholic. To put the word "Roman" in front of it is to go in the wrong direction because you are looking for people who are in too narrow a mold, whereas there is a more generous 
18 
by Dan Bell and Ed Kelly 

definition of catholic. It is really a question of what kind of catholic university Notre Dame is going to be. You can go two ways: in the direction of emphasizing the dif­ference between Catholics and other people so that Catholic begins to mean "not Protestant," or towards a much larger frame . of reference where what you have in common is what you are working with. 
It is possible for the university or some department to adopt a paro­chial definition of Catholic. 
Could Notre Dame invite someone such as the late Jean Paul Sartre to its philosophy department, in view of his global recognition as an atheist? 
The principle remains true that the departments should be respected in their selection of professors. The institutional stability of Notre Dame depends upon staying in touch with its constituency -which tends to have a certain idea of what kind of· catholicism should be highlighted, ar.d which wants the families' own personal religious convictions to be maintained. From that point of view it would be inappropriate to give a chair to Sartre. On the other hand, a figure like Sartre would certainly be a very creative stimulus -the gadflier at large -constantly chal­lenging assumptions, all of which would be very good for the academic atmosphere. An administrator must walk a tightrope between two dif­ferent principles. First, what kind of university do you want to be? You have to give high priority to plural­ism because that is where intellec­tual creativity comes from and where growth comes from. Even within Church history there are dif­ferent ways to be Catholic with a big "C." Cardinal Spellman and Dor­othy Day were both Catholics and they had very little in common. The administration should always try to maximize the number of modes; it is a grave mistake to pick one and ex-
elude the others. I do not think that every professor and every student there .can or should embody the same kind of commitments. The university as a whole should be Catholic and should be balanced, but the individ­uals can be imbalanced. When talk­ing about what kind of books should go in a high school library, someone once said we do not want books to be balanced, we want libraries to be balanced. I think that is true of the university, that we can tolerate great internal diversity if the whole uni­versity, the sum of all its people and the conversations between them, is in balance. So that is how I would see the Sartre case. 
What direction would you like to see the university take? 
I am mostly interested in· the un­dergraduate part of the university and the liberal arts component. I think that liberal education needs a real shaping up. In quantity and in quality it has been eroded, for rea­sons that are quite understandable and are not coming from any kind of bad faith. 
In regard to the recent Shapiro incident ... 
Now I will speak as the Chairman of the Faculty Senate. At our Feb­ruary meeting, we decided to investi­gate. I appointed a fact-finding com­mittee to look at the matter and they have been speaking over the last few weeks with all the parties involved, including the students. 
Looking at the principle it in­volves, we do need to make some kind of change in the academic man­ual. As it is right now, a Dean can replace a Professor for any reason at all, whether it be legitimate or illegitimate. There are certain cases where it is appropriate. But there should be a procedure whereby the matter can be thrashed out. I think that the Faculty Senate will probably make a recommendation to the Aca­demic Council to produce. some prin­ciples. The motivation for investigat­ing the Shapiro case: because there was a possible violation of Academic Freedom. 
For me, the question of the Cath­olic nature of the university contains two matters which we have dis­cussed: One, a decision about what kind of Catholic university we want to be, and secondly that there are some serious problems in the area of liberal education in general, and we will not clarify Catholic liberal edu­cation until we can go that one step further back, to liberal education in general. . 
SCHOLASTIC 

Alven Neiman 
Alven Neiman is a visiting assistant professor of education and philoso­phy teaching the Arts & Letters Core Course. Mr. Neiman offers an im­porta'(l,t perspective on Catholic edu­cation, in that he himself is Jewish. 
What do you see as the tension be­tween being .a Great Catholic Univer­sity, and being simply a great uni­versity? 
Historically, there is a real ten­sion. There are two extreme Chris­tian reactions to the notion of liberal education. One of them is expressed polyptychally by Paul and by Church fathers like.Tertullian: it is the view that now that we have the Word of God, we do not need to think any­more. Tertullian listened to pagans who said that the Christian Word was incoherent, that is you cannot have a God who is a man -just like you cannot have a round square. Tertullian took an odd turn in re­sponding to that claim: he made the fatal step of admitting "Yes, it is aibsurd, it makes no sense, it is ir­rational. Nonetheless, God has spo­ken, and He speaks irrationally -so we do not need the arts of rational­ity to be Christian," i.e., we do not need grammar or rhetoric or logic. Of course, the type of Christianity he was referring to is 1.ha't of those who are very good Christians, but are not educated and do not know much -and there are such Chris­tians -so people like Tertullian con­cluded that we not only do not need a liberal education, but it gets in the way, because once you start using your head, you start thinking up an these skeptical objections to Chris­tianity. And I think there is that kind of idea -that Christianity and liberal education do no't mix -float­ing around this country, in the fun­damentalist movement in particular, and even to some .extent around here. 
It seems to me that the right way to mix the two is to take St. Augus­tine's response, which is that any­thing that the faith teaches is going to be ,such that it is compatible with reason. .Faith has nothing to fear from reason. . . . Thus Christian education would be faith seeking understanding: Not just understand­ing, and not just faith. 
The trick is to find a .practical ap­plication for the mix -which is the challenge.here, and its .why you have got a biology department here that teaches Darwin -we of the Judaeo­Christian tradition are not afraid of Darwin.... 
I think that one of the best things we can do here for our Catholic col­lege students is, ,first, to develop their reason in the traditional, secular way, with grammar, rhetoric, logic, and other skills, so that they develop the ability to read and .criticize ,a text. Then you show them the ways in which their faith not only has nothing to fear from reason, but in fact can be developed and deepened through the use of reason. 
For example, you can point out the brilliant .ways in .which Augus­tine .and Aquinas used the ideas of Plato and Aristotle to unpack what Christianity meant. Thus, what hap­pens in other fi~lds of learning can affect the ways in which a theolo­gian interprets a book like Genesis by deepening and enriching the un­derstanding .of it. 
So .one of the best th'ings we can do here is to teach the students reason, .and then present the Jewish and Christian classics along with all the other classics. 
Another responsibility we have, once we have provided the appro­priate background for dealing with problems in a rational way, is to confront .our students with some of the basic problems inherent in faith. The prob~em ,of ,evil, for example. This should serve to strengthen their faith: since they are going to run into these problems sooner or later anyway, ,we have .a duty to give them the resources for dealing with them. 
Now, there is a real potential for danger here. For .example, if you are in an Intro to Philosophy course, in which .you are given an argument for the existence of God, against the ex­istence of God, the problem of evil, etc., without it being resolved, there is the frightening .prospect that the result wHl be skepticism or rela­tivism. You have got students who are .not following the argument but who are being swayed .by the rhe­toric. That is the worrisome thing about an argument-pro, argument­con method -being employed with­out the proper student preparation. I'd like to think that we can pre­sent these problems in the context of the proper preparation. That is why a learning of the classics is so important as a background. 
A third thing ,you ,want to do at a Catholic institution is to indicate to students, in a way they do not under­stand when they come here, just how interrelated religion is with other realms of experience. People often come here with the peculiar concep­tion that "I can bracket my life ­can be Christian, I can pray, I can even go to Church on Sunday, but that is pretty irrelevant 'to other 
things." And that is one of the goals of the core course -to confront stu­dents w'ith the ideas of such people as Dorothy Day, and, whether they agree with ;her ,solution or not, to bring them to question whether ,their being Christian does not mean some­
thing in terms of what I do as a political creature. "When I go to the polling booth, is not my Christianity just as important there as when I go to .Church?" .Which is not to say that Buckley is right or that Dorothy Day is right, but the question has got to be raised. 
OK, given this synthesis between faith, reason, and. everyday life which is the goal of CatJwlic Educa­tion, how well do you think Notre Dame accomplishes it? 
Well, I question whether or not the students are confronted with the classics to a great enough extent. I would hate to think of .a student leaving Notre Dame -particularly a Catholic student -who has not read Augustine's Confessions, or Aquinas. But it does happen. A similar situa­tion arises as well with nonreligious texts. I am shocked that students leave this University who have not read Plato's Republic. I share GP's feeling that there are certain books that are such that a liberally edu­cated person just has to have read them. 
But .I think that there are the re­sources .here for people to get a well­rounded Catholic education. If one takes advantage of the opportunities, there is ,plenty here. The nuclear dis­armament debate is one example. The Thomas More Society is another. 
Then there is enough here, outside of the theology department, to set Notre Dame clearly apart from a State University? 
Yes. There are things going on here and there are people here who you just are not going to find at a State University. And I think that most people here are concerned with value ,questions. 
The problem I see is that many people do not tend to take advantage of the opportunities. One of the reasons is that the work load he.:-e is. astounding.· And everyone seems to think that they have to .get a 3.9 to gel where they are going. I do not think that is the students' fault. There is a sense in which the college 
(cont'd on page 23) 


Stanley Hauerwas 
Professor Stanley Hauerwas is the Director of Graduate Studies in the Department of Theology. 
What makes a Catholic Unive1·sity Catholic? 
What makes a Catholic or Chris­tian university Catholic or Christian is that it is supported by a Church, financially; what it is is determined finally by those people who pay the bills. Therefore it is an institution supported by a Church, not by a state or a society; and that should make a difference in how it is run. We would not take as our priorities what serves the American society well, but what serves the Church well, a Church understood on a mo.re inter­national scale. For example, a Cath­olic university would sponsor the kind of intellectual endeavor that was able to break out of the senti­mentalities and conventionalities that reign in most universities today. 
In effect, education is teaching to one generation the mistakes of the past generation in the name of truth. Universities are cultural legitimators of the reigning ideologies of the cul­tural establishments of the day. The Christian university might ·be able to challenge that because it serves a people who are different. 
Now that is an idealistic notion which does not pertain today. There­fore we are being caned upon to take seriously our Catholic identity as a university. For surely it must make some difference for our students and faculty to be Roman Catholic. But today we cannot ascertain that there is any distinctness ·to being Roman Catholic in the American situation. Catholics have been so good at cul­tural accommodation that they want their universities to have some sense of distinctiveness because, indeed, they cannot find any in the Church in the first place. The failure is that we serve a Church today that has so little sense of itself as a distinctive institution that might be able to critically chal[enge the American ethos; that it is not able to provide a moral culture sufficient 1to sustain its universities to be genuinely dis­tinct. We should be the kind of uni­versity that would be providing the context for intellectuals that are out of the mainstream. Where they are challenging, for example, some of the disciplinary divisions as if those di­visions denote something that is really 0about knowledge. Why is it that we have easily accepted the as­sumption that the Antigone should be read in the English department rather than in the Philosophy de­partment? It is exactly that ability to challenge the conventionalities of the reigning intellectual modes that might make this an interesting place. We can do that because we draw upon intellectual traditions that have roots other than those of the En­lightenment. One of the great shames of our university is that we look so much like, intellectually, any other university, because we were taught by people who received PhD's from other conventional schools. And so we become equally conventional. 
A practical example: We at least as the Church, even if you agree with the just war position, assume that the burden of proof for those who would use violence is always upon them, not on those who do not use violence. ·Therefore even "just war" only makes sense against the back­ground of a people who are ex­tremely chary about the assumption that violence can be justified. There­fore it is extremely odd that we are using ROTC. While we do not ex­actly encourage this, we think it is a good thing that students are able to use the military service as a way to get an education. One thing the Church might do if it cares about its university, would be to set up a fund offering people an alternative to ty­ing up with the military in order to have an education. An opportunity· to go through the university as non­resisters for which they would pledge, just like they pledge to the military, a number of years of service in ac­tivities of peace and justice. Father Hesburgh should go out to the 
Robert Vacca 

churches and say, "Because, as a matter of fact, we know that you are a peaceable people and do not love war, and do not want your children committed to war as a first priority, that you will want to 
make some sacrifices to see that there is some alternative." If you did that kind of thing, it would not be long before the question of what makes Notre Dame Catholic would never be raised -you'd know! The greatest gift that the Church pro­vides for the university is a people with the courage to sustain the hard task of challenging the falsehoods that bear the name of truth in any culture. What that means is that if we do our job well as teachers and scholars, we may mess your kids up in terms of being good and faithful servants of the American status quo. Father Hesburgh, with great good will, is deeply concerned about, "Is Notre Dame Catholic enough?" What he sees coming into the University is a . bunch of culturally accommo­dated Catholics who have not thought very much about being Catholic. He wants to challenge that, to make them more mindfully Catholic. The problem is, what do you mean by "mindfully" Catholic? I think Father Hesburgh does not envision that we are going to turn out people who are much more than do-gooders who can work for the state department; we want to produce our own Henry Kis­singer who will do the right things rather than the wrong things. 
In a certain way, Harvard and Yale are no longer able to provide intellectuals who are able to run the American society with integrity and honor. The Wasp establishment is slowly fading and .the Roman Cath­olic ethnics have the energy to take up the slack. It is now Notre Dame's sense that we will be a·ble to edu-
Alven Neiman 



cate the new power elites for the coming years. But exactly the kinds of commitments that are character­istic of Christians may well make it impossible to be a Catholic Kis­singer; to serve well in the American economy, in certain respects. Rather, our responsibility as a university that serves the Church is to produce people who are intellectually critical to such an extent that they find themselves not easily at home in the world in which we Hve. That is ex­actly why the Church is so important to sustaining such a university. If we do our job well, it will require that the Church be a group of people who not only send their sons and daughters to_ us to face that rigorous task, but also are able to receive them back. And if they are, I think 
that is a great and good thing. 
Compare Notre Dame to Goshen College. They require every one of their students to do at least a se­mester's service in a foreign country. They do that ·for several reasons: one, it indicates that to be a Mennon­ite you must serve the world; two, it reminds· them that as Mennonites one of their first moral commitments involves. the ability to emigrate. They are not trapped by the ethos of any one country. They do not have to be :limited to America; be­cause Goshen College does not serve the United States of America, it serves the Church. Therefore it finds ways of helping its students recog­nize the intellectual challenge of that. 
The University recently refused to allow the Philosophy Department to set up a chair for Alisdair MacIntyre, a distinguished philosopher of ethics. 
That was an example of where Notre Dame missed the ball. He is an outstanding intellectual whose 
Stanley Hauerwas 

concerns are the kind that should characterize a Catholic university. There is no question about his aca­demic and intellectual achievements, or about his standing within the in­tellectual worId and his significance; there was a question about two things. First about his own Christian convictions ; he has described himself as a Catholic atheist -but in the sense that he thinks the only set of convictions worth disbelieving are Catholic! But how strange it is that we are even able to find an intellec­tual today who stitll thinks that athe­ism is an interesting issue; that is al­most to take a religious stance, since the most damning atheism of today is that of those who think it makes no difference one way or the other. That is why Notre Dame is generally characterized by a faculty of func­tional atheists. As long as you do not make an issue out of it, you are okay. That is just one way that we indicate how intellectually nonse­rious we are. The other issue had to do with his marital history, which admittedly is checkered. I would not say to the administration that this is an irrelevant issue, but they should have tried to find out exactly what that history was and how he viewed it. I assume that he would not try to give a justification for it. His views might reflect in some ways the more conservative views of the Church more than they had antici­pated. But I think they thought that the offering of a chair to him might be something of a moral scandal. I think it was a tragic mistake; he wanted to come here, and he is ex­actly the kind of person the Arts and Letters college so badly needs. Namely, someone that clearly intel­lectually stands out and is able to cut across many of the different de­partments in a way that can give 
Dennis Moran 

Arts and Letters the intellectual vis­ibility that it needs at this time when we are really under the gun. 
What about the recent shift in di­rection in the theology department? 
For a number of years many of us had a vision of the department that was really beyond the description of an ecumenical department. We were trying to provide an alterna­tive to the unappealing paradigms for the study of theology. On the one hand are Catholic and Protes­tant confessional departments where you might throw in a Catholic or Protestant or someone in Judaic to show that you were ecumenical, but you were not seriously ecumenical. The second form are religious studies d..~partments where you hire histo­rians, sociologists, psychologists who are interested in religion, but the last thing in the world you would want to do is any theology. We were try­ing to provide an alternative. We were trying to be a theology depart­ment, which means that we were not a Roman Catholic department, since we did not assume that knowledge of God was primarily gained through the study of Roman Catholicism. That does not say that you do not take a very serious look at Roman Catholi­cism, because it is a very serious tradition. We wanted to serve that tradition wel'l by taking seriously what we took to be its most central claims. We did not go out to hire Roman Catholics, we went out to hire interesting people; interestingly enough, Robert Wilkin, a Missouri Synod Lutheran, John Howard Yo­der, a Mennonite, and myself a Meth­odist, were always among those who kept reminding us, if possible, to find Roman Catholic thinkers. How­ever, it was determined by the ad­ministration that the department under Father Burrell's leadership, not because any of us were venal, in­deed they thought that some of us were quite good, but they felt that we had insufficient Catholic sensi­bilities to give direction to the de­partment. They felt that was indi­cated by our lack of hiring of Roman Catholic systematic and fundamen­tal theologians. So when they went outside the department to replace Father Burrell, we knew part of the agenda, which we approved, was to try to find more Roman Catholic 
theologians. However it now seems that that agenda is much broader than we had thought, and is to make 
(cont'd on page 23) 




Dennis Moran 
Professor Dennis Moran is managing editor of Review of Politics and teachmes Freshman Humanities courses. 
What is the role of the University in Catholic Education? 
The ques'tion to be addressed in Catholic education is what sector of the education machinery is com­mitted to tra'ining those who are re­sponsible for running the Church. To a greater extent now than before, with the increase of lay involvement, that responsibility belongs to the University. Notre Dame, in fact, is a fine mix of those who are going into the Church structure and those who are going to be 1ay persons -it makes things very comfortable-I as a teacher have found it very com­fortab'le. I mean, you defin'itely do not have a group of seminarians in the corner yelling "secular· human­
ist!,, 
In terms of education, when a stu­dent is selecting a University, a Catholic University, on the other 
hand, may not be what you want ­because it is Catholic; and in that sense the "Catholic University" idea is succeeding! 
On the other side, there are those Universities which have admitted that they did not want to be prosely­tizing. But no university should di­'lute its identity for the sake of the masses ... it's not just a loss of quality in that case -it is a loss of the lifeblood of it. Notre Dame can­not decide that it's not going to be Catholic. It's like the joke about Alexander Pope: he didn't let his Ca'tholicity get in the way of his thinking. How much being Catholic bothers us as a University is a good question -but the thing that both­ers you in the great Irish tradition, the thing that is the pain in your neck, may in the end be what saves you when someone shoots at you and you have to duck. . . . 
In regard to an issue wh°ich re­cently surfaced in Notre Dame Mag­azine, do you; think it consistent with the University's aspirations in Lib­eral Education and Catholicism to include a Business school? 
A University like Notre Dame has every right to have a business col­lege. Exactly as Woodward said, Harvard and the Ivy League schools do not have one, but all of those universities that have committed themselves to bringing Catholic young men into the ma'instream of America use the college as a primary avenue. We should ha~e a Business School, but one with a Catholic char­acter. Catholicism should not in a sense be "impressionistic" a't a Cath­olic University -it should be ex­pressionistic. 

Do you think it is too limiting to insist, as Notre Dame does, that all five theology chairs must be held by Roman Catholics-? 
It is a question of "divided usage" -we don't call our department "re­ligious studies" as most universities do, we call it "Theology." What we are talking about is a theological enterprise; so you can have -a lot of openness but you've al.ready defined your game to be something different. We are in sort of a privileged posi­tion, intellectually: it would be a long time before we would feel com­mitted to having a theological view­point from outside. No, it is not ex­cessively parochial 'to have all five chairs held thy Roman Catholics. It is 
Notre Dame cannot decide it's not going to be Catholic. 

less than liberal, and -this in effect. sets it apart from most·areas. If you look around, there is not any lack of non-Catholic viewpoints on campus. And if there is, where is it? fu the studen'ts ! The students are almost all Catholic! 
On the other hand, to give, say, A!llen Ginsberg a chair in Zen Bud­dhism would be to take liberalism to its final insanity. But to have only dogmatic, doctrinaire, closed-minded traditionalists in all five of those theology chairs would the a betrayal of what we are trying to do as a University. 
But when you move outside the Theology Department issue, do you then abandon that Catholic distinc­tion? For instance the University's recent refusal to allow the Philoso­phy Department to bring Alisdair MacIntyre here. 
No, bu't it is true that big names, like MacIntyre, pose a problem for the University. The question is, can you swallow it? For the most obvi­ous cases, the answer should be yes. 
Then you do _.~ot think that a big­name scholar like the late Jean Paul Sartre whose views obviously con­flict with Catholicism would over­shadow the Ca,tholic character of the place? 
If the reputation· is alive, you can never overshadow it. People would see that there must be some sort of an understanding with the Univer­sity, or the two· would never have gotten 'together. In that sense the University could invite Sartre, may­be even before 'they could invite someone else.... 
Do you see any uniqueness in the character of Notre Dame? 
One thing that you can say about the character of Notre Dame is that the University has consistently been able to change its mind on every­thing from Vietnam to parietals. The mechanism of change may be dis­tressing . . . even 'if you start hack­ing away, students sometimes feel they are dealing with a Hobbesian Leviathan. But the University has never taken the attitude that "We will never change." 
Then you see Notre Dame as being more dynamic than most Universi­ties? 
A University is a lake. It can be out there, and st'ill be dead. Four years at a dead University is like four years anywhere else -it has so depleted itself of anything organic or alive that it 'becomes a supermar­ket ... students are not bothered at 

But the University has never taken the attitude that 'We will never change.' 
all by the place. But{students should be annoyed or thrilled at decisions by the Dean ox the Financial Affairs Of­fice. There should be a tension, a knowledge that something's alive out there ... and I th'ink Notre Dame has this quality. 
Recalling Professor Walshe's speech last year on South Quad, which re­f erred to a "sellout)Jof Notre Dame's values to big business, do you tMnk he raised a valid point? 
That is partly a question of poli­tics. I am prepared, politically, to create a ruckus, and make charges which are only, well, half-supported, in order to alarm people -and I think that 1is what Professor Walshe is trying to do. The responsibility is for the students and the faculty to get academic about this, recognize the serious indictment, and follow through on it. 


To the extent that this was Walshe's idea, I think 'it's great. I also agree with him that Notre Dame, in its financial policies, should be willing to take some risks.... 
F'or the sake of its Catholicity? 
For the sake of its soul. "God hates the peace of those who are destined for war"; they are supposed to wage a battle against injustice; but that doesn't give you a mandate to pull all the money out of South Africa any more than to refuse to deal with unions, because they're viciously racial in their policies too -perhaps not racist, but definitely racial. ... 
It seems to me that there are principles which you expect a Catho­lic University to endorse. But that's not the heart of the issue, and that's what a lot of people try to make it. There is a soul to the University, and it's not dependent on financial policy or even what I consider to be a more important issue -admissions policy. 
If the reputation 
is alive, you can 


never overshadow it. 

Where is the soul, if not in policies or in F'r. Hesburgh ... 
The students here are ambassadors of the upper-middle class suburban­ite ennui. This country has gone through one terrible crisis of guts.... 
But the character of the place is dependent entirely upon the nature of the conversation: who is talking to whom, how often, and about what. There are people here who have nothing to say to anybody. People ought to want to say something around here. The University itself is a conversation. It is a place for pass­ing on information; it is also a place for training, and a place for re­search. Now, disruption of any of these goals is dangerous in terms of the University -so tha:t whatever the conversation, there needs to be an open respect for the community of worship; this respect, combined with the conversation that takes place here, defines the character of our Catholic University. D 

Neiman 
(cont'd from page 19} 
years are supposed to provide leisure, in which one is to think about these issues . .. . but this is clearly not happening. Dorm conditions, work load, vocationalism, parental pres­sure, all contribute to this problem. Although this leisure time to think might .be the most important thing in a person's life, parents (and others) do not seem to appreciate 'this. 
What is your view of the kind of student the University is trying to produce? 
You want to create a person who has a wide tolerance for experience; I am not ta1king about a relativist 

Hauerwas 
(cont'd from page '21) 
the department a Roman Catholic department of theology. We are told that the kind of department we were trying to build was a nondenomina­tional department and it is unaccept­able. There are obviously some of us in the department who deeply dis­agree with that change of direction. I think that it is shortsighted and will not serve the Roman Catholic Church well, which I care a lot about. Some suggest that Father Hesburgh is trying to please a Catholic con­stituency or responding to the con­servative mood in the papacy. I dis­agree. Father Hesburgh is a man of great moral integrity. I think what he is doing grows out of his pro­foundest convictions; I just think they're wrong. The direction he wants the department to move in is in fact retrograde and will not serve the Church well in the challenges before it in the next fifty years. And that is what we were trying to be, a department of theology that could serve well the coming small Church. I just do not think that they are ready to give up yet on being a Church of Power. 
There can be conflict between peo­ple of good will and that is what it is I think. I think that what they want to do is wrong; it is even un­clear what they want to do. What does. it mean to be a more Roman CathoEc department of theology where you hire more Catholics? They know that that will finally not get you to be more Roman Catholic, since it is very unclear what it means to be Roman Catholic. When I came person, but someone who is unafraid of views and perspectives different from the ones he happens to favor. One of the neatest things about the Catholic Church in the last twenty years has been a stress on the simi­larities between religions. And one of the best arguments for having Protestants and Jews and so forth around here is that we have got to widen our students' scope. A lot of students here simply do not know the difference between Protestantism and Catholicism, and do not know, for example, what being Jewish means. They just do no't know the history well enough to see what hap­pened -and that is very bad -it is as -if they do not know themselves, because it is that history which defines you, we all know that... D 
here, I did not come here to be a 
Protestant theologian, I would not 
have the slightest idea what it means 
to be a Protestant theologian. I came 
here to be a Christian theologian and. 
to do that as well as I possibly could. 
What that means is always to be 
ready to be chaiJ.lenged by others in 
terms of your understanding of being 
a Christian theologian. Many would 
find that understanding of being a 
Christian theologian to be very 
Protestant. Because exactly that 
sense of serving the Christian tradi­
tion, in a way that you are neither 
Protestant nor Catholic, is in fact a 
Protestant position. And that is ex­
actly what the Catholics do not 
want. You are to be obedient to a 
particular Church and call it Roman 
Catholicism. 
My attitude is basically one of 
deep sadness. What bothers me the 
most is that many of us who are 
Protestants in the department sym­
pathize with the problem Father 
Hesburgh is concerned about. It 
would have been nice if rather than 
assuming that they should simply 
find someone to 'be chairman who 
would do their will and give the de­
partment different direction, they 
had told us their concerns and then · seen how we could have helped to 
alleviate them. Instead, in the per­
son of our chairman, who I think is 
a fair man, we are being redirected, 
without having been asked if we 
wanted to be redirected. That sad­
dens me because it says finally that 
they do not think they can trust us. 
Which is too bad, because we thought 
that we were acting in a trustworthy 
manner. D Without room 'to breathe 






Poetry
They suffocate silently, 


sag on each other, sigh at each other, and rub their bones together 
Back Alley Route

these old, skinny shops in the corner of the Sunday city. by Teri Schindler 
The doors are bolted; the blinds are down. An occasional civil sign crookedly apologizes: "SORRY -CLOSED" Front windows dimly disclose faded treasures in disarray, cheap, 'tinny ware. 

Winter-weathered and people-tired, outdated and dilapidated, ancient relics these old shops, skeletons with loose doorknobs and orange and black or yellow signs, the dry bones of an extinct species. The paint hangs on with clutching nails; the windows all need washing. 
You can smell here old mattress smells and your great-aunt's small garage; you remember the filling station down the street with the ancient, rusty pop machines, and the summer garage sales that widows have in houses that look like yellowed doilies. 
Around the corner in the back alley stations close and widows move and the buildings crumble under the weight of the city. 

A Call For Closeness by Tom O'Toole 
I never met an optimist who didn't believe in God I never knew an agnostic whose future wasn't flawed I never met a Muslim whose meditation brought him rest I never knew a Jew who could pass the Torah's test 
I never met a mystic who had too many coats I never knew a Quaker who wasn't sick of oats I never met a Puritan who wasn't somehow sinnin' I never knew a Charismatic who wasn''t always grinnin' 
I never met an Amish man who owned a Lambourgini I never knew any of Reverend Ike's fold who knew the Green Cabrini I never met an altar boy who couldn't douse a candle in a flash I never knew a Buddhist who could run the 100-yard dash 
' ,. 
_.~..,. ::----, 
l' 1, , 
l' '~ 
,' . 
,... . 
,·•", ~ ..·.· . . 
._..,,..,,_._. .. ,#.•"· 

~f}i]~-··:: ..: _· J'1,_,,._,:'(r
rl'_(_:·~_:_·._-.'_l_._-_:_,_/ _fi_·_i_·_-_:·~,•. __ 

/:1 ~\~~:\,> . hi f~ L/ · ~~~t.\\~ Li: .. 

And mother shrieked while Grandpa swore ... 
I never met a Hare Krishna who was not off his flower I never knew a Revivalist Baptist who could sit still for an hour I never met a Mormon who knew why they don't drink Coke r,:, I never knew an old priest whose incense did not make me choke 
I never met a rich Catholic who could not drink his fill I never knew a Christian Scientist with a sizeable hospital bill I never met a Moonie who had not been abused I never knew a Confucian who was not real confused 
And yet, though there still 'be many a pessimist within our Christian midst 
I've never met an optimist who said he wasn't HIS 
For when many a sect still boasts it has the host with 'the most I guess that we should thank God that we have got THIS close. 

Culture Update
Pandora's Box by K. C. Goerner 
ART ... lectures at the Snite 
April 13 -Dr. Charles M. Rosenberg -"The
A black-eyed sprite 
... at the Snite Museum of Art 
Baroque Papacy: From Poul V Borg­
kicking her heels 
hese to Alexander VII Chigi"­

Until April 4 -Aaron Siskind's Harlem Docu­
12: IO p.m. -Annen berg Audi­torium 

Down the stairs 
ment -O'Shoughnessy Gal­
leries
gliding 

Until April 11 -Recent Accessions: Drawing~ and Prints -Print Drawing, 
Down the banister 
THEATRE 
on red shorts, 
and Phutogrophy Gallery 

April 2, 3, 4 -Dance Theatre -Directed by:
Clutching a wood box 
Until April 14 -Hormsen's Collection of Nav­Thomas Leff and Debro Stohl
girlish trinkets 

ajo Weovings -O'Shough­-Evening performances, 8 
Locks of hair, letters, fockets, 
nessy Galleries p;m,-Motinee, 2:30 p.m.­
O'Loughlin Auditorium
black stone or two, 

(gallery hous: T-F, 10-4 p.m.; S-S, 1-4 p.m.; 
Closed M) (Tickets: ND/SMC Students, Faculty and Stoff -$2.50; Senior Citizens-$2.50; General Ad­
Comb, shell, pendant, lace 
Falling with a 
... at the Isis Callery mission-$3.00)
thump! What has she got there?? 
To be announced 
MUSIC
(gallery hours: M-F, I0-4 p.m.; Closed S-S)
Mother whines 

... at SMC
Pressing her wet hands 
... at Saint Mary's 
April 1-Joon Grabowski, soprano -Senior Until April 10 -All Galleries -"Senior Com­Voice Recitol-8 p.m.-Little Theatre
along her apron. 

Put that boxamajigger 
prehensives" 

April 15, 17-New Music Festival, More­
down, Pandora. 

(gallery hours: M-F, 9:30-12 o.m., 1-3 p.m.; Antonio Consoli, guest com­
Come and eat 
Sun., 1-3 p.m.; Closed Sot.) poser-8 p.m.-Little Theater 
your eggs! Bass drum voice of Grandpa parked In corner1 teeth clamped on pipe: Stop fiddling with that box, Pandora. Two eyes of yellow egg 
stare slyly Up at the girl: The buttered toast 
remains impassive. Bacon strips curl sleekly and snake Along the plate: do you dare, Little girl? 

$39.00 
!Exam & Care Kit Not Included) is hoisted On her lap. 
Solemnly the box 
WE HA VE FOUR CONVENIENT LOCATIONS 
Lock springs back in her lightning 
DOWNTOWN : NORTH : SOUTH : WEST 
337 S. MICHIGAN : 1635 IRONWOOD CIRCLE : 2211 S MICHIGAN : 4612 W. WESTERN AV PHONE I PHONE I PHONE I PHONE
Fingers. 
And did the demons 


[281-285§] : I 211-00~ : [lss-1855] : [288-5646]
I -! I
spring and charge? 

And did the evil spirits knock Grandpa down, And spit on Jack, 
and throw bacon grease On Mother's apron? And did the last slow one 
i---------------------~----\ii
.; Buy One Large Sandwich* 
Hope, 

Get shut up in the box? Mother shrieked while 
II GET ONE FREE d ~erve II 
Grandpa swore 

II *Big Mac®, Quarter Pounder<E. y'~tL ttodaY® II 
And Jack's face turned 
II Quarter Pounder with Cheese<E, Filet-o-Fish® t1 brea PA II 
to red. 

II or McChicken® Sandwich. II 
Pandora! Get that damn frog 
1 McDonald's IIIll11 OFFER EXPIRES APRIL 30, 1982. Goodonlyat: ¦ ¦ •§' II
Out of here! Yessir, muttered 
McDonald's II 
1120011 ""'­

II Ca,h ,~,... 1519 N I d D .
the repentant sprite. 

Owner for reiml>urscment: McDonald's" • ronwo~ nve IIll IOOCen1er.Mishawaka,IN ___-______ South Bend, Indiana -_JI 



MARCH, 1982 ~---------------------------'25 



EL SALVADOR One Women's Story and A Look At United States Intervention by Dan McGrath Scholastic Copy Editor  

Author's Note: This is the second part of a two-part series dealing with El Salvador. Part One in the Febru­ary issue gave an historical perspec­tive of the political issues of the country and dealt with the social in­

, I 
I: justice against the poor in El Salva­dor.-D.M. 
Paulita Pike experienced the in­justice of the military forces first­hand. On May 27, 1980, she was ar­rested and imprisoned without ever being charged; she was never charged because there was no charge against her. 


Paulita was working hard teaching English at the Jesuit High School and at the Legal Aid Office. Her work there was in the open and it was no secret as to what the Legal 
· Aid Office was doing. She was very careful not to speak of politics in the classroom because most of her stu­dents were the children of wealthy 
· families and of officers in the mili­'tary. Nonetheless, Paulita was under · suspicion by many people in her so­. cial sphere. 


In January of 1980, the minister of education of the first junta, Sal­vador Samayoa, resigned his position as minister as a sign of his lack of confidence in the new junta. Salvador and Paulita were good friends. Their famiUes had known one another for many years. Two weeks after he resigned, he held a press conference at National University. He an­nounced there that he was being in­corporated into the FPL, The Pop­ular Liberation Front, one of the members of the FMLN, which is one of the Armed opposition groups. In a dramatic gesture, armed FPL guards flanked Salvador as he gave his speech and whisked him offstage to a waiting car. Salvador was now a criminal. 
Paulita deeply admired but re­
26 

gretted Salvador's decision. "A good friend of mine and I sat on my front steps and we started crying. Salvador was so close to us. We wouldn't see him again, yet we knew that it was the most courageous op­tion anyone could ever take." 
Severa1l months later, Paulita heard from Salvador. He was in hiding, and he needed a place to stay until he could get out of the country. 
"I didn't think twice. You don't think twice at a moment like that. You're friends in good times and friends in bad. Just 'because he had gone underground didn't change that fact." Paulita picked him up at the determined place and brought him home. 
"I had taken the option of not feeling fear, if I was going to be involved in this. I was not going t6 be weighing options -should I do this, should I do that. You can't be a middle-of-the-roader, you'll never get anywhere. I decided it was worth it." Salvador kept his disguise and they invented the story that he was a visiting professor from Costa Rica. 
He ar•rived on Tuesday. On Wed­nesday afternoon, while Salvador was napping and while PauUta was tutoring a small boy on her patio, armed National police blocked off the streets and surrounded the house. This is an interesting part of the story. Apparently, the National police were expecting the worst; they were expecting a confrontation. The day before while on a similar raid three people resisted for sev­eral hours in an armed confronta­tion. Paulita ran upstairs, warned Salvador, grabbed her daughter and the small boy, sat down in the middle of the backyard, and waited. Soon the poHce were in the house and discovered Salvador upstairs. Ac­cording to Paulita, no one knew who this man was except her daughter. 
And the st-range thing was that the police didn't know he was Salvador Samayoa either, or at least it seemed to her they didn't know it was Salva­dor. They came for her, although she still does not know why. A friend of Paulita's saw the National Police take her away in her car, and she im­mediately called a professor at Je­suit University. From Jesuit Univer­sity the word quickly spread that an American citizen had been taken prisoner. The president of Jesuit University, Ignatio Ellacurea, con­tacted Fr. Joyce and he in turn con­tacted people in the U.S. State De­partment and the National Council of Churches. They were immediately in touch with the now former U.S. Ambassador to El Salvador, Robert White. Within several hours it was known that a U.S. citizen had been arrested. 
During her ar-rest, Paulita had no idea who was arresting her. They answered none of her questions and all were iri civilian clothes. However, when they arrived at their destina­tion, Paulita recognized it as the National Police Headquarters. Paul­ita described it as a kind of "Caba­ret." "Because of the state of the war, a lot of the soldiers aren't al­lowed to go home, and ·so, for their entertainment, tney are brought prostitutes, bands, and 'liquor. 
"They brought us in. We got to the front desk and immediately I saw the two red scarves. I knew we were going to be blindfolded, and that is when I started to really be scared. Working in the Legal Aid Office, I had seen so many pictures of the campesinos who had been assassi­nated. The standard way for them to be found was with the red blindfolds and their thumbs tied with string be­hind their backs. This is the mark of the military." 
Paulita and Salvador were ques­tioned for several hours and Salva-
SCHOLASTIC 

dor's identity was discovered. Paul­ita prefers to ca1'1 the questioning "mental terrorism." "You're not scared. You're just terrorized. You don't even think about the future." Paulita was fairly confident they weren't going to torture her, but she feared for Salvador. Very few peo­ple knew that he was hiding at her house and the police could have easily tortured him, or even killed him, and no one would have known. 
During the night Paulita was taken from her cell, brought to an office, and she spoke with two men from the American Embassy. They told her that they were there to ad­vise her, and that they didn't think anything bad was going to happen to her. 
"They told me, 'These guys play ba~l with -us. You don't have to worry,' and I thought that's really indicative of something; yet, they saved my life too. I wanted to tell them that I wasn't the only one that was arrested, but they weren't inter­ested in what I had to say. They don't want to get involved. I thought that if I didn't tell them, they could just make Salvador Samayoa disap­pear. I felt it was my responsibility to tell somebody outside that Salva­dor's life was on the line." 
Paulita spent nine days in the National Police jail. After she was released the embassy took her to a hotel, and two days later she left for Spain. The State Department told her it was too dangerous for her to stay. She was not to see El Salvador again. 
Paulita was very lucky. At this time, President Carter was still in office and his hard-line policy on human rights made the military very cautious about violations against 
U.S. citizens. Now that Reagan is in office, the violence has increased dramatically. It seems now that the rightist groups are on a murder­spree. Everyone and anyone sus­pected of subversive action is ar­rested. Although they definitely do not condone the violence and torture being committed, Reagan's blind eye to human rights violations is an ap­parent "carte blanche" to the blood­thirsty security forces, and that is not . too strong a word. Clearly, either the U.S. government does not understand the situation, or the U.S. government knows something that the rest of the world is ignorant of. Nonetheless, it can be said without question that at present the U.S. is supporting and strengthening what can be simply called an unjust gov­ernment. This fact is not hidden and 
MARCH, 1982 
evidence is more than ample. Why is Am€rica sending military aid to El Salvador? What does it hope to gain? What are the alternatives to the United States? 
The United States foreign policy in Central America can very accu­rately be described as East-West par­anoia. Any in'ternal conflict in a for­eign country is viewed as an· East­West conflict. For the Reagan Ad­ministration, there can be no devi­ating from this strict policy. The 
U.S. cannot support communist reb­els. The problem is tha't in El Salva­dor this is not the case. The rebel­lion in El Salvador is not the product of external Soviet intervention, but of a long history of social, political, and economic injustice. 
America is supporting the Duarte junta, seeing it as the only viable al­ternative to bringing about peace in El Salvador. President Duarte's roots are with the PDC, the Chris­tian Democratic Party, and perhaps he does have a genuine desire to re­form El Salvador and end the vio­lence. However, many hate him. The opposition sees him as a traitor and a puppet, and the right sees him as a communist and a threat to security. He is caught in the middle, and it is clear that the junta either lacks the willingness, or lacks the ability to stop the shocking excesses of ultra­rightist terrorism. Bishop Rivera y Damas reported that in 1981 alone, 11,723 people (mostly peasants) had died in political terrorist-related events -not guerilla warfare. These are ki'llings by military and paramili­tary showing that the junta has no control over its constituents. Ironi­cally, America's support of the Duarte junta is only succeeding in 
pushing the opposition further left. To the opposition, any support at this stage, whether it be from Nica­ragua, Cuba, or the U.S. black mar­ket, is good support. 
The United States has much to gain by maintaining its support of the junta. If the present government falls, U.S. economic interests will fall with it. No argument here. An­other view is that El Salvador is being made an example. The Reagan Administration wants to make it clear to the world that they will use their strong arm in Central America to protect "freedom." This is surely unfair to the people of El Salvador. 
What is necessary, though im­probable, is for the conflict to be re­solved through a negotiated settle­ment. Last August the French and Mexican governments decided to jointly launch an initiative, publicly acknowledging the Salvadoran gue­rilla opposition as a political factor that could not be ignored. The dec­laration was to form a basis for ne­gotiations between the opposition forces and the government, negotia­tions that would counter the designs of the Soviet elements in Central America. Because of their state­ment, the French government was not invited by the Salvadoran gov­ernment to send observers to the up­coming elections on March 28, de­spite the close party connections with the Salvadoran PDC. To es­tablish negotiations would be a tough move for the United States, and perhaps it may already be too late to do so. Nonetheless, we must take another view of Socialism in Central America -Socialism does not have to be Soviet Communism if Amer­ica makes the right moves. D 

,, 
I 
i 

At one time in its history the Mahoning Valley which surrounds Youngstown, Ohio, turned out one-eighth of all the steel produced in the United States. Now the mills stand idle. These photographs were taken roughly four years after the plants closed, the impact of their closing is still felt in the Youngstown area. Taken with infrared film the gloom seen in these photographs cannot begin to 
reflect the gloom felt by the proud men 
who once worked these factories. 


Evolution ...

'i
" (cont'd from page fJ) 
an undertaking through PACE (Pri­orities and Commitments for Excel­lence). There has been a high de­gree of participation from all of the Notre Dame community concerning the mission of the University and its priorities in the decade. Indeed some of the parts of this article have been gleaned from reports and discussions provided by collaborators who have given generously of their time to PACE. Ultimately, the University's purpose is to articulate how we might best influence the enrichment of culture, society and the church: 
o 
through the education of young men and women as concerned and enlightened citizens with a religious, with a Catholic sense of values; 

o 
through advanced education in doctoral studies and the profes­sional schools ; 

o 
through continuing education reaching beyond the campus to alumni, the nation, and the church; 


• and through creative, scholarly and research contributions to the arts and sciences, technol­ogy, the professions and public service. . 


The University As A ... 
(cont'd from page 8) 
is a God who made us and sustains us, it is sheer insanity not to take note of the fact. If God became man so that we might participate in His divine life, then ignoring that fact is madness. Reality cannot be avoided or evaded without the pay­ment of a terrible price. 
It is folly to imagine that one can be a "good" person without adher­ence to divine norms. Is it not like­wise foolish to imagine that we can have "good" marriages, "g0od" fam­ilies, "good" governments, "good'' laws, "good" universities, or "good" anything, if we ignore the existence of God and His will for mankind? 
To conclude, with respect to what is to be taught, there would seem to be no reason for excluding a priori any aspect of reality. Educational content should include not only what man has discovered for himself, but also those truths which are known because God has chosen to reveal them. To exclude any aspect of re­ality is, quite simply, bad from an educational standpoint. One cannot understand a part outside of the to­tality to which it belongs. Pere Ser­tillanges, the French Dominican, put it well: "Each truth is a fragment which does not stand alone but re-. 
veals connections on every side. Truth in itself is one, and the Truth is God." In sum, true education must be God-centered. Both natural reality and supernatural reality must be ex­plored, for as Pope Pius XI wrote: 
Education consists essentially in preparing man for what he must do here below in order to attain the sublime end for which he was created.... It must never be for­gotten that the subject of Chris­tian education is man whole and entire, soul united to body in unity of nature, with all his faculties, natural and supernatural, such as right reason and revelation show him to be; man, therefore, fallen from his original state, but re­deemed by Christ and restored to the supernatural condition of adopted sons of God. 
We must · choose our ultimate teacher. Is it to be God ... or some­one else? The modern challenge is as it was centuries ago when Elijah appealed to the people: "How long will you straddle the issue? If the Lord is God, follow him; if Baal, follow him."6 D 

Renewal 
(cont'd from page 4) 

the present, it can bring an aware­ness of the past and a belief in the future to its study of -current issues and can do so .in a milieu which does not automatically exclude insights rooted in theological or religiousI thought. It is the sense of ,an ongoing 
I 
search for truth that ensures both the vitality and the youthfulness of the intellectual as well as the spir­itual life. 
"... which feels the rhythm of our times and radiates new light and achieves new conquests ..." 
The Council challenged us to de­velop a Christian understanding of the created order, to create a new model, a credible witness to the Gos­pel message. To ,put it another way, it asked the Christian to translate the Word into modern idiom so as to ensure that our beliefs and our style of life do not contradict each other. 
The Council also highlighted the "Pilgrim" nature of the Church ... on the way, not quite achieving its goal, never quite perfect, always 
30 

searching. Our colleges and univer­sities share in these qualities. Aware of the changing times, they have dropped some customs dear to the hearts of alumni; listening to their students they have searched out ways to bring new light to old ques­tions and to answer questions which were not even asked a decade ago. There are new lights to be found and new conquests to be made and the process requires a sense of identity on the part of .each institution lest in the process its basic reason for exist­ing is lost. 
There has been no break in the communication of the Gospel mes­sage since the first century. Yet, it is doubtful if the disciples would feel at home in our churches today. With new needs, new forms of expression have been found. It takes courage to make radical changes; it takes wis­dom to make those changes so as not to destroy the vital spirit they were intended to protect and express. I like to think that our institutions can serve as resources for the Church, providing educated men and women for service in and for the Church, and encouraging specialists (in the various disciplines) to offer their wisdom to further the role of the Church in the world and to en­courage the dialog so urgently rec­ommended by the Council. 
I look back on what I have written and realize that I have not so much discussed the future of Catholic Higher Education as I have my be­lief that it must have a future, that it is needed by individuals, society and the Church. Further, Catholic colleges and universities must be Catholic in the spirit of. Vatican TI if they are to fulfill ctheir missions. How many institutions will survive is a difficult question to answer but I would suggest that those which fulfill their mission will find support enough to continue to serve the Church and society. It is popular to be pessimistic; however, I feel that uncritical pessimism is as blind as uncritical optimism and, calling on the years of my own experience, I would like to look to the future with the words .of Pope John on my lips: Renew your wonder in our time as though for a new Pentecost! D 
SCHOLASTIC 


Hitchcock 
(cont'd from page 1) 
poses of religious art is to enable people precisely to experience their faith in a more intense way than they might ordinarily do. 
History partakes of the character of both the social sciences and the humanities, and what has been said about both can be said about it. Given the profound influence of Christianity on Western civilization (including America), it does no vio­lence to the integrity of the historian to devote a great deal of attention to religious history, especially the inter­relationship between religion and culture, perhaps most extensively ex­plored in the works of Christopher Dawson. In Catholic schools stu­dents and faculty will be people for whom religious subjects have an im­mediate meaning, and towards which they find themselves drawn by curi­osity, if nothing more. 
More ambitiously (in practice sel­dom achieved), it ought to be the task of the Catholic historian to con­tribute to an understanding of the relationship between time and eter­nity, to identify those points at which the historians' skins become inade­quate to a full illumination of man's place in the world, those points in time which offer glimpses of eter­nity. 
The study of philosophy was for many years the center of the Catho­lic college curriculum, mainly in terms of a single philosophical sys­tem-Thomism-which was deemed to be an adequate foundation for all other knowledge. The decline of Thomism since about 1965 has left most Catholic· colleges precisely as philosophical smorgasbords. Since philosophy must be the integrating discipline beneath all others, stu­dents are thus left, in terms of the integration of their own educations, largely to the personal predilections of the teachers under whom they happen to study. 
As in other disciplines, philos­ophers in Catholic schools will find the direction of their thought, and the form which it takes, deeply af­fected by the fact of belief and by the cultural tradition of Christianity. For them certain questions will have special meaning which they may not have for nonbelievers. 
The place of theology in a Cath­olic college or university hardly needs emphasis. However, as the ex­perience of the past twenty years has shown, it is by no means· certain what Catholic theology is. 
A liberal education requires that 
MARCH, 1982 
. ----· 
students be exposed to other re­ligious traditions besides their own. Catholics must know something ab out Protestantism, Christians about non-Christian religions. How­ever, such knowledge cannot be a substitute for knowledge of Catholi­cism itself. If students graduate from a Catholic coUege knowing little about Catholic theology, there has been a failure not only from the standpoint of faith but in terms of liberal education itself. 
Part of the function of theology within the framework of Catholic liberal education is to deepen stu­dents' understanding of their faith. There is a presupposition of faith, not necessarily in the sense of per­sonal belief but in the sense that the existence of the Catholic tradition is taken for granted and respected. It is assumed that an exploration of that tradition is valid and indeed essen­tial. 
The primary purpose of Catholic theology should be to explore and illumine the traditions of the Church itself. The theologian should also bring that tradition into relationship with the contemporary world in all its fullness. However, within the total context of the curriculum the­ology's principal task is to illumine the tradition. Much of the work of relating it to the modern world will be done, ideally, elsewhere than in the theology department, by scholars in other disciplines who are com­mitted and learned in their faith. 
In all disciplines, professional or liberal arts, Catholic scholars ought to be distinguished by their sensi­tivity to certain questions, their curi­osity about certain realities which might elude the nonbeliever. For ex­ample, a Catholic psychologist might be drawn to explore the moral impli­cations of Humanistic Psychology, as Paul Vitz does in his book Psychol­ogy as Religion. A Catholic soci­ologist is likely to have special con­cern for the family as the founda­tion of society and to be sensitive to those things which strengthen or weaken it. A Catholic student of art or literature will be attuned to the metaphysical implications of various artistic visions. 
As noted, no college or university can do everything. This may mean, in the practical order, that a Cath• olic institution will choose ta strengthen certain departments at the expense of others, or that certain programs will not be started because they seem relatively remote from the institution's major commitment. Stu­dents' schedu1es are also finite, and it may be that in the course of four 
years a student will learn relatively less about certain things in order to learn relatively more about the things which have a discernable re­.iationship to the Catholic tradition. There is no embarrassment in this so long as it is recognized that such negotiations go on in all institutions and are a necessary part of every education. The key question is whether the Catholic tradition does provide a valid focal point for edu­cation. If the answer is no, then there is no excuse for Catholic col­leges. If the answer is yes, then it is necessary that such schools have purpose, direction, self-consciousness, all those things which make mean­ingful intellectual community pos­sible. 
At present very few institutions exist which answer to this prescrip­tion. Even under the best of circum­stances, given the process of drift and disintegration over the past twenty years, it is difficult to see how such institutions can recover their Catholicism fully. As a new wave of "neo-Catholic" colleges are founded, it remains to be seen whether those institutions which have historically borne the Catholic name possess either the ability or the will to save themselves. D 

STUDENT CREDIT 
Ever wish that while traveling, vacationing, or maybe just for emergencies, you could have a national credit card? 
Well, now-YOU CAN-ob­tain a Master Card or Visa while still in school, no co-signer re­quired. 
We have established a division to exclusively handled the credit needs of college students . ,• . freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors ... so you can en­joy the conveniences of credit NOW, and have your cretlit es­tablished for your professional life after graduation. 
On a 3 .X 5 card, print your name and complete address. (Enclose $2.00 for postage and handling.) Send to: 
Creative Credit International Collegiate Credit Division Suite 303 -Penn Lincoln Bldg. 789 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15221 
-----­
The Last Word 
by Chuck Wood 

Give me more darkness said the blind man 
Give me more folly said the fool 

Give me stone silence said the deaf man, 
I didn't believe Sunday school 

--'Phil Keaggy, "Sunday School" 
A couple of snowballs came whizzing down by our feet from unknown sources. It was dark, so the guys who were throwing them probably did not see us, so I shouted out to them, "Careful with those, you're going to hit somebody -important!" 
No, this was not a sign that being editor had finally gone to my head; I am not a legend in my own mind. The actual target of those snowballs was not my friend and I. The "someone important" was the statue of Christ and His Sacred Heart that faces the Administration Building. It bothered me that of all the things to assault, these guys had chosen a statue of Jesus. At the least serious level, this seemed to be the type of thing kids at a parochial grade school would do to provoke the nuns. 
My friend, however, was a bit more upset 'than I. So much so, in fact, that he stopped the two guys and asked them if they knew the significance of that statue, especially its being of the Sacred Heart. Of course, being good contempora,ry Catholics, they had no idea that the Sacred Heart h_ad any particular importance. I must admit that all I had was some vague notion about Christ's compassion but no sense of the image as a central symbol of His humanity. 
Now as my friend lectured them, I was worried that they would think we were both fanatical-soapbox­holier-than-thou-types, and I was glad when he "established his credibility" by saying he was a Notre Dame alumnus. But still, I thought he might have been overdoing it. That is, until one of the guys answered back, "If he could come down off of that pedestal, he would throw a few right back at us, I'm sure." 
32 

I could shirk off the actual snowball-throwing: after all I could understand how, to those guys, it was only a statue. But even two people who believe, or would say jokingly, that Jesus would return blow for blow is too many at the supposed "premier Catholic university" in this country. 
Take it away said the hungry man Although I'm starving I'll ... get by Take it away said the thirsty man I'll get a drink . . . before I die I've got plenty of time to think of heaven But right now there's too much on my mind And I've had enough of that religious stuff Besides, I can't relate to your kind 
In my more cynical days, I used to say that one sure stumbling block to a solid, personal and sincere commitment to Christian living was getting a Catholic education. Examples of that claim are when "de­mythologizing" Scripture turns into denying its fundamental authenticity, or when, afraid to embarrass themselves in front of their secular "peers," professors hand down to their students a kind of moral cowardice and worship of the idol, Relativism. 
But now I talk about such things, especialfy in re­lation to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, not of cynicism, but out of hope for change. And I ask other people to forget about the "too much on their minds" and not to pass off spiritual concerns as "religious stuff." I ask that because I hope that people are more than indifferent towards their Christianity. I want to be convinced that people do not, as Tara Jones puts it in her "Perspective,'' live "in a kind of limbo, or fog." I know. from Tara's conclusion that she too would like to see that fog lifted. 
If we could get out of that fog of indifference and cowardice, we could get on with the work of "being saints-canonized or not," which Chris Barrett describes in his essay. Getting beyond indifference and getting over cowardice are, of course, two different things. It is fear that disturbs me more, though it and indifference are. mutually supportive. Afraid, those who are "starving and thirsty" for teaching and ex­ample that will mature and not kill off their faith will not have the nerve to ask for them. Lack of nerve can devolve into lack of concern and the cry, "Take it away ... I'll get by." 
Why merely "get by" when we can be "more than conquerors"? Why let others convince us there is no Truth simply because they are unable to find it, embarrassed to admit it, or afraid that students have "had enough of that religious stuff" and so avoid the very thing many students want the most?.
,--·

I know a lot of students who will admit to caring about the things I have mentioned, in private conver­sation if not in public or among friends (again, that 
. fear). And there are people in the ranks of the admin­istration, faculty, staff who share •these perspectives. With all of these here, there should be more challenges to the idolatry of relativism and the morality of "selective obedience." Students especially should ques­tion the New Theology just as its proponents encourage them to question and discard the Old. 
Catholic education does exist. And those who care and are not afraid to pra~tice and profess a Christian faith should make sure that such education exists for the right reasons. At a Catholic university, everyone should be able to get more Light and Truth, not more darkness and folly. D 
SCHOLASTIC 
BECAUSE OF CHEMOTHERAPY 
KAREN ANDERSON IS ASTATISTIC. 
THE KIND OF STATISTIC WE LIKETO BRAG ABOUT. 
When Karen was 18 years old, her doctor dis­covered she had a deadly form of leukemia. Facing incredible odds, Karen spent three years in inten­sive chemotherapy. 
Now, eight years and two sons later, you'd never suspect that she had bat­tled a disease that kills more than 15,000 Amer­icans every year. 
Your donations help us continue the programs that will give us more sta­tistics like Karen Ander­son. Statistics we can all





~:a1_ 
Give to the 
* 
American Cancer Society 
This space contnbuted as apublic service. 

BIG CLUMBE~--­
Your Complete 
HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER 
• Paneling  • Paint  
• Lumber  • Tools  
• Wallpaper  • Shelving  
• Shelf Brackets  • Hardware  
• Stain  • Elcctrlcal Products  

Over 5000 Items in Stock Delivery Service Available 


BIG CLUMBER 
125 DTXIEWAY NORTil-ROSELAND 
(Buslnoss 31 Norlh) Just north of tho campus 
PHONE 272•6S00 



ROGERS Optical 

7 
HOURS: MON -TUES -THUR -FRI 9AM 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPECTACLE SERVICE 
ALL EYE DR.'S PRESCRIPTIONS HONORED 
Ct:ll 

289-7809 
21450. MICHIGAN ~ 







