SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79	JULY 16, 1943	NO. 2
Led by the drum and bugle corps, V-7 men march to chon'.
President Addresses Convocation Service Men's Center Popular Spot The Marines Have Landed Now Hear This
Football Prospects Uncertain
The Modern Gilbert's
Customized
HICKEY-FREEMAN
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
$60and up
THERE are no finer made. Tailored to Hickey-
Freeman standards and individualized by the Modern Gilbert’s expert fitting, these uniforms assure naval officers long, hard wear and complete ease and comfort. In buying your uniform here you have the advantage of a fine store’s taste and exacting quality standards.^
DOBBS OFFICERS’ CAPS
In South Bend — TAXI FREE to Gilbert's
THE MODERN GILBERTS One,
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
U
The Week
HE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
TOP OF THE WEEK
G. I. trousers.
G. I. jumpers.
Those naval issue whites aren’t half so bad as they look on some seamen. Some of them mistake the top for the bottom (which isn’t hard to do) and appear to be walking around on their hands. Of course, the uniforms get dirtier that way, but who cares? They’re easy to wash if you follow the action of a handsome bonnie basketball player and a Virginia rebel who last week, dressed in full attire, walked into the shower room, stood under a full blast of water, and started singing “I get the blues when it rains.” But they were only kidding, of course, because the blues won’t be issued until September, about the time the Marines get their uniforms.
❖ ❖
Two early worms, out to get the bird, passed by the V-12 calisthenics ground last Wednesday morning and were discussing the strange antics of the men on the field. Said Susie Q to Floy-Floy: “Oh, look at that muscular harem of manhood! See, they’re bending over to pick up clovers, and the first one to find it jumps up in the air and waves his hands.” “Yes,” said Floy-Floy, “but that man up on the table seems to win every time. He’s always up before the other ones are.”
Judging by the actions of some V-12’s during the first week here, V is for victory and 12 is for mental age. On the first day one detail was leaving the Rockne Memorial after having passed a swimming test. The detail was on its way toward Howard and was being led by a very energetic young Freshman (fresh out of high school) who swore he had had experience in military drill. Coming to the center walk where he was to turn his detail left, the young fellow, without hesitation and w-ith military impressiveness, yelled: “Squad . . . around the comer . . . march!”—and dam if they didn’t.
Upon first arriving here, all the V-12 men were issued instructions concerning the franking privilege they receive in sending U. S. mail. A sample address was printed on the instruction sheet that read:	,	.
4.
John Smith, A.S., V-12, USNR, Dillon Hall, Room 209, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
From last reports the residents of 209. Towner, Lightbody, Grafe, and Andres, were receiving twenty to thirty letters a day that didn’t belong to them. It became so bad that they found it necessary to put up a special notice for the mailman.
THE WEASEL ROVES
Since the shrill and happy voices are gone from across Route 31 and there is no food left to speak of in the dining hall and all has been said that can be said of the laundry, we have to seek new fields of exploitation for The Week’s roving correspondents. Weasel Eye Monstrosity was sent over to Alumni to investigate reports that the Minnesota Glee Club had moved in, but he remembered he’d left a nickle on a table at Andy’s and we never did find out who was doing all the harmonizing. Weasel did get one good story. He found somebody had mailed a letter at the local post office with a stamp on it.
NO RELEASE DATE
One Brownson frosh sounds like a man who won’t be broke for a while. . . He’s John Damrich of the deep South. . . Also stands up well under razzing. . . . Hep or not the university insists on daily jam sessions. . . Education is a wonderful thing: witness the V-12 men who have been here less than three weeks and can already count to four without hesitating. . . Local mystery to be tracked down: What’s become of Demerit, the famed canine V-7 Mascot?. . . Rumor that Charles Atlas wants to join the Marines to improve his physique is unfounded.
The official Lost and Found Department is located in the Office of the Prefect of Discipline in the Main Building. All articles which are found should be turned in immediately in order that the right owner may claim his property as soon as possible.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 313 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
LIGHTS OUT
Dear Week:
Imagine my profound and unquenchable humiliation last Saturday night when the lights go out in the caf and some middle of the shipman drops his brown over the sea cap into my plate of fill it sole. Of course I was incognut of the whole affair and being in a flamished condition kept on eating. Everything was seemingly okay until I bit into that little gold anchor those middle of the shipmen wear on their caps to make sure people won’t think their from Camp Custerd. Well, to presume the story, the lights were still out and it was litaturely “Anchor Away,” in my inards. The lights came on just as I was on the verge of partaking of a navy blue raincoat buckle. And so consequently I am in favor of either de-mechanizing the navy or quit trying to save on electricity in the caf.
Sincerely and Hardly Yours, WlLBURFORCE.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Gee, I wish they’d fit.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 79
JULY 16, 1943
NO. 2
Service Mens Center is Popular Spot
Welcome Extended to Notre Dame's New Trainees Highlights Week-End Activities.
By DICK AMES
A little over a year ago, due to ’ the sudden influx of trainees to Notre Dame, some of the considerate and more farsighted people of South Bend realized that the sailors who would be stationed here, as well as those who would be simply passing through, would stand in dire need of some place that was exclusively their own, where they could relax for a few hours, if transient; or where they could find wholesome entertainment and enjoyment at any time, if they were training at Notre Dame. The Service Men’s Center, in downtown South Bend is a result which has well justified the enthusiasm and .effort put into it.
The most amazing feature of the
—South Bend Tribune photo
Both the parties and the people are entertaining.
Center is that it is supported, staffed and equipped completely by the people of South Bend. Its personnel, headed by Mrs. J. Arthur Haley as President, and Mrs. Woodson Carlisle, Mrs. W. Hager, Jr., and Miss Geraldine Toepp as Vice-Presidents, are all local residents. Many people refer to the Center as a U.S.O. club; but the fact that it is not a branch of that fine organization only makes it more valuable to those who founded it and to those who use it, because of the added personal sacrifice which has been necessary to keep it in operation.
In its first year, approximately ten thousand men have enjoyed its facili
ties during that time, from all branches of the service, even a sprinkling from the armies of the Allied Nations. Ten thousand meals have been served through the Canteen women of the American Red Cross; and the Galley Bar, which supplies the men with light snacks, has given out thousands of cookies, cakes and pies. Over 183,000 bottles of milk and orange juice have been distributed. These figures show more clearly than anything else could that no service man who has come into the Center with the idea of leaving it with a full stomach has been disappointed.
But this, of course, has not been the only function of the Center. Its main purpose had always been to entertain the men and it has done an admirable job in this respect. One hundred and fifty of the finest girls in South Bend have donated their time and energy to be trained for work in the Canteen, and have helped to make it a cheerful place for the men to pass an hour or so. And hospitality and friendliness have been given out with a lavish hand by all the people of this city, evidenced by the fact that there have been more than a thousand invitations issued for private dinners, and a like number for private parties, while more than nine thousand men have been entertained at dances. The theaters of South Bend have been most generous in granting free tickets to the men, a gesture which has been duplicated in only one other military area in the country.	'
The Center itself is bright and colorful, done in a scheme of red and blue. It was furnished almost exclusively by the donations of stores and individuals. Not only the furniture but also a refrigerator, a piano, juke box, electric fans, rugs, books, ash trays, a type-(Continued on page 21)
ADMINISTRATION
First Convocation Held;
Father O'Donnell Speaks
On July 5, at a special convocation of 1,851 naval V-12 trainees and Marine candidates in the navy drill hall, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, G. S. C., president of the University, dedicated the moment to “Another Fourth of July” and to the strengthening of the ideals and standards of morality.
“In concentrating upon the defeat of the Axis,” said Father O’Donnell, “we sometimes lose sight of our ultimate goal, which is a strong nation that lives according to Christian principles. Such a nation cannot prosper except through the family in which God-fearing parents rear God-fearing children. Already we hear of disaster in homes where the father works on one shift in a defense plant and the mother on another, while the children roam the streets, or are farmed out to a day nursery. The result . is juvenile delinquency, increased major crime, and a laxity of marital relationships that does not coincide with the Christian ideals for which we are fighting.
“I would not. belittle,” continued the Notre Dame president “the contribution that women are. making to the war effort, as members of the Red Cross, defense workers, or members of the auxiliary corps of the army or navy. Granting proper circumstances and the absence of other responsibilities, their eagerness to help is laudibly patriotic. But I am saying that the wife and mother who remains in her own home, living up to the Christian ideals of womanhood and motherhood is performing the greater patriotic service. Women -have their duties on the home front, but the first home front is in the home.”
In a critical analysis of the. multi- . farious post war plans that are filtering the .thought of our. land, Father .O’Donnell argued: “They have the same fatal weakness that. got us into the trouble we are now trying to get out. of. They are not based on religion; they do not recognize God and the natural law with its concepts of rights and duties as they apply to nations and individuals. A
new and better era will come only when we return to the faith of our father as found in the American credo, the Dec-claration of Independence.
“Why have I spoken to you as I have?” concluded Father O’Donnell. “Because I realize the task that lies before you, and I believe that you should give, some thought to' the forces that are undermining the American heritage here at home while you are getting ready to fight for it abroad. Ultimately, you will have to meet the enemy from within. This war is between paganism and Christianity, between God and antiGod. But the issue will not be settled on the day when the axis admits defeat. Our nation’s future will not be assured until, as a people, we again make religion the motivating force in our lives; until we again realize that true loyalty to country cannot exist without true loyalty to God. You see, therefore, that your responsibilities have already begun, and I assure you that they will not end when you take off your uniform and return to the life of a civilian. You will always have to fight to preserve what you will have won. You who are now offering your lives for your country must live for your country. You must have a voice in determining the future, in shaping a peace that will be permanent because it will be based upon charity and justice.”
Prominent Alumnus and Trustee Dies
Frank E. Hering, 919 East Jefferson boulevard, editor of the Eagle magazine and one of South Bend’s best known residents, and Notre Dame alumni, died at 10:20 Sunday in his home after a long illness. He is survived by Mrs. Hering.
. Mr. Hering was born in Northumberland - county, Pennsylvania, April j 30, 1874, a son of- Solomon and Mary Her-ing. His early education-was gained in public schools and he was graduated in 1892 from the high schoolin Williamsport, Pennsylvania. Folloxring graduation he was employed by the Pennsylvania railroad. From 1893 to 1895 he attended the University of Chicago.
Notre Dame's First Coach
He went to Chicago from Bucknell university, Lewisburg, Pa., where he had been director of athletics, and in 1895, went to Notre Dame as the University’s
Frank E. Hering
first paid football coach and director of athletics. He continued in that capacity through the season of 1900. He was captain of the team in 1896. In those early days of college football it was frequently the custom for the coach also to play on the team. Mr. Hering was quarterback in his playing days. During his tenure as head football coach Notre Dame’s teams won 27 games, lost 13 and tied three.
Mr. Hering also coached Notre Dame’s first varsity basketball team in the season of 1897-1898. Among the players on that team was Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., now provincial of the United States province of the Holy Cross order. Mr. Hering coached the varsity baseball team from 1896 through 1899 and played on the teams of 1897 and 1898. Illustrating his versatility as a coach, he also directed the Notre Dame track team in the season of 1897-98.
Rewards to Athletes
Mr. Hering was the donor of the Hering trophy awarded annually by University authorities to the student who was adjudged the most outstanding in both athletics and the classrooms. Several years ago he changed the nature of this award, confining it to football players who were, outstanding in spring practice. These awards were made upon the suggestion of the head coach and his staff.
He had always maintained the closest relationship with Notre Dame athletic teams and traveled with the football team when his health and business affairs permitted. He frequently attended football practice during both the spring and fall. His advice regarding strategy and personnel was eagerly sought by the head coaches. He was a close friend of the coaches who followed him at Notre Dame.
(Continued'on page 19)
The Marines Have Landed
Captain Finney, U.S.M.C., In Charge Of Marine Corps at Notre Dame University.
By BOB MORAN
Captain John W. Finney, U.S.M.C.R., World Wai- I naval veteran, and later an Army reserve officer, today has charge of the first Marine detachment ever to reside at the University of Notre Dame. Commanding all Navy programs on the campus, including the Marines, is. Captain H. P. Burnett, U.S.N.
- Captain Finney, formally from Columbia, Tennessee before his call to active duty last November, joined the regular navy in April of 1917 as an apprentice seaman. He first saw action on the U.S.S. Bridge, a ship carryingfood supplies to our fleet during the last war, at the age of sixteen. Eventually, he held the petty officer commission of the third class electrician. After approximately one year of service in the war zone aboard the U.S.S. Bridge, a vessel still in use, the Captain was honorably discharged on January 3, 1919 and returned to civilian life. He immediately went back to Columbia High School, which he left to enter the service as a Junior and received his diploma in the Spring of 1919. He had been very active in that school where he was captain of the baseball team and 1’eceived honors in basketball, and other sports.
Upon graduating, he continued his education at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Here he took the R.O.T.C. course, and was captain of his company. After receiving his diploma, Captain Finney taught for two-and-a-half years at Columbia High School. For the next five ensuing years, he held an Army reserve officer’s commission and - then became the editor of the Columbia Daily Herald, a position which he held until last November when he was commissioned a Captain of the Marine Corps, and assigned to Camp Le Jeune, New River, N. C. He was then affiliated with the guard company at the naval air station in Jacksonville, Fla., for three months, before arriving at Notre Dame on June 8th, in charge of a Marine Corps detachment of over seven hundred men. He had duty at the Marine barracks in Quantico, Va. with other members of the corps’ station’s personnel, in preparation for their parts in the V-12 program on the campus. The drill instructors of the detachment are
—South Bend Tribune photo
Capt. John W. Finney. U.S.M.C.R.
direct from Parris Island and are experts in this field.
At the time Captain Finney joined the Marines he was chairman of his local draft board, in Columbia. He has always been very active in civilian affairs. He still enjoys many of the athletic sports he had previously participated in, such as hunting, golf, tennis, and horse-back riding.
This Fall, the Captain intends to have his wife and daughter join him. Mrs. Finney is now helping to manage the Columbia Daily Herald. His son, John W. Finney Jr., is a private in the Army, now stationed in Georgia.
New Telephone Locations
The Office of the Prefect of Discipline has announced that all pay telephones have been moved out of university halls. This action has been made necessary by the shortage of vital materials. Replacing these phones will be a number of pay stations located in the basement of the dining hall. Students who expect calls will have to await them there. The University has also announced that it will only receive emergency calls for students.	" • .	- _
Faculty Changes Announced
The opening of the summer semester was accompanied by several major faculty changes. Most important of these is the retirement at his own request of Henry B. Froning, head of the deartment of Chemistry since 1920 and Dean of the College of Science since 1940. Dean Froning will continue to serve the University as special consultant to the Department of Chemistry and has been appointed Dean Emeritus of the College of Science.
Dean Froning
Succeeding Dean Emeritus Froning as Dean of the College of Science is Lawrence H. Baldinger, Ph.D., a graduate of Western Reserve University and dean of the college for the last two semesters. Andrew H. Boyle, Ph.D., a
Lawrence H. Baldinger
member of the faculty since 1933, has been assigned the duties of the head of the Department of Chemistry. Father O’Donnell has also appointed George Hennion, Ph.D., director of research in this department.	-
On account of the heavy demands made by the Navy program, the Department of Physics has been supplemented by the apointment of Mr. Francis J. Skeeler as assistant professor. Mr. Skeeler was formerly a member of the faculties of Texas A. & M. and St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas. Three new instructors have been added: Chester R. Brothers, ^Morris Goran, and John G. Halloran. :^ tion three graduate assistants have,.;been raised to the status- of instructors;
. (Continued on page 22)
'	’	.	-,-7.
Campus News
The N. R. O. T. C. Weighs Anchor
In addition, anti-aircraft weapons were handled by all hands including 20 mm. oerlikon guns, .30 'and .50 caliber machine guns and 3 inch AA’s. Targets wore helium-filled balloons sent aloft from the ship, representing attacking aircraft.
BY H. J. GILLIGAN AND J. D. USINA
"TURN TO" MEANS WORK
(Notre Dame’s unit in the Naval Reserve Officer’s Training Corps was established in September of 1941. It ranks with the largest of these training groups in the nation, there being twenty-six others operating under the Bureau of Personnel of the United States Navy Department. Naval experience is afforded annually by training cruises which this year ivere compulsory for members of all units. Notre Dame’s contingent saildd aboard the U.S.S. “Wilmette” as enlisted personnel and added practical experience to their semesters of theoretical knowledge).
Two weeks of strenuous Navy life unfolded on the morning of April 30th for approximately 120 advanced and basic course students of the Naval R. O. T. C. of the University of Notre Dame. Their hammocks were slung on the mess deck of the U. S. S. Wilmette, training ship operating out of the Naval Reserve Armory base on Chicago’s -North Side.
Lieut. Commander Thompson Black, Lieut. Commander Roy Aaron and Ensign S. J. Jablonski, University instructors in naval science, accompanied the N. D. men on this first 1943 cruise and provided instructions in the various
Leader Grumbine's Gun Crew in Action
routines prepared for future Navy officer material. Gunnery, navigation, emergency drills, and various other integral functions of shipboard life were but a part of daily activity which began at 0530.
During the entire time aboard the Wilmette, cadets handled watches and supplemented a skeleton force of regular crew in performing the many tasks connected with the maintenance of the vessel. Under the watchful eye of commissioned officers cadets acted as helmsmen, navigators, lookouts, firemen in the engine room watch during the entire cruise.
"COMING ON THE RANGE"
Towards the latter part of the voyage, gun crews hastened to their stations and manned the 4-inch guns on the foc’sle. Firing on a competitive basis, twelve gun crews comprised of students dropped shells on. a target under simulated battle conditions. Gun Crew No. 4 captained by Charles M. Urrella, newly appointed battalion commander of the unit, won the firing honors. Other gun crews also turned in excellent performances and when retrieved the target was shattered, a proof of efficiency and deadly firepower.
While not on range or on watch, cadets were put to tasks by Chief Boatswain’s Mate Broden swabbing down decks and cleaning bright work. Since the ND unit was the first aboard the training ship this season, the special task of readying the vessel for its summer sea duty was theirs. Parts of the hull were chipped of their scaly coat of gray war paint and fresh paint was substituted; gangways were lowered from theii' winter-secured places, scrubbed and put into operation; lifeboats and motor whaleboats were completely overhauled—most of this work being accomplished	during the	early days of
the cruise.	.	•
Milwaukee,	Wis.	was	the first	port
the Wilmette	put	into.	Liberty	was
granted all hands not on watch; and the reception accorded the cadets by the citizens was most cordial. For several days Milwaukee was the home port; the. ship leaving early in the morning and returning in the evening. Finally the vessel sailed southeast to Michigan City and then swung northward to Muskegon, Mich. The latter town boasts one of the finest harbors on the lake. It was off the shores of Michigan City that the larger guns were fired.
In the final stages of the trip the Wilmette entered Muskegon Lake— around which the town of Muskegon is situated. Again liberty was granted. Prior to the departure of shore liberty groups. Commander Ross, captain of the vessel, held inspection for the cadet personnel on the foc’sle. Resplendent in dress uniform the affair was conducted with fitting naval dignity. '
Thick weather set in as the' Wilmette left Muskegon. Underway thru soupy fog banks cadets got a taste of real sea life and the difficulties that accompany it. Steaming at reduced speed and with hoarse blasts of the whistle piercing the .night, the Wilmette = followed a dead reckoning course and hit Michigan City, well over a hundred miles away, right on the nose.
WEATHER GETS ROUGH
Some of the roughest weather ever withstood by the vessel in, her long years of service with' the Navy was encountered oh the short trip across the
(Continued oh page'19)	•
8
People
On The Campus
BY A. J. OHMAN
Earl Mitchell
Ensign Warden
For the first time in the history of Notre Dame, the fairer sex, in the capacity of “Waves,” is playing a prominent part in the activities of the University. Ensign Anne Warden is the head of the enlisted Waves at Notre Dame and is a graduate of Lom-buth College and did post-graduate work at Peabody College.
Before joining the navy, Ensign Warden
worked as a school teacher and as a Home Management Supervisor for the Farm Security Administration.
Miss Warden entered the Waves in February of 1943. She took her training at Smith College, Massachusetts. Upon graduation she was sent, on direct assignment, to Notre Dame as assistant to Lt. Miller, aid to the Executive Officer.
—Harriette Donaldson
Those who have been at Notre Dame for the past three years will remember Jack Herlihy as President of the Junior class and Battalion Commander of the R.O.T.C.
He is the son of Commander J. E. Herlihy, now stationed at the Submarine Base in.New London, Conn. Herlihy, 19 year old Jun-
Jack Herlihy ior, was born in Fitchburg, Mass., but being the son of a Naval Officer he remained there but a short time.
Jack has lived in several parts of the world, hence after seeing Central America and the Philippines, he selected Foreign Commerce as his course of study at Notre Dame.
Earl Mitchell, prominent guest of the Marines, was born in Anderson, Indiana. He is Avell known in Track competition 	_ from the East to the J_________________i West Coast. His time
for the mile is 4:8.6 and he also has a 1:53 half mile. These and many other* excellent timings have placed Earl with the top seven runners in the country. This 21 year old sensation is at present majoring
in Sociology under the able guidance of the Marine Corps.
Mitchell started his college studies at Butler University where he remained for a year and a half. In the middle of his Sophomore year he transferred to the University of Indiana where he met the girl to whom he is now married. Mr. Mitchell has a high opinion of the Marines. He claims, “They are the best service of the bunch.” Perhaps a bit prejudiced, but nevertheless a fine attitude for a grand corps.	.
mander from the 23 - year - old gra
Palmer Amundsen
Palmer Amundsen, Company “B” Com-U.S.S. Dillon, is the nd - nephew of Roald Amundsen, renowned Polar explorer. “Slim” was born in Vancouver, Wash., but his home at present is in Tombstone, Ariz.
Amundsen j o i n e d the Navy in September of 1940, took his “B o o t” training in San Diego and was then assigned,, for
four months, to an oil tanker. At the end of this time he was sent to Pearl Harbor, assigned to Submarines. After the declaration of war he was aboard the first sub to leave Pearl Harbor. It so happens that this same submarine was the first ship to enter Tokyo Harbor.
While serving with the fleet Amundsen took part in the battles of the Coral Sea, Midway, Java, and the Solomons. Amundsen left the fleet April .5, 1943 and was sent to New London, Connecticut to await transfer to Notre Dame.
D. W. Holshouser
Midshipman Dwight W. Holshouser has been really nervous twice in his life. Once when he caught a kickoff from Tom Harmon, the other when he was a guest of the Executive Officer just recently. He’ll tell you all about the lunch but would rather forget the kickoff. So mum’s the word.
Holshouser was the temporary regimental commander just a
while ago, but being in charge of things is no new thing to him—at Catawba.Col-lege, Salisbury, N. C. He was president of the Monogram Club, captained both football and tennis, and was athletic representative to the Student Council.
The girl back home is Jean, and she’s never farther away than her picture on his desk—daily airmail keeps her even closer.	.
Dwight’s main interest is Phy-Ed — took his major in it at Catawba and expects to continue with it when he gets the war won for our side.
Glee Club Organizes
By Art Goetz
Tryouts were held last Wednesday for all those interested in joining the Notre Dame Glee Club. Last year’s members held a meeting to organize and to form a nucleus for the many new men who were taken in.
The first rehearsal was held at 6:40 Monday evening, in Washington Hall under the direction of Mr. Daniel Pedtkc. Hereafter, the Club will meet at 1:15 PM Monday through Saturday. Membership is not closed as yet, and any man who would like to join is urged to see Mr. Pedtke in Room 1, Washington Hall.
No definite plans have been made yet for a concert series, but it is expected that some local trips will be made if at all possible.	'
Band Plans Summer Concerts
By Art Goetz
This week the Notre .Dame band began rehearsals for a series of Summer concerts which are planned for sometime in the near future. They will be held outside, in front of the Main building, near Washington Hall.
- About ninety musicians have signed up for the Band to date, and Mr. Lee Hope, director, says that in all sections the instrumentation is well rounded, except the woodwinds, especially clarinets and flutes.	'
The rehearsals are held at 4:15 PM Monday through Friday. If you have musical talent and would like to join . the band, see Mr. Hope, Room 8, Washington Hall.
9
The Saga of "Willie" Knight
By H. D. Hart
Midshipman "Willie” Knight jamned the push broom behind the door and glanced hurriedly around his room. The bell for the 1st Class Formation was already clanging in his ears and all he could think of was the impending room inspection, extra work detail and the name of that darn deck above the main deck and extending from the stern up to the— well at least it was the deck just aft the upper deck, if there was an upper deck and if that wasn’t the upper deck—and he was sure of that at least.
With one elbow he rubbed the sink dry and then took a quick glance in his mirror—smiling at himself he was sure that Ensign X couldn’t find anything wrong, this time. Cramming an Atlassized chart under his left arm he carefully picked up and balanced a copy of Dutton’s, W.C.D.C., and a Seamanship Manual with his protruding fingers and then raced out into the hall.
By the time he rounded the corridor, the mate of the Deck was bellowing "Late Bell for 1st formation” in his ears. Joining the mob that suddenly had come from everywhere—Willie was pushed, shoved down the hall and out onto the Quarter Deck. As he crossed the deck he was still wondering what the heck the name of that deck was— and as he passed an officer standing by the door, he suddenly remembered. “Poop-poop.”
Out into the fresh air, down the ladder, and then where? Gosh! what formation was he in? Looking frantically around he saw Dick Smith start out one of the walks. Following closely he thought how extremely fortunate he was that he didn’t have to. salute all the officers lined up along the walk under the shade trees. Clenching his left fingers tightly he felt the map slip, and looking down he saw the pointed end of his pencil slowly seeping out of his notebook.
“On the double—Mis-ter!” was the . only thing-that he heard as he slowed down to push it back. ; <	5
. Ahead, .Dick Smith suddenly turned a sharp left and headed out across the grass. Then Willie remembered that. Dick was Company leader and didn’t stand next to him in the squad. Stopping short he looked around.. . ?	.
“Lost? \ Mister?” came a sharp, voice ■ from behind, and Willie turned to seea big ensign glaring down at him. Just
. io .	S :	. .
at that moment he saw the end of his section pass in front of him.
“Oh! No Sir,” Willie said, and immediately fell into line. All he could think of as he quickly marched toward the ladder was that the officer didn’t ask his name—maybe he wasn’t on report. But maybe he was—he would ask when he got back.
“At ease—March!” Willie sighed, and once more balanced his books under his aching left arm. The short march to the classroom door was unenventful and it wasn’t until he stood beside his seat that he thought of the nomenclature of decks and what they meant. But at that moment it was too late.
. “Attention!”
“Section Leader Report.”
“Seats.”
“Take out a clean sheet of paper.”
—all came in tod rapid order for Willie to do much thinking. The first question on the mimeographed sheet:
“What deck extends immediately above the main deck, from abaft the midships to the stern.
Willie wrote “Poop.”
And Poop it was.
Campus Radio Try-Outs To Be Held Tuesday
If you have any ambitions towards mimicing Ted Husing, Bill Stem, or Gabriel Heater, or any other character which reasonably designates a nearby microphone, you’ll have an opportunity to display such potentialities at Notre Dame’s Campus Radio Station this coming Tuesday, July 20 from 2:00 to 4:30. The. studio is located on the third floor of the Engineering Building and is. the first double-door to your right after you’ve pumped your way to the crest of the highest step.
. The campus programs will originate from the campus studio five times a week, according to the. present plan, and will continue until the latter part of. this. semester. They will emanate from . Notre Dame and be heard through WSBT, the South Bend Tribune Station, 960 on the dial. The first program is scheduled to start emitting on Monday, July 26 with the “Notre Dame Sportscast/’ with Bill Boss and Tony Earley, two of our Old-Timers returned. A wide vacancy needs filling in this show’s. : announcer spot .and all are welcome: to -seek it at Tuesday’s try-outs. .	.
: Other campus weekly productions will be these shows: The “Notre . Dame Authors’ Program,” which features an interview with Notre Dame’s latest book -J
author, the “Notre Dame Forum Of The Air,” which will devote the first six weeks to the postwar peace plans and then continue to discuss current topics of interest to the general public, the “Notre Dame Musicale,” featuring our school band, glee club, and other campus musical organizations, and the “Views and Previews” program, which will have Frank Leahy, our head Football Coach, up for its first listening.
All of these programs need talent. Many of them, with the exception of the “Sportscast,” will need complete revision and. new Personnel, including announcers, directors, sound effects men, engineers, script writers, and time keepers. There are. plenty of jobs and whether you’re experienced or not will make little difference. Everyone and anyone has an equal opportunity and is invited to grab his selected job for the Broadcasting Season.
During last semester the Campus Station, which is known as WND, broadcast the senior ball and junior prom as part of its special features’ broadcasts. This semester, in spite of the fact that many of our Radioites are in the service of their country and help will be considerably less than it was last year, the Campus Station anticipates other special features’ broadcasts for this semester. Chief Engineer Bob Martina says that he looks forward to a plenty busy season in and out of the Campus Studio.
Future plans also call for special broadcasts for our Navy, NROTC, and Marine men on the campus.. The NROTC broadcasts will be directed by Bill Lawless, a junior in the Law School and a member of the NROTC. These potential service men plans are open to development and if you’ve some ideas, . express them when you come up to the studio Tuesday.
New Swimming Regulations
Because of Navy use, civilian stu-_ . dents are allowed to swim in St. Joseph’s Lake only from three to five on weekdays and from two until five on Saturdays and Sundays. .
These new regulations were made ; necessary through the use of the lake by . the ; navy in its physical training program.until three o’clock, and before that time only sailors will be. allowed in the lake. There will be a life guard on duty from three to five, and students should not -swim after the guard leaves. The University Ihas found it: necessary to/;forbid students to .swim in the : abscence of. the lifeguard in as much as Yeven good: swimmers have had fatal accidents in the past. ,	:
LISTEN TO THE WAVES
By Elizabeth Ludwig, Yeo. 3/c
Ahoy matey’s, and what’s buzzin’ Joe College? Somethin’ new has been added on the fair campus of Notre Dame, and in case you wonder just what it is, the purpose of this column is to end all head scratching. Keep that up and you’ll be shaking hands with your elbows. So, “hear this”:
We are WAVES, women accepted for volunteer emergency service. Twenty of us set our oars on the Notre Dame cam- . pus the first week of June. To date the ratings are Seamen 2/c, Hospital Apprentice 1/c, Yeoman 3/c, and Pharmacist 3/c, and two Ensigns. A dozen or more Store Keepers 3/c are expected the latter part of this month.
To mention a few of the home towns, Ensign Negus of the Disbursing Office is from Boston, Massachusetts; Ensign Warden of the Administration Office is of Pascagoula, Mississippi. Of the Enlisted Personnel, Madalyn Gottlieb, Y 3/c —Minneapolis, Minnesota; Helen Hickey, Y 3/c — Waltham, Massachusetts; Harriet Donaldson S 2/c—Springcreek, Pennsylvania; Betty Lou Denyer, S 2/c—Corpus Christi, Texas; Jane Correll, PhM 3/c—Burbank, California; Patrina Bisul-ca, HA 2/c—Niagara Falls, New York; Audrey Campbell, HA 1/c — Naples, Texas; Jean Calihan, HA 1/c—Danbury, Connecticut; Kathleen Bunk, HA 1/c— Shelton, Washington. Jane Correll, is “The Old Salt” of the Crew, having enlisted last September 22, 1942.
To many of us, a college campus is a new experience other than visits in civilian days. Upon comparing notes of such visits, the opinion of Notre Dame is unanimously "terrific,” and the hospitality is “out of this world.” The South Bendites have also made us feel at home.-In June, Service Center gave a party for the WAVES, complete with icecream, cake, cokes, cigarettes, entertainment, and the door prize was a telephone call home, won by Madalyn Gottlieb. The Center also welcomes us to spend . any free time with them reading magazines, a vast store of books, cokes on the . house,, and theatre tickets; Thanks, folks, we sincerely appreciate your kindness.
The unsung. K-9 member of the WAVES crew, newly “attached” at Notre Dame, is our mascot “Judy.” The girls who had their , training , at Cedar Falls; Iowa, were all called “Judy,” i.e., “Judy” is to WAVES as “Mac” is to sailors, and since.then .the nickname has spread to practically all stations in the country.	.	. ..
A word about Boot Camp. Those were the days of marching, messing, medicals, and mustering; of shots, mops, hups, and “The Navy Way.” The Navy Chiefs and Marine - Sergeants had quite a time trying to get us to “hip on the right hup.” Drill went something like this: “Toon, Humpff. OOrd, Yaah. Reep, OOz-el, Upsel, Urp—Reep, Yah, Reep.. By-daritflank.” Or, When in Doubt Salute!
Typical Day in the Life of a WAVE at Hunter College
0530—Reveille, mate checks billets to see that everyone “hits the deck.” Seaman must be out of bunk by 0533. Dress, square away the room and muster for chow at
0550—0600, march to Mess Hall. Navy style on steel compartment trays, one seaman is served every 20 seconds.
0620—back in barracks for thorough cleaning, dusting, swabbing, and securing articles adrift. Also put square corners on round mattresses.
0700—0900—Drill. By Wave Specialists, Marine Sgts., or Navy Chiefs. .
0910—Sick call. Chiropodist most popular.
1000—Seamanship Class. Study differs each day with Ships, Air-Craft, Planes, Flags, Identification of Ranks and Ratings.
1100—Study Period. Review notes of all classes and read assignments in BJM.
1150—Chow. Platoons muster and sound off for report to O.O.D. Platoons fall into Company formation. March to Chow.
1220—Naval Organization Class.. Administration of Navy ashore and afloat. Also brief study of organization of other Armed forces. Naval terms.	.	.
1250—Uniform fittings and gear instructions. .
1300—Study period. Usually filled .with medicals, .identification.. pictures, , . pay days, maybe study.
1400-1500—Physical Education. Plenty . of squeaking knees the first few
days. Later the exercises are easy ’ and fun.	.	.
1500—Naval Personnel.'Duties, of Ranks . and Ratings, Naval Law,: Naval
Bureaus functions and heads. :
1600—Mail, call at Barracks, and re- , fresh uniform.. ? ' 1 y . 7 .
: 1700—Muster for evening Chow, march .
. to mess. Return .to barracks. '
1800—Station movies, U.S.O. Shows, Happy Hours, etc. If remaining in barracks it , is a . study hour, until	•
2130-2155—Smoking Lamp, drink cokes, .	. make phone calls, etc.
2200—Taps. Mate: gives five minute warning to each billet before hitting the sack.,	:	’
2205—Bed check—All secure;
Marines Get Orientated
By Don Wilson "	. - ■ .
Foi- the past Week and a half the University of Notre Dame has been invaded by a horde of young men with red tags on their chests. They march rather well, don’t they? By now, the permanent residents of the University have come to realize that these are not plain-clothes-men, but future Marine Corps. officers, and as such it is only natural that they should march well.
“Clothes make the man” as the saying goes, but obviously the uniform does not necessarily make the military man. It takes more than that to make a Marine. Among other things, a Marine, according to tradition, must be well-drilled. And the Marine detachment of the Naval training unit at Notre Dame will be just that if commanding officer Captain John M. Finney and his staff have anything to say about it.
Captain Finney and his command are “on the spot,” because long before the V-12 college training program went into effect it was decided in Washington that of all the forty colleges chosen as marine bases, Notre Dame should have the largest number of trainees.
Notre Dame’s' present quota , of 700 Marines constitutes by far the largest and, consequently, the most important Marine college training unit in the United States. . ■	,	,
- Realizing that all eyes would be watching the progress ,of Notre Dame Marines, Lt. Colonel Hanley, former head football ■ coach at. Northwestern, took a decisive step. It was his job at Quantico, Virginia, to.select officers there for duty at the various colleges.
His first selections were’for Notre Dame. They were hardened men of Quantico and Parris Island experience. They are here on campus faced with the problem of making Marines out of the young men with red tags on their shirts.
. They must whip these men into a well-drilled unit during only one hour a week
, on the drill field in front of Zahm and . Cavanaugh Halls.
' The trouble with being a Marine is .. that one has so much to live up to..
EDITORIAL
What's All the Shooting For?
Lt. (jg) P. T. Sprinz
On a steaming Jungle Knoll on Guadalcanal a 19 year old Marine from South Dakota lobs a hand grenade toward a flicker of movement in the shrubbery, and a Japanese Rifle Man from Tokio is blown in bloody shreads.
Over the gray bleak coast of Kiska in the Aleutians a Bombardier from Brooklyn calls out “Bombs Away” and another transport full of war goods from Yokohama starts its short trip to the bottom.
In France the peasants in their fields look skyward as a swarm of B-19’s thunder toward Germany with disaster in their bellies and the best men this nation ever bred at their controls.
Somewhere on a patch of ground in North Africa, Hans Schmidt, who once sold insurance in Frankfort, grabs at his throat and chokes his last agony because a kid who used to wipe windshields in a Memphis garage let him have it with a Tommy Gun.
. And on Broadway a sailor walks slowly along the great dark way looking at the girls and putting away the image of them in his mind where he can summon them up later in some remote -ocean. Tomorrow he’s leaving for God knows where.	-
What’s all the shooting for?
Does the Marine from South Dakota want to stake out a claim and settle down in Guadalcanal. Is that why he’s down there lobbing grenades at Japs? Brother, he can’t wait to get back to Wessington Springs, and anybody who wants Guadalcanal after that can have it.
As for Kiska, the Bombardier from Brooklyn wouldn’t swap a bleacher seat at Ebbets Field for the whole of it and everything on it.
Someone asked a group of Marines what, they were fighting for at Guadalcanal... . . No one answered for a while. . . ..Then one Marine whispered. Boy! Oh Boy! What. I’d give for a piece of blueberry pie.
A third: Make mine apple with a few : raisins in .it and lots of cinnamon. . . . You .know, southern style. That’s what they said down in Guadalcanal with Japanese blood still on their - Bayonets \ and Death at their elbows. <
Fighting for pie.... It sounds less .dynamic than the Axis slogans..But Home:., seems to most Marines a pretty , good' thing to be fighting for. Home is where ’ the good things are. The generosity.. ... The good pay.... The-comforts.... The . democracy... The pie;....	;
12
First Battalion
By I. W. Arnold
- The word is heard that a certain tailor’s firm is very hot under their well-tailored collar after a competitor offered a certain lieutenant a bicycle and a set of golf clubs .if he would give their- firm an edge in the tailor business at Lyons Hall.
Prize question of the week as submitted by Jack (alias Rector) the Recognizer: “What school are you from?” No kidding, this is really a tough one.
Double timing is right up Midshipman Craig’s alley. However since life’s ideal or ordeal has come up from Florida he has carried his two timing into social life in South Bend.
Lyons boasts no Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy but Midshipman Collins and Drylie present prize iperformances of imitations of Lt. Brown and Ensign Finder. It is wondered if Drylie can back into a tree while marching his men into chow as did Mr. Finder last week.
These extra executive drills find no enthusiastic response from the first battalion. Mustering Petty Officer Hany Eiher of Section 13 always finds a smiling face in his home section when taking the muster.
Midshipman John Friche has been outstanding in class work. . Or at least he has been standing for he always has a question.
Who's been ringing the calisthenics bell at Lyons Hall earlier than it rings for the other battalions? Someone must enjoy the first battalion parading out early.. Guess who?
Midshipman Alter! has a new style push-up. After spending 20 years perfecting he exhibited the technique to his shipmates on Friday morning. It really should be done in three counts.
Midshipman Quiz:
1.	Lt. _:_________wears his shoulder boards
in a vertical plane and needs haemo-globin for his complexion.
2.	Who is that popular ensign who is displaying the kangaroo frontage equipment shortly to become regulation?	.	-
In case you can supply- the answers in the right order and turn them in at the battalion, office before Monday you will promptly be placed on report.'	'
Second Battalion
- Ensign- J. L. Hutchinson. has conceived the dia-! bolical idea of determining the order in which the four sections of Company 8 (29, 30, 31, 32) march to chow by- basing it on military appearance and promptness in getting to the fqrma-. tions. Needless to say, the “Fighting 29th” is last, ' has always’ been last.. .. and from all reports will , remain last until Mr. Hutchinson, relaxes- a little' - on his strict discipline and Midshipman R. ,H.
Moore of Brooklyn’gets.his watch synchronized..It; is sort of based on the old German idea of “Work • ' dr you don’t eat.” - .
. .'That wasn’t- just,a rumor you,heard concerning - one section that lost half of its.personnel at.th'e-* end of'indie, period.'-Of the 28. men in Section 26 .
only 17 are left.. Scuttlebut’has it that each man .:-in‘: this" section!-now-has a.-room of his .own • and-. has equally-rationed, the* “chow” that' was drigin-
.- ally planned on a 28-man basis.-Are any. of,these. men .willing to. sell their ;“share ?” Some 'men. in
’ Section 19 would pay . any price. and then ■ there.-, ; are some , of us ’that would gladly -sell all- of' ours : - at a nonprofit.'margin'.. < '* , •’ .-. X . . -	*
Now
“The entire personnel of Company 7 takes this opportunity to offer sincere congratulations to Ensign O’Keefe on his promotion and they extend their best wishes for his continued success." Sounds like a belated Christmas card greeting, with a little of the New Years thrown in. At any rate the entire Battalion extends their greetings. If there is anything to gain, we all want our share.
Seen every week-end: Many Midshipmen thumbing through the. “Rules and Regulations” trying to see whether they could get any demerits by-dating an officer’s girl. . . . apparently the only-rule that applies is “First Come—first served.” However, we must always remember that the Midshipman’s “telephone hours” are limited. Now we understand why-.
Question of the week: Did Mr. .Welles and Mr. Austin go to the Cole Brother’s circus to scare the lions dr vice' versa. Reports are that they were in front.of the lion’s cage an extremely long time. Maybe they were getting pointers. Isn’t it too bad that, due to the rationing, wolves are no longer with the “Big Show?”


t;
Due to the shortage of manpower in Section IS little Jimmy Higgins was both section leader and guide. Who say-s that a Harvard man isn't versatile?- .	’
O.O.D. Lieut, (jg) Pennell (Ordnance Dept.) first making sure that radio was being played during study hours on the first deck, and then quietly requesting the Mate of the Deck to ask its owner if he could, borrow it for . the evening .— the owner still . is wondering whether the •O.O.D.' used A. C. or Battery. ..: however no . questions were asked either way.
Section 19 (“Battn. Rockettes” of “Left-step-- Right step” Fame) gathered enmasse to- greet Section. Leader Hasselberger as he eame in last in the latest ’ Battn. “Walkathdn.” Incidentally- he finished just behind Mr. Austin’s bicycle.' -Isn’t it ■ too bad that the-Requisition Dept, doesn’t get our.
Battn. Officer a tandem. ..’. then maybe the A. J. ~-M. O. D. could, pedal him. -.
- . . Does anyone really understand why our Charles
:Atlas leader;-Midshipman Grupps.-lqst his balance
-. counting' cadence and. toppled over? After all if .we can follow him-at,the,wee'hours of the morn-' ing. it is only fair to suppose that he ean do two . simplef-thihgs in'- perfect -coordination.'	-
RATIONING DRIVES MAN TO NAVY
- Rationing made- civilian life too complicated for ■ - George Lampher,- so he’s in the-navy now. ‘Lam-
’ pher.said-that’he found civilian-life iust dne cou-pbn’after" another.	'
4
Hear This
BRING ALONG SOME PIPES
Glenn Gattson with the Sea Bees wrote home for some pipes. “They are among the best articles for trading with the natives, they gladly trade a wife for a pipe.”
' THE ARCH AT HOWARD HALL
Kiss the Boys Good Bye was taken from the setting at Howard Hall. Every evening'about 1900 a few of the Midshipmen are lucky enough to have a gal or wife come out to the station, and visit with them before they retire for study period at 1945. Tough luck, but it has to be that way.
FROM CAVANAUGH HALL
Two marines were trying to sleep when they heard a loud roaring noise. The first marine asked “What was that—thunder or Bombs?”.
The second marine said “It was bombs.”
First marine—“Thank goodness, I thought it was going to rain.” .	,
. Seen late at night: Ensign Kubish drilling the 6th Company on the “silent manual of arms” so that the next time they are to perform, it won’t entail an extra teaching session.
■ -The regimen must be expanding. Midshipman H. Knox, Section . 24’s Mustering P.O. reports his section now as “Platoon 54. one man present sir.” Knox claims that .he is at least as accurate as a certain section leader in Company 6 . who inadvertently called for the “muttering pesty officer” at a recent formation.
yhird Battalion
■	By J. D. Schwendeman ;
• Meet George M. Hearne, Third Battalion Officer.
If the Third Battalion’s administration is better than the others, and it is, it’s-all because the. top man, George M. Hearne, has a background of -business.; administration training. Ensign ■ Hearne ■ majored in -economics, he -says with a sardonic smile, at Centenary. College, • in his home .town of Shreveport, La., then spent four months at Texas University’s graduate school studying business administration. And after that he had .the desije to be a “big business executive,” but.that’s when the-Navy stepped-im After the .war, however, he in-, tends.5 to be one. of the bigger operators iri. busi-. ness. . --	-- •
-■ ' While at Centenary College/Hearne was a mem-ber’jof Kappa Alpha-fraternity, - and also partici- ', pated in campus politics, although5 he denies being-a. B.M.O.C.	. y
When the Navy called, Hearne was sent to -Notre Dame for his indoctrination training. His next stop was Abbott Hall, the Navy’s V-7 school at Northwestern University. It was there on Oct. 21. 1942 that Hearne was commissioned an En--sign in the United States Naval Reserve.' and his . first assignment was that of navigation instructor here at Notre Dame.- His next position was a company officer in the second class and now he is the third battalion officer.	- -	•
Despite the fact that ' he gets pleasure' from training future naval officers, Hearne’s first choice for active Navy duty was cruiser service. And it always will be. he says.	' -
Baek home in Louisiana, Hearne did some sailing on the Red River and nearby waters, but he admits he didn’t know very much about the Navy before coming to Notre Dame.
He’s always led a rather typical sort of life,' and has never held the news spotlight for having rescued any beautiful southern belles from a fiery death.	..	' '
“I’ve never dene anything that rash,” he says, with his best Dixie accent. - '	■
At the present time he lives in “a swank little apartments” in South Bend—strictly ' bachelor’s' quarters and he has no marriage plans. .
Fourth Battalion
By J. E. Taylor
When men from all walks and patterns of life and from the four ■ corners of the globe (accord- -ing to our Navigators, there “ain’t such-an ani-, mal”) come together and live as one family, (happy being intentionally omitted) there’s bound to '-. be some good old-fashioned confusion, confliction. * and competition with a little dash of “home-spun pepper.” '	.
Over here in the-Fourth Battalion'we’re pretty, much upset over two of our little boys.' It seems:
There’s a guy named Phil Tear,	,
Who was the happiest of the year	-
.Because-Nancy with her Cadillac ,	-
At five to one' could-bring him back; ' .	'
Along from the fleet-came Johnnie Teague,’-,'
Who with Nancy’s sister formed a league;:
Now Nancy’s gone, Phil’s alone. .	;	.
■ While Johnnie continues riding: home.. '
'	. . The ’ eleventh . company, commander, one Floyd
-- Swaggerty, . came to us from the Great Lakes ■ .where he was a C.P.O.. arid had beeri horiorably -, - dubbed-“Tunney-Fish.” Floyd .was a: star 'footbal! ’ . - player at the College'of the-Pacific.. That’s right, you’re right—he. majored.:in-physical education.
. ' Charles Benton Tedford,-who bases .all ‘ his an-. 5 swers on- theories was recognized in. the? dark be- .
. . -cause', of his' loud-'disapproval of, the .theory. Tarzan- used on 'the- screen/ini/riiaking'-Iove to' his .mate. . “ '. - ?.	-f. . ’ '	-
Below is printed a letter from- an. enlisted man in the Navy in a Pacific combat area written to Midshipman Dave Hart who is in this Midshipman class. Letters in leadership, that vital quality which makes officers, are plentiful throughout the letter. Every officer and enlisted man in service can profit by reading this note.
Dear Dave,
Your! letter of the 27 came this afternoon and it did me good to hear from you. .	.
One would think that one would have a great deal to say after having had the experiences I have had, but when I sit down to write I feel lost because there is so much to say and really so little I CAN say. I mean by that, that the whole letter must be generalized so its contents would be of no value to the enemy if he should get his hands on it.
You will be an officer soon, Dave and wall therefore have a much greater responsibility than me, as your best friend I’d like to put my two cents in before the ordeal-starts.
It will be impossible to make all of your men like you, but you can make almost all of them like you, and that is one of the most important things an officer must do. .
If you should be asked a question to which you do not know the answer, don’t “beat around the bush” with long and involved explanations, or try to evade the issue, or, make the subordinate seem foolish for asking the question, but simply say, “I’m not sure of it, so I’ll look it up and let you know as soon as possible.” . -
. Never’neglect to do anything you say you .will do, even for the most stupidlooking seaman.
The most popular officers we have here - are the men . who will sit down with an enlisted man and teach him anything he happens to say he would like to learn about seamanship. Never feel as though some of these men are incapable of learning, you vrill be giving the men who are capable ’ concrete proof of the fact that you are the one who will help them.	.
NEVER LOSE YOUR TEMPER OR' YOUR PATIENCE with anyone for anything, yet stand firm and don’t let anyone run over you. Remember when you lose your temper, the men lose their respect.	.
Never try to impress the men with your rank (they know that you have it) -Some officers come down to our quarters and. carry on a friendly conversation for hours at a - time, and have no trouble maintaining discipline and respect the .
(Continued on page 23) -	-
-	13
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Krause Named Basketball Coach
Edward W. Krause was named head basketball coach of the University in an announcement made by the Reverend Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president.
In naming Krause, Father O’Donnell said: “I was away from the University at the time of George Keogan’s death. I would like to say that Notre Dame remembers well his long years of devoted sendee and the outstanding record of his teanjs. We think of him as belonging with two other Notre Dame immortals in sports, Rockne and Nicholson.
“Ed Krause, who was Mr. Keogan’s assistant and who coached, the team for the rest of the season, is well known to Die alumni and friends of Notre Dame. His record as an under-graduate and afterwards as a coach has brought him the regard of persons who appreciate high ideals in sports.
“Mr. Krause will continue to assist Coach Frank Leahy in football, and will have the faculty rank of instructor in the Department of Physical Education. In the latter capacity he will help conduct Die wartime physical conditioning program on the campus.”
Krause, All-American selection in both football and basketball at Notre Dame, was graduated in 1934, and went to St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minn., as director of athletics and head coach of football, basketball and baseball. He resigned to become assistant football coach at Holy Cross College in 1938, and became head basketball coach there. He was acting in that capacity when he was signed as assistant football and basketball coach at Notre Dame in January, 1942.
Ed (Moose) Krause was bom Feb. 2, 1913, in Chicago, Ill. He was reared on Chicago’s south side , where he played high school football, basketball, track and baseball at De LaSalle.. He learned the Notre Dame systerii from Coach Norm Barry, the blocking halfback, for George Gipp, back in the early 1920’s.,
The Moose, captained the 1929 De LaSalle football team, and he won national recognition for three seasons. in basketball by leading De LaSalle to. two na-. tional .Catholic titles in three tries at the tournament held at Loyola University? Ed also won all-state recognition in foot-ball and all-city honors in football, basketball, .track and baseball. >
Ed Krause
.Coming to Notre Dame as a heralded football player, Krause early fulfilled predictions by winning all-Western recognition as varsity left tackle in 1932. Then, after two basketball games that winter, he had captured the basketball center post over experienced competitors. He went on to lead the Irish scorers and was named all-American in basketball, Notre Dame’s second all-American cage selection. The late Noble Kizer, former football coach and athletic director'at-Purdue University, rated the honor at a guard post in 1925. Krause duplicated the honors for two seasons.
Krause never missed an athletic contest in three seasons of varsity competition because of injury. He played the. . iron-man stunt in the 1933 football season, performing in 521 out of a possible 540 minutes at left tackle. No other left tackle won a monogram that season.
He captained the 1933-34, basketball. team and set , all-time Notre Dame, scoring records for a single game, two seasons and three seasons, all of them later. :broken by Johnny Moir.
Interhall Summer Sports Program Has Been Planned
By Roland J. Steinle
The complicated problem of adapting the interhall sports program to the new conditions on the campus is nearing solution, it was announced this week by John A. Scannell, director of the University department of physical education. In the past considerable planning was necessary to work out the details for a smooth-running program, but this semester new difficulties have presented themselves, and these must be overcome before schedules can be posted. Because the naval and marine trainees on the campus already devote considerable attention to physical fitness, emphasis is being laid on the civilian part of the program in an effort to place every man in the University in as good a physical condition as is possible. But plans do not exclude those in uniform, and invitations will be sent to every residence hall to send as many men as care to compete. There will be no limit of teams from each hall, so every fellow will have a chance to take part in the sport of his choice. Leagues will be formed in baseball, softball, tennis, golf, volleyball, and boxing.
Lack of proper space and sufficient time are the principal barriers which must be overcome. Fields formerly set aside for interhall sports are now being utilized by the military units for drill and calisthenics, and intensified schedules for all students makes it difficult to arrange a time schedule satisfactory to all. It .is hoped, however, that these details can be ironed out in the very near, future and the entire program launched as soon as possible.
' Interhall competition for the undergraduates of the University is a tradition. at Notre Dame. A keen rivalry among the halls has grown up through the years and a very definite spirit and loyalty has been developed. This has led to considerable interest in each phase of the program, and this interest has not ..been confined to the limits of. the campus. In addition to the recreation aspect, interhalL competition has proved valuable in providing a constant source of material, for varsity steams. Many, a varsity 'athlete has been . discovered in the -ranks of the hall players.
■With the experience, gained from last • summer’s, very successful program in which over two-thirds of the student body took part, Mr. . Scannell and his . assistants hope to set up the machinery for a veiy complete and well-planned schedule/ .Details will ? be announced; in future issues of the Scholastic. /
14
Irish Finish Late
PRESSBOX SPLINTERS
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Notre Danie’s midshipmen school boasts the presence of four track aces that were members of the 1943 undefeated Irish cinderpath squad. . . Frank Conforti, Gene Fehlig, Tony Maloney, and Bill Johnson form the quartet; . . Ollie Hunter, All-American collegiate two-miler from Notre Dame for the past two years, expected to be assigned to the V-7 school that com-? menced at Abbott Hall last Monday. . .
Many of the resident students and trainees alike are wondering why Coach Ed Krause doesn’t come forth with a plan for air-conditioning the fieldhouse with Andy Phillip, Bobby Faught, Ray Kuffel, Frankie Curran, Tom Brennan, and other such mentionables . . . must be the WPB that won’t let him get the materials needed for such an undertaking. . . Frank Leahy will have one more spot to fill if Jim Mello, fullback of last season’s opening encounters, is accepted when he reports for induction in West Warwick, R. I., July 20.
The latest falsity on the campus was the misfact that Vince DiMaggio was hit with a batted ball while running the bases and instantly killed in a Pirate-Dodger battle last week. . . All the loyal fans of the national pastime paraded to the mourner’s bench in the cause, but - the following morning’s sport final proved otherwise, just another rumor, always more frequent than facts on the grounds, ears beware. ...
Tommy Sheehan, regular catcher of the ’43 spring diamond , nine had a tryout with a major league ball club over the six week tenure. . . . Jim Carlin, captain and third baseman on the same outfit tried out with the Hartford club of the Eastern League. . . Two other V-7 boys in training here from nearby institutions . include Michigan’s . star quarterback of last season, George Ceithaml,- and Inidana’s great miler, Earl Mitchell. . . Tomriiy Kuzma, on the . squad, with .'Ceithaml, is presently a sergeant in the army and has suffered another touch of illness that made him an invalid for the two past winters. . . The Badgers contributed" three of their 1942 regulars to the Wolverine cause when backs Elroy Hirsch and Jack Wink, . and Center:. Fred Negas journeyed to
Ann Arbor via the-service set-up.-
The NROTC formed the first hall ball club on the campus and challenged the religious residents of Breen-Philips hall. . . The Brothers, pounded out a 10-3 victory over the tars last weekend. Brother. Florian took to. the mound like a veteran, striking out 15 of the men who faced him . . . what a curve he had. . .
The renaming of Steve Juzwik to the all-star roster for the second consecutive year marks the first N. D. man to make the contest twice. He. is stationed at Great Lakes where he will commute to Dyche Stadium for practices sb that his naval training won’t be interfered. with. . .
Hank DiGirolomo, robustious- naval trainee, is in search of a buyer who would be interested in two shares of the Brooklyn Dodgers. . . Evidently he figures the Brooklyn handle will go on the rocks in the very near future as their old men begin to show their wear and tear. . .
Wanted'. Some rejuvenating juice, something that will make old men young and lively again. .. Apply, Leo Durocher, Brooklyn. . . Five foot, two inch. Guy Perenich made one of the most rapid rises on last season’s tennis team. . . Starting off at 53 position, he worked his way up the . ranks to tenth, a big jump for a little man. . .
Camille Piccone to Play in Chicago All Star Game
It has been announced in Chicago that Camille Piccone, of the 1942 Notre Dame varsity, has been selected to play in the annual. All Star classic between former collegiate greats;, and the steamroller of the .National - Professional League, the Washington Redskins.
A sophomore last fall, the Italian born left halfback played in . a reserve capacity for the Irish. A native of Vine-, land, New Jersey, he captained his high , school teams in football and. track, winning* state wide plaudits for his gridiron work in 1940.
In Intercollegiate Golf
By Dan Reardon
The National Intercollegiate Golf Tournament, held over Olympia Fields Country Club at Chicago, was streamlined this year for the first time. Rather than having the usual six. days for competition, it was cut down to three. It was played on the. number one course, or as it is often called, “The Championship Eighteen.”
Twenty-two schools were represented by sixty-eight competitors. Notre Dame sent a full team which consists of six men.
Out of these six, three of the candidates qualified in the individual contests. Mel Wilkie and Jim Gallagher both seniors and James Besenfelder a sophomore were the drivers from Notre Dame that qualified.
Wilkie and Gallagher lost out in the first round while Besenfelder fought his way into the quarter finals. It was here that Besenfelder met Ulrich and was defeated by this driving demon to a tune of four-three.
Ulrich later won the individual championship by beating Roder of Texas University.
In the team play Yale took first place with Michigan and. Louisiana State capturing the second and third positions respectively. Notre Dame put her. tag on seventh place in a field of twenty-two.
In a recent election Mel Wilkie was selected as the person to fill the captain’s slot on the 1943 varsity golf squad.
Another interesting topic that comes to light is the fact that within a short time, possibly less than ten days, tournaments will be held for. Navy and Marine men, as well as for the civilian golf enthusiasts.
Gene: Fehlig a former star. on the Blue and Gold’s squad is now a V-7 student. Onljr last Sunday he found the greens in a. sparkling 71 to keep up his end of the family tradition.
Congratulations Midshipmen!
Recently Rear Ad. John Downes, Commandant of the Ninth Naval District signed a certificate and sent it to Capt. H. P. Burnett as Commanding Officer of this Midshipman School. It reads.
This is to certify that 90% of the Naval and Civilian Personnel of the Naval Reserve Midshipman School at Notre Dame University is enrolled in the Navy Allotment and Payroll Savings
; Plan and that 10% of the monthly payroll is invested in war bonds. Congratulations for a job “Well Done.”
15
Physical Ed. Department Announces Gym Program For Marines and Navy Trainees
BY JACK CONRON
Production of mentally alert men with strong bodies is the aim of the physical education program of the University of
John A. Scannell
Notre Dame introduced at the outset of this semester. Navy personnel and civilian students report to gym classes five days a week under the basic training outlined for the Navy V-12 organization. General conditioning, rather than game activities, is the aim of the first phase of this program.
Each hour of the school day sees three hundred students don athletic equipment to participate in one of several parts of this program. As most of the students have discovered, the emphasis has -been placed on general conditioning through calisthenics, obstacle course practice, swimming combat action and distance running.
Civilian members of the University’s athletic staff and eighteen chief specialists under Ensigns Brewbaker and Jablonski conduct the schedule of activities. Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education, is the general director of the program.
Mr. Scannell stressed that this basic conditioning program is required of all students, regardless of varsity athletic competition during the first semester. There can be no exception to this navy regulation. Following the first sixteen week period there will be a shift of emphasis to. sports activities as a means of maintaining the high degree of conditioning.	.	,
- Functional swimming classes are being held at St. Joseph’s Lake, and the pier is reserved for the use of these classes until three o’clock on. those days, the phy-ed. classes meet. As in the past, the general student body is invited to use. the pier’s facilities after this hour and. on weekends. Recently swimming classes were given to all service personnel and they have been classified , by the results. Strength tests , of all will be finished by this afternoon. . .	.	.
According to navy regulations this strength test is given at the end of each 16-week semester, and failure to measure up to the demanded standards will mean that the student will be prevented from entering on the next phase of the program and will be reassigned to the basic conditioning program. Supplementary tests will be given every eight weeks to determine the student’s progress.
Regarding these tests Mr. Scannell pointed out that if at the end of the first sixteen-week period, a boy successfully completes the requirements, he may elect to replace his daily hour of gym with a varsity sport holding daily practice sessions. However, he will be subject to periodic tests, and failure in any one will mean his reassignment to the basic program.
Also included in the work of the chief specialists on the campus are the calis-thenic drills held six days a week at 6:15 a.m. Members of the Marine and V-12 program and the R.O.T.C. unit receive 20 minutes of exercise at this time.
Know Your Ships
Identification of Ships of the U.S. Navy By Ensign J. F. Clark	'
THE BATTLESHIP
The battleship or “battlewagon” of the Navy’s battleline is designed to fight any vessel anywhere, to slug it out to a finish with the most powerful ships of the enemy.	-
U. S. S. Tennessee* . *	■ Official Navy Photo
To this end, the battleship first must be heavily armored and second, 'must have heavy armor and underwater protection. Our new battleships of the North Carolina class carry nine 16-inch guns in triple turrets, twenty dual purpose 5-inch 38’s in twin gun-houses, and smaller AA batteries in such great numbers as to give the topsides a porcupine-like appearance. .
This same class of battleship is credited with having 16 inches of armor plate and 10-inch decks. Extensive watertight subdivision furnishes further protection against crippling damage. Certain sacrifices in speed have been made for this heavy armor and armament, yet these ships with their powerful 115,000 horsepower engines are considerably faster than their rated 27 knots.
These Goliaths of the sea are nearly three times as long as one of our football fields, and they are as broad as one such field is long and weigh above 30,000 tons.	.
Their wartime complement is around 2,000 men, well over the size of many of our smaller towns. To care for the needs of these men, the little ships have laundries, ship’s stores, repair shops, libraries, recreation rooms, tailor shops, barber shops, and even the “gedunk stand” —the Navy’s version of the old corner soda fountain. .	. '
The battleship, having proved herself capable of withstanding the onslaught of any surface craft, was confronted by a new problem in this present war—the aircraft attack. But hearing of the unbelievable records of our battleships in the Southwest Pacific, we know that the problem has been met and solved, and the battleship is truly the mistress of the seas.	.	’
16
Football Prospects Doubtful;
Scarcity of Experienced Men
By Bill Carey
“Summer practice for the Notre Dame varsity team will get under way during the last week of July or early in August.” This was the announcement made by Frank W. Leahy, Director of Athletics at University of Notre Dame. Captain Henry P. Burnett, U.S.N., commanding all of the United States Naval activities at the University, has given his hearty approval of the plan.
This starting date—later than expected — was decided upon in order to give Navy V-12 and Marine, candidates for the team an opportunity to better acquaint themselves with their new military and academic program, before starting their informal physical education activities.
Mr. Leahy said, “Naturally the University will strive diligently to field representative teams, but the primary objective of athletics at Notre Dame for the duration of the war will be to assist the Navy and Marine officers as they prepare trainees for the arduous task which lies ahead. We are delighted, further, to provide entertainment for sports fans in this section, who have become accustomed to witnessing football games during the fall season. However, all other motives at this time are secondary to these.”
Football prospects for the fall are doubtful. Just what material is on hand is an uncertain quantity, or rather of uncertain quality. In June, the inevitable ERC call wiped from the roster many returning standouts. Other’subsequent calls to the service have further depleted, the ranks.
Contrary to popular belief, there are —with but three or four exceptions—no name players in the group save for the Notre Dame players themselves. The vast majority of the forty-four players comprising the tentative squad are, as yet, untested varsity timber.
The Coaches hope that boys from other universities, enrolled in the Navy V-12 and Marine programs, will report for football. It is also emphasized that everyone in attendance at Notre Dameservice-men in particular—will be, welcomed at Cartier Field.	.
..Names that ring familiar to gridiron followers, and. who have been sent to
the home of the Fighting Irish for their special training by the Marine Corps include Vic Kulbitski, Minnesota’s regular fullback last year; Mac Wenskunas, first string center at Illinois; Ray Kuffel, Marquette end in 1942; and Verlie Abrams, Missouri guard.
The players now on campus, by positions, are:
Ends—Paul Limont and John Yona-kor, monogram winners on last year’s Notre Dame squad; Jack Zilly, a sophomore at Notre Dame who was ineligible last fall; Jim Flanagan and Gerry Ford, freshmen from last year, and Ray Kuf-fell.	i
Tackles—Jim White and Ziggy Czarob-ski, monogram winners here last year; John Adams, squad member- in 1942; Jack Burke and George Sullivan, incoming freshmen, each of which is 17; Jim Tharp, freshman star last year; George Cibula, a freshman from St. Mel’s High in Chicago.
Guards — Capt. Pat Filley, Bernie Meter, a reserve on the 1942 team; Joe Signaigo, Gaspar Urban, Johnny Frampton, Charles Renaud, and Bob Snyder, now 17, all sophomores; Bob Wilson, who has played two years at Illinois; John Perko, of Minnesota; and Verlie Abrams, a guard from Missouri.
Centers — Mac Wenskunas, Illinois regular last year; Frank Szymanski, Notre Dame substitute in. 1942; Art Statuto, who enrolled at Notre Dame last February; and Mike Lyden, 17 years old.	.
Quarterbacks — Angelo Bertelli, who will move on from Notre Dame after playing five games; and George Terlep, sophomore from Elkhart, Ind.
Left Halfbacks—John Lujack, sophomore, who will be moved to quarterback when Bertelli leaves, and who is rated as one of the best runners, passers, and kickers on the squad; Dick Arado, sophomore from Austin High in Chicago; Gene McClinstock, incoming freshman; Rusty Johnson, who last year was a substitute back at Marquette; and George Elpermann, who starred for St. Joseph’s College, Rensselaer, Indiana, last fall.
Right Halfbacks—Bob Kelly, who entered school last February from Leo High School in Chicago; Bob Palladino, a second semester freshman; Dick Kelley, a Minnesota reserve last fall; and Frank Dancewicz, a freshman in 1942.
Fullbacks—Jules Rykovich, sophomore from Illinois; Vic Kulbitski, number one at Minnesota last fall; Ed Krupa, Notre Dame substitute who saw no action in 1942; and Bob Hanlon, incoming freshman from. Leo High in Chicago.
V-12 NEWS
By Joe Plante.
This week the Naval V-12 program under the command of Captain Burnett, USN, with Lieut. Commander Howell, USN. as executive officer got into full swing on the camus. Enlisted in the program are about 915 apprentice seamen, 680 Marines and 220 Naval R.O.-T. C. students. The Naval V-12 program is composed of men on active duty in the armed services, as much so as the men on. the front, but still they are college students.. All men of the V-12 program are officer candidates and are sent to college at government expense to get all they can from such an education. After finishing college, they will be sent either to midshipmen’s schools or will continue for more specialized training in colleges.
Besides Captain Burnett and Lieut. Commander Howell, the V-12 staff of officers . includes Lieut. Blansett USNR, formerly county superintendent of schools at Winchester, Illinois, who was commissioned on March 2, 1943, and, Lieut. Shelton L. Beatty, formerly dean of Personnel Administration at Grinnel College, Iowa., commissioned on April . 27,1943. Also on the staff is Lieut. (jg) J. J. Collins, D-V-S USNR, formerly superintendent of schools at Elmford, N. Y. All were from the indoctrination school at Columbia University. Capt. Finney, USMC is the officer in charge of the Marine Detachment on the campus and is assisted by Gunner Banashek and a number of non-commissioned officers.	,
In an indoctrination lecture at the engineering Auditorium, Lieut, (jg) J. Ji Collins reminded V-12 seamen that they would some day be Naval officers in charge of a group of- men for whose lives they would be responsible. It is the duty of V-12 men to learn here to fight the war intelligently and to win the peace intelligently. Lieut. Collins recommended that V-12 seamen acquaint themselves with the qualities of a good officer so that they will be better prepared to take their places in the Navy.
Clothing Difficult to Obtain
Outside the United States
Because of the great difficulty in obtaining clothing in foreign countries, Naval Personnel being assigned to duty outside the Continental United States are urged to equip themselves with complete outfits before leaving the country.
.17
Intramural Sports, I st Bat.
By W. B. Akers
Although intramural sports competition has been underway for just two weeks, the First Battalion competition has already shaped into a two-way race for the regimental softball championship. Last week the First. Company softballers were crushing all opposition, winning one of their games with an 18-0 no hitter, behind the hurling of Midshipman Chet Aubuchon.
Strong rivalry has already developed between the First and Third Company, teams. Starting off the competition with a scorless tie, the Third Company 10. captained "by Midshipman AV. R. De Young, has annexed two straight wins. Featuring a strong infield, sparked by Midshipmen J. Duncan and Phil Craig, the Third Company horse-hiders have allowed only two runs in three games.
Neither the Second nor Fourth Company A softballers have looked particularly impressive to Hate The Second Company has suffered from lack of equipment and disorganization. The infield is good, and with a little hitting support, this team might prove a surprise to the leaders. ‘
The football league also appears to be a two team race. At present the Second Company is the leader at Lyons with a record of two wins and one tie. Captained by Midshipman Ceithaml, the Second Company gridmen are well organized and should give every team a good battle.	‘
The darkhorses (two of them in this case) are the pigskinners fom the First and Third Companies. The First Company features a sharp passing attack with Midshipman D. H. Adair (from Texas) doing the tossing. The record to date is not too impressive, however, since only one win and three ties have been gained. .
The Third Company team is, also strong, having won its last game by a good margin. Trailing the Lyons teams is the Fourth Company. The men from “under the eaves at Lyons” lack organization—the main factor in their two defeats and one tie.	. . -	.	~
Newcom competition has proved to be quite good. The, sport is new to all the men competing, but the Third Company has come up with', what looks like a regimental championship organization. According to - Captain H. Craft, “the six-pound ball gets lighter and lighter,” he added that there are no individual stars on the Third Company team, but rather a . well-knit organization-that wins through" cooperation.	■ -	-
The First Company 6 snapped a three game losing streak last week, but still'doesn’tlook too. strong^ Both ' the - Second -and . Fourth Company teams have, tasted defeat, but. both show signs of improvement. ' -	-- ;
Only three softball teams have been. organized at Lyons. The, First Company team ' is ‘ the only undefeated team to date, winning three - straight. , Pitching-mainstay of the. First is Midshipman N. D. Adams.-At present not-much, can be said of -the Second Company .‘ten,,Tor this team .has'-not. ’ had a chance to do' much playing because, of'lack of equipment.:. On . their .last-start theytied, the Fourth Company, 4^4.Midshipman;G.‘- J.'- Callanan. former first 'string, catcher, forYale, is; doing a : good job behind the plate.	;\\
Little is.known about the‘Fourth.'Company B’s
18-.-
other than their tie with the Second Company last week.	.
This intramural program at Lyons is just getting started. Some of the teams have not fared so well mainly because of disorganization. At the present writing the First Company basebailers, Second - Company footballers, and Third Company Newcom teams look like sure winners. Ten weeks of competition remain—a period which will undoubtedly see many upsets. Whatever the final results, it appears now that the men from Lyons will be well represented when tiie regimental champions are' crowned.
Sport Stars of Battalion Three
By R. E. Remington .
Greetings, sportsmen. Right off the bat we’re going to tell you what this and future columns are going to be like. If you want to know the boys in Battalion Three that were stars in their high school and college athletic days then here is the place to look.
Due to space, time (you know about that), etc. we will probably be limited to a looksee in each Scholastic and maybe you’ll discover a star athlete right in your midst.	-	-
Since order of appearance means nothing in “Sportstars” we’re starting off with the, fellow who sleeps above the writer every’ night. His name is Rudolph Ed Rejholec, better known as Rudy.
Here is a bit of his personal history., Rudy is 23 years old, born in New York City and went to Flushing, N. Y. high school, his presant home. He is five feet eleven inches tall, weight 207 during college athletic days, and tips the scales at 182 pounds now. He attended Syracuse University in Syracuse, N. Y. on a football scholarship and majored in physical education.	.
- Here is a squint' at what Rejholec did in the line of sports. In both high school and college he , participated in track, baseball and football. He won an All-Metropolitan high school football position at guard his junior year and tackle ■ his senior term.- He captained his aggregation both - years. Rudy'pitched-his way to a spot on the AIL . Queensborough nine and threw the hammer, and , javelin on the cinder squad. ‘	-	.
.At Syracuse this Midshipman starred for four years on the gridiron. He held down -a guard spot. He captained his frosh squad and was given All-East mention by a New- York newspaper. Out- -' . side of his sports Rejholec kept busy as a physical education .instructor for. the Army Air. Corps stationed at-Syracuse. .	.
',;' Rudy is no peewee and • he - got around . pretty - well'in athletics, we:think. However, the amazing
; .thing, the writer learned was . that • Rudy is the runt of the. Rejholec family. He has a brother, -..‘Frank; standing six feet four .and weighing 265.
^pounds when he was New-York State Amateur .'Wrestling Champ. The nett oldest brother weighs • 237, pounds and reaches six feet • three' inches upwards. Then ■ there’s' Bill; He tips 'a measly .227. -- and is six ’feet , two inches high. ;	, -	, . -
Runt Rudolph' claims' he -has all the brains, ; > however.	.5'-'.
:: See'you-next.week/with another,“Sportstar.”
2nd Battalion Track Team
Nine midshipmen and a chief petty officer from USNRMS trecked .to Chicago last July 2 to see what they could get out of the AAU Track and Field meet being held there that afternoon and evening. -	.	.
They competed in four- events, took four first ’ places and a fourth place. Chief Quinn, who is now coaching the local middy thin-clad aggregation, finished far in front of the rest of the field in a 4:2S mile. Midshipman Shaw finished the 100 in 10:03, and the midshipman mile relay team grabbed their event in 4:46.
Not bad for a new bunch—it points to a good future in outside competition as far as USNRMS is concerned during the next two months. The local boys were disappointed though. They could not compete in more events, and not in any of “ the field events, because the navy just doesn’t always arrange liberty and shore leaves to suit personal whims. To top that, our boys weren’t recognized in the AAU, and Navy, Pier went ahead to win the meet, with no credit going to Chief Quinn and his Midshipmen.
Congratulations, chief, on a splendid showing, and better luck next time, when the politics is on your side. That’s a. good looking mile relay team you’ve got there. Here’s hoping the public can see more of them.
MEMORANDA
Midn; AV. J. Patton and Midn. E. H. Kendig. both of section 23, will meet in the championship finals of the golf tournament this week-end.
Midn. G. C. Hamberger and Midn. B. T. Heller of sections 18 and 19 will fight it out for consolation honors. .	'
Third Battalion Golf Tourney
, By R. W. Bumeson
. Finishing two-up over his final opponent, Midshipman T. S. Riherd of Tampa, Fla., annexed the third. battalion Lucky Club Golf Tournament crown on the Notre Dame links July 11.
Riherd, former varsity golfer at the University of Florida, bested Midshipman R. M. Athay, Detroit, Mich., in .the final round. An engineering " graduate of Die University of Michigan. Athay . did not participate in varsity athletics but regards golf as a hobby. -	- .
. Before his championship match, the third battalion title holder eliminated another varsity golfer in the semi-finals when'he won three up over
' Midshipman. P. N. DeMallie, Lowell, Mass., with two holes to go. DeMallie was captain and manager of the link team at his alma mater, Lowell ‘ Textile College.- _	.
. No decision has been reached in' the consolation bracket of the third battalion tourney because one ■ semi-final match' - and the finals have
’ yet -to be played; Midshipman ;A. - D.' Robinson of Detroit;, a varsity baseball man from, the Univer-.sity-of Michigan; battled his way to the-finals by ousting.Midshipman G. A. Burpee, Bronxville," N.
Y„ in - his; semi-final .match.'- He will match shots , with'the winner-df the semi-final go between Mid-' -'shipman L. J. Smith of Hamilton; Ohio, a varsity
-.	and - track man at Duke, - and Midshipman
Snyder,' Philadelphia; Pa., for the consolation -prize..’.;'.	'.
'.<.‘The Lucky. Club - Tournament has. been pretty - much .what , the/name implies'rather than-a sure t . .test of ’golfing -skill, because the-players' had to-playan entire:match /with a?club they selected ..
blindfolded.:^Prizes? for. the —tournament, ... which ,is under.-theldireetiontof Lieut E.‘- C.' Fant. ■ '• athletic/dirMtorfof. th'^	/have/been ‘donated -
by ;a:South’-Bend_/Navai :taiidrl/_ . ..	'
1
STARDUST
By G. R. Clay
He didn’t want to talk or dance. He just wanted to sit next to this girl—her name was Peggy or Betty or something ending in Y—and keep on drinking Bourbon and ginger ale and vaguely listen to the crowded sounds in the half-lighted bar. There -was music coming from the far end of the room. It wasn’t anything special. A violin ' and saxophone playing around with “Stardust.” while the piano banged out stock chords. The piano player looked bored. But that was right. Piano players always look bored, whether it’s in the Mark Hopkins or a Greenwich Village dive or the-Hotel Hoffman in South Bend.' If a piano player doesn’t look bored, there's something wrong with him. As a matter of fact, this might be Greenwich Village. It could be Downtown Cafe, if it only had those screwy murals all over the walls. Even without the murals, there was still that atmosphere that belonged to all the bars and all the night clubs he had ever been in: that hum of muffled conversation : the clinking sound of ice and swizzle sticks against glass: a brittle greeting hurled across the room. -
He looked at the girl sitting next to him. What the devil was her name? It didn’t matter. She was pretty and he liked being with her and the Bourbon was good. Bourbon and he hadn’t bothered to look at his watch for over an hour. Suddenly she was talking to him : asking him a question. He listened to her voice—not to what she said, but to the sound of her words. He never quite heard what she asked-him, because a midshipman at the next table started to sing about Mary being a grand old name, and it seemed as if everybody else in the room—in the whole town —joined in chorus. Her - question -was drowned with all the other conversation that had filled the room before the midshipman at the next table got this idea about Mary being the kind of name it was. He smiled at the girl, and they both submitted to the song. After a while the song ended. A few people went on to the second verse, but most didn’t know it, so the chatter and the clink of glasses returned.
“Well—do you or don’t you?” she asked, as if she had never been interrupted. '
“Do I or don’t I what?”	.•
“Like it.”	_ .
“Like what?”	.
“Like the Navy, dope."	'
“Oh.” he laughed at the serious expression on her face. “Well, I don’t really know very much about it. Do you like it?”	•
She was about to answer him, but the midshipman at the next table had started singing again.
EXPERIENCE
By L. Kippax
' I almost didn’t pass my physical exam -when I “volunteered’.’ to join the Navy because of a. cold —;that draft had been-pretty-close. Fortunately, I .
■ ~ was given'the choice of training at Columbia or Northwestern. I chose Northwestern so was sent
-. to-.Notre Dame. _
■ - The, trip to - Notre Dame was delightful—24 hours- in a fine up-to-date coach. Or was -it a cattle car? Arrived, in South. Bend in fine shape.
-The porter carried my body to a Navy truck and threw me in with 500 others.’ ‘	..	.	; .
’ . We. were dumped off in back of Morrissey Hall, directed to .the building, given a. speech, told what
, not to do and when not to do it, laden down with - .
-” bedding,'-given numerous papers to fill, out, and led-to our. rooms.;	.	_ •.
'--- . When-I came to my senses, ! found in my room.-■■
' a ,-wastebasket—but I couldn't .put ’any trash in .it: a- wash; basin—but -I - couldn’t leave any.-water in ; -
. ’ it: ■ running','.water—but I - couldn’t'; drink = it;; a
desk—but I couldn’t, put anything on it: a. bunk, but I couldn’t sit on it. AU the conveniences of home.	• .	’
I was poured into a tailor-made, -form-fitting white uniform with a reet pleat in the seat and told to wear my cap' directly over my eyes. I’m still waiting for the seeing-eye dog.
I rushed off to get a hair cut and left the shop . with a fine head of skin. As I ran down the walk an ensign pounced out from behind a bush and said. “Get on the ball,’ Mistuh, and get a haircut ' —on the double.” .	-	’
When I got back to my room I heard the.mate , ciy, “If you don’thave a belt, don’t wear one.”. I immediately didn’t put on a brown belt and ' rushed out to formation where I got put on re- port. I should have not worn a black belt instead of not wearing a brown one. You can’t, win.
After a hectic week Saturday arrived,and after classes, inspection, and extra duty I was on lib- . city. At last I had a chance to relax and-find the head.	.
Fourth Battalion
By J. M. Warther
Al Warren recently composed a" letter to a certain girl back in Massachusetts in less than four hours.	•
Miracle in Hellas, a book of the war in Greece was received by John Wason from the author and his sister Betty Wason. The book was rated Num- ’ her One in room 33S’s library with “Naval Ordnance” a questionable second.	-
The shoulder flipping of “Jig Jig” was really. missed by Company 12 this week. Mr. Clark, the , company’s officer, spent a week at Great Lakes. The company is proud to announce that not one man made the Saturday work squad. .	.
The Fourth Battalion heartily wishes Lt. Fant “God speed” in his new ventures. Badin’s loss will be the fleet’s gain. .	'
. Llewellyn Watts. HI (B-336), the bass-beater in the midshipman dance band spent Sunday, aft-' - ernoon as a guest of the South Bend Country
Club.	.	.
Did any midshipman discover- the name of the South Bend beauty William Joseph - Weldon was - -sporting Saturday night? .	’	’ -
Formation was almost broken when a plane flew overhead and, someone called, “Ready”— “Nowwwwww” ’	. ,	’	.
Quentin Powell (Whipple has acquired . a ■ new: name thanks to Mr. Clark. From now-on he will' . be referred to as "Kewpie.” -	- -	- -
, , Welton Whitham and P.’ D. Willis were among , those who made the Honor Roll. This makes' them ' eligible for the recognition trophy, a statuette, of . “Rodney the Recognizer.” .-	“	’
If any midshipmen don’t know what(uniform of the day is in’ the South ' Pacific—ask ' Bob ,;
. Thawley. ,	-
This obstacle . course is - pretty tough on - the . short fellows, huh Thatcher. ,
Winkler says his room mate’ Winning signed up for bomb disposal because he likes to fly. •
Zigler can , sing much better .than he can ■ play “ -. football—but after all he has; only played football ' for 20 years. '	--	' - -
A suggestion to the men who were treed—“get '. , -on the ball.” ' ■	■	- -	■
, NROTC CRUISE
’	■’	’ (Continued from page 8)	- .
lower portion of Lake Michigan to Chi- cago. : Movement bn the waveswept decks was tedious as well as dangerous, when Whitehill’s billet-mate asked.him why he ’ .Nothing untoward occurred other than was beating his head , against the bulkhead.'-Dick ; minor disturbances of individual stom-
replied, “it feels so good when I stop.” ; ;	- r, ■ achs due to the severity of the pitch and
. Mr. S^ckey surprised Co 12 with .his boundless . '
energy during-executive-drill last Wednesday. ;	. ,	.	.
During executive, section leaders'were’switched.- ■ Chicago Was sighted everyone had ac-
( With the mew leaders came new . orders—one no- .	quired the art of navigating on the slop- -
, ticeably ; changed order was “shoulder arms —	ing decks and of hanging On to stanch-
’*SDid<!Zu all know that Thompson cam^^	an usually severe roll ;
-".Texas? - . - . - ■ ,	occurred. ' .	-
PROMINENT ALUMNUS DIES
(Continued from page 6)	;
On being informed of Mr. ‘Hering’s death, the President of the University issued the following statement:	’
“It may truly be said that in the death of Frank E. Hering a real void has been . created in the family of Notre Dame. For almost half a century he served his Alma Mater in so many various capacities that he was accepted by succeeding administrations as the valued friend and true counsellor.In his own characteristic way he responded to every call, and he fulfilled his mission with uncompromising principle and steadfast purpose that grew out of a deep gratitude to Notre Dame, the source of the knowledge and inspiration that shaped his future life. He was a-trustee of her interests all through the years.
“Those of us who.enjoyed the intimacy of his friendship knew the depth of his patriotism and the value of his work for his beloved country during World War I, and later in this war. Because he had a full appreciation of the American heritage, this patriotism was equally strong in time of peace. -
“I shall leave it to others to pay tribute to his work in fraternal circles. But I should like to stress his charity to the poor and underprivileged. Across the nation are innumerable persons whose lives have been made happier because of the years he devoted to securing passage of legislation to ease the lot of the widow, the orphan, and the aged. Countless times he raised his eloquent voice to plead for the oppressed, of whatever color or creed, to help them attain the
place in society which they deserve be. cause of the sacredness and dignity of
the human person.
“I recall a line from a parable that he wrote long ago: ‘So live that when you die,, the poor, the sick, the outcast will ■ mourn the passing, of a friend.’ Those
words might well be Frank Hering’s epitaph.”
19
Notre Dame Star Carries Ball For the Navy; Bob Saggau as Good in Air as on Gridiron
Not only is the Navy prominent at Notre Dame, but Notre Dame is also making an effort to be prominent in the Navy. One of Notre Dame’s most famous athletes, Bob Saggau, football great from 1938 through 1940, is now slugging at the other side from the cockpit of a Navy dive bomber as part of the new Solomon Islands offensive.
Saggau is credited with the bombing of a supply dump used by the last enemy gun in action at Viru harbor, New Georgia, immediately preceding the occupation of that territory by the American ground forces. Saggau’s squadron commander reported that the bomb dropped by the former Notre Dame ' great set off a heavy explosion that
USO Camp Show Coming
On stage and in person direct from New York’s Great White Way, Hullabaloo, the star studded fun fest will be shown at the Drill Hall, July 21 at 2000.
All officers, midshipmen, ships company, navy and marine corps V-12 students and their immediate families
effectively ended enemy opposition in that section.
Bob Saggau
are invited.
The War and Navy Departments have ruled that USO Camp shows may be presented only for men in the armed forces and their immediate families.
Several shows are scheduled through the year, so watch the Scholastic for future play dates.
Resolved
A Midshipman plebiscite was taken this week to determine whether or not the following amendments, suggested by (unknown Midshipman) shall be added to the Midshipman School’s regulations. Vote...... Yes........ Hell Yes.......
1.	All mass exercise shall consist of a series of short yawns and a piggy back ride by the company commanders.
2.	Sub s\vimmers shall sit on the bulkheads of the pool and dangle feet not more than two (2) inches in the water.
3.	Any Midshipman found using an electric razor during a trumpet solo of Harry James shall prepare himself for a hand to hand attack by any and all Midshipmen desiring to see blood flow.
4.	The obstacle course shall be run by all officers in the presence of Midshipmen who shall seat themselves in a military fashion about a keg of cold beer.
5.	Any Midshipman who mentions his liking for this station shall be put on report for impersonating an officer.
6.	Ensign Kubish shall be drowned and artificially respirated for each batt.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% N. MAIN ST. — UPSTAIRS — NORTH OF OLIVER HOTEL
REPRESENTING M. BORN & COMPANY— CHICAGO
EACH AND EVERY GARMENT TAILORED TO YOUR MEASUREMENTS ’
ALL GARMENTS MEASURED AND FITTED IN OUR OWN FITTING ROOM
ENSIGN SUITS . .
SERGE, 16 OZ.	.	.	-.	38.00
.	ELASTIQUE, 16	OZ.	.	.	47.00
WHIPCORD, 16	OZ.	.	.	47.00
WIDE WALE SERGE, 16 OZ. 47.00
WHITE TWILLS AND . KHAKI GABARDINES
WHITES, TWO FOR 25.00
KHAKI .	.	.	17.00
THE NEW GRAY, including BUTTONS .	17.00
Custom Tailored to Your Measurements
. RAINCOATS
SERGE . ELASTIQUE
WHIPCORD
42.00
42.00
42.00
ALL ACCESSORIES AT REASONABLE PRICES
20
^Ute Motte 2bame>
BOOKSTORE
SERVING SERVICE MEN
Navy, Marines and N. D. Students:
Have your insignia on your correspondence
When you want to remember THE FOLKS AT HOME Let us suggest souvenirs.
Also
SOAPS TOILET ARTICLES FOUNTAIN PENS SUPPLIES
NOTRE DAME
Badin Hail
SERVICE MEN'S CENTER
(Continued from Page 5) writer, ping-pong table; and almost everything else which was thought would contribute something to the pleasure of those who would be using it, was given to the Center by the people of South Bend. The several committees which were appointed for the purpose have done fine work in seeing that the problem of upkeep and supply has been ably taken care of.
Several other services which have recently been established at the Center for the men at Notre Dame are rather unique. In the event that any man receives any individual publicity in the papers, the item is clipped and sent to him, the idea being that he may not have had the opportunity to see the article and therefore might miss something which would be pleasant for him to have, if for no other reason than as a keepsake of the time when he was in the service. Then, a clipping bureau has been established which covers all the local papers for any items pertaining to the training at Notre Dame. Any man who is interested may register at the Center, and when his stay at Notre Dame is finished, all the clippings of any activities that have taken place during his time here will be given to him in scrap-book form.
To any man who has been in the Sick Bay, it is not necessary to say anything about the good that the Center has done there. Nearly eighty cartons of cigarettes, and eighty baskets of fruit, as well as books and magazines, have been delivered there for the sick men, and on their many visits, the personnel of the Center have done innumerable kindnesses for them.
On week days, the Center is open from nine in the morning until nine at night, and there is always a staff on hand to care for the man’s needs.
These are the statistics. They do not half cover- the subject, for the real good of the Center lies in its friendliness, which can never be tabulated. It lies in simple things like arranging to get a formal dress for a girl who arrived here for the last Midshipman graduation and found that she had forgotten hers; it lies in the willingness of a woman to use up most of -her ration points rather than disappoint two boys who had been invited to dinner. The spirit of the organization, and of all those behind it is what is of most value, and the men in the Service will only be able to realize that value by personal use of the Center, and can hope to repay this, generosity only by making it possible ;for' the staff of the Center to extend more of it to them.
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
21
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
FAULTY CHANGES (Continued from Page 7)
Walter C. Miller, Paul E. Mack, and Marcellus Wiedenbach. Joseph Landin similarly was appointed instructor in Mathematics.
In the College of Commerce Wesley C. Bender will serve as acting head of the Department of Business Administration in the absence of Lt. Alden E. Davis, U.S.N.R.
Assuming the duties of Frank N. M. Brown, who is serving in China on an educational mission for the United States Government, as head of the De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering is Robert S. Eikenberry.
Professor Paul Bartholomew is replacing Father Francis J. Boland, C.S.C. as head of the Department of Politics. Father Boland is serving in the navy as a chaplain. .
Other new appointments announced by Father O’Donnell were Noble Harbaugh and Lee Daniel as instructors in Engineering Drawing. Edward D. Carey.is a new instructor in the Department of Mathematics and Alvan S. Ryan joins the faculty in the Department of English.
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
DO YOU DIG IT?
Submitted by H. B. Stewart
SEND US YOUR SLANG AND GET $10 IF WE USE IT
Address: College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.
Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N.Y. Bottled locally by Franchised Bottlers.
i

DEAR BILL
(Continued from Page 13) next day, or even that night, if the occasion calls for it.
I don’t know what sort of things you will have to do when you reach the war zone, but just for an example of the sort of attitude an officer should have toward the enlisted man, let us say you’re a gunnery officer.
The. gun pointer may be an enlisted man and is depending on you for his life, but so are you depending on him for your life.
Just being a “good fellow” is not enough to hold the respect of an enlisted man because with all his poor grammar and apparent lukewarm attitude towards things military, he is a close observer and he wants his officers to be flawless^* 1
You must know your job because you will have to take an exam every day and your grades will not be put down, but will be carried around in the hearts and minds of your men throughout your career.
I know you do not need my advice. Dave, because your past record as far as I can see has been exemplary, but I’m writing this because all of your friends and companions from now on will be officers, and enlisted men are bound to ” lose their individual personalities and become simply a class in your eyes, so never forget that your best friend is serving as seaman first class in your Navy.
With best regards for your future,
’	Bill.
Lawyers Plan Ball
The Law Club of the University of Notre Dame is making arrangements for a ball to be held in the early part of August. No definite place has been decided upon as yet, but the probable site will be the Chain-o-Lakes Country Club. All students, both enlisted men and civilians, are - invited to attend. Permission for the dance has been granted to the club.
At the present time the enrollment of the Law School constitutes fifty-four students. Twenty-three of the registered
students are service men. The Notre Dame Law School has one of the highest percentages of enrollment at the present time of all the law schools in the . country.
The Notre Dame Lawyer, the official organ of the University Law School, will continue its publication this semester. A new editor will be chosen since Bernard Grainey, the editor of the Lawyer last semester, is now in the army.
The election of officers of the Law Club was conducted in the early part of this week.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, DJJ.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws • X-Rays and Consultation .	,
Tel, 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
_	503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, M.D.
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
50UJHSH0RE
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
----------------------------------------------------South Bend's Quality Store since 1913
FOR NAVY MEN — Store Open Saturday 'til 9 P. M.; Sunday all day
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $37.50
NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SEE THE NEW SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers
M850
it dees*?/#	h&m #/
MAX ADhEK
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.