o	dm <
1 he Scholastic
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
SEPTEMBER 30 1932
tec
The American



and raw tobaccos have no place in cigarettes
They are not present in Luckies • • the mildest cigarette you ever smoked buy the finest, the very ™ finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as . the mildest cigarette. The fact I is, we never overlook the 1 truth that "Nature in the | Raw is Seldom Mild” —so

attila—”the SCOURGE OF GOD Natttre in the Raw”-as portrayed by the great painter, Harvey Dunn ... inspired by the barbaric cruelty of Asia's most dreaded plunderer... the grass could not grow where his horse had passed”...433-453 A. D.
these fine tobaccos, after proper aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—"It’s toasted”. That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.
‘It’s toasted That package of mild Luckies
?^Jn^‘trap than hisnei^, tho he ts hu deer. ’’-r^ph WALDO EMERSON ^and approval of Lurkv Strike?
September 30, 1932
One
Who are Gilbert's customers at Notre Dame?
Campus leaders, All-Americans, your best-dressed classmates, the Style-Wise, and the thrifty trade at Gilbert’s.
What merchandise do we sell?
The finest of suits—"GGG" and ^Stein-Bloch/7 Topcoats and Overcoats by Braeburn. Manhattan shirts. Dobbs, Mallory and Disney hats. Florsheim shoes.
Why do they keep coming here to buy?
Here they find style and quality at appreciable savings. Large stocks permit discriminating selection. Low prices allow a complete wardrobe on a modest budget.
When
can you come to see us?
We’re open evenings throughout the week. Visit South Bend’s finest and busiest men’s store any time.
Where are we located?
Just eight blocks south of the main four-corners on Michigan street.
Ulam/ (knclheM!
813-815 S. Michigan St-
o
September 30, 1932
Three
J
THL SCHOLASTIC is pub-	bk I	II	■ Entered as second-c’ass
lishcd wcck'y at the Un'vers- I	I ISVMA	matter at Notre Dame. In-
itij of Notre Dame. Manu- I I 11^ I	G111^^%*l IV^IGw VlK* diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to	.	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section nos, October 3. ion, cations Office, Main Building.	authorized June 23, 1918.
FOUNDED 1867
Edmund A. Stephan.....................Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL	JOHN PICK
"WALTER JOHNSON "WILLIAM DREUX LLOYD TESKE
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY..........News Editor
ROY SCHOLZ........Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors	.
BERNARD COUSINO WALTER KENNEDY PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors
JOHN PICK ............. The	Week
ROGER MCGOVERN......College	Parade
ROGER BEIRNE.......Music and Drama
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ.......Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY	JAMES PICK
WILLIAM FLYNN	JOSEPH KURTH
PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSEUNG FRED MacBETH	GEORGE BELTING
Features Staff RAY WATERS....".......".. .Features Editor
LOUIS HRUBY	HARRY BURCHELL
WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
Business Staff JOHN F. STOECKLEY.___Graduate Manager RAYMOND J. NABER_____Circulation Manager R. J. FITZSIMMONS .. Advertising Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH
Volume LXVI.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1932
Number 2
S UMMARY
NEWS
Navy game Will be Official Student trip decides S. A. C. at meeting- Sunday......:................
Seven Hundred Frosh Get Together for Convocation in gym Tuesday; Gerend, Host, Werner and Father
Dolan speak .....'.........1........"............. 6
Sophomore Cotillion Will be held Eve of Carnegie Game; McKean to act as Chairman..................  7
Major Positions on “Dome” staff picked by Editor Sandusky ......................1................. 13
Personnel of Band Announced...................... 17
FEATURES
Football Manager Wirry; his struggle for success in
Man About Campus ............................. S
Roger Beirne talks about current Chicago plays in his “Theatre Talk” ..............................:.. 9
The Grotto—How and why it has become a Notre Dame tradition ................................ 12
Bishop Crowley bestows blessing on student body • through “The Scholastic” .......1.............  13
Digging into the history of Sacred Heart’s chimes. 16
Introducing Ed Kosky .......................... 24
SPORTS
Varsity grid squad to battle freshmen in annual fall warmup tilt tomorrow afternoon ................. 20
Coach Nicholson pessimistic as he summarizes Notre Dame track prospects for coming year ........... 20
Henry Cluver and Win Day upset dope by trimming favorites in Burke memorial tournament; tie for . first place with cards of 154................... 21
Tom Yarr, assistant coach in charge of interhall athletics announces plans for coming intra-mural grid season -------------------------------------------- 21
Nick Lukats and Laurie Vejar move up to first team as football squad shows improved form; story by Joe Kurth -........................................ 22
Fall tennis tournament opens on Wednesday; Chreist favored to win singles crown ...................... 22
“Splinters From the Press Box” comes up with first grid forecast ..................................... 25
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Sept. 30—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, Publications Office at 6:30 p. m.; news, sports, featuhes, and Group I of candidates, Room 222, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra, Music Hall, at 6:45 p. m.
SATURDAY, Oct. 1—Upperclass mission service, 6:30 a m.; Sacred Heart Church; Varsity vs. Freshmen, Stadium, at 2:15 p. m.; Movie, Johnnie Weissmueller in “Tarzan, the Ape Man,” Washington Hall, at 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Oct. 2 — Masses Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.; S, A. C. Meeting, Library, 10:30 a. m.; President’s Council, Library, 10:30 a. m.
MONDAY, Oct. 3—Bookmen meeting, Law Building, 7:30 p. m.; Cleveland Club Meeting, Law Building, 7:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, Oct. 4—Blue Circle Meeting, Library, at 7:00 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra, Music Hall at 6:45 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 5—Wranglers Meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p m.
THURSDAY, Oct. 6—Spectators Meeting, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
V7NE WEEK IS GONE” but still the bookstore is filled with avid bibliophiles. Already some Freshmen, or at least a number of N. D. belted individuals, have been thumbing the card index in the library attempting to find volumes on the endocrine glands or treatises on the state of democracy in the Swiss Cantons. As early as Tuesday a Sophomore is said to have tried “Either it is raining or it is not raining, but if . . .” on his table-mates; other talk is of quizzes on mythological footnotes in Bacon’s “Essays” and attempts at finding unknowns. Typewriters click, paper is crushed, books are underlined: Freshmen, Sophomores, even Juniors are busy making first impressions, and the Seniors, yes, the Seniors. They fight over Literary Digest polls, Maine primaries, and the possibility, in Wisconsin, of prosperity being just around the Kohler. Enough of that in these times of depression, expression, suppression, and repression.
V
O N Cartier candidate managers have seen how tough a good football practice can be; tennis players have been standing against the fence, hoping to use a court before the five-fifty bell.
V
EDNESDAY two students hesitated about the doors of a bicycle shop on Washington Street. Yesterday the couple was seen gaily peddling a tandem. Back to fundamentals!
V
But to more serious things: It is surprising how much fifty minutes in the early morning and again in the evening can make one question his previous standard of values. The mission process made some of us, at least, feel we were common
fools; it has been a capital opportunity for us to correlate the results of our philosophy courses, to realize that metaphysics is not an impractical or hypothetical study.
V
If you get a chance—and who doesn’t—wander down to the grotto some night. I say night because it is then that an atmosphere of the Old World seems to settle upon that spot. Tuesday evening, after the services, we were there in the drizzling rain. At the stairways, lanterns (new this year) dripping large drops gleamed through the half-mistiness, and further back the windows of the apsidal chapels, softly lighted from within, shone in the night.
V
17
1 OR those whose inclinations do not carry them to football and whose judgment tells them that the Palace and Colfax are mere opiates, that bridge-has been vitiated by contract, and that an absorptive existence is quite bloodless, this curt weather, just before the leaves fall, has been filled with long leisurely walks with garrulous or silent companions. Dozens of students, every day, have been walking down (of course many of them did ride back on the street car) to the dime store to buy those seven feet of electric cord with which to deck their rooms. Commendable (the walking), commendable.
V
TAKINGS have been happening: the Mission was held, the Spectators had a dinner, fountain pens have been filled, professors have dared to make assignments.
V
And so to bed.
Five
September 30, 1932
LEE CALLS BLUE CIRCLE TO ITS TASK TUESDAY
NAVY GAME IN CLEVELAND RECEIVES
S. A. C. SANCTION AS STUDENT TRIP
Committees Are Appointed By Chairman; DeLay is S’c’t’y.
Blue Circle members will organize Tuesday evening at a meeting to be held in the Library basement at seven o’clock. Committees and their chairmen have been appointed during the past week by Maurice Lee, newly established Blue Circle head.
John Collins will act as chairman of the often condemned, often praised
Maurice Lee The personnel numbers seventu-five.
Vigilance Committee; Dan Casey will be chairman of the committee on traffic; pep meetings will come under the supervision of A. J. Andreoni; Edmund Stephan will care for the Blue Circle’s publicity. Michael De Lay was recently appointed secretary of the organization.
The personnel of the Blue Circle now numbers 75. The club is organized by Students Activities Council, each member of the latter group holding the power to appoint two Blue Circle members.
Duties of the Blue Circle are manifold during the football season, negligible at other time. Taking charge of Notre Dame’s pep meetings, giving out information and directing traffic on the days of large games, and watching student trends in general through the eyes of its Vigilance committee are the more important and engrossing duties of the Blue Circle. The group’s expenses are cared for out of the fund appropriated to the Student Activities Council by the University.
Presidential Poll To Be Conducted By “Scholastic”
Student political sentiment will be sounded in the very near future by a poll which The Scholastic will conduct on the presidential election next month.
Next week’s issue will have, in every copy, a ballot placing the names of the Republican, Democratic, Socialist, Communist, and Dry candidates before Notre Dame’s voting public. All students may vote. Special ballot boxes will be placed at convenient spots on the campus. Full details will be presented next week.
The poll has no purpose other than determining student opinion in one of the most interesting of presidential elections. The Scholastic backs no candidate, will not stuff the boxes. ’
Presidents to Hold First
Meeting Sunday in Library
The Presidents’ council will hold its first meeting of the year next Sunday at 10:30 a. m. in the basement of the University library.
The executive board of the council has been named as follows: President and chairman of the council, Cleveland Carey; Students Activity council, representative, Cy Rapier; President of a large city club, James Doyle of Buffalo; President of a small city club; Thomas Mahaffey, of Indianapolis; President of a state club, Sab-Uy Addonizio of New Jersey; Editor of The Scholastic, Edmund Stephan; President of an educational club, Joe Deebe of the Law Club.
Cleveland Club to Meet And Introduce Frosh
The Cleveland Club of the University will hold its first meeting of the year Monday evening at 7:30 in the auditorium of the Law Building.
Plans for the Navy game will be discussed and the first year men will be introduced to the present club members.
THE DAY IS NOVEMBER 19
Finneran in Charge of Trip’s Details; Committee Works on Railroad Rates.
Last Sunday morning saw more than a quorum of Student Activities Council members gathered in the Journalism room of the Library to vote upon and discuss proposals of a previous meeting. Major accomplishment: The Navy game to be played in Cleveland on November 19 was unanimously voted to be the annual student trip. A committee was appointed to investigate and arrange for suitable railroad rates. Faculty approval of the proposed trip is anticipated within the next few days.
Haskell Rally Committee
Jack Finneran, last year’s defeated candidate for the S. A. C. presidency, was named chairman of the committee on arrangements for the journey to Cleveland. Fellow committeemen are Maurice Lee, George Reilly, and Francis Werner. Preparations for the rally preceding the Haskell game were placed in the hands of a group composing Neil Ebert, Chairman, George Aug, John Ffrench, Dale Pillers, and Reuben Grundeman.
Sylvester Rapier and Charles Finkel were appointed to represent the S. A. C. in the Students executive committee.
A Novelty, No Less
A novelty in the way of collecting class dues was effected in a motion to be presented to the University which calls for the placing of the above dues as an item on the semester bill.
Football dance discussion resulted in a plan whereby the Senior class will stage an affair after the Northwestern game, while the Juniors will hold a dance following the Drake fracas. Both the Monogram Club and the Sophomore class have asked for the Haskell dance. The case has been relegated to arbitration, but something definite will be forthcoming within a few days.
Six
The Scholastic
University Welcomes Frosh At Annual Meeting In Gym
OVER 700 ATTEND
Gerend, Host, Werner and ' Father Dolan Address First Year Men.
By Robert Dillon
Seven hundred and forty members of the class of 1936 were officially welcomed to Notre Dame at the Freshmen Convocation held last Tuesday in the gymnasium.
James Gerend, President of the S. A. C., was the first speaker at the assembly. In his talk Gerend advocated participation in extra-curricular-activities, saying that since there were many different organizations on the campus the new student would not have any difficulty in placing himself. He also gave a brief outline of the traditions existing at Notre Dame, stating “that every Notre Dame man did his best to uphold them.”
Host Asks For Support
Paul Host, captain of the football team, was next and he gave a short, colorful address. “Notre Dame is your team, men,” he said “And it is your duty to aid them through a tough schedule by giving them your whole-hearted support.” Host closed by saying, “that you men have been left a rich legacy in tradition and H is up to you to carry on.”
Fr. Dolan Speaks For Notre Dame
Francis Werner, President of the Senior class, in a concisely stated delivery welcomed the newcomers and urged them to give their best in the four years that lay ahead of them.
Finally the Reverend Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, received the freshmen on the behalf of the faculty. In line with his office Father Dolan first spoke of discipline. “Discipline at Notre Dame is unique; it is not problematic, nor is there much needed, for this reason, religion is first and foremost.” Passing from this, Father Dolan emphasized work as the basic foundation for a successful college career. And in ending his talk he said: “I believe that the class of 1936 will be solid and outstanding because they entered the University in time of strife and sacrifice.”
Jim Harris Elected President of N. D, Monogram Club
James Harris, left guard on the varsity football team for the past two years, was elected president of the Monogram club, Monday evening. In few instances has the election of
James Harris
Already he has begun tcork.
this office been so closely contested. Edwin Kosky was the opposing candidate.
Raymond Brancheau won out in the election for vice-president, while Norman Greeney received the position of secretary and treasurer.
No time has been wasted by the new president in arranging activities for the year. The Saturday game between varsity and freshmen squads will be under the direct supervision of the Monogram club.
As is customary, a dance will be sponsored by the club after one of the football games, the date of which will be announced later. The Monogram formal and Monogram Absurdities, annual features of the club, will be included in the activities of the Monogram year.
NOTICE
Dean McCarthy has announced that last semester’s 14 Marketing notebooks are available any time at his office.
TOMORROW MARKS CLOSE OF UPPERCLASS MISSION
Week’s Services Will End With Papal Blessing by Father
Hart, C.S.C.
The upperclassmen’s Mission that has been conducted during this week by the Reverend Joseph Hart, C.S.C., will close tomorrow morning aftei’ 6:30 o’clock Mass. The Papal Blessing will be given at that time.
Sacred Heart Church has been the scene of the daily services held morning and evening. The morning devotions consisted of Mass at 6:30 which was followed by a short instruction.
At the opening of the evening services Father Hart preached a series of sermons considering the major stages of development in spiritual life. On the first four evenings of the week, the subjects considered were salvation as the only goal of life, mortal sin, death, and judgment.
Bishop Crowley Gives His Thanks
On Tuesday morning the Most Reverend Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., D.D., Bishop of Dacca, Bengal, celebrated the Mission Mass. Bishop Crowley also addressed the upper-class congregation at that time, taking the opportunity to deliver his personal thanks to the students for their support of his mission in Bengal during recent years.
Probably the outstanding feature of the week was. the whole-hearted response of the student body. Congregations that taxed the capacity of the church attended every service.
Philosophy Seminar Will
Meet at Seven Monday
The Seminar in Philosophy scheduled to meet at 7:30 o’clock Monday evenings in the Law Building, will hereafter open at 7 o’clock on the same day and in the same room. The seminar is conducted by Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., head of the department.
Electrical Students Meet
The initial meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held Monday night, Oct. 3, in the engineering auditorium. Dr. Jose Caparo, head of the school of electrical engineering, will open the year with a short talk.
All electrical engineers, except Freshmen, are invited to attend the meeting.
September 30, 1932
Seven
COMPETITION OPEN EOR RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS
Cotillion To Be Held Night Before Carnegie Tech Game
Applications May Be Secured From Father Carrico.
Announcement is made of the opening of competition for the Rhodes Scholarships through the office of Rev. Leonard J. Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies. Father Carrico has a number of application blanks and rules for the competition in his office.
There is to be competing in every state this year. The forty-eight states will be divided into eight districts of six states each and each state committee may nominate two men to appear before the district committee. A district committee will select from the twelve candidates appearing before it the best four to represent their states at Oxford; a state may thus receive two scholarships or none in accordance with the merits of its candidates.
Tenable At Oxford
The Rhodes Scholarship is tenable at the University of Oxford. The stipend of a Rhodes Scholar is fixed at four hundred English pounds a year. Applications are due not later than Oct. 22. State elections are held Dec. 10th. Rhodes Scholars elected at that time will enter Oxford in October, 1933.
For the eligibility of a candidate the following rules have effect:
(a)	. Be a male citizen of the United. States and unmarried.
(b)	. Be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-six.
(c)	. Have completed at least his sophomore year in college.	.
A candidate may either apply in the state in which he resides or the one in which he has received at least two years of his college education.
Qualities to be considered in making the selection are:
(1)	. Literary and scholastic ability and attainments.
(2)	. Qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindliness, unselfishness, and fellowship.
(3)	. Exhibitions of moral force of character and of instincts to lead and to take an interest in his schoolmates.
(4)	. Physical vigor as shown by interest in outdoor spoils or in other ways.
What Is the “Santa Maria”? Even The Editor Doesn’t Know
One of the first things any editor should know is how often he is to come out in print. There is, however, on our own campus, a man in charge of a publication who does not know whether it is a weekly, monthly, quarterly, annual or what have you—and nobody else seems to know either. His name is Fred Becklenberg; the publication, The Santa Maria, official K. C. news organ.
Reason for the uncertainty seems to lie in a bit of procrastination on the part of Notre Dame Knights. Last Monday’s meeting failed to throw any new light on the situation. Becklenberg claims that if nothing is done shortly he will go to work on a daily. If things take such a turn The Scholastic can extend only its sincerest sympathy—and chuckle.
Commerce Forum To Meet
The first meeting of the Commerce Forum will be held Tuesday, Oct. 4 at 7:45 p. m. in the Law Auditorium. Dean J. E. McCarthy will address the Forum.
All students in the college of Commerce are invited to attend. Any student desiring to become a member may obtain an application blank at this time.
The plans and policies for the year will be outlined at the meeting.
N. D, Man, Supreme Court Candidate, Visits Campus
Michael Fansler, Notre Dame ’05, and candidate on the Democratic ticket for the Supreme Court of Indiana, visited the campus last weekend. Mr. Fansler lives in Logansport.
Senator Robert Proctor, Notre Dame, ’04, of Elkhart, accompanied the candidate on his visit. The men spent several hours on the campus reniewing friendships with many of their classmates who are now members of the Notre Dame faculty.
M’KEAN CHAIRMAN
Sherman is Likely Band; Breen Class President Makes
Announcements,
John Breen, president of the Sophomore class, announced Thursday that the Sophomore Cotillion, annual formal of the second year men, will be
John McKean
Will have a lot of friends.
held on Friday night, October 21, at the Palais Royale.
John McKean, of Alexandria, Louisiana, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, has been appointed general chairman of the formal McKean made known that he is now working on the appointments of the various committees whose personnel will be ready for publication next week.
Three Orchestras On Tap
The choice of orchestras has been narrowed down to three: Jimmy Gar-rigan, Carl Moore, and Maurie Sherman. The latter, of College Inn fame, will probably get the call.
People in charge of the Cotillion have not announced as yet that it will outdo all other affairs in its novelty and pretentiousness, but if this year runs true to form, the above declaration will be forthcoming within the next week.
The Sophomores have nevertheless selected a desirable week-end for their jamboree and The Scholastic wishes them the best of luck.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
By Edward J. O’Brien
“CATALYZER” EDITOR BEGINS FIRST ISSUE
A body dangles from the top of the Cartier Field fence—a far from lifeless body. It’s Tony Wirry, freshman manager, a mere cog in the managerial machine. Any attempt to
Anthony Wirry
A kid fell over the fence.
free himself from the nail holding him in mid-air by the seat of his trousers is met with a discouraging rip. So, slumped forward in a decidedly undignified position, and not daring to move, he dangles.
“Hey! a kid fell over the fence,” comes a voice from inside the field. Two green-jerseyed football players, freshmen also, lift the body from the restraining nail. One of the footballers is Kitty Gorman, and the other, Jim Harris, the “kid’s” roommates in what was then Freshman hall. Tony Wirry, slightly out of breath and decidedly uncomfortable, grinned sheepishly as his rescuers laughed.
And Now
That happened three years ago. Now Tony Wirry is Senior Football Manager of what we hope will be the greatest football machine in the country this year. But those three years were not exactly easy ones. Freshmen managers, you know, find themselves chasing everything from water buckets to stop-watches at the whim of upper-class managers. In their sophomore year, they are endowed with a little authority and give orders to those under them. Junior managers are those remaining after eliminations have taken place in the sophomore and freshmen ranks. Tony, we
are told, was always thorough in his work whether it was the hustling of water buckets when he was a freshman or the supervising of a “B” team trip in his junior year.
This thoroughness, plus other qualities which Wirry possesses, is the probable reason for his now being in the coveted football manager’s position. Always nattily dressed, he presents a pleasing, clean-cut appearance. Then, too, there is an air of firmness about him; you know, something that lets you know that he means what he says because he has given the matter due consideration and is convinced he’s right. Around the campus he is cheerful and always has a smiling “hello” for his friends and acquaintances.
Introduces New Feature
Manager Wirry has introduced a new feature into the manager’s organization. He is forming the Manager’s Club as a group for managers only. The purpose of the club is to provide some sort of recreation for the managers in the form of smokers, picnics, and perhaps, a dance. It is to be chartered like the other clubs on the campus with Tony as prexy. Just another activity of his.
He is interested in other things too. Golf is one of his favorite pastimes, and it is said that he isn’t just exactly what golfers call a “dub” at the game. Galsworthy and Bromfield are his favorite authors of fiction, but his time for reading is limited. He is president of the German club and also of the Usher’s club. Every morning he gets off to a flying start by serving Father Farley’s 6:15 Mass. Finally, he is interested in advertising, and is a Journalism major in the Arts and Letters school. His average is in the high eighties.
The managers are concentrating on one big job, that is “Helping Hunk get that National Championship this year.” His responsibilities will be many but there should be a great deal of pleasure connected with his work. Of course, attending to the moving of thirty-five to forty men on a trip is a pretty big proposition. But he should enjoy himself on his travels around the country: from coast-to-coast as well as to Lawrence, Pittsburgh, and Cleveland.
Jenny and Assistants Work on Chemical Periodical.
By William Flynn
Francis J. Jenny, senior in the College of Engineering, editor of the Catalyzer, technical and news magazine published eight times during the school year by the Department of Chemistry, announced this week that the first issue of his magazine would appear Oct. 15.
Editor Jenny, a Chemical Engineering major, is a native of Utica, New York. Last year he was winner of the Junior Roger G. Sullivan Scholarship for high scholastic attainment. He will be assisted in editing the Catalyzer by Charles Schwartz, junior Chemical engineer, as associate editor, and Tom Dorris, senior Chemical engineer, who will fulfill the duties of assistant editor.
Established In 1923
The Catalyzer has been issued continuously since 1923. Each magazine usually contains a main article on some technical subject by an alumnus of the Department of Chemistry. In addition, news accounts of the activities of the Academy of Science, the Engineer’s club, the Pharmacy club, and Chemist’s club are included. Editorials and a personal column complete the issue. -
Chemists To Contribute
Mr. Clarence Kaiser, B.S. in Ch.E. ’25, chief chemist for the O’Brien Varnish company, South Bend, will furnish the main article for the year’s first issue. It is entitled “Synthetic Resins” and deals with uses of such materials in paint manufacture.
Mr. Kaiser, a graduate of the University in 1925, was the second editor of the magazine, serving in that capacity during the school year of 192425.
The Catalyzer has a monthly circulation of about 800. Besides being circulated among science and engineering undergraduates, the magazine is sent to all alumni of the Department of Chemistry and to practically all universities in the United States maintaining chemisty departments.

September 30, 1932
Nine
FOUR N.D. GAMES TO BE ON NATIONAL HOOK-UPS
THEATRE TALK
-___By Koger Beirne_______
Husing at the Microphone on Columbia Chain.
If present plans materialize four Notre Dame games will be broadcast on national hook-ups this Fall. The Columbia network will do the operating; Ted Husing will be at the microphone. The games to be put on the air are: Notre Dame at Pittsburgh, October 29; Northwestern at Notre Dame, November 12; Notre Dame-Army at New York, November 26; Notre Dame at Southern California, December 10.
Songs and Gadgets
A release from the Columbia Broadcasting system states: “Ted Husing will be assisted by his observer, Les Quailey, who will operate their “annunciator,” cleverly concealed electrical gadget which registers the participants in the play and thus speeds up Ted’s descriptions. As a curtain raiser for each game, Columbia will broadcast a “Football Souvenir” program for the 15-minute period before Husing throws the switch at his stadium outpost. The feature will include band and male chorus renditions of the various tunes of the two colleges whose battle Husing will subsequently describe.”
Roach Appointed Manager of Notre Dame Glee Club.
S. Jerome Roach, a senior, was appointed business manager of the Notre Dame Glee club this week by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, musical director of the organization. William Ayres was appointed assistant business manager.
Roach was chosen to succeed Fred McLaughlin, last year’s appointee for the position. McLaughlin did not return to school this year. James K. Collins acted as business manager last year.
The office of the business manager is in complete charge of all trips made by the glee club. Roach has been a member of the glee club for the past three years. He is known about the campus for his baritone solos.
What you might enjoy in the Chicago theatre between the perforations on that round trip ticket is of importance. Before the first snows come down and more curtains go up, this Friday afternoon Theatre Talk will pool its first-hand play reactions with what we think would be under graduate interest in them. Wary of the chicancery practiced by some critics, perhaps, we can save you ennui and money by blazing the trail.
Critics and reviewers can give little attention to the tastes of the individuals who form the great variety of readers. The interested college student can be considered above the norm a critic must have in sympathy as he writes. But our review can be personal and more understanding. Thereby, the column can gain merit if it saves you from an evening of idle cracks about disgusting characters.
Censorship of plays when plays are few and far between is difficult. In such barren times any risk the distorting of pleasant memories, kept over the years, by unwilful amateurs tearing a revered Modjeska part to tatters, or knocking Forbes - Robertson’s ghost into a cocked hat, just to see entrances and exits again. Capability, experience, thoroughness stand out all over the program; the selection of incident and dialogue may be third burlesque withal. The possibilities of the stage to edify the audience are so proven that immorality is easily dismissed as grotesque anomaly.
The box office appeal of vulgarity makes authors break with their ideals. Present day conditions will not allow constancy in refined appeal. But that is the least one should expect. That the endowed theatre would disallow the financial inroad gained by the risque is always an argument for the need of selection in the art.
*	4$	*	*
That most skilfully directed “Another Language” is praised by Chicagoans and will have the Fall and Winter season in Chicago just as it had the Spring and Summer in New York. Tom Powers of “He,” “The Apple Cart,” etc, no doubt, wins most of the applause. In Chicago, also, a
second company upholds “Of Thee I Sing” as worthy of a second Pulitzer Prize while the original cast gambols on and on in New York.
Impatience and disgust provoked .
Roger Beirne
“We can save you money.”
Fritz Blocki to write and have staged “The World Between.” He will be in the footnotes of all theatrical histories for this defiant gesture at the producers’ unfaith in Chicago’s Rialto.
t	$
For the Theatre Guild and for Pearl S. Buck, the former’s dramatization of the latter’s novel was a Philadelphian success in the pre-sea-son showing. In the same town J. P. McAvoy, the figure head behind his brilliant “Show Girl” stages his “Americana” revue with impersonations.
*	* # * *
Although this is not a music farce but a very real musical, we wish to call attention to the concert season of the South Bend group of the national Civic Music Association. The students may have two dollars and a half tickets. The usual price for the four concerts is five dollars. Last year the Cleveland Symphony, Jacques Gordon Ensemble and some stars of the opera were here under this patronage. The tickets may be used for admission to the concerts in Elkhart or any other city fostering the Association. The concerts in the nearby cities will not be the same as those in South Bend. Tickets are on sale at Elbel Bros, in South Bend.
Ten
The Scholastic
CAHILL IS INSTALLED AS K.C. GRAND KNIGHT
EDITOR
FRANK R. BUHL ISSUES CALL FOR USHERS CLUB
Membership Drive is to be Supervised by Barrett.
Otto Dorsey, Indiana state secretary of the Knights of Columbus, officiated Monday night at the installation of local officers for the ensuing year. The Knights who were conducted into office by Secretary Dorsey were: John Cahill, Grand Knight; Bob Barrett, deputy grand knight; John Cary, warden; James Gerend, treasurer; Arthur Cavender, recording secretary; Eli Abraham, financial secretary; Charles Fiss, lecturer; Michael Coyle, guard; and Father Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., trustee. Father Reynolds, C.S.C., is chaplain.
The offices of chancellor and two guard positions are vacant because the intended incumbents of these offices have not returned to school. An election will be held Monday, Oct. 10, to fill the vacant offices.
Under the chairmanship of Deputy Grand Knight Bob Barret, the membership drive for the year will assume active operation within a few days. Applications for membership to the council were read and presented to the active members.
Transfer Regulations
In conjunction with the membership drive, Grand Knight Cahill stated that all desiring to transfer their membership from their home council to the Notre Dame council are welcome to do so. Those interested in this should confer with Eli Abraham, financial secretary, at the K. of C. office in the Main building, or Grand Knight Cahill, 39 Sorin;
Fred Becklenberg, the editor of the Santa Maria petitioned all Knights to give their support to the annual.
The report on the national Knights of Columbus convention was read by Eli Abraham, as was also a financial report of the past year. The latter was favorably accepted by the chapter. .
James Gerend rendered several numbers on the piano for the large attendance.
'Ernie Reberty, Grand Knight of the Laporte council and Louis Buck-ley, district deputy of the Notre Dame council, were guests at the meeting.
Frank Jenny, editor of the “Catalyzer” whose work on the publication of the Chemical Department got under way this tveek.
A. S. M, E. Begins Activity
Under the direction of President Edward Troy the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers held its initial meeting Thursday evening, Sept. 22, in the Engineering building.
At this time a new plan of operation was introduced in accordance with requirements of the national organization. Five speakers outlined this new plan. They were: W. L. Abbot, Chief Engineer of the Com-monwealth-Edison Company of Chicago; Ernst Hartford, National Secretary of the A. S. M. E.; R. R. Leonard, manager of the Chicago branch of A. S. M. E.; President Prentice of the Rose Polytechnic Institute; Wilcox, president of the St. Joe Valley branch of A. S. M. E. These men told of the work being done in other schools and of the enthusiastic reception according this new plan by all colleges privileged to use it.
It is hoped that all mechanical engineers of this University will take advantage of this innovation which - provides for automatic membership in the national organization upon graduation and entitles members to the technical publications offered by it. For particulars see Ed Troy at 2C6 Sorin.
Group to Meet Tomorrow in Gym and Form Plans.
With the mailing of approximately 1000 postal cards to the same number of hand-picked men, more preparations for the 1932 home football games went into full swing under the direction of Frank R. Buhl, Stadium Manager.
Those to whom the cards were issued are specially selected men who are invited to attend the reorganization meeting of the Ushers’ club at 12:00, noon, tomorrow in the gymnasium and to join that group if they so desire.
The speakers on the program are as follows: Jesse Harper, Director of Athletics, Anthony W. Wirry, Senior Manager of Football and President of the Ushers’ club, ex officio, Bertram Shinners, Senior Manager of Basketball, who is to be in direct charge of the stadium ushers at the games, and Frank Buhl, who is also Secretarytreasurer of the club, ex officio.
A member of this club is given the right, by virtue of his membership, to act in some official capacity at the home games whether it be as an usher, gateman, or inspector.
The final event at the meeting will be the election of the Vice-President and Grand Marshall who is to be chosen directly from the ranks of the members themselves.
Goldstein Unable to Talk To Students Last Monday
Because of the inclemency of the weather, David Goldstein, renowmed Catholic laymen, was unable to address the student body Monday afternoon as planned. Mr. Goldstein delivers his lectures from a large open air motor van equipped especially for public speaking.
However, Mr. Goldstein visited the campus Monday. While at Notre Dame he made his headquarters in Dillon Hall. Mr. Goldstein is a well known convert who lectures on Catholic truths. He left the University Tuesday morning.

September 30, 1932
Eleven
NEW YORK POLITICS IS SUBJECT OF SPECTATORS
Fallon Probes Into Case of Jimmy Walker.
Tammany Hall and its virtues and vices were placed in the scales at the Spectators meeting last evening when Francis Mallon, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, delivered an address to the club on the political situation as it exists today in New York state.
Dreux Next Week
Fallon revealed a good deal of interesting intrigue in his talk, back stages scenes from which the high moguls pull the strings for the puppets. His subject inevitably worked itself into a consideration of the Walker case. The speaker, while admitting that several features of the colorful mayor’s bank balance were “curiously coincidental,” laid considerable emphasis on the fact that nothing tangible was proved against Walker. All of which resulted in a round table discussion of the merits of city officials in general — perhaps more particularly on their demerits.
The first official meeting of the year saw but few Spectators absent from their posts. Next week William Dreux (Drew) will speak on the subject: “The Possibilities of Another European War.”
Wranglers Adopt a New Constitution, Plan Debates
The Wranglers, honorary forensic activity society of of the University of Notre Dame, at a meeting Wednesday evening, ratified a new constitution for the organization.
Fundamentally, the constitution as it now stands is identical to the previous one, but several changes regarding membership qualifications, have been made. It was also suggested that a suitable copy of the constitution should be made, and an effort will be made to place it in the University archives, for permanent record.
Discussing inter-hall debate, President Boyle stated, “plans for the formation of teams and the assigning of coaches will be made known within a fortnight.”
Notice will be published in The Scholastic when inter-hall debating will formally get under way.-
PRESIDENT
John Breen, Sophomore class president, who announced the date of the Cotillion and its chairman this week.
Sheedy, Jealous of McCabe, Also Calls for Assistance
Charles Sheedy, editor of Scrip, has already begun work on his first issue of the Notre Dame literary quarterly, which will appear Nov. 15. Several contributions have been submitted which Sheedy considers very satisfactory.
On being interviewed by The Scholastic, the editor urged that a plea be made for material. “There is plenty of talent on the campus,” he said. “Most of the students have the wrong idea. They think it is the magazine for the few, but the last issue of last year should prove the contrary.”
Many new names were seen, and a different type of literature was printed. All students who feel that they have any ability in the writing of essays, short stories, sketches, poetry or criticism may submit their material.
Sheedy may be found in 348 Sorin Hall. It is his purpose to make Scrip representative of the whole student body rather than the organ of the few so-called literati. Anything submitted will be given every possible consideration.
Do You Know That
There is a book in the library bound with human skin taken from a Moorish tribesman?
SEPTEMBER-BUT TALK OF
CHRISTMAS DANCE IS ON
Moriarty Named Chairman Of Detroit Affair.
Edmund L. Moriarty, of Ann Arbor, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been appointed chairman of the annual Christmas dance of the Detroit club. The appointment was announced Thursday by Ted Feldman, president of the club.
The first meeting of the club will be held Monday night at 6:30 p. m. in Walsh Hall basement.
Election of a secretary of the club will be held. This election is to fill the vacancy left by Henry Fisher who did not return to the University this semester.
At the meeting Monday there will also be a discussion of plans for a banquet to be held in the near future by the club. Granger Weil has been appointed chairman of this affair.
President Feldman announced that all those living within a radius of 75 miles of Detroit are eligible for membership in the Detroit club and urged that all should attend this first meeting.
Haskell Tickets Will Be Given Out Starting Monday
An announcement given out yesterday by Anthony Wirry, Senior Foot ball manager, states that tickets for the Notre Dame-Haskell game a week from tomorrow will be given out as follows:
Seniors: Monday—3 to 5:30 p. m.
Juniors: Tuesday—3 to 5:30 p. m.
Sophomores: Wednesday—3 to 5:30 p. m.
Freshmen: Thursday—3 to 5:30 p. m.
Pre-Law Club Announcament!
Officers of the Pre-Law club announce that there will be an important meeting of that organization next Tuesday evening in the Court Room of the Law Building, beginning at seven o’clock sharp.
Dean Konop will address the group.
Anyone contemplating studying law is eligible for membership in the club, and should see one of the officers • if he is desirous of entering.
Twelve
The Scholastic
Grotto Has Inspired Notre Dame Men For Forty Years
By Raymond Waters
“A wooded dell . . . always a cooling and refreshing spot.” These are the words a Scholastic writer of the late eighties used to describe the site upon which the grotto, our own shrine to our Lady of Lourdes, was being built. Today, in describing the site, the grotto itself, we have only to add the word . . . “inspiring.”
Many are the youths who, during the intervening years, have found solace and consolation there in the “wooded dell” by gazing upward with Bernadette at the image of our Lady of Lourdes as she stands in her niche in the arc of stone.
To those who find adversity smothering their hopes, who long for the soothing words of a mother far away, the grotto is always a source of inspiration.
N. D.’s Most Sacred Tradition
In May, the lusty singing of a thousand or more voices at the grotto acclaim the reverence Notre Dame men show to the Blessed Virgin. This is by far the most sacred tradition -of Notre Dame.
The grotto is ever the scenic spot of the campus. In winter, in spring ... at all times ... it affords a perfect picture of serenity, of beauty, of true Notre Dame . . . There is scarcely a student who at some time within his four years here doesn’t take a snap shot of this spot. Within the focus of a camera can be seen the stone arch, the images of Mary and Bernadette, the students in prayer, the evergreens, and . . . towering above all, in the background, the golden dome.
A Dangerous Undertaking
For years it has been the custom of many to say their evening prayers at this spot. They trudged and groped their way down the terraces in utter darkness. When they reached the spot, the only light, save that of the moon, was the glow of the candles, ever burning for some intention. It was a dangerous undertaking. This has been remedied during the past summer. Through the kindness of two students at summer school, funds were secured for the recently installed lighting system. Now the terraces leading to the
shrine are lighted by lanterns of French design. The image itseif stands out in the amber glow of hidden lights.
The grotto of Notre Dame was conceived by Father Sorin. After a visit to Lourdes in 1873 he returned to Notre Dame intent upon erecting a facsimile of the miraculous shrine of France. The result is a pleasing and artistic adaptation to the surroundings.
Work Begun In 1876
Actual work on the grotto did not. commence until 1876. Before this, there was much discussion as to the spot where it should be erected. Some favored the hill near the seminary; others thought the ground near “Calvary” ideal. The present spot was chosen because of its natural beauty, and because it had long been the place of meditation for all.
Great boulders, some of them weighing as much as two and three tons go to make up the foundation of the structure. Much difficulty was found in the attempt to form the shell formations from these boulders.
In all, it took eighteen years to construct the grotto. This span of years was partly due to the lack of funds. It was through the donation of the Reverend Thomas Carroll of Oil City, Pa. that the work of construction was carried to an end.
Linking the grotto with the Lourdes at the Ave Maria hour, from the bell tower comes the refrain of the Lourdes Pilgrims’ hymn . . . Ave, Ave, Ave, Maria.
Father Murray Attends Conference in Nebraska
Throughout the past week, the Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Sociology department, has attended the National Conference of Catholic Charities at Omaha, Nebraska.
Father Murray acted as chairman of the Committee on Protective Care which deals with problems of delinquency and crime. His chief work has been the arrangement of the activity and speaking program on which a number of nationally known criminology leaders will appear.
FUNNY FELLOW M’CABE ASKS FOR ASSISTANCE
Only Punsters Excluded Says 44Juggler” Editor.
By Joe McCabe
It is to be hoped that this will not be misconstrued as a reflection upon the number or the quality of the con-
Joseph McCabe “Humorous zvriting has a legitimate standing.” tributions already made to the first edition of the Juggler. These have been most satisfying. But the editor wishes to make it clear that the purpose of the Juggler is to serve as an impetus to student writing.
The point that has been missed by many is that humorous writing has a legitimate standing. It is as a matter of fact an art in itself, and one most difficult to master. Needless to say, we whose work appears in the Juggler are mere novices; and as novices we are eager to welcome more to our number.
There is a great deal of taient on the campus as yet unexercised: it is to those who possess it that we appeal. Most of it is exerted in conversation alone. i (Punners are excluded; there is a 1 bounty of ten dollars on each, dead 3 or alive.) If people laugh with you, and not at you—try writing some of your stuff. (If they laugh at you, try-editing.) (He means try Juggler editing—Ed. Scholastic.)
There are some magazines that care not whether you read them, as long as you buy them; we would prefer that you help write this one. (Then we’re sure you’ll read it.)

September 30, 1932
Thirteen
SANDUSKY ANNOUNCES “DOME” APPOINTMENTS
Conley and Belting Get Associate Editor Positions.
Arthur Sandusky, editor of the Dome for 1933, announced this week the names of those men who are to complete the major portion of the staff.
John E. Conley and George R. Belting, last year’s candidates for the editorship, have been made associate editor because of their knowledge of both the mechanical and editorial departments of the book.
Leslie Raddatz, last year’s editor has consented to act as senior advisory editor. His familiarity with the problems confronting yearbook editors and his willingness to be of assistance will be invaluable to Sandusky.
The task of repeating the brilliant work of Becvar will fall to Leo Beau-laurier who comes to the Dome highly recommended by the art department.
Stritch Does Satire Section
Much may be expected of the satire section for ’33 for it rests in the capable hands of Thomas L. Stritch, well known campus writer.
Censoring, correcting, compiling and computing all copy will be the work of the ever efficient Edward J. Seward who is to act in the capacity of script editor. Such a position carries with it a large amount of responsibility, and the success of the resulting book depends highly upon the manner in which this position is handled.
Each departmental editor is to have complete supervision of his particular department and will make all appointments and assignments necessary for the completion of his task.
The personnel of the staff is by no means complete. Sandusky, however, expressed his satisfaction with the number, ability and enthusiasm of the men who announced themselves as candidates at last Friday’s meeting.
Press Club Hears N; D. Grad
George Kelly, a graduate of the Notre Dame School of Journalism and and now assistant editor of the Youngstown Vindicator, addressed the Press Club at its initial meeting Monday night, on the subject: “Functions of a City Editor.”
Bishop Crowley Praises N.D. For Aid In Bengal Missions
By Mitchell Tackley
As a particular message to the students of Notre Dame, the Most Reverend Bishop T. Crowley, C.S.C., D.D., Bishop of Dacca, Bengal, India, expressed the hope that the interest
Bishop T. Crowley, C.S.C.
“Education is held in high repute in India.”
and cooperation of Notre Dame in the foreign bishop apostolate will have a very happy reaction on the work proper of the University in America. Bishop Crowley delivered this message to a Scholastic staff correspondent in an interview this week.
Seated on a large easy chair in his room in the presbytery, the Bishop, on first appearance, reminded one of an old portrait done in the bright colors of episcopal robes. Upon meeting him, one would be immediately impressed with his kindliness and great understanding for his fellow man.
A Student Here Once
After a few minutes of questioning we learned that Bishop Crowley was a student at Notre Dame some thirty years ago. While at the University, the Bishop stated that he was connected with the editorial staff of The Scholastic, when it was in its cradle days. He graduated from the University in 1902 after which he attended the Catholic University of America. He received his degree of doctor of philosophy there in 1906. -The Bishop then returned to Notre Dame where he taught for a year in
the department of English, the immediate predecessor to Father Carrico. Since that time he has lived in Bengal.
Last week Bishop Crowley visited the campus and talked to the freshmen and sophomores; Tuesday of this week, he returned to Notre Dame and addressed the juniors and seniors. While these trips inconvenienced the Bishop, he said that he made them because of his great love for Notre Dame men and out of appreciation for what her men have done for him.
Notre Dame has always taken a keen interest in Bengal. “At the present,” said Bishop Crowley, “there are some thirty men of Notre Dame in India. In the Mission of Dacca, there are six Holy Cross Sisters who work among twelve million non-believers. The Holy Cross have been in India for 80 years carrying out this work. This year there are five new1 missionaries: three priests and two Brothers.”
Sisters Hard W'orkers
“The Sisters of the Holy Cross,” stated the Bishop, “do an enviable work in India. Not only do they teach children in the village schools, but they also carry education and program into the very homes of the people. Were the number of the Sisters increased one hundred-fold, they would be inadequate to the large program which only the Sisters can carry out.”
The Bishop then entered his discussion into the customs and domicility of the Bengalese. “The mere man has very little influence in an Indian home,” he said. “The woman does not rock the cradle, it is true, for the obvious reason that babies have no cradles, but she does rule the home. By a vocative of wicked irony, the woman styles her husband, ‘lord.’ In reality, he is only nominally such. It is the lady that rules.”
“The Brothers of Holy Cross also conduct a very meritorious apostolate among the young, Catholics and nonChristians in Bengal. Education is held in very high repute in India.” The Bishop has statistics to prove, that relative to its population, there are more boys going to school in Dacca city than in any other city in the British Empire.
(Continued on Page 32)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
DOME STARTS ANOTHER PHOTOGRAPH CONTEST
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS RELEASED BY OFFICE OF FR. CARRICO
‘SCHOLASTIC’S’SPORT JOB GOES TO LESLIE RADDATZ
Prizes Offered For Unusual Snapshot Work,
In announcing plans for a distinctly new type of campus life section in the 1933 Dome the editor sounds the call which is expected to bring all the amateur photographers in the university into action. Dome snapshot contests have always been fruitful in the past and it is hoped that this year’s contest will stimulate even more enthusiasm among those students possessing kodaks.
Being firmly convinced that the profit motive is one of the most basic instincts the Dome seeks to assuage it by offering three cash prizes to those submitting pictures judged to be the three best campus shots. A prize of five dollars will constitute the first prize; three dollars the second prize; and two dollars, the third prize.
Prize Is Incentive
While the prospect of winning one of these prizes will doubtless act as an incentive the Dome feels that an even greater incentive is the satisfaction one must feel upon seeing his work in the 1933 Dome.
The editor has announced his intention to make the snapshot section one of the highlights of the book. A more intimate study of student life will be the objective for those working with this section. Pictures of any phase of student life or activity are highly desired. They need not be scenic nor restricted to posed groups.
Pictures Reflecting Life
Pictures that will reflect life on the campus as the student knows it are the type the Dome is seeking. Pictures of scenic spots in the quad, of the rush to the dining halls or to the classroom — any kind may be submitted.
All pictures will be carefully catalogued and returned to the owner. For this reason students are asked to write their names and addreses on the back of each picture turned in and to enclose the lot in a selfaddressed envelop. Pictures will be receeived at anyone of three placs. The Publications Office, Room 104 Alumni Hall by Joseph Durkin, Photographic Editor of the Dome, or at Room 149 Alumni by Arthur A. Sandusky, editor of the Dome.
Students are advised to acquaint themselves carefully with the academic regulations of the University, as published in the general Bulletin, pages 62 to 70, and in The Undergraduate Manual, pages 22 to 32.
To receive a bachelor’s degree from the University at the commencement in the June or in the August of 1933 the candidate must have an average of 77% for his passing grades in all courses taken at Notre Dame since the beginning of the schoolyear 193031. Any student who is to be graduated after the commencement of next August must have the 77% average for passing grades of the whole college course. The details of the quai-tative average required are stated in Regulation 30.
Attention is called at this time to the following Regulations (under their proper numbers):
Absences from class on account of illness or for any other necessary reasons are counted in the number of . absences permitted. Hence the student should be careful to save his permissible absences for cases of necessity, so that he may not lose credit for his courses.
The dean of each college has full charge of the admission, registration, rating, probation, discontinuance, readmission, and graduation of the students in his college.
The student should report promptly to the office of the Director of Studies any change of address of parent or guardian, from that given by him on his census card at registration time in September.
Exception to any of the academic regulations is permitted only for extraordinary reason.
Director of Studies.
Students in Secondary Education Dept. Meet
Students in the department of Secondary Education who will take practice teaching this semester met in the Law building Wednesday afternoon. Prof. Leo F. Kuntz, head of the department was in charge of the meeting.
At this meeting the necessary . arrangements were made for the students who will begin their practice teaching in South Bend, .Monday, Oct. 3.	.
45 Men Respond to Call for
Staff Candidates.
The Scholastic staff was augmented during the past week with the addition of the name of Leslie
Leslie Raddatz
Knorus the ins and outs
Raddatz, editor-in-chief of the 1932 Notre Dame Dome, to the mast-head. Raddatz will take the position of sports editor a position which has been vacant since the beginning of the year. His knowledge of the makeup of the paper and his writing ability in general will be invaluable assets to The Scholastic.
Forty-five students presented themselves to the editorial board of The Scholastic last Friday evening as candidates for this year’s sta7; approximately fifteen positions are open. A weeding out process during the next three weeks will reduce the list to the required number.
Italians of Campus to Meet Tuesday Evening
The initial meeting of the Italian club will be held Tuesday evening at 6:30 p. m. in Room 2 of the Main building.
All members as well as the freshmen who are of Italian extraction, are requested to be present.
Completing the list of new officers elected last May are Anthony Maffei, vice-president, Rocco Cacciatore, secretary and Leonard Cacciotore, treasurer. Professor Pasquale Pircho, founder of the club, will return again as faculty adviser.
September 30, 1932
Fifteen
PREXY HYDE SPEAKS AT BOOKMEN MEETING
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Club Opens year on Monday; Memberships Open.
The Bookmen held their first meeting of the scholastic year last Monday evening at 8:15 in the Law building. President Samuel Hyde began
Samuel Hyde Head Bookman
by explaining to the men admitted last spring the purpose and nature of the club. He emphasized the opportunities and privileges which the club offers to the individual members and what the club expects of each man in return.
Committes for the year were appointed and other incidental business was taken care of. Lack of time prevented the choosing of books at this meeting. The meeting next Monday will be devoted to this business. In addition David Powers will give the first talk of the year. His topic is “The Classics in Modern Literature.”
Since the club quota of members is not filled, any undergraduate inter-' ested in the Bookmen may submit his name to Lloyd Teske at 201 Walsh Hall before 7:30 p. m. Monday, Oct. 3.
Attention Music Lovers
In the window of Elbel Bros., South Bend music store there is on display an original manuscript of Ludwig von Beethoven. Among several old musical instruments the most prominent is an original Stradivarius violin.
EPICUREAN
Dear sir:
I wish to take advantage of your letter column to express my appreciation—and that of many others— for the fine meals in the dining halls this year. When my bill came early this month I was rather surprised that the board had not been reduced. Since I have been here, however, I can see that the meals are well worth the price.
The old monotony is gone as are the puddings. Variety — climaxed with water cress last week — has taken its place. Breakfast, at one time a bugbear to me, is now worth getting up for.
I know that it is breaking an old tradition for a student to praise the dining halls. Believe me though, they deserve praise.
Sincerely,
E. D. R.
THUNDERING HERD
The Scholastic,
Dear Editor:
This is the first opportunity that has been afforded me of asking you to use your influence in asking the students to please refrain from making a dash from the dining hall to Washington hall on Saturday nights. Perhaps my motives are selfish, because I refuse to join the mob. If they are, however, I have succeeded, in convincing myself that I disapprove of the practice because of the harm it does to the quadrangle. Last winter many of the hedges planted the spring before were tramped down by the “thundering herd.” Since the University is doing all in its power to enhance natural beauty of the campus, the students should take the same pride in it as they do in the winning football teams.
This letter will hardly accomplish what an editorial in The Scholastic would. I know there are a great many students who regard the situation as I do and would be pleased to see you take up our cause.
Yours sincerely, L. W. J.
S. R, O.
The Scholastic,
Dear Sirs:
Last Saturday I went over to Car-tier field hoping to see the team’s first scrimmage with the freshmen. I was not allowed in, nor were any of the other students who stood around the gate all afternoon. This might not have been so bad had it not been for the fact that some two hundred people from South Bend, whose connection with the school and the football team is at least doubtful, got through the gate with special passes.
I realize that secrecy is essential for the success of any football team, and I realize also that a crowd of students does not help particularly in making practice run smoothly. The great number of outsiders who witnessed the scrimmage, however, cannot help but create some hard feeling among the students—as it did last Saturday.
Respectfully, C. E. D.
WE DISAGREE
Editor of The Scholastic, Dear Sir:
Several other people and myself look with mingled despair and sympathy upon the plight of the Wranglers, sponsors of debating among all campus halls.
Their attempt may be classified as noble but the whole plan can be condemned as unworkable. Students simply will not react to the proposal.
G. A. L.
GRATIAS
The Scholastic,
Dear Editor:
A “Voice of the People” column is generally one in which all sorts of grievances are aired. It is my belief that such a column should also serve other purposes.
I want to say that never have I appreciated a campus improvement more than I do the lights at the Grotto. The lights at the steps serve a much-desired need, while the light beneath the statue greatly enhances the beauty of the grounds. Whoever suggested this improvement deserves the thanks of all Notre Dame men.
Lloyd Teske. .
Sixteen
The Scholastic
NOTRE DAME’S CHIMES IN RETROSPECT
Bells Were Placed In First Church Seventy-Six Years Ago
A. C. Benson writing on the subject of bells has this to say: “I do not think there is anything which so identifies itself with the spirit and memory of a place as the sound of some customary bell I At my little college here I have lately been permitted to hang in the quaint hall belfry a bell, of a soft and silvery note, on which the clock now strikes the hour, and two lesser bells for the quarters. . . It is a pleasure to think that the new bells may weave themselves into the delights and activities and dreams of the generations who will hereafter go in and out; and that coming back a score of years after, the sound of the familiar chime may bring back sudden retrospects of the little vivid court full of sunlight, the voices of forgotten friends, the old plans and designs, the old energies and brightnesses of the unshadowed life.”
Bells of Notre Dame
In November 1856, after solemn blessing by Archbishop Purcell, the bells of Notre Dame were hung in one of the twin towers of the first brick church which was dedicated in 1847. v
The bells were cast in the foundries of Bolle et fils, Le Mans, France, the cradle of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The original installation consisted of twenty-three'' bells and a bourdon, or base, which was cast in Cincinnati.
Maybe it’s Taps
Prof. Willard Groom in Recital

In 1866 this latter developed a crack which rendered it useless. Generous friends, whose names are cast on the bell, made it possible to secure the present eight ton bourdon from the Bolle foundry. At the same time an effort was made to increase the number of the bells to sixty-three but this desire of Father Sorin’s was never realized.
On completion of the present church, 1871-1875, the bells were moved to the new tower. When the church was consecrated, August 15, 1888, the bourdon was solemnly blessed by Bishop Burke of Wyoming under the title of the Immaculate Conception. Each of the other twenty-three bells bears a name as directed by the ritual for the blessing of bells.
Long years of use and exposure to the elements resulted in the deterioration of the operating mechanism. The bells hung silent for several years. An old time friend of Notre Dame generously undertook to defray the cost of restoring them.
This was accomplished in 1930 with the addition of several new features. The old weight drive was replaced by a motor. A program mechanism connected with the tower clock to establish the electrical contact with the motor at the playing hours was installed, also a device for manual playing. .
The automatic playing is effected by means of a chimebarrel or drum containing more than two thousand holes. Into these are fitted pins adjustable to the varying intervals of the melody. As the drum revolves these pins (Continued on Page 17)
September 30, 1932
Seventeen
EIGHTY-FIVE INCLUDED IN PERSONNEL OF BAND
Prof. Casasanta Picks 1932-33 Musical Organization.
Eighty-five names appear on the personnel of the 1932-33 University band to date announced Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the group. Final eliminations have not as yet been made, but the membership as it now stands is as follows:
DRUM MAJOR—Louis Alaman. Tom Grady, (Final eliminations to be made this week.
DRUMS—William Robison, snare; Charles Clark, snare; Edward Fitzmaurice, snare: Joseph Argus, bass; Glenn Porter, cymbals.
TUBA—Norman Gehringer, Edward Haney, George Bryan, Eric Ryan.
E. FLAT HORN—Donald Draper, Charles Jahr, Albert Ripley.
E. FLAT ALTO SAX—Charles Wright. -	Raymond Rossi, Bob Filson, Chas. Dohnalck,
Edward Kelmurry, Dick Pfeiffer, Harvey Rockwell. Seward Kenkel.
TROMBONE—Al Stewart. Terrill Austin. Charles Fiore, John Cary, Fred Weniger, Joseph Vin McDonald, William Gordan, Ed Wykoff.
E. FLAT BARITONE SAX—Charles Morris.
D. FLAT PICCOLO—John Hemming, Joseph Burns.
OBOE—Michael Alan Feeney, Carl Vogel-heim, Andrew Hellmuth, Ezra Brown.
B. FLAT CLARINET—John Youngen. John Ledher, Irwin Schwien, Roland Jay Smith. Simon Looker, James Morrison, Howard Pohl-meyer, Edward Zimmers, Paul Locher, William Gorgen, Paul A. Dougher, Robert Bernard, Paul Halbert, Arthur Huber.
B. FLAT TENOR SAX—Robert Demer. Thomas Gorman, James Bordeaux.
B. FLAT BARITONE—James Treacy, Claude Rossiter, M. DeWald, W. Ellis.
TRUMPET—Clarence Hess, August Von Boecklin, Martin C. Moran, John F. Gill. James A. Freeman, Fredeerick Theis, Clair C. White, Paul Guarnieri. Thomas Flynn, Norbert Ott, Charles Sehili, Joseph Washko, Clare Burger, Walter Dupray, Paul Sartorette. George Ball, Ben Pollard, Thomas Halley, J. F. Murphy, William Reynolds, George Hunt-zicker, Joseeph Bean, John Lynch, Robert Waterson, Raymond Deely.
Professor Staunton is
Convalescing at His Home
Prof. John A. Staunton, Department of Philosophy, who has been confined ot the hospital for some time has so improved in health that he has * been able to return to his home on Angela Blvd., South Bend.
»	It is hoped that Prof. Staunton will
soon be able to resume his work at the University where his return will be welcomed by his many friends among the faculty and student body.
Notre Dame’s Bells Have a Fascinating History
(Continued from Pagee 16)
trip a series of levers, three for each bell. Wire cables lead from these levers to an apparatus attached to the outside hammers on the bells. The action causes the hammer to withdraw from the bell and fall back upon it, the force of the stroke being regulated by springs.
The term chimes is commonly used to designate any number of bells. Technically a chime is a set of bells hung stationary, not more than eight, ten or twelve in number, tuned to the notes of the diatonic scale. A carillon (pronounced car’illon, o as in atom) is a set of bells hung stationary, turned to the notes of the chromatic scale, the compass being three octaves or more.
The compass of the bells of Notre Dame is two and one-half octaves. The limited range of the bells and the simple mechanism that controls them permits the playing of music only in simple melodic form.
The ideal of the Christian life is to live constantly in the presence of God. The bells throughout the day announce the fundamental truths of the liturgy, redemption, and sanctification. The limited capacity of the automatic player permits only a par-
S> A, C, Originates Plan For
Collection of Class Dues
Proposed in the plans of the Students Activities Council is a change whereby every member of the three upper classes will be levied fifty cents. This measure will take the place of the obsolete ruling governing class dues.
The plan to bring about the compulsory yearly payments has not as yet been approved by University officials. The sum realized from the tax will be included into the treasury of the respective classes. The fund is to be used for general purposes such as the purchase of the annual flag by the senior class, the purchase of altar decorations, by the junior class, and the like.
The new system will in no way be connected with the class dances except in the event of a deficit. At such a time, the fund will be used ro make up the loss. Any money not used by the end of the year will be turned over to the S. A. C. general fund to be used for running expenses the following year.
tial rendition of each number. The daily program is as follows:
6:55 A. M.— Holy God we praise Thy name.
8:55 A. M.— Mother dear, remember me.
10:55 A. M. — To Jesus’ Heart all burning.
1:10 P. M.— Dear Guardian of Mary.
3:10 P. M. — O Salutaris Hostia.
5:05 P. M. — America! for the lowering of the flag).
7:05 P. M. — Ave Maria (Lourdes . Pilgrim’ Hymn).
10:05 P. M. —Taps.
Generally unknown the words to the music of “Taps” run as follows:
Day is done; . Gone the sun From the lake, From the hill, From the sky, All is well, Safely rest, God is nigh’.
For the benefit of those particularly interested in carillon music, Professor Willard L. Groom, F. A. G. O., of the Department of Music of the University, gives a program in the Church every Saturday afternoon between 12:30 and 1:00 o’clock.
Danehy’s Irish Club Will Swing Into Action Tuesday
James P. Danehy, a senior in the College of Science, was unanimously elected president of the Irish club at its first meeting of the year last Tuesday.
The office of secretary was given to Joseph F. Davey, a senior in Arts and Letters.
No permanent name has been as yet determined for the organization, although several suggestions were made. These will be considered when the name is adopted at the next meeting to be held October 3.
The list of speakers for the next several meetings was drawn up. Joseph K. Partello and Robert J. Flint will address the next meeting. Par-'tello’s subject will be entitled “The Ancestry of the Modem Irish” while Flint is to discuss the “Rebellion of 1916.”
Membership is limited to twenty. There are a few vacancies to be filled in the near future. Letters of application should be addressed to the secretary in 302 Walsh hall.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER
One of the most difficult things to do today is to talk politics without arguing. Since genesis the American body politic has proved a fertile ground for political surgeons in every line of endeavor. Colleges have contributed their share of these surgeons and will continue to do so. Before practicing, however, some tutoring is needed and we feel this editorial from the Daily Northwestern serves that purpose.
THE CAMPUS AND NATIONAL POLITICS
Socialists are the only politically conscious students on the campus. They seem to be the only ones of a vast student population who are interested enough in their own and their country’s welfare to try to do something about it. Colleges are becoming known as hotbeds for Socialism and Communism. There are plenty of loyal conservatives left on the campus but they sit idly by and leave politics to their parents and the political bosses. The college radicals are the only ones who are not afraid to blow their own horns and let the world know what issues they support.
With the presidential election only a month and a half away, every student on the campus should know the issues at stake and the platforms of both parties or at least that of his own preference; and yet out of three students questioned only one could name more than two planks of either platform.
Students, being the cream of the nation’s intellectual crop, should be tearing their hair over political issues. Instead their most important topic of discussion is their last date or the next one.
Every student who feels that his future well-being is of any importance should understand the current political issues and should be supporting those that are worthwhile. Those who get into politics know the great attraction it has for its participants. Phrased pedantically, there is no more thrilling ad
venture in present day life than to enter into the political jumble.
------------------
HOPE SPRINGS ETERNAL
As a gentle reminder to the class of 1933 we reprint an editorial from the Northeastern’s News, Northeastern University’s weekly entitled, “June Blossoms.” At the present to most of the erudite seniors life is little more than immanent activity, with the curtain slated to rise on this year’s football season, with a student trip rumored, and with more than an average number of times planned for them to demonstrate their Terpsichorean ability. Before they begin their descent into the maelstrom of social activity we recommend to them this editorial demi-tasse as a fitting beverage to sup with their college bread.
JUNE’S BLOSSOMS
The American college graduates of last June are now beginning to recover from the shock of being plunged into the icy water of an industrial low-tide. Many of them have managed to settle themselves in some sort of work. But how rudely shattered are their dreams of stepping into an executive job as soon as the three-month period of “learning the business” is over.
Many of June’s seniors are pumping gas in filling stations, collecting bills, mixing cement, picking crops—anything to keep busy until the country learns how to keep its budget, control production, and start up machinery again.
And this is not an altogether unhealthy situation. Too many college graduates were over-valuating themselves and their diplomas. They were very snooty about picking their employers and naming their prices, with the result that they wasted a great deal of time coming down to earth. They should not feel down-hearted, however, at taking an $18-a-week job. . The tide has a habit of turning, and brains and education always count.
More power to them I
September 30, 1932	Nineteen
BUDGET
Perhaps it is a bit early to talk about such things as policies in reference to class dances but the announcement this week of the date of the Sophomore Cotillion brings a point to mind. It seems that a major item of interest to a man in these days of rehabilitated socks and shoes is the way he spends his money and the way he gets his money’s worth. Even when an individual is fairly certain that he is not wasting his gold and that other people are not wasting it for him he gets no little satisfaction out of being absolutely certain of the fact.
For such a psychological effect then, and for the furtherance of good will between the men in charge of the Cotillion and the other members of the sophomore class, The Scholastic suggests that sufficient data be presented to it as soon as possible to permit it to publish a budget of the dance on October twenty-first. Such a move was made last year prior to the Senior Ball and everyone was happy. There seems to be no good reason why history should not repeat.
-------❖❖--------
A BLENDING
Neither the freshman who has just finished the conquest of his high school nor the senior who is wearied with the futility of his existence can deny that the Mission is a good thing. Anybody inevitably profits from the introspection exercised, from the effects that are noticeable on a roommate, from the hundred little things that are directly traceable to the services themselves. People quit boasting about their misdemeanors, everybody gets at least one serious thought, and nobody walks out of the Church at night without wondering if there isn’t something to this business of saving a soul. As “The Week” remarks, something like a Mission does much to blend philosophy with dogma, is emotionally refreshing after the cold reasoning that accompanies an hour in a metaphysics class.
Some people, of course, will go wanting to be bad for the sake of being bad, but even individuals of such a despicable level have absorbed something and, perhaps, have already started to climb.
THOSE FINER THINGS
Whether all Notre Dame men realize it is a question but the fact remains that there are activities on the campus which offer so many opportunities that one has a difficult time rationalizing the neglect that is often given them. What are they? Ask Professor Casasanta who takes pride in his musicians; ask Joe McCabe who will willingly accept more Juggler talent; ask the editor of Scrip; ask Art Sandusky of the Dome; ask anybody engaged in any worthwhile activity and you will get an answer before you finish.
Somebody told us the other day that the reason he hadn’t engaged himself in any outside work was because he couldn’t muster the courage to report. It is strange that such a feeling should result when men in charge of major campus activities are struggling to bring about just the opposite effect.
Extra-curricular activities have often been condemned by educators but no one has ever given a sensible reason why they should be. It is not overstating the case, we believe, to say that in many instances they have proven themselves to be just as valuable as classroom work itself. Men who have ability, whether it be in getting an advertisement or blowing on a trombone, should do something with it here and now; they may not get a chance later. Supposing, for instance, a student has the potentialities of a great journalist. When will he become aware of the fact? In two years when he is standing in an employment line, perhaps, for days at a time? In three years when he gets a position that leaves him very little free time—or when he is still standing in line?
The place is here and the time is now. Countless organizations are in need of new blood. If university life is to be worthwhile this side of it cannot and must not be neglected. There is only one answer to the whole enigma and that has something to do with indolence. And that is so easily ridiculed that there’s no use going into it.
Trventy
The Scholastic
Y
Frosh-Varsity Battle Tomorrow
Stadium Opener to Last Until Dark; ITS STARTING: NICK “Hunk”, Klein to Use Every Player "VIEWS WITH ALARM”
First String Will Start Game; Showings to Decide Lineup For Haskell Tilt.
Notre Dame’s annual pre-view of the Fighting Irish football cast will be staged tomorrow afternoon In Notre Dame Stadium. The varsityfreshman feature will begin at 1:30 p. m.
Director Hunk Anderson promises to display all of his leading performers. Assistant director Jake Klein will furnish the proerties for the show in the form of a few hundred willing, and hard-playing yearlings.
1:30 Till ?
The scrimmage will take the form of a regular game for the first sixty minutes. But the show won’t end then for the staff in charge reports that every man on both sides will see action in the struggle that should last most of the afternoon;
Notre Dame grid fans will have their first and last look at the 1932 Irish before the opening of the regular season next Saturday against the Haskell tribe. Practice sessions during the week have been held in the crash-proof confines of Cartier Field. The workouts during the rest of the fall will be similarly restricted.
First Appearance
It is probable that Anderson will throw his tentative first eleven into the early portion of the battle with the purpose of giving them the strongest opposition that the frosh can muster. A much stiffer defense than they presented last week is expected from the first year men as they have made considerable headway during the past five days.
Assuming that the varsity regulars
George Kozak
His Freshmen line gets first test.
start the contest, their eleven will line up with Captain Host and Kosky at ends; Kurth and Krause, tackles; Greeney and Harris, guards; Alexander, center; Jaskwhich or Vejar, quarterback; Brancheau and Lukats, halfbacks; and Melinkovich, fullback.
The second string varsity crew will . get plenty of action. Their team is expected {o' carry the following names: Devore and Canale, ends; Roach and Ledding, tackles; Flynn and Schiralli, guards; Gorman, center; Murphy, quarterback; Sheeket-ski and Koken, halfbacks, and Banas, fullback.
An admission charge of twenty-five cents will be made at the stadium entrances. Students are advised to bring their A. A. books with them.
Points to Loss of Stars; Dearth of New Material.
By Janies Pick	•
“The best way in which I can explain the situation is to remind you that we have lost sixteeen out of twenty-five monogram men.” With these words Coach John Nicholson summed up his worries concerning the prospects on the track this year.
Those figures point to the drastic toll which graduation and the summer has taken. Now the problem is to determine who will take the places of such valuable men as Alex Wilson, Bill McCormick, Gene Howery, Bob Darling and Jack Scanlon.
Good 880-Yd Men
Some of these stars will be replaced only with great difficulty. Wilson was always capable of handling the 440 and 880 and even three races in certain instances.
Even with the loss of such a star, however, the team this year promises to the strongest in the 880 and mile events.
As a member of the two mile relay team last year Clyde Roberts, now a junior, ran a number of creditable half mile races. Joe Young, also running with the relay team, lowered his time considerably during the course of the last season. Joe has had greater sucess as a miler.
King In Distance Runs
Eddie King competes in distances ranging from the half to the two mile and rates among the best in all of these events.
Vince Murphy, a sophomore who competed in the United States Olympic trials, is ready to step into Bob Darling’s solitary role as high jumper. He leaped over the bar at (Continued on Page 28)
September 30, 1932
Twenty-one
HERE THEY COME!
CLUVER AND DAY DOWN FAVORITES IN GOLF MEET
Joe Kurth and Ed Krause, 424 pounds of right and left tackle respectively.
Inter hall Football Season Is to Open October 9 th
By Edward Van Huisseling
Lured not only by the desire to play football, but by campus bulletins which announced Coach “Hunk” Anderson and Tom Yarr as speakers of the evening, almost two hundred aspirants turned out to the first interhall sport meeting of the year, Monday in the basement of the library.
Coach Anderson opened the short meeting and wasted no time assuring the men that it was his desire to have this year’s interhall games as full of keen rivalry and good sportsmanship as they have been in past seasons.
Two Physical Education men will act as coaches for each team with a varsity player in the capacity of advisory mentor. The latter will give the hall teams their plays and assist in moulding the material into shape.
Varsity players will be appointed each week to work as officials in all games. This move will provide accurate officiating of the contests.
“Hunk” stressed the importance of practice to a successful football .machine; insisting that it was as important toward securing unity on an interhall eleven as it was on the varsity. He stated that by it, not
only unity was assured, but the physical condition of the players would be greatly improved.
It was announced that the practice of sending teams with good showing on a trip over Thanksgiving would be continued this year. Last season there were eight Notre Dame elevens in action on this same day.
Assistant coach, Tom Yarr, who is in charge of interhall sports for this term, concluded the meeting with his talk. He announced that equipment will be given out today.
Things will begin to happen on Oct. 9 when all teams will swing into action against their first opponents. There will be no letdown until Dec. 3, the day set aside for the championship game. Teams which earn the fight to enter this struggle will play for the title in the stadium.
The champion aggregation will receive a trophy and a meal for their work. Individual awards will undoubtedly be given to members of the winning club. Last year’s champions, St. Edward’s. Hall, were presented with gold footballs, donated by Livingston’s Clothing Store of South Bend.
Montedonico, Banks Fail After Good Showing.
By George Belting
Henry Cluver a senior from New York City, and Winfield Day, a Chicago freshman, tied for first place in the third annual William J. Burke memorial open tournament which was staged on the University golf course last Sunday. Both men turned in cards of 154 for 36 holes. The playoff will be arranged some time this week.
The favorites, Capt. John Montedonico, Johnny Banks, and Vince Fehlig, failed to come through with a victory. Of • the two winners, only Day was conceded an outside chance to carry off the honors. The showing of this freshman together, with that of LaMar Campbell, another first year man who finished in fifth place with a card of 156, speaks well for the immediate future of Notre Dame golf.
Cluver A Surprise
There was a bit of a surprise connected with the showing made by Henry Cluver. He was one of the last men to turn in his card. Just as everyone was about to concede the victory to Day, Cluver walked into the club house and produced his card.
He had shot a 78 in the morning round, and as the chilly weather had slowed most of the players up a bit in the second session, no one thought that Cluver had much of a chance to tie Day. However, when the 76 which he scored in the afternoon round was approved by Manager Andy O’Keefe, things were all tied up.
Cluver tossed away his chance for victory when he missed a short putt on the last green. This miscue occurred in the final round. Day also missed a putt on the eighteenth, but his was about twenty feet.
Monte “Blows” With An 81
Day was tied with Montedonico and Banks for low score in the morning round. Each man had a 75. Montedonico blew up in the afternoon session and finished with an 81. Banks shot an 80. The latter received a tough break on the seventh hole when he hit the pin on an approach shot, missing a birdie by inches.
(Continued on Page 2S)
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Anderson Moves Lukats and
Vejar Up To First Eleven
FALL TENNIS TOURNEY OPENS ON WEDNESDAY
BLOCKING BETTER
Squad Shows Improved Form; Plan to Alternate Vejar and Chuck Jaskwhich.
By Joe Kurth, All-American Tackle
Football, in its stages of progress at Notre Dame, has reached its second week. At the end of the first week, a scrimmage between the Varsity squad and the Freshman saw drastic changes in the line-ups of the varsity teams.
Nick Lukats, commonly known as being from Gary, lately, however, of Perth Amboy, New Jersey, replaced Mike Koken, the Youngstown lad, at the left half back post. Coach Anderson saw fit, too, to establish Laurie Vejar, the Hollywood High youngster, on an equal basis with “Chuck” Jaskwhich, the regular varsity quarterback. Vejar and Jaskwhich will alternate at the first string post with Emmett Murphy occupying the role of second string quarter.
Team Shows Potential Power
Coach Anderson has kept his eagle eye peeled during the scrimmages which have taken place Saturday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. In Saturday’s scrimmage against the Freshman the varsity showed its potentiality of plays. There was however, a weak spot which Coach Anderson detected immediately and that was the fact that the secondary defense was not cleaned up satisfactorily. The week-end scrimmage paved the way for the readjustment in the personnel of the varsity teams. Lukats showed up well in his open field running and his apparent coolness under fire. Vejar showed his eagerness to be classed as an alternate regular first string quarterback by calling signals well, by his effective blocking, and the sureness of catching punts and returning them from his position as safety. The shift of Vejar on a par with Jaskwhich automatically elevated Murphy to the second string post.
The guard situation seems to be definitely on the road to a solution. Anderson .has Harris the Bellaire, Ohio, lake boat fireman, and Norm
Greeney, the Cleveland boy, at the left and right guard posts, respectively, on the first team. There still exists the fight for positions on the second team between Wunsch, Flynn, Pierce, and Pivarnik. Competition at
Lukats
Nick took the job . . .
the center flanking posts is as keen as any ever seen on a Notre Dame squad.
The first string end positions rest in the capable hands of Ed Kosky and Captain Paul Host. Hugh DeVore, Sterla Canale, Hubert Gildea, and the new promising reserve Norbert Bascher, are competing for the second string positions.
.The remaining positions have remained untouched by the Blue and Gold Coach.
Wednesday Brings Improvement
Old Cartier Field is the “Proving grounds” upon which Coach Anderson puts his charges through their paces in order that he might further determine the capabilities of his varsity squad. Tuesday and Wednesday saw four teams scrimmaging.
Tuesday night’s scrimmage revealed nothing of outstanding note, but Wednesday night saw the first team scrimmaging a strong reserve eleven and noticeable events took place. Blocking was very much improved and the “blocking out” of secondary made it possible for Lucats, Brancheau, and Melinkovitch to reel off some long gains.
(Continued on Page 23)
50 Entrants Start Play In Singles; Chreist Favored.
Fifty young men, who have other things to do beside studying and preparing duties, have entered the upperclassmen’s fall tennis tournament which got under way Wednesday on the University courts. Manager James Baker expects to have the smoke cleared away by Thursday.
The purpose of the tourney is to uncover any Cochets or Tildens that might be seeking places on the 1933 tennis roster. The more talented racquet wielders will undoubtedly be called upon to fill in gaps in the varsity.
Three Veterans Compete
Outstanding among the entries are three varsity men who copped , many matches for the Ramblers last spring. Heading these, men is Louis Chreist, No. 1 varsity ace, and winner of The Scholastic’s 1931 fall meet.
Dick Kelly, a semi-finalist in the same classic, and partner of Chreist in a most effective doubles team last spring, is also entered. ‘
The third Irish netter entered in the tourney is Dick Staley. Dick saw much service in both singles and doubles play as a member of the ’32 squad.
The first round of play in the singles matches was closed yesterday and the second bracket will be played this afternoon and Saturday. The doubles team will be busy from Monday to Thursday.
Chreist Looks Best
Chreist is the top heavy favorite - to cop the singles championship and is exected to team with Kelly in the doubles. If this combination enters the fray they are slated to carry off the honors in that division. They can not be overlooked because of their sparkling work in previous performances.
The results of the singles matches played on Wednesday follows:
Measer defeated Riley, 5-7, 6-4, 6-2. ■ Hoffman defeated Joyce, 9-7, 7-5.
Haverick defeated Wietig, 3-6, 6-4, 7-5. Cashman defeated Como, 6-1, 2-6, 8-6. Bradshaw defeated Waldron, 6-8, 6-1, 7-5. Fallon deefated Mahar, 3-6, 8-6, 6-4. Link defeated Marterstack, 6-1, 6-2.
September SO, 1932
Tzventy-three
ANOTHER GOLF TOURNEY TO BEGIN HERE SUNDAY
Day Wins Fall Golf Title In Playoff With Cluver
A. A. Will Donate Trophy For Annual Handicap;
LUKATS, VEJAR ADVANCE (Continued from Page 22)
1ST FROSH WINNER
It’s just one tournament after another as far as Notre Dame golf is concerned. Right on the heels of the William J. Burke memorial tournament, comes the announcement from Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper, of the annual handicap tournament which is sponsored by the Athletic Association.
The tourney will be started Sunday, October 1. Due to inclement weather conditions, which prevailed during the early part of the week, the entry limit has been extended to Saturday evening at 6 p. m. Signed and attested cards for 18 holes of play must be turned in at the club house before that time.
Participants in the Burke memorial tournament who turned in cards for either' 18 or 36 holes will have their handicaps based on these scores.
Starting times, handicaps, and pairings for the first 18 holes of medal play, which must be completed Sunday, will be posted in the golf house Sunday morning at 8:00 a. m.
Mr. Harper has announced that the Athletic Association will donate a trophy which will become the permanent possession of the winner of the tournament.
“Scholastic” Sport Staff Has Two Captains, All-American
The sports staff of this year’s Scholastic is one of the most competent in recent years. In addition to such campus writers as James Kearns, George Belting, James Pick, William Flynn and Edward Van Huisseling, the staff has two Notre Dame captains and an All-American. Paul Host, captain of the football team, and Joe Kurth, All-American tackle, have been contributing articles since last year. This week Captain Fred MacBeth of the track team was added to the staff to write “On Down the Line,” the column of sport news that appears in the Scholastic each week. MacBeth, by his experience on the track team here and on the Canadian Olympic team in 1928, is well fitted to write a feature of this kind.
At this stage in the development of the squad, Coach Anderson has his first three teams lined up in this manner:
Koken
. . . aivay from Mike.
First Team; Kosky, 1. e.; Krause, 1. t.; Harris, 1. g.; Alexander, c.; Greeney, r. g.; Kurth, r. t.; Host, r. e.; Jaskwhich and Vejar, q. b.; Lu-kats, 1. h.; Melinkavitch, f. b.; Bran-cheau, r. h..
Second Team: Canale, 1. e; Leding, 1. t.; Wunsch, 1. g; Gorman, c.; Flynn, r. g.; Roach, r. t.; Devore, r. e.; Murphy, q. b.; Koken, 1. h.; Banas, f. b.; Sheeketski, r. h.
Third Team: Gildea, 1. e; Pfefferle, 1. t.; Schreinker, 1. g; Robinson, c.; Pivarnik, r. g.; Foley, q. b.; McGuff, 1. h.; Leonard, f. b.; Tobin, r. h.
“Hunk” Was Once a High Scorer From His Position
Coach Heartly (Hunk) Anderson once made two touchdowns in the same game, playing guard for Notre Dame in 1921 against Purdue. Both were on kicks he blocked himself. He made a third when he picked up a fumble and sprinted for a touchdown, but the play was1 called back when one of his teammates was offside.
High Scoring Mars Thursday Match; Cluver Trails By Ten Stroke Margin.
By virtue of his defeat of Henry Cluver, Winfield Day, a Freshman in the College of Commerce, becomes the first Notre Dame yearling to have his name inscribed on the William J. Burke memorial golf trophy. Day had things nearly all his own way as he shot an 82 yesterday afternoon in the finals of the Burke memorial tourney to get the decision over Henry Cluver, a senior, who turned in a card of 92.
Bothered By Wind
Both players were handicapped by the cold, strong wind that blew across the course. In the preliminary which was staged last Sunday, Day finished the first 18 holes in 75 strokes, while Cluver took three more shots for a total of 78. The senior however, bettered Day on the final round, scoring a 76 while the latter counted a 79. It was a close battle all the way through.
But something happened yesterday afternoon when these two men were playing off the tie. Neither one of them was at his best and Cluver was far from playing the brand of golf that he- generally displays.
Goes Ahead At Second
Both men were tied on the first hole which they played in a par 4. At the next flag, however, Day forged into the lead and held it throughout the entire round not once being seriously in danger.
Besides having his name engraved on the William J. Burke memorial trophy. Day will also receive a cup which he may keep in his permament possession. This prize has been donated by the A. J. Spalding Co., manufacturers of athletic goods.
The players’ cards:
Day—Out: ...454464556—43
In: ...54354454 5—39—82
Cluver—Out: 46555455 6—45
In: 5 65843 64 6—47—92
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Ed. Kosky
CROSS-COUNTRY SQUAD IS FIFTEEN AFTER RAIN

By William Flynn
Fifty thousand people stood silent, attention riveted on a big drama of sport being enacted before their eyes. The vast amphitheater of stone enclosed a tension that seemed almost to shout.
Below, on the ramp encircled gridiron, two stalwart teams lined up for a kickoff. Seconds before, they had crouched in midfield on the twenty-one yard line. Ten yards behind the white lined end zone stood the goal post, half lost in the lengthening shadows slowly stealing over the green turf.
One team, blue-jerseyed, had crouched on defense. Intensity had been reflected in their position. They meant to break through the red-shirted line whose backfield was in place kick formation.
U. S. C. Scores
The pass from Williamson, Southern California center, sailed the ball back to the waiting hands of Mohler. He snapped it into place. Baker, versatile guard, now in a Frank Merri-well role of attempting to win the season’s greaetst game with a last minute placekick, swung back his foot.
There was a sound of leather meeting leather. The ball split the posts to give Southern California three points and ultimate victory. As the teams lined up for the succeeding kick-off, a small half-back was rushed into the game.
Notre Dame took the ball. Signals were called. The halfback, Duke Milheam, received the ball and slowly began to fade back, endeavoring to elude charging California players. He was downed without losing the ball.
Kosky Always Tries
In the excitement of watching the passer, spectators did not see a Notre Dame left end start from his position, cut across to the east side of the field about ten yards from the scrimmage line and then race for the California goal. A few yards from the' line, he turned to receive the ball. But Milheam was downed. He never received the pass that might have meant victory.
Hardly one of the fifty thousand
who saw the play seemed aware of Ed Kosky. Yet he was there waiting. He seemed a bit forlorn as he jogged back to his position for the next play. But when the ball was again put into play, he was trying just as hard.
That incident characterizes, to a large degree, Kosky’s college career not only on the football field but in the classroom and in extra-curricular activities. He has always been trying.
Home Town: Yonkers
After being a three letter man— football, basketball, and baseball—at Yonkers high school, Yonkers, N. Y., Kosky, a 190 pound end, came to Notre Dame and has succeeded in carving himself a niche in her athletic fame. His freshman year was spent in the realms of interhall football. But after that year’s experience, he began to make himself known in varsity circles.
During 1930, his first year on the varsity squad, he held down the regular left end position. That was the season during which, according to Warren Brown, noted sports writer, in his book “Rockne,” the Notre Dame team completed the first double • spinner ever successfully executed in football. The play was performed during the Southern California game of that year. It ended with Kosky carrying the ball.
Yonkers’ example of “local boy (Continued on Page 29)
“N i c k,” Pessimistic, Gives Tentative Schedule.
Although approximately twenty men answered Coach John P. Nicholson’s call for cross-country candidates two weeks ago, the daily five-mile jaunt around the lakes and across the University golf course has already taken its toll. The squad has lost five more men.
The rainy weather during the early part of -the week along with the lack of varsity material so disheartened “Nick” that now he sees his early prediction for the coming season practically verified: “The team will be fair, just fair.” “
. Quadrangular Meet
The schedule has not been approved as yet, but it has been announced that the team will probably compete with Northwestern, Wisconsin, and Illinois in a quadrangular meet in Evanston.
Wisconsin harriers have always been near the top in the Big Ten Conference, while Northwestern and Hlinois have had their share of good teams.
A meet with Indiana is tentative. Michigan State is likely to be another opponent. The Spartans were the only tracksters to defeat Notre Dame on the track last year in a surprise by a score of 64% -64 U. The thinlies will have to square this account with State.
Chances Slim
Notre Dame cross-country squads have always met with keen competition. The prospects for a successful season are out of the question.
Three monogram men are out for practice and the remainder of the team will be made up of middle distance runners of varsity rating. One or two sophomores will also be in the line-up.
Eddie King, who placed third in a qualifying heat for the finals in the 1500 meter event at Los Angeles this summer, has been ordered to rest by Coach Nicholson. Eddie suffered from a sunstroke after his race at the Olympics and was not able to return to the track for the finals.
September 30, 1932
Twenty-five
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
his public these days. The story explains the face: “We haven’t much material.”
By James
We’re about convinced that fall has arrived. Last Saturday we watched the freshmen take the first of their fall trimmings; tomorrow we’ll see another. One of the best signs is the interhall opening, just a few days away.
When Lone Star Dietz, whom Knute Rockne praised as “the craftiest coach in the game,” brings his Haskell redmen to the stadium next week, the season will be on in earnest. That the tribe is planning on giving Notre Dame more than a workout was iapparent in their triumph over Ottawa last week.
Scout Tommy Yarr reported that Haskell uncovered the astounding total of four plays. We expect to see their entire show next week. They are playing Creighton this week, and will come to the local stronghold in great shape. Our guess on the Creighton game is printed a little farther along in this column.
ONE PIECE FULLBACKS
In our first visit to Hunk’s grid stronghold behind the green fence, we looked for scattered bits of fullbacks. Amazingly enough, there wasn’t so much as a scrap of one around.
In view of the j'inx that has trailed the position for the past seasons, the discovery was almost unbelievable. In 1930, Moon Mullins was hurt early in the season; Savoldi dropped out at the head of the stretch. Opening the 1931 campaign, Danny Hanley didn’t return; Fred Staab was sick.
Lukats was made over from a half-back pattern, but went out Tor the year with injuries before the first game. Banas moved up to the first team, and Melinkovich moved over from left half. Banas was hurt and Mink became a regular. Then Mink was hurt— the seventh fullback.
That was the background for our surprise, then, when we found Melinkovich, Banas, Leonard, and Staab romping around in the best of health.
S. Kearns
SCORE CASTS
Here we go! There aren’t many hard ones this week from a win and loss angle. Some of them present a problem on the matter of score size. We’re leading with our most important guess, the intra-state affair up north. There’ll be other opinions— lots of them, but we stuck a pin in the list and the Sleepy Crowley-Mon-net-EIlowitz combination gets the blow :
Michigan State 14 : Michigan 6.
Army 40; Furman 0.
Carnegie 27: Geneva 0.
Dartmouth 46; Vermont 0.
Harvard 33 ; Buffalo 0.
Haskell 19; Creighton 6.
Wisconsin 13; Marquette 0.
Navy 20; William and Mary 0.
Northwestern 20; Missouri 6.
Ohio State 26 ; Ohio Wesleyan 0.
Purdue 13; Kansas Aggies 0.
St. Mary’s 35 ; Nevada 0.
Stanford 27 ; Oregon State 0.
Tulane 13; Texas A. & M. 6.
Alabama 47; Mississippi State 0.
South. California 35 ; Washington State 0.
Indiana 19 ; Ohio U. 0.
Iowa 13 ; Bradley Tech 0.
Minnesota 33 ; South Dakota State 0.
Pittsburgh 34 ; West Virginia 0.
Yale 46; Bates 0.
HELP WANTED
Coach J. P. Nicholson has a long face and a short story for
An Old Friend Says ‘Hello*
Now that everybody’s settled and classes are well under’ way, the South Shore Line takes this opportunity of greeting the sons of Notre Dame.
For returning students, this is the renewal of a friendship; for new students it is the beginning of one, because all who enter Notre Dame come to know the South Shore Line.
And so we say once more—welcome to Notre Dame, and success to you all in this new school year I
Trains Every Hour on the Hour between South Bend and Chicago
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE AND SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
It is to be hoped that a large number will j’oin the fall track squad to help the popular mentor in building for the future. The work that can be done now is especially valuable to freshmen. If the candidates present themselves with a serviceable pair of legs and a willingness to work, we’ll guarantee that Nick will develop them. It’s a great sport and a great opportunity for people seeking expert handling.
WELCOME Notre Dame Men To Our SODA FOUNTAIN AND LUNCH ROOM
Platter Lunches Complete Dinners Special Sunday Dinners.
“Service with a Smile”
THE PHILADELPHIA
116 N. Michigan
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
N.D. MEN IN OLYMPICS MAKE GREAT SHOWING
Wilson Outstanding With Ironman Performance.
By Fred MacBeth
It is one thing to be a star athlete, but to gain fame in Olympic competition is another story. We have all read of the exploits of Notre Dame’s Alex Wilson. We have thrilled at his ironman performances while a mem-of Coach Nicholson’s Irish team. His almost single-handed victories for Notre Dame in dual meets and great relay carnivals have occupied columns in newspapers all over the country. This year saw Wilson reach heights that no other athlete ever attained.
It is seldom that a man competes in two middle distance events at the Olympics. To do this he must first prove his ability in the final trials in his native country. Wilson had just finished a strenuous season for Notre Dame when the Canadian trials rolled around. They were held at Hamilton, Ontario, in July. Wilson ran his heat of the 400 metres in 49.8, his semifinal in 49 flat. Forty-five minutes later he breezed home a winner in 48.2 for a new Canadian record.
Runs Two More
The following day, although slightly tired from his previous day’s efforts, he ran two wonderful races in the 800 metres. His winning time was 1.52.2 and he was chased all the way by another Notre Dame, Eddie King. King had made a rather poor showing in the 1500 metre the day before. He seemed to lack the speed and power that marked his running all through the spring season. His work in the 800 metres was decidedly better. When a man can come back in an event that is anything but familiar to him, he shows the stuff required for gruelling Olympic tests. Eddie was running for a trip to California, a nice vacation and a chance to run in the greatest meet of all. He earned the train ticket.
While these boys were competing in Canada there was another Notre Dame man making history. At the National Collegiate meet, an Olympic trial, Vince Murphy, a freshman, was giving the American high jump aspirants various kinds of headaches. This boy was a real darkhorse. We all knew he could jump. At Culver in (Continued on Page 30)
CAPTAIN-ELECT
Jim McGrath, u'ho was chosen last June to lead the 1933 Trish Baseball team. Plays outfield or first base.
Frosh Lineups Picked
Freshman coach Jake Klein named his first two freshman elevens for to-morrow’s varsity fray late Thursday afternoon.
At the same time, the officials for the game were announced by Athletic Director, J. C. Harper. All of the men are Big Ten officials and the game will be handled in regulation style.
Lee Daniels of Loyola will act as referee. The rest of the staff is as follows: Perry Graves (Illinois), umpire; Edwin F. Felt (Michigan), field judge; Jay Wyatt (Missouri) head linesman.
The two teams named by Klein to go into action for the frosh are as follows:
FIRST FROSH SECOND FROSH
Millner	le
Sullivan	It
Bassett	1g
Katz	c
Church	rg
Martin	-	rt
Allen	re
Fromhart	qb
Pitney	th
Mazziatti	rh
Kavalier	fb
Thiemes Michuta Belden
Pejman Comissa
Cronin Peters McFadden or Morrow
Mortell Smith or Layden Elser
A Freshman in Dillon Hall has a piano in his room.
Check these points:
Workmanship
Service
Convenience
^And that’s about all you could ask for in your laundry and dry cleaning work.	.
^At Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at the appointed place in your own hall.
fSo, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
September 30, 1932
Twenty-seven
COLORFUL SQUAD HERE WITH HASKELL OCT. 8TH
Indians Boast Unusual Roster; Many Familiar Names.
Haskell Institute’s colorful Indian team, a truly an all-American squad, will invade Notre Dame stadium next Saturday to open another Fighting Irish football season.
Despite the fact that crafty Coach “Lone Star” Dietz refused to show anything in winning over Ottawa last week, the game is regarded as a warm-up for Notre Dame. Chief interest to fans will lie in the color of the Haskell style of play and in comparing notes on the showing of Notre Dame players who are in the thick of the fight for several carsity positions.
Coach Hearly (Hunk) Anderson undoubtedly will start his shock troops or second team, but the varsity will play at least half of the game, he said today. Last year it was impossible to name a Notre Dame first, second, or third team which would hold for more than a week at a time, and it appear that the same will be true this year.
The classic bone-head play of football concerns a center who picked up a fumble and ran toward his opponent’s goal line to lose a crucial game.
There may be a repetition of this play or something worse when the Indians appear at Notre Dame stadium, for there are several players whose names are familiar in Notre Dame athletic history.
IF YOUR HAIR IS FALLING
SEE US □ Two Graduates in Chirotonsory. □
READING’S
BARBER SHOP
•112% S. Michigan Street (Downstairs)
Fox- example: the Haskell center and leader is Oren Crowe. There have been five Crowes at Notre Dame, winning monograms from 1924 until last basketball season without a break. Clem was football captain and an all-western end. Norb captained the 1931-32 basketball team. Frank was co-captain of the 1928-29 basketball team.
The second string centre for Haskell is named Alexander, the same name borne by Notre Dame’s present first string ball - snapper. It’ll be Alexander vs. Alexander.
Haskell O’Brien is the hard-smashing fullback for the Indians — and there have been plenty of O’Briens in the Irish saga. Archie McDonald, a Flathead Indian, is a guard for Haskell, and Notre Dame has not been without its “Macs” of every description.
Fred Miles, Creek tackle, may remind Irish players of Frank (Rangy) Miles, former varsity end for Notre Dame.
The most colorful name found on the Haskell roster of 32 players from 15 tribes is probably that of Broadway Richard, a Seneca Indian, from Irving, New York. Fred Catfish, William Fallleal, Donald Eagleman, and Reuben Chalakee are other Haskell stars whose names will excite comment.
Notre Dame’s refectories are the largest student refectories in the world.
foot work. KED’S tough safety soles absorb the roughest, shocks. Your Gym period won’t be so tough with KEDS.
We sell a complete line, including their famous “Cager,” a basketball shoe worn by many college teams.
120 South Michigan Street
Chicago Club Lacks a V. P.;
Election to be on Thursday
Election of a freshman vice-president of the Chicago club will be the feature of the first meeting of the club to be held Thursday. This announcement was made yesterday by Thomas Gorman, president. Freshmen from Chicago are asked to have their choice of candidates for the position ready for nomination.
The time and place of the meeting have not yet been decided but will be posted in all the halls early next week.	-
INDIANA RESTAURANT 226 N. MICHIGAN Opposite LaSalle Hotel
COMPLETE SPECIAL DINNERS 25c No charge for extra cup of coffee.
We welcome NOTRE DAME MEN
KEDS..,
(The Shoe of Champions)
Leaders in all sports wear KEDS because they have everything needed for fast and sure
I
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
CLUVER AND DAY TIE
(Continued from Page 21)
Vince Fehlig got off to a poor start in the first round. In fact all morning he appeared to be off his game as it took him 80 strokes to complete the course. In the second session he began clicking and finished with a 75 to tie with Banks for third place.
The Little
Jewelry Store
V Diamonds - Watches Expert Watch Repairing Prices Right.
V
“Let Steve Do Your Repairing”
119% E. Jefferson Blvd.
Here's IVhere the Fellows Enjoy a Spaghetti Dinner In Real Italian Style!
NILES AVENUE RESTAURANT Rose Vumbaca, Manager
Open Daily 6 a. m. to 8 p. m.—Closed on Sunday
601-6031/2 N. Niles Ave.	Phone 3-0678
Prior to the matches Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper announced that a trophy had been donated by the A. J. Spaulding Co., athletic outfitters. The winner of the play-off will retain this cup in his permanent possession.
Winner’s cards:
MORNING ROUND
Day	Out:	5	4	3	4	5	4	4	4	5—38
In:443 4 4364 5—37—75
Cluver Out:	5	4	4	4	5	4	4	4	5—39
In:	5	4	4	5	4	3	5	4	5—39—78
AFTERNOON ROUND
Day	Out:	4444	5	355	4—38
In:	4	4	5	4	6	3	6	4	5—41—79
Cluver Out: 4445	5	344	5—38
In:4434535	4	6—38—76
Scores of the eighteen leaders:
Winfield Day .................75-79—154
Henry Cluver ................78-76—154
John Banks ...................75-80—155
Vince Fehlig .................80-75—155
John Montedonico.............78-81—156
LaMar Campbell ...............79-77—156
Charles Nevils ...............80-77—157
Mike Moore ...................82-77—159
Pat Malloy ..................78-81—159
Bob Albert ..................77-82—159
Ray Martin ...................78-81—159
Charles Hughes ...............84-76—160
Jack Shadron .................82-78—160
Billy Cole ..................78-83—161
Cliff Peickert ..............81-81—162
Tom O’Melia .................81-81—162
Al O’Brien ..................82-81—163
Bill Veeneman ................83-80—163
NICHOLSON ALARMED
(Continued from Page 20)
6 ft. 5 in. to tie for third place at Chicago last June.
Freschi, also a sophomore, proved himself to be ready for a shot at a varsity berth by heaving the 16 pound ball around 42 ft. last year as a freshman. Ed Gough, a senior monogram man from Cleveland, is the only broad jumper on the squad.
All Two Milers Gone
All of the monogram two milers, have been lost. Gene Howery was superior on the clay oval indoors, but set a fast pace in the C. I. C. meet out-of-doors. Ralph Bowers and Tom Grimes, two men of experience, will probably take the assignment for the long route.
The one mile relay team has been blown to pieces by the graduation of Wilson, Scanlon, Kelly, and Kuhn. Only two 440 men of varsity experience remain. They are Captain MacBeth and Louis Vettel. Rudy Oberg-fall has not returned to school.
The team will need new sprinters since McCormick and Egan have gone. Huller and Gough may take the century while Nockles and Daigle sophomores, may prove to be varsity material.
Finkel is the only varsity weight man returning. He is a consistent performer, but the team needs men to pick up' the other points.
“Enthusiastic Practise:” Nicholson
The hurdle situation is no worse than last year. Jim Fagan and Pore-don will carry on, with more experience than they had a year ago.
Rohrbach, Behrman, and Slattery have left school with no understudies to take their positions on the pole vaulting runway.
A track team cannot be built up in a few weeks. Months of patient drill in fundamentals are necessary to run in proper style, and it is style that brings good records to a team. For this reason it is imperative that all men interested in track report daily during the fall session.	•
“The only way in which we can hope to make a proper showing as a team this year is by conducting an enthusiastic fall practice,” were Coach Nicholson’s final words.

September 30, 1932
Tzcenty-nine
BILL SULLIVAN BACK AT N.D. LAW SCHOOL
Returns to Books After Good Year With White Sox.
Young Billy Sullivan of the White Sox is back at Notre Dame. After a summer of playing third base, shortstop, first base, catcher and out-
Bill Sullivan
port until the end of the school year in June. This he has done for the past two years. When he graduates from the Law school this June, Sullivan intends to play baseball as long as it is profitable and then become a lawyer.
INTRODUCING KOSKY (Continued' from Page 24) makes good” divided the left end assignment with Paul Host during the 1932 season. This year, Kosky is beginning his third year as a Notre Dame regular in as many seasons on the squad.
In recognition of his play, sports writers named him All-Western end in 1931. He was also mentioned on several second and third team AllAmerican selections.
Besides his athletic activities, Kosky has been twice president of the Metropolitan club, being elected unanimously for a second term last spring. He was director of the Journalism Forum last year and has again been chosen for that position. During 1931-32 scholastic year he was a member of the executive council of the President’s club.
He is a Journalism major, with one semester to go, has an average in all academic work of 90. He is a member of this year’s football program committee, his second year as a member of that board. He rooms with George Kozak, freshman football coach, in 337 Walsh. That room is always crowded ... He is popular ... a good student ... a good end.
Interhall Football Coaches
The coaches named for the various halls are as follows:
ALUMNI—Brancheau. Addonizlo. Gru. BADIN—Leonard. Chapman. O’Neill. Brownson—Quenan. Harris. McGrath. CARROLL—Koken. Nulty. Reuland. CORBY—Stabb. Hayes. Seidl.
DILLON—Howard. French. Witucki. FRESHMAN—Smith. Golden, Clark. HOWARD—LaBorne. Curry. Dugan. LYONS—Myers, Keating, Keeney. MORRISEY—Sheeketski. Wietig. Morrisey. ST. ED’S.—Halleran. Freehil. Cronan. WALSH—Melinkovich. O'Dea, Voegele. OFF-CAMPUS—Burdick, Sabo. Szekely.
Today and Every Day at
Cafe Peacock
□
Tenderloin Steak. 50c Chop Suey, 25c Chicken Chow Mein, 50c
□
CAFE PEACOCK 128 W. Washington Ave. South Bend
fielder with Chicago’s American League team, Sullivan has come back for his last year in the Law school here.
This was Sullivan’s second season in the major -leagues. In addition to, doing an excellent job at the five positions which he played, he batted over three hundred for the season. A rumor followed Sullivan back to Notre Dame, a rumor to the effect that he will be with the Philadelphia Athletics next season.
Sullivan starred on the Notre Dame baseball team for three seasons. When College Humor chose a team of the best men from all colleges to tour during the summer of 1929, Sullivan was a regular. In 1931 Sullivan received his A.B. and an offer from the White Sox. He accepted the offer only on the condition that he would not have to go to camp with the team in the spring and that he would not have to re-
New guaranteed
Radio Tubes____
Your Set and Tubes tested FREE!
STUDENT Newest $12.95 special RaX
Bring your radio to us for the best and lowest priced repairs in the city.
RADIO CLINIC
116 W. Colfax Ave., in McDonald Studio. Across from Palais Royal
Thirty
The Scholastic
German Group Reorganizes
Anthony W. Wirry, president of the German club with his fellow officers, Andrew E. O’Keefe, vice-president; Frederick L. Weniger, treasurer, and Matthew Daviscourt,. secretary are at present forming plans for the reorganization and the first meeting of their group, notice of which will he given early next week.
All those who are interested in any phase of German life, customs, and especially the language are invited to be present and signify their intention of partaking in the club’s activities for the year.
Suggestions for entertainments, smokers, and other forms of entertainment will be discussed.
Pharmacy Club Will Meet in Chemistry Hall Monday
A meeting of the Pharmacy club will be held in Chemistry Hall Monday at 12:30 p. m. All pharmacy students are invited to attend.
FA Y’S Jewelry Co.
COME HERE FOR FINE JEWEWLRY
“We Sell for Less”
Expert Watch Repairing
We Guarantee Our Work at Very Reasonable Prices.
FA Y’S Jewelry Co.
137% S. Michigan St.
119 WEST COLFAX, WEST OF PALAIS ROYALE
"The Mary-Ann Welcomes Notre Dame Men"
N. D= MEN IN OLYMPICS
(Continued from Page 26)
the spring, Coack “Spike” England made him stop jumping at six feet five inches and he had yet to knock the bar off. At Chicago he jumped six feet 51-2 inches, qualifying for the final trials at Palo Alto. For some unknown reason he was not taken along and the Olympic event was won at one inch lower.
At the Olympic games Wilson ran a fast heat in the 800 metres and qualified with ease. In the final he missed victory by but one foot, after a stride for stride battle with Hampson of Great Britain. It is doubtful if this generation will ever see the equal of that race. Both men were almost superhuman that day. The time, 1.49.8, seems unbelievable.
The average man would be willing to call such a performance enough for the time being, but Wilson came back in the 400 metres event and ran three more terrific races. He placed third and in doing it was timed in 47.6. To cool off, he rah two more relay legs of 400 metres each and came close to 47 seconds at that. A few days later he was back on the track again for two more races as a member of the British Empire team, against the United States at San Francisco.
Eddie King ran a great race in his heat of the 800 metres but failed to make the finals. In the 1500 metres he showed his heels to a flock of star milers and entered the final. His concluding effort was wonderful. Had he stayed out of the 800 metres he would have been among the point winners. It is true that Wilson ran two races, but Wilsons are very rare in this world.
Despite the fact that Wilson has
SPECIAL LUNCHES
Dinners
graduated, the Conference meets at Notre Dame will feel his influence. As coach of track at Loyola it seems very likely that his teams will be far better than those representing that school in thhe past. At these same Conference meets we will have the opportunity of seeing Olympic man King and the agile Murphy duplicating the efforts that put them on the Notre Dame Olympic list, right under Tom Lieb, Gus Desch and Alex Wilson.
1932 INTERHALL FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
GROUP I.
October 9—Lyons vs. St. Edward’s on Minims field, 9: a. m.; Morrissey vs. Badin on Brownson field, 9:00 a. m.; Dillon vs. Corby on Cartier field No. 1, 9:00 a. m.
GROUP II.
Howard vs. Walsh on Cartier field No. 2, 9:00 a. m.; Brownson vs. Off-Campus on Cartier field No. 1, 2:00 p. m.; Carroll vs. Freshman on Brownson field, 2:00 p. m.; Alumni, bye.
GROUP I.
October 16—Lyons vs. Corby on Brownson field, 9:00 a. m.; Morrissey vs. Dillon on Minims field, 9:00 a. m.
GROUP II.
Howard vs. Off-Campus on Cartier field No. 2, 9:00 a. m.; Brownson vs. Freshman on Cartier field No. 1, 2:00 p. m.; Carroll vs. Alumni on Brownson, 2:00 p. m.; Walsh, bye.
GROUP I.
October 23—Lyon vs. Badin on Cartier field No. 1, 9:00 a. m.; Morrisey vs. St. Edward’s on Minims field, 9:00 . a. m.
GROUP II.
Brownson vs. Alumni on Cartier field No. 2, 9:00 a. m.; Howard vs. Freshman on Cartier field No. 1, 2:00 p. m.; Carroll vs. Walsh on Brownson field, 2:00 p. m.; Off-Campus, bye.
GROUP I.
October 30—Lyons vs. Dillon on Minims field, 9:00 a. m.; Morrissey vs. Corby on Cartier field No. 1, 9:00 a. m.
GROUP II.
: Howard vs. Alumni on Cartier field No. 2, 9:00 a. m.; Brownson vs. Carroll on Brownson field, 2:00 p. m.; Off-Campus vs. Walsh on Cartier field No. 1, 2:00 p. m.; Freshman, bye.
i
September 30, 1932
Thirty-one
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
(Office 4-5661
Phone <*	..	„
^Residence 3-4041
X-ray
DR. E. S. LUCAS
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
South Bend, Indiana
Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted
Service	at Moderate Prices
J. BURKE, Inc.
Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians
Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309
Res. Phone 5-1343
Hours
DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan
10 to 12 m.
3 to 5 p. m.
South Bend, Indiana
DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST Dentists
Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes
Residence Phone 4-6354
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
Office 3-6978	Residence 2-6741
DR. LEO J. QUINLAN
Dentist
514 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
(10 to 11:30 a. m.
Hours |2 to 4 p.m.	.
DR. H. BOYD-SNEE
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana
„ . . (Office 4-5821	X-Ray
Telephone |Residence 3.3090
DR. H. W. CARTER
D e n t i s t
315 Union Trust Bldg.	South Bend, Indiana
FRANK J. POWERS, M. D.
University Physician
Office at
Hours:
University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
COMMERCE MEN SURVEY
On Down The Line
BISHOP CROWLEY AT N.D.
(Continued from Page 13)
Notre Dame’s Buying Habits to be Determined.
Under the direction of Francis Fogarty, president of the Commerce Forum,-the College of Commerce will conduct an extensive survey which will consider the buying habits of Notre Dame students and their attitude toward current motion pictures. The survey questionnaires are to be circulated throughout the various halls within the next week.
Although the Religious Survey, conducted by the Prefect of Religion, has been the only one carried on here to date, the Forum is confident of the hearty co-operation of the student body. These questionnaires will ask the when, why, where, what, and how of things pertaining to the subject matter.
Some of the numerous benefits which will grow out of the survey are: the establishment of a firm ground work for future surveys; the broadening and recognition of commercial activities at Notre Dame; the achievement of constructive work in the scholastic field; the indirect results of advertising, e. g., recognition of graduates.
At the Forum meeting Monday night, October 3, final and uniform plans for conducting of the undertaking will be drawn up and put into immediate action. The survey is to be compiled by members of the Forum alone.
Each hall will be canvassed by an appointee. Those appointed to date are as follows: Sorin, Frank Cawley; Corby, Joe Cronin; Walsh, Charles Peterson; Morrissey, Fred Laugna; Howard, Edward Roxas; Badin, John Sullivan; and Alumni, Matthew Da-viscourt. The remaining halls will be canvassed after a report is obtained on the named halls.
Although the movement is under the supervision of the students of the University, reports are to be forwarded to leading clothing manufacturers of mens clothing upon request, also to the foremost motion picture industries. Therefore, the student body is petitioned to answer the questionnaires in sensible and serious manner.
By Fred MacBeth
COACH HEARTLY ANDERSON is among the notables in the 1932 edition of “Who’s Who” . . . along with AMOS ALONZO STAGG and GLENN S. WARNER ... not bad . . . speaking of big names, how about varsity halfback AL SMITH . . . and WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE of the frosh squad . . . bringing politics and drama into the game.
NORM GREENEY has a big assignment this year . . . filling varsity locker number 133 . . . look at this list of former occupants . . . CAPTAIN ADAM (seven mules') WALSH . . . BUD BOERINGER of the ’26 team . . . Captain JOHN (CLIPPER) SMITH of the following year . . . next came JACK CANNON . . . then MARTY BRILL ... and NORDY HOFFMANN . . . each an All-American . . . JOE KURTH, last year’s All-American, made a bid for it, but Norm was there first.
ROSS “SANDY” SOMERVILLE, recent winner of the U. S. amateur golf title, is an all-around athlete ... at the UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO he was an outstanding halfback . . . and a remarkable dropkicker ... he visited England as a member of an all-star Canadian cricket team . . . and has received offers to play professional hockey . . . merited by his showing on the London team that won the Canadian title in 1927 ... he runs his own insurance business and is an actuary.
❖
HASKELL Institute has at least two .players who will feel at home here Oct. 8 . . . HASKELL O’BRIEN and a brave named McDONALD . . . the former is probably a ringer who has been slated for that school since baptism . . . the latter is a member of the Flathead tribe . . . COACH GEORGE KEOGAN has perfected an attack that he claims will beat the changes in the basketball rules . . . hats off to Coach ALEX WILSON, Notre Dame’s gift to the Los Angeles Olympics ... he will look after track and frosh basketball at Loyola, Chicago.
When asked about the educational institutions of higher standard, the Bishop replied that there is a state university in Dacca of the American residential type. There are two high schools conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross which are rated very highly, if not first, in the provincial schools.
In explaining the activity and work of the Holy Cross during times of uprising, Bishop Crowley gives the following:
“Five American Sisters, those of the Catholic medical missionaries, carry on an efficient medical aposto-late in the City of Dacca. That these medical missionaries are important to the people of Dacca may be illustrated by the following incident:
“Some eighteen months ago, there was an outbreak of communal rioting in Dacca City. The Mussulmans and Hindus devoted themselves for fully five weeks to an orgy of loot and murder. Some twenty million women left the city for safety in the vil-liges. The Sisters, however, continued their rounds without break. The Hindus seeing their heroism of the medical missionaries went to the convent and asked to be informed should the Mussulmans attack the convent.”
“A few days previously a Moslem delegation had been to the convent and asked to be informed should the Sisters be molested by the Hindus. In a country such as India where less than four percent of the women is literate, the apostolate of the Sisters in teaching and affording medical aid to those untutored millions is of vast importance.”
After completing his discussion of the work of the Holy Cross in India, Bishop Crowley rose from his seat and in his fatherly way he bestowed a blessing upon the men of Notre Dame for their aid and cooperation to the worthy cause of which he is head. “The Bishop feels,” he said, “that the work of the students of Notre Dame is a very high type of the layman’s activity in the very essential of church work—the spread of the Gospel among the twelve million non-believers in Bengal.”
Bishop Crowley left Notre Dame Wednesday morning. He plans to sail for the East within a few days and is expecting to arrive in India before Christmas.
ALLERTON HOTEL^
Well Give You
FOR YOUR OLD PEN
236
toward the purchase of the latest, streamlined
World’s Style and Quality Leader
A
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-G-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in.
Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
Double—$8.50 to $12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$2.00 to $3.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL Chicago
701 North Michigan Avenue
Still time if you hurry to get the great $5 Duofold Jr. or Lady Duofold—latest streamlined model—for only $3.75 and an old pen, or the famous $7 Parker Duofold Sr. Pen with over-size ink capacity for only $5 and an old pen. Or the great $10 Parker Duofold Sr. DeLuxe for $7.50 and an old pen.
The old pen you trade in does not have to be a Parker—we only require that it shall have a 14k gold point.
Old mechanical pencils, any kind or condition, accepted as 75c to $1.00 cash toward the purchase of a fine streamlined Parker Duofold Pencil to match the pen.
Parker is holding this National Trade-in Sale to reduce retail stocks, making way for late fall and Christmas shipments. Never such an opportunity before—probably never again—to get the world’s finest pens and pencils for school and business, and get such a big cash allowance for your old ones.
But Parker reserves the right to withdraw this offer at any time—so take your old pen or pencil to the nearest pen dealer at once. The Parker Pen
Co., Janesville, Wisconsin.
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS Inc.
THE PARKER PEN STORE
116 S. Michigan St.
CAMPUS PARKER PEN STORE
THE BOOK STORE
Badin Hall