. . . Through the cold, gray mists came a faint cry. Three thousand red-faced, sleepy-eyed students took up the strains of . . . "The Victory March." Into their midst came a slow-moving convoy of taxicabs, bringing back the Irish from a scoreless tie with Army . . .
VOLUME 75 NUMBER 7 NOVEMBER 14, 1941
THE RELEASE NOVEMBER THE 16th. OF
Notre Dame in Portrait
An unique and extraordinarily beautiful publication for the enjoyment of Notre Dame men, their families, and friends •..
MEMORIES of lasting appeal to all undergraduates, prospective students, alumni, and friends of the University are given substance in a collection of twelve exceptional photographic portraits of the campus, selected to echo the seasons of the year and to present with new freshness old familiar scenes of Notre Dame.
THE FIRST EDITION of its kind, "Notre Dame In Portrait," for 1942 will be presented in a refillable, richly bound, hand-made case designed for either wall or desk use.
WITH THE PORTRAIT for each month there has been provided a separate corresponding appointment page on which all events of importance for the coming year have been noted and space provided for the notation of daily engagements. At the year's end the Portraits may be framed and the appointment sheets will comprise a condensed form of diary for the user.
ONLY THE FINEST workmanship and artistry available have been used to produce the forthcoming Publication which, to the extent that is pictorially possible, captures something of the spirit of Notre Dame.
COMBINING USEFULNESS WITH RARE BEAUTY and dignity, "Notre Dame In Portrait" is the result of the sincere effort on the part of its editors to offer the campus, by way of holiday greeting, a publication which will be considered by all the finest of its kind ever produced.
It is the wish of the Editor to thank all members of the University Administration as well as those of the Faculty for the invaluable help given him in the preparation of this Publication. Inadequate though such thanks must be, without the wholehearted help so freely given, “Notre Dame In Portrait” could not have made its coming appearance!
2
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
stamped in French: Retour a L’Envoy-eur, Acheminement Suspendu; below this the stamp was in English: “Return to Sender, Service Suspended.” We will let you write your own story.
❖
Our critique of last issue has caused no violent repercussions to date, so more boldly we venture forth with another ‘look’ at a ‘dope sheet’ of another university.
The Daily Californian keeps University of California students informed as to what is going on for five days of the week. Subscription price is not listed in the masthead. Another ‘too big* job, clumsy to maneuver, modestly motto-tagged “Monarch of the College Dailies.” Good makeup, with much variety in headlines. Pictures well spotted here and there. Outside news sometimes overemphasized. Good sports coverage, but too scattered and often too much of it. Editorial policy: ‘wide open’ probably best expresses it. Features and columns fair. Letters to editor column much used by students. Overall blow: just short of VERY GOOD.
Ravings of Prom and Ball Committeemen
Name Bands May Herald ‘New Deal’ For Large University Social Functions.
—Minnesota Daily
Paging "The Tree"
Every night at bed I kneel, and say please God a man.
Let him be a Grecian god with skin of glowing tan,
Let him be a man so bold, Let him have a heart of gold. Let him be a man so tall
With shoulders strong just like a wall.
I care not whether he is wealthy— Just so long as he is healthy.
—The Varsity News
Pink Afterglow Is Yellow on Other Horizons
You, Too, Can Be a Lucky Winner— University Now Offering Yellow Slips As Prizes in Big Semi-Annual Contest.
“We are now at a familiar milestone on our rocky road through this semester. The time is fast approaching when the University will flood the mails with pieces of carefully-folded golden-hued paper. Half of this bulk ... to a select group of students, the other half ... to parents to herald his success.”
Just A Few Simple Rules:
1.	“don’t be in a hurry at the beginning of the semester about buying a book for the course.” . . .
2.	“put off writing that report.” . . .
3.	“if you’re an upperclassman, remember your rights. You don’t have to go to class if you don’t feel like it.” .. .
4.	“never let your work interfere with the movies.” . . .
5.	“don’t work too hard the first part of the semester.” . . .
6.	“above all, don’t go in and confer with the instructor about the possibility of obtaining a yellow slip.” . . .
They’re Guaranteed Folks!
. . . “Perhaps you’ll succeed like the fellow we knew last year. He received so many yellow slips one day that he had to wear sun glasses for a week.”
—Purdue Exponent
The Story Behind It All... ?
Many of you probably read the short story that appeared a couple of years ago based on a letter from the U. S. to Germany which was returned stamped “Address Unknown” this being the title of the story.
The other day there was a Scholastic envelope among the stack of exchanges; inside it was a Scholastic dated Oct. 25, 1940. It was addressed to notre dame DU SAINTE CROIX, 6 RUE NOTRE DAME, LE mans, France. Across the address was
"Remember now, keep charging."
Will Duel for Honor
In the St. Thomas Again a proud English major flings a challenge to any in the school who are scornful of the prowess of English majors. Creampuffs at three paces are the weapons he chooses.
Reason for this sudden angry outburst is the fact that the challenger was mislisted in the school bulletin. Says Mr. Wasko:	'
“Now I’m mad, good and mad. After working for two years to make the position of an English major respectable, some secret saboteur has struck at me in a very underhanded way.
“The current College bulletin has this line of type on page 24: Wasko, Theodore Edward—Liberal Arts (Pre-Medic). Me a doctor. That’s too much.”
*
Let Leif Alone
The Boston University Netos for some weeks conducted a campaign against a statue of Leif Erikson which reposed in Kenmore Square in Boston. Seems they didn’t like the non-Jim Brutzlike physique of the statue. In the latest issue, however, other space filling items have eliminated this campaign.
From a column “Bored with Rumor” by one Mr. Greene we lifted this sarcastic observation: “And the government is requisitioning the gold in the goldfish, meaning you can’t eat large numbers of something that’s on the priorities basis— unless you’re a British Ambassador.”
3
THE WEEK
By J. Q. O'Connell
Top of the Week:
Irish Terrier vs. Wildcat!
Miller Speaking:
Cy Miller, of the Chicago Club, commented today on our long and friendly relationship with that great school up in Evanston. “I don’t care how much we beat them by,” said Cy, “just so long as it’s at least 50 points.”
Peace, It's Wonderful!
This past week saw the timid arrival and hasty flight of a quaint and little known holiday called “Armistice Day” (armistice: from the Sanskrit, meaning a brief period of peace between two wars). Because we feel there is some interest, particularly among the Phy. Ed. men, in these historical oddities, we herewith present, verbatim, unbiased reports from the various major capitals of the world received Nov. 11 at our powerful listening station atop Science Hall.
Berlin, Germany (capital of a country in central, northern, southern, eastern, and western Europe): “Our sacred Fuehrer, speaking today before an audience of some ten thousand waiters in the basement of a Munich beer parlor, proudly announced the capture of the eleven millionth Russian prisoner of war. The Fuehrer added that the prisoner, because of his unique distinction, will be buried with full military honors.”
Rome, Italy (capital, or central village, of a southern county in Germany): “11 Duce announced today that his valiant fighting men were enthusiastic about conditions on the Russian front, because the great plains gave them such freedom of movement.”
Moscow, Russia: (Ed’s, note: all we could pick up from Russia was a program of morning exercises, broken up by a great deal of “jamming.” *)
London, England: “Lord Chomondeley (pronounced ‘Chmly’), Minister of all Bombed Buildings, speaking before a group known as ‘The Friends of the Red Star,’ said today that unless America sends over ten million pounds of cheese before Nov. 30, Britishers will not have any cheese during December.”
* “Jamming”: defined by the firm of “Aubrey. Champley, and Monahan,” interiiationally known, electrical wizards, as an overload of the inculcat-ors, which raises the temperature of the upper and lower ossinerators to such a degree that they melt.
4
And from our own capital on the Po- . tomac: “H. V. Krivitski, connected in an unofficial capacity with Home Defense, announced from.his position in a picket line today that all loyal Americans disregarded Armistice Day. Mr. Krivitski . 'further pointed out that references to peace were the result of a wave of vicious propaganda coming out of Helsinki, and would be stamped out. ‘Some people in this country,’ said Mr. Krivitski, ‘think we can stay out of this war, but we will fool them.’ ”
Quick, Watson, the Needle!
Sources close to the front door of Alumni Hall have asked us to find out why Jack Bergen, the Jersey Jilter, avoids the O.C.S. so diligently every Saturday night. Our guess is that he’s just bashful. What do you Zinc?
Two trips to the East have come off since last we went to press, and returns from the out-lying districts are now in. For a full and accurate report of what the boys did while out in the open, we refer you to an issue of the Scholastic published at this same time last year.
It's Blinding, Steve!
The members of the squad in a signed protest wish that Steve Juzwik would turn the stone of his S500 ring into the palm of his hand while he is sitting at the training table. Several members have admitted it’s the reason why they’re slowly getting blind.
Dr. Jekyll, I Presume!
John Kilbane, local impresario, is known more affectionately by his girl friend as “Mr. Hyde!”
Write to Your Congressman
As an aftermath of the student trip, Washington has been voted as a 20-1 shot to be the most likely town not to succeed.'
Pilgrims to the Navy game ran across more Blue Laws and curfews than a research historian.... The most popular place in Washington Saturday night was Baltimore.
Bottom of the Week:
The prediction of a Navy victory by the neighboring sports editor.
NEXT WEEK
By John A. Lynch
SATURDAY, Nov. 15:
As King Boris of the Bog would say: “Hey dere stinky; get. your pinky?”
Northwestern vs. Notre Dame, at Evanston, broadcast over WSBT, 1:30 p.m.
Movie, “Missing Ten Days,” Mad Hatter short and news, 6:40 and 8:00 p.m.
❖
SUNDAY, Nov. 16:
Freedom Day, no classes, no homework, no.
3,190,000 turkeys begin sprint from Texas to points north.
MONDAY, Nov. 17:
Interhall debates, Freshmen and Sophomores, Law Building auditorium, 7:15 p.m.
TUESDAY, Nov. 18:
Interhall track meet, 2% miles cross country, prizes to first five men to finish, 4:15 p.m.
Interhall debates, Juniors and Seniors, Law Building auditorium, 7:15 p.m.
Knights of Columbus meeting, K. of C. rec room, Walsh basement, 7:30 p.m.
❖
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19:
Economic Round Table meeting, Rose Marie Tea Room, South Bend, 5:30 p.m.
Home and Chicago - bound students take their leave for tomorrow’s heyday.
Movie: “Life with Henry,” cartoon and news, 6:40 and 8:00 p.m.
❖
THURSDAY, Nov. 20:
Thanksgiving Day, no classes, Texas turkeys end sprint at Notre Dame dining halls, some died on the way, others look almost dead. Seventeen states sit back and wait till next week.
❖
FRIDAY, Nov. 21:
Law Ball, Erskine Country Club, music by Modernaires, lawyers and grad students have their annual fling.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
NOVEMBER 14, 1941
Number 7
Northwestern Game Is Crucial Contest
For Our High Riding Fighting Irish
undefeated season since 1930. Should they hurdle Northwestern only hapless Southern California, a four-time loser, would block their path.
Wildcat Backs and Line are Both Giant-Killers
Last Nov. 22, a Notre Dame team whose spirit had been killed a week previous by a crushing Iowa victory, walked into the lair of the Northwestern Wildcat and was literally chewed and ripped apart in a 20-0 rout. Saturday an Irish team that is high in talent and spirit goes to Evanston to avenge last year’s humiliation.
Don Clawson and Bill deCorrevont, the same Wildcat duo that broke the Irish heart last year, will again face Notre Dame’s speedy backs — Steve Juzwik and Dippy Evans. A new ace in the Irish backfield is Angelo Bertelli, sophomore passing back. But the Wildcats also have a new ace by the name of Otto Graham. In the line Notre Dame’s right tackle, Capt Lillis, will have another chance to square off against All-American Alf Bauman.
It is the twenty-second game of a football rivalry which has no equal for hard fought encounters and brilliant performances.
Northwestern’s running and passing strength in the backfield centers around Bill deCorrevont, Ike Kepford, Tuffy Chambers and Otto Graham, halfbacks, and Don Clawson and George Benson, fullbacks. Don Kruger and Dick Erlitz, blocking quarterbacks, are also valuable adjuncts to the team’s success.
The Record
	NOTRE DAME			NORTHWESTERN		
38	Arizona		7	51	Kansas State	3
19	Indiana		6	41	Wisconsin	14
20	Georgia	Tech	0	7	Michigan	14
16	Carnegie	Tech	0	14	Ohio State	7
49	Illinois		14	7	Minnesota	8
0 20	Army Navy		0 13	20	Indiana	14
Graham, a Sharp Wildcat Claw
Sophomore Otto Graham, who has been alternating with deCorrevont at the left half post, has proved himself to be the sparkplug of the Northwestern attack. Acclaimed as the most brilliant passer in the Big Nine, Graham also has an excellent rushing record.
Any discussion of the Wildcat line must make mention of its magnificent goal line stand against Minnesota’s powerful thrusts. For four downs they repelled Gopher might inside their own five yard line. The Minnesota partisans could hardly believe they had been stopped.
The crux of Northwestern’s staunch defense centers around its All-American tackle, Alf Bauman, who has been playing up to his brilliant performance of last year. Tony Samarzia is on the other side of the line at right tackle.
For ends Coach Lynn Waldorf has a pair of juniors, Bob Motl and Bud Hasse; for guards, Nick Burke and George Zorich and for center, Don Johnson or Gene Mundy.
The Leahy regime at Notre Dame bids fair to give the Irish institution its first
Cross Your Fingers, Lads
The Wildcats, however, pride themselves on their reputation as record breakers. In 1935 they ruined Elmer Layden’s bid for a perfect season and the following year snapped the famous Minnesota victory string at 28 games.
A victory over Northwestern would give non-conference member Notre Dame a sweep of its season’s rivalry with Big Nine teams, Indiana and Illinois having been previous victims.
In what was their peak performance of the year thus far Notre Dame scuttled the Navy, last week, 20 to 13 after tieing Army 0-0 on a rainsoaked field the previous week. Bertelli struck in the air and Evans and Juzwik plummeted through the Navy line like projectiles exhibiting all the grace of gazelles in a broken field.
“Slim” Angelo Bertelli continues to peg those amazing strikes. He has located his receiver 52 times out of 89 attempts, for 813 yards and a .584
5
average. “Sixty minute” Dippy Evans, speedy fullback, covered 401 yards on the ground in 114 “carries” to annex the laurels in the ground-gaining department.
Quarterback Harry Wright and the forward wall of, Dove, Brutz, Maddock, Ziemba, Crimmins, Lillis, and Murphy also deserve nothing but commendation.
The probable starting lineup:
Notre Dame	Northwestern
Dove ______________L.E_______________ Motl
Brutz _____________.L.T.___________ Bauman
Maddock ___________L.G______________ Burke
Ziemba _____________ C____________ Johnson
Crimmins ___________R.G____________ Zorich
Lillis ____________R.T. L. Cook
Murphy R.E__________________________ Hasse
Wright ____________Q.B____________ Erdlitz
Bertelli ___________L.H_______ deCorrevont
Juzwik _____________R.H__________ Chambers
Evans _____________F.B------------- Benson
—Frank L. Kunkel
Dean McCarthy Addresses N. D. Propeller Club
Last evening the Notre Dame Port of the Propeller Club of the United States welcomed its new members and their
DEAN MCCARTHY
guests by presenting a varied and intimate prog r a m, designed to acquaint them with the ideals and purposes behind the activities of the Port. Guest speaker was Dean James E. McCarthy, a member of the
national board of governors of the Propeller Club of the United States.
Mr. Herbert J. Bott, honorary chairman and faculty adviser for the Notre Dame Port, outlined a short history of the club. A special feature of the evening was the election of Ramone Araujo to the office of vice president of the Port. Ramone is a junior living in Dillon Hall, and a resident of Cartagena, Colombia. The president of the Port, Frederick H. Pauhnann, Jr., announced the formation of a new committee on membership, to consist of Chairman Robert Fountain, George Saxon, and Kenneth Rohens.
Mr. McCarthy, dean of the Notre Dame College of Commerce, and honorary president of the Notre Dame Port, spoke on the subject of international trade. “The shipping business,” said the dean, “is one of insecurity and fluctuating fortunes, but it is the most fascinating of all industries. It is no place for smug, self-satisfied and selfish individuals for, in ocean shipping, your life will never be .your own. Fantastic fortunes are made and lost in shipping; your business interests are far-flung to all - corners of the earth.... and you have a
lot of fun in working.”
Mr. McCarthy stated further that
there are four elements which every nation that seeks to attain success in international trade must possess. They are, an ocean fleet, marine insurance, overseas banking, and adequate communications. “Our merchant marine is rapidly building up under the present program of government subsidies, and the day is rapidly approaching when we will be able to carry all our foreign commerce, both to and from the four corners of the world, in ships of the American Merchant Marine. If the aim of your club,” concluded the dean, “is to indulge in problems concerning the shipping business, I highly endorse the club, for I think it is important that you have an impelling interest in maritime developments.”
The Propeller Club is unique on the campus in that it has contact with men in business. The Notre Dame Port was establishd about five years ago when the Propeller Club of the United States, as an added incentive to foreign trade, established student ports in several universities. The Notre Dame Port was one of the first of these to organize. This year, however, the policy of the club has been revised to permit all students, regardless of class, to join the club’s activities.
Economic Round Table Plan Alumni Reunion
It was announced this week that members of the Economic Round Table are putting forth efforts to have a general get-together of alumni who were members of the Round Table during their college years. One hundred letters have been sent to alumni who have graduated since 1930 in an effort to have the gathering on Nov. 22 after the Southern California football game. Since none of the plans are definite, the positive time and the procedure have not been determined. At the present, “table" officials feel optimistic and are out to make it “the” affair of the organization.
—Phil Keen
Father Cavanaugh Attends Educational Council
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, last Friday attended an executive board meeting of the National Catholic Educational Council in Washington, D.C. Plans were formulated at this meeting for the annual convention of the Council, this year to be held during Easter week at San Francisco.
The Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame department of Education, and a vice-president of the N.C.E.C., was unable to attend, and Father Cavanaugh was designated as his representative.
While in the East Father Cavanaugh witnessed the Navy-Notre Dame football game in Baltimore last Saturday.
—J. H. Johnston
McGrath Speaks to C. Y. O.
On Monday evening, Oct. 20, Mark McGrath of Morrissey Hall spoke to a group of C.Y.O. members in Dowagiac, Mich. A member of the Notre Dame Speaker’s Bureau, Mark informally discussed a trip he took to South America during the past summer with the U. S. Pax Romana organization. He was invited to the meeting by Rev. Frank P. Carroll, pastor of the Holy Maternity parish in Dowagiac. Lou Burns, also of Morrissey, accompanied him as discusion leader, in keeping with the Bureau’s speaking technique.
Dining Halls Release Thanksgiving Menu
There will be no deflation of classes over Thanksgiving week-end, and while tests and cuts may have something to do with holding students on the campus, the real reason will become apparent Saturday afternoon at 2:30.
For at that time Southern Cal invades Notre Dame stadium and not even the pleasures of Thanksgiving at home could overcome the attraction this game holds for Notre Dame men. And while teachers are thus thankful that their classes will go on, not too severely disrupted, Notre Dame students will find ample cause for thanksgiving in both the advantages of their country and of the campus for the day.
Students will, of course, return thanks to God for their country, form of government, and educational advantages. But more worldly and tangible things will furnish the immediate cause for thanksgiving.
For instance, the Thanksgiving menu as released by Mr. Eugene Connelly, manager of the dining halls, promises a turkey dinner with all the trimmings, including potatoes, rutabagas,, and mince pie. With Thursday as a free day, a motion picture has been scheduled for Wednesday evening.
So to all Notre Dame men who will eat their turkey on the campus and like it, we offer the consolation of good entertainment and the traditional Thanksgiving dinner with all the trimmings.
The menu for the day will include:
Fruit Cocktail
Chicken Soup with Noodles -
Celery Curls — Mixed Olives — Salted Nuts Roast Turkey
New England Stuffing—Giblet GravyWhipped Potatoes — Mashed Rutabagas Head Lettuce
Thousand Island Dressing Hot Mince Pie Fresh Fruit Compote Coffee	Tea	Milk
Assorted Mints
—Ted Weber
6
ADMINISTRATION
Entertainment Features Listed for the Year
The program of entertainment at Notre Dame for 1941-42 is both colorful and varied. The musical year will be sprinkled with the tempos of Band and symphony concerts, the Guardsmen Quartette, and the N. D. Glee Club, and concluded brilliantly in Music Week by the appearance of Jose Iturbi and Miss Helen Jepson.
Two lectures will be presented by two equally famous men. The first by Rev. James A. Magner, Ph.D., on his travels and experiences on terra firma, and the second by Mr. Max Gene Nohl, on his experiences in the under-water world.
Two familiar friends will embrace the Drama stage. Miss Cornelia Skinner presenting New Original Monologues, and a revived and salty “Twelfth Night” directed by Michael Chekhov. The Hayes-Evans rendition of this play last season was memorable.
The dates and times of these presentations are as follows:
Nov. 26: Notre Dame Band Concert.
Dec. 1: The Guardsmen Quartette. Excellent in quality of voice and musicianship. Second half of program presents variety of showmanship and costume. Have sung in some 800 movies.
Dec. 4: Notre Dame Glee Club.
Dec. 9: Notre Dame Symphonic Orchestra.
Jan. 18: Notre Dame Symphonic Orchestra.
Feb. 9: Rev. James A. Magner, Ph.D. Eminent lecturer of wide travel and experience.
Feb. 20: Women’s Symphony Orchestra of Chicago. Conductor, Mr. Izler Solomon: 8:00 p.m.
Feb. 27: Max Gene Nohl. Deep sea diver and inventor. Lectures and shows movies in color taken by himself on the bottom of the sea. Holder of world’s deep water diving record (420 ft.) 8:00 p.m.
March 6: Cornelia Otis Skinner—“The greatest single attraction of the American theater” in New Original Monologues.	*
March 13: The Chekhov Theater Players in Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night.” Directed by famous Michael Chekhov of play and short story fame. A company
of young American players, .trained in the Checkhov Theater Studio. 8.00 p.m.
March 20: The White Hussars. Brass ensemble of symphony artists, harpist, pianist, and operatic tenor. 8:00 p.m.
Music Week
April 27: Opening Music Week with the “Marriage of Figaro” sung in English by the “Nine O’clock Opera Company” of New York. Mozart’s greatest and gayest Lyric opera. 8:30 p.m. South Bend Time.
April 30: Jose Iturbi, famous pianist and orchestra conductor. 8:30 p.m. South Bend Time.
May 4: Helen Jepson, celebrated artist of the Metropolitan Opera Company, will sing as soloist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. 8:30 p.m. South Bend Time.
—Roy Grumbine
Course in Military History To be Held
To meet the needs of students in a martial era, the University announced this week the formation of a course in military history which will be offered in the second semester if a sufficient number of students enroll. In view of the current military exploits in Europe, the course should excite more than usual interest in the student body. Mr. William Shanahan, who has done extensive historical research both in this country and in Europe has been selected to teach it.
Registration will take place immediately after the Thanksgiving week-end. It is expected that the course will attract a considerable number of students and those interested are advised to register early.
The course will be entitled, “The Development of European Armies from 1500-1941.” In essence, the course will consist of an analysis of military history in relation to the constitutional and political development of Europe. It will stress military technology, strategy and tactics. The course will be held three periods for one semester and will be equivalent to the usual three hours credit. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the department of history, announced that the class will be taught on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 2:15.
21 Students Selected
For Advertising Course
Representatives from 11 states and the District of Columbia are included in the group of 21 senior and junior students who this week began the course in Outdoor Advertising.
The only course of its kind in the nation for college students, the Outdoor Advertising classes are taught on Tuesdays and Thursdays by four members of the resident staff—Dean of Commerce James E. McCarthy, the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., Dr. Raymond P. Kent and Herbert F. Klingman. Three juniors and 18 seniors were selected from a large group of applicants for the specialized work in the course which will consider such aspects of the outdoor advertising field as marketing, research, copy, psychology, sales, and personnel.
Metallurgical Lab
Receives New Bearings
Added to the equipment of the metallurgical laboratories at the University of Notre Dame recently was a complete display of bearings manufactured locally by Bantam Bearings Corporation of South Bend, Ind. The bearings represent many types and sizes, including ultraprecision bearings having tolerances of one- ten - thousandths of an inch. Announcement of the gift was made this week by Dr. Edward G. Mahin, head of the department of metallurgy at Notre Dame.
Included in the display are sections of the massive bronze cages which are used for holding in place the rollers of huge steel mill bearings. One hundred and eight of these rollers, each weighing 20 pounds comprise the “rolling elements” of a modern steel mill bearing. In the assortment are also many varieties of smaller ball and roller bearings, and many special types such as are used in guns, tanks, submarines and aircraft.
Prof. Gurian Announces
New Book of Politics
Prof. Waldemar Gurian, professor of Politics and editor of The Revietu of Politics, announced this week the release of an outstanding book in the field of political philosophy. The author, Mortimer J. Adler, is recognized as an authority on this subject.
The book is a resume and discussion ' of the arguments which the author, en
7
countered in the course of lectures to his classes and which arose in discussions with his colleagues. It presents a scathing attack on moral skepticism and the present trend to cynicism in politics.
This work is almost a must for any one endeavoring to understand the political and intellectual struggles of our time.
Retailing at $1.80, the book is available to Notre Dame students, and the faculty of the University, for $1.00. Professor Gurian desired especially to call this special price to the attention of the students who might be interested in obtaining the book.
Mississippi Students
Lead Grade Survey
From the recent grade average survey conducted by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies at Notre Dame, comes this list of the compiled grades of the attending students, including those from 48 states, the District of Columbia, and eight foreign lands and possessions.
Mississippi, with two students, topped all others with an average of 88.86.
From south of the border, in the Canal Zone, three representatives placed second in the whole student body and first in the foreign element. The Zone Trio averaged 87.80.
The Arkansas Nine captured third place in the entire list and second in the domestic states with 86.40.
The South rounded out the highest five with the quartet from Georgia taking fourth place with an 86.21, followed closely by South Carolina with an 85.76, compiled from the average of seven grades represented.—Roy Crumbine
Father O'Donnell Attends
Sulpician Ceremonies
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University was present at the ceremonies which took place at St. Mary’s Seminary in Baltimore on Nov. 10, 11, and 12. The occasion was the Tercentenary of the founding of the Society of Priests of St. Sulpice, and the Sesquicentenary of the founding of St. Mary’s Seminary.
Father O’Donnell attended a dinner on Monday evening, and on Tuesday he attended the Pontifical Mass in Baltimore Cathedral and the laying of the cornerstone of the chapel of the new seminary.
The Society of the Priests of Saint Sulpice was founded in 1042. It was devoted to the education and perfection of ecclesiastics.—Frank Kearns
8
FACULTY PORTRAITS
Many of the Commerce and Arts and Letters students will falsely recognize the above cigar-chewing campus character; falsely, I say, because this man lives under an alias. A few years ago Mr. Ptacnik Vogslsinger thought his name not appropriate or in correlation with the typical American name, so he translated Vogelsinger (German) into the English, Birdsinger; again through the usual American shortening processes he derived the name Cecil Birder. And Professor Birder has often regretted
Professor Birder
this move, “I have never heard a word quite so lovely or rhythmical as Petaz-nilt” he often complains to his class. The class well realizes Mr. Birder’s attitude toward beautifully phrased words. For Mr. Birder is the head of the department of speech at Notre Dame and an apostle of “more graceful words for the American language.”
Those who do not know him personally have appreciated his art. They will recognize him as the producer of the famed Gilbert and Sullivan musicale, “The Gondoliers,” presented on Washington hall’s stage early this spring. A few of us may know him through his gracious daughter, Joan, but most of us have spent some time with him in his (often chilly) classroom in the heights of the Administration Building. Incidentally, Mr. Birder promises another Gilbert and Sullivan play with the coming track season “and this one will be a thriller.”
Mr. Birder was a student at Notre Dame and a varsity track man here as well. Later he took graduate work at Blackrock University in Dublin, Ireland. Before coming to Notre Dame to join the speech department as its head, this gentleman taught at Minnesota University. As well as performing his regular class duties, the professor holds private “voice improving” lessons in the music department.
Professor Birder is a fervent believer
in a normal language for America. “I like neither the lazy lip and often slovenly speaking of many Southerners nor the harsh, shrill and often nasal speech of many Northerners. I approve most of all the speech of the Midwesterners, but their language is not perfect. There should, and some day will be, a stable language in America.”
In moments of recreation, Mr. Birder likes to swim. Much of his leisure time is spent, however, in dreaming of the classic which he hopes to present as part of the centennial celebration of the University next year. He is an active member of the drama and musical board headed by Father Connerton which is active today in planning for tomorrow’s big shows.—Paul Carr
Chemical Society Holds
First Meeting of Year
The first meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society was held in Chemistry Hall on Wednesday, Oct. 29. The guest speaker was Mr. Robert A. Van Nordstrand member of the Allied Research Laboratories of the Sherwin-William Co. Mr. Van Nordstrand addressed the society on the Theoretical Aspects of Painting Metals. He emphasized the role which painted metals play in corrosion control.
The next meeting of the society will be held on Nov. 25. The guest speaker for this meeting has not yet been announced.
The society is a division of the American Chemical Society and includes students, faculty and professional chemists.
—Tom Duffy
Professor Sessler Attends College Art Conference
Professor Stanley S. Sessler, head of the department of fine arts, has returned from the annual meeting of the Midwestern College Art Conference, which was held at the Chicago Art Institute Friday and Saturday, Nov. 7 and 8. Gathered there were the heads of 35 different colleges, universities, and art schools of the Middle West, convening to discuss and to solve teaching problems in the field of art.
Mr. Sessler, newly elected president of the group said, “Various problems in teaching methods, art curricula, and transferring of credits from one school to another were discussed, as well as the latest trends in arts, and other pertinent subjects. Also, there was talk about the effect of world strife on art study and of what service art schools can be to the government.”—Tom Clemens
Water Color Exhibit
By Notre Dame Artist
The traveling water color exhibition of Mr. Francis J. Hanley, of the Notre Dame department of fine arts, will open Nov. 20 at Mundelein College in Chicago. The showing of 24 paintings is to remain at Mundelein for a month and will then travel on to Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Reading, 0., Fremont, O., Ferdinand, Ind. and several other cities for an exhibition period of three or four weeks at each place.
The subject matter of the paintings varies. Of Masques and Beauty Dead represents the gaiety of old Venice.
Mr. Francis J. Hanley
Death for a Sea Queen, is the painting of a British pleasure boat towed into harbor to be converted into a convoy. God’s Regiment represents the Moreau Seminarians walking to Mass. Mr. Hanley views the Seminarians from the Lyons Hall arch. Pavanne for ts Dead Princess is an interpretive ballet design. Our Lady of the Dome, Morning Over Dujarie, Point Judy, and Conspiracy are titles of some of the other paintings.
Most of the water colors are marine and depict the sea in its various moods. The Atlantic coast of New England often serves as the locale. A few are scenes around Notre Dame. The collection represents the work of the artist for the last six months. Most of the paintings were done during, the summer at Mr. Hanley’s studio in Matunuck, R.I.
Mr. Hanley thinks that water colors are the coming medium of expression. “Water color painting is the most interesting form of easel painting being produced. Since the camera has superseded portrait painting in popularity, and since many of the homes and apartments of today are too small to accommodate large oil paintings, the use of water colors in decoration is increasing in popularity. Water coloring involves a most difficult technique because it depends on the oneness with which you put it down; you cannot change it.” According to Mr. Hanley the taste for this type of painting is like that of olives. It must be cultivated.
Mr. Hanley studied water coloring in Kyoto, Japan as a traveling fellow of the Rhode Island School of Design. He was a student of Benjii Asada. Just this week Mr. Hanley has brought back to the University his portrait of a Notre Dame student that won the portrait prize in the recent St. Joseph county exhibition of painting.—Charles Kleibacker
Prof. McClurg Elected to Social Work Board
At a meeting of the Indiana State Conference on Social Work on Oct. 31, Professor John J. McClurg was elected to the board of directors to take the place of Judge Daniel Pyle of South Bend whose term expired with this meeting. Judge Pyle, circuit court judge in South Bend, was the only member from this district to be on the board.
Mr. McClurg came to Notre Dame two years ago to become a professor in the department of social work. He had formerly been with the department of child welfare in the District of Columbia. At the meeting at which Mr. McClurg was elected, another member of the faculty, Professor Loren J. Hess of the department of sociology, headed a discussion group while Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work, addressed the Trade Union section of the Conference using as his topic, “The Union and its Contribution to Public Welfare Progress.” Mr. Flynn also presided at the Friday evening general session where he introduced the principal speaker of the evening, Mr. Wayne Coy. Mr. Coy is a special assistant to the President of the United States and a liaison officer for the Office of Emergency Management.
University Library
Features Art Week
In celebration of National Art Week the Fine Arts Department is sponsoring a six-man exhibition of paintings, sculpture, and ceramics at the Wightman Art Gallery. The exhibition opened on Sunday, Nov. 2, with a formal reception and tea and will continue through the month.
The artists exhibiting are: Stanley S. Sessler, Francis J. Hanley, and Father John J. Bednar, C.S.C., of the Fine Arts faculty, and three guest artists, Elizabeth Fejervary, Eugene Kormendi, and Augustine Pall.
Ceramic figures and paintings of Budapest feature Elizabeth Fejervary’s work. Woodcarvings done for church decorations are among the sculpture pieces displayed. Mr. Pall is showing paintings done in Paris and in Munich.
Mr. Sessler is exhibiting still life
paintings, a self-portrait and mural work. Included in Father Bednar’s group are two figures of the Blessed Virgin and Saint Joseph which he recently completed for Saint Augustine’s church, the Negro parish in South Bend.
Mr. Hanley’s work includes landscapes in oil and watercolors, still-life and a portrait of Mr. O’Malley of the English Department.
During the week many art groups including visitors from the Hoosier Salon visited the exhibition as a feature of National Art week. The exhibit is held under the special patronage of the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Breen Oratorical Prelims
Set For Early December
The Rev. Regis O’Neill, C.S.C., announced this week that preliminaries of the .Breen Oratorical Contest will be held Dec. 10, 11, and 12. All contestants are asked to submit their names to Father O’Neill, at Corby Hall, before Nov. 18.
Founded by the late Hon. William P. Breen of Fort Wayne, Ind., well-known alumnus of the University, the
father O’Neill contest has been held uninterruptedly since 1886 with the exception of a single year. Breen, founder of two chairs in public speaking and civil law, contributed with his brotherin-law, Frank B. Phillips, for the construction of Breen-Phillips Hall, present Freshmen residence hall and one of the more recent buildings on the campus.
The initial Breen award, in 1886, was made jointly to Daniel P. Byrnes and Don Latshaw who tied for first place. The year 1892 is the only one since then during which the medal was not awarded. The list of Breen medalists contains a number of distinguished clergymen, business men and lawyers.
The late Hugh A. O’Donnell, former assistant business manager of the New York Times, won the medal in 1894.
Other medalists include Thomas D. Lyons (1903) Commonweal contributor and prominent Tulsa Oklahoma jurist; Msgr. Maurice Griffin, ’04, leader in the Catholic hospital field; Rev. James W. Donahue, ’07, one time superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Timothy P. Galvin, ’16, supreme master of the Fourth Degree of the Knights of Columbus; and Prof. William J. Coyne, ’26, debate coach and instructor in the department of economics here. "
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers William Scanlan . John Dinges_____ William Baader .. Robert E. Brooks .
_____Managing Editor _____Promotion _____Sports Editor _____Art	Editor .Administration Editor
Don Heltzel...........................Campus Editor
John A. Lynch .........................Photo	Editor
Ed Drinkard ....................  Staff	Photographer
Elmer Silha ...........................Advertising
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sen-ice, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P'. M.; General Staff, 7 :00 P. M.
A TRIBUTE
About two weeks ago we heard that the football team was in disfavor with one of the Gold Coast residents. Too bad, really. We feel sure that Lillis and company were terribly upset when they heard this news. In fact it might even have been responsible for their being so aroused last Saturday. They were certainly blockading those sailors for some reason.
Actually, though, it would be rather stupid to treat this exhibitionistic antic seriously. The boy will only relish scorn and abuse all the more, since his action is a sure guide to notoriety. No, we might better ignore him.
Just for the record, though, we would like to say that — win, lose, or tie — this is one of the finest teams ever to represent Notre Dame. No low-browed giants, these men are in every respect gentlemen. They play clean, hard, football in a way that leaves no doubt as to their mental as well as their physical agility.
Football players, as a class, are apt to be underestimated by some of our more delicately constituted contemporaries who fail to understand the very elementary truism that rugged physical exertion does not necessarily dull the intellect. Moreover, these critics show a blissful ignorance of the completeness of things. A halfback is not necessarily stupid because he is a halfback. Nor is an English major necessarily brilliant. And neither one is necessarily a man. Only the enduring qualities of courage, courtesy, strength of heart, and cleanness of mind can indicate the fullness of manhood.
More than any other group on the campus with whom we have come in contact during the past three years, the football squad has these attributes. We have been and always will be proud to know them.
SENIOR TICKETS
All praise to Jim O’Neal, senior class president, and Bob Cahill, football ticket manager, for arranging for a special block of tickets to tomorrow’s game for the seniors. Distri
bution by lottery was an eminently fair way of handling the situation. Here is an outstanding example of class leadership. With the management of the Senior class in such capable hands we are confident that this year will be one of the best in campus history.
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
Now IN its third year of revival on the campus, Interhall football is proving its worth. Good teams, highlighted by individual stars provide thrills for spectators. Interest in league competition is maintained by teams that lost one Sunday knocking off a ranking squad the next week.
Boys who somehow missed football in high school are offered one more chance to don spikes and pads; high school stars who, if they were lucky, might be little frogs in the varsity puddle have a chance to shine once more—and they all may do it at Notre Dame, the nation’s football mecca.
Football “per se,” however, isn’t the only benefit derived from this institution. For many fellows it may be their most active extra-curricular activity in college. If every afternoon during the season is occupied in vigorous exercise, learning teamwork, meeting new fellows, and exchanging hard knocks, it will add something to the man which will remain long after victories are dim memories and ’hardened muscles are soft once more.
Those two or three hours which sometimes weigh heavily on boys in “snap courses,” or shall we say on those fortunate ones who need not study so hard, disappear with the call to practice. Time must be budgeted to get everything done.
There are other advantages in addition to the enjoyable and pragmatic phases of interhall ball. Participation may lend truth and conviction to the answer to that question so often and so promptly asked those among us endowed with any physical possibilities whatsoever by persons who first learn of our affiliation with Notre Dame, “Did you play football?”
And as the fellow once said, it lets the average student see more than four Irish football games per season.
10
CAMPUS NEWS
HOMECOMING SPIRIT SEIZES CAMPUS AS STUDENT COUNCIL MAKES PLANS FOR BIG BONFIRE
Back in the old days, there was held at Notre Dame an annual Homecoming week-end. It was a time when the old grads and friends of Notre Dame would convene on the campus for a few days in renewing old friendships and reviving old memories. During the last few years this event has been passed over lightly and almost forgotten. This year the Student Council, under the leadership of energetic President Gene Schumaker, has decided to take steps toward making this a big day again at Notre Dame, and will concentrate on next week - end’s Southern California game.
Let us look back to the sixth annual homecoming in 1925. The festivities began the night before the game with Carnegie Tech, with a torchlight parade greeting the Tech team at the edge of town and progressing from there to the steps of the Main Building. There a pep rally was held with short speeches by the opposing coaches and some of their players. Immediately following the rally an entertainment was presented in Washington Hall for the Homecoming guests. At the same time the Freshmen boxers put on a boxing exhibition for the benefit of the student body. The evening ended with the lighting of a barbecue fire with appropriate ceremony. The barbecue was prepared and served by the Louisiana - Mississippi Club, the Rocky Mountain Quartet, and the Blue Circle Club. After the game which was won by the Irish, 26-0, the week-end was brought
. . . . judges will seek out the best decorated hall. . . .
to a close by two dances under the auspices of the Student Council.
During the past few years such doings have not been seen on the campus, due to waning spirit on the part of the students and an unimaginative Student Council. Now, at last, Notre Dame spirit has come into its own again. Evidence of this was seen when the team returned from the Army game and the entire student body arose at 5:30 in the morning to greet them. This movement was started by a group of Lyons Hall sophomores, who did most of the work necessary for the organization of this rally. They contacted the Student Council and received some help from that quarter, but the council wishes to give them the credit they deserve for their fine work on this project.
An alert and ambitious Student Council, seeing this fine display of spirit, has put a great deal of work into making “Decoration Day” a gala event this year. The biggest surprise will be a huge bonfire in the parking lot next to Notre Dame Avenue. Immediately after supper the students will follow the band to the scene of the bonfire. Railroad flares will light their way. After the lighting of the fire, the pep meeting will be held at the same spot, fickle Indiana weather permitting. A stand will be erected for the speakers, so they can be seen and heard by all. Besides the band and the speakers, the students will be entertained by
the Glee Club. All arrangements will be made by the Student Council, and it will not be necessary for the students to break up their desks to furnish fuel for the fire.
Also on Friday night, a group of judges to be named by the council will seek out the best decorated hall on the campus. Competition promises to be keen for this contest, many halls having already drawn up elaborate plans with which they hope to -win the prize offered by the Student Council for the best decorated hall. The prize will be a smoker for the residents of the winning hall. On Saturday night a Victory Dance given by the Student Commission for Decent Literature at the Progress Club will wind up the festivities of the week-end.
—Bill Clarke
Varsity Debate Aspirants Will Try Out Soon
As interhall debate goes into the second round, the first call for varsity debate aspirants is sounded. According to director of debate, William J. Coyne, the preliminary tryouts will be held sometime during the week of Nov. 23, probably on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, the 25, 26 and 27 respectively of that week.
All those interested in trying out are requested to hand in their names to Mr. Coyne on or before Friday, Nov. 21. Choice of side should be specified with the registration. Mr. Coyne’s office is in the south basement of the Law Building.
Those students who survive the preliminary tryouts will be requested to change sides and participate in the final tryouts to be held on Dec. 4, 5, and 6.
Glenn Miller's Band
To Serenade Notre Dame
Just before press time this week, word was received that on Nov. 20, Glenn Miller, popular orchestra leader, will serenade the students of Notre Dame. The announcement came as a result of a petition containing nearly 1,000 names sent to Miller last week. Paul Carr, Morrissey Hall sophomore, conceived the idea of • asking for a spot on the Miller show. Backed by a sturdy petition from the students, Glenn acceded.
The Chesterfield Moonlight Serenade, starring Glenn Miller and his band, is heard from 9:00 to 9:15.
11
Law Club Will Hold
Ball Next Friday Night
Notre Dame’s traditional Law Ball, sponsored by the N. D. Law Club, will be held Friday evening, Nov. 21, at the Erskine Country Club, acording to an announcement made this week.
Music for the barrister’s frolic will be provided by the jurists’ own Bob Richardson and his orchestra. Richardson’s musicians have been acclaimed as adept masters at providing red hot jive that is guaranteed not only to lift the roof, but the mortgage, from any house. The orchestra is well known throughout this locality.
John Ward, a Walsh Hall resident, is chairman of the Law Club-sponsored affair. Another Walsh habitant, Ed Kelly, is president of the Law Club.
According to spokesmen for the club, the dance is open to graduate students and students of the Law College, and is subject to University regulations.
The day following the ball the jurists and their damsels will grace a reserved section of the Notre Dame stadium where they hope to see the Irish deal out justice to a Trojan eleven from Southern California.—Dave Condon
Ghost of N. D. Spirit Got
Up Early One Morning
Outlines of the Notre Dame campus were dim as they lay beneath the light curtain of Indiana mist in the early morning. Overhead, the sun had barely resumed its position in the sky. It was 5:45 on the campus of Notre Dame but it was not the slumbering campus of ordinary mornings. The green quadrangles were alive with moving figures. Swinging through the mists were small streams of students who converged into a rushing river of humanity at the Circle.
Once joined at the head-waters on the avenue, the students rushed forward to fall in behind the Notre Dame hand as it proceeded south. Behind them poured more figures until the avenue became alive with walking, jostling figures.
They were strangely quiet as they walked in the morning mist, making little noise as they spoke in under tones in small groups. Their eyes glanced with anticipation toward the south; they were waiting.
Suddenly the ranks split apart as a mail truck wheeled dangerously down the avenue to the Notre Dame post office; just as suddenly the wake left by the truck was re-filled by students until the road was solid with Notre Dame men.
Red-faced, sleepy-eyed students standing at the Circle heard a faint cry far
down the line. Then they heard the band. Yawning mouths suddenly began yelling;
3,000 heads turned southward. In the distance the band played “Rally sons of Notre Dame!”
Three thousand voices took up the strains of the famous “Victory March” as the half-mile parade rushed back to the campus. Enclosed in their midst was a slow-moving convoy of taxi-cabs bringing back the football team from New York and the scoreless tie with Army.
All these events, mere “tradition” to the Notre Dame students in the past three years, marked the return of the spirit of Notre Dame, long dormant on the campus. The last time a morning greeting was handed the team was four years ago. It ended in one of the wildest demonstrations of student enthusiasm ever witnessed, in South Bend. As a result the morning rallies were curtailed, and only re-scheduled this year at the behest of a rejuvenated Student Council that promised no trouble from students on trip into town.—Joseph Shane
Glee Club To Sing At
St. Mary's and Rosary
Evidently trying to prove themselves the most active club on the campus, the Glee Club has fairly outdone itself in the past couple of weeks. First of all they sang a concert for the City Planning Association of South Bend, on Oct. 18, then a group sang at the K. of C. entertainment in Washington Hall. After the Illinois game pep-rally, almost all of the Club’s 85 members gathered in the Dillon-Alumni court to sing Notre Dame and Illinois school songs, in keeping with the tradition established last year. Lastly, they serenaded the visiting Admiral in Washington Hall on Navy Day.
Not content to relax on its laurels, the Club announces that it will drive another nail in tradition by singing in the aforementioned court after the Southern Cal pep-rally, and invites all students to be there. Two concerts are planned for early February—one to be given at St. Mary-of-the-Woods, in Terre Haute, the other at Rosary College of River Forest, Hl.
Many new songs are being added to the Club’s repertoire, including such well-known Negro spirituals as, “Were You There When They Crucified My Lord?” and, “It’s a Me,” which will be heard for the first time at the Club’s formal campus concert, to be presented in Washington Hall on Dec. 4.
In order that the club may have its full half-hour practice period each day, arrangements are being made for the members of the club to eat together.
Improved "Santa Maria" Distributed to Knights
A new, easier-reading, more interesting Santa Maria appeared on the campus the first of this week. Under the very
WM. SCANLAN
capable editorship of William Scanlan, who is also Promotion Editor of the Scholastic, this publication has changed from a predominantly liter-ary magazine to a well written newsmagazine.
Assisting Scanlan as Associate Editors are John E. Lewis, John F. Moriarty, and Edward C. Roney, Jr. Robert “Red” Lonergan heads the sports department while Michael L. Hines writes the gossip and humor section.
Other contributors are Grand Knight Edward Reidy and Don Heltzel, while Leo P. Lee directs the circulation.
Now in its 23rd year, the Santa Maria is the official organ of the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, and furnishes the many graduate members of the council with news of what is happening on the campus in Columbianism.
N. R. O. T. C. Students
Clipped Navy Style
Last week an order was issued from the offices of the N.R.O.T.C. unit which caused quite a humorous furore in the ranks. The boys were told that since they were in the Navy they would have to comply -with all Naval regulations and from this time hence there would be no evidence of any long-haired socialites adorning the squads.
All were to proceed immediately to the Campus Barber Shop, state that they were members of the Naval Unit to the respective barbers, and the latter would wield the scissors in accordance with the style set down in the Bluejacket Manual, official Naval Administration textbook.
All the cadets dove for their B.M.’s and hunted up the tonsorial paragraph. It states: “Hair on top of the head should not be more than one and one-half inches long, and it should be clipped short down the sides, but not so short as to give the impression that the head has been shaved.” That last clause should give you a good idea of what the boys will look like. Well, anyway, the hats will fit better.
P.S. To all civilians. Don’t be surprised if when you sit down in the barber’s throne he greets you thus: “Army, Navy or Salvation?”—Roy Grumbine
12
Students Air Views On St. Mary's Girls
“What do you think of the St. Mary’s girls?” was the question open this week to student opinion. Critics brave enough to tackle this most delicate subject were hard to find, due probably to the weekend emigration. Those who frequent the “Rock” were reluctant to submit an opinion, for if it were favorable they would be accused by their pals of “apple polishing,” and if unfavorable their chances of getting a date in the future would be slim. Those who haven’t made a frequent appearance across the way have no basis for a statement. So it’s almost a vicious circle.
Jerry Heinlen, Walsh: “Those who try to be natural are all right. But there are a few who have developed an artificial glamorized attitude, which nobody likes.”
Hank Dahm, Walsh: “Those few that I know seem O.K. to me, although there are some who want a husband more than an education.”
Bob Hagen, Walsh: “They might be all right for some fellows, but I have one at home.”
John Murray, Howard: “I don’t think they’re so hot. Besides trying to be too glamorous, they’re too flighty.”
Jim Kessell, Dillon: “The ones that I’ve been out with are right up to par. They’re good enough for me.”
Jack Russell, St. Edward’s: “As a whole, they all seem to be very high-class girls; but too many of them have a slight superiority complex.”
Paul Pfeiffer, St. Edward’s: “They’ll do in a pinch. They are all we have around here. So it’s a case of take them, or leave them.”
Ed Kempf, Badin: “They’re easy on the eyes? Hard on the purse! And too sophisticated.”
R. R. Hogue, Lyons: “I don’t know about all of them, but there’s one. . . .”
Howard Garrigan, Morrissey: “They’re all swell kids . . . good children!”
John Anhut, Lyons: “They’re typical college girls: too frivolous.”
Jim Droney, Brownson: “They don’t measure up to the Connecticut stock.”
Griff Allen, Badin: “They’re all right every afternoon except Sunday. On Sunday, nobody knows what the story is over there.”
Tony McNicholas, Zahm: “They seem to be pretty good. The only trouble with them is that they try to impress you with their glamour.”
Leo Ruoff, Breen-Phillips: “They seem all right to me. Maybe it’s because I don’t know any of them.”
—Dan Downey
"Scrip" Makes Initial
Appearance For Year
The first appearance this year of Scrip last Friday marked the beginning of the thirteenth year of publication for the
CHARLES J. KIRBY
campus literary quarterly. Scrip was founded in 1929 by the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., present head of the department o f English, to display the best of student writing and to act as incentive for writing
among the students. For five years after its founding the magazine was issued
quarterly on an independent subscription basis, but in 1934 it was included among the publications covered by the tuition and general fee of the University and issued four Fridays a year in place of the Scholastic.
During the 12 years Scrip has been published, it has included many of the outstanding essays, sketches, and poems written at Notre Dame, while many present faculty members wrote for Scrip or served on its editorial staff during their undergraduate days. One of the particularly outstanding numbers was an issue of 1933 which was published as a memorial to Charles Phillips, a prominent American Catholic poet and historian and a professor of English at Notre Dame from 1924 to 1933. Several years ago Scrip was approved and commended by the late Edward J. O’Brien, who lectured here as a critic and anthologist of the short story.
Father Ward has served as adviser to the magazine since its publication and in the last few years he has been assisted by Professor Frank O’Malley, of the department of English. The editor-in-chief this year is Charles John Kirby, of Great Neck, Long Island, New York, who is best known to the readers of Scrip for his poetry. The associate editors are Charles Kearney, of Dixon, Ill., who is also president of Bookmen; Donald D. Connors, Queens Village, N. Y.; Phil Richards, Alpena, Mich., and James E. O’Donohoe, Grand Rapids, Mich.
This year’s magazine differs from last year’s in a few respects. It is dressed in an attractive cover that is an improvement over the cover of last year; the “Freshman Sketches” have changed to mere “Sketches”; and there is no poetry in the current magazine. Of these changes the removal of all poetry from Scrip is perhaps the only unfortunate one. It is true that Scrip poetry has been the basis of some controversy in the past, nevertheless, the absence of the poetry of Kirby, Connors and others will be noted with regret.
The most substantial portions of the November Scrip are the non-fiction articles and the book reviews. The reviews are excellent and each is a fine work of criticism. In other years Scrip has sometimes included reviews of unimportant works or books that had come off the presses some time before. It is therefore interesting to find timely and important work like Mann’s The Transposed Heads, Auden’s The Double Man, and Margaret Leech’s Reveille in Washington reviewed in this issue. The non-fiction articles are two excellent essays by Brother Evan, C.S.C., and Charles Kearney. Brother Evan’s essay is a study of the Spanish master, El Greco; Kearney’s essay is concerned with some aspects of the problem of art and prudence.
Two of the fictional sketches in Scrip were signed by pseudonyms; there will probably be many speculations as to who G. Towner and Richard Hill really are. Of the fictional sketches, Joseph Hillebrand’s “Visiting Sunday” stands out above the others. It is a simple sketch of reminiscence, but it makes a determined impression. Among the more bizarre stories Henry Adams “The Coach-Whip” seems to be the best. The other fictionists who are represented by meritorious stories in this issue are John Hunt, George Edwards, Richard Powers, William Steele, and Kelly Cook.
The “Sketches” in the November Scrip are worthy representatives of the literary abilities of the freshmen scribblers.’ “The Totem Pole” is a new column in Scrip, consisting of three short editorial essays by Editors Kirby, Richards, and Connors. Drawings in black and white for the current issue were done by William Baader.—John Considine
Harry McQuaid, Speaker for A. S. M. Meeting
Guest of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals this week will be Harry W. McQuaid, assistant chief metallurgist for the Republic Steel Corporation of Cleveland, Ohio. He will address the chapter in the auditorium of the Engineering Building at 8 p.m. Wednesday, speaking on “Making the Most of Carbon and Low-alloy Steels.”
Mr. McQuaid is renowned for his researches concerning carburizing reactions and practice, and he is primarily responsible for the “McQuaid-Ehn test” for “abnormality” in carburizing steel stock and for grain-growth characteristics of steels. Recognizing his achievements, the A.S.M. appointed him Campbell Memorial lecturer in 1935 and Sau-veur Achievement Medalist in 1938.
The technical session will be preceded by a dinner in the dining hall at 6:45 p.m.—Tom Clemens
13
INTRODUCING
By RAY DONOVAN
Chuck McNeill
None of the Irish football jaunts have carried the lads as far south as jaunty Chuck McNeill hopes eventually to make his home. Chuck, along with roommate and teammate Bob Maddock, is already making post-graduation plans to settle in South America. Both men are exhausting the Spanish department of the University in an effort to prepare themselves for their Southern endeavors.
Edward Charles McNeill made his
world premiere at Midland, Pa., and it was in this same Pittsburgh area that he developed his extreme liking and aptitude for all sports in general, football and’ baseball in particular. Chuck matriculated at Lincoln High school in Midland, and for four years held down the fullback post on the Lincoln eleven. Upon graduation from his home school, Chuck was awarded a scholarship to the Massanutten Mili-tary Academy.
During the first two years of his stay at Notre Dame McNeill was almost completely buried under the avalanche of fullbacks on the Irish squad, headed by Piepul, Crimmins, Lee &company. This year, however, the hard-working McNeill has established himself as one of the hardest drivers on the
squad.
Chuck declares that the most memorable game in which he has ever represented Notre Dame was this same Carnegie Tech game in Pittsburgh. He was performing before his parents and a host of friends and admirers in this game, and we might add that while he was in the game the fullback was one ray of light in the Irish attack. McNeill broke away for several nice gains, and on one attempt almost broke loose to go the distance, only to be pulled down by the Tartan secondary.
One of his greatest and most interesting experiences, as related by McNeill, was in the summer of 1938, during which he worked out with the Pittsburgh Pirates. He broke in with the National League club as batting prac
tice pitcher that summer, and will testify to the fact that the Pirates are no weaklings with the war clubs. Chuck admits that he was coming in with all the stuff he could muster up, and Pie Traynor’s boys were still plastering his every pitch high into the upper-decks. He plans to offer his services to Coach Kline this spring.
The Irish shock troops will probably welcome every available ounce of reserve strength in their battle with Northwestern’s Wildcats tomorrow afternoon.
Waiting and ready to relieve “The Dipper” at fullback is one of the best spirited and most competitive men on the Irish roster—Chuck McNeill.
❖
Ray Ebli
Northern Michigan, the locale which gave Notre Dame the great George Gipp and numerous other Irish grid notables, in 1938 blessed Notre Dame with another boy who was destined to rise to considerable heights as a member of the Blue and Gold gridiron forces.
Also like the “Gipper,” Raymond Henry Ebli, a product of Ironwood, Mich., did hot participate in football before coming to Notre Dame. The year before he entered St. Ambrose High school, the institution discontinued their
gridiron endeavor, and Ray was forced to center his sports activity on basketball and track during his prep school days, captaining the hardwood squad in his senior year.
Ebli, nicknamed “Lil Abner” because of a striking “resemblance” to the comic strip character, gained many followers and admirers during his four year stay at St. Ambrose, and was rewarded in his senior yeai- at the school when his classmates elevated him to the position of secretary of his class.
Ray reported to Irish coaches as an end upon enrolling at Notre Dame and performed in this capacity during his first two years on the varsity. Under the Leahy regime, however, the lanky gridder has been shitted to tackle and seems to be well adapted to his new position. He reports that his biggest thrill thus far in his football career occurred while he was playing end against the Navy last year, when he caught a long pass and dashed to the three yard line before he was downed.
"Pitchin1, ironwood Style"
During the summer months “Li’l Abner” has gained much esteem as a soft-ball pitcher with an Ironwood brewery. As a result of last season’s endeavors, Ray came out on top in 26 of the 28 games which he twirled in league and traveling contests. Several years ago, he warranted mention in Arch Ward’s column, when he chucked four no-hit, norun games and on.e game in which he retired 21 men in order—a perfect game.
The 6'2" lad, who is the smallest of three brothers, is a student in the department of business administration in preparation for a career in the automobile industry. Ray emphasizes, however, that this career will begin only after he has served his period of training for Uncle Sam, since he is deferred now only until such time as he graduates. The fact that Ebli is an excellent student as well as an athlete is shown by-a glance at his scholastic record which reveals a cum laUde record at present.
Ray was a member of the frosh basketball unit in his first year at Notre Dame, but refrained from the court activity during his sophomore and junior years to devote more time to football and his academic work. He has indicated, however, that he may report to Coach Keogan at the end of the gridiron season and try his hand at varsity ball. His added height would be a welcome factor to the already lanky hardwood squad.
Against Army last week the second string line was paid the tribute while they were in the contest of being one of the best examples of sheer power seen in New York this season. Why? Measure the performance of Ray Ebli, multiply by seven and answer the question yourself.
14
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Nearing Last Round
Dillon, Walsh Still Lead
Thrown off schedule by the last two week - ends, interhall footballers have been catching up during the week-days on Brownson field with some outstanding games. Walsh and Dillon continue to lead their leagues in agreement with pre-season predictions, and will probably meet in the stadium Nov. 23, tentative date set for the playoff.
Dillon, 19; Morrissey, 0
In a game played Monday afternoon, Dillon overpowered a strong Morrissey outfit, 19 to 0. Morrissey was primed for this game, as it may well decide the winner of League I, and put up a good fight. The score hardly indicated the closeness of a hard-fought battle.
in Interhall Football
Badin then resorted to passing almost completely, with Murphy making some fine catches. In the fourth quarter a Badin flat-zone pass intended for Murphy was intercepted by “Mama” Clark who jogged 10 yards for the final touchdown.
This victory left the “Gentlemen” with only Howard as the last obstacle in their march to the league championship.
Last Week
The previous week saw Dillon steamroller to a 45-0 decision over Carroll. Dillon was held close the first half, but put on a scoring spree in the final period due mainly to an alert pass defense.
Morrissey retained its perfect record, turning in a 9-0 win over Brown
son. Morrissey marched the length of the field to score, with Metzler carrying the ball over from the Brownson 15. Casey broke through in the fourth quarter to nab the Brownson ball carrier behind the goal line to register the final two points.
Undefeated Badin sent Cavanaugh to defeat by a score of 13 to 0 for its third win. Nolan scored first in the second quarter, and Friends made it a two-touchdown margin in the final period.
With only a few of its regular team present, Walsh pushed over a 13-0 win over Lyons. It was a dull game, and the best analysis is found in the first sentence : .... “only a few of its regular team present.” It was a holiday for the first stringers.
Both Zahm and Howard won by forfeit over St. Ed’s and Breen-Phillips respectively.
Dillon’s first touchdown was scored on a pass, Campagna to Johnson. The second was a short plunge by the fullback, and the third made on a magnificent run by Johnson on a reverse for 45 yards.
Morrissey was evidently out to stop Campagna, and they succeeded to a great extent. But Johnson wasn’t stopped, and it was he who largely provided the margin of victory. At one time Dillon had the ball on their own two-yard line. Johnson punted from one yard away from the goal posts. The ball sailed 75 yards in the air, coming to rest on the Morrissey 14-yard line, the longest punt ever recorded in interhall football. And so Dillon finds itself with only Zahm to hurdle for the league championship.
Walsh, 20; Badin, 0
Badin’s aerial circus was trampled into the sod of Brownson field Tuesday afternoon by powerful Walsh to the tune of 19-0.
The “Gentlemen” kicked off and Badin started marching, only to have the drive bog down. Badin kicked to the Walsh 8 from where Daigler picked up 6 yards on the first play. On the next play Daigler cut back over tackle, going for 86 yards and a touchdown.
In the later stages of the third quarter Walsh drove deep into Badin territory, with Nick Pepelnjak circling right end for four yards and a touchdown. The attempted place kick was fumbled, but Fitzgerald scooped up the ball and actually leaped over the Badin line for the • point.
From the Wildcat Lair
By JACK SUNDINE
Daily Northwestern Sports Editor
For* the fourth time in five games the Northwestern Wildcats face an unde-
Captain 'Tuffy" Chambers
feated team with a high national rating this Saturday.
After surviving two comparatively easy games with Kansas State and Wisconsin, Northwestern ran headlong into Michigan and was defeated by a score of 14 to 7. The following week the Wildcats met another undefeated team at Columbus, Ohio, but managed to beat the Buckeyes by a score of 14 to 7.
At Minneapolis two weeks ago, the Wildcats fought the defending conference champions, the Gophers, who had not been defeated since 1939. Most of the country’s football fans are familiar with that game in which a trick play earned Minnesota an 8 to 7 victory.
Although Indiana was no breather for Northwestern at Evanston last week, it did not have so high a reputation as’ the three previous teams played. Hillenbrand looked impressive, but he didn’t have a line to clear the way, and the Hoosiers went down, 20 to 14.
And now Coach Lynn Waldorf winces a little as he rolls up his sleeves for a fourth undefeated team.
Seeks to Replace Injured Tackles
The last four games have taken their toll of the Northwestern team in injuries. The absences from injuries which will hurt the Wildcats most are those of Leon Cook and Tony Samarzia, who had been alternating at right tackle. Cook was injured in the Indiana game, and
15
Samarzia was injured in the Ohio State game.
Neither is expected to be able to play against Notre Dame, and Coach Waldorf is now concerned about developing some new right tackles overnight.
Capt. Tuffy Chambers and George Benson, backs, were injured in the Minnesota contest and could not play against Indiana Saturday, but they are expected to be ready for Notre Dame. Bill de-Correvont was injured after three plays in the Indiana game, but he will play Saturday.
In the Air—Graham vs. Bertelli
As in the Indiana game, fans compared Northwestern’s Graham with Indiana’s Hillenbrand, both of whom are sophomores, against Notre Dame fans will compare Graham with Bertelli.
Both Notre Dame and Northwestern are expected to concentrate on a passing attack. In six games this season Northwestern has completed 39 out of 95 passes for a net gain of 664 yards, while Notre Dame has thrown 113 passes in seven games, completing 63 and gaining a total of 998 yards.
Graham and Bertelli each do practically all of the passing for their respective teams, and the aerial duel will have the country’s spotlight this week.
Seats for the game at Evanston have been sold out for over a month and a half, and a record crowd is expected. No . additional publicity need be given the game except that Northwestern and Notre Dame are playing.
It is next to impossible to predict the outcome of this game of the week. The teams appear to be closely matched, and fans will see a lot of football at Dyche stadium Saturday.
£€C€P*IM JILINlllf
FROM TEE PREET BCX
————,BY BILL SCANLAN
BARRY WOULD LIKE TO BE A JUDGE
If Coach Frank Leahy ever needs a good field judge to work some of his practice sessions, he need not look further than his end candidates— . Jack Barry, who turned in a fine defensive game against the Navy last week, has an ambition to become a Supreme Court Justice.... And claims one of the most extensive collection of old guns in Chicago.... Bill (Slug) McGannon, peppery left halfback a year ago, will be married at Lancaster, Ohio, tomorrow morning.
KOVATCH, WALSH GAIN STARTING BERTHS
For the first time this season, the Irish started a game with a changed lineup when they teed off against Navy.... John Kovatch, the demon defensive right end from South Bend, edged out his fellow-townsman, George Murphy, for the starting spot, while Bob Walsh, the squad’s place-kicker, entered the game to kick off. . . . Walsh regularly a guard, has his name in print throughout the nation as left halfback. ... Shortly after the kickoff, Angelo Bertelli entered—and they haven’t quit talking about what he did since.
RATED ABOVE FRIEDMAN, BAUGH, O’BRIEN
Wilfred Smith, ace football author of the Chicago Tribune, figures Bertelli rates ahead of such passing greats of the past as Benny Friedman of Michigan and Sammy Baugh and Davey O’Brien of Texas Christian when comparisons are made in the sophomore year.... Smith has been lavish in his praises for the punting of Dippy Evans, who averaged 46 yards per try.... Only Creighton Miller, who has booted
Boston Shoe Store
124 South Michigan Street
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
.	By Red Lonergan
QUESTIONS FOR THE WEEK
1.	Give the real names for these nicknames of colleges: a, The Golden Bears; b. The Orangemen.
2.	Who is the only college player to kick five field goals in one game, twice in the same season?
3.	Who is considered the most unsuccessful ball carrier in big time football?
4.	Who is supposed to have lacked the longest punt in college football?
5.	Do you know the shortest touchdown run ever made?
6.	What Mid-West team which played in the Cotton Bowl game in 1936 had twins who were both starting backs?
(Answers to questions on page 30)
In Defense of Football
Many narrow-minded persons in this country are of the opinion that football should be abolished. Their claims are (Continued on page 23)	.
16	•.
BOSTON — a home-owned Store of Integrity and Honest Value, has supplied N. D. Men for Years with Fine Shoes, $3.98 to $7.85.
for a mark of 49.2, can give him competition around the campus.... Creighty was named after the Jesuit University at Omaha, Nebr. ... His dad, M. -Harry (Red) Miller, once coached there.
PIEPUL MAY RETURN TO NOTRE DAME
Milt (Moose) Piepul, the ground-gaining phenomenon of 1940, vacationed from practices with the Detroit Lions the other day to visit Alma Mater.... He has dropped the idea of experimenting with specially-constructed glasses attached to his helmet.... Did pretty good here without them, friends of “old 71” will recall.... And Milt is considering returning to the campus for graduate work next semester.... He’ll be welcome.

And we do mean you! Wear smart Tab Collar Wilson Shirts. The collar fits snug—sits up and takes notice. And she’ll notice you — as these shirts are styled for college men.
SENIOR MANAGER MAJORS IN FINE ARTS
The rare combination of a head football manager majoring in fine arts is quiet, efficient Jack Bermingham, commander-in-chief of 60-odd managers in the Notre Dame system.... Last year Jack combined football managing -with the post of art editor for Neil McCarthy’s well-edited Dome, and a year earlier was chairman of the Cotillion decorations committee.... Top assignment he remembers is Elmer Layden’s ultimatum to keep airplanes from watching practice.... That happened during Bermingham’s sophomore year.... The managers average between 20 and 24 hours per week during grid seasons.
OLEN PARKS LEADS QUEEN ALICE—BEFORE THE FALL
Olen Parks, Mishawaka’s talented tennis ace who ran through an unbeaten intercollegiate season for Coach Walt Langford’s Irish last spring, led Alice Marble, the one-time blonde queen of the tennis wars, 2-1 in a recent match.... Miss Marble, on a speaker’s tour, visited nearby cities and joined Parks in a tour of our campus.... They limbered up their tennis games at one of Mishawaka’s courts and Parks led when Alice slipped on the rain-soaked courts.... They called off further play.... Signs of the Times: “Sink the Navy. If Hitler can do it, so can we”.... Crack of this week: Bob Wright, “Doctor McMahon, please don’t give us any assignments. We can’t study; it’s ‘Beat Northwestern Week’.” ....
WALLOP THE WILDCATS
Notre Dame 20, Northwestern 6.
Real quality and style in clothes from Parker-Winterrowd — Ready-made — custom tailored — made to your measure.

ADLER-ROCHESTER Harris tweed topcoats—hand loomed—an outstanding fabric in the best topcoat fashions for college men—$37.50
Distinctive and beautiful French imported silk foulard neckwear — for yourself — or as the perfect gift.
Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115^ - 1171/2 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives:
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. McCARTHY
. 321 Alumni Hall	233 Walsh Hall	115 Sorin Hall
PATRONIZE "SCHOLASTIC" ADVERTISERS
They'll stand the wear and tear of laundry, and you’ll have that perfectly “smooth?’ look about you that isn't exactly undesirable!
Stripes in tan, grey, and blue.
$9.00
♦
WYMAN'S MetA Shop,
17
"NOTRE DAME IN PORTRAIT" for 1942 ....
The distinguished newcomer — praiseworthy and prizeworthy in its beauty — valuable and to be valued in its usefulness.
An Edition Limited to Advance Subscription Only
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
BY POPULAR REQUEST THE
PALAIS ROYALE presents a return engagement of EDGAR DRAKE
AND HIS HOTEL SCHROEDER ORCHESTRA
Saturday, November 15 (9 - 12) 45c PER PERSON PLUS TAX
Bi-Weekly Boxing Classes Stress Fundamentals
The initial class in a series of boxing instructions sponsored by the Catholic Action group on the campus was held in the Rockne Memorial Monday evening. The lessons are to be given each Monday and Thursday night at 7:10 in the light apparatus room of the Memorial. All students interested are welcome to attend; the only equipment needed is gym clothes and gym or boxing shoes. The lessons, principally for the inexperienced, will begin with the very fundamentals of boxing and gradually proceed to the finer points of the sport.
The instructors are Bill Padon and Bill McGrath of Alumni Hall and Chuck Kralovec and Paul Malloy of Dillon, all of Bengal Bout fame.—Bill Reynolds
Irish Harriers Take Third
In State Meet Saturday
Trailing Purdue and Indiana, Notre Dame finished third in the Indiana State Cross-Country meet, at Lafayette, Ind., last Saturday.
Purdue was the surprise of the meet which was run on a muddy course; Indiana had its usually fine squad and finished a close second to the Boilermakers.
Condition was the decisive factor, and because the Irish harriers were not in top shape they lost. Coach Bill Mahoney hopes to remedy this by the time the Notre Dame team leaves for East Lansing, Mich., where the National Collegiate Track Meet will be held. Approximately 200 runners, representing many colleges throughout the country, will be entered.
This meet will finish the Cross-Country season. The boys will be then given a week’s rest till indoor practice begins the first week in December.
Campus Distance Meet
A special Fall distance run will be held next Tuesday, Nov. 19. Prizes will be awarded to the first five place winners.
This race is open to all students except varsity distance runners; it will be run over a 2% mile course. Watch the bulletin boards for notices of the race and further information.—Bill Rogers
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
“I DROPPED it!” “WHAT?” “My WATCH”
PETERS. Watch Maker
102% N. Michigan Street Over Clark’s Restaurant
18
Interhall Basketball
Now that the weather is getting colder, students are encouraged to take advantage of facilities in the Rockne Memorial. Here a complete indoor sports program has been set up under the able direction of Mr. Tommy Mills.
Within a week the squash and handball tournaments will begin. Entries are still being accepted for both events.
The basketball courts are open to all. Mr. Mills advises the prospective hall basketball candidates “to get into shape.” Interhall basketball teams will each play two practice games before the Christmas vacation. After the holidays both light and heavyweight hall squads will swing into league play.
Wildcat Bauman Glories in Battle With Irish
(Editor’s Note: If Notre Dame readers detect a belligerent air in this sketch, please attribute it to the fact that it originated on the Northivestem campus.)
Winning All-American football honors two years in a row is a herculean task, but Northwestern’s Alf Bauman, unanimous choice as the top ranking tackle in the country in 1940, appears destined to repeat again this fall.
The early games of the ’41 campaign have seen the husky Latvian youth playing the same high-geared game that cat-
apulted him to gridiron fame just a year ago. To all appearances he is carrying on where he left off in 1940 when he turned in one of those “have to see to believe” performances against Notre Dame in the final game of the season.
It was that brilliant showing against the Irish that capped a great year for The Ox, as he is known by liiis teammates. On Thursday before the Notre Dame game, Alf roared upon the practice field, picked up Burt Ingwersen, Wildcat line coach, and literally threw him in the air.
“Bring on Notre Dame!” The Ox bellowed, as Ingwersen landed on the turf.
Wildcat Thrills
Members of Northwestern’s football team have had their share of thrills and narrow escapes. Don Clawson once rode a wild moose in the water; Joe Cook walked out of a condemned building a few minutes before the upper story fell through; Ike Kepford spent three days on Lake Michigan in a small sailboat when a storm came up and he was unable to get to shore; Bob Wallis was locked in the refrigerator at the ice cream factory where he worked; and Ollie Durham was thrown by a broncho in a rodeo two summers ago but managed to roll under the fence as it turned on him.
FORD HOPKlHS
DRUG STORE
Your friendly DRUG Store in the Oliver Hotel.
•
STUDENTS!
Make us your Off-Campus Headquarters
Try our delicious food at budget prices.
presents
Need DRUGS? Prices to meet -	• your purse.
woody herman the triple threat of swing and the band that plays the blues.
panther room malaya room
no cover charge in either room hotel sherman Chicago
19
A 90u^As
H
3,
I
O. SO&U&n
ne ’ Buckinghem
*Ask the salesman why Douglas "Down-to-the-Wood— Up-to-the-Arch” construction assures you better fit —greater comfort.
IT LOOKS LIKE A MILLION!
It’s the newest shoe style feature — SHSk	harness stitching! Just put on a pair
of Buckinghams — see for your-igj|r9Ek self how the heavy harness iteSBSM|ik stitching adds to their smart appearance. For campus, classes or street wear, col-lege men know that Buck-inghams, in rugged tan gsSSSHgMgH grain leather, are right!
Other new Fall Douglas Styles ■HgH|Hh$4.5o. $5.50 BKw8^HHm^HSBbS| Custom and ^^WB^SSrasEHIEv Normal Treds, $7.50
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET Open Saturday Evenings
NEWEST FALL STYLES IN LADY DOUGLAS. >4.00 AND >5.00
^MfDKO FILTERED
fa ABSORBENT FILTERS
l« '' J-lanK MEDICO
K
00
I bone mias m nbko ins.
66 Baffle Filter whirl-cools smoke; traps juices, flakes and nicotine in pipes, cigarette and cigar holders.
FINEST BRIAR MONEY CAN BUY
Bauman wasn’t kidding. The Fighting Irish sickened at the sight of him. He roamed far and wide, making tackles on both sides of the line and behind the line of scrimmage, and he harassed Notre Dame passers mercilessly.
“Against Notre Dame, Bauman played
Alf Bauman
the greatest game of tackle I’ve ever seen,” Ingwersen declared. And those among the 48,000 who saw the game were ready to agree with him.
Teamed with de Correvont at Austin
Alf is a product of Chicago’s west side where he was a teammate of Bill deCor-revont at Austin High school when the latter skyrocketed into national prominence.
Many experts say that much of de-Correvont’s brilliance in high school was due to the great performance of Bauman in paving the way for him. He was a great high school tackle, just as he is by every measuring stick a great college tackle.
Bauman’s college career was almost ended before it got underway. He was kept out of action most of his sophomore year by a severe mastoid infection. The team physician finally granted him permission to play one minute against Notre Dame in the last game of the season.
As the game reached its final stage, Alf became restless and finally came over to Waldorf.
20
"A PICTURE IS WORTH A THOUSAND WORDS . . . ."
To those of your friends who know Notre Dame best, to all alumni, the Portraits are worth 12,000 words and more — much more. The next best thing to visiting the campus is “NOTRE DAME IN PORTRAIT.”
“Let me in, coach,” he pleaded. “I feel like a hull!”
So into the game he went, but was removed after a few plays, just as the doctor ordered. So Alf had to wait another year to realize his dream—defeat Notre Dame.
He's Versatile Too
Strictly speaking, Alf isn’t a one sport man although he has limited his college competition to football. He has won medals for ice skating and played first base on his high school baseball team.
One player Alf has always had the greatest respect for is Tom Harmon, last year’s Michigan star. They met formally for the first time at the Chicago Wailing Wall luncheon last fall where they went to receive medals as the back and lineman of the year.
“Nice to meet you Tom,” said Bauman, who had played against Harmon two weeks previous when the Wolverines beat Northwestern 20 to 13.
“I believe we’ve met before, and how,” Harmon replied.
Fall Handicap Indicates Good Track Future
The Fall Handicap Meet, held on Oct. 29 and 30, sparkled with many thrilling events and individual brilliance. Varsity men Schiewe, Tupta, and Delaney, turned in fine performances, as did freshmen Murphy and Clifford. Medals were awarded for the first three places. The winners, and handicaps, were as follows:
100 YD. DASH—Murphy (Scratch) ; Corrigan (4 yds.), second; Gibson (Scratch), third. Time, 10.1.
220 YD.DASH—Murphy (Scratch); Clifford, (2 yds.), tied for first; Gibson (Scratch), third. Time, :22.5.
440 YD. RUN—Schiewe (Scratch) ; Purcell (10 yds.), second; Jones (10 yds.), third. Time, :50.3.
8 80 YD. RUN — Tupta (Scratch); Jones (Scratch), second; Kelly (Scratch), third. Time, 1:59.
ONE MILE RUN—Kelly (Scratch) ; Currie (Scratch), second; Crowley (Scratch), third. Time, 4:39.2.
160 YD. LOW HURDLE—Schiewe (Scratch); Smith (Scratch), second. Time, :20.4.	*
HIGH JUMP—Nicholson (Scratch) ; Keelan (2 ins.), second; Hogue (2 ins.), third. Height, 5 feet eight inches.
JAVELIN—Vicars (Scratch) ; Conway. (25 ft.), second; Quinlan (25 ft.), third. Distance 174 feet, seven inches.
SHOT - PUT—Delaney (Left Hand) ; Conway, second; Cody, third. Distance, 34 ft., three ins.
DISCUS—Delaney (Scratch) ; Vicars (25 ft.), second; Conway (25 ft.), third. Distance 129 ft.
• The right place to eat Thanksgiving dinner is at home — and the right way to get home is by Greyhound! Maybe money doesn’t mean anything to you — and then again maybe it does. At any rate you’ll save a lot of it traveling at Greyhound’s low roundtrip fares—and you’ll have a lot more fun going with the crowd. Plan now. to take this trip to “turkey” by Super-Coach at a super-saving!
UNION BUS STATION
133 S. Lafayette Street, South Bend, Ind.
Sample Fares One Round Way Trip
Pittsburgh, Pa. ____S 5.50 § 9.90 Washington, D. C.___ 9.95	17.95
Philadelphia, Pa____10.50	18.90
New York City_______ 11.75	19.80
Buffalo  6.25	11.25
Boston  13.05	21.70
St. Louis, Mo_______ 5.20	9.40
Denver  16.90	30.45
Cleveland___________ 3.60	6.50
GREYHOUND
21
Cagers Sharpen Drills
As Opener Approaches
With the pigskin parade heading into the home stretch, more than mild attention is being focused on the Notre Dame fieldhouse, where for the past few weeks the Irish basketeers have been going through their paces, in preparation for the coming campaign.
Keogan Back in Harness
Under the watchful eyes of Head Coach George Keogan, (who is once more back in active command, after being sidelined with a serious illness midway during the ’40-’41 season), and his assistant Ray Meyer, veterans and Sophs alike have been showing plenty of zip and dash in the scramble for positions on the starting five.
"Same Old Story"
“This year’s outfit will be a good team but not a great one,” exclaimed Coach Keogan, when asked how his boys shaped up. “There is a lot of work ahead, with particular stress being paid to fundamentals and play-making, and the development of our sophomores into the Notre Dame system of play.”
The hardest job confronting Coach Keogan will be the developing of two high-scoring aces, to take the place of Eddie Riska and Bob Smith, who averaged over 500 points a season between them for the Irish, during the past three years. These boys, along with Larry Ryan, a great all-around guard, received their diplomas last June, and will be sorely missed when the current hardwood campaign gets under way.
However, turning to the more cheerful side, we find that five lettermen, namely; Capt. Art Pope, Chuck Butler, George Sobek, Frank Quinn, and Cy Singer; along with last year’s reserves; Bob Rensberger, Bob Fisher, Chuck O’Leary, Jim Engel, and Ralph Vinciguerra; are once again available for service, and are expected to form the nucleus of this year’s quintet. The army, which is taking its toll in the college ranks all over the country, has already deprived the Irish of a first-rate forward and letterwinner in the person of “Red” Carnes, thus striking a blue-note before the season even begins.
Promising Sophomores
Supplementing the veterans are a group of hopeful sophs, who are going “all-out” to win first-string jobs, and might very conceivably turn the trick. Among the more promising ones to date are: forwards—John Niemera, Buster Hiller, Omer Sturm, and Fran Curran; centers—Bob Faught, Ray Kuka, and Tom Brennan; and guards — Orlando Bonicelli, Jim Meagher, Bill Wukovits, and Tom Moore.
Drills during the past few weeks have
22
been slowed up somewhat due to various minor injuries to Sobek, Faught, O’Leary, and Vinciguerra. However with the whole squad now intact, the tempo of the daily workouts will be speeded up in an effort to be in tip-top shape for the opening game against Franklin College on Nov. 29.
Frosh Underway
Meanwhile, the upstairs gym in the fieldhouse has finally been repaired, and the freshmen after a belated start, are
How to Win Friends in one easy lesson
Treat yourself and others to wholesome, delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum. Swell to chew. Helps keep breath sweet, teeth bright. The Flavor Lasts
I.
J
rtf
V-165


holding their daily drills. According to Al Del Zoppo, Frosh mentor, this year’s crop of yearlings are not as fast as their predecessors, but are a rangy lot and have shown some adeptness at ballhandling.
During the next two weeks, the frosh will scrimmage the varsity consistently in an effort to help them reach a playing peak for the season’s opener, as well as to condition themselves.
The present squad of some 25 men will


remain intact until the football season is over, at which time another cut will be made.—James A. Clemens
Decent Literature Group
Holds National Contest
On Nov. 2, the beginning of “Catholic Book Week,” the Notre Dame Student Commission for Decent Literature announced that it would sponsor a national essay contest to promote Catholic reading among Catholic college students. The commission hopes to discover from this contest a plan whereby Catholic college students will appreciate and profit more from the present Catholic literature on all modem problems.
The subject of the contest is “Why and how to promote Catholic reading among Catholic college students.” The material may treat a program already functioning or a proposed program for use in a Catholic college.
The contest is open to all Catholic college students in the United States. The
essays are to be from 750 words to 1200 words in length. The first prize will be $15.00 and the second prize $10.00. All entries must be postmarked not later than Dec. 15, 1941 and mailed to the Student Commission, Post Office Box 102, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notices of the contest have been sent by Louis Kurtz, chairman of the Decent Literature Committee, to all presidents of the student councils in every Catholic college of the United States, to the editors of every Catholic paper, and to the National Catholic Welfare Council. This shows the national scope of the contest.
Another project of which Kurtz and his aids have charge is to mail the Scholastic to all alumni now in the armed service. Very soon the pamphlet Advice to Catholic Recruits, written by Notre Dame’s former president, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., and present military delegate, will be distributed by the commission to the various camps.
Besides all of these activities, the
commission has located small stands in the hotels, and depots in and around South Bend, in which various Catholic papers and pamphlets have been placed. Their effort to rid the public newsstands of indecent literature has produced results.—Frank Sierawski
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
(Continued from page 16) that collegiate football is too professionalized and that instead of developing strong bodies and a sense of good sportsmanship, many college men are now being turned out with permanent injuries and a poor education. Needless to say, we feel that this is a gross exaggeration. The complaint has been rife in the past 20 years—the period in which the game has expanded enormously.
Overly-rough tactics have been ruled out of the game, and the main interest is still in developing a finer American youth. Many boys have developed healthier bodies and have received good educations, in spite of accusations to the con-
You trust its quality
Experience proves that nothing takes the place of quality. You taste the quality of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Again and again you enjoy the charm of its delicious taste...and its cool, clean after-sense of complete refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY of South Bend
1107 Beyer Avenue
“I . . . can think of no home . . . or desk that would not be distinguished by it” — wrote one leading member of the clergy when shown the design used in die 1942 issue of
"NOTRE DAME IN PORTRAIT”
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr.E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St Phone 4-8251
trary. Many have received college educations that would never have been theirs, were it not for their athletic ability. To substantiate further our claim that football is not too professional, we state that teams win because of their college spirit, and not because they owe the college for an education. We mean that there is such a thing as loyalty and a spirit of fair play in collegiate ball. We don’t mean that pro-teams are dirty, but we do mean that college football demands something more than playing the game for material gain.
In the Rose Bowl game in 1927 Pitt was ahead of Stanford by the only touchdown yet scored. With four minutes to play Stanford was on Pitt’s six yard line threatening the 6-0 lead. Pitt had no good reserves to put in for two very tired players and no more timeouts* left. The quarterback finally decided to take time out and the penalty for doing so. The ball was put on the one yard line. Stanford’s captain asked the official to put the ball back and charge the time out to Stanford. This was done, Stanford ran the ball over and made the extra point to win the game. This was one of the finest exhibitions of sportsmanship we can think of.
Even though such acts are happening season after season, antagonists fail to notice them. Rockne’s great speech in defense of football was based on just this sort of thing—and he was the man to know. Anyone who wants to call this sport dangerous to character is a threat to sports in general. That type of person belongs in a cage with the rest of the parrots.
Movie Stars Fail To
Come To Notre Dame
Students who are still searching the campus for the Mauch twins, Robert and William, or, as they are more familiarly known, Bobby and Billy, of moving picture fame, had better give up the job. They are not here.
The Mauch twins applied for registration in the Pre-Law course of the College of Arts and Letters, in February of this year. However, for some unknown reason they withdrew their application before the beginning of the school year.
Bobby and Billy Mauch were born in Peoria, Ill., on July 6, 1922. They now live in Burbank, Calif. They attended school at the Mark-Ken High School in Hollywood, Calif., and the Loyola High School in Los Angeles, Calif. Bobby and Billy have appeared together in several pictures, among which are “Penrod and Sam,” based on the story by Booth Tarkington, and “The Prince and the Pauper,” by Mark Twain.
—Harry Osborne
Notre Dame in "Dog-House"
Tonight on the radio program, “Uncle Walter’s Dog House,” the “Victory March” will be included in the selection of college melodies.
Uncle Walter penned the following note to the Scholastic: “Please advise all “suffering” Notre Dame brothers to listen to the program Friday over the NBC network at 8:30 CST as it might help them get out of the canine kennel.”
WE CARRY Not only DR. GRABOW and HOLLYCOURT Pipes but also KAYWOODIE YELLO BOLE DUNHILL SASIENI and many others
BRUGGNER'S C/GAR STORE IIO N. MAIN ST. (Opposite Oliver Hotel)
Always clean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Chal-lenging higher-priced pipes in briar quality and value. WM. DEMUTH & CO.. N.Y.
HESDA GUARD
imuno
24
Calendar On School Year
To Hit Campus Soon
Prize propaganda announcement of the week came to the Scholastic offices from John Richard Klee, self-styled editor of a “new campus publication”— Notre Dame in Portrait. The new “publication” is not to be confused with the Scholastic, which appears once a week through the school year, as Klee has but one deadline to meet in getting out the single edition. Notre Dame in Portrait, it was learned from various sources, will be a calendar.
However, we will let Klee and his side-kick, Jack Whitely, tell you about it, with the passing observation that many of the following statements should be taken with a grain of salt.
Whitely: “Colossal, stupendous, marvelous! Although this is not the first time Notre Dame in Portrait has appeared on the campus, it has been so revised and improved that there exists no similarity between the original and the present edition.”
Klee: “Without a doubt we have obtained highest quality and workmanship .... After diligent efforts and careful study.... 12 portraits have been selected for the issue. The portraits will be presented in a smart.... case, along with a
calendar section that will contain curricular and extra - curricular dates for ready reference to the school year.”
ASME Members Complete
Three-Day Factory Trip
Officially completed this afternoon was the three-day factory inspection trip made by members of the Notre Dame student chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
Thirty-three ASME members gathered at the circle Wednesday to embark by bus for the industrial area of Chicago. In the pockets of each were birth certificates proving them American citizens, in order to meet the anti-alien regulations of defense industries. One student, locally famous Jackson Chung, Chinese aviator who is a student at Notre Dame, was not able to make the trip because of the birth barrier.
The group visited such industrial plants as Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation’s Chicago shop where they were required to wear hats to avoid flying sparks from open hearth furnaces. They also made the rounds of the Fairbanks-Morse Co. and the International Harvester Co.
While in Chicago the group stayed at
the Stevens Hotel, and all classes missed while on the trip were excused.
The trip was prepared in connection with Mr. Wilcox, head of the department of mechanical engineering.
Math Papers Feature
Non-Euclidean Geometry
The third issue of the Reports of a Mathematical Colloquium has been recently published. This annual periodical contains the research papers of the members and the students of the department of mathematics at the University of Notre Dame.
Two of the papers are devoted to the foundation of non - Euclidean geometry which Dr. Menger, head of the department of mathematics at Notre Dame, presented to the National Academy of Science three years ago.
Founded in 1820, non-Euclidean geometry is a science of space. Saccheri, a Jesuit, was among its precursors in the 17th Century.
Non-Euclidean geometry is derived from Euclid’s assumptions of space with one exception: Euclid’s postulate about parallels is replaced by another assumption. On this account, the non-Euclidean geometry leads to very strange results
OZiMMf/JS	g&ZTELJ.!
NOTRE DAME REPRESENTATIVES of
THE MODERN GILBERT'S "ScmMl	State ^*4 Mett"
If you want the best in fine quality apparel see any one of our campus representatives
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
25
which, contradict those of ordinary geometry. Nevertheless, it has been found useful in modern physics, particularly in the theory of relativity.
The two papers on non - Euclidean geometry, published in the Reports of a Mathematical Colloquium, are parts of the Notre Dame doctorial dissertations of F. P. Jenks and J. C. Abbott. Mr. Abbott is now an instructor at the United States Naval Academy.
Other papers of the issue, by Professors A. N. Milgram and P. M. Pepper, deal with analysis and metric geometry, and its applications to the various branches of mathematics. The last paper of the issue is written by Rev. B. J. Topel, who received his doctor’s degree at Notre Dame in 1938. The paper contains work which Father Topel began during a visit to Notre Dame in the summer of 1940.
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER”
All Men Are Alike? ...
Look at ’em! Tall, skinny, squat, plump! But it doesn’t faze us—in our Arrow Shirt family you’ll find collars to suit all male shapes and tastes.
/f's ADLER'S for Arrow
Michigan at Washington
LOST
A girl's gold cross on chain, somewhere between Breen-Phillips and the Cafeteria. Please return to Irene Putzen-ski, A. A. Office.
<«
Ellsworth’s
News for
Night Owls
If formal wear is your Nemesis, see the goodlooking Arrow dress shirts. They’re both comfortable and well-behaved.
A Team Loaded With Stars
ARROW
^ET these three Arrow All-Americans —
AUOW HITT — its non-wilt “slope” collar never needs starch, yet stays fresh all day! $2
ARROW GORDON—just about the best-liked, bestwearing oxford cloth hereabouts. $2
ARROW TRUMP—its soft, “slope” collar breaks long-wear records! $2
Sanforized-Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1%!
The Arrow Lido, for white tie and tails, has a smooth narrow bosom, held securely in place by suspender loops. $3.
Arrow Dress Ties, $1
The Arrow Shoreham, for black tie and tux, has a semi-soft pleated bosom with turned-down attached collar. Also $3.
Collars, 35c
Handkerchiefs, 25c
ARROW SHIRTS
MEN’S SHOP
Convenient Entrance on Center Street
. 26
/It Mom /Idlest Co,
Formal Wear
Prepare for coming formals____ Lawyers' Ball, Monogram Ball, Junior Prom, Senior Ball and others. In formal wear from Adler's, fitted as we fit it, you’ll be more comfortable and more flatteringly dressed than you've ever been in your life.
Tux . . 22.50 Tails . . 25.00
Dress Vests, $3.50 up. Socks, 39c up. Dress Shirts, $2.50 up. Button-aires, 35c. Formal Studs, 50c up. Mansfield Dress Shoes, $5.95. . . .
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER” . . . Michigan at Washington
Student Conference Discusses Peace Aims
Last week 12 students from Notre Dame and eight from St. Mary’s attended a conference of the student unit of the Catholic Association for International Peace at Mundelein College in Chicago. Participating in the meetings were the following schools from the MidWest, all members of the Student Peace Federation: St.Xavier College, St. Francis College, Chicago Normal, Loras College, Clarke College, Loyola University, De Paul University, University of Notre Dame, The Calvert Club, Rosary, Barat and St. Mary’s colleges.
The Notre Dame and St. Mary’s delegation held a meeting at St. Mary’s for the purpose of discussing the general program and the major points in their round table outline.	.
At the general session a paper was given on America’s peace aims after which there was a general discussion. Later, the session broke up into a number of round table groups to discuss problems directly concerned with United States peace aims. The several colleges were assigned to different groups, Notre Dame and St. Mary’s having been placed with Barat and Rosary colleges of Chicago to discuss Inter-American relations as a contributing factor in world reconstruction. Their discussion took the following outline: 1. present conditions and temper of Latin-American countries; 2. means of promoting better relations with the United States; 3. specific means Catholic students, in particular, can use to promote better relations; 4. the place of the Americas in the world community.
One of the Notre Dame students was especially well equipped to discuss the first point as it concerns his native land and its relations with Ecuador in the border strife that has been recurring for a number of years and today is an unsolved problem in inter-American relations. Roberto de Romana of Arequipa, Peru gave a ten minute talk on relations between Peru and Ecuador. Mark McGrath, Jerry Currier, Dudley Smith and Ray Araujo, all of whom attended the Pax Romana conference in Colombia this summer, also made the trip along with Jim Cunningham, Ed Cummings, and Elmer Silha; and Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., who is to be moderator for the round table discussion.
—Jim Clark
Red Cross Contributions Hit All-Time High Record
Announcement of a record-breaking sale of Health Crosses on the Notre Dame campus and at the entrances of the football stadium on Saturday, Oct. 25, was made this week to Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., by Miss Irma Coll-
27
mer, executive secretary of the St. Joseph county anti-tuberculosis league. A total of $617.75 was collected.
There were 3,020 dimes and 2,340 nickels included in the amount, indicating that there were many individual gifts.
*
The staff of girls who made this record-breaking sale worked for a two-hour period and were rewarded for their task by being entertained at the Illinois-Notre Dame football game.
The sale has taken place the past several years at one of the home games and each time has garnered a considerable amount of money from the visitors who have been very generous with their donations.—Lennon Kelly
120 S. Michigan St.
Fh Afoot
1 StepDistinction
A dashing air . . . carefree comfort, the assurance and pride of fashion that is truly authentic, telling “her” of your good taste — are yours to enjoy in these handsome leisuretime Crosby Squares . . . Pay us a visit — slip on a pair now.
Band Holds Initiation
During Navy Game Trip
The Notre Dame Band initiation was held last week-end on the Baltimore trip. The first trip taken by the band each year is the designated time for this allimportant event. Vice - president John Nolan was the chairman of the initiation committee composed of Chuck Cavanaugh, Stanley Litizzetti, Tom Horak, and Floyd Richards.
Each of the 31 freshmen wore an identification card, eight by eight inches, which furnished upperclassmen with all necessary information: name, complete address, shirt size (just in case), girl friend and her address (never can tell!), favorite actress and reason for his choice, and the instrument played in the band.
Each freshman was required to address all upperclassmen as “good sires” and to take care of all baggage which his superiors would give him.
Naturally the freshmen were the last to enter the trains and the diners. They were also sent on a scavenger hunt in Washington.
Then there was the “box-car treatment.” This is one part of the initiation which is kept secret. The only statement that can be made, however, is that if the method continues to increase in vitality, it will soon be on a level with the Monogram Club initiation.—C. S. Coco
Press Club Banquet
President Tom Walker of the Press Club announced today that the Press Club banquet had been postponed until some time in the second semester. The original plans were for a dinner to be held on the Friday night before the Southern California game. However, the necessary arrangements couldn’t be made on such short notice and the club was forced to alter their plans. It was, and still is their intention to have as a speaker, Harry Flannery, who was CBS’s Berlin correspondent and is an alumnus of the University.
Kurtz Goes to Philly
Leaving this week for Philadelphia, Pa., to attend the Seventh Annual National Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, is Louis Kurtz, local power behind the Decent Literature committee. Kurtz will represent the University at the conference, which will be held Nov. 15, 16, 17 and 18. Title of the speech he is prepared to make is: “Developing Lay Leaders for the Confraternity at Notre Dame.”
Attention Students
Reduced prices at all times to students!
AL WISH’S PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
Open every night except Monday.
Matinee Sunday — 2 to 5 p. m.
Make money on your parties here.
79 TIMINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No guesswork, just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at I 1:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too.
For information call
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
TO CHICAGO
7 5
Phis Tax
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
28
MUSIC
By J. R. C.
Last October 22 saw the first performance of the South Bend Symphonyorchestra, featuring as soloist, the concert pianist, Rudolph Ganz. According to all reports, the orchestra rose to new artistic heights under the direction of its conductor, Edwyn Hames, and deserves the future patronage of the students. Its next concert is scheduled for Dec. 7 when Mischa Mischakoff, violinist, will be featured as soloist.
In last week’s Scholastic appeared a notation in the column, “Disc-cussions,” concerning Sammy Kaye’s new record, “Modern Design.” It is necessary to add that the “B” side “When Winter Comes,” makes the record. The music is in the Latin idiom, smooth and rhythmic. Definitely a good piece.
Again Claude Thornhill makes a bid: “Moonlight Masquerade.” Although better than Buddy Clark’s recording of the same piece, it doesn’t quite hit a receptive note: it still hasn’t proven Thornhill’s band worthy of the build-up it has been receiving. “Orange-blossom Time” on the reverse side added to the general impression of Thornhill’s records so far: that the arrangements are stressed and perhaps well, but the orchestra doesn’t appear to put them across properly. Patience, though, and Claude will really come through.
For a limited time only, Rodin’s will feature the second of three Victor gift offers. For the price of one Red Seal, two 12 inch Red Seal records are being offered, this time vocals. One record features Rose Bampton singing “0 Patria Mia” from Verdi’s “Aida” and on the other side of the same record, Benjamino Gigli singing “Celeste Aida,” also from Verdi’s opera. The second record features John Charles Thomas singing “When I was a Lad” from “Pinafore” and “There is no Death.” Again, both records are excellent but the two selections from “Aida” are superior, artistically.
Glenn Miller offers for this week, “This Time the Dream’s on Me.” Though no better than Shaw’s recording, it is worth recommending. “Says Who, Says You, Says I,” the “B” side is fair, but not sensational or even above the average Miller. Also on the racks: “Is it Taboo” by Frankie Masters: another Latin with good rhythm, fair lyrics— played by a good band, sung by a fair vocalist. Two Larry Clintons: “Harvard Square” (whatever it is, it isn’t bad) and “I Got it Bad and That Ain’t Good”
To assure coast-to-coast telephone facilities adequate to meet future defense needs, the Bell System is constructing a 1600 mile, §20,000,000 cable line between Omaha and Sacramento.
Several newly developed"plow trains,” working from opposite ends of the line, are burying the cable for maximum protection. They dig deep furrows, lay two cables in them and cover them with earth—all in one -continuous operation. Their meeting will mark completion of the first all cable line across the continent. Carrier systems will be operated in the cables — one direction of transmission in each.
This vast project is just one of thousands in which the Bell System is now engaged to provide additional
29
“The MEN’S Corner”
HOME OF NATIONALLY Accepted MERCHANDISE
It’s
O’COAT
Time At - - -
South Bend’s Fastest Growing Store for Men
THEY’RE ALL HERE WITH THE STYLE AND WARMTH ONLY TO BE FOUND IN SUCH FAMOUS MAKES
• BARPACA
•ALPALUX
•VALGORA
by Kuppenheimer
•DEEPELT
by Kuppenheimer
KNIT
SCARF and GLOVE SET $1-95
Six Popular Colors and Heather Mix
s Kan
MAIN AT COLFAX
which, isn’t bad but still isn’t particularly good. The lyrics to the second are sweet and plaintive at points and both sides together give the band another hit. Another Clinton: “Your Words and My Music” in which the orchestra and vocalist do their best, but somehow the words and music just don’t make an impression. “You’ll Never Know” is a typical “B” side.
Answers to Sports Quiz
1.	a, California University; b, Syracuse University.
2.	Walter Eckersall of Chicago University.
3.	Johnny Maulbetsch of Michigan; gained 350 yards in one game but was unable to score a touchdown.
4.	Ray Kercheval of Kentucky kicked one 91 yards.
5.	Moon Mullins who gained only one inch in a line buck against the Navy but it won the game.
6. Art and Al Guepe of Marquette in 1935.
• Buy yourself The University Gab—a brand new LEE Water-Bloc* that costs only $5. You’re in one of the smoothest hats you ever wore (with matching gabardine band and brim binding) . . . you’re in style with your hat and in clover with the gals!
LEE BATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
* Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Found only at ... .
« KflTZ
■ V AO/? MEN AND ■ ^.YOUNC MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
DISC-CUSSION
By Ed Roney
Someone is always doing that some-thing-or-other that everyone has been waiting for, and this week Freddy Martin scores again by releasing his record of “Symphony Moderne.” Don’t lose interest because of the name for that’s just the high-sounding title for that simple and beautiful melody featured in the pictures, “Four Daughters” and “Four Wives.” Martin has made it the natural follow-up for his “Piano Concerto” so now we have the melody that everyone talked about by the orchestra that everyone is talking about. On the reverse ■will be found “The Anniversary Waltz” in
PATRONIZE "SCHOLASTIC” ADVERTISERS
brisk three - quarter time with some smooth vocals by Clyde Rogers.
Tommy Dorsey has a new swing song called “That Solid Old Man” this week. One of the best numbers from “Out Of This World,” the University of Pennsylvania’s 54th annual Mask and Wig production, this has a top-notch rhythm kick and some of Connie Haynes’ best vocals. Backing it up is a snappy ballad called “Fifty Million Sweethearts Can’t Be Wrong” from the same production and again featuring Connie. You’ll like these as much as Pennsylvania.
The soft rhythmic sweep of Dick Jurgens gets a sweet showing in “A Sinner Kissed An Angel” blended in scintillating style by soft toned saxes and muted brass. Harry Cool delivers another of his long list of ace performances on this one. Companion to it is “Make Love To Me,” with saxes dripping with sugar and Harry turning in a romantic warble.
Glenn Miller has another of those “easy-listening” numbers of his called “This Time the Dream’s On Me” from “Blues in the Night.” He gives it his smooth-as-glass treatment with Bobby Hackett playing Legato hot trumpet in back of five reeds carrying the melody. Ray Eberle sings the second chorus, “Says Who? Says You, Says I!” and gets off to a swingy kick with brass taking the opening, followed by the Mod-ernaires, Marion Hutton, and Tex Ben-eke on the vocals. Another Miller hit. (Bluebird)
Those of you who saw “Lady Be Good” will remember the two new hit songs from that picture. Larry Clinton and his new orchestra have recorded “Your Words and My Music” in a sweet, relaxed pace, while “You’ll Never Know” is slightly on the swingy side. Peggy Mann sings both tunes. (Bluebird)
Claude Thornhill presents “Baby Mine” from “Dumbo” as his latest triumph. He makes this ripple with gentleness while Lillian Lane puts a snappy shine on the lyrics. On the flip-over is “Miss You” which flows smoothly as Claude glides along the keyboard and Dick Harding sings the beautiful ballad with understanding. (Columbia)
Album of the Week:
For those who read the comics, Decca has released two new albums which should interest anyone under 12 years old. One is called “Superman’s Christmas Adventure” and the other is “Tarzan of the Apes.” In them one gets a real bargain for they contain a story with all the background music and sound effects that the makers can offer. Guaranteed to thrill all their fans, they are a must for every man, woman, or child who has a lot of money and wants sleepless nights.
ALSO BEING DISTRIBUTED
As Part of This Great Music Appreciation Offer
(.Single Records)
BEETHOVEN’S Moonlight Sonata (Piano) — Sextette from LUCIA DI LAMMER-MOOR (Donizetti) (Concert Orchestra) ________34c
CHOPIN’S Nocturne in E Flat Maj. (Piano)—DANCE OF THE HOURS (Pon-chielli) (Symphony Orchestra ______________34c
THE BLUE DANUBE (Strauss) (Concert Orchestra)—WINE, WOMAN AND SONG; the SWEETHEART WALTZ (Strauss) (Concert Orchestra) -------34c
ARTISTS’ LIFE (Strauss) (Symphony Orchestra) — WALTZ OF THE FLOWERS (Tschaikowsky) (Symphony Orchestra) _____34c
EMPEROR WALTZ (by Strauss) (Concert Orchestra) ; EVENING STAR from Tannhauser (Wagner) (Cello and Piano) -------34c
GOLD AND SILVER (by Lehar) (Symphony Orchestra) — TSCHAIKOWSKY’S SLEEPING BEAUTY Waltz (Concert Orchestra) ....34c
South Bend's NEW 1941 MUSIC APPRECIATION OFFER
A Great Public Service in Behalf at Good Music
NOW — You Can Obtain	__
Valuable PHONOGRAPH RECORDS of THE WORLD'S GREATEST
Symphonies and Orchestras At a Cost So Low As to Be Almost Incredible!
THESE ARE RECORDINGS BY SOME OF THE GREATEST ORCHESTRAS AND CONDUCTORS IN THE WORLD
Remember, these are recordings by some of the greatest symphony orchestras and conductors in the world, and by world-famous operatic artists. The small cost of these records is attributable largely to the fact that no royalties are paid to the orchestras and conductors. Instead, they received only a single recording fee. Also, the manufacturers reduced their charges to what they considered their very lowest operating minimums.
TSCHAIKOWSKY’S 6
(Pathetique) (10 sides. 82.99)
BRAHMS'
(10 sides. $2.99)
BEETHOVEN'S	6
(Pastoral) (10 sides. $2.99)
C^LJI IDCDT'C	Symphony No.
QX.||UDEIvI J	in B Flat Maj
(6 sides, $1.91)
nCDI ICCVC “Afternoon of a Faun’ UCDUuO/ w ‘ Clouds,” “Festivals”
(6 sides, $1.91)
(10 sides, $2.99)
\V/ A ^KIED'C Preludes to “Die Meister-WAUINtK O singer” & “Parsifal”
(6 sides. $1.91)
MOZART'S	"
(6 sides. $1.91)
CARMEN	(Bizet)
(6 sides. $1.91)
MME. BUTTERLY (Puccini) (6 sides, $1.91)
TRISTAN & ISOLDE (Wagner) (12 sides, $3.82)
Open Tues., Thurs. and Sat. Evenings
HODIIIS
z 11 r rm
132 N. Michigan Street
31
Copyright 1941, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
$

MARJORIE WOODWORTH Chesterfield's Girl of the Month in the Hal Roach hit "All-American Co-ed" a United Artists Release
fass around the Chesterfields and it’s pleasure time for everybody .. . smoking pleasure that only the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos can give you.
Chesterfields make good friends... they’re milder, definitely better-tasting and cooler-smoking. Everybody who smokes them likes them.