Disce quasi semper vieturus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 12, 1884.
No. 31. kJ
An Easter Greeting'.
TO MAURICE F. EGAN.
Most fitly on the Resurrection Day
Doth Notre Dame send greeting to her Friend, Ready and prompt a helping hand to lend,
Touching sweet preludes on thy gifted lyre,— When stricken prone she in her ashes lay,— Rich harmonies that made her walls ascend And rise again,—again to Heaven tend,
Mocking the powers of the fiends of fire. Now, as she joys to greet her Risen Lord, Her risen towers their Orpheus too shall greet: May glad fruition all thy hopes complete In earthly bliss and heavenly reward.
The laurel on thy brows shall never fade E’en though thy mortal part to rest is laid.
Arthur J. Stace.
Pyramids.
BY ELMER A. OTIS, ’84.
“ Those mighty piles—the. Pyramids—have over-lived The feeble generations of mankind.
What though unmoved they bore the deluge weight. Survivors of the ruin’d world?
What though their founder fill’d with miracles
And wealth miraculous their ample vaults?”
Far back in the early history of the world we read of these wonderful works of man. Herodotus, the “Father of History,” but for whose fruitful pen little or nothing would be known concerning many of the nations of antiquity, distinctly mentions the pyramids; in fact, he gives a description of them as they then stood; and, what is more important, the probable history of these stupendous monuments. According to him, the pyramids— meaning the three largest pyramids near the city of Memphis, in Egypt,—were built' respectively by Cheops, Chephren, and Mycerinus,—three Pharaos who succeeded each other, and who reigned about the ninth century before the Christian era. But there is now little doubt that Herodotus misunderstood the Egyptian priests, from whom he derived this information, and that the real antiquity of the authors of the pyramids is far greater; for he tells us that “The Egyptians so detested the memory of these kings, that they
were loath even to mention their names. Hence they commonly call the pyramids after Philition, a shepherd who at thatTime fed his flocks in that place.” This leads us to believe that the builders of the pyramids belonged to the shepherd Kings, for it is known, from the Book of Genesis, That every shepherd (/'. e., every person of the shepherd tribe) zvas an abomination unto the-Egyptians. But the shepherds appear, from Josephus and other historians, to have reigned over Egypt about 260 years—i. e., from 2002 to 1702 B. C. This is thought to be about the time during which the pyramids were built, and would make their age to be about 4000 years. • However, it is a disputed question, and one that will probably long continue open, for little is known on the subject, and no positive decision can be given.
The question as regards the purpose for which the pyramids were built is even more perplexing than that of their age. For some unknown rea- . son, the builders concealed their design so com-pletely that not even a tradition has reached us which can claim to have been handed down from the epoch of their construction. This has given rise to many theories, each of which Is substantiated by well-founded reasons; but on close examination we will find very few tenable or even • worthy of refutation. In order that we may know the conditions of a tenable theory concerning the pyramids, we will examine for a few moments their dimensions, position, history, and general outline, particularly of the Great Pyramid; for, whatever may have been the purpose for which pyramids were built by the ancients, that purpose must have been conceived by the builders of the Great Pyramid,—the first of the immense number built by the Egyptians and other nations of that period. As has been well said, “ New ideas may have been added by the builders of later pyramids, but it is unlikely that the original purpose could have been entirely abandoned.”
The three pyramids of the Memphis group stand upon a plateau about 137 feet above the highest rise of the Nile, not far. apart, and nearly on a N. E. and S. W. line. Like the other pyramids of Egypt, their four sides are directed toward the cardinal points. The largest of them— known as the Great Pyramid, or the Pyramid of Cheops—(Khufu or Shufu) covers at present an area of between 12 and 13 acres. Its dimensions ■ have been reduced, by the removal of the outer
482	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
portions, to furnish stone for the city of Cairo. Thus despoiled, the walls have lost their smooth, finished surface, in which state they were left by their builders, who, beginning at the top, filled in with small stones the angles formed by the recession of each upper layer, and levelled oil'the upper edges of the great blocks, till, reaching the base, - they left each side of an even surface sloping at an
angle of 500 50'. By stripping ofl' the outer casings the courses of stone appear in the form of steps, which, though ragged and unequal, can be ascended even bv ladies. The Great Pyramid has 203 of these steps, the lower ones being 4 ft., to inches high. The horizontal surfaces were nicely finished, and the stones were joined together with a cement of lime without sand. The present vertical height is 450 feet against 479 feet originally, and the present length of the sides is 746 against 764 originally. The total weight of the stones is estimated at 6,316,000 tons. The only entrance is on the north face, 49 feet above the base, and about 24 feet east of the central line. The masonry about it is much broken away, and the piles of broken stones reach up from the ground nearly to its level. This passage-way is only 3 feet, 11 inches high, and 3 feet, inches wide. It leads down a slope at an angle of 26° 41', a distance of 320 feet, 10 inches, to the original sepulchral chamber commonly known as the subterraneous apartment. This chamber is 46 feet in length, 27 in width, and nTZ feet high; it connects with several other smaller chambers, among which are the king’s and 7	0	O
queen’s chambers, intended probably- for tombs, as are. also the remaining chambers.
Another important feature of the Great Pyramid is that the circuit of its base contained about 4 cubits or 100 inches for every- day- in the year. This, together with the care taken to have the four sides directed towards the cardinal points, leads to the. conclusion that the pyramids must have been built with some reference to astronomy, and that the architects were skilful astronomers and mathematicians. It is plain that a theory- professing to show the reason why- so many7 of the enormous structures were built, must take into account not only- the extreme difficulty and immense cost of such an undertaking, but also the peculiar shape, dimensions, and position of the pyramids. Let us examine a few of these theories, and see if any-fulfil the required conditions. The tomb theory is perhaps the most generally- accepted, but an objection at once presents itself: viz., that it takes no account of the astronomical features, so noticeable in all the pyramids. One can imagine no reason why a tomb should face towards the cardinal points. Again, the pyramids are immense structures, as we have already- seen, and if destined for tombs would have subserved that purpose longer than during one reign; because, probably, only the leading families of the kingdom would have been allowed a burial place there, and it is. not likely-that many- deaths would have occurred during the short space of time that one king rules. Hence it is clear that this, theory- does not show why each king built a separate pyramid for himself. Again,
as before noticed, these kings were very hateful to the Egyptians, but if a tomb in a pyramid was' so desirable that each king spent immense sums of money, and the greater part of his life in order to obtain such tombs for himself and many of the	?
people, it is not probable that they would be so	j
detestable to the very people to whom they had	;
rendered such a service.	’
The theory that the pyramids were intended simply for astronomical observations, also has its objections; for, if such had been the case, why were the pyramids built in such unsuitable figures, and why- ; did each king build one? It is plain that the Great Pyramid would have served for this' purpose better than those subsequently- constructed;	’
hence, if we accept this theory, we are obliged to admit that all the pyramids built after the first one were unnecessary and useless, which is absurd.	1
Many other theories concerning the pyramids have been suggested, as, for instance, that they-combined the purposes of tombs and temples; that they were defences against the sands of the Great Desert; granaries like those made under Joseph’s direction; places of’ resort during excessive overflows of the Nile, or storehouses to receive the royal treasures; but, with a little reflection, all, save one, will be found untenable.
This one theory referred to was advanced, not. many- years ago, by- the well-known astronomer, Richard. A. Proctor; but so plausible are the reasons for this, that it is now generally accepted as showing the true causes for which the pyramids were built.	-	.
Proctor’s theory- rests on the fact that, “ the erection of the first Great Pyramid was suggested to Cheops, either by- wise men that .visited Egy-pt from the East, or that they- conveyed to him some important information which caused him to conceive the idea of building the pyramids. In either case,” he says, “ we may suppose, as the history indeed’ suggests, that these learned men—whoever	-
they- may- have been—remained in Egypt to super- | intend the erection of the structure. It may- be	1
that the architectural work was not under their	]
supervision; in fact, it seems altogether unlikely j that shepherd-rulers would have much to teach the : Egyptians in the matter of architecture.	i
“ But the astronomical peculiarities which form ; so significant a feature of the Great Pyramid i were probably provided for entirely- under the in- « structions of the shepherd-chiefs who had exerted : so strange an influence upon the mind of King ■ Cheops.” • r	1
Proctor, goes on to prove that these foreign ' chiefs were of Chaldean descent and training, and that they, like the Chaldeans, were well versed in the sciences of Mathematics and Astronomy; that also, like most people of that period, they- were firm believers in astrology. Now, again quoting from Proctor, “If these visitors were astrologers who persuaded Cheope, and were honestly- convinced themselves,, that they- could predict the events of any- man’s life by- the Chaldean method of casting nativities, we can readily- understand many- circumstances connected with the pyramids
THE NOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4®3
which have hitherto seemed inexplicable. The pyramid built by a king would no longer be regarded as having reference to his death and burial, but to his birth and life, though after his death it might receive his body and those of his family or friends. Each king would require to have his own nativity pyramid built with due symbolical reference to the special celestial influences affecting his fortune........And if the work had been intended only to afford the means of predicting the king’s future, the labor would have been regarded by the monarch as well bestowed. Proctor shows, moreover, that astrologers then claimed to have more than the mere ability of foreseeing the future; they also claimed the power “of providing against evil influences, or strengthening good influences, which they supposed the celestial orbs to exert in particular aspects;” and knowing this we can easily “ understand that while the mere basement layers of the pyramid would have served for the process of casting the royal nativity, with due mystic observances, the further progress ’’of building the pyramid would supply the necessary means and indications for ruling the planets, most potent in their influence upon the royal career.”
We see, therefore, that Proctor’s theory embraces both the tombic and astronomical theories, therebj- fulfilling all the conditions required of the true pyramid-theory, and doing away with all the difficulties hitherto brought forward. The pyramids of the Memphis group, though the most remarkable, and probably the most ancient, are not the only ones in Egypt. At Sakkara there are several very prominent pyramids; the largest of this group is about three hundred and forty feet high, and the length of its base is more than six hundred and fifty feet. These pyramids are built very similar to those at Memphis, but are far less substantial. At Dashour, also, there are some large pyramids; a few are built of a hard, white stone, and all have their sides facing the cardinal points. But not only in Egypt do we find pyramids: in many of the older countries there arc structures of this form of great size and strength. Near Benares, in India, are several temples of a pyramidal form; and, again, it is noticeable that their sides face the cardinal points. In the Island of Java there is a Boodhist edifice, elegantly sculptured and adorned, and built in the form of a pyramid. The tomb of the emperor Alexander Severus was also of this form, and the tomb of Caius Cestius, at St. Paul’s Gate, in Rome, is likewise built. This mode of structure has also been made use of in the New World; in Mexico there are many pyramids not inferior to many of those I have mentioned, and some even of larger dimensions. From all these facts, it is evident that the pyramidal form of structure, as seen in sepulchres, pagodas, or towers, is very prevalent throughout all the older civilized nations. “In the infancy of art, it is probable that stones were rudely piled, one above another, converging to an apex, as being of all forms the most stable, .... and thus was made the first advance to the pyramid.”
■ The sight of these immense structures at Memo
phis, which I have attempted to describe, noun excites in the mind of the spectator ideas of power and grandeur. When standing near the base of the Great Pyramid for the first time we are overcome with a feeling of awe, and are compelled to gaze in silent wonder on the huge structure presented to our view. Is it possible, we ask ourselves, that man can have made this stupendous monument, the summit of which seems lost in the clouds? Is it possible that such an insignificant being as is myself can be the author of this gigantic work which now rouses in my mind ideas of endless duration and inconceivable power? But these ideas soon give way to a feeling of sadness and desolation when we think that	‘
These pyramids shall fall. And not a stone shall stand to tell The spot on which they stood;
Their very site shall be forgotten As is their builder’s name.”
St. Mary Magdalen.
Procmnbit Christi pedibus non lota lavatrix.
Inde lavanda suis sordibus, unde lavat.
Vasa quidem desunt; sed sunt expressa decenter Crine, sinu, lachrymis, lintea, pelvis, aqua. O Christi pietas I Ogratia grata! vicissim Ambo lavant: Christum femina, Christus earn.”
Unwashed herself, before Christ’s Feet she falls, To find that washing them will make her clean. What if there lack the vessels she requires?
May not her tears becomingly supply
The water? while her lap His Feet shall hold, And her hair wipe the lovingness of Christ!
O grace most gracious! Each at once
Washes the other: the woman, Christ: and Christ the woman.
N. C. S.
Writing and Speaking.
Mr. Blaine recently gave a newspaper correspondent some interesting information about his habits of work, which we find condensed in the Phonetic Educator. Before entering upon public life, Mr. Blaine was a trained writer. In Congress he acquired great skill as an orator, and developed extraordinary ability for expressing himself in the best possible manner upon the very shortest notice. One would think that his skill as a ready talker on his feet would make his work easy in preparing his book. With a good secretary, one might imagine he could readily dictate every one of the chapters of the book. Mr. Blaine says, however, that he is able to dictate only where the chapters in his book • partake of the want of form. For anything beyond that he is obliged to set down and labor with his brain and his good right hand. He’says that he doesn’t believe that any work of high literary excellence can be accomplished ’ by dictation. He says that in writing-there are three sentinels standing, guard over the
484
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
brain. The two eyes and the hand are between the brain and any crude form of expression. These restraints have a constant tendency to check faults and to polish meretricious sentences. When a writer dictates there is no stimulus to high effort, and there is no restraint. Mr. Blaine was asked how he accounted for the fact that in his speeches his English was always of such a high ordei. Under excitement, and speaking apparently without restraint, his sentences are clear figures, and models after clean simplicity: isn’t speaking of this kind dictation? where is the restraint as to the choice of forms? Mr. Blaine said that there was all the difference in the world between speaking to an audience and dictating to a secretary. The audience was in itself a restraint upon the speaker. ■ That mysterious something known as the magnetic influence, existing always between a man who can move an audience and those addressed, is the controlling influence which shapes his thoughts and forms his sentences. No man can produce a real impression upon an audience without establishing this magnetic sympathy. The absence of this sympathy betrays the dull speaker. A man who is incapable of moving an audience can probably .dictate as well as he can write. But, after all, it would be the outpouring of mere words. Mr. Blaine said that he never hoped to attain in his writing anything like the excellence of style reached by him in the intense excitement of public speaking. In his work upon his book he doesn’t average over one thousand words a day. He thinks this is all that any man should try to do who aims at excellence in purely literary work. Some days he has gone much above this, but he is quite content if he can only maintain this average.
“What is the Best English Dictionary for the Use of an American Student?”
In answer to the above question, I may remark, first, that in respect to purity of language, there is no dictionary now extant that can be accepted as good authority on this point. Both our standard • “Lexicons ”in this country, Webster’s and Worcester’s, are helps, but neither is a conclusive authority. Neither the scholarly editors, nor the enterprising publishers, would venture to commend all the words in either as -pure English; and the distinctions they make between words obsolete and words vulgar, and words rare, cannot always be depended upon...........We greatly need a dictionary the equal of these in other respects, and, at the same time, a perfect standard of pure English. Again, such are the excellencies of the two rival dictionaries in question, that, if possible, an American student should own and consult both. When they differ, it is for a very good reason. The introductions, and appendices of both volumes contain an immense fund of philological and historic literature, found nowhere else in a form sb. compact. No other dictionary of the language equals either of them in this latter respect, except the Rev. W. Skeat’s (of Cambridge, England,) “Concise Etymological Dictionary.”	.
Further, if we must confine our studies chiefly to one dictionary, my judgment gives the preference to Webster’s. As a defining dictionary, Webster’s is certainly the superior. And this defining quality, it should be remembered, is the chief one for which we need a dictionary. Webster—as the de-fineris undoubtedly the original—had a marvellous power of exactness and brevity in analysis, as his English grammar shows. The notes on synony-mes (after the most approved models), also, in Webster’s work, are superior to those of Worcester. They form, in the aggregate, the most exact dictionary of synonymes in the language. Finally, Webster’s is the cosmopolitan dictionary. It is assuming that rank in England. The only point in which, in my view, Worcester is the superior, is that of pronunciation. The pronunciation which one makes primary the other makes secondary, but allows its authority. In a multitude of cases, each thus salutes the scholarly authority of the other. But when on this point they flatly differ, Worcester commonly appears to me the more correct, because more exactly conforming to the philosophy and history of the language. Worcester was at first the conservator ’ Webster, the reformer. The reformer often succeeds when the conservator is right. In philology, the presumption is always on the side of the historic. '
Before concluding this paper, there is just only one more remark I would wish to make, en passant; it is to this effect: that one of the most scholarly helps to a control of our mother-tongue is the habit of consulting “ Richardson’s Dictionary.” It is valuable, not only as an authority on English purity, but for the researches it contains in the history of words.
But with “ Lexicons ” it is as with anything else— Us its, penes quern est jus et norma loquendi.
H. J. Lloyd.
An Epitaph.
The long, wet grass above my head is waving Where I lie;
And gentle dews the leaf-strewn myrtle laving,— What care I ?
For I am still and dead beyond all saving, Yes, for aye!
Cease, friend, thy moaning; foe, thy raving
Cease,—pass by!
-	T. E. S.
Books and Periodicals.
Ames’s Guide to Self-Instruction in Practical and Artistic Penmanship. Daniel T. Ames, Author and Publisher, 205 Broadway, New York. . Paper cover, 75 cents; handsomely bound in stiff cover, $1.
This new work from the editor-in-chief of The Penman's Art Journal is one that, on account of. its low price, the importance of the subjects of which it treats, and the practical manner in which they are treated, should commend itself to the attention of teachers and students, and more espec-, ially to students or, clerks depending on their own
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
485
•efforts for improvement’in penmanship, box-mark-5ng, etc, The author truly says that “a good; ■easy handwriting is of the utmost importance to •all classes of persons. No other attainment assists an equal number of young ladies and gentlemen to positions of profit and advancement, or affords •more satisfaction as an accomplishment.” Good penmanship is not a special gift, as some erroneously suppose. It is no more a gift than good reading, spelling, grammar, or any other attainment, but can be acquired by any one by patient and studious effort.
The “ Guide ” is a book of 64 large pages, elegantly printed on the finest quality of plate paper, and is devoted exclusively to instruction and copies for plain writing, off-hand flourishing and lettering. Not the least important part of the work is the engraved examples of incorrect styles of writing, with rules for avoiding- or correcting them. A copy of the “ Guide ” will be sent free to anyone who sends $1 forayear’s subscription to the Penman's Art Journal, and a better dollar’s worth than these two will rarely be found.
—The School Supplement is the title of a new monthly paper;—issued by Eaton, Gibson & Co., 9 Toronto St., Toronto, for $1 a year—which bids fair to be a successful candidate for popular favor. There are eight large pages—12x16. The paper is ably edited, and in illustrations and letter-press is a splendid specimen of the printing art. The first number opens appropriately with a sketch and fine portrait of Peter Cooper, the millionaire philanthropist of New York, and founder of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art in that city. Among other matters of interest to teachers and pupils is a relief map of Europe, the first of a series promised in succeeding numbers.' The selections from “ The Verbalist,” by Alfred Ayers, which will also be continued, are simply invaluable. In this connection it may not be amiss to call attention to two very incorrect forms—one of them radically wrong—that have gained a foothold not only in common speech but in writing, and that, too, in the writing of persons who should have noticed their error. We refer to “depend upon” and ''•per year.” Anyone, who takes rhe trouble to analyze the words and their relative bearings will see at once the anachronism in the expression “ depend ttpon it,”—de, from; 'pendereA^ hang,—“to hang from,” which, by some unaccountable 'method of logomachy, is twisted into meaning to rest upon.” In the phrase “per year” the solecism might be passed over in ordinary newspapers, but when it occurs in the title-page of such publications as the National Educator—Bloomington, Ill.,—and the School Supplement,—papers whose mission is education of the masses in correct usage of language, it is simply unbearable. In the phrase “per year ” we have two languages mixed without necessity or authority, unless bad usage be considered authority. “ One dollar a year” is not only proper, but elegant, and fully covers the ground intended: “ one dollar per annum"" is admissible, though not so good, because we have words in English that
O 7	~	'	O
will fully express its meaning. We notice, too,— and very frequently,—in our college exchanges, the contraction “don’t” for “does not,” as “he don’t,” “it don’t,” etc. Had the writers a fair knowledge of their mother-tongue thev would have written, “doesn’t.” In like manner the phrases “You are mistaken,” “ I am • mistaken ” —for “ mistake”—which appear so frequently in print, and are used in good society, mean something altogether different from what is intended. But as we are not writing the “ Vefbalist ” we will stop here. Perhaps Mr. Seymour R. Eaton will take the hint and treat the subject at length in his excellent papers on “ Practical Grammar” in The School Supplement. We cannot close this notice, however long, without calling attention to the lessons on “Shorthand Simplified” by W. PI. Huston, M. A., Principal of Pickering ‘ College. The first six of these take up nearly a page and a half of the paper. They are, in the main, excellent and well calculated to give the student a correct idea of phonography. One of . the defects is the crowding- of the stenographic outlines; another the partial introduction of the abominable “Learner’s Style,” in which outlines are given that must shortly afterwards be dropped altogether and replaced by others, as the stroke n and stroke t for “ note ”—a method of teaching that will seriously embarrass the pupil when he has passed the half-length principle of contraction. The orthography of “ Prevalent Poetry ” is rich— a good “ cut behind ” at some of the follies of our present method of spelling, if method it can be called. Altogether, the School Supplement is an excellent paper—far above the common—and well worthy of patronage. .
Art, Music, and Literature
—M. Gounod, the composer, has completed the oratorio, “Mors et Vita A a sequel to “The Redemption,” for production at the Birmingham music festival in 1885-
—Leo XIII is a proficient in the composition of Latin poems, of which a few copies are printed under his personal supervision, and presented to a few as a special honor.
—A late accession to the ranks of royal authors is the Infanta Donna Paz. The “Poesias de Paz de Borbon ” have been printed in an edition restricted to 150 copies not intended for sale.
—George W. Cable is a small, slight man, only a few inches over five feet in height, dark com-plexioned, gray eyed, brown haired. His full beard, slightly sprinkled with gray, is rather closely trimmed at the chin, and his moustache is long and. drooping. It is said that the little novelist weighs only one hundred pounds.—Michigan Argonaut.
—Here is a story, says the Pall Mall Gazette, apropos of the American Copyright bill: When Charles Dickens was in America for the first time, he dined at the house of one of the Harper Brothers, the well-known publishers. A little Harper came
486
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to the table. Dickens placed him on his knee, and said: “You arc a very fine boy—you are a very fine boy, indeed; you are the son of the greatest pirate on Earth! ”
—Libri, who stole the manuscripts which Lord Ashburnham bought, is a distinguished mathematician and professor. Guizot held him in high esteem until he was found out. He was condemned in 1850 to ten years’ imprisonment for his pilfer-ings from the National Libraries; but he fled to Europe before the trial. His wife, under the second empire, tried to get him rehabilitated, but the Senate rejected her petition.
—At the Irving Centenarv Mr. Donald Mitchell said that on asking Irving as to his system of note-making for history the latter replied: “Oh, don’t talk to me of system. I never had any. You must go to Bancroft for that. I have, it is true, my little budget of notes, some tied one wav and some another, and which, when I want, I think I come upon in my pigeon-holes by a sort of instinct. That is all there is in it.”
—The Count de Almedina has founded a new museum and picture gallery in the capital of Portugal. The government has agreed to grant a'sub-sidy in aid of its maintenance. The collection is said to be rich in specimens of that kind of art attributed to the mythical “ Gran Vasco.” There are also included examples of the Italian, French, Spanish, German and English schools. The collection is to be housed in the palace of the Marquess de Pombal, which is to be altered for the purpose.
—Cardinal McCloskey has received from Pope Leo XIII a gold and silver chalice of exquisite workmanship. It is about one foot in height and has a square silver base, with a golden Cherub at each corner holding the emblems of the Passion. Four rubies and four emeralds are set immediately above them. The golden cup is supported by three female figures representing Faith, Hope and Charity. On the silver supports are bass reliefs of the. heads of four saints. The chalice came in a red morocco case bearing the Pope’s arms.
—An important discovery has just been made by M. Leopold Delisle, the curator of the Biblioth'eque Nationale, at Paris. It is that of a valuable register of the time of Philip Augustus, and which proves to be the first of the whole series of archives referring to the kings of France. According to notes upon the cover, it is stated to have passed, about the yeai- 1757, into the collection of the German Baron von Stosch, and from chance to chance the register successively formed part of the library of Cardinal Ottoboni, and then of that of the Pope at . the Vatican. M. L. Delisle has obtained a substantial grant from the Minister of Public Instruction for the reproduction of these valuable documents by the heliotype process. . Among other curious facts, included in these archives are the communications exchanged between Church and State at the beginning of the thirteenth century.
—-Judging by our exchanges, there is a conspiracy among compositors, and proof-readers alike,
to make the English plural number usurp the sign of the possessive case. We might pick up numerous examples, but forbear at present, until we sec whether-the mention.of the fact will not lead to the discontinuance of the plot. But there is an other vile design on the President’s American lan-guage—namely, the banishment of the useful word	1
“few,” with its inflections. The word “less” has been burdened with double duty, and we continually read of “less men,” “less bushels of grain,” and “less” this, that, and the other, where “few” or “fewer,” not smaller things are probably meant.	:
The misuse of “ went ” for “ gone,” and “ done ”	i
for “ did,” has become so universal that perhaps it	j
will meet the standard of grammatical accuracy,	|
as the practice of the best writers and speakers.	|
But, if so, the best are poor and the standard low.	j
— ISpsilanti- Sentinel.	.
—Tennyson, in the “ Dream of Fair Women,” edition of 1833, made Iphigenia say:
The tall masts quiver’d as they lay afloat. The temples and the people and the shore;
One drew a sharp knife thro’ my tender throat Slowly and nothing more. .
Wheieat the critic of The Quarterly Rcvicvj for April 1883, exclaims: “ What touching simplicity! What pathetic resignation! He cut my throat— nothing more! One might indeed ask: ‘What more’ she would have?” For many years the poet left the lines as they were first printed; now, as everyone knows, they stand thus:
The high masts flicker’d as they lay afloat;
The crowds, the temples, waver’d, and the shore	j
The bright death quiver’d at the victim’s throat:	j
Touched: and I knew no more.	j
Perhaps, says The St. Jamels Gazette, it is in	I
the speech of Cleopatra that the improvement is	|
most visible. Such a phrase as “realm-draining	I
revels” has happilv disappeared. “My gallant	I
Antony” is bettered into “ my Roman Antony,”	|
and “my mailed captain” into “my mailed Bac-	g
chus.” Down to 1842 one read: “Oh, what a	I
little snake stole Caesar’s fame!” At present it is	I
“With a worm I balk’d his fame.”	I
College Gossip.
—A Deaf and Dumb Department is attached to Pio Nono College, near Milwaukee.
—-Santa Clara College, Cal., is the largest Jesuit institution of learning west of the Mississippi.
—Bishop Gilmore is negotiating for the purchase of a site for a Theological Seminary at Cleveland.
—The highest honors at Yale last year were borne away by representatives of Minnesota and Colorado.—Ex.
—A Maine girl, who is a graduate of Vassar. College, has built a porch and reshingled her father’s house, just for the fun of it.
—Monsignor Capel will be present at the laying of the corner-stone of the new Catholic College on BlufT Street, Pittsburg, on or about Easter.
—Trinity has inaugurated a department of his-

THE XOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	487
tory and political science, which owes its foundation to the late Colonel Northam.—Herald-Crimson.
—A large proportion of the Dartmouth Junior Class is threatened with suspension on. account of dishonesty in the recent examinations.—Herald-Crimson.
—Asurpliced choir is contemplated for the College Chapel at Trinity. This is the latest novelty in the way of making compulsory prayers attractive.—Ex.	.
—“ A good college paper is worth more to the moral and gentlemanly tone of the college life than a library of by-laws and an army of faculty spies.”—H. T. Independent.
—Woodstock College, Md., is the great Jesuit Scholasticate where so many distinguished Professors of our'American Colleges have been trained in. Theology, Science and Literature.
—Professor Alexander Agassiz, on his way home from India, has been staying at Naples expressly to examine the great Aquarium there. He proposes to bring home several specimens for the Cambridge Museum of Comparative Zoology.
—From the Gazette we learn that yet another name is to be added to the noble list of McGill’s benefactors. This friend, who is as vet incogs proposes to erect a building similar to the .Redpath Museum for the use of the Faculty of applied Science. We extend our envious congratulations. —Queen's College lournal.
—Prof. Price’s remark that “the subject of the great advantages of a scientific education, as compared with a classical course, has been discussed by newspaper editors, journalists, the editors of college papers, and other asses" cannot be very agreeable to the Senior who is writing a thesis on that subject.— Columbia Spectator.
■ —Frank Barnum, S. J., a scholastic at Boston College, has forfeited $100,000 on account of his religion. .His father was the late proprietor of Barnum’s Hotel, at Baltimore, and left his son $100,000 on condition that he would not take Orders in the Catholic Church. The will has been contested in vain.— Connecticut Catholic.
—An Encyclical- Letter from the General of the Franciscans announces the foundation in Rome of a College of Theology and Philosophy. The site chosen is near the Lateran, and the buildings will be on a large scale. As refuge for the o-overning bodv of the great Order, which mav be forced to quit its old headquarters at the Ara Cody is obviously in contemplation.
—The American College in Rome is safe, for the time being, at least, from the greedy hands of Minister Mancini and his worthy subordinate. We owe this, first, to the prompt action of our own venerated Cardinal, in seeking the mediation of the American Government, and next to the no less energetic action of President Arthur and his Secretary of State.— The Catholic Herald.
—It is a little remarkable how rapidly the
number of students in the U. of M., who mean to' make journalism a profession, has increased of late. Three years ago you couldn’t have found more than two or three men in the whole literary department who confessed to an intention to wield the editorial “we;” I am sure I could point you out more than twenty now.—Michigan Argonaut.
—The Berkel cyan is $ 130 in debt, the result of the publication of a book of “ College Verses,” a compilation from the columns of college papers. Sov says the Columbia Spectator. The editors of the Berkcleyan should have had better sense than to inflict such trash on their patrons. Experience is said to be a costly teacher, but in this case the learners have got a good lesson cheap. They are to be congratulated.
—The naval cadets at Annapolis are again in trouble. This time it was on account of the fact that some first class men undertook to haze some fourth class men, but found they had a bigger job than they had bargained for. xA former Notre Dame student now among the naval cadets—who knows how to deport himself among gentlemen as well as to defend himself in an emergency—was set upon by a party of hazers; he severely thrashed half a dozen of the young rowdies and was thereafter let alone. Bravo, -----1 The hazers had the
wrong man when they tackled you.
—There seems to be a little difficulty among the board of editors on the Annual. It appears that a difficulty arose in determining which of the se-erct societies should appeal" first in the pages of that book, which is to represent the institutions of the University. The result is that three of the societies. we understand, have withdrawn and do not wish to be represented in the Annual at all, and have, moreover, in their possession considerable copy for the Annual, which they refuse to give up, unless their demands are complied with. The board of editors, stand firm, and will not yield to the demands of the dissenters, and claim to be able to replace, if necessary, the manuscript held by the “ kickers.”—University Press.
—Princeton College is to have a building devoted exclusively to art. The movement for. its establishment has been started vigorously, and the Trustees of the estate of a gentleman lately deceased have devoted sixty thousand dollars to pay the sal-, ary of a professor. Dr. AV.'C. Prime has offered his fine collection of pottery and porcelain as soon as a fire-proof building is ready. Other liberal donations have been made and promised. The Directors of the School of Art are, Dr. W. C. Prime, Henry G. Marquand, General McClellan, James W. Alexander, Rev. S. B. Dod, M. Taylor Pyne and W. Earl Dodge, and the institution will be opened next September, with a course of lectures on the “ History of Art,” by Dr. W. C. Prime and Professor Allan Marquand. Mr. McCosh, the President of Princeton, has issued a circular asking for subscriptions, and setting forth that the wing of an art building, to be constructed at once, -will cost fifty thousand dollars.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Danie, April 12. 1S84.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth vear of its existence, and presents itself anew as a • candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASJTC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week bv their excellence in class, and bv their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr .50 -per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing
J. A. McIntyre, ’84. Elmer A. Otis, ’84.
James Solon, ’84.
Steele, ’84.
W. H. Bailey, ’84.
C. A. Tinley, ’84.
W. H. Johnston,’ 85
C- F. Porter,- ’85.
—We have received the Fifth Annual Report of the Diocesan School Board for the Diocese of Fort Wayne. The report presents the usual satisfactory statistics of the educational condition of the diocese, with but little in addition to what was stated last year. The Right Rev. Bishop in his reply strongly presents the obligation of Catholic parents to send their children to Catholic schools where such exist and are adapted to meet the re-.quirements of the children. As year after year passes, the good work of this School Board becomes more and more evident in the increased facilities for furnishing a thoroughly Christian education to the youth of the diocese. We wish it continued success in its noble work.
■-------.------------
—The announcement of the time appointed for the solemn dedication of the New Notre Dame has awakened no little interest throughout the country. The event will certainly be one of the most glorious of our times. Notre Dame stands among
the scats-of education and religion in our country with the peculiar and privileged characteristic of being in a special manner placed under the patronage of the^ Mother of God, to whom she has erected her most glorious monument.
Among the many letters received evincing unbounded interest in the solemn ceremony appointed for the 14th of September next, is one from the zealous and learned Father Lambing, of Pittsburgh, Pa. It contains a suggestion so happy in its conception that we may presume upon the Rev. gentleman’s kindness and lay it before our readers:
“ I see by the Scholastic that the statue of Our Lady on the Dome is to be solemnly crowned on next September 14. Permit me to make a suggestion: it is that all the old missions dedicated to the Mother of God be represented by the pastor or a proxy. The four oldest, so far as I know,—if we except the Spanish settlements of the southwestern part of the Union—are Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., founded by P. Marquette, in the summer of 1668; Kaskashia, Ill., under the title of the Immaculate Conception, founded by the same missionary, April 8,1675; that of the Assumption, founded af Detroit by the Recollects, in 1701; and the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin of the Beautiful River, founded at Pittsburgh, by the Recollect, Rev. Denys Baron, April 17, 1754. These, I believe, are the four oldest that are now in existence.
“St. Mary’s of Ganentaa, near the mouth of the Oswego River, N. Y., was founded by the Jesuits, headed by Father Francis Le Mercier, in Aug., 1656; but was abandoned March 20, 1658. I am also of opinion that a chapel dedicated to Mary existed for a short time at Fort Sandusky, Ohio, near the city of the same name; but if so, it was destroyed May 16,1763, by the Indians under Pontiac.
“ I am not absolutely certain that the chapel at Sault'Ste. Marie was dedicated to the Blessed Virgin, but think it was.
“We have then four of these early missions still in existence. Shall I venture another suggestion? I shall, for, as the poet Saxe says, ‘ Good advice will keep.’ The crowning of our Mother’s Statue will be an important event in our religious history. How, then, would it be to have a Mass on one of the days near the crowning day at which the pastor or proxy of these four places would act as celebrant, deacon, subdeacon and preacher?”
The Starry Heavens.
The cloudy nights of February and March afforded little opportunity to those who -would admire the glories of the celestial sphere, but now the season of gloom appears to be passed, and as we walk out in the early evening we are enraptured by the glittering spectacle. The four more conspicuous planets have placed themselves among the brighter constellations, and until the increasing splendor of the moon reduced their brilliancy, the combination excited unusual attention even among those not astronomically learned. Jupiter is on the meridian, followed close by his fiery-eyed son Mars,
jKjWWW:.-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
489
and not far from two others of his children, the twins of Leda: '	'
/fdcroba	zat —vE ayaOe> Ho/.uditma.
In the next constellation to the West there seems to be another pair of twins, for Saturn has taken up a position with Aldebaran similar to that which Castor holds towards Pollux. Venus on the 12th will fall into line with them, and Saturn will then be provided with partners for a Scotch reel. Whether thev will actually balance and swing or not it is impossible for us to say, but if thev should do so nobody will be surprised except a few astronomers and scientific men who constitute so small a minority of the human race that their opinion on the subject cannot be of much consecpience. Orion is in the attitude in which Tennyson loves to describe him—sloping slowly to the West, and his dogs, bright Procyon and brighter Sirius, follow him. Capella with her kids is brilliant in the North-west, and Arcturus glares at her with his bloodshot eye from the North-east. The Dipper is tilted up high enough to spill whatever its contents may be, and the Lion rules the South-east, with Regulus gleaming in his white-hot heart. ;
O -r	.	•	•
Below, the Virgin is timidly holding a levee, ar- | rayed in diamonds; and the horrid Hydra, with the poisoned Chalice and ill-omened Crow, glides forth from her lair. But the Pleiads have shrunk into almost imperceptibility at the approach of Venus, and the moon has similarly annihilated Berenice’s hair. Argo Navis, meanwhile, coasts along the Southern horizon, freighted with gems, although the more brilliant among them are denied to the inspection of the Northern States. Noah’s Dove is just leaving in the direction of Texas, where she will, it is to be hoped, effect some beneficial advantages among the fence-cutters; and Mercury may be made out by sharp eyes in dangerous proximity to the horns of Aries. He will shine out bravely about the 25th. Andromeda is setting, or rather standing on her head, while Perseus is still aloft to petrify the rapidly vanishing monster by the Gorgon’s eve. The Milky Wav does not make so much of a show as it will during the summer nights. It is low in the Northern and Western sky.	'
Go forth into the night, young student, and consider the glories of the worlds above thee. Compare their vastness with thine own nothingness, and learn a lesson of humility.
Stell a ri us Felix.
Obituary.
BROTHER MICHAEL, C. S. C.
Towards the end of last week, one of Notre Dame’s oldest and most devoted religious passed •away from earth to receive the reward of his labors. Brother Michael, known in the world as James Flynn, came to Notre Dame, and entered the Community in the year 184.5.	that time
on he manifested an energy and zeal that made him invaluable in the various occupations to which
his superiors assigned him. About a year ago, he contracted the disease which brought him to the tomb. But his was a well-spent life, and it. was with confidence he heard the call of his Lord to receive his reward. May he rest in peace!
In Memoriam.
FATHER FRANCIS C. BIGELOW. .
Father Bigelow, whose decease we recorded in our last issue, was one of the best known among *	-	c*
the “old bovs” at Notre Dame. A graduate of 1862, he had spent many years here previously, going through the Preparatory Department before entering the Collegiate Course, and was well known to all the friends of the olden time. His social virtues and the total absence of anything ap-pi caching to hypocrisy, in his character, making his name “ Frank ” so peculiar!y appropriate, won the good will of all. A taste for literature and a delicate sense of the humorous gave a charm to his conversation; and he was intensely American in feeling. In his last lingering illness, though wasted nearly to a skeleton, the merry eye that gave such an attraction to his expressive features still retained its well-known brilliancy, and its twinkle will not soon be forgotten.	.	.
He was the younger son of Dr. Bigelow, eminent as a physician and botanist, and was born at Lancaster, Ohio, on the 27th of September, 1843, being but nineteen at the time he graduated. While at Notre Dame, he distinguished himself as an Editor of the “ Progress,”-a manuscript periodical which was the legitimate precursor of the the Scholastic. He was also'a prominent member of the Thespian and St. Aloysius Literary Societies, the latter of which has since been called the Philodemic. After taking his degree, he entered a law office in Detroit, and was admitted to the bar in May 1865. He then opened a law office at Davton, in his native State, and practised for many years with ability and credit, returning, however, finally to his Alina. Mater, to devote himself to a nobler vocation. He began his theological studies here in 1870, and concluded them in Memramcook, New Brunswick, where he was ordained. Returning again to Notre Dame, he held several responsible offices successively, and was at one time editor-in-chief of this paper. Leaving us at length for the far West, he preached for some years among the people of Colorado and New Mexico, until the asperities of the mountain regions made such inroads upon a constitution, never the most robust, that at length he found it impossible to continue, and he came home to die.
When he passed through here last fall, he was cheerful and hopeful as ever, in spite of his terrible sufferings; it was evident to his friends, however, that his days on earth were numbered. He stayed with us about a week at the beginning of September and then sought his home in Detroit, where a mother’s care awaited him. But all that could be done only sufficed to prolong a life that had already heard the summons to depart. He died hap
49°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pily on the morning of the Festival of Our Lady of the Seven Dolors, April -4th.
May he rest in peace.
Exchanges.
— The Rutgers Tar gum has come again,—as usual a first-class paper.
— The Adelfhian for March possesses both literary and artistic merit. The frontispiece is hardly as fine as usual, but the general make-up of the paper is better than ever.
— The Princetonian has resumed its visits to our sanctum. The last number of Vol. ArIII is almost a model paper. The sketch. “ Coruthers,” is remarkably good. Owing to the excellent system by which editors are elected we may hope the new volume will equal in merit the old. The Exchange-Editor, in his valedictory review of the year, says:	-
“ Only once was its [77ze Princetonian's\ existence threatened. when, with adventurous spirit, it attempted to brave • the Western gales, and was nearly overcome by the tempests of The Badger and Scholastic.”
—The Penman?s Art Journal for March— the third number of the current volume—continues the “Lessonsin Practical Writing” of Prof. A. H. Hinman, “ Replies to Questions,” by the same, “The Art of Writing,” by Prof. R. C. Spencer, “ Pens and Pens,” by Paul Pastnor, besides other contributed articles on various subjects, editorials, exchange notes, personals, gossip, etc., etc. A splendid specimen of artistic pen-flourishing by Mr. D. T. Ames, the editor, is prominent among the illustrations. Mr. Hinman’s “ Lessons in Practical Writing” are in many respects original and valuable. The subscription price of the Penman's Art Journal is but $1 a year, with “Ames’s Guide to Self Instruction ” or a choice of half a dozen other premiums, either of which is of itself worth the sum paid.
—For time-honored witticisms, commend us to The Lantern, from the State University of Ohio.
“ Non faratus dixit Freshie”
leads off as the newest and best of the lot, closely followed by this other relic of bygone days:
“Vivacious Stranger (before the Noachean Deluge it used to be ‘ vivacious young lady ’): ‘Who is that ga wky youth that can’t manage his crush hat?’
‘ “Student: ‘ Well, I rather think that’s my brother.’ “Vivacious Stranger: ‘Oh, I beg your pardon, I might have known it—I mean—O take me to mamma!’”
What makes a person wilder than usual is, that these jokes are always credited to a preposterous '■'■ExT; while, in reality, they are due that estimable patriarch, Seth, or one of his nearest descendants. But let us not be too hard on The Lantern. Its report of the “ State Oratorical Contest ” is fully and ably written, though there is not sufficiently strong condemnation expressed for the ruffians who hissed the honorable gentlemen acting as judges. Is it not time, O fellow-students, to show that there be rio contradiction in the same person being a college-boy and a gentleman? The description, too,
of the contest between the Juniors and Freshmen is very cleverly written:, but, to tell you the truth, we do not like the idea of professors acting as prefects over their students. Out here, we are glad, it is different. Though, of course, we are just enough to remember that our system would not work so well in a great many colleges.
— The Atlantis for March is on our table as we write. Ah, that.bright Kentucky boy who manipulates the exchanges! With what sweet, childish confidence he swallows the three-cornered chunks of truths scattered through the columns of the Scholastic! He reminds us of Artemus Ward and his English audience! Artemus, it seems, had been telling them one of his most outrageous yarns, but without provoking a smile. Finally, “ sizing his auditors up,”' he stated that, owing to his interest in and affection for them, every person on leaving the hall should receive a round-trip ticket for Constantinople. Any person except an Englishman or the Exchange-editor of a Kentucky-country-college paper would have suspected the whole announcement was a broad joke. Not so the audience: every man, woman and child waited for the tickets all night long, and then sued Mr. Ward for damages in the morning. A word to the wise is sufficient; we append the following quotations:	.
“ But stale jokes are not alone responsible for the Ex.-edi-tor being gray.”—Notre Dame Scholastic, March 8.
“We notice one of its [the Scholastic’s] Exchangeeditors is gray-haired.- It must have been the one who compiled the ‘Honor-Rolls’ [Ha! ha! ha!]”—Atlantis, March, 1884.
Oh, no! it is not the same man at all, you dear little Innocent from down in Kentucky! Nor he’s not gray-haired just yet: though that charmingly silly article on “ Mathew Arnold,” in your paper, may help to make him so. Now, don’t be flattered because we have given you so much notice; but the truth is, vou recall some of the contests made by our predecessor with worthier foes. The scent of battle clings to us,
“Like a dog by which skunksffiavebeen frequently killed,— You may drench—you may drown that poor dog if you will, But the smell of the animals will hang round him still.”
—The College Review—“ the only College paper published in the Altons,”—is by no means a poor specimen of college journalism. Its exchange editor pavs his respects to the Scholastic as follows :
“ If you would only throw away your Rolls of Honor and such puerile stuff, Notre Dame Scholastic, we could almost call you, as does the last Wesleyan Bee, ‘ the best college paper coming to our table.’ Your editorials are sensible: your literary articles, always on pertinent subjects, are well written, and give a good setting forth of your side of disputed questions. Your locals are spicy. As to your expressions of opinion, we would only say that while we don’t agree with those opinions, we should be as disgusted with you if you did not express them, as we should be. with some of your most criticizing exchanges should they disgrace their Protestant training by expressing such Catholic superstitions.”	.
Thanks for the compliment, Review, but w.e would be glad to know, first, your definition of a superstition, and, secondly, which of our “ expressions’’comes under that heading. We believe we

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
491
possess ordinary intelligence; we think we know what is and what is not superstition, judged ac* cording to common sense and the best standards, and feel confident that no one can prove us superstitious, or inclined to superstition or superstitious practices. “ Catholic superstitions ” is a cant phrase, and the Revie-v has probably used it thoughtlessly, on the authority of those—and they have been legion—who, in the times of bigotry and intolerance, hated Catholics “for the love of God!” and, consequently, thought it no sin to belie them and accuse them of superstition. We may add that we are Catholics in*deed and in truth, holding . to every doctrine promulgated by the Catholic
Church, but we have not the least fear that any of those doctrines can be proved superstitious. The Catholic Church holds nothing that is superstitious, nothing that we cannot defend according to reason and common sense.
—Promptitude is al wavs commendable; we therefore, contrary to our usual practice, acknowledge the receipt of the following papers for April: . The King's College Record (with that inimitable
“ Patience”) Hamilton College Monthly, Peddie Institute Chronicle, Heidelberg Monthly, Niagara Index, Earlhamite, and a few others that may have escaped our notice. Welcome, all!
Personal.
—Fred Walker, of ’5 r, now residing at Fort Wayne, visited the University last Saturday.
—Henry Metz (Com’l), ’83, visited the College, this week. His old friends were glad to see him. ~ —Mrs. John Black, of Milwaukee, accompanied bv her daughter, visited the College last Sunday.
—Mrs. Devereux, of St. Louis, passed a few days at Notre Dame last week, visiting her sons at the College.
—Mr. William Walsh, of New York City, who is making an extended tour through the West, visited Notre Dame last week. He is a gentleman of pleasing address and many accomplishments. We hope he will come again.
—Mr. Edward Carqueville, Jr., student of ’77, is the efficient manager of the firm of Shober & Carqueville, lithographers, Chicago. He has the happiest remembrance of Notre Dame. Last week he presented his former teacher with several beautiful chromos, for which he has sincere thanks.
—Henry Neumark (Com’l), ’78, holds an important and lucrative position in the Mutual Glass Co., of Pittsburg, Pa. He writes expressing his indebtedness to the training received- at Notre Dame, and the happy memories retained of his Alma Mater. His friends here are glad to learn of his success.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin will start for Austin, Texas, on Monday, to be present at the dedication of the new church which Rev. P. Lauth, C. S. C., has completed. He will, at the same time, take the opportunity to visit the Houses
of the Order in the South before returning to Notre Dame. The best wishes of his many friends go with him.
W	-
Local Items-
—Lent is over!
—Did you vote?	.
—Winter again.
—Easter to-morrow!
—Botanical reports are in order.
—Have you seen the Siamese Twins?
—Gen. W— has retired from command.
—Our noble Judge holds over two years.longer.
—Numerous orders are received for “ Haydn.”
—Gas-fixtures have been placed in the Library room.
—The Columbians are active and vigorous in. debate.
—Snow again last Tuesday, and our astrologer rejoiceth.	•
—A new engraving has been made of the “ Palace.”	. •
—The Class of ’84, has given itself up to physical culture.	-
—The snow broke up a few incipient cases of spring fever.
—All are anxiously awaiting the appearance of the Philopatrians.
The Library now contains 20,000 volumes, and is increasing dailv.	-
O	J
—The Crescent Club will give a musicalc, shortly after Easter, •s
—The sermon to-morrow will ■ be preached by Rev. Father O’Brien.	’
—Some of our friends have attired themselves in sackcloth and ashes.
—“ Glimpses of the Supernatural ” is being read in the Juniors’ refectory.'1
—New attractions are daily added to the rooms of the Lemonnier Library.	'
—The Philopatrians have been busy in Wash--ington Hall the past week.
—The Philopatrians’ play is entitled K II Principe di Portaggio PerairaP '
—Maxims for a Friend:—“Charity begins at home; ” “ Silence is golden.”	'	.
—A Shakesperian Entertainment will be given by the Euglossians on the 23d.	\
-—The Class of ’84 is getting very humorous; it always has a “ Gag” on hand.	- ’	•
—“Have you bo’t any book yet?” said a local punster to a Hoosier of the flora.	.
—The St. Cecilians are discussing “ Intemper-. ance ” and “ Pernicious Literature.”
—The Zouave drill for the Philopatrian play is under the direction of Elmer A. Otis.
—President Walsh is conducting the retreat,at St. Mary’s. It will conclude tOTmorrow morning.
492
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—The Sophomores have ordered two dozen plug-hats from New York. Big heads, you know!
—The Juniors’ handball alley has been taken down: it will soon be replaced bv a more suitable one.
—A tenor in the Senior department has a voice as sweet and tender as a golden bell—some say a cow-bell.
—Ye stalwart wing was jubilant last Tuesday, notwithstanding the fact he was snowed under in this locality.
—We hear that the Philodemics will show their vitality by appearing in a public debate shortly after Easter.
—The Indian club swinger who resides on Fourth Avenue does not seem to be an adept in his favorite exercise.
—Bro. Chrysostom has forwarded from San Francisco a choice collection of sea-shells, corals and garnets. Thanks.
—Signor Gregori has on his easel a bust portrait of the beloved President of the University, which he expects to complete in a few days.
—Our aquatic men are busy cleaning and preparing their boats. The crews are in good working trim, and we may expect some exciting regattas before the end of the term. •
—A professional game of baseball was played this week between a picked nine of* the Juniors and the School of Manual Labor boys, resulting in the defeat of the former.
—During the past week, some of the members of the Vocal Classes, under the efficient direction of Prof. Paul, have been preparing a grand Cc-cilian Mass, to be sung to-morrow (Easter).
—Our friend John is studying Spanish. At present, he seems, as near as we can come at it, to insist upon Sombrero, however, we may be able to make a better report of his progress next week.
—The director of the Lemonnier Library returns thanks to Rev. A. Bechger for a copy of his work entitled: Henrv Longfellow: Literarisch Biogra-'phichc Studie met een tai van Long.fello'iv gedich-ten vertoald, door J. J. B. ten Kate, Culemburg, Blom & Olivierse. 1883.
—Very Rev. Father General, assisted by Rev. Fathers L’Etourneau and- Spillard, officiated at the Solemn High Mass on Holy Thursday. The magnificent voice of the venerable celebrant seemed surpassingly beautiful, and added not a little to the solemnity and impressiveness of the ceremonies.
—The Professor of Greek has lately purchased drapery with Grecian designs, to cover the tables in the room used by the Hellenists for their classes and meetings; and Professor Ackerman has been engaged by Rev. Father Stoffel to paint, in basso relievo^ a mural picture representing the chorus of old men in the “CEdipus,” to commemorate the first Greek play performed in the West.
—The repository of the Blessed Sacrament, erected in the church on Holy Thursday, was one B of the most beautiful ever seen at Notre Dame. The rich and variegated natural flowers were arranged with much taste, and with the many lights and ornamentations produced a pleasing effect. Among the rich floral offerings which attracted notice were those of the altar boys, Profs. Lyons, Edwards, Devoto, and Kelly.
—The New York Publishers' Weekly in its notice of Franz von Seeburg’s “Life of Joseph Haydn”—translated for The* Ave Maria and later issued in book-form by Prof. Joseph A. Lyons— says:
‘•A very charmingly written biography of the celebrated composer. Full of anecdotes and interesting personal details. The translation, by the Vice-President of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., is notably good.”
—A meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on April the 3d, Prof. J. F. Edwards presiding. Compositions were read by E. Amoretti, R. Papin, I. Bunker and J. Sokup, which received the special notice of the President ' for the care and attention displayed in their preparation. A fair amount of elocutionary talent was shown in the declamations delivered by C. Brown, R. Morrison, F. Coad, V. Rebori, C. Lindsey, W. McPhee, A. McVeigh and W. Devine.
—The 14th, 15th and 16th regular meetings of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club were held, March 24, 29, and April 5th. Those who took part in the interesting debates on these occasions were Messrs. Reach, Callaghan, Wagoner, Carroll, Mathers, Fogarty, McMurray, Combe and Galarneau. Among the new members selected are Messrs. Gooley and Slattery. Additional interest is imparted to those meetings by organ recitals by Messrs. Galarneau and Carroll.
—A very interesting Moot Court was tried before Judge Hoynes on Saturday evening, April 5th. It was an action in assumpsit, one George Clarke, being the plaintiff, and Ethan Allen, the defendant. The plaintiff was represented by Mr. FL J. Fitzgerald, the defendant, by J. J. Conway. The attorney for plaintiff, J. P. Goulding; for defense, J. Ancheta. Although the case was against the plaintiff, yet bis attorney made a bold stand and very nearly persuaded the jury that he was in the right. The Jury, consisting of Messrs. Burke, Wilson, and Madden, after a few moments’ retirement returned-a verdict for the'defendant.
—We are pleased to notice that Franz von Seeburg’s admirable “ Life of Joseph Haydn,” translated by the Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., of Notre Danie University, which appeared not long since in successive numbers of The Ave Maria., has just been published in book-form. We con-sidei' this story of the life of the great composer in every respect an ideal biography. It is sprightly, graceful," graphic, and. thoroughly appreciative; and, while it adheres strictly to the facts of history, combines with the narrative all the charm of a fascinating romance. We are specially pleased with
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
493
the admirable manner in which the writer has portrayed the beautiful religious character of that splendid genius whose devotional spirit lives and breathes in his works, and will continue to elevate and inspire the hearts of devout worshippers to the end of time. We are agreeably surprised at the handsome style in which the book has been brought out by Mr. Lyons. The letter-press is excellent, and the binding neat and in good taste. This “ Life of Haydn” ought to meet with a ready sale. No Catholic library, whether public or private, should be without it.— Catholic Review.
—By far the most precious Easter gift we have seen this or any other year is the one given by Signor Gregori to Professor Edwards. It consists of an original sketch by the great artist, Antonio Allegri da Correggio, who was born in 1494 and died in 1534. The sketch is the original drawing for a picture he painted in the Vatican, representing the Resurrection of Our Lord. The study is accompanied by three others: one in pencil by Domenichino—born, 15S1; died, 1641;—representing St. Teresa in ecstasy; another in red and white crayon and pencil, by Andrea Sacchi—born, 1600; died, 1661;—representing Saint Clara with the Blessed Sacrament in her hands, repelling the barbarians from her convent; and the last sketch is in pencil, by Elizabetta Sirani, who was poisoned in 1664, at the age of twenty-six, and it represents the Penance of St. Mary Magdalene. These sketches were secured by Signor Gregori during his residence in the Vatican. The present .fortunate possessor intends to exhibit these drawings, at an early date, in one of the parlors of the University, so that the students and friends of Notre Dame may have an opportunity to inspect the methods employed in drawings by these great Italian masters.
— The following books have been lately added to the Lemonnier Library: Historical Portraits of the Tudor Dynasty and the Reformation Period, by S. Hubert Burke, 4 Vols.; The Lives of the Roman Emperors and Their Associates, from Julius Cassar (B. C. 100) to Augustulus (A. D.476), Edited by J. Eugene Reed, A. M., 1st, 2d and 3d Vols.; The Works of Hubert Bancroft—Native Races, Vol. 1; Wild Tribes, Vol. 2; Civilized Nations, Vol. 3d; Myths and Languages, Vol. 4; Antiquities, Vol. 5; Primitive History, Vols. 6 and 7; and the Plistory of Central America, Vols. 9, 10 and 11; History of Mexico; History of the Christian Councils from the Original Documents, Rt. Rev. Bishop Hefele, translated from the German by W. R. Clarke, 3 Vols.; A Catholic Dictionary of Doctrine, Discipline, Rites, Ceremonies, Councils, and Religious Orders of the Catholic Church, by William E. Addis and Thomas Arnold; The Church and Gentile World, Thebaud, 2 Vols. and Atlas; History of the American Revolution, by M. Doheny; The Spirit of the Nation, Ballads and Songs, by Writers of “The Nation”; Life of St. Philip Neri, Apostle of Rome, by Al-fonson Capecelatvo, translated by Thomas Alder, Pope of the Oratory, 2 Vols.
Roll of Honor.
■	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Alvarez, Arce, Baca? Bowers, Barron, Becerra. Bailey, V. Burke, F. Burke, F* Combe, Coll, Crawford, Conway, Cussen. Creel, Dunm De Groot, Dolan, A. Dennis, Delaney, F. Diaz, A. Diaz, Feltz, Fogarty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, Frain, Grothaus, Goulding, Gonzalez, Gutierrez, F. Gallagher, Hyde Jloward, Hellebush, Hausberg, Hamlyn, Kelly, Kavanaugh, Kolars, Kleiber, Lechuga, McGinn, McErlain,. McKinnery, Mathers, Marquez, C. Murdock, McIntyre,. McLaughlin, Mahoney, Madden, Morris, Mahon, Neeson, Norfleet, G. O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, O’Connell, C. Paschel, Pour, Quinlan, Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Riley, Rui, Solon, Slattery, Spencer, Saviers, J. Smith, Snouffer, Sagreda, Tinley, Waggoner! Warren.	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Anchondo, Armijo, Aguilera, Borg-schulze, Berthelet, Barela. Brown, Baur, Barclay, Benner, Breen, G. Cartier, D. Cartier, J. Courtney, Curtis, Chaves, Cavaroc, Crilly, Cleary, Costigan, Coleman, Dorenberg, Dexter, Dennis, Deaderick, Devine, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, Fendrich, Fehr, Fierro, Foote, Finckh, Garrity, Gerlach, Gimbel, Grunsfeld, Hemisbaugh, Hagenbarth, Houck, E. J. Howard, Halligan, J. Henry, W. Henry, Houlihan, Holman, Hagerty, Jensch, Letcher, G. Lewis, R. Lewis, Loescher, Luther, Lane. Monschein, Mullane, Miller, Menig, G. Moye, A. Moye. C. Metz, Mug. Major, Martinez, McCabe, McDonald, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, Nor- ‘ folk, O’Brien, C. Porter, Perley, Rogers, Reynolds, Regan, Sedberry, Schmauss, Schott, M. Scheuerman, Saunders, Strauss, Shields, Talbot, D. Taylor, G. Tarrant, Trepanier, Uranga, W. Wagoner, Wabraushek, Grunsfeld. Noonan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters S. Arrache, A. Arrache, Ackerman, Adams, J. Addington, H Addington, Amoretti, Butterfield, Benner, Curtis, Cole, Costigan, Cummings, F. Coad, M. Coad, Dirksmeyer, Devine, J. Devereux, A. Devereux, Ernest,. Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, Gibson. W. Grimes, Garrity, C. In-derrieden, R. Inderrieden, Johns, Krause. E. Kelly, La-Tourette, Landenwich. Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, W„ McCourt, M. McCourt, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, T. McGuire, McGill, McPhee, McVeigh, Manzanares, Meehan, Morrison, Morgan, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, A. Nester, M. O’Kane, Otis, O’Connor, W. Prindiville, R. Papin, V. Papin, Paden, Quinlin, Quiggle. Quill, Rebori, Sumner, Schmitz, Spencer, Shbneman, Sokup, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Servis, Thomas. A. Welch, Weston, Wright,C. Young.
Class Honors.
. [ In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters W. Welch. Stange, R. Papin, Schmitz, Morrison, B. Lindsey, C- Lindsey, Devine, F. Mullen, J. Wright, W. Prindiville, Delaplane, Spencer. West, M. O’Kane, Otis, F. Nester, Thomas, Meehan, J. Devereux, J. Kelly, Weston, Cole, McVeigh, D. Prindiville, Garrity, Padden, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Salmon, J. Addington, E. Kelly, Noonan, A. Mullen, Butterfield, Crotty, Fitzgerald, Ernest, Costigan, Quinlan, Johns, E. Scherrer, A. Nester, O’Connor, V. Papin, M. McCourt, McPhee.
For the Dome. -
One who loves the Blessed Virgin..........$3,000.00
Une Enfant de Marie..........................  5.00
A Client of Mary :............................ 5.00
A Child of Mary...................’........... 5-°°
From a Child of Mary.......................... 5.00
494
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Saint fflary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—At the distribution of notes to the Minims, the readers were the Misses Maggie Ducey and Jessie* English.
—The “ Class Honors,” which are unavoidably crowded out this week, will be given in our next report.
—In the Second Preparatory Composition Class, Catherine Lord, Dora Best, Hannah Stumer and Sadie Campeau deserve special mention.
—Mrs. McKegho—formerly Miss Anna O’Connor—and Miss Maria Brady, both of Class ’77, passed a few days with old friends at St. Mary’s.
—The badge for proficiency in the Junior French Class was worn last week by Belle Snowhook. The honor falls this week to Miss Clara Richmond.
—Rev. Father Zahm, on his return from Mexico, called upon his Western friends, who are pupils at the Academy. He has promised, after Easter, to give an account of his travels.
—The reading of Rosa Mystica, Vol. X, No. 3, took place at the regular Academic reunion. The editresses were the Misses Catharine Campbell, Sophia Papin, Jennie Duffield, and Gertrude Ashton.
—Hon. Judge Fuller, of Marysville, Cal., and Miss Mary Fuller, his grand-daughter, Mrs. Devereux, of St. Louis, also Mrs. Black, of Milwaukee, Wis.; and Miss Teresa Killella, a Graduate of Class of ’81, are among the notable visitors of the week.
—On Saturday at supper the Princesses enjoyed a fresh surprise in the shape of a beautiful .new teaset for their table. The china is prettily gilded, and quite worthy of the little recipients. After supper they repaired to the convent to thank Mother Superior.
—The enforced absence of their Piefect at the meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society, rendered the session somewhat informal, and the ordinary reading was dispensed with. Conversation upon literary topics filled the time not only usefully, but very agreeably.	.	.
—A. very beautiful “Easter Cross” in oil has just-been completed in the studio. A wreath of smilax, on one arm of the cross trailing down the main part and a garland of cypress vine over the upper part, are so life-like, one would be tempted to lift them from their places to enjoy their freshness. The Passion Flowers and - Roses at the base of the cross are equally perfect.
—Those of the Juniors who distinguished themselves. for polite and lady-like deportment, and who deserved to draw for the Roman mosaic cross, were the Misses I. Allen, Baily, Best,.Chaves, Cox, Dillon, Fehr, Halsey, E. and S. Jackson; Lord,
I Metz, McEwen, Otis, Richmond, Roddin, Schmidt, Sbeekey, Shephard and Voradenburg. The enviable prize was won by Miss Ada Shephard.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior department, a manuscript paper called the “Mosaic Cross,” was issued by the members of the First Preparatory Class. Very Rev. Father Hannon, of Toledo, Ohio, Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier honored the readers by their presence, also a number of other visitors among whom was a sister of Father Hannon. The editresses were Grace Regan, Belle Snowhook and Clara Richmond.
—In keeping with the name adopted, “ The Mosaic Cross,” and the time then' paper was issued, Palm Sunday, the Editresses- of the First Preparatory’s paper took for their .motto a strophe from the translation of the Pan o-e Eino-zia:
O	o
“Faithful Cross, O tree all beauteous 1
Tree all peerless and divine; *	•
Not a grove on earth can show us , Such a flower and leaf as thine.
Sweet the nails, and sweet the wood Laden with so sweet a load.”
—On Wednesday, the “ Vision of the Wounds,” a literary gem of the first order from the pen of Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly, was given to the General Elocution Class for interpretation. A handsome Easter Card was offered as a prize to the successful. The poem was promptly memorized by a number. For quickness of memory, the Misses Heckard, M. Ducey, L. St. Clair, Kearsey, Reynolds, Horn, Agnes English, Richmond and Schmauss may be mentioned. Upon examining the merits of interpretation three’were selected as worthy of the prize: the Misses Munger and Williams among the Seniors, and little Mary Lindsey. So feelingly and appropriately was the piece rendered by the three, that a prize was awarded to each, the most beautiful falling by right to Miss Munger.	.
—Thursday, the 3d inst., the Feast of St. Richard of Chichester, was the patronal festival of Rev. R. S. Shortis, the esteemed Chaplain of St. Mary’s, also the Professor of the Class of Philosophy. The following programme, though brief, was presented at the suggestion of the Graduates, and by them was superintended and arranged: Felicitations........................Miss L. Fendrich
Song.......................................Miss Hale
Recitation—“ How Ruby Played”..... .Miss M. Munger Music (Instrumental).....;.................Miss Beal
Song............-.........................Miss Bruhn
Recitation—“ Pippo’s Vision ..Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly
Miss Anna Murphy.	.
Music (Instrumental).............Miss	Laura Fendrich
The commendable spirit of gratitude, which, in a more than ordinary degree, appears to actuate the members of the present Class of Graduates, was embodied in the graceful poetical address read by Miss Fendrich,. assisted by the Misses Todd and Johnson. The Rev. recipient of the honors, after thanking the young ladies, said that it was the sixty-ninth' anniversary of his birthday; that the’ day following would be the anniversary of his’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
495
first Mass. He told them that he should esteem it a pleasure to offer the Holy Sacrifice for- them in the morning, in return for the kindly regard they had been pleased to manifest. He praised, as it deserved, each number of the programme, literary and musical. Miss Munger excelled herself (if we accept the opinion of all present) in her elocutionary rendering of “ Rubenstein.” The same eulogium was passed upon Miss Murphy, in her recitation of “ Pippo’s Vision.” The subject-mat-fer of her piece, however, gave her the advantage, for, in poetry as in music and art, the interpretation of sentiments which lift the aspirations of the heart above this perishable world into the atmosphere of divine grace alone can impart an enduring satisfaction; hence the merited celebrity of a Haydn in music, and of a Raphael in art. They give that upon which the thoughts may lovingly repose, and which, at the same time, far from enervating, strengthens divine faith in the soul. The same may be said of Miss Donnelly in poetry. It is not her charming style so much as her felicity in expressing the loftiest sentiments in a way not to be mistaken, which has placed her in her high literary position. Pier cherished name can ill afford to be excluded from the programmes of St. Mary’s, and the Graduates are to be congratulated on their good taste, as well as upon their praiseworthy sentiments of respect to their Rev. teacher.
The Voice of Memory. *
-Where is the Magician, Of any age or land,	'
Who can work the wonders	.
That my powers command?	•
I can turn the night-time To the sunniest dav;	•
And where want and mourning • Hold relentless sway,
Let me wave my sceptre,	■
Misery is beguiled,
And the aged pauper • Sports, a happy child.
Double is my mission— To the upright heart, • Even where storms fall darkest. Light my smiles impart; .
But wheie falsehood reigneth	■
Sweetest songs I sing,
Lose their heavenly cadence, Mocking echoes ring.
On the road to ruin, Many and many a time, . Youth has heard my whisper, Turned from luring crime.
I have drawn the picture
Of his childhood bright—	-
Home and friends and mother
' Stand in vivid light;
* From Rosa Mystical Vol. IX, No. 3, edited by the First Senior Class.	•
Voices cherished whisper, “ Child, be ever true 1 ” Tempting phantoms vanish, Virtue lives anew.
Round the feverish pillow, As life ebbs away, Memory’s golden visions, Like mild sunbeams, play;
There Hope comes to mirror Her celestial face,
Robes Eternal glory In the old-time grace.
But, O mortal! .mortal!
On the earth my power
Is but as the rain-drop
• To the sweeping shower.
In the great hereafter, On the unknown shore, .
Thou my strength mayest measure— Not, O not before!
If in sin death finds thee, Who, ah! who can tell
All my nameless tortures	,
In the depths of hell ?
But should mercy crown thee, Joys beyond compare,
Garnered in Heaven’s store-house, Shall await thee there. ‘
There, the wild strife ended, Souls from dangers free, Lo! Time’s brightest record
Shall my victories be!
Roll of Honor-
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
1st Tablet—Misses Adderly, Beal, Black, Bruhn, A- . Babcock, Burgher, Cummings, Cirkel, Dunn, Fitzpatrick, Fisk, Ginz, Gove, Gavan, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Heckard, Hale, Horn, Johnson, Keating, Kearns, -Kenny, Kearney, King, Kearsey,. Legnard, Lintner, Munger, M. Murphy, McCarthy, McHale, McNamara, Mooney, Neu, O’Connell, Quill, J. Reilly, Ramsey, Ryan, Reynolds, S-St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, Sheekey, Stackerl, Scully, Todd, Taylor, Thomas. 2d Tablet—Misses C. Babcock, Carney. Call. Dowling, Fogerty, Helpling, Leahigh, M. Tvnan, Udall, Williams.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
1st Tablet—Misses Best, Bailey, Chaves, Cox, Dillon, Duffield, Ducey, Eldred, Fehr, B. Halsey. H. Jackson, EJackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord, McEwen,. Murphy, Moshier, Metz, Otis, C. Richmond, Roddin, Schmidt, Sheekey, Snowhook, Stumer, Voradenburg. 2d Tablet— Misses Campeau,' Regan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	-
1st Tablet—Misses J. English, L. Johns, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, B. Murray* G. Papin, M. Paul, M .Reynolds, A. Schmauss, S. Van Fleet, Chapin,	-
Three questions to be put to ourselves before speaking ill of any man or woman: First, “Is if true?” Second, “Is it kind?” Third, “Is it necessary ? ”
I .	i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKEMDORF^
FLORIST.
| Catholic Music
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS ON HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND, IND. ’
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (ClilSS Of’78).	W. H. LANDVOIGT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law,
470 Louisiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 18, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.
10.54 a-m-> Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
8.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 541 a.m.
. 4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m. Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, 10.11 a.m.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend. •
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Diy., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
MASSES, VESPERS,
CLASS and CHOIR BOOKS, etc., etc. The Most Complete Stock WEST OF NEW YORK CITY.
Send for Catalogues, o
John Church & Co.,
CINCINNATI, O.
L. CELANIA, Dealer in CALIFORNIA, FOREIGN and DOMESTIC FRUITS, CONFECTIONERY, etc.
in N. Main St.,
So u t li Bend , Indiana.
Crowned With Stars,
An Exqu site Volume ol P ems in H nor «»i Unf Bles-rd Virgin Mary, Queen <>f Heaven,
.	BY
.	‘ Eleanor C. Donnelly.
Published to Aid in P>acing on the Dome < f the N- w University ol Notre Dame, Indiana, a Colossal Statue of the Bkssed Virgin Mary, Crowned with Twelve Stars.
.Price, -	-	- gilt, $1.25; plain, $1.00.
Address STUDENTS’ OFFICE,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
PATENTS
MUNN & CO., of the Scientific American, continue to act as Solicitors for Patents, Caveats, Trade Marks, Copyrights, for the United States, Canada, England, France. Germany, etc. Hand Book about Patents sent free. Tint ty-=°~en years’experience.
Patents obtained through MUNN & CO. are noticed in the Scientific American, the largest, best, and most widely circulated scientific paper. S3.S0 a year. Weekly. Splendid engravings and interesting information. Specimen copy of the Scientific American sent free. Address MUNN &CO., SCIENTIFIC American Office, 2.11 Broadway, New York. .