MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL
WE BRING YOU THE WORLD FOR FREE!!
OCTOBER 4TH - OCTOBER 9TH
CULTURE ON THE QUAD
Monday- Friday, 12:00-1:00pm October 5th-9th
Fieldhouse Mall
ENTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD
Monday-Friday, 4:30-6:00pm
October 5th-9th
Fieldhousev Mall
FIRESIDE CHATS
SPECIAL CULTURAL EVENTS
Tuesday, Thursday, 7:00-11:00pm
October 6th-8th LaFortune Ballroom
TUESDAY •Infancia Americana
Song and Dance Troupe
•Carmen Morales
Puerto Rican Storyteller
October 5th-9th, 12:00-1:00pm
Notre Dame Room, LaFortune
THURSDAY
•Uraeus, Reggae Band
•African Heritage Dance Troupe
FREE LUNCH INCLUDED
MONDAY	"a Grey Panther"	Aging in America	
TUESDAY	Ava Collins	Multiculturalism and the Media	TASTE OF NATIONS Friday, October 9th: 7:30-1:00am
WEDNESDAY	Kahili Matta	The Middle EAst Peace Process	Stepan Center
THURSDAY	Tom McDermott	The Cultures of East Africa	"LET US PRAY..." A MULTICULTURAL CELEBRATION
FRIDAY	Rosemary Haughton	Homelessness: Song in a Strange Land	Sunday, October 4th: 2:00pm Holy Cross Field;Rain location: LaFortune Ballroom

SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
NEWS
4	All Washed Up
7	Sewart Udell to Present Overview of Environmental Movement
CAMPUS LIFE
8	Experience College Life in South America
SPORTS
14	Stepping Up
16	Who’s Going to Show? ENTERTAINMENT
18	Out Of Bounds
19	Three Days at the Zoo DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
3	Editorial / Letter
8	CampusWatch
22	On Other Campuses
23	Week In Distortion
24	Final Word
Cover photo by Nick Spangler
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
Wol.134,No.4 ...
- . September 24,1992 : ■ •
Disce Quasi Semper. Victurus . Vive Quasi Cras.Moriturus .
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
■ Patricia K. Doyle. :
■ V? •	* . ..
^MANAGING EDITOR
} Margaret S. Kenny.
: EXECUTIVE EDITOR
David J. Holsinger
tCAMpUSLIFE J ..
; Editor: Mollie Mudd T
SPORTS > -Editor: Jim Kuser
ENTERTAINMENT. > Editor: (J. Bradley Keck
PHOTOGRAPHY -
■Editor: Ken Osgood ;
:CQPY(>,<(^
Editor;, Chris Blanford
SENIOR STAFF WRITERS ■ . :	,
Amanda Clinton, Pete McGillicuddy^ iMaricelle.Ruiz-Calderdri; Jenny Tate, (HeidiLauratqbpnC ■	■:
GRAPH I0-ARTS' i‘Mana'ger::jai<e;Fr6st
■^youT^-^Manager: Chin Wang
ADVERTISING :
•Manager(Karen Riley
Manager: Eileen^SheUey
DISTRIBUTION MANAGER; Bill Rhomberg( '•
Scholastic is back on your Thursday night dinner table this week with an issue that will hopefully wake you up to what’s going on around you this week. We’re bringing you articles which we hope will interest, enlighten and entertain.
Our cover story this week details the rise of the Notre Dame men’s soccer team, and gi ves some insights into how they may fare this season. Writer Katie Medeiros brings you the history of our now nationally ranked squad.
Of major interest to most students will be this week’s campus life report by Allyson Grippando. This story covers the activities of the task force to Stop Underage Drinking and Sales in South Bend (SUDS). So far this year, SUDS has made numerous arrests and tried to intimidate many students. This story will hopefully bring to light some of the questions which such police activity raises.
In news, writer Laura Kroner previews aspeech by Stewart Udall. Mr. Udall is the former Secretary of the Interior under President John F. Kennedy. His address will be part of a conference on environmental ethics in business. This address will, among other things, bring to light the environmental progress (or attempts at it) by several major corporations. This is good election year stuff that you should pay attention to.-
For those of you who couldn’t get to the U2 shows in Chicago last week, Entertainment Editor J. Bradley Keck (don’t ask what the J. stands for) compiled four different accounts of the show. Kudos to the writers for their entertaining accounts, which get away from the standard format of concert reviews.
Also in this issue are stories by Nik Mathews (on the upcoming Purdue game), Joseph Laur (a humorous look at the conversion of Pangbom Hall) and Chris Lenko (a feature on Notre Dame’s new foreign study program in Santiago, Chile).
New this week are cartoons by freshman Dave Kellett, which we hope you’ll enjoy. With any luck, Mr. Kellett will be gracing our pages for a long time. Although the panels don’t have a title as yet, the humor in them is definitely along the lines of “The Far Side” and other “one-liner” cartoons, but a bit more direct. Check it out for yourself—I shouldn’t have to explain it to you!
And don ’ t forget about our regular features. Y ou may or may not have noticed the addition of the WVFI Top Ten to the Entertainment section. We thought this was a good addition to the department — it should give you a way to keep up on what people in the know are playing. At least every other week, albums will feature a description (wittily penned by ‘ VFI assistant music director Joe Cannon) so that you know what this stuff is about. Of course, the best way to figure out what any of the albums in the Top Ten sound like would be to turn on WVFI and hear them for yourself... but don’t tell anyone that I made such a logical suggestion.
As usual, On Other Campuses brings you goofball news from around the nation, the Gipp gripes about gettting ripped off (again) in CampusWatch and J. Bradley Keck (there he is again) lets you know what’s going on about town and in the entertainment industry in “Out Of Bounds.” Don’t forget our pull-out calendar when you’re looking for something to do this weekend.
In all, we have a good issue for you this week. Enjoy it. We'd love it if you would let us know how we're doing. Write us at 303 LaFortune, or call us at 239-7569.
David J. Holsinger
Executive Editor
Scholast ic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed al The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rale is $25. OOfyear and back issues are available al $125 (copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent th? opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts arc welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Leltersto Scholosticmust be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain ■ instances.	'	'
Scholast ic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to: ■
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
. Notre Dame, IN 46556
2
SCHOLASTIC
EDITORIAL______________________________
Journalism can be a dirty game, especially when the calendar starts to draw nearer to election day. Since the beginnings of newspaper journalism, politicians have sought to have their views and their characters portrayed in the most favorable manner possible. This is to be expected. Politicians are, after all, nothing else if not representatives of opinion, and they will always seek to make their own opinions heard more clearly than anyone else’s. Unfortunately, since the media have become the most prevalent means of transmitting the positions of candidates, its influence has become a crucial factor in most elections.
It is the task of an “independent” newspaper to ensure that news articles covering candidates and their campaigns reflect as little bias as possible. Most editors realize that what they cover is just as important as how they cover it. Editors can introduce bias into their papers indirectly in this manner. The dirty part of this is that readers may not notice that they are receiving information through the bias.
Scholastic would like to urge its readers to take its news with a grain of salt. We are not infallible, and neither is The Observer. All of us have different political inclinations. If your news seems to have a particular slant to it, then write back and let us know. Be sure to keep us honest.
We would like to help keep The Observer neutral in its reporting and hope that they do the same for us. You may or may not have noticed a definite pro-life slant to some of the news coverage run after Clinton’s speech. Specifically, we noticed that the news article, “Clinton speech stresses Catholic service, values” of September 14 had a pro-life slant, so much so that it’s debatable whether the article should have been called “news.” “News commentary” may have been more appropriate. TheObserver ‘s editors also found it necessary to make coverage of the pro-life protesters outside Stepan almost as much of an issue as Clinton’s actual presence (one-half page of coverage alone was dedicated to them, as compared to approximately one total page for reports on Clinton’s speech).
Again this week, Observer editors betrayed their status as an “independent” publication somewhat by the poll run on page four of the September 22 edition. While the poll appeared to be well thought-out and well-executed, the phrasing of some of the questions leaves little doubt as to the political position of the editorial board. Specifically, the questions, “Is Clinton’s draft status important to your decision?” and “Does Clinton’s pro-choice stance affect your decision?” reveal a definite anti-Clinton bias. No such questions were raised about the other candidate. The phrasing of the questions is far from neutral: One might have done better to ask, “Does the issue of abortion influence your voting?” and “Would a candidate’s past military record affect your vote?”
Last week, Scholastic published a political commentary by Executive Editor David Holsinger which was somewhat slanted in favor of candidate Clinton’spolicyproposals. Unlike 77ie Observer, though, we did not choose to call a piece with an obvious bias “news.” It was labelled as “news commentary,” which it was. We would encourage The Observer to do so with their political coverage as well. In the last week, they have given students reason to doubt their claim of being an “independent” publication. Please work to keep your campus media neutral, and let itknow if it’s doing its job. We strive to be as free of bias as we can be, and we want you to keep us honest if we aren’t.
-Scholastic
LETTER
Dear Editor,
I enjoyed Ian Mitchell’s news commentary about his attempt to survey the board of trustees and the resulting run-around he received from various offices within the administration (September 10). Moreover, his profile of Andrew J. McKenna, if not exactly revelatory in terms of what Mr. McKenna had to say, is a good example of the kind of reporting Scholastic should be doing. I was far more interested in reading about what was on the minds of trustees than under the skirts of the Irish Guard.
Administration paranoia, particularly when it comes to the campus press, spans decades of university history. Some of it, no doubt, may be justified by certain (and, I believe, rare) instances of misquotation or misleading contexts. Aside from the delusion that these sorts of things don’t happen — or happen less often — in our society, what can be truly frustrating about the administration is that this paranoia invariably masquerades as paternalism. No doubt someone within the administration wanted to see Mitchell’s survey to see that he was doing it “right” or to offer “helpful” suggestions. But Mitchell had already decided what he wanted to do and how he wanted to do it. The sad part about this is that the university indirectly frustrates the personal creativity and energies of one of its students when it tries to co-opt or channel them.
When each Successive student-generated report to the trustees is lauded (as they always are), but never acted upon, someone like Mitchell should have the right to wonder why and to pursue an answer to the best of his abilities. The active mistrust of these efforts does not speak well of the university at all.
Finally, you noted at the end of Mitchell’s commentary that his opinions did hot necessarily reflect those of Scholastic. Just which views, in a publication free of any editorials, are you writing about?
Terry Lynch ‘89
Terry Lynch was the managing editor of Scholastic during the1988-89 school year.	■
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
3
NEWS
All Washed
Up
S.U.D.S. cracks down on Notre Dame drinking as seventy-one students are arrested for minor consumption of alcohol
Off-campus apartment complexes cooperate with police to stop underage drinking
by Allyson Grippando
A ccording to theUniversity Committee xA. on the Responsible Use of Alcohol, 1984, as cited inDuLac, “It is the conviction of the university that drunkenness and public intoxication are unacceptable.” According to the St. Joseph County Police,? 1 students, predominantly from Notre Dame, St Mary’s and local high schools, received citations for contributing to the delinquency of minors and minor consumption of alcohol at off-campus parties Friday, September 11, 1992.
For almost as long as students have been attending the University of Notre Dame, underage consumption of alcohol has been a popular issue of debate, and since 1986 members of the South Bend Police, St. Joseph County Police, Indiana State Police and Indiana Excise Police have combined forces to counter the off-campus underage drinking problem.
Under the acronym S.U.D.S., the task force to Stop Underage Drinking and Sales has centered its attention on off-campus bars, liquor stores and parties. The most widely publicized raid took place almost
two weeks ago at Turtle Creek and Campus View Apartments on the Friday night before the Michigan football game. First respond
Scholastic Ilie photo
DuLac extensively outlines the university alcohol policy. The university adheres to Indiana Criminal Laws concerning alcohol, and it requires first-year students to attend a drug and alcohol awareness meeting.
ing to a call from a private security firm working at Turtle Creek, S.U.D.S. officers arrived at the complex to aid a female juve
SCHOLASTIC
nile who had passed out. Although the officers were obviously present at the complex, students continued to drink openly in front of the police. Undercover officers
from the Indiana Excise Police were then dispatched to find the parties, which they did easily, and close to thirty-five arrests were made with several kegs of beer con
fiscated. According to the police reports, many students could apparently see police in a staging area but still made no attempts to stop consumption. The police said the management at Turtle Creek was very , coop
erative with them. Claire Myers, resident manager there, affirmed that “Turtle Creek Apartments will continue to work with the South Bend Police, S.U.D.S. and the University of Notre Dame in a combined effort to stop underaged drinking. Each student’s welfare is a primary concern
Scholastic file photo
The university reserves the right to enter a private room for the purpose of enforcing the alcohol policy. It also restricts the use of alcoholic beverages to behind closed doors; no alcohol is allowed in the corridors.
of the Turtle Creek staff.”
After raiding Turtle Creek, the officers proceeded to Campus View and found several parties just beginning. Most, if not all, of the high school students fled when the police arrived as they are more familiar with S.U.D.S. operations and knew that the force was in the area. Upon arriving at the complex, officers claimed to have found beer cans strewn about the ground and individuals carrying and attempting to conceal alcoholic beverage containers.
Following plainclothes officers who verified that an open party was taking place, members of the Task Force entered a party and requested that all those twenty-one or older show identification and leave. All of the minors present at the party had to take an Alco-Sensor test to determine blood alcohol content then were cited and released. John Wilson, manager and part owner of Campus View Apartments, explained that “Friday night was a very difficult situation. Very,
very seldom we have had raids from S.U.D.S. We are very cooperative and we very much want to work with them.”
Brad*, an on-campus student, received a
citation at Campus View that Friday night while inside a second floor apartment party. When the officers entered the party they told everyone to leave and show identification on
the way out—those without ID had to take a breathalizer. Brad’s breathalyzer registered .10 which warranted him a ticket for minor consumption of alcohol. Unsure of
that I could just be£ sitting in a party
Billie
a breathalyzer and a citation .
OhiirlieMiiiiiig®
what his future holds, he must first attend a meeting for pre-trial diversion during which the general procedure will be sketched out for him.
The police first entered the party in plainclothes and since no one was really monitoring the door, they assumed the party was “open” and that they could, therefore,
enter and raid it. Brad said about the incident: “I found it surprising that I could just be sitting in a party at Campus View and be susceptible to a breathalizer from a police officer and a citation for underage drinking.”
Two other Notre Dame students also faced citation at the same party that night but instead chose to present the officers with false identification. Since both women possess convincing IDs, they felt that the consequences ofnotshow-
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
5
ing identification outweighed the risks involved in using a fake. The IDs worked, and they were able to leave the party freely.
Another on-campus student who received a citation for a relatively low blood alcohol content expressed irritation at being ticketed, “I just think police officers are not dealing with the right problems they should be dealing withinthetown. Instead of dealing with the drug problem and the muggings and beatings of students, they are making their top
priority underage consumption,” he said.
Not only concerned with the high rates of violent crime and the drug problems that plague the South Bend area, these students feel that members of die Task Force are contradicting their expressed concerns with drinking and driving because they told people to leave the party and even sent students home after ticketing them without
partment, the use of false or altered identification falls under the category of Class C misdemeanors, which are punishable by up to 60 days in jail and up to a $500 fine. Using altered identification and supplying it are two different things. Whereas using false identification is considered a Class C infraction and no jail time accompanies the violation, supplying a false ID constitutes an actual misdemeanor accompanied by potential jail time. Falsely informing a police officer by claiming to be of age could be considered a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by up to six months in jail and a fine up
to $ 1000. The penalties do not vary depending on the type of identification in possession. Whether the license is real or manufactured, the violation would still be considered a Class C misdemeanor.
Most first-time offenders are given pre-trial diversion, a program in which the minor may receive a fine, community service and probation instead of a direct sen
worrying about transportation. Gloria, one of the women who left the party with ID, expressed the common sentiment: "It just seems that they’re out to get us rather than being concerned with our welfare.”
The University of Notre Dame extensively outlines its alcohol policy and regulations in DuLac. All freshman are required to attend meetings on the drug and alcohol policy of Notre Dame and all changes in the policy from year to year are actively identified for the up
perclassmen. Adherence to Indiana Criminal Law regarding the consumption, distribution, sales, supplying and providing of alcoholic beverages must be maintained by any student, student organization or university housing facility.
. Building upon that principle, the alcohol policy goes on, stating that the university
will enter a private residence room for the purpose of enforcing Indiana laws if drinking in such a room becomes public in any way. No alcoholic beverages may be carried in open containers in the corridors or any other public area of the residence halls, and alcoholic beverages may only be served in the social rooms of university residence halls following strict.regulations. Strict
“In a Christian com muni ty such as
and frequently violate the norm of temperate drinkingshouldbe subjeettose^
::?;'Rpsponsibi^^
regulations are also outlined for tailgaters and other outdoor gatherings and off-campus events sponsored by student organizations or university housing facilities. Above all, DuLac stresses compliance with Indiana Criminal Law in any situation involving the consumption of alcohol by students.
According to the South Bend Police De-
tence. Other Class C misdemeanors include possession, consumption and public transportation of alcoholic beverages by a minor.
The problems of two weeks ago and the continuing fear of a S.U.D.S. raid are very real issues that Notre Dame students face when they decide to go off campus and consume alcohol. Both sides view each other as a problem that needs to be dealt with, and tensions will continue to build as raids and citations for minor consumption build. Most students view S.U.D.S. as
more of the problem than a solution. In the words of a women who left Campus View that Friday night after presenting ID, “B ust-ing parties is not going to stop underage drinking. If they think it is, they’re living in a dream world.”	□
'Students names have been changed.
6
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
by Laura Kroner
The deterioration of the environment is one of the biggest problems facing Americans today. The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business is sponsoring a conference entitled “Business Leadership in the Environmental Crisis” to inform students of the problems and some steps that are being taken to reverse the harmful trends.
The conference will be held at the Center for Continuing Education. It opens at 9 a.m. on Monday, September 28, and meetings run until noon of the next day.
Free to the public, it is slated to address the concerns of protecting both American business interests and the environment. According to many experts, businesses must take the first big step in dealing with environmental problems.
Rev. Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., associate provost, associate professor of management and codirector of the center said the conference will look into “how corporate America can take a leading role in solving the environmental problem.’.’ To further examine this statement, five major corporations — 3M (Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company), The McDonald’s Corporation, Indiana-Michigan Power Company, International Paper and Texaco Inc — have been invited to discuss their progress in dealing with envi
ronmental issues.
According to Williams, these are some of the companies who have put forth the greatest effort and, therefore, made the greatest strides toward a solution. For example, McDonald’s switched from the traditional styrofoam wrappings for sandwiches to a biodegradable paper wrapper, less harmful to the environment. Each of the five companies will make 45 minute presentations stating their efforts to improve the environmental situation.
After each presentation, a panel of three respondents will have 45 minutes to conduct a discussion. The panel members will spell out what each company is still doing wrong and what further improvements should be made. Williams feels that this conference will be unique in “bringing together major business leaders and key consumer advocates to talk together.”
Williams said a highlight of the conference will beaspeech made by Stewart Udall, the former Secretary of the Interior, at 7:30 p.m. Monday. Termed by Williams as “the grandfather of the environmental movement,” Udall will present an overview of the movement as well as past accomplishments and expectations for the future.
Appointed by President John F. Kennedy, Udall served as the 37th Secretary of the Interior for eight years during the administrations of both President Kennedy and President Lyndon B. Johnson. Today Udall
lectures to universities and business audiences on topics relating to the ecological revolution.
Author of the best selling novels, The Quiet Crisis and Next Generation, Udall asserted the proposition that “men must grasp completely the relationship between human stewardship and the fullness of the American earth. We can misuse the land and diminish the usefulness of resources, or we can create a world in which physical affluence and affluence of the spirit go hand in hand.”
Among the other experts scheduled to speak are Jack Lorenz, executive director of the Izaak Walton League; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., the university’s president emeritus; and Patrick Noonan, chairman and chief executive officer of the Conservation Fund.
By attending the conferences, Williams feels that “students will get insight and learn what’s left to be done.” He deemed it an opportunity to receive free information from experts on one of today’s biggest problems and said that attending the conference would be beneficial to any Notre Dame student According to Williams, “No one of us can solve the environmental problem; however, everyone should find some way to act.” Each of us needs to get involved —join an environmental group, participate in a campaign to recycle or simply attend and learn from the conference.	□
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
NEWS COM MEN T ARY
CampusIMatt
This week’s edition of CampusWatch is dedicated entirely to pointing out the many ways the University of Notre Dame has found to rip off its students. (Picky grammar people, please note the proper use of the “its” without the apostrophe.) We’re sure that you are all shocked and appalled to learn that the university might do something of this nature, but yes, dearreaders, you may be getting cheated out of more than just your pocket change.
THE WEASELS GO
‘POP!’
n Thefirstreportofthisweek’sspecial“all-:ii scandal” edition has probably hurt you
i	harder than you would think. An observant
CampusWatcher pointed out that all of the pop machines on campus charge 60 cents per can. A crack team of Scholastic investigators discovered that the average can of [	carbonated fizzy drinkcosts 17 cents whole-
sale. Even if one were to buy pop at a ' grocery store for $5 a case, a can costs only
21 cents. But here’s the real kicker: Notre Dame’s vending machines are not rented out ; to an independent company but owned and maintained by the university itself. “Revenues,” according to a sticker on the machines, “are used to assist in educational pursuits?’
Think about this one for a minute. Rev-i enues from students’ own pocket money is j going. towards educating them. Why i	doesn’t the university lower the price of pop
about 20 cents a can (which still leaves them enough to cover their overhead, we think) and let us decide for ourselves how to use the money that we’re spending? How many of us would gripe about paying 40 cents per I can? This is a reasonable price, much more
8
so than the 60 cents which the university currently extorts from its thirsty students. The Gipp estimates that he himself would save $ 1.40 a week if the price were reduced. This means an extra $18 per semester, or approximately the price of one piece of paper at the bookstore.
One could extrapolate this even further. If only half of the students on campus bought one can of pop every day, this would mean that the university makes about $800 a daymore than it should. Of course, learning
Beverage machines on campus are draining students of too much cash.
to scam money this well is the reason that all of us came here in the firstplace, isn’tit? We should all try to follow the fine example of naked profit-seeking set by our university. “Lettuce serve you,” read the plates on the vending machines. “Lettuce have our money back,” says the Gipper.
GRAD STUDENTS AVERT THE BIG ONE
The most whined-about institution of ritual extortion and naked capitalism on this campus is without a doubt the Hammes® Notre Dame Bookstore. Students have long found this evil edifice to be a source of anger and an explanation for their lack of pocket cash. The Gipp. himself has taken on a crusade against this gang of thieves on more than one occasion, and this week is no different
Reliable sources tell us that graduate students in other departments have similar 800number organizations as well. Readers, this bears investigation! Help us undermine thebookstoreand tell us of any cheaper book sources that might be out there!
As always, if you have a hot tip for the Gipp, send it to 303 LaFortune, or call our friendly answering machine at 239-7569.
KEEP THOSE BLASTED CRITTERS OUT!
The Gipp's ever-vigilant staff photgrapher found this set of instructions on a dryer at an off-campus laundromat.
SCHOLASTIC
by Chris Lenko
On a warm, sunny morning, early in the fall semester, Notre Dame’s campus could serve as the background for a Norman Rockwell painting. Smiling students carrying books are seen racing to their classes, soccer and frisbee games abound on the quads and young couples in love hold hands as they watch the last rays of the setting sun disappears behind ivy covered buildings. In September all is well at Notre Dame. With midterms too far off to be a reality and the excitement of football games energizing the campus on weekends, there are fewer places that a Domer would rather be than South Bend, Indiana.
Usually by the timeFebruary rolls around, however, winter has reared its ugly head, stress and exhaustion have set in and many students become somewhat disillusioned with life under the Golden Dome. The thrill of eating Yo-cream three times a day has long worn off, and the prospect of hiking through three feet of snow to get to an eight
o’clock class is enough to make any student The seal of the Pontificia Universidad transfer to the University of Hawaii.	Catolica In Santiago, Chile.
______________CAMPUS LIFE __________________________________
Experience College Life in South America
New International Study Program opened in Chile
Fortunately, with the arrival of the university’s newest foreign study program, disenchanted Domers no longer have to consider an action as drastic as leaving the university to make it through the winter months.
The International Study Program in Santiago, Chile, allows students the opportunity to study in a sub-tropical climate and take advantage of a wide variety of course offerings at the Pontifica Universidad Catolica (PUC), one of the most prestigious universities in South America.
Participants in the program can elect to study abroad for either the fall or the spring semester of their sophomore or junior year, or they can choose to take classes in Santiago for the full academic year.
Because Chile is south of the equator, fall semester begins in March and ends in June, and winter sessions run from August through November.
Students can take courses in most areas of study: humanities, the social sciences, business administration, economics, the fine arts and natural sciences.
Candidates should be forewarned that all
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992	9
Father Don McNeil.
A View of Santiago from San Cristobal Hill.
classes are taught in Spanish, so students considering applying might want to brush up on their verb conjugating skills or catch
some TV shows on the multicultural channel every once in a while.
Students will earn between 12 and 18 credits per semester, and these credits will fulfill university requirements and be calculated in the student’s GPA.
. While studying in Chile, participants will have the option to enroll in a seminar program. This course, open to both American and Chilean students, is worth three academic credits and allows the student to directly explore the dynamics of an underdeveloped country at work.
The course will focus on poverty as it relates to aspects of psychology, sociology, government and theology. Students will speak with those involved in implementing
creative programs for the poor, and they will be able to interact with Chilean students to experience the impacts of poverty and underdevelopment in the nation.
According to Father Don McNeil, director of the Center for Social Concerns, it is this opportunity to work directly with the Chilean people and become involved in service-oriented projects that make the Santiago program unique.
The idea of learning more about a third world country through hands-on experience is what attracted junior Michelle Borbe to the program. “I’m excited by the chance to work with the peasants and villagers in South America. None of the other study programs allow students to become directly involved with the people and culture of the
country,” she said.
Other interested students who attended an information session on September 15 ech
oed her sentiments..
Father Tim Scully, who conducted the meeting, emphasized that there is no time like the present to visit Chile. “I think this is the most exciting opportunity open to undergraduates interested in studying the pressing problems of development and democracy. Chile is a laboratory of social science and innovation, and to experience firsthand the unfolding of this new democracy is an unprecedented opportunity.”
Other advantages students will gain from the program include becoming fully bilingual and having the chance to watch the water in the toilet bowl swirl in the opposite direction, due to Chile’s position in the Southern hemisphere.
j!	'	■	•	■	■	'
hi 10	SCHOLASTIC
1^
/ Those who are interested in taking advantage of the program’s opportunities but hesitate to travel to a third world country for a semester have nothing to fear. Students
can spend the evening chatting with the locals and dancing the queca, Chile’s national dance, to live music.
Santiago is also known for its culinary
will be placed with middle class families who live in brick houses similar to those one would expect to find in the suburbs of South-Bend.
Classes are held at the university’s downtown campus, which is easily accessible by subway, and candidates can rest assured that the city is full of exciting places to visit.
Santiago is a modern, thriving metropolis of four million people with art galleries, museums, shopping centers and parks. For entertainment there is an abun-
Father Don McNeil
franchise, although no self-respecting native would ever be caught dead eating in that establishment
The cost of studying in Chile is $6,985for
Nuria Alsina J., the Director of International Programs, and her assistant at the university.
dance of theaters, movies and
one semester or $13,000 for the year-long academic program. Included in this fee are all academic and program expenses, round-trip airfare, accommodation and meals and all books and supplies.
Interested students who missed the information session are encouraged to contact the International Study Programs office at 239-5882. Applications for the fall semester are due on October 15, and the deadline for spring semester applications is December 1.
Handing in a completed
application does not commit
nightclubs to explore. Another alternative delights. Students can sample casuela, torta any student to involvement in the program,
that is popular with the trendy college de mil hojas or local fruit ice milk, the Chil- so if interested, drop by the International crowd are the penas, coffee houses where, ean equivalent of Yo-cream. For the less Study offices and pick up a form; come for the equivalent of ten dollars, two people adventurous, Santiago has one McDonald’s January you might be glad you did. □
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31 N (By North Village Mall)
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
Send information for your event to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday 24
Movie: "Real Genius," 8:00 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Lecture: "Border Pedagogy: Cultural Differences and the PoUtics of Hope," 4:00 pjn., Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Seminar "Framed or Be Framed: The U.S. Peace Movement, the Media and National Security Debates," 12:15 p.m., Room 103, Hesburgh Center.
Cruise: Sponsored by the Senior Class, 4:25 pjn., Meet at Main Circle, $25. Mass: Sesquicentennial Mass, 5:00 p.m., Sacred Heart Basilica.
Friday 25 Saturday 26
Movie: "Lethal Weapon 3," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Mediterraneo," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Workshop: "Border Pedagogy: Cultural Differences and the Politics of Hope," 11:00 a.m., Foster Room. Forum: "Aging and Ethics: A Business and Economics Perspective," 12:15 p.m., Room 124, CSC.
Lecture: "Proust et les Metamorphoses du Gout," 4:30 p.m., Room 207, DeBartolo Hall.
Convocation: Sesquicentennial Convocation, 2:30 p.m., Room 101, DeBartolo.
Cross Country: Men's Cross Country National Catholic Invitational, 4:15 p.m., Burke Memorial Golf Course. Cross Country: Women's Cross Country National Catholic Invitational, 5:00 p.m., Burke Memorial Golf Course.
Soccer: Notre Dame Women vs. Duke, 7:30 p.m., Alumni Field.
Movie: "Lethal Weapon 3," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "Mediterraneo," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Meeting: Alcoholics Anonymous, 9:30 a.m., Multipurpose Room, CSC.
Football: Notre Dame vs. Purdue, 12:35 p.m., Notre Dame Stadium.
i
i 1
5
S
3
For More Information Call
LaFortune Information Desk: 239-8128
Senior Class: 239-5136
Student Union Board: 239-7757
Junior Class: 239-5117
Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239-7361
Sophomore Class: 239-5225
ND News Line: 239-5110
JACC Ticket Information: 239-7354
Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD
Weekend Wheels Schedule: 283-FRED
Film: "Citizen Kane," 9:00 pjn., Snite, $2.
Lecture: "What It Means to Be a His-
Touch Four
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 2101 for movie info. J x 2114 for the music line x 2112 for concert info, x 2117 for theatre info; x 2525 for college events
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather
x 1903 for movie reviews
x 1300 for local sports info.
x 1301 for TV sports events
x 1303 for national sports report
x 1213 for world news
Monday 28
'ilm: "Extraordinary Adventures of Mr.
Vest in the Land of the Bolsheviks," 7:00
>.m., Snite, $2.
i'ilm: "Invasion of the Body Snatchers," 1*00 p.m., Snite, $2.
ioccen Notre Dame Women vs. Portland, >:00 p.m., Alumni Held.
panic Role Model," 8:00 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium.
Wednesday 30
Performance: Jim Wand, Hypnotist, 8:00 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium, $3.
Movie Theatres:
Arrested Development will be playing with En Vogue Friday at the Arie Crown Theatre.
100 Center Cinema I&II: 259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090
University Park Cinema East 277-7336
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441
Forum I & II Cinema:
277-1522
Stepping 27
After a slow start, the men's soccer team is strutting its stuff.
By Kate Medeiros
£	/f any of our Olympic sports have
IVA made great strides, and the next one to do great things will be men's soccer. They are ready to burst onto the national scene," said Notre Dame athletic director Richard Rosenthal.
Ranked 20th in pre-season polls, the Irish had to come out fighting hard and strong to open their 1992 season. The team’s first three games included an exhibition match against Indiana at the Golden Boot Classic - and regular season matches against highly ranked UCLA and Duke in the Adidas MetLife Classic.
J -; The Irish lost to Indiana by two goals, i' - They also lost to UCLA and Duke, but they kept the games very tight Both games were decided by a single goal.
j The 1992 squad has come back strongly j ’ , by winning games against Illinois-Chicago i ■ I (7-0), Valparaiso (5-1) and LaSalle (2-0). : The Irish also tied Michigan State 2-2 to even their record at 3-3-1.
; This year’s team is coming off a slow start, but behind it is a successful 1991 ; season that ended with a record of 13-5-2.
Irish head coach Mike Berticelli has a history of improving records dramatically from season to season. Berticelli, who has been named national coach of the year twice, has two Division III national championships at North Carolina-Greensboro under his belt. Berticelli came to Notre Dame after a successful past with Old Dominion; Entering his third season with Notre Dame, Berticelli’s career record is '	207-70-28.
Berticelli has been looking forward to this
14
season since early last year. Losing only two starters and having a young but experienced squad, Berticelli believes that 1992 could be an exciting year for Notre Dame men’s soccer.
The 1992 team has only three seniors: captain and sweeper Mario Tricoci, forward Kevin Pendergast and forward/midfielder Brendan Dillman.
“They have all made major contributions is the past,” said Berticelli. “The leadership of those three seniors will be very important.”
Tricoci, who is only the second Notre
Irish head coach Mike Berticelli had 13 freshmen earn monograms last year, including defensman Chris Dean who started In every game. Ni(;kSpangter
Dame soccer player to be named the sole captain of an Irish soccer team, will be a key player this season. Tricoci was named to the second team of the All-Midwestem Collegiate Conference in 1991.
Pendergast is one of Notre Dame’s highest scorers. “He is a complete sweeper who is going to be counted on this year for a lot of leadership,” said Berticelli. “He is explosive. He has the ability to blow by a defender at any time. He has a very powerful shot and is dangerous from anywhere on the field.”
Dillman, a consistent player, scored his four career goals during his junior year.
SCHOLASTIC
Berticelli described Dillman as “dangerous”
because “he has the ability to strike from
anywhere, and he has a very strong shot”
Among other key players on whom Berticelli is depending for a successful 1992 season are sophomore goal-keeper Bert Bader, sophomore forward Jean Joseph,
sophomore forward Tim Oates, sophomore
defender Christopher Dean and freshman . last year, scored eight goals last season, forward Bill Lanza.
Bader has just come off a tremendously successful freshman season in which he was named Midwestern Collegiate Conference newcomer of the year. He was also named to the second team of the All-Midwestem Collegiate Conference. He posted eleven shutouts, just one short of the school season record. In the second game of his career, Bader made ten saves, a season high, against Saint Louis University. Berticelli used the word “dominant” to describe Bader. Berticelli looks “forward to
The Irish have pulled themselves up by their bootstraps to jump into NlcRSPan9|ar
watching him this year, because he can be a
great one.”
“He can single-handedly determine the outcome of every game he is in because he can make so many great saves. “
Joseph, along with Bader, had one of the best freshman seasons in Irish history even though he missed five games due to an injured leg. In 1991, Joseph led the team with twenty-eight points. Joseph won numerous awards during his freshman season. He was named to the second-team of the All-Midwestem Collegiate Conference, won Midwestern Collegiate Conference All-
Newcomer team honors, was named to the
All-Tournament Team at the South Carolina
Met-Life Classic and finished third in scoring in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. Berticelli said he will be looking to Joseph and Oates to get goals early in the games.
Oates, who was the second leading scorer
the collegiate soccer spotlight.
Oates’ combination of strength and speed
makes him a key part of Irish success this season. Berticelli hopes to give Oates the ball early and often to score points and keep the game exciting.
“He just keeps going after the opponent and never gives up. He plays until the final whistle, and he’s the kind of player who makes ithappen on the field,” saidBerticelli.
Dean, who has extensive international experience, started in all twenty games last season.
“Chris is a competitor and plays to the last second of every game,” said Berticelli. “He
attacks very well from his marking back
position and is always a threat coming for
ward.”
Lanza, Parade magazine’s top-rated forward in 1991 and an All-American, was one of the most highly recruited prep stars in the nation. He was also the Gatorade player of
the year in Virginia in 1991. Lanza is the sparkplug player for Berticelli this season.
“Bill has the ability to make a major impact as a freshman,” said Berticelli. “Lanza will really be important to the success of this season in terms of getting goals early on.”
The Irish have many more key games to play, including an away game against instate rival Evansville.
Berticelli believes that 1992 will be both exciting and successful for the Irish men’s soccer team.
“We are a very, very young team. The real key to being successful is to mature week to week. Our younger players are going to have to play like upperclassmen,” he said
‘Our overall goal is to become the best
team we can be. We want to be realistic but set our goals high to push our success.”
If the Irish are able to win the MCC tournament, they will have a bid to the NCAA tournament, something that the Irish have not had since 1988. Although Berticelli, in his modesty, is not mentioning this as an immediate goal for the 1992 team, it seems that the Fighting Irish will uphold a tradition of success by securing such a bid. Facing a difficult schedule, Notre Dame had to step it up after an 0-3 start. Notre Dame did just that.	□
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
SPORTS
Who’s Going n to Show?
They beat 17th-ranked California. They lost to unranked Toledo. They
constitute that unpredictable phenomenon called Purdue.
'	By Nik Mathews
rri wo weeks ago, the Purdue University football team 1 pulled off the nation’s biggest upset of the week, stunning seventeenth—ranked California 41-14 and giving them their first victory over a nationally ranked foe since 1984. This made last weekend’s result, a loss to unheralded
; Toledo, a shock to any football fan.
P Purdue boasts some exceptional players, especially at the i - c skill positions. Senior quarterback Eric Hunter has proven to i J be the catalyst of the Boilermaker offense. Hunter’s talents, • . ? which resemble those of NFL great Randall Cunningham, make him a dangerous scrambler and passer. Combining i ' these Cunninghamesque “double-threat” abilities with his ; H ; experience, Hunter has developed into a solid and capable j ' pleader for Purdue.
■ Senior wideout Ernest Calloway has been at the end of. many Hunter passes over the past two years as Purdue’s i . leading receiver with 75 receptions for 1077 yards through
~ the 1991 season. Calloway is also the team’s top kickoff returner, averaging 19.4 yards per return. .
Tailback Jeff Hill, who was named the Big Ten offensive player of the week after the California game, is a talented runner who, with Corey Rogers, takes some'of the pressure off of Hunter:
On the defensive side, senior nose guard Jeff Zgonina, a preseason All-American and candidate for both the Outland Trophy and Lombardi Award, heads the list of standouts.
i i . Linebacker Eric Beatty, Sports Illustrated’s defensive player ! ; of the week after his stellar performance against California
(20 tackles, 16 solo), and All-Big Ten cornerback Jimmy Young will help Zgonina in leading the defense.
The talent and abilities of these players cannot be denied.
16
■ i ''
Bl ;
Senior quarterback Eric Hunter ranks fifth on Purdue's career passing list with 4,741 yards, but it is his scrambling ability that makes him a dangerous double threat to opposing defenses.
SCHOLASTIC
They are seasoned and proven performers. However, they must anchor a very young
and inexperienced squad. Head Coach Jim Colletto has called this the youngest team he has ever coached: 67 of the 94 players on the roster are freshmen or sophomores, including seven starters and 17 of 22 second-string players. With such inexperience comes inconsistency, whiclr was painfully evident in the loss to Toledo.
If anyone can get this squad to tum itself into a consistent winner, it is Colletto, who is embarking on his second season with the Boilers. Dick Vermeil, former Philadelphia Eagle head coach and current ABC Sports commentator, said, “I’ve known Jim since he was a player at UCLA. I’ve followed his career, have respect for him and am excited for him. He’s intense, extremely detailed in preparation, demanding, very discipline-oriented, a tireless worker and a great communicator.”
The statistics support Vermeil’s kudos. In his rookie year Colletto guided Purdue to a 4-7 record, including two losses by a total of five points. His team tied for sixth in the Big Ten with a conference record’of 3-5. After finishing last in rush
ing in Division I football with an average of 55.6 yards per game before his arrival, Purdue averaged 177.7 rushing yards per game last year. Colletto improved the team’s turnover margin from negative 23 to three, including an increase in interceptions from six to 20.
Nonetheless, the Notre Dame-Purdue game has resulted in lopsided Irish victories
in the last few meetings. The only reason why this may not be true this year is the
arrival of Coach Colletto. In just one season at the reigns for the Boilers, Colletto has managed to implement successfully a.pro-fessional stylepassing attack while simultaneously tightening Purdue’s defense and
Purdue Sports Information
Preseason All-American nose guard Jeff Zgonina, here celebrating the sack of a quarterback, has been named as a candidate for this year's Outland Trophy and Lombardi Award.
increasing its special teams productivity.
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz has a healthy respect for what Colletto can do arid has done with his squad.
"You can count on this: the Purdue team we see Saturday will be the one that knocked off California, not the one that lost to Toledo," said Holtz.
"Jim Colletto has done a nice job with this
team. They run it well with Jeff Hill, they throw it well with Eric Hunter, but their
defense is the thing that impresses me most. Jeff Zgonina is one of the better defensive tackles in the country. They are a talented football team and they make things happen. They are one of the more improved football teams in the country. Jim Colletto said he thought Purdue would be one of the better teams in the Big Ten in the near future, and I think the future is now. Plus, Purdue has a history of playing well against Notre Dame."
And so the Boilers come to Notre Dame two weeks after their upset of 17th-ranked California, Purdue's first win over a ranked team since it beat Notre Dame in the Hoosier Dome in 1984. Purdue averages 309.5 total yards per game with 141 yards rushing and 168.5 yards passing. However, it gives up 398 yards per game with 104 yards rushing and 294 yars passing. Purdue’s running attack will feature junior tailback Jeff Hill who had back-to-back 100-yard rushing games of 106 yards versus California and 108 yards versus Toledo. Sophomore quarterback Matt Pike led Purdue's aerial assaultby throwing 22 of 44 for 337 yards, one interception and three touchdowns in the first two games. However, it is expected that the double threat Eric
Hunter will start against Notre Dame after overcoming an arm injury.
Purdue may be an improving team under Colletto, but it is doubtful that it will be able to contain Notre Dame’s high-powered offense, experience and depth. This will be a repeat of the Northwestern game, with Purdue moving the ball early before being slowly, but surely, blown-out.	□
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
17
REV I E W & P R E V I E W / SPORTS
by J. Bradley Keck
Why do I only have a half of a page this week? Well, maybe I just don’t have a lotto say. Maybe I like to be above two great athletes. And maybe I spent a lot of time laying out the cool U2 story. (I’m a slave to my boss.) So get off my back.
Video Sex
Magic Johnson and Arsenio Hall have just released a new home video directed by Malcolm-Jamal Warner to educate teenagers and young adults about the dangers of AIDS. The video entitledTzme Out: The ' Truth About HIV, AIDS and You stars a plethora of Hollywood elite from Pauly Shore to Luke Perry who all give informative tidbits about the prevention of AIDS. ; Paramount Studios produced this video on a - non-profit basis and began distributing the 42-minute film to Los Angles schools. One : small problem: the Los Angles school dis
trict has ruled the video as restricted subject matter due to the “graphic description of sexual behavior,” so the video can only be seen by the students with parental consent. Is this pornography? No, especially because every student can get AIDS without parental consent.
On a lighter note, what do Malcolm-Jamal Warner’s friends call him? Malcolm? Jamal? MaJa? Warn-o? You know he must have one “dope” nickname.
Night Wars
Hellen Kushinick, the executive producer of the Tonight Show has been accused of strong-arming guests away from other late night shows. She reportedly has been telling performers that if they show their face on Arsenio or Late Night with David Lettermen they will never ever be invited to the Tonight Show. She canceled Travis Tritt after he booked an appearance on Arsenio. Members of the Seinfield and
Home Improvement have also come foreword to help stop Kushinick’s “deal breaking” tactics. Early this week Kushinick was fired. In the aftermath Kushinick claimed that she was “attacked simply because she was a woman.” I really thought that politics was bad... until now.
Up and Coming
Cover Girls, Saturday at the China Club ... En Vogue and Arrested Development, Friday at the Arie Crown Theatre... Sounds of Blackness, Friday at the Medinah Temple... Ricky Van Shelton, Friday at the Star Plaza Theater... Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra featuring Wynton Marsalis, Friday at Orchestra Hall ... At the movies Friday — Sarafina! starring Whoopi Goldberg ... Last of the Moheacans, directed by Michael Mann fresh off the streets of Miami and staring Daniel Day Lewis... In the record store nextTuesday — 10,000 Maniacs, Our time in Eden... Peter Gabriel, Us ... also albums by Alice in Chains, Stevie Ray Vaughn, Trixter, Slaver and 2 Live Crew’s Greatest Hits.
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Todd Wilson: Wilson, a junior from Billings, MT, led the Notre Dame men's tennis team to dominance in the Tom Fallon Invitational here at Notre Dame this past weekend. By winning his match against Irish freshman Jason Pun 6-3,6-3, he advanced to the finals to upset junior Tom North, ranked in the top six for the Irish last year, 6-2,4-6,6-4.
18
Rosella Guerrero: Guerrero, a freshman from Sacramento, CA, aided the Notre Dame women's soccer team to victory over Michigan State lastFriday. She contributed to the Irish 4-0winover the Spartans by scoring a goal on a head ball. Guerrero is currently tied for eighth in the nation for total goals scored in this 1992 season with six.
SCHOLASTIC
ENTERTAINMENT
by Pete Dedman, Joseph Laur, Kristin Greeley, Jim Sullivan and joe Huston
Ihesday: The Show
“Public Enemy and Big Audio Dynamite II are opening up?! I’m there!” That was the news I heard last Sunday, and it was probably the only thing that could have persuaded me to go see U2 at the World Music Theater. Despite my love for the band, the show I saw last spring in Hartford, Connecticut left me convinced that ZOO TV was a great idea that just didn’t work. Rather, it acted as a cage, within which the four band members were forced to perform unspontaneously, adhering to a rehearsed schedule in order to stay in synch with the myriad of television images, swirling beams of light emitted from old East German Trabants, and near-subliminal messages and catch phrases. But I hadn’t seen either P.E. or B.A.D. Fronted by former Clash leader Mick Jones, B. A.D. promised a great performance, and given the perpetual controversy and media fire threatening Public Enemy, I figured this could be the only chance I’d get to see the most influential hiphop act in the world.
Fortunately, my ticket-scalping roomie saved two tixs for myself and a friend, so last Tuesday afternoon we headed up to Chi
cago, only to face immediated thunderstorms and a heavy rain that showed no signs of relenting in time for the outdoor show. But it did let up, and B.A.D. took the stage right on time. During their set, it occurred to me that the choice of support acts proved to be quite intriguing: Members of U2 have been quoted as saying that their multiplatinum effort, Achtung Baby, is represen-
tative of a brand new genre of pop music. Yet despite their claims to innovation, U2 picked for their warm-up acts two groups which are obvious influences on their “new sound.” Public Enemy and B. A.D. represent the amalgamation of industrial noise; sampled layerings of drum beats and heavily grooved guitar riffs that U2 has added to
their original brew of rock songwriting.
Both P.E. and B.A.D. are themselves at
the forefront of blending hip-hop, hardcore funk and rock. Moreover, whereas U2’s influences are alluded to in their music, Public Enemy went directly to the source, sampling musical forerunners such as James Brown and Bob Marley. B.A.D., in a more playful manner, samples everything from movie clips to their own, earlier material. They also paid homage to their contemporary influences, as samples of Manchester-style dance singles from groups like Definition of Sound and Primal Scream were sprinkled between songs. .
For all their critical importance, though, both opening performances seemed rather rushed, making way for the main event. Even as Flavor Flav’s chanting of “Don’t Believe the Hype” echoed in my mind, ZOO TV switched on with all its hype. And this time, U2 wanted you to believe that hype, Even as the first song, “Zoo Station,” surged Out at the crowd, it was evident that U2 is • much more comfortable with their gimmick now than last spring. No longer just abstract pre-programmed images, ZOO TV has realized its potential as a powerful medium through which U2 can integrate Martin Luther King, Jr. speeches into the MLK-inspired “Pride,” playfully splice Bush and Quayle talks (wherein the leaders urge the;
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992	19
Dame student we final
new part of me was bom
A T-shirt-less, though hie. Content, at least until pie wearing their new U2 y to my first class.
audience to “watch m< White House, or create Bono did with Lou Re dition of Reed’s “Satellf
In many ways, ZOO
used hand-held cam screaming girls attacking him during “Trying to Throw Your Arms Around the World,” and filmed his own spinning countenance on “Even Better Than the Real Thing.” Indeed, the other three the band at times seemed t the technowizardry, come out from behind sing Irish pub favorite song which I hadn’t hea| lad myself, listening to my Uncle Terry’s beer-moistened tongue, under a frothy moustache. The Edge frequently jounced around the stage, sometimes joining Bono on the runway which - - jutted out into the crowd, and hand at the mic, singing o Comes To Town” and Adam Clayton was ar think.
Overall, though, thU using ZOO TV ins along by the electri® The surreal effects some of the earlier t didn’t play those song^ their tour, trying to shed as Bono blindfolded himsel tricolor for “Sunday, Bloody was obvious that as long as the fighting! Northern Ireland persists, so does the necessity for such torch songs.
Certainly a figure of multitudinous images himself, Bono/Paul Hewson/ "the Fly” played at times with his icon, altering & lyrics to “One”: “did you come' Jesus?//did.” And in spite j Chuck D.’s growling, ‘E most, but he never me ended the show with ;
Falling in Love With crowd to sleep as he si silver lame suit. Forth a U2 concert (O.K., three), thecrowddidn’t^ encore. Just satisfied, I
geta
e wi
T-shi
? D
-K.G.&J.S.
cardinal rules that must be followed when purchasing a concert T-shirt 1) You don’t have to like the shirt to buy it; 2) The shirt
ater. To my greal^fpffse’T'left every stand without a shirt. After 30 minutes, I admitted defeat and gave up. For the first time in memory, I left a concert without an ob-
-J. L.
a concert with-
Wednesday: The d Trip
In an attempt to escape the midweek blues, numerous students road tripped to Chicago for the U2 concert. About 50 of us decided that instead of drawing straws for driver, wewouldrentabus. This ade the two hour trip into re like 15 minutes. We left ||||arnpus View Apartments ved at the World Music iof time to spare before p.m. After tailgating |||p||| Notre Dame football the outdoor music id the fight for the best
amite brought the crowd to g the show at 7 p.m. (I felt like ack in Bridget’s.) Afterashortset, uBiic Enemy took the stage and ignited the crowd with an entertaining and provocative performance.
Bynineo’clock,itwasU2andZOO TV’s turn. They started off with a series of songs gm, their latest hit album, Achtung Baby, ‘One,” “Even Better Than The nd “Mysterious Ways.” ZOO ssages from George Bush ties, projecting them onto &band. They also kept the | dancing to U2 favorites m and The Joshua Tree. t during the show to call d a few lucky girls were llpWstage to dance with Bono, ^^^ng show, everyone headed m t and our exhausted group ire way home.
20
SCHOLASTIC
Friday: A Surreal Experience
As U2 wound down the show with a stirring and touching rendition of Elvis’ tour de force “Hunka Burning Love,” David, Greg, Leo, and I wiped the tears from our eyes, knowing we had seen something truly special. What made this^day so special we may never know. Perhaps it was the the twenty soft tacos that weconsumed en route. Perhaps it sprouted from the pride we all felt after fixing David’s radiator with tape, a nail clipper and a jug of orange drink. Perhaps it was the El Camino full of jugglers with chef hats parked next to us asking if we wanted a pita pocket from their “Snack-Master.” We may never know what made the day so special; maybe it was something in the water.
Having never seen U2 in concert before, I had no idea what to wear. I donned my favorite pair of red leather shorts and a cutoff shirt and pulled back my hair in a tight braid. Arriving at the concert, I realized that I had chosen wisely—never have I received more compliments, especially from the Public Enemy fans.
To our delight, the ushers moved us from our mediocre lawn seats to the front row. “Why?” Greg inquired. “We’re filming a video tonight and you’ve got the look we like ” they told us. Time passed quickly until the main feature arrived and we instinctively moved to the beat. It wasn ’ t long until Bono scoured the front seats searching for a dancing partner. David still claims Bono pointed at him, but we were happy for Leo. Venturing a bit from , his traditional style, The Edge left the astonished masses asking for more after his spontaneous breakdancing binge to Larry Mullen, Jr.’s solo. After all of that, Greg dared to assert that the highlight of the show was the emotionally charged rendition of Men Without Hat’s classic anthem “Safety Dance.” -
As quickly as it started, the concert ended with El vis ’ classic tune. As we strutted back to the car, we realized that we may never have the opportunity to see U2 again, but our many fond memories will never leave us. So it seems fitting to end this musical journey with Bono’s taunting query for us students, “Time will pass, but will you?”

1.	Sonic Youth.
2.	Helmet
3.	Sugar ••
4.
5.
6.
8
9
Various
V^ous Y ;Yy: Velocity Girl Y <. ScreamingTrees Maiy^& Vaselines*
10. AU
Dirty	.
Meantime . YS.Y ': ....' .
Copper Blue "' - ■ .
Kill Rock Starts compilation
Singles Soundtrack ■
Syveet Oblivion; MJ •Y...
American Standi
Wdy pf the Vaselines"SS;;S
Percolate^	i
-J.H.
□
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
21
 ON OTHER CAMPUSES
News of the bizarre from the nation's universities
OK, MAYBE SOUTH BEND ISN’T SO BAD
:; Those of you who have been griping about the weather can stop now. The University of Alaska has seen snow earlier and in greater quantity than has ever been seen on our campus. In the first few days of last week, the Fairbanks campus was blanketed by 12 inches of snow. Residents of Fairbanks soughtrefuge On the campus, since it has its own electricity supply. Although one might expect this in Alaska, it seems that those poor Northerners were still unprepared. “We didn’t anticipate heavy snow until the first part of October,” said a university spokesperson. October?
A DUMB IDEA
The Penn State Weekly Collegian reported the rejection of arather unique fund-raising proposal. Penn State’s Undergraduate Student . Government (USG) proposed the sale of beer funnels in an attempt to raise money and also awareness of alcohol abuse on campus. The idea met with widespread opposition by other student leaders. “It’s a very, very bad idea,” said one student senator. The USG proposal would have required that students who purchased a funnel make a statement that they would not abuse alcohol. It seems to this writer that making such a statement would defeat the purpose of buying the beer funnel to begin with. Maybe Notre Dame should try this: “Hey kids, don’t be seen at the game without THE FUNNEL!”
THIS REALLY SUCKS
Are you sick of trying to peel oranges and just ending up with citrus goop all over your hands? Try this one on for size: Research done at the University of Florida has led to the invention of the “Blaster.” Blaster may not be quite right; Sucker seems like a more appropriate name. The new invention uses steam pressure to cause .
the layer of water underneath a fruit’s skin to expand. Once the skin has been blown up enough, it can be sucked away and leave the good part of the fruit intact. “It just takes the peel right off an orange without losing one drop of juice,” says the inventor. No word on whether the machine will be made commercially available to those who simply dislike getting the white part of the orange under their fingernails.
WHO’S IN CAHOOTS HERE?
The University of Portland Beacon from September 3, 1992 featured an article on their university’s new non-smoking policy. Just like on our own campus, all indoor areas are designated as nonsmoking. Student response was generally the same as at Notre
Dame: smokers were upset at being forced outside,: and non-smokers were relieved to be ensured a supply a fresh air. All of this
also has a common element which seniors may remember: The university’s president is none other than Father David Tyson, C.S.C., the former vice president of student affairs at Notre Dame. Good to know that everyone still keeps in touch.
OH BOY OH BOY OH BOY
In that bastion of boredom that is Kansas, the University Daily Kansan reports that the biggest ever hognose snake in the state has found its new home at KU. The snake, which measures 43 inches long, is an inch longer than the previous record in Kansas for a hognose. Of course, the snake is not the biggest ever found in Kansas. Those crazy Kansans once found an 88-inch-long Bull snake. As to the nature of the Hognose, snake enthusiast Joe Collins says, “They’ll scare the tar out of you,” but the animal is non-poisonous. Asked what plans the university had for the critter, Collins answered, “We’ll just feed it toads and let it hang out.” Anybody looking to transfer yet?
*
22
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Reflections on Pangbom
by Joseph Laur
December 3, 1991, is the day I wi 11 remember most at Notre Dame after I graduate. I will remember this day not because it was the day aftermy21stbirthday or 49 years, 361 days since the attack on Pearl Harbor. I will remember December 3 because it was the day the university ended months of speculation and officially announced that my home, Pangbom Hall, was being converted into a women’s hall.
Upon my return to campus this year, I knew it was only a matter of time before I made the pilgrimmage back to Pangbom to see what had been done to my homeland. I was curious to find out whether Patty O’Hara would be waiting on the front steps, with a doughnut in one hand and a court order prohibiting any former residents from entering to look around in her other hand. Fortunately, this was not the case because on the second day I was back, I succumbed to the inevitable and went over to Pangbom.
From the outside, it appeared that Pangbom had changed very little: the lions still sat proudly out in front looking very content, which is good because they are going nowhere; the volleyball court was still usable because we decided not to fill it up with cement last semester; and the windows were still at the perfect level to make both window dressers and peeping toms happy.
Once I entered my old home, I immediately noticed a few minor changes. The old carpet was replaced with a brighter, mauve carpet, and the study lounge was converted into a 24-hour lounge, which says something bout the priorities of the new Pangbom. I then decided to leave the lobby
and visit the most important room of any building: the bathroom.
When I entered the bathroom, I noticed that the university decided that it cost too much to install a urinal for us men whose aim isn’t quite as good as it should be. I also noticed that Sports Illustrated and Field & Stream had replaced Good Housekeeping and Cosmopolitan as the reading material of choice. Further inspection also found that the toilet paper was rougher, and the soapi smelled less flowery than ever before. Overall, this is a bathroom of which Al Bundy would be proud.
After this trying experience, I went downstairs to the basement, where I was stunned to see a mini-laundromat in the place where thepool table used to be. I guess the university feels that women should be doing laundry instead of playing pool. Next I was relieved to see that Foodsales didn't appear to have changed very much. This feeling only lasted a couple of days, however, until I heard that Yo-cream had replaced nachos as the best selling item at Foodsales. Go figure.
There was still one more major change in the basement: the former reading room, which had rarely been used for reading, was converted into a kitchen. This was a necessary change and will surely get more use than a reading room. Besides, if I'm lucky, I will meet a girl from Pangbom who will use the kitchen to bake me some chocolate chip cookies this year.
I’ve been told that the biggest changes are in the women’s bathrooms. This comes as no surprise to me, since even I understand thaturinals would only getoccasionaluseby enterprising drunk women. While urinals
would undoubtedly make life more exciting, the additional mirrors and extended counters are probably much more useful on a daily basis.
Then it was time for me to barge in on the people who live in my old room. After a slight hesitation, I knocked on the door and entered when she asked me to. I think that she was a little surprised to see me, but she was polite enough to show me my old room. For die first time, I felt like a proud alum visiting my old room on a football weekend, except I wasn’t wearing plaid ND pants and I didn't arrive in South Bend in my $100,000 RV.
As I looked around the room, things looked very similar to last year, except that she hung a poster of some guy with his shirt off in the place where I hung my Cindy Crawford poster. What a blasphemer, I thought. Next, I discovered that the sink was still about ready to fall out of the wall, but it was much cleaner than I ever kept it (but that’s an entirely different story).
I then checked the door to see if the $20 fine I was given for having tape on it had been used wisely. The answer was a definite no. After I looked through her drawers to see if she arranged them exactly as I did, I thanked her for her kindness and wished her good luck. Before I left, I asked her if she wanted to be the lucky one who was going to bake me chocolate chip cookies. Not surprisingly, she declined. I don’t think Patty O’Hara would have wanted it any other way.
Joseph Laur is a senior who now lives in Dillon because he didn’t want to leave South Quad; by the way, he is still waiting for his cookies. - Q
SEPTEMBER 24, 1992
23
FINAL WORD
WSND: Just Give Us A
Chance I by Pete Matthews
Alright, let’s be honest for a moment. How many of you knew there were two radio stations here on campus? How many of you knew that one of them is an FM stereo station with a thirty mile radius? How many of you have ever wondered what exactly is in the clocktower of O’Shaughnessy Hall? Do you know anyone at all that actually listens to radio at Notre Dame?
Well, for those of you who couldn’t answer any of the above, I’d like to introduce you to Notre Dame’s other radio station: 88.9, WSND-FM. It seems funny to say “other” since we are a 3500 watt FM station. That means you can pick us up in your room, your car, even on your walkman! Our student and volunteer announcers man the station from 7 a.m. to 2 a.m. seven days a week, nineteen hours a day, 365 days a year. And, since this is the station’s thirtieth anniversary season (yes, 30th), we’ve got a lot of great plans in store.
You may be saying to yourself: “Hey, I listen to my radio sometimes, and I’ve never heard a college station on FM out here.” Well, that’s because we’re not your typical college radio station. You see, we pride ourselves on having, bar none, the most eclectic format of any station in the area. For example, we are the only areaFM station to play alternative music on the Nocturne Nightflight, every night from midnight until 2 a.m. And we play New Age on Tuesdays, Celtic on Wednesdays, blues every Thursday, and jazz on Saturdays: all at 10 p.m. Each of these shows take requests, so please feel free to call our lonely DJ’s at 239-7342.
24
SCHOLASTIC
“Classical music? Only old people listen to that crap!”; “That stuff just (YAWN) puts me to sleep.” Alright, I know, I’ve heard it all before. Just be patient, give me a couple of minutes, and I may just change your mind.
on the air from 7 a.m. until 10 p.m. most nights. CLASSICAL? Yeah, I know: “Oh, it’s soooo borrring.”;
welcome comments and suggestions, and we consider the opinions of the student body to be especially important. Drop us a note at 315 La Fortune, or call 239-7342 with anything you have to say. .
.	.	_	„ ,	And thanks for supporting Notre Dame’s Stereo Alterna-
You see, I’ve been at WSND for four years now, and five, WSND-FM.	□
Our main format, however, is classical music, which is wait until after midnight: try us at different times during the day, and see what shows you really like best. We always
although I learn something new there every day, I’d say I’m as familiar with our format as anyone. I always knew there . was something wrong, but I could never place my finger on it. Not until this summer, that is, when I had the opportunity to intern at WNCN-FM, a commercial classical station in New York. At their station, they discovered that the problem wasn’t with the music itself, but with the way the music was presented. So they fired all their fossilized, monotone announcers, replaced them with Top 40 personalities, ran a few contests and promotions and became the most popular classical music station in the country. Why? Simply put, because they’ve made it fun to listen to classical music.
In some small way, I’d like to be able to do the same thing here at Notre Dame. Sure, as Program Director, I could take the easy road and just run a blitz advertising campaign for the nocturne, jazz, and blues shows: the music you all own and listen to already. But that would be deceiving you about our primary role as a fine arts radio station. I could shout about how you are all at this fine university to improve your fine minds through exposure to the fine arts, but I certainly don’t see myself in the position of dictating anyone’s musical preferences. I guess I’m just asking you to give us a chance. I myself have worked pretty damn hard this year to streamline our programming and announcing so that all you get is great music that’s fun to listen to.
Now it’s your turn. Just tune in 88.9 WSND-FM some time on your alarm clock, your car stereo or your walkman. Even if you don’t listen to radio that much, and you hate classical musicjustgiveus ONE CHANCE: that’s all I ask. And don’t
Pete Matthews is the Program Director of WSND-FM, . NotreDame’s ■	Stereo
Alternative
National Hispanic Month
Sept. 16-Oct. 15
MOVIES
Movies are shown at 8:00 and 10:30 pm
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame, IN
Permit No. 10
STUDENT UNION BOARD
Cushing Auditorium