„„ - SCHOLASTIC
K


,1

I
I
R I
I
\
v K%»


I
1
notre dams co-
£
1

Ar'
&
M *


THE
ULTIMATE in University Wear



100% CAMEL HAIR
SPORT
COAT
with the shoulder
natural styling
Distinctively yours . . . this softly luxurious coat is tailored to be the star of a university man’s wardrobe. Popular 3 - button style in solid colors of natural and burnt olive.
$65


Other Sport Coats . . . 34.50
and 39.50
^GILBERT'S
JANUARY
FEBRUARY
^GILBERTS
NO CARRYING CHARGE
YOUR
ACCOUNT IS OPEN
MARCH
The
invitation is out for you to stop in
and browse through our fine selection of university styled and sensibly priced men’s wear. If you find an item you need now, simply charge it the Campus Shop way . . . pay one-third in January, one-third in February and one-third in March of 1964. You pay no interest or carrying charge for this convenience. Your account is open, why not take advantage of the opportunity?
ONE OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS

3
New h.i.s shirts are torso-tapered for real. Slick. Trim. Tight. Stick to your ribs but good. Traditional accoutrements-, slim sleeves, long tails, back-hanger loops, back-button collars, broad back pleats, invisible seaming. Solids, stripes, plaids... $3.95 to $6.95. At stores flying the h.i.s label.
slacks need a mate? I makes shirts, too ®
fits JUST ARRIVED!
DELIVERY
FOR DELIVERIES AT THE CIRCLE AND BEHIND FARLEY
New (Radio Controlled) units To Deliver your PIZZA within Minutes and SIZZLING HOT TOO!

Delivered on demand — PIZZA, HOAGGIES, PRESSURE COOKED CHICKEN
PIZZA MOBILES
L/^FASTEST & HOTTEST DELIVERY IN TOWN
FRANKIE'S
1003 N. Notre Dame Avenue CE 3-1115
SCHOLASTIC
The Student Weekly of the University of Notre Dame
Vol. 105 October 18, 1963 No. /
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Tom Hoobler
. . . editor-in-chief Dick Stranger
. . . managing editor Brian Barnes
. . . business manager Mel Noel
. . . news editor Terry Wolkerstorfer
. . . sports editor James Devlin
. . . features editor Larry Sicking
. . . layout and art editor Jack Pope, Joe Wilson
. . . copy Tom Keane
. . •. circulation Tom Nahm
. . . advertising
Brian Beck, Pat Ford
. . . photography
David Barrett, Jim Callero, Jim Clare, Brian Jorgensen, Frank McConnell, Bill Smith, Mike Walusis
. . . contributors Frank O’Malley
. . . faculty advisor
John Anton, Al Basso, Tom Bettag, Jim Boland, Ray Burke, Al Dudash, Bob Edler, Geary Ellet, Jim Finch, Sam Goodwin, John Gorman, Mike Hoyt, Jim Komasinski, Rex Lardner, Rick McQuaid, Carl Magel, Bill O’Grady, Bruce Palka, John Phillips, Jack Quine, Jack Rowe, Joe Ryan, Gary Sabatte, Frank Smith, Steve Stuecheli, John Twohey, Rick Weirich, Joe Weiss, John Whelan
. . . staff
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC _ is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
OFFICE OPEN:
Sunday, 1:30-5:30,7:30-12:00; Monday, 1:30-5:30, 7:30-12:00; Tuesday, 7:30-9:30; Wednesday, 1:30-5:30; Thursday, 1:30-5:30; Friday, 1:305:30; Saturday, not open.
The Scholastic
EDITORIALS
Who’s Who:
Lame Duck Decision
At the last student Senate meeting, on October 7, a motion that Notre Dame withdraw from the national Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities was defeated. The defeat of this motion raises several disturbing questions concerning the propriety and justification of the decision-making body.
The first problem, of course, is whether Notre Dame should actually remain in Who’s Who. There was a bitter controversy on this subject last year, and most of the opinions, pro and con, raised at that time were virtually ignored by the senate when it made its “final” decision. The committee of juniors which was supposed to select the members of Who’s Who last year went so far as to vote against Notre Dame’s continued membership in the organization. When this action had been declared illegal, members were chosen, with the understanding that the entire Who’s Who program would be later subjected to an intensive examination and reconsideration. The senate’s perfunctory action was certainly not the result of any kind of intensive examination. We would call it, in fact, hasty and ill-advised.
Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities is basically a rather shoddy money-making scheme concocted by a group of people in Alabama. This group franchises certain universities (any willing to lend their names to the operation) to submit names of students “who have made a contribution to their university.” The Alabama group then prints all the names it has collected in a book, titles it Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities, and sells it to the people who have their names in the book. Obviously, this last step produces the profit for the Alabama group, and from their point of view is the whole purpose of the organization.
From Notre Dame’s viewpoint, is there any benefit to be derived from membership in Who’s Who? We submit that there is no prestige gained, since the colleges and universities in Who’s Who are generally small, unknown, and unlike the type of university Notre Dame is. The only other possible benefit in belonging is that Who’s Who gives recognition to Notre Dame students deserving of it. Again, however, since
our own students pick the members from Notre Dame, ' using standards set up by our nominating committee, ) we could just as easily give recognition to worthy । students through the institution of some kind of Notre i Dame award. As a matter of fact, the Dome gives an ; award to outstanding students every year (although j the maximum number of these awards is small), as | did the Scholastic for the first time last year. It seems obvious that the only real beneficiary of Notre ! Dame’s continued membership is the Who’s Who < national committee.	।
The fact that the students themselves had no	S
chance to express themselves on the question before	|
the senate voted is reason enough for thinking the | decision to continue membership hasty and invalid j (if technically legal under the present student gov- 5 ernment constitution). In addition, the fact that it | was the stay senate that made the decision is cause S for some protest.
The stay senate consists of seventeen voting members. Only seven of these members — a minority —	:
were elected by the students. There is a larger prob-	I
lem here, of course: that of whether the stay senate	'
should be empowered to make decisions involving a	:
permanent commitment on the part of the student	1
body. Financial decisions effective for the entire year	|
are made by the stay senate, a fact that may cer-	[
tainly be a cause of the perennial debt of student	i
government. Even after the hall elections have been	»
held, the bona fide representatives of the students	|
(the hall senators) are not immediately allowed to	j
vote in the senate. The stay senate shouldn’t have	f
a license to spend, elect, or lend Notre Dame’s pres-	|
tige indiscriminately, particularly when it withholds its power from the valid representatives.
We propose two things: that the hall senators (when they are finally enfranchised) force a reconsideration of Notre Dame’s membership in Who’s 3 Who, and that some effort be made to control the	>
rashly used power of the stay senate in the future.	»
The lame duck senate, composed as it is of a majority of appointed, not elected, members, should I be prevented from making irrevocable decisions for | the Notre Dame students.	?
October 18, 1963
only your hair knows it’s there!
It’s invisible, man! You can’t see it. She can’t feel it. Only your hair knows it’s there! It’s CODE 10 for men, the new invisible hairdressing from Colgate-Palmolive. Non-greasy CODE 10 disappears in your hair, gives it the clean, manly look that inflames women, infuriates inferior men! Be in. Let new CODE 10 groom your hair all day, invisibly.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Highlander Motor Lodge & Tony's Restaurant
112 Bypass ELKHART, INDIANA
★
— 42 Rooms —
Phone: JAckson 3-4780
BLOCK BROS. I
Jewelers	•
Serving Notre Dame and St. 5 Mary’s Faculty and Students for over 40 Years. !
Featuring Fine Diamonds —	!
Watches — Jewelry and Giftware. , ★	I
CORNER MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON i IN DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND |
The Scholastic
Letters ...
YEARBOOK PHILOSOPHY Editor:
Mr. Sexton’s opinion that an annual such as the Dome is no place for editorials is certainly a valid one — as valid as my opinion that it is. However, I justify the presence of editorial opinion — even controversial opinion — in the yearbook in the following way:
1)	Yearbooks in the past may have been merely keepsakes and books which “brought back memories,” but the accumulated patterns of the past do not constitute a definition; therefore, there is no set, defined path a yearbook has to conform to. (The same principle, I might add, applies as well to Notre Dame or to any other temporal institution.)
2)	The Notre Dame I saw, was excited by, and took part in was a changing, emerging Notre Dame, engaged in controversial and important contemporary tasks. Only a yearbook that took note of those same contemporary issues could hope to adequately reflect the spirit of such a soon-to-be great university.
3)	The only justification needed for voicing a sensible opinion in any publication, whether it be the Dome, the Scholastic, the Religious Bulletin or The Midland Naturalist is the controversy and open discussion it can hope to incite. I thank Mr. Sexton for his part in opening the discussion on academic integration of the sexes.
John Oh ala University of Iowa (Editor, ’63 Dome)
POLLUTION Editor:
The poverty of thought displayed by the editorial entitled, “Response,” was only rivaled by that of the two letters to the editor on the same topic. The level of criticism levied by the Scholastic abounds in this, the “Mouth Age” — as evidenced further by the letters from Rita Petretti and D. Hall.
THEATERS
AVON—I. "Riff-Raff Girls," on now, thru next week. 2. "Pickup in Rome," on now, thru next week.
COLFAX—"20,000 Leagues Under the Sea," 1:00, 3:30, 6:00, 8:30 p.m., on now, thru next week.
GRANADA—"The Stolen Hours," 1:15, 3:20, 5:25, 7:30, 9:30 p.m., on now, thru next week.
STATE—"Twilight of Honor," 1:10, 3:15, 5:20, 7:25, 9:25 p.m., on now, thru next week.
October 18, 1963
At the basis of this interchange we have the following query: Should Notre Dame become a coed university? The rhetorical nonsense you labeled “Editorial” and the two aforesaid “Letters” have contributed absolutely nothing which would be of assistance in answering that proposition. Your editorial equates change (i.e., from all male to coed) with “progressivism.” And should we resist “change” as it appears to the editors (and change without sufficient reason is “change for the sake of change”), then our reward will be “a static and stagnant mentality.” I have never heard anyone attribute Harvard’s “reputation” to its relationship with Radcliffe — or refuse a Rhodes Scholarship because Oxford is a nonprogressive (i.e., non-coeducational) university.
But enough, we shall leave it to the editors for an explanation of that curious (nay, alarming!) equation. For our part we shall be content to offer one argument in favor of the status quo (if the editors will forgive the use of such “nonprogressive” verbiage). It takes little perception to see that colleges and universities are being swamped with more and more applicants each year. The result has been to expand facilities at a greater rate than faculty (and by “faculty” I mean individuals qualified to instruct on a university level — not a warm body with a brief case). Again I would remind you that the vast majority of the positions which maintain the American society are held — and necessarily so — by males. Therefore, in order to resist the quantity pollution of quality education which threatens our society, I believe it is essential for Notre Dame to reserve all its present resources for the education of men — for it is upon the shoulders of the quality man that the American society depends. In order for N.D. to become a coeducational institution, millions would have to be spent for additional professors (if indeed such a luxury exists), residence halls (or does the Scholastic advocate coed
LOUIE'S
Homecooked Italian Foods
rwi	Cj.
campus ▼ NOTRE CAME AVENUE -----------------—----------X
Free deliveries to campus
937 SOUTH BEND AVE.
CE 3-0324
halls in its “progressivism”?), classrooms, materials, ad nauseam. Those who advocate such a plan will have to offer sufficient reason — something more substantive than the drivel I read in the Scholastic.
Bob McDonough Mike Sweet
The efforts of the above correspondents to misstate the position of the editorial and then refute the misstatements is a common logical error. Whether it is done in ignorance or in malice is not important; tvhat is important is that it is fallacious.
(Continued on page 31)
PaperbMate
FREE FILL ’
The biggest pen bargains going are at the big fall Paper Mate Free Fill. Come in —choose the color and style Paper Mate pen you like best—get an extra refill free!
available at
THE
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
7
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES SALUTE: WARREN ROSKE
Whether a simple voice circuit for a small trunk line, or a complex high-speed data circuit for the Strategic Air Command. Northwestern Bell Engineer Warren Roske gets the nod. Warren (B.S.I.E.. 1959). and the three engineers who work under him. design telephone facilities for private line customers.
On earlier assignments, Warren engineered communication lines through the famed Dakota Black Hills, helped in the Mechanized Teletypewriter cutover in Sioux Falls, S. D.,
and contributed a unique application of statistics to a Plant Engineering study.
But Warren’s greatest success has come in the Transmission field where, after only seven months, he was promoted to his supervisory engineering position.
Like many young engineers, Warren is impatient to make things happen for his company and himself. There are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
s
The Scholastic
campus at a glance
Birch Society has labeled him “communist” for his liberal writings. Dr. Shapiro contributed to President Kennedy’s campaign speech on Cuba and has written several books and pamphlets. In addition to his appointment as visiting professor, he has been designated area studies coordinator for Notre Dame’s Peace Corps units.
After the meeting students were invited to join the Young Democratic Club. Activities of the club include meetings, social activities, and the sponsoring of guest speakers like Dr. Shapiro; Congressman John Brade-mas of this district is also expected this year. John Aylor, president of the club, said an organizational meeting will be held Wednesday, October 23.
• The mock convention, besides its clamor and excitement, also calls for effort from the participants. The glamour that comes with being a delegate or an alternate to the convention is evident. However, the positions also bring definite duties and obligations. A sincere interest and a few hours of time are required of each delegate and alternate. Each participant must make an effort to truly understand the issues involved in the nomination. “Where does Rockefeller stand on foreign aid?” “How does Goldwater’s stand differ?” Most important is for each member of a state delegation to attend all of the delegation meetings prior to March. It is at these meetings that issues will be discussed, opinions formed, and the state chairmen elected by their constituents. Needless to say, a delegate’s primary obligation is to be present at all times while the Convention is in session. Anyone interested in becoming a delegate or alternate can take the first step next Thursday, October 24.
Between five and eight o’clock on that day application blanks will be distributed in the mail boxes in each hall and delegates will be signed up in the halls. These delegates, along with over 700 girls from St. Mary’s, will provide the backbone of the convention activities.
• Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., president of the Southern Christian Leadership Council and Co-Pastor of Ebenezer Baptist Church of Atlanta, Georgia, will speak tonight at Stepan Center at 8:30. Reverend Ralph D. Abernathy, Dr. King’s right-hand man, will also be present.
The group sponsoring the meeting is The Citizens Civic Planning Committee, organized in June of this year with the sole purpose of bringing Dr.
October 18, 1963
King to South Bend. It is made up of representatives of civic, labor, business, church, and fraternal organizations. One of these groups, The Council of Churches, feels Dr. King will do a great deal for local efforts toward equality and justice. Representative John Brademas and senator Birch Bayh will probably attend tonight.
A full seating capacity of 3,500 is expected, with students from Notre Dame and people from South Bend and the surrounding area attending. Donations for reserved seats are $2, $3, and $5. The proceeds of the meeting will be used by the Southern Christian Leadership Council in its push for racial equality.
• The Young Democratic Club featured Dr. Samuel Shapiro, visiting professor of Latin American and American history at Notre Dame, at its first meeting, October 9. His topic was “The Republicans in Cuba — Past and Present.”
The controversial professor began with a brief history of Cuba from the mid-1940’s, emphasizing the Castro revolution. Commenting on G.O.P. ideas about Cuba, he said they were simply from the party out of power, and that the views of Senator Goldwater and other Republican Congressmen were strong-arm ideas left over from “nineteenth century” policy. Dr. Shapiro referred to Senator Goldwater as a “walking negation” when speaking of the Senator’s stand on the recent wheat sale to the Soviet Union.
Dr. Shapiro did his undergraduate and graduate work at New York City College and Columbia University, respectively. He has visited Cuba several times, interviewed Castro, and spent time in a Cuban jail. The John
• The Cardinal O’Hara Memorial Lecture series for 1963-64 was inaugurated Thursday, October 10, at 2:30, in the Memorial Library auditorium, where Dr. Richard A. Musgrave, professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University, spoke on “Tax Reduction or Tax Reform.”
Addressing more than 400 students and faculty members, Dr. Musgrave, consultant to the U.S. Treasury Department and the Council of Economic Advisers, commented on the timeliness of his topic and outlined developments in taxation and in fiscal theory over the last three decades. He discussed the principles of “horizontal equity,” generally agreed to consist in equal treatment of those in the same income group, and “vertical equity,” a considerably more controversial issue, as there exists profound disagreement over what should be the relationship between level of income and rate of taxation. He suggested that progressive taxation is less popular now than in the late 1930’s.
Postulating the desirability of a tax reduction now to stimulate the economy, the Princeton economist distinguished two approaches:
1)	Increase consumer purchasing power by withdrawing less through taxation, especially in the lower brackets, while maintaining the present level of government spending, the combined effect being an increase in aggregate demand and, therefore, in employment.
2)	Reduce the tax rate, especially in the higher brackets, to increase incentive for entrepreneurs and investors. Government spending can be reduced, since the stimulating effect is not dependent on increased aggregate demand.
Dr. Musgrave explained that the program embodied in President Ken-
9

Peter Nero
nedy’s 1963 tax message to Congress places reliance primarily on the former approach. The expected net effect of the program, comprising personal and corporate income tax reductions, minor structural changes, and changes in capital gains liabilities, is a cumulative decrease in government revenue of $10 billion by the end of 1965. The House Ways and Means Committee is expected to report favorably a similar, though not identical, program.
Arguing that an increased deficit since 1960, arising from an increase in expenditure for space and defense, is responsible for the current economic uptrend, Dr. Musgrave asserted that since the level of government spending is expected to remain relatively stable for a period, a decrease in taxes is necessary for the aggregate demand to continue to increase and the economy to continue to expand.
While some proponents of the cut predict that the economic expansion and resultant increased personal income it will induce will broaden the tax base sufficiently to make possible a recoupment of the $10 billion revenue loss, or even a net surplus, Dr. Musgrave contended that a more realistic expectation is a recoupment of $5 billion through an expanded tax base.
Regarding the increased national debt he predicts as the net effect of the cut, he expressed the view that, while concern over the size of the public debt is "not silly,” not absolute size, but rather percentage of gross national product is the primary determinant of how large a public debt is safe, and even “appropriate, on equity grounds,” and this percentage has been relatively stable.
•	Last Friday night, Peter Nero showed an audience at the Stepan Center the brand of piano magic which has made him one of the most popular artists in the entertainment field and kept his albums high on the charts. His versatility was demonstrated in the selections he played; his talents as a composer were displayed in “Scratch My Back.”
Mr. Nero’s special approach involves a combination of classical and “pop” music, resulting in a different “sound” that sets him apart from other entertainers. He started with “Mountain Greenery” which he played with a Mozart-like style, and “Tea for Two,” played with his right hand while his left played Tschaikovsky, and left foot tapped out “the beat of a Tahitian fertility dance.” His variety of material sometimes kept the audience guessing what the song was until it was half over.
Perhaps the highlight of the concert was an original improvisation of a medley of songs from West Side Story. Although these songs are very familiar and have become a part of many acts, the audience loved his original touch. Other songs which made a hit with the audience were “Moon River,” “The Yellow Rose of Texas,” “Midnight in Moscow,” and “The Way You Look Tonight.”
In an encore, Mr. Nero played a rousing version of “Back Home in Indiana,” containing part of the Notre Dame Victory March.
•	This month Notre Dame’s The Review of Politics, celebrates its twentyfifth anniversary. Concerned primarily with historical and philosophical interpretations of political problems, this quarterly has established an international reputation.
Ian and Silvia
The Review first appeared in 1939, a period of significant changes and crises. Its editor was Waldemar Gurian, a distinguished scholar of Bolshevism and politics, who planned to devote the journal to the “image of man” as reflected in his actions, and draw authors largely from academic people. Although the Review was a Catholic publication, it wished to discuss the serious issues of the times with serious writers, whatever their beliefs.
Throughout its history the Review has devoted itself to the important issues of the times, both immediate and future. It gave much attention to the war, and afterwards to the problems of reconstruction. In the years 1946-1954, the editor’s special knowledge of Bolshevism made possible an accurate analysis of Russia’s emergence into world power. At the same time the Review studied the expanding international relations of this country.
Upon Gurian’s death in 1954, M. A. Fitzsimons became editor, continuing the established policies of the Review. In the last eight years Asian and African problems, international relations, and political theory have been prominent.
“For the future,” says Dr. Fitzsimons, “The Review will be interested in essays in political theory and scholarly articles of synthesis on such questions as civil rights, Congressional reform, agricultural policy, and the continuing low repute of state and local governments. The foreign aid program requires . . . examination . . . the United Nations demands the most sustained scrutiny . . . The Review will continue to provide a forum as open as in the beginning but hopefully broadened to the reaches of our
10
The Scholastic
wider world.”
Dr. Fitzsimons is assisted by Frank O’Malley, associate editor, Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., managing editor, and advisory editors Robert Burns, Joseph Duffy, John S. Dunne, Stephen Kertesz, and Paul Montavon. The Review continues to seek material from notable writers. In the anniversary issue, for example, are articles by John Nef, of the University of Chicago, Raymond J. Sontag, University of California, Jose Arsenio Torres, University of Puerto Rico, George Mosse, University of Wisconsin, and Luis Beltranena, former Guatemalan representative to the United Nations.
•	Jeri Corbin highlighted the October 10 meeting of the International Students Organization with her explanation of “How the Negro Feels About Integration.” Jeri, an SMC senior, proved to be a young woman well qualified to speak on this problem; her home is in a small North Carolina community where she has lived and seen this problem.
Using examples in the fields of education, housing, voting, and employment, Miss Corbin emphasized the feeling of the American Negro that integration is necessary. She explained that Negro education is markedly inferior, stressing that if the Negro ever hopes to gain equality he must gain it through equal education. As an example, she noted a first-hand experience of one southern Negro school which received a much needed gymnasium. The white community then demanded—and got—one much better, both in workmanship and materials, though theirs was already adequate. In housing — and this Miss Corbin considered the North’s biggest problem —she cited instances of panic selling as well as outright barring of Negroes from certain districts. After expounding on the Negro’s fight for voting rights in the South, she then noted a problem with which she has been intimately connected, the Negro exodus to the North in search of decent jobs and the problems which this exodus has placed before the white community.
In answer to critics who say the Negro is not ready for integration, Miss Corbin cited this example: “The segregated Negro is like a man who has been shut in a box for a long time. Suddenly a white man comes along, opens the box and says, ‘Come on out and stand straight like me.’ ” The Negro can’t do this, but must “straighten up” to the white man’s standards gradually. She proposed that the college student must think out both sides of this question —
segregation as well as integration — and make an intelligent decision, then be ready to stick by it.
In the question and answer period which followed topics included such delicate subjects as the efficacy of demonstrations, the desirability of intermarriage, and various economic and social facets of the changing neighborhood. But unlike so many discussions on these topics, each and every one of the questions were analyzed in the practical light of the college student’s attitude and competence in these fields.
The International Students Organization, which sponsored Miss Corbin’s talk, is designed to help foreign students “bridge the gap” — as such, American students are invited to join.
•	Ian and Sylvia, a folk-singing duo, and The Phoenix Singers, a vocal trio, will appear with Notre Dame’s Four Winds at a Hootenanny October 26 at 8:30 P.M. in the Stepan Center. The Singers and Ian and Sylvia have performed on TV’s Jack Linkletter Hootenanny Show. Tickets, priced at $2.00 for students, will be available at Office Engineers, the Saint Mary’s College ticket office, and in our dining halls. There will be no chairs provided and the floor is hard — bring blankets.
• Complete train facilities have been chartered for the Thanksgiving vacation trip. The train will leave at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, November 27, and arrive at 7:00 the next morning. Accommodations have been set up at the Commodore Hotel, also the setting for the victory celebration Saturday night. St. Mary’s and Barat students, as well as girls from the New York area will join in the celebration.
The students will receive information concerning the events occurring during their three-night and four-day stay.
The cost of the entire trip, $57.00, includes: round-trip train ticket — $39; hotel reservations — $13; game ticket — $5. A box lunch and a ticket to the Victory Celebration will be free.
Ticket sales will be held in the La-Fortune Center on Tuesday, October 22, for juniors and seniors; and the following day for freshmen and sophomores.
• The Appointment of Professor John Joseph Kennedy, effective July 1, 1964, as chairman of the Department of Government and International Studies was announced today by Father Hesburgh.
(Continued on page 28)
Dr. Richard A. Musgrave
October 18, 1963
on other eampuses
• Approximately a year ago the Burmese government tried to impose a 10 p.m. curfew in the student hostels at the University of Rangoon because of “discipline problems.” The student body disapproved unanimously and, to say the least, vociferously. Results were disastrous ; the student body held the university rector captive for over 48 hours; two hundred government troops fired with automatic weapons on a student demonstration, killing 16 students and wounding 60 more; Burmese army demolition units blew up the student union.
In view of this it was quite interesting to see that about a week ago the rector of Rangoon University issued the following five directives to the student body: (1) no disturbing noises during the study time; (2) no gambling; (3) no acceptance of outsiders as night guests; (4) no consumption of alcoholic drinks or drunkenness; and (4) no impromptu relations with women. As the editor of one college newspaper commented: “The reason for the communique had a familiar ring to it ... ”
• The 1962-63 “student editor of the year” has been silenced by the University of Alabama.
Mel Meyer, whose editorials in the Crimson and White brought him national attention and repeated threats on his life, has been forbidden by the
U. of Alabama to “write upon or comment upon” any racial matters. Failure to heed this warning will result in “severe disciplinary action” and possible expulsion. Meyer, and all other students attending Alabama, were required to sign statements in which they agreed not to write or comment on any racial matters for publication, Meyer said. Meyer was not permitted to have a copy of the statement he signed and, when he appealed the policy, he was told there could be no change.
Last February the United States Student Press Association named Meyer “student editor of the year” after he wrote editorials calling for obedience to federal law in Alabama. These editorials appeared at the time of the crisis at the University of Mississippi.
Meyer’s life was threatened, crosses were burned on the lawn of his fraternity house, and, finally, the university hired two full-time bodyguards to protect him.
Meyer made it clear that he considered the recent ban an infringement on the right of freedom of expression and invites censure of the university. Meyer -said that he signed the statement “under duress” and plans to continue his appeals against it.
• A student who aided refugees from East Berlin to make good their es
capes has been urged by the rector of the Free University of Berlin to move out of the student village of that university. The rector stated that the activities of such student refugee helpers imperil the safety of the university and its students.
• Manchester College of Science and Technology, a British university, has adopted the “stay at home” library system which Indiana U. experimented with about five years ago. Students can remain at home and phone the library for the book they want. The librarian then places the book on a remote control closed circuit television camera which even allows the student to turn pages and the student can read the book over TV without leaving his room.
• The students of the University of Pittsburgh attended a convocation recently, at their student union. The university chancellor was the guest speaker, but he did not come to deliver an address on the advancements made by the university in recent years, nor did he come to upbraid the student body for academic, social, or moral immaturity. He came to answer questions put to him by the students themselves, to remove the grip of red tape that is notorious for strangling inquisitiveness. The purpose of the program was “not to put the chancellor on the spot, but to put him in a position where he could be reached.”
feiffer
so^lh hoove aluw wamtfp A 6WM-UP? EOMEBODH Mo TAKES wee those petti dah-TO-OAH AFFAIRS WHICH SO COMPLICATE OWL'S LlfE AMP WHO HAMPLFS THEM CLEAMLH AUD EFFIClEMrM.
SCHOOL^ M WILL OOt ALLOiJ hour iimrauce to lapse, hour KENT TO FALL OVERUDE, HOUR CAR TO BREAK POWN. SOHEBOOH WHO WILL MW BE NERVOUS IIO REGARD TO CALLIU6 THE LANP' LORP ABOUT REPAIRS, THE 61RL FRIEND ABOUT BREAKS A DATE, THE BOSS ABOUT A DEEDED PAtSE.
IM OTHER 50HEB0DH UHO IS TRADJEP 10 DO ALL THOSE APUlT THIM5S TOO MAfW OF US HAYE BEEU ASKED 10 DO MCE CHILDHOOD AMP STILL CWT QUITE tWA6E.6OME8OOH MO IS WILLIMG AMP HAPPH TO STAMP OU HOUR OWN TiM FEET FOR HOU, TO FIGHT ALL ‘/OUR.
BATTLES, TO MAKE ALL HOUR PIFRCULT DECISIOUS -1 e^HOOR GROM-UP!
W MEAN I /WOMT son EVER J HAVE 10 MAKE A decisiou A6AIM?
OKE ID HOUR EMPLOY I, ' HOUR 6R00)U'U? WILL MAKE THEM ALL.'
ITS UNBELIEVABLE1 ITS WHAT IVE DREAMED OF ALL'MH LIFEUMlT DO HOU HOM HE TO PAH UOU<

12
The Scholastic
CAMPUS ELECTIONS
by Frank Smith
Politics held the spotlight last Monday as the fall version of the campus elections marked the beginning of a new year for Notre Dame’s student government. At this time, balloting took place for the hall officers of senator, president, and secretary-treasurer and for the position of off-campus senator. The elections culminated the campaigns of over 140 political aspirants, the greatest number of candidates ever to contend in a Notre Dame election. One contest featured nine men competing for the same spot, Stanford Hall Senator.
This year’s victors will step into a role in a student government which in many aspects is quite different from the former governments. Last year hall government consisted of a hall council which was in turn led by a chairman who acted as a quasipresident of the hall. This year there are two offices in each hall, those of president and secretary-treasurer. Dave Ellis, Student Body President, explained the reason for the change. “Last year’s system of hall government left much to be desired. The leader of the hall was a chairman of a committee and, hence, didn’t have sufficient power to do a really efficient job.”
The newly elected senators will enter a senate which has also been changed from those of previous years. The Senate is now structured into a strong committee system. There are three standing committees, Policy, Welfare, and Finance, and these can be further divided into subcommittees. Each senator will have a chance to head either a standing committee or subcommittee at one time or another and thus have a definite job to do.
Besides these institutional changes, some of the recently elected officials are taking their posts with the idea of infusing new life into the concept of student government. Senator-elect James Kelly of Pangborn favors “a switch from the parliamentary haggling of the past to a Senate which talks less and does more.” Gene Ostrom, senator-elect from Fisher, deplores the way many former senators lost contact with their constituents and seeks rather to become “a true spokesman of the opinion of Fisher Hall.”
The following are the men who have been elected in each hall. The vote totals are those of the final ballot and the number in parentheses following
the name of the hall indicates the percentage of the hall who voted.
Alumni (49%): President, 1. John Moran (96), 2. Tom Sullivan (64); Secretary-treasurer, 1. William Tynan (81), 2. Jim Webster (73); Senator, 1. Frank Smith (91), 2. Robert Dragani (67).
Badin (79%): President, 1. Hoy Booker (68), 2. John Borchard (49); Secretary-treasurer, 1. John Loarie (71), 2. Don Bergin (44); Senator, 1. Sid Gage (57), 2. Jim Flanagan (55).
Breen-Phillips (72%): President, 1. Brian McMahon (115), 2. Jerry Nevin (75); Secretary-treasurer, 1. Steve Wasinger (101), 2. J. B. Quinn (83); Senator, 1. Stewart Beall (92), 2. Eddie Kurtz (90).
Cavanaugh (78%): President, 1. Vic Paternostro (141), 2. James Bourke (117); Secretary-treasurer, 1. Bob Anson (142), 2. Jerry Burke (82), 3. Nathan Gisclair (28), 4. George Perrault (19); Senator, 1. Joe Perilli (169), 2. Lou Marino (97), 3. Paul Stewart (9).
Dillon (52%): President, 1. Jon Ritten (153), 2. Jay Sommerkamp (78); Secretary-treasurer, 1. Larry Dordin (181), 2. Mike Tragaz (43); Senator, 1. Jim Reynolds (130), 2. Pete Budetti (100).
Farley (70%): President, 1. J. Michael Hughes (146), 2. Tom Timmins (84); Secretary-treasurer, 1. John O’Meara (126), 2. Robin Kennedy (122); Senator, 1. Ken Liss (163), 2. Dick Dunn (59), 3. Jim Dixon (36).
Fisher (58%): President, 1. Brian Beck (57), 2. Robert Powers (50); Secretary-treasurer, 1. Louis Yu (63), 2. Len Seraphin (47); Senator, 1. Gene Ostrom (86), 2. Shaun Con-aty (21).	.
Howard (71%): President, 1.
Barry McNamara (68), 2. James Fox (59); Secretary-treasurer, 1. Tom McMannon (67), 2. Jim Hillman (59); Senator, 1. Paul Walker (unopposed).
Lyons (73%): President, 1. Paul Knipper (unopposed); Secretarytreasurer, 1. Donald Fletcher (unopposed) ; Senator, 1. Steve Walther (95), 2. John Antoun (67).
Keenan (71%): President, 1. Raymond McDonald (118), 2. Mike Flynn (60), 3. Mark Buckley (52); Secretary-treasurer, 1. John Overmann (unopposed); Senator, 1. Bob Frank (134), 2. Bob Dietrich (96).
Morrissey (80%): President, 1. Pete Goyer (169), 2. Don Witty (108), 3. Peter Brown (47), 4. Jay Rini (44); Secretary-treasurer, 1. Lou Zimmerman (unopposed); Senator, 1. Richard La Porte (158), 2. Terry Ward (125).
Pangborn (64%): President, 1. Joe LaNasa (78), 2. Frank Cooney (61); Secretary-treasurer, 1. J. Michael Herr (unopposed); Senator, 1. James Kelly (80), 2. Andy Grose (57).
Sorin (78%): President, 1. Mike Kelly (73), 2. P. J. Shelly (63); Secretary-treasurer, 1. Lee McCarthy (67), 2. Dave Stronsky (51); Senator, 1. Gene McGuire (99), 2. Bob Wieczorek (37).
Stanford (86%): President, 1. Steve Werner (153), 2. Tom Heiden (49), 3. Henry Cluver (39), 4. Kevin Igoe (9); Senator, 1. Bill Dimagard (132), 2. Kevin Lyons (100). Secretary-treasurer, 1. Mike Rich (100), 2. Len Gooder (78).
St. Edward’s (67%): President, 1. Frank Brennan (56), 2. Gordon Nash (37); Secretary-treasurer, no candidates; Senator, 1. Pete Cary (52), 2. Maurice Girlardi (36).
Walsh (56%): President, 1. Bob Engler (64), 2. Dick Wolsfeld (39), 3. Tom Keane (13); Secretary-treasurer, 1. Ernie Larini (71), 2. Steve Stuecheli (40); Senator, 1. Joe McGowan (63), 2. John Gaine (50).
Zahm (60%): President, 1. Michael McManus (109), 2. Dave O’Neill (35), 3. Denny Hoover (33), 4. John Klier (23); Secretary-treasurer, 1. Joe Weiss (unopposed); Senator, 1. Tom Begley (unopposed).
Off-Campus Senator: 1. Jerry Berthold (31), 2. Al Kennedy (23).
In a referendum conducted to ascertain student opinion concerning the Red Barn, the plan to convert the barn into a student center passed overwhelmingly, 2698 to 302.
October 18, 1963
13
RADIATION RESEARCH
AT NOTRE DAME
By Rick Weirich and John Gorman
Pictures left to right:
Mr. J. J. Risser uses manipulators with 10,000 curie source;
Mr. Rein Valdna designs glasswork for radiation experiments;
fingers of cobalt-60 producing radiation of 10,000 curies;
Dr. Milton Burton.

The Scholastic
I I

i
'T'he science of radiation chemistry, -*■ as we know it today, began in 1942 as an offshoot of the Manhattan Project. At that time, Dr. Milton Burton (now director of the new Notre Dame research center) was appointed chief of the radiation effects section of the project, dealing primarily with the chemical effects of radiation in systems involved in the production and separation of materials for nuclear devices. Notre Dame’s involvement in the field began when Dr. Burton secured full-time use of the University’s 1-Mev (one million electron volt) Van de Graaff generator as a project radiation source.
Dr. Burton joined the Notre Dame staff in 1945, and the next year obtained a research grant from the Office of Naval Research to continue in
borg, a reward to the school but rather evidence that the AEC and others connected with scientific research have confidence that Notre Dame will continue to be a leader in the radiation field.
The building has a central radiation facility, where there are four main sources. In a specially shielded, isolated room is a 10,000 Curie source. (The radiation from 10,000 Curies of cobalt-60 would prove fatal to a human being exposed to it within a distance of one meter for a period of three minutes.) A sample of almost any size and shape can be placed in the room to be irradiated; the source is then raised mechanically and any manipulations are made from outside the room with mechanical arms which duplicate the movements of the
equipment which is not available ready-made; a complete glass blower’s shop, where special glasswork is fabricated; labs to prepare samples for irradiation (many samples must have all air removed, for example); and rooms full of such analytic tools as spectrometers, gas chromatography equipment, various units for nanosecond decay-time studies and the array of electronic, counter, and photochemical equipment associated with such activities. The services of the new Univac 1107 Computer assembly are also available to the Radiation Laboratory.
The scope of the work of the members of the Radiation Research Center ranges from theoretical studies in radiation chemistry and kinetics to study of the genetic effects of radia-
vestigation of problems uncovered by the rapid development of atomic energy. The Atomic Energy Commission was formed in 1947, and one of its earliest university contracts was established in 1949 with the University of Notre Dame to conduct radiation chemistry research. In his speech at the dedication of the new Research Center, Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, Chairman of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, stated: “The responsible staff of the University of Notre Dame has unquestionably played a most significant role in the development of radiation chemistry as a mature and established discipline — not only in profound and lasting scientific contributions, but in the education and training of personnel . . . Notre Dame was the first university in America to provide formal training in this new chemistry and is today its principal source of postgraduate trained personnel in the United States.” Notre Dame’s research in this field is believed to be the most extensive underway on any college campus.
The new $2,200,000 facility was built by the AEC on land leased from the University and is now operated by the school under its contract with the AEC. It is not, according to Sea-
October 18, 1963
operator. When the work is finished, the source is again lowered into the ground and the sample removed. There is an underwater source of 4,500 Curies which is convenient for small specimens, which are placed in a one and one-half-inch tube and lowered eleven feet to the bottom of the well. A 2,000 Curie source of the Gormley-Hochanadel type is also used -for smaller objects. This consists of a source encased in a lead turret which can be positioned over either of two cavities in which a sample has been placed. These three sources all use cobalt-60. The fourth large source is a 2-Mev Van de Graaff generator of the pulsed type, with a pulse duration of 0.5 microseconds (1X IO-6 sec.). This machine has special potential for studying the sequence of the effects of radiation which normally occur too fast to follow. There are additional smaller cobalt-60 sources, a polonium source, tritium sources, and a 50 kv X-ray unit.
The remainder of the building is devoted to related facilities. There are offices and conference rooms where theories are worked out; a reading room where necessary references are readily accessible; machine shops and electrical shops to build necessary
tion on insects. The staff of 97, directed by Dr. Milton Burton, is made up of 15 research supervisors, six research scientists, 17 research associates, 33 research assistants, and 25 nonacademic personnel. The laboratory includes in its staff professors of biology, chemistry, chemical engineering, and metallurgy — it has attracted scientists from Argentina, England, Germany, India, Japan and Switzerland. Many graduate students are associated with the lab as research assistants.
The purpose of the research is to come to a better understanding of the basic principles involved in the field of radiation effects. Although much is known about the gross effects of radiation, there is a need for research concerning the mechanics of the processes which occur when matter is subjected to radiation. The results of the Notre Dame scientists’ work in this field are shared with the scientific community through the publication in professional journals of an average of thirty-six papers each year. The laboratory assures Notre Dame a position of continuing leadership in the expanding science of radiation chemistry.
13
I )_
JAMES BALDWIN:
A CONTINUUM
by Jim Clare
There is one word universally applied to the work and existence of Baldwin. The word is vague enough to cover a wealth of feeling, but univocal enough to connote only respect. It is not at all strange that it is only one word, since Baldwin presents the simplicity and directness captured only momentarily by a single idea. The term, of course, is powerful. A wealth of meaning is infused into this word, a complexity and intensity staggering to the mind. There is no acceptable synonym for it. And regardless of the definition, it fits.
Power, in Baldwin, as everywhere else, is attached to the concepts of intensity and fierceness. This is made manifest in Baldwin caustically, vindictively, ironically. A personality so strong, a temperament so dominant as his, must feel strongly, bitterly. He must hate and hurt. It is only natural then, that this bruise-stiffened core must achingly spit out its pits.
Baldwin turns this lucid fierceness on all that has unwittingly stumbled within his ken. Striking, almost blindly against the conventions of society, Rufus, a character in Another Country, sums up much of the difficulty in Baldwin’s world.
“Then the doors slammed, a loud sound, and it made him jump. The train, as though protesting its heavier burden, as though protesting the proximity of white buttock to black knee, groaned, lurched, the wheels seemed to scrape the track, making a tearing sound. Then it began to move uptown, where the masses would divide and the load become lighter. Lights flared and teetered by, they passed other platforms where people waited for other trains. Then they had the tunnel to themselves. The train rushed into the blackness with a phallic abandon, into the blackness which opened to receive it, opened, opened, the whole world shook with their coupling.
“Then, when it seemed that the roar and the movement would never cease, they came into the bright lights of 125th Street. The train gasped and
moaned to a halt. He had thought that he would get off here, but he watched the people move toward the doors, watched the doors open, watched them leave. It was mainly the black people who left. He had thought that he would get off here and go home; but he watched the girl who reminded him of his sister as she moved sullenly past white people and stood for a moment on the platform before walking toward the steps.”
Within minutes of this scene Rufus jumps off the George Washington Bridge.
“He was black and the water was black.
He lifted himself by his hands on the rail, lifted himself as high as he could, and leaned far out.”
Rufus has gone home. Instead of the white subway violating the black tunnel, the black womb of the water accepts the black phallus: Rufus.
Rufus has committed suicide. Why? Earlier that same evening Rufus and a friend of his, Vivaldo, are talking in Rufus’s room. The black Rufus says to the white Vivaldo:
“What do you want — when you get together with a girl?”
“What do I want?”
“Yeah, what do you want?”
“Well,” said Vivaldo, fighting panic, trying to smile, “I just want to get laid, man.” But he stared at Rufus, feeling terrible things stir inside him.
“Yeah?” And Rufus looked at him curiously, as though he were thinking, So that’s the way white boys make it. “Is that all?”
“Well” — he looked down — “I want the chick to love me. I want to make her love me. I want to be loved.”
There was silence. Then Rufus asked, “Has it ever happened?”
“No,” said Vivaldo, thinking of Catholic girls, and whores. “I guess not.”
“How do you make it happen?” Rufus whispered. “What do you do?” He looked over at Vivaldo. He halfsmiled. “What do you do?”
16
The Scholastic
... He tried to force his mind back through the beds he had been in . . . he said suddenly, “With whores . . . ”
Rufus laughed . . . Rufus choked, sputtered, and sat up . . . Then: “Whores!” and began to laugh again.
“What’s so funny?” Vivaldo asked, quietly.
“If you don’t see it, I can’t tell you.”
At this point these two friends, the only one each other has, are unable, basically, to communicate. Even on
a relatively simple basis. The worlds of difference represented by their backgrounds are rasped together, stiffly, in these two. There is no clash, they are both distended members of their respective worlds. Distended enough to approximate one another. Both have “left” their worlds and have no common world.
Yes, Baldwin is bitter. Yes, Baldwin is cynical. But we see in Baldwin a man who is capable of transcending this bitter cynicism; a man who has managed to achieve a distance from, not only his subject matter, but in a real sense, also from himself. Disillusioned with all that had been presented to him as an ideal, he had originally taken the normal recourse of complete rejection. John, the autobiographical hero of Go Tell It on the Mountain, in an internal monologue:
“He did not want to love his father; he wanted to hate him, to cherish that hatred, and give his hatred words one day. . . . Oh, that his father would die!" Later, this is tempered, but the bitterness is still evident in Nobody Knows My Name.
“The fact that I was the son of a slave and they were the sons of free men meant less, by the time we confronted each other on European soil, than the fact that we were both
searching for our separate identities. When we had found these, we seemed to be saying, why, then, we would no longer need to cling to the shame and bitterness which had divided us so long.”
Here it becomes clear that the mature Baldwin has risen quite above a level of blind hate. Turning from an unmerciful critic of races and racism, he intelligently concerns himself with the problem of being an American:
“A European writer considers him
self to be part of an old and honorable tradition — of intellectual activity, of letters — and his choice of a vocation does not cause him to wonder as to whether or not it will cost him all his friends. But this tradition does not exist in America.
“On the contrary, we have a .very deep-seated distrust of the real intellectual effort (probably because we suspect that it will destroy, as I hope it does, that myth of America to which we cling so desperately). An American writer fights his way to one of the lowest rungs on the social ladder by means of pure bull-headedness and an indescribable series of odd jobs. He probably has been a ‘regular fellow’ for much of his life, and it is not easy for him to step out of that lukewarm bath.”
Coming now, as it were, to a higher level of refined rejection, Baldwin leaves America for France where he lived for ten years. It is largely in Europe, in the essays and novels he wrote there that we see this gradual dissolution of rejection. Particularly in Paris, where the problem of racial inequality did not concern him, do we find almost no reference to his even being a Negro. This ability to be subsumed by a larger and perhaps more important concept is this ability
to transcend.
Transcendence does not imply completely leaving behind what held one before. On the contrary it is the rising above which now holds the past to one . . . more firmly.
There is a unique quality in some authors, the consideration of oneself as another. (This is not meant in the Biblical sense.) The choice of leading one’s life as though one were another person. Beaudelaire, for instance, is one of these men. He saw himself, not as other people saw him, but as he saw other people. The act of consciousness of self is the same act as consciousness of another. Baldwin is one of these writers. This is what makes his social criticism so acceptable. He is a real human being and, not only has he not excepted himself from this criticism but placed himself in the proper spot in the world. It is because of this that Baldwin’s truth and honesty strike so clear and round a tone. It is because of this that Baldwin demands experience of his readers. He demands, in order to understand him, in order to be one of his “other people,” that you have been hungry. He doesn’t consider you unless you have been hated; unless you’re capable of love. Actually he demands more. It is not enough to “understand what it must be like to be a Negro.” It is not enough to want a soul. He hates virgins who wish they were not. He hates missionaries who never leave home. But he loves, too. He loves those who have what he calls “controlled experiences.” By that he means those who know how to handle themselves and their surroundings. Those who have disdained self-deception have a place in Baldwin’s heart.
“There is an illusion about America, a myth about America to which we are clinging that has nothing to do with the lives we lead and I don’t believe that anybody in this country who has really thought about it or really almost anybody who has been brought up against it — and almost all of us have in one way or another — this collision between one’s image of oneself and what one actually is is always very painful and there are two things you can do about it, you can meet the collision head-on and try and become what you really are or you can retreat and try to remain what you thought you were, which is a fantasy, in which you will certainly perish. Now, I don’t want to keep you any longer. . . . But I’d like to leave you with this ... I don’t believe any longer that we can afford to say that it is entirely out of our hands. We made the world we’re living in and we have to make it over.”
October 18, 1963
17
Patriot of the Year Nominees
by Jim Shay
Jim Shay is chairman of the Patriot of the Year nominating committee.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
Born Lamar, Missouri, May 8, 1884 Presiding Judge, Jackson County Court, 1926-1934
United States Senator from Missouri, 1934-1944
Vice-President of the United States, 1945
President of the United States, 19451953
In the role of private citizen, Truman makes frequent public appearances throughout the country when his health permits. In keeping astride of current issues, he is demonstrating a continuing interest and loyalty toward the United States.
LIEUTENANT COLONEL JOHN GLENN
Born Cambridge, Ohio, 1922
Participated in fifty-nine combat missions over the Marshall Islands, World War II
Flew ninety combat missions, Korean War
Became the first American astronaut to orbit the earth, February 20, 1962
Glenn has declined outstanding offers from private industry to retain his position as a valuable member of the United States space team. Through
personal appearances he has used his unique position in American life as a means of spreading those ideals which he himself exemplifies.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
Born Stonewall, Texas, August 27, 1908
B.S., Southwest State Teachers College, 1930
Served as United States Congressional Representative, 1937-1948
Saw active duty as a Commander in the United States Naval Reserve
United States Senator from Texas, 1949-1960
Majority Leader, Eighty-Fourth through Eighty-Sixth Congresses
In 1961 Vice-President Johnson took upon himself a new way of serving his country. His adjustment to his new position and especially his work as a good-will ambassador abroad, have won for him widespread praise and admiration.
ALLEN W. DULLES
Born Watertown, New York, April 7, 1893
Served in Foreign Service in Austria, Turkey, and Switzerland, 1916-1920
American aide in the negotiation of peace ending World War I
Chief of the Division of Near Eastern Affairs, 1922-1926
American Legal Adviser, Geneva Disarmament Conference, 1932-1933
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, 1953-1961
Dulles has spent a lifetime in devoted service to his country. He has worked hard for peace and disarmament, for friendly relations with foreign countries, and for the security of his motherland.
ROBERT S. McNAMARA
Born San Francisco, June 7, 1916
B.S., University of California, 1937 M.A., Harvard University, 1939 Air Force Captain and Lieutenant Colonel in World War II
Employed by Ford Corporation, 19461960
In 1961 McNamara divested himself of Ford stock and stock options in an unusual economic sacrifice to accept the position of Secretary of Defense. Since then he has fought hard to make civilian control of defense policies more than a vague ideal.
JAMES B. DONOVAN
Born New York, February 29, 1916 A.B., Fordham College, 1937 LL.B., Harvard University, 1940 Admitted to New York State Bar, 1941
18
The Scholastic
IN 1954 the Senior Class of Notre
Dame instituted the “Patriot of the Year” award, adding a new element to the century-old Washington Day Exercises, which now also include a Memorial Mass honoring those sons of Our Lady who served our country and the presentation of an American flag by the senior class to the University.
That 1954 class selected J. Edgar Hoover as the first winner, and succeeding classes nave honored Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, General Curtis Le
May, John F. Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy, Dr. Wernher von Braun, and Richard M. Nixon. The Senior Class of 1964 will be given an opportunity to imitate the responsible and mature attitudes which their immediate predecessors have displayed in presenting the last three awards to Admiral Hyman G. Rickover, Bob Hope, and Adlai E. Stevenson.
This year’s election will be held Monday, October 21. Balloting will take place in the South Dining Hall
lobby from 11:30 to 1:00 and from 5:30 to 6:30, and for off-campus seniors during those same hours in the Off-Campus room of LaFortune Student Center. As in previous years, a suggested list of ten nominees was prepared during the summer by a committee of seniors, chosen to represent different sections of the country and the different colleges within the University. The committee included Bill Carney, Jim Crowley, Dave Garner, Ed Hughes, Jim Maher, and Dick Miles.
Associate general counsel for the United States Office of Scientific Research and Development, 1940-1942 Commander in the United States Naval
Reserve, Office of Strategic Services, 1943-1946
Assistant at the Nuremberg Trials to the United States Chief Prosecuting Major, 1945
As a private citizen, Donovan has shown great personal initiative in the service of his fellow Americans. He engineered the release of U-2 Pilot Gary Powers and of the prisoners of Castro’s Cuba.
GENERAL LYMAN LEMNITZER
Born Hannesdale, Pa., August 29, 1899
Graduated, United States Military Academy, 1920
Advanced through the ranks to become General of the Army in 1955 United States Army Vice-Chief of Staff, 1957-1959
Named Army Chief of Staff, 1959
Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff, 1960
Now serving as Supreme Allied Commander of NATO forces in Europe, Lemnitzer has devoted his life to the cause of American freedom. He has
never hesitated to advocate whatever policies he felt necessary for the defense of his country.
W. AVERELL HARRIMAN
Born New York City, November 15, 1891
B.A., Yale University, 1931
Chairman of the Business Advisory Council of the Department of Commerce, 1937-1939
Ambassador to Russia, 1943-1946
Secretary of Commerce, 1946-1948
Director of Mutual Security Agency, 1951-1953
Governor of the State of New York, 1955-1958
As Undersecretary of State for President Kennedy, Harriman is serving his country under his fourth different Administration. Now in his seventies, he was the chief U.S. negotiator for the nuclear test-ban treaty.
DECEASED AMERICAN FIGHTING MEN IN
SOUTH VIETNAM
Two years ago the United States began to support the Diem government in South Vietnam with extensive military aid. It was, and is, felt that
the future of Southeast Asia depends upon the success of the combined forces doing battle with the Communist guerrillas in Vietnam. Since then, over one hundred American fighting men have lost their lives in that country. For their defense of freedom, the Committee has placed their names in nomination. An appropriate representative would accept on their behalf if they should be voted the Patriotism Award.
CHARLES A. LINDBERGH
Born Detroit, Michigan, February 4, 1902
Solo flight from New York to Paris, 1927
Flew from America to Copenhagen via Greenland with a view to the establishment of a transatlantic air route	.
Totaled fifty combat missions although retaining civilian status in World War II
Brigadier General, Air Force Reserve, 1954
Lindbergh in an advisory capacity has played a significant role in the United States space program. He has shown an unusual willingness to serve his country in both civilian and military roles in the giving of his time and the risking of his life.
October 18, 1963
19


This analysis of Notre Dame is from a letter written by seminarian David Schlaver to his brother, an incoming freshman. It is printed here at the suggestion of David’s former roommate.
ON ENTERING NOTRE DAME
Dear Paul.
You are embarking on a venture which many people can only dream about and many others are unable to fully realize for some reason or other. Entering college is a once in a lifetime experience and those who can and do appreciate it most are those, like yourself, who have earned all or part of their expenses and who have been accepted on their own past record and not solely on their family position or background, their ability to pay, or their physical prowess.
For this reason, it is essential that you get more out of college than the average student, since you are putting more into it. You are not only spending $10,000 for this experience; you are also giving the four best years of your life and will someday be called upon to account for these years before God as well as men.
Though I will never profess to be a model student, or one to counsel others on the proper methods “from personal experience,” I can offer a few examples of the benefits of college which have made an impression on me and might be profitable to one in your situation.
You are entering a unique university — unique because it is truly “universal” Notre Dame is first and foremost — catholic — that is universal Its scope of courses, students, faculty, facilities, are as varied as any university in America, indeed, in the world. And, as a basis, it has the firmest rock possible — a Catholic foundation. It is dedicated to the Mother of God — Notre Dame.
Notre Dame — Our Lady — Our Mother. ... You will hear a lot about her in these four years. Some of it will be expressed in firm and engrossing observations, some in trite and often meaningless traditions, and some unfortunately in disrespectful — even irreverent — jest from “students” who don’t appreciate the gift
they have received and might as well be attending a state school. Sift through all of this, however, and you will find a firm bedrock, a staunch devotion to Our Lady, entrenched in the hearts of thankful students and loyal faculty. Just as you are entering the former group at this time, I hope someday to enter the latter.
When all is said and done, “Notre Dame will win over all.” Think about this. It doesn’t just apply to the football field! It applies to anything for which Our Lady’s help is asked. Don’t ever forget this; and don’t ever let anybody tell you the opposite, no matter how discouraged you might get at various times throughout your four years there. Remember that Notre Dame — the real person of Our Lady — will always be there to boost you over the hurdles if you will just ask her help. She will always be on her Golden Dome, in her Grotto, or in her chapel in Sacred Heart Church, anxious and willing to help one of her sons. Don’t delay in placing yourself under her protection. An important habit for a new student at Notre Dame to acquire is that of visiting her Grotto daily and making a humble dedication of the next four years — his joys, sorrows, and trials — to her. She won’t fail you; just see to it that you don’t fail her.
A proper spirit of devotion to Mary cannot help but be accompanied by a devotion to her Divine Son in the Eucharist. There is no excuse for a Notre Dame student to ever miss daily Mass and Communion during his four years there. There are over seventy Masses said on campus every day. This means seventy priests to hear confessions at practically any time during the day; seventy priests to give spiritual direction and advice; seventy priests to get to know because they are “friends of Christ.”
Granted, you will see and hear
much in your four years that makes all of this seem hard to swallow — “poor” sermons, “ludicrous” religious bulletins, “paternalistic” discipline, “old worn-out” priests, and so on ad infinitum. I am sure that I have made and believed as many of these observations as the next man during my years there. But how foolish! Priests are only human. (I know, because I hope to become one someday, and humanity is all I have to offer!) Not everyone can be a Bishop Sheen, a Father Hesburgh, or a Pope John. Thank God for these men, but also thank Him for the few men who are willing to dedicate their lives to students who may criticize, reject and even vilify them. This may sound strong, but you will see for yourself; many devoted men endure veritable scourging at the hands of unthinking students, who, in moments of vain feelings of self-importance, forget their own roles.
But through this, too, Notre Dame “wins over all.” For 120 years her loyal graduates have taken a deserved pride in carrying her banner to the world and have returned frequently and faithfully to give thanks. Others may fail ostensibly to appreciate her influence, but within know that it was their own failings that held them back while she was prodding them along all the time.
Thus, don’t neglect the opportunities for religious advancement. You have a tremendous four-year period ahead to “grow in wisdom, age and grace before God and man,” as Christ did in Nazareth. The priests at Notre Dame are equipped to help you grow in these three areas. Spiritual direction is not just for the professed religious. Indeed, a layman requires it to an even greater degree, since the religious is already “directed” to a certain extent by his vows. A layman is not excluded from Christ’s urging to “be perfect.” The Notre Dame student with direction and proper intentions can eradicate many of his
20
The Scholastic
faults and temptations and find himself well on the way to religious perfection in the lay state — married or single.
This religious advancement is something that is sadly neglected by a vast majority of Notre Dame students. It is really absurd to even think of spending $2,500 a year for a Notre Dame education and then only making use of the same courses and facilities that can be found at any good non-Catholic school, at a much lower cost. And no matter how vehemently some students may reject the idea, this opportunity to grow in grace as well as wisdom and age is what Notre Dame is offering. This is what sets Notre Dame apart from other great universities; this is why Notre Dame is great and will remain great. Top students, excellent faculty, adequate facilities, indomitable spirit — all of these are important. But where would Notre Dame be without a particular devotion to the Mother of God — the Patroness of our studies! Most likely just another “good” school.
Don’t be afraid, also, to discuss and think about the possibility of a religious vocation. Too many reject the thought before ever trying to search it out; they judge only the surface qualities and ignore the cries from the depth of the soul. There should be, logically, a much greater number of vocations from Notre Dame each year. Again, the “poor” sermons, i “bad example” of old priests, and other excuses are offered. But this has not stopped a few men each year ' from testing their vocations and going on to become great priests and leaders in the Church, in the Congregation of Holy Cross and other religious orders. No, most likely the real fault lies in the lack of inner receptivity of grace in the souls of the students. A vocation can only come from within — it can’t be pried out of a soul. A prospective vocation is lost when the soul is afraid to meet
the idea head on, to talk to the proper people, and to make an intelligent and calculated decision.
Once again, Notre Dame provides a unique opportunity in this regard. One can test his vocation for two semesters before entering the novitiate. A college student lives at St. Joseph Hall for a full year without interrupting his studies.
At Notre Dame there are many advantages to the system of residence. As a freshman you are living with two other boys, one from a different part of the country, and both, I’m sure, with different backgrounds from your own. These men will become your first and most lasting friends at Notre Dame if you begin to recognize from the start that you all are beginning this venture together as equals — and don’t try to outdo each other with stories of the past, hopes for the future and interests of the present. You are all equals in this sense: your slate is clean and ready to absorb the chalk of a Notre Dame education. Much of this “chalk” is put on the blackboard indirectly, by friends who are really interested in learning and who, in the process, communicate much of their zeal to you.
Thus, make friends; get to know people from different parts of the world. This is very easy on a “universal” campus. These friends can be yours for life, so don’t limit yourself to your own geographical area, class, age, or college group. I am sure that many students, sincere in their educational pursuits, leave Notre Dame with more knowledge and experience from people than from all the courses they have taken. This is a huge part of Notre Dame, so don’t miss out on it.
You will also find people whom you would just as soon ignore, who bother you in one way or another. I can only offer a maxim usually applied to religious, but equally useful
to laymen: people who annoy you are people who sanctify you. Bear with them. Your contact is only temporary and can benefit you much more than harm you.
You will find out soon, I’m sure, that during college you have more free time than any other period in your life. This free time is as important as study or class time. You are responsible to God for your use of it, since it is a generous gift from Him. There are innumerable legitimate ways to use it and it is up to you to find out the best ways. Be versatile ; don’t follow a strict schedule for this time — then it wouldn’t be “free.” Just remember that unless free time profits you — spiritually, physically, mentally, or socially — it is not worth having and using.
Another aspect to be developed is social life, and what better place than a college campus. The walk over to St. Mary’s is short — about twenty minutes from the freshman quad. Don’t be afraid of mixers, blind dates or miscellaneous social gatherings. Don’t underestimate St. Mary’s girls, either. They aren’t all hopeless, as you will so often hear. Those Notre Dame “men” who say this, probably have never met a St. Mary’s girl, and if they ever did, she would probably run from them in fright!
I have left the most important aspect to the last — studies. It is certainly the most important area of college development; but whatever you do, don’t let it dominate your college days to the extent that the books become your god, your friends, your well-being, your life. God has given everybody a certain amount of intellectual gifts. As long as one makes a sincere effort to develop them and pursues them with proper balance, he is fulfilling God’s will. This is all that is necessary. Zeal in study is good, but one should not let study be the end as well as the
October 18, 1963
21
NOTRE DAME continued
means. God does not want to see us kill ourselves in our pursuit of study. (You are probably chuckling about now, and rightly so. I don’t think there is too much danger here in your case!)
Perhaps it would be better to emphasize the positive aspect of study. You have probably found out by now that at Notre Dame the facilities and opportunities are excellent for a student to develop his mind. The newest addition to the campus — the Memorial Library — will certainly become the center of intellectual life at Notre Dame.
A word on courses: First, let’s be practical. If you figured out the exact cost of a class. according to the tuition you pay, the results would be surprising — somewhere around $2.00 for every class hour you spend in the University. Granted, many times you will feel as if you are wasting the money: but in this case, you can get your “money’s worth” in some other way. There are at least three or four lectures, concerts and various other activities of this sort during any given week on campus. These are meant to be a part of the intellectual life of the campus — in other words, you are paying for them. So why not take part in them? Pick out the most interesting and attend. Start right now as a freshman, don’t wait a year. Plan your studies accordingly; no evening should be so filled up with study plans that you can’t vary your schedule somewhat at the last minute with a decision to attend some cultural diversion. In other words — don’t put important things off until the last minute, because at that last minute you may find something more important to you.
One of the outstanding priestteachers I know once told me that he had had only two “really great” teachers in his life and perhaps only half a dozen “near greats.” I am
pretty fortunate I guess, because I have already had one “really great” and a handful of “near greats.” I will admit this is quite subjective, but you get the idea. A teacher is only an aid. The amount you get from a course depends mostly on yourself — your attitude, your effort, your interest. All teachers are capable of teaching you something, even if it is only how not to teach. You will find some courses you don’t like and can’t seem to work at. Don’t worry about this. Remember why you are in liberal arts — to get a well-rounded preparation for life. Naturally there are going to be some sharp edges to smooth out for this well-rounded result. Time will cure much of this. The main thing is to work at your main interests, provided there is some value in them. Develop your talents, don’t try to invent those you don’t possess. Taking these varied courses will enable you to find out what your talents are and where you should place the emphasis in your future studies.
During registration, don’t wait until the last minute to decide what courses you want. Seek advice; have a counselor make suggestions. Don’t ever be forced into courses below your abilities or too far above your abilities. And don’t look for easy courses just to take up time and earn credits. Since teachers often “make” a particular course, don’t be afraid to manipulate your schedule or courses to get these teachers. But never manipulate your schedule or teachers in order to get grades.
This is the biggest folly of college — grades. If you work, grades will come out fair in the long run. You may get one “too low,” but just look down your report card and most likely you will find one that you really didn’t earn — one “too high.” Grades might mean a lot temporarily — while at Notre Dame and when applying to graduate school — but they are not permanent in the sense of
haunting you for the rest of your life. A fellow with a 6.0 average might have an easier time of it in landing his first job, but after that he has to prove his worth by his actions. And here, someone with a 3.5 average and a well-balanced education can quite easily pass him up. So much more is necessary to correctly evaluate a person’s abilities and value than grades. To let the infernal IBM machine run your college days is to ruin the four best years of your life. Study to learn. If you learn and still flunk — which is very unlikely — too bad! If you pass, but don’t learn, you might as well not waste your time. Quality points disappear as soon as you leave Notre Dame.
I am sure that much of the problem with grades will be eliminated now that the University has adopted a 4-point system.
In reading this letter, I hope you will excuse the nostalgia and triteness. It is quite easy to approach in this way something with which you have been so closely associated for several years. You will also detect a sort of examination of conscience on my part. For I know that I have violated many of these “prescriptions” as much as anyone. If I can only help you to avoid a few of the mistakes I made, this letter will accomplish its purpose.
In closing, I can only emphasize the need to work at everything you undertake at Notre Dame — whether it be studies, prayer, social life, or extracurricular activities. Don’t give it only a halfhearted attempt. Work for the most profit possible. Be a full-fledged Notre Dame man by giving your whole self to Our Lady in whatever you do. Make the best possible use of this great gift you are receiving — a Notre Dame education.
* * *
—David E. Schlaver, C.S.C. September 28, 1963
22
The Scholastic
M1LISM MD MMSIBIUTI: I PROGRAM FOR ACTIO®
By Joe Wilson and Brian Barnes
Scholastic staff members Brian Barnes and Joe Wilson explain the reasons for student government’s $11,000 deficit, and present a plan for keeping the deficit from increasing.
'T'he time has come, in view of a * student government deficit that reaches into five figures, to place new emphasis on Realism and Responsibility. Previous student administrations have been able to work with an inadequate, unrealistic budget, and allow activities and class committees a free rein with spending.
The effects of this policy in the past usually haven’t proved serious. But the 1963-64 student government finds itself with an $11,000 deficit due both to its own continuation of these loose policies and a “snowballing” process from previous administrations.
The story of the present financial problem began last April 19 when an
audit of the student government books was conducted by the honor accounting fraternity Beta Alpha Psi. Twelve students under the direction of Professor Slowey of the accounting department in the College of Commerce made a realistic appraisal of the accounts and determined that the student, government’s finances were, at that time, in a state of equilibrium.
The lack of wisdom in budget and
October 18, 1963
allocation methods soon began to come to light as bills began to roll in for projects underwritten by the student government. The problems arose when most of the bills received exceeded the budgets passed by the government.
The 1963 Senior ball created the first major problem. Student government was forced to underwrite a total in excess of $3,000 for this since no further income could be expected from the class. The Social Commission added more to this when they presented bills for the Spring Open House. Bills presented for this by the Social Commission were in excess of $3300; the student government spent another $1200 for the open house under the heading of “special projects.” Thus, the total of the bills underwritten for this project approached $4600. Unpaid loans to the classes of 1962 and 1963 totaled $3929.89.
On August 31 the student government had $1655.70 in cash on hand; bills outstanding totaled $11,882.40. The accounts receivable which were to have been collected from these student organizations were, of course, uncollectable at this point. The total of $10,000 received from the $4.00 student government fee in the fall could not be applied against this debt since it was necessary for this semester’s expenditures.
Student government receives income from four sources — there is a small allocation from the University, earmarked primarily for sports clubs; there are the profits derived from Social Commission events; Mardi Gras contributes funds but they are already allocated; each year the student government fee is charged to each student.
Yearly this income is budgeted against expenses so that the student government will (hopefully) break even. As we have said, methods used for allocation of these funds have proven to be unreliable enough to keep this hope from coming true and so results in an expensive dilemma.
A budget is the only method of expense control that the student government presently has for all activities. Once the student government has accepted a budget for a project it assumes responsibility for all debts incurred by that project. There are two primary areas of concern in regard to budgeting for activities. The budgets usually fail by not being comprehensive enough in breaking down expenses under each heading (e.g., $1200 for decorations with no plan, etc., presented).
Once the budget for a project is passed, activities chairmen have no real reason for adhering to it and no system of internal controls within their own organization to aid with any limitations of spending. It would seem, then, that the objective of activities committees has been to present a Grand Affair without regard to financial consequences.
The total solution to these “financial consequences” will, of necessity, involve a program of action with long-term and short-term results. A new and strict system of internal financial controls for the student government would in long-term benefits permanently alleviate the problem of any lack of fiscal responsibility. A sensible proposal would be that several more business managers be incorporated into the student government system. These would be senior and junior accounting majors who would be responsible for all finances of the student government. One man would lead this group and oversee all expenses; others would be apportioned to control finances of each activity. They would assist in the making of budgets, introducing as comprehensive an account as possible. A running check would be kept on activities so that none would be allowed to surpass the set budget; to maintain this check every expense would have to receive the approval of the business manager. The general business manager would then be
(Continued on page 33)
23
For quarterbacks, humility is no virtue
IF any single trait characterizes Frank Budka, it is self-confidence. This confidence has made him at once colorful, controversial — and an exceptional quarterback.
Budka’s color is most easily recognized at pep rallies, where he is a polished performer — probably the funniest and most entertaining speaker since Monty Stickles.
And he is controversial: many people mistake his confidence for conceit, which it probably is not. Conceit implies overestimation of one’s abilities and, surprisingly, Frank Budka is every bit as gcod as he thinks.
It is on the football field, however, where his poise and confidence have set him apart. Unruffled by blitzing linebackers or covered receivers, Budka on Saturday directed the team consistently and gave the Irish the leadership they had lacked.
Best known as a brilliant, but sometimes erratic passer, Budka stuck to the ground Saturday, and surprised
Southern Cal even more than Notre Dame fans: “We just didn’t expect your quarterback to run with the ball,” said John McKay. Not only did Budka run well on delays, but frequently scrambled for valuable yardage if his receivers were even partially covered.
“Coach Devore wanted us to play possession football,” he said. “We wanted to hang onto the ball as long as possible, so I couldn’t risk an interception. We knew that we had to control the ball if we wanted to keep their offense in check.” That Notre Dame succeeded is evident in the statistics: the Irish ran 67 plays, Southern California only 55.
“The Southern Cal game was certainly a team effort,” Budka continued. “It was definitely the best we’ve played all season. Coach Devore analyzed our problems at half time, and made some adjustments in the defense. They only got four first downs in the second half, you know.”
At the very least, Notre Dame’s defense had its best day of the season, though it had held Wisconsin and Purdue to a touchdown apiece. The defensive line, led by Dick Arrington, Norm Nicola, Tom Goberville, Bob Lehmann, and Jim Snowden, held the Trojans to a scant 42 yards rushing in the second half. Its tackling was crisp, its pursuit violent.
Defensive halfbacks Tommy MacDonald and Bill Pfeiffer also played exceptionally well, accounting for a total of 24 tackles, an interception, and a touchdown. Pfeiffer made 17 of the tackles, most in a single game this season for a Notre Dame player; and MacDonald intercepted a Pete Beath-ard pass, running it back 62 yards for Notre Dame’s first touchdown. They also limited Beathard to only seven completions, two of which came on spectacular catches by Hal Bedsole and Willie Brown.
Offensively, the Irish moved the ball often and, more important, stead-
24
The Scholastic
ily. The backfield of Budka, Bill Wol-ski, Joe Kantor, and Jack Snow seemed to give Notre Dame its most potent attack. As Budka says, “I could call on Kantor or Wolski any time, and know they’d rip off a five-or ten-yard gain. That makes it easy for a quarterback.”
Notre Dame’s passing attack is as yet unproven, however. Budka passed so seldom that little can be said about his success or lack of it: he completed two of five passes, one a clutch 14-yarder to Jim Kelly. As a group, Notre Dame’s quarterbacks are still just under 45% in completions, but must improve if the Irish are to beat such opponents as Pittsburgh and Syracuse, whose forte is a gargantuan defensive line.
Against UCLA tomorrow, Notre Dame will play the second of three successive games against California teams. The Bruins, who have scrambled to a 1-3 record, will show the Irish a wide-open, razzle-dazzle offense.
In end Mel Profit and halfback Mike Haffner, the Uclan’s have two candidates for All-American honors. Profit is a 6-5 defensive specialist who spells trouble for enemy quarterbacks. He gained Lineman of the Week laurels for his tackling in an earlier game against Penn State.
At left halfback, Haffner is labeled “another Jon Arnett.” Although he sat out last season, the Bruin runner rushed for 703 yards and a 6.3 average as a sophomore. A triple threat, he completed 15 passes in 1961 and punted for a 35-yard average. Letterman John White and sophomore Bob Richardson will also see heavy duty.
Coach Bill Barnes of the Bruins has had trouble finding an adequate quarterback since he changed the offense from a single wing to the T-formation a year ago. He believes, however, his problem may be solved by juniors Steve Sindell and Larry Zeno. A junior college transfer, Sindell set national JC records in three passing departments. He set marks in attempted passes (268), number of completions (152), and total passing yardage (2,051). Zeno played 118 minutes as a sophomore. To stop the UCLA attack, the Irish must again put up an adequate air defense.
In analyzing the rest of the season, Frank Budka is very optimistic. “I think we’re capable of going 8-2, because Southern Cal was undoubtedly our toughest opponent. If we keep on playing as a team, I’m sure we can win the next seven games.”
—Rex Lardner
October 18, 1963
■?3,;
In Quest of a National Title
Just twenty minutes and eight-tenths second after the 1963 cross-country season began, Frank Carver, Bill Clark, Bill Welch, Mike Coffey, Ed Dean, and Larry Dirnberger finished in a hand-in-hand tie for first place, shutting out Indiana and lending credence to Notre Dame’s hopes for a national championship. Coach Alex Wilson could hardly have found a more dramatic way to demonstrate the team’s outstanding quality — balance — or to explain why he calls this “the best team I’ve ever coached.” Captain Frank Carver, from Ivyland, Pa., is probably in the best shape of the six. An electrical engineering major, Carver ran in four long-distance events during the summer, and won three. The only senior on the team, he finished eleventh in the IC4A meet last fall, and ninth in the national championship meet.
Bill Clark, a junior and the most consistent member of last year’s team, describes himself as “a math major who degenerated into the commerce schooL” His running, however, has anything but degenerated. Last season, he finished fourth in the IC4A’s at New York’s hilly Van Cortland Park, and he holds the Notre Dame record for the mile (4:08). Clark rowed during the summer to build
26
up his stamina, and will certainly improve on his outstanding sophomore record.
The number three man on last season’s team, Bill Welch, a Dean’s List philosophy major from Scarsdale, N.Y., also improved considerably during the summer, and is now the nearequal of Carver and Clark. Welch credits his improvement to the “strenuous dancing and dating” he engaged in during the summer and, although his opportunity to continue this rigorous training program has been rather seriously curtailed since his return to Notre Dame, he hopes that the 70-mile-a-week workouts Wilson has substituted will not take the edge off his midsummer form.
Mike Coffey, a sophomore business student from Philadelphia who is potentially the team’s best runner, already has a 4:15 mile to his credit. Most improved of the six is the team’s only non-Easterner, St. Louis sophomore Larry Dirnberger, who finished strong in the Indiana meet to catch the first five at the tape. Mathematics major Ed Dean, himself a Dean’s List sophomore from Long Island, ran in NCAA development meets this summer, and lowered his time for the mile to 4:16.
These six, plus Rich Fennelly, Pat Conroy, and Jim Lynch, stand an excellent chance of winning the Notre Dame Invitational Meet, to be held at 4:00 this afternoon on the Burke Golf Course. The 1963 Invitational will, in all probability, be the finest crosscountry meet ever held at Notre Dame. Such outstanding individuals as national champion Tom O’Hara — who set an invitational mark with a 19:22 last year, Bill Cornell — a four-minute miler, and Brian Turner — who has recently run two miles in 8:46.3, are probable starters. The top team competing will be Ohio University, which defeated Michigan State in a dual meet two weeks ago.
Because Michigan State is traditionally one of the dominant teams in the IC4A and NCAA championships, and because Ohio University is also a cross-country power, today’s Invitational and next week’s dual meet with Michigan State are assuming considerable significance.
A pair of victories, not at all improbable with runners of the stature of Carver, Clark, Welch, Coffey, Dean, and Dirnberger, will give the Irish an excellent start in their quest for a second national cross-country championship.
—John Whelan
The Scholastic
SCOREBOARD
RUGBY: The Irish ruggers staged a post-rally show at Cartier Field last Friday night, and decisively dumped Indiana, 21-5. Big Mike Murphy scored twice, with Al Byrne, Bill Kelly, and Bob Lesko tallying a try apiece.
Fullback Tom Gerlacher, who kicked for six points, Nat Davis, and Frank Fee were other outstanding performers in the Irish triumph. Davis and Fee were lost for the balance of the fall season with injuries.
SOCCER: Mariano Gonzalez scored three times to pace Notre Dame to a 4-2 win over Goshen on Saturday. Herman Friedmann also scored as the Irish boosted their season mark to 4-1.
SAILING: Notre Dame continued its dominance of Midwest sailing, as Bob Singewald, Al Buennagel, and Jim Grant skippered their Flying Dutchman Juniors to a clean sweep over Marquette, Beloit, and Lawrence.
BASEBALL: With fall practice nearly over, Coach Jake Kline feels he will have to rely on the basketball team’s Ron Reed and Jim O’Neal and footballers Dan McGinn and Bob Merkle to bolster a graduation-riddled pitching staff. Ed Lupton is the only returning pitcher who played enough to win a monogram in 1963.
Captain John Counsel! will be in right field this spring, with Shaun Fitzmaurice in center, Rich Gonski at short, Tommy MacDonald at second, and Mike Rieder behind the plate.
INTERHALL: Sorin Hall, fielding a team for the first time in recent years, established itself as a power with a 13-0 win over Badin. Quarterback Skip Myslenski and halfback Dan O’Brien gave Sorin the league’s best offensive punch on opening day.
In titanic defensive struggles, Morrissey edged Off-Campus, 6-0; Farley beat Zahm, 12-6; Breen-Phillips downed Cavanaugh, 6-0; and Howard-St. Ed’s played to a 0-0 tie, as did Stanford and Keenan.
SCHEDULE Cross-Country
October 18, Notre Dame Invitational, 4:00 p.m., Burke Golf Course
Soccer
October 18, Notre Dame at Ball State Rugby
October 20, Gold team at Indiana Interhall
Sunday, October 20:
Morrissey vs. Sorin, 1:00 p.m.
Farley vs. Keenan, 1:00 p.m.
Badin vs. Dillon, 2:15 p.m.
Zahm vs. Breen-Phillips, 2:15 p.m. Howard-St. Ed’s vs. Alumni-Walsh, 3:30 p.m.
Cavanaugh vs. Stanford, 3:30 p.m.
Voice in the Crowd
jr might well have happened in a dream. The crowd was strangely -■-silent, the scoreboard seemed fixed at an instant in eternity: 6:28. Norm Nicola centered the ball, Tommy MacDonald held it on the Southern Cal 23, Ken Ivan kicked and followed through — and the ball’s course was unalterably fixed. It appeared to pass just inside the. left upright and after what seemed an interminable time, the referee signaled that the kick was good.
The bedlam that followed was no dream, and although many were sobered by the thought that three points were a perilous lead against such a team as Southern California, most thought that Ivan’s field goal would be the margin of victory.
It proved to be just that, and may assume much more significance than anyone realized at the time. It may, in fact, prove to be the difference between another season of purely mediocre football, and Notre Dame’s first winning season since 1958.
For this is a team with considerable ability but, until Saturday, it was a team which lacked confidence — a team which scored once and then just tried to hang on. Had Ivan missed the field goal, and had Notre Dame lost its third consecutive game — especially after leading twice — it might have been a blow from which the Irish would never have recovered.
The kick, as it turned out, was good — and the results were immediately discernable. In the locker room there were smiles, congratulations, and even talk of going all the way. “It was the big one to win,” said Coach Hugh Devore. “I’ve never seen a team get the lift from winning a game that our kids got from this one. It gave them the confidence they needed.”
Notre Dame’s overall play in the USC game, especially considering the caliber of the opponent, was probably the best of the past four seasons. The defense, which had been good against Wisconsin and Purdue, was even better, and held one of the nation’s most explosive offenses to just 72 yards in the second half. The defensive lineplay of Norm Nicola, Tom Goberville, and Jim Snowden was excellent, but was overshadowed by the play of the defensive backfield. Rover Bill Pfeiffer made 17 tackles, the outstanding defensive effort by a Notre Dame player this season, and safety man Tommy MacDonald returned a key interception for 62 yards and the first Irish touchdown.
The improvement in the offense was more noticeable, however. Notre Dame rushed for 273 yards (despite 24 tackles by Trojan linebacker Damon Bame), drove for scores when they were needed, and controlled the ball for the bulk of the game.
Ball control, indeed, gave Notre Dame the edge. The Irish ran 67 offensive plays to only 55 for Southern Cal — a sharp reversal of form from the Wisconsin and Purdue games. And in the fourth quarter, when USC needed desperately to score, Notre Dame had the ball for 27 of 33 offensive plays.
Halfback Bill Wolski and fullback Joe Kantor gave quarterback Frank Budka dependable (five-plus yards per carry) running, but it was Budka himself who effected the transformation of the offense. He carried the ball 18 times for 84 yards, befuddling the Trojans time after time on delays, scrambling for big gains when he seemed trapped behind the line of scrimmage, running for key first downs. And he directed the team effectively, calling plays well and providing the confident leadership so badly lacking in the first two games.
Still, Devore insists that “if we’re going to keep winning, we’ll have to sharpen up our offense.” If Budka can add an adequate passing game to his running and leadership, and if he continues to get strong running from Wolski, Kantor, Farrell, Duranko, and Bliey, there is every reason to think that the offense will improve steadily.
Tomorrow, although UCLA is much stronger than many people realize, the Irish will win by two touchdowns.
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
October 18, 1963
27
Senate. . •
On weeks with no full Senate meetings, this column will considei' general trends of Senate action or important issues before Senate committees. This week it deals with the codification of Student Government-student relations, by Tom O’Brien’s Policy Committee.
Committee action so far shows a definite trend toward centralized control of many areas of student life. Some 44 policies are being considered, including a transportation policy, Jazz Festival policy, and a uniform geographical club constitution. If the CJF proposal follows precedent, CJF chairmen will find more Senate rules this year. The uniform club constitution will likely mean further control of these clubs and their activities.
The Senate passed the transportation policy on Sept. 30, but it is back in committee following stiff opposition by the geographical clubs. The clubs favoi' three changes: that the Blue Circle not be exempt from the policy (re: Student Trips); that home clubs control social events when non-local groups sponsor them; and that the 50% cut of profits for Student Government apply only to revenue gained from non-members on club-run trips.
The Oct. 14 committee meeting dealt with the first two aspects, with Circle President Paul Tierney and Met Club President Pat Kenneally present. The bill with the proposed amendments would grant the Met Club first option on social events during the Student Trip (clubs desire this ’as protection against bad publicity resulting from possible mishandling of such events by non-local groups). Similar trips run by non-local clubs will probably follow this setup, but Circle President Tierney rejected it, citing the past good record of Circle-run events, and holding social events to be an inherent part of the Student Trip.
It was then decided that the Circle is exempt regardless. Although the Constitution allows it, “practical limits” (the Circle is directly empowered by the Administration) preclude any Senate restrictions. So evidently the Circle will have final say (subject only to Fr. McCarragher) on Student Trip social events. A final report on this bill will follow conclusive Senate action.
While policy codification is evidently needed, the necessity of strong centralization is questionable. It may be, if the trend continues, that Student Government will be felt by the students in ways that will answer any critic claiming inaction. —Al Dudash
28
Glance
(Continued from page 11)
Kennedy, a Latin-American specialist who formerly taught here, returns to campus from the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va., where he was professor of foreign affairs.
A graduate of the University of New Mexico, Kennedy holds a master’s degree and doctorate from Columbia University, New York, N.Y. He has also been a visiting professor at the University of Puerto Rico and the College of the City of New York.
In addition to his academic service, Kennedy has served in various capacities with the U. S. Department of State, the Public Administration Clearing House, and The Council on Foreign Relations.
o Monsieur Xavier Deniau, member of the French National Assembly and General Secretary of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the French Assembly, speaking in an exclusive interview on October 10, discussed French public attitude regarding the test-ban treaty, British participation in the Common Market, and NATO.
“The treaty is generally supported by the French people, but they feel that it would be a waste of time and money to stop in the middle of our testing program. To stop now would be dangerous; a few more tests for the French are much more important than for the United States or Russia.”
When questioned about admission of Great Britain to the Common Market, he said that they could be admitted if, “they are willing to observe the terms of agreement of the other member nations.” Apparently the French want more certain evidence that Britain is desirous of admission. “When participation was first offered, the Conservative Government was in favor of it, but the people were not. There is no reason why they can’t be admitted on the same level as the other member nations.
“The question of NATO involves many things. President De Gaulle views the alliance of powers as the most important consideration, but feels that it should be an alliance which recognizes the relative importance of the countries involved and not one which is almost exclusively oriented toward an Anglo-American relationship. Originally, the United States did not give France the same position as Great Britain, but we’ve eradicated our rotten roots and want a more equitable position. This is all we want: a position in NATO which suits our rank as a responsible nation.”
Freshman Year
The Freshman Year policy in dropping a course for a student pretty much breaks down into three areas. As most students know, a University policy is the required fifteen hours of course work per semester as a minimum schedule. We follow this policy for all freshmen except in the following extenuating circumstances.
If a student is confined to the infirmary or to a hospital for a period of over a week, we request this student to visit this office immediately upon his release. After a personal interview we determine with the student’s help, whether or not this illness in his opinion could jeopardize his chances of passing his course work. We then contact the professors of his courses to get their opinions of his progress. The final judgment rests with the Freshman Office as to whether or not a course should be dropped. If dropping a course seems to be advisable, we drop the course without penalty, in the hope that the lightened schedule will allow the freshman to spend this extra time building up his average in his remaining courses.
The second area for reducing a freshman schedule occurs in a situation where the student is going through a very serious emotional experience. For example, occasionally a sudden death of a parent, or a brother, or sister, may cause the student to be under severe emotional strain. Again we weigh the possibility of lightening a schedule if we think such a move would be in the best interest of this young man.
A third reason for dropping a course without penalty concerns the foreign student who comes to us with a language handicap. We always schedule these young men for the fifteen or seventeen hours, depending upon the area of their intent. By personal interview and by closely observing their progress, we are able to determine by the mid-semester whether or hot they have the facility of language to handle their program. Should we find their reading or writing abilities to be a weakness in their background, we lighten their schedule by one course in the hope that they will be able to successfully complete their first semester program.
When a course is dropped, we naturally emphasize the fact that these young men automatically commit themselves to Summer School, in order that they may catch up with their classmates and be in good standing for admission into their Sophomore Year.
—Dr. William Burke
The Scholastic
TYLER JR.’S
PICKS OF THE WEEK
TEXAS AT ARKANSAS: Texas handled Oklahoma with ease last week; Arkansas lost to Baylor. The Razor-backs won't be sharp to cut the Longhorns down to size in the Game of the Week.
KINGS POINT AT HOFSTRA: The Merchant Marine Academy, under full sail, should run the Hofstra blockade. The Upset of the Week.
OHIO STATE AT SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA: Ohio State has Woody Hayes, Paul Warfield, three yards, and a cloud of dust; Troy has Damon Bame, and that will be more than enough.
PENN STATE AT SYRACUSE: The Orangemen will emerge this week as a team to challenge Pitt and Navy for the Lambert Trophy — despite the fact that Rip Engle’s Lions will be hungry after last week’s upset loss to Army.
KANSAS AT OKLAHOMA: Texas may have destroyed Bud Wilkinson's senatorial aspirations, but the Sooners won’t lose two in a row.
MINNESOTA AT ILLINOIS: The Gophers have a tough defense, even in a rebuilding year. But Pete Elliot, it seems, has already rebuilt.
OTHER GAMES:
Duke over Clemson
Michigan State over Indiana
Purdue over Michigan
Wisconsin over Iowa
Washington over Stanford
Pittsburgh over West Virginia ______________•____
Last week: 4-7-1, 36%.
To date: 22-13-1, 63%.
FOR MEN
OSUVERS THREE TIMES THS antiperspirant po*£* of ANY OTHJ R	MEN'S OB3OO(Mi>
The Brute
Mennen Spray Deodorant is rugged. Hard working. Long lasting. Delivers 3 times the anti-perspirant power of any other leading men’s deodorant. That’s right. 3 times the anti-perspirant power.
Mennen Spray...in the handy squeeze bottle. What a brute!	(W
October 18, 1963
29
on
^ON TH4r
No dripping, no spilling! Covers completely! Old Spice Pro-Electric protects sensitive skin areas from razor pull, burn. Sets up your beard for the cleanest, closest, most comfortable shave ever! 1.00
<p
WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS
33V3% DISCOUNT ON ALL CAPITOL RECORDS
★ Any Reg. 3.98 — Only 2.66	★ Any Reg. 5.98 —Only 3.99
★ Any Reg. 4.98 —Only 3.33	★ Any Reg. 6.98 —Only 4.69
ONE WEEK ONLY — THIS SALE ENDS OCT. 24TH, 7963
FRANK SINATRA • NAT KING COLE • STAN KENTON FOUR FRESHMEN • KINGSTON TRIO • GUY LOMBARDO GEORGE SHEARING • JUDY GARLAND • LES BAXTER TENN. ERNIE FORD • MILES DAVIS • JONAN JONES FRED WARING • DAKOTA STATON • FOUR PREPS NANCY WILSON • ANDRE PREVIN • BEACH BOYS LETTERMEN • AL MARTINO • BOBBY DARIN • VIC DAMONE • DAVE GARDNER • KEELY SMITH • BILLY MAY • LAURINDA ALMEIDA • MARIAN MONTGOMERY NELSON RIDDLE • DEAN MARTIN • JUNE CHRISTY JACKIE GLEASON • DUKE ELLINGTON • KAY STARR RAY ANTHONY • GLEN GRAY • LONVIN BROS.
WHIRLING DISC RECORD SHOPS —214 S. MICHIGAN ST. —CE 3-4585
WEEKDAY STORE HOURS: MON., THURS., FRI. —9:30 to 8:30; TUES., WED., SAT. —9:30 to 5:30
30
The Scholastic

‘Letters’
(Continued, from page 1)
The attack levied, at the editorials has ignored two major points: first, that the admission of ivomen to our campus would he done on an academic rather than residential plane; second, that the equation of “change,” in this instance, with “progressivism” is in no way an attempt to let this one example set the tone of the progressive nature of the University, but rather is only one example of the sort of changes that must be considered within the framework of advancing thought.
Another point worthy of notice is the faulty claim that the editorial credited the presence of Radcliffe girls for the reputation of Harvard. In illustrating that Harvard had and still does have an excellent reputation despite the presence of ivomen in its
classes the authors of the above letter substantiate rather than destroy the main contention of the editorial — that women can contribute to academic achievement and that the University can truly profit by their presence.
The financial argument presented is as valid in the present context as it might be in the proposed one. Inasmuch as there would have to be no further residence facilities, one of the major financial considerations would not be pertinent. Should there be the sort of situation that exists in Cambridge, many of the fine faculty members of St. Mary’s would be available for all the students to share. Salaries of the new professors would be paid in part by the girls participating in the program. So the financial argument is not as sound as would first appear.
As for sufficient reason, if the
added opportunity for educational advancement and increasing perfection is not sufficient reason to consider departure from the status quo, then it is doubtful that any would be. It might be better to remain safe behind the artificial wall which protects while at the same time isolates.
—Ed.
SOCIAL NOTES Editor:
Speaking from this side of the road, the situation between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s is deplorable. Rather than being a free-flowing community of intercampus activities built on mutual interests, both schools are ghettos. This situation is neither normal nor healthy for the students or the schools.
The major factor in the creation of this situation is the Notre Dame stu-(Continued next page)
October 18, 1963
31
Paint the town red, blue, or purple. Take in the theatre, the night spots, the art shows. Visit Chinatown, downtown, midtown, or uptown. Bring your own friends or meet new exciting ones here. But whatever you do, you'll enjoy it more, with The Waldorf-Astoria as your Park Avenue campus. Dancing in the New Peacock Alley and Restaurant on Fri. and Sat. evenings from 9 RM. to the Meyer Davis Trio. Min. $3.00 per person.
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
$8.00 Per Person, 1 in a Room $6.50 Per Person, 2 in a Room $5.50 Per Person, 3 in a Room
The Waldorf-Astoria also has elegant private rooms for your Thanksgiving, Christmas, or New Year’s party. They’re always more fun at the Waldorf.
Park Avenue between 49th & 50th Streets New York 22, N.Y. • ELdorado 5-3000
Conrad N. Hilton, President
The Student-Faculty	V^A
Film Society presents: VINK l¥l M 04 The theme for this year is PIONEER DIRECTORS. Times this year are 3:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m., and the films are being shown in the Engineering Auditorium. Tickets are priced at $3.00 and $4.50 for couples. They may be purchased from Cinema ’64 hall representatives or from Donald Costello in the English Department. Tickets may be ordered by mail at Box 203, Notre Dame, Indiana.
On October 27, the 1963 University production of Hamlet with Richard Kavanaugh will be shown free. On November 24 will be the first regular film. Last Year at Marienbad.
RUBIN CLEANERS 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
ir
• The Finest in Dry Cleaning • Expert Shirt Laundering • Complete Laundry Service
ATTENTION SENIORS!!
PLEASE NOTE WELL
1. Please check your picture for the 1964 Dome. 2. If you haven’t had your picture taken, please check with Dome for picture requirements. 3. Please check your activities list and make sure you have the three activities you want.
PLAGE: Dome office (above the Huddle) WHEN: Through October 31
TIME: Mon.-Fri., 3:00-5:00
DO IT NOW!
‘Letters’
(Continued from preceding page) dent. Instead of working with the facts to improve Notre Dame-St. Mary’s relations, he has done nothing but complain. This incessant, childish moaning with no thought to positive action has made our two schools what they are today — ludicrous characters in an immense social farce.
Because of the rules of our society, the girls cannot take the initiative in changing the situation. It is up to Notre Dame students to do that, and it is about time we did.
We should develop respect for St. Mary’s as a school. Jeering St. Mary’s at the rally and game was shabby and ungrateful. Degrading and immoral comments about St. Mary’s girls are not only uncalled for under any circumstances, but more so from men who are supposed to be dedicated to the most perfect of women. St. Mary’s has always stood behind Notre Dame, but Notre Dame has only'mocked and trod upon St. Mary’s.
We should understand the St. Mary’s girls’ position. Obviously, they cannot date all of us. If we call for a date and find out the girl we are calling is already going out, there is no sense in going into a fit of depression or raving about the hall. I wonder how many times St. Mary’s girls have accepted dates only to be called later by someone they would rather go out with?
We should become a little more friendly. How many times have St. Mary’s girls been eyed but ignored? We do not have too much time together, and it is useless to waste time leaning against walls waiting for them to come to us. It is up to us to do the introducing.
We should use a little imagination on dates. South Bend does not offer too much for the college group, so we should think of things to do with what is around the campus. Movies, pizzas, bike hikes, some of the lesser attended sporting events, or just plain walks are inexpensive and easy to arrange. These dates should be kept small and informal.
Intercampus organizations that are small, informal, and rather specialized should be created. These clubs would give the St. Mary’s girls the opportunity to be more than just dates.
In short, it is high time the Notre Dame students stopped griping about the girl problem and started doing something about it.
Robert E. Marquis Mark Levandoski 450 Zahm
32
The Scholastic
I

‘Realism’
(Continued from page 23J responsible for the student government budget as a whole. The business managers would also see that adequate publicity was given to the finances by way of student publications and/or other means. Student Body President Dave Ellis has shown some awareness of this problem by making provisions for a survey of various commissions and officers.
Another major item of misunderstanding could be removed if the Mardi Gras accounts were kept separate from student government funds. Even though Mardi Gras comes under student government jurisdiction, it should not be included with those funds, as it is now, for it is already allocated. Under the present system the Mardi Gras funds warp the view of student government income by making it appear larger than it is.
The above provisions, while preventing the snowballing effect of future abuse, will not take care of our present $11,000 challenge. It is obvious that, for this year, the cabinet and senate must immediately embark on an austerity program. Student projects should not necessarily be curtailed, but those projects which in any way threaten financial loss must be immediately dropped. Even “normal” expenditures must be watched and kept at a minimum — strict economy is necessary.
So far this year there has been little success, assuming that there have been any attempts, at economy. The first two victory dances have definitely shown no profit. The concerts were not doing too badly until Peter Nero arrived on campus the same night as the Military ball, the pep rally, and a rugby game. The Peter Nero concert was planned as a “meat and potatoes” extra, but the Social Commission dropped a lump sum in excess of $1500. Further, student administration has almost gleefully slid deeper into debt, at a rate of over $200 a week, by putting out a newspaper, The Voice.
The above program of austerity may or may not come about. Ultimate blame for the problem lies with an impassive student body — the ultimate solution lies, obviously, with responsible students who care enough to know what their government is doing with their money. “Economy” and “budgeting” have been the basis for many of the recent campaigns for the Student Senate. But politics is politics, and these two words mean nothing unless backed by a program of definitive action.
We all make mistakes...
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Don’t meet your Waterloo at the typewriter—perfectly typed papers begin with Corrasable! You can rub out typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. It’s that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasable. Saves time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Corrasable in light, medium, heavy weights and
Onion Skin sheet packets boxes. Only Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
in handy 100-and 500-sheet Eaton makes

EATON PAPER CORPORATION • £ • PITTSFIELD, MASS.
Even if you are a beginner ...You’ll Dance after 3 hours
at the
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO
You can go dancing after only three hours when you put yourself in the hands of an Arthur Murray teacher.
At our gay studio parties, free to all students, you will thrill to the wonderful adventure of dancing the new steps in the Fox Trot, Cha-Cha, Twist, etc. You’ll gain poise, develop your personality as you make new friends.
Join the fun; accept a half-hour k'U h' U‘ Trial Lesson............. XLI • ■ 1
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO 120 East Wayne Street CE 2-3339
COVER
Layout and Art Editor (a new position) Larry Sicking presents a fictional (some hope) portrait of the Notre Dame of the future. Larry departs, in this cover, from his usual style to show our own willingness to accept the influence of the female mind.

i

-
October 18, 1963
33

Tom Hoobler. ..
The Last Word
A letter appeared in last week’s Scholastic signed by “The Students of Cavanaugh (2nd floor)” complaining that the first-floor Cavanaugh inhabitants had been told that they were to be moved out of Cavanaugh and into other freshman halls as space became available. The letter made the point that moving from hall to hall would necessitate a readjustment that wasn’t fair to subject a freshman to, considering the other problems of freshman life.
During the week, we talked to Fr. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C., the Vice-president for Student Affairs, who made the original decision to move the Cavanaugh residents. He sympathized with the displaced Cavanaugh residents, but explained that the decision was made because of considerations for the good of the University as a whole. Upper-class off-campus students will be moved into the rooms in first-floor Cavanaugh. Father McCarragher explained that off-campus students are usually reluctant to move into freshman dormitories, and that as many as seventy rooms are vacant at the end of a year because no one can be found to move into them; this represents a loss to the University of close to fifty thousand dollars. It was felt that having freshmen move into freshman dorms would be less difficult for the new occupants of vacant rooms. At the same time, the upper-class students from off campus will be much happier living in one area (first-floor Cavanaugh).
Maybe, but we still can’t help wondering if the ideals that are the rationale for the Freshman Year Program aren’t being set aside in this instance. If it’s possible to force the freshmen to move into another hall, isn’t it possible to force upperclassmen into freshman halls? After all, the off-campus students (in general) are off because they have a low grade average. The hapless Cavanaugh Hall freshmen, on the other hand, have done nothing to deserve being shunted around except being assigned to Cavanaugh Hall (which some people maintain has a curse on it). We admit that we can’t think of a solution which won’t involve somebody getting hurt, and hurting the upperclassmen is just as undesirable as hurting the freshmen. Perhaps, in the long run, it’s worth the money those vacant rooms cost the University to get the freshmen off to a good start at Notre Dame.
It was a hopeful sign that the voter turnout in this week’s student elections was the largest in some time. Stanford Hall had nine candidates for senator, which surely is a record, and
only one office (St. Ed’s sec’y-treas.) had no candidates. Although we agreed with the outcome of the Red Bam referendum, it was unfortunate that there was no word beforehand that the referendum would be on the ballot (reminiscent of the election in which stay-hall was approved). Let us hope that the students’ interest in their government is justified and maintained by the actions of their elected officers throughout the year (see pages 5 and 23).
The band has been having its troubles. Director Robert O’Brien was upset enough earlier this week to consider refusing to let the band play at the pep rally and put on its half-time show at the UCLA game. Two band members were allegedly beaten up at last week’s pep rally, and several more roughly shoved; all this supposedly because some students were angry at the band’s playing the Wisconsin fight song after the Wisconsin game. Certainly, if this is true (and there is no reason to doubt Mr. O’Brien’s account), the students responsible ought to be found and made to pay for the damage they caused to instruments, uniforms, etc. It has always been the band’s custom (and the sportsmanlike tradition of the school) to play the opposing team’s song at the end of a game, win or lose.
The other incident of last weekend which upset Mr. O’Brien was quite different. When large groups of students rushed onto the field at half time of the USC game to welcome the team, they partially interfered with the band’s half-time show. It is important to note that this was not a malicious action like the pep rally incident, and secondly that the interference was minor. The band’s show was by no means ruined; a little more regulation of the crowd (which was, incidentally, soon contributed to by the cheerleaders) is all that would be needed to prevent a future occurrence.
As this was written (Wednesday morning), Dave Ellis was working out the details of adequate protection with Mr. O’Brien, in hopes of persuading him to allow the band to participate in tonight’s pep rally. A bulletin is being prepared informing the students of prudent conduct at half-time ceremonies. There is no thought of preventing the students from coming onto the field. We are hopeful that a plan will have been worked out so that the band will continue its invaluable service to the student body, both at the rally and at the game. It will be a sorry state of affairs if our own students cannot appreciate and respect the services of the band as an integral part of Notre Dame spirit.
34
The Scholastic
ANNOUNCEMENT!
SECOND ANNUAL MONSTER CONTEST SPONSORED BY THE PARKER PEN PEOPLE wow crpe^ to
FREE
TERRIFYING PRIZES
no purchase required! see directions
20 Giant, Stuffed Monsters
7 feet tall!! (make ideal roommates—require no care or feeding)
40 Genuine Voodoo Dolls (Complete with pins and detailed instructions)
100 Eerie, Malevolent Monster Masks (Your friends will notice the refreshing change in your appearance)
PLUS 200 CLEAN-FILLING, SMOOTH-WRITING PARKER ARROW CARTRIDGE PENS
All you have to do to enter is visit your nearest Parker dealer, fill out an entry blank and mail it to: Monster Contest, Box No.878, Janesville, Wis.
And while you're visiting, why not test-write our newest—The Arrow by Parker. This one loads quickly and cleanly with big Super Quink cartridges. It writes smooth as silk. The point should last you years, no matter how much you use it.
The Arrow by Parker costs $2.95 and can save you important money on cartridges—ours are BIGGER and last longer (each is good for up to
10,000 words).
NOTE: All entries must be postmarked on or before midnight November 8,1963, and received on or before November 16,1963. Winners will be notified by mail no later than December 4,1963.
Open to any college student in the U.S.A. One entry per student. Prizes awarded by drawing. All entries become property of Parker. Decision of judges final Void in New Jersey, Missouri, and Wisconsin, and wherever else prohibited by law.
4* PARKER—At 75 years—Maker of the world's most wanted pens
SHOES BY JARMAN
STANDING ON OUR OWN THREE FEET
Research, Manufacturing and Operations form the solid base upon which 6T&E has built its strength. Today, 6T&Eis the largest of the many Independent telephone companies that supply a substantial share of America’s e ver- gro wing communications needs. By conducting our own research, manufacturing our own communications products and operating our own telephone system, 6T&E contributes to the communications progress of the whole nation.
GENERAL TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS
730 THIRD AVENUE, NEW YORK 10017
GT&E SUBSIDIARIES: General Telephone Operating Companies m 32 states • Genera! Telephone & Electronics Laboratories ■ General Telephone & Electronics International • Genera! Telephone Directory Co. • Automatic Electric • Lenkurt Electric ■ Sylvania Electric Products