Now you can get ballroom experience and confidence your very first lesson. Join an Arthur Murray Club Dance Class. You’ll love the gay informality of these classes and be amazed how quickly you learn all the latest steps. But you must act noiv before these three special classes are full.
Call 2-3339
Call 2-3339
To enter Your Name for
CLASSES STARTING
so SOIN ah tITIII MIIUY
Tuesday—February 13..............2	P. M.
Wednesday—February 14...........3 P. M.
Thursday—February 15.............4	P. M.
CLUB DANCE CLASS
10 Hours — $ 15.00
ATTENTION: Notre Dome Men—An open letter to YOU!
Gentlemen,
In the past two years, since the ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing opened in South Bend, we have had numerous telephone calls, and many personal suggestions from many of you regarding special classes and special rates for Students! “Mr. Murray” has given me permission to arrange the above three classes at reduced rates! Miss Benbow, our Supervisor, will personally take charge of these NOTRE DAME Classes. Women Instructors are already reserved.
Best Wishes for Your Dancing Future,
Leila Gray Mgr.
Pay os little os $1.50 a week. Free Dances every week! Also Special Parties
Think of it . . . for as little as $1.50 a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios. De sure to ask about the special pay-as-you-go plan when you come in to arrange about your dancing lessons.
We Teach All The Dances—You May Have Ycur Choice of:
• FOX TROT • JITTERBUG • WESTERN SWING • SAMBA	• RUMBA
• WALTZ	• POLKA	• CHARLESTON	• TANGO • MAMBO
Tuesday—February 13, 2 P. M.
Enroll—1-2 P. M.
Classes Starting
Wednesday—February 14, 3 P. M.
Enroll—2-3 P. M.
Thursday—February 15, 4 P. M. Enroll—3-4 P. M.
P. S. If any six or mere students want a class at a different Hour or on a different day—Our Women Instructors will be glad to arrange a special one to suit each group, on the day of your choice.
Coll 2-3339 Now
OPEN
10 A. M. — 10:30 P. M. Every Day
Arthur Murray
120 East Wayne St.
Above Copp Music Shop
Call 2-3339 Now
OPEN
10 A. M. — 10:30 P. M. Every Day
The Scholastic
A Horribobble Disappointment
Editor:
The column known as THE WEEK of Jan. 12 is introduced with: “Right now our usually well-controlled pen must embark on an attack.”
But how disappointed we were with what followed. The attack was upon the South Bend Tribune for dropping the comic strip “Pogo” from its pages. Does such a grade school complaint belong in our University magazine?
Unfortunately it is all too true that in many American homes the section of the Sunday paper that is first (and perhaps only) read is the “funnies.” But, no one claiming to be an adult would advertize the fact unblushingly. We hope Jack matures rapidly before the end of the semester.
Jim Crawford
313 Alumni
We’re sorry to disappoint reader Crawford with •“Pogoisms.” A defense is not necessary, since the funnies, the local neivs, and everything in a newspap'er appeals to certain readers and not others as a matter of taste. We, along with thousands of Okefenokee Swamp critter fans do advertize the fact unblushingly
and with a crusading lance thrust forward. Most of the time, a chuckle with “Pogo” helps us forget about mis-han-dled foreign policies and possible early graves for ourself and our buddies in the armed forces. You don’t have to be unadult to laugh; only adults can really laugh noivadays.—Jack Janowski
Economics by a Physicist
Editor:
How ND can save §107,821.16 annually: Students spend this traveling during the 10-day vacation between semesters. Membership in geographical clubs was the basis for this calculation with the formula Nc Snd. Food, drink, gambling “s?
losses, etc., while traveling were not considered.
It is not proposed that this vacation be abolished, but rather that it be added to the Christmas vacation as done by some colleges. The first semester would end in December if started a couple of weeks sooner. Furthermore what little time there is in January is spent recalling what was forgotten in December.
(It might be mentioned that the saving would be $215,642.32 if both vacations are abolished.)
Joe Thie Physics Dept.
And according to the Scholastic's financial department’s sliderule, the saving would be exactly $8^45,389.67 if the whole semester were abolished.—Editor
Plea for Prayers
Editor:
Although Notre Dame students absorb daily numerous proddings from the faculty for more prayer, penance, and the receiving of the sacraments, the anemic attendance at daily Mass in each of the hall chapels leads us to conclude that this advice is shunned by a towering majority.
Realizing that daily Mass is too overburdening for most of our Notre Dame -men, we would like to suggest that the following short prayer, given to the world by Our Lady at Fatima for the purpose of reparation for sins, the conversion of Russia, and world peace, be said often daily by the students. Surely this will not bring about such great “inconvenience” as thirty minutes of Mass each morning!
Most of us are doing little or nothing toward the furthering of world peace, but sitting around meek and worried, are watching and waiting for Russia’s next move. We suggest that if anyone around here is interested in world peace, they copy out this prayer and put it on
(Continued on Page 30)
GRANADA.
/Jdn Hue	-
Ask any old timer, “Where’s Gilbert’s?” They’ll tell you where we are ...
^tte Beit QltMusup State in

StREET
^STATE
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Open every evening till 9
AYON.
Feb. 9, 1951
3
Choice of two delicious meals
70/
Daily from 11 to 1:30
No waiting
Free parking on
North side of building
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
4
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
Seniors round the final turn and charge down the home stretch . . .
Changes
You may not be able to see the glitter of the Golden Dome because of the blinding snow, but everyone seems to feel a little better during the second semester than they did during the first, unless they have a thesis to write or a comprehensive to take. Registration and all that goes with it came and went without too much trouble. All Com-
5. Smoke slowly; avoid fast and furious puffing.
(Ed Note: And if it’s an expensive cigar, keep the band on it!)
After all that build-up, we don’t know whether or not we want to smoke anything but a cigar.
Heart-Shaped Greeting
A Valentine wish to you, minus lace.
Mardi Gras
This year, as before, we failed to win anything in the transformed Drill Hall. The booths were again filled with shrieking promoters attired in appropriate costumes and even the profs joined in on the festivities with a booth of their own. We were surprised to see all that money floating around and no ■ Foundation members there to gather it in.
Conflagrations
Any more fires in the new Science building will be carefully investigated. We’ve got plenty of old buildings for fires; let’s be more careful with the new ones.
Bottom of the Week
. . . and the profs start using the whip.
merce men received even nicer schedules than before and Freshmen discovered with horror that another semester
JteoJui to-
of Departmentals awaited them.
A nearby college for women also began classes anew minus one tradition, the Sunday afternoon tea dance. In its place, the /e?nmes fatales injected a combination smoker, card party, song fest, turkey trot, and obstacle course as yet unnamed. We plan to take in one of these doings as soon as they start serving refreshments. There wasn’t any tea at those tea dances and you know how frustrating that was.
Smoker’s Hack
Since just about everybody gave up smoking for Lent except Moose Krause, the following item released by the Cigar Institute of America, Inc., won’t interest you too much, but here it is anyway:
Attention Upper' Classmen! Do you he-men know how to smoke a cigar properly? Are you sometimes mistaken for an Indian smoke signal? Do you inhale and turn green? Well, here are five tips for the tyro tycoons among you, guaranteed to add panatella pleasure.
1.	There’s no need to bite off the end of your cigar to prepare it for light. Merely pinch the end gently and you will create an air vent.
2.	Light your cigar with the heat rather than with the flame of match or lighter.
3.	You need not inhale to enjoy a cigar.
4.	A long ash makes a cigar smoke cooler, last longer. Let it grow.
it's easy! ... it's fun! . ..
the GEORGE DAVIS way.
Alice and George Davis
H RATES NOW IN EFFECT
DANCE FIESTA
Every Thursday, 9 p. m.
All Notre Deane students invited to attend our friendly socials. No charge.
. . . two can learn to dance for the cost of one the GEORGE DAVIS way and save 50%. you'll enjoy the congenial atmosphere of South Bend's largest and most beautiful dance studio. Come in . . . or call 3-8229 for free trial lesson.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
Dial 3-8229
Feb. 9, 1931
5
FEEBRUARY 9
COLFAX (through Feb. 14)—It would be hard to choose between Harvey and the current Born Yesterday (Legion of Decency Eating B) as to which is the better comedy. The latter is a rollicking laugh riot with Judy Holliday turning in a memorable performance.
AVON (indefinite run)—Irene Dunne and Fred MacMurray are the participants in Never a Dull Moment (A-l). Both must have sleepless nights for having consented to appear in this film. It falls far short of living up to its title. Following this will be The Man Who Cheated Himself (A-2), a modestly budgeted thriller that ranks with the best. Lee J. Cobb and Jane Wyatt, two underrated actors, share top billing.
GRANADA (through Feb. 22)—Hollywood’s war trend spotlight falls on the Marines in Halls of Montezuma (A-2). Except for a misplaced message given by a war correspondent, this is one of the top battle pictures produced recently. Some of the excellently photo- • graphed fighting scenes will be remembered for a long time. Richard Widmark and Walter J. Palance (the hard-bitten killer of Panic in the Streets') head a uniformly good cast. The co-feature, Gasoline Alley (A-l), should never have been transferred from the comic strip.
FEBRUARY 10
WASHINGTON HALL—Randolph Scott is an old hand at westerns and plays still another slack-jawed, wind-hardened, dust-swept role in The Nevadan (A-l) with Dorothy Malone as his blushing vis-a-vis.
FEBRUARY 11
PALACE (through Feb. 13)—Walk Softly Stranger (A-2) starts out as a corking good mystery but soon gets so wound up in its own vague intentions that the end result is pretty shoddy as entertainment. Joseph Cotton and Valli try hard but futilely to save the movie.
FEBRUARY 12
WASHINGTON HALL (through Feb. 15)—That 6’2” hunk of nothing and his lovable cohorts will be on hand when the University Theatre presents Mary Chase’s Harvey, its second offering of the year. All students who enjoyed the movie will want to be on hand to see the story in its original form. Curtain time each night is 8:15 sharp.
FEBRUARY 14
PALACE (one night only)—A year ago last fall the touring company of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Oklahoma satisfied a packed house with its performance of this all-time hit musical show. They return once again to entertain South Bend with one of the most pleasing musicals ever written. Students who have never seen this production — and many who have — should not miss it.
FEBRUARY 15
LAW AUDITORIUM—The second session of the annual Marriage . Institute, open to all Seniors and married students, will start at 8 p.m. Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., will speak on Christian Love in Marriage and Rev. William A. Botzum, C.S.C., will speak on Masculine and Feminine Psychology.
scho/ssfic
Vol. 92 February 9, 1951 No. 15
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus .
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52___________________News
ROBERT G. FINNEY '53 ....Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51 Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52 Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52________Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER. '52____Photography LEON GARDNER. '52_________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER_______________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51______Advertising ROBERT WILDEMAN '51___________Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico. Dick Cody, John Corrigan. Valentine Chun. Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey. Dave Hayes. John Kelly, R. O. Murphy. Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn. Bill Rady. Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier.
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin. Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub.
FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw. Dan Brennan. John Chevanne, Jay Conlon, Frank Haendler, Larry McDermott, Harry Siemonsma, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta and Jack Ward.
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul ’ Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth. C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: At the beginning of each Lent, the Church sees fit to remind her children that they are mortal, fallen creatures.. Ashes are symbolic of man’s mortality and of the limitations of his body. They put him in the penitential mood.—Photo by Jerry Sheehan, ’54.
6
The Scholastic

More Instead of Less
One of the purposes of Lent is for everyone to take a realistic look at their ^spiritual life. It offers a lengthy period of self-examination. And this year, with the future looking rather bleak, to say the least, we should all make an extra close examination of where we stand in the eyes of God.
Although that future does appear bleak it doesn’t now, never has, and never will appear futile. True Christians always possess great hope and faith. But these very virtues sometimes allow a person to relax and not worry a great deal about their spiritual life.
Now, more, than ever, we should be working toward a temporal perfection of our souls. During the immediate weeks ahead we are offered extra opportunities by which to “shape up.” There is lots more we can do than the usual amount of penance. Too many people take Lent to mean a period during which you give up something. Something that “really hurts”—like movies, cigarettes, ice cream, chewing gum, or dessert. Practicing such self-denial is good, to an extent, but it certainly isn’t enough in way of preparing for the death of Christ and His ultimate Resurrection.
This negative attitude of preparation should be complemented, if not superseded, by a positive attitude. Instead of doing without, or doing less, we should all try to do more. Some people attend Mass and receive Communion every day during Lent. Others make a daily period of meditation. Those who usually go to the Grotto once a day, double their visits. Those who usually recite a daily Rosary, say two or more. And so forth.	-
With the advantages with which we are blessed at Notre Dame, we should find it quite easy to follow this plan. This pertains, in particular, to the Seniors and all those who don’t know whether or not they’ll ever be spending another Lenten season at Notre Dame. For when again will they be living in the. same house with God? When again will going to Benediction mean a matter of a few short steps? When again will they be living in an atmosphere so completely permeated by Christ?
It boils down to a simple matter of now, or never. Realization of this fact will make this Lent a more glorious period than it has ever been before, and perhaps will ever be again.
•
Another Bullseye
The annual Mardi Gras carnival and dance are unique activities. Nothing else presented during the year can compare with them in so far as scope and student sponsorship is concerned. There is a unified community spirit behind these two affairs that is not duplicated. It is a big undertaking and for the past four years the student’ body has proved conclusively it is capable of its delegated sponsorship.
This year’s Mardi Gras was a well-planned and well-worked activity. Many students combined their talents in presenting it. They worked for many hours, weeks, and months on its behalf. But their work was not in vain. The successful dance and carnival was proof enough. Hearty congratulations are hereby extended to all the individuals and organizations who helped to make the dual event something really great and memorable.
A Blow from Chicago
Not too long ago Herb Graffis, of the Chicago SunTimes, wrote a column on the prevalent slovenly dress of young men. The careless appearance of many of the men he has seen has shocked the columnist. However, he had noted a marked improvement in the dress of some men. “The smart lads learn. I’ve noticed since World War II ended that the well-groomed look has gained ground among the male students at Northwestern and Notre Dame.”
Students who travel under University auspices—athletes, debaters, etc.—are especially aware of their duties to appear well groomed. But as with everything, there are always a few who are the shirking kind. They prefer to look as if they just crawled out of the sack rather than appear neat. Mr. Graffis has apparently never seen them. Here’s hoping he never does or else thev get on the ball before too manv people point them out as sloppy men from Notre Dame.
The Corpse and the Infant
The St. Mary’s tea dance is dead. Its corpse was solemnly interred last Sunday, at 3:30 p. m., in the Stapleton Lounge. Le Mans Hall. St. Marv’s College. .
But the corruption of one thing, according to the old Aristotelian principle, is the generation of another. And the noisy youngster who took the place of the defunct tea dance is full of youthful optimism.
The tea dances were a tradition that stagnated. Each semester they would begin with a gusto, and then fall off to almost nothing by the second month of the term. The break with outworn tradition is a sign of progress and a kind of altruistic thinking on the part of St. Mary’s. -
'The new program provides for dancing, card playing, singing, and even smoking within the building, the latter brought about by the opening of the heretofore sacrosanct “rec” to nicotine hounds. Card tables are provided in the East Parlors for canasta and bridge and maybe even pinochle fans.
The new program went over quite successfully last Sunday. The question is: was last week merely the usual begin-ning-of-the-semester enthusiasm, or will the program prove a real impetus towards better ND-St. Mary’s relations?
Feb. 9, 1951
7
NOTRE DAME MEN say:
Read Faster ... Save Time ... Learn More!
REVEREND JOHN A. O BRIEN Author of Reading; Its Psychology and Pedagogy.
“The Foundation For Better Reading in South Bend is admirably equipped to assist people in doubling and even tripling their speed of reading . . . enabling them to read a great deal more literature than they now find possible . . . and thus increasing their efficiency, culture, and pleasure,” says Rev. John A. O’Brien, noted author, educator, and expert in the field of improved reading habits.
“I not only doubled my reading speed, but I developed such smooth eye movements that I can now read twice as long without eyestrain,” writes Edward A. Fisher, professor of Journalism, now a Press Officer with the U. S. Army. “In other words, during the next year I will probably read as much as I totaled during the past four years. That’s saying a lot for only 20 hours of instruction.”
EDWARD A. FISHER
“Before I took the course I was reading at a normal college rate of about 325350 words per minute. When I was told that this training would enable me to double or triple this rate, I didn’t believe it,” says Ernest J. Bartell, Sophomore in Commerce. “I was amazed to find how easily I was able to raise my normal reading rate to almost 1200 words per minute without losing comprehension. Because I can now do my reading in far less time, I find that I have a lot more time left over for other activities.”
ERNEST J. BARTELL
“When I finished this course and tested my total improvement in reading, I realized that I had been wasting an average of from 5 to 10 hours a week in needlessly slow reading,” says Michael A. Geraghty, Junior majoring in Math. “It’s my firm belief that this course will be of tremendous benefit, not only to Science students like myself, but more particularly to A.B. students and to anyone who reads very much for pleasure or study.”
MICHAEL A. GERAGHTY
Find out today how you — even if you’re a “fast” reader now — may easily and quickly more than double your reading capacity.
A special tuition discount is available to Notre Dame faculty members and students who register for the course immediately.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E. LaSalle Avenue	<next to Aquinas Bookstore)	Phone 3-0077
®	The Scholastic
1**
VOLUME 92, NUMBER 15	FEBRUARY 9, 1951
Needed: One Mass Hotfoot
Basketball. What is it? A person completely foreign to the sport would have a hard time finding an answer on this campus. There is more interest in basketball at a downtown grammar school than at Notre Dame this year. Few are taking an active part in supporting the ’50-’51 squad. The whole student body—and that means everyone—should be given a hotfoot in order to arouse spirited interest.
The reason for the general apathy toward the sport and the team this year might have something to do with the football team’s record. Everyone had become so conditioned to supporting a winning team that when a losing squad came along they forgot how to act. Perhaps the lackadaisical interest in basketball is a carry over from the gridiron season.
A team that doesn’t bring home the bacon after everv encounter isn’t worth the time or effort it takes to root them forward. An attitude like this goes hand in glove with the person who is strong in victory but weak in defeat.	■
This year’s Irish quintet isn’t a powerhouse. Yet no one can deny the men on it are not out there trying. They’re giving more than their share. And they’re not only having to contend with opponents but also with an undercurrent of dissatisfaction from their home rooters. This is even worse. There is just so much a team can take. And right now the basketball squad has taken more than its fill of abuse and non-support.
It’s about time all of us started to pull for them. Notre Dame has had losing squads before and in the very near future it looks as if the school will have a few more. The track team, for instance, has lost four of its top lettermen. That will surely have some effect on this year’s record. Everyone likes victory but we don’t have to be gluttons for it. If we lose, let’s accept it like men and then go out after an honest win.
The basketball team is presently working on a thirteen game winning streak on the home court. And next Tuesday night it faces the Billikins from St. Louis. Our team can win that game and also the six following it. But the men are in dire need of our support.
Let’s jam the Fieldhouse Tuesday night and show them basketball at Notre Dame hasn’t been relegated to a minor sport. Let’s prove to the men on the squad we’re behind them all the way.
Just allow any critic to say the Irish student body is a group of fairweather sports and everyone rises in protest. So far this season there seems to be some truth to such comments. It’s late, but not too late to show our detractors where we really stand.
Let’s start showing them on Tuesday night.
March Gras Carnival Is Acclaimed Success
The fourth annual Mardi Gras Carnival has proved to be the best ever. Approximately 10,000 people attended the two-day festival and were treated to a gala time by the many participating campus clubs.
All the proceeds of the Carnival which was held in the Navy Drill Hall Monday and Tuesday, will go to the Student Council’s Campus Charity Chest to be donated to various char-.itable organizations throughout the U.S..
The highlight of each of the two evenings’ activities was the awarding of a ’51 Chevrolet convertible to the holder of the lucky raffle ticket. The drawing of Monday night found E. R. LeBlanc, of Ecorse, Mich., the winner. Mr. LeBIanc bought the winning ticket from his son Joseph who is a Freshman in Farley Hall. The winner on Tuesday night was Mrs. Anna Mortensen, of Elmhurst, Long Island, N. Y. She bought the ticket from Gustavo Mortensen of 201 Breen-Phillips Hall, who has a chance to see South America on an all-expense paid tour, or accept the cash equivalent.
The visitors spent most of their time playing the twenty games which were conducted at the various booths run by campus clubs.
An innovation of this year’s Carnival was the judging of the most beautiful booth. A three-man committee judged each booth for originality, workmanship, and beauty. The award went to the Hawaiian Club for their efforts.
The whole affair was managed by John Celusta and Bob Savage, both of whom are Law students. Frank Crovo, a Commerce Senior, was in charge of the raffle while Ed Noonan, a Junior in Engineering, handled the Carnival itself. Noonan was assisted by John Moore and Ted O’Malley.
STAFF OPENINGS
Any student wishing to join the SCHOLASTIC staff is invited to attend an orientation meeting at 8 p. m. on Monday in the Publication offices in the basement of Farley HalL There are vacancies on the ’ News, Sports, Feature and Rewrite staffs.
Feb. 9, 1951
9
Dick Simons to Share Spotlight With Pooka In Campus Production of Hit Play 'Harvey1
By PAT O'MALLEY, ’54
The premiere of the University Theatre’s presentation of the Pulitzer Prize comedy success, Harvey, will take place next Monday evening in Washington Hall, where it will remain for . four performances through Thursday. Curtain time is 8:15 p.m. Free tickets are being distributed in the Dining Hall.
Destined to be a record-breaking hit from its very first try-out performance in Boston, Harvey chalked up a run of over four years in New York alone, establishing it as one of the four longest-running plays in the history of the American theatre.
The man-sized invisible rabbit, Harvey, and his teammate, Elwood P. Dowd, have practically formed a United Nations of their own, since the play about their whimsical adventures has been staged in foreign language versions in South America, Finland, Austria, Greece, Israel, Italy, Sweden, and many more countries. The world’s most celebrated rabbit also cavorted in company with the late Sid Field for a long run in London.
In this country, Harvey was at one time being played simultaneously by three troupes, on Broadway with Frank Fay, and on tour in companies headed by James Stewart and James Dunn. Jack Buchanan, Bert Wheeler, Rudy Vallee and other stars have capered through the Elwood P. Dowd role at various times.
The phenomenal success of Harvey indicates that there is a full-bodied comedy in this story of a disembodied hare who becomes a counselor to the daffy Dowd. The comic complications involve the attempts of Elwood’s sister to have him committed to a rest home, and the unnerving of a sanitarium doctor who is followed home by Harvey.
Co-starring in the University Theatre’s production of Harvey will be Richard Simons, as the usually pixyish Elwood P. Dowd, and his imaginary six - foot-three-and-a-half-inch companion, Harvey, to be played by himself. Others in the cast will include Pat Smanda, as Elwood’s Harvey-harassed sister, Judy Markus as his equally distressed niece, and Hildegarde Vargyas, Jane Simon, Alice Weiss, Jerry Mernin, Frank Jackman, Ton Dolan, Phil Nash, and Charles Doherty.
Professor Leonard Sommer is directing this second play of the current sea
son. Tom Knoth is assistant director. Professor C. Robert Egry is in charge of the two settings, and Professor William J. Eisen, Director of the University Theatre, is producer.
Harvey, seated
Draft Students Called May Choose Service
College students who are now entitled to have their induction into the armed forces postponed until the end of the current academic year may also choose their branch of service (Army, Navy, or Air Force) to the extent of available openings in each service.
Students affected are those who have had or may have their induction postponed under section 6 of the Selective Service Act of 1948. This section states that “any person who, while satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a college, university, or similar institution of learning, is ordered to report for induction . . . shall, upon the facts being presented to the local board, have his induction . . . postponed (A) until the end of such academic year or (B) until he ceases satisfactorily to pursue such course of instruction, whichever is the earlier.” National Selective Service headquarters considers the academic year to extend from September of one year through June of the following year.
Heretofore, an interservice agreement
of August 9, 1948, precluded the voluntary enlistment of a man after he had received notice to report for his pre-induction physical examination. This agreement has been rescinded by the Secretary of Defense.
To make it possible for students to enlist after receiving their orders to report for induction, the Director of Selective Service has agreed to reopen in the last month of the college year the classification of all students who were ordered to report for induction during the year but whose induction was postponed and who desire to vol-unteei- by enlistment in a service of their choice.
The reopening of the classification will require the cancellation of any order to report for induction which might have been issued, and thereby the right of the student to enlist in the service of his choice, to the extent of available openings, will be renewed. The procedure for accomplishing the reopening of the classifications will be announced later and will be published in a Defense Information Bulletin.
The new policy is designed to implement the intent of Congress to encourage students to continue college to the end of their academic year, and, at the same time, preserve their right to indicate the service in which they wish to serve. It is intended to prevent the waste to the Nation and the damage to the educational system that is involved in having young men leave school in mid-term because they desire to enlist in the service of their choice before- they are called for pre-induction physical examination by their local draft boards.
Notre Dame Architect Wins Nation-Wide Design Contest
A Junior architect student at Notre Dame has been awarded first place in a national architectural design contest conducted through the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design.
William J. Laffan, of Niles, Mich., was named winner of the contest to design a building for a glass distributor. The contest was sponsored through the Beaux-Arts Institute by the Kaw-neer Company, of Niles, Mich., which deals in store fronts and other types of construction glass.
Two other Notre Dame architecture students, Charles L. Christen of Pittsburgh, Pa., and John L. Daw, of Perry, Iowa, received honorable mention in the contest. The contest was open to designing students in colleges and universities throughout the United States.
10
The Scholastic
Local Station Switches to New Frequency; Bob Peckels Gets Station Manager's Job
“Radio Station WND will resume broadcasting activities in the near future,” according to Robert Peckels, newly appointed station manager. Peckels, a Junioi* from Chicago, Ill., assumes the position vacated by the recent graduation of Jack Maher.
As in the past, programs will originate from studios in the towers of the Field House, but henceforth, WND will operate on a new frequency. Beginning this semester, “the best in news, music, and sports” will be heard at 1230 kilocycles on your radio dial.
Numerous technical improvements, as well as the installation of new equipment, points to a banner year for the “Student Voice of Notre Dame.” A new master switchboard has been designed by Chief Engineer Hawley Hall, and Technicians John Saul and Ted Byrne have installed a rebuilt transmitter. It is expected that these improvements will increase the quality of program reception.
Highlighting the vastly improved schedule of programs, listed by Program Director Bill Ryan, will be a series of complete transcribed shows by the nation’s leading artists. Serviced by the RCA Corporation, these shows will feature, among others, the musical talents of Tex Beneke, June Christy, and Claude Thornhill.
“Requestfully Yours,” a popular holdover from the past, will again be heard every evening from 9 until 9:30 p.m. Veteran platter spinners Joe Shelly and Jack Hynes will be on hand to play the records requested by local listeners. The Radio Workshop will be broadcast this semester on Wednesdays from 5 until 5:30 p.m. The Workshop is under the guidance of Mr. J. A. Fallon, a professor in the Department of Speech and Director of WND.
At the present time, competitive auditions are being held to determine the announcers for the forthcoming athletic events. As in the past, WND will carry all home games of the Irish basketball and baseball teams.
Other recent appointments to the staff of WND include: Director of Continuity, Dan Flanagan; Director of Music, Gerry Costello; Director of Publicity, Bill Toohey; Director of Special Events, Jerry Burlage; Chief Production Engineer, Bob Dougherty; Record Librarian, Andy Walsh. Mr. William Sahm of the Department of Speech has been appointed Assistant Director of WND. Joe Shelly will hold down his former position as Chief Announcer, while Jim Carrig again will be Business Manager.
Regarding policy, Station Manager Peckels stated: “In the future we hope to attain maximum satisfaction for all listeners by voicing the news of the campus together with nation-wide, world, and complete sports news coverage.”—Neil Scarlett, ’53
The famous de Paur Infantry Chorus still has that military bearing of army days.
De Paur Chorus Gives Concert at Drill Hall
The de Paur Infantry Chorus xvnll present a concert of American music in the University Drill Hall Feb. 21. Included in the program of this famous group, organized in World War II, will be folk songs, Negro Spirituals, semi-classical selections from contemporary composers, and songs from the last war.
Tickets for the performances can be purchased at Washington Hall from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, and on Saturday from 11:30 a.m. till 2 p.m. Tickets are also available at Copp’s Music Store, 124 E. Wayne and at Elbel Brothers Music Store, 212 W. Colfax, both in South Bend. .
Prices have been set at §1.00, 75 cents and 50 cents for students and §1.80, §1.50, and §1.00 for general admission.
The de Paur Chorus is one of the best musical attractions to spring from World War II. It was originated in 1942 by men of the 327th Infantry Regiment stationed at Fort Dix, N. J.
They first appeared to stimulate war bond sales, and these performances led to entertainment of other troops. They were then placed under the direction of Captain Leonard de Paur, and the chorus remained as a unit when the members returned to civilian life after the war.
The singing of the de Paur men has been acclaimed by critics throughout the country. The New York Times called the organization “one of the best trained choral ensembles now before the public.”
Feb. 17 Opening Date For Lenten Retreats
Beginning on Feb. 17, four weekend retreats will be held during Lent for Notre Dame students. The first of these, for graduate students and seniors, will be conducted by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., in Alumni Hall chapel Feb. 17-18.
The following weekend has been designated for Juniors, with Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., serving as retreat master in the Alumni chapel.
The Cavanaugh Hall chapel will be the scene of the two final retreats. For the sophomore retreat on March 3-4, Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., will be retreat master, while Rev. Louis Putz, c.s.c., will preach the freshman retreat on March 10-11.
Like last year, the retreats will begin on Saturday evening and close the following afternoon when the papal blessing will be bestowed. The retreats will consist of recitation of the rosary, confession, Mass and Communion, a holy hour, and several conferences.
Those who are not able to attend the retreat for their particular class may take part in one of the others.
Biology Professors Attend Annual Science Convention
Notre Dame’s Department of Biology was represented at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science by Rev. R. J. Sheehan, c.s.c., and Professors Clarence F. Dineen, Robert L. Livezey, John D. Mi-zelle, Donald J. Plunkett, and Arthur L. Schipper. Meetings were held in various downtown hotels and Western Reserve University from Dec. 26 to 30.
Dr. Schipper presented a paper in the physiology section, on “Some Effects of Sodium azide upon Developmental Stages of Stagnicola reflexa.” He also read a paper by Sister Mary Aelred Pottinger, Q.S.B., and himself on “A Pharmacological Study of the Daphnid Heart.” Members of ..the Notre Dame delegation participated in the meetings of the zoological sciences which meet as sections F and Fl-5.
Feb. 9, 1951
• 11
Bob Savage
'Scholastic1 Omits Names Ot Three in 'Who's Who'
Due to unavoidable difficulties, three’ Notre Dame selectees to the 1950-51 issue of Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities were omitted in the article on the selections which appeared in the Jan. 12 issue of Scholastic.
All three were among the 32 students chosen by the Student Council on the basis of campus leadership and ability. James Kelleher, former vice-president of the YCS, began the . year as editor of the Dome of 1951. He was inducted into the army Dec. 28.
The picture of band leader Gene Hull was also omitted. Gene was president of his class in Freshman year. Both Kelleher and Hull are Juniors. Law
Gene Hull
Commencement Speakers Call for Alliance Of Man With God for Defeat of Communism
Soviet Russia can be defeated only by “an alliance of the spirit of man with the spirit of God,” the Rev. John Courtney Murray, S.J., noted theologian and editor, declared Jan. 28 in the Commencement address at Notre Dame.
“This is no war over frontiers, or between peoples, or between continents,” Father Murray told the graduates. “It is a clash of forces that know no frontiers, for each seeks a zone of influence that is unlimited. Most simply, and therefore most fundamentally, the great battle rages between the forces of materialism and the forces of the spirit.”
The Commencement speaker described the Soviet philosophy as “a materialism that has been fashioned into a metaphysic, and offered as a total explanation of human life, a theory of his-tory, a complete guide for the action of man in history ... a materialism that has been raised to the status of an idea, to the dignity of a religion.”
“This is why it has a revolutionary power,” Father Murray declared. “This, too, is why it can only, in the end, be opposed by a still more revolutionary power — the spirit of man in alliance with the spirit of God.”
Father Murray warned, however, that the “metaphysical materialism that, in its formidable alliance with Soviet power, threatens the world to-
student Bob Savage has served as managing editor of the Dome, Deputy Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus and co-chairman of the 1950 Bengal Bouts.
James Kelleher
day, cannot be overcome by that practical materialism which, in alliance with sentimental moral idealism, has been the major force behind what is called ‘the American way of life’.”
“The task, then, is to affirm — by word, by deed, by the whole quality of your lives — your opposition to materialism,” Father Murray told the graduates. “To the vulgar ‘materialism of the digestive tubes,’ as it has been called — the philosophy of comfort and amusement and material success. To the practical materialism that puts its total trust in machinery and science and knows no other norm of truth or goodness than the purely pragmatic. To the political materialism of those men to whom principle means nothing and expediency is all. To all these forms of the enemy in our very midst. And then to the mighty metaphysical materialism that looms out of the East.
“The task is the affirmation of an opposition. But it is also the affirmation of something more positive. There are, in fact, positive affirmations to be made:
“First, you, as educated men, have to affirm your belief in reason, in intelligence. Professor Orton has well said that ‘the function of the intellectual is to maintain that pressure of reason upon mere circumstances from which alone true meaning, for the rational animal, emerges.’ Never more than today was this ‘pressure of reason’ needed. For the pressure of circumstances was never greater. And men are being hurried by it into fatalism, into defeatism, into hysterical disintegration. In opposition we must maintain that reason is a valid tool whereby the destiny of men may be shaped. We have to believe, and act on that belief, that a rationalization of man’s political and economic life is possible. It is an intention of nature . . .
“Secondly, you, as Christians, have to affirm your faith. Perhaps the element of faith that chiefly needs affirmation is one intimately linked to the central mystery of oui- faith, the Incarnation. I mean faith in the providence of God our Father. Belief in God’s providence means denial of the insidious pagan tenet, resurgent today, that the course of humanity through time and history is guided by fatality or that it sets toward meaninglessness — even the meaninglessness of the earthly kingdom of God of Communist theory.”
In the Baccalaureate Sermon Sunday morning, Very Rev. Vincent J. Flynn
12
The Scholastic
declared that it is the “denial of God and of the nature of man which has ruined most of Europe, which has debauched Russia, and which has brought the United States to its present fearful peril.”
The President of St. Thomas College decried many colleges and universities in the United States for educating their students with teachings which “deny the supernatural, which regard man as an irrational animal, truth as relative, and morals a set of superstitious tabus.”
In his sermon to the seniors, Father Flynn continued: “But, my dear young men, let me repeat it: you are not a part of this shame. You are inheritors of the Christian culture of the past. To you is given the exalted honor of standing out against the fury of the paganism which is sweeping in upon us. Let me remind you that in a storm it is the rootless things, the flimsy things that give way. It is the tumble weed that is rolled about until it vanishes; it is the jerry built shanty that crashes first. It is the sturdy oak that survives, because its roots are deep; it is the sturdy house built on a solid foundation which stands fast.”
Father Flynn charged the Notre Dame graduating class with the responsibility of “calling men back from expediency to justice, from faithlessness to loyalty, from weakness to strength, from purblindness to vision,” because “you are the men with a well-founded philosophy of life to whom the world must look for leadership.
“This is not the first time the world has faced a crisis,” the educator pointed out. “Those who are forever telling us to study the future might profitably, I think, take a look at the past.
“All history, as we know, is a part of God’s mysterious plan. Always in a crisis God has raised up a force to fight evil, to retard if not dam up wholly the streaming torrents of sin. The role assigned us today is a glorious one. We who have had the advantages of training in a University like this must feel a high sense of duty and of privilege to think that today God’s case is in oui* hands.”
Freshman President Calls For General Class Meet
Freshman Class President John Reidy has called a general meeting of all Frosh for next week to decide on chairmen and details for the Freshman dance this Spring.
The dance is scheduled for May 5. Co-chairmen and committee heads will be selected after the open meeting. The Frosh offcers are also seeking suggestions on the location and date. No band has been named as yet.
Commerce Plaque Awarded
At the semi-annual Commerce Forum banquet at the Ramble Inn last month, assistant dean Smith of the College of Commerce awarded the honorary speaker’s plaque to Robert Klingenberger for presenting the most outstanding paper during the Fall semester. Commerce Forum keys were awarded to Joe Mac-Cormac, outgoing president, and to Walt McGovern, outgoing program chairman, at the same meeting.
The principal speaker of the evening was Professor Frank O’Malley, who spoke on “The Catholic Christian Business Man in Modern Civilization.”
New officers for the Forum for the current semester were introduced: Robert Klingenberger, president; John Schumacher, vice-president; Arthur’ Schulte, publicity chairman, and Robert Wolfe, program chairman.
Alumni Association Elects New President, Directors
R. Conroy Scoggins, attorney for a Houston, Tex., oil firm, was elected president of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association during a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Association held Jan. 20 at Notre Dame.
Mr. Scoggins, who is attorney for the land division of the law department of the Humble Oil Company in Houston, succeeds Leo B. Ward, Los Angeles, Calif., attorney, as president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Mr. Ward was elected honorary president of
Freshman officers meet to discuss dance. From left are: Bill Sullivan, secretary; vice-president Joe Gallagher; president John Reidy and treasurer John Reynolds.
PROGNOSTICATORS!
Here’s a chance for all you campus basketball experts to show your ability at picking scores of Notre Dame basketball games and being rewarded for your efforts.
The Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. has announced that it will award a free carton of Chesterfield cigarettes to the Notre Dame student picking the closest final score of the Notre Dame-St. Louis game next Tuesday night and the Notre Dame-DePaul game a week from tonight.
All entries must be submitted the day before the games are played. Send your selections to: Chesterfield Scoring Contest, 300 Howard Hall.
the Association during the meeting.
Other officers of the Association elected during the meeting include William J. Sherry, president of the Sherry Petroleum Company, Tulsa, Okla., first vice-president; William B. Jones, Washington, D. C., attorney, second vice-president; and Edward J. Beckman, New York City public relations consultant, third vice-president. James E. Armstrong was reelected executive secretary of the Association.
Retiring officers of the Association include First Vice-President Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, of Holy Angels Church, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Second VicePresident Joseph M. Boland, announcer for radio station WSBT in South Bend, Ind.; and Third Vice-President Arthur D. •'"Cronin, Detroit, Mich., coal executive.
Feb. 9, 1951
15
The Life of a Brother
The sign at the bend in the road reads “House of Studies, Brothers of Holy Cross.” Up the tree-lined path a few hundred feet stands Dujarie Hall, yellow brick and vine covered, reflecting itself in St. Mary’s Lake. Most Notre Dame students know this place on the west end of the campus as the house where the student Brothers live, but just who the Brothers are many students are not quite sure.
Since the early days of the Church there have been groups of men who have served God in a distinctive vocation, that of being religious Brothers. Brothers are men consecrated to God in the religious state, men who give themselves to communities to live a life of poverty, chastity, and obedience. They are not priests nor do they intend to become such. Just as a priest is confirmed in his vocation in the sacrament of Holy Orders, so a Brother consecrates his life in the profession of the three religious vows. Brothers do not perform the duties of priests; they do not say Mass or administer the Sacraments. The Brothers of Holy Cross teach in elementary and secondary schools and in universities, do clerical
Text by Brother Harold Miller, C.S.C.
Photos by Brother Theodore Oliveira, C.S.C.
work or practice the trades in which they are skilled.
Before a young man enters the Congregation of Holy Cross with the intention of becoming a Brother he must fill out a Community questionnaire, the purpose of which is to gather evidence concerning his physical, mental and spiritual background. If a candidate is accepted he is asked to enter a Jun-iorate. Here he will be introduced for the first time to the life of a Holy Cross Brother. The Juniorate gives preliminary training for the Novitiate. A candidate is offered many opportunities to judge for himself his own fitness for the religious life. He follows a regular schedule outlined by the Brothers who look after him in recreation, studies, and work.
The next step after the Juniorate is the entrance to the Novitiate, where the candidate becomes a Novice and is
given the name of Brother. Clothed in the habit of a Brother of Holy Cross, the Novice begins his period of novitiate training of one year. During this time the Novice is given an intensive training in the religious life. The whole program of the noyitiate is designed to aid the young man to form or re-form his attitudes, ideas, ideals, and habits; and especially to acquaint him with the- obligations, duties, and rights of the vows of Poverty, Chastity, and Obedience.
Takes Temporary Vows
After a • year in the Novitiate he makes temporary vows and leaves that institution for another house of the Congregation. Those destined for teaching are assigned either to the University of Notre Dame or to St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas. Each Brother is required to follow a religious and educational program leading to an academic degree. This degree may be earned in Arts and Letters or in Science or in Commerce, depending primarily on the interests and abilities of the Brother and the type of teacher’s certificate to be obtained.
Prayer plays an important part in the daily life of a Holy Cross Brother. Every morning the Brothers assemble in the Dujarie Chapel for 30 minutes of meditation.
The life of a student Brother here at Notre Dame is a very active one ’ from the time he rises until the time he retires in the evening. In order to accomplish the work for the day, he rises at five o’clock with a “Deo Gratias” in answer to the morning chant of “Benedicamus Domino” sung by a “Regulator” who rings an earsplitting bell. Within 20 minutes every Brother is in Chapel waiting for the opening words of morning prayer. The last traces of sleep have been washed from his face with a few quick splashes of cold water. Those who are a little more brave have even taken a cold shower. Morning prayer is followed by a half hour meditation, an important exercise for the betterment of any member in any religious community. The Brothers assist at the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass which is celebrated by the resident chaplain, Father Cornelius Hagerty, c.S.C.
Shortly after Mass and the reception of Holy Communion, all the Brothers proceed to the refectory or dining room for their breakfast. Usually this meal, as well as dinner, is eaten in silence while one of the Brothers reads a chapter from the Imitation of Christ, followed by a book pertaining to the re-
14
The Scholastic
Whether by canasta games, jam sessions, or sports, the Brothers make good use of the three daily "rec" periods.
But there is always studying to be done. The Brothers have much the same classes, profs, and work as the lay students.
ligious life or spiritual letters written by the Founders of the Brothers of Holy Cross, Father Dujarie and Father Moreau. For various reasons, however, this reading may be dispensed and the Brothers are given “Deo Gratias,” or in common parlance, permission to converse at table.
Housework Before Classes
The morning housework, or the morning obediences, are always done immediately after breakfast and before the first class at the University at eight o’clock. In a house the size of Dujarie there are many things to be done. A Brothel’ may work alone, or he may be assigned to what the Brothers call a crew, for instance the vegetable crew, the pantry crew, the kitchen crew, etc. At the present time there are 57 members in the house besides the Chaplain, and this means a lot of vegetables to be prepared, many dishes to be washed and dried, and a number of pots and pans scrubbed and polished.
The Brothers born and reared in some of our big Eastern and Southern cities are always befuddled when it comes to working on the farm for their morning obediences. To take care of about 500 to 600 chickens is quite a task. Then again, the feeding and caring for two horses, that occasionally find their way to the campus, and six or seven pigs is just as bad. These farm animals need excellent care, therefore each Brother working on the farm is given the needed help and advice from Brother Lewis Bertrand to whom the direction of the farm is entrusted.
In the morning chores three Brothers are engaged in tailoring work — a task that is really never finished. Others
are kept busy with maintenance work —■ acting as plumbers, painters, electricians, and carpenters.
Dishes out of the way, the chickens fed, and the rest of the remaining housework done, the ‘Brothers begin their regular class day at the University. Before the Brothers leave the house in the morning each one makes a short visit to the Blessed Sacrament to ask the Lord’s blessing for the day and to perhaps ask Him for help in passing an English or a Chemistry exam. A majority of the Brothers are in the College of Arts and Letters majoring in Education, Latin, and English. Some are in the Department of Music. Brother Jerome Schwabe directs the choir when the Brothers sing at the 11 o’clock High Mass on Sunday. Brother Roy Nash, a Junior, is president of the Notre Dame Student Orchestra. A few Brothers are working for their degrees in Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, or Biology in the College of Science.
After their 11 o’clock class those coming from the Biology or the Engineering building have to hurry home for Particular Examination. The religious exercise acts as a check against any faults committed during the day and as an aid in acquiring the necessary virtues becoming to a Brother of Holy Cross.
Physical Fuel is Necessary
For the student Brothers, prayer and studies are the most important duties, but the Brothers must eat as well as pray and attend classes. Brother John Chrysostom is in charge of the kitchen. He and his assistant, Brother Richard, prepare all the meals. People say that no one can cook as well as their own
mother but Brother John should be considered an exception.
After dinner and after supper the Brothers have an hour of recreation together. During these “rec” periods they usually settle down with their pipes to a game of canasta or perhaps to a game of chess. These two periods of relaxation and the one in the afternoon, from 3:30 to 5, give the Brothers an opportunity to follow their sports interests and a little extra time to do some reading other than from a physics oi’ economics book. During the afternoon “rec” period Dujarie becomes a hub of activity. To the rear of “Dux” is a small gymnasium used for basketball and volley-ball. The Brothers have their own teams and compete in a limited way with the Moreau seminarians and selected campus teams. There is also a handball court and an athletic field. During the warm summer months, before the weedy vegetation gets too high, the Brothers make good use of theii- private pier on St. Mary’s Lake, a fine facility for swimming and boating.
Huge and Fine Library
For those Brothers not having after-dinner classes the early part of the afternoon is spent in study or in preparation for the next class day assignments. Dujarie boasts what is considered by many the finest reference library of any of the constituent houses at Notre Dame. Its 7,500 volumes serve as an adequate facility in caring for the normal outside reading of most of the courses, thus enabling the Brothers to do a great deal of their work at home rather than at the Main Library. At the present time the library is enlarging its periodical section to aid all the (Continued on Page 22)
Feb. 9, 1951
15
U. S. Official Explains Balkan Policy Results At International Relations Committee Lecture
The United States policy toward Tito’s Yugoslavia has resulted in real strategic and political gains, John C. Campbell, Officer" in Charge of Balkan Affairs for the U. S. State Department, declared Jan. 10 in an address at Notre Dame.
Mr. Campbell Spoke at Notre Dame under the auspices of the University’s Committee on International Relations, which is partially financed by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. He spoke on “American Policy and Tito’s Yugoslavia.”
Situation Dictates Policy
The State Department official told the Notre Dame audience that our aid and comfort to a Communist government has been given not because we approve of the policies and methods of that government, but because the international situation is what it is today. There have been no spectacular results under present courses of action, but they surely have benefited the Yugoslav people more than if we had refused aid or, in trying to place impossible conditions on our aid, had jeopardized the major policy objectives which the aid was intended to accomplish, Mr. Campbell explained.
The essential fact is that “the Yugoslav people, with whom we have the greatest sympathy after the terrible experience they have been through in the last decade, are now free from Soviet domination,” Mr. Campbell said. He pointed out further that since the cominform states blockaded Yugoslavia economically and the Yugoslavs had to run to the west for aid, the gulf has continued and widened. The westward limit of Soviet power now runs through the middle of the Balkan peninsula, Mr. Campbell told the audience. “Italy can breathe more easily. Trieste is no longer a world danger spot,” he declared.
Alternative to Tito
Mr. Campbell emphasized that we cannot be absolutely sure of what would happen in case of war or a general breakdown of authority, but there is every reason to think that the alternative to Tito is not a democratic third force, but the seizure of power by the ruthless agents of the cominform.
He further pointed out that there are all indications that Tito would resist an attack from the east and Tito has declared publicly that he would abide by the United Nations’ determination
of the aggressor in case of war elsewhere. Regarding the future, Mr. Campbell said, the Yugoslavs, regime and people, seem determined to defend the independence of their country and “at the present time there is no alternative to the present regime as the organizer of the defenses of the Yugoslav independence.”
'Review' Writer Forecasts Yugoslavia to Stay Neutral
Tito’s Yugoslavia is now pledged to a policy of “absolute neutrality,” according to an article in the January issue of the Review of Politics, quarterly journal published at Notre Dame.
Professor Adam B. Ulam, the author" of the article, bases his judgment on a study of speeches, political reports, and personal diaries made available through the Russian Research Center at Harvard University. Tracing the history of the Yugoslav, Reds since the early part of World War II, the Harvard professor concludes that Tito’s party is still too fantastically Communist to join the West, but much too nationalistic to suit Russia.
Nevertheless, the article contends that the Tito-Stalin split could have been avoided if the Russians had chosen to use diplomacy. As early as 1943, it reveals, Russian officials were distrustful of the “self-made Communists” in Yugoslavia who refused to let Moscow run their country. Instead of trying to depose Tito by political pressure, though, Professor Ulam says, the Russians chose to infiltrate the Yugoslav army and government with spies. The plan backfired, and Tito bolted from the orbit of Soviet satellites.
Rumors of a vast Balkan plot against Russia during 1948 are discounted by Professor Ulam, who explains that “the Yugoslav Communists were at that period in no position, either politically or psychologically, to plan an anti-Soviet bloc.” When Yugoslavia did break with Moscow, he says, it was only because the Soviet lack of diplomacy had convinced Yugoslav leaders that they would have to stand up against Russia “for sheer survival.”
APARTMENTS
A list of apartments available to married students may be obtained at the office of the Prefect of Discipline. The office is located on the main floor of the Main Building.
Blaze Delays Work On Science Building
Fire broke out in the basement of the new Science building at 8:35 a.m. on Tuesday. According to Harry Nelson, who is superintendent of construction for the Sollitt Construction Co., the blaze was due to an overheated “salamander.”
The salamander which is used to warm concrete forms, flared up unexpectedly and was soon out of hand. Firemen from the University and South Bend fire departments fought the blaze for more than an hour before bringing it under control.
No one was hurt in the blaze which caused only surface damage to the basement construction. However, it will be awhile before it is ascertained how much material may be salvaged.
Mr. Nelson said the fire may slow down progress on the building for several weeks. A snow storm on Tuesday also hindered the pouring of cement and may add to the delay in construction.
An on-the-spot tape recorded interview with the Fire Chief and the Assistant Fire Chief of South Bend and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., was made by Jack Hynes and Ray Earls of WND. The interview was later rebroadcast by station WHOT in South Bend.
Econ Head John Sheehan Named President of CEA
John H. Sheehan, head of the department of economics here at Notre Dame was elected president of the Catholic Economic Association for the year 1951, according to a mail vote count announced this week by the Rev. Cletus Dirksen, c.pp.s. secretary-treasurer of the Association.
As president, Mr. Sheehan succeeds Joseph Solterer, professor of economics at Georgetown University, Washington, D. C.
The Association will hold its annual convention on December 27 at the Palmer House in Chicago where Professor Sheehan will be formally installed. Professor Sheehan was formerly the national and regional program chairman, national vice-president and has been for the last three years associate editor of the Association journal, Reviezv of Social Economy.
Founded in 1941, the golden anniversary year of Pope Leo XIII’s encyclical, Rerum Novarum, the Association has a membership of more than 300, including representatives from South America, Europe, and Australia in addition to those from the United States.
16
The Scholastic
U’ho Hants To Be
A Valentine?
In answer to many requests, the Scholastic has undertaken to give a short historical dissertation upon the origin and customs of Valentine’s Day.
Valentine’s Day itself is named after St. Valentine. So much for that.
Its initial, religious meaning has, like that of many other formerly Christian functions, become lost in the technological shuffle of the Western World and of the United States in particular.
Today the term Valentine’s Day has become inseparably linked with other terms, such as Valentine’s card, Will-You - Be - My - Valentine?, I - Love-You, Spring-Is-Just-Around-the-Corner, and so on, as the case may be.
Manufacturers have made quite a fuss about Valentine’s Day. There are candy valentines, paper valentines, satin valentines, cake valentines, humorous valentines, mushy valentines, stale valentines, expensive valentines, to infinity.
The custom of sending valentine greetings is fairly indigenous to our own country. To prove this point, everyone knows that they don’t send valentines in Samoa. Sociologists have proved this point to nearly everyone’s satisfaction. I say nearly everyone, because there are always a few diehards.
We have analyzed the “typical” valentine card in terms of its political, social, philosophical, scientific, psycho-
MEDICAL SCHOOL EXAMS
Candidates for admission to recognized medical schools may take the Medical College Admission Test on Saturday, May 12, or on Monday, Nov. 5, at administrations to be held at more than 300 centers throughout the country. The Association of American Medical Colleges recommends that candidates for admission to classes starting in the fall of 1952 take the May test. Applications may be obtained from pre-medical advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, Box 592, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must reach the ETS office not later than April 28 or Oct. 22, respectively.
By VALENTINE RESEARCHERS, INC.
logical, geological, historical, anthropological, metaphysical, ethical, chemical, biological, and romantic aspects.
The typical valentine card is red. Now it is well known to one and all that “The Only Bed We Want is the One We Got in the Good, Old Red, White and Blue.” We hesitate to say more on this point, but it looks suspicious for a lot of people.
The typical valentine card says “I Love You.” This rather- limits the field, unless you send a lot of valentines. From the standpoint of a social consciousness, it seemingly indicates a definite isolation tendency.
The typical valentine card is heartshaped. Working from the syllogism: “All heart-shaped valentines are heartshaped; but this valentine is heart shaped ...” Well, you can immediately see the obvious conclusion. And the even more obvious corollary: that valentines are inimical to practically every system of thought known to man.
The typical valentine is made from paper. Paper is formed from the same substance, ultimately, which forms everything else in the material world. This lends a certain universality to valentines, and makes them just like rock formations.
The typical valentine does not define its terms. It can be seen, touched, tasted (if you have the urge). For these reasons, it is most unscientific. It is practically anathema to a selfrespecting nuclear physicist.
The typical valentine reveals disturbing inhibitions. Note particularly the use of the word “You.” Obviously a schizoid manifestation of a complex too' libidinous to mention in print.
Since we have already treated the historical aspects, it seems fruitless to mention any more except: that cultural anthropologists have never been able to find a record of the custom of valentine-sending in primitive New Guinea.
The typical valentine is not one; it is not true; it is not good; it is not beautiful. Metaphysicians the world over have long decried this sad state of affairs.
The typical valentine is an outgrowth of mores. It ignores morals and therefore is practically — does this remind you of anyone?
The typical valentine is a solid. It is a compound. It is non-acid. Laboratory tests have proved it is also, to a great extent, non-irritating to the T-zone.	•
The typical valentine is not living. Some would construe this fact as a distinct blow to the biologists. Others would not construe it in this light. Depends on your social class.
The typical valentine is about as romantic as a three-cent stamp. The lace . around the edges is usually fake lace, and where does that leave romance? The message is mass-produced, and suppose you get the same valentine from two people. Shatters another illusion.
In short, the Scholastic’s opinion on much of the valentine business is not a high one. Don’t expect any from us this year.
Major Antone Borecky Joins Staff of AROTC Unit Here
Major Antone Borecky, USAF, recently joined the staff of the AROTC unit here as a senior instructor of Air Sciences.
Major Borecky came to Notre Dame from the Air Training Command, in which he served for the past three years as wing adjutant of the Technical Training School, located at Lowry Air Base in Denver, Colo. He was commandant of cadets at the Bombardier School of the Air Training Command at Albuquerque, N. M., throughout World War II.
A native Kansan, Major Borecky. holds a Master of Science degree from the University of Houston. He gained his Bachelor of Science degree at Kansas State College. The Major is married and has three children.
Feb. 9, 1951
17
gins, true four rash this
ND Goes Party-Happy
A flood of social activities always keeps the Notre Dame student body busy immediately before the Lenten season be-
This year’s calendar ran to form. During the past weeks there has been a of events, climaxed by week’s gala Mardi Gras
carnival.
The social parade was led off by the first annual Science Ball. It was held on Jan. 12 at the Palais Royale. A huge throng of scientists forgot their studies for a night and had a great time while dancing to the

A group of St. Mary-philes join their hostesses over a coke at the winter carnival. Some eastern card-sharks try to "Gaylord Mitty" their friends but lose in the end.
music of Gene Hull.
On the following day the girls from St. Mary’s went all out in entertaining the mass group which slushed its way to their door. A roaring bonfire, the customary un-iced lake for skating, a supper and a program of top-notch entertainments were features of this year’s shindig.
Over 450 couples attended the semi-formal affair which was held — where else? — at the Palais last Friday night. Tony Papa blared forth on the bandstand. Credit for this final dance success before Lent goes to co-chairmen Steve Herr and Dick Marshall.
This week’s Mardi Gras carnival, which ended Tuesday night, will be covered pictorially in next week’s issue of the Scholastic.
18
The Scholastic
1 Feb. 9, 1951
19
SEVEN ANH SEVEN, EIGHT GN TEE MIX
Hany’s Grill was just a little place, big’ enough for most people but small enough to keep out those who belong in big places. We always went to Harry’s because it was kind of a fosterhome and confessional and Harry, the bartender every night except Thursday, was a helluva nice guy who didn’t try to throw in a lot of talk when you wanted to be alone. Harry’s was the place to be when you didn’t want to talk and during that exam week last month neither Jan nor I wanted to say much of anything. We were content just being together.
^JVERYBODY believed we were a perfect couple, whatever that means. She was a tall girl with big eyes and a body to match. Her nose wasn’t the kind you remember, but who remembers noses? I liked Jan and she liked me and that was the whole story until that night in Harry’s when chapters were written and nobody wanted to talk and we ordered “Seven and Seven, light on the mix.”
“Whatcha thinkin’ about, Jan?”
“Nothin’,” she said fingering her swizzle-stick. “Can’t I just sit someplace and not think about anything?”
I tried to remember something I had read along that line in Hemingway or Saroyan, but I was too interested in the way Jan asked that question. It wasn’t the question, of course, but it was the way she asked the question. Did she have the right to just sit and not think about anything? Does anybody have the right to sit and not think? If you’re not going to think about anything what’s the sense of sitting? After a while, these thoughts sounded like 2 a.m. gutterals and I swept them out of my mind like light snow on the sidewalk.
“Sure,” I said. “Just sit there, if you want. But something’s bothering you, I know.” I didn’t really know anything of the kind, but I had to switch to the offensive before my flank was exposed.
“There you go again, always imagining things — things that don’t exist and always getting silly ideas in your head. Why don’t you just leave me alone?"
“O.K.,” I emphatically announced. It’s
By MIKE STANDON, ’52
easy to say O.K. to something like this, but doing is another thing. Now I was really looking foi* an answer and after choosing my weapon, I hastened to the jousting field.
“How about another drink, Jan?”
“Please”—and no more.
“Say, that’s a real sharp dress you got on there. New?”
“Of course not, I wore this last week and you thought it looked like a burlap bag. Sometimes I wonder if men notice anything about a woman besides her figure.”
That, I thought, needed no answer. “Why do you always have to jump on me for not remembering some little, trivial thing that doesn’t amount to a hill of beans.”
“What do you mean, amount to a hill of beans? You always seem to remember anything I happen to say that offends you or hurts your ego.”
OD HIS was the moment I was waiting for. It always happened this way: The question in my mind after a remark by her, the subtle cross-question that provoked irritation and the ultimate conflict, and always the settlement, full of meaningless excuses and more questionable reasons. You never found out the answer directly, but your mind could paint some beautiful water-colors and those white walls needed something.
“Now don’t get mad, honey. I just asked a simple question.”
“All your questions are simple,” she said. “Sometimes I wonder if you know anything. Sometimes I wonder why I even bother to go out with you and listen to some of your stupid talk. Why don’t you just leave me alone, and forget about me, and get some blonde that you can agree with?”
“I want you” was the stock reply and it was inserted promptly to avoid the Christmas rush.
I nodded at Harry and held up two fingers. After a few minutes of silence he brought over another round, took the fifty cent piece and two dimes
without a word, and shuffled back to the other customers. “The next one ought to be on Harry,” I thought to myself.
Jan sipped her highball slowly. Her mind was someplace and I wanted to know where. At times Jan was as hard to explore as Hume and I searched for a proposition.
“Mark,” she said, “what’s happened to us?”
I felt the answer, but remained church-mouse-like.
“Before, we could go places, do things, be together, enjoy ourselves and never get angry at each other and never worry and never feel anything but happy. What happened, Mark?”
“I don’t know, Jan.”
“Lately I’ve felt like ending everything. Everything gets so confused and mixed up that I don’t know what to do. Sometimes your kisses don’t do anything for me and I want to pull away from you and I almost get sick.”
“Well, thanks a lot,” I quickly said.
“All right, go ahead and feel sorry for yourself right away. That’s all you do, anyhow. I can’t help it if something gets on my nerves after a while. I don’t know what it is. Why do I feel this way? How long will it last? What’s the matter?
“You need another drink, Jan.”
“Yeah, that’s all I need — another
20
The Scholastic
drink. All I need is another drink, and then another and then another, another, and another and then we can start for home and park someplace and you^ can neck all you please.”
“What?”
“Yes, get me to drink so you can have what you want and be happy.”
“O.K. Lay off the drinks then if you’re so unhappy.”
The next five minutes were silent and we both sat there, not looking up, sipping our “seven and sevens,” thinking wild, monstrous things. Well, at least I did. Finally, Jan touched my fingertips on the sweating glass and squeezed lightly. This was our unofficial message meaning everything’s settled, don’t worry, I’m sorry, thank you, or anything good that you expect from the other person sooner or later. This time, however, Jan spoke the wrong words.
“What?” I asked.
“I said I’m leaving, Mark, and I don’t want you to follow me, ever.”
^1?HIS was the kind of scene that made Republic pictures switch to Westerns and Tarzan, and I had to laugh. That laugh was all she needed to send her on her way and she left and I knew I couldn’t follow by the look on her face, a look that would have stopped even Brutus. I just sat there and my mind was clear now—no more thoughts, just “she left.” I wanted to move, to do something, to say something. I couldn’t.
The next six drinks went down like cool spring water after a July hike. Trying to figure this out was no problem because it was my fault. I hadn’t given her enough and had taken everything she offered, greedily and without stopping. I really don’t blame her for leaving tonight. That’s what I get for acting that way. She’s lucky she broke it off now, before she really gets hurt.
Thoughts like these kept reappearing. I agreed with them until I took the last swallow from my glass and closed my eyes for a moment. A tear trickled down my cheek, probably from the cigarette smoke.
The walk to the car from Harry’s was slow and deliberate. The black skies were star-studded and the wind blew kindly and carelessly ignored my feelings. “It was kind of a pretty night, wasn’t it?” I asked a large oak tree. Without waiting for a reply, I crossed the street for the car, digging in my coat pocket for the keys.
J hadn’t expected to see Jan in there when I opened the door.
Feb. 9, 1951
Two Priests to Speak At Marriage Session
The Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., and the Rev. William A. Botzum, c.S.c., will speak at the second session of the Marriage Institute in the Law Auditorium at 8 p.m. next Thursday.
Father Grimm, who will discuss “Christian Love in Marriage,” is currently the Prefect of Religion. He formerly was the superior of the seminary and has given numerous retreats in the past.
Father Botzum will speak on the topic of “Masculine and Feminine Psychology.” Father Botzum received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1938 and is currently working for his doctorate at the University of Chicago.
At the first session of the Marriage Institute on Tuesday, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., lectured on “Courtship and Engagement,” and Mr. Edward Krause discussed “Teamwork in Marriage.”
Paris Trip Is Offered As Essay Contest Prize
If you would like to see Europe this summer, without having to wear a uniform, Travel and Study, Inc., has the solution for anyone who can write. This New York firm, an organization for the promotion of study abroad, recently announced an essay contest on Paris, the winner of which will receive a threemonth trip to Paris next summer with all expenses paid.
The contest is sponsored by the French government, in conjunction with the celebration of the 2000th birthday of Paris.
This celebration, which will reach its peak during the summer, will be one of the greatest spectacles of postwar Europe. The contest winner will witness concerts of sacred music in La Sainte Chapelle, lectures at the Sorbonne, world-famous institution of learning, a medieval fair to be held in the Quartier St. Germain des Pres, and a Montparnasse week with young artists acting as guides through the studios of world famous painters and sculptors and with displays and discussions at the Ecole des Beaux Arts and the Ecole du Louvre.
Also on the agenda are a bicycle race through the streets of Paris from midnight till 3 a.m., a dinner and Rabelais night in Les Halles, the great central food market of Paris, with spectacles of jugglers and troubadours from the middle ages. A special birthday song will be composed and sung by Maurice Chevalier.
Anyone interested in entering this
contest may obtain detailed information by writing Travel and Study, Inc., An Organization for Study Abroad, 110 East 57th St., New York 22, N. Y.
Debaters to Defend 1950 Championship
Boston is the scene of the first two in a series of tournaments in which the Notre Dame debate team will participate. Today the debaters open defense of the championship which they won last year in the Boston Invitational Tournament. The meet will last until Tuesday. Wednesday the debate team will shoot oral arrows in the annual St. Valentine’s Day Tournament.
In the last meet of the month, 11 men will represent Notre . Dame at Eau Claire, Wis., Feb. 17-18. 40 schools will compete in the tournament, one of the largest in the midwest.
The debaters travel to St. Paul, Minn., March 1, to take part in the three day tournament at St. Thomas College. March 9-10 they will participate in the Cherry Blossom Tournament at Georgetown University. It was here last year that Notre Dame was chosen the outstanding negative team.
On March 17-18, the debate team will defend the national extemporaneous speaking championship which it won last year. Its defense will take place in Lincoln, Neb., at the National TKA Tournament.
Tuesday there was an exhibition debate with the University of California, at Washington Hall. Bill Carey and Tom Field represented Notre Dame.
Student Travel Club Plans Summer Tours of Europe
Six all-inclusive student tours to Europe, sailing from New York during June and July were announced last week by the Student Travel Club, 1841 Broadway, New York City.
Student members will travel throughout Europe in private motor coaches, staying at first class or deluxe hotels. Each group is limited to 30 members and will have a private courier on the Continent. The tours are coeducational and chaperoned. Reservations and inquiries are being received by the Student Travel Club, 1841 Broadway, New York City, and by all recognized travel agents.
The tours will sail from New York on June 12, S.S. Washington; June 22, R.M.S. Queen Elizabeth; June 29, R.M.S. Queen Mary; July 3, S.S. Constitution, two groups;; July 7, R.M.S. Queen Elizabeth.
21
Brother's Life
(Continued from Page 15) student Brothers in their various teaching fields.
Before supper the Brothers visit the Blessed Sacrament and recite the Rosary. After supper they have 15 minutes of spiritual reading and night prayers. Each Brother recites the Little Office of the Blessed Virgin daily and makes a weekly hour of adoration.
Dujarie Hall
The student Brothers of Dujarie Hall are under the direction and supervision of Brother Bonaventure, recently appointed member of the Provincial Council for the Brothers of Holy Cross. Brother Bonaventure has had many years of experience in teaching and in administrative atfairs. His assistant is Brother Pedro, who teaches at Central Catholic High School, in South Bend. It is their duty as well as that of the Chaplain to train the young scholastic Brothers of Dujarie Hall in those virtues and accomplishments which will make them Christian gentlemen and efficient leaders of youth.
Pre-Lenten Season Ends With Adoration Period
The end of the pre-Lenten season was marked by the traditional Forty Hours devotion in Sacred Heart Church. Begun with a 9 o’clock solemn high Mass last Sunday, the period of adoration was continued and closed with benediction Tuesday evening.
At evening services Sunday and Monday, Rev. Charles Harris, C.S.C., delivered the sermon. A formal procession preceded benediction on Tuesday.
On Ash Wednesday evening, benediction and a sermon by Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, c.s.c., opened the Lenten period of the liturgical year.
LL.D. Given to Four At Winter Graduation
Two noted members of the Catholic Clergy, one of the nation’s leading newspapermen, and a prominent Fort Wayne, Ind., banker, received honorary doctorate degrees from the University at Commencement Exercises held Jan. 28.
Honorary Doctor of Laws degrees were awarded by Notre Dame to Rev. John Courtney Murray, S.J., professor of Theology at Woodstock, Md., College, and Editor of the quarterly publication, Theological Studies, who delivered the Commencement Address at the exercises; Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, President of St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., who delivered the Baccalaureate Sermon; Arch Ward, Sports Editor of the Chicago Tribune; and Harry G. Hogan, president of the Dime Trust and Savings Bank, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Father Murray, who formerly served as Associate Editor of America magazine, is vice-president of the Catholic Association for International Peace, and serves on the executive committee of the Catholic Commission on Intellectual and Cultural Affairs. He is a member of the board of directors of the Conference on Science, Philosophy and Religion, and is on the advisory board of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame. He is author of the forthcoming book, The Freedom of the Church and the Freedom of the People.
Father Flynn, who has been president of St. Thomas College since 1944, joined the faculty in 1927 after having served as curate of the Church of the Incarnation in Minneapolis, Minn. Before assuming the presidency, Father Flynn had served as a member of the faculty in the Department of English at St. Thomas and was chairman of the Department from 1940 to 1944. Former president of the Association of American Colleges, he also is a member of the National Advisory Committee for Selective Service, and has served as a member of the Minnesota State board of directors of the United Nations Association.
Mr. Ward, who has been Sports Editor of the Chicago Tribune since 1930, is regarded as one of the most influential newspapermen in the nation and one of the ablest sports promoters in history. Among Mr. Ward’s creations are the All-Star Football Game, the All-Star Baseball Game, the International Golden Gloves, charity horse racing and the Silver Skates. As vicepresident of Chicago Tribune Charities,
he has raised through his promotions nearly $5,000,000 for charity. Mr. Ward, who attended Notre Dame from 1919 to 1921, has served for the past three years as city chairman of .the Notre Dame Foundation in Chicago.
Mr. Hogan, a graduate of the University of Notre Dame in 1904, served two terms as president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association from 1947 to 1949. He helped Notre Dame organize, in 1947, the Notre Dame Foundation, created to coordinate the fundraising efforts of the University. Mr. Hogan, in addition to being president of the Dime Trust and Savings Bank in Fort Wayne, Ind., also is president of the Klett Lumber Company and treasurer of the Fort Wayne Tool, Die and Engineering Company, all while carrying on a successful law practice. During the post-war era, Mr. Hogan set up in Fort Wayne a program for veterans aid which is serving as a model for communities throughout the United States.
Church and World Affairs Is Subject of Symposium
To discuss the position of the Catholic Church in the world, the United States, and two typical European countries, France and Germany, the Committee of International Relations, which was founded in 1949 under the partial support of the Rockefeller Foundation, sponsored a symposium on “The Catholic Church and World Affairs” in the Law Auditorium Feb.- 7 and 8.
The first day of the. discussion the Rev. John C. Murray, s.J., of Woodstock College, and Yves Simon, of Chicago University, spoke on the “Church and State in the Twentieth Century” and the “Catholic Church and Democracy,” respectively.
At the afternoon session Msgr. Harry Koenig, of St. Mary’s of the Lake Seminary, lectured on “The Peace Policies of the Popes,” and Heinrich Rommen, of St. Thomas College, discussed “The ' Catholic Church and Human Rights.”
The following day’s program opened with talks by the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, on “The Catholic Church in the United States” and by Aaron I. Abell, of Notre Dame, on “American Catholics and the Social Question.”
At the concluding lectures in the afternoon Robert F. Brynes, of Rutgers, spoke on “The Catholic Church in France,” and Waldemar Gurian, of Notre Dame, talked on “The Catholic Church in Germany.” The symposium was under the general chairmanship of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c.
The Scholastic
22
Placement Bureau Asks Grads to Sign
All June and August graduates who are interested in obtaining employment are urged by Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Bureau, to visit his office to fill out a registration form. These forms are the only way the Placement Bureau has of knowing how many prospective graduates are interested in jobs and in what kind of jobs they are interested.
Mr. Dooley also emphasized the fact that business firms are still interested in talking to good prospects even if they are eligible for the draft. Many times, after an interview, the firm will keep the applicant’s record on file and invite him to revisit them after he has served his tenure in service.
The Placement Bureau will conduct the foilowing interviews during the' coming week: Representatives of the Radio Corporation of America and the Air Reduction Company will be here Monday to talk primarily to Engineers. Also, on Monday and Tuesday a personnel man of the Minneapolis Honeywell Regulator Company will be here.
Then on Thursday and Friday, both the Monsanti Chemical Company and the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company will be here. Monsanti’s representative, however, will only be interested in Ph.D. Chemists.
PHONE 6-7346
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE, OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED —SAVE MORE THAN HALF This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture.
WILLIAMS PAINT CO.
755 So. Michigan
One block North of Gilbert’s FREE DELIVERY
For College Graduates with Executive Ambitions
RETAILING OFFERS YOU A CAREER WITH A FUTURE
Interesting, responsible positions in merchandising, advertising, fashion, management, personnel, or teaching await men and women graduates of the foremost School of Retailing. A one-year graduate program leading to Master’s degree combines practical instruction, market contacts, and supervised work experience — with pay — in leading New York stores. Special programs for bachelor's degree candidates and for non-degree students.
Request Bulletin C-57
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
100 Washington Square	New York 3, N. Y.
University Representatives To Attend NFCCS Regional
Jim Garvin, Senior delegate, John O’Connell, Junior delegate, and Don Carbone, secretary-treasurer, are representing the student body this weekend at a regional meeting of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at St. Francis College, Fort Wayne, Ind.
The group left campus this afternoon to attend a regional council meeting tonight. Tomorrow and Sunday they will take part in a leadership workshop, concerning student leadership in communications, international affairs, Catholic Action, and other phases of NFCCS activity.
Among matters of importance to Notre Dame to be discussed at the council meeting are plans for the regional congress to be held here in April, and application by the local Inter-American Affairs Club for chairmanship of a regional Inter-American Action Commission.
In addition to the campus NFCCS officers, those attending the meeting are members of the various NFCCS chapters here.
Travel and study abroad this summer
You can earn full credits on an all-expense, university-sponsored study tour via.TWA
Now’s the time to start planning for one of the most interesting and profitable summers you’ve ever spent... sightseeing and studying in Europe while you earn full university credits. Again in 1951, TWA will participate in the tours that proved so popular for the past three years.. .in cooperation
with the “Institute of University Studies Abroad.” And you’ll have a chance to learn at first hand the new concept of air-age geography... traveling by luxurious TWA Skyliner. Remember, half your time will be devoted to touringEuropeand theotherhalf in residence study as indicated'below.
Look at this list of study-tours being planned for this summer (from four to nine weeks abroad), and check the ones that interest you:
□ SWITZERLAND □ University of Geneva ’ June 18—	□ University of Zurich, Schoo! for European Studies
August 20 q fribourg Catholic University
□ Swiss Camps for Teen-agers .
Q FRANCE Sorbonne (Paris)
Q ENGLAND University of Oxford (15-day course, lecture, no credit)
O IRELAND University College, Dublin	*
□ SPAIN Madrid
□ ITALY Perugia
□ INDIA "India and Problems of the Orient,4*including Cairo visit, a 6-week tour	*
Q GENERAL EUROPEAN Study and Travel Tour (No residence)
.	Across the U.S. andoverseas...
you can depend
John H. Eurbay, Ph.D., Director TWA Air World Education Service, 80 East 42nd St., New York 17, N.Y.
Please put me on your list to receive detailed information about study tours via TWA indicated above, to be sent as soon as available.
Name-------------------------------Position,--------------:-----
Address--------------------------------------------------------
City------------------Zone-------State------Phone No.-----------
C-2
Feb. 9, 1951
23
<WMRE THEM HU!
Philip morhis l n le«din9 brand ,o c °	any
rll|$ test
1 HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING. DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a Philip MORRIS. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn't it?
2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but PHILIP MORRIS invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
NO CIGARETTE hangover
”-phuip morris
24
The Scholastic
Trackmen Open Home Card Tomorrow
Cagers, DePaul Clash Tomorrow in Chicago; Billiken Tilt Tuesday Highlight of Local Season
Notre Dame’s basketball squad will go after their eleventh win of the season and their second in a row tomorrow night when they travel to Chicago to take on the DePaul University five in a game at Chicago Stadium. The Irish return home again next Tuesday to meet the Billikens of St. Louis and will be out to avenge the defeat suffered at the hands of the Bills over the Christmas holidays.
The Irish’s biggest problem tomorrow night will be a sawed off sharpshooting guard, Bato Govedarica, DePaul captain. Govedarica was DePaul’s leading scorer last year, pouring 323 points through the hoop for a 12.9 average. Govedarica moved into the pivot spot against the Irish in a game at the Stadium last year and sparked his team to a 68-58 upset win. Chicago sportswriters termed his play that night as “the outstanding individual performance in the Chicago Stadium this year.”
Another thorn in the Irish’s side that night was center Clem Pavilonis. He, along with Govedarica, carries the load
The stands watch glassy-eyed as Bagley goes after a free ball with a nifty block.
of the Blue Demon scoring attack this year. Pavilonis ranked fourth in the scoring column for DePaul last year and currently is battling Govedarica for the high point man this year. Both are averaging 14 points a game.
John Lahey, forward, is third high scorer with an average of 13 points a game. Ron Feireisal and Bob Kampa round out the starting five.
Only mutual opponent for the Irish and DePaul has been Kentucky with DePaul making the better showing. The Blue Demons lost by the respectable score of 63-55 while the Irish were drubbed, 69-44.
Next Tuesday the Irish meet St. Louis in the feature game of the home season. The Bills have always been tough for the Irish—their lone win over the men from St. Louis in the past six meetings was on the local court last year. St. Louis, ranked seventh in the nation, has beaten highly regarded LIU and holds the distinction of being the only team to defeat the nation’s leading cage squad, Kentucky, this (Continued on Page 27)
Bradley Is Underdog In Fieldhouse Meeting
By TED PRAHINSKI, ’51
Indoor track makes its local. debut for the season tomorrow afternoon when the Bradley University Braves meet the Notre Dame thinclads in the campus fieldhouse. The first events, the shot put and the high jump, begin at 1:00 and the running events will get underway at 1:30.
Last week Bradley dropped a 78 to 27 dual meet decision to Marquette and should be a soft touch for Coach Alex Wilson’s Irishmen, even though Notre Dame didn’t look particularly impressive in its season opener last Saturday, the Michigan State Relays.
Don Philbee was Bradley’s high scorer last Saturday with 13 points, thanks to triumphs in the high and low hurdles, and a second in the pole vault. He should give Notre Dame’s hurdling trio of John Campagnone, Ed Powell, and Leo McKillip a chance to show how good they are. Last Saturday, Campagnone ran a fast anchor leg for the shuttle hurdle relay team which took third at Michigan State.
Notre Dame’s present crop of middledistancemen will try to live up to the standards set in past years. These runners have always been the mainstay of the Irish team. Last Saturday their performances were only fair, but this was because Coach Wilson has been deliberately bringing the boys along slowly in preparation for the long season ahead.
Best performance of the day last Saturday was the sparkling 3:10 three-quarter-mile leg that Connie Tetrault ran in the distance medley relay. This team took fourth, in the race in which the winner, Michigan, set a new world’s indoor record. Other members of the Irish team were Vai Muscato, Norm Feltes, and Han-y Snyder.
The sprint medley team of Jack Wagner, Bob Zenzinger, Dave Fox, and John Mohar took a third in their race which consists of a 440, two 220’s and an 880. The mile relay quartet won its section of the race easily, but was pushed out of the placings entirely,
Feb. 9, 1951
25
when every team in the other section ran faster times.
The other relay team, the two-mile group took fifth place in comparatively slow time, but this was understandable since several members of the team had run in earlier races.	.
Missing for the rest of the season will be half miler Joe Riley, who joined the Marines between semesters.
Sprinters Bucky Ewing and Dave Flood looked good in their heats of the 75-yard dash last week and should do OK against Bradley tomorrow. Notre Dame's two milers, Ben Almaguer and Bob Fieler, didn’t live up to expectations last week, but should snap back this week. Bradley has a good distance man in Tom Moore, who may run either the one mile or the two. Notre Dame’s two-milers, Ben Almaguer and nor, who took fifth at Michigan State, Con Tetrault, and George Gross.
Though Notre Dame will probably dominate the running events tomorrow she will meet some rough competition in the field events where the Bradley Braves piled up most of their points against Marquette. Almost all of Notre Dame’s jumpers, vaulters and throwers are inexperienced. Sophomore Al Ko-hanowicz was the only Irishman to score in these events last Saturday, when he tied for fourth place in the high jump with a leap of six feet. Bradley’s Watson, who scored against Marquette will oppose him and also Tom Devine and Tom Hassinger in the high jump.
Besides Philbee, Bradley has another pole vaulter in Heiniger who beat Notre Dame’s lone experienced vaulter, Don Mahrt, last year in the Central Collegiate Championships. Bradley is sure to take at least two places in the shot put since Bob Toneff seems to be Notre Dame’s only available man in the event. The situation is almost as bad' in the broad jump where John Worthington is the only experienced man.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 9—FENCING, Case at Cleveland.
10—FENCING, Ohio State at Columbus.
10—TRACK, Bradley here.
10—BASKETBALL, DePaul at Chicago Stadium.
12—FENCING, Illinois, here.
13—BASKETBALL, St. Louis, here.
16—FENCING, Kentucky, here.
16—BASKETBALL, DePaul, here.

Got Your Ten Points?
Notre Dame’s in and out basketball team looked “in” against Marquette last Saturday night after having been “out” on the road where they dropped consecutive games to Xavier of Ohio, Kentucky and Michigan State. What started out as a fresh and original show last December is beginning to look like a re-hash of the ’49-’5O performance.
A good time for a change in the script would be tomorrow night when the Irish go to Chicago to meet DePaul. The Blue Demons had one of their poorest seasons last year; yet, they handed the Irish a ten-point setback in their Stadium meeting.
The time to pick up the script again is next Tuesday night when Ed Hickey brings his St. Louis Bills to town. The last time they played in the local arena, the Bills lost their first game to the Irish in three years with Kevin O’Shea’s clutch foul shots doing the job.
Beating St. Louis will make up for a lot of mistakes the Irish have made this season, and they can beat them. But if they’re going to follow last year’s story, they’ll need the same props — plenty of hustle on the court and plenty of noise from the stands. That noise is pretty important — it’s worth about ten points in the scoring column. Give the ballplayers your ten and they’ll make up the difference it’ll take to beat St. Louis.
Where Do We Go From Here?
The death in Dallas last month of the controversial NCAA Sanity Code has left us wondering what the future of college athletics will be now that policy making on recruiting of players, etc., has been given back to the individual schools and conferences. True, the Sanity Code was made a mockery of for the most part, but at least it lent respectability to intercollegiate athletics and made them amateur in form, if not in matter.
A possible indication of the course some schools might follow may be gathered from action taken at a meeting
of the Southeastern Conference before the Code was killed. At that time, the Conference voted down a proposal to limit grants-in-aid to 75 freshmen in any year (the sport being football, naturally).
Coach Bob Neyland of Tennessee led the fight to vote down the proposal and the argument used was that such a limit couldn’t be enforced and that neighboring conferences didn’t have any.
Seventy-five men a year adds up to 225 out for varsity ball — and that’s not enough! That 225 figure, incidentally, is based only on the premise a candidate is allowed to retain his scholarship throughout the four years, regardless of how good a football player he turns out to be (proving that the primary object of being in college in the first place is to get a college education).
But how the SE Conference could use all those men is beyond us. We checked and found out they use the same rules everyone else does —11 men on the field at one time and no more than that.
If college football could grow to be such a commercialized monster as this case indicates, even with the Sanity Code, how much more so will it become without it? ’
The race toward bigness will be-slowed down in college athletics, as it is-in .other fields, by action of the government,. accidental though it may be..
Drafting of college men includes athletes, naturally, which brings back memories of the last war. Ambitious, schools, like those of the Southeastern. Conference, will be forced to get along on a lot less than 75 men a year for their football teams.
Even though this halt toward giantism in college athletics may only be temporary, it may be a blessing in disguise. The breathing spell will give administrators a chance to look at the-ogre they’re creating, something they’ve been too busy to do previously. Perhaps a re-evaluation of college athletics will follow and the time, may come when they’re put once again in their proper place.
26
The- Scholastic
Over Fifty Bengal Bouters in Daily Workouts; Twentieth Renewal Set for March 5, 6,7,8,10
Sweat is flowing from the old gym, running down the balcony and falling onto the track in the fieldhouse. And it’s all coming from the pores of 50 Bengal boxers 50 (count ’em) preparing for the 20th annual University Boxing Championships.
Dominic J. “Nappy” Napolitano, of the Physical Education Department, has been training the battling bouters since Jan. 8. But that doesn’t mean that there isn’t time for prospective pugilists to climb into sweat suits and join the ranks of those NDers already hardening up for the Bengal Bouts beginning March 5. Nappy has set Feb. 9 as the deadline for the hopefuls who want to get in there and fight. Competition is open to any Notre Dame student who wants to box. Just present a certificate of eligibility from Dr. Sherman L. Egan, the university physician, to Mr. Napolitano.
The Bengal Bouts represent one of the oldest traditions on campus. It all began back in 1930 by the Student Council which sponsored the fights till the Scholastic took over in 1932. Since 1946 the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus has handled the boxing show. Proceeds from the Ben
Some of the campus battlers who will fight for Bengal crowns come March are: First row: T. Chisholm, D. Wendyishar, W. Landry, P. Drew, C. Paquette, B. Cryan, J. Lucey. Second row: B. Baute, J. Dierna, C. Collins, D. Cotter, J. Cronin, A. McGrew, B. Bickert, J. Maclnnis. Third row: F. Tripodi, S. Swift, Coach D. Napolitano, J. Hagman, J. Brown and B. Seidler.
gal Bouts go to their namesake, the Bengal Missions in India, which are staffed by the Holy Cross Fathers.
If you want to fight but the old gut is a little soft — don’t let it worry you. Nappy has a training program lined up that would make a Charles Atlas of any Caspar Milquetoast. Every trainee starts his daily workouts by running the lakes. Two miles of roadwork isn’t all though. After this the boys report at 3:30, six days a week, for 30 minutes of calisthenics, a half hour of instruction and hitting drills and 15 minutes of rope skipping and heavy-bag punching. This is only the beginning! After- this “warm up” three to five rounds in the ring are in order.
Only three of the champs from last year are returning to defend their titles, so that leaves plenty of chances for the beginners to go in and get a title. Sal Fiorella, who fought in the 127-pound class in 1950, John O’Brien, 137-pound division, and Aaron Dyson, winner in the junior middleweight, are the three champions signed up for another go this year. The defending champ in the 167-pound class, Ed Smith, won’t be able to mix it up in March because of an auto accident be
tween semesters which left him with a wing broken in two places. Joe O’Brien, 175-pound champ, has not come out as yet.
Finalists from the 1950 Bengals returning to the ring this year are: George Chopp, 137-pound division, and Joe Brown, a 155-pounder.
Tom Kigin, Chairman for the Bengal Bouts, promises plenty of colorful action for the preliminaries on March 5, 6, 7, 8 and the finals on March 10. He says the fights will be bigger and better than ever before in the history of the charity contest. If negotiations going on now are successful, the finals may be seen by a lot of fans on TV.
—Carl Eifert, ’52
Basketball
(Continued from Page 25) year. The Bills already hold a win over the Irish in a game played in Kiel Auditorium earlier this year.
Notre Dame’s season record now-stands at ten wins and six defeats,
Big Norb Lewinski arches a hookshot goalward against Loyola of Chicago.
with three of the six being consecutive at the hands of Xavier, Kentucky and Michigan State. Since • then, the Irish have played only one game, an impressive 82-56 win over Marquette last Saturday in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
BASKETBALL SCORING (16 Gaines)
	FG	FT	AVG.
Leslie 				 85	55	14.1
Bagley 		....... 70	55	12.2
Lewinski 			 62	35	9.9
O’Connor 				 46	50	8.9
McCloskey 				 43	16	6.4
Neumayr 			 34	18	5.4
Wray 				 14	10	2.7
Gibbons 				 12	12	2.4
Feb. 9, 1951
FOR EASIER WRITING THIS SEMESTER
new Parker “
*»
00
F. E. tax.)
Offers the smart style
twice the price
famous New Parker "51
smart
of pens selling at
"He’s got suchasmooth line!' "for a smooth line. I’ll tokethe new-2ii<any day.'
You’ve got a grip like that new ’21' clip!"
"Stops for.filling are few and far between. It’s like my new.’21’ Pen."
It’s precision-built by the makers of world
features
It’s the low-cost pen that will never let you down! No scratching! No skips! No blots!
New “21” has the smooth-gliding Octanium point... a patented ink control... new fast-action filler. The ink supply is visible... and you get real protection against leaking.
Ask your favorite pen dealer now to show you the new Parker “21”—the most popular $5.00 pen. It’s the “what’s new in school.” Lustraloy cap. Choice of points. Colors: blue, green, red, black. Set—pen with matching pencil —$8.75. You’ll do better with a New Parker “21”!
And—when it’s time to hint for a gifthint for the finest of all: New Parker "51
Copr. 1951 by The Farter Pen Company
’ New Parker “51” and “21” Pens “write dry” with Superchrome Ink. No blotters needed! (They also use any other ink.)
"ffe's as easy to see through as the 21’s Pli-glass reservoir."
28
The Scholastic
ND Spring Schedule Gets Board Approval
Schedules for baseball, tennis and golf were approved this week by the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics and have been announced by Athletic Director Edward Krause. The majority of the opponents for these three teams will come from Big Ten members with the remainder of the schedules being filled by Midwest independents.
The 1951 baseball season will open on April 13 with Coach Jake Kline’s nine traveling to Columbus for a two-game series with Ohio State and then returning home to encounter another Big Ten rival, Iowa. Of their twenty-four games the Irish will take the diamond 18 times against Big Ten opponents. Nine of their games will be played at Cartier field.
The schedule:
April 13 Ohio State, nuay
14 Ohio State, away
18 Iowa, home
19 Iowa, home
20 Indiana, away
21 Indiana, away
25 Michigan State, home
27 Pittsburgh, away
28 Pittsburgh, away
May 1 Purdue, home
2 Northwestern, away
4 Illinois Wesleyan, away
8	Michigan, rway
9	Michigan State, away
11	Illinois, away
12	Illinois, away
15	Michigan, home
16	Northwestern, home
22 Purdue, away
25 Wisconsin, home
26 Wisconsin, home June 1 Western Michigan, away
2 Western Michigan, home
Wisconsin will be the first opponent of the Notre Dame tennis team as they travel to Madison, April 26, to meet the ever-dangerous Badgers. After Wisconsin, Coach Waltei' Langford will send his netmen against ten opponents and then prepare for the Central Col-legiates here June 1-2, and the NCAA Tournament at Evanston June 25-30.
The schedule:
April 26 Wisconsin at Madison
28 Northwestern, here May 3 Western Michigan, here
4	Michigan at Ann Arbor
5	Michigan State, here
6	Marquette, here
9	Purdue at Lafayette
12	(a.m.) Duquesne at Pittsburgh (p.m.) Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
18	Detroit, here
19	Iowa at Iowa City
June 1-2 Central Collegiates, here
23-26 NCAA Tournament at Evanston
Notre Dame’s golf team—1951 version—will meet ten opponents this season, five of them on the home course. Opening against Iowa here, on April 16, the linksmen will end their match schedule May 21 against Michigan State and then journey to Columbus
June 4-5 for the NCAA tournament.
The schedule:
April 16 Iowa, home
21 Kentucky, away
23 Indiana, away
30 Purdue, home
May 3 Detroit, home
5 Northwestern, away
7 Loyola, away
12	Wisconsin, home
14	Minnesota, away
21	Michigan State, home
June 4-5 NCAA Tournament at Columbus
Knocking flround the Halls
Basketball Finals Start
The 1950-51 interhall basketball season enters into its final and most important phase this week as play begins to determine the winners in eleven brackets of teams. The winners of these brackets will be the contestants in the Round Robin tournament which will be played about the middle of March, immediately following the Bengal Bouts.
Mr. Szekely, the organizer and director of the basketball league, also states that teams in the present brackets are seeded according to their showing in first semester play. Thus, the teams are now lined up according to their strength and the tournament should be a very fair one from start to finish; and an interesting one, as usual.
The final game and consolation game will be played on the varsity floor in the old gym.
Turk Wins Handball Tournament
Don Turk, Morrissey Hall Sophomore from Joliet, Ill., defeated Senior Vince St. Marie to capture the pre-exam handball tournament conducted by the Department of Physical Education. Both men are skilled handballers and met in the finals last year, also. Also like last year, Turk won the championship in a close match.
Both finalists smashed their way into the top bracket by winning handily over two capable opponents. Turk took the measure of Bill Shannon, 21-9 and 21-20. St. Marie captured a pair from Jack Donohue by scores of 21-9 and 21-7.
In the championship finals, it was Turk in two out of three games. Turk took the first, 21-14, St. Marie bounced back to take the second, 21-15, but Turk rallied and won the third and deciding game, 21-14.
Mr. Ernie Szekely of the Department of Physical Education, who conducted the tournament, announced at its conclusion that plans for another handball tournament in the near future are being formed.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.
J. M. S. Bld?.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis 702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
HEALTH SPOT I
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING
CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E LaSalle
BLOCK BROS
Comer Michigan & Washington
Jewelers to
Notre Dame
for more than 25 years.
Feb. 9, 1951
29
| no other shirt in the world but I
Van Heusen 0^0^
REG. T M.
has the patented soft collar that won’t wrinkle... ever!
1.	It’s woven in one piece . .. has no inner linings that can possibly wrinkle.
2.	Collar has handkerchief-soft fold line specially woven.
3. All this, plus smart Van Heusen “Comfort Contour” collar.
In regular or wide-spread models,
9 Van Hensen
REG. T. M.
"the icorld’s smartest”
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
^M MM MM MM MM «MB	MM ^M H^M MM
Make GILBERTS
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
$39SZ $495
shirts
Letters
(Continued from Page 3) their desk or someplace where they can refer to it often.
The prayer:
“0 Jesus, it is for Your Love, for the conversion of sinners, and in reparation for the sins committed against the Immaculate Heart of Mary.”
Tom Dempsey Art Petersen
Farley Hall
Who’s Who?
Editor:
I should like to set the record straight in regard to an inaccuracy which appeared in the Jan. 12 issue of Scholastic.
It was stated that Richard Cullen was editor of the Dome in 1949-50. Mr. Cullen edited the 1949 Dome, during the school year of 1948-49. He was not associated with the Dome of 1950.
Dennis J. O’Neill, Jr. Editor, Dome of 1950
Editor:
In the Jan. 12 issue of the Scholastic there appeared an error in the “Who’s Who” article concerning my position in the AROTC. Last semester I was a group commander and not “commander of the AROTC unit.” There was no such commander.
Dave Schoen 346 Sorin
Cats Trim Irish Fencers;
End Long Victory Streak
The Northwestern fencing team came from behind and slashed out a 14-13 victory over the Notre Dame fencers last Friday in the Notre Dame field house to squelch any hope of the Irish for a second consecutive victory season. The Cats handed the Irish swordsters their first loss in 12 matches.
Notre Dame started strong, winning six out of nine in foil, but they were completely overpowered by Northwestern in sabre and epee. Led by co-cap-• tains Nick Scalera and Dan Parisi, Notre Dame soon piled up a 5-1 lead in the foil as each won two out of three of their matches. In sabre, Charlie Daschle and Jim Graham combined to give the Irish their only four victories in that division.
In epee, Brian Duff starred and almost saved the Irish cause. With two victories already under his belt and the score tied, 13-13, Duff took the mat, but fell one point short of winning the match which would have meant a Notre Dame victory.
30
The Scholastic
YEARS AGO
-------By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53--------
Fifty Years Ago
From the Feb. 9, 1901, Scholastic: The new gymnasium was formally opened with an interhall meet. The two mile run was won with a time of 11 minutes, 36 1/5 seconds. ... In interhall basketball Brownson defeated Corby, 14-12. . . . Andrew O’Dea, the brother of the football coach, and the champion oarsman of Australia, visited the campus last Thursday. . . . The performance of the Temple Quartette in Washington Hall was described as one of the brightest and most pleasurable of the season.
Twenty-five Years Ago
From the Feb. 12, 1926, Scholastic: Notre Dame defeated Illinois, its last Big Ten opponent, 26-14. . . . Jack Elder, a freshman from Kentucky, unofficially tied the world’s record for the 60 yard dash in a practice meet. His time was 6 1/5 seconds. . . . The Glee Club returned from what was acclaimed to be the most successful tour evei- made by the organization. . . . The mile relay team placed second in the Kansas Relays when the anchorman was reputedly tripped by an Oklahoma runner. The race was protested, but the judges ruled that no foul had been committed. . . . The Notre Dame puckmen tied the first game of their northern series with Wisconsin.
Ten Years Ago
From the Feb. 7, 1941, Scholastic: At the end of the first semester seven students left the campus for active military service in the armed forces. . . . Elmei- F. Layden, athletic director and head football coach at Notre Dame since 1933, resigned, and signed a five-year contract as commissioner of the National Professional Football League. . . . Greg Rice, former Notre Dame runner, won his first race of the ’41 indoor season by defeating Don Lash, the Indiana cop, in the special two-mile run in the K. of C. games at the Boston Garden. . . . Ray Herbeck was contracted to play for the Junior Prom on Feb. 21. Herbeck was a star moundsman for the University of California. . . . Bill Mahoney was to make his debut as the Notre Dame track coach in a dual meet with Michigan State that night in the ND field house.
The campus of the University consists of 1700 acres, including two lakes, each about 24 acres in area. Pleasant walks lead around the lakes and westward to the historic St. Joseph River and to St. Mary’s College for Women. —From the University of Notre Dame “Bulletin of Information.”
You need not inhale to enjoy a cigar!
CIGAR INSTITUTE OF AMERICA. INC.
Diamonds Are a Girts Best Friend” from “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes"
Feb. 9, 1951
31
By JERRY MORRIS, ’52
As artist and composer, Jean Sibelius has given to our culture music which is full and rich. The beautiful symphonies which are so completely part of the composer, the songs, the compositions for piano, all reflect his background and his love for his Scandinavian homeland. His music is as much Finland as Sibelius is Finland, and his symphonies sing with the always present love of his winterland home.
As a man, Sibelius has lived a life of tremendous energy and yet he has lived in comparative seclusion from most of the world. This introverted life is apparent in his music, but one must realize that in the quiet, brooding strains of the Seventh Symphony is that ever-present quality of independence which was so much a part of the composer’s personality. Influences from the outside have been for the most part very slight. Sibelius listened to the works of the other composers and felt their significance. He came into contact with many of the contemporary musicians of his day and discussed methods and theories. He lived a semi-public musical life in many cities of Europe, and yet through it all, Si
belius has remained pensive and quiet, extracting what lie knew could become part of himself.
This process whereby Sibelius instinctively drew out of things what he knew could be taken was completely unconscious. He relied deeply upon his instincts and felt that they were worthy of the trust. He knew almost immediately when he would dislike certain compositions, even if he had heard relatively few of the composer’s works. This instinctive sense of judgment was very basic and essential to Sibelius. He could tell when he had listened to a work, that the music was not for him. It was upsetting to the artistic accord which was constructed within.
Very few composers influenced Sibelius in his own endeavors. He was very fond of Beethoven but this admiration was not a direct influence. Sibelius gained method in instrumental music from Beethoven, but he has searched after the musical ideal in his own way.
In the working out of his musical process, Sibelius determined passages by musical thinking in “mental images.” There is a definite union of sight and sound in his works which is necessary to their full understanding. Sibelius, particularly in his last three symphonies reflects a great joy of life, and yet the
music does not skip and leap brilliantly as in modem music for orchestra.
He has been accused of being cold, and bleak is a frequently used expression when speaking of his works. However, it it is this very quiet somber strain which dominates the composer and his music, and it is this which makes Sibelius great. Through the pensiveness shines the great joy of life—a quiet acceptance of the goodness of life. He may stand isolated, but he is silently watching, and thinking, and finally creating great music.
'Scholastic' Selects New Photo, Ass't News Editors
Two changes in the Scholastic editorial staff marked the beginning of the new semester. Mr. Dale Francis, Director of Publications, has appointed William H. Fraser Photography Editor and Robert G. Finney Assistant News Editor.
Fraser, a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, hails from Phoenix, Ariz. He replaces Jim McLaughlin, who graduated in January. Finney, of Kansas City, Mo., is a Sophomore in the College of Engineering. He succeeds Charlie Dullea, who enlisted in the Marines at the end of last semester.
’ Can ibur Scalp Ass The FINGERNAIL TEST T
CRARUE WILD, PRIVATE DETECTIVE, ASKS-
vfi
TKt IT.' SCRATCH YOUR HEAD. IF YOU FIND SIGNS OF DRYNESS OR LOOSE, UGLY DANDRUFF ) YOU NEED WILDROOT CREAM-O*. HAIR TONIC / S NON-ALCOHOLIC.' CONTAINS SOOTHING IMOUN!'
SMART GIRLS USE WILDROOT CREAM-0*. FOR QUICK GROOMING AND FOR RELIEVING DRYNESS BETWEEN PERMANENTS.1
29
SMART CUTS USE WILDROOT CREAM-OL BECAUSE GIRLS UKE . MEN WITH WELL-GROOMED HAIR/
YES EVERYBODY USE^ WILDROOT CREAM-O/L - MEN, WOMEN, CHILDREN, TOO!
32
The Scholastic
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
N O W. . . as then
AH HOW is the
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
DESK LAMPS
SLIDE RULES
BLOTTER PADS
SCHOOL SUPPLIES
Business Systems
126 S. Main
Across from Court House
ROSE & KATZ for ARROW
Rvse s Katz
I X ro* MEN AND I \.VOUNC MEN
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
The Arrow label has always been a symbol oi quality to American college men. Today, Arrow shirts are top favorites on every college campus. Their perfect fitting collars, Sanforized fabrics and Mitoga fit make them your best buy. See your Arrow dealer today!
® ARROWshirts&ties
-4---—4 UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
1851 -1951 <
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
i J F
I
I f
Feb. 9, 1951
33


In Passing
The last couple of weeks, being preparatory to the Lenten lull, brought a flurry of activities on campus and around town. All are more than worthy of mention, but space limits us to the highlights and the more inclusive affairs.
The city of South Bend did itself proud during January by bringing two of the top musicians in their fields to John Adams for concerts. Miss Kirsten Flagstaad, who sang here early last month, is without dispute an all-time great performer. The Wagnerian soprano sang with wonted gusto and enchantment at her recital.
She was followed within a week by Artur Rubenstein, another undisputed all-timer. His technical perfection on the piano may well be unsurpassed by any of today’s other performers on that instrument.
The twin-event of the pre-Lenten period, of course, was the Mardi Gras festivities. Last Friday’s dance was superbly planned and executed.
It is a truism that you never understand a situation until you’ve been in it yourself. Most of the men who attend the large dances here are only vaguely aware of the tremendous amount of work that goes into the conception, organization, and detail-work of such a dance.
For this reason, the men who do the work — the committees and chairmen — often receive only implicitly the praise they so richly deserve. These men do an amazing amount of hard work to put a dance like last Friday’s over. And they are all deserving of the highest congratulations when the dance turns out as well as the Mardi Gras did.
In addition to Dick Marshall and Steve Herr, the co-chairmen for the dance, our hearty praise goes to each of the committee heads and to each committee member.
It is, in a way, too bad that student opinion requires the men who run these dances to bring in an “outside” band for a “big” dance. In our opinion, Gene Hull’s band is far superior to Tony Papa’s for actual dancing. But the chairmen seem to feel that the students insist on an “outsider” for something like the Mardi Gras — and, unfortunately for the dancers, they’re probably right.
Another enormous amount of work went into the Mardi Gras carnival. Here the general chairmanship of Ollie Celusta, and the organizational activity of Ed Noonan and Frank Crovo bring these men in line for thanks and praise from the student body at large. Good work also to the numerous men who worked on the various phases of the carnival — the raffle, the booths, and the organization of student cooperation.
Congratulations, finally, to the men who produced the first annual Science Ball. It turned out to be an affair well worth having in the “annual” bracket.
Legitimate Theater
The Catholic University Players returned to the scene of their triumphant performance of a year ago to bring Macbeth and Arms and the Man to Notre Dame. The Players, Inc., group is the closest thing imaginable to the professional ranks. Much credit to the Concert and Lecture series for scheduling them.
Monday night our own University Theatre returns to the Washington Hall footlights with Harvey. Our expectations are high. The Theatre proved its worth last semester, and Harvey, as all who saw the film know, is a superb play-
Dti PcqusMiiteak fa
Real Italian Pizza
Pizza with home-made Italian sausage 75c
Pizza with scamorza Italian cheese 75c
Pizza with fresh mushrooms 75c (Served from 7:30 till 11)
THURSDAY — STEAK NITE — $1.25
“A favorite with Notre Dame men”
PAPANDREA’s Spaghetti House
415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903
Resquiescat
St. Mary’s College took a bold step last Sunday and formally buried the corpse of the traditional tea dance. In its place, they instituted a broader program of entertainment — broader and more varied.
The tea dance was probably the victim of inertia. The new arrangements call for card-playing in the parlors of LeMans Hall, singing in the Stapleton Lounge, and dancing in the Social Hall. From the looks of last Sunday’s turnout, the new program promises to be highly successful. Our far-flung congratulations to the moving spirits behind this happy turn of events, and to the hard working hostesses who put it over so well.
The Last Word ■
Memento, homo, quia pulvis es . . .
--------------------------------Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN
408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours-. Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 7-1409
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12	Res. ph. 2-6697
WHY PAY MORE!
Long Playing Records (33 1 /3 R.P.M.) 30% off
FREE COMPLETE CATALOGUE AND PRICE LIST.
Write to:
RECORD HAVEN, INC. (Dept. C) 520 West 48th Street New York, 19, N. Y.
34
The Scholastic
T
I hey’re both good basketball
I plavers. But if we were to - judge them the way we judge telephone equipment, we’d take the small one.
You see, telephone equipment occupies valuable space, uses costly materials. Paring down its size helps keep down the cost of telephone service.
Take voice amplifiers, for example. Telephone engineers put the squeeze
on size, came up with a new small type. When 600 of these new amplifiers are mounted on a frame two feet wide and eleven feet high, thev do a job which once required a roomful of equipment. Size was cut—but not performance!
This is one of manv cases where the Bell Svstcm has made big things small to help keep the cost of telephone service low.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Feb. 9, 1951
★ Virginia Mayo enjoys her coffee ondi a Chesterfield while the hairdresser arranges her hair between scenes in the shooting of "CAPTAIN HORATIO HORNBLOV/ER"
Make the Tobacco Growers Mildness Test yourself..."Tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder"
Now smoke Chesterfields-they do smoke milder, and they leave NO UNPLEASANT AFTER-TASTE
^Virginia mayo Gregory Peck ill
CAPTAIN HORATIO HORNBLOWER" c/Z ‘Jlrzwrz {Jtrc-^bProtbucLion.
eCo&r by i/rx/iniarfor-
a,	t Smells MILDER'^aar WWSRR.'Leaves no unpleasant after-taste
Copyright 1951. Liggett & Mras Tobacco Co.	— —  —————----------- ———---------
Its the Easiest Test in the Book...

OPEN ’EM • SMELL ’EM SMOKE ’EM
ft..
Compare Chesterfield with the brand you’ve been smoking...Open a pack...smell that milder Chesterfield aroma. Prove-tobaccos that smell milder smoke milder.
They're Milder and leave no unpleasant after-taste