
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: Name ________________________ 
Address ______________________ 
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $25.oox __ years=.$ 


8 


WEEKLY 
Music 

INXS DEPARTMENTS Wire 
The Replacements 
2 
Editorial 



NEWS 

10 3 
Newsbriefs Letters· 
SPORTS 4 .·1 
16 On Other Campuses . ' Air Force Preview 


COVER 5 
12 Week In Distortion Life In the Big City 
Entertainment In South Bend 


6 
The Unexamined Life 

ENTERTAINMENT 19 
7 Coming Distractions Movies 
Pacific Heights 


20 
Final Word 
Coach Fisher DeBerry 
OCTOBER 11, 1990 
--. ---­

' .. ---------~ 



SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Vol. 132, No. 5 October 11, 1990 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Michael C. Wieber 


MANAGING EDITOR 
Derik T. Weldon 
NEWS EDITOR Traci Taghon 
SPORTS EDITOR Brian McMahon 
SPORTS ASSISTANT Jon Paul Potts 
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR Kristine DeGange 
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR Tim Rogers 
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR Dave Holsinger 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR Mari Okuda 
PHOTOGRAPHY ASSISTANT Paul Webb 
COPY EDITOR Dave Raedy 
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER Patricia Doyle 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Tony Porcelli 
BUSINESS MANAGER Jim Fitzgerald 
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER Jeanne Naylor 
ScholDstic is pub/ish,d =Jdy llrrDllglwut tk school yttJ.r txapl during UJl1m1Ullitmtmd tlllClllitmperiodslll tk UnirxrsityofNolre Dllfflll,Nolr• Dllm<,IN,46556tmd prinltdIll Th< Papers,Inc.,Milftml,IN 46542. Th< si,bscriptian rlll<is$25.00/y,iutmd bockisst=ll1'<1J11ailabltlll $1.25/copy. Tkopinionsap,essdin5chouzslicll1'elnos,:oflhtllllthorstmdodilorstmd do no! ~cess,zrily repres:nl th< opinions oflk entire edilorW board of Scho/Jislic or ofth< Uni1JCSity ofNoire D=,its administrlllian, f=lty or stlldmls. f.ditorWs signtd ScholDstic represent th< opinitm of tk 1tt11jorityoftkeuc11ti.,.tdilorW botl1'd. M11111lSCriptsll1'<welamu:. All unsolicitim mlllt.riJus bwnm th< prapaty ofSclw/Jislic, 

I. 
Copyright 1990 Scholllstic MagllZin<. All rights =ed. Rq,rodudion in wlwic or in parl withmd written pmnissi,m is prohibited. 


Now that the Irish have finally lost a game, particular!ya home one, despair and frustration surfaced all over campus at our lady's university. While we all hate standing next to somejerk at the football games who thinks he can coach better than Lou Holtz, there is another beast lurking in our midst who makes the dreaded expert that stands in your ear at the Stadium seem remarkably bearable. This latest annoyance is anyone that gets angry at someone who decides to com­plain about the Irish's performance. Un­doubtedly, we would all like to see Notre Dame win every game. A national champi­onship is something special that they can never take away from the players or the students. (Come to think of it, who is this they and why are they trying to take things away from people all the time?) But, blind faith and hero worship is probably the most despicable trait embodied by much of the student body here. WAKE UP, YOU TWITS!!! The team doesn't like any ofyou as much as you think and couldn't care less if you get punched in the mouth by your roommate after you tell him to quit bitching about fumbled punts by· saying to him, "Hey, we're all N.D." 

This is not in any way to be read as an endorsement for getting that worked up over an Irish defeat. The guy who gets really upset at the game is just as bad as someone who says not to be negative. One is_a syco­phantic ninny while the other takes a simple game far too seriously. 
A student was once heard saying that if the Irish lost a game, then no one would go out that night. It was intimated that everyone would be too depressed to go out. 
Well, anyone that will let the out­come of a contest they have absolutely no control over or impact on affect their life needs to get out of the "Teddy 'Brar" more often. Or Theodoreis or wherever you people go. 
If football is the greatest thing that has happened to you in your time here, you have really missed the ride. 
ullmlo ScholDsticmusl h< typtdtmd inclwk lkwrilor's name, address tmd ~ numb,,. Uni~ersity stwknts should inclwk tkir y,iu in sc/wol tmd coll,ge. Fa&11.lty m,mb,rs shm,ld inclwk their dq,a,tm<nt. All l,tters m1'SI be signtd. N11111<S will be withkld 11po11 "'1UtSI in cerlain insl,mces. · 
Sc/wlDslic =estk righl lo rejed l,tt,rs thlll ID'< Ii«· lousorobscmeby tklmusoflh< United Slllles. Sclwuzslicalso will ulit far copyfilling, g,am=tical or sp<lling errors tmd Sclwlllstic sty/,. Because of spaa, ScholDstic c,mnol print all /,tiers r,ceir,,d, 
Address all corresp<nrdence lo : Tk Editor Schol4slic 
I.aFan"""Cml<r 
Notre Dllm<, IN46556 
SCHOLASTIC 

A Response to The Article on Sexuality 


Dear Editor: 
I am writing to clarify a statement made in a recent issue of Scholastic (Septem­
. ber 20, 1990). In Traci Taghon's article, "Sexuality, A Report on the Report," the following statement is made. "Officials of the University Counseling Services had told the committee that victims (of rape and sex­ual assault) may have to go through the inves­tigation by Notre Dame Security and the Office of Student Life before being referred to counseling" (page 11). 
This statement is not true and the staffis confused about when this information was communicated and who was responsible for this portion of the Student Government Report. We would like to stress the follow­ii:ig: I) No one has to be referred before they receive co!-lnseling services, 2) Immediate assistance is available, 3) Reporting a rape to Security or Student Life is not a prerequisite or requirement ofcounseling, 4) The victim/ survivor would be encouraged to seek medi­cal attention and decide whether she wants to press charges, but these would be her choices, 5) Victims/survivors can seek assis­tance immediately after an assault or at some future time based on their needs and prefer­ences. 
Thank you for your assistance with this matter. · 
Rita Donley, Ph.D. Assistant Director Coordinator of Clinical Services 

Scholastic will be printing a follow up story on this topic in a future issue. 

GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS 

Subway delivers to Notre Dame and St. Mary's every day from 5 
p.m. until 12 midnight. 
CALL 277-7744 
For the next football game or 
your next party, call Subway for 
a delicious Party Sub or Party -Platter! 
Your Blue & Gold card is good for a 50¢ discount off any footlong Subway sandwich. 
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. on days of home football games. 

,~!•J;IfUlill 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 
OCTOBER 11, 1990 
---=-­


Fecal Dough 

Got a few extra bucks that you 're thinking about investing? Why not stash them in a sewer? Everyone would know which bills belonged to you when you spent them. According to the College Press Service, campus plumbers found an estimated $1 million in counterfeit bills in a sewer line underneath the California State University-Long Beach Campus. The Secret Service caught wind of the find (pun intended) and decided to investigate. The University has sophisti­cated printing equipment that theoretically could produce bogus bills, but not without help. Idle hands are the devil's printing press and the Secret Service knows this. "Let the state cut our budget all they want," joked Engineering Dept. secretary Alicia Franz, "we'll just make our own money." Uncle Sam, reportedly, was not amused. 


Fun With Numbers 
The wary folks at The Brown Daily Herald shall not be duped. Some trickster submitted to their calendar of events a notice of a discussion entitled "Erotic Themes in Differential Equations" given by Prof. N. Kaganito. Apparently, some math geeks were looking to pull the quadratic wool over their eyes. Thank goodness math majors aren't allowed to reproduce. 

Tabloid Professor 
The Chronicle ofHigher Education reported that David M. Olster, a University of Kentucky history professor, recently appeared in the National Enquirer. Olster bore a healthy, twelve pound baby alien. The good professor has three heads. He also eats dinner with Elvis every Wednesday. No. Actual!y,Olsteruses the supermarket tabloid as a tool in his class. The Enquirer learned about it and did a story on him. Olster said he uses the newspaper to teach students to think about the biases that influence reporters and to read analytically. 

$54,500 Penis 
Looking fornew and unique gift ideas? How about a three-foot penis for dear old Mom? The College Press Service ran a story about Tim Allen, a columnist for the Iowa State Daily, who "paid" $54,000 for a sculpture of big penis in a mock auction set up as a media event for the paper. Allen had written a column protesting the amount of money spent by the state on art. Ofhis new penis, Allen said, "I'd like to make it a monument to free speech, but people don't seem to like it, so I'm going to take it home." Lucky guy. 

Sin On The Rise 
The Kansan reported that John Burnham, an Ohio State University history professor, spoke on "Sin in American History: Drinking, Swearing, Gambling, Drug Abuse and Sexual Misbehavior." About 12 people listened. At the beginning of the century, smoking, drinking and swearing were considered bad, said Burnham. Good thing we've all come around and changed orir minds since then. 

We Still Can't Do It 
The people at Reed College who put together the Questdid it again. Their latest issue is chock full o' articles about the University's drug policy. Not alcohol -drug policy. D 
by Tim Rogers 
4 
SCHOLASTIC 


The Perils of SleepChair™ 
I guess now I can look back at my study habits so far this year and laugh, since as Salvador Dali would say, "The fish never crawls backwards because its eyes are lin­guini." Despite such optimism, though, I've gotta think things can only get better (nothin' like some Howard Jones lyrics to spice up an article, eh?). The really important thing I real­ized, of course, had nothing to do with education or actually learning anything. It was something I discov­ered on my sojourn to that Palace o' Pedagogy, that Ediface o' _Erudition, · the 'Brare. I found myself a nice secluded little spot on the second floor, and proceeded to be attacked by the dreaded SleepChair™. You know what I'm talking about Sleep­Chair™ is marketed and sold to the University by some vicious, evil ter­rorist organization such as Islamic Jihad or La-Z-Boy, under the pre­tense that these are the only chairs they sellthat will match the Library's decor (known to interior designers as · "Puke Provincial Plus Marble Things"). Ha. SleepChair™ is CLEARLY a very devious and dan-. gerous plot to undermine the study habits of the fine, upstanding youth of this University by gradually sucking out all the wide-awake, fact-absorbing cells in our bodies and replacing them with dead-tired, study-resistant cells. Oh, you Biology ma­jors may scoff. Go ahead. You don't know my phone number. [ed. note: ext. 3695.) 

Anyway, I was sitting there in the 'Brare, memorizing facts and figures which of course were FAR more obscure than what I ter Brau never could. (They're like girls that way.) And once TIIAT happens, well, you're deader than an all-campus SYR. When the Sleep­Chair™ I was in (tailored, of course, to my exact dimensions for the finest in comfort) struck its mortal blow, my eyelids drooped like Deadheads on a bad trip, and I found myself having the most HORRIBLE night­mare. I dreamt that people here were talking seriously about changing the Victory March, and the dating scene here was STILL terrible! Whoosh -glad that was just a dream. 

The point is (don't be snotty, there is too a point) ifyou wantto get anything done at the 'Brare, send all your friends there first as bait for the SleepChairs™. I myself accom­plished nothing constructive thanks to SleepChair™, but I actually can tell you something positive about the whole ordeal. SleepChairs™ may be the ultimate enemy of stu­dents when they're studying, but they sure are a big help when you're trying to get an article finissszzzz · . 
by Jim Doppke 

they thrive especially on students who are­and I will use the definitive clinical psycho­logical term here -"screwed." Once a SleepChair™ senses that your brain cells have that feeling of ultimate futility, they 
neutralize those puppies like Meis­
OCTOBER 11, 1990 



Dear Dr. Head: I have a question. Every time I have to write a paper, something happens to me. I put on some relaxing classical music, plop myself in front of my Macintosh, get ready to type, and "Bang!" It happens. Suddenly I'll realize that I have a tremendously ripe zit square in the middle of my back. Then I'll spend the next seven hours trying to find a way to get at it. In the end, I'll wind up with nothing but a sore red bump and a late paper. Dr. Head, why does this always happen? Ben Zoyl, senior, Flanner. 
Ben, join me in stamping out procrastination across our fair land. Your question is an interesting one. Scientists have only recently begun to understandthe phenomenon of "dorsal zit syndrome." It 

6 

-iapr~e<r
~w;,,P,.,, ..,~?ff ~ -~t.. ~~ ll,M,,,,,.,.#1 . 
~~~ 
was once thought that spinal acne occurred regularly and was only discovered when students had to write papers. Subconsciously, itwas thought, students knew they had zits on their backs, but they sup­pressed this knowledge because they had egos, which was something Freud invented. Scientists now kriow that Freud was full ofit. His mom pampered him and part ofhis mouth was missing because he had jaw cancer from smoking too many cigars. Now scientists know the truth. Students actually have zit-free backs most of theirJives. Not until students have to write papers do zits begin forming·. Time lapse photography has shown this. In one study, Sturnheim, et al docu­mented a pimple that swelled to the size of a pomegranate after an unfortunate student learned that he had to write . a paper on the economic implications of Nietzschian transcendentalism vis avis Machiavellian relativism. It was ugly. Scientistsaren'toptimistic about finding a cure. The only hope seems to be choosing a major that requires less paper writing. Try physics. 
Dear Dr. Head: I think you're one big rip-off from Dr• . Science, of public radio fame. How do you answer this 
charge? What are you hiding? _ 
Racer X, sophomore, The Steam Tunnels. 
I have three things to say: 
1) Dr. Science doesn't know his head from a spectator ion. 
2) Only geeks listen to public radio. 
3) Next time, don't be such a chicken. Include your real name and address, punk. 
Dr.Head is getting testy. Bogus mail pisses him off. His job is iough enough without wiseacres giving him a hard time. The rest ofyou need to get offyour duffs and write him some good questions. Send your queries to Dr. Head, care oJScholastic,303 wFortune. Every­one whoforgets to include aname, year, and addresswill get mocked. 
Dr. Head reserves the right to reject questions that are libelous or obscene ( still can't define "obscene"). He also reserves the right to call anybody a "geek," "chicken," and/or "punk." . 
SCHOLASTIC 






Ladies and gentlemen, meet Carter Hayes, 
The Tenant From Hell. He's got everything 
it takes to drive you crazy -late hours, 
strange. friends, and an unusual talent for 
breeding cockroaches. It is enough to make 
you shudder with. empathy for Drake 
Goodman and Patty Parker ... almost. John 
Schlesinger's new movie, Pacific Heights, 
relates the conflict between Hayes (Michael 
Keaton) and his landlords, Goodman and 
Parker (Mathew Modine and Melanie Grif­
fith). The tension begins when Hayes moves 
into his apartment without having paid his 
rent. He proceeds to engage in activities that 
would upset any landlord, including late 
night construction work, changing the locks 
on his door, and refusing to answer his door. 
Unfortunately for Goodman and Parker, they 
discover that there is nothing they can do to 
evict him without first going through a 
lengthy (and expensive) legal process. They 
initiate this process, but in the meantime have 
to share their living space with this goofball. 
Unfortunately for the audience, we have to 
watch it 
Twentieth Century Fox's latest release has 
been plugged as a suspense thriller ... too bad they forgot both the suspense and the thrills. The only thing that really surprised me about this movie was the complete lack of a believ­. able plot. For the first half hour of the film, the audience keeps asking itself"Why? Why does he (Hayes) act like this? I mean, he seemed like a nice guy." Then his true motivations are revealed, and for the next hour and fifteen minutes the audience keeps asking itself "Why? Why did I come to see this movie? I mean, Icould have done some­thing constructive, like clean out my navel." Believe me, compared to watching this 
OCTOBER 11, 1990 movie, cleaning out my navel would have been thrilling. 

Fortunately, for those ofus who had to watch, there was some talent exhibited in the production of this film. John Schlesinger's direction is excellent, showing an abundance of personal style and an understanding of what will enhance the audience's enjoyment of the film. His use of slow pans across the city and his interesting employment of cam­era angles really helps the film to hold what little suspense was written into the plot It makes me wonder what Schlesinger could have done ifhe had had a truly scary movie to direct Unfortunately, not even his outstand­ing directing skills were able to get Pacific Heights offthe round.
--,--------, 
Michael Keaton In Pacific Heights 

Likewise, the performances turned in by Keaton, Modine, and Griffith were, as ex­pected, superb. In an unusual role for the usually comical Keaton, he portrays the pa­thological Hayes with skill and imagination, making the character seem almost real. This glimpse into the psyche of a man who seems to be completely irrational, but is justified in his own mind, is indeed interesting and in­triguing. Watching the character develop from an apparently nice, quiet gentleman into what in the end is revealed as a complete madman provides some entertainment in an otherwise ho-hum film. Hayes is the only potentially interesting character in the movie, and Keaton does a fine job ofbringing out that potential, but it just isn't enough to keep you on the edge of your seat. 
Modine and Griffith both do more than competent acting jobs in trying to bring their characters to life. It would have been much better for them (and the audience) if the script had given them a way of developing their characters into something more substantial, but the way the scriptwas written leaves them lacking depth and personality. Little things like that tend to hamper even the most tal­ented of actors, and in this case the little things overwhelm them. The most I can say for these two is that they do the best job of being scared airheads that I've seen in a long time. 
From the opening scene, Pacific Heights is set up to resemble a spy-thriller or a twisted revenge movie, and I wish it had been. The whole film starts to go downhill when, less than a third of the way into the film, it is revealed to the audience that the big mystery behind Carter Hayes is that he is pulling a real estate scam. So much for suspense and intrigue. The only other mystery is why he would go to such ridiculous lengths to pick up a plot of land with a house on it 
The obvious talent displayed in the making ofthis film makes the lack ofsubstance in the plot even more lamentable. Given a script with something to it, I think that the actors and director could have created a movie that in later years would be referred to as a classic, but without said script, their creation comes out flat and dtilL 0 
by Chris Kozoll 
7 

' . -----___:;~"::......----~­
-------------~--­


more inspir~d wierdness 

X. That's the most creative title INXS could come up with for their latest album. Just one character, one lousy letter was all they felt this album m;eded for a title. Well, all that I can say is that the title is quite apt for the worthless commercialized slag that's on their newest release. 
Although at times it seems like Michael Hutchence and Andrew Farriss might possibly have found a new groove, all of the tracks on X are just rehash ofold material. Bastardized riffs from Kick and Listen Like Thieves abound, and the rhythm sections reek of plagiarism. Producer Chris Thomas (who also produced Kick and Listen Like Thieves ) keeps the INXS trade­marks present all through the new effort, but good production never . makes up for a lack of creativity -at least, not unless 
8 

h©p®) 
you're one of the mindless mil­lions who buys the stuff made for commercial radio. Sadly, INXS have fallen prey to the commer­cial trap. Although this album is self-funded by the band (suppos­edly to allow for more creative freedom -whatever you say, guys), there is no attempt to get back to the energy and vitality of prior efforts like Listen Like Thieves and The Swing. The album is deceptive: Hutchence and Farriss have at least tried to camouflage their lack ofcreativ­ity with an abundance of strange instrumentation. Surely you've heard the harmonica at the begin­ning of"Suicide Blonde?" Ifyou haven't,.just tum on the radio. I'm sure you '11 be able to hear the results of INXS' "experimenta­tion." 
X is not only awash in musical unoriginality, but the quality of Michael Hutchence's lyrics has even fallen off. Thematically, most ofX deals with the monot­ony of life or isolation within relationships. Yawn. What ever happened to "Watch the world argue?" Where's the thinly veiled sexual innuendo of"Need You Tonight" or "The One Thing?" Hutchence does come up with a few cool lines here and there on X, but in general, his attempts to tackle subjects which he has.previously done quite as­tutely fall farshortoftheirmarks. 
What I'm really hoping is that INXS will lose big bucks on this album and be forced to get back into touch with the Australian club scene that made them be­come the gritty,funky, live-per­formance oriented band that they used to be. They've become far too big for their own good, and a gig in an Australian pub might put these sissified video stars back into their places. We can only hope ... 

Wire 

Manscape 
It's back to the synthesizers again for Wire. They've played around on their last couple al~ bums trying to find just the right blend of guitars and synths, and they haven't quite yet found it That's notto say that their new album, Manscape, isn't thor­oughly enjoyable, though. Quite the contrary. Manscape is some­what of a return to the more 
· synth-based sound of The Ideal Copy rather than the minimalist, atmospheric guitar feel ofA Bell is A Cup Until It Is Struck. M anscape operis with the up­tempo "Life in the Manscape," a dance track in the tradition of"In Vivo," with lyrics reminiscent of "Ahead" from Ideal Copy. A · surreal look into modem society, "Manscape" comes up with some gems oflyrics. Lines like, "The pope ofpop/drives a church of steel" and "Free speech/and more T.V./Distribute liberally/ I'dlike mine to be/A true facsim­ile" are Wire at their absolute lyrical best. The "Manscape" (from both the song title and the album title) is their world-it's a surreal landscape of people rather than land. They deliver, like they always have, social commentary from a bizarre point of view. Rather than being preachy, they make you thin:k about what they have to say by making you wondering what it is they're actually saying. Another track, "Stampede," gets· a little closer to the obvious in its refrain "Find security in Wes tern arms," but this is much better political music than the usual whining by black-clad neo-beatniks with guitars and too many problems. Wire haven't entirely aban­doned their punk roots, either. Singer Colin Newman occasion­ally recalls Wire's humble punk 
SCHOLASTIC 




The Replacements 
All Shook Down showcases Paul Westerberg's songwriting ... but where's 


the rest of the band? 
beginnings with a gritty screech, like that on, "Torch It!" The guitars oftheir early days are not entirely gone, either. Although most ofthe aural airspace on this album is filled by synthesizers and drum machines, the occa­sional guitar does find its way out of the acoustic melee. The pres­ervation of the guitar in their sound may justbeanother way of warding off categorization by rock critics, but they couldn't possibly abandon the jangly, piercing guitar that was the most integral part of their sound until the advent of the synthesizer. Wire have definitely made the most of their fast friendship with the synthesizer, but they likewise seems reluctant to drop the tex­ture ofthe guitar from their sonic palette. 
Manscape has proved once again that Wire can continue to progress in new directions with­outsoundin&_too weird or getting too boring. Really, what other groups do you know who can have song titles like, "Small Black Reptile," "Children of Groceries," and ''You Hung Your Lights" without sounding completely avant garde and unlistcnable? Wire are truly masters of the bizarre, but they're down to earth just enough that they can be appreci­ated. Check out Manscape and make your life a little bit surreal. 
OCTOBER 11, 1990 
. 
____,____ ------~ -~ 


Replacements 
All Shook Down 
Is Minneapolis still a Mecca for loud, fast rock and roll? Not really, but the guys who started the whole gritty Minneapolis thing are trying once again to make themselves heard in the music world. Bob Mould, Soul . Asylum, and the Replacements have all released new albums within the last month or so. The 
. only problem is that they've all grown upnow,and the music just isn't as fun as it used to be. Soul Asylum are still loud and fast, but they're not as random -they know what they're doing now. Bob Mould is still loud and gritty, but he's just way too old and bitter these days. 
The Replacements, though, are the prime example of a band which has grown up too fast. When they first hit the scene, they were loud, obnoxious, and just a little bit naive, but to listen 
. 
to them now, you'd never know . 
I'm not entirely sure that I like what they've become, either. The rumors ofbreakup after their last tour seem to be turning into more of a reality than a rumor. Their new album, All Shook Down, is a finely crafted bunch of tunes originally intended to be Paul Westerberg's solo album. It's kind of unfortunate that the entire band only plays on one song (each song does feature at least one 'Mat besides Wester­berg), but since the band's sound is chiefly a reflection of Westerberg's songwriting any­way, theirabsence doesn't affect the sound much. Producer Scott Litt (R.E.M., That Petrol Emo­tion) puts a little too much acous­tic jangle in the sound (surprise, surprise), but there are enough horns, electric guitars, and piano to balance the acoustic guitars nicely. His production manages more often than not to hit the perfect balance ofguitar textures to bring out Westerberg's melo­dies. 
Paul Westerberg's song­writing has evolved to the point where he can sound like himself all the time without being boring. Like any great songwriter, his songs are recognizable at first listen, but the fact that you can tell they're his doesn't detract from them at all. He keeps the arrangements simple most of the time, and he doesn't try to outdo himself lyrically, like so many writers are prone to do. 
When listening to this album on a lazy Friday afternoon, I realized that this was probably the perfect setting to listen to this album. It's always just a little bit groggy and tired, but it's still on the bright side. The song "All Shook Down" was particularly exemplary of this feel ­Westerberg's groaned vocals and a whispering recorder solo in the background give the sensa­tion of just waking up from an afternoon nap. Other tunes, es­pecially "WhenItBegan," a song in the style of "Can't Hardly Wait" from Pleased to Meet Me, are more typical of the earlier Replacements' style, but still fit the feel of the new album. "My Little Problem," featuring Con­crete Blonde vocalist Johnette Napolittano, even ventures into the band's grungier past without deviating too far from All Shook Down 's texture. 
All Shook Down is probably the best glimpse of the Replace­ments of the future ... that is, if they stay together. Westerberg's style has fully matured, and he makes no pretentions oftrying to write songs to sound like the band used to. Age will only make the Replacements sound better now. . 
by Dave Holsinger 
9 


SERVICE PROJECT PASQUERILLA VOLUNTEERS RECEIVES DOD GATHER FOR AWARD 
Frank J. Pasquerilla, of dormitory and
ANNUAL REUNION 

ROTC building fame, has received the second-highest civilian award from the Department of Defense. 
American higher education's first The award for outstanding public 
scholarship program for students involved in service recognizes Pasquerilla's $5 million summer social service celebrates its 10th gift to build the nation's largest privately anniversary this month at the University of financed Reserve Officer's Training Corps 
Notre Dame. building -our own Pasquerilla Center. The 
Andrews Scholars will gather for dinner silver medal and rosette were presented at , .October 18, as they have done each fall for the dedication dinner Friday, October 5 by ten years. They will speak about their work, Army LL General Thomas W. Kelly, 
which could be with retarded children in director of operations for the Joint Chiefs 
"i
lI Buffalo, N.Y., with abused women in of Staff. . 
;) Marquette, Ml, or with lonely elderly people • "Mr. Pasquerilla's patriotic support, in San Francisco. coupled with the University's extensive The endowed program is named after involvement, underscores the highest level James F. Andrews, a Notre Dame alumnus of commitment to educating value oriented and co-founder of Universal Press Syndicate men and women as future leaders in the (UPS). It was set up at Notre Dame after his armed services," the. citation stated. death in October 1980 by his wife Kathy and (Scholastic's Newsbriefs welcomes any business partner John McMeel, both Notre response to that statement by the groups who Dame graduates. Among early donors were protested the dedication.) UPS columnists Abigal Van Buren ("Dear. Abby") and Mary McGrory, as well as . "Doonesbury" cartoonist Garry Trudeau. PERESTROIKA One hundred and eighty-four students, 70 
·MEETS THEOLOGY
men and 114 women, have been Andrews 
Scholars, working with 80 Notre Dame clubs 

IN LECTURE BY
in 81 cities and one foreign country (Ecuador). The bulk of the students have RUSSIAN CHURCH come from the Collge of Arts and Letters. The Andrews Scholars program has been a LEADER model for similar efforts, such as those Grab your Russian hats and head over to announced recently at Yale and Stanford the Hesburgh Library auditorium tonight to Universities. hear about "Religion in a Changing Soviet 
In a brochure published to mark the Union: A Russian Orthodox View."· anniversary, Andrews Scholars from past · Mikhail Jaroslovovich Scherbachev, years reflected on their experiences. Brigette deputy head of the publishing department of 
Goulet, 1982 Andrews Scholar, advised, the Partiarchate of· the Russian Orthodox "Take the risk to work someplace you would Church in Moscow, will present the lecture, never work. Learn to see your country; your sponsored by the Department of Theology. inner city as it really is, not how you believe Scherbachev graduated in 1983 from 
it to be. Don't be afraid to experience Moscow State University, where he studied poverty, degradation and inhumanity; the history of Russian religious philosophy. thousands of people live it daily and serve it Following his· graduation, he worked as a to their children for lunch." researcher in the sociological laboratory of 
10 
SQHOLASTIC 



the Institute of Gas and Oil. For two years before assuming his present position in the Moscow Patriarchate he was a director of the library of the Committee for Professional Schools. He speaks fluent English, so leave the pocket translators at home. 
MORRIS' LECTURE AIRS ON CABLE 
Thomas V. Morris, associate professor of philosophy here at Notre Dame and 1990 Professor of the Year in Indiana, is the featured lecturer for October in the "University Lecture" series produced by the national cable network, The Learning Channel. 
Go visit an off-campus friend with cable so you can see Morris' lecture, ''The Ethics of Everyday Life." Oh, you say even they can't get The Learning Channel? Never fear. The lecture will be shown on public access sometime in November. Specific times and dates to be announced later. 
The undergraduate lecture was taped September 12on campus. Father Malloy will open the program, which also features an interview with Morris concerning his feelings about philosophy and the teaching profession. 
Morris received the state Professor of the Year award in September from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education. Since joining the faculty in 1980, he has taught as many as 1200 undergraduates a year, been awarded N.E.H. and Howard · Foundation research fellowships, and · published nine books, including "The Logic of God Incarnate," "Philosophy and the Christian Faith," and "The Bluffer's Guide to Philosophy." 


DISTINGUISHED LECTURERS BEGIN VISITS TO NOTRE DAME 
"Christianity and Culture" is the first topic in the Paul and Barbara Henkels Distinguished Lecture Series, scheduled to begin at 4 p.m. October 15 in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
Dr. Nicholas Lobkowicz will present the inaugural lecture. Lobkowicz is a former professor in the Notre Dame philosophy department who went on to become rector, then president, of the University of Munich before assuming his current position as president of the Catholic University of Eichstatt in Germany. (It sure is nice not to have to write West or East Germany.) His scholarly publications include more the 130 monographs in six languages. He was awarded an honorary doctor of laws by Notre Dame in 1981. 
The lecture series in the College of Arts and Letters has been endowed by the chairman and chief executive officer of Henkels and McCoy, Inc., an engineering and contracting firm in Blue Bell, PA, and his wife. Paul Henkels has been a memberofthe College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council since 1964. 
DRUG CZAR HAILS· PUBLIC NEXT WEDNESDAY 
William J. Bennett, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy and former · 
U.S. Secretary of Education, will speak on "Modernity and the Care of Our Children" next Wednesday, October 17 in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Bennett is in control of the $10.6 billion budget that the Bush administration has allotted to the "War On Drugs." In September 1989 heprepared the report on the National Drug Control Strategy, a result of six months of discussion with government leaders, treatment professionals, educators, drug policy experts, law enforcement officials, and hundreds of American citizens involved in fighting drugs. 

Since the Bush administration took office, the federal government has increased spending to fight drugs some 70 percent -the largest percentage increase of any major program in the federal government. 
D 
compiled by Traci Taghon 
11
OCTOBER 11, 1990 




I·. 
i· 

Lie in the 
i1 Big City

ii 
!' 
j·
,, 
ji 
:I I' 
ii The Windy City it's not, but with a little.
ii
ii. 
I.· 
il­ji_: creativity, South Bend can be an exciting.
I. 

f· 
l-:1.· 
So, you think there's not much to do in South Bend? It's a jungle out there, so come on ajourney with us, Kristine andKirsten ,as we take· you away from the shelter of the Golden Dome into the untrodlands ofSouth Bend, Indiana. 

W ereally want to do something fun this weekend. Butwhat? Somethingnew and different.. 
As we sat to ponder this we realized that everyone else was probably thinking the same thing. We almost gave up the effort as futile, butreconsidered. Itbecameamission, an obsession. We took this quest into our own _hands to discover, on behalf of the NotreDame student body, what really goes on on Saturday night in the bustling metropo­lis of South Bend. We tried to come up with ideas'for every budget, need, and occasion. We found restaurants, parks, theaters, and 
12 
place to live 
shops. Hopefully, these suggestions will add diversity and interest to your weekend. 
Restaurants · 
Although not a culinary capital, South Bend does offer awide variety ofrestaurants in various price ranges and tastes. Most of these are· pretty close by and along with providing a diversion from cafeteria food, serve as a nice study break. · 
Whenever we've had it with cereal three times a day, we head over to Macri's or to Pattie's. Macri's is located directly across from the UP mall and offers a million differ­ent sandwiches with yummy appetizers, mammoth-sized imported beers, and cheese cake. The French onion soup, nachos and garlic cheese bread are our favorite begin­nings however, a healthy appetite is essential ifyou plan to consume both an appetizer and an entire sandwich. Although the BRT 

(bacon, roast beef and turkey) is the long­
. standing favorite, ali of the sandwiches are qelicious and we can never decide which. to order. For vegetarians and weight-watchers, there is the veggie pita. For those of us less concerned with our health and physique, there are quite a few more to choose from, including Italian sausage subs and. grilled chicken sandwiches. Another great thing about Macri's is that they make delicious birthday cakes that can be delivered. They are most famous for their. spumoni cake, but they also have more conventional types. 
Alas, alack, you can only go to Macri's so many times, hence; we've found an alter­native. Pattie's an all-American SO's juke boxjoint(recently, however, thejukebox has been defunct. Either that, orit didn't like our choice of songs) ·with_ a creat~-yoµr-own hamburger barand an endless and sometimes odd selection of toppings. They also serve generous quantities of side orders like beer 
SCHOLASTIC 




batter mushrooms and seasoned fries. (Y-/e love these!!) Perhaps the best part, although we rarely have room for it, is the never­ending menu of fountain creations. They boast Mishawaka's smallest sundae for only $.35 along with monster-size shakes and malts. We recommend the Mint chocolate chip cookie shake. Pattie's also has a big screen TV in the back to watch sports events. 
OK-that's great for a break from NDH, but what do you do when the P's come to town? Someplace with REAL fool that we couldn't normally go unless someone else was paying. We found quite a few restau­rants that your parents will love (also suitable for SYR's or special dates). One such place is the Emporium, our personal fave. Offering a homey atmosphere over looking the river, the Emporium's menu includes everything from fresh fish to pasta, ranging in price from about ten dollars. We find the French onion soup, loaded with cheese, and a chicken en­tree served with wine sauce and topped with cheese most delectable. (The salads are also 
OCTOBER 11, 1990 very good, served with a myriad of salad dressings including honey-mustard, and avocado garlic. A wide range of fixings also accompany the salad.) As if this isn't enough, for birthdays, a singing waitress brings a mini-cake to the table. 

For a more casual atmosphere, the Sunny Italy Cafe is a delightful, family ori­ented Italian restaurant with good wine and checkered table cloths. Their pasta dishes come in small and king size helpings, both of which are more than enough. The chef is ready and able to create a dish just to your taste. The highlight here is again, the dessert The cannoli is out of this world. 
If seafood is what you're looking for, The Wharf is the place to go. We suggest staying away from the cheese bread, but the seafood is fresh, the steaks are good and they have a nice salad bar. The best is (surprise!) the dessert. They have a selection of fresh fruit in season (raspberries and cream are wonderful) and the Chocolate Suicide is heavenly. 
If dinner with your parents infringes upon your demanding social schedule, try brunch. Tippecanoe Place serves one of the best we've ever seen, and we've seen many, as I'm sure you've guessed. They have rooms of food and tables piled high with goodies. Belgian waffles smothered with fruit and whipped cream, omelettes made-to­order, prime rib, and a dazzling display of breads, muffins, and salads are sure to please even the most finicky eater (even a ten-year­old brother). However, you might want to bring a wheelbarrow in which to cart yourself home, as it is generally found that fitting everyone in the car after this meal is next to impossible. Anadded perk: your mother will love the fact that Tippecanoe Place is a his­torical site. It is formerly the Studebiµcer mansion and tables are set up in the bed rooms and other private quarters. All of the decor found in the house is exactly as it was originally. 
Alright, your parents are gone and you're looking for that special someplace to take that special someone. For your wining and dining pleasure, we have several sugges­tions. Our first is Francesco's. Dimly lit, with soft music playing in provincial setting, this cozy atmosphere lends itself to intimate conversation and hand holding across the table. (The blossoming romance could be cut short however, as you daintily splash both you and your date with red sauce spraying from uncooperative noodles. Don't despair, it's worth it. The fresh pasta is so good, as is the veal, your date will hardly notice the stains on his new, freshly starched shirt.) To finish the evening on good note, try the ex­presso or capuccino. It's delicious and it warms your insides on a cold winter's night. 
Our next choice is not as elegant as Francesco's, but it is as fun; At Fondue Parlor, the setting is somewhat disappointing but cooking your own meal with your date has a lot of charm. Oddly enough, there is something very intimate about stabbing pieces of chicken with a skewer and boiling them in oil. They offer meat, cheese,· and chocolate fondues. We really liked the chocolate, (now there's a shock!) and pro­ceeded to dip our forks in iteven after the fruit was gone. 
After having dined our way through South Bend and surrounding areas, we asked 
13 


I • • ----------~ 
------~--· ------­
ourselves, "Is there anything to do here be­sides eat?" Our second favorite thing to do is shop, so we started from there. 
Shopping 
By this time, we're sure even the fresh­man have been to UP mall. Handy for your basic needs, this mall includes L.S. Ayres, The Limited, American Eagle Outfitters, and The Gap. Even though this mall is not hip to the latest from Paris, it aids in quelling our need to spend money. It also pro­vides some of the best people watching in South Bend. Friday night distin­guishes itself as the clear highlight revealing some particularly interesting specimens. Last year, we purchased skull rings in a feeble attempt to fit in. 
Although quite a hike from South Bend, the Light­house Mall is a great place to go especially for starving college students. It is the home of many designer outlet stores including Bass, Ralph Lauren:, Anne Klein, and Harve Bernard. There are tons of great buys, but timing is of the essence. If you go on a delivery day, you will come home with wonderfully cheap and styl­ish attire. If not, you will probably come home de­pressed and empty handed. 
When shopping for that special and unique gift, try East Bank Emporium, right outside the restaurant, the Emporium. Crabtree and Evelyn and The Mole's Hole are two cute places to go for scents and trinkets. 
Entertainment 
We had a hard time coming up with new and · different things to do at night. There is of course, 
the usual hangouts. Bridget's, the Commons, CJ's, Coaches, etc. where masses of sweating college kids cram into a small space to get rip roaring drunk. For those of you who don't enjoy this type of evening, there are some other options, however few. For example Beacon Bowling, where people aren't al­lowed on the lanes, so it's not as crowded. Here, scores soar in the 50 to 70 range and the most common occurrence is the gutter ball, but it is fun. These gutter balls are sometimes really exciting and not even in yourown lane! Bowling across the lanes, rather than down them, does add an air of adventure to the bowling experience. 

If you're a rotten bowler even when you're sober, try the South Bend or Elkhart symphony. All right, so its not Vienna, but for an evening of culture, they are very pro­fessional and perform a wide array of classi­cal music and tickets,are relatively inexpen-


sive. Performance schedules can beobtained from the South Bend Tribune. 
For concert and music aficionados, the Holiday Star Plaza in Merriville, Indiana hosts popular groups such as Bob Dylan and most recently, Conway Twitty and Loretta Lynn. All the seats are great because its a very small theater and it saves a trip all the way to Chicago to see some big names. Another good place to hear bands is Center Street Cafe, right next door in Mishawaka. They have live entertainment Thursday through Saturday. (Areal bonus for us is that they serve dinner.) Warning: this is the filill:'. Center Street, not the fun, rowdy place we all knew and loved two years ago. It is much more sedate and under control. 
Ifyour dream date is John Travolta or a disco queen, we've found some places for you. Howdy Doody's, in Niles Michigan plays top forty dance tunes and has ladies' night on Wednesdays. If oldies are what you're after, try Kirby's in South Bend. If you like oldies, but need a bit more encour­agement to dace, they offer quarter drafts on Thursday nights. Kirby's is open Wednes­day through Sunday. 
Theater 
There are many community theater groups in the South .Bend area. For a fun and different evening, or a new date idea, try impressing your friends with culture. The South Bend Civic Theater is currently pre­senting the Tony Award winning "I'm not Rappaport" on Thursday through Saturday until October 20. Michiana Actor's Theater Productions is another local troupe who just finished their production of Aristophane's "The Frog." Look for another performance soon. The Osceola Community Players is presenting "Bull in a China Shop," the last day of this performance scheduled for next Saturday. Amish Acres is presenting the former Broadway hit "Plain and Fancy." Finally, the Valparaiso University Players will present a season of theater focused on war and rumors of war. · Information about this can be obtained through the University. 
Parks and Museums 
The South Bend and northern Indi­anaarea is filled with parks and recreation centers. Several ofthese are in close proxim­ity. Bendix Woods, St. Patrick's Park, and Potato Creek all offer cross country skiing in the winter, along with many summer activi­ties such as horse back riding, swimming, fishing, hiking, and biking. Perhaps the best park is thePotowatomi Park which is home to the Potowatomi Zoo and Botanic Gardens. Their nature trails do not just take you through South Bend wilderness, but through the wilds of Africa, the plains of West, and the jungles of South America. They also feature special events such as the Zoo Boo, from October 27-30, and Zooltide '90 from November 30 to December 10. 


If you aren't the outdoorsy type, the Northern Indiana Historical Society main­tains an outstanding collections of over 200,000 objects, some dating back to prehis­toric Indians. Another to try.is the Hannah Lidahl Children's Museum which provides hours of fun for little brothers and sisters. They can examine nature and artifacts from the area along with viewing a parlor and kitchen from the 1920' s, and a sitting room in a Japanese home. For car buffs, there is the Studebaker National Museum. Here you can see the entire line of Studebaker cars, trucks and carriages. They even display the carriage that Abraham Lincoln took to the FordThea­ter on thatfateful night in 1865. 
Miscellaneous 

In•season, the apple orchards in Michi­gan furnish an afternoon ofgood, wholesome fun, spicy apple cider and delicious cinna­mon doughnuts and apple turnovers. Keep an eye out for events at the Morris Civic Auditorium, and don'tforget about the South Bend White Sox. If all else fails, you can spend an evening calling all the numbers in the Info pages in the South Bendphone book. You can find out your horoscope, what you've been missing on the soaps, the weather, fishing predictions, and the Wall Street update. Way cool. 
If none these suggestions floats your boat, one of the greatest things that South Bend does have is a cheap train ride to Chicago. We hope this has helped, have a great weekend!!! . 
By Kristine DeGange and Kirsten Lebsack 
15
OCTOBER 11, 1990 





the United States Air Force
A t 

Academy, they recruit football players that can fit into F-16's as well as they fit into a game plan. "Challenges," says seventh-year head coach Fisher DeBerry, "that's what makes college coaching fun." If challenges are what make his job fun, DeBerry should be laughing with delight. when his Falcons take on the Fighting Irish this Saturday at Notre Dame . Stadium. Oneofthe three service academies which competes in Division 1-A collegiate football, Air Force has recruiting 
restrictions placed upon its football team 
which would give any coach nightmares. 
Despite the handicap, DeBerry has amassed a 51-28°1 recordin his tenure as Falcon coach. In 1985, his team capped a 12­1 season with a· victory over Texas in .the Bluebonnet Bowl and finished the year ranked fifth nationally. For his efforts, DeBerry was named Coach ofthe Year by . both the Associated Press and United Press International. However, the 1990 Falcons 
seem to be a team in transition. 
Winners of three of their first six 
gaines, Air Force is undoubtedly feeling the 
effects ofthe loss offifteen starters offoflast year's team which went 8-4-1 and earned a trip to the Liberty Bowl. The mostprominent ofthese losses is quarterback Dee Dowis, the Western Athletic Conference's Playerof the Year, who burned the Irish for more than 300 yards passing last year, only to see his team 

· fall at home, 41-27. 
Dowis' . replacement, junior Ron 
Gray, had been ineffective until injuring 
himself prior to the Falcons' game against 
Wyoming on September 22. He had 
completed only 7 outof27pass attempts. His 
replacements, sophomore Jarvis Baker and 
juniorRob Perez, have not done any better. It 
is undetermined which of the three will start 
16 
SCHOLASTIC 

this week. 
Ironically, the Air Force attack seems confined ·to the ground, having completed only 22% of its pass attempts. This is not the ideal situation for an undersized offense trying to move against an Irish defensive unit which is at its best against the run. 
The Falcons run the wishbone 

offense, a system which depends on flawless execution and timing. Whoever the signal caller, he will have a capable corps ofrunning backs to employ. Halfback Jason Jones, a junior out of Grand Praire, Texas, leads the Falcon rushing attack with 263 yards before last week's victory over Navy. Fullback Rodney Lewis is second with 244 yards, including a 94-yard effort on September 8 in a 27~3 victory against Hawaii. Lewis is looked on to lead the Falcon ground attack after gaining over 1,000 yards last season, good for second team All-WAC. 
DeShawn Durham, Daniel Zdroik, and Chris Howard have all seen considerable playing time and will be used against the Irish. Howard was a second team All-America last season. 
Some of Air Force's shortcomings on the ground this season have been self­inflicted. Air Force must avoid the costly fumbles which haveplagued them all season. Wishbone teams characteristically fumble more than conventional offenses, but the Falcons lost an average of three fumbles per game in their first four outings. 
Up front,, the Falcons face major physical disadvantages in matching up with the Irish. As a unit they average under 240 pounds, which is significantly lighter than Notre Dame's front three of Chris Zorich, George Williams, and Bob Dahl. The only returning starter on the offensive line is senior center Paul Walski, who earned second team All-WAC honors for the 1989 campaign. 
Defensively, Air Force is looking to move to a more aggressive style ofattacking the football, much like Notre Dame's new scheme under Gary Darnell. And like the 
OCTOBER 11, 1990 

Irish unit, the Falcon defense has played to some poor reviews, the most negative of which came after a September 29 loss at San Diego State,48-18. TheFalcon defense has performed well on occasion, however, including last week's win over Navy. 
The Falcon rushing defense, led by 6'3", 231 lb. senior J.T. Tokish, has yielded just 123.6 yards per game. The other linebackers will be Brian Hill and 

Clifton Lovelace, both returnees. Hill has led the Falcons in total tackles the last two seasons. 
The defensive line will be anchored by two seniors, nose guard Steve Brennan and tackle Lane Beene. The key matchup in this game lies in the Irish ground game versus the Falcon rushing defense. If the Air Force cannot make Notre Dame pass early, the Irish will roll. 
Perhaps the greatest weakness in this Falcon team is its lack of experience. "Talentwise, we are as good as we werelast year," claims DeBerry. "We have an excellent sophomore class and ihere is good overall strength and speed. But there is absolutely no substitute for game experience." 
A definite bright spot for the Falcons is junior placekicker Joe Wood, who has made seven ofeight field goals this season and is virtually automatic within 50 yards. The question is whether the offense can move enough to get Wood into range. 
Last week, the Stanford Cardinal converted three Irish special teams turnovers into two touchdowns in sending the Irish to a humbling defeat AirForce must create such opportunities this week in order to stay in the game. Stanford moved the ball consistently through the air against Notre Dame, looking especially to pick on inexperienced 
Scholastic File Photo . 

comerback Reggie Brooks. Air Force, however, does not seem to have the weapons for success via the pass against the Irish, although they will throw more than is their custom. 
Notre Dame leads this series 15-4, with the only Air Force victories coming in the years 1982 thru 1985. During that period, the Irish, under coach Gerry Faust, seemed confused by the Air Force wishbone attack. Two of the Irish losses came in Notre Dame Stadium, which gives the visitors a ray of hope. 
Lou Holtz, however, has assembled a team which is much deeperin talent than the limited Falcons. Air Force's slim chances rest on the unlikely scenario of a second straight Irish letdown. Fisher DeBerry and his club will face many challenges on Saturday and maybe he'll even have a little fun, but the Falcons wiH not have enough to stay with Notre Dame. . 
17 





MALEATHLETEOFTHE WEEK 
·I 
' 


Peter Gulli: Gulli, a junior goalie on the men's soccer team from Southington, CT, recorded three shutouts last week against previously undefeated Creighton, Wisconsin, and Ohio State. Against Creighton, Gulli made 14 saves --three short ofthe school record. 
18 

*FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST *PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS *FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN *IN ROOM MOVIESNCR (over 50 titles) *FREE LOCAL CALLS 
*KITCHENEITES 
*LAUNDRY 
*AAA AND MOBILE RATED 

FOR RESERVATIONS CALL TOLL FREE: 
1-800-347-8016 
SCHOLASTIC 

FEMALE ATHLETE OF 'fHE WEEK 

'I 

Tanya Williams: Williams, a sophomore swimmer from Boca Raton, FL, won two races against college swiming powerhouse Stanford. She won the 400 I.M., and set a Rolfs Aquatic Center record in winning the 200-yard butterfly in 2:05.08. 
1-80  at  Exit  77  
52825  US  33  N.  
South  Bend,  IN  

272-9000 

Coming 'Distractions 

MOVIES 

GOLDFINGER: Bond, James Bond in one AT THE SNITE: Strangers on a Train, the of the classic Bond movies. Check it out at inspiration for the "criss-cross" murder plot LaFortune'sMontgomeryTheatreonThurs-• in Throw Momma From the Train, will be 
day, October 11. Sponsored by S.U.B. 
THE LITTLE MERMAID:. c 'mon, kiddies, this animated flick will be showing at Cush­ing Auditorium on Friday, October 12 and Saturday, October 13 at 8 and 10:15 p.m. Sponsored by S.U.B. 
THE STORY OF WOMEN: The real story of the last woman to be guillotined in France for her role as an abortionist during the Occu­pation. Shows at the Snite, Friday, October 12 and Saturday, October 13 at 7:30 and 9:30 . p.m. 
.. 
KNUTE ROCKNE, ALL AMERICAN: don'tmiss it.at the Snite on Tuesday; October l6at7p.m. 

showing on Tuesday, October 16 at 9 p.m. On Wednesday, October 17 will be Bonnie and Clyde at 7 p.m. and Boudu Saved From Drowning at 9:15 p.m. 
THEATRE 

THE TROJAN WOMEN: will continue its run at the Washington Hall Laboratory Thea­ter until Sunday, October 14. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
DO BLACK PATENT LEATHER SHOES REALLY REFLECT UP?: The Notre Dame Student Players production runs from Thurs­day, October 11 until Saturday, October 13 at Washington Hall. Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 

VOLLEYBALL: willtakeonlndianaat7:30 on Friday, October 12 and Ohio State at 2 
p.m. on Sunday, October 14 at the J.A.C.C. 
MISCELLANEOUS 

BUS TRIP TO ART INSTITUTE: The Snite Museum will be sponsoring this trip on Wednesday, October 17. Call 239-5566 to make a reservation if you 're interested in going. 
OCTOBER 11, 1990 Have you heard of the band named "ALL?" How about "The Blisters" or "The Flaming Lips?" Or "Seizure," "Urge Overkill," or "Snuff?" Surely you must have heard of the mighty "Coffin Break!" No? Comeon! AllofthesebandswereinWVFI's top 10 this past week -and none of them ring a bell, huh? That's a shame. Or is it? It's tough running a college radio station. Not that I run WVFI alone, but as Program Supervisor, I have a large hand in it. As with anything, not everyone is going to be pleased with everything everyone does, and I've taken a lot of heat in recent weeks from everyone. This past Wednesday, I was ac­cused by a student of making the station so "alternative" that it is inaccessible to most students at ND, as evidenced by the obscurity of the top 10. This was a real bummer since I was still recovering from the insane amount of flak I had been receiving for not being "alternative" enough, as evidenced by my decision to allow a "Grateful Dead" show on WVFI this semester. This has gotta bring up the crucial ques­tion: what is college radio for? Now, the dude who called the station too alternative actually felt that WVFI is a waste of a valu­able media source because no one wants to listen to what we play or say, and I was accused by one of the many anti-Dead dudes of surrendering "our station and our souls to the record magnates, nostalgic yuppies, and scores of white, affluent, misled youth who have bought another generation's counter­culture." Well here's the deal fellas: I see no "record magnates" sending us their generic pop fodder. I ·see no "nostalgic yuppies" 
20 

1. 
Grateful 
l,i' 
to the Dead 

(Why You Should Listen to WVFI) 
jumping to buy out our fine station. I do see a lot of "white, affluent, misled youth who have bought another generation's counter culture," but I also see a lot of sincere, ideal­istic young people who want a forum for the music that they genuinely like and identify with; and while I don't share their taste in music or abusive substances, I sympathize with their cause. 
So where's the middle ground, or should there even be one? In my opinion, yes. I would not deign to say that I know what college radio is for, because I know that it means a lot of different things to a lot of different people. !will, however, tell you what I think. I think that college radio is mt to "break" new bands. I think it is !ill! to play "what you want to hear," (we have U93 for that). I think the purpose of college radio is to challenge its audience. I have always believed that the alternative that I would be providing is an alternative attitude, ex­pressed through the vehicle of music. 
Modern society tells people (esp. youth) 
not to think. It says, "Hey, we're America! 
We're number one! We're secure! No need 
to feel down about the problems of the world! 
Don't worry about your mind! Don't worry 
about the homeless right down the street from 
your plush college dorm! Don't worry about 
thedangersofmeateating,aparthied,racism, 
sexism, vivisection, alcoholism, etc... Just 
make sure your complexion is clear for the 
dance this Friday night." Well damn it, THAT is what I am providing an alternative to. 

College radio has, by and large become a business in itself. Bands that care whether or not they're on top of the "alternative" sales charts are, in my opinion, no more alternative than Donny Osmond or Tiffany (I mean JEEZE, how "alternative" is an "Alternative Retail Chart"). However, j11:st because they are on top of the charts and selling out stadi­ums doesn't mean that they're not "alterna­tive." It's the attitude and philosophy, man. · That's what's alternative -the music and sales are just vehicles. 
So WVFI remains "alternative" and the "Grateful Dead" have their own specialty show. Yes, it's a compromise, but that's not necessarily a bad thing, and ifWVFI is made a little more accessible, and is able to chal­lenge a few more people, and get 'em to think a little bit more, then I say thank you to the "Grateful Dead." 
So to those who feel the station has sold 

out, think again. And to those who feel that 
it's too "alternative," I may be underestimat­
ing the average ND student, but! would think 
that an obscure top 19 might prompt one to 
explore and broaden his or her horizons. J 
mean that's what college in general is for, 
isn't it? So if you're at all curious about the 
top 10, let the rest of the world watch MTV. 
Tum on WVFI. 
by Ted Leo 
SCHOLASTIC 

by Norman Dog 

.!) "-._,/ 

-

~'1; '1tL==~ 111 '=1 __, ' .,~­


~~ ~' ~~ 

. -.:··, 
,=~~~~-::,.,,.,~-~-~-~-~~-..----....;:·~ 
Friday, October 12 
7:30 to 10:30 PM Stepan Center 

. ----~-~~-------------------­
. . -' 






