A
Notre Dame -Scholastic
Oisce-Quasi-^emper'YicturiwVwc- Quasi- Cray- Morituw
A Literary—News Weekly
VOL. LIV.
MARCH, 25, 1927
No. 23
1872-1927
Stories
I; h p I1
I &
F
£
Man Proposes -
Vanity’s Favour
The Beautiful Impossibility
Thomas J. Griffin
David S. Lehman
Essays
Innocent Games for College Folk - J. F. Mahoney
Refuting Some Cussedness
Shakespearean Tragedy
Joseph Obligato
15 Cents The Copy
$3.00 The Year
SB

g



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

I
eatB^
IS THRILLING THE WORLD
Sunday, Monday and Tuesday
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday
“THE ICE FLOOD”
WITH
VIOLA DANA and KENNETH HARLAN
SHIRLEY MASON « “THE WRECK”
SUPREME VAUDEVILLE BLACKSTONE SYNCO-JAZZ
AN ENTIRE NEW BILL OF SUPREME VAUDEVILLE BLACKSTONE SYNCO-JAZZ
CHARLIE MAEHL
At the Gold Kimball Organ In New Songs
CHARLIE MAEHL
At the Gold Kimball Organ In New Songs
SPECIAL ADDED QT D A I II ATTRACTION..	01.1 AU L
ROME IN PALESTINE
IDEAL LAUNDRY
.This is Our J J th Year of Service
To Notre Dame Students

8
K
£

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
703
r
the "‘"GRANADA™4™ AT MICHIGAN AND COLFAX
It is one of the dream, spots of Omerica\ ^THOUSANDS EVERY DAY^ ARE THRILLED BY THE BEAUTIES OF THIS DISTINCTIVE TMEATBE
IT IS A GORGEOUS PALACE OF ENCHANTMENT
Football or Baseball?
Mar.
Mary Astor
20-21-22d Lloyd Hughes
in
“FOREVER AFTER” From college days to war-torn Europe.
Mar. 23-24-25-26
Sally O’Neil
William Haines
in
“SLIDE KELLY SLIDE
ADULTS (anytime) 30/CMIIDREH(am hme)<5/
1
704
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7 •	-	— • ~""
SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE
BANKS
First National Bank Union Trust Company
7	■■	—	=3
Miller - Mueller
Oliver Hotel Shop
/ 03 North Main Street
Neu) spring suits and topcoats, custom-tailored, from the newest patterns in imported and domestic woolens.
A large selection at
$48
We specialize in collar-attached Shirts
< • —  • — --------------------- •— —>
SERVICE STABILITY
LEARN TO SAVE CORNER MICHIGAN AND JEFFERSON
V — ~	—	-.	~=4
F CLOTHES 1 ~	Ready-made	^5
“	And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
DR. FRANK J. POWERS
UNIVERSITY PHYSICIAN
THEBOOKSHOP
APPRECIATES AND CATERS TO NOTRE DAME TRADE
Charterhouse
•	Suits and Topcoats	.
*40, *45, *50
Stationery : Books Greeting Cards
119 NORTH MICHIGAN ST.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
705
GIFTS
GIFTS
GIFTS
StuooLb

GILBERT'S
Hate to go gift shopping? You wouldn’t if you shopped at Wyman’s. Toys for young relatives in Toyland. Home gifts (wedding presents) on the third floor. Mother, Sister and Best Girl birthday gifts all over the store—and dozens of obliging salespeople to help you.
Come and See Us
GEORGE WYMAN & COMPANY
O. A. CLARK LUNCH ROOMS

TIES THAT FLASH
We believe in color. Neckties were never intended to keep the cold breezes cut, nor were they meant to serve as badges of mourning.
At Gilbert’s you’ll find a big selec-
riotous kind.
Pick out a dozen to brighten those rainy days.
----0---
$5.50
COMMUTATION TICKETS
$5.00
Tickets bought at the Cafeteria are good at arty of the downtown locations
Get your Learbury suit for Spring— 40 dollars—2 trousers—many new patterns, shades and colors.
----O---
ONE MAN TELLS ANOTHER
O. A. CLARK LUNCH ROOMS
122 W. WASHINGTON AVENUE 104-108 N. MICHIGAN STREET 222 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
837 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 119-121 W. JEFFERSON BLVD 107 E. WASHINGTON AVENUE 321 WEST SOUTH STREET
* ■■ ■ ■ -1
OPEN EVENINGS
706
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Its not included among the arts and sciences
but there is a great deal of art and science in it after all. We mean the matter of appearance —it’s the one important study that college men make a point of knowing.
We need only show them our Society Brand college clothes to win their immediate approval.
•ne**
There’s smart new furnishings here that would be marked 100% by the cleverly-dressed college man; these new things invite inspection.
ADLER BROTHERS
105-107-109 South Michigan St.
108 West Washington Avenue

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	707
THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF
J.	A. Breig, -	-	- Editor-in-Chief
D. M. Meinert, - Business Manager
F. J. Pendergast	-	News	Editor	W. H. Layne ... - The Week
Jack Mullen - -	Literary	Editor	Charles Reitz ----- Music
Franklyn E. Doan	-	Sports	Editor	John T. Cullinan - College Parade
NEWS
J. P. McNamara William Craig Joseph Brannon James Vaughan
Robert Ward	William Blewitt James Roy	John V. Hinkel
C. S. Banwarth	’
ADVERTISING	BUSINESS
H. McDevitt	- - Local Adv. Mgr.	L. Faiver	A. WlSDA
H. J. Noon	- Local Circulation Mgr.	R. ZlLIAK	H. O’Bryan
J. P. Hilger	Foreign Advertising Mgr.	H. Kelley	Donald J. Sehl
VOL. LIV.	MARCH 25, 1927	’		No. 23
1872	•	1927 INDEX		
The Week 						.W. H. Layne 			 708
The Laetare Medalist for 1927		.Ch. Ph. 			 710
The College Parade 				.John T. Cullinan 			 717
Hobnails 				.Cyrano of Chicago 			 718
Man Proposes 		.Thomas J. Griffin			 719
Vanity’s Favour 		.David, S. Lehman			 721
The Beautiful Impossibility 		.Francis Collins Miller 			 723
Innocent Games for College Folks.....	.J. F. Mahoney			 724
Refuting Some. Cussedness 			.R. E. S. 			 725
To a Young Man Who Has Lost	His Love—Jack Mullen ....		 726
Shakespearean Tragedy		Joseph Obligato 			727
Sport News 						—		729
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, of postage, Section 1103, October	Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.	special rate
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Pubheations Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men
708
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK [
Tomorrow the Laetare Medal will be presented to the most worthy Catholic layman in the country. This is the highest honor the university confers and annually it is presented to one man who has proven himself of service to the world and to Catholic ideals.	'
The Bengal Mission picture darkened most of the halls Monday night. The Four Horsemen rode again across the Washington Hall screen recalling the recent years when our own men rode across the white lines of Cartier Field. There was a rumor that last Sunday Father Carey flashed his first attempts at motion picture photography in Washington Hall. Perhaps there is a chance for some handsome young man to get in some real screen tests before the College Humor representatives invade the campus-
The Glee Club took part in the intercok legiate contest in Chicago last week. Northwestern was awarded first place while our own name was found lower on the list. This is the first year that Notre Dame has ever been represented in this competition and in future we can expect a great deal from the organization that does consistantly improve.
Debating promises to speak for itself in Washington Hall to-night when the negative team meets Purdue. James Roy, William Creig, and Jack Daily or Pierce O’Connor will represent the affirmative team here. At Frankfort, Indiana, the negative team including James Keating, Joseph McNamara, William Craig, George Courey and Arthur Goldberg, will meet the Purdue affirmative team. The Wrangler’s Club is also scheduled to broadcast a debate from Station WSBT, April 1. The men named to compete against Purdue will undoubtedly be chosen to do the broadcasting.
The April Fool Number of the Juggler will be out just about the time the Monogram Absurdities take the boards at Washington Hall. Those fellows who say that there is nothing but the darkness of examination days to look forward to can think mirthfully at least twice. The cover of the Juggler is something out of the ordinary, for it appears that more than one man is responsible for it. Not much has been said about the Absurdities but we have heard that Bucky Dahman is going to dance and that John Butler is going to sing one of Norb Engle’s compositions, and that’s enough to lure even a fellow who is too skeptical to attend the Palace to the campus hall of entertainment.
Spring has evidently brushed the snow from her handbag and prepared to make a permanent visit of it. The golf team feels that way about it, at any rate, and have been practicing on local links for several weeks. The golfers did exceptionally well last season and with the strongest members of last year’s team back we can expect many victories.
The appearance of the Notre Dame Anthology on the campus before Easter is possible, however, the printers are unable to make a direct promise yet and perhaps it will be after Easter when it arrives. Professor Charles Phillips is writing the introduction for the collection of undergraduate writings. A reservation list will be started the latter part of this week for those who want to be sure of their copies. It will be well to remember that when the Scribblers’ Book of Notre Dame Verse was published it was a sell out the first night. One man in each hall will take the orders for the new anthology.	—W.H.L.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TO BROADCAST DEBATE
On next Friday evening- the debating teams of the University of Notre Dame will meet each other in a debate upon the subject of federal grants in aid being discon' tinned. The debate will be broadcasted from the South Bend Tribune station WSBT. The speakers will be James C. Roy,Pierce O’Connor and Jack Daily on the affirmative and William F. Craig, J. P. McNamara and Arthur Goldberg on the negative. A decision will be rendered by the radio audience. This debate is being sponsored by the Wranglers Club. It will be remembered that this organization was responsible for a similar debate on Child Labor last year.
LITTLE SYMPHONY HERE MONDAY
The Barrere Little Symphony Orchestra will present its annual concert here next Monday night. This concert is always anticipated by the students and it generally proves to hold the most appeal of all the concerts during the season.
George Barrere, the world’s premier virtuoso of the flute, founded the Little Symphony in 1914, when it was called into being at a concert in New York given for the benefit of the American Red Cross. The Little Symphony consists of the choir of wind instruments, flute, oboe, clarinet, horn, trumpet, and bassoon combined, with an adequate balance of the string- section. To the music lover and student the Little Symphony offers an unusual opportunity to study the use of the more important instruments. It has often been called the minature orchestra, possessing all the qualities of the full symphony orchestra and at the same time a sweetness and subtle charm which is lost in the larger orchestra. It has been well said many times that the artistic genius of Barrere with his Little Symphony has succeeded in bringing all the delicate effects of the symphony orchestra to the intimacy of chamber music. The French government recently conferred upon Mr. Barrere the Rosette of Officer of Public Instruction. He is a first medallist of the Paris Conservatory and has been an officer of the Academy since 1903. Soon after his brilliant graduation he found
709
ed the Societe Moderns dfInstruments a Vent which was subsidized by the French government. With the same purpose and spirit he established in 1910 its American offspring, the Barrere Ensemble of Wind Instruments.	—C.A.R.
DOME GUIDES AVIATORS
The Golden Dome of Notre Dame, surmounting the Administration building of the University, has become an official integer of the air mail service. The Dome, covered with gold leaf and rising 250 feet above the ground, is used as a beacon by the pilots of the Detroit-Chicago air mail run, according to E. G. Hamilton, head of the Aviation department of the Ford company, contractors for the air mail in this district.
Visible for forty miles across the Indiana prairies, the Dome is of particular value to the pilots in shaping their course when weather conditions make low flying necessary.
K.	OF C. TO INITIATE
The Knights of Columbus met in a short business session on Tuesday evening. Final plans were laid for the coming initiation on Sunday, March 27th. By far the largest class in the history of Notre Dame Council has been formulated.
The First Degree is to be conferred on Friday evening- in the South Bend Council chambers beginning at seven o’clock. The officers of the local Council will have charge of this degree. On Sunday, at twelve-thirty the conferring of the Second Degree will begin, and will be followed by the Third Degree. Candidates of the South Bend Council will join with the local Council’s candidates.
As a culmination of the degree work a sumptuous banquet and entertaining program have been prepared by the Council with Howard V. Phalin as chairman, in honor of the newly initiated Knights. Grand Knight Irmiger requests that all Brothers desiring to witness and participate in the respective degrees be at the South Bend Council Chambers promptly at the appointed hour.
I/'d,3 ?	J
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
710
Margaret Anglin Awarded Laetare Medal
The Laetare Medal for 1927 has been awarded to Margaret Anglin, whose work in dramatics has made her name famous throughout the world.
The official telegram reads: “The University of Notre Dame this year confers upon you the Laetare Medal. The President
and Faculty congratulate you.
P. J. Carroll, C.S.C.,
Acting President.” Miss Anglin was born in Ontario, Canada, April 3, 1876, at a time when her father, the late Timothy Warren Anglin, a distinguished Canadian publicist, and one of the first Catholic editors of the Dominion, was speaker of the House of Commons. She was educated at Loretto Abbey, Toronto, and by the Madames of the Sacred Heart at Montreal, and following her graduation from Sacred Heart Academy she entered the Empire School of Dramatic Art, New York City, where she
graduated in 1894. She made her professional debut in September, 1894, in the famous Civil War play “Shenandoah.” She then became leading lady for the famous Catholic actor James O’Neill (the father of Eugene O’Neill, the well known dramatist). Her engagement with Mr. O’Neill was followed with like engagements with E. H. Sothers and Richard Mansfield, and in these she quickly won the praise due to artistic merits of the highest distinction. She was also co-star in Moody’s “The Great Divide” which ran for nearly five years. Besides her wide activities in the production
of modern drama, and in the discovery and encouragement of American dramatists, Miss Anglin has won special distinction and international fame by her work in the classics. Her productions of Shakespeare, including “The Taming of the Shrew,” “As You Like It,” “Cleopatra,” and other plays,
established her as preeminent in Shakespearian repertoire. Her impersonation of Jeanne in Moreau’s “Jeanne d’Arc,” the production of which famous French Play grew out of Mme. Sara Bernhardt’s enthusiastic appreciation of Anglin’s art, was among the most beautiful things ever seen on the American stage. But it is for her recent revivals of the Greek classics that her name will perhaps be best remembered in the annals of dramatic art. She has already produced five of the great Greek tragedies, the “Antigone,” the “Electra,” and the “Iphige
nia in Aulis” of Sophocles; the “Media” and the “Hippolytus” of Euripides. In all of these massive presentations, which in every case have been worked out initially at the Greek Theatre in Berkeley, California, Miss Anglin has demonstrated her genius not only for tragic acting of the highest order, but a genius likewise for production. So profoundly has she gone into the study of the Greek classics that she usually spent some three or more years preparing each production. This work has involved every detail from the making of acting versions from comparative translations, to the sup
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
plying of musical accompaniments; and for the latter she has, in every case, engaged the services of the greatest living composers. Damrosch’s famous composition “Iphigenia in Aulis” grew out of Miss Anglin’s production of that Euripidian tragedy.
Besides the tireless energy and devotion which Miss Anglin has given to the revival and preservation of the classic drama on the American stage, she has also taken no secondary place as a writer on dramatic subjects, contributing scholarly and critical writings to various reviews at different times, as well as publishing a lengthy memoir. The character of Miss Anglin recommends itself with a special warmth to the fidelity with which she has not only practiced her faith, but with which she has adhered to it throughout her professional career. She has not only contributed richly to the art of the theatre from the esthetic point of view, but she has made all her work characteristically pure and noble of nature. Her name has never been associated with anything questionable on the stage, and indeed it is well known to those familiar with her career that more than once she has made definite sacrifices rather than- associate herself with money making productions which might not reflect credit on her Christian faith. Those also who are acquainted with her personally know how much sincere modesty is a factor of her greatness. A few years ago when she was accorded public honors at the University of California, and was officially acclaimed by that institution as “the greatest American actress,” she refused to permit this title to be used in any of her advertising. Miss Anglin is a widely travelled woman, having not only made a long tour around the world, during which she pursued intensive studies in Greece, but having also visited the Antipodes professionally where she is regarded, as she is in America, as the foremost exponent of classic dramatic art.
In 1911 Miss Anglin was married to Mr. Howard Hull, and makes her home in New York City; she has also a countiy home and farm in New York state. For professional use she has always retained her maiden name.
711
Last year during Miss Anglin’s engagement in South Bend she paid a visit to the University of Notre Dame where she was the guest of Professor Charles Phillips, whose biblical drama, “The Divine Friend” she produced during her Dramatic Festival at the World’s Fair in San Francisco. Miss Anglin, in company with Mrs. Fiske and Mr. Otis Skinner, has during the past few weeks organized a new theatre movement which is designed to bring classic stage productions to the public outside metropolitan centers. The first production is to be Shakespeare’s ‘Merry Wives of Windsor.”
In conferring the Laetare Medal on Miss Anglin, the University of Notre Dame has for the second time honored a member of the theatrical profession, Augustin Dady, the famous producer, having received the medal in 1894. She is the ninth woman, and the forty-fifth distinguished American to receive this honor since it was conferred in 1883. Among the other famous women who have received the Laetare Medal were Elizabeth Allen Starr, the art critic, Anna Hanson Dorsey, and Mrs. James Sadlier, novelists, Katherine E. Conway, the poet, and Agnes Repplier, the essayist. . —CH. ph.
THE LAETARE MEDAL
Since 1883 the University has annually conferred the honor known as the Laetare medal upon some leader from the ranks of the Catholic laity of the United States. The medal is awarded as a recognition of merit and as an inspiration to greater achievement. It takes its name from the fact that it is awarded on Laetare Sunday, the third Sunday in Lent, of each year.
The custom was suggested in 1882 by Professor James F. Edwards, and sponsored by the Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., the founder of the University, and the Reverend Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., then President of the University. The inspiration for the custom came from the papal practice of awarding the Golden Rose on the same day of the year for a similar purpose.
The medal is a solid gold disc extending from a bar of the same material bearing in black enamel the words, Laetare Medal. The
(Continued on Page 7H)
712
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SUMMER SCHOOL
The tenth summer session of the University of Notre Dame will open June twentyfourth and continue for six weeks closing August fourth. Graduate and Undergraduate courses -will be offered by all departments of the College of Aits and Letters, and by all departments of the College of Science, except Agriculture and Pharmacy. A limited1 number of courses will also be offered by the College of Law. A few courses in Engineering and Commerce of general interest to students in Arts and Science, will be offered as electives commanding credit toward A. B. and B. S. degrees.
The work of the summer session is organized to follow as closely as possible that of the academic year. Classes meet five days the week. A credit of two semester hours is given for a course meeting one hour daily. The maximum number of hours of credit which any student may earn during the session is eight.
TO TEST FOR SCREEN STARS
If folks who never went to college got their ideas of college life from a few farfetched .college pictures their views would be subject to considerable correction. College men are he-men: wide pants are on the decline, and breakfast, even at fraternity houses, consists of grapefruit, toast and coffee. In fact, the cash rate for city men eating at the house at most fraternities is twenty-five cents for breakfast, forty cents for lunch, and sixty cents for dinner. And sunken gardens and swimming pools are an exception.
With all the thousands of stars now behind the kleig lights few are college men, fewer still of the directors are college men, so here’s the opportunity for ten representative college men to star in the movies, to help make college pictures real college pictures. First National Pictures and College Humor will send an advance man to more than thirty colleges including Notre Dame, in March and April to visit the dormitories and fraternities and eating places to interview as many men as possible, and a few
weeks later a camera man, a make-up man,-and competent judge of photographic personality and studio requirements will arrive to make the actual screen tests. These three men will be right from the lot of Burbank, and as soon as they have screened ten men the film will be sent direct to California for immediate inspection. By the first of June the judges will be ready to announce the names of the ten men who will make the trip to California.
M’GUIRE GIVES LARGE CREDIT
TO CULVER LITERARY CONTEST
“The representatives of your University have been very successful in the two previous years and the merit of their work has helped to encourage us in this annual project,” says Earl Hitch, secretary of the Culver Military Academy Literary contests, in a letter to Notre Dame. Mr. Hitch also encloses the following letter from Harry McGuire, Notre Dame, ’25, who is now at Yale.
Dear General Gignilliat:
I understand that there has been in the recent past some questions about the importance of the results achieved by the Indiana Literary Day and the complementary literary contests that were inaugurated in 1925. May I be so bold as to inject a slight bit of my own experience as indicative of the value of this undertaking?
In 1925, when I was a senior at the University of Notre Dame, I was fortunate enough to win first prize in the George Ade One-Act contest, and Mr. Mather produced my play at the Indiana Literary Day gathering.
Not only did this recognition (slight though the work was which drew it) cause me to enter The Yale Drama School and go into this my second year in the study of playwriting under Professor G. P. Baker .... but the imaginative stimulus resulting from the Culver production of my. little play gave me the idea (on the train returning to Notre Dame) for a play written last year under Prof. Baker, which has since won two play prizes and is about to be published.
In other words, the opportunity offered by the Indiana Literary Society’s contest was instrumenttai in turning one young man very definitely into the right work for him, and that at just the time when direction was needed.
Sincerely,
Harry McGuire.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	713
INDIANA ACADEMY OF SCIENCE TO MEET AT NOTRE DAME
Next December the Indiana Academy of . Science will hold its annual winter meeting at Notre Dame. This is a matter that should be of considerable interest to us of the University—not only to those whose major ini	terests are in scientific work but to all mem.	bers of the community, because of the fact
that the meeting will bring to Notre Dame men and women from all of the colleges and universities of the State, as well as many scientific workers who are not connected with the educational institutions.
-	The Indiana Academy of Science was
founded in 1881. Since that time the Academy has regularly held two meetings each year. The Spring meeting, usually in May, is principally an outdoor meeting, held at some point of special geological, historical, ’	or botanical interest. Last May the Acad-
emy met at the Dunes State Park and Michigan City and this Spring the meeting will be held at New Harmony, on May 12, 13 and 14.
„	The Winter meeting is held at various
cities or colleges of the State. At this time the sessions are devoted to the presentation of scientific papers. The first session on Friday morning is a general meeting for the transaction of business and for general ad-L	dresses. For the remainder of the time the
organization meets as sections, each devoted
‘ to its own special phase of scientific work.
This will be the first opportunity Notre Dame has had for entertaining this important State scientific gathering. This will be *	a rare opportunity for the University. Many
members of the teaching staff are already members of the Academy and there is no doubt that a successful meeting will do much to spread the good name of Notre Dame and to impress our visitors with the high class of educational and research work of our school. And with the probable completion ,	of the new dining hall before the date of the
, meting, the material side of the program of entertainment can be exceptionally well
,	cared for.	—E.G.M.
LEMMER CUP TO BE AWARDED .
The Lemmer Cup for Inter-Hall debating will be awarded to the winning hall at a banquet sponsored by the Wranglers Club next Wednesday evening. All of the members of the Inter-Hall teams will be the guests of the Wranglers. Father William Bolger, Father Michael Mulcaire and Father Schumacher will also be present. The speaker of the evening will be Mr. Vitus Jones, a prominent South Bend Attorney. The Lemmer Cup is the gift of Victor Lemmer, A. B., ’26, of Escanaba, Michigan, a former member of the Notre Dame debating team, a member of the Wranglers and class orator of ’26.
NOTRE DAME DEBATES PURDUE
The last of the inter-collegiate debates will be held this evening at eight o’clock in Washington Hall when Notre Dame’s Negative team will meet the Purdue University’s Affirmative team in a discussion on the discontinuance of Federal-Grants-In-Aid to the states. Notre Dame’s Affirmative squad will journey to Frankfort, Indiana, where they will meet the Purdue Negative on the same subject.
The St. Joseph Valley Club and the St. Mary’s Alumni Club are sponsoring a concert to be given in South Bend by the Notre Dame Glee Club on May 2nd. Meetings are being held every week to insure the success of the concert, the proceeds of which are to go to the Scholarship Club. The General Chairmen are Mr. Alexis Coquillard and Mrs. John Worden. .
The Commencement Committee has been appointed with Rev. Matthew Schumacher, Director of Studies, as Chairman. A meeting will be held the latter part of the week to perfect plans for the 82nd Annual Commencement of the University. An added feature to the exercises will be offered in a pageant on the history of Notre Dame by the Players Club. The detailed program will be announced later.
714
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
	(Continued from Page	711)		President of the University is the chairman,
words, Magna est Veritas .		et Praevalebit from a list of persons proposed from year	
(“Truth is mighty and shall prevail”), form to year and kept standing. The medal is			
the legend on the reverse. On the field of presented at a time and place convenient to			
the obverse side the profession of the medal- the recipient, with a short address in ex-			
list :	is symbolized and the recipient’s name planation of the custom and the merits of		
is engraved on the reverse.			the medallist leading to his choice.
The recipient of the medal is chosen each The list of the Laetare medallist from			
year	by a special committee	of which the 1883 to date is as follows:	
1883	John Gilmary Shea	1898	Timothy E. Howard	1913 Charles B. Herberman
1884	Patrick J. Keeley	1899	Mary Gwendolin Caldwell 1914 Edward Douglas White
1885	Elizabeth Allen Starr	1900	John A. Creighton	1915 Mary Merrick
1886	General John Newton	1901	William Bourke Cochran	1916 Dr. James J. Walsh
1887	Edward Preuss	1902	Dr. John B. Murphy	1917 William Shepherd Benson
1888	Patrick V. Hickey	1903	Charles J. Bonaparte	1918 Joseph Scott
1889	Mrs. Anna Hanson Dorsey	1904	Richard Kearns	1919 George Duval
1890	William J. Onohan	1905	Thomas B. Fitzpatrick	1920 Dr. Lawrence F. Flick
1891	Daniel Dougherty	1906	Dr. Francis Quinlan	1921 Elizabeth Nourse
1892	Henry F. Brownson	1907	Katherine E. Conway	1922 Charles Patrick Neill
1893	Patrick Donahue	1908.	James C. Monaghan	1923 Walter George Smith
1894	Augustine Daly	1909	Frances Tiernan	-	1924 Charles D. Maginnis
1895	Mrs. James Sadlier	1910	Maurice Francis Egan	1925 Albert F. Zahm
1896	General Wm. S. Rosecrans	1911	Agnes Repplier	1926 Edward N. Hurley
1897	Dr. Thomas Adis Emmet	1912	Thomas B. Murly	1927 Margaret Anglin
BALL TICKET COMMITTEE CHOSEN
Senior Ball committees are in the .midst of arrangements for the annual class dance. Tickets have been placed on sale by T. F. Dohogne, chairman of the ticket committee, at $12.50, and the first payment of $5.00 is due before April 6. The following men are on the ticket committee: In Sorin, Don Fitzgerald and T. E. Dohogne; Corby, Wm. Finucane and Wm. Davis; Badin, Charles Beretz.
In order that the other committees have definite information as to the number of men attending the dance, it is essential that this first payment be made on or before the date set. The favors committee have already made a selection and are only waiting for a report from the tickets committee before placing the order. A corresponding number of favors will be ordered for the tickets sold.
The other committees are all at work. The music committee is dickering with several national music corporations, and promise a surprise in entertainment. A program of festivities has been compiled by the arrangements committee including a tea dance to be held either the day of the Ball or the day after.
NOVEL COVER FOR APRIL JUGGLER
The “April Fool” number of the Juggler will make its appearance on the campus at the end of the month, according to Les Grady, Juggler editor. Les announces that the Funny Fellow’s face, in the “April Fool” number, will be covered with a composite picture, the work of Harwood, Culli-ney, and Harrington of the Juggler’s art staff. This composite picture is something novel in intercollegiate and mercenary humorous publications. Anyone, except staff members, who is able to designate correctly the parts drawn in the picture by each artist will receive two copies of the Juggler gratis.
--------❖--------;
SCRIBBLERS TALK BUSINESS
The Scribblers held a meeting Monday evening, March twenty-first, at eight o’clock in their room in the Library. “The Scribblers’ Anthology” was discussed and routine matters disposed of. Walter Layne read a play subsequent to the disposal of routine matters.
President Les Grady announced that hereafter the- Scribblers will meet every Monday night, unless there be notices posted to the contrary.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPREADING NOTRE DAME IDEA
An interesting example of how readily the outside world takes to the “Notre Dame Idea” comes from Cincinnati this week. Prof. Charles Phillips, of the English Department, lectured in Cincinnati Sunday, March 13. His subject was Washington, and his theme the spurious so-called biographies of Washington which have lately been published. The morning after the lecture, which was heard by a large crowd at the Sinton Hotel, the Cincinnati daily papers devoted, in the aggregate, several columns to a report, the Inquirer giving- an entire page to the lecture, and publishing besides a full length editorial on it. “The fair fame of Washington,” said the Inquirer editorially, “has had no abler defender than Mr. Phillips proved himself to be. But the point of vital interest and chief importance in his splendid deliverance 'was the fact, so plainly presented, that these defamations of Washington and other revered great Americans—not excluding Abraham Lincoln— are all at one with the persistent mocking and sneering deprecation of democratic traditional institutions, by the new ‘liberal’ thought in America.”
The Associated Press broadcasted a quarter-column report of the Notre Dame teacher’s lecture.
LAWYERS HONOR COL. HOYNES
Col. William Hoynes, founder and dean emeritus of the Hoynes School of Law, was the honor guest at the annual “Hoynes. night” held last Monday evening. “Notre Dame’s grand old man,” as he is affectionately known to the men of the University, ’talked to the students of the difficulties which must be surmounted by a young lawyer when he is first starting in the legal profession.
Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, Acting President of the University; Thomas Konop, dean of the law school; Dudley Shively, Vitus Jones, Judge C. A. Farabaugh and Professor Edwin Frederickson, all alumni of the University and the Hoynes Law School, talked
715
to the group of 150 members of the Law Club, on their experiences when students of Col. Hoynes, and in starting in the law profession.
The event, held in the K. of C. rooms in Walsh Hall, was the second to be given in honor of Col. Hoynes by the Law Club of the University. Marc Fiehrer is president of the club.	,
OBSERVE ST. JOSEPH’S DAY
Very Rev. James W. Donahue, Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, sang the solemn High Mass in the Church of the Sacred Heart on Saturday last, St. Joseph’s Day. Rev. Alfred Roy, C.S.C., was Deacon; Rev. Richard Collentine, C.S.C., SubDeacon, and Rev. W. Connor. C.S.C., Master of Ceremonies. A sermon on the text, “Joseph was a Just Man,” was preached by Rev. C. L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. The services were mainly attended by members of the Community, as St. Joseph is the patron of the Brothers of Holy Cross.
ACCIDENT PROVES FATAL
William Mitchell, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, died last Monday from a fractured skull received in an automobile accident. The accident occurred on a curve on the Lincoln Highway a few miles outside the city, where a sudden application of the brakes caused the car to skid and strike a fence post. Mitchell was carried to Epworth Hospital but little hope was held for his recovery. He was operated on at 12:30 Monday and died at 5:20 that afternoon. Mrs. J. Mitchell, who was summoned by the University authorities, was with her boy. when he died. A mass was celebrated by Father Hugh O’Donnell Wednesday morning in the Sacred Heart Church for the repose of his soul. A spiritual bonquet will be forwarded to his bereaved parents in the near future. —R. I. P.
As Confucius or somebody said, the best use of the present is to save it for next Christmas.
716
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

NOTRE DAME AIDS BANQUET
HELD BY IRISH SOCIETIES
As was fitting Notre Dame, the “Capital of the fighting Irish” supplied the speakers and the music for the 46th annual banquet in the Oliver Hotel of the South Bend Irish Societies on St. Patrick’s evening. Prof. John Cooney was toastmaster; Very Rev. James Donahue, C.S.C., Superior General, the principal speaker, gave vivid impressions of his visit to Ireland last fall; Brother Aidan, C.S.C., pleased the large audience with his talk on Irish Wit and Humor; William Coyne, ’27, spoke on the subject “The Irish American;” Anthony Kopecky sang “That Old Irish Mother of Mine,” and the Collegian Orchestra furnished the music.
BALL TICKETS ON SALE
Senior ball tickets have been placed on sale by T. F. Dohogne, and the period for the first payments will extend to April 6. It is essential that the various committees know how many tickets are to be sold in order that they may complete arrangements for the dance. The price of the Ball ticket is 512.50, and the first payment is $5.00. The following men have charge of the sale: Sorin, Don Fitzgerald and Jack Geary; Walsh, T. F. Dohogne and Ed Broderick; Corby, William Finucane and William Davis; Badin, Charles Beretz.
SISTER M. CHERUBIM DIES
It is with deep regret we announce the death of Sister M. Cherubim which took place at Holy Cross Hospital, Salt Lake City, Utah, on the 16th inst., after a short illness borne with edifying patience and resignation, a fitting close to her holy, religious life.
The deceased was born in Luxemburg, 1856, and came to this county in 1872 to join the Sisterhood at Holy Cross Convent, Notre Dame, where she worked as printer on The Ave Maria and the Scholastic until she was sent, sometime in the 90’s, to other missions as music teacher; being also a master of the French language and of her own native tongue.
Father Sorin revered Sr. Cherubim, and
both worked hand in hand like another Mother Angela. A few years ago Sister was appointed Superior of St. Joseph’s School, Eureka, Utah; from the day she entered the Congregation of Holy Cross she gave her every power to the service of God and of her Community.
It seems hard to’ realize that never again will we welcome her genial presence, or hear her cheery words. We bespeak the prayers of her many friends throughout the country who will be grieved to hear of the loss of so dear a friend.—R.I.P.
DR. BERTELING GIVES ADDRESS
Dr. J. B. Berteling of South Bend addressed the Notre Dame Academy of Science at the regular meeting held last Monday evening in Science Hall. He chose no definite subject, but spoke on topics that he found of importance and interest during his long-experience as a physician.
Dr. Berteling looks upon the physician’s remedies either as substitutes for Nature’s specifics, or as aids to Nature’s processes. A statement of this viewpoint led at once to a discussion of immunity, and a treatment of empiric methods. His defense and justification of medical empiricism was made particularly convincing by the use of many apt, and often humorous examples. He presented the fundamentals of medical psychology in a fashion that would put to shame many textbooks on the subject, yet he used common, everyday language. Briefly, the doctor talked in a most entertaining fashion about the human side of his profession.
LECTURES AT ST. MARY’S
On last Friday evening, March 18, Cletus S. Banwarth, senior in the College of Science and the president of the Notre Dame Acod-emy of Science, lectured to the science club of St. Mary’s College. His subject was the Fourth Dimension. He spoke entertainingly and kept his large audience interested during the entire discourse. This is the first time in local history that an undergraduate has been honored by being invited to address an audience at St. Mary’s.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
717
THE COLLEGE PARADE	By John T. Cullman
Only brunettes were invited to a dance recently held by a fraternity of Georgia Tech. A negro orchestra was engaged in order to avoid having any blondes present. If it is true that gentlemen prefer blondes—draw your own conclusion.
And the University of Wisconsin has expelled one man student from the school for taking a reserve book from the reading room of the library.
When no-parking signs were disappearing too frequently from the streets of Berkeley, California, the chief of police dispatched two patrol wagons, manned by a squad, into the fraternity district of the University of California. The raid which followed resulted in the recovery of about five hundred signs which were catalogued as “miscellany” by the raiders. The party searched forty fraternity and sorority houses and returned with a cemetery sign which had adorned the bed of a student, a hundred lanterns taken from construction work, three fire axes, three life preservers, two barber poles, a large sidewalk sign of an oil company, several “reserved” parking signs, some furniture labeled with the names of hotels, and any number of smaller pieces of “art.” No hits, no runs, no arrests.
Sixty-five Yale students have, by attending voluntary classes in nutrition, gained weight as well as education. Can you imagine going to class in the refectory?
“One Eyed” Connelly, the world’s most famous gate-crasher, was eclipsed at the Ohio State-Michigan game by a group of twelve Ohio students who, lining up in single file, passed into the game, each indicating that the man behind him had the tickets. The last man handed in a single ticket, disclaiming knowledge of the others who by this time were lost in the crowd. “One-Eyed” fooled the gate-keepers in a much less thrilling manner, using the old-fashioned
expedient of borrowing a band instrument and walking into the stadium with the band.
Fraternities at the University of Nebras- • ka who did not participate in an inter-fra-ternity track meet received teacups from the coach, in thanks for their services.
Sleep is sweet but hard to get at Iowa State, agree the co-eds. Yet in the college curriculum a regular sleep course is oifered. However the requirements are far too definite to admit girls worn out from a strenuous week-end of dates and boys seem* to be out of luck entirely. Two rooms in old “Ag” hall are fitted up with ten beds and this is the scene of the class gymnasium work. Eligibility is determined at the end of the physical examination in the fall and those who have heart trouble and anemia are admitted. Perhaps college authorities are wise not to give the examination in the spring when the love-bug. raises havoc with hearts.
Because of a general request of the student body at the University of New Hampshire, Monday, February 21, was celebrated as Washington’s Birthday instead of Tuesday, February 22. This gave the students a long week-end instead of a broken week and was much better than the older system of sticking to the exact day. It would be a great improvement if all holidays, no matter what part of the week they came in, were put back to Monday or advanced to Friday, or both, giving us longer and better weekends. How about celebrating Decoration day, July Fourth, Yom Kipper, and the Autumnal Equinox all next week? Write to Cyrano of Chicago and give him your opinion. He will present the concensus of opinion to the S. A. C. when it meets again the latter part of May to distribute charms among its overworked members.
A student at Regis college objects to dances given by convent schools because the girls are constantly saying, “Nun o’ this” and “Nun o’ that.”
718
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE SIMPLE OPTIMIST
How the bell of rising rings In the hall!
Oh, what agony it brings
With its call!
Hoiv he ever will protest When it drives away his rest, Oh, it hurts him to get dress’d, But stop! Maybe—he’s in love.
How the bell for classes rings
In the hall!
Oh, what hell on earth it brings With its call!
How it stops his carefree play
Taking all his joy away
Spoils his otherwise good day
But wait! Perhaps—he’s an athlete.
Hoiv the warning lights do blink
Through the hall,
How his spirits further sink
(That’s not all);
Gets no breaks, must hit the hay,
Had no chance to tvork to-day,
Thinks that he’ll get by some way,
(You guessed it)—he’s an optimist.
—THE PESSIMIST.
A FEBRUARY NIGHT IN CHICAGO
The moon, not quite full, rides high in the sky, which is of a queer greenish hue. Pale, ghostly, grey clouds form a ring around the moon. Other clouds drift slowly westward. The streets are wet and shining. Small puddles of water reflect the dim light of the street lamps. All is quiet, except for the occasional swish of a car as it hums by, or the occasional sound of footsteps which resound loudly in the still night ....
—THE GOLDEN CYTHEREA.
Dear Cy: See a statement in Dwyer’s remarkable essay of this issue, “You may be comfortably ensconced in an easy chair enjoying a good radio Program, etc.” A. . . . Good .... radio . . . . program .... Cy? Heh! Heh! Oh, I shall die, I know! ’	—FINBARR.
IN A WATCH TOWER AT NOTRE DAME
Say Joe:
Do me a favor will ya? well it’s this way; course I don’t know who started all this here ramblin about these here modern girls, but confound it all Joe whoever’s doin it wish you’d just clamp down on ’em. I’m just a meek, peacable reader and I don’t like to ever find fault—but Joe—I just can’t stand this here guffin ’bout girls and women in my readin.
i
Ya see Joe—well first place I’ve seen a consarned lot of these here modern girls, all kinds of ’em in fact and I allows as how critizisin ’em is just as foolish as critizisen the old devil, hisself—and prasen the critters is even foolisher than that— just ’bout as crazy as prasen the “Old Boy.”
(Ya still listenin Joe?) Course don’t you go get the ider that I got any grudge gainst ’em caust I haint—haint their fault theys as they is. God made ’em out of one of man’s ribs, and Joe you know just as well as I do that there haint any brains in a man’s rib, fact a man’s rib is a kinder queer thing—so I allows thats how it is that theys as they is.
So Joe, next time one of them there mag-pies starts pipen, or one of those there knightenmales starts warberlin—wish you’d just blare a couple of barrels of shrapnel at ’em. I like my Scholastic, straight (male) and I hain wanten it turned into no “Women’s Weekly World.” .... Thanks, Joe.
S’long.	—SAM.
WE WILL PRAY THAT HE IS NOT THE LATTER
Cy of Chi: Li Chan hasn’t been very active lately, but I notice that you have hooked another Chinese in the person of Fu Men Chu. Tell me, is this guy really a Chinaman or is he merely a vicious punster?
—NICK BOTTOM.
COBWEBS
By Vulcan, I am sad tonight!
My Logic lies untouched:
Methinks I crave a kiss
From some maiden’s lips.
If I were but a wordsmith
I would fashion verse
To fair Imogene. And yet, Alas, I fear ’twould Only make things worse!
—ARISTOTLE II.
-------------------
Dear Cy: I’m going in for this sacrifice thing. Haven’t been to the Palace once this week. There’s nothing like a little mortification, as the man who had been dead two weeks said.
—the great unwashed.
What’s the use! We are no sooner nicely settled for a long siege of spring fever than we were suddenly awakened by the noisy approach of quarterly exams. We are going to suggest a constitutional amendment by which all exams will be held between February twenty-eighth and the first of March.	—cy of chi.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	719
Man Proposes
But Two Women Make Their Own Decisions
THOMAS J. GRIFFIN
J CHAUNCEY VAN HEUSEN slammed the door of his bachelor apartment, • removed his hat and coat, and with a magnificent gesture of despair that did not in the least affect his aim, lodged both on the chandelier that hung from the center of the room. He stood a moment, as if daring the quivering fixtures to fall and risk sudden and complete destruction beneath a trampling heel, and then, seeing his challenge go unaccepted, plunged into a reckless marathon, back and forth, up and down, around and around the room. His hands clutched at his collar, clenched behind his back, tore through his hair, beat a restless tattoo upon his breast, plunged in and out of his pockets. Stumbling over a misplaced footstool, he picked it up and hurled it at •the window, stiffening in anticipation of the crash. But some blundering fool had left the window open, and robbed the fuming Mr. Van Heusen of his revenge. He brought it down with a jerk that caused it to rebound again almost as high as before, and began frantically to look for something to carry out his original intention. That window must go—he had to have noise—lots of noise—something in harmony with that compressed bundle of bedlam inside of him. He drew a deep breath preparatory to letting the world know just how he felt, thought better of it, and sank exhausted into the chair at his desk.
From the way he acted, you would have decided that the young man was very drunk. Perhaps he was. Take two of our much discussed girls, add a little bonafide engagement with one, mix in a bit of scheduled elopement with the other, shake well, and
you have the roaring, boiling, effervescent concoction of which J. Chauncey had imbibed all to freely.
He had sat for perhaps a half hour, his head resting on his arms on the desk top, when he became suddenly conscious of a strangely familiar scent. A little investigation showed it to proceed from a letter, hitherto unnoticed, on the desk in front of him. He started to tear it open. Nope, he couldn’t open it now. Even one impassioned phrase might influence the decision he had to make, much less a whole letter full, and he was determined to be fair to both girls. No, he had to take a sane view of this thing now —he’d put the letter aside, decide just what to do, and then do it.
Here he was, supposed to elope with Olive at ten in the morning, and all set for a big wedding with Molly next week. No matter what he did, how the devil could he ever square himself? But first of all, what could he do? The thought of eloping with Olive was pleasing. True, he had known her for only a little over a week, but she was a lot of fun, that girl, and she understood him besides. Molly—well, she was about as pretty as Olive, but sort of old fashioned— never made much noise, didn’t ever want a wild time or anything, didn’t want him to drink, said he smoked too much—she’d make a good wife, everybody said. Well, not for him! Olive was his type—fresh, breezy, always ready to have a high old time. A wave of resentment against poor little Molly surged through him, as if she were to blame for his predicament. She was no girl for him! Why, sometimes he actually thought her dumb! Molly’s family thought so too
720	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
sometimes when they considered her affection for J. Chauncey, but he never thought of that.
Well, he supposed Molly would have to get the gate. But how? Maybe he could just duck with Olive and let it go at that— leave her waiting at the church. Then everyone would call him a cad. No, he’d have to tell her. Gee, what a scene she’d make, crying and fussing all over him. How could he break it gently? How would she tell him? He pictured himself greeting her with his usual “Hello, Molly dear,” and her saying, “Chauncey, you musn’t call me that any more; I’m Mrs. So-and-so now.” Why that was it. How simple. How would it sound? “Molly, you mustn’t call me ‘dear’ any more, I’m Mr. Van Heu—”—hell, was he getting simple! He’d -write her a letter —immediately.
He picked up pen and paper, wrote, crossed out, rewrote, for at least five minutes. Apparently satisfied, he read aloud: “Dear Molly,	•
“This is goodbye. When you read this I shall belong to another. I’m awfully sorry, Molly, but I don’t think you really care for me as much as you have always thought. No one ever does.
“Always your friend,
“Chauncey.”
A two minute trip to the corner mail box, and our hero’s worries were over. He would never see Molly again. Now for Olive’s let-1 ter. He took it out of the envelope. Not much like the long letters he had been receiving every day for the last week, was it now? Just a note—saying how much she
missed him, perhaps. He began to read, and the smile froze on his lips. A heavy truck rumbled by in the street, and the chandelier, glad of the excuse, quivered with sheer delight, and the window, not to be outdone, rattled down with a gleeful bang.
“Dear Chauncey,” he read, “this is goodbye. When you read this, I shall belong to another. I’m awfully sorry, Chauncey, but you know, one never cares as much as he thinks he does, and I’m sure you won’t take it too hard. Sincerely, Olive.”
“Well, can you beat that?” he ejaculated. “Can you imagine anyone playing a dirty trick like that? If that wasn’t just like a woman, changeable as the Paris styles.” Of all the ingrates in the world—he should have known Molly was the girl for him. She was the sweetest, truest—why he’d call her up right this minute—hell, that letter—mailed. Now what to do ?
With sudden inspiration, he sprang to the phone and gave Molly’s number.
“Hello, Molly. Say, put your butler on for a second, will you? There’s something I’ve got to say to him.”
“Oh Chauncey, I’ve got something to tell you—” ,
“All right, but let me talk to your butler first, and I’ll listen all right.”
Then followed many explanations, promises of a huge reward, and a mutual shaking of hands over the wire by J. Chauncey and the butler.
“Now, Sweetheart, what is it?
“Oh, Chauncey, you musn’t say that any more. You see, I— we— my childhood sweetheart came home last week, and we— er—I’m Mrs. Gottrox now.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
721
Vanity's Favour
A Little Love and a Little Lie Tell a Young Man’s Stoi~g
DAVID S. LEHMAN
HE sun is shining violently.
Snows are scattered, scattered in flimsy white patterns within the shadows of tall buildings.
The twentieth century of grace is grinding time steadily.
Men rush to offices' that they may work. Men rush to their clubs that they may play. Men rush to their homes that they may eat and sleep.
Women lift their feet gingerly to avoid the mud that would sully boots, stain stockings, spot frocks ....
Young John Conklin arrived in Chicago. He came out of the West—not as a Lochinvar seeking love, not as a d’Artagnan seeking life—John Conklin merely came out of the West, into Chicago.
Prometheus bounding into Chicago.
Nanette Sheridan, who was youthful, who was high in the society of the city. Sensitive, fine, words are futile tools with which to fashion a likeness of her. She was drawing from her destiny joy,—fetching from her fate happiness.
Eleanore of Aquitaine could bow to Nanette of Chicago.
John Conklin and Nanette Sheridan— success and failure—martryrdom and heroism—philosophy and foolishness—all is vanity. .. .
At a small table at a fashionable roofgarden three people sat. One, a lady rather older sat between two young people, a boy and a girl. The lady who was rather older smiled graciously and suggested charmingly that the two young people dance. The boy protested,—surely he could hardly leave his hostess alone at table,—frantic gesture of deceased chivalry. But the boy and the girl rose from their chairs that they might dance.
The band was playing “Sometime” when Nanette and John reached the floor. Yes, this was a year or so ago, and the band played “Sometime”—do you remember it?
A catchy, somewhat sentimental number, and there was a deal of opportunity for indirect love-making in it—do you remember that? Romances were possibly initiated by that song, and romances were probably finished by that song. Do you remember? But no. You have forgotten romance, and all of your gods are good.
John could not make love while they danced. Even as they danced to “Sometime” he could not make love, however indirectly. He had just been introduced to Nanette this very night, at this very dinner. Besides, John was provincial (he came from the West) and would mention no emotion on the first night, in the first dance. But he loved • her. Or he thought he loved her, which is just as bad, or worse. . . .
A business man was talking to a clergyman, and the clergyman said: “How long was John in Chicago?”
“About three months,” the business man replied, “then he came back here. Too bad he didn’t stay in Chicago—he liked it there, and he might have done well.”
“I doubt it. John is honest.”
The business man laughed: “Yes, now he is honest; but then, now he is successful.” The business man did not laugh: “I remember when he wasn’t so reliable.”
“What do you mean?”
“Oh, nothing much—as a youngster he was thoughtless.”
“As a youngster? So were we all, weren’t we?”
“I guess so.”
‘We get honest later. We get honest with age.”
“I guess so. Must rush to the factory. Good-bye.”. . . .
Nanette pitied John Conkling. Women, who are loved by many men, pity some of them. Women must pity men who love hopelessly—it is bound to be—the law of compensation. And John loved her, loved
722
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
her more and more as time was being ground away. “Once to every man” they say. This was John’s one love—and it was hopeless. For some men it were better that they died before they loved. With John? Sad. Quite sad. Very sad.
Chicago.
The streets of Chicago are alluring—repulsive.
And many young men are turned from gross materialists to soft poets. in Chicago —by the streets of Chicago.
Francois Villon, singer of high songs and sweet—old poet of old France—a robber, liar, cut-ithroat, thief; but a poet, over all, a poet. Gods! Give us a Villon for Chicago!
John Conklin, seeking nothing when he came to Chicago, found everything when he left for the West,—three months after. Nanette Sheridan, pitying him when he came, pitied him much more when he left,—after three months.
Business called him West. Romance held him East. This is the twentieth century!
To look—to find—to leave. To pity—oh, to pity. John looked, found, left. Nanette pitied. For some men it were better that they were not born. With John? With John?
That year (and this was the year that “Sometime’" cast a fleeting impression over the minds of dancers) was both good and bad for John Conklin. Three months isn’t much time in which to discover yourself, is it? Three months isn’t much time to spend with your one love, is it? A momentary glimpse of terrestial paradise is probably worse than not seeing it at all. But one doesn’t know—but then one so seldom sees paradise. John was, after all, fortunate. He saw it for three months, distant as it was, and pitying. Was he content? Why, of course not, it was only natural he should want more. Men ruin themselves more frequently by overdoing than by underdoing. Better far the neglect which comes from omitting than .the misdemeanoui’ which comes from committing.
Money.
Money doesn’t bar true love. True love might give passing consideration to the method of existence; but it seldom hesitates
long on that score. If love laughs at locksmiths, then it must scorn bankers. It wasn’t money in the case of John and Nanette. He just didn’t do.
After he left Chicago, and after spending some time in the West, John began to thrive —financially. When he could leave his position, he came back to Chicago to see her again, to see her always. And when he came back, he brought her a gift, a bit of jewelry. He asked Nanette to take it. She refused. He begged her to take it. She refused. He pleaded with her to take it. She accepted, provisionally.
The jewel was to signify nothing. She took it to placate him. It was, to all concerned, a perfect understanding. He loved and hoped—the jewel was indicative of the fact that she might think about him. She pitied and pitied. Ladies and gentlemen!— Prometheus loves—Eleanore pities—Prometheus wears the mask of John Conklin— Eleanore fiits behind the disguise of Nanette Sheridan,—Ladies and gentlemen!
Truth.
Truth is the most precious thing in the world; because it is the rarest.
John, who loved Nanette, lied to her. Lied, —a trivial, inconsequential lie which meant nothing, and, as it meant nothing, it came to mean everything. No reason for his doing it—none.’ Why did he do it? He was human, and he was all the more human because he loved, and lied.
So she gave him back his jewel. The lie had broken her faith and her pity. She returned his jewel,—a natural retort to a human failing. Yes, Nanette was right— and John was wrong—you must be aware of this. It is easy, gentlemen, to break a woman’s faith; and it is just as easy, ladies, to break a man’s immortal soul; for soul and faith are, all in all, equal.
Did it break him up? Not instantaneously. You see, he thought he was right, for all of his falsehood. Delusion, too, is natural. So he did not break right away. Not right away—he consoled himself. -Not with liquor, because he had begun to learn his lesson, the lesson of life. Instead of liquor he turned to poetry, which is less dangerous than whiskey and much more intoxicating.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
723
One often wonders if a broken poet thinks himself a modern Villon. Perhaps John Conklin did. He was a liar, and he wrote verse. Then again, perhaps he did not think of himself at all. One wouldn’t, perhaps.
Francois Villon,—of France, a liar—a poet.
John Conklin,—of Chicago, a liar—almost a poet.
Nanette Sheridan,—to qualify her with any adjective, not matter how glorious, is but to malign her.
Then he broke. It broke him finally. Broke him from poetry. Broke him from sentimentalism. Broke him from himself. It made him, in the sense of the world. He went West again, went West and succeeded.
A clergyman was talking to a business man, and the business man said:
“John Conklin is a hard man.”
“Yes.”
“I can’t imagine anything ever hurting him,” said the business man, “he is so brutally successful, he is such a scoffer, he’s so overbearingly aloof.”
“Yes.”
“But he’s a mighty fine man.”
“Yes, he’s that,” and the clergyman agreed again. “Yes, you’re right. He’s successful, he scoffs, and is aloof. I like him. He’s a friend of mine.”
“Nice wife,” said the business man, “mighty fine; but I don’t think she’s very happy.”
And the clergyman said: “I know that; but I can’t tell you.”
The business man laughed; for he knew that the clergyman knew more than could be told—and not only about John Conklin’s wife. . . .
Now you have the completed portrait of John Conklin. He is successful, is hard, is fine, is married. Now you have the accurate account of Nanette Sheridan—and she is content. She continues to draw from her destiny joy—she is fetching from her fate happiness.
For every success there is a failure. For every hero there is a martyr. The failure might, and often does, go unnoticed by all. The martyr might, and often is, unconscious of martyrdom; but this is the law—the law of compensation: That, for every success there be a failure, and for every hero there be a martyr.
Nanette tossed the jewel back to John because he broke her faith by lying. In taking back the jewel, John took life also, and grasped life hard, and succeeded. Which was the greater victory? One does not know. One is not meant to know. Who lost the battle between love and pity? One does not know that either. But all should know that the jewel symbolizes one of life’s little favours.
And all is vanity.
All.
The Beautiful Impossibility
A Short Short-Story FRANCIS COLLINS MILLER
M RS. Jameson Matter leaned over the bridge table, after taking out her partner’s two no-trump and continued her conversation.
“Won’t you know, dear Mrs. Allison, that she is almost too good looking to live. Impossible in other ways as well, I have reason to doubt what lies behind that alluring face . . . just as I told, Jameson last night. It’s perfectly ridiculous of me to object to her becoming a member of our little exclusive
bridge club . . . yet I have my reasons, as I told Jameson.
“Shan’t you think me cattish? . . . Well, I’m not, really. Only there are hosts of others that agree with me . . . Adelle did you lead that ace of clubs? . . . my stupidity, my dear ... I have one of those . . . I’ll follow suit.
“Now this beautiful Mrs. Aldrich. Her husband is youngish, so Jameson says. He’s in Jameson’s club. And he let it slip that
724	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
she was in the Follies or some sort of musical show. How disgusting, really. Jameson said that Aldrich is proud of his wife . . . you know, they were at the Charity Ball last week . . . she was dressed like a peacock . . . what gorgeous pearl straps on her evening gown! ■' -
“Third hand low, isn’t it? . . . yes, I see. You know, my dears, that men like Aldrich, with money as they have, should be able to buy their wives . . . for beauty alone! Isn’t it tremendous. I think we have no morals in our larger cities . . . only in smaller places such as this . . . where we have select and intimate groups ... do we succeed in establishing our social morality.
“And this Mrs. Aldrich has very gold hair . . . I suspect peroxide. When I was in Paris I saw many like her. None of any social status, you understand . . . really the very commonest.
“So I thought these things over. I am confident that we ladies would scarcely welcome into our group a woman that had been on the stage . . . one who had been so worldly.
“I should have made the bid . . . nothing from my pardner’s hand, though. Maybe I should haven’t taken you out, Adelle. But then we’ll do better next time.
“I can’t imagine that she had the courage to ask in the Acme club . . . but then such people do have nerve. Such painted lips . . . theatrical . . . little bow-shaped lips, that poise. No wonder Aldrich bought her! Beauty is such a curse. I shan’t say any more . . . except, that she is a beautiful impossibility, and I don’t really mean to be catty . . . only facts, my dears!”
Thomas a Kempis has written: “Many are the things which it is of little or no profit to the soul to know.”

Innocent Games for College Folk
For Those Not Inclined Toward Snicide.
J. F. MAHONEY.
WE fear that as a result of the numerous college suicides occupying newspaper space at this time, the outsider, the person who has not the slightest connection with any college, may believe that we spend all our time in sad and somber philosophizing, and that the College scene is one of the utmost seriousness. It is to correct this impression that we are writing. We may chance to miss one or two of the less prominent amusements, but the spirit of the thing is most important, perhaps, and if we have caught that, we shall be satisfied.
One of the happiest games, one that is always possessed of enchantment for the player, is the one of Cheat the Conductor. This sport can be, and usually is, played on any electric car, although some conductors are barred. There are some of the best players in the game in this locality; men who have made names for themselves in their
pursuit of the game. There are others, perhaps not quite so well known, who have the professional spirit, but endeavor to retain their amateur rating for reasons best known to themselves. We believe that there is some unwritten law which specifies that the rules and technique of Cheat the Conductor shall not be broadcast to the winds, and we are consequently prevented from giving any further details of the sport. Besides, we hardly know how to play the game. Any reasonable excuse is sufficient to admit a novice to the ranks of the players; perhaps the best is that the street car company owes one money, although the spirit of adventure has induced a great many of the enthusiasts to continue to engage in the exercise after the traction company’s debt to them has been paid a hundred-fold. We understand that there is a determined movement on foot to stop the game, or in the case of the local company, to limit the contests to fields other than the
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
South Bend street cars. Only a very narrow minded organization could so heartlessly play the destruction of one of Youth’s innocent sports.
The game of Pick Up that Girl is second on our list. This merry game has flourished for many years, and at this priting is enjoy ing an immense vogue, although some of the enthusiasm may come as a result of the weather. In addition to the natural attractions endowed by the Spirit of Romance, this pastime contains an important element of chance, especially if the pick-up is accomplished from the real'. The system of playing is easy to master, Freshmen often becoming among the most adept. Sometimes the career is cut short by the will of the player himself, usually after he has neglected to glance at the left hand of the opponent. Considerable criticism of the docility of the local opponents has come to our notice of late, chiefly directed by the oldtimers at the game. They believe that unless some resistance to being picked up is begun by the South Bend girls, the sport will languish for lack of interest. These men have the true sportsman’s instinct. . However, it is our belief that underclassmen will continue to play the game as ever, regardless of changes in the attitude of the opponents.
The game of Hiss the Actor is one which affords great amusement for the players. The sides are usually uneven, but that is where the fun comes in. Any actor is fair
game, but God help the effeminate one! Interest is usually added to the procedure by a mournful speech by the opponent, in which he invariably represents himself as (1) intensely patriotic, (2) a lover of Notre Dame, and (3) an enthusiastic and rabid admirer of College spirit, having been once under its charm himself. The audience, or technically, the Hissers, having hissed with glee and vigor, usually begin to feel the pangs of remorse at this pathetic recital, and a truce is called. The former opponent, be he the worst ham imaginable, gets round after round of applause, and undoubtedly leaves with an excellent opinion of the players’ critical faculties. This is one of the more refined games.
A greatly admired game, judging from the extent it is played, is Bum the Cigarette. We feel that this recreation is well enough known to our readers that description or further mention by us would be superfluous. We believe, however, that in any selection of All-America players at this game, we should be slighted unless a majority of the positions were accorded our friends.	’
There may be more, and greater, games than these. After all, it has not been our mission to try and. catalogue all the amusements, but to attempt to rectify any feeling that the general public might have held that we were never amused by any but the most informal diversions. It should be clear now that we are quite easily amused.
Refitting Some Cussedness
In Which W. K. D. Joins Dan McCain
R. E. S.
I ENTHUSIASTICALLY, angrily, and righteously object to most of the statements presented in the “Cussedness of Sisters.” A former article on girls (not by the same author) I rather agree with to a certain extent, but this—! Being somebody’s sister I feel that I am qualified to talk about sisters.
Beginning with what W. K. D. seems to stress greatly, that ardous task of taking his sisters to and fro, I only say that I can
not recall one instance when I ever requested my brother to accompany me anywhere or to call for me. I am not an exception. At least two of my friends would never think of asking their brothers to escort them. It is such an old-fashioned idea for a brother to call for a sister. I can’t see this protecting-brother act at all. It is so unnecessary, and also hard on brother, poor abused boy.
As for borrowing things, well, I do know girls addicted to this habit, but that ought
i
726	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	5
to teach brothers not to leave their scarfs or ties lying in sight of a sister with this habit. I really think that my brother barrows more from me than I from him. My stationery is sadly depleted by his frequent subtraction. My library books are always in danger of being temporarily annexed. About the only thing brother ever lends me is his ink, or dictionary. When we were younger, our allowance for the, week was given to us on Sunday. Since my brother spent his entire sum on the same day (and it was more than mine), he was always trying to borrow from the more prudent me during the week.
I think that I agree with the statement about sister’s knowledge of their brother’s discrepancies. I know lots of things about my brother that he does not even dream of. It is only slightly due to the way of spreading information among women. It is mostly the brothers’ fault. By the fewest words,
gestures, or the expression on his face, he tells a world of facts to the discerning sister. I can not see, though, that it makes a lot of difference whether or not sisters know, because they seldom, if ever, reveal the dark secret to anyone to whom it may matter.
The greatest objection a brother would have regarding his sister would be the fact that his sister fails to regard him as a man to be highly respected and honored and admired. In fact, as other brothers’ sisters regards him. The average brother violently dislikes criticism of any sort, whether it relate to his taste in ties or in girls. Both of these subjects, especially the latter, are always the objects of a sister’s criticism.
I often wonder if someone else’s brother, whom one thinks a lot more about than she does, would be just as charming if he were one’s own brother, and the case reversed accordingly to brother’s view.

To A Young Man Who Has Lost His Love
■Most loves are little things, lad, after all, They grow like poppies, and like poppies fade When he who plucks them idly lets them fall Upon the earth from which they once were made.
Bright poppies can be gathered anywhere; They flame and multiply ’neath every sun, And he who’s lost a poppy need not care, He’ll find another ere the day is done.
I have no deep, abiding sympathy
For those who idly cast the bloom aside;
I cannot give them hope, because in me There’s sorrow for the poppy that has died.
But you, poor lad, have known the tragic woes Of him who finds he’s thrown away a rose.
—JACK MULLEN
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	727
Shakespearean Tragedy
An Excellent Analysis of the Philosophy of Tragic Drama
JOSEPH OBLIGATO
SHAKESPEAREAN tragedy brings before us a. considerable number of persons; but it is pre-eminently the story of one person, the “hero,” or at most of two, the “hero” and “heroine.” Moreover, it is only in the love-tragedies, Romeo and Juliet and Antony and Cleopatra, that the heroine is as much the center of the action as the hero. The rest, including Macbeth, are single stars.
The story leads up to, and includes, the death of the hero. On the one hand, no play at the end of which the hero remains alive is, in the full Shakespearean sense, a tragedy, and we no longer class Troilus and Cressida or Cy mb eline as such. On the other hand the story is, in fact, essentially a tale of suffering and calamity conducting to death.
The suffering and calamity are, moreover, exceptional, befalling a conspicuous person. They are themselves of some striking kind and are unexpected. Such exceptional suffering and calamity affecting the hero, and generally extending far and wide beyond him, so as to make the whole scene one of woe, are an essential ingredient in tragedy and a chief source of the tragic emotions, and especially of pity. But the proportions of this ingredient, and the devotion taken by tragic pity will naturally vary greatly.
Tragedy with Shakespeare is considered always with persons of “high degree;” often with kings and princes; if not, with leaders in the state like Coriolanus, Brutus, Antony; at least, as in Romeo and Juliet, with members of great houses, whose quarrels are of public moment.
This characteristic of Shakespeare’s tragedies, though not the most vital, is neither external nor unimportant. The pangs of despised love and the anguish of remorse, we say, are the same in a peasant or prince, but a prince’s fate affects the welfare of a whole nation or empire; and when he falls
suddenly from the height of mighty greatness to the dust, his fall produces a sense of contrast, of the powerlessness of man, of the omnipotence of Fortune or Fate which no tale of private life can possibly rival. Such feelings are constantly evoked by Shakespeare’s tragedies in varying degrees. Perhaps they are the very strongest of the emotions awakened by the early tragedy of Richard II. and also by King Lear.
A Shakespearean tragedy as so far considered may be called a story of exceptionri calamity leading to the death of a man in high estate. The calamities of tragedy do not simply happen, nor are they sent, they proceed mainly from actions, and those the actions of men.
The second aspect of tragedy evidently differs from the first for men from this viewpoint, appear- primarily as agents, “themselves the authors of their proper woe;” and our fear and pity may be modified accordingly.
The story or action of a Shakespearean tragedy does not consist solely of human actions or deeds; but the deeds are the predominant factors. The center of the tragedy, therefore, may be said with equal truth to lie in the action issuing from the character, or in the character issuing from the action. As a tragedy advances to its close, the calamities and catastrophe follow inevitably from the deeds of men, and the main source of these deeds is character.
It is an exaggeration to say that with Shakespeare “character is destiny” as is shown by the elements found in the story frequently, besides the charactei-istic deeds, and the sufferings and circumstance of the person. Three such factors will be considered.
(a)	Shakespeare occasionally represents abnormal conditions of mind; insanity, for example, somnambulism, hallucinations. Any deeds issuing from these are certainly not
728
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
deeds expressive of character in the fullest sense.
(b)	Shakespeare also introduces the Supernatural into some of his tragedies; ghosts and witches who have supernatural knowledge. This supernatural element cannot be explained away as an illusion in the mind. Moreover its influence is not of a compulsive kind.
(c)	Shakespeare, lastly, in most of his tragedies allows to chance or accident an appreciable influence at some point in the action. Chance or accident means any occurrence which enters the dramatic sequence, neither from the agency of character, nor from the obvious surrounding circumstances.
Thus it appears that these three elements in the action are subordinate, while the dominant factor consists in deeds which issue from character. We alter the first statement by saying “the story is one of human actions producing exceptional calamity and ending in the death of a man in high estate.”
We can define action further by describing it as a conflict. Not seldom the conflict may quite naturally be conceived as lying between two persons, of whom the hero is one, or, more fully, between two parties, in one of which the hero is the leading figure, and the conflict between the two groups ends with the hero’s defeat.
While there is an outward conflict of persons and groups, there is also a conflict of forces in the hero’s soul; and even in Julius Caesar and Macbeth the interest of the former can hardly be said to exceed that of the latter. The notion of tragedy as a conflict emphasizes the fact that action is the center of the story, while the concentration of interest, in the greater plays, on the inward struggle emphasizes the fact that this action is essentially the expression of character.
The hero has one common quality which appears to be essential to the tragic effect— that he is an exceptional being. His nature is exceptional, and generally raises him in some respect much above the average level of humanity. In almost all heroes we observe a marked one-sidedness, a predisposition in some particular direction; a total incapacity, in certain circumstances, of re
(To be Continued)
sisting the force which draws in this direction; a fatal tendency to identify the whole being with one interest, object, passion, or habit of mind. This is, for Shakespeare, the fundamental tragic trait.
In the circumstances where we see the hero placed, his tragic trait, which is also his greatness, is fatal to him. To meet these circumstances something is required which a smaller man might have given, but which the hero cannot give. He errs, by action or omission; and his error joining with other causes, brings ruin on him. This is always so with Shakespeare. But the fatal imperfection or error, which is never absent, is of different kinds and degrees.
The tragic hero with Shakespeare need not be “good,” though generally he is “good,” and at once wins sympathy in his error. But it is necessary that he should have so much of greatness that in his error and fall we may be vividly conscious of the possibilities of human nature. Hence, a Shakespearean tragedy is never, like some miscalled tragedies, depressing.
Shakespeare’s representation of the tragic fact can be given in two statements: one, that it is and remains to us something piti-ous, fearful and mysterious; the other that the representation of it does not leave us crushed, rebellious or desperate. From the first, it follows that the ultimate power in the tragic world is not adequately described as a law or order which we can see to be just or benevolent,—as, in that sense, a “moral order,” for in that case the spectacle of suffering and waste could not seem to us so fearful and mysterious as it does. And from the second it follows that this ultimate power is not adequately described as a fate, whether malicious and cruel, or blind and indifferent to human happiness and goodness; for in that case the spectacle would leave us desperate or rebellious.
Beginning with the idea of fatality, we shall glance at some of the impressions which give rise to it. The sources of these impressions are various. They arise and ought to arise. If in Shakespeare’s tragedies, we find the source of these impressions, we find practically no trace of fatalism in its more primitive, crude, or obvious form.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
729
a
SPORT NEWS
Notre Dame Wins Conference Meet; Records Fall
Any doubt that the first annual indoor championships of the Central Intercollegiate Conference would be lacking in color or skill was quieted in the minds of some three thousand track fans who packed Notre Dame gym Saturday afternoon to watch 150 athletes battle for honors.
An inspired Notre Dame team, anxious to win the first event of
two sections of grand stand to watch' the festivities.
And the pack of athletes who were after team and individual honors did not let shining marks of other days side-track them in their purposes. Some of the best performances made in the middle west during the past two years were eclipsed when the pack cut loose. And more
its kind on the home oval and moved to a few unusual performances because of the strict competition offered, raced on to a deserved team victory, nosing out Michigan State and Marquette for major honors.
Coach Knute K. Rockne’s indoor cinder artist’s won the meet with a total of 42 3-4 points, a full 16 points ahead of Michigan State, their runners-up, and 22 points ahead of Marquette, an old track rival of the school. The
than one Notre Dame gym record was shaved in the process.
Coupled with the brilliant showing of the Notre Dame squad, which gained points in . eleven of the thirteen events on the program, was the individual prowess of Fred Aiderman, captain of -the Michigan State entry. The lanky wearer of the green and white led a crack field to the wire in the sixty yard dash to win in :06 2-5 seconds. Aiderman’s
mark tied the gym rec-
complete pointage of the eleven teams entered was: Notre Dame 42 3-4; Michigan State 26 1-2! Marquette 20 1-2; Drake 12 1-2; Detroit 10; Kansas 7; Ohio Wesleyan 7; Michigan State Normal 5; Knox 4; Coe 4; Haskell Institute 3.
Saturday’s colorful meet was fully as appealing as any that has been waged in the middle west during the indoor season just closed. In almost every event the competition was so keen that unusual times and distances were turned in.
Records, records, records. Those are the words that were on the tongues of the three thousand track lovers who crammed into
ord which is now held by a dozen speed merchants. He also won the broad jump with a leap of 22 feet 5 3-8 inches.
Charley Riley, track luminary and football expert of the Irish system, was the unlucky victim of Aiderman’s work for the Notre Dame athlete was barely beaten on both occasions. After being set back at the start for jumping the musket, Riley made up a yard and a half during 60 yards sprit and was nosed out by Aiderman. Riley took second in the broad jump, having leaped within one-eighth of an inch of Alderman’s mark.
Marquette athletes turned in the other per
730
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
formances which proved disasterous to the records. Melvin Shimek, great two-miler of the Milwaukee school, battled for sixteen laps with Philip Osef, the Indian who holds the world’s six mile title, and won out in the last lap. Osef set a guelling pace, and Shimek, after dogging him all the way, broke loose with furious speed and breasted the tape a full ten yards ahead. The time was 9:34 1-5, six seconds better than the mark set by Joie Ray fifteen years ago.
Frank Glazer, of Marquette, looms as another American vaulter who may dispute the crown that has been fit so snugly to the brow of Charley Hoff, the Norwegian skypilot. Glazer scaled 12 feet 10 inches with a magnificent leap and cracked the mark of 12 feet 6 inches set by Paul Harrington, intercollegiate record holder and former Notre Dame captain.
13oth relays were thrilling. Notre Dame took the mile baton-passing event rather easily although the pressure during the first three legs forced the Irish to extend themselves. Michigan State Normal College took the medley relay after a stiff contest with Marquette and Notre Dame.
Charley Judge, intercollegiate mile champion, gave the assemblage a taste of his old time form when he trotted the mile in 4:29 1-5. Joe Griffin shattered the high hurdle record in the second preliminary by stepping the stiles in :07 4-5 but had bad luck in the semi-finals and was eliminated.
Success of the first meet assures an annual repetition of the affair, officials say. The second annual outdoor championships are billed for June 3 and 4 at Michigan State College, Lansing.
--------*--------
MORRISSEY, BROWNSON
TIE FOR TRACK TITLE
TABLE OF POINTS
Brownson______26^ Badin ____________ 8
Morrissey_____26*4	Howard ________ 4
Sophomore_____25	Corby _________ 3
Freshman______.22	Rockefeller____ 3
Carroll 1_____14
After fighting furiously through eleven events to keep in the running, Morrissey
Hall’s track squad won the relay race and went into a tie with Brownson for the interhall indoor championship last Sunday. Each team scored 26 1-2 points. Sophomore was third with 25 markers and Freshman, last year’s title-tiolder, fourth with 22.
It was the most thrilling indoor classic ever run in hall circles and the relay was a momentous event for any one of four halls could have copped the meet by taking the baton-passing event.
Throughout the affair no squad was in the lead by more than three points and tabulation of points after each event found the lead bobbing back and forth. The Morrissey and Brownson teams kept fairly well in the van and only the victories of Morrissey and Sophomore in the relay kept the dormitory boys from a clear claim to the title.
Jack Rourke, the Sophomore Hall flash, was individual star of the day with firsts in the 60 and 220 yards dashes. Brennan, the Badin hockey impressario, was in the peak of form, getting a first in the mile run and a third in the half mile event. Weichous of Carroll won the high jump and tied for second in the pole vault.
60 Yard Dash—Won by Rourke, Sophomore; Brownson. Time—:06 3-5.	'
60 Yards High Hurdles—Won by Tobin, Sophomore; Doan, Freshman; Weschler, Freshman; Mul-flur, Corby. Time—:08 2-5. (New Interhall Record.)
Mile Run—Won by Brennan, Badin; De Groote, Rockefeller; Vaichullus, Brownson, Callahan, Brownson. Time 4:41 2-5 (New Interhall Record.)
440 Yards Dash—Reidy, Brownson; Scheffel, J., Carroll;; Scheffel, C., Carroll; Kelly, Freshman. Time—53 3-5.
60 Yards Low Hurdles—Won by Doan, Freshman; McDonald, Sophomore; Mulflur, Corby; Jones, Badin. Time—:07 4-5 (New Interhall Record.)
220 Yards Dash—Won by Rourke, Sophomore; Redgate, Morrissey; Noon, Morrissey; Bonomolo, Brownson. iTime—:24 3-5.
880 Yards Run—Won by Dayton, Freshman; Fisher, Morrissey, second; Brennan, Badin; Schle-chert, Sophomore. Time—2:06.
Half Mile Relay—Won by Morrissey (Redgate, Noon, O’Brien and Winberry); Sophomore (Newbold, McDonald, Schlechert, Rourke) second; Brownson (Heron, Smith, Bonomolo, Reidy) third; Freshman (Hettinger, Sylvester, Kelly, Doan) fourth. Time 1:40.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
You are invited to visit the . . .
Philadelphia
Tasty Candies Delicious Parfaits
Sundaes—Sodas
----0---
114 NORTH MICHIGAN
THE... RELIANCE PHARMACY
Prescription specialists..
220 WEST WASHINGTON ST.
College —Then What?
oA ^Vital Question
Areyou going into business? If so, are you facing years of apprenticeship, the costly and discouraging trial and error method of learning the principles of business with the possibility of never attaining success?
Would you not prefer to be equipped with a thorough training that should enable you to follow a steady rise in leadership? If you wish to be thoroughly grounded in the fundamental laws of business, and to know how these laws are applied in actual business life, Babson Institute can serve you — and serve you well. Here a student learns not only the theoretical, but the practical application of business principles.
A course at Babson Institute would represent an investment that will help you to acquire the “comer stones’’for a successful business career—business leadership.
Write or talk to your parents about this personal problem. Ask for our booklet to take home.
Babson
Institute
Organized, not for profit, under the educational laws of Massachusetts.
301 Wellesley Ave., Babson Park, Mass.
Send for booklet
It explains in detail the work given and the unique features of our intensive business course. It shows how, by following business methods, our students are thoroughly trained for leadership.
Fill in attached coupon.
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■I ■	g
■ Babson Institute	।
J 301 Wellesley Avenue, |
*	Babson Park,'Mass. I
। Send me, without obligation,* _ "Training for Business Leader- * Z ship” and complete particulars * a about Babson Institute.	*
■	I
■	I
■ Name.....................■
■	I
■ College A ddress: ................ a ■	I
■ ■ ■ .........................I
■	I
I Home Address:.................. g ■ ■
■ ■
■ City.....................|
■ ■
■	I
J State...................  |
Z...................J
Patronize Scholastic Advertisers
I - - ■■	'— — —	----2
732	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Running Broad Jump—Won by Cullen, Morrissey; Sheibley, Morrissey; Hardakep, Freshman; Rigney, Howard. Distance—20 feet 7 1-2 inches.
Shot-Put—Won by Walsh, Brownson; Celaya, Brownson, second; Donahue, arroll; Kizer, Sophomore. Distance 39 feet 9 5-8 inches.
High Jump—Won by Welchous, Carroll; Myers, Howard; Reidy, Brownson and Leahy, Morrissey; tied for third. Height—5 feet 7 inches.
Pole Vault—Won by Johnson, Brownson; Newbold, Sophomore; Welchous, Carroll and Leahy, Morrissey, tied for second. Height—11 feet.
--------*--------
IRISH PILE UP AMAZING RECORD
For the second time in two years a Notre Dame hardwood combination has climbed almost impossible heights to the MiddleWestern baskeball championship. For the second time in two years they have earned a niche among the outstanding college quints of the entire country. For the second time in two years they have swept all before them in cutting a wide swath through the outstanding edge teams of the Mid-West, East, and South. Thirty-eight triumphs in forty starts is a collegiate record to be proud of. It is an undying, never-to-be-dimmed record of the greatest group of basketeers to ever wear the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame.
Smooth-working, smooth-passing, sacrificing individual brilliancy to further teamwork, Coach George Keogan’s aggregations worked together as one beautifully co-ordinated machine, and are fully deserving of all the honors that they have earned. Their two-year record follows:
1925-1926 SEASON
Notre Dame __________53	Armour Tech ________28
Notre Dame __________36	Minnesota___________14
Notre Dame __________30	Northwestern--------20
Notre Dame __________17	Iowa ---------------16
Notre Dame___________37	Northwestern________21
Notpe Dame___________48	Mercer______________31
Notre Dame___________38	Kansas State--------23
Notre Dame___________22	Franklin ___________33
Notre Dame___________31	University of Detroit 14
Notre Dame___________24	City Col. of Detroit 17
Notre Dame___________41	Wabash -------------28
Notre Dame___________33	Michigan State-------14
Notre Dame___________31	University of Detroit 26
Notre Dame___________26	University of Illinois 14
Notre Dame___________25	Wabash ------------23
Notre Dame___________40	Michigan State-------25
Notre Dame___________60	Carnegie Tech------26
Notre Dame___________40	Franklin ----------19
Notre Dame___________23	Creighton ----------18
Notre Dame___________29	Creighton --------'—17
1926-1927 SEASON
Notre Dame___________51	Armour Tech---------13
Notre Dame___________42	Earlham -----------12
Notre Dame___________24	Minnesota----------19
Notre Dame___________19	Iowa---------------18
Notre Dame___________28	Northwestern-------20
Notre Dame___________27	Northwestern-------21
Notre Dame___________41	Detroit------------24
Notre Dame___________22	Franklin ----------34
Notre Dame_37 . Wabash ---------------------26
Notre Dame___________36	Michigan State------15
Notre Dame___________27	Marquette----------21
Notre Dame___________19	Wisconsin ---------14
Notre Dame___________36	Franklin -----------16
Notre Dame___________35	Wabash ------------25
Notre Dame___________33	Pittsburgh---------17
Notre Dame___________24	Detroit------------23
Notre Dame___________34	Michigan State------22
Notre Dame___________33	Marquette-----------13
Notre Dame___________32	Creighton----------20
Notpe Dame-----------31	Creighton-----------17
Edgeworth
makes ladies
pipe-smokers
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	733
Basketball Swimming
Hockey Boxing Debating Dramatics
.........
WELCOME!
Notre Dame Boys
Smith’s Cafeteria
. Ill East Jefferson Blvd.
N. D. Men’s Favorite Eating Place
COMPLETE REPORTS IN
The South Bend News-Times . . .
The Home of Quality -----------o---
We Do Our Own Baking
j _____________________________h
NOTRE DAME MEN
Can always depend upon finding something to please their taste in our large and varied stock, and our prices have an appeal to the young man with business acumen.
HOLY CROSS SANATORIUM FOR TUBERCULOSIS DEMING, NEW MEXICO
Homelike and beautiful in Providence’s own climate for the treatment of all types of tuberculosis and diseases of the chest. Unequalled nursing and medical care; latest methods; sun baths all year round.
Rates very moderate on account of our own dairy and produce farm.
----o---
BOOKLET ON REQUEST
USE YOUR CREDIT
--------o--
RES. LINCOLN 6741 OFFICE M. 1130
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
SOUTH BEND	INDIANA
<----------- - -----------------
734
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Resists Corrosion
THIS picture, taken in the salt marshes near
Kearny, N. J., shows two lines of 30-inch Cast Iron Pipe replacing pipe made of other material. The alternate exposure to the action of salt water and air is a severe test.
While the pipe shown in the picture is subjected to unusual corrosive influences, all underground pipe must be able to withstand corrosion to a greater or less degree. Cast Iron Pipe has this quality. It does not depend on its coating to resist rust; the material itself is rust-resisting. The first Cast Iron Pipe ever laid is in service today at Versailles, France, after two hundred and sixty years’ service.
The Cast Iron Pipe Publicity Bureau, Peoples Gas Bldg., Chicago
CAST IRON PIPE _______
Our new booklet,“Planning a Waterworks System” which covers the ■problem of water for the small town, will be sent on request
THE ACCEPTED STANDARD FOR ^uh oergroundcohstructiohJ
Send for booklet, “Cast Iron Pipe for Industrial Service,” showinginteresting installations to meet special problems
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
735
RADIO - RIFLES
RADIO STORE 108 North Michigan St.
SPORTS STORE 126 North Michigan St.
BASKETBALL	SWEAT
EQUIPMENT	SHIRTS
BERMAN’S
SPORT GOODS AND RADIO GIFTS
this after-shaving comfort
THE skin’s natural moisture must be conserved if the face is to be comfortable. Aqua Velva applied after shaving helps the skin retain this moisture—keeps it flexible and comfortable all day long. This remarkable after-shaving liquid was perfected by the makers of Williams Shaving Cream to keep the face' as comfortable as a Williams shave leaves it. In big 5-oz. bottles—50c.
Send your copy of The Scholastic to the “folks at home.” They will all enjoy reading it.
.Office Phone Main 0689
Residence Phone M 1162 and L 9553
Williams Aqua Velva
< - - ■ ------- — — ■■ - - ' —■ -
South Bend Merchants
and Professional Men whose adver= tisements appear in this magazine will appreciate a call from you.
—Give them your patronage
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas Dentistry
Dr. Robert F. Lucas
Extracting and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws
612 J. M. S. Building SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
.. .	- -	— y

736
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE
BANKS
Citizens Trust and Savings Bank
(9ur fecial j^otre Same g>tubent portrait differ
Explained and sold exclusively by CORRIN H. HODGSON 250 Sophomore Hall and
HUGH J. McMANIGAL
343 Morrissey Hall
SERVICE
STABILITY
LEARN TO SAVE
^ersional^eh portraits of Cfjamter
Jefferson Boulevard Next to Po t Office
209=211=213 ^fjerlanb IBuilbing
1

-	' ■	■■	A

CLOTHES ",
Ready-made
And Cut toOrder
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
DR. FRANK J. POWERS UNIVERSITY PHYSICIAN
Jibouse
Suits and Topcoats
*40,‘45, >50
THE BOOK SHOP
APPRECIATES AND CATERS TO NOTRE DAME TRADE
---:—o---
Stationery : Books Greeting Cards
\ ------O '
119 NORTH MICHIGAN ST.
6
Carefully separated, completely cleaned, perfectly shredded, and thoroughly cooked whole wheat grains — that’s all there is to
Not a chance of that lead-like, loggy feeling even during
make a daily habit of Shredded Wheat.
That’s one reason why this prince of whole wheat cereals graces the training tables of so many colleges and schools.
SHREDDED WHEAT
Except its convenient biscuit form, its taste - inviting crispness, its Nature-given, refreshing, tonic benefits.
M AKE • ETXA'nAllY HABI T
Prince Albert
WHEN my father was in college, "Put that in your pipe and smoke it!” was considered snappy conversation. I’m ready to take this old line literally when the talk centers around Prince Albert. Because P. A. makes two of what I like in a pipe.
All wise-cracking aside, P. A. is the money when it comes to deep-down satisfaction in a smoke. It’s got everything! Cool as the trail of the ice-man across the kitchen. Sweet as vacation. Fragrant as a pine forest.
Think up your own similes. You’ll write them all in the column headed "Superlative Degree” when you learn the joys of a jimmy-pipe and Prince Albert. If you don’t know this grand old smoke, come around to my room and I’ll give you a load.	:
Fringe albert
—nd other tobacco is like it!
P. A. it sold ntrfflun in tiij ni tins, pound and hillpound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.
