
•:•;_•_":'.<•:->;:/~':.>,':if/_:•-:'"·.. :• r-.-:­
i .--_ -,;. ·: [ <.. : 
::-·-,(~>'.: . 
. ,,, 
Scholastic Is Back! 
For The First Time In I 5 Years Notre Dame's Student Magazine Is Publishing Weekly 
Alumni-It was here when you were. You read it then, read it now for even more in-depth coverage of: 
News Sports 
Reports that go beyond the box scoresDigs beneath the surface of campus and and headlines to give sports fans anational stories, giving readers a detailed unique picture of the Notre Dame sports look at current issues. 
community. 

Student Life 
Columns on the latest music, film and literature, and stories which focus on student lifestyles. 

Be A Part Of The New Tradition 
Subscribe Now 
Please send ____ years of Scholastic to: Name 
Adress City State Zip Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine 
LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is a check for $18.75 x __ years=$____ 
Contents 

November 6, I986 Volume 128, No. 7 



Scholastic 

Cover Stories 


6 
A Shrinking Umbrella 
By Robert Raphael 
The high cost of liability insurance has resulted 
in the University paying more money for less coverage 
9 
Suing the Deepest Pockets 
By Steffanie Keller 
According to the deep pockets theory, you sue whomever 
has the most money -not necessarily who is most responsible 

14 
NVA: Feeling the Liability Crunch 
By Chris Skorcz 
Non:. Varsity Athletics is covered by the University "umbrella" but must use extra care because of the liability crisis 


Departments Student Life 
3/Letters 5/Week In Distortion: Durkster's Demise 12/Calendar 16/On Other Campuses: Heeere's Johnny 17 /Music: A Louder Voice is Not Necessarily Better 20 /Movies: A Chance to Do It Over 24/Final Word: They Only Come Out At Night 
18/Art Made Personable 
By Patrick Creaven 


Sports 

21/Scoreboard 22/Searching for That Killer Instinct 
By Frank Lipo 


· Cover Design by Virginia Les 


Editorial 
)fd~sons for)he 'pc,ssipleirnqr;f#gi;1\thg(JJµiv,fr{itf1~•~~p~9ti11~:~;r~s~f~'inum1Jd >' . . ....•.... •· ·.··•· . >...•...• '..•...•·· 

.JJ]fr4~lii;~Ililf~ift~ti~li~lli(iiifif;~i-ift~tll1f~1lif~l . 
.. •ab!,~; Beca1rne the. 19,87 .gra~tUltior(.will ~e Fat~e~ t#{q29f? ~ds~~rgNs?ft .. ' 
iUniyersity· pieside11t, mosff"a~.ult,XJ11ern1Jers l,lild trusteyt~r~iexp~steci;t().ittericl, 
.~:lf11iii11~iti11r··;111r,~rctit,
.u., ~tS;,\Vhl?li'.•faGulty>ortr11sfees;'~~?PSe;'•~Ot•.to :llSf•'.•~~dt 
0 th~ -:ceren,1ony.'-r11 the'.; ¢CE {for(iiiny studeilt!>{guests vill . ••·•·•;.: eff.o.rts''artsornJ11ehdable,,< ,. ' ,. ·: Y)' Y~1;tb¢t6'.is'b'n6p6~iibig~~liiti8d\w1iic:h·othe:qHlve hat:eove:rldbked .....· thataddi~.g··· seati Bn·· ·t~e.(1§Bf '~f'ih:~.A¢9ipt6fa~f... ,,··•.·•·••c••·· ··••··••.·•· ····.·<• p.g5:~fb1i.Be6a#itD·{i''l'ke···•···•'ffha•··:(·: .\<•··•> >,·······
C~Illenrplatform.• wi11•.•. be ·.?11ift{tp~re. tQ ~~cprnII101~tel~~;'118;tio11-~l'.tel~§isi:•· ....· 
.. ,··•· 'ct~At9 sover•. tl1c! qfr~J11oriy,:]Jfj;sl1~~;~plaff.9S~' / ...•..•. ... .. ift, Jpi.sp~f 

Letters 
Editor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouasher 

Managing Editor 
Keith Harrison Jr. 

Design Editor 
Alex Peltzer 

Production Manager 
Matthew Bradley 

General Manager 
Phil ·coghlan 

Editorial 
Larry Burke/Sports Catherine Coffey /Departments Frank Lipo/N~ws Greg Miller/News Lucian Niemeyer /Photography Aimee Starin/Copy Chief Bob Winn/Student Life 
Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Julie Gschwind/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 

Asst. Design Editor 
Sharon Dow 

Layout 
Jim Doerfler Susan Serrato Art & Photography Maria Murphy Jim Doerfler 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examin_ation periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 


Boring Editorial 
Dear Editor, 
It was disappointing that your editorial on academic freedom (Oct. 9: Academic Freedom Must Be Preserved) was simply an unre­flective re-hashing of the current views of Father Curran, Father McBrien, Father Hesburgh, The New York Times and the rest of the secular· press. This summary of the current argument being presented for academic "freedom" shows that you have given up on presenting any editorial opinion of your own and want to just "toe the party line." 
Students in the past have com­plained that no one takes account of their opinions -this is a com­mon complaint of those undergra-· duates I come into contact with in 

Do you have a complaint, comment or opinion? 
Tell the worldl 

Write a letter to Scholastic. 
Address all letters to: Editor Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
my discussion groups. You deni­grate this issue by your attempt to conform to prevailing opinions of your teachers here at Notre Dame. Are we to suppose that on this issue there is no dialogue -no pos­sible grounds for disagreement from the prevailing status quo? 
In The Gay Science, Nietszche criticizes mechanistic science not because he thinks it wrong, phil­isophically or scientifically inade­quate, or even incoherent. Such things might be brought forth in criticism. Mechanistic science is, to put it in a word, boring. You should stand guard lest your edi­torials fall into that same category. 
Mark Smillie Graduate Student 


November 6, 1986 


·~~~~~~~~~~~~~------....... ~ 
· 4 Scholastic 





Durkster's Demi,se 
Getting a date to the SYR just isn't that easy, as a suave and sophisticated student discovers 
By Mike Keegan 

Rrring! Rrring! 
"Hello, Christie Hotlips speaking. Who's calling?" 
A nervous voice returns, "Hi Christie, my name is Eugene Durkster." 
Christie unenthusiastically answers, "Eugene who?" 
"Eugene Durkster from Fisher. Remember -three weeks ago, I was the one who gave you a pencil in Calculus class." 
"Sorry I don't remember that. It was nice talking to you, bye." 
"Wait don't hang up, I forgive you for not remembering. I called because I was wondering what you were doing three weeks from Fri­day." 
"Well, I don't have anything planned. Why?" 
"I was wondering if,you'd go to the Fisher SYR with me." 
"I don't know Eugene; Is your picture in the Dogbook?" 
"Sure, it's on page 32, row four, picture two. I don't look anything like that picture though. I've got new Optical Wonder glasses, and no, I don't wear tape on t,he nose bridge anymore." 
After a short giggle, Christie responds,"Well I don't know, what will the evening be like?" 
Durkster: "I've planned the best night possible. First, after I come pick you up, you can come back to my room and meet my roommate, Lou Sarabando. I'll fix you a cool Diet Coke, and for myself, a Moussey. 
Next, we'll stroll on down the stairs to the dance floor and really get down. You and I can boogie 'til we drop. And, when a slow dance comes on, we can go get a breath of fresh air -don't want to get the cooties dancing too close. Hahl Hah! A little joke -get it! Well anyway, after getting some· air, 
we'll stroll back upstairs for a be red, I can't go." 
Panicked, Eugene cries, "Why not?" 

Stuttering, Christie replies, "B-b­b-ec-cause -uh -I gotta go t-t-o another SYR ... Yeah, that's it. I was already invited to go to the Pangborn SYR. Sorry, Eugene. I would have really liked to have · gone. I hope you have a good time. 
Bye."  
"Yeah,  bye,  maybe  next  time."  
Click.  
Eugene  turns  to  Lou  and  says,  

"She's already going to Pangborn's SYR, but I think she's hot for· me. Well, what's the next number?" 
Lou: "Try Nancy Partier." 


nightcap. How does it sound so far?" 
Christie smirks, lets out a giggle, then a full-fledged laugh. 
Durkster: "Tongue tied, huh? I don't blame you, I'm excited too! I'll have to walk you home around midnight -don't want you to see all the drunks throwing up on Lou's door. Well, whaddaya think, sounds good, huh?" 
Hotlips: "Eugene, I just remem­(After a momentary pause) Rrring, Rrrringg. 
"Hello, this is Nancy.,, 
"Hi, this is Eugene Durkster... " 
Click. 
"Hello, hello is anybody there? You know Lou, getting a date is tough. Maybe we should tell them we're serving wine coolers? Only kidding, Lou, you didn't have to punch me." 
November 6, 1986 


News 
A Shrinking 
By Robert Raphael 

The high cost of liability insurance has resulted in the University paying more money for less coverage 
Umbrella 

· "There is a national crisis in liability insurance," said Tho­mas Mason, vice 
president for business affairs at Notre Dame. And this crisis ~as had an impact on business matters at the University, he said. 
Mason explained that to under­stand the reasons for this crisis, one must understand how insurance companies make profit. 
Insurance companies have two sources of income: the premium they charge customers and the interest earned on previously col­lected premiums. Most of the company's profits will come from the interest earnings. Thus,. when interest rates are high, the com­pany will make more money, he said. 
Not long ago, economic factors were favorable for both insurance companies and organizations that purchased liability insurance. Interest rates were 20 percent, insurance companies were making millions in interest on deposited premiums, and customers could purchase extensive coverage for a reasonable price. All that has changed. 

1n the recent past, interest rates have decreased and the insurance industry has lost millions of dol­lars. To respond to this loss, the 
Scholastic 
News 
insurance companies have increased premiums to outrageous levels, according to Mason. 
The cost of liability insurance 
has risen 1,200 percent in the past 
two years, Mason said. Notre 
Dame has responded to this 
increase by reducing its amount of 
total coverage, known as 
"umbrella· coverage." For Notre 
Dame, this refers to the maximum 
amount that the University's 
insurance company will pay in 
damages per year. For example, 
Notre Dame's umbrella coverage 
used ·to be $50 million dollars. This 
was first reduced to $25 million 
and is now below $25 million, 
according to Mason. He declined 

to give the specific amount of .current coverage. 
Yet, this reduction has not affected the extent of coverage that the University provides for its faculty, staff and students, Mason said, adding that the only change from three years ago is the reduc­tion of the umbrella. 
"We've had no change in the amount of coverage as far as stu­dents are concerned," said Mason. "We may be a little more diligent in reviewing student activities, but everything that was covered before is still covered." 
In general, any activity spon­sored by the University is covered under the policy, said Ma.son. For students, this means that anything sponsored by the Office of Student Activities is covered, for example the musical chairs event last year. Also, all Non-Varsity Athletic events are covered. 
However, non-sponsored activities, such as the senior class trip to Chicago which was can­celled earlier in the year, are not covered. "If it's a group of seniors getting on a United Limo to hit all the bars -no, that's not covered," stated Mason. 
November 6, 1986 
Yet, Mason emphasizes that the University does not bar students from participating rn non­sponsored activities. Rather, the students themselves decide against activities that will not be insured. "Students themselves are more aware of the need for liability coverage than they were several years ago," Mason added. 
Despite the umbrella reduc­tions, Mason said, "We still believe that we have adequate coverage. It would take a major catastrophe, such as an airplane crashing into the stadium, or the ACC collaps­ing in the middle of a basketball insurance companies have been losing money, he said. 
There are as many as a dozen cases regarding liability insurance filed against Notre Dame each year, according to Faccenda. These cases are handled by lawyers from Notre Dame's insurance company. Some of them are quite large, as the :May 1985 rape case in which the victim, a Saint Mary's student, sued the Univer;yity for $700,000 on the grounds that the University should have protected her from the rape. In another case, a student who . received severe burns while parti­


·..Jh~t~':j~:'ni{.ra~
iOnale•fj~"~~e·• premium••i~c;~~ase .. 
-~..._. It's Hk~u~uyipg acar.. >.If. the tag says $30~000, .··•·•·· •.~n1-.. YC]ll •:~()U't t,~ir.k_•.·• its ,"'{~'(~ .$:30,000, .-t~•~•-·-sale.s--. 
•·•·•· _man !,3Y$i ·1ta.. ke1t:or. leaveJt' mhat's.-... t.h~. ~.t_titude.
·>of :irt$ufant:~H !~9mp~11i¢s:i <tfiese·•idays:·•· fr defies 
.. ,..........·.' 

omas d\/la~Oll, \,it~ . 
ga·.ne, for our coverage to run out." 
The rising cost of liability insurance has been one reason for a tuition increase in each of the past two years. Mason said that one percent of the tuition increase two years ago was caused by the rising costs of liability insurance. Thus, according to Mason, liability insurance is often a "hidden" fac­tor in explaining tuition increases. 
The national crisis in liability insurance also can be attributed to the large number of cases which have reached into the umbrella, according to University General Counsel Philip Faccenda. Since more damages are being awarded, cipating in the London program sued the University for $100,000, he . added. Both cases are still pending. 
One case which has attracted national attention is the case of a woman who was bumped by a man 

· outside the football stadium after a game. The woman testified that the man walked past her, then fell back into her and knocked her down, said Faccenda. 
The woman had a bone problem which was complicated by this incident, and sued the University on the grounds that it should have prevented the man from becoming drunk and then injuring people. 
News 


The man who allegedly knocked the woman down was never found. The case was initially decided in Notre Dame's favor, but was appealed and later decided in the woman's favor. She was awarded $49,009. 
"It's the only case of its kind I'm aware of that has ever gone to court," stated Faccenda. Furthur. Mason and Faccenda both affirmed that this case had an induence on the prohibition of kegs on Green Field as well as the posting of signs warning individu­als 'Of penalties that can result fro,m the abuse of alcohol. 
As far as student activities are concerned, the question of waiver release forms is often brought up. Whether or not such forms mean anything in court depends on how 
"The big risk today is the cost of defending yourself, not the cost of losing," said Faccenda. So the concern of insurance companies and people who buy insurance is to prevent occurrences in which they could be sued, he said. In England, if you lose a lawsuit, you pay both sides. In the United States, anyone can file a lawsuit, even to recover an amount as little as $5, he added. 
Because of the high cost of defending a case, some cases are be settled out of court depending on the situation and the judgment of the insurance lawyers, Faccenda said. In other words, if it is going to cost much more to defend a case than it will cost to pay the plain­tiff, the insurance company may decide not to even bring the case to court. 


the law is written and on whether or not the person who signs the form fully understands what he is waiving, said Faccenda. 

Sometimes, a waiver release form will prevent an organization from losing a case, according to Faccenda, but by that time it is too late to prevent tlie organization from spending hundreds of thousands of dollars defending itself. 
Furthur, nine out of 10 cases involving liability insurance never make it to verdict, according to Faccenda. As the case takes more · time and costs more money, both sides become willing to make out­side settlements, he said. 
What events is the University responsible for? In general, the University is held accountable for incidents at any event where a representative of the University is in control. Furthur, if an injury occurs to a person as a result of a problem in a building, the Univer­sity is responsible. For example, if a balcony collapses or an electrical fire breaks out, one can sue the University for damages. 
According to Mason, the University has spent money mak­ing the campus safer, and this has decreased the premium Notre Dame pays for liability insurance. 
For example, the University has installed sprinkler systems in several buildings on campus, such as the Administration Building, St. Edward's Hall, Sorin Hall and Washington Hall. They are in the process of installing sprinklers in Sacred Heart Church. These sprinklers are meant to prevent extensive damage to a building in the event that one room catches on fire. 
Another project has been the renovation of dormitories. "We spend $2 million every summer renovating dorms," said Mason. The first priority in these renova­tions is making the dorm a safer place for students to live. To this end, smoke detectors are installed in every room. In addition, all the stairwells are enclosed to prevent fire from spreading to them, Mason said. 

But these efforts on the part of the University have not lowered premiums enough to counteract the recent increases. "There is no rationale for the premium increase," said Mason. "We're just waiting for the rates to become a little more reasonable, but there's no rationale between the rates and what it costs to insure you. 
"It's like buying a car. If the tag says $30,000, and you don't think its worth $30,000, the sales­man says 'Take it or leave it,"' said Mason. "That's the attitude of insurance companies these days. It defies rationality." · 
News 

Suing The Deepest Pockets 
By Steffanie Keller 

According to the deep pockets theory, you sue whomever has the most money -not necessarily who is most responsible 

Under the cover of 
night, a trespasser 
scales his way onto the 
roof of a Utah school 
building, hoping to find an easy 
entrance. He finds one as he 
accidentally crashes through the 
skylight. This bungling criminal, 
though, received compensation for 
his misstep. He sued the school and recovered $250,000 in dam­ages. 
But there was an added twist to this story. The trespasser's arms and legs were severed in the fall. The school had been ordered to paint the skylight a different color to set it apart from the roof, after a worker was injured in a similar incident. The lines of responsibil­ity had become blurred, as they sometimes do in liability cases. 
This is a true story, just one of the many cases that make up the nationwide rise in tort liability claims. Tort is a legal term for a wrong committed under civil law. In a case of tort liability, the vic­tim or injured party sues the party from who he can recover the highest amount to compensate for his injury. 


Notre Dame law student Laurie Employees of the Allstate no longer practicing, is on the Giunti referred to this as "the Insurance Company on U.S. 31 in board of directors of an area hos­deep pockets theory. You sue who­South Bend say they know all pital. A doctor on the hospital ever has the deepest pockets." She about the deep pockets theory, staff botched a surgery . He did added, however, that the purpose according to Agent Jim Van Huis. not carry malpractice insurance, so of liability compensation is to "Allstate was insuring the home of he fled the country. The patient minimize the victim's suffering. a well-to-do doctor who, although sued the board for $300,000." The 

November 6, 1986 

:,~1~ 



News 




retired doctor's share of the settle­ment that he had to pay, $25,000, was paid from his home owner's policy. 
Insurers are cracking down on restaurants and bars, particularly in states where laws hold proprie­tors responsible for subsequent acts of drunken customers. A recent U.S. News and World Report article reported the case of Richard Vincent, who paid 

Pasta of All Kinds Veal 
. §)arioi'o i t 
Cocktails -Wine -Beer 
. Manicotti Fettuccine Al Fredo
. t 
Pizza 
1707 South Bend Ave. 

(I mile east of ND) 277-0578 

$25,000 in liability coverage in 1984 for his restaurant Traffic Jam and Snug in Detroit. In 1985, the same policy is more than $80,000. 
"It makes us wonder if we should serve alcoholic beverages at all," Vincent said. Van Huis agreed that the risk of loss involv­ing liability policies and the use of alcohol is too great. "Allstate won't even touch drinking. The 
ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
• GARiJl.N SU!•Pl.l!:S 
• HC!!'.i!:',\' ARES 
• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SP:;R fl NG 


GOCf)S 
. • PAINTS 
• TOCLS 
o Pl ·.,:-IRING & U.f.C-:-nlCAL 
c:qp~t !r,.::; 

FRf.£ PARKING 
FRONT & Rf.AR 
21~ !)IX!F. WAY 
NO. IN ROSU.AND 
211...7535 

At least partly because of the cost of resolving sky-high liability claims, insurance companies are raising premiums. So, who is it that is actually paying for these huge settlements? "People who arc already complaining about premiums," Van Huis said. "It's the people .at the bottom who get stuck every time." The U.S. News and World Report article cites that oral surgeons in Detroit are paying $28,_000 a year for liability cover­age that cost $ I 0,000 in I984 and a typical neurosurgeon on Long Island, N. Y. saw premiums jump this year from $66,000 to $101,000. Obstetricians an; even beginning to refuse to deliver babies because of loss of liability insurance. 
Local lawyer John Joseph Roper has a more positive view of liability cases. He calls them "a pursuit of justice. People who arc 
judgments are sky high," he said. 
News 

severely injured want to get paid for it. People are maimed and are truly innocent. Someone should pay for it." And, ideally, that is what liability policies are designed to do -protect innocent people who arc wrongly injured. When asked his opinion of cases such as the school burglar, Roper said they were "an extreme exception" in a just system. 
Van Huis and Giunti both said that a reason behind the recent rise in liability claims is greed. Large settlements make the news and people realize they might be able to profit from an accident. According to Van. Huis, "People want to get everything they can." He also added that if people con­tinue to receive astronomical judg­ments, businesses will continue to be shut down, victims of high insurance rates. 
Another area attorney, Charles Sweeney, disagrees with this view of liability claims. The purpose of liability insural)-ce is "to compen­sate people for loss. Insurance claims people would like you to believe people are overreaching (in the amount they are asking for). If claims people would pay people full value in the first place, people wouldn't come to lawyers." 
A current case Sweeney is han­dling deals with just that problem. 
she was not entitled to compensa­tion, when, in reality, she was," he added. 
Sweeney said he plans to file lawsuits against both the insurance company and the claims adjuster on behalf of his client. "If the claims people had been above board, she never would have come to me. Twenty percent of my 


clients come to me after they are disenchanted with their insurance company." 
But there are other reasons why· insurance premiums have increased, besides higher court awards. Fierce price competition among insurance companies in the late 1970s led to rock bottom premiums. While premiums could be placed in high interest invest­ments, everything was fine. But interest rates collapsed in 1984, just as underwriting losses swelled. 

"When a person purchases auto insurance, you also purchase unin­sured motorist insurance. If some­one who hits you is uninsured, your own company pays you for ·your loss and personal injury," said Sweeney. "A lady was hit by an uninsured driver. She called her claims adjuster. and he said that 
Underwriting is the process of selection through which an insurer determines which of the risks offered to it should be accepted and if so, on what terms and for what amounts. 
The U.S. News and World Report article stated that in 1984, property and casualty insurers had $21 billion in underwriting losses. In addition, they suffered $3.8 bil­lion in net losses, the first net losses since the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. 
Although Sweeney said that he personally has seen a rise only in the number of malpractice claims, U.S.News and World Report stated that federal product liability suits have more than doubled from 1978 to 1984, reaching 10,745. In addi­tion, courts are broadening the theory of strict liability, which means that businesses and their insurers can be made to pay for mishaps even if fault can't be proved. 
Where will this trend end? Van Huis said the end will come with caps being placed on settlements. Already 32 states, including Indi­ana, have made some changes in the way civil lawsuits are tried and damages are awarded. Prior to 1985, there had beeri no caps on damages, according to an August 
Wall Street Journal report. For example, Maryland legislators lim­ited "non-economic damages" to $350,000. Such damages are usu­ally awarded for pain and suffer­ing because of injury. The Mary­land limit is a far cry from the recent $1 million awards seen in the nation's courtrooms. 

In other legislative moves, insurers have scored mostly nar­row victories. Recent legislation in New Mexico deals only with the liability of establishments serving 
· liquor. Michigan limited malprac­tice for non-economic damages to $225,000, but exempted cases involving injuries to the reproduc­tive system or loss of a vital bodily function. John Waligore, an attor­ney for an insurance group, said of these decisions in the Journal article, "We don't believe they will have a deep or lasting impact on insurance affordability or availa­bility because there are too manl'. loopholes." 
November 6, 1986 

;icONCERTS: . . 
· Commander Cody 
•· Biddy Milligan's 7644 N.Sheridan 
'Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. $5-7 
Cheap Trick Park West 322 W. Armitage Nov. 6 at 8 p.m. 
Ira Sullivan 
Mitch Ryder and the Detroit Wheels Biddy Milligan's 7644 N. Sheridan Leo Kottke & Liz Story Park West 322 W. Armitage Nov. 8 at 7:30 p.m. 

Iggy Pop Cabaret Metro 3730 N. Clark Nov. 6 at 8 p.m. 
Chicago Maritime Folk Festival Loyola University 6525 N. Sheridan Nov. 8 from noon-8; Nov. 9 from noon-7 $2-6 
Chicago Symphony Orchestra Mozart and Tchaikovsky Nov. 7 at 8 Brahms and Tchaikovsky Nov. 6, 8 at 8 Orchestra Hall 220 S. Michigan 
THEATER: "Highest Standard of Living" Organic Theater 3319 N. Clark Nov. 6-9 at 8 p.m. $14-17 
"The King And I" 
. Marriott's Lincolnshire Theater Route 21 Lincolnshire Nov. 7, 8 at 7, 9:30 $19-24 
"Pump Boys And Dinettes" Apollo Theater Center 2540 N. Lincoln Nov. 6-8 at 8 p.m. $19.50-24 
"Bards, Broads, And The Sacrifice" Cross Currents 3204 N. Wilton Nov. 6-8 at 7:30 p.m. $8 
"A ... My Name Is Alice" Ivanhoe Theater 750 W. Wellington Nov. 6-8 at 9:30 p.m. 
OPERA & DANCE: 
"Orlando" Civic Opera House 20 N. Wacker Nov. 8, 12 at 7:30 p.m. $10-66.50. 
"Lucia di Lammermoor" Civic Opera House 20 N. Wacker Nov. 7, 10 at 7:30 p.m. $10-66.50 

Hubbard Street Dance Company~ The Goodman Theater 200 S. Columbus Drive Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. $17-23 
Momix Dance Company Ramsey Auditorium Kirk Rd. and Pine St. Nov. 8 at 8 p.m. $9 


Compiled By Rich Corsetto & Charlie -Buckley 

Michiana 

SPORTS: 
Hockey: Blackhawks vs. St. Louis Blues Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison Nov. 9 at 7:30 p.m. $7-25 
Hockey: Blackhawks vs. Washington Capitals Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison Nov. 12 at 7:30 p.m. $7-25 
Basketball: Bulls vs. Phoenix Suns Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison Nov. 8 at 7:30 p.m. $7-17 
Basketball: Bulls vs. Atlanta Hawks Chicago Stadium 1800 W. Madison 
THEATER: 
"The Good Doctor" Century Center 1200 S. St. Joseph Nov. 7, 8 at 7:30 p.m. $3 

"Babushka's Bandage Bonanza" Colfax Cultural Center 914 Lincolnway West Nov. 6 at 10 a.m. 
CLASSICAL: 

Southhold Symphonic Wind Band 
IUSB Little Theater/Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka · Nov. 9 at 8:15 p.rn. 
South Bend Symphony·Orchestra Morris Civic Audiitorium Nov. 8 at 8:15 .m. 
FILM: 
"The Precious Legacy" Midwest Museum of American Art 429 S. Main Nov. 6 at 7:30 p.m. 
"Romancing The Stone" IUSB Little Theater/Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Nov. 81 9 at 8 p.m. $1.75 
"Animal House" IUSB Little Theater/Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Nov. 13 at 8 p.m. $1.75 


_______.....,... 
r1 News 
I: 
N :Fi eling The Li bility 
By Chris Skorcz 
Crunch 

Non-Varsity Athletics is covered by the University "umbrella" but must use extra care because of the liability crisis 


!~~~t:ic~o~f i~~~;~:g football has doubled within the last few 
years. The Notre Dame Rowing Club must pay a $4,000 insurance premium annually, up from $900, just to store equipment. Liability has become an important con­sideration for the University in its sponsorship of the yearly Bengal Bouts. All are examples of how higher premiums for liability insurance have affected non­varsity athletic programs at Notre Dame. 
Today, it is often the case that the business side of sports makes headlines as much as the action side. Increasingly, the . legal side of sports is also becoming visible. Attorneys representing clients who have suffered injuries while parti­cipating in athletics are often newsmakers. This additional expo­sure of the lawyer's role in the world of athletics is an indication of the increasing prominence of the law in various aspects of society. 
This trend is the result of the· escalating cost of liability insurance and the increasing amount of responsibility athletic programs across the nation are being forced to bear in cases involving injuries to participants in those programs. 
At Notre Dame, wl1ere as manv 
14 
as 4,000 students participate in the Non-Varsity Athletics. organiza­tion during the course of a year, uncertainty regarding legal responsibility and fear of liability lawsuits are beginning to take leading roles in governing the ways in which the NV A oversees activities. · 

"Nationwide our field has been impacted," said Tom Kelly, assis­tant director for Non-Varsity Ath­letics. "Sports people across the country are more concerned than ever with risk. In our case, the impact has been indirect but we most certainly have been (affected)." 

The failure to warn partici­pants of the risks involved in vari­ous athletic activities is what Kelly said was one of the largest issues in sports today. It is understood within the NV A, Kelly said, that students participating in the vari~ ous athletic programs have some knowledge of the sports and the dangers involved. He added that participation is entirely voluntary in NVA programs. 
But warnings alone are not enough to ensure maximum safety, he said. Athletic equipment and facilities must be adequately main­tained. Officiating must be done professionally whenever possible to comply to the rules of the games. Emergency medical teams must be readily available. But the implementation of these safety measures carries a hefty price tag, he said. 
Product liability because of inferior or unsafc equipment is a real concern at NV A, Kelly said. He used the price of a football helinet as an example of the escalating costs. Notre Dame's interhall football program, reputed to be the nation's only full-contact non-varsity football program, is directly affected by such an increase. 
Kelly said that the price of the helmets used has doubled within the last two or three years. With only three companies man ufactur­ing the helmets, their price has 
Scholastic 
News 
risen to $105 each. And in a recent year NV A was forced to replace 300 Wilson helmets with those made by Riddell when Wilson stopped manufacturing helmets. The company f cared legal trouble should an individual injure him­self while wearing a Wilson hel­met. 
Contributing to the rising cost of 
football helmets is the necessity to 
have them certificd by the 
National Operating Committee on 
Standards for Athletic Equipment. 
NOCSAE submits the helmets to 
standard impact and performance 
tests. Should a helmet fail these 
tests, it is to be discarded, said 
Kelly. Helmets must also carry 
warning labels which essentially 
warn the wearer of the inability of 
any helmet to prevent all injuries 
and of the danger involved in 
using the helmet as a weapon. 

Football isn't alone in being ·subjected to rigorous safety stan­
dards. Even a sport such as crew is 
feeling the impact of liability con­
cerns. Kelly said that the 
insurance premium the crew team 
must pay to store its shells in a 
boathouse on city property has 
gone from $900 to $4,000 annu­
ally. 
The gymnastics team, he said, also is experiencing a problem related to liability. Because of the potential for serious injury to gymnasts, proper supervision of the sport is a must. ·That supervi­sion, however, is hard to find and the team is currently looking for an experienced coach. 

Kelly also said NV A officials have to meet repeatedly with University legal counsel to evalu­ate the NVA's activities and to seek a position in which the NVA will be least liable in the event of . an injury to a non-varsity athlete. These meetings often involve the revision of release forms that non-varsity athletes are required 
to complete prior to participation in a particular sport. 
· Because the NV A operates under the University's general insurance policy, the expenses it incurs are often implicit, said Kelly. He said that the biggest fac­tor is the lost time he and his staff suffer as they proceed with extreme caution in their opera­tions. And the meetings the NVA's directors have with legal counsel and health services create an abun­dance of paperwork, which 
Introducing the 

Fun new merchandise by the creators of "Ernie Pook's Comeek" and "Life in Hell" 

Including "The Lynda Barry and Matt Groening Funky World Fun Calendar 1987" featuring all-new original collaborations by Matt and Lynda and the best of their syndicated cartoons. 
ORDER YOUR 1987 CALENDAR TODAY by sending $7.95 (plus $2 shipping & handling -CA res. add 6½% sales tax) to: LIFE IN HELL, Box 36E64, Los Angeles, CA 90036, or for all your hip X-Mas gift-giving send $1 for your Melrose Catalog. 
requires more time and greater expense to handle, he added. 
If there is a silver lining to this cloud of liability concern, it is that no programs are in danger of extinction at Notre Dame, Kelly said. Even the controversial Bengal Bouts boxing program is safe, although new and better equip­ment has become a necessity. Kelly acknowledged the support the NV A has received from the University as facilitating its opera­tions. 


November 6, 1986 




A Louder Voice Is Not Necessarily Better 
WVFI must improve more than just broadcast strength 
. to become a great college station 
By Tim Adams 



The student radio station, 
WVFI, has been given a 
grand opportunity -the chance to reach more students than it has in years -as a result of the administration's decision to pump between $70,000 and $100,000 into necessary renova­tions. 

By the I 988-89 school year, every dorm on campus should be receiving the station's signal, giv­ing unprecedented opportunities for students to utilize this free­form medium for the purposes of both teaching and learning about new music. 
Not so fast, pilgrims. Every ter­rific thing you've heard about col­lege radio -its unpredictability, its acceptance of unknown groups, its refusal to bow to the record indus­try "big boys" -doesn't apply to WVFI, or at least not to any signi­ficant extent. 
WVFI's most recent top 10 songs did not include one release on an independent record label, hardly indicative of a station on the "cutting edge" of music. Instead, almost the entire rotation consists of songs by artists like The Cure, Gene Loves Jezebel, 
R.E.M. and the Human League, all groups on major labels who arc literally force-fed to willing-to­please college music directors. 
It's an ugly business, but the bigger labels have been known to stop supplying their records to sta­tions who don't obey and play their artists 24 hours a day. And we wouldn't want that to happen, would we? 

But, one might ask, what if the DJs like these groups? Firie. Part of the station's purpose is to play music that students want to hear, after all. The problem is that DJs arc required to play approximately one hour of songs (half of their two-hour shift) from a limited rotation. WVFI is in the process of going "all-cart" with its rotation, recording all its songs on special cartridges; this will further narrow what satisfies a DJ's rotation requirement to one of 300 songs. 

Thus, the music director's role is obviously important in deter­mining what gets played on the air. The director's selections, in turn, influence what the DJs hear and like, and consequently affect what the listener will hear. 
At WVFI, one look at the songs on cartridge will reveal that inno­vation, unpredictability and unconventionality were thrown out the window in limiting the rotation to such a small number of songs. It's no wonder that almost all the DJs play the same drivel over and over; to. fulfill the station's rotation obligations, they must choose songs from a limited batch of selections on cart. Sure, there are a few conciliatory ges­tures toward groups resembling alternative music a little Ramones, some T.S.O.L., and even (gasp!) Husker Du -but for the most part, it's European dance music or overplayed American stuff like R.E.M. and Talking Heads. 
A great 9ollege radio station should play music such as this, but it should 'also include rap, reggae, punk and other genres. Much of this other stuff is available for the ' asking; small record labels are extremely willing to send stuff for airplay, and they don't back it up with blackmail, either. WVFI would be a lot better if it simply allowed every DJ access to several types of music, not just the records major labels mail out. 
What WVFI can be -a fun, 
exciting break from the monotony 
of classes and commercial radio 
stations -is not too far away. For­
get the "professionalism" that 

you're always trying to achieve, WVFI, because you end up sound­ing like a minor league U-93. Let · the DJs have fun, hear some new music and be themselves for once. 
With the entire campus becom­ing increasingly conservative and stale, it would be a shame if one of the key outlets for creativity at Notre Dame followed suit. 
November 6, 1986. 

Student Life 



Art Made Persona le 
By Patrick Creaven 
The student-run Isis Gallery hosts a series of exhibJ.ts showcasing the talent of young, undiscovered artists 
Pieces of brass and other metals hang on the walls and rest on platforms, meticu­lously soldered together. The pro­totypical American farm couple stares from the two dimensional confines of a .black and white pho­tograph. These and other original . scenes can be viewed at the current showing of the Isis Gal­lery. 
The Isis Gallery is one of the least known, yet . most accessible cultural exhibits on campus. This gallery has been in existence since the early 1970's when.it was shown in the old fieldhouse. and it now resides on the second. floor of the Riley Hall of Art and Design. Isis serves a unique function on campus because it is an art gallery 
:>,(····'.::t::?> :, ,_ :..: \t( /::.:.'; :·/}': ,·. 
'.\r,~J ~sh<>trd\. }61/id!l 
·.· ;:than, ;a1,.~h. 
with a different focus than the Snite Museum, in which only the work of established artists can be viewed. 
Isis provides the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community with the chance to see the work of talented artists from around the country who have not yet received national attention and recognition. 
Some of the exhibits are by stu­dents; others are by professionals willing to sell their work. Isis functions essentially as a showcase for this new talent as well as a medium for the public to experi­ence the interesting and original 
18 


Student Life 


art that is constantly produced not 
only on this campus, but around 
the nation. 

The Isis Gallery is not res­tricted to paintings, which is a common misconception of gal­leries in general. The exhibits are very broad, encompassing several areas of artistic expression. Sculp­ture, black and white photogra­phy, color photography, prints, fibers and ceramics are represented in addition to paint­ings. Perhaps within this 'broad spectrum lie works by one or more artists who will one day be well­known. 
The people in charge of Isis try to ensure that there exists enough variety to catch the interest of a student body and local population with as diverse an artistic taste as ours. 
Sophomore Cameron Makin­tosh, an amateur photographer present at the recent opening of this exhibit said, "You generally do not find black and white photo­graphs on display, and these will give me some new ideas which I will pursue for pleasure in my own photography. Art should provide more than a 'hey, that's a nice painting' attitude, and I think this exhibit accomplishes that." 
Isis does not serve as a per­manent resting place for only a few pieces of art. The exhibits are changed five times during the semester, with previously unseen work replacing that which has already been viewed. Exhibits run for approximately two weeks and each has its own individual theme. 
The one currently being shown happens to be somewhat special to this community. The exhibit, titled "New Faces", features the art of the first year graduate students of the University of Notre Dame. Students now have the opportunity to see the art of fell ow students presented in a formal manner. This category is almost always present in the Isis Gallhy to some extent, but occasionally particular artists are focused on. 
Previous exhibits this semester have concentrated on the work of a single professional; "The Dan Ryan Expressway Series" was a display of color photographs of Chicago by Jay Wolke. In such special cases lectures are given at specific times during the presenta­tion, providing further back­ground on the artist and his or her work. The show following "New Faces" is a student collection from the University of New Mexico. 
The Isis Gallery is used by classes here at Notre Dame in much the same way as the Snite Museum. Again, the difference lies in the artists that produce the art shown at Isis. Classes involv­ing the learning and production of art see the gallery from a slightly different perspective than the Snite because it portrays a certain newness and practicality necessary to keep interest and creativity flowing. 
Mike Peeney, a sophomore, says he appreciates Isis ~ecause "it 



.·1f11e"\i;tjt·1>®t¥."i~JH~~rt11\H;~·~~i,~,~·:w~ij,fJl~l;·'ff,:ii 
.....•...ii~iitiili11if
ti~:11ii;1~[i)it!ll[fiiil 
.. ::•••·· at.~>,•,:•.·.••:. 

,......•.•:n·.•·•••--;\.~.·i·~~·••··'~ie~~~.;;:~~:~h~.~~~fe<;:. 
An outside view of the Isis Gallery, located in the Riley Hall of Art and Design. 

campus through the work of a stu­dent committee which is overseen by a faculty advisor. The four stu­dents who have devoted their time to maintaining the professional­like quality of the Isis Gallery are Jennifer Niederst, Clarice Keizer, Meg Payne and Katy Stephan..The faculty advisor is Professor Richard Grey. 
Isis is funded by the Student Activities Board in conjunction with the Notre Dame Art Depart­
pqts: forth art that people can relate to. The art here is not as imposing as that in other exhibits because you know there is a real person behind the painting or sculpture you are looking at. Not soi;ne dead legend or dinosaur." 
Another important aspect of Isis is that it is completely student run. Each display is brought to ment, so each student contributes indirectly to the Gallery through their student activity fee. 
The gallery is open from eight 

a.m. until five p.m., Monday through Friday. While the Gallery is large enough to hold an interest­ing mix of art, it can be fully enjoyed even in the short period of time between classes. 
November 6, 1986 


A Chance To Do It Over 

Turner turns into a teeny-bopper in the not-so-hot "Peggy Sue Got Married" 


By Alex Peltzer 
eggy Sue Got Married" is 
the latest effort on film 
from producer and director Francis Coppola. But the film doesn't live up to the Coppola tradition of extraordinary films, such as "The Godfather I" and "II" and "Apocalypse Now". While "Peggy Sue" is an average film with some fine performances, it simply does not have the impact of Coppola's earlier successes. 

P
Perhaps the main problem with the movie is its somewhat simplis­tic plot. Kathleen Turner stars as a recently seperated wife and mother who regrets marrying her high school sweetheart, Charlie. At her high school reunion she is overwhelmed with memories, faints and wakes up 25 years in the past. Deciding to take advan­tage of the mishap, she tries to drop Charlie before they get mar­
ried. . 

Turner delivers a fine perfor­mance as a housewife turned teeny-bopper. Some of the bright­est parts of the film are when she slips up -such as when she forgets that the sexual revolution has not yet occurred, or that it's improper for school girls to have shots of whiskey in the afternoon. 
Another high point is the film­ing of the 1960 flashback. With almost perfect costumes and sets, Coppola and Turner have the viewer start to believe that Peggy Sue really did go back to the year 1960 and that she really is 18 years old. 
But then the nostalgia gets out of hand and the audience is suffo­cated by it. An example of this can be seen when Charlie and his buddies form a singing quartet and perform at a party. Their four girls, including Peggy Sue, swoon and cheer. The lights go down and everyone dances to a slow Motown tune. Quaint, right? Yeah, -way too quaint. 

This is why the story becomes too much of a nostalgic return for the main character and less of a movie with a meaning. Instead of concentrating on Peggy Sue's dif­ficulty accepting her destiny, Cop­pola spends most of the film displaying her life as a teenager. 
The theme is a good one despite its not being developed com­pletely. A provocative contradic­tion exists between Peggy Sue's profession that "knowing what I know now... I'd sure do things a lot differently" and what she actu­ally does do at the end. Given the chance to change her future, she decides not to take it and does everything the same. 

The movie seems to imply ­
despite the audience's second 
guessings -that it is simply human 
nature for people to act as they do. 
If people had the opportunity to 
do things over, they probably 
wouldn't take it. Unfortunately, 
this theme was poorly developed 
and was not evident in the film · until the end. 
So while "Peggy Sue" is a pleasing movie with a few really bright spots, it leaves its viewers sort of empty. Failing to elaborate on an interesting theme, it doesn't have the impact of Coppola's other movies. 


Scoreboard 
A roundup of the week in sports: October 27 -November 2 Edited by Kathleen McKernan 

Irish To Face Northwestern 
VOLLEYBALL -The Irish look to continue their fine performance of late with three matches over the weekend, after defeating Bradley 3-1, Northern Illinois 3-1 and Mar­quette 3--0. 
Notre Dame plays host to Dayton Fri­day and Big 10 power Northwestern Satur­day in 7:30 p.m. contests. Sunday after­noon, the Irish take on Pittsburgh at 2 p.m. in the ACC. 
The team is coming off an impressive weekend series, sparked by stellar play off the bench from KAREN SAPP and athlete of the week, WHITNEY SHEW~. 

Guignon (4), Pat McC!anahan (:Z:Z) and the Irish will face No. 1 Evansville on Sunday at Cartier Field. 
SOCCER ~ Irish soccer comes off a first­place crown at Florida International's Southern Bell Classic to face the No. 1 team in the country, Evansville. The match-up is on Sunday at Cartier Field. 
In the tourney, Notre Dame came back from a 1--0 deficit against Navy to pull off a 2-1 victory. The Irish and FIU battled to a scoreless tie. Since Florida International lost to Navy, Notre Dame was declared the tourney winner. 
November 6, 1986 
Sophomore JOHN GUIGNON and freshman ROLFE BEHRJE contributed the Irish offense for the weekend, while. atliiete of the week HUGH BRESLIN continued his pace of allowing only 1 goal each game. 
FIELD HOCKEY -The Irish defeated Valpo last Wednesday 2-1. ANN McGLINN and STEPHANIE GIGGETTS each contributed one goal to the victory. 
Notre Dame will bring its 6-9-1 record to the Midwestern Regional Tournament this weekend in Richmond, Ky. 
HOCKEY -Irish goalies TIM LUKENDA and freshman LANCE MADSON were bright spots in two otherwise dim losses to Kent State in Notre Dame's first action in the American Collegiate Hockey Associa­tion. 
The hockey team will be idle until Nov. 14 when i.t travels to Stevens Point, Wisconsin for the Pointer Classic Tourney. 
MEN'S SWIMMING -Irish swimmers lost their first meet of the season last weekend against perennial Division III power, Denison, 119-98. 
Freshman sprinter BILL JACKOBOICE became Notre Dame's first winner with a 
1:50.26 first place finish in the 200 frees­tyle. 
The 22nd annual Notre Dame Relays take place tomorrow in Rolfs Aquatic Center. Competing against the Irish will be Eastern Illinois, Marquette Swim Club, North Central, Illinois-Chicago, Valpo, and W.ib.ish College, 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING: -The women swim­mers took first place in 9 of 16 events to beat Denison 143-120. 
Irish depth helped them capitalize on the new scoring rules in NCAA competi­tion. Under the current rules, a team that can take the 2nd, 3rd and 4th places in an event outscores a team that finishes 1st and 5th. 
Notre Dame plays host to 6 other teams in the 3rd annual women's portion of the Notre Dame Relays tomorrow.. 

WRESTLING -The wrestling team opens its 
season Sunday in East Lansing at the 
Michigan State Invitational. 
Sophomore returnee JERRY DURSO will lead the squad in the 134-lb. class. His 38 wins on his way to a 38-9 mark set an Irish record. 

CHRIS GENESER, who finished at 28­16 at 167 lbs., also returns to coach FRAN McCANN's young squad. All-time Irish 
career-win leader CARL HILDINGER will compete at 118 lbs. 
Athletes of the Week 
HUGH BRESLIN 
Breslin, senior keeper on the soccer squad, has given up only 2 goals in his last 3 games. He continues to lead the team on defense, maintaining a 1.05 goals against aver­age per game. Head Coach Dennis Grace 

calls Breslin, out of Morristown, NJ, "one 
of our most consistent performers this sea­
son and a steadying influence on the rest of 
the team." 
WHITNEY SHEWMAN 

Shewman, a sopho­more outside hitter who has seen limited action this year, came off the bench in the Bradley game with the Irish trail­ing 2-13 in the first game. After her entrance into the lineup, Notre Dame dominated the next three games, outscoring Bradley, 33-17. Shewman paced the Irish with 11 kills and 111.digs in that game, and finished the weekend with a respectable .259 kill percentage. 


Source: Notre Dame Sports Information 


Sports 

it was the same old success story for Tim Brown-Against Navy he caught seven passes for 184 yards, both career highs. 
Lucian Niemeyer 

Searching For That Killer lnsttrr~t 
To beat a hungry Southern Methodist team, Notre Dame must avoid the inconsistency of last Saturday 

Senior captain Mike Kovaleski stood in the happy atmosphere of the Irish locker room last Satur-Saturday after Notre Dame's 33-14 victory over Navy. Although disappointed by the second-half performance of his team, Notre Dame's leading tackler spoke with pride about a fired-up Irish team which had held the Middies to 23 yards total offense in the first half while piling up 314 yards of its own. 
"I think that the way we played today in the first half, we can play with and beat anybody," said Kovaleski. 
That statement will soon be put to the test. When the Southern Methodist Mustangs enter Notre Dame Stadium Saturday for the first time since 1955, the Irish will face a hungry team ·coming off two close losses to Southwest Conference rivals Texas and Texas A&M. Consistency, which both Kovaleski and Head Coach Lou Holtz said was lacking in Notre Dame's performance last Saturday, is the key to a good showing against SMU. 
"The first half we played pretty well," said senior quarterback Steve Beuerlein. "In the second half, we came out flat, and Navy was fired up. We need to get the killer instinct to finish up and do well the rest of the way." 
The win against Navy broke an eight-game Irish losip.g streak on the road, which began in the 1984 Aloha Bowl. The Irish fought back in that game, only to lose, 27-20 to SMU. This time around the i~centive is there for both teams. The Irish will look to avenge their Aloha Bowl loss. For the Mustangs, a team on NCAA probation, this is their bowl game. 
"Obviously South Bend is a tough place to play," said Bobby Collins, the Mustangs fifth-year 
21 
Sports 
head coach. "We still have. some kids on . the team that played on the team that beat Notre · Dame two years ago at the Aloha Bowl and that will help." 
Collins remembers Beuerlein, who completed 11 of 23 passes for 144 yards and one touchdown in the Aloha Bowl. "Beuerlein is an outstanding quarterback," Collins said. "Two years ago in Hawaii we were really concerned he would hurt us with his passing. As it turned out, they hurt us as much with the option." 

Holtz has similar praise for the Mustangs. "SMU is a team that really should provide · a good test for us right now, since we're com­ing off a couple of wins and play­ing better than we did early in the season," Holtz said. "They're coming off a couple of tough .conference losses, and I'm sure 
would like to make up for that." 
The Mustangs are led by senior tailback Jeff Atkins (189 carries for 772 yards, eight touchdowns) and junior quarterback Bobby 


Beucriein became Notre Dame's new leader in career total-offensive yards. 
Watters (108 of 199 passes for 1,513 yards). Atkins, who rushed for 112 yards and earned the offensive MVP award in the 1984 Aloha Bowl against the Irish, has rushed for 3,314 career· yards. Watters has passed for 11 touch­downs but has thrown 11 intercep­tions this season as well. 

Watters' favorite target is junior split end Jeffrey Jacobs (39 receptions for 560 yards and four touchdowns). Senior flanker Ron Morris (29 receptions for 522 yards and four touchdowns) and senior tight end Albert Reese (17 receptions for 242 yards and two touchdowns) also should figure as a big part of the potent SMU offense (378.6 total yards per game, with an almost even split between passing and rushing.) 
"Watters has become a strong passer, and wfth Atkins running the ball and people like Morris and Jacobs catching it -they're an impressive offensive football team," Holtz said. "They've got great team speed, as SMU always does, great skill-position people." 
On the other side of the ball, the Mustang defense has yielded 
378.6 yards per game. Senior tackle Jerry Ball, the defensive MVP in the Aloha Bowl, leads the team up front. He is backed up by Franky Thomas, a junior free safety who is the Mustangs' lead­ing tackler. 
The Irish defense, which has proven especially effective in stopping the run this season, has permitted only three rushing touchdowns in the last six games. Junior outside linebacker Cedric Figaro and senior defensive tackle Robert Banks have come into their own this season. In the Navy game, though, the Irish lost stan­dout defensive tackle Wally Kleine to a dislocated shoulder. Kleine is questionable for the SMU contest. 
"Against Navy, we played awfully well the first half -but the second half was a different story," Holtz said. "We still are waiting to see us put together a full 60 minutes of good football against a team with minimal mis­takes. But we'll sure have our chance to do that these last four weeks." 
For now Notre Dame must take each game one at a time. That may be easier said than done, with No. 2 Penn State scheduled to visit Notre Dame Stadium on Nov. 15. "We can't look ahead to Penn State," Kovaleski said. "Because if we look ahead to Penn State, SMU will beat us." 

November 6, 1986 



They Only Come Out At Night 
By Philip A. Coghlan 

The annual Beaux Arts Ball acts as both a great social alternative and a fund raiser 

You know who they are, but do you know what they are? They are those bleary-eyed groups of people stumbling to South Dining Hall at 7 a.m. after another all-nighter. They are your non-roommates, only seen on Thursday afternoons and Saturday mornings. 
They inhabit the building slightly north of Howard Hall that continually burns the midnight oil. They are the ones who go to Rome their junior year and come back even stranger than before. They are the architecture students and they are having a party. 
Tomorrow night these students will host this semester's edition of the Beaux Arts Ball. An institution at Notre Dame since the mid I 920's, the event is loosely based on a. masquerade ball held by students of L'Ecole de Beaux Arts in Paris to mock their profes­sors' annual black tie reception. 
Inspired by that initial party in the mid-19th century, most archi­tecture schools in the United States have established their own version of the Paris festivities. Maintaining the tradition as a masquerade party, themes have ranged from Black and White (in direct mockery of the faculty's reception attire), to Peace, Love 
24 
and Beaux Arts (a contribution of the late 60's). 
Notre Dame's ball has had a 
similarly rich history. Open to all . students as well as the public, the dance has enjoyed smashing suc­
cess. 
This isn't any average Hal­loween party. If not the wildest, the ball is certainly the most unique party on campus. Probably both. The only party permitted in zation that uses the money to sup­port lectures, field trips and other supplements to the curriculum. 
One of these supplements is the Expo Roma, an exhibition that displays student projects com­pleted during their stay in Rome. Providing an opportunity for the students to gain recognition for their work, the Expo Roma also gives other students a chance to learn about architecture. 
a classroom building, it takes place in the lobby of the architecture building. Students create unique costumes using their artistic talents. The Ball has a tradition of attracting all sorts of people, and thus is always interesting. Featur­ing live music, it is very dance­oriented. 
For architecture students, the Ball isn't just a party; it is also a major fund raiser. The funds go to the American Institute of Archi­tecture Students, a student organi-
So, don't miss the Beaux Arts Ball -it's something special. The band this year is The Urge and tickets go on sale the week before the ball in the dining halls. Because space is limited, only 400 will gain admission. So come help the "arkies" let loose this semes­ter, you won't regret it. 
In keeping with tradition, there is a theme for this year's Beaux Arts Ball, one that's quite appropriate for students majoring in architecture. The theme is "They Only Come Out At Night." 
Scholastic 

Life In Hell 
©1'3Bb'.8~ 

1-1f £ IN MATr ~ SCHOOL (:,i'oSJ.JlNG=, t 



T14A,-lk. !::,oO, 7TW u.)A$ VcR':1 GooO. 









