
f 
What is life withoutlove? 
-_~-\/From. one beer lover to···artother.·~--. 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
october 15, 1971 notre dame, indiana volume 113, no. 3

scholastic 


mike mooney  4  on the dublin westport road  
rick fitzgera/d  5  sign and contrast  
markings  
greg stidham  6  50 yards back and they call this ritual  
john moore  8  confronting. non-violence  
dave jones  10  termpaper people  
features  
jim tanto and jim palenchar  12  . ghost of a chance  
. 18  pakistani relief: an interview  
life and the arts  
fred monsour  20  . photo essay  
mike mccabe  24  revitalizing potential .  
casey pocius  26  rowdy rock and hollywood .dreams  
phi/ novak  27  music vs muzak  
mark t. o'connel  28  revenge in an earthly hell  
pat smith  30  year ofthe. film  
cheri weismantel  32  coming· distractions  
marie and phi/  
glotzbach  34  •movies  
sports  
george block  36  not as a dancing· bear  
mary el/en stoltz  38  the last· word  

editors-in-~hief: joe hotz, mary ellen stoltz I managing editor: greg chinchar I art director: rick fitzgerald I associate editors: mike mooney, greg stidham I assistant editors: jim fanto, joan jeanette deegan, mike mccabe, tom macken I copy editor: jim palenchar sports editor: don kennedy / assistant managing editor: joe runde / business. howie sutton / circulation: cliff zmick / faculty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: george block, ed bower, john banks-brooks, kevin cassidy, john flannigan, marie glotzbach, phil glotzbach, mike givler, robert hamilton, marty head, bruce hooper, jim jendryk, dave jones, jerry kcishinski, john linsky, mat mccarthy, fred monsour, john moore, john moran, mark o'connel, dan o'donnel, jim pearce, pete peterson, peggy perkinson, bob rizzuti, jim sitzman, pat smith, mimi wheeler, cheri weismantel, jeff wyszkowski / business 
. and circulation: joe leahy, ran hein, jack reschauer, marty zone I art and photography: jim hunt, michael lonier, bob mcmahon, joe raymond, pam seifert . 
. . last weeks cover was from a photograph by pam seifert. this weeks cover is from a photogiaph by· fred monsou·r. father hesburgh's perspectives and the results of senate 
. . 
· voting ~n page 16 in last weeks issue were reprints from the new york times. 
The opinions e."<pressed in the ·SCHOLASTIC ar~ those of the authors and editors of the ·ScuousTic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of ·Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second class. postage paid at Notre Danie, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising · by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Le.'tington Avenue; New York, New York 10017. Pub­. · lished fortnightly· during the school year except during vacation and examination· periods, the ScHOLASTIC is 
· printed at AVE MARIA· PRESS, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The, subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all . issues and the FoornALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to _the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All uns?licited material becomes the ·property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
-mike mooney 

\~ r.hl·, 1h \i. .~;-=~z' 
. W; \\ . 
I I '""' .;,.""'°"~
y '\. • \ 
. .,,.. --..-...,_.A 

~ ·. Pi
~-4'•-, 

on the dublin -westport road 
The land, first mother, bearer of mysteries, maker of wonder, rolls beneath you, wrapped in loneliness and cold March wind. Barren of significance for all but you, and you are on the road. The journey through a fiction, through .fictions, your own and those the land gives you, endless questions in patternless rhyme cadences of wonder begotten in solitude and concrete.-Of the road, the greatest fiction of them all, promising escape but meaning a movable cell. You may not violate the land, you may only share in the joke; she laughs and you, in hunger, smile with her ... 
Croagh Patrick rises great green and black, the holy mount~n of Mayo. Two-thousand five hundred ten feet of rain and fog and skree and exhaustion above Clew Bay. Fourth one up this year, he said; wonder you made it alone. Pilgrims climb it barefoot at night: three times on your knees . 'i:ound the church ~nd Patrick's grave--you're saved. The hardest, though, is the· com­ing down; the hardest always is. · 
·There is one road on Valentia Island. It twists and 
. falls from Cahirciveeri to a pasture a quarter-mile from the head and back again, through the lingering Irish twilight, past Brendan's well, around herds of sheep.and an occasional donkey. But leave the road and labor up the quarter-mile past unbelieving horses to the top of . the head. There, a gutted stone building, windowless, roofless, stands unmoved before nature, broken but somehow in spirit not defeated. Beneath you, beneath two-hundred feet of sheer· Kerry coast, wind and sea and Ireland meet with terrifying violence. The falling darkness cannot dull the ferocity of the clash, the savage elegance of their eternal opposition. And there, right before you, is America--:0nly 3000 miles.away. 
She told me of ·open fields in the west were the authorities had dug huge communal graves to bury the victims of the famine. And to·this day, the very land· cries out for vengeance, demanding respect from all those who would. trespass on the sleep of the innocent. Though the places are most often marked only through local custom, there exists a much more effective epitaph; for no man.may cross those fields without being over­come by the most fierce hunger, a hunger that weakens and sickens.. Only, they say, if you carry a bit of bread or cheese in your pocket may you escape the wrath of the hungry grass. 
30,March Now, outsi_de Donegal town, my last night in Donegal, my second-last night in Ireland, perhaps I should think of All of It and-Decide about It. My mind is a jumble of thoughts; I find that· I cannot keep my "experiences" in order. No matter, they never were "in order." How strange to be leaving Ireland; if it were not for_ one thing, I'd say I've been here my entire life. But I remember rriy first sight of the country, on the plane _coming into Shannon Airport. At dawn-a dawn of red and yellow and green and purple breaking over the west Kerry coast. Tomorrow I will arrive in Dublin for the last time and on Thursday, April Fool's Day, I· will leave Ireland. 
A man asked me today (or was it yesterday?) if I ever tired of wandering alone from place to place, alongside cold,. empty roads, chancing a ride to luck, forever-traveling with strangers. I watched the road pass beneath us and ·only answered no. ­
THE SCHOLASTIC 

rick fitzgerald 




sign & contrast 
There have been sign and contrast in this season, 

during this autumn. It was the sort of thing that deemed 
it necessary to return at that time again and again. 
So each day lately, if I'm on campus around 5: 30 in the 
afternoon, at that time of day when the colors and tex­
tures of Notre Dame have always seemed deepest and 
most striking, I have ridden slowly past and stopped 
and listened to and watched the birds, the span-ows pri­
marily, I think, in the ivy on the wall of the Chemical 
Engineering Building. It seems that hundreds of birds, 
there, are hidden among those leaves, and hundreds are 
coming and going, and hundreds, their ·voices loud, are 
circling and singing. 
·And further, I have recently seen the ,large and frightening fish at the bottom of St. Joe's Lake. I feel, again, necessarily drawn _to the lake to view them, to wait the moment of surfacing, the large and slow movement through the mass of smaller carp and gold­fish. I have seen, very recently, these fish twice. They seem, to me, of the fantastic and of the beautiful in a strange and ugly way. Perhaps it is their scarcity, per­haps it is their novelty. 
And I am drawn to the railroad tracks of St. Mary's. I have seen.there a single gray horse, in the distance, slowly walking down the tracks, moving away, mounted and followed by many children. And I, then, had thought of the children of "A Taste of Honey" and of how they had followed and multiplied and framed the film. And finally, I am led to think of, the men and women of Notre Dame. 
And now I do not so much think of the good, al­though there the good and the beautiful have and surely do exist and exist well. Rather, I am, at this time, drawn only to thoughts·of the fantastic and the strange. For yesterday. I saw woman after woman passed man fo man up the rows of. the Notre Dame stadium. Yes­terday I saw hand after hand in desperate attempt to enter under their shirts and skirts, and hand after hand desperately stretch to momentarily grasp and feel. And more, I have once again seen, yesterday, cheerleaders lionized and idolized and abused and, finally, known best through the paper and pages of nearly every University publication and publicity sheet. 
And so I have known all this for more than three years now, and little, really, has changed. The rectors remain periodic spectres of discipline. The assistant rectors of the hall T knew seemed only to express, pub­licly, disgust or ignorance. And I have rarely, if·ever, 
OCTOBER 15, 1971 
seen these University officials in honest sympathy and understanding of the deepest problems and the worst abuse, of the repressive physical surroundings, and of the social half-life. I hav~ only, in more. than three · years, from a University official, seen simple, literal and 
insincere offers of appeasement and award. 
And I remember, through three years, the repeated 

scene of St. Mary's at 2 a.m. where men and women at­
tempt to struggle through four years of social enigma. 
I remember man after man and woman after woman 
who refuse to, or find it impossible to move past the 
Friday and Saturday night get-very-dressed-up social 
institutions of Notre Dame. And I remember, two years 
ago, a Saturday-night talk interrupted by the offer of a 
turn in the rape of some unknown woman. 
And so it has gone for more than three years now. . And, yes, the _good is there arid decidedly there. But it 
is Saturday afternoon taking me back now. And so I 
recall the freshmen and the seniors drunk and sick 
weekend after weekend. I recall the activity \vithout 
sense, without construction. I recall the single fresh­
man last year drunk and sick night after night, and 
the assistant rector turned away in obvious disgust. 
And of yesterday, I have heard that a woman was crying in the Notre Dame stadium. And in more than three years, I have rarely, if ever, heard a University official, be he president or assistant rector, speak of these deepest problems; of the necessity for and the acknowl­edgment of the validity of each person's full life, of the recognition of the necessity of seeing all humans as valuable, and of the recognition of women as able to as­sume the responsibility to effectively govern their own internal and external lives. And in three years, in more than three years, I have never seen the student body, as a whole, begin to recognize and react to each other as valuable in any sense past a physical and partial one. And further, in those three years, I have never seen a Univer:sity official, nor have I seen the student body as a whole, move sympathetically, insightfully and publicly to halt the abuse. 
And I have seen and heard the sparrows at 5:30. And· I have seen and felt the strange pull of the dark fish· at the bottom of St. Joe's Lake. And I recall the gray horse and ·the children down the tracks at St. Mary's. And they construct for me this place as good; yet, they ·are also anathemata, they are sign and con­trast-; they pull, me up and back to Saturday afternoon, and back three yea.rs. 
I 
I 

markings 

-50 rows back & they call this ritual 
The 1971 Notre Dame football season seems to have brought with it some novel changes. For one, the ND scores seem to hover closer to those of their opponents. For another, some of the Notre Dame men have found a new source of ent,ertainment in the stands. The Scholastic is indebted to twelve St. Mary's students who were ,,illing to relive an experience that most are try­ing to forget. 
It is a ritual. It is pagan. On the field., the battling armies c"lash. Their bodies meet. It is a battle of flesh., rnuscle against rnuscle. One pushes to subdue the other. Nei,ther gives., neither gains. It is primitive. It is Male. 
In the stands the crowd is frenzied. They call for a victirn., maddened by the clash on the field. The game wears on into the afternoon. The heat is oppressive and the crowd grows madder. Flesh battles flesh., the crowd vicariously participates in the encounter. Then., raving., they search for their own flesh victirn. 
It happened to me twice. The first time I was just being a typical Notre Dame "rah-rah" and all of a sudden I just felt myself being pulled up. I called to the girl next to me, but there was nothing she could do, and I just started being passed up. Luckily I had some heavy shoes on and I started kicking. I was able to get down before I got passed up very far. They just don't have any respect for your femininity or your self­esteem. They manhandle you. 
The second time I got passed up was in the fourth quarter, when the action was pretty slow. A group of boys came over from the section right nex_t to us. I was sitting down, but they pulled me up from my seat. I started kicking again and they put me down. Both times I was shaking for about fifteen minutes after I got back to my seat. 
·The Id., students of Freud will recall., is that region of the soul which harbors all irnpulses. It is inviolable., overpowering when it is not at '[)eace with the Ego., the conscious. It is instinctual., prirnitive. It is the source of the drives for sex and power.,· it is man!s claim to a psychic ancestry cornrnon to the animal kingdorn. Given control, it takes over the man, drives hirn mercilessly. He is subject to and victim of his instincts~ irnpulses., drives. 
Some of them do it for fun; but most of them do it just so they can grab you. All they think of is the cheap thrills they can get from touching the girl as she goes by. And they are laughing at you. The only reason they were passing the girls up was because it was hot and they didn't have that much on. 'When it gets cold out they probably won't do it anymore. They're like ani­mals, or cavemen. I'm not that afraid of being dropped. I just don't like the idea of being handled. The only rea­son they pass you up is because the guys want to grab at you, and everybody knows that. And then they laugh at you, "Oh, you're one of the ones that got it." 
I don't think they did it to be malicious. I'm going to be sitting in back of them all season and I don't think they tried to make me mad at them. They probably just didn't realize what goes on when you get passed up. But then as you get closer and closer to the top, the guys know that there are five thousand of them and I'm never going to see any of them again, so why not take what you want. It got grosser and grosser all the way up. By the time I got to the top I was kicking everybody in sight; I'm not really sorry. If they can't have any consideration for me, why should I worry about who I kick in the head? At first I was afraid of being dropped and I thought maybe if I just keep still they won't drop 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
me. But then as I got to the top I would have fa)).en on 
my head, anything, just to stop the ride up. And toward 
the top I did fall on my head. 
Guys grab whatever they want to grab. They don't 
care who's looking, they don't care how the girl feels. 
Every guy I have met personally at Notre Dame has 
been really nice; and every group of guys I have met has 
been really gross. There are a lot of nice guys here who 
would never pass a girl up or take advantage of it. But 
then there are guys who would, probably in a greater 
majority here than at most schools. Those guys deserve 
whatever they get, whether it's a kick in the head or a 
swear word in the SCHOLASTIC. 
Oh, so that's your kid sister. Your girlfriend? Why don't you pass her up here so we can get a better look at her! 
I was having a good time watching the game. And before I even realized it, the fellows in my section just picked me up -·and up I went. It bothers me. On the way up no one bothers to say, "Hi, what's your name?" It's all just a body. I was just shaking when I got to the top. And then you hear comments like, "Oh, how was it?" It's like Playboy. The whole thing about ex­ploiting women. No one bothers to ask if you even want to get passed up. 

I was disgusted. It's just a bunch of grabby hands. When I got to the top, I saw this guy I know, and he said I was just shaking. It was terrifying. I kicked one guy in the chin on the way up, I was so angry. If .;:,.hap­pened again I would do anything I had to to avoid it. But what can you do? You can fight as much as you are able to and they can still send you up. 
I think it's terribly degrading. I was embarrassed. I was really embarrassed to see anybody after that be­cause people would say, "Oh, you're one of the ones that got passed up!" It's just a body to .them, just another body. They wouldn't care what you look like. It's just another body for them to touch. 
We're sitting right in the middle of all these guys, and when I got there this one in front said, "Oh, you're wearing a skirt" I didn't know what he was talking about and didn't make the association with being passed up. Well, he kept making insinuations and finally I fig­ured out what he was talking about. I said, "No, forget it." But all of a sudden they just lifted me up, and well ... I did get "violated" pretty badly. It wasn't funny at all. 
I talked to some girls, and they say that no "decent" girl will let herself be passed up. Well, I do consider myself a "decent" girl, and believe me, there is nothing you can do to prevent it at all. 
I was shaking for about an hour afterward. And when I got back to my seat, I was really mad. The guys thought it was terribly funny. It was degrading. We couldn't resist. It really was degrading. They thought it was so funny, and they never stopped to think how we felt about it. 
I've got bruises all over my body. And a big nail mark by my knee. For a day or so I had bruises on my ribs, too. From being dropped? No, from being grabbed. They were really grabby. A herd of animals. As much as the guys joke about it, it really does hurt the girls. 
OCTOBER 15, 1971 
I don't know why Notre Dame men think they can ig­nore even basic rules of conduct. I still expect to be treated like a woman. That is what upsets me most about the incident. 
I felt really sorry for that girl who was wearing the bare-midriff blouse. There was no way that she could hold it down and there were two or three guys yank­ing on it. 
Was it pretty clear to you that the grab'bing and manhandling were intentional? For the most part, yes. For some it was just the big joke of passing someone up. But when they start grabbing at you, you know that they are just anticipating your getting there. It's like they are thinking, "Get ready, here she comes. Get as much as you can as she passes by." 
On the field, the clash was over. There was a victor, a victim. Bruised, battered, the defeated, the humiliated left the field. 
In the stands, a girl returned to her seat. She was shaking, crying. Maybe you saw her. Maybe she was your kid sister, or your girlfriend. 
-Greg Stidham 

·~·i,qJt_t,J,~~W~¾d_!(l,.\, \M!I~ !®_~¥'•·•-Ii 
~:~~?_~-~~r;;t/:;:::::~~:~~;~-~-~.;;:_ ".,,.:, u-·. 
r~~~.,,t:=~1-.~..:,•_. :"•·.--:·· --:: . ----; l ·-··,::;-!7 •~•-c,cc-,;.,~,.,.,,,,,'._'.,."-;":°'c''.'~'.• .•:'·°19'11 
1i·:-;,;&,,~~-s.~R~))lf,O.---~r
~~:~~t~_-1-"'·•~~.,lll !lf...lll.•1 w.-1filtFil.­
..-i.llJII
--~r~~~¼~·-• ·1_-lUJ I.Ql»B11.11sr11t 'llttlllUJ J 
,~~--~~M""~~~~~!•~"r-:ci<TJOfJ110,11 •r•n•••u 
--.,.._ ·c· • :., • ' : ....,-,.,
> •• 
• .n.ur•••• 


i 
I 
markings 

confronting 
Violence, in however mild a form, is pretty much in stock here at Notre Dame, what with football, hockey, rugby and godknowswhatelse in the mainstay of campus social life. Now those pseudo-, semi-, and seriously interested students of the matter are afforded an op­portunity to survey the workings of violence and non­violence. This is possible through the lecture series on nonviolence under the guidance of Father Maurice Am£tn. The series is a three-credit elective in the Non­violence Department of the College of Arts and Letters. A student registered for the course is required to sub­mit analyses, reflections, criticisms of the lectures and a final research paper, but the "classes" are open to the public. 
The_ course originated this year as the result of the 

efforts of Fr. Amen, who has built.it on examples from 
other universities, though on a larger scale here. The 
course in this first year is loosely constructed to facili­
tate expansion and revision. Fr. Amen himself is stu­
dent as well as teacher as he attends the lectures and 
moderates the following discussions. An equally im­
portant aspect of his role is attempting to find the 
realm of studies and activities that would enable ac­
creditation of nonviolence as a major field of study 
and then to see if such a field is a legitimate aca­. demic inquiry. 
The lectures are delivered by speakers in the fields of history, psychology, biology, philosophy, marketing, media; among others; the basic goal of the series is to study the aspects of violence and nonviolence from the points of view of. many and varied disciplines. For example, D. Chris Anderson will submit a psycholog­ical analysis in his lecture on the "Learned Aspects of Aggression" while John Houck of the Management Department will speak in two installments on "Planning Toward the Year 2000" and Joe H. Cho of Finance and Business Economics will take up "Foreign Investments and International Conflicts" as his topic. Jim -Leary, an undergraduate in English, will look at "Rock and Roll in Revolution," complemented and perhaps sup­plemented by Ron Weber's "Violence and the Mass Media" from the Communication Arts Department. The variety is endless and the speakers' range is from the quasi-radical to the ultra-conservative. (Further developments of the course would involve the inclusion of aspects of the arts and their connection.) The effort is made to explore all the situations, causes, and effects of violence and nonviolence, attempting to compare and contrast both. However, Fr. Amen readily admits that a bias exists toward the nonviolent aspect, and, as such, a bias is difficult to eliminate in any academic situation. 
Students of the University would be wise to attend those l~ctures that particularly interest them in their field of study or in their own personal opinions and outlooks. Not the least of the benefits gained from in­dividual lectures and the entire course would be an insight into your own feelings and reactions to violence and nonviolence, perhaps affording a personal perspec­tive . affecting opinions and actions in the · confusion of. the present times.· 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

nonviolence 
· Schedules of remaining lectures for the semester in 127 Nieuwland Science at 4:15-5:30 p.m.: 
Mon., Oct. 18: D. Chris Anderson (Psychology): THE LEARNED ASPECTS OF AGGRESSION. 
Wed., Oct. 20: Morton Kelsey (Education -Non­Violence): PSYCHOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF VI­OLENCE (JUNG AND VIOLENCE). 
Mon., Oct. 25: John Houck (Management): PLAN­NING TOWARD THE YEAR 2000 (I). Wed., Oct. 27: John Houck: PLANNING TOWARD THE YEAR 2000 (II). 
Mon., Nov. 1: Frederick W. Dow (Marketing): THE CHASM IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT-CAN IT BE BRIDGED? (with Prof. Soens?). 
Wed., Nov. 3: Open at present. 
Mon., Nov. 8: Open. 
Wed., Nov. 10: Jim Leary (undergrad. English): ROCK AND ROLL IN REVOLUTION. Mon., Nov. 15: Frank O'Malley (English). Wed., Nov. 17: Ron Weber (American Studies/Com­
munication Arts): Film+ VIOLENCE AND THE MASS MEDIA. Mon., Nov. 22: Ron Weber: VIOLENCE AND THE MASS MEDIA (II). 
Wed., Nov. 24: THANKSGIVING VACATION. Mon., Nov. 29: Stan Hauerwas (Theology) : CHRIS­TIAN RESPONSE TO VIOLENCE (I) Pacifist. 
Wed., Dec. 1: Stan Hauerwas: CHRISTIAN RE­SPONSE TO VIOLENCE (II); VIOLENCE FOR A GOOD CAUSE (ill) Realist. 
Mon., Dec. 6: Bernard Norling (History): VIOLENCE IS NEITHER GOOD NOR BAD PER SE: IT IS NEUTRAL AND DEPENDS ON THE CIRCUM­STANCES. 
Wed., Dec. 8: Morton Kelsey (Ed/~-V): PSYCHOLOG­ICAL ASPECTS OF HANDLING VIOLENCE. 
Tues., Oct. 19: Frederick J. Crosson (Dean AL/General Program): NATURAL AND VIOLENT PRO­CESSES. 
Thurs., Oct. 21: Frederick J. Crosson: RECOURSE TO VIOLENCE. Tues., Oct. 26: Timothy Binkley (Philosophy): THE JUSTIFICATION OF VIOLENCE (I) 
Tues., Nov. 2: John Lucey (Aero/Mech. Engineering): Film + EFFECTS OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS. Thurs., Nov. 4:. Richard Detlef. (English): THE MEAN­
ING OF VIOLENCE {I) THE MIDDLE AGES. Tues., Nov. 9: .Richard Detlef: THE MEANING OF VIOLENCE (II) THE RENAISSANCE. 
Thurs., Nov. 11: Joe H. Cho (Finance/Business Eco­nomics) : FOREIGN INVESTMENTS AND IN­TERNATIONAL CONFLICTS. 
Tues., Nov. 16: Salvatore J. Bella (Management): VI­OLENCE AND THE LABOR MOVEMENT. Thurs., Nov. 18: Salvatore J. Bella: VIOLENCE AND 
THE POLICE. Tues., Nov. 25: John Roos (Government): POLITICS AND VIOLENCE. 
Thurs., Nov. 25: THANKGSIVING VACATION. 
Tues., Nov. 30: Julian Samora (Sociology/Anthropol­ogy) : THE TEXAS RANGERS-HEROES OR OPPRESSORS? Thurs., Dec. 2: Clagett G. Smith (Sociology): STRUC­TURAL THEORY OF AGGRESSION. Tues., Dec. 7: Clagett G. Smith: SOME PROBLEMS IN THE HISTORY OF VIOLENCE. Thurs., Dec. 9: Clagett G. Smith: THE ESCALATION OF INTERNATIONAL CONFLICT (WAR). 
-john moore 

f 
' 
markings 

term paper people 
In recent months, the business world has witnessed the rapid expansion of a new industry-the college termpaper. As described in the April 19, 1971, issue of Time magazine, there is no patent on this idea and several firms are getting into the business. International Term Papers, Inc., Universal Termpapers, Termpapers Unlimited, and Quality Bullshit are some of the names. The attention of the Notre Dame community was drawn to this topic by the following classified ad appearing in the,Observer a few weeks back: 
TERMP APERS AND THEMES 
written by professionals in 
· Speech, Rhetoric, Psychology, 
History, Biology, etc.. 
Original Paper-$3.50 per page 
· Duplicate Paper-$2.00 per page 
Cash, Money Order, or Bank Draft 
QUALITY COLLEGE TERMPAPERS 
P.O. Box 193, Rockford, Ill. 61101 

There is no listing in the Rockford, Illinois, Informa­tion Directory for any company by that name. But whatever the response may have been, the existence of such a company and the fact that, according to Time, such firms are doing considerable business, raise some interesting questions pertinent to the academic system here at Notre Dame. 
· Why are termpaper companies springing up around the country? How will, or can, the university react to the rash of plagiarism that this.industry may·cause? If a student can buy a termpaper to hand in for a grade, 
or 

.what does this say about the validity of termpapers as a learning technique, in other words, do term papers have any value in the first place? 
The explanation for the surge in termpaper pro­ducers lies simply in the factors of supply and demand. Time quoted Ward Warren of Termpapers Unlimited, "The secret of my success is that my employees really believe in what they're doing. Also, there are a lot of brilliant, long-haired people out of work around here, and I rely on them." America's admirable university system is turning out more Ph.D.'s than legitimate busi­ness has use for, and when thermonuclear physicists get by selling hot dogs at ball games and computer scientists are moonlighting as odds makers at the races termpaper people should have no trouble finding highly qualified writers. The large demand for termpaper pro­fessionals is due to several reasons. Richard Mari, of Quality Bullshit, said in Time, '.'The kids have so many termpaper assignments now that they're an obstacle to a degree rather than a learning technique ...." Also, there is a problem inherent almost in the very definition of a termpaper. Since termpapers were invented, the subconscious solution for them has been procrastina­tion-procrastination to a point and then, suddenly, panic. sets in. At times like these, the termpaper people must appearas God-sent saviors, an alternative to the proverbial "all-nighter." A third category of demand is, o! course, the student who is unwilling or incapable to write an assignment. University life has too much to offer this sort· of. person for him to waste his time on anything so banal as work. The student who buys his 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

sinful specialization 
papers from a business firm is not only making his own life easier, but he is also creating employment-and . headaches for educators. 
Professors at Notre Dame showed striking interest and concern with this question of termpapers. ·As quoted above, Richard Mari of Quality Bullshit, "The kids have so many termpaper assignments now that they're an obstacle to a degree rather than a learning technique. As long as we're operating to help people, the business is not only justifiable, it may even be com­mendable." Dr. Costello, of the English department, explained that if a termpaper were harmful ·"we wouldn't ask students to do them." He termed the con­cept of professional paperwriters as "scurrilous idea" calling it "anti-educational." 
Dean Crosson, of the Arts and Letters College, added to this criticism, pointing out that if an excessive number of termpapers is an obstacle to learning, the solution that these ghost-writers supply is certainly no educational technique either. The Dean commented that by and large the number of termpaper assignments is not excessive here, although he admitted that "there are a few cases where guys demand too much." But he insisted that in such instances, for a student to turn to Quality Bullshit or to any of the termpaper people is merely compounding the wrong and a student thereby penalizes himself in the long run. The faculty at Notre Dame are responsive to intelligent appeals and the Dean made clear that no student would be put in a situation where he has no recourse other than plagiarism. 
All of the professors questioned had something strong to say about the third type of student who has no 

intention of working for his grades and who relies on 
sources such as the termpaper people. Dean Crosson 
termed it "appalling" that firms existed which cater to 
such students. Dr. Costello pointed out that such a 
situation is based on an erroneous concept of education. 
The English Department policy states that any instance · of such wholesale plagiarism, if detected, will result in 
an F in the course. 
A student turning in work which has been done by 

professional writers is doing a good deal more harm 
than he realizes. Assistant Professor Patrick Callahan, 
in a letter to the editor of the Observer, pointed out that 
students are in competition with each other when they 
turn in papers. All the other papers in the lot will look 
worse in comparison with professionally prE;pared work. 
so that a student who suoscribes to such. is actually 
cheating his fellow-students more than anyone else. If 
a professor suspects strongly that one student is guilty 
of plagiarism, he is likely to have a suspicious outlook 
on the other students, too. 
Looking back at Time magazine, one finds it is 

suspected that even some instructors at Harvard and 
MIT are working in league with the termpaper people. 
One wonders how the academic standards are defined, 
and by whom. With all of man's intellectual develop­
ment to the point of "sinful specialization," we still 
retain a primitive sense of creativity. Mr. Costello sums 
up the argument succinctly. He said: "Stupidity 
abounds in the world, and this is just another example 
of it." -dave jones 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
-I­

••you can't go to the comer and start running Descartes or Plato down to a brother and expect him to respond." 
Numbers are, for the most part, abstractions of our desires (or fears). Numbers are deceiving. For the past 1 wo years Notre Dame has been actively seeking the enrollment of minority ethnic groups at the University. This enrollment has steadily increased to the point where almost four percent of the undergraduate student body is either Black, Chicano, or American Indian. Although a degree of success can be interpreted through these numbers, admissions counselors and student repre­sentatives sense room for improvement. Out of these abstractions comes a very definite need. 
The University and, in particular, the Office of Ad­missions, is guided by two obligations in the area of minority recruitment. In regard to the minority stu­dents themselves, the University is impelled by a social obligation-a response to the times and the society in which it functions. These students are finally getting ihe educational opportunities that everyone deserves. In its philosophical tenor, at least, the University recognizes its past complicity with institutional racism, and is sincerely trying to rectify this stance. In no small way, the University is responsible to a context much larger than the boundaries of Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The second obligation follows from the first. The society within the boundaries must also reflect the relevance of the community to its times and society. This obligation encompasses the University's relation to all its students. As expressed in the Admissions Office Report on Minority Enrollment, dated September, 1970, 1.he University is attempting to enrich "the diversity of the student body." According to Daniel Saracino, Assis­tant Director of Admissions, the University is obliged to educate each and every student in a "total way," pro­viding them with an environment that demonstrates the multifarious nature of the world. The effect on the stu­dent body is apparent; all social and ethnic backgrounds have a chance to experience all the others. 
Students themselves are deeply involved in fulfilling ihe obligations of the community. Notre Dame has two very active student recruitment organizations: For Blacks, the Recruitment Aid Program (RAP), and for Chicanos, MECHA, a national organization for Mexican­American students. Their views on recruitment reflect the cold necessity of the University's obligations. Armando Alonzo, head of Notre Dame's MECHA, sees the education of Chicano students as an imperative for ihe economic survival of the Chicano communities throughout America. The barrios or Chicano neighbor­hoods are on the very fringe of self-development. For a people, who, in economic terms, are second only to the American Indians in poverty, the need for educated and trained people is the simple reason for recruitment. Ac­cording to Carl Ellison, head of RAP, an ethnically diverse community is needed, yet Black recruitment is aimed primarily at the education of a class of Blacks that will never fit into the white world-education is a call for solidarity among all Blacks. 
-II­

''You're dealing with a group of people who have been screwed by [white] Americans." (Daniel Saracino) 
One cannot say that the search for minority stu­dents, by the Admissions Office or by the student groups, has been lax. The Admissions Office itself has established a number of contacts with testing agencies which learn of academically qualified Blacks, Chicanos, or Indians through their extensive research activities. Also, both the Admissions Office and MECHA send out letters to high school counselors asking for the names of prom­ising minority students. Contacts with these men, as well as junior college counselors and administrators, are invaluable, enabling the University to have firsthand, personal information on prospective students. 
Yet often information on minority high school stu­dents comes not from the established channels or testing facilities, but from members of the University com­munity. Minority students attending the University frequently suggest names of prospective students whom they know personally from their home communities. Individual faculty members, such as Dr. Samora of the Sociology department, or faculty groups interested in particular minorities, seek out applicants. Admin-istrators, other than Admissions Office personnel, also suggest students that the University should be interested in. Alumni who are aware of particular outstanding individuals in their own communities are also an im­portant source of names and, at times, financial assist­ance. 
The foremost form of seeking minority students is by "bringing Notre Dame to them" through visits to inner-city, barrio,, or reservation schools by RAP, MECHA, and the Admissions Office. These trips, funded by the administration, give high school students a chance to speak with a member of RAP, MECHA, or Mr. Saracino. The bulk of the traveling, unfortunately, is done by an admissions counselor, as student recruiters are limited, for the most part, to a 100-mile radius around the campus. 
At this point, concerning the recruitment proper, the teamwork notion fades. "I don't like the word, 'recruitment,' " says Dan Saracino, "because it connotes some sort of athletic huckstering or talking one into going to Notre Dame. I go out on theroad and share my experiences here with ·the kids." Besides the special effort to learn of academically qualified minority stu­dents and the waiver of application fees for needy in­dividuals, there is, ultimately, no difference in the Ad­missions Office "recruitment" for minority students than for white students. The prospective _students are in­vited to visit the campus, they are made aware of appli­cation procedures, details of financial aid, and programs which might be most suitable to their ethnic background 
(e.g. Urban Studies). 
For Armando Alonzo, the MECHA group offers pro­spective Chicano students something that the Admis­sions Office lacks, an understanding of the Chicano com­munity and its language. At present there is no Spanish­speaking counselor in the Admissions Office or in the Freshman Year Office. TheMECHA members, who them­selves come from the barrios, realize that· they must speak to a very poor, undereducated community. They realize, too, the significance of Notre Dame to the Chicanos, who are ninety percent Catholic and look with reverence on a school which· offers a high-quality education and, in their thought, a Christian community. Armando and his group are able to speak to the stu­dents in their own language and perhaps give to. them a view of Notre Dame that could never be communicated by an English-speaking recruiter. . 
According to Carl Ellison, the members of RAP can communicate the situation for Blacks far better than any white recruiter. A realistic appraisal of the dismal social conditions. for·, Blacks makes much more sense than a litany of praise ·for the academic achievements of the University. A white nian's experiences may be interesting, but. they tell the Black. very. little in terms of the minority student's Iµe at Notre Dame. Ellison tells them honestly that the school is changing, yet, by the same token, he describ~s:the University's problem in relating to Black students. RAP, he says, does not speak of Notre Dame's academic excellence, for most Black students have only a vague notion ·of higher education. "You can't go to the corner," says Carl, "and start_ run-· ning down Descartes. or. Pla.to to a brother an~ expect him to respond." 
These differing views .o~ recruitment have led to disagreement. · While all parties agree that a team effort is the best way to approach recruitment to avoid dupli­cation of efforts,· the students havelegitimate grievances. RAP, says Ellison, has been accused of wasting money with little results,· in terms of the actual number of students that they draw to the University. Ellison counters that RAP's efforts extend only to a 100-mile radius around the University, and if give.ii the same traveling opportunities as the Admissions Office and a larger expenditure, he could recruit a -larger· number of Blacks. MECHA's suggestion that the· University hire a Chicano admission counselor is more than legitimate. The language barrier of the white man necessitates it.. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
-ill­
"You're rejecting my son, but are accepting niggers." 
Once the applications are submitted, however, the decision of accepting students lies solely in the hands of admissions personnel. It is here that the fear of Notre Dame's favorite sons becomes manifest; the University is selecting students that may not be up to past stand­ards only because of their ethnic background. The white alumni often see the recruitment as being prejudicial against white applicants: "You're rejecting my son, but are accepting niggers." 
The admissions policy regarding minority applicants is similar to its "recruitment" policy; though there is a flexible attitude towards Blacks, Chicanos, and Indians, the criterion for final judgement is the same one used for all students. "For the Blacks, Chicanos, Indians, and Anglos things are looked at in the same way essen­tially," states Mr. Saracino, "but ... everything is looked at, everything is put in its proper perspective." For the Black student, "proper perspective" might in­clude the placing of more emphasis on his class rank rather than the SAT scores. Also considered is the per-


centage of his classmates that are college bound. A 

· ghetto school may have only twenty percent of its grad­uating seniors going on to college, compared with the eighty-percent rate of most schools that white Notre Dame students attended. 
The prospective Black student must have the basic academic qualifications to show that he can perform well at Notre Dame, for no official remedial or "catch­up" program exists at Notre Dame. There is, of course, 

·an English course reserved for international students in their freshman year, but its usefulness to American minority students is negligible. More importantly, the Admissions Office looks at the student's "motivational potential," that is, his competitive desire which would make up for any deficiencies in formal education. "These students have a lot going against them in high school," states Mr. Saracino, "so they must have strong attitudes and characters." Judging from the Admissions memo on this year's freshman class, Notre .Dame has succeeded in getting the students it wants. The academic and extracurricular records, except for the SAT, for minority freshmen are better than those for the entire freshman class. 
And yet the University's admission standards for minority students or in particular, their trumpeting of these standards and the high quality students they bring, seem to be addressed only to those that worry about the prestige of Notre Dame. Notre Dame's ad­ministrators speak disparagingly of "remedial pro­grams," and demonstrate, with five-page memos, the high academic and motivational qualities of the stu­dents they bring here. But, as Carl Ellison points out, the Admissions Office is primarily concerned with stu­dents who have adjusted to white educational and social standards, who demonstrate academic excellence and high "motivation." Ellison fears that the University is enrolling what he terms the "Black bourgeois," avoiding the "brothers on the street" who have not and will not adjust to the motivational standards of awhite society. 
-IV­

"..· . when the funds run out there is nothing more we can do." 
Despite the debates over recruitment and selection methods, Notre Dame's minority recruitment is, in the end, conceived in terms of numbers. The need for cultural diversification is lost in a maze of figures. The argument is abstracted and, for the present, unresolved. The monetary figures of :financial aid make the philo­sophical considerations significant only on paper. Financial aid is the basic and limiting element .of re­
i . 
I 

cruitment. For the 1971-72 academic year, of the _100 Chicanos to apply,' 67 were accepted, 19 of· these were offered financial aid and ·just these 19 are now_ fresh­men. The University sees its recruitment as a "removal of th_e greatest wall which separates minority students from Notre Dame," and that wall is money~ Most of the 
· minority applicants are poor,--and, in .Alonzo's words, "What is the use of being accepted when you can't even provide one-third of University expenses?" 
Financial aid for minority students is br<;>ken.into_ three categories, the last of which is not available to white students. Much fiI?,ancial aid comes directly_ from the ·government in the form of OEO grants, National Defense Loans, and -Work-Study Programs. Scholarship money from the University, ROTC, state, -or· private associations accounts for the-second largest percentage. Last, special University grants fi.mded by .the Cotton. Bowl games and private contributions are used specifi­cally for Black, Chicano, and Indian students.-All but.a·· few minority students· receive one of_ these types of aid, or a "package" of all three. 
"Notre Dame's ·commitment 1s a ·commitment _of· funds," says Mr. Saracino, ''and when the funds run out there is nothing more we can_ do.". If the University is' ultimately concerned with minority recruitment and its social arid educational obligations are reduced to the availability of funds, then its minority recruitment program is subject to deep criticism. The special Uni­versity grants are the concrete evidence of its commit­meqts, but the source of these grants is not stable. Presently, the Cotton Bowl money is the predominant. source of minority funds, but should the availability of funds to Black or Chicano students be dependent upon football ratings and postseason bowls? One would hope that the status of the recruitment program is more stable than a Saturday afternoon diversion. The University has assigned low-level priority to the minor­ity aid by not fixing it upon a permanent endowment and thus consciously limiting minority enrollment. True, there has been talk about raising a $6,000,000 endowment for minority scholarships that would. be · both adequate and permanent. Unfortun_ately, this figure can now be only an abstraction.· . 
-:-•~;=~~:, -=~ ~ --~-­
~ . ­
-
-~ --~ , . -;,_ ":. ,._ . 

".-.. ~:I-~on't care how:they have to.:do"1t.·.·-1fthey.are.. .. tndy·co~mitt~d)o minority _education, -they: wfil:·ed­. ucate:·minorities .and not: just the· 'elite': minorities." 
(Carl:Ellison) · ·. · · 
As it is . presently set _. up, .the . entire. recruitment program is based on an elitist:: philosophy. . The em­phasis put·upon a rather narrow view of academic ex­cellence ·and "motivational potential" leaves us with Notre Dame as we know it-a center of self-perpetuat­ing prestige. This sense of pride has little to ·do_with_the central problem of minority recruitment; the problem of educating those that will never have the chance.:· 
This is not to be construed -into 'the popular notion of a University dedicated to "the People." .The University certainly must discriminate some\Vhat in .its· selection of students. But with _the absence of specific remedial programs this discrimination is out of balance. Without these_ remedial progran1s, Notre Dame ignores a class of students·that are talented and would achieve at Notre · Dame with the minimum of "catch-up". work. Their talent is found in. a kind of motivation that is defined 
. . 

· . outside of the· Protestant work ethic that permeates literature distributed by the Admissions Office. Specifi­cally, there are talented Black, Chicano and Indian stu­dents that cannot accept the motivational standards defined here,· or the academic abilities that would come naturally to whJte students who have functioned in this envir9nment'for 17 years. The minority students present at du Lac are, indeed, Notre Dame men; they have adjusted to a sense of "manhood" that is defined in the Admissions Office. 
The importance of groups like RAP and MECHA becomes most apparent in this area. A "brother" c~n identify with the talent thatlies outside theUniv~sity­a ·talent that is defined by an entirely different culture. If the University is to be diversified and offer a total education, it must recognize and encourage this talent. It is an investment in the future of a culturally inte­grated society. With this investment comes a new kind of prestige; one of a total community with a panoramic view of the larger society that surrounds it. ­
The resolution of this cultural view lies, as stated above, in money. Without adequate funds RAP and MECHA · cannot do what is necessary to bring in stu­dents that widen the ·cultural scope of Notre Dame. Without adequate funds· these students can never be­come part of Notre Dame. ·The.people that have sup­ported the tra,ditional concept of the Notre Dame stu­
" dent body in the past-are to be looked to for a response. Alumni and :.friends.:oof the University have the potential to invest in the_ cultural future of the University; the response_ to. the SUMMA campaign .demonstrates_ this. The responsibility to encourage this potential lies with. ·· the Administration, those )Vho actuallyraise :the moriey; -· 
-those. wh_o·state the desi~·Jor a culturally. di\:'ersified University:: · ·" _ .. , _ _ · 
· -. THE SCHOLASTIC 

II. abstractions across the road 
There are twenty-two (22) Black women at St. Mary's , College. , ~ · · -· · . . The total enrollment-is approximately~1700 women. ­F,or .the class of ''75 there were 13 applications 'for ad­.. mission filed. by-Black women: 11 were accepted, 6 · matriculateu. There is no administrative· group recruiting Black women. There are no student groups recruiting -Black women. · Presently, all recruitment is carried ·-on by Sister Alma and the Alumnae Association. The SMC Human· Affairs Commission, under student government, is presently trying to organize such a group. There is no officially recognized remedial or tutorial pro­gram for minority students. There are no scholarships except for the "academically strong." A "reduction of cost," is, however, available to those in need. · Last year Sister Alma sent 60-70 letters to high schools encouraging minority application;· the response was _ · not encouraging. :There are twenty-two (22) Black women at St. Mary's College. 
OCTOBER ·15/:1971 17. 
Pakistani ,,Relief 
Scholastic: Could you give ine a brief history of the 
plight of the refugees? 
-' -. . ' ­

Committee: There was, first of all, a cyclo_ne. in October· of last year which killed upwards of two-thirds of a mil­lion people. This cyclone left millfons. homeless~ Much· of the crops was also destroyed by this .same cyclone.. Then the .largest monsoon· season in the history of. . Pakistan struck the countryJ destroying what little crops remained. · 
In March ()f this year, the.West Pakistani ariny under Ayub Khan moved into East Pakistan and l:Jegan a full-scale massacre of the population. The people,· naturally, fled for their lives, and as of today, there are approximately nine and a· half million refugees in India, which. is itself. very poor.. Most o£·the relief for. the refugees is going through West ~akistan, and, con.-. sequently; much of it is•not reaching the refugees· and· i~ being used by .the We~t Pakistani army. . . . . 
'Tiiere exist predictions; by reputable· authorities;. that upwards of one-third of the people remaining in East.Pakistan and the refugees iri India:will·die 
C •• :'._: 

of-starvation.· The Indians ·themselves. can give little aid to the refugees in their.land because.they·iack adequate fu11ds and relief~ . . •. · · . . . .. · , 
.. . "<' :.-··.~ ·,. 

except for operational funds. We are going to be · recommending certain relief agencies such as UNICEF · · and CARE, to which the other campuses may donate their money.. 
Our purpose is really. twofold:· one, we set up chapters on the other college campuses; two; we will try to act as the.main cohesive force in political terms, 
.to try to pressure Congress. to do something about the Pakistani s,ituatiori. We've written up a· resolution which we will send to all-Congress.men' and Sen_ators, and we_.will urge all· students .to pressure their legislative representatives. ' ',' . ' . ' '' : . 
s·cho7,astic: In·other words, you're the main organiza­tion and self~founded? 
Committee: As far .as the United States is concerned we are the main group;-·However, .the exception is made ~hen you are· talking about other countries, in'. par­ticiil~r, E~gland.:".We ·have:affiliated :ourselves with . stud_enf groups_ in, tha~ ·country .as well:as. in others and we are operating under.the name or'title: Students' 
:'\¥orld Cohcern.·.We are.more or,-less the international hea~quarters.,· We don't:run-th~. group;.but we.are directly,affiliated--witli.branches·.in.o_ther countrfos, . 
', branches which operated lirider-•ofuer names until we . 
S~1wlastic: .W~uici .you -describe -~the:origin. ~:f:-your _.: ·, :_, : agr~ed -to come' under. one title. · . . . group;_'Qle motivation b:ehind: theicfrigin~·.and any:,ihter-~ .· .· ·~ -': ;,.·: . ·. : . .-.:c ~-· ·.,: · ,..· · ~--. _natiomil.'or national groups you·are·affiliated with?.':~:--'. _$chblastic.: Th~n for1,the:w9rld ,organization,· you are 
. . . . . ';_• , . . . . . . . . . the,-titular-head,:an~_each.bratich is-more or less Committee: This.group is an outgrowth.of the Students'. independent;.but·-you_handle tpe information and: ·for··Biafran Relief which operated.on this campus a '•:·,.. ~oo!{wqfk?.', .·> .·, ·· 
year and a half ago. With the Biafran organizati_on, as :·· .-. . _ ... · > •..• : : .: ·., • •· .•..·., ..· 
· well as with this present Pakistani relief group, _we ·, . : · Commitle..e: .We try,to disseminate informati,on between were the national ·headquarters ..We tried to ~et up.· ' the natimi~fJ.i,eadquarters, between London, Paris,: or.''·.. branches on each campus in the United States. We· ·. ·· :Bonn; forex~mple.~-If they can't get certain information .
-
0 

raised'approximately $10,000 for Biafran relieL:Tfiis X year we are dealing with the Pakistaniproblem, but we. are 11ot going to collect funds from the other schools, in: that they·are reluctant to send them to a central branch, 
~ ~ . ­
,\•·w~ hbpe't~ be able.-to give_it-to them~, There is_not · ·· 0 .thatmuch:paper: work, yet it is a bureaucratic attack·.·. on· burea1:1cracy ... Y:ou don't ·get anything,.done, tor ·-': . ,.­instance in· the Congress;· unless. they think you are...·. · · ·: · 
. ' . ' -' -., 
~ THE SCHOLAS7'IC' 

an intervievv 
representing -a large part of the electorate. We'll be sponsoring a film on campus at the end of ·November/"A Man For All-Seasons." We'll be collecting Scholastic: What is' your particular group on _campus money door· to door. We'll have collectors out during . _doing to.aid the refugees? · · . the next football weekends. If every student on campus 
contributed maybe two dollars, -which is really minimal GonJ,mittee: We have _been·tryirig to circulate informa­considering the amount of money that is spent around tion on the problem, trying to get students to a_ct ·ori here by the student body; that could amount to about the information, to write· to their Congressmen, their · twenty thousand. And I think that in a period of one Senators, the President. Many people feel, th9ugh,. tha.t­. semester: they could do it. their letter will be ignored, ·and we have to ·instill in .. them the belief their one letter will do a. hell of ·a lpt. Because· their Congressmen are not seers, they-are · many times ill-informed or less. informed a~out·-world situations than their constituents. It's worthwhile for· the'stu.dents.as voters to.write, because if·the millions--,_',: of students do write then the Representatives>im be ~-. made·'aware:of the Pakistani sifuatiori· and tlie·feelirtgs. of their student co~stituents. . . , 
·scholastic: Is it correct·to say that your 6rgani~aticm· is primarily a lobbying type organization?. 
, , 

Committee:. Yes. ·we emphasize this need for alobbying ·'effort. But we also have to seek furids _from the.­private sphere. The government itself_ can produce large · amounts of•funds immediately . .· •··For.instance, we're in close contact with Senator · Ted ~ennedy with interest in the bill he's proposing to 
increase the allotment to India by $450,000,000. He · also would like our support in the amendment to the · -F,or·eign Aid bill. This would limit funds to West 
Pakistan and increase funds to relief organizations and · 'to India. We're working very closely with various . ·, Senators and Congressmen in hopes that we'll get · something done. 
_-,·.. But a few individuals in Congress can't do it by ·. ·: . th~mselves; They can't jump on their colleagues and , ··say ."Do· it." They have to depend on their constituents . 
. Partly from them anyway.· And so we emphasize that · · ·a#d at the sime time there's a great need for help ·.uom :·the p:r:ivate sector. 
iniages 

photographs by fred monsour 
.. 
-~:. ?ft:· 
-· , 
Senior artist Kevin Booher is currently exhibiting a retros-pective collection of his work in the Isis Gallery of the University Arts Center (Old Fieldhouse). 
The fact that surrealistic painting is usually in­tensely psychological opens it to some of the greatest possibilities for human expression. But by the very same reason of its psychological character, surrealism also presents a danger of egotistical self-indulgence, at worst, and uninspired reiteration of commonplace human problems, at best. In one case the artist deals with the not unusual conflicts of human consciousness. Whereas when the artist allows the dark forces _of the human unconscious to become actualized in his. work, he permits the mysterious and the strange, formed in the image of the mythical, to confront human conscious­ness. The result of this confrontation with the un­conscious is often a terrifying awareness of some bizarre alteration of the natural world. The terror or the shock of such a primordial vision rises out of the un­foreseen possibilities presented by a glimpse into the un­fathomed abyss of the yet unknown. 
In the group of paintings currently presented at the Isis Gallery, Kevin Booher demonstrates rather clearly the difference between the flaccid work of psychological intelligibility and the efficacious articulation of the visionary-for his exhibit seems to hold examples of both. One instance of the psychological painting shows a pair of strangely haunting eyes peering forth from within a kind of marshmallow spacesuit. The painting is initially engaging by right of the characteristically surreal juxtaposition of the undeniable with the unim­aginable. A great deal of traditional enchantment with surrealistic art arises from this very technique. The artist forces the viewer to accept the reality of things set together in an appallingly unreal way. This, again, 
the vitalizing 

is exactly the source of the engaging quality of the 
"marshmallow-encased eyes." 
But the reason the painting remains on the level of the merely psychologically intelligible, without rising to the height of the inspired visionary, is that it only goes so far as to make conscious presentation of common­place human struggles with barely a touch of poetic insight. The "eyes in the spacesuit" certainly do not make for a painting that is difficult to understand. The messages of isolation, loneliness, and incommunicabil­ity are immediate and, we would say, too obvious. Once the viewer reaches awareness of the painting's message, there is little room left for further serious consideration. The painting is too limited, too self-contained. It lacks the heuristic quality of the truly inspirational work of art which moves the viewer, albeit with a jolt, out of his intelligibly ordered existence into a new world of boundless imaginative possibilities. 
But while there are examples of this intellectualized, and hence devitalized, use of mere surrealist technique, there are also, and m(?St importantly, instances in Booher's exhibit of surrealistic art executed with a vital­izing potency. The examples of this latter type, which indeed impinges on the visionary, are in fact few. But they are there, and because they seem to be some of his most recent works, they hold up the possibility of great potential for the artist. The works of this type cer­tainly lack the immediacy and superficially fascinating quality of the others. But perhaps for this very reason they transcend the humanly ordinary and almost reach a plane of mystical vision. 
The paintings of this type are the ones in which the marshmallow figures lose their shape and become less intelligible. The forms begin to take. on the quality of fierce polar bears-although it is uncertain that that is actually what the figures are. The flat immediacy of the shapes in the former paintings is replaced by the 


of potential 
subtly indistinct and inconceivable shapes of bear-like monsters. Concomitant with this new subtlety of in­comprehensible form, a distinct change in the use of color is evident, which also indicates a development toward true vision in the work of art. The colors change from the vapid use of large areas of unmitigated purples and oranges, to the blankly terrifying, yet almost inspirational, use of whites, pinks and grays. These newfound colors seem to place a pall of real ghoulish horror over the latest works. Especially in these two areas, form and color, do Booher's paintings take on an aura of the primordial, of the archaic. He comes closer in these recent paintings in approaching the mythical. The vital reality of these last paintings comes from the fact that they somehow avoid conscious intellectualization and allow the dark speech of the spirit to find articulation. They are the important real­ization of darkly religious forces making themselves evident to human consciousness. 
When an artist begins to deal with the truly myth­ical, he attempts to give form to a genuinely primordial experience within him. The a~tist's experience is char­acteristically primordial because it deals with the crea­tive forces which were present at the beginning. The artist gives expression to these forces in the form of mythic symbols. The expression is symbolic because it points to something which has existence in its own right, but yet is imperfectly known. The artist has had a glimpse of the unfathomable psychic world, and he is somehow forced to give this vision symbolic form. And the true imaginative act of artistic expression really does express a deep human need. 
Although the artist is dealing with alien and eter­nally unknowable forces, he must make some attempt at assimilation. For these are the creative powers which underlie the mystery of life. His work is a true mani­festation of a primitive religious need. He must find the 
OCTOBER 15, 1971 
"right way" of dealing with the forces of the inner life. He must make an attempt, no matter how futile or ter­rifying it may seem, to come to an intellectual and emotional understanding of these forces. 
Kevin Booher's most recent works find their vitality in this very quest to come to terms with the forces of creation. His art now begins to confront these forces, and the creative powers in turn begin to work in his art. 
-Mike McCabe 
...., 
...;.-.

:.~1;;
-,.-I:' :, 
; ..,,"'·­
,:. ~. 
":,,.:-;: 
~~ .:.·.;
··:~' }·~: 
. ,..,_·-~ 
~ ~ --.;i2~~. ~ 
rowdy rock and hollywood dreams 
The group, as any dedicated Who freak will readily 
tell you, has gradually eased into Phase III of their 
development toward the incarnation of Pete Town­
shend's Hollywood dream. Phase I being tpe good old, 
rowdy, guitar-smashing, "My Generation" days; Phase 
II the recording and subsequent self-consciousness of 
"Tommy." "Live at Leeds," a great album in itself, 
was only an interlude, a snack to appease the public 
appetite. Enter Phase ill. 

"Who's Next" is a beautiful and exhilarating album. In order of appearance we have: Pete Townshend, wild man and thinker, playing a very tight and controlled lead, occasionally breaking into long, lyric solos which find him improvising on the ax long enough to send all concerned into mantra; there is Keith Moon, attacking the drums with the usual competence and blinding speed; then there is Roger Daltrey, whose work on this album finally establishes him as one of the top three or four rock vocalists; and, of course, John Entwistle, the Ox, slaving away on his bass, half-asleep but every bit the guts of the band. 
Aside from the individual E;Xcellence, the most strik­ing thing about this album is its versatility. The selec­tion ranges from the soaring, hard-driving rock of songs like "Bargain" to the gentle, -lyrically beautiful "Song Is Over," which features an intricate vocal har­mony by Townshend and Daltrey over a great piano by guest artist Nicky Hopkins. Listen to the soft inter­ludes and moving lyrics of "Bargain" and· "Behind Blue Eyes"; this is the musical· theme of the album; quiet, gentle moments juxtaposed with the thundering rock which has become The Who's trademark. 
The versatility does not end there. · Other songs range from the wistful "Gettin' in Tune" to Entwistle's rollicking and slightly inane "My Wife," which laments the fate of the everyday husband, be he workingman or rock star. There. is Townshend· making excellent use of the A.R.P. synthesized on "Baba O'Riley" and ''Bargain.'' 
Finally, we come to the piece de resif;tance. A cur­tain closer in the tradition·of "My Generation" and ''Magic Bus.." "Won't Get Fooled Again," according to Pete Townshend, ''has a lot of giimoes in it, depend-in on how gizmoed the audience is." To be sure, there are enough for two or three songs. It would be use­less to try and describe this song, it simply must be heard. It's worth it just to hear that Daltrey scream after the long organ solo. Or, as a friend of mine once put it, if you can't get off on the Who, you must be a corpse. 
-Casey Pocius 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

• • • • .~ ,t • • "'. --• • -• • • •• •• • 
. -. ' ·... , . . ~ . . . . -­
music vs. muzak 
When I cannot sing 1ny heart, I can only speak my mind, Julia 
-John Lennon 

Ever since the Beatles had the chance to stop grind­ing out fantastic rock and to start creating exactly what they wanted, John has been able to do both (sing his heart and speak his mind). But it wasn't until the Beatle break-up that John was able to do both almost exclusively. His love for Yoko, their experience with primal therapy, and the Beatle split itself were the total subject matter for his first album. It was musical evidence of the "no-more-bull-shit" stance that he and Yoko discussed in Rolling Stone. The primal scream was there in Well, Well, Well, and save the love songs to Yoko, the entire record, both musically and vocally was grisly and raw, the screams and moans of a man who wanted to talk about his pain. If, over the years, you hadn't been fascinated with the personality of John Lennon, you probably didn't dig his record. 
On his new LP, Imagine, John has more to say about himself, about Yoko, about the Beatles, and he even reserves a couple of cuts for the type of preaching he used to do in songs like All You Need Is Love and Revolution. But there is something different about this recording, something that is making Lennon-lovers and Beatle freaks smile knowingly at each other again. John has come out of isolation and left his pain behind. He is among friends. George plays a bunch of fine guitar and Nicky Hopkin's does it on piano. Klaus Voorman plays bass again, and Alan White does most of the drumming. (I'm guessing that Ringo was making a movie.) And there are a host of others. At any rate, it all spells MUSIC, and those who missed accompani­ment on his first LP now have plenty of company. 
He has left his pain behind. His wit is sharp, his heart is gushing, and he is still pissed off enough to tell some of those f ----ers that they won't get him twice. Gimmee Some Truth is a musical continuation of the Rolling Stone interview. qh My Love is for Yoko -simple and simply beautiful. How Do You Sleep? is written to Paul-the lyrics are deliciously vicious and the music, including a slide guitar part by Harrison, is oh-so-funky. Crippled Inside is something R. Crumb would be proud to have in his COMIX. In Imagine we say hello to the dream-weaver that John said goodbye to in his first solo recording, and in I Don/t Wanna Be a Soldier Mama, I Don/t Wanna Die, we have more evidence of the fact that since the beginning of Rock 'n' Roll there have been few. rock artists that have been as truly innovative as Lennon. 
In How Do You Sleep? John tells Paul: "The sound you make is muzak to my ears." And somehow, muzak describes it exactly. On Ram, especially, Paul seems content to bury his talent in favor of fun and games in the studio with Linda. But I secretly think that John hopes Paul will put down his muzak and start making MUSIC again. For those of us who believe we will go to our graves without ever hearing a sound so sweet and so tight as a McCartney harmony on top of a Lennon vocal, perhaps we'll be able to find some comfort in good individual albums. And with all due respect to George, Imagine is the best thing yet to have come out of the fractured Beatles. 
-Phil Novak 

a,jv 
;,~~~i

•• ~4_...,.,_,,.. 
"4'·.•. 
revenge in an earthly hell 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

When Duchess of Malfi opens Friday night in O'Laughlin auditorium, both actors and audience are going to be entering relatively unfamiliar dramatic ter­ritory, and some caution on both sides of the curtain will be necessary to avoid general confusion. 
The fundamental matter of discovering the dramatic tradition from which the play springs offers a case in point. At first glance, the evidence seems to suggest that Duchess of Malfi is a breed of revenge tragedy, and therefore the most well-known work of that breed. Harnlet) might offer some clues both as to the means and ends of Webster's Duchess. The two plays do have clear similarities: both feature hasty and socially im­proper marriages, a less than firmly resolute male avenger, a high incidence of madness on one hand and aged pomposity on the other, and fifth act bloodbaths capped with rather anticlimactic sermonettes from wholly forgettable good guys. Webster, however, has broken with the revenge-tragedy tradition in ways which are important both pragmatically and thematic­ally. 
The key reversal of tradition is that Justice has switched sides. Now the hunters and not the hunted fall to their knees but are unable to pray. The effects of this switch reverberate through every aspect of the Duchess of Malfi and finally make Hamlet a nearly use­less analogue. 
Shakespeare's Denmark is a grey, melancholy sort of place where Justice seems to be held in suspension and good and evil co-exist. Webster's Malfi is a black, despair-choked world where justice has disappeared and where the virtuous and noble have an appreciably re­duced lifetime. Webster has gone to great lengths to conjure up this black, carnivorous mood, but, unfortu­nately, a good deal of his effort may go for nothing because of a peculiar blind-spot of the present age. The main tool Webster employs to create an atmosphere in this play is the image patterns of his poetry, and modern actors and audiences bred on the stark naturalism of language in Pinter or Albee tend to pass callously through the suggestive possibilities of verse. But when­ever speakers and hearers begin to savor the wealth of images which Webster has woven into his text, a truly horrible setting begins to emerge. It is a world saturated with the carnality and bestiality of man, with sweat, dung, bones, puke, lust and leprosy. Men are constantly seeking medicines and remedies, and finding only super­stition and quackery. Webster has stocked the play with spies, whores and hypocrites and set them loose in a world of dungeons, secret chambers and dark alleys. 
In fact, one of Websters's most outstanding skills as a dramatist is his ability to create dramatic situations where all that is repulsive in human nature and the 
human condition is succinctly crystallized. He gives us, 
for instance, a scene in which a corrupt Cardinal dis­
poses of his unwanted mistress by forcing her to vow 
dedication to him and to seal that vow \"1,rith a kiss upon 
a Sacred Book which he has poisoned. Polanski has 
hardly shown us any more concentrated perversion of 
all things that could be holy. 
In this earthly hell that vVebster evokes, death and destruction need not creep in through some crack in a hero's character, doom is everywhere. The tragedy in Duchess of Malfi arises not so much from 'lcho the characters are as from where they are, or, more pre­cisely, not from character but from circumstance. Thus, to go prowling for tragic flaws, as may be our habit in tragedy, will only lead to fruitless confusion. ·webster has largely neglected the delicate details of motivation and character analysis. His characters are not primarily offered as examples of complex human souls, but instead as incarnations of several human passions thro\v·n into a pit by fortune to devour one another. There is the Dutchess, intensely generous and faithful; Antonio. eminently rational and pious; Ferdinand, violently ag­gressive and vengeful; the Cardinal, thoroughly hollow and Machiavellian; and Bosoia, relentlessly grasping and convoluted. Finally, however, none of these passions have the power to overcome Fortune, who seems to have orchestrated "all things to help the unhappy man to fall." 
However, Fortune does not work like lightning in Webster's cosmos. His play is long and digressive even by 17th century standards. The greatest men die most slowly there, racked until "it may be pain but no harm to die." But this heartlessly slow grinding of Fate is an effect difficult to dramatize when actors and audiences are accustomed merely to neat two-hour trips to a theatre. The audience must be willing to expend more than the pedestrian amount of attention and sen­sitivity it customarily invests in a trip to the theatre. The actors must walk a delicate path between throwing away the poetry Webster spent some three years perfecting and wallowing in oratory. If either per­formers or viewers back out of their half of their theatrical bargain, tedium, not Fortune will grind through O'Laughlin. 
The Duchness of Malfi cannot be light theatre. It is a trip into heartless evil written by a master of horror. Neither can the play be any easy piece. It relies too heavily on a fatalism which is foreign to these days of popular humanism, and on theatrical techniques and forms distant from the realism and naturalism of most well-known modern theatre. But to say that it cannot be light or facile is not necessarily to say that it cannot be potent. 
-Mark O7Connel 

i I 

Film is alive and well on campus this year. This is especially true for Cinema '72, the Cultural Arts Com­mission's year-long film series. This season Cinema '72 will emphasize contemporary European movies as well as outstanding films from other production centers. As in the past, there will be several week-long festivals. This year the series includes a week of East European cinema, a retrospective of the underground/experi­mental film, and a portfolio of the Italian director Federico ~ellini. 
The professional quality of the opening feature, the political thriller Z, is a considerable change prior to 1962, when the Film Series began. Joseph Ohalla, an undergraduate then, talked with Dr. Donald Cos­tello about the lack of any "film consciousness" of the Notre Dame student body. Dr. Costello and Ohalla formed the "Student-Faculty Film Society" and offered during its first year winning movies of the International Catholic Film Office. The second year the Society screened comedies while the following season featured one film each from the great international film directors. 
That year brought for the first time to the campus important movies by leading directors, like Fellini and Bergman. By the '66 and '67 seasons, the profits from the series bought film equipment to be used by under­graduates. The filmmakers called themselves the "Notre Dame Film Society" and have continued through this year. 
The Film Society provided a training ground for students who were interested in making movies, an op­portunity which otherwise would not be available since the University did not then offer courses in that field. Five of the students in the Film Society received fellow­ships to film schools because of the experience provided by the Film Society. Several undergraduates have since then entered careers involving cinema including teach­ing, production, and criticism. 
One of the most ambitious of these undergraduates is Bob Haller who edited two magazines concerning cinema while he was an undergraduate. Also when Haller was at Notre Dame he founded Film Heritage which he now publishes in Dayton, Ohio. 
As in the preceding years, Cinema '72 features the best of contemporary as well as past cinema. For in­stance, next weekend Cinema '72 will screen the 1937 French classic Gramd lllusion, and then it will follow 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

cinenia '72 the year of the filni 
with Alain Robbe-Grillet's The Man who Lies. Lies is Robbe-Grillet's third film which was produced in 1968; his first film, L'Immortelle, was here last year as well as Resnais' Last Year at Marienbad whose script was written by Robbe-Grillet. Concluding that week is the Belgian-Polish film Le Depart which is directed by Jerzy Skolimowski. 
Also as in the past, Cinema '72 screens a variety of styles, settings and outlooks. 
In mid-November will be Cinema '72's first such festival featuring a variety of East European movies. The first one will be Zbynek Brynych's Sign of the Vir­gin; Brynych is a Czech who also directed The Fifth Horseman is Fear. Next is the Yugoslavian film, Love Affair, or The Case oftheMissing Switchboard Operator. Affair which is directed by Dusan Makavejev is consid­ered to be one of the most imaginative films made in East Europe. 
Concluding that week will be the Bulgarian movie The Peach Thief and the Russian film The Cranes are Flying. Thief is written and directed by Vulo Radev and is set in a small village during World War I. The award­winning Cranes is also about war and set during the last world war. 
In mid-February the second week-long festival will screen a retrospective of the underground/experimental film. The first day will include such early classics as L'Age de Or and provide a basis for recent avant-garde films. This festival will also have two features: De­Palma's Greetings and Warhol/Morrissey's Trash. The rest of the week will consist of shorts like Campas Christi. 
The third and last festival will feature a portfolio of Fellini. This includes his most important films: 81/2, Juliet of the Spirits, I Vitonelli, La Strada and La Dolce Vita. Although Fellini's films have been here on campus, this will be the first time that one can see his develop­ment as a director. 
"The most dramatic difference between the years preceding the founding of Cinema '62 and today," be­lieves Dr. Costello, "is the sophistication of student response." That is, the majority of undergraduates who come to a film screening consider the film medium as "a fine art" and not as a triffle. The entrance of Claudia Cardinale today is no longer, then, greeted-with ten minutes of whistles and catcalls. 
Film consciousness on campus will further expand 

next year with new courses concerning cinema includ­
ing "Film Masters" taught by Dr. Costello and Dr. 
Stritch's "From Fiction to Screen." The latter will ex­
plore the script adaptation process. Also, during the 
summer sessions there is a film series run by the De­
partment of American Studies. 
Following the East European festival in November will be Ousmane Sembene's 1970 film Mandabi (The Money Order produced in Senegal. The second semes­ter opens with Destroy, She Said written and directed by Marguerite Duras, the French novelist and play­wright who wrote the script for Hiro~hima, Mon Amour. Also scheduled will be Bergman's recent film The Ritual and Marcel Camus' award-winning movie B"'lack Orpheus which is considered to be one of the most beautiful films ever made. 
Other films for Cinema '72 are Passolini's Media and the Brazilian "Cinema Novo" film Barren Lives. Concluding the year will be two different kinds of film approaches: Godard's Weekend and Roberto Rossellini's 
The Rise of Louis XIV. 
Although the Film Society was renamed "Black Maria," after the name of Thomas Edison's first movie studio in New Jersey, the series of films itself has kept the title Cinema and the graduating year. Cinema '72 has a wide selection of worthwhile films that otherwise would be missed by most students. Also, it serves as learning basis; after all, how many films have you really heard of in this year's list? All of the movies are first-rate and should be seen. Single admission is $1. A Patron card (including all thirty films) is only $6 and will be available at the door. Film is alive on campus, but its support depends upon the interest of the student body. 
-Patrick Smith 

I 
r 


coming distractions 
SMC Humanistic Studies Dept. and Dept. of Mod­ern Languages again has the opportunity to present Erich Heller from Northwestern University. Heller is a renowned European literary critic originally from Prague, Czechoslovakia, :well known for his articles on Thomas Mann, Rilke, Kafka and Bertolt Brecht. Two of his best-known works are "The Disinherited Mind" and "The Ironic German." Heller will discuss ''Litera­ture and Social Responsibility," Oct. 21, 8 p.m., in the SMC Little Theater. 
The ND Law School's International Society will co­sponsor with Dr. Kertesz, Prof. of Govt. and Interna­tional Studies, Louis I. De Winrer, Professor at the University of Amsterdam, Holland, Oct. 25, 8 p.m., Rm. 102 in the Law Schoql. His topic will be "Private International Law." Also, Francese Vendrell from the United Nations Institute for Training and Research will discuss the UN's activities concerning human rights, Oct. 28. 
The Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Depts. will present Dr. S. F. Shen from Cornell's Graduate School of Aerospace, Oct. 15, 3 :30 p.m., Rm. 303 in the Engineering Bldg. His topic will be "General Circula­tion Problem; Some Fluid Dynamic Aspects." 
The Peter C. Reilly Lecture Series will sponsor Dr. Earl l\luetterties speaking on "Molecular Permuta­tion Groups," Oct. 15, 4:30 p.m., Rm. 123 in the Nieuw­land Science Hall. 
The American Scene, a cultural lecture series at SMC, presents Harvey A. Bender from the ND Biology Dept., whose topic is "Genetics and the Future of Man," Oct. 20, 7 :30 p.m., Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial. 
The Black Studies Lecture Series on the Black Ex­perience will present Dr. Rita Cassidy, Oct. 18, speaking on "African Resistance Movements" and Dr. Wesley Daley, Oct. 21, whose topic is "Black West Indians and Black Afro-Americans; The Relationship." 
ND-SMC Theatre presents the Duchess of Malfi by John Webster and directed by Fred Syburg, Oct. 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, at 8 :30 p.m., in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The O'Laughlin Auditorium box office will be open Oct. 15 through Oct. 16 from 4-9 p.m. Admission for ND-SMC staff, faculty and students: $1.50. For fur­ther information, call 284-4141. 
The Depts. of Modern and Classical Languages pre­sent Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme (The Would-be Gen­tleman) by Moliere, Oct. 31, 2 p.m., in the O'Laughlin Auditorium, a production in French by Le Treteau De Paris. For information, call 283-6625. 
The Travelogue Series sponsored by the Lions Club of South Bend will show Welcome New Zeaiand by Bob O'Reilly, Oct. 29, 8 p.m., in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The Last Gasp Cinema sponsored by the SMC Eng­lish and Religious Studies Depts. will present Two Daughrers, the highly praised latest film by India's great director, Satyajit Ray, Oct. 15. Dut.chman, still one ~f the best Black films, will be showing Oct. 22. Le Roi Jones shows America going to hell on a racist subway. Oct. 29, the Mexican film, Yance, portrays a perfectly beautiful myth of the human spirit. These films will be showing at 3 :30, 7 & 9 p.m. Fridays in Carroll Hall of Madeleva Memorial at SMC. Admission: 5 films-$3.50; Door-75 cents. 
Cinema '72 of the Cultural Arts Commission pre­sents Grand Illusion, Oct. 23-24, and Man Who Lies, Oct. 27-28, 7 & 9 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. The Cultural Arts Commission Performing Art Series will show Masculine/Feminine, Oct. 18, 7 & 9 :30 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium and Genesis IV, Oct. 3_0-31, in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at SMC. Patron cards will be available at the door. 
The Social Commission brings Poco and Livingston Taylor for Homecoming Oct. 16, 8 :30 p.m. in the Ath­letic & Convocation Center. The Athletic & Convoca­tion Center welcomes Johnny Cash, Oct. 23, 8 :30 p.m. 
Tickets are available at the ACC box office for Bobby Goldsboro and the Festival of Music (featuring Chet Atkins, Boots Randolph and Floyd Cramer), Oct. 30, $6.50, $5.50, $2.75. The concert is a benefit for the Multiple Sclerosis Fund. 
Israeli Trio and Folksinger will perform Oct. 27, 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Master classes and lectures will be given by the musicians for two days preceding their concert. 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra presents John Browning, performing Beethoven's Concerto No. 3 in C minor, Oct. 24, 8 p:m. in the Morris Civic Audito­rium. For information, call 233-3730. 
SMC Music Dept. invites the public to student Re­cital Classes every Wednesday, 4:30 p.m., in the Little Theater. 
Indiana University South Bend Theater presents G~rge Bernard Shaw's Arms and the Man, Oct. 14, 15, 16, 22, 23, in the IUSB Theater, North Side Hall at 8:15 p.m. Matinee: Oct. 24 at 2:15 p.m. 
The IUSB Civilisation Film Series will present films from the National Broadcasting System of Britain by Sir Kenneth Clark. i>rotest and Communication will be showing Oct. 20, 4 & 7:30 p.m., Rm. 126 in North Side 

· Hall. Admission: Free. The IUSB Student Film Series . will present the "Story of a Three Day Pass," Oct. 29, 9 p.m. in the North Side Hall. Admission: Free. The University Choral Ensemble will perform Oct. 30 in the IUSB Auditorium, 8 :15 p.m. Admission: Free. 
The Music Lecture Series of Bethel College pre­sents Ernie Banks, Oct. 22, 8 p.m. in the Goodman Auditorium. Banks, better known as Mr. Chicago Cub, hit his 500th home run during the 1970 season. His topic will be "Telling It Like It Is." 
The South Bend Art Center, 121 Lafayette, will show The Shop on Main Street, Oct. 15, 7 :30 p.m. in the South Bend Public Library, Schuyler Colfax Audi­torium. "Recent Oils and Drawings" by Anthony Droege will be exhibited in the Main Gallery, Oct. 10-31. "New Works" by Thomas Fern will be displayed in the Local Artist Gallery, Oct. 17-Nov. 14. 
The SMC Moreau-Hammes Galleries will exhibit Photographs by James Raymo through the month of October. 
SMC-Basement of Moreau will be showing photo­graphs by Pam Seifert, Oct. 10-28. 
The ND Art Gallery in O'Shaughnessy. Hall will exhibit Contemporary American paintings, drawings and sculpture from the Kala:rp.azoo Institute of Arts, until Oct. 31; An Impressionist View on Paper-19th century graphics from the Lessing Rosenwald Collec­tion of the National Gallery, Washington, D.C., until Dec. 12. 
Exhibitions on the first floor of the ND Memorial 
-nffi;U, BG A lu:)RL,O -WlTHOUT 
f!I)OORIT<I­
....... 

Library include: "Walt Disney Sketches," L. Frank Baum, "The Real· Wizard of Oz," "College of Business Administration," "Polish Royal Documents and Seals 1309-1600.'' The second floor: ~•Fr. Anthony Lauck's Sculpture Exhibits." Foyer: "Maps of Poland 1615­1640." 
The ND Architecture Gallery, open daily 8-5 p.m., will display a Total Environment House, "Cantilev­ered," a four-level structure designed to float among the Redwood trees which surround it. 
Need protection? Learn Karate with professional instructors and coed classes. Call Mike Lilienthal, 510 Grace Hall, or 283-3702. 
Free University and Dept. of English open an ESSAY contest to all students of SMC and ND. Essays may be on any literary topic. Class papers are accept­able. All entries must be turned in to the English Dept. or Student Govt. Office by noon, Dec. 3. 
The Fighting Irish schedule on ND territory: Oct. 16, North Garolina, Oct. 23, Southern California, Oct. 30, Navy. 
Vespers in the Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart, every Sunday through Thursday at 7 :00 p.m. 
DISTRACTIONS AND ATTRACTIONS. Want pub­licity? For information, call Cheri Weismantel, 233-1770 or contact the SCHOLASTIC Office. 
-Cheri W eismantal 

WlTHOOT 
BVREt\lXRAC'r­
10-,0 
AtJ!? I STll,t,. 
WOEJ'T FIT I~. 
I C 


movies 
KLUTE 
An adult suspense thriller evolving from a hick cop's plodding investigation of a friend's disappearance which plunges him into the world of New York's upper­class call girls. The cop (Klute) lives in Donald Suth­erland's stellar performance despite the -deadening script provided him. Jane Fonda has more to work with as Bree Daniels, the hooker involved with her own investigations of the psychological substructure of her occupation. In fact, the film's major achievement rests in its successful penetration beneath the usual Holly­wood stereotyping of prostitutes and their special brand of clientele. Director Alan Pakula wisely relies most heavily upon a strong, well-integrated cast and thus saves his audience from the gimmick-ridden tedium to which they are so often subjected. His photography is effective but not spectacular. A usually captivating and believable film, Kf,ute's credibility deteriorates at the climax which demands the apotheosis of Klute from hero to SUPERHERO. Here the script forces Sutherland to abandon the level of playable serious drama in favor of a degenerate melodrama. The result­ing effect is unfortunate but not fatal. 
THE LOVE MACHINE 
The pointless por.trayal of the rise of Robin Stone (John Philip Law) from local newscaster to acting president of a television network via the bed of the former president's wife and that of (so we are told) anyone else in the world whom he desires. Woodenly acted and unimaginatively directed (Jack Haley Jr.), .this atrocious and inexcusable rendering of Jacqueline Susann's literary ( ?) droppings into cinematic f9rm makes mawkish, moralistic mouthings whose commen­tary on the perversity of America's television industry becomes commentary instead on the perversity of America's theatre audiences. The latter will, no doubt, turn Machine into a box office winner, showing that 
there is always room for any artless vulgarity which panders to middle-America's imaginings of dirt be­neath a glittery surface. Shun it! 
STEWARDESSES 
A blatant display of profit motive and ugly girls. Plot­less, boring, sloppy (in one scene the mike boom is visible), with amateurish acting and "See Jane. See Spot run!" dialogue, this 3-D skin flick fails even to offer exciting skin. Of course, it plays daily to packed South Bend houses. 
WALKABOUT 
An engaging, allegorical tale which recasts the hack­neyed theme of "civilized" man abandoned to the wil­derness into acceptable contemporary form. An adoles­cent girl and her younger brother (Jenny Agutter and Lucien John), products of uppercrust Australian soci­ety, are the waifs abandoned in their country's back­lands. Of course, they are rescued. An Aborigine youth (David Gumpilil), alone in a coming-of-age trial, be­friends them. What follows is director-photographer Nicholas Roeg's visual celebration of the contrast be­tween two life forms. He juxtaposes the freedom and harmony of the untamed world with the city's dis­sonant regimentation. We are given a straightforward criticism of the city man's death-bringing technology, joined with the pessimistic notion that one's existence is determined by birth -not-by choice. 
THEATRES 
AVON ART: Juliette de Sade (R) 

COLFAX: Walkabout (GP) ,RIVER PARK: Klute (R) STATE: Stewardesses (X) 
TOWN & COUNTRY: The Love Machine (R) 
-marie and phil glotzbach 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
OCTOBER 10-28 BASEMENT OF MOREAU 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
PHOTOGRAPHS JAPAN AND FRANCE 
PAM SEIFERT 
Louie's 
the fas test, the friendliest service the best, the most delicious pizza we would not kid you 
744 N .. Notre Dame Ave. 233-0380 
NEED EXTRA CASH? 
Here's How To Make It 
1··euY. AT· WHOLESALE. PRICES.I 
new, brand name audio equipment, blank tape, musical instruments and all audio accessories. 
jTIEfSRLj and make that extra cash 
you need. You're the boss. You set your 
own profit picture. 
For catalogs and information, write or phone 
MR. MANN, c/o SMG DISTRIBUTORS, INC. 46-35 54th ROAD, MASPETH, N.Y.11378 (212) 786-3337 
INTERESTED IN AN OVERSEAS CAREER? 

MR. JOHN J. ARTHUR 
will be on the campus 
October 25, 1971 
to discuss qualifications for advanced study at 
THUNDERBIRD GRADUATE SCHOOL 
and job opportunities in the field of 
INTERNAT!ONAL MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
The Placement Office 
THUNDERBIRD GR4DUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
(Formerly: The American Institute· for Foreign Trade) 
P. 0. Box 191 Phoenix, Arizona 85001 
Affiliated with The American Management Association 
,I 
sports 

Being by some scale an athlete myself, I have found it necessary to examine exactly what it means to be an athlete arid lead the life implied. This article and essays to follow are an attempt to verbalize just what is meant· by the athletic life, and explain (in a way) why it is 
· lived, especially in the context of a Christian university. 
Possibly this could be called the philosophy of sports. I'll give that job to Plato and all who follow him. This is meant to be something personal, communicating to athletes and spectators experience and essence. 
· Mornings in Greece are as nowhere else. The sun is born to the day filled with all the purity that is light, 
' and the sky, day or night, is the totality of blue that can only be the Mediterranean. The stony, clay, boulderine soil of the Greek mountains fathers only the twisting, knotted scrub remnant that is the Aegean tree, as if to show the power of the land through its rugged violence, a violence that is continued through the day in the un­conquerable, unrelenting, and totally devastating after­noon heat. A violence whose only equal mercy is the view of the perfection of waters that is the Mediter­ranean, the infinity of stars that is the Greek night, and their union that is the Aegean Horizon at sunset. The aura of permanence that is in the furrows of the Aegean hills as they slope to the sea shows the infinity of history that is Greece, the finite timelessness that is man. It is this setting that gives birth to the athletic heritage of Greece. The Greeks found running to be the queen of sports; they· strove at running, and all other spor~, to steel their bodies and to increase their strength, so that they 
not as a 
would be strong to defend their co~try and to fight for freedom. The Greeks crowned running queen because it involved not o·nly the legs, but also the internal organs such as the heart and lungs along with the arms, chest, and stomach muscles. 

· The runners of the Grecian era were often depicted on vases and sculpture showing the short steps, raised knees, and long strides that were·practiced in training. To increase the valuable stamina, runners had to prac­tice intensively running on the spot, knee-bending,_ body­bending, body-twisting, and body-straightening. This type of grueling training prepared Greek .runners· by making them strong and tough for the ordeal of the race. _ This is why, in times of great danger, a great deal was demanded of the Grecian athletes. 
One of those times was one of those days in 490 B.C. Greece, when the sensitive Greek morning was jarred awake by 10,000 Athenians and 100,000 Persians meet­ing for battle where "the mountains look on Marathon 
· and Marathon looks on the sea." It was on this day at Marathon that the Athenian general, Miltiades, called on the famous runner-soldier, Pheidippides. Pheidippides was ordered to get help from Sparta against the ap­proaching Persians. He ran without stopping for well over 100 miles from Athens to Sparta through inhuman heat and terrain, and in less than two days he was lead­ing the Spartans on their way to the Plain of Marathon. He returned with the Spartans to fight with his coun­trymen in the Athenian army. His training proved to be of value while he, along with the Greek troops, advanced at a relentless ·running pace against the surprised and 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

dancing bear 
terrified Persians, who, though far outnumbering the Greeks, were routed by the fury of the relentless run­ning of the Greek attack, and were driven from the plain in headlong flight to their ships. 
While back in Athens, :the elders were gathered in the marketplace, awaiting the news that either meant safety or destruction for their city. When the Persians fled for their ships, Miltiades again called for Pheidip­pides and ordered him to carry the good news of victory with all speed to the city fathers of Athens. Though he had just returned from Sparta to fight as a common sol­dier and endure the heat and hardships of the day, Pheidippides tossed aside his shield, stripped himself of his armor and set off over the inviolable mountains toward the distant city. It was over 50 miles from the Plain of Marathon to the marketplace of Athens, but Pheidippides, spurred on by the good news ran doggedly up and down the punishing slopes. As he ran, his lips 
. cracked, his tongue became thickly parched, and his throat burned dry with the dusty mountain air, while his breath came in the agonizing gut-wrenching stabs known only to athletes. His feet were torn and bleeding, but the Acropolis loomed in the distance drawing new fire out of the drained and exhausted spirit. He entered the city streets and crossed into the marketplace, his head pounding with hot blood beating from his knotted guts. As the dust from the streets formed into mud with the blood from his feet and legs, the elders of Athens heard a great and agonizing cry and saw the runner, glorious in his exhaustion, stagger toward them. "Rejoice! We conquer!" he gasped, gagging with his last shout. 
His message carried, his goal attained, he fell to the 
earth of Athens and died. "Rejoice! We conquer!" 
Probably everyone I have ever known has had his set 
of "Hamlet walls" to hide an ever-vulnerable soul from 
the scarring ravages of insensitive contacts. I am well 
aware of my own. Some, skillfully molded by my own 
hands and others, prefabricated by preordained images 
of the real. These are the walls, the parapets and 
caldrons that must be traversed for every examina­
tion of the human soul. These are the walls I would like 
to traverse here. 
Athletics today has become an enigma. To some 
extent the purity of sport has been lost. Almost every 
manifestation of sports has become somewhat perverse 
with the institutions and bureaucracy making sports 
and the athlete into the problem it is today. From every 
angle athletics is coming under fire, often quite valid­
ly, but what seems to be continually tossed aside is, to 
me, an athlete, the essence of the problem: the athlete 
and the athletic experience. I would like to bring this 
experience from behind the brush that obscures it, and 
I would like to bring the "jock" from behind the walls 
and parapets and try to discover why someone with "the 
soul of a poet" becomes an athlete. 
-Possibly I could demonstrate that the athlete is not .the dancing bear, but that "Saturday's hero" is really 
human flesh, not raw meat, that "Sunday's heel" is torn 
with tides of emotion, not savage rage, and that the 
person of the athlete is grappling with one of the most 
personally violent, self-imposed human experiences. 
-gearge block 

the last word 

I discovered this summer that there is no good way 
to drive from Nashville to St. Louis. (This is a con­
temporary article, so good means fast and easy.) My 
truck and I were determined, even in the face of that 
obstacle of obstacles, conflicting gas station recom­
mendations, to overcome secondary roads and cattle 
crossings and arrive at our destination in record time. 
I was not interested in scenic America; my truck was 
determined that this bourgeoise attitude be punished. 
The record we did set would be the pride and joy of the 
"See America first" freaks. 
On the way out of bourbon/coal country, right out­
side of Madisonville, Kentucky, this diabolical plotting 
bore fruit. Angered by my incessantly relentless 
driving, my loyal, '66, royal blue Chevy pick-up with 
aluminum hood, took its revenge. The water pump 
cooperated with the fan cooperated with the radiator 
in a well-executed act of defiance which left me sitting 
on the-side of the road without even a white handker­
chief to signal my distress. I sat for half an hour, at 
which point an old, beat-up Chevy pick-up stopped. 
("Old" is in contrast to my shiny blue beauty.) 
The older truck was driven by a horse trader 
by the name of Junior. Junior asked what was the 
matter;. being the mechanical expert that I am, I 
told him that, since steam was pouring out of the 
hood, I believed my truck needed some water. Junior 
returned in his own good time (an hour later) with a 
can of gas. My truck laughed. I mean, I'm nervous 
about running out of gas, so I already had a can of gas 
in the back. Junior was apologetic, as horse traders go, 
and he offered to look at the engine; he was quick to 
notice that filling my radiator with water would be 
hopeless indeed until someone welded the thing back 
together.. · 
I was filled with a horrible sense of desertion as 
Junior· and I set out for Madisonville and a welder. 
Very few welders across the continental-United States 
are open at 4:30 on a Saturday afternoon; none of 
them work in Madisonville. I became very upset; things 
like that shouldn't happen to anyone who has just 
quit smoking. Junior recommended a tow-truck; tow­.truck owners recommended a fee of twenty-five dollars. 
... Junior and I ripped off a tow chain and did it 
ourselves for free. Junior deposited us (my truck and 
me) at the first motel we came to -the one with a 
sleepy bear. He reassured me that he would call the 
next morning and see how we were doing. I went in 
to register, complete with sobs and accompanying sob­
story. The woman at the desk gave me the name of her 
mechanic and said he might be able to help. I tried 
to call him all night (she forgot to tell me he w~s a third-shift ~oal miner) and consoled myself with long­distance calls for sympathy and money. 
I reached Robert (the miner-mechanic) Sunday morning; a kid answered the phone, so I figured Robert must be respectable. By this time I knew the intri­cacies of my truck's distemper and he agreed to come over and look at it. He ev:en brought his kid with him, and my faith in-~he nobler _aspects of procreation overrode the·fact that -the whole job would be cash, no receipt (Robert'was· not overly fond of paying taxes). _It was just one of those situations that leave 
·faith and hope as the only alternatives. Robert even 

· thought that he might be able to finish ·it by Sunday night. He returned later in the afternoon to remove the butterfly-smattered radiator; Junior stopped by as the radiator was being examined. The two men exchanged . a few words regarding the welders Junior had spoken to; Junior couldn'tremember exactly which ones we had called. My horse-trading friend ·pulled me aside with an admonition that since Robert was young and looked suspicious, I would do well to be on my guard. With that, Junior left. 
. .Robert suggested that the conspiring members of my truck be replaced with more amiable ones -to be obtained at his brother's junk yard. He returned an hour later (minus· kid) to.take me to the junk yard. In the course· of the forty-minute ride through mining territory, Robert noted that anyone who couldn't remember the name of the welder must have his mind on something of a different nature than truck repair. There's nothing quite like being warned by both sides. The junk yard yielded a fan and a water pump and a radiator with the hose connection on the wrong side 

· -$20, thanks to Robert. 
On the way back to my motel, Robert gave me a tour and some historical notes of Madisonville. He drove gingerly through "nice" neighborhoods with $50,000 houses and elaborate country clubs, and spoke of them with a mixture of awe and disdain. I was kind of glad Robert had never seen my parents' house, though I think he had some pretty strong inklings. As it worked out, the "new" radiator didn't work, so I had to wait until Monday morning to get the original one welded. Robert took care of it; he asked for the other radiator.in lieu of any payment. He taught me how.to put the parts back into the truck, and showed me something about engines and how to work on them. He left me his address and asked me to let him know 

if I arrived all right. It's quite a. ways from Nashville to St. Louis.. 
.-Mary Ellen Stoltz 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
In brewing Bud®, our choice is to go all the way. We hope beer matters enough to you that you too will go all the way ... with Budweiser. 
WHEN YOU SAY 
Budweisei: 
YOU'VE SAID IT ALL! · . 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 

~~pu;;6Shop··· , • • • • • • •,••,• • •,,,• • • • •,,..., , • 
·.· .:. .. .,. . . . 
. . .. 

~-... .••• .;-. -·:. ··...:.-••• • •• : 
........., .......... .. 
YOUR STORE 
IN STYLE 
IN PRICE 
IN TERA1S:£. 
.:-You already knu\\· that \\ e ha\"e the \ et v latest apparel from Ame1 ica ·s most famou~ name-; ... you·re aware that our price-, are competitin: ... but we want to be ~ure that you understand our cxclusiYe Campus Shop \\"ay to buy ... ifs simply this: you buy ~mcl enjoy your apparel now when your need is greatest and you pay one-third in January. one-third in February and one­third in 1'.farch ... and you ne\·cr pay a !'>ervice or carrying charge! What could be ea'>ier? Stop in and open your account. 
Our gift to you ... 

HANDY 'N HANDSOME NOTRE DAME TOTE BAG 
This full-color bag is yours for opening your account ... no purchase necessary, no obligation. Let's get acquainted. 
GALS! 

-----~--­
Don't 

~~~ ~
forget ... 
\Ve h~~\'C a corner of 

· ILBER ' 
the store especially for .---....;::: you ... skirts, blow,es. pantyhose and a lot 

amp~&,ho
of etc. Stop in. 

------~ 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 





