No. 28.
Vol. XXI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 31, 1888.
Easter-Tide.*
. «
" My flesh also shall rest in hope.”
With the spring come happy voices On the street,
Merry greetings, infant laughter Gay and sweet.
With the spring what rush of waters To the sea!
Brooks run races down the mountains
•	In their glee.
With the spring come happy odors;
Skies how blue!	.
Grass—you almost see it growing—_ Tipped with dew.
With the spring, on brookside, hillside, In the glen,
Tangled woodlands, wastes of prairies Far from men—
•	Everywhere are wild flowers springing, Banks of bloom; .
Snowy clusters break the bearded Forest’s gloom.
*	• From " Songs of a Life-Time ” by Eliza Allen Starr.
The Study of Law.
BY J. L. HEINEMANN.
Law, “the perfection of reason,” is a study in which man, by virtue of his exalted position in the plan of creation, alone can engage. To understand the motives and the underlying reasons for things, is the privilege of no other being of the material order. It is the peculiar province of the human mind to attain to this scientific knowledge of first principles. • But much of the grandeur of the plendid vista thus opened up to the human mind
is lost by the insufficiency of its powers of accurate observation. We see this particularly in the difficulty experienced in grasping and comprehending, without long and attentive study, the different divisions of this great subject,which, strictly speaking, ■is the whole aggregate of the natural and political relations existing between persons and things. =
Though many laws, as some of the fixed laws of matter, may vaguely be known to man instinctively, as it were, yet he acquires a full knowledge of a particular law solely by the exercise of his reason. And reason, it may be said, is the only criterion of law, as law is intended always to conform to reason; and that which is not reason is not.law. The moral philosopher, through the serene atmosphere of unclouded reason, views the relations existing between man, a rational being, and God, his Creator. The natural philosopher, by the same aid, and from a point little less elevated, discerns a principle pervading the order of the whole material universe, which, owing to its uniformity, is called “ the law of cause and effect.” And as an effect, or the existence of these laws of nature, without a sufficient cause, is not consonant with the dictates of reason, he proclaims the necessity of a Supreme Ruler over the physical order of creation, as, in like manner, the moral philosopher reasons about the spiritual. It is, it must be admitted, practically impossible for man to. understand these two studies profoundly and completely. He ascends, he climbs from crag to crag in his efforts to reach the crowning peak bf these superhuman sciences, only to find his progress finally impeded by his own. inability to transcend the natural. He still beholds in the remote distance an ocean of knowledge yet to be traversed. The practical concerns of life, and the studies thereto incident spread out into a figurative ocean that extends on and on throughout an expanse to which ho human vision can fix limits. -
434
■	I
$
fl
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.	,
Foremost among these practical concerns stands Jurisprudence. It is a science that embraces within its scope and purpose the direction of the individual’s conduct in relation to what in a broad sense we call society, and to all mundane things. It treats of the theory of government, the relation of states to one another, to individuals, artificial persons,local communities, etc., and the relations of these severally and respectively to one another. We assign these studies to the profession of law —to jurisprudence—a department of learning which in its deeper researches demands a profundity and acuteness of mind, a comprehensiveness and accuracy of thought, and a power of analysis and close reasoning that greatly surpass the requirements fixed by the admitted standard of proficiency in other professions.
A careful analysis of this science, so far-reaching in its effects, presents, as the first object of its care, therightsof persons,natural and artificial, which latter designation applies to bodies politic, corporations, etc. These rights may be divided into ( i ) absolute, or those that concern the enjoyment of personal security, liberty, private property, and the free exercise of religious faith; and (2) relative, or those arising from the relation in which persons are placed —as in the case of husband and wife, parent and child, guardian and ward, master and servant. In the second place, it has as its object the right of property which is divided into personal property and real property,the former being distinguished as movable and'the latter as immovable. These rights of property, in contemplation of law, are considered in respect to the origin of title, the mode of transmission and the security of its enjoyment. An analysis, in the third place, presents a view of the redress for private wrongs which the law affords the persons that are damaged or injured. It deals also with the relations existing between states or nations and individuals. And it has, lastly, as its object, the protection of the public weal, by inflicting through the coercive influence of proper penalties and just punishments upon public wrong-doers, or criminals found guilty of crime.
Law, as thus considered, reaches to every relation of life. It defines every civil right and the method of its enjoyment; it affords protection to every legitimate enterprise; it guarantees security to all honest efforts in business, and it regulates all relations of men to one another, whether these relations arise from their combination in society, their attitude toward one another as citizens of different countries, their associations in the domestic circle, or their rules and usages in connection with the pursuit of wealth. A science thus far-reaching in
its scope includes incidentally all other sciences, as they all maybe called into requisition from time to time to furnish data to ensure the success of its operation in attaining the ends of justice; and they all are certainly the objects of its care. He, then, who would be great in this profession must combine in a most perfect manner, yet not too speculative, a habit of mind at once analytical and synthetical. He must possess, in a high degree, an aptitude for observing, perceiving and understanding, as his mode of procedure is alternately that of induction and deduction, of law and fact, with the subtleties of analogy, in the form of precedents, extending concurrently along the whole path of investigation. Hence, to grapple successfully with these diverse conditions, to concentrate at one moment all the powers of the intellect upon the intricacies of a given case, and, as occasion may require, to pass rapidly to others of the most opposite character, he must have a mind pliant as the famous steel of Damascus—a mind strong and well trained in all departments of knowledge, and capable at all times of close application, patient study and profound abstraction.	'

Industry Necessary for the Orator.*
Of the men of the past, none show themselves so conspicuous, or .r.ake such a deep impression upon us as those who have attained their eminence by frequent attempts and triumphant labor. Their light shines down from the heights afar to direct our failing footsteps upon the upward slopes. Although living in a country where a Franklin labored and a Lincoln toiled, and where many other worshippers of industry are daily presenting themselves as examples for our guidance, the prevalent notion among the youthful still remains: that work and perseverance can accomplish nothing, but affoi d a favorite topic for senseless fools and chattering pedagogues. Some conceal their indolence by asserting a deficiency of natural talent, and thereby remain content to occupy the same position in which they were placed. Others fold their arms and despair of rising above the ignoble crowd, because they are unwilling to give up their faith in inevitable .chance and all-conquering destiny. Natural talents do not, as many examples have proved, invest their possessor with a fee simple of fame and power. But they who with moderate abilities have unceasingly applied themselves, never fail to secure due recognition and a place of honor among their fellow-men. Great, indeed, is the
* Read at the. Euglossian entertainment.
tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
435
number of those who, possessing mediocre attainments,are unwilling to improve themselves, though they could do so if they only wished. The most learned and famous men are they who have been most diligent in the pursuit of their studies.
Success in every profession can only be obtained by firmness and tenacity of purpose. If a person would become a cabinet-maker, he must not get discouraged if at first he hit his finger or cut his hand, but have that steadfastness to learn his art thoroughly before he attempts to bring forth his masterpiece. A violinist learns the rudiments of music, the manipulation of his instrument,and hours, days and years are passed in secret practice before he deems himself capable of appearing before an audience. The time never comes when he can cease from practice, for he knows full well that his instrument is capable of producing infinite melodies fraught with greater richness and delicacy of expression than those of which he is already a master.
Not thus with the public speaker, who must think as well as speak; create as well as invest with sensible form the ideas he wishes to convey; and who, having served no apprenticeship whatever, harangues a multitude, and then wonders why his audience does not melt into pools of tears or waves of roaring approbation. It is no mystery to us that such a dunce has failed. Far easier would it be for an inexperienced person to succeed in any pursuit than such a one in the art of eloquence.
The place of an orator is next beside the poet, and as much as his position transcends all others, with so much greater pains should hemevote himself to longer study and rigid preparation, since he, indeed, is about to exercise dominion over the hearts of men. Like the best vocalist, he must cultivate and be certain of the comprehensive power of his voice. His mind should be a receptacle of a varied and extensive knowledge from which he may be able to draw forth an endless train of ideas. Fancy and imagination should be curbed.by skilful hands and, like an actor, every gesture and slightest movement of each muscle, should contribute to reflect the passions and feelings working within. More complex and more intricate than any mechanism of human skill is the heart whose secrets he must fathom. Better than the most accomplished organist must he know the range of its stops and keys, by which he should, at will, be able to produce manifold combinations of the sweetest and most charming melody. His voice, in its various modulations, corresponds to the fingers of a player; and, therefore, if this most useful and divine of gifts be not obedient to the will, and tempered with the
ideas and sentiments uttered, none but the wrong keys will bestruck and a ruinous discord ensue. Concerning the orator, the following lines explain:
“ Whence comes his mastery over the human-breast, Whence over the elements his sway,
But from the harmony that, gushing from his soul, Draws back into his heart the wondrous whole.”
Let no one through want of natural talent exempt himself from the duty of striving toimprove; for if it were to no purpose, never would Catiline have been compelled to leave Rome, of Philip trembled before the mighty power of him who once was a stuttering youth. Speakers of greater talents have lived, but none ever surpassed them, because they did not endeavor to develop nature’s gifts with a like untiring devotedness. Since “ never yet was any thought or thing of beauty born except with suffering,” it behooves those who have taken upon themselves teaching and the dissemination of truth to work assiduously to better themselves to such a degree as they are capable.
To the industrious what a pleasure to see their audience increase! To the auditors, in turn, instead of penance, what joy and bliss would not be theirs to catch the honeyed words as they flow from the golden tongue of a true speaker! They would listen as a soul enwrapped with heavenly harmonies, regardless of the speaker overstepping, his allotted time, and not a single sound would have been uttered in vain. But, alas, such orators do riot exist. With what a crowd of accusers will not some, who profess that title, be surrounded! This-one,-with those who he, through negligence,, has hindered, by his drawling manner and narcotic voice, from acquiring many necessary' truths and salutary instructions. That one, with those whose minds, instead of enlightening, he has made darker and more obscure by his ambiguous words and meaningless expressions. : And yet another with those who, instead of instructing with language simple, yet attractive, chose to leave on earth with gapping mouths and empty minds whilst he soared alone to endless heights unseen. The burden of the orator is not light, but heavy in proportion to the dignity of his position. Let him not think that he has done his duty by talking occasionally for an hourj but only when he has sent forth to everyone throughout the land words laden with sweetest thoughts and soothing consolation. - How happily then, amidst the praises, thanks and gratitude of many an aided soul, will not the remembrances of all his former strenuous efforts and painful trials be turned into springs of everlasting joy of which he will never be deprived!	"
s	T. A. Goebel, ’89. *
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Snows of March.*
• The snows of March, the snows of March, How pitiless they fall,
While hearts made sick by hope deferred In vain on springtime call.
For many days the blue-bird’s song Has echoed thoughts of cheer:
The robin’s too confiding breast. Has shown its crimson here;
The cottonwood, with bursting buds, Responds to fostering raj s, And golden tints on willow twigs Foretell of brighter daj-s.
• Yet ceaseless snows, unwelcome snows, Still pitilesslj' fall,
' And check the vernal energies Beneath their ghastly pall.
We shrink not from November’s snow, That soothes the chafing air, And covers Summer’s ruined hopes With glittering: gems and fair:
Nor from December’s full supply, When snow birds sport with glee,—
And merry sleigh bells tell of joys For winter days to be.
But these unsought-for, lingering snows, Have naught for us in store;
Their only mission seems to teach The sigh of “ Nevermore.”
• From " Vapid Vaporings,” Notre Dame.
Matter and Form.
. IIL
Although we might notice .many other characters which chemistry day after day ascertains, we shall be content with particulaily analyzing a last one, called “affinity,” in virtue of which some material bodies, when put in contact- under special conditions, have a tendency to form combinations. Not only these affinities take place between certain bodies in particular, and only under different conditions, but they also follow some most remarkable laws, which form the object of all chemical experiments, the foundation of what is called nomenclature, and the support of all the scientific theories on the composition of material bodies.	.
Among these laws prominent is that of equivalents. It is meant by the chemical equivalents of two . bodies that certain, figures representing the exact weight of each of them can be united to form a combination.. For instance, a weight, of mole-, cules of oxygen represented by 100 cannot be
combined but with a weight of molecules of azote represented by 175, or two, three times 175; or with a weight of carbon represented by 75, or two, three times 75; and so on for all the other bodies;	;
The figure 100 being taken as the equivalent of	j
oxygen, the figures 175 and 75 will be the equiva-	|
lents for azote and carbon. Thus it is that, the	j
equivalents of all bodies being once determined^	|
we rightly infer that (1) material bodies can be	I
combined, but equivalent for equivalent; (2) equivalents are never found in combinations except in ratio of one to one, one to two or three, and seldom beyond five; sometimes two to three. Moreover, it is a fact that when relations are more complicated the combination becomes less striking . or can more easily be decomposed; (3) in the various combinations which are made out of simple bodies, their equivalents can replace one another.
So, v. g., 12.50 weight of molecules of hydrogen with 100 of oxygen form, water, which is the first combination of these two simple bodies. Again, 443 of chlorine with 100 of oxygen form the first combination of these two bodies. Now, in examining what are the proportions of chlorine and hydrogen which form their first combination— the chloric acid,—we find that they are combined equivalent for equivalent, 443 weight of molecules of chlorine for'12.50 weight of molecules of hydrogen. The chlorine equivalent came, then, to replace in the chloric acid the equivalent of oxygen which before produced water.
These remarks should suffice to make us understand that the affinities thus developed from molecule to molecule between two bodies, do not act in an arbitrary manner or at random, but according to constant and well-determined laws. But whence come these characters proper to the molecules of each body? Whence originate these peculiar properties so regularly exhibited ? What power watches over their uniform and steady working? What is, in a word, the “ cause” that determines such effects, the last reason which accounts for those laws and brings about that wonderful harmony? In vain would they resort to the hypothesis of atoms which, ' by clustering together, might give rise to molecules and by their various characters try to explain the composition of the different bodies; this, far from solving the problem makes iteven more complicated by bringing it to a still more imperceptible point.
We must, of necessity, come, finally, to ask ourselves whence the atoms have received those prop-	।
erties ’by virtue of which they cluster together and,	$
taking various shapes, produce the harmony verified by- science itself.	.	-	.	j
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
437
Materialists imagine that they have overcome the-difficulty by asserting that the atoms possess the properties of themselves from all eternity. They thereby try to get rid of the idea of God which makes their consciences uneasy; but still it is on the condition that they replace Him by the atom; a material. principle to which, in spite of themselves, they have to give the attributes of the deity, viz: first permanence and eternity, then certain necessary faculties, in order to account at least for the phenomena of the material world, even though they do their utmost to pay no attention to the facts of the moral order.
On the other hand, the Pantheists, instead of calling God in question, prefer to question their own existence, which is another way, very ingenious, indeed, to stifle the voice of conscience. They try to see in those primitive elements of matter a kind of “substantial and permanent manifestation of God,” in their properties, and all the transformations which they undergo “the unceasing working of God’s activity ” and, finally, in the laws to which atoms are subject, “ the accords of the infinite perfections and the harmonies of spheres.”
Atheism or Pantheism, these are the two rocks against which all scientists are shipwrecked when they seek in science itself an obstacle to their faith. It is out of place to show on the one hand to the materialists that there must of necessity exist a God, wise and intelligent, personal and moral, Creator and ordainer of all things, or, on the other hand, to the Pantheists that they really exist as reasonable and free beings gifted with conscience and personal identity, and also all that surrounds us is revealed by our. senses as really existing and supported by substantial principles. :	•
I will content myself with asking two questions: Why that daring rashness of denials after which nothing stands before us but matter and a series of fantastical, deceitful theories in the mist of which man’s free-will and moral responsibility have vanished? Why is it that some scientists are not satisfied with seeing in facts scientifically verified “ simply what is contained therein,” that is, mere phenomena produced by secondary causes, reserving for God the part due to Him; in other words, creation, order and providence?. Assuredly, there is nothings therein which could be in contradiction either to positive facts observed by science, or even to any of the hypotheses invented.to support scientific theories. This remark alone should suffice to quiet any conscience, and allow a Christian, or a Catholic, to be at the same time a scientist.
Yet, be admitted the idea of secondary causes, it.
would not be enough to assert their real existence wherever there is a positive manifestation of their activity, which is the proper domain of science; it is, moreover, highly interesting to endeavor to penetrate the mystery that shrouds their nature, discover the source of. their power, define the mode of their action, and determine the destiny of their very existence—which is the special province of philosophy.	. ,
Now, it is a fact that the scientific investigation of the material world leads us to point out such a connection in all that takes place therein, such a harmony in all its various changes, such a unity in its admirable variety, that we have the right to ask philosophers for a clear notion and, to some extent, an explanation of all the secret causes which produce that connection, that harmony and that unity.
And this is the problem which in his theory, sketched by Aristotle in the darkness of paganidolatry, but illumined by the light of faith and enriched by all the treasures of theology, the Angel of the Schools- appears to have so well resolved, that the mystery of the creative act would seem to have been revealed to his saintly genius.
After closely studying the scholastic system, we succeeded in discovering beyond the positive notions of science, as it were, the first link of that continuous chain in the hypothesis of “ ether. ” But we are now confronted by more precise facts, by phenomena more easily observable, and, although the molecule, which is subject to our investigations, still escape from our senses, we are at least able to point out in its aggregate all the characters of its substance and the energies of its properties. We know, indeed, that it is ponderable, tangible, even in the infinitely small proportions it presents a geometrical configuration exactly defined and varying according to the different bodies; finally, it is endowed with cohesion, color, savor, etc.	.
But what is the collection of those characters proper to each molecule, by which they are distinguished from one another, a molecule of iron from a molecule of oxygen, and so on with the others? Nothing else but the substantial mode of existing possessed by every simple body of .which molecules, are the constituents. On the other hand, what is the agent, which, to use the scholastic language, determines in a material- body that substantial mode of existence under which it strikes our senses? It is its “form,” which, putting in motion, and “actuating” the various properties contained only in ‘potcntia within the primitive matter, is able to determine it according to particular characters, and these characters or properties are precisely the same
438	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
as those which are ascertained by scientific observation.
Again, these characters vary in each substance— that is, according to the “ form ” which determines them; they subsist as long as that form subsists, and disappear together with it. To each material body, therefore, corresponds a particular form which gives it its .proper characters, and may be regarded as the secondary cause to which we attribute the effects manifested to our senses by what is called phenomena. This secondary cause comes from the union established between the primitive matter by which a portion of matter is corporeal, and the particular form by virtue of which any material body whatever belongs to this or to that species. Hence it is that matter and form exercise a mutual action: the primitive matter, a subject essentially passive, places at the disposal of the form all the characters, all the properties, all the energies which can be joined to the various kinds of substantial modes existing in the universe; the form substantial itself puts in action, wholly or partly, according to the class it pertains, those characters, properties or energies which the primitive matter had only in potentia. The same form, then, gives motion and impulse to all the transformations, which the primitive matter is liable to undergo, so that the latter, once actuated and specifically determined, might exactly follow the law which regulates all the combinations possible.
Let us remark, however, that in « simple bodies ” the form is able to determine only their substantial characters. Its subject is always that primitive matter, whilst its object is its determination. But in an}' case its operation never goes beyond those limits, and this leads us to classify in a first category the forms of simple bodies, calling them “ determinating forms.” Thus we make more precise the mode of causality which is proper to them, the boundaries assigned to them by nature and the impossibility for them to cross the line of demarcation.
• (to be continued.)
Irish Art at Rome.
When his Holiness Leo XIII determined that the illuminated address from the Archdiocese of Dublin should be placed in the Vatican Exhibition as an excellent and true work of art, he showed not only his good feeling towards Ireland, but likewise his keen appreciation of a genuine artistic ■production. The great album sent from the same archdiocese, containing well-executed photographs of the exteriors and interiors of churches and other religious buildings or institutions, as well as the other splendid album, exhibiting the buildings of Maynooth College, the Pontiff ordered should be conveyed to the Vatican Library as great books, whose illustrations might be consulted with advantage in future years. Yet these two works are also, more especially in their outward decoration, remarkable specimens of Irish art.
The illuminated address is perhaps the most characteristic Irish work. It is enclosed in a richly-
carved frame of yellow oak. Neither color nor gilding is used to heighten the effect of this frame, which depends solely on the forms of the subjects employed in the decoration. At first sight the carving reminds one of elaborate fretwork; but a closer examination shows a distinct and original style and purpose. The purely Celtic interlacing, which is peculiar to such decorative work, is employed here with great effect; the strange animals —dragons or other fanciful creations—marvellously intertwined, complete the style of figure used in this framework. The manuscript production, on parchment, is a study in itself. It is written in the Ogham characters of the eight century by Mr. Fitzpatrick, of Dublin, who, with great study and devotion to the glory of his country has made its early art a subject of imitation and adaptation. In the manner of the old copyists of the monastic seats of learning, he, in signing his name at the foot of the document, asks for the prayers of the readers. It may be that the secret of mixing the colors used in illuminating has been lost, or that the method of applying them so as to bring out their brightness is not known any longer; but it is certain that the wonderful brilliancy and splendor of color is not such a prominent feature in this imitation as in the'originals.
That the Pontiff was able to read the address with great readiness, except, indeed, where two or three specially Celtic letters came in one word— a very rare combination—tells well for the clearness and distinctness of the writing. That such adorned and illuminated work was the basis of the decoration on the sculptured stones and crosses met with in the north of England and south and west of Scotland, is evident from the likeness between the written page and the carved stone. The latter shows how superior Irish art was at that period to the art of Scotland or England, for such sculptured memorials are made from the designs, if not by the hands, of workmen from Ireland, the monastic scribe or copyist producing the design, and the monastic or lay stonecutter giving it permanence on the cross or upright stone which he carved. Nor is such style of design the growth or outcome of Christianity. Long before St. Patrick set foot on the shores of Ireland, the Celts of that country had developed an art marked by an originality and a fancy as marvellous as the originality of Greek art. “ If,” says Mr. Romilly Allen, writing on this subject, “the state of the culture of a nation is to be estimated by the quality of its art products, then the Celtic people who inhabited Great Britain (Ireland rather) at the time of Caspar's invasion must certainly occupy a high place in the scale of civilization. ... Archaeology reveals an artist skilled in metal work, employing his time in the production of objects which were luxuries, having long passed that stage of existence which was one long struggle with nature for the bare necessaries of life.”
Such was the state, fully developed and flourishing in a marvellous degree of Irish art, when that of England was confined, so far as we learn from historians, to the rude pictures of animals painted on the naked bodies of her warriors, with the juice
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
439
BMB!
of the plant called woad, in a style that must have a resemblance more or less close to that of the South Sea Islanders. Nearly 2000 years ago Ireland possessed a national style of art, which contains so many elements of originality, continues Allen, that it is quite impossible to confound it with any other.
When Christianity was introduced and had taken root in Ireland, the characteristic art of the country seems not to have changed, but rather to have de-veloped in a marvellous degree and to be applied to objects employed in religious service, and to the production of manuscripts. The extension of this work became so great that England and Scotland were supplied from Ireland. In Lindisfarne the sculptured crosses were of extraordinary beauty, and the Gospels were most richly illuminated in the Hibernian style. Not only were these countries thus furnished from the fertility of work and invention in Ireland, but Irish monks passed over to ' the Continent of Europe, and a great school of Hibernian art was founded in Switzerland. Even at Coire, in the Alps bordering on Italy, stones sculptured in the Hibernian style have been found.
It is difficult, in the absence of drawings, to de-. scribe completely the nature of this art in its application. Its chief characteristics are the use it makes of three particular kinds of purely geometrical ornament, which have been named: spiral patterns, key patterns, and interlaced work. To these must be added the animal figures, fanciful and weird, with their bodies and tails knotted and twisted in every conceivable manner; the ornament is invariably enclosed and arranged within panels, each complete in itself and surrounded by a frame or margin.
The spiral pattern is easily understood. The key patterns have a resemblance to the well-known Greek fret ornament, but instead of running parallel to the longer sides of the panels enclosing them, they are drawn diagonally across the surface to be decorated. “The interlaced work is composed of a series of one or more bands passing over and under each other alternately, with unerring precision, and forming twists, plaits, or knots, repeated at regular intervals.” This is a very labyrinth of lines, and the difficulty of tracing a line through its various windings is of the same nature as seeking for the path through the schoolboys’ labyrinth known as the “Walls of Troy.” And it is not that each pattern is a reproduction or imitation of its predecessor in the order’ of time. There is a family resemblance, or a national stamp upon all of them, but each is independent of the other. “The varieties of pattern, among the specimens of interlacing work on Celtic sculptured stones,” says another writer, “are among the most striking features of these curious works of art. There seems to have been no such thing as servile copying; the workman or the designer made each monument a separate existence, a creation of his own, to some extent at least.”
With alt its artistic treasures the Vatican will be more complete as a museum of universal art by the acquisition of these splendid reproductions of the dominant types of ancient Celtic art.—Roman Correspondence, Boston Pilot'.
Physical Development.
“Every writer on education, from Plato to Herbert Spencer, has advocated physical activity as a means of attaining that full-orbed and harmonious development of all parts of the human economy so essential to robust, vigorous health.” Theorists, then, are agreed upon this as the “ ultimate aim of every . kind of physical exercise.” But we all know how , difficult it is to get the best theories put into prac-; tice. They may commend themselves as the very best, but they fall far short of their good to men till they can be made working theories. In this respect the “ harmonious development” theory, whether mental or physical, forms no exception to other theories. But once get hold of some’motive by which to induce even a few individuals to put a theory into practice, and half the battle is won. If it is a really good theory, its own practical examples pro've the fact. “Wisdom is j’ustified of her children.” Here is always the difficulty—to get hold of the motives which will influence men and women in such way that they may finally be possessed by the “love of symmetry in form” which has such “a deep moral significance.” You may preach the doctrine to children, and your words will be like the idle wind. Even our young men and our maidens will prefer snug-fitting garments and handsome raiment covering a bad form, to the proportions of Apollo or the beauty of the Venus of Milo not clothed in the fashions of the day. Many men and women, staggering along under burdens of ill-health, self-imposed by neglect of the simplest natural laws, will give your beautiful theory small thought. They will pursue their phantoms of wealth and ambition, while they hug the delusion that they suffer by God’s will in this “ vale of tears.” They do suffer, and deservedly, but only because they do not use their own wills to conform their conduct to His gfood-will as re-vealed in the constitution of their own being. It is useless to set forth to such people the truths of health, the glad tidings of deliverance from many of their ailments by the natural remedies of air, exercise, and food. The doctrines of health have always been preached, and men have not heeded. Let us begin, then, with children, and educate them to these high truths. But with children we have to use authority or play upon motives. If we use authority merely, the idea of harmonious development will become distasteful to. them. They will break away from authority and break with the theory at the first opportunity of liberty. Put them at what we elders call play, and they often accomplish of their own free-will what we with difficulty get out of them by force. Now I say that, by their various athletic organizations, young men are doing this very thing for themselves that children do in play. They establish in the colleges a system of training for their various sports which affects not only the members of the higher institutions of learning, but which reaches almost every young man in the land.—^Popular Science Monthly'” for April.
44°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WE W SCUM.
publtsljrt rbrrn Saturtan iurtntj Ccrm CTfmc at N. 13. Snifitrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, March. 31, 1888.
Staff-
G. H. Craig, ’88, P.VD. Brownson, ’88,
J. A. Burns, ’S3,	• Chas. P. Neill, ’89.
S. J. Craft (Lit.), ’88.
—“ Classes will continue as usual during Easter week,” at N«tre Dame.
At fir>t sight that seems rather strange at an institution where the solemn service of Church, at this most serious season of the ecclesiastical year, is a matter of strict observance. And yet it is proper. Religious services do not indi-pose the mind for study.; nor will the study bring so many distractions into the religious services as the relaxation of a vacation would. It is, therefore, obvious that the best observance of the solemn season will be attained by having “classes continued as usual.” Whoever made the order had a level head.—“Ypsilanti Sentinel.
In connection with the foregoing sensible comment of our esteemed contemporary, it may be proper to call attention to the fact, as elsewhere stated in these columns, that though classes have been continued, yet time has also been found to take part in the solemn religious services appropriate to the closing days of Holy Week. All the students have assisted at these services with edifying regularity and attention, and but a very slight, if any, interruption has occurred to classes. For many years this course has been followed at Notre Dame, and it has been found to work with the best results to the mind and heart of the student..
—Our readers will remember the description, which appeared in these columns, some time ago, of the address to the Holy Father from the Temperance societies of America. It was prepared at Notre Dame, beautifully printed on white watered silk with a richly ornamented cover designed and painted by Signor Gregori of the Art Department of the University. Through some delay in its transmission, the address did not reach Rome as soon as intended, but now we have the pleasure of stating that on the 2d inst. it was formally presented to his Holiness by Mgr. O’Connell, the Rector of the American College. The Holy Father accepted the offering with evident marks of gratification, and remarked quickly to the Rector, with an air and tone of satisfaction: “ Last year I gave a letter
on that subject to Bishop Ireland.” « Yes,” replied the Rector, « and all the total abstinence societies are most grateful to your Holiness for it, and they return you their sincere thanks in thisaddress. The letter of your Holiness was productive of the utmost good.” In conclusion, the Holy Father added : “ Say to them that I send them my blessing.”
Courtesy.
As an elegant writer remarks, if compliance and assent, caution and candor, do not arise from a natural tenderness of disposition and softness of nature, but are wholly the effects of artifice, they must be despised; and the person who possesses them, when he imagines others deluded by his politeness, is the dupe of his own deceit.
True politeness comes only from that constant attention with which humanity inspires us, both to please others and to avoid giving them offence. Those who lay claim to the virtue of always being candid may find fault with this accomplishment, and may rejoice in their rudeness, so shocking to the feelings of their neighbors. He in whose politeness lies deceit substitutes for it compliments, cringings and artifice. As the plain-dealer finds fault with politeness because he considers it a vice, so the fawning flatterer is the occasion of this, because what he practises is really so. Both of them are wrong, for they do not really understand what is meant by politeness. Both are wanting in that good nature without which it is impossible to acquire the accomplishment.
As has been said by a writer on the subject: “ It is the dictate of humanity that we should endeavor to render ourselves agreeable to those in whose company we are destined to travel in the journey of life. It is our interest; it is the source of perpetual satisfaction; it is one of our most important duties as men, and is particularly required in the professor of Christianity.” To state in particular the motives which have led men to practise this agreeable virtue is unnecessary; for from whatever source the desire of pleasing comes, it has always increased proportionately to the general enlightenment of mankind. In a barbarous state of society, pleasure is limited in its sources and operations; for where the wants of .men are few, personal application alone suffices to gratify them, Hence the individual becomes more independent in a rude state of society than is the case in civilized life, and is less disposed to give or expect assistance. He is little intent on the pleasures of conversation
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	441
or society. His desire of communication is not surpassed by the extent of his knowledge. But in civilized life, when the ordinary wants of life are satisfied, we find some of our time unoccupied, and we are forced to discover means of making it pass in an agreeable manner. It is then we behold the advantage of possessing reason, and appreciate the delights of mutual intercourse.
But that we may receive pleasure from this intercourse, it is necessary that we study to please our neighbor, ju-.t as we expect this from him. This desire, then, to please is what has induced men to practise elegance of manners, or good breeding, the essential qualities of which are virtue and knowledge. In order that a man may please, it is necessary that he practise the virtues which form a good and respectable character, for on them depend the wants of society. In our business we desire to deal with men in whom we can place confidence and in whom we find integrity; and the common affairs of life are so closely knit with our social intercourse that we take more satisfaction from honesty of character than we do from elegance of manners. Lord Chesterfield says truly that} should one be suspected of injustice, malignity, perfidy, lying, etc., all the parts and knowledge of the world will never procure him esteem, friend’ ship and respect.
In our intercourse with the world, the first of virtues, and the principal, in giving pleasure to those with whom we come in contact, is sincerity of heart; and hence we can never be too scrupulous in preserving our integrity and placing our moral character above reproach. These in nowise diminish the lustre of elegant manners or of noble address, but, on the contrary, add to them, especially if they be accompanied by humanity and modesty, the two brightest ornaments of integrity. Humanity comprehends the display of everything amiable in others; modesty everything offensive in ourselves. This modesty, however,is not incompatible - with firmness and dignity of character; it has its origin rather from a knowledge of our imperfections, compared with a certain standard, than from conscious ignorance of what we ought to know. It is altogether different from what the F rench term mauvaise honte. It is the unaffected and unassuming principle which impels us to give preference to the merit of others, while the mauvaise fronted theawkward struggle of nature over her infirmities. Modesty is the virtue which the well-bred man displays Jn his every action, while the other is the quality which marks the uncultured and ill-bred.
'	’	-	;F.
Spring- in the Valley of the Mississippi.
Long had the Father of Waters been held in the icy grasp of winter. Ills limpid streams had ceased to flow. Cold and stiff he lay in his bed, for his pulsations could no longer be felt. One fine day in Spring, Apollo wrestled with Boreas; he conquered, and now Phebus is seen every day driving his fiery, chariot through the golden portals of Aurora, and disappearing through the gates of Hesperus. .And, as he passes over the valley, see how the crystallized walls of the river break down with *a crash, and once more the breast of the stream throbs with life. Apollo sends his beams, and they are taken up by the waters and reappear in crystals of spray.
Now Proserpine also appears, led by her mother Ceres; and behold, walking over the hills that form • the banks of the river, they adorn themselves with flowers of the richest, hues, and with foliage of the purest verdure. How different the king of waters now looks in his flowing garments of royal purple! The feathered songsters of nature find shelter within the folds of the delicious groves,-and ere the shades of night have given way to the golden strings that hang over the eastern horizon, these charming guests.on the banks of the river trill their sweetest carols; and when Apollo’s firstrays strike the mountain peaks, their chorus swells into a melodious harmony that spreads far and wide.
Night comes on. Nature is hushed in sleep. Rest, then, O father of streams! in thy peaceful ‘ bed, and let Cynthia’s beams guide thee in thy seaward course. Now nature is silent and listens to the murmuring waters as they tell the stories of ancient lore. How the redman once lived on its banks, and there had placed his wigwam. fAgain, they tell of their long journey from the mountains . and the north where their cradle stands; of the men that hunt the bear and the beaver in their native home, and of how they give them the drop of water to quench their thirst. They tell of their daring leaps over the mountain precipice; of how . many of their sister drops of water have taken an airy flight over the land to spread the dew far and wide, and how they expect to meet them all again in the embrace of their common father—the ocean.	.
Roll on, then, majestic stream. Never fail to be a joy and benediction to the king of nature who loves to dwell at thy side. Mayest thou never abuse thy power, and spread desolation o’er the land'that gives thee birth {
. Karl Martel,
442	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Silhouettes of Travel.
V.—Ogden to Salt Lake.
As it is rare to see a prophet recognized in his own country, so also it is seldom that one can pass for a handsome man, a Beau Brummel, or a Lord Chesterfield at home. Blear-eyed envy distorts the vision even of friends—as Father Vagnier will allow, even though Gcethe might never have written of him: he is as good-looking as he is amiable and talented. At Ogden, a lady of the highest education and refinement mistook our personality for that of David Barrow, Esq., of Montana, a liberal patron of the Academy of the Sacred Heart in that citv, as well as of All Hallow’s College at Salt Lake City. Mr. B-----, if not a living Apollo Belvidere, is at least a fine specimen of the genus homo—a model for the brush of Signor Gregori,— withal dignified and highly accomplished. We felt for a time like the picture of vanity painted by one of the old masters. But, alas! for the transitoriness of sublunary things, our charming illusion vanished the moment a gentleman addressed us on our way to the “City of the Saints” as a Mormon Elder. This particular dignitary, as we afterwards learned, was as beautiful as a Gorgon, as graceful as Vulcan. Sic transit—if the transition did not make us sick, it reminded us of one of Solomon’s well-known sayings.
Father Cushnahan invited me to visit the thermal baths, a few miles north of the town. They contain alarge percentage of iron,salt and magnesia, and are .recommended as specifics for rheumatism, dyspepsia,catarrh and epidermal pathological symptoms. The Duke of Argyle’s generosity will never be recognized in these regions. Still further on is the beautiful and fertile Cache Valley, which is like one of nature’s vast colosseums, the layers and tiers of solid masonry being formed by the eternal mountains. The drive through the Ogden Canon, about six miles long, exhibits the sublime and the romantic on a splendid scale: the rushing stream filled with speckled trout that skirts the winding road, the wall rocks towering up thousands of feet, or overhanging road and river, the huge pine trees on the mountain tops looking likediminutive shrubs, furnish a scene long to be treasured in memory’s gay picture gallery.	-
Father.C--------stated that Mr. Florian Devoto, one of the old students and professors of Notre Dame, is employed in an official capacity by the Union Pacific, and that he is regarded as one of the prominent men of the place.
I took the Union Central to the “Zion of Mor
monism,” thirty-seven miles distant. We sped on our way through a broad valley of surpassing loveliness and productiveness. Isolated farm houses and large hamlets occupy the soil all along the railway, many miles in width from the foot of the Wasatch mountains on the east, to the shores of the great lake on the west. The landscape reminded me of the model farms and snug villages of Belgium. Land capable of being irrigated by the mountain streams is very high-priced in all this region of country—ranging from $6o to $ioo and upwards. To the east the crests of the noble Wasatch range, crowned with snow, or enveloped in clouds, brought back to memory these bold Alpine scenes, where—	.
“ From peak to peak the crags along, Leaps the live thunder.”
To the west, the great Salt Lake shone in the sun like a gigantic mirror of polished steel, mountain islands, many miles in extent, rose from the shinins' surface like huge leviathans that sought to exchange the deep blue green of their native waters for the empyrean ocean of sapphire above. The lake, like all our western scenery, is on a scale of vast proportions. Its length from Northwest to Southeast is i io miles; its width runs from 20 to 40 miles. How glorious, methought, it would be to see the crews of the Santa Maria and Minnehaha here in • summer for a race from Black Rock to Antelope Island, with a nice picnic on the program for the princes! How Father General’s princely favorites would revel in green meads, in the shadow of the rocky cliffs, surrounded by waters of ethereal transparency over which might float the weird strains of the old brass band o’ lang syne!
Oh! for the melodies of ancientdays—the tremendous trombone of Bro. Charles; the braying bassoon of Bro. Gus with his mouse-piece; the flatulent flageolet of Tom Flannigan;. the ear-piercing pic-cola of tall sycamore Curry; the sonorous sax-horn of Prof. Lyons; the crowning cornet of Archbishop Riordan; the fretful French-horn of Father Sullivan, and the dread rub-a-dub-dub of the drummer, Father James Dillon:
---------------------“That sound again, O it came o’er my ear like the sweet south!	.
That breathes upon a bank of violets, Stealing and giving odor.”
But, after all, the little crystal gems of St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s, embowered in summer groves, afford more joy and pleasure to the light-hearted students of Notre Dame than the broad lakes or deep canons of Utah to the weary merchant and subtle disciple of Blackstone, who, like Orestes, find but a feverish rest even amid the grandest works of

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the Creator’s hand. Amid all our travels we feel, as Goldsmith, that there is no place like home or country.
“Where’er I roam, whatever realms to see, My heart untravelled fondly turns to thee.” And,
“ Such is the patriot’s boast where’er he roam, His first best country ever is at home.”
While indulging in these and kindred reflections, I arrived at the “ City of the Saints.”
S.
Books and Periodicals.
—Its wide variety is the most striking feature of the contents of the April Popular Science Monthly, ranging from the botany of Silurian time up to that recent flower of social evolution—college athletics. Psychology, zoology,anthropology, mineralogy, geology, social science, and law, are all represented in theattractive list of articles. Among the many topics treated, every intelligent reader will surely find several to interest him. The leading article is on “College Athletics and Physical Development,” by Professor E. L. Richards, of Yale College, in which the system of athletics existing at our colleges is defended as an ally of the of the best education. Mr. Philip Snyder’s paper on “Forms and Failures of the Law” calls attention to some of the supeifluous, inefficient, and inequitable features of our legal procedure. A collection of curious “Chinese Superstitions” is contributed by Adele M. Fielde; and there is a very entertainingarticleon heredity,entitled “ TheCause of Character.” Readers of the Monthly who have followed the series of at tides on “Economic Disturbances,” by Hon. David A. Wells, will be gratified with the excellent sketch and portrait of the author which appear in this number.
—Scribner's Magazine for April contains a number of notable illustrated articles. Dr. Henry M. Field, whose hooks of travel have gained him so many friends, has written a pleasing account of a visit to “ Gibraltar.” He describes very picturesquely many of the unusual features of this great natural fortress, which has been famous for centuries and yet seldom adequately written about. The concluding paper on “ The Campaign of Waterloo,” by John C. Ropes, is of intense interest. The first paper thoroughly prepared the way for this careful and valuable account of the great battle—which is not a description but a critical analysis of the significant moves made by the leading generals. Mr. Ropes sets forth with remarkable clearness the mistakes made by Napoleon which led to his defeat. There are a great many illustrations (including four full pages). Professor James Baldwin contributes an essay entitled “The Centre of the Republic”—the first of two papers reviewing the remarkable advances made by the “...Territory Northwest.of the River Ohio’’during the one hundred years since the passage ofrthe Ordinance for its settlement and government. The
author shows that the present prosperity of this region is the outgrowth of a sturdy race of pioneers who took every advantage of the great natural resources. But he traces “the social and intellectual phases of development through which the people of the West have advanced, rather than dilates upon the unexampled national prosperity of that section.”
Local Items.
—Eggs!
—Easter.
—Tramps.
—Quiet week.
—Last day of Lent.
—It was immaterial.
—Easter and Spring!
—The oracle’s prestige is gone.
—Mattie brought down the house.
—Take care, lest you be “fooled.”
— Early rising is sometimes desirable.
—Mendelssohn Quintette Club April 14.
—Our law “ grads” are unusually active.
—Easter boxes will be plenty next week.
—That aerological exhibition was brilliant.
—Mac “ did it, but he did not get the answer.”
—Some excellent singing.isexpected to-morrow.
—The Juniors expect a*supper next Wednesday.
—The coming boat-house is causing a great deal of anxiety.
—“ Deak’s ” ambulatory power is something marvellous.
—Extensive improvements are being made in Science Hall.
—New furniture has been placed in the Commercial room.
—That “safe story” deserves to be printed in pamphlet form.
—The Ann Arbor football team will be here April 20 and 21.
—The “ hen-roost ” serenade party were inglori-ously sat down on. -
—Mattie is the latest to-yield to the persuasive eloquence of No. 4.
—The Minims have had some exciting tug-of-war contests of late.
—The “ store ” has been quite appropriately closed since Wednesday afternoon.
—The prospective lake and diamond magnates have thrown out their skirmish lines.
—“ Buttons’” feline personation was admitted by all to have been perfectly natural.
. —The pleasing variety of the Hoosier climate is beginning to be appreciated by the boys.
—Our footballists are endeavoring to raise the wind by running around the lakeseveral times a day,
444
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—There is a backbiter, with a terribly wicked tongue, not far away. Look out for him!
—People of elfin height should never hide their personality in the profundity of a “stove-pipe.”
—Messrs. Coady, Barnes, Melady and Lander, it is said, are organizing a new Glee Club. There’s room for it. -
—The Librarian requests that the one who took out Vol. I, “ Lingard’s History of England,” will at once return the same.
—There is no truth in the report that the Boat Club intends to repair “The Volunteer” and fit it out as a steam launch.	■
—A good joke is now and then very acceptable; but the narrator should take care to keep his storehouse inside of his desk.
—The special eleven will need all the practice they can get between now and the time set for the game with the Ann Arbor boys.
—Owing to the large number of aspirants for baseball captaincies, we feel safe in predicting that the names of the disappointed will be legion.
—The annual banquet for the benefit of the football and baseball associations of the Senior department will be given next Thursday. Let all attend.
—It has been suggested that when the days become longer and warmer, the students attend Mass on Thursday mornings before breakfast instead of after.
—We are pleased to note that the steamship Etruria. upon which Rev. President Walsh sailed for the Old World, has arrived safe at port after a quick passage.
—Who will be the first to put an end to the cigarette smoker? F. J. says: “ Said smoker should have a head put on him, before aught else can be taken into consideration.”
—Among those mentioned in connection with the Junior baseball captaincies are, J. C. McGurk, C. V. Inderrieden, M. B. O’Kane, J. Pfau, D. Tewksbury and E. Benner.
:—Mrs. Amelia Doss has presented a rich Brussels carpet to the Chapel of St. John the Evangelist in the “Palace.” The amiable donor has the thanks of. all at St. Edward’s Hall.
-—The Catholic students in the Junior department received Holy Communion on Thursday morning; those in the Senior department will receive to-morrow (Easter) morning.
—Col. Wm. Hoynes has received another letter from Gov. Gray in which he states that the Springfield rifles for Companies A and 2?, Hoynes’ Light Guards, will be sent as soon as possible.
—We fully concur in the sentiments of “Boyle Dowell”:	’
“ Then wonder not,—’tis no unusual thing— To find the ‘crow cuss’ at an early spring.”
—The annual game of baseball between a picked Senior, team and the Minims’ special nine will be played, as soon as the weather permits. The Minims have already received and accepted a challenge.
—The many friends of Mr. P. J. Nelson will ’ be sorry to learn that his sister, by whose illness he was called home, has since died. Faculty and students alike extend their sympathy to Mr. Nelson in his sorrow.	•
—According to the programme published last	•
week, the Science Hall course of lectures will be	j
inaugurated next Wednesday by Rev. J. A. Z.ihm, C. S. C. The title of his address is “ Christian tv. ; non-Christian Scientists.”	f
—A large number of spring poems and a hogs- j head of spring jokes were left over from last year, and, owing to scarcity of room in our cellar, we • trust that our contributors will bear this fact in mind, and not drive us to extremes.	I
— Hon. Sam. J. Randall has sent two large pack-	i
ages of seeds, marked “ for the flower garden of the	j
little Princes of St. Edward’s'Hall, Notre Dame,	;
Ind.” The one hundred and thirty one Princes re-	]
quest the Scholastic to be the bearer of their	;
profound thanks to the amiable Senator for his kind	;
remembrance of them and St. Edward’s Park.	’
—Father Provincial Corby has been visiting, in • an official way, the Novitiate and Proftssed House	j
during the past week. As soon as he will have	f
completed his “ visit” there, he will turn his atten-	J
tion to the College. This is regarded in the Com-	?
munity as very important. The object is to inves-	|
tigate the entire workings of the Institution so | visited.	|
—Captains Houck and Fehr chose their football | teams Thursday evening as follows: Houck—E.	|
Sawkins, J. Hepburn, H. Luhn, F. Springer, L. 3 Meagher, T. Coady, E. Coady, J. McGrath, M. j Silver, P. Brownson, J. Norton (sub.); Fehr—H. | Jewett, E. Melady, E. Prudhomme, J. Wilson, J. •	|
Cusack, F. Albright, H. White, H. Hull, A. Joyce, I and G. Cartier.	J
I
—We have no faith in the ground-hog, and we | are just awaking to the fact that even the budding < of the trees is not a sure indication that spring has | come to stay; but when the deep-toned notes of | the patriarchal frog, yclept Fer’d Coon, are wafted i up from the lake you can deposit your overcoat with the tri-spherical man and dispel all fears of 1 needing it again.	. J
—The innumerable friends of the venerable Fa- | ther Edward Sorin will learn with pleasure that the | Golden Jubilee of his priesthood will soon be cele- I brated. The event will be suitably commemorated | wherever the Congregation of the Holy Cross, of | whichhe is the Superior-General, has an altar, but g with special joy and solemnity at the University | of Notre Dame, in Indiana.—Catholic Review.	|
—Monday’s Express brought the new suits re- I cently ordered by the Rugby Football-Association. | There are uniforms for the two elevens. The jackets	|
and trowsers are of canvas, the stockings are of the i best quality of wool, and the caps are jerseys. The	|
trimmings are brown and black by which colors	1
the teams will be distinguished. Capt. Houck has i chosen the brown for his men, while Capt. Fehr’s ® will wear the black,	:	®
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	445
—Some baseball fiends should bear in mind that the season is not yet at hand, and that, even if it were, the “gym” was never intended to be adiamond. Some have of late been using it as such to the annoyance, not to say danger, of those who are wont to frequent the place for athletic exercise, as well as those passing to and from the store; Baseball is strictly an out-door game, and should ever be played there.
—A telegram from San Francisco, published in a Chicago paper of last Wednesday, states that the Most Rev. Patrick. Riordan, Archbishop of San Francisco, has seriously impaired his health by close attention to his duties in the West, and he will come East to recuperate, remaining some time. The Archbishop is a most zealous worker, and his labor on the Pacific coast has been productive of much good. He graduated from Notre Dame some thirty years ago.
—The 13th issue of the Scholastic Annual gives us proof that Prof. Lyons is as busy as ever at his post, still keeping fresh that delicate literary taste which wins such a warm welcome for his works. We read with deep interest the scholarly article on “ Church and State,” the clever poem on the “Thirteenth Leo,” and the essay on the “Reciprocal Duties of the Press and the People.” There is a dash of humor about the poems “Miss Moppie Megrim” and the “Young Gent of the Period,” that recalls the playful fancy of Saxe, while the “Country Editor’s ” advice brings back the days when Tom Hood captivated the people of London by his sportive wit.— The Xavier.
—The 17th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus’-Philopatrian Society was held on the 25th inst. In the debate on “War vs. Arbitration,” the following took part: Masters F.Wile,W. Martin, C. Ramsey, J. McCormick, R. Boyd, L. Reidinger, M. Quinlan, H. Silver, A. Daniels, G. Frei, L. Kehoe and J. Mulqueen. A decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative. The judges were Masters McNulty, Noud and Schenk. The debate was pronounced to be the best one held this year. Masters P. Fleming and J. Cunningham, two bright young men, were elected to membership. The Philopat-rians have a good active membership of some twenty-five, and are in a flourishing condition.
— The re-election of the members of the first and second nines of the Minim department took place in their Baseball parlors last Thursday. A protracted struggle for captains was at length decided by ballot, and resulted as follows: Masters Black and Kehoe Captains of the first nine, Carlile and Parker of the second nine; Seerey and H. Walsh of the third nine; O’Neill and E. Falvey of the fourth nine, and R. Clendenin, special nine. The following officers were elected: Brother Cajetan, Director; R. Clendenin, Secretary; L. Black, Treasurer. The following members compose the first • nine: Masters L. Black, Sweet, Quill, Dunn,Campbell, G. Franche, Cudahy, Williamson, Johns; J. Ayer, substitute. Kehoe, Doss, Dungan, Clendenin, Koester, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, Marx; Tompr kins, substitute.	•
—Holy Week.—The solemn- ceremonies of Holy Week were carried out with due impressiveness in the college church. On Palm Sunday, solemn High Mass was sung by Rev. Father Morrissey, assisted by Rev. Fathers French and Coleman as deacon and subdeacon. The services began with the blessing and distribution of the palais, after which the usual procession took place, and the hymn, Gloria, laics, honor, was chanted alternately by the clergy in the vestibule and a choir of young boys within the church. During the Mass, the Passion was sung by Rev. Fathers Fitte, Kirsch and L’Etourneau, the choir taking the part of the rabble.
On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday evenings the Tenebrce was chanted, and all the impressive prescriptions of the Liturgy were duly observed. We missed, however, the beautifully harmonized Lamentations and Miserere, which in former years added so much to the solemnities of the Office. This defect was due to the illness of the esteemed Director of the choir;'
On Thursday morning, solemn High Mass was sung by Very Rev. Provincial Corby, assisted by the Rev..Fathers French and Coleman as deacon and subdeacon. After Mass the procession took place, when the Blessed Sacrament was taken from the high altar to the repository prepared for It in one of the apsidal chapels of the extension to the church. Everything about the repository showed care and good taste, and the general effect in the day time was much heightened by the shades and tints reflected through the stained glass windows.
In the afternoon, the solemn ceremony of the Mandatum,ox Washing of the Feet, was performed by the Very Rev. Superior-General, attended by the Rev. deacon and subdeacon of the Mass, and others of the clergy. The venerable appearance of the Very Rev. celebrant imparted additional impressiveness to the beautiful ceremony. The twelve little Minims who took part were afterwards entertained by Father General, who presented each of them with pictures as souvenirs of the event.
On Good Friday morning, the ministers were the same as on Thursday; the Passion was solemnly chanted and followed by the ceremony of the veneration of the Cross; after which the Blessed Sacrament was brought processionally to the high altar, and the Mass of the Presanctified was celebrated. In the afternoon, the Way of the Cross was made.
On Saturday morning, the services, as described in.the Scholastic last week, began at half-past eight, the students assisting at the High Mass, which began at ten. During the Gloria the organ was again played, and all the bells pealed forth their joyous tones. With the Alleluia of the Vesper service the week of sorrow was ended, arid the joyful Paschal time had begun.
The deportment of the boys who served in the sanctuary at these services was worthy of all praise. It is seldom that so large a number of boys can be found to act with such decorum and propriety in every respect.. They did honor to their respective departments. '	'	•
446	TJiE^NOTti£ bAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The “specials ” and the “ anti-specials ” played an interesting game of football Thursday afternoon. The teams were composed of the following players: Specials—E. Melady, G. Houck, J. Hepburn, F. Albright, H. Hull, F. Fehr (centre), H. Luhn (capt.), Rushers; P. Brownson, Quarter Back; Jewett, J. Cusack, Half Backs ; E. Prudhomme, Goal. Anti-specials—A. Larkin, J. Maloney, L. Meagher, F. Springer, J. Wilson, T. Coady, E. Sawkins (centre), Rushers; T. O’Regan, Quarter Back; E. Coady (capt.), H. White Half Backs; A. Joyce, Goal. The specials won by a score of 20 to o.on touch-downs by Prudhomme, E. Jewett, Fehr, and Hull, and on two goal kicks by Prudhomme. J. Norton acted as substitute in the second inning. Good plays were made by those scoring points, and by Messrs. O’Regan, Cusack and Sawkins. J. McGrath was referee. The game was well contested, and developed the fact that a little more practice on the part of all would not prove otherwise than beneficial. The “anti-specials ” played better than was expected, and gave their opponents considerable trouble. With more jjractice the boys will be able to put up a stronger and better game, and weak points may be seen and remedied. The new suits were worn for the first time.
—The “ roster” of Company A, Hoynes’ Light Guards, is as follows: Commissioned Officers—J. E. Cusack, Captain; C. J. Stubbs, 1st Lieutenant; J. V. O’Donnell, 2d Lieutenant. Non-Commissioned Officers—G. A. Houck, 1st Sergeant; P. VD. Brownson, 2d Sergeant; W. B. Aikin, 3d Sergeant; G. R. Cartier, 4th Sergeant; F. Fehr, 5th Sergeant; M. B. Mulkern, 1st Corporal; F. L. Jewett, 2d Corporal; E. C. Prudhomme, 3d Corporal; A. E. Leonard, 4th Corporal. Privates —G. Archambault, F. Albright, N. Beckwith, R. Bronson, T7Coady, S. Campbell, L. Chute, Jos. Donelson, G. Hobert, H. Higgins, J. Jennings, C. Johnson, N. Jacobs, E. Kehoe, V. Morrison, John Norton, L. Orr, R. Pollock, A. Plato, L. Preston, R. Quigley, O. Rothert, M. Reynolds, E. Decker, S. Eyanson, J. Fisher, R. Fleming, J. Garrity, H. Mack, H. McAllister, F. Major, A. Nicholl, S. Nirdlinger, M. Rosenthal F. Suing, P. Wagoner, H.Wright, L. Woodbridge,J. McWilliams. Lieutenant Stubbs is Acting-Adjutant, and P. Paschel is Sergeant-Major of the Light Guards. .	-
The following is. the “ roster ” of Company B\ Hoynes’ Light Guards: Commissioned Officers —G. H. Craig, Captain; M. O’Kane, 1st Lieutenant; J. McGurk, 2d Lieutenant. Non- Commissioned Officers—C. V. Inderrieden, 1st Sergeant; D. Tewksbury, 2d Sergeant; W. McKenzie, 3d Sergeant; J. Cooney, 4th.Sergeant; C. Cavanagh, 1st Corporal; J. C. Flynn, 2d Corporal; T. Darragh, 3d Corporal; W. Walsh, 4th Corporal. Privates—E. R. Adelsperger, :W. B. Allen, E. Brannick*,H. Bronson, E7Campbell,.W. Cartier, F. Chute, L. Chacon, F. Coad, J.-Cooke, A.,Daniels, W. Devine, S. Fleming, E. P. Flynn, G. Freemanj E. Berry, F. Garrity, G. Frei, T. Gonzales, F. Gray., :E. Greever, F. Hagen, R. Hall, W. Hart
man, R. Healy, J. W. Henry, L. Hoffmann, A. Hoye, L. Kehoe, H. J. Kohn, A. Kutsche, H. Leonard, W. Monaghan, L. Monarch, J. Mulqueen, J. McGrath, V. McGuire, W. McPhee, P. O’Hern, B. O’Kane, W. Rowsey, E. Roth, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, H. Silver, C. Spalding, L. Thome, R. Sullivan, E. Welch.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of tho<=e students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armstead, Brady, Bowles, Brannick, Beckman, Barrett. P. Burke, J. Burke, Beckwith, Bombeck, Bronson, Barnard, J. Burns. Brewer, E. Burns. Boland. Craft, Campbell, Cassidy, Chacon, Cusack, Craig. Cartier, Chute, E. Coady, T. Coady, Cosgrove, Dore, Dulaney, Eyanson, Ewing. Fitzharris, Finckh, Fenton, Fehr, Goebel, Gallardo, Geisler, Gibbs, Goke, Griffin. Garfias, Henderson. Higgins, Hobart, Heinemann, M. Howard, Hughes, Hull. Houck, Hepburn, Jennings, Jacobs, Keating, Kehoe, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Luhn, Louisell, W. McDermott, Mattes, Mulkern, J. Meagher, J. McDermott, Mackey, Major, W. Morrison, McAllister, McCart, McAuliff, Melady, Andrew Nicholl; Neill, R. Newton, O'Hara. Orr, O’Regan, O’Shea, O’Donnell O'Connor, O’Brien, Pollock, Plato, Prichard, Preston, Pares, Rochford, Reynolds, Rothert, Rudd, Riley, Read, Stubbs, J. Sullivan, H. Smith, W. Silver, R. Silver,* D. Sullivan, Suing, Sloan, Tiernan, Tarrant, Woods, Wagoner, Wilkin, Whelan, M. White.
* Omitted for the last three weeks by mistake.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Anferger, Allen, Berry, Bronson, Boyd, Beaudry, Bolderick, Blake, Burger, Brannick, W. Brown, Brady, Cunningham, Cauthorn, Cooney, J. Connors, F. Connors, Case, Coad, Chacon, Connelly, Cavanagh, Carney, Coulter, Cullen, Delaney, Daniels, Devine, Darragh, Ebner. Fitzgerald, Ealvey, S. Fleming P. Fleming, J. Flynn, F. Flynn, Frei, Grossman, Graham, J. Greene, T. Greene, Gonzales, Gi sch, Grever, Houlihan, Henry, Hagan, Howard, R? Healy. Hampton, Hackett, Hoerr, Huber, Hughes, Hartman, Hake, Hayes, Jackson, Josselyn, Kutsche. Lane, Lahey, Leonatd, Moncada, Martin, Munroe, McGuire, John McIntosh, McGurk, H. Mal-lay, McIvers, McPhee, Miner, McKenzie, Mooney, McCartney, Mayer, Monarch, Neef, O’Neill, W. O’Brien’ G. O’Brien, W. P. O’Brien, M. O Kane, O’Donnell, Priestly, Paquette, Powers, Pecheux, F. Peck, Pfau, Quinlan, Roth, Rei hard, I. Rose, S. Rose, Reidinger, Roper, F. Schillo, Stephens, Spalding, Shenk, Senn, A< Sullivan. L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Simpson, Talbot, Tewksbury, Wile, Wageman, Wade, Walsh, Wright, Wood. •
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, H. Bachrach, S. Bachrach, A. Bachrach, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, L. Black, S-Blake, Beerman, Bates, Burns, Bradley, Boettcher, C. Connor, W. Connor, Collins, Connelly, Cummings, Carlile, Cudahy, F. Creedon, W. Creedon, Carpenter, Campbell, Durand, J. Dunn, Jessie Dungan, Jas. Dungan. F. Dempsey, Dench, Dorsey, E. Elkin, C. Franche, Flannery, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Firkel, Grant, Griffin, Greene, Good-willie. Hinds, Harlan, Hagus, Howard, Hamilton, Halthu-sen, Haddican, Jaramillo,'Johns, Kerwin, Kutsche, Kehoe, Keeler, Keefe, Kinsella, Kane, Kaye, A; Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Mooney, Marx, Morgen week, McDonnell, Ma-ternes, L. Mayer, G. Mayer,McPhee, J. Marre, A. Marre, Minor, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, J. O’Mara, Perry, L.-Paul, C. Paul, Plautz, Parker. Pierce, Quill, Rogers, Ricksrcker, Sweet, Seerey, Stone, F. Smith, E. Smith, Stephens, .Speir, Storey, Taft, Toolen, Trujillo, Tomkins, Thornton, Wm. Williamson, Welch, A. Wit-kowsky, S. Witkowsky, Willien, Wilson, Young, Zieman, Mott.	. . -	•
THE NOTRE bAMH SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JHary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Very Rev. Father General blessed and distributed the palms, and was the celebrant of the High Mass on Palm Sunday.
—The class of Natural Philosophy held a very interesting competition lately. The captains were the Misses Davis and Van Mourick.
—At the last meeting of St. Catherine’s Literary Society, the selections and quotations were well given. The readers were the Misses B. Fenton, C. Hurley and M. McEwen.
—A welcome letter from Rev. Father Mullane, C.SS.R., to the pupils at St. Mary’s, brought the assurance of a kind remembrance in prayer, and the promise of a visit when opportunity favors.
—It was most edifying to see so many young ladies making the Way of the Cross each day during Lent. The time they took from their recreation in which to perform the Stations will bring many blessings on them in the hour of need.
—Very Rev. Father General sent three prettily bound copies of his “Way of the Cross” to be voted to the best young lady in each department. Miss Nellie Brady received the votes of the Seniors, Miss Irene Stapleton was considered the best Junior, and little Adele Papin rejoices in being one of the best Minims.
—After the reading of the points on last Sunday evening, Miss M. F. Murphy read an essay in her usual pleasing style. Little Lottie Dreyer and Hazel Pugsley deserve special mention for the graceful manner in which they acquitted themselves on their first appearance, their recitations having been well rendered.
Our Friends.
How much is contained in the little word “ friend I ” yet how few appreciate its full importance! So lightly does it fall from the lips that some apply this fond name to passing acquaintances, and often to mere strangers. To a thinking mind it must be apparent that such a use of the term is an abuse, and one which it should be our aim to avoid. At the outset, therefore, we are confronted with the question: Who, then, is our friend? All must admit that he only can lay rightful claim to this title who is attached to us by affection, seeks our company, and tries to promote our happiness. Selfsacrifice, too, must be a prominent trait in the character of him who aspires to this position; hence he must be willing to give up his own pleasures to promote ours, and be always ready to lend a
447
helping hand in the difficulties with which .we may meet. He is a friend indeed who does not conceal from us our faults, but tries to have us correct them; whose cheering voice is heard above the uproar occasioned by the storms of adversity.
It matters not to him whether we are favored with the smiles of Dame Fortune, or experience the blighting effects of her frown. In fact, if such a one could feel anything but regret at the misfortunes of his friend, it would be due to the fact that6”an opportunity had been offered to test the true worth of his friendship, for he is not attached to us on account of wealth or power, but solely because of our merits, or notwithstanding our lack of them.
As we have now considered at some length the question, who is our friend? let us look at the other side and dwell upon a few of those traits by which the false friend may be detected. It is needless to say that the self-seeker who is ready to lure us on to ruin if it will in the least promote his own interests, deserves not the title, nor he who for motives best known to himself applauds our bad actions; for though such a course may flatter for a time, the consequences are sure to be disagreeable.
Many noted and enduring friendships, are on record; but few excite us to greater admiration than that which existed between Damion and Pythias. Everyone knows how severely it was tested, and may judge of its strength by the fact that the love of life, so deeply rooted in the human heart, was not able to make, either friend false to the other. Jonathan’s friendship for David is another example of true affection which, “ though weighed in the balance, was not found wanting,” even when by his fidelity he incurred the wrath of his royal father.
Friendship has been the subject of essays, romances and poems, until it has become almost trite;. yet it must continue to be a theme dear to mankind. True friendship cannot be praised too highly, for often it brightens an otherwise cheerless life, and . by its sweet influence lifts the heart to higher and holier things. Knowing no change, friendship should never grow old, but endure until death gathers one or both of the friends to his embrace.
The young are apt to form friendships which continue to the grave; though again, other attachments to which the name is applied, prove to be mere passing infatuations. Then, .in forming a friendship, we should be guided by prudence, lest our haste in choosing make us repent at leisure. We may deliberate as long as we please beforelhe “league is struck”; but after once taking a worthy person as a friend, there should be no jealousy or
44§	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
doubting thereafter; When with a friend, we should be as ready to say a thing as think it, and as our hearts are one; so should be our interests. Seneca says: “We should; without any scruple, make him the confidant of all our secret cares and counsels, and look upon our thoughts to be as safe in his breast as in our own.”
After once forming a real friendship, without grave reasons it should not be broken; for, says Shakspeare, “the friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, grapple them to thy soul with hooks of steel.” That friends are a necessity, surely none will deny, for experience shows that not the possession of riches, fame, or even wisdom itself, can be enjoyed without a companion with whom to share them; and he is indeed wretched who has no one to whom he may unburden his thoughts, for half the pain of misfortune is gone if we may but whisper our cares and sorrows into a sympathizing ear. Though we do not believe that “ most friendship is feigned,” still friends may prove false, or even if true, the changes of fortune or grim death may separate them; yet there is one Friend who knows no change or deception; who is always loving, and on whom we may call in time of need, and call not in vain. This Friend of friends is He who sweetly invites all the weary and heavy laden to go to Him and there find true rest.	.
Doing this, we lay a sure foundation for earthly friendship, which, even the pagan philosophers declared, could not exist without virtue. •
Louise McNamara,
Second Senior Class.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
RULES.	.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	•
Par Excellence—Misses Andree, Arpin, Arnold, Brady, Balch, Bub, Burton, Barth, Brewer, Boyer, Bourne, Bescha-meng. Bates, Blacklock, Beck, Belfield, Bogner, Carinien, Clifford, Claggett, Conners, Clore, E. Coll, M. Coll, Cam-pagne, Calkins, H. Dempsey, Ducey, K. Desmond, Davis, Dunkin, Daube, J. Dority, Earley, English, Flannery, Fitzpatrick, Fenton, Gavan,Geer, Guise, Gordon, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog. Hellmann, M. Horner, I. Horner, Hinz, Harlen, Heffron, Hoftinann, Hutchinson, Hooker, Johnson, E. Kearns, Kron. Keyes, Koester, Karnes, Leonard, Lilly, M. F. Murphy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, N. McCarthy, M. McEwen. McNamara, Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh, Moran, C. McFadden, J. McFadden, Mitchell, F. Marley, Neft', E. Nicholas. Prudhomme, Piper. M. Papin, Quill, Quealey,G. Regan, Rend, Riedinger, E. Regan, Richardson, Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Saviers, M. Smith. B. Smith, Sloman, Spier, Studebaker, Trask, Thompson, Van Horn, Van Mou-rick, M. Voechting, B. Voechting, Waterbury, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Webb, Zahm.	•	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch,*-.Blaine,*-E. Burns,*
Burns,* Campbell,* Davis,* E. Dempsey,* Dreyer,*
Eby,* Foster,* Hake,* Hagus,* Hull,* Hughes,* Harman, Knauer,* Kloth,* Longmire,* Lauth,* Miller,* McCune,* Newman,* Pugsley.* Quealy* Rhinehart* Rose* Rogers ,* Stapleton,* E. Smith,Thirds,* A. Wurzburg,* N.W urzburg.*
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Burns,* O’Mara, A. Papin,* Reeves,* S. Smith.*
* Drew for Politeness Cross.	-
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC..
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Advanced Course—Miss E. Horn.
Advanced Course, Harp—Miss M. Dillon.
ist Course, Graduating Class—Miss II. Guise.
. ist Class—Misses M. F. Murphy, Rend, Van Horn.
2D Class —Misses M. Allen, A. Reidinger, B. Snowhook.
2D Div.—Miss M. Desmond, J. Dority, O. O’Brien. •
3d Class—Misses E. Brady, M. Barry, E. Flannery,
K. Gavan, M. Horner. G. Regan. '	■
2D Div.—Misses II. Coll, L. Ducey, L. Hillas, T. Hinz.
|TH Class—Misses C. Dempsey, M. M. Davis, Hughes,
K. Heffron, C. Moran, E. McCarthy, L. Piper, M. Smith, G. Stadtler, M. Sheehan.	.
2D Div.—Misses M. Clifford, B. Claggett, L. Dolan, J. Daube, J English, C. Hurley, O. Hoffman, L. Koester, M. Keyes. N. Morse, I. Stapleton. E. Quealey.
5TH Class—Misses M. Bates, E. Balch;A. Blacklock, I.
Bub. F. Carinien, E. Foster, B. Fenton, L. Fravel, Henke, M. Hummer, O. Knauer, E. Kearns, M. McE«en.
2D Div.—Misses M. Beck, J. Bloom, E. Dempsey, M. Fitzpatrick, F. Hertzog, E. Harlen, M. Hull, E. Lewis, L. Meehan, H. Meehan, j. McFadden, P. Sloman, G. Wehr, L. Waterbury.	'
6th Class—Misses M. Andree, M. Burton, T. Balch. E.
Churchill, K. Desmond, H. Hake. A. Johnson, L. Lilley, M. McCormick, F. Marley, M. Newman, M. Papin, Prudhomme, H. Pugsley. E. Regan, M. Rhinehart, J. Robinson, L. Reeves, R.Van Mourick, M.Voechting, B. Voechting, B. Wagner, N. Wurzburg.
2D Div.—Misses M. Arpin, E. Blaine, E. Burns, M. Coll, M. Campbell, N. Dunkin, E. Fritz, K. Hurley, M. Kohler, C. Kron, K. Loonie, M. Mitchell, M. McCune, K. Me-Carthy, L. Nicholas, M. Conner, H. Quill,M. Richardson, A. Schmauss, M. Thompson, B. Webb.
7TH Class—Misses C. Bray, M. Burns, K. Calkins, L. Dreyer. E. Davis, M. Geer, E. Hagus, E. Longmire, L. Leonard, L. Mercer, E. Nicholas, A. O’Mara, M. Rannells, D. Rogers, C. Reen, B. Smith, E. Smith, E. Spier, L. Wiesenbach, I. Zahm.
Sth Class—Misses F. Burdick, C. Kloth, M. Miller, G.
Papin, S. Smith. .	•
9TH Class—Misses K. Early, F. Palmer, M. Rose, M. Reed.
ioth Class—Miss Ella Burns.	,
harp.	•
5th Class—Misses Snowhook, L. Hillas.
6th Class—Miss L. Waterbury.
VIOLIN.
Misses L. Koester, H. Studebaker.	*
GUITAR.
>th Cl ats—Misses K. Desmond, M. Burton.	;
6th Class—Misses J. McFadden, B. Voechting.	.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.	j
Graduating Class—Miss M. F. Murphy.	j
ist Class—Misses K. Gavan, H. Guise.	|
2D Div.—Miss C. Moran.	;	i
2D Class, 2d Div.—Miss McCarthy.	,	।
3D Class—Misses M Barry, N. Dempsey, C. Dempsey. 1 2D Dtv.—-Misses F. Carinien, B. Hellmann, L. Meehan, i C. McFadden.	|
4TH Class—Misses I. Bub, E. Balch, J. Dority, B. Fen-	|
ton, M. Fitzpatrick. C. Hurley, F. Hertzog, C. Kron, L. Lil-	|
ley, F. Marley, L. Nicholas. P. Sloman.	|
5TH Class—Misses T. Balch, A. Bourne, B. Claggett, ® K. Calkins, L. Dolan, L. Hillas, A. Johnson, E. Kohler, M. McCormick, M. Mitchell, O. O’Brien, C. Prudhomme, M. S
Papina G. Wehr, M.-Webb, M^Voechting.' •	. '
' ..	w
- - ' . ■