■J? w
n«ttt
KTMImmo.
L8^

PHILIP MORRIS is so much better to smoke!


PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra benefit found in no other cigarette. For Philip Morris is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recognized by leading nose and throat specialists as definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip Morris smokers know, they’d all change to PHILIP MORRIS.
x hip MORRIS
TRY A PACK ... TODAY
LETTERS
ATTENTION, DARWIN!
Deaz Editor:
Would it be possible for me to obtain one or two copies of the Scholastic issued on about Feb. 20, 1948.
Our agency [Batten, Barton, Dur-stine & Osborne, Inc.] placed an ad for our client the Wildroot Company with the caption, “J. Paul Sheedy Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked the Fingernail Test.”
You can see why I’d like the copies.
J. Paul Sheedy Notre Dame—1937
Scholastic will send not only the magazines, but a buck for a haircut, which from the picture is badly needed.
—Editor
WHAT ABOUT US CITIZENS?
Dear Editor:
I’d like to know just why that film “Citizen Kane,” which played at the Engineering Auditorium last week, was not shown at Washington Hall. I dragged my girl out here only to be turned away at the door.
It seems to me that once a higher type movie comes to this campus it ought to be given a wider showing. •
Ed Fromm 1202 St. Peter St.
TAKE IT FROM NEWMAN
Dear Editor:
Departmentalization and departmental examinations are a form of secularization inherent in bigness. Notre Dame’s rapid growth has imposed this administrative bureauracy on us with its severing of the spiritual bond between student and professor and its anti-humanist education for uniformity and mass production techniques. This practice is not consistent with the aims of developing the whole man. Instead, it lashes the whip of standardization over each student to herd him through the educational assembly line for his neatly bundled package of uniform facts.
John Henry Cardinal Newman realized
THIS WEEK'S COVER .
Sheila Ann Hayes is undoubtedly SCHOLASTIC'S youngest cover girl. Her picture, taken by Gene Reynolds against a background of drying diapers and the Golden Dome, serves to introduce this week's main feature "Us Vetville Kids." written by a fellow Vetville youngster and found on page 13.
this danger in his own time. In Discourse VI of The Idea of a University he says:
“. . . knowledge is something more than a sort of passive reception of scraps and details; it is a something, and it does a something, which never will issue from the most strenuous efforts of a set of teachers, with no mutual sympathies and no inter-communion, of a set of examiners with no opinions which they dare profess, and wth no common principles, who are teaching or questioning a set of youths who do not know them, and do not know each other, on a large number of subjects, different in kind, and connected by no wide philosophy, three times a week, or three times a year, or once in three years, in chill lecture-rooms or on a pompous an
ARROW GORDON OXFORDS BACK IN CAMPUS STYLE PICTURE!
N. Y., Jan., 1948... Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., makers of Arrow products, announce the return of their fine Gordon oxford cloth shirts for college men.	.
1.	FENWAY—Arrow’s new oxford shirt with a button-down collar which comes in white, stripes, and solid colors.
2.	DOVER—The classic of the button-downs with a medium point roll collar.
3.	SUSSEX—Smartest of the wide-spread stay collars.	-
4.	DOUBLER—The shirt that doubles for dress and sports. A regular length collar.
5.	BROCKLY—Another fine oxford in medium point collars.
See your Arrow dealer now and place your order for your favorite style in Gordon oxford.
ARROW SH/RTS and TIES w------------------■------------
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
niversary. .Nay, self-education in any shape, in the most restricted sense, is preferable to a system of teaching which, professing so much, really does so little for the mind.”
Yet Notre Dame will not and cannot return to the days of a small student body. It therefore remains for students and faculty members alike to face this evil and take constructive steps to mitigate its effects by developing a true Christian community embracing the entire University. Otherwise we may seriously question whether we are gaining an integrated education or merely building a mental catalogue of assorted facts.
Chuck Russ 261 Alumni Hall
(Continued on Page 26)
3
TOP OF THE WEEK
Notre Dame man: “Vildasnia palub-nic arlagush giznubble?”
ANOTHER ‘SPIRIT OF WEST POINT'?
Ever since the football season sputtered out amidst an orgy of frenzied muttering and snarling on the comparative merits of Notre Dame and Michigan, word has been going around to the effect that one of Hollywood’s more stupendous movie studios is about to star John Lu jack, and possibly Ziggy Czar-obski, in a picture. Various conjectures say the movie will be based on: a) Lujack’s life, b) ND’s 1947 season, c) Czarobski’s life, d) the Civil War, or e) beet growing in the Balkans. (Multiple choice; pick one.)
Just when the producers will let the secret out, in their own shy way, is still problematical, but The Week has a few suggestions it would like to call to their attention.
First of all, gentlemen, let us see to it that there is no repetition of that hammed-up “Spirit of West Point” atrocity. If you’re going to tell the story of Notre Dame and Notre Dame football, stick more or less to the facts. As a case in point, we might mention the scene in “West Point” in which Earl Blaik is shown on the verge of hysterics because Blanchard has been hurt and he has nothing better than Ug Fuson to throw against the humpties on Army’s schedule. A corresponding scene in a picture about Notre Dame, made by the usual Hollywood formula, would have students leaping headlong from the Dome because Lujack’s ankle had been slightly hurt before the Army game of ’46.
And let’s leave the corn on the commodity market, gentlemen. If you’re using our story or Lu jack, one of our people, we’d like to see you play it straight, without any of the phoney sentimentality which usually fouls up such efforts.
We have one other suggestion . . . Why not use Bull Budynkiewicz?
HISTORICAL NOTE
Readers of the Chicago Sun and Times this week noticed that the cartoon feature (which daily presents various un
interesting facts about national personalities of one kind or another) had a blow for Arthur Schlesinger, author of The Age of Jackson, one of the Department of History’s torture tools. It seems that Schlesinger wrote part of the book with his year-old daughter sitting on his knee, a rather clumsy process. ND men who have wrestled with the monstrous Jackson will tell you that Schlesinger’s daughter must have written a good deal of the book herself.
KILL 'EM
When St. Louis U.’s basketball team returned home after beating ND a while
WINS POPULARITY CONTEST
NO, the man in this picture is not upside down! You must be reading this standing on your head. Little wonder you can’t pass the Finger-Nail Test. Better straighten up and streak down to the corner drug store for a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil Hair Tonic. Just a spot of Wildroot Cream-Oil grooms your hair neatly and naturally—gives it that neat, well-groomed “college” man look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff . . . It’s nonalcoholic, so don’t try drinking it. Remember, however, it contains soothing Lanolin. Get Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic today and see for yourself why it’s “again and again the choice of men who put good grooming first.” For generous trial supply free, send this ad with your name and address to Wildroot Co., Inc., Dept. C-D, Buffalo 11, N. Y.
back, 5,000 screaming fans met the train with speeches, music, and all the usual commotion. The team rewarded its faithful followers with the following ditty, to the tune of the Victory March:
Shed a tear fox* the Irish today,
Shed one fox’ Foley and Kevin O’Shea.
Though we were theix- guests ■ last night,
We made the shots and stole the fight. So squeeze one fox- Barnhorst and the
Moose known as Krause,
Let one fall fox- Gordon — have one on the house;
Let them have oux- sympathy, But we’ve got the victory.
We urge Moose Krause and the basketball team to cripple St. Louis next year — if only because that’s a rotten parody.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
St. Mary’s girl: “Gilutchnia crustunx-pia alagazeetch!”
(All future Week jokes will be printed in Russian.)
■unmatnsi
4
*&£

Recognize This Picture?
It’s familiar to almost everyone because pictures and stories of the atomic bomb tests at Bikini appeared in newspapers throughout the nation within hours after the historic blast.
Speed is a creed with newsmen and the Bell System helps make that speed possible.
It provides the local, Long Distance and radio-telephone, telegraph, teletypewriter and wire
photo facilities over which hews is channeled to presses and microphones.
Keeping these facilities in top condition, ever improving and ever expanding, is the interesting job of many qualified men.
It is but one phase of the many-sided telephone industry in which thousands have found challenging and rewarding careers.
There’s a future in telephony.
ONE
5
SCORN ER'S SEAT
Philosophy of Natural Law
Underlying Idea of N. D. ’Lawyer*
By Joe Wilcox
President Truman’s Civil Rights Bill has touched off some of the hottest con
troversy that the Democratic Party has seen in years. Southern Democrats, who see what they consider their way of life endangered by the President’s bill, are madder than a gross of wet hens at President Truman and the Party. The January issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, student law quarterly of the law school, has three
very well-written articles on the subject of Civil Rights for Negroes. These articles cover not only the legal issues involved, but the moral issues as well.
John Anderton, Lawyer staff writer from Michigan, takes the legal
props from under the South’s white primary laws in an article which examines the entire basis of the Southern Democrats’ convention that the Democratic Party is a private club. This method of disenfranchisement, says Anderton, will be killed as dead as the dodo when the Supreme Court has a chance to examine it in full.
James D. Sullivan, of Montana, looks at another angle of the racial problem with a discussion of racial restrictive covenants and their stultifying effect on society. He expressed the belief that the Supreme Court, looking to the spirit of the Constitution, will declare the covenants unconstitutional. Sullivan points to the doctrine of the brotherhood of man based on the Fatherhood of God, as diametrically opposed to a social condition such as a restrictive covenant based solely on the race, creed, or color of an individual.
Len Boykin, president of the Student Council, not a regular member of the Lawyer staff, a law senior from South Carolina, contributed a special article on the “separate but equal” concept of racial education in the south. Boykin effectively shows the absurdity of a system which attempts to educate two races “equally,” when one is considered in
ferior, and expressed hope for judicial discouragement of the policy in the near future. Coming from the heart of the deep South, Boykin should know whereof he speaks. His article is a very thorough discussion of the legal issues involved in the theory.
The Taft-Hartley Act, hotly-debated measure passed by the 80th Congress, was also examined in the light of legal and moral principles. Even if the law is constitutional, says John Cosgrove, senior lawyer from Iowa, it is no way to solve the basic labor-management controversy. Basically immoral, the act seeks to do by legislation, that which could better be achieved by an application of the labor-management partnership doctrines advocated by Pius XI in Quadregesimo Anno, famous Encyclical on Labor.
The January Lawyer also includes many other fine articles. Lead articles include one by Harold R. McKinnon, prominent California attorney, who spoke here at the Natural Law Institute in December, and who contributes his speech to the Lawyer in article form. Mr. McKinnon’s thesis is that American law, under the influence of the pragmatists, has wandered afar- from its original basis. Miriam Teresa Rooney, eminent legal philosopher, discusses the comparative ideas of justce of Hall and Keisen. She advocates Hall’s thesis that a return to the Natural Law basis of positive law is a must if we are to avoid a false idea of justice. Alfred L. Scanlan, Notre Dame law professor, shows how natural gas companies are trying to squeeze h consumr teneeeghtbprrillyi-to squeeze the consumer by legal machinations.
The Lawyer is completely the result of student work. Students write, read, and edit all copy and proof, except the writing of lead articles and book reviews, which is done by outstanding legal authorities. In addition to being valuable training in legal research and writing, the Lawyer provides students a chance to inject real Catholic action into a legal quarterly.
The expedition of the Lawyer into the realm of morality as well as legality is the first attempt I know of to build a
genuinely Christian law quarterly. Too many quarterlies, Catholic as well as secular, follow the general legal line that legality, from a pragmatic point of view, is all that is important to the law. They fail to see the moral forest from the legal trees. The present divorce laws are a cogent example of that muddled sort of thought.
The Lawyer’s philosophy is frankly that of the Natural Law. Most legal problems involve moral ones as well, and it’s impossible to separate the two. The law’s attempt to do so in the past has brought only confusion, and Catholic law schools have not lived up to their obligations to do something about the matter. When law students in a Catholic university start looking at what’s morally right or wrong, as well as what’s legal, the chances for an improved system of law are improved a 100 per cent.
CAMPUS CLUBS
Uticans Eye Spaghetti
Spaghetti, meatball and all the trimmings will entice Utica Club members to Rosie’s on Tuesday, March 2, at 7:30 for a club party. Tom Walsh is chairman of the affair and Mr. John Sheehan, head of the Economics Department and moderator of the club, will be guest of honor.
At the last meeting, Ray Belden succeeded Bob Drummond as secretary. Dan Fessia was appointed chairman of the activities committee by prexy Mike McGuirk
In conjunction with the Central New York Club, the Uticans will co-sponsor a Communion breakfast Sunday, February 29. Mass will be celebrated by Father Hesburgh, moderator of the central New Yorkers, at 8 a. m. in the Badin Hall chapel. Father Sweeney will speak at the breakfast.
Tri-Cities Re-Activated
After a six year period of inactivity, the Tri-Cities Club of New York has been reorganized and hopes to take its place among the leading regional clubs on the campus. Tom Muscatello is leading the group as president, with Dick Freije as vice-president, Dennis Foley as secretary, and Tom Hanifin as treasurer.
The club is planning an informal get-together at Rosie’s; purpose being a discussion of plans for an Easter dance at the Binghamton Country Club.
6
The Notre Dame Seholastie
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867

THE STAFF
JOHN A. O'CONNOR, Editor
Associate Editors
EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX Features
PETER BROWN Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT News
ROBERT T. STOCK Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL Photography
Editorial Associates HARRY MONAHAN	BUZZ WRIGHT	KEN THOREN
JOE HERRINGTON VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN Librarian
JOHN CLARK Circulation
GEORGE KORHUMEL Circulation
B. T. KYSER Advertising
JOHN S. BRENNAN Faculty Moderator

Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
imnnniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiMMiHiiiuiMitHiitiinmiiiiiuiiHiiiiMMHitiHHiiiiiiiiHimHiiiimiiMUfMMtm
Don't Miss — In Next Week's Issue
Next week March roars in like the proverbial puma, and the Scholastic features the most popular beverage on campus, or off for that matter. It isn’t coffee, it isn’t tea. Malteds maybe?
Watch for a thorough psychoanalysis of the profs on at Notre Dame, complete with testing apparatus to help the learned ones to better know themselves, or as one might put it, to get wise to themselves.
Watch for the latest ringside info on the Bengal Bout-ers, and the sportcasters revelation on the heavyweight picture, where new threats mount to challenge Fallon’s two-year rule.
Also keep an ear close to Bob Stock’s “The Week,” full of rumor and ruminated observations.
CALENDAR
FEBRUARY 28
NOTRE DAME versus CANISIUS, basketball, at Buffalo.
RETREAT, open to all students. Conducted by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh and Rev. Joseph Barry, two former service chaplains. Saturday’s schedule calls for an opening conference in Cavanaugh Reading Room at 8:45 pjn., followed by the Rosary at the Grotto, and confessions in Sacred Heart Church.
FEBRUARY 29
RETREAT continues. Mass and sermon in Morrissey Chapel at 7:30 a.m., followed by an informal conference at 9:30, discussion in Cavanaugh Reading Room, Holy Hour and Benediction at 11 a.m. After dinner the Retreat ends with a closing conference at 1 p.m. and an outdoor Way of the Cross followed by renewal of baptismal vows at 1:30 pjn.
GRANADA, The Unsuspected, with Claude Rains. Reported as a good thriller, with rasp-throated Rains up to his usual show-stealing tricks.
RIVER PARK, Cynthia. Movie-goers who like to watch cute teen-age Hollywood starlets grow even prettier, should find Elizabeth Taylor pleasant treatment.
MARCH 1
CENTRAL HIGH AUDITORIUM, Clark Eichelberg, noted authority, will speak on “The United Nations.”
NOTRE DAME versus NEW YORK UNIVERSITY, basketball, at Madison Square Garden.	'
MARCH 3
NOTRE DAME versus PENN, basketball, at Philadelphia.
MARCH 4
COLFAX, Body and Soul, with John Garfield. Heralded as one of the best fight pictures ever to have come off the lots. This in itself is no great shakes as a recommendation, since most Hollywood sport spectacles are the same old last-minute-pass productions that have Mickey Rooney slapping bigger and stronger men all over the ring and Tom Brown threading his way 110 yards through a field of relaxed^ extras for that winning touchdown. However, this film hits at the well-known evils of American boxing, and hits effectively.
PALACE, I Remember Mama, a stage show, with Charlotte Greenwood, a long-gammed old trouper, and Kurt Katch, who played sadistic Nazi roles in Hollywood during the lush war years.
MARCH 5
PALACE, Daisy Kenyon. Take your mother to see this one. It will make her feel young again just watching spry Joan Crawford, who mellowed in mother’s day, prance through her thespian gymnastics.
CENTRAL HIGH AUDITORIUM, Hallet Abend, Aquinas lecturer, will speak on “Zones of Friction with Russia.”
7
tywMn the	.
Menu for a Pleasing Week-End
Saturday night is just about the same anywhere you go. In small towns the farmers are in after a day of shopping, crowding the pool halls and hanging around the barber shop. In the big city the night clubs are jumping and the theatres are packed. In South Bend things are bobbing at the Blarney, gossiping at George’s, and hopping at the Hoffmann. Walgreen’s booths are tumbling over with arms and legs. The Strat is smudgy with smoke. It’s the same story every Saturday night, from Washington Hall’s teeming terrace to popcorn row in the Palace balcony. Everywhere there’s a mob looking for some form of gregarious happiness.
This Saturday night there’s going to be a new grand opening, something big enough for all to enjoy, and enlightening enough for all to appreciate. It’s the hew retreat, given by former service chaplains who are real, down-to-earth understanding guys.
If you’re looking for a good deal Saturday, then drop over to the retreat. It starts in Morrissey Hall Chapel, at 8:45.
Springtime Is Election Time
Students do a lot of talking about the Student Council. “They do nothing but sit around and talk.” “They have no power.” “They are not properly organized.” These are just a few of the criticisms thrown at the Council, but the “holler guy” does little more than just holler. He seldom expresses a constructive thought on the subject—if he has one. Nor does he vote for class officers or council representatives.
This week Len Boykin, the new council president, gave voice to some suggestions that members of the Council will introduce at future meetings. One of these ideas was a plan to choose Student Council officers in the spring so that an active organization may start the ball rolling in September.
Under present regulations a stay-council of three members is chosen in May by the old council. The rest of the new Student Council is composed of 13 hall representatives, two members of the Villagers Club, and one representative from each of the five colleges. Now if the men picked by the Deans to represent the various colleges were chosen in May, it would be possible to have a council of eight members to start the new school term. This would eliminate much of the confusion while the council for the year is being set up.
But even a council of eight men can do little without some authority. These men are all eligible to hold council offices. This is the idea proposed: The student body would choose the council officers from this eight-man group. This election could be held in May, and would insure the students of adequate representation during the entire school term, not the last seven months as is the case at present. If this plan were adopted, a lot of the confusion would be eliminated.
Another worthwhile plan would be the spring election of class officers. The Sophomore Cotillion is usually held the third week in November. Sophomore class officers do not have adequate time to do justice to their formal dance. Bands must be contacted, hotel reservations must be secured, and all arrangements completed within six weeks. This does not permit them spare time for football games, student trips, or other highlights of a fall semester. If the class officers were chosen in the spring, enough time could be devoted to the campaigns to make them interesting. Perhaps the best reason behind such a move would be that the Council would have more time to look after its own affairs. Council mem
8
bers would be able to put their own back yard in order.
Let’s not be harsh on the present Council. Why not give them a chance to get into operation? Mr. Boykin is to be lauded for* his efforts in attempting to limit the confusion. He and the other council members need your support. Let’s back them with good intelligent thinking on Council matters.
How About Some GOOD Movies?
Several hundred students were turned away from the doors of the Engineering Auditorium a week ago Thursday night. They had come to see the movie “Citizen Kane.” They found the auditorium jammed to murmuring overflowing at a half hour before show time. They were genuinely disappointed. They went away grumbling. They felt a little cheated. And they had a reason to feel this way.
The fact that an overflow mob has turned out for recent Engineering Auditorium showings reveals what many already know, but too few are ready to admit: that Notre Dame men are starved for rich entertainment, and have an appreciation for high-type film art besides.
It is possible to bring great films to this campus. The list of programs available through distributors such as the Museum of Modern Art Film Library in New York, RKO Radio Pictures Inc., and other cooperative producers, is amazingly long. They can be had in 16 millimeters and 35 millimeters, but the former- are just half the cost of the latter. The Department of Journalism deserves a round of cheers for pioneering the showing of film art on the campus, but this should be a matter for the University. The Engineering Auditorium is inadequate for the showing of the films to any but a limited audience.
The best available campus location for such movies is Washington Hall, but this traditional edifice is not equipped with facilities for showing the 16 millimeter films. However, such facilities are available on campus. Washington Hall has no 16 millimeter projector, but there are five 16 mm. sound projectors on campus. According to reliable information any of these projectors can be fitted with the properattachments that will allow for desirable focusing on the Washington Hall screen.
There is a solution. There is still time this semester to supplement the Journalism programs with additional films. If it is not done this semester, at least arrangements can be made for an extensive program schedule for next year. The University can commandeer one of the 16 millimeter projectors now on campus for use in Washington Hall, or buy another one. The films can then be shown where a greater number can be seated. Interested volunteers are available to help in carrying out such a film program. No one need be turned away if the proper steps are taken.
Notre Dame men deserve the opportunity of seeing good films brought to this campus.
Cheers for Father Kenna
When it comes to picking free days, our Director of Studies, the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., leads the field. During the past year, all of the free days announced on the University calendar were marked by inclement weather of one sort or another. Then Father Kenna turns up with a surprise holiday (last Monday), completely outsmarting the weather, which lacked the time to change from sunny and brisk, to rain, hail or snow. For such thoughtful action, a rousing cheer. Our only request: Let’s have more!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 17
FEBRUARY 27, 1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
State to Install Floods On Homicide Hwy.
Safety measures for the N.D.-St. Mary’s crossing on Homicide Highway were fastly reaching the action stage at mid-week, when it was announced by Rev. Joseph D. Barry, c.s.c., Director of Student Activities, that flood lights were to be installed by the State of Indiana, and that the pavement at the crossing is to be striped with safety-zone paint.
The State of Indiana has already made arrangements with the Indiana & Michigan Electric Co. for the installation of the lights, one on each side of the highway, amply flooding the crossing. The upkeep of the lights will be shaved by St. Mary’s and Notre Dame.
Lawyers representing the University have been fighting to get some action on the dangerous crossing since the fatal midnight accident took the lives of two students last October. The state finally agreed that the painting of a safety zone, sufficient lighting, and warning signs, were the best solution to the safety measure problem.
Large, attention-grabbing, yellow signs were placed along the highway at the approaches to the crossing some time ago, but other measures were still in the dickering stage until last week’s decision by the state to accept the responsibility of erecting lights.
Reserve Books Limited To Two-Hour Circulation
Two new Library rule changes were announced today. From now on the Library will open its doors at 7:40 a. m. to those students only who are returning reserve books that have been checked out overnight and are due at 8 o’clock. Otherwise the official service hours of the Library will begin at 8 a. m. with the opening of the reference room and the arrival of the staff.
In addition, reserve books will be limited to a two-hour circulation during main library hours. Each reserve book will be charged out for two hours, at the end of which time it must be returned to the desk, or, if no other user is waiting, it may be renewed for another two hour period.
FATHERS HESBURGH AND MURRAY For Saturday evenings—new pursuits
New Officers Hatch Ideas for SC Action
“A general election of Student Council officers, Homicide Highway, a better seating arrangement for home football games, more telephone booths, student-sponsored lectures, and coke machines in every hall are subjects on the agenda for discussion in future Student Council meetings,” Len Boykin, new Council president said today.
An amendment to the constitution must be passed for a new election set-up. The present regulation requires that Council officers be chosen in conjunction with the regular class elections. Boykin also mentioned the possibility of having the Council candidates reveal their platforms at a student session in the Drill Hall.
It was announced that, beginning March 1, the Council will hold office hours in Room 122 of the Main Building. The office will ba opened Monday through Friday from 11:30 till 1. At this time students can present any difficulties and bring in their complaints. All complaints are to be read at the next meeting and committees will be appointed to investigate. The new president is placing an emphasis upon assigning all important problems to specific committees.
The Council requests that those interested give thought to next fall’s student football trip. Sometime this spring an attempt will be made to find out the choice of the majority so that plans can be formulated.
Retreat Series Opens In Morrissey Chapel
Saturday evening the first of four lenten retreats will open in Morrissey Hall Chapel with the Rev. Edmund Murray, C.S.C., Rev. Joseph Barry, c.s.c., and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., conducting the services. The retreat will open at 8:4-5 p.m. with a conference on the subject, “The Soul and Salvation” and will close with the Stations of the Cross at 1:30 Sunday afternoon.
The retreats are sponsored by YCS and this first retreat is for the residents of Badin, Howard, Morrissey and Lyons Halls.
The opening conference on Saturday will be followed by recitation of the rosary and singing of hymns at the Grotto. Confessions will be heard immediately aftei'wards in Sacred Heart Church.
Mass in the Morrissey Hall Chapel at 7:30 with a sermon on the Blessed Virgin wull open the schedule Sunday morning. “True Notre Dame Spirit” will be the subject of the Morrissey Hall Chapel conference at 9:30. Father Hesburgh will conduct an informal discussion on marriage at 10 in the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room. Holy Hour devotions will be held in the Morrissey Hall Chapel at 11 and will include a short talk on the Eucharist.
In a 1 p.m. conference “Comradeship on the Campus” will be discussed and followed by the Stations of the Cross. A renewal of Baptismal vows will be made by the participants at the conclusion of these devotions.
On March 6-7, the next group of students—those in Alumni, Dillon, Sorin and Walsh Halls—will begin their services in Dillon Hall chapel.
March 13-14 the East Campus starts its retreats, with Cavanaugh, St. Ed’s, and Zahm Halls having services in the chapel of Cavanaugh Hall. Farley and Breen-Phillips close the retreats the following weekend in Farley Hall chapel.
Fathers Robinson and Norton will conduct the second retreat; Fathers Cady and Cussen the third; and Fathers Burke and Gross the final retreat ending * Palm Sunday.
9
Return to Washington Principles Demanded
A charge that the nation is losing the “pure and immutable principles of private morality” set forth by Washington was hurled last Saturday at the Annual Washington’s Birthday Flag ceremonies in Washington Hall by Norbert Geier, senior English major.
SULLIVAN AND FATHER MURPHY What would George say?
Geier presented a bleak picture of the America of the future as its spiritual roots dry up, and stressed the necessity of a revival of the religious spirit. “I do not think that any man with a sensitive spirit can . . . deny that western civilization as we know it has reached a crisis, that the outcome depends ... on the religious spirit,” he stated.
George Sullivan, class president, presented the American flag to Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, who received it in the absence of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president.
Father Murphy told the seniors of the forthcoming responsibilities that they will assume as citizens of America and although they might have already illustrated their readiness to die for the country they, “must now show a determined and persevering willingness to live for it, to defend and maintain the tenets and principles on which our democracy is built ...” Father Murphy also stressed the fact that one can never realize the brotherhood of man which we seek until all men come to recognize the Fatherhood of God.
Special significance was laid by Prexy Sullivan, in presenting the flag, to the fact that a great number of the graduating class had already shown its loyalty
to country by service during the war. The flag will be blessed at the Baccalaureate Mass in June and raised above the campus on Commencement Day.
The seniors experienced two “firsts” during the exercises; the wearing of the sobering caps and gowns and also the procession down the traditionally sacred front stairs of the Main Building.
John D. Harrington, of Brooklyn, N. Y., a senior Arts and Letters student, was chairman of the annual exercises.
WND Slots Tripucka As Sports Director
Flashy football star Frank Tripucka was named sports director of station WND last week. After handling several athletic programs with ease and professional finesse, Tripucka was appointed to the job which will entail the scheduling, producing and final broadcasting of all sports events.
A re-broadcast of last Saturday’s Penn Track meet and both the Michigan and Marquette basketball games were aired during the past week. The swivelling quarterback from New Jersey will also direct the weekly Sports Parade program at 7:15 on Wednesday evenings. All the latest scoops and predictions plus guest interviews will be featured on this show. Leo Barnhorst teed off as the first visitor. Vince Doyle will serve as assistant director on the WND sports staff.
Plans for the future include the airing of the Bengal Bouts and forthcoming baseball games. The sports department also is trying to find a sponsor to finance a trip to the east to cover the NYU, Penn and Canisius basketball encounters. No commercial stations carry these events to this area and the student body will hear them only if WND is successful in their endeavor.
—Ken Thoren
Rosary, ND Glee Clubs Unite For Concert at Stevens
The Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Stevens will be the site of the joint concert of the Notre Dame and Rosary College glee clubs on March 7.
The feature of the program will be the first performance of Ed Cashman’s Fugue from the Cantata, The Archangel Mike. On the recent southern tour the Glee Club gave the first performance of the Madrigal from the same work. The cantata is as yet unfinished, and a complete performance of the work is listed for later this semester in Washington Hall.
The combined chorus will give a performance of Brahms Waltzes and Cesear
Bro. Aidan, Dujarie's First Superior, Buried
A Solemn Requiem Mass for Brother Aidan, C.S.C., was sung by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., last Monday morning at 8 a.m. Brother Aidan, aged 70, died a week ago Thursday night in St. Joseph’s Hospital after a brief illness.
BROTHER AIDAN
From Ireland to the Irish
He was born Thomas O’Reilly on April 7, 1877, in Newtonbarry, Ireland, the son of Patrick and Margaret O’Reilly. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross on May 22, 1899, received the habit August 15, 1899, and made his final vows on August 15, 1902.
The noted educator served as prefect of Brownson Hall from 1902 until 1907. He then became superior of Dujarie Hall, the house of studies of the Brothers of Holy Cross, when it was first established. After- twelve years in this position Brother Aidan was named president of Holy Cross College in New Orleans in 1919, and served in that capacity until 1922 and again from 1925 to 1926.
After serving as steward at Notre Dame from 1926 to 1927, Brother Aidan was named rector of Brownson Hall and professor of English. He next taught English at Reitz Memorial High School in Evansville and Cathedral High in Indianapolis. After a second term at Holy Cross College he returned to South Bend Central Catholic and subsequently to Notre Dame in 1943 to teach English.
Franck’s 125th Psalm. Another feature of the performance will be the complete performance of the third scene from the Third Act of Wagner’s Lohengrin with Roy O’Neil, baritone, as soloist.
10
LEAP YEAR'S BIRTHDAY Calendar Calamity Confuses Chronologists
By VERNE F. KELLEY
Do you have the strange feeling that you’re only one-fourth as old as you look? It’s entirely possible, you know, if one counts by birthdays, and the birthdays happen to fall on Feb. 29, commonly called Leap Year Day.
Think of the embarrassment it could cause you. On your birthday you trip down to one of the local mood-palaces for some refreshing refreshment. The bartender, one of the slit-eyed, oily-skinned variety who thinks it an honor to have the power to ask ages, immediately slaps his dripping palms on the bar.
“Well, Mac, got your identification?”
Confidently, you reach for your driver’s license, bar permit, loitering license, and the award you won at the last club get-together for the most-downed-in-a-row. Reliance quickly changes to panic as you find your wallet devoid of essentials which distinguish you from other mortals.
“Looks bad, bub.” His slippery paw rubs his head. “You know there’s a law. The big ones wouldn’t like it.”
“Yeh, you got me, but today’s m’birth-day,” you blurt triumphantly, as if it made a difference.
“So? So how many has ya had?” is the rejoinder.	.
“Ummm.” You feel foolish already. “Six, I think, but . . .”
That is the way your life could run if you had been born on Feb. 29. You not only miss three-fourths of your birthdays, but many people think a person bom then is a little odd besides.
Of course, the background to this leap year stuff every four years is quite disconnected. Caesar was drastically worried about the calendar at one time in his full life, so he started naming months after all his friends. This was the beginning of the spoils system. Once, the people were disturbed by a year which had fifteen months, and which everyone referred to as the “year of confusion.” Fifteen months and only confusion resulted ! In 1582, Pope Gregory XIII dropped ten days from October. It seems that in 1580 the people woke up one morning to find the spring equinox falling ten days early, so the only decent thing Gregory could do was to drop ten days from October when he finally got the chance. Why he had to pick on poor, old October and not nasty December or friv
olous March, not even the History Department knows!
But times have changed! And the March of Time has helped extremely. Today, every month is determined, and the only throwback to horse and loincloth days is the black sheep, February. February, since somebody thought of the
LEAP YEAR BABY
After 20 years, five birthdays
appellation, is the big reason for leap years. And leap year, meaning something leaps during that year, has really been busy.
For example: Nero was fiddling around in a jam session when things really got hot in Rome; President Johnson was impeached and acquitted; Hitler took a country joy-ride and ended up in France; Columbus discovered the way to the Florida resorts; an Indian by the handle of Blue Ribbon invented a liquid with foam on the top; the first automobile was produced, and skeptical bystanders caustically commented, “It’ll never fly”; and when asked by students how soon the Student Union would be built, Father Sorin replied, “Won’t be long now, boys, won’t be long now.” All these startling events have occurred in a leap year, some even in February.
To show the importance attached to leap year and its extra day, our country’s politicians in the very beginning established voting in leap years in order to obtain an extra day for campaigning.
And so, as we reflect on this Feb. 29, which has proved so important to the world thus far, whether it is your birthday or whether it is just another brilliant sunrise to youi- already bloodshot eyes, you must seriously consider this thought: as a result of leap year this year, we will finish the year—we hope— with eleven minutes and fourteen seconds to spare. If you can possibly think of something productive to do with this mathematical oversight, you may oe the next one to rearrange the calendar. Send in your suggestion today, before some rise guy makes my birthday “Be Kind to Idiots Day.”
Music Dept. Brings 3rd Lecture Recital
The Department of Music of the University will present the third in its series of Lecture-Recitals on Thursday, March 4, at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
Featured in this performance are two instructors in the department, Mr. Charles A. Biondo and Rev. John D. Gallagher, c.s.c. Mr. Biondo will play the violin and Father Gallagher the piano in the violin-piano sonata Opus 12 No. 1, of Ludwig von Beethoven.
A program has been printed, containing the principal points of Mr. Biondo’s lecture and simple music to explain the first, second and third movements.
The next of this series will spotlight a piano, violin, and cello trio, with Brother Jacob Eppley, C.S.C., featured on the cello. Approximately two weeks thereafter a Schumann Piano Quintet will be presented. The personnel for this recital has not yet been selected, but there are several groups now in practice.
The date for a Chamber Orchestra Concert is still to be chosen, but it will definitely come during March. This concert, under the direction of Mr. Biondo, will include some of Bach’s most popular string music, Aragonaise (Le Cid) by Massenet, The Great G-Minor Fugue by Bach, Reverie by De Bussey, and, as the Orchestral Feature a String Quartet by Alessandro Scarlatti, enlarged for full orchestra.
An innovation at this concert will be two cello solos by Brother Jacob; Bizet’s Agnus Dei, and, with Father Gallagher accompanying on the piano, Vito by David Pepper.
The Symphony Orchestra is in rehearsal for a major concert to be presented in May. Mr. Frederick H. Ingersoll will direct the orchestra in either Schubert’s B-Flat Symphony or Mozart’s G-Minor Symphony. The solo in this concert will be one by Ed Ciprus, a graduating senior, who will play Lalo’s Symphonic Espagnole on the violin.— Dan Brennan.
11
ACADEMY AWARDS
Without a Doubt, 'Slippy McGee' was '47's Best
Ivan Petrov Petrovsky, who did such an impressive job his first time out with that convincing classic, “Spirit of West Point.”
To each and all the Scholastic hereby awards a Moldy Fig.
Every year about this time Hollywood’s rhinestoned celebrities turn out in sparkling droves for the annual presentation of awards by the Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Notre Dame men, who have seen some of the best, and most of the worst, pictures of the past year, have nothing to say about the selection of recipients for the coveted Oscars. The Scholastic,
salving the ego of the slighted student body, hereby offers its selections for the outstand-i n g artists and films of the year 1947.
Citing one film out of so many great motion pictures to come to South Bend during the past 12 months was a difficult task. The judges finally narrowed the contestants down to 10 top ranking pic-
HOPALONGS HORSE Actor of the year
tures, and out of this list chose “Slippy McGee,” as the best of the year. This classic, especially dear to N.D. men because it brought Tom Brown' back to the screen in the endearing role of an Irish grad, barely nosed out “Blonde, Savage,” a jungle thriller, for the honors.
The other eight films counted among; the first 10 of 1947 were “The Corpse
MADAME O RANGUTAN
Actress of the year
Came C.O.D.,” “My Brother Talks to Horses,” “The Unconquered,” “Green Dolphin Street,” “Grandson of Monte Cristo,” Captain from Castile,” “Granddaughter of Frankenstein,” and “Offspring of Dracula.”
The honor of being named Actor of the Year goes to Hopalong Cassidy’s horse, name unknown, who shall here be called Horse. Horse does everything Gregory Peck can do and leaps chasms besides. He overtakes stage coaches, swims torrential streams, can play dead, nuzzles, whinnies, neighs, plays a violin ’ and eats shredded wheat without milk. What other actor can do that?
Best Actress of the Year is without a doubt Madame Ophelia O’Rangutan, recent Transylvanian refugee, who scored sensationally in “My Girl Friend Talks to Simians.”
Best supporting actor’s laurels go to the “Claw,” a mean plug with an extra long fingernail who gave Dick Tracy a rough time in a recent thriller.
Best supporting actress was Mother McTeague.
Outstanding director of the year wtxs
Debating Team Cops Two New Trophies
, Two large trophies were the booty taken last Saturday by Notre Dame’s debating team as they romped to victory over 53 other squads in the Fourth Annual Speaking Meet at State Teachers College, Eau Claire, Wisconsin.
Individual star of the tourney was Frank Finn, who received the highest single score in debate and discussion, as well as second place in the extemporaneous speaking contest. It was an Irish team made up of Finn and Bill Carey who cinched the debating trophy with five consecutive wins and no losses.
Besides the permanent debtae prize, the Sweepstakes Trophy was also presented to the N.D. speakers for amassing the highest total number of points in all phases of the tournament, including debate, discussion, after-dinner speaking, extemporaneous speaking, and oratory.
Another high-scoring Irish contestant at the meet was Bill Carey, who tied for second place in individual debate ratings. N.D.’s Tom Ninneman and Quintin Marlow finished in a deadlock for second place behind Finn in the discussion session. Finn, Ninneman and Marlow were all named to the All-Tournament discussion team, selected at the end of competition.
Next objective of the N.D. arguers will be the St. Thomas Invitational Debate Tournament, bringing together 100 teams, from approximately ten states. Consisting of 12 rounds of debating, it is the largest tourney in the midwest.
Will Dixon, Bill Carey, Tom Ninneman and Quintin Marlow took part in an exhibition debate last Monday night before Post 50, Ladies Auxiliary, of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. Larry Gill-ing acted as chairman—Joe Dukert
Met Club to Decide Spring Program Wednesday Night
Ray Bushey, chieftain of the New York Met Club, has announced a meeting for next Wednesday night at 8 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. A heavy powwow is planned with discussions scheduled on the organization of golf, baseball and softball teams. The Easter train home will also be decided upon as will announcement of summer dance committees.
12
THE AUTHOR
Author LaForge, who here favors SCHOLASTIC with his first journalistic effort is a ten-month-old Notre Dame native who lives in Apartment 37-B, Vetville. Other pictures of his everyday life can be found on the next page.
This is all about us kids over here in Vetville. There are a mess of us — about 140 I think. They keep coming in so fast I can’t keep count. All around — kids! kids! kids. I don’t know why that stork keeps coming back here all the time. He must like this place though, because a lot of families around here have two or three. That’s a good break for us because we’ve got a pretty nice deal around here.
Take me for instance. .
Pop (my mother calls him Ray) works over in the Chern lab fooling around with a lot of numbers and mixing a lot of stuff together- that smells like anything. He’s pretty dumb from what I hear. Most of the kids’ fathers around here get out in four years. Pop’s been
here forever according to Mom. He’s trying to get a lot of Pft’s or Pfc’s or Phd’s or something strung behind his name. Personally I think it’s about time he got out and worked instead of fussing around here just to get to see a couple of football games every fall. They never take me anyway.
But Mom’s the one that has it tough around here. She’s got to put up with me all day long. She does a pretty good job of it at that. Anyway Mom keeps our little place over here in pretty good shape when I’m not messing it up. These housing units are really something. Some of the kids around here that have been around more than I have tell me they top anything in the country.
I’ve got a lot of room to crawl around in and a big room to myself and what more could a 10-month-old ask for? It’s not the Ritz, but from what I hear off the grapevine some of those bachelors over on campus are a little crowded themselves, and some guy pulls a switch on them at 11 o’clock and there are a lot of bells ringing all over the place so I’ll stay where I am. I could do a lot worse.
I’m not registered for any classes across the road at ND yet. I don’t want to rush things. As it is Pop has me boning up on Chemistry already. That really fills up my schedule. I’m on the go all day long.
I start early. I’m up about 5:30 or 6 really raring to go, but no one’s ever around. I’m letting off steam and jumping around an awful long time before Pop staggers into my room. What a sight! Sometimes I wonder what Mom ever saw in him. Then I get a look at Mom in the morning and I guess it’s a tie all around.
They start feeding me right away. They’re always feeding me. It just
1969 Grad Reveals All on His Life and Times in ND’s FastGrowing Vetville
By RAYMOND LA FORGE
keeps going on all day long. They just keep stuffing some terrible mushy stuff down me all day. But the worst part of it is the act that goes with the food. Pop especially puts on a beaut of a show. Just because I won’t make a pig out of myself he clowns around, makes stupid faces, and generally acts like a fool while Mom is waiting to jab a spoonful of stuff into my mouth if I laugh. I guess I’m supposed to laugh. It’s hard though because Pop is really a pitiful sight.
Well, Pop usually leaves for the campus around 9 with Mom screaming at him that he’ll be late and that some Dr. Price will chew his head off. He never does because Pop always comes home with his head on. When he’s finally gone Mom sticks me in a pen and starts cleaning up the place.
There are a lot of dumb toys lying around this pen I’m in. Every time someone comes to the house they bring a toy and one’s dumber than the other. All, of course, except the football. The football is Pop’s special. He bought it himself. It seems I’m supposed to learn to do something with it. All the other kids have the same problem. They tell me all the fathers bring home footballs the first day we get here. It seems
13
MIDNIGHT DISCUSSION Floor pacing helps
there is some guy named Leahy running loose around here who really goes for little kids that can do whatever you’re supposed to with these footballs. Pop keeps saying something about scholarships and big games and touchdowns and Lu jack. I don’t know too much about this Lujack character but I wish something would happen to him. Every night when Pop comes home we play “Lujack.” He hands me the ball and walks across the room and stands there waiting for something to happen. I guess this Lujack does things with this football that makes everybody happy but I still haven’t caught on.
In the afternoon Mom is usually at this typewriter banging away at some stuff for the Vet Gazette. That’s the paper we have over here with all the latest scoops on Vetville. It comes out
CHEMISTRY LESSONS An early start
every week and Pop gets all excited because he’s never in it or Mom starts bawling because they left out her recipe. But everybody gets it and likes it because it’s all about us. It’s always starting a lot of projects and get-togethers. Last week Mom baked a lot of cakes and stuff for some big circus over on campus. Everybody did, at least all the women. The men just sniffed around and kept screaming about their “little women who sure can cook.” It was a lot of fun and everybody was working together as they always do over here.
At night I really get hustled around. Pop busts in around 4:30 and starts fooling around with me. I let him because I figure he’s been working hard all day at the lab and then again who’s got a better right? We play “Lujack” or he tosses me up in the air or giggles at me and makes more faces and tries to get me to say something that sounds like “da da” or some nonsense. They feed me again complete with floor show and then Mom sticks me in bed after Pop goes crazy saying “nighty night” and grabbing my arm and waving it at himself.
Most of the time I’m asleep in a big hurry because I’ve had a tough day. But sometimes I lay awake a long time — mush nerves! One night I was having a terrible time dropping off. The door was open to the living room and there were a lot of people in there so I crawled out of the crib. They seemed to be talking to the Lord and asking His Mother for something. Having just come from Up There I knew they’d get it. I found out later they call this a rosary and they do it every week in some unit in the row. Or sometimes they go over to a chapel on campus and renew the words and promises that brought all the Moms and Pops together and brought all us kids down here. There’s a nice, young priest from across the road who’s over here a lot, too. They call him a chaplain and he’s pretty important in things around here.
Then there are nights when Mom and Pop go out and then — Heaven help me! Now I don’t mind Mom and Pop going out every once in a while. They deserve it. But they always get some character from across the road on campus to come over and look after the house or something. At least he never looks after me. I don’t think he ever knows I’m here till I start yelling. Then he goes to pieces; one night I was really hollering; I had good cause too. My-----well, you know. This character came in and just stood there. I guess he didn’t know what to do. What a Pop he’s going to make! He just kept standing there looking horrified and
DINNERTIME
No beans or sausage
mumbling something about being sorry until Mom and Pop came home and Mom changed me. What a goof! I wish they’d hire some guy with experience with . . . well, you know.
But that’s the way it goes over here, up and down, wet and dry. Everyone has their tough days and nights. But I’m satisfied — we all are. We’ve got a swell collection of Moms and Pops and they’re all working together for the same thing. I guess that’s the only way because everything’s going swell here. Sometimes it’s a dance in the rec hall or a farewell party foi’ the Pops who are smart enough to get out and their wives get diplomas; sometimes everybody’s in church getting us all blessed or just in a living room saying a rosary but we’re always together over here. It’s a nice life.
DAILY WORKOUT Strong mind, strong body
14
SPRING'S FIRST ROBIN
Wormless Weather is Lousy, Sez Early Boid
MEMO TO THE BOSS:
Dear Boss:
I don’t mind dealing with most of the birds who flutter into our Cavanaugh Office to splutter and squawk, but this is the last straw! The other day I was minding my own business, pounding out a feature when lo and behold who should come crawling through that hole in the window screen but a sassy robin.
What do you want, says I?
“Aw, sheddup,” says he, adding, “ya better open this window wider, it’s stuffy
jn here.” 1
Can you imagine a fair-weather fowl like that complaining about the torrid-zone climate of our office? But I opened the window and he crawled up on my typewriter and started thumbing through an issue of the “mag” in which I had interviewed the Maid of Cotton.
“So you’re the great interviewer?” he pops off. “How about interviewing me?”
Well what can you do but interview when your public’s calling, and interview I did.
How are things down South? I asked.
“Strictly for the boids. Why them opportunists have things so tied up that a self-respecting fowl can’t find enough straw to build a nest. But brudder, you should see dem new bathin’ suits with the plungin’ neckline. Wow!”
What do the people down there think of the Civil Rights Bill?
“Those clods should be given a boid’s civil rights bill. Why everytime I roosted in a tree, some greasy publicity man would shoo me away so they could
SPRING'S FIRST ROBIN AND WRITER HALPIN Ten thousand boids were without the gates
take a publicity shot of some frilly blonde.”
How are the ball clubs shaping up?
“It’ll be the red boids in a breeze.”
What brings you back to Notre Dame so soon?
“Aw, I’m a first scout and gotta get the pitch on the climate up here. I’m looking for this guy Boidei- to see if he can’t do somethin’ about this lousy weather.”
What kind of a football season do you think we’ll have?
“Well, when I was passing over the Florida Keys I happened to overhear this boid Leahy chinning with a man of the cloth and he said he’d have another rep
resentative aggregation, whatever in hob that is.”
About this time he hopped off the typewriter and started heading for the window, mopping his brow from the Black-Hole-of-Calcutta heat in the office.
Where are you going? I yelled.
“Out to Angela Boulevard to pick up the boys. Dontcha know bud, there’s 10,000 boids without the gates.”
That was enough foi- me. I made a dive for that publicity-stuffed robin, but he took off and that’s why I want you to fix the screen in that office window. Why, if any more birds like that crash in, I’ll go batty, or birdy, or something.
Yours sincerely,
GREG HALPIN
Rabbi Shulman to Address Law Club Here, March 16
Rabbi Albert S. Shulman of South Bend, a former army chaplain and an authority on Jewish history, will address the members of the Law Club in the Law Auditorium at 11 a. m., Tuesday, March 16.
The Palestine question will be the main topic of a 45-minute lecture which is to be followed by a general discussion. All students are invited to attend.
Freshman law students were welcomed into the club last week at a smoker held at American Legion Post No. 50. Highlights of the 1947 football games were shown to the 200 present. Mr. Gerald Cosgrove, assistant editor of the South Bend Tribune and Rabbi Shulman were among the guests.
Profs Shanahan and Hooker To Lead History Discussion
Continuing the series of talks on “The Notion of the Educated Man in the Various Periods of History,” the History Department will sponsor its third discussion on March 2 at 8 p. m. in the Law Auditorium. Leading the. discussion, which will be on the Modern European period, will be Professors William Shanahan and John J. Hooker.'
In the opening paper Mr. Shanahan will discuss “Scharnhorst and the Beginning of the Modern Military Education.” A teacher of military history, he will indicate the effects of modern military academies on educational ideals in modern times.
Mr. Hooker, a graduate of London University and Cambridge, will discuss the English viewpoint in the changes in their educational ideas during the nineteenth century.
After the two papers are delivered there will be an open discussion under the chairmanship of Professor Bernard Kohlbrenner of the Department of Education.
15
VA Discloses Steps For Allowance Raise
The Veterans Administration at Indianapolis last week disclosed the administrative details entailed in the recent subsistence pay boost. Single veterans are not involved and will be paid the new rates automatically in their first “raise’’ checks which they will receive on or about May 1.
For those veterans with dependents here are the following steps that must be taken to receive the increased allowance:
1.	Those who have two or more child dependents must present photostatic copies of their children’s birth certificates.
2.	In the case of dependent parents, a copy of the veteran’s birth certificate and a notarized affidavit of dependency filled out by his parents.
3.	If veterans now in training submit evidence of dependency prior to July 1, 1948, they will receive retroactive payments back to April 1, 1948.
All evidence to establish two or more dependents should be sent to Chief, Registration and Research, Vocational Rehabilitation Division c/o Veterans Administration, 36 S. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis.
PICTURE OF THE WEEK A disgruntled Main Building janitor views a drift of cap and gown boxes with despair after the recent Washington Day ceremonies
Band to Give Concert Tour
In Eastern States at Easter
Swinging through the east on a tour which will cover 2500 miles, the Notre Dame band will give a series of concerts in nine towns on their annual Easter trip, which will begin on March 29.
The tour, which will include 16 con-cei’ts, will open in Newcastle, Pa., in the Scottish Rite Cathedral. The trip will be made by 57 members of the band, travelling in two special buses and will conclude on April 6, arriving back on campus the following day.
The schedule for the band will be as follows: March 29, Newcastle, Pa.; March 30, Connellsville, Pa.; March 31, Shenandoah, Pa.; April 1, Mt. Carmel, Pa.; April 2, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; April 3, Scranton, Pa.; April 4, Bridgeport, Conn.; April 5, New Haven, Conn.; April 6, Median, N. Y.
Trieste Students Thank ND For Friendship Train Aid
Hailing the Friendship Train to Italy as an “everlasting symbol of human brotherhood” between the American and Italian peoples, University of Trieste students have expressed their gratitude to students at Notre Dame for the latter’s efforts to collect food for the “Hoosier State” part of the Friendship Cargo.
CAVANAUGH CONCERTS MARCH 1
Brahms—Symphony No. 4.
Verdi—Selections from Aida Leoncavallo—Selections from Pag-liacci
MARCH 2
Puccini—The Hea/rt of La Boheme Weinberg — Sclvwanda Polka and
Fugue
MARCH 3
Tschaikovsky—Symphony No. 5 Offenbach—Gaite Parisienne
MARCH 4
Shostakovitch—Symphony No. 1 in F Major
Weinberger—Under the Spreading Chestnut Tree
Addinsell—Warsaw Concerto
Lecuona—Malaguena
Anyone interested in classical music is invited to the Cavanaugh Reading Room Noon Hour Concerts, 12:30 to 1:30.
Junior Bazaar Errs On Wolf Technique
Gentlemen beware! Female partisans are again circulating derogatory literature in regard to our various “operating” methods. Alice Leone Moats in her February Junior Bazaar article, entitled, “How to Spot a Wolf,” tells what she thinks is all on how a male reconnoiters a frilly filly. If she only knew!
She starts off her amusing, yet way-off base story, by stating that, “the technique of wolves seldom differs.” A St. Mary’s girl could really give her a few pointers on that erroneous remark. Continuing, she says, “their technique might be compared to that of the ju jitsu artist who defeats his opponent by making him use his own strength against himself. A wolf.keeps stepping back and letting the girl come forward, until, in her eagerness, she falls on her face—to put it politely.” Politely, or otherwise, this is another of her mistakes. True, this might be the way Operator 7890 goes about his extra-curricular activities, but it is far from being the shy, I-need-a-mother style that Operator 8495 practices.
Perhaps Miss Moats based her article upon the actions of undergrads at some eastern college, where the operators are poured out of one mold. Neighboring femmes must find such monotony tiring and boring. Their cure, and also Miss Moats’, would be a short stay at N.D. Then they would learn whether or not our techniques differ. And how!
16

SCHOLASTIC SPCCTT
Lightweight Group Adds Fast Punch To Bengal Tourney
By HARRY MONAHAN
As the “Golden Glove” fever sweeps the country, carefully ministered to by “Doctor” Arch Ward, Notre Dame’s own pugilists have added to the near capacity crowds now jamming the facilities of the fieldhouse’s bulging mass.
Challengers and champions are hitting the dirt track to mingle with track, cage and diamond trotters, to work off the excess avoirdupois before hostilities open in the 17th Annual Bengal Bouts on the evening of March 10. Mr. Dominic Napolitano and his assistant Frank Lombardo are setting a fast and heavy training pace for their ring aspirants. With the start of contact work last Monday, the casual spectators who have wandered into the gallery training room have been getting a preview of the brand of fisticuffs to be expected when the boys start throwing leather in earnest.
While the main student interest centers around the heavyweight duels to be supplied by Bill Roemer, Jack Fallon and Jim Martin, the lighties promise to deliver a fast action-packed card. Among returning veteran lightweight sluggers, Russ Van Keuren looks capable of re-
FINN ON A BICYCLE Challengers and champions . . .
O'BRIEN ON THE BAG
. . . worked off . . .
peating his 1947 performance, wherein he battled his way into the finals. He will be primed, however, to reverse last year’s finals decision. Weighing in again in the 125-lb. class, title holder Jim Sullivan will meet some stiff competition, but hasn’t lost the punch which earned the title for him in 1947.
One of the most promising novice entrants in this year’s edition of the Ben-gals is sophomore Don Ewing. Hailing from Great Falls, Montana, Ewing will swing his 130 pounds of western beef into the competition and is tagged to be a top contender for one of those finalist spots in the St. Patrick’s Day clash.
Springfield, Illinois, will furnish Bengal contenders with some tough opposition in Howie Chittenden. The 148-pound junior from Howard Hall has impressed the trainers as a hard-hitting slugger and one who ‘will set a rugged pace for the field in the race for the crown.
Lombardo thinks he has a good prospect in Al Santangelo if he can keep Al from augmenting his present 145-lbs. by forays at Rosie’s. The spaghetti and road work are not mixing very well. Expected to highlight the lightweight contest are the flying fists of James Smith, Robert Welsh, Jim Farrell, Richard Greenwell and Jack Griffin. The roundhouse right of 153-lb. Ed Dailey will also be in there to keep the leather flying.
The Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., as chairman of the committee from the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, who are sponsoring the tourney, has been a daily critical spectator at the training sessions and is confident that his group has more than adequate material from which to deliver a thrill-packed boxing card to the Bengal Bout audience.
Irish 5 Invades East: Tangle with N. Y. U., Canisius and Penn
By DAVE WARNER
Odds and the myth of the strange court will be stacked against Notre Dame’s basketball crew Monday night in New York. But when the going is toughest, it has always shown its best. The Irish will go up against N.Y.U., toast of Gotham and one of the nation’s five best, fortified with the thought that a victory would change the whole season’s complexion. That kind of thinking is healthy upset fodder.
Since 1934 when cunning Ned Irish first matched Notre Dame and N.Y.U. in the Garden, basketball’s Big Top, the South Benders have polished off the Hall of Famers 11 of 14 times. But past records will mean nothing Monday.
To win, Krause’s lads will have to play their best ball. They can’t afford ragged passing, having the ball stolen, blowing foul shots or rely on late rallies. Not against Howard Cann’s Violets, who up until last Monday had won 17, lost none. Cann has whipped up an experienced, shrewd bunch of eagers backed by a capable reserve corps. The better clubs which N.Y.U. has defeated this season are: Tulane, North Carolina,
SMITH IN THE AIR . . . excess avoirdupois
17
(y,r.r.ef^'T,\,	Temjze ^2y, and
Colorado.
i r.e r'a.ixzar'.ery. •:... ..r.e z som airing ..xe ta.?,: J'/e ’.to.r.oz. at.r. ’i-ror. Yorman are fror.t: 'i&erj^., W, ^r.ter: ar.d	^7 Ba?
Lzmpp, g.aHx. Jr.	the Irish
dangerous ax a rer &nri rebounder.
As a tur.e-up for the N.Y.U. game .Notre frame stops at Buffalo where it play?, Canisiu?. tomorrow night in .Memorial Auditorium. The Golden Griffins: have spent a restless season, winning only 7 of 13 game* so far against top flight competition. Joe Nyland is now coaching the Griffs, having replaced ez-Notre Garner Ear! Brown, who sped off at mid-season to the greener pastures of zt uhurn.
Notre Game winds up its eastern trip at the Palestra in Philadelphia. There, it '//ill resume rivalry with the University of Pennsylvania after a seven-year layoff. Of the 12 games in the series Coach Bobby Dougherty's Quakers have won none. Playing only .500 hall, the Pennsylvanians’ best showing this season, besides defeating Yale and Cornell, was corning within six points of North Carolina and two points of Columbia.
A change in starting personnel shook Notre Dame from the lethargy of a most miserable two-garne losing streak. Foley has been yanked, Barnhorst moved to center, Gordon from guard to forward, and Goonen in at guard. The switch first paid off in a 51-44 victory over Michigan State ten days ago. Obviously Krause intends to retain the same lineup for the remainder of the season.
Buffalo Club to Present
Annual Basketball Trophy
Between the halves of the Canisius game in Buffalo Saturday, February 28, the Buffalo Club will present its annual memorial trophy to the most valuable Notre Dame basketball player.
I he trophy is awarded each year by the club in memory of the Notre Dame men from their area who were killed in World War II. Last year the trophy was presented to Frannie Curran.
•
'1 he Buffalo Club will make their annual trip to the Canisius game and the trophy will be presented by John La Vigne, president of the club.
18
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Maze of Activities Fill Gym As Irish Athletes Practice
By Pete Brown
Some weekday afternoon when your sack doesn’t look too inviting and you crave a little activity, take a trip over to the Fieldhouse.
-Around 4 p.m. is the best time. You will get all the activity you want and then some.
If you enter by the front door you tan go about your activity seek i n g systematically. The first thing you will encounter will be one J. McAllister and associates dis-p e n s i n g athletic shapes and sizes.
If you desire to be chewed out, stop and take a look. If you don’t want to suffer the sting of Mr. M’s tongue proceed quickly up the balcony stairs, take a sharp turn to your left, open the wooden door and you will be among the men fighting to keep the Bengal Missions alive. Sharing this small cubicle with the pugilists is the once again operative radio station WND.
Do not pause long because there is more to come. When you leave the balcony, only perseverance and ingenious tactics will keep you alive. The trackmen are your next obstacle. First you have to out-dash dash men to get across the track. But, alas, you are still not on safe ground. The pole vaulters, broad jumpers and shot putters converge on you. If you can get through that screen without getting spiked, konked, or stabbed, you have one more barrier — the baseball players — before some degree of safety can be had. These descendants of Doubleday have been known at times to throw wild. But that’s the chance you have to take.
Once past these demons with the nine-inch spheres, you are on pretty safe ground. The basketball players have a canvas fence mutually protecting themselves and the spectators. After watching Mr. Krause’s men for a short while, your next move is to give a fake to the right and then-dash under- the stands to your left. Here you will find Herb Melton and his fencers. But be careful. Those sabres and foils are sharp.
The next move is across the arena to the rooms under the south stands. Trainer Hugh Bums and his associates are the strong men of this end of the building, just as J. McAllister and Co. control the western entrance to the building. The last activity on your list of things to see is handball. On Hugh Burns’ side of the Fieldhouse there are two handball courts used primarily by football players working off excessive weight and Fr. Brennan demonstrating why he has been campus handball champ for 57 years, two weeks and five days.
If that dose of activity is not enough to keep you from straying from that comfortable sack on those free afternoons, best you join one of the outfits or challenge Fr. Brennan. Either cause is hopeless.
ND Blades Expected To Cut Down U. of D.
Tomorrow evening at 7:30 Notre Dame’s fencers will go after their seventh win in eight outings when they duel the University of Detroit. The Motor City lads come into the meet definitely the underdogs.
Coach Herb Melton’s boys, since their lone defeat by Chicago, have started a new victory string. Traveling to Champaign on February 19, the Irish edged Illinois 14-13. Bus trouble en route kept Notre Dame from appearing on the previous evening, but they showed no qualms about inconveniencing their hosts further by starting fast and clinching the match in the 25th bout.
Ralph Dixon in the epee and Mike DiCicco in the foil were the leading point-getters for Notre Dame.
Cincinnati fell before the blades of the Irish on February 21 at Notre Dame 17-10. The Bearcats started out as if they would make a battle of it. At the conclusion of all nine sabre bouts and six of the foil bouts, Notre Dame held a slim 8-7 lead.
However, the epee squad came through in unexpected style for Melton, winning seven of nine bouts to clinch the match. The sabre squad, considered as the strong point of the fencing team, lost to Cincinnati 5-4.
—Jim Butz
South Bend's Bill Roemer Seeks Eighth Title At the Expense of 1948 Bengal Challengers
By BOB LEANDER
SPLINTERS from the Pressbox
When Bill “Zip” Roemer and Miss Jeanne Uphause set up housekeeping after their marriage next September-there definitely will not be a gymnasium included in the plans of their house. Despite the future Mrs. Roemer’s objection to Bill’s pugilistic efforts, the 21-year-old South Bend lad has chalked up a commendable record in the ring. In six years of amateur boxing, the husky scrapper has appeared on 32 fight cards, lost only four contests, never been KO’ed, dropped to the canvas only once (he won anyway), and in the process has battered and boxed his way to seven championships.
BILL ROEMER
In six years, seven crowns
Among the titles he garnered were: 1942 South Bend Middleweight; 1943 South Bend Light-Heavyweight; 1944 South Bend Heavyweight and Bengal Bout Middleweight; 1946 Gary, Indiana Light-Heavyweight and Bengal Bout Light-Heavyweight. Bill’s first Bengal title made him the youngest Notre Dame boxer to win a title in that annual classic and also the first South Bend student to garner a crown.
At Paris Island Marine base in 1945 he made short work of all 175-pound Leatherdogs prior to shoving off for a nine-months hitch in China. The Chinese having other things on their minds volunteered no fodder for Bill’s bolo left, and the consequent inactivity sent him home scaling a hefty 201.
Finding it difficult to keep his weight down, “Zip” is usually forced to adopt a fruit cocktail diet two weeks before a tournament. This year he has 15 excess pounds to shed before qualifying in the
Bengals as a light-heavyweight. This additional poundage was partly responsible for his most recent defeat which occurred in the second round of the Gary-Golden Gloves last week. Paired for two fights the same evening, Bill sustained a broken nose in the first match. That, combined with a pudgy midsection, spelled defeat in the second go.
Among his 28 victories is one scored in the Marine Corps which receives the nod as his most bruising fight. He was knocked down in the first round, regained his feet but not his senses, and fought the rest of the bout out cold on his pins. It was two hours after the tussle that he learned he had won. The climax was the next day when he met his opponent in sick bay. Bill had busted three of the gentleman’s ribs.
Zip’s most disheartening defeat came at the gloves of Chuck Zellers, Indiana Amateur Heavyweight champion. It was his first fistic endeavor following discharge from service. With the first punch in the opening round he sent Zellers through the ropes and into the first row of sportswriters. Unlike a Joe Pa-looka saga, the fight didn’t end then and there. Instead, Zellei- disentangled himself from the Smith-Coronas, clambered back into the ring and drubbed an overconfident and somewhat startled exMarine.
Zip drew a bye, then chilled Dick Gorman and Dick Cotter in two rounds apiece to stake his claim to the lightheavy title in the Bengals last year. By disposing of his adversaries in such violent fashion, Bill impressed the crowds as a one-punch mauler which is far from the truth. As a matter of record only ten of his opponents have assumed the supine. The lethal quality of his left hand is a relatively new development. As a middleweight and during the first two or three years of his light-heavy reign, he lacked the Simonize-wallop and relied upon his deftness and speed to carry him over the route. Realizing he had to concentrate too greatly upon his left, Zip has been strenuously coaxing his right hand along. Now he can count 12 recent knockdowns, all of which were scored with that right.
Bengal contenders who will be set to ward off Bill’s lethal southpaw sleepproducer are going to be surprised when the Roemer right slams in to do the damage. Bill wants title number eight and he 'wall be only too happy to have the Knights of Columbus supply same.
By JIM BUTZ
Leo Barnhorst is probably the most underrated collegiate basketball player in the country. Seldom is the 6' 2" handyman given credit, when writers are dishing out praise to Coach Krause’s quintet (which isn’t too often this season).	'
“Barney” has been playing in the shadow of his roommate, Kevin O’Shea for two years now. O’Shea deserves every bit of praise and publicity that he has received, but Barnhorst, too, should rate a few newspaper photos and features.
Throughout the entire schedule Barnhorst has been the most consistent performer for Notre Dame this season. At this writing he is the team’s leading
scorer. He holds this scoring leadership despite being shifted from guard to forward to centei- at various times throughout the year.
Barnhorst’s play off the backboards has been one of the few outstanding features of the Irish five. On defense he is usually called upon to pit his 6' 2" against the 6' 6" or more which the Mi-kans, the Brannums, etc., measure. His ball handling and passing have been second only to O’Shea’s. When he is working in the pivot, his fakes, hand7offs, and passes remind one of Lu jack’s work at quarterback in Frank Leahy’s T-forma-toin.
Here’s a vote for Leo Barnhorst as Notre Dame’s most valuable player.
Ted Budynkiewicz, heavyweight champ in 1943 and a finalist in 1947, is not entering the Bengals this year. The “Bull” is being represented, however, by his stable of fighters—George Dickson in the 165-pound class, Jim Driscoll in the 155-pound division, and Jim Martin in the heavyweights.
Dickson won the light-heavy crown in 1946 and was not at Notre Dame last year. Driscoll was a finalist in his class last year, losing to Jim Brennan. This is Martin’s first Bengal experience. From this distance the three proteges of .Budynkiewicz look like a pretty good parlay.
19
COACH MELTON AND SABRE No Virginia to ooh or aah
Chivalry Gone But Swords Still Clank
There is a group of medieval maniacs on campus who slash at each other' nightly with elongated weapons. Their actions have been legalized into a sport by calling the antics “fencing,” but it looks like plain, old-fashioned, brutal dueling with swords to this timorous bystander.
Perhaps you have seen a few of those Hollywood thrillers in which the Errol Flynn type hero chases the Helmut Dan-tine type villain up and down stairs, across balconies, into bedrooms, and over tables while the Virginia Mayo type beauty ooohs and aaahs condolence to her chosen lover. This never happens in a fencing match. Well, almost never.
The object of all the sweating and the muttering of unintelligible-French is to slam your blade against your opponent’s body without being slammed yourself. This in itself is quite a task. Or so says fencing coach Herb Melton.
The swords are divided into three categories: foil, epee (pronounced eh-pay), and sabre. A foil is the lightest of the three. It has a small bell-shaped guard for the hand and a flexible foursided blade. In foil matches the target to hit is the body above the groin line, excluding the arms, legs, and head. The first man to score five touches in the prescribed region wins the plaudits of his teammates and a “bien fait” from his steely coach.
The epee has a larger guard for the hand, a stiff, three-sided blade, and a three-pointed prong fastened to its end. Usually, these prongs are dipped into red paint before a match so that each touch leaves a red mark simulating blood. This last happening frequently
Jet Propelled O’Brien Rocks Maples for 569;
Vets Lead Blues by 4, Italians Totter in Gold
By BOB CASURELLA
John O’Brien of the cellar-dwelling Jet Propulsion bowling five brought glory and a good shot at some prize money to his team even though they dropped three games to the Inter-American Affairs bowlers. O’Brien rolled a stellar 569 series which ranks second only to Ai-t Arquilla’s 621. O’Brien could be the spark that the Jet Propellers need to get rolling.
The Italian Club received a setback as they eked out only two games from the Youngstown outfit. Bill Fischer’s 524 was too much for the Bomans who had expected to sweep the three games and increase their league lead. Meanwhile Rochester took three games from Buffalo and moved up to within one game of the leading Italian Club. Boston took two games from St. Louis in the other Gold League match.
The Blue League looks solid Vetville all the way. The married vets took three games from Columbus and increased their lead to five games.
Pittsburgh maintained the torrid pace by grabbing three games from their “pardners” from Texas. Bill Gorman split the maples for a 505 series. The Aero Club maintained their attitude by outbowling Milwaukee for three games. J. Celuster’s 509 enabled Toledo to grab two from the Monogram Club. Jack Vietuske paced the Chemists to two wins over the Met Clubbers with a 506 series.
excites the onlookers into a frenzy because it comes so close to the real thing. With a little imagination a spectator-can actually visualize the pricked victim bleeding to death on a marble floor, then being thrown over the castle rampart into the forever dark, sinister moat. In epee the agile lungers may hack away at any part of the body from head to toe until somebody wins to spoil the gallery’s fun.
The last, and probably best known, is the sabre. The clearest description of a sabre bout is “everything goes.” Cutting or thrusting are allowed in this event but points are scored only for those touches above the waist. This weapon is the largest of the three which means the person hit is really going to feel it. Strong-hearted men are picked for this group. Their longevity has never been revealed.—Verne F. Kelley
BLUE LEAGUE STANDINGS
	W.	L.	Pts.
Vetville 		20	4	27
Toledo 			16	8	22
Chemists 		15	9	20
Pittsburgh 		14	10	18
Aero 			12	12	16
Met Club 		12	12	15
Milwaukee 			10	14	15
Monogram 		10	14	13
Columbus 		9	15	12
*Fox River Valley		8	13	10
* Syrian-Lebanese 			8	13	10
Texas Club		7	17	9
* Will play off this week.
Schedule for Feb. 29
Syrian Lebanese vs. Columbus Club
Chemist vs. Monogram Club
Toledo vs. Met Club
Vetville vs. Pittsburgh
Aero Club vs. Fox River Valley Club
GOLD LEAGUE STANDINGS
	W.	L. Pts.	
Italian Club		17	7	24
Rochester 		16	8	22
Inter-Amer. Affairs		15	9	21
Boston 		13	11	18
* Villagers			13	8	17
Buffalo 		12	12	16
*Detroit		11	10	14
*Rockford	.			10	11	12
*ASME 		9	12	12
St. Louis		8	16	10
Jet Propulsion		7	17	9
Youngstown		7	17	9
* Will play off this week.
Schedule for Feb. 29
Rochester vs. Italian Club Boston vs. IAA
Jet Propulsion vs. St. Louis
Youngstown vs. ASME Rockford vs. Buffalo Villagers vs. Detroit
High Individual Single Game
Art Arquilla, 254 (Italian Club) Paul Pukish, 242 (Rochester Club) Frank Parise, 230 (Italian Club)
High Team Single Game
Inter-American Affairs, 999
Monogram Club, 991
ASME, 987
High Team Three-Game Series
Italian Club, 2807
Pittsburgh Club, 2766
Detroit, 2753
20
Kline Officially Opens Irish Baseball Season
Coach Jake Kline shook the mothballs out of the gray flannels and broke open a new carton of horsehides last Tuesday to get the 1948 Notre Dame baseball season under way. The Irish diamond representatives will have to pound a carload of spheroids over the fences to equal the .750 seasonal average which the 1947 edition marked up. With at least 27are-turnees from that squad on hand, however, Coach Kline should have little difficulty in producing a midwestern collegiate powerhouse nine.
With all this returning material, however, the Irish nine will find itself hard pressed to replace three big guns from the 1947 battery. Base clearing hitter Tom “Wicks” Sheehan will not be behind the plate and the replacement material will have to go some to equal such feats as his booming drives and runner-nailing pegs to second. Jim Presley and Tom Coccetti are the most promising applicants for Sheehan’s job and it will be a close contest for the number one call.
Last season’s co-captains, Bob Klein and Jack Mayo, will also be missing from the Irish firing line. A rumored switch of Gene Lavery from shortstop to third base may be the answer to half of this problem. Also on hand to try for the third sacker spot is a returning member of the ’45 and ’46 squads, Tom Martin. Brooklyn’s Bob Cianchetti will also be making a strong bid foi- the job.
The Irish have a profusion of capable candidates to patrol the outer gardens, but Jack Mayo’s consistency at the plate will be sorely missed. Among the strongest bidders for the outland positions are Buster Hiller, Steve Pavela, and the flyhawk with the tongue-twisting moniker, Dan Kriszcziokaitis. The batting power of John Creevey may be utilized by putting him in the outfield when he isn’t doing duty on the mound.
The two infield spots at first and second base are generally conceded to last year’s starters, Benny Kozlik and Ray Petrzelka. Should Lavery get the call to replace Klein, the shortstop slot may see another returning ’46 squad member take over in the person of Pete Koblosh.
Coach Kline’s 1947 moundmen are returning in force. The reliable Walt Ma-hannah, last season’s pitching standout, is expected to repeat his successful performance. It is hoped that southpaw Dick Smullen, after a dull showing in the ’47 campaign, will regain form. The pitching contingent will be augmented by Eldon O’Brien from the ’44 squad. John Campbell, Bill Sherman and Dick Kluck will get their share of mound duty on the ’48 Irish diamond circuit.
—Harry Monahan
PRIMO CARNERA
The Bear missed his cues
6'8" Groaner Loses Dressing Room BaHle To 5'4" Reporter
Primo Camera, wrestling’s newest leading man, performed for the South Bend drama critics this week. Co-starring with “Da Preem” in a tear-jerking drama entitled “Poppa, Won’t You Dance With Me?” from the song of the same name was an amiable 240-pound skinhead named Kola Kwariani, alias the Russian Bear. Someone must have given comrade Kwariani the wrong script for this week’s show, because he missed his cues throughout the whole first act. The Bear managed to ad lib and win two falls on the referee while Primo hiked in from the left field stands where a nasty sneer from the Bear and a strong west wind had blown him. There definitely is no Academy Award material in either of these clowns.
After the “gruelling” 45-minute match we cornered the dripping Italian giant in the dressing room.
“Come sta, Primo?”
“Unh! Where you come from?”
“Never mind, paisano, we’ll ask the questions, you just answer them. Who was the toughest boxer you fought here in the United States?”
“Unh! You’re a little guy.”
Bristling, we rose to our full five feet four inches and stared him straight in the belt buckle. But the weight of the bunch of bananas he uses for a hand resting on our shoulder made us decide that discretion would be the better part of getting a cracked skull.
“Who is the toughest wrestler you have met since returning to America?”
“Unh! Where can get a drink? Beer? Orange juice?”
This sent minions of the Palais management scurrying for various cubby
holes to resurrect liquid refreshments for the grunt-and-groan. prima donna. Our camera began to get set up for a few shots.
“Unh! No pictures!!”
Maybe we had better try a new approach. “What do you think is tlie answer to the Communist menace in Italy?”
“Unh! Joe Louis.”
This was encouraging, he was only three questions behind at this point. “What factor contributed most to the collapse of the Fascist regime in Italy?”
“Unh! Frank Sexton.”
Well, we weren’t losing ground anyhow. “I was in Italy during the war, some country. Saw you fight at Leghorn.”
“Unh! Amici!! Pretty good fight, eh? Pictures, sure take alia you want. Naples isa nice, no? You get to Rome?” You come to Sequals?” Getting the nod from our cameraman we slipped in a quick “Good-bye” and dashed for the 11:30 N.I.T. express.
What would happen to us if all 270 pounds of that found out we didn’t get any closer to Italy than Little Rock, Arkansas?—Harry Monahan
Power Teams Take Interhall Cage Lead
Interhall eagers passed the second week of league competition, with several quintets looming as serious threats to capture the championships in both circuits.
In the Eastern Division Zahm swept to its second consecutive victory by defeating Sorin, 33-25. Breen-Phillips walloped Vetville, 41-25, St." Ed’s outlasted Sorin, 29-25, and Breen-Phillips handed Vetville its second straight loss, 28-12.
Lyons eked out Off-Campus, 36-35, and Walsh defeated Morrissey, 41-38, in feature games in the Western Division. Badin won by default from Alumni.
Breen-Phillips won over Zahm, 36-30, and Zahm humbled Lyons, 43-19, in the only two games played in the Lightweight Division.
In the Club League the Toledo Club netters defeated the Aesculapians, 42-38, Central Illinois walloped St. Louis, 72-22, and the Knights of Columbus handed the West Virginia Club a 44-39 defeat.
In the Open Division the scores were as follows: Morrissey Blue 55, Lyons White 22; Morrissey Red 35, Lyons Red 28; Dillon Blue ifi, Dillon Orange;21;~ Morrissey Orange 49, Lyons Orange 41; Morrissey Gold 59, Lyons Blue 30; Howard Gold 63, Lyons Gold 37; Alumni Blue 61, Cavanaugh Gold 37.
—Tom Adams (Schedule on Page 25)
21
''&%)#/
RCA Victor’s rising star of the keyboard — larry Green —scores another hit . . . "GONNA GET A GIRL"
S’e.T'W
knd hen's another great record
More pjopfe, are,	ever before /
*
•• a <
§
4 0
MV
R. J. Reynoldn Tobacco Company Winston-Salein, North Carolina
CMEL
is the
cigarette
•for me I
(JWQ
WITHIN the past few months, Larry Green has climbed right up with the top bands of the land! If you ask Larry how he did it, he’ll light up a Camel and say: “Experience is the best teacher in the band business — and in cigarettes. I know from experience that sweet music suits my band, just as I learned from experience that Camels suit my ‘T-Zone’ to a ‘T’!”
Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice

Irish Bow to Penn State's Distance Power As Current Indoor Relay Season Nears
By JIM HOWARD
Irish hopes for two indoor track wins vanished last Saturday afternoon as Penn State broke a deadlock by a decisive sweep of the half-mile and added six first places in other events to score a close 58% -52% victory over the Notre Dame group in the ND fieldhouse.
Feature of the afternoon was the mile battle in which Horace Ashenfelter surprised everyone by winning in 4:17.7 over his touted teammate Gerry Karver, and Notre Dame’s Bill Leonard. The duel was forecast as the college mile of the season, and either Karver or Leonard was expected to win, but on the gun lap, Ashenfelter forged ahead of both Leonard and his running partner. The famed finishing kick of Karver carried him past the Irish ace, but left him one yard short of the Lions’ distance star. Leonard’s time was 4:18, the fastest he has ever done indoors.
A crowd of 1800, the largest to witness a track meet in the Irish fieldhouse, watched Penn State take an early lead with the mile win and the triumph of Jim Gehrdes in the 60-yard dash. The Handymen fought back with sparkling performances by Captain Ernie McCullough and Steve Provost in the quartermile, and a sweep of the shot put by John Helwig, George Sullivan, and Floyd Simmons. McCullough’s time in the 440 was :51.4, his best of the current season. The shot was heaved 50 feet, 11% inches by Helwig.
Gehrdes took top scoring honors by winning both hurdle events in addition to his victory in the dash. John Smith, the Irish record holder was outrun by the Lion speedster who did :07.4 in the high barriers, and :07.1 in the low stick event.
Ashenfelter returned from his mile win to capture first in the tortuous two-mile from stocky and determined Jim Murphy of the Irish. The Nittany Lion spikestei- toured the 16 laps in a blazing 9:31.5. Murphy led in the distance grind until the last circuit when the lanky Pennsylvanian passed him. It was the first defeat for the diminutive Murphy by a member of an opposing team on the fieldhouse track. Murphy and Corny Styers finished in 9:39.6 and 9:43 respectively, the best performances of their indoor careers.
The 880-yard run in which the ND aggregation failed to score, gave the Penn State squad the points necessary for a victory. Loss of Jim Kittell, injured in a fall last week, spelled defeat
in the half-mile event. Kittell was counted on for at least a scoring position in the 880.
The field events gave the Irish unexpected points. Irish thinclads took first in the broad jump, tied for first in the pole vault, and took second and third in the high jump. Ray Espenan won the broad jump with a leap of 22 feet, four inches. A vault of 12 feet, six inches gave Jim Miller a tie for first in the pole vault. Second and third in the high jump went to Bill Fleming and Bob Welch of the Irish.
The Notre Dame relay team of Provost, Paul Schwetschenau, McCullough and Ray Sobota finished over 100 yards in front of the Lion group, and turned a 3:23.8 time for the distance.
Notre Dame will not compete tomorrow, but will begin four weeks of relay competition next Saturday.
17 Off-Campus Men Splash Way to Victory in Relays
Seventeen men were members of the Off-Campus squad, which won the Interhall Relay Swim title in the Rockne pools last week. They were: Leo Zuc-kowsky, Tom Hynes, Jack Sheehan, Don Rosenfeld, Dick Fetters, Frank Cullane, Jerry Olwell, Ralph Witucki, Bill Sheehan, Dan Brennan, Bill Barnett, Mike Granat, Ed Caparo, George Pfaff, Bob Mills, Jack McGuire, and Jim Miller. Summaries:
200-yard free style relay: Zahm (Hee-kin, Hellman, Marshall, Grote) first; Off-Campus, second; Dillon, third.
200-yard back stroke relay: Breen-Phillips (Worthington Baute, O’Brien, Carroll), first; Off-Campus, second; Zahm, third.
150-yard medley relay: Lyons (McCarthy, Monaco, Ifflander), first; Dillon, second; Farley, third.
200-yard breast stroke relay: Off-Campus (Olwell Hynes, Rosenfeld, Zuc-kowsky), first; Lyons, second; Farley, third.
400-yard free style relay: Off-Campus (J. Sheehan, Miller, Fetters, Zuckow-sky), first; Dillon, second; Farley, third.
200-yard sweatshirt relay: Farley (Digon, McNally, Sondag, McGovern, O’Connell, Reich, Murphy, Barnett), first; Off-Campus, second; Dillon, third.
200-yard innertube relay: Zahm (Hee-kin/ Lieb, Leahy, Marshall), first; Off-Campus, second; Farley, third.
THE BIG PUSH
Detroit Club members band together to remove the huge water tank from their Carnival booth
Boost Math) Geology In Academic Changes
The recent meeting of the Academic Council of the University produced three radical changes in the program of studies that will affect a great number of the student body.
The council approved a major in mathematics for Arts and Letters students with a required 36 hours of Mathematics. This is designed for the benefit of those Arts and Letters men who want to go into the teaching field or do actuarial or graduate work in mathematics.
The incessant and persistent demand for men in geology moved the council to establish a Department of Geology in the College of Science and a major program in that field leading to a Bachelor of Science in Geology.
A change in academic regulations was approved by the council when they unanimously adopted the proposal that any undergraduate student who fails to obtain a qualitative average of 77 at any time after his third semester at the University shall be placed on probation. A student on probation two semesters is liable to dismissal from the University under present regulations.
JOURNALISM MOVIES
Starting with last night's showing, admission to the Journalism Department's series of film classics will be by ticket only, it was announced this week. Two tickets will be issued to each journalism major. The movies will continue to be shown in the Engineering Auditorium.
23
NOTRE DflME NAMES MAKE NEWS
Over There
A former seaman-soldier and a Notre Dame graduate, FRANCIS XAVIER COURTNEY, became the first enlisted man to receive permission from the high command to remain in Japan for work outside the occupation. Courtney received his final discharge and was granted permission to remain in Japan to study for the priesthood. Ex-sergeant Courtney will begin his eight-year course at the Don Bosco seminary, Itabashi, Tokyo. .. .
From San Moritz, Switzerland, the home of the recent Fifth Winter Olympic games, comes an interesting report of observations made by JAMES HORGAN, a graduate in the class of ’45. Horgan, who hails from Worcester, Mass., relates some impressive tales of the goings-on in the Swiss Alps. He tells of the foolish speech made by the president of the American Committee, Avery Brundage; gives a classic account of the controversial hockey games; lauds Gretchen Fraser, Dick Button, and Barbara Ann Scott as true champions for their performances; recounts various humorous incidents about the festivities; in general paints a colorful, factual picture of the whole affair. . . .
Over Here
Rev. ANTHONY LAUCK, C.S.C., versatile young artist-sculptor has been chosen as one of the five outstanding
COACH LEAHY Who
dean McCarthy Why
artists in Washington, D. C., whose work will be exhibited in the 143rd annual exhibition of painting and sculpture at'the Pennsylvania Acadamey of Fine Arts. Father Lauck, ’42 graduate and a native of Indianapolis, Ind., will be represented at the Philadelphia exhibit by a piece of wood sculpture which received honorable mention in a regional show recently. . . .
Among some five thousand odd other Americans honored last week by being selected in the annual “Who’s Who in America” was FRANK LEAHY, head football coach and Director of Athletics at Notre Dame. . . .
JAMES E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce has lately been rushed for time in attempting to fill a few of the many speaking engagements requested of him. Last week he travelled to Fort Wayne, Ind., to address the Fort Wayne Advertising Club, and also to New Orleans, La., where he addressed the Rotary Club. . . .
As the official representative of the College of Commerce Mr. RAYMOND PELISSIER attended the recent two-day session of the Council on Foreign Relations in Chicago. Mr. Pelissier is a member of the Department of Marketing. . . .
Appointed as a new assistant in the Cataloguing Dept, of the University library is blonde, attractive Mrs. GRACE SCHMEISER, of Indianapolis, Ind.,
former high school teacher from Grand Rapids, Mich. Her vet husband, A. E. SCHMEISER, is a chemistry engineering junior. . . .
Rev. CORNELIUS J. LASKOWSKI, c.s.c., soft-spoken professor of Slavonic languages at Notre Dame addressed the Chopin Fine Arts Club in the Oliver Hotel in South Bend last week. His topic was “Folk Legends of the Tatra Mountains.” His interest in folk literature is traced backed to his association with the eminent Cornell University folk-lore expert, Dr. Harold Thompson. . . .
Cupid Was Busy
Engaged to GERALD F. GASS, Jr., engineering senior from Wyandotte, Mich., Miss Mary Ruth Shirk, ex-St. Mary’s student from South Bend.
Engaged to EUGENE G. LAMB, of Rockville Centre, L. I., N. Y., Miss Cecelia Cullinan, from South Bend.
Engaged to ALLEN RICHARD THOMAS, of Pelham Manor, N. Y., Miss Billie Lou Cerney, of South Bend.
Engaged to JOHN JOSEPH MARTIN, of South Bend, Miss Carol Kline, also from South Bend.
Engaged to ERNIE KIRSTEIN, of Cleveland, Ohio, Miss Marian Hampton, also of Cleveland.
Engaged to JOHN B. SULLIVAN, senior from St. Paul, Minn., Miss Jackie Skellet, also of St. Paul. The wedding will be a September affair . . .
MRS SCHMEISER Where
24
COLLEGE PALACE
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM OR1ELEY
THE PRODIGAL SON	"HOT" DOG!
It appears in a recent article of the Georgia Tech Technique, that the complete expression of personality and the development of rugged individualism is emphasized at that school. Mr. Dick (Halliburton) Atchely, a Tech undergrad, just upped and left school a few weeks ago without telling anyone, not even his landlord. When finally located, Mr. Atchely was across the continent in California. He stated his reason for suddenly departing as, “Vacation, I wanted to do something different!” He went on to say, “I planned to drop a card from New Mexico.” His fraternity brothers took up a collection to finance his return trip to school, which just goes to show what it means to know a little Greek.
AN EYE FOR AN EYE . . .
The University of Michigan has invented a new form of indoor sport which is proving very popular on the campus. The latest innovation at Michigan is evaluation of the professors and theii' courses by the student body. Students are asked to rate their profs on the basis of clarity of assignments, ability to hold class interest, and grading! This information we gleaned from The Crown (King’s College).
From the VILLANOVAN, via THE HEIGHTS (Boston College)
Sophomore: “I- see by the papers that nine professors and one student were killed in a wreck.”
Junior: “Poor chap.”
Local Students Attend World Trade Session in Chicago
Members of the progressive Propeller Club joined the foreign class in a jaunt to the Chicago World Trade Conference, an annual gathering of American businessmen engaged in foreign trade.
This year the principal concern was whether the new European Export License, which goes into effect on March 1, is justifiable. Through this bill the government can more closely control the manner in which the European countries are spending their money.
FOUND
MAN'S WRIST WATCH — Owner may have by identifying.
MANAGER'S OFFICE Dining Hall
“Flash,” Boston University’s mascot, is missing. So reports the B. U. News. Coach “Buff” Donelli of that school reported the absence of the little Boston Terrier several days ago, with a request for his return if found. We suggest that a special surveillance be made of Clashmore Mike’s companions for the next few days.
Father: Johnny, what makes you skip school all the time?
Johnny: Class hatred.
—The Green Gander
that are stoppers...
Perhaps you won't stop traffic in these new "Stopper Stripes by Van Heusen. But you will stop more than your share of admiring glances. These smart new patterns are exclusive with Van Heusen—you’ll find them on no other shirts! All of them boast new low-setting "ComforPContour” collar styling and other fine details of Van Heusen’s magic sewmanship. All Sanforized—a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! §3.95 and §4.95. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
You’re the man most likely to succeed in
0 Van Heusen Shins
TIES • SPORT SHIRTS • PAJAMAS
Interhall Schedule
MARCH 1
3:00—Cavanaugh Gold vs. Lyons Blues
4:00—Lyons Blue vs. Alumni Gold
5:00—Central Illinois Club vs Kentucky Club
7:00—Breen-Phillips vs. Cavanaugh
8:00—Alumni vs. Walsh
MARCH 2
4:00—Morrissey Gold vs. Dillon Gold
5:00—Lyons (lightwts.) vs. Howard (lightwts.)
7:00—St. Ed’s vs. Zahm
8:00—Badin vs. Morrissey
MARCH 3
3:00—Howard Gold vs. Alumni Blue
4:00—Lyons Orange vs. Dillon Orange
5:00—Italian Club vs. Villagers Club
7:00—Farley vs. Vetville
8:00—Lyons vs. Dillon
MARCH 4
4:00—Dillon Blue vs. Morrissey Red
5:00—Morrissey (lightwts.) vs. Breen-Phillips (lightwts.)
7:00—Breen-Phillips vs. Zahm
8:00—Off-Campus vs. Howard
MARCH 5
3:00—Lyons Red vs. St. Ed’s Gold
4:00—Lyons White vs. Morrissey Orange
5:00—New Jersey Club vs. Knights of Columbus
7:00—St. Ed’s vs. Cavanaugh
8:00—Walsh vs. Lyons
25
OPINION POLL
Civil Rights Poll Gives ’Don't Knows
It became apparent last week that if the South seceded from the Union again most Notre Dame students wouldn’t know about it for a long time.
For the second straight week Scholastic reporters polling the student body ran up against indifference and ignorance in their attempts to get an opinion to a vital issue of the day. The question they asked was: “What do you think of the Civil Rights Bill proposed by President Truman?” Although most of the pollees had heard of Truman their knowledge of the issue ended there. The Civil Rights Bill was something out of the Scholastic imagination.
Despite the fact that a large number of Notre Dame students are enrolled in the Departments of Political Science and
QUESTION OF THE WEEK
What do you think Student Council
should do?
should be done about it and this Civil Rights Law looks like the ticket.”
Roommates J. Terhaar and A. Mosca of 317 St. Ed’s summed up the general student opinion of the Civil Rights Bill with the words: “Unqualified Approval.”
The one dissenting opinion registered was that of Dick Arkwright of 231 Dillon who said: “I think it is a political move to get votes.”
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3)
THE BOSS SAYS THANKS
Dear Editor:
On the successful completion of the primary phase of the Student Relief Campaign, I wish to express the heartfelt gratitude that beneficiaries throughout the world will feel towards all those students who, as individuals or in groups, so diligently and generously contributed to this drive.
To the members of the Student Relief Committtee, particularly, Jack Murphy, Auto Award Chairman; Bill Duggan, Mardi Gras Carnival Chairman; and Joe Conerty, Publicity Director, go praise and appreciation for their endless ingenuity and resourcefulness, untiring perseverance, and sincere and patient cooperation.
Sponsored originally by the Notre Dame Council, National Federation of Catholic College Students, this effort was endorsed by the Student Council as a campus-wide, all-student activity; and enjoyed the continuous interest and attention of that body, as well as the wholehearted cooperation of the University administration.
Lou Burns Dillon Hall
Red Skelton Sets Record For Cleanest Radio Show
Red Skelton’s Junior may be a little hellion to millions of radio listeners but Red himself was an angel without wings as far as the Radio Acceptance Poll of the week of January 25 was concerned. Student-monitors gave him a 96.0 rating which was the highest ever awarded a program in the RAP 16-week history.
All in all the pollers who are located at St. Joseph’s College in Indiana, gave that week’s lineup of radio entertainment its best backing since October. Seven of the 14 shows audited were “highly acceptable.” The remaining seven were easily “acceptable” continuing a decency trend which started showing up in the tabulations about a month ago.
History in which the University takes just pride, the Student Opinion poll of the past two weeks would seem to indicate that ND men are woefully weak on current events.
There were, however, rare cases where the students were both acquainted and interested in the Bill and these unanimously agreed that it was a much needed piece of legislation.
“Truly Christian, proper, and a step in the right direction,” was the compact statement of approval voiced by Matt Kehoe of 239 Badin. A fellow Badinite said it even more forcefully. “I’m 100% in favor of it,” said William Zupancia of 414 Badin.
From Dan Callen of 136 Howard came a strong statement of present Southern conditions. “As a Navy man, I saw the conditions in the South during the War. The racial prejudice shown in the South has gone unnoticed too long. Something
OPPORTUNITY
Are you a sales manager? Do you lean more toward selling than to any other activity? We need several men about 30 years of age who are capable of directing their own sales activities. Openings in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, representing a reputable manufacturing firm. Good income.
ADDRESS: BOX 185 Notre Dame Scholastic
26
Research simplifies print making with development of “Varigam” Paper
Chemists and physicists make important contributions
Photographic film that has been overexposed or overdeveloped usually means a "hard” or "contrasty” negative—too much silver is deposited on the highlights in comparison with that in the shadows. The opposite effect, a "soft” or "thin” negative, results from underexposure or underdevelopment. At one time photographers had to stock four or five grades of enlarging paper to correct for these conditions and get the right degree of contrast.
To eliminate this expensive, unwieldy situation, scientists developed "Varigam” variable contrast photographic paper. With ''Varigam,” the whole procedure of getting different degrees of contrast is reversed. Instead of using several grades of paper, the photographer uses only one. He gets variation in contrast by use of filters that control the wave lengths of light reaching the paper, thereby getting finer degrees of contrast than are otherwise possible.
The action of "Varigam” depends on the ability of certain dyes to extend the sensitivity of silver halide emulsions beyond the blue and blue-green regions. This effect was well known to scientists. But "Varigam” has an added feature —it gives high contrast in the blue por
tion of the spectrum and is also sensitive to light in the green region, with low contrast.
“Varigam” tho work of many mon
The first job was one for the physical chemists. Silver halide emulsions, normally sensitive to blue light, had to be made to give maximum contrast when exposed to light in this region.
It was known that certain dyes would extend the sensitivity of the emulsion over as far as the infra-red. But they were not practical for photographic paper, being affected by the red safety light used in the darkroom. Research by chemists showed that certain dyes such as l:l'-diethylthiopseudocyanine iodide extended the light sensitivity only to the green region. And, most important, they produced low contrast when used in lower-than-normal concentrations. When such a dye was combined with high-contrast silver halide emulsion, the result was an emulsion that gave high-contrast prints when exposed to blue light, and low-contrast prints when exposed to green light.
Physitists Dtvtlop Filtors
Physicists made this contrast control a reality by preparing sharp-cutting filters that allow the user to control his printing light selectively. These filters,
which are attached to the lens of the enlarger, range from blue for high contrast to yellow, which cuts out the blue almost entirely and gives low contrast. In between are eight grades of filters with intermediate degrees of blue and yellow light transmission. All of the'filters are made in such a way that neither light nor printing time needs to be varied as filters are changed, except the last two on the blue end. These require approximately twice the time of the others.
In "Varigam,” made by Du Pont, chemical science has given the photographer new economy and convenience in printing, and a degree of contrast control more precise than is possible with any combination of commercial papers.	'
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
What typo* of training are needed?
The majority of openings for college graduates at Du Pont are in technical work and are usually in chemical, physical, or biological research; chemical, mechanical, civil, electrical, or industrial engineering. Openings are available from time to time in other fields, including architecture, ceramics, metallurgy, mining, petroleum and textile engineering, geology, mathematics, accounting, law, economics, and journalism. Write for booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” 2521-C Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
’ES.U.S.PAT.OFK
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTKY
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to "Cavalcade of America," Mondays, 7 P. M., CST on NBC
Normal print (center) can be obtained from either a “soft” negative (left) or a “hard” negative (right), using “Varigam” variable contrast paper.
Satisfy yourself
2$
HESTERFIELD
METROPOLITAN OPERA $
WORLD FAMOUS
Copyright 1948, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co,
... /ike Rise Stevens, that Chesterneids
are JB, ALWAYS MILDER
BETTER TASTING
COOKER SMOKING

