~'QZ . 
ai DK.· 
5t 
s 0 ,­
1 ', ­[gg:r~xriorik\. , 1 -­
-. 
Netsaie 
nscovcR 
7ard Number 
Exp _Date 

~nature 
'•;-.''f't 
ti'f60~\l 
: ·::···;: ?1. -~ --.-.. '1€~i1~~ 
1().9 
. < 11.. 2 
,,1,.·, ·1Ei1sooW: ' ·:,'•\ 
···,,\-:"•,. ·,,, 
_.:;, t. 
-\ ..-:'· -.,_ 

'8 110: -. 5~ 
·. . :_ ·.· 
==.====~ 
..-,,,-~,8t•Sa '"i<c.·,;;: ;i•.\ ,~!'!,·
l0_'" isco-Vt~i-!; -~-· -. · 
~o, '\'iu111be1',-,, ,,,1, ~vA,iiillt'~"'!!..".1 t1card , , ; ,· 1/ '.'):.'~fr,,:;',
{-\::: •._'_ '. >/(~/ .~ ;;;c' ,' 
,.. -......... ·••';, @~



:\.>\:.: '.:/:<.. :. 

Flex points run out already? 


Get a job now. 

is now hiring: Sports Editor Assistant Art Editor Assistant Campus Life Editor 
· Web Designers Call 1-5029 or stop by the Scholastic office in the baserpent of South Dining Hall for more information. 


He's the number two man at Notre Dame, but few people could give you his job description. Scholastic sits down with Provost Nathan Hatch to find out just what he does in a typical day. by Kristin Kramer 
ASeason Gone Terribly Wrong 22 
August: It's '99 and Notre Dame is a sure thing. October: We can still pull off a mediocre season. November: a 5-7 final record, the worst in 36 years. Howdid a season that began with promise end up being so disgusting? by Christopher Hamilton 

Cinema Paradiso 26 
With less than two months until the Student Film Festival, student directors .scramble to shoot their dream films. 
Down to Earth by Lies/ Marx 7 All American by Sarah Childress . 8 Singing a New Song by Kate Nagengast 12 A Champion's .Fight by Gerard Meskill 21 
Departments 
From the Editor 2 Listening In 4 ND Notebook 5 Campus Watch 13 Splinters from the Pressbox 19 Out of Bounds 25 Week in Distortion 30 Calendar 31 
by Kara Zuaro Final Word 32 




Love Triangle 
n an episode of Ally McBeal, Ally cheats on her boyfriend of two months 
to share a brief, intimate kiss with her ex-boyfriend, the otherwise married 
Billy. Ally soon realizes that nothing serious could ever happen between her and Billy, but she still feels that the kiss was an important part of her emotional development. 
If there is one character on television that I identify with, it's Ally McBeal. Ally's fantasy-filled world ofself-centered neuroses often mirrors my own. After reflecting upon this episode, I realized that the reason she cheated was to prove to herself that she had other options. Her kiss with Billy proved that she is still attractive to the male populace. It showed that she was dating her present boyfriend because she truly liked him, not because he was the only option. 
Strangely enough, Ally McBeal's realization that she had options mirrors what 
many students felt when they bought their textbooks for this se­mester. With no other bookstores around campus, many students felt like they had no other options when it came to buying books. They were trapped in a relationship with the Hammes NotreDame Bookstore. This year, though, the Internet has 
become a dominant force, and numerous online bookstores allow other options. 
For the first time this year, like numerous other students, I cheated on the Hammes and ordered a book from Amazon.com. Like Ally, I felt like great new options had been ·opened up to me. Now, I don't shop at the Hammes Bookstore 
. because I have to. I shop there because I want to. 
When Ally kissed Billy, her boyfriend started to be much more attentive in an attempt to woo her back. Simiiarly, the Hammes is trying to win back student loyalty. The store is now open longer every day and the management is striving to make it a more convenient place to shop. Even with these enhancements, the bo9kstore faces fierce competition from the dot corns. Kim Blackwell examines this competition in "Book Wars" on page 14. 
Also Inside 
Kara Zuaro took an in-depth look at what goes into making the short films of the Student Film Festival, and her story has me even more excited then usual about this year's show. Get a sneak preview ofwhat will be coming in her story on page 26. 
As a correction to last issue: The network that airs Nightline was incorrectly identified as NBC. Nightline airs on ABC. We regret the error. 

Editor in Chief 

2Scholastic From the Editor 
. Disce Qiia~{$~1JJP~~. Victuru.s . . . 
•· ..·. -.Vive Q4,~~~.,CJ;~i\M:Witur.4s)·. · 
;',•\•L•• •'' •S ',; •
:,.. ,,,· 
.:-\:,:r:_,;. ·w::.. ·. 

.. ,Editors)i,: chief·.. · 
· . "Brian Christ. · , . : · .. . Mer~dith w;salfsbury <' 
: ......·.: .. , ...-', :: . . . .. :·, ~-·. 

··.. Mana:gi~g Edrtor •. '< ·.· ·•:J\ssoci~te Editcir :..· 
: Zachd'ry'Wi Kulsrud ... ..Jqmes J. Pastore, Jr... 
."Ne~~ -,·Jar~d "p_ -Marx, editdr"< · . StacFL. Pangle, as~lst~nt .. 
.Campus Life Kate L.Jacques, editqr ..·· .•.. : 
·..·.·.••Kimb~rlx A,':Blac;~ell~ bssista.nt. . Sp~rts 0: .Christopher E. Hamilton, editor ··. . .· ·. · O Gerard J. Meskill, assistant 
. Entertainment Kara s:zuciro, editor: , . ·.._ 

. . Kathleen Mi Corte/bssistant Departments Kara S. Zuaro, editor . M~tthew 1 Cremer; assistant . 
Layout· . ·Michael P; Griffin, editor . ''I Heather J. Hogan, assistant . Agatha Noble, assistant 
. . ·.. ·· .. Colleerr Barrett · ·· · Photography Mich~el J. McNary, editor .· ·BeniamihK: Woic:ikje','(ic:z,_qssi~tant .·. Graphic, Arts .David B. teeriey~ editor _·..·.. ·. '<: 
· ·-·,. · · ·cafolirie M. Wolfassl"stanf·· · · Copy ._ .. .Sarah E.' Childress, editor Business Michael J.. Sekula, manager ..· Distribution •· Michael J.-McNary, manager Web Design Michael J. Gonzales · . 
http://www.nd.edu/...scholast 
Published ·biweekly. at the· University of· Notre Dame and. printed at Ave Maria Press, No.Ire Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire· contents of Scholastic is. copyright @11999. All rights reserved. No contents of thi? magazine, either in whole or in . 
· part, may be reproduced in any manner without written con·sent of the publisher. Scholastic does· not. assume .liability .for . unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be. sent to Scholastic, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue; All letters must incl.ude the writer;s naine, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names wiUbe withheld upon request In certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space·. The subscription rate, including the literary special issue/is $20 per year; Available back issues are $1.50.·per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 .per copy. · Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed • in Scholastic are riot necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the:student body. . . 
Cover photo by Michael McNary Cover art and design by Michael Griffin 

Scholastic's first-ever literary issue, featuring student art, photography, poetry and short stories, comes out January 27, 2000. 
Don't miss out. 

Psst! Missed the deadline, but dying to be made famous in this special issue? Submissions are still being accepted. Act fast. 


Scholastic 


Submit works in the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall Or via the Internet at www.nd:edu/~sc.holast Questions: ·e-mail Zac Kulsrud at zkuls1ud@nd.edu 
Announcement Scholastic 3 



"Do you know how they pronounce DaimlerChryslerin Germany?The 'Chrysler' is silent." 
-Ford executive addressing a group ofbusiness students 
"Every Sunday you give up drinking but by Thursday you're back at it." -student explaining the typical attitude toward alcohol on campus 
. "Wow. Davie can't even go four quarters with­out losing." 
-visitor to campus on hearing that Coach Leahy went four straight years without losing a football game 
"What does science tell us about right and wrong? All science tells us is riot to put your hand in fire or you'll get hurt." 
-government professor 

"Restroom closed. Stripping and waxing being done." 
-sign appearing on a public restroom during a football weekend 
"Doctors kill patients one at a time. Archi­tects can kill by the thousands." _ -architecture professor 
"I got to Marshall Fields and the first thing I am confronted with is ladies' underwear ­not that I don't get any joy out of that section of the store." 
-marketing professor on ihe importance ofproduct placement in stores 
"Now we can designate some women as breeders." -student commenting on a cnn.com article 
reporting that a womans sex drive may improve after a hysterectomy 
"Rudy sucked, but he'd start at Boston College." -slogan on an underground T-shirt seen just before the Eagles beat Notre Dame 
4Scholastic Listening In 

ANOTHER LATIN EXPLOSION 


Latino Revival 
ND professor seeks to expand scope, interest ofLatino program, 
or nearly 30 years, the University of tality when it appointed Cardenas as the
F
Notre Dame had a dedicated and highly new director of the Institute for Latino Stud­
successful program for Latino Studies ies this year. Cardenas holds a bachelor's headed by the late Professor Julian Samora. degree in sociology from California State at Samora was recognized in 1953 as the first Los Angeles and a Ph.D. from the Univer­Mexican-American to receive a doctorate sity of Notre Dame in sociology. He taught in sociology and anthropology. His efforts at the University of Texas at Austin from 
------,,---,,,..,.,,,. 1979 to June of 1999. 
. . "The scope of focus of 
<,., :•~ t~ ' 
this program is to study the 
"i: . 
U.S. Latino experience from an interdisciplinary comparative approach," Cardenas says. With a vari­ety ofdisciplines, the Latino Studies program seeks to understand the historical and sociological issues of the Latino heritage within the American culture. However, Cardenas is quick to point out that this program is not exclusively intended for 
~ ~-~,__ 'l·~,·.:---.~· ·_ . 
those with a Latino back­

BROADENING HORIZONS. Dr. Cardenas, the new director 
ground. "The students at 

of the Institute for Latino Studies, hopes to involve all 
Notre Dame are very special 

students, regardless of ethnicity, in the program. 
in that they are very service­generated a great deal of graduate work that oriented and have a strong sense of family brought prestige to Notre Dame. Why, then, values," Cardenas notes. These qualities, did Notre Dame drop the program after Cardenas believes, make the Latino Studies Samora's retirement in 1985? Dr. Gilberto program an option for all students, not just Cardenas, who regarded Samora as a men­ones of Latino heritage. "This program can tor, wanted to know. "Studying our own enrich the lives of all our students." society, there is a high proportion of Catho­Cardenas hopes to broaden the program lics within the Latino community. That as­by developing a second major within the pect of Catholic life can enrich the univer­Latino Studies discipline. He also wants to sity," he says. devote a special unit entirely to research 
The university obviously shared this men-advancement. -Meghan Halm 
r-·-_---,-·----_-..--•--·~------. ---------1 
UUDGMENT CALLS 
fcteanYout --I_ We'dbemoreconcernedaboutthisifthefoodwewasted, !Plate · • + didn't reappear on our plates at subsequent meals. · 
I .. 
Semester Maybe this disconcertingly balmy weather won'tfollow us home. It's no fun to malie snowmen out ofmud.
Break One toy collector decides that Woody belongs in a: museuin
Toy 
rather than out in thefield.Someone inthe Athletic Depart­Story__ 2_ mentdecicir;~l_thesame·_thing about ourfoot~q:n progr_arn Ifthe aliens come early enough, they'll he in time to fix our Y2K computers before midnight strihes to prevent that satel­
t 

lite,from Ct{lshin.g_ into tlie Eiffel '[owe!:-_ 
Q&A 

1Questions with 

-~· .--. -_ --.... 

/,,~: 
I/ --< 
f' 
, t 

Tim McCarthy 

Road Rage's Worst Nightmare 

Ofall the Irish football traditions ofthe past decades, about the only one students could count on this season was Sergeant McCarthy' sfourth-quarter safety announce­ments. He has been preaching safe driving with a punchline since 1961, and continues to this very day, despite having retired from the Indiana State Troopers in 1978. His involvement in law did not end there, how­ever, as he served as Porter (Ind.) County Sheriff from '79 to '87, and the next 12 years as Porter County Assessor. 
Whose idea was it for you to do the safety announcements? 
Well, I had a predecessor, where they made the safety announcements, because in those days, there wasn't the highway nearby, and all the game traffic was on access roads. I was the one who started using punchlines because we really wanted to attract people's attention to traffic safety. 
How long did it take before the stadium became completely silent as you made your announcement? 
Actually, I didn't do announcements until the second year, 1961, and the first game was, I don't recall why, was unusually quiet. My first punchline was, 'The automobile replaced the horse, but the driver should stay on the wagon.' People seemed to like it, and it took off froITi there. 
How long does it take you to come up with your punchlines? 
Sometimes forever. I jot down play-on­words throughout the year, and then have to make the message fit to the punchline. If I come up with a punchline about drunk driv­·ing, I can't make the niessage about weather conditions, Sometimes I have up to three 
continued on next page -. 
Notebook Scholastic 5 


Q&A 
continued front previous page 
messages, depending on the weather late in the game. 
On average, how many high-speed chases take place on the Indiana toll-roads each year? 
I have no idea. Those chases you see on TV are few and far between. 
Has Coach-Doherty contacted you about doing Tim-isms at the basketball game? 
That would be a little bit too much. There's an awful lot more basketball games. But Coach Doherty seems to have brought a lot of energy to the program, I think he's going to be very successful. 
Do you have a favorite poet? 
I don'tthinkihaveone. I like the Postal Poet out of South Bend. He writes poems about local stuff, like the football team and every­thing. Some of his stuff hits close to home. 
Exactly how much faster than the speed limit can I go before I get a speeding ticket? 
People have been asking me that for 25 years. All I can say is that it depends on the police officer. Ifyou're going even one mile per hour over the speed limit, you're in violation of the law, though. 
What's your all-time favorite cop show? 
CHiPS. 
Who's your favorite Bond girl? 
My favorite girls are my wife and my daugh­ter, and I'd be in trouble ifl said otherwise. 
Do you have anything to say to the students who will be traveling home for semester break shortly? 
Safe drivers neverfind themselves in traffic court. So you will never get burned if your driving is matchless. 
-Jeremiah Conway and Jason Hammontree 
HI 


Tim McCarthy's first season ofannounc­ing must have been rosier than this year's. Scholastic' s football review issue from that year recalls the ND-USC game on October 14, 1961: 
"On this cold and drafty October after­noon, 50,427 fans watched in awe as savage Notre Dame line play completely domi­nated Southern California and set 22 Irish· backs loose for a net total of 322 yards rushing, as the Fighting Irish crushed the visiting Trojans, 30-0. 
"To say the victory was overwhelming is 

something of an understatement." 
6Scholastic Notebook 
MYSTERIES OF THE EAST 




Orient Express 
Asian Allure transports ND to the Far East 
Your geography teacher was wrong: Asia is not on the other side of the world. Instead, it can be found in Washington Hall on Saturday, December 4, . when campus groups celebrate their ethnicity in Asian Allure. A combination fashion and talent show, the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs hosted thefirstAsianAllurein 1996. Speak­ing on behalf of the first directors, current production director Monica Wisner explains, "We wanted a way to share Asian culture, but we also wanted to do something mod­ern. So Asian Allure was started to some­how blend the two." The production achieves this blend by mixing a modern fashion show with cultural performances, which both tie into this year's theme, Asian Image-Mark of the Millen­nium. This doesn't mean futuristic clothes or sets, however. "We are opting for a very classic look that will carry us into the next century," says Wisner. Clothing from stores such as DKNY, the Limited, the Buckle and others will repre­sent this stylish Mark on the Millennium in the fashion show segment. "The stores are letting us use some of their clothes, which we will have to return after the show," Wisner says. In the show, students will model not only these new clothes, but the Indian Association of Notre Dame and the Filipino American Student Organization will also show traditional clothing, emphasizing the cultural aspect ofthe production. "That's what Asian Allure is," says Justin Liu, one of the emcees for this year's show. "We're using the fashion show as a means to display the culture." Performances by campus cultural groups 
will also emphasize the unique ethnic back­

grounds present at Notre Dame. Groups that 
are involved include the Hawaii Club, First 

Class Steppers, and Troop ND. Their acts, 
however, will not be separate from the fash­
ion show itself. "They are intertwined with 
the fashion show," explains Wisner. "For 

example, there will be a line and then a 
performance, then two lines and a perfor­
mance." 
The emcees, who are also students, will 

take on a slightly different role than in years 
past. "The emcees for the past two years 
have been the same people and this year 
they're different," says Liu. In addition to 

new faces, the emcees will be responsible 
for elaborating upon the culture presented 
throughout the show. As Liu says, 'There's 
a lot about the culture that can't be ex­

plained in the performance. We're there to 
explain it." 
Wisner also stresses the increased em­

phasis on culture in this year's production, 
a change from past performances. "The 

Asian Allures ofthe past have focused more 
on the fashion show aspect of the produc­
tion," says Wisner. "This year we would 
like to share more of the Asian culture.". 
Having been honored as Ethnic Perfor­

mance of the Year in 1998 by the CCC, . Asian Allure has a reputation ofexcellence and excitement up to which it must live. This year's directors feel confident that their production will fulfill expectations while at the same time offering more than past per­formances. As Liu says, "It will be a little more fast-paced than usual. It's going to 
have something every second that's going 
to keep you entertained." 
-Kathleen Corte 

DOME LIGHTS 



Laundry Lists 
Ofstudents with year-long St. Michael's Laundry contracts, percentage held by gender: 
J 11 

Mi11 W18o5% 81o5% 


in his new book 

BY LIESL MARX 
hilosophy and dummies _::_ two 

, words often found in the same sen­
tence here at Notre Dame. But ac­

cording to Dr. Tom Morris, a former Notre 
Dame philosophy professor, this is very 
natural. His new book, the latest in the 
popular ... for Dummies series, is Philoso­
phyfor Dummies, a book that he says "cuts 
through the confusion and presents [phi­
losophy] in a way that people can grapple 
with it." And that includes dummies. 
Morris has quite a bit of experience to 

give him background -not the least of 
which was garnered at Notre Dame. After 
graduating from Yale with a double Ph.D. in 
philosophy and religious studies, Morris 
began his career teaching philosophy at 
Notre Dame. Well known for his unortho­
dox methods of teaching Philosophy 101, 
Morris was an extremely popular teacher · while he was here. · · 
"Philosophy is a serious subject," Morris 

states, "but you don't have to be somber 
when talking about it." For example, when 
discussing death, Morris says the class would 
experience a mock heart attack. First, the 
lights would go off in the room and then, 
suddenly, a "being ·of life" would appear 
before them. After a few words of wisdom, 
the class would be sent back to reality. 
"Every day had to be a real experience. 

One day I brought the marching band in to 
play the victory march before a test because 
everyone had done poorly on the test be­
fore." He jokingly adds, "The grades went 
up on that test." 
Although he taught several philosophy courses and seminars, Morris says his fa­vorite class to teach was Philosophy 101. "I loved teaching people as soon as they got to Notre Dame -especially those who didn't want to be there. My goal was to win them over and make this their favorite class." He notes that he didn't have an attendance policy because he wanted people to come to his class because they wanted to come. "If they didn't want to be here, I wasn't doing my job," he says. A former student seemed to thinkhe did his job pretty well, commenting, "I didn't know philosophy could be so awesome!" 
Fifteen years of teaching and 11 books later, Monis was ready for anew adventure. "I didn't leave Notre Dame because I had something more important to do, but I had an itch I needed to scratch. I felt a calling to become a public philosopher in a country that hasn't had one for a while." 
Since leaving Notre Dame almost five years ago, Morris has spent time traveling around the country speaking to groups of business executives. His clients have in­cluded Bank One, Merrill Lynch, IBM and Hallmark Cards, among others. Most re­cently he founded the Morris Institute for Human Values in Wilmington, N.C. "I wanted to create a continuing education organization that would allow me to bring people retreats, corporate education and edu­cational products that reinforce the books I write and the talks !give." It also gives him the option to send other philosophers asso­ciated with the group a chance to speak to companies when he is unavailable. His website, one of USA Today's hot 100 sites, can be reached at www .morrisinstitute.com. 
Morris adds, "It's neat because after I speak to a group of executives there is always someone who comes up to me and says that they were in my class atNotreDame. I run into them everywhere-airports, hotels, community centers-theNotreDame family really spreads all over the country and I find them to be some of the most admirable people in the business world." 
It was after one of these speeches that a woman called Morris about writing Phi­losophyfor Dummies. "She had been in the audience the day before and really liked the speech. She was the acquiring editor for the IDG publishing company, the group that puts out the Dummies books. She said they had been thinking about publishing one for philosophy and I was the one to write it." 
Based on his philosophy course at Notre Dame, Morris says the book is aimed at university students as well as people in the working world. "Notre Dame gave me op­portunity to decide what material would be effective. Interactions with students and faculty members showed me how to bring philosophy into their lives." Topics in the book include philosophical issues ranging from "What's the deal with death?" to "Is there a God?" to "The meaning of life." 
"This book tries to help people under­stand the context within which we live and move and exist," says Morris. As one radio announcer put it, Philosophy for Dummies is like the cliff notes for life. "I want people 
-to be able to see the big ·picture, to create 
their own map of life. And this book helps 
them do that," Morris says. D 
News Scholastic 7 


The first chainnan ofA111erican studies prepares to retire after three decades 
ofinfluential leadership and teaching 
BY SARAH CHILDRESS&fter 30 years of teaching at Notre Dame, Professor Ron Weber, who made a substantial contribu­tion to the foundation of American studies here, is to retire this spring. However, his involvement in the Notre Dame community goes much further back than his teaching career. Weber was a student at Notre Dame, enrolled in the combination law and Arts and Letters program offered at the time. When he reached his senior year, he found he was no longer interested in his current program. He took his problem to then-Dean Father Charles Sheedy. "What does interest you?" Sheedy asked. "Writing," Weber answered. "So I guess I should be an English major." "Nonsense. English is about reading. Journalism is about writing," Sheedy said, and signed Weber up as a journal­ism major on the spot. "I was too afraid of him to say any­thing," Weber says with a laugh. "So I was a journalism major." It was through this program that Weber took his first American studies courses, which at the time were categorized under the Depart­ment of Journalism. "He was right," Weber recalls. "Notre Dame's journal­ism department was about writing. But it was also about giving students some­thing to write about." After working for a few years as a journalist, Weber went on to the Univer­sity oflowa to pursue a graduate degree. Although he was asked to join the fac­
>­
ulty at Notre Dame then, he chose in-~ 
z
stead to pursue his doctora(e at the Uni-~ versity ofMinnesota. The teaching posi-\;! tion was held open for two years while ~ sor at Notre Dame in the Department of Communication Arts (formerly the Depart­ment ofJournalism), the university began to investigate the possible establishment of a program in American studies. Weber was. asked to chair a committee to draw up a potential plan for the program because of his previous experience at the University of Minnesota, which already had an American studies program, albeit one in its early stages. There, American culture was studied from a holistic view, bringing together American history, literature, social sciences and art as one discipline. It was a difficult task to combine all of these subjects into one ma­jor. "That was the beauty of it," he says. "There was something fresh, spirited, off­center about American studies." 
On April 27, 1970, the Program in Ameri­can Studies was approved. Soon after its establishment, however, it was merged with the Department ofCommunication Arts and became the Department of American Stud­ies, a combination unique to Notre Dame. Weber then became the department chair­man and remained for seven years. 


The merger created the problem ofrecon­ciling the two disciplines and determining the direction the program would take. The result produced two tracks within the de­partment: a liberal arts program for law, government, teaching or business, and the second for careers in communications. Both programs heavily emphasized writing as well as classes from a variety of disciplines related to American culture. 
Although Weber admits that this uncons ventionality at times serves as a disadvan­tage, preventing administrators from under­standing exactly where the program be-



he completed his Ph.D. University of Minnesota, helped establish the Department of American Studies, which During his time as an associate profes-became far more popular than he had predicted. 
8Scholastic News 

., . . '-' . ·-~ . . -·. . , . . "\ . ; ' 
longs, he easily notes the benefits of his degree in American studies. "I shared with fellow students ... a certain amount ofpride in the fact that we weren't necessarily pre­paring for teaching careers .... Ifwe chose, we could join the real world in a way that other bookish types could not." 
Now, 30 years later, Weber is finishing his last year as a professor at Notre Dame. "I like teaching, I like what I do," he says. "But it's time to move on." He plans to devote his time to writing novels, an interest that has resulted in several books already, with a novel due to be published in the spring. 
Looking back on the Department of American Studies, Weberis pleased with its progression and development from its spir­ited beginning. "It couldn't stay young for­ever; it had to grow up sometime," he says. He feels that the biggest and most surprising change in the program was its size. "When we designed American studies, we thought there would be about 20 juniors and 20 seniors," he says. The program has .grown considerably since then, which is unusual among other colleges. "Most, and this is a generalization, but most American studies programs are small," Weber says. "There are many more [students in Notre Dame's program] than we anticipated." 
Weber suggests two reasons for the over­whelming popularity of the major. When the program was first introduced in the 1970s, it was a time ofgeneral unsettlement. Students were more willing to take a risk with a new major than perhaps they are now. Also, the first few that did sign up for American studies "had to prove to mom and dad that what they were doing was worth­while," Weber says with a laugh. "They started recruiting people for the major." 
Now that the program has been estab­lished, however, there are no longer stu­dents spreading the news. Weber entitled the speech he gave November 17 on the development of the program "Finding American Studies," because it describes the manner in which most students decide to major in the program. "Very few students come to Notre Dame planning on majoring in American studies," he explains. "They have to discover it." · 
This seems to be true. Sarah Wagner, a junior American studies major, entered Notre Dame her freshman year planning to major in history. However, when she looked into the program in more detail, she found she was not interested in the various specializa­tions the history department had to offer. Instead, she chose American studies, where she decided to concentrate in English and government, with the goal of becoming a teacher. "This way it's almost like you're getting more than one major," she explains. 
Many students choose American studies because of the new journalism concentra­tion, Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, which is under its auspices. Although· the concentration is available to all students in the College of Arts and Letters and as of next year is expected to move out of the American Studies program, at this time pri­ority is still given to American studies ma­jors during course selection. Freshman Jes­sica Daues plans to major in American stud­ies primarily for this reason. "I want to go into journalism, and American studies will give me a good background for that," she says. 
What direction is American studies mov­ing toward now? Weber declines to answer. "I don't want to tell my colleagues how to do it," he says. "That's their decision." 
Regardless of what form the program takes in the future, most agree that Weber can be proud of what American studies has become and ofthe department that he helped to found. He will be missed: fondly remem­bered by many, he leaves behind a pair of shoes that will be difficult to fill. . 



111hlm:ltt 
\%'all§ 11Iin® 


-I 
I 

:1
., llii 


Look at Scholastic in a whole new way. 
ll<illJl..:ll~JI in :fl ~ .. · ... l \rt i ~=-'''-"'-''"""" ' • .,. 



www.nd.edu/-scholast 
News Scholastic 9 




A 
f({))r 

Provost Nathan Hatch juggles many administrative responsibflities­including telling students just what he does 
BY KrusnN KRAMER  the Main Building that Dr. Nathan Hatch finds himself playing his position under the  fact that many people, particularly students,· have absolutely no idea what his job entails.  
"Yhen he's playing basketball, he  Golden Dome as the Provost ofthe Univer­ "Basically, we'rethe whole academic pack­ 
/  says, he's "more of a forward,  sity of Notre Dame.  age," he says. "We have to put it all together  
'  though I swing outside as well."  Though a man oftalent in many areas, the  in this arrangement."  
When he's in the classroom, he's a history  first obstacle that Hatch often has to tackle  As the university's second ranking of­ 
professorwhose 'swinging' intotheresearch  is a fairly simple question: what does  a  ficer, the provost exercises overall respon­ 
field has resulted in books that have earned  provost do? As Notre Dame's provost since  sibility for academic enterprise, meanin~  
numerous accolades. But it's when he's in  1996, Hatch laughs and acknowledges the  that all the university's academic constitu~  
f; HATCHING PLANS. Nathan Hatcfi founded the Institute for Scholafship  --·7 :; J  
and Liberal Arts at Notre Dame and  
is renowned for his study of the .  
history of religion in America.  



ents, such as the differ­
661Leadlceir~&nip JJJ111 h.ighceir cedl\Ul.ccatlll.cc»n ll§ §cc» JJJ11D1.]1J>0>irttanf9 &ndl it ll§
ent schools and col­leges, the admissions 
office and the library, JP>&irticc~&irli-r cch&Ucenging lbceccalUl.§ce & m1lllvceir§i{·y ll§ & 
report to his office. 
"There are a lot of ]pl&Jrticc~&Jr lii:JJJ11ldl cc»f JJJ11l§ti{lUl.ticc»no o o o Thee cg[lUl.<e§tTI.cc»ll1l l1§9 h(G\ff dice» 
meetings involved," says Hatch. "I've 
}'CG\Ul. JP>lUl.i fugcetli11ceir lbiriUi&nt JP><ecc»Jp>lice fcc»ir & cccc»mumcc»n ]P»\Ul.Jr]l»CG§<e?99 
chaired a lot of search committees for new deans, andihavemeet­ings for budget issues. I also deal with donors and outside constitu­ents -I was just on the phone with the chairman of the Academic Committee on the Board of Trustees. I also try to keep an open door policy for the faculty to address individual problems, issues, concerns, or for brainstorming about ideas." 
In addition to these responsibilities, Hatch also finds himself in a position from which he can help shape the future of Notre J?ame. "I try to keep some time to think about where Notre Dame should be going," he says. "I'd like to see the university develop certain centers of excellence, renew teach­ing, be more aggressive in recruiting teachc ers and students and continue to foster its Catholic identity." 
While some may recognize Hatch as the university provost, what they may not know is that he started out at Notre Dame in 1975 as a professor in the history department teaching pre-Civil War American history. 'Tm fundamentally a professor," he says. "I've been at Notre Dame for 24 years; it was my first teaching job. I know this place. I know what its main purpose is." 
Regularly cited as one of the most influ­ential scholars in the study of the history of religion in America, Hatch has also pub­lished several books while at Notre Dame. His 1989 book, The Democratization of American Christianity, wo·n numerous awards and was chosen as one of the two most important books in the study ofAmeri­can religion by a survey of 2000 historians and sociologists. But how did such a re­nowned scholar go from being a teacher and historian to being a full-time administrator? 
"In the beginning, I wasjust delighted to be here teaching," Hatch says. "I had a certain instinct for organizing projects -I got a couple ofgrants to organize some talks and projects within the history department." Hatch gradually moved up in the adminis­trative ranks, continuing to teach and re­search, but he also served as the associate dean for the College of Arts and Letters and vice-president for graduate studies and re­search. 
"I came to like it," he says. "The whole idea of dreaming about what a university can be, how to help the faculty improve their dream, appealed to me. It's very rewarding." To help faculty members re­alize their personal goals and ideas, Hatch founded Notre Dame's Institute for Schol­arship in the Liberal Arts, which funds liberal arts faculty members. This extra funding helped Notre Dame faculty mem­bers win 21 National Endowment for the Humanities fellowships from 1985-91, which ranked the university among the top 10 nationally. 
Batch's own teaching background gives him a valuable insight into faculty-adminis­tration relations. "Leadership in higher edu­cation is so important, and it is particularly challenging because a university is a par­ticular kind of institution," Hatch says. "It has a tenured faculty, whose members have their own missions, and so the question is, how do you put together brilliant people for a common purpose?" 
Part ofHatch's job is to find a solution to that question. "Administration is an art ­it's not power and coercion, but persuasion. The most satisfying part of the job is being able to recruit strong leaders. The deans or chairs are in very important positions be­cause these leaders are able to allow their units to achieve the greatest success. To prosper, the faculty really have to have a strong support."' 
Hatch is enteiing just his fourth year as provost, but he has already helped to shape much ofthe cmTent academic administration. He has chaired the committees responsible for hiring new deans and chairs for the law school, Arts and Letters, engineering, the Notre Dame Press, the Kellogg Institute, the Medieval Institute and the architecture school. 


Serving as the provost usually requires that Hatch travel every two weeks or so. His work days generally run from 8:00 in the morning until 6:00 in the evening, and he often puts in up to four nights a week either at the office after dinner or at evening func­tions. Still, Hatch finds time forother activi­ties. In addition to doing the usual chores around the house and watching sports, Hatch says, "I still play basketball one to two times a week over at Rolfs, and I'm kind of a political junkie, so I enjoy politics." He listens to NPR or classical music when in the car during the day, and admits to tuning in to a '50s rock'n'roll station when he's driving at night. "Only at night!" he says. "There is a distinct difference. I don't know why, but there just is." 
Hatch and his wife, Julie, live only about four miles from Notre Dame, and have seen their oldest son, Gregg, graduate from Notre Dame, and will see another son, David, graduate this year. They also have a daugh­ter, Beth, who is still in high school. 
Though Hatch still finds some free time outside of the Dome, he has not had the kind of time needed for either teaching or research the past four years. He says, "I miss it in a sense, because with academic administration at this level, it does tend to feel like your identity as a teacher and scholar is being leeched away, but I love what I'm doing." He continues, "I've loved all the things I've clone, teaching, research and administration. Ad­ministration actually has similar dynamics to teaching because it involves lots of interac­tion." 
Hatch is serving a five-year commitment to the university as its provost, after which he will have to consider his options for the future and which of his talents he would next like to flex. For now, however, he is content with guiding Notre Dame into the next millennium, and stopping from time to time to explain to cmious students exactly what he does. D 
Campus Life Scholastic 11 

. . ' . -. --"-----~-"-'-'--~~--~-------------­
-------------~------­


The Chapel Schola brings the sounds ofthe Liturgical Choir to donn Mass 


BY KATE NAGENGAST 

ome on in to Mass," the rector of 
Farley Hall says as she stands at 
the chapel door. "The music won't be as great as usual, but it's still worth visiting," she jokes. But by the end of Mass, even she has to admit that the music that evening was something special. 
Filling in for Farley's choir that evening was the Liturgical Choir's newest project, Chapel Schola, a group created to expand the choir's ministry by perfonning parts of its repertoire at d01m Masses once or twice a month. Founded by senior Shaun McK.ieman and directed by senior Rex Rallanka, the group already has visited four dorm Masses dming its inaugural semester, and members are opti­mistic about the choir's future. 
In the past, many groups have requested the Liturgical Choir to singforthem, but they only needed a small group of singers. The Chapel Schola helps to add continuity for these smaller engagements. According to McK.ieman, "We plan on doing it all rear and we hope to groom people to do it next year when we leave." 
Chapel Schola consistently brings 12 to 15 voices, approximately three or four people of each vocal pait, to the dorms that invite them. Although participants may change from week to week, there are always willing candidates among the Liturgical Choir's 65 members. 
Andres AITedondo, president ofthe Liturgi­cal Choir and a frequent paiticipant in Chapel Schola, has great enthusiasm for the project. For AITedondo, Chapel Schola gives the op­portunity to share the Liturgical Choir's reper­toire with d01m Masses. "This is a type of music people from our age group never get a chance to hear. When I first heai·d renaissance music, it floored me and gave me a sense that there was something else out there," he says. He wants to share that realization in numerous donn Masses. 
McK.iernan agrees and sees other benefits. "One of the main reasons we created Chapel Schola was to introduce the donns to the Liturgical Choir's repertoire. But we want to be a service for the donn." McK.ieman says the choir will work by itself or sing backup for 
12 Scholastic Campus Life 
the regular dorm choir. 
Many Chapel Schola participants are moti­vated by the realization that the Liturgical Choir's Masses ai·e inconvenient for the aver­age college student. "I think [Chapel Schola] is definitely going to let more people see what the Liturgical Choir is about," says Valerie Vinoverski, a Chapel Schola paiticipant. As many students go to dorm Masses, rather than the 10:00 a.m. Basilica Mass, she says it will expose more students to what the Liturgical Choir does. 
McK.ieman agrees. "I feel like so many people don't go to our Mass because it's [ eai·ly] in the morning, so our crowd is mostly an older crowd .... This music is timeless and classic and I like the fact that we are going to donns and bringing it to the students more effectively." 
However, Chapel Schola doesn't want to alienate its audience. Aware of the fact that their music is different from that of a typical d01m Mass, the group carefully selects music that fits a dorm atmosphere. 
"I think there's a mixed reaction between 
people that have been exposed to our type of 
music before and people who are completely 
new to it," McK.iernan says. He explains it is 
almost all in four-part harmony and is classi­
cal, which can be intimidating. He adds, "We 
try to use some of the music from the dorm 
choir's repertoire as well." 
Some things have to "For example, we have a that was written by one of the Club conductors," McK.iernan says. "It was really beautiful, but a little intimidating, so we switched to a different 'Gloria."' 
The adjustments seem to be working. Chapel Schola is praised by the four dorms that have already heard its melodies. 
"The thing I remember most about this 
· group is that they were able to come into the donn and in 45 minutes figure everything out," says Sarah Polito, Badin' s music commissioner. "From setting up chairs to assigning paits to the responsorial psalm, they adapted to the Badin Mass atmosphere. They 
impressed." 

Badin's rector, Nancy Cook, agrees. "I thought [Chapel Schola] did a wonderful job. It was a very nice Mass. We have a wonderful dorm Mass as is, but it was something differ­ent and it definitely enhanced that Mass. We would love for them to come back again." 
McK.ieman feels the experience is just as beneficial for the mempers of the choir as it is for the audience. "I feel like it's agreat expe­rience because it gives us a chance to go out on our own ... and put what we've leai11ed to use." 
ArTedondo concurs. "This gives us an outlet outside of the demands ofchoir, this is some­thing a little more relaxed and it benefit's both the Chapel Schola member and the Notre Dame student." 
Dr. Gail Walton, director of the Liturgical Choir, also sees the benefits ofthis new group. "The entire concept was organized by the students so !really don't have much to do with it,but ... I give them a lot of credit for doing [ these perfor­mances] at the end of a long day. They have a lot of energy and a Jot of love for 
music."  0  
-------­ 
\  

,__ 
CJ)· 
ii:
:c: 
()' 
;z: 
i 
(IJ 
I 

GATHER US IN. Jeremy Heilma.n is a member of Chapel Schola. 
were so efficient and so 

The group sent letters to every/dorm explaining that they would 
talented. I was definitely 

assist in one Sunday dorm Ma~s if the dorm's choir wished. 
I 


T p T H E 0 p p 0 P P E R @ N D E D U 





c_,;ornPus 

~·.·tlte... ~ 
lf?a\c\" 

"Sports make you grunt and smell. Stay in school, use your brains. Be a thinker, not a stinker." -Apollo in Rocky "The juggernaut of'Christmas will not be stopped." -Marni Jackson 
0ood day, Gipp fans. The end of the semester is approaching, the Christ­mas lights are twinkling, and the holidays are on their way. Yes, no 111atter how cranky you feel for the next few weeks of intense paper-writing and studying, the holidays are coming soon. There is a light at the end of the tunnel, or at the very least, giddy old Aunt Imelda is at the end of the tunnel, ready to pinch your cheeks, tell you how much you've grown and present you with a year's supply of Notre Dame socks The Gipp' s dad is right. Don't get mad at the football players because they didn't have a great season; get mad at them for other rea­sons. 
Hit af\d Ruf\ Hooligaf\ 

A certain sophomore football player was riding his bike around campus when (whoops!) he rode right into a young woman, knocking her flat on her back. Onlookers say that this member of our fine and honor­able football program not only proceeded to ride away without checking the girl's condi­tion, but laughed as he abandoned the scene of the crime. 
A football player, perched on a bicycle, knocked a girl to the ground and rode away laughing. Now the re's a reason to lose hope in the tradition of Notre Dame football. 
Triple-XE-mail Actiof\ 

Being that most college-age males like porn and aren't ashamed to share it, the Gipp figures that it won't be a surprise to anybody that the football players send porn to each other via e-mail. A tipper verified that he received a forwarded e-mail, con­taining links to porn sites, that had been sent to several members of the football team. 
Many young men on this campus, the Gipp not necessarily included, will argue that they need porn because the girls on campus are too pure and pious to satisfy their biological needs. But perhaps the boys aren't the only ones on this campus who are sickofpiousness and using alternative meth­ods to satisfy their needs. Let us now take a trip to Lewis Hall, all ye youths of sexual repression ... 

Lewis Hall's Dirtu Lauf\dr!J 

A tipper was doing her laundry in the basement of Lewis when she realized she had run out of soap. Instead ofhiking all the way back to her room, she decided to take a scoop from somebody who had left a box of detergent in her laundry basket. 
We!I, surprise, surprise, the tipper found not only a stain stick and the laundry soap in the box, but also an object the Gipp will refer to simply as a personal pleasure de­vice, decorated in leopard print. Enough said. 
And so, Gipp fans, the moral to this story is: 
1. 
Don't hide special things in your laundry basket. 

2. 
Beware of football players on bicycles. 

3. 
Be extra good because Santa and the Gipp are always watching. 


from the Home Shopping Network's col­
lege merchandise special. Notre Dame's former presidents react 
There. Now that we're all in a 

good mood, let's talk foot­
to the football season with 
ball. The Gipp's dad al­.1~n . e, 
quotes from their favorite
I/since Olaf the 
ways says that you can't 
· t1ieyikings;acc
get disappointed in the movies 
,000 battle helme
football players when 
hon1s mi the inside." ·· 
they lose. They're do­
BlackadderGoesF011h
ing the best they can. 
Campus Watch Scholastic 13 


As the beginning ofanother semester approaches, students weigh options for buying and selling textbooks 




More than 15 months ago, be­fore the old bookstore had been demolished and relocated, uni­versity Provost Nathan Hatch formed a committee to address student and faculty needs in re­lation to the bookstore, which, it 
had been decided, would come under management of the Follett Group. According to coordinator Mary Pugel, executive assistant to the Provost, this committee represented "an ongoing process of assessment between depart­ment chairs and the bookstore." 
Comprised of representatives of various departments, this com­mittee is currently in transition from a planning committee to one focused on providing feedback. "When the university contracted with Follett, we maae a clear commitment that we would serve first and foremost the academic needs of students and faculty," says Pugel. Having worked with bookstore representatives before the new bookstore officially opened, the committee is now working to ensure that faculty "hopes and expectations from an academic made with the intent of distressing students. 
"[Professors] have to follow the curriculum and have some consultation with your department, but choosing books is up to your discretion," says electrical engineering Professor Wolfgang Porod. "You have a fair amount of freedom." 
Selecting books is a time-consuming and seriously thought-out process. Most professors try to keep abreast of new developments in their fields and of books being published. They are sometimes helped by publishing house representatives who visit campus to talk about and provide samples of books that have not yet been released. Professors then read through the new books before decid­ing whether to order them for classes. "You pick what you think might be most helpful in terms ofsubstance, presentation, examples and homework problems," Porod explains. "Ofcourse you're never completely happy-there's always something-but you come up with the best compromise possible." 
Cost is not a significant factor for professors in choosing books, says Porod, except when considering books for graduate students. Graduate student books are even more expensive than undergradu­ate books because they are more likely to be professional or trade manuscripts. 
After selecting the books for their classes and meeting with 
CW"e're committed to making it as great a bookstore as we possibly can. -Mary Pugel, executive assistant to the Provost 
perspective" continue to be met. 
"We're committed to making it as great a bookstore as we possibly can," says Pugel, noting that the nature of an academic bookstore differs significantly from mass-market stores, and as such must be approached from a different perspective. "We want students to use it as a resource," she says. 
The university clearly wants to make the bookstore a facility that· students can use and be happy with, but the reality does not always seem to match the hope. Students remain confused about how books are chosen each year, how the bookstore sets its prices, and what other choices they have if they are dissatisfied with the bookstore -in spite of the university's best efforts. 

6Jhe cfacuft1 cfactor 
When sophomore Emily Rinaker came to the book­store last May to sell back her general chemistry text­book, she was told that a new edition would be in use the following year and her book could not be bought back. "I 
was really upset," Rinaker says, "especially when I saw the exact same edition sitting on the shelves this fall." 
Rinaker is not alone. Every year, students haul a stack of books to the resale counter and wait patiently as the books are scanned to determine the buyback price. Every year students are disappointed and frustrated when it turns out their particular book is not being bought back. The bookstore cannot be blamed for this, though. Textbook selection is the purview ofeach professor and department on campus, and contrary to popular opinion, selections are not depmtmental approval, professors provide the relevant information to the bookstore-ISBN, edition number and number ofcopies ­which proceeds to place the order for students for the coming semester. 
The Follett Higher Education Group assumed management ofthe Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore when the bookstore was moved last year from South Quad to its new home in the Eck Center. The goal of the company, according to book­

store director Jaines O'Connor, is to make the bookstore "user­ii I friendly." With professional and mass-market books, a cafe, book i signings, school apparel and merchandise, small couches to sit on, discussion groups and, of course, the baby grand piano, the book­store seems to have succeeded in creating a comfortable atmo­sphere for students, teachers and alumni. O'Connor stresses that !I 
!
students are the primary focus of the bookstore. "We don't stay open until 10 o'clock every evening for alumni," he points out. "We do it so that students will feel they can come in at their conve­nience." 
Students' main concern with the bookstore, though, is not the atmosphere or the accessibility, but rather textbook prices, which are undeniably high. Freshman Marty Lopez, who works at Bor­ders, feels completely dissatisfied with the Hammes in this regard: "Borders beats the hell out ofour bookstore, in terms ofservice and especially prices," he says. To take another example, ifyou head to Media Play on Grape Road looking to take care ofyour reading list for Core, you will automatically receive at least a 10 percent discount on all paperbacks and hardbacks. Several other bookstores 
Cover Story Scholastic 15 


~ 
z 
w 
en 
Hammes bookstore offers no discounts (ex­cept for used books) on paper or hardbacks; the price of new books is invariably the price listed on the book. In some cases, the price charged by the bookstore is even greater than suggested: one book assigned for 
Core classes, 21st Century Capitalism, 

i/t,~0?:.~,,,~:~;:f}.'.;);?i tomers. Through the Notre wassoldnotforthesuggested$11.00, but G©YERNtv\BNT ,-:-,,.,~'\\.•;,;,<{!'.'{(*1 Dame section ofefollett.com' s rather for $14.70. It can be bought for 
The~C;m~u~ist Manifesto -website (also accessible $8.25 at varsitybooks.com. The differ­
Hammes $l 3 OO ·through the Notre Dame 
ences, as every student knows, add up. • homepage), students can order Why no discounts from the bookstore? varsitybooks.com $9.75 their textbooks by selecting 
"We base all our prices offofinvoices," Amazon .com $9. 10 their classes. Ifa used book is explains O'Connor. "We stick to indus­available, it is noted before try guidelines, which are often surpris­the new books. Then, book­
ingly low." AccordingtoO'Connor,most retail bookstores normally do sell paper and hardback books at the suggested list prices, and that the Hammes is no different. "I want to get you what's fair," he says. 
Nevertheless, more students are tak­adding that the bookstore often searches through wholesale companies in the summer in search of used books. "We put a lot of energy into trying to get them," O'Connor says. "We're being much more aggressive about it." He says this is a change from the policy of the old bookstore, when students did not receive as good of prices on returns. 

"We weren't doing a good job buying back five years ago," acknowledges textbook manager Bob Thomson. "But now the amount paid to students has increased significantly." The goal, he says, is to buy back as many books at 50 percent ofthe new­book price as possible. 
This goal doesn't appear to be reached often: the current return price on the afore-mentioned Capitalism is one dollar, less than 10 percent of the list price, not to mention the bookstore's price. The current return price for a $55 organic chemistry solutions manual is $10. These examples are two of many that indicate a 50 percent buyback price is not the norm. 
O'Connor suggests that the discrepancy is due to the fact that neither of these books is in demand for the coming semester, hence the lower prices. "Ifa book won't be used until the following fall semester, the buyback price will be higher in May than in December," O'Connor says. Used books are then typically resold at 25 percent off the original price. . 
In any event, O'Connor still believes students are best served by the Hammes in terms ofbuybacks. "You have to take into consideration that it's not easy to return books online," he says, noting that shipping costs and packaging have to be 
handled by students usingC-~;:>·---..';8·--. Internet bookstores. "We (;~~]'j~ /}z:TRr~.
--~ provide a greater ease of re-

Ch.Id H I :J: • ~J.(EY~.1 ,,
Th ere Are No 1 ren ere . ;"ME Ni. ··•· 1 . turn. 
Hammes $14.95 /:GJ.:i+.nif.. ;p~.:.··]. The Hammes is ~l~o try-
bn.com $11 96 {,:}/ }ijfjrii-,,[ ;,,/ m~ t~ stay _competitive by
• :J! ,,,'Jo-1•JJ."-1J') f!;} usmg its onlme counterpart, 
varsitybooks.com $11 25 ,...,.,...,!P••. •,.,.. ,.J,,/ .i:
• /' i,~tr-<••••:"1',-.0 e1011ett.com, to attract cus-
CHEMIG~Q:gt5!QltNEERING 
Elementary Principles of Chemical Processes 
Hammes $86.70 ecampus.com $82.22 

ing their business elsewhere -to 
600 students took advan­online stores, to used book stores, to ,..:::li"\R.r10.A.)tj1C $ tage of this method of ordering
Ec
l:.~~~Jj~-lYtj

mass-market bookstores and directly before arriving at school this fall, 
Economics

to other students. As a result, the thus bettering their chances to find Hammes is trying to stay competitive Hammes $90.00 used books before anyone else. with outside booksellers through sev­\ varsitybooks.com $83.30 In the end, says O'Connor, the 
eral means, primarily book buybacks. Hammes is aware that it must com­"We're focusing on our program of pete with outside sellers for students' patronage. "Our job is to keep used-book acquisition," says O'Connor, the University of Notre Dame happy with the service we offer," 
16 Scholastic Cover Story 
store employees will collect the books for the student and have them ready to be picked up whenever the student arrives at the store. O'Connor says that about 


O'Connor says. "And.as a business, we have to do our best to make sure we don't give you a reason to go online." 
Q11fi11e Options 

Going to the Internet, however, still looks to be the best option in many cases. In the last two years, e-bookstores have sprung up faster than Irish men's basketball fans this season. From estab­lished, well-known booksellers 
like Amazon.com to textbook­specialty sites like varsitybooks.com, there are competitive busi­nesses ready to buy and sell students' textbooks at competitive rates. 
savings could go toward football tickets or late-night pizza. 
Another factor to consider in buying online is the time required to ship orders. Every store will ship immediately upon collecting the books, in which case books can be received within days, although sometimes they require time up front to locate the books in the warehouse or back-order those out of stock. If students need a textbook on the second day ofclass, the best option is probably the Hammes, but if they know they won't be using a book for a while, it might be as well to buy online and save some money. 
Porod decided to order from Amazon.com this fall because the book on semi-conductors he intended to assign his engineering class had been published only recently. He took the unique ap­proach of not ordering the book from the Hammes at all, instead buying enough copies of the book for the entire class himself. Students reimbursed him once the books had been shipped. "I order 
Some of the online companies, such as bn.com (Barnes 


c}here's no way around it -you'll get a 
&Noble) and amazon.com, are general, mass-market book­sellers, and though they do have textbooks available, these 

better deal with the online bookstores. I 
usually will not be marked down. Other booksellers, how­
ever, specifically target college students by offering book really think that's the wave of the future. 
buybacks, auctions and merchandise. (One notable item is the ecampus.com T-shirt featuring its logo: "Easy. Fast. ­Cheap.") _ 
As an English major, senior Sarah Furibondo has found that many of her books are novels that can be found easily at mass­market online bookstores. She first tried amazon.com when the bookstore had run out of copies of the book she needed. "It was really my best bet," Furibondo says. "It was a lot more convenient." Since then, she has made frequent use of the online company; she feels that the prices ate better and the time required for delivery is negligible. 

Government Professor Sam Best 
online fairly regularly. Since all of my information was already on the website it was pretty fast and painless," Porod says. "Our bookstore doesn't always give us much of a break, and this time it happened that the Internet was the best thing." 
Government Professor Sam Best is among other teachers who are encouraging students to take their business to the Internet. This semester he told his classes to try online bookstores before looking on campus; he even held back on ordering his class textbooks for the 
Online bookstores are not panaceas to students' bookstore woes, . bookstore until a few weeks into the year. "There's no way around of course. First, it of­ten takes some research THE FINE PRINT. Ordering on line tends to be convenient, but beware of added shipping and handling fees. 
to determine where the · ff ·. ·" ~ . ·. ? ..... •
p 


~:·1~"}1

bestdealistobefound, :4, as different stores will •·;_ offer different dis-
-.:. --~: ,. --·­counts and students have to becareful about hidden costs-such as shipping. Some stores charge a flat fee plus a certain amount for ev~ 



Cover Story Scholastic 17 


it -you'll get a better deal with the online bookstores," Best explains. "I really think that's the wave of the future." 
Sophomore Derek Vollmer, a student in Best's American gov­ernment class, ordered his books through Amazon.com this se­mester. "I wouldn't have even considered it ifhe hadn't suggested it," Vollmer says. As he knew he wouldn't need several of the books until later in the semester, he decided it was worth a try. His experience was positive: ''I'm probably going to order online more in the future," he says. Many students agree; the number of students ordering from Internet stores appears to be growing regularly each semester. 
In keeping with basic economic theory, Best believes that if people change their buying habits and take their business else­where, prices will come down at the bookstore. "The only way things will change is if there's competition for the bookstore," he says. 



No matter whether they choose to buy from an upperclassman, a used-bookstore, an Internet company, or the Hammes itself, there's no getting around the fact that students are going to have to fork over a fair amount of cash to buy their books each semester. However, it's im­portant to realize that options do exist -stu­
dents can no longer claim that the bookstore has a monopoly on their purchasing options for textbooks. As O'Connor points out, "You [the students] are the consumer. You have a choice." If students are willing to spend a little extra time searching out the best prices, they will not only encourage the bookstore to continue working to provide better service, but they will end up saving themselves money and grief. That's a good deal for everyone. 0 

Amazon.com -The granddaddy of the online bookstores, this one has pretty much everything. what's neat: Need a circular saw in addition to your English books? The home-improvements section of the site will sell you one. what's not: The shipping prices here are a bit steep, so make sure you know what you're getting. orgo book/111anual: $105.67, $55 
bu.com -The easy-to-navigate homepage substitutes for the coffeeshop at the local Barnes & Noble. what's neat: The selection of e-cards and posters (from novel covers to the Ministry of Silly Walks). what's not: Again, you're going to pay a fair amount in shipping prices. orgo book/111anual: $108.75, $54.75 
campusmonster.com -Allowing students to auction and bid on books and tickets, this site is a middleman for those looking to get a good deal. what's neat: Ifyou have tickets to sell, this is a good alternative to the Observer. what's not: Ifno one's offering, you can'tbuy. 
ecampus.com -The self-proclaimed "globe's largest college bookseller" is designed for students .. what's neat: The shopping.cart in the corner of the screen that shows how much you \·e spending and what you' re saving off the list price. The free shipping is a big plus. what's not: If you have a problem and call customer service, be prepared to wait. orgo book/manual: $ I 09, $43.33 
efollett.com -From the company that runs the Hammes, an online guide to course requirements. what's neat: Pick your school and classes, select from the booklists found, and pick them up at the bookstore. what's not: This won't give you any discounts you won't find by walking to the bookstore anyway. orgo book/manual: $I09, $55 
varsitybooks.com -One ofthe original online textbook stores, this site is geared for students. what's neat: The flat shipping rate. The comprehensive search engine on the home page. what's not: Currently being sued by several colleges for false advertising. orgo book/111anual: $95.67, $43.33 · 
18 Scholastic Cover Story 


---··---·•-···-·-·-·-···-···-··--···~---····-···•·--·•-··•·-···---···-····-············---··-········­
r-­


>-­

basketball players in America. She played two summers with i the USA women's basketball team. She was also a member of the silver medalist 1999 Women's World University Games team. '.,. i Her honors include winning the 1999 Big East defensive player of ,.,;,.r,,~,1\\,. I the year award and being named to the District I Kodak All­
.iJ)\f·F?.\-~\'V~l'~.+-America team. 
,,~,:,• "L My most memorable Notre Dame moment off the court was: 
l,1• , meeting Wayne Gretzky after the USC pep rally 
r~•.. I

·:Ji" i My greatest team moment at Notre Dame was: beating Texas i Tech as a freshman to advance to the Sweet 16 -C My greatest individual moment was: when we played Duke last 
!

+~;favorite place to play, other than at Notre Dame, is: at 
I 

Rutgers My favorite athlete growing up was: Michael Jordan I first took up basketball when I was: in fourth grade My favorite basketball movie is: Hoosiers If I could play another sport at Notre Dame, it would be: hockey My favorite shot to take is: a three-pointer The best class I've taken at Notre Dame is: Philosophy of Religion with Professor Bobik 
8 
C :IJ 
-i 
m 
en 
-< 0
.,, 
en 
-0 0 
:'.] 
en 
z
.,, 
0 
:IJ 
;;::
::; 
6 
z 

l as one of the best collegiate 
In the national championship game, red-shirt freshman 
Michael Vick leads Virginia Tech over 27-year-old junior 
Chris Weinke's Florida State Seminoles 31-24, ending Bobby 
Bowden' s hopes ofclaiming his first undefeated season as head 
coach. (Chwi5 ~(O]mj~fij~ In its last two games, the Irish women's soccer team has mixed timely scoring with fortunate breaks to defeat two highly-re­garded schools. The luck of the Irish runs out Friday, as Santa Clara ends Notre Dame's run in the NCAA Tournament, win­
ning 3-l. G@W(O]Wd M®s~d~~ 
As the Irish watch from home, 1: 'I Florida State defeats Virginia Tech for Bobby Bowden's second Na­tional Championship in a decade. Peter Wanick steals the Sugar Bowl MVP trophy away from Michael Vick. Br~[)llfl1 (Chwisii 
---·-~---·----.~-----·---·---~-------~-------·-------·--7 
Sports Scholastic 19 



It has been a long time since the students at Notre Dame have been able to call themselves national champions. However, the recent accomplish­ments of the cross-country team at the NCAA Championships bring to 
, mind a different era, when Notre Dame could proudly call herself the 1957 :;>--NCAA cross-country champion. 
I In late November of that year the Irish harriers defeated an outstanding field at the NCAA championship meet, held on the Michigan State campus. In defeating second-place Michigan State, 121-127, the Irish avenged their only two losses of the year with the low score at the meet. 
The win also highlighted the importance of team depth in 
Michigan Staie 127 

cross-country racing. Although 
the best Irish finisher was Ed Notre Dame 121 
Monnelly in 19th place, all five Notre Dame runners finished 45th orbetter. This exceptional depth enabled the Irish to defeat a Spartan team that placed three runners ahead of Monnelly. 
The Irish cross-country squad entered the year with high expectations. Though it would take time for the team to gel, the hai.riers opened with a convincing win at Mai.·quette, 19-36. As part of a continuing trend, senior Monnelly paced the Irish by finishing at the head of the field, running four miles in 20 minutes, 48 seconds. Other top finishers for the Iiish were fellow seniors Vic Dillon, John Bums and junior Mike Haverty. 
The next test for the team was a dual meet with the Indiana Hoosiers. It was a close finish, but the Irish outdistanced the Hoosiers 25-30. Once again, Monnelly paced the Irish with a time of20:21. Coach Alex Wilson believed the team's victory was "imp011ant and encouraging," as Indiana 
: was one of the best teams in the Big Ten and nationally rated. . J The hig~-flying Irish trucked into Micll!gan State undefeated and on a .G) roll. The Irish had more than a meet to wm that day: they had to avenge 
history. The previous year, the Spartans had defeated the Irish on the way to their second consecutive national championship. In that meet, Notre Dame's best finisher, Monnelly, could only muster a fomth-place finish. Michigan State's brother combo ofCrawford and Henry Kennedy captured the first two places. As a result, Michigan State dealt Notre Dame her first defeat of the season. The loss was a setback, but Wilson believed the Irish would "show up better against the Spartans in the bigger meets later in the year." 
The loss to the Spartans was disappointing, but the hai.riers refocused their attention on the coming Indiana state championships. In essence, the championships were a rematch of the previous meet with Indiana, as the only other large school, Purdue, had dropped its program. The Irish were confident going into the match-up. 
"Webeat Indiana once this year and should be able to do it again." Wilson said. "But the Hoosiers are a fine team, and we will have to come up with an excellent performance to win it." 
In the end, it was not even close, as the Irish whipped the Hoosiers 27­
41. The harriers took six out of the top 11 spots. "It was the best the team has looked all year," Wilson said. He would later comment that the'57 team was possibly the best team he had ever coached. 
In the IC4A meet in New York, the team once again placed second to the Spartans. The Irish still believed, however, that they had a competitive chance for the NCAA championship. This undaunted outlook proved to be 
l 

._ .•• .. Q--just what was needed to put the Irish over the top. "All the boys ran well," 
· I Wilson said. "Ofcourse you have to run well to win the nationals." He also thought the slow first mik ofthe race was best suited to a team with lots of depth, as each member could remain with the pack throughout the race. 
From early successes against Indiana to a final win against the Spartans, the Irish progressed as a team throughoutthe year. Wilson summed it up by saying, "Considering that Michigan State was the only team to beat us all year, our season was the best we could have expected." -Jim Qualters 
20 Scholastic Sports 







A Champion's Fight 
In its seventh consecutive year in the NCAA tournament, the women~ soccer team has battled its way to the final four 
BY GERARD MESKILLWhen people think "Notre Dame football," they think "domi­nance," as they should. How­ever, it is the European brand offootball that has been dominant lately, and not the kind that made the university famous. This year, the Notre Dame women's soccer team is competing in its seventh consecutive NCAA tournament. From 1994 to 1996, the Irish made three straight appearances in the cham­pionship game and won the national title in 1995. For the sixth straight year, Notre Dame has advanced to the NCAA quarterfinals. _ After posting a 15-3 regular-season record, the Irish began their postseason against Miami in the Big East quarterfinals. The Hurricanes proved little challenge for Notre Dame, haplessly falling 5-0. In a similar debacle, the Irish advanced to the Big East final after posting a 5-0 shutout against Seton Hall. In the game against Connecticut, Notre Dame entered the locker room with a 2-0 
THE GOAL IS NOT ENOUGH. With two more victories, Jenny Streiffer and the Irish will win 
their first NCAA championship since 1995. 
advantage, staked by senior Jenny Streiffer and a Connecticut self-score. However, Con­necticut rebounded, scoring just 3:22 into the second half. Senior Jenny Heft and Freshman Allison Lovelace put the game out of reach with second-half goals. The Huskies netted a useless late goal before falling 4-2. 
With the win, Notre Dame clinched her fifth consecutive Big East title and im­proved to 12-0-0 in the Big East Champion­ship. In addition, several Irish athletes re­ceived Big East honors. Streiff er was named the Big East championship's most outstand­ing player, while senior Jen Grubb was named the Big East defensive player of the year. In addition to these two women, senior forward Jenny Heft and junior midfielder Anne Makinen were named to the All-Big East first team. In his first year with Notre Dame, Head Coach Randy Waldrum was voted Big East Coach of the Year. 
The decorated Notre Dame team en­tered the NCAA tournament as the fifth seed, earning a first-~ound bye. Dayton, Notre Dame's second-round opponent, 
fared no better than her earlier oppo­
nents, falling 5-1. 
However, Dayton's departure marked 
the end of easy games for Notre Dame. 


Pacific-IO champion and eighth-seeded Stanford awaited the Irish in the third round. The two teams battled through a scoreless first-half. 
The tie was broken in the 81 st minute when reserve sophomore midfielder Mia Sarkesian smashed a loose ball just out­side the left corner of the box into the upper right corner ·of the net. 

"It was off a free kick and the ball ~ rebounded out to me," recalls Sarkesian. ~ "I just took a touch and saw a hole in the 8 right side of the goal. I hit it and fortu­~ nately it werit in." ~ Stanford had a chance to even the ~ score with 1:18 remaining. Cardinal ~ Ronnie Fair's penalty kick clanked both ~ posts before the Irish cleared the ball 
en 
z out of the zone.
,, 
"Maybe it was luck of the Irish" says! Stanford Head Coach Steve Sw~nson. ~ "[The kick] was one of those things that happens. It was maybe a millimeter off. What can you do?" 
With the miss, Stanford's season ended and the Irish were off to Lincoln, Neb., to face the fourth-seeded Cornhuskers in the quarterfinal. 
The Irish staked an early lead when Sarkesian set up Streiffer with a cross-field pass. Streiffer dribbled within eight yards of the goal before blasting her shot off the left goal post and into the left corner of the net. The goal came just I :30 into the first half. 
Nebraska responded in the 18th minute when Kelly Rheem tapped in a two-yard goal after Jenny Benson served the ball over two Irish defenders. 
All scoring ceased from that point. The Irish and the Cornhuskers battled through a scoreless second half and four overtimes without determining a winner. The game came down to a shootout. 
Notre Dame took the early advantage, climbing to a 2-0 lead with goals from Streiffer and Heft. But Nebraska rallied to even the shootout at 2-2. After Husker goal­keeper Karina LeBlanc saved Monica Gonzalez's shot, Nebraska could have en­sured the victory by converting the next two attempts. 
But Sharolta Nonen's shot sailed well over the Irish net. Grubb netted the third Irish goal and put Nebraska on the brink of elimination. Benson saved the Huskers by knotting the shootout at 3-3. 
The kickoff reached sudden death. Kelly Lindsey blasted the first extra kick into the lower right corner to give the Irish a 4-3 advantage. The pressure now rested with Irish senior goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene. 
"I saw my team jumping up and down and I thought, 'Man, I got to sav~ this,"' says BeeneaboutNebraska'sfinal kick. "Idid11;t want to let them down." 
Beene blocked the shot, sending Notre Dame to its fifth NCAA semifinal in the last six years. The Irish face Santa Clara in San Jose on Friday, December 3. 
_In the yearofNotre Dame football's worst season since 1963, one football team is still dominating, even if the sport is not known by the name "football" in this country. D 
Sports Scholastic 21 

I! 
! ! 
tional title to Florida State's Bobby Bowden In response, the disgruntled pack ofIrish BY CHRISTOPHER HAMILTON 
in 1993, see the Irish sink to mediocrity followers around the nation have banded
Heading into this season, Irish sup­during the Ron Powlus era, and then Bob together to offer their latest quick-fix solu­porters once again openly fancied Davie's unsuccessful attempts at rebuilding tion to a program that appears to be headed thoughts of a national title, even as a noticeably struggling program. Throw in toward an unalterable state of decline: fire 
Head Coach Bob Davie continually re­what seems to be an annual summer scan­Davie. 
minded anyone who would listen that the dal, no bowl wins in six years and a ridicu­After all, Bob Davie has posted a very 
Irish were "still a year away" from compet­lously drawn-out, full-blown NCAA inves­ordinary 21-16 record during his three years 
ing with the big boys of college football. tigation, which likely will result in the first as head coach and is 4-10 against ranked 
And though most Irish fans readily would major infraction penalty in school history. opponents during his tenure. Against the 
have admitted to putting too much stock To add even more fuel to the fire, this year "staple" teams on the Irish schedule (Michi­
into national championship numerology Notre Dame sustained the second 0-4 No­gan, Purdue, Michigan State and USC), 
before the season, never did they anticipate vember in school history. That's not exactly Davie is a combined 3-9. He is also the first 
the 5-7 disaster that unfolded this season, the way Irish faithful would have hoped to head coach in school history to lose as many 
which marked the first time since 1963 that close out "A Century of Greatness." as six games in two ofhis first three seasons. 
the Irish lost as many 
as seven games in ;;:: 
;i;

one season. m Not surprisingly, 0 ;;:: 
z alumni, students, )> 
:JJ 

fans and subway al­-< ums alike have vented their growing frustration at yet an­other lackluster edi­
I 
tion of Notre Dame football, something that has been all too common in the latter portion of this de­cade. And let's face it, Irish followers have every reason to 

i
be upset. By no stretch of the imagi­nation has it been easy to be a Notre Dame fan thepastde­cade. 

In the '90s, Irish fans have had to watch theirteamlose out in a popularity {p ·.· ., .~fJ •.·... . , ..',,,. D_efensive coordi~ator Greg Mattison must !ake some of the blame f~r the 
tf'fJ!A fi1\'[J (f2! .,.,. 
dismal season: his defense allowed 331 pomts,.more than any team m Notre
contest for the na­

~ &;) ·,, Dame history. . . 
22 Scholastic Sports 


Obviously, these are not the types of num­bers the winningest college football pro­gram of all time is accustomed to or wishes to be associated with. 
And Davie will be the first to acknowl­edge that he is the point man for a season that went terribly wrong this year. 
"Someone's responsible," Davie com­mented before the season finale against Stanford. "That's the bottom line. And that's the head coach. That's how it is and how it will always be." 
Yet, as neat and easy as it is to place the blame for this season's misfortunes solely on Davie's shoulders, it is not entirely jus­tified. The rest of the coaching staff, not to mention the players, the schedule and plain old bad luck are all partly responsible for this disastrous season. 
Greg Mattison, the affable, hardworking defensive coordinator and recruiting guru, seems the unlikeliest of all people to be deserving ofblame for this season's misfor­tunes. However, it is hard to ignore the counted for only 17 total sacks. As a com­parison, Stanford, owner of statistically the worst defense in college football, compiled 45 sacks, and the Cardinal played in one less game. Yet another glaring statistic is that Notre Dame allowed its opposition to con­vert on third downs 44 percent of the time, which is way too high for a squad that annually expects to be playing in a New Year's Day bowl game. 
A dominant defense is almost required in order to become an upper-echelon team; this is evidenced by the fact that no team in the defensively-challenged WAC or PAC­10 currently is ranked in the top 20. Notre Dame may not be expected to manufacture a defense as intimidating as Florida State or Virginia Tech, but the Irish certainly have the personnel to field a strong, quality unit. 
Again, just as Davie is not completely responsible for the events that unfolded this season, Mattison is not entirely responsible for the defense's shortcomings. However, like Davie, Mattison must assume some of of the time when in the red zone, as com­pared to scoring 91.1 percent ofthe time last season. Notre Dame scored a touchdown 58 percent ofthe time when in the red zone this year, as compared to 71 percent of the time last year. 
Notre Dame's new offense also displayed itself to be rather high-risk, contributing significantly to the team's 27 turnovers this season, which were more than double the amount of last year. 
But perhaps the biggest complaint about this year's offense was its lack of identity. Notre Dame earned the recognition ofbeing a balanced team, but the coaching staff never felt completely comfortable with ei­ther the passing or ground game. This over­all lack of confidence, especially in the running game, cost the Irish in numerous "key down" situations throughout the sea­son. Notre Dame shied away from the run, its traditional bread-and-butter, like no other Notre Dame outfit in recent years. It can be argued that Notre Dame's "horrific" run­
"Someone's responsible. That's the bottom line. And that's the head coach. That's how it ig~an!h~!: it alwa~t_'f11 tf·" 
[ ·]@vf;J!JfjJ/v l!/J) ~"101~ 
statistics of the defense he oversees. The Irish defense, led by seven seniors who started for a majority of the season, was thought by many analysts to be an improve­ment over the '98 troops. But this was far from the case as the Irish defense went on to yield more points this year (331) than any team in Notre Dame history, for a 27.6 average per game. Even worse, Notre Dame deteriorated as the season progressed. In the last four games, the Irish yielded 146 points, an average of 36.5 points per game. 
This season the Irish also allowed a whop­ping average of 383.7 total yards per contest, 
241.5 of which came in the air. As a compari­son, in Davie's final season as Irish defensive coordinator in 1996, the Irish allowed 270 total yards per game, including 150 passing yards. And back then many considered Notre Dame's defense to be merely average. 
This season Notre Dame held only Kan­sas and Arizona State to less than 20 points. Even more disappointing was the defensive line's inability to consistently put pressure on the quarterback. Many outsiders and Notre Dame coaches expected the defen­sive front to anchor the defense, yet, head­ing into the Stanford game, they had ac­
"· 

the blame, though not as much as the head coach. 
Offensively, Notre Dame increased its scoring average to 29 points per game under new offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers this season, up from 27.3 last year. Though it may sound as though Notre Dame's of­fense improved over the Jim Colletta-led version last year, a strong case can be made suggesting quite the opposite. 
Rogers received a great deal of fanfare when he joined the Irish staff earlier this year, replacing the much-maligned Colletta, who bolted for the NFL. Rogers came to the Irish from Syracuse, where he molded quar­terback Donovan McNabb into a first-round NFL draft pick in four years. The new offen­sive coordinator was expected to re-create the same high-powered, multidimensional attack for the Irish as he did with the Orangemen. 
After one season, Rogers' new offensive scheme displayed the potential to be explo­sive at times, yet ultimately the Irish offense was much more inconsistent and inefficient than it was a yearago. Notre Dame was least efficient within the opponent's 20-yard line -the opponent's "red zone." This season Notre Dame scored a meager 66.6 percent ning game this year was not a result of the play of the inexperienced offensive line or the performance of the running backs (both Tony Fisher and Julius Jones averaged five yards per carry), but was due to the lack of opportunities granted to and the little amount ofconfidence instilled in the ground attack. 
Instead ofconcentrating on establishing a running game, Rogers' offense often re­sorted to misdirections and trick plays, in some games resembling a three-ring circus more than a football team. Irish fans also have expressed concern for yet again failing to incorporate tight end Jabari Holloway, one of the premier players in the country at his position, into the offense this season. 
To Rogers' credit, he did inherit an inex­perienced offensive line and tailbacks with no or relatively little experience. He also spent this past season laying the ground­work for his highly complicated offensive scheme, which NFL rookie quarterback Donovan McNabb, who was coached by Rogers at Syracuse, says is more complex th~n Philadelphia Eagles' offense. In future years the team may very well come to em­brace Rogers' offensive scheme, and the Irish may eventually be better for it. 
Sports Scholastic 23 

. . ' --~--~-­
~ ---~~ -• ~ ' ·-­
But given Notre Dame's inconsistencies and inefficiencies on offense this past sea­son, whether or not they are due to the growing pains of implementation of a new system, Rogers must also accept some of the blame for this season. 


Yet some of the guilt also belongs to the players. There is no question that Irish play­ers worked extremely hard before and throughout the season. Their intense desire to make this season a success is evidenced by the fact that the team unanimously voted to schedule the Kansas game, thus forcing themselves to give up their summer vaca­tion. 
But after the heart-breaking losses to Michigan and Purdue it was evident to coaches and fans that the Irish failed to play with a consistent level ofpassion and enthu­siasm for the remainder of the season. The Irish did indeed show occasional sparks of enthusiasm in the come-from-behind wins over Oklahoma and USC. However, there were games, such as Navy and Pittsburgh, where the Irish seemingly played without any passion at all. 
"Did we play hard enough?" asked Davie rhetorically after the disappointing loss to Pittsburgh. "Probably, though not as pas­sionate as we had to play in that environ­ment to win. That bothers me." 

Overall, this season it is safe to say that the leprechaun consistently displayed the most emotion and enthusiasm than anyone on the field. 
The Notre Dame players may have some legitimate reasons for not al ways being able to display enthusiasm. After all, who can · honestly say they are excited to play Navy? But the fact still remains that college foot­ball is a game greatly affected by momen­tum and emotion. How else can you explain Notre Dame's loss to Pittsburgh? And few Irish fans will argue that Notre Dame played some its best football during the times when the players were displaying emotion. 
Therefore, the players must also be held accountable for this season's misfortunes. 
As much as fans hate to hear it, this year's schedule played a substantial role in the demise of the Irish. The NCAA has ranked this past season's slate as the fourth tough­est in the country. This year Notre Dame competed against eight teams that will be playing in bowl games this holiday season; and three of those squads likely will be participating in BCS match-ups -Tennes­see, Michigan and Stanford. 

Bob Davie already has an eye on next season's schedule because, quite possibly, 
24 Scholastic Sports 


it could be tougher than the 1999 slate. Notre Dame's first five opponents next sea­son are Texas A&M, Nebraska, Purdue, Michigan State and Stanford. That line-up would send chills down the spine of even the most confident athletic director. Series with Florida State, Tennessee and Alabama are all looming in the next decade, so it doesn't look like things will be getting easier anytime soon. 
As the imposing schedule is also partly to blame, so are all the bad breaks, unlucky bounces, and the horrendous Big 10 offici­ating. It seems as though the'Irish received more than their fair share ofluck in '98, and a severe lack of it in '99. 
Overall, it is important to remember that Bob Davie is not the lone man responsible for what occurred this season. Everyone must assume their fair share of the blame, even though it remains true that Davie is ultimately responsible for the program's performance. Whether Davie should be fired after three years as head coach is not the point ofthis article, and it is a moot point nonetheless as just this past week athletic director Michael Wads worth issued his sup­port for Davie and ensured that the head coach will return next year. 
What is certain is that Bob Davie has done an exceptional job by surrounding himself with some of the finest coaches and players in the country, all ofwhom would like to put the 1999 season behind them as soon as possible: And it is also certain that each of their performances will go a long way in determining ·Davie's status as head coach of the Irish in future years. · . 

. SILVrn SCREEN­
Let's Co to the Mollies 
An early look at the films to check out this winter break 
E
very Christmas break is the same for me. After finals week, all I want to do is sleep. And after I've slept for a few days, all I want 
to do is go to the movies. But then, when I look at the movie listings, not a single title looks even vaguely familiar, and I realize 
that I've been gone too long. For weeks, I've been lost in my studies and detached from any sort of reality that might give me some 
insight on the upcoming movies. So this year, I'm getting prepared before finals week starts in. I'm researching all the upcoming 
movies and compiling my findings in this clip-n-save guide so that we can all keep copies on our night tables, ready and waiting for 
that moment we wake up with a craving for a dark theater, the buttery scent ofpopcorn and the greatest invention in the recent history 
of cinema: stadium seats. 
The Cradle Will Rock 

This movie takes us back to 1937, when John Houseman and Orson Welles set the stage for a pro-union, anti-big business musical entitled The Cradle Will Rock, and Congress cut off the play' s funds, deeming it Communist propaganda. Harlan Jacobson for USA Today writes, "No film is more timely to spur discussion about the role of government-funded arts." In addition to the intriguing and prevalent political message, this film stars the romantic leads of my two favorite romantic movies -John Cusack (Say Anything) as Nelson Rockefeller and Cary Elwes (The Princess Bride) as John Houseman. 
Cider House Rules 

Christina Kelly of Jane magazine writes, "Yay! It's a moving coming-of-age story that isn't a cookie-cutter nightmare about a bunch of ironic '90s sla.ckers." Based on the novel by John Irving, which takes place during World War II in an orphanage in Maine, this film stars the quirkily charming Tobey Maguire ofPleasantville and the recently released Ride With the Devil. 
Anna and the King 

Jodie Foster plays Anna in this film about the romance between the King of Siam and a widowed British schoolteacher during the 1860s. This lush period piece was shot in Malaysia and features Chow Yun-Fat as the king, in his third English-language film after a successful career of Hong Kong action movies. 
Man on the Moon 

I don't know much about Andy Kaufman, except that he played Latka Gravas on Taxi, declared himself Inter-gender Wrestling Champion of the World and had a catchy R.E.M. song written about him. But I guess that's reason enough to check out this movie, starring Jim Carrey as Kaufman and Courtney Love as his girlfriend. 
Titus 

Invite all your honor student friends from high school to see this adaptation of Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus, featuring Anthony Hopkins, and then discuss it over coffee. It will be just like college. Oh, wait-I've never discussed Shakespeare over coffee at college. Well, maybe it will be just like college for your friends who go to schools that don't have famous football teams. Then you can take this opportunity to see what their social lives are like. 
Angela's Ashes 

Don't reject this movie just because it's based on an Oprah book. Last year I came home from break only to find a copy of the novel of the same title on my bed with a note from my grand­mother saying, "Read this. It's terrible." My aunt Erin thought it was hilarious, but Grandma found it depressing and argued that there's nothing funny about poverty, especially when we're dealing with our Irish ancestors. I'm sure the movie will spark ·much controversy in my family, so I'm definitely going to see it. Also, it stars two of my favorite actors, Robert Carlyle, who played Begbie in Trainspotting, as well as a strip-teasing father in The Full Monty, and Emily Watson, best known for her highly 
acclaimed performance in Breaking the Waves. 
Snow falling on Cedars 
From Scott Hicks, Australian writer/director of the academy­award winning Shine, comes this poetically titled film set on an island in the Pacific Northwest during the 1950s. A pleasantly clean-shaven Ethan Hawke plays a reporter named Ishmael Chambers who is covering a murder trial on the island. This lush literary adaptation is rated PG-13, so you can even go see it with your parents for a little holiday bonding. 
As bad as finals week may seem, remember that there are movies on the horizon. Happy Holidays from OOB. 



by Kara Zuaro 
Entertainment Scholastic 25 



bright lamp, suspended from the high and slanted ceiling, sends a beam oflight 
into Jill Godmilow' s office in the film loft in O' Shaughnessy Hall. It 
illuminates her wobbly desk, cluttered with video tapes, books and knick­
knacks, including a couple of skeleton figurines with necks made of springs. 
Their heads bob as the table quakes be1ieath elbows and ashtrays, and conversation commences. The light shines on the animated faces of the filmmakers and on the cigarette smoke that swirls through the air. Before the interview begins, words are exchanged regarding Berto It Brecht, Clinton's stance on Bulgaria and the human rights of students. The speakers, Godmilow and several members of her production class, seem accustomed to this type of conversation, this intellectual small talk, though such informal discourse between teacher and student might not seem so ordinary under the fluorescent lights in any other room at Notre Dame. 
Godmilow, an award-winning filmmaker herself, makes the same demands for student work as she makes for her own work. "I push students pretty hard to think about how cinema can be used to make it impossible to think of something in the same old way, how it can crack holes in the old thinking space and change the way we see the world," Godmilow explains. She encourages students to work toward the type of cinema that "makes it impossible to be a racist, a homophobe or gung-ho for war." Such films must be fresh, intense and "deliver some intelligence," but as they are student films, they must also be simple. The film department is well-equipped, but it's certainly not Hollywood. Godmilow steers students away from film ideas "that are dependent on stuff we can't deliver," such as crane shots, film crews of more than five to eight people and what Godmilow refers to as "Meryl Streep acting." 
Limited resources pose a challenge to film students, but this year's batch offilms for the Student Film Festival, which will take place at the Snite after break, on January 28, 29 and 30, promises to be as provocative and experimental as any the festival has seen before. Excitement pulses through the smoky air and dialogue flows like watercolors, a note­taker's nightmare of sentences running into each other, as the student filmmakers and Godmilow talk about how the films to be seen at the upcoming festival came into creation. 

with wanting to make a film about Joe Hill, who was a labor· organizer and Diego Ros and Stuart Smith arrive with entertainer." Hill was a songwriter and also shaved heads and smiles, their brown eyes the organizer of the Industrial Workers of brightening as they begin to unfold the story the World. In 1915, he was convicted on of their film. Smith explains, "It started circumstantial evidence and executed for 
26 Scholastic Entertainment 

murder, which made him a martyr and folk 
hero during the radical U.S. labor move­
ment. The idea was to address today's labor 
issues in the tradition of Joe Hill. 

In her original response to the idea, 
Godmilow had said, "You sound like some 
old lefties. How can this make sense to­
day?" The only way she could envision a 
way to present such an idea t6 a modern 
audience would be to have somebody 
"screaming Joe Hill songs at a camera in 
frustration. You can't just explain to people 
how much others are paid to make their J. 
Crew pants." 

In order to address this issue effectively, 
Ros and Smith needed to find a recogniz­able and familiar form that would keep the audience captivated. After much brainstorm­ing, they decided to talk about social injus­tice in the form ofa late-night TV talk show. Instead of preaching like a couple of "old lefties," this format will allow them to, in · Godmilow's words, "rattle through all the social justice issues." The juxtaposition of complex, serious issues.with the glib enter­tainment value of a talk show not only makes the idea ofsocial injustice accessible to a TV-friendly audience, but also poses a 
critique of the media itself. 

According to Godmilow, the duo has 
managed to come up with "a mad TV show 
set in front of an empty factory. Everything 
is shot with the cameras on video, so the 
shots should support the format." 

The project tackles the issues of sweat­
shops, School of the Americas and more, 
but it's structured just like a late-night talk 
show, complete with an opening mono­
logue, guests and musical performances of 
songs written by Ros and Smith. 

STUART: The songs are sort of­DIEGO: Amateurish. JILL: But even though they're sort of 

. . .
. , 
. ~ -. ----. . . . . '\ . . 
naive, they're still angry .... They use simple rhyming schemes -they're folky ballads. They're not slick-
STUART: -To say the least. 

JILL: They didn't turn into rap or something like that. . . . They were going to perform the songs themselves, but it was so pa­thetic~ 
STUART:­Really awful. But when we were perform­ing the songs ourselves, I thought it would be a good idea to shave our heads and [pauses, smiling slightly] Diego 
~~~ .. \~>.1.
went along with me. 
s.a.A. MUSIC FACTORY. With Jocelyn Szczepaniak-Gillece on crew and co-director Diego Ros 
calling the shots, Ryan Cunningham and Jona Noah sing about the School of the Americas for 
i

They proceed to explain the head­a variety show that addresses social injustice. 
shaving idea, which was much more than a wild and crazy whim. Smith says, "Back in the roots of the anarchist move­ment, there was this declaration of refusal." The head-shaving was meant to represent dedication to a cause and Ros adds that it still has references to solidarity and unity. 
A few weeks ago, Ros and Smith attended the School of the Americas protest in Fort Benning, Georgia, to personally support the cause that helped spur the idea for their pr<?ject. According to Ros, they also got enough video footage while they were there to "make a five-minute clip that goes into the show, presented like on the Tonight Show when they have guest and say, 'Here's a clip from your new movie.'" 
Godmilow calls their project "very ex­perimental," and the experimentation in combining political ideas with critiques of the general media ties a common thread through many of this year's films. 
Last spring, Claire Connelly and Sam Dobie made a film entitled, "The Dying Soldier," as a response to the many popular war films that depicted servicemen being killed one after another, desensitizing view­ers with this extensive violence. 
SAM: The idea really came off the back of renewed interest in World War II ­movies like Saving Private Ryan. 
; '-.,, 
------~ ---~--------~-. 
JILL: And Thin Red Line. 

SAM: It starts out as if we were in any other war film. There are four guys, they separate, and one goes down -and the camera stays with him. 
CLAIRE: It shows the physical process of dying. The idea is not to actually make it gory. 
JILL: It's a critique of cinema that deals with death and makes it so delicious and 

glamorized. It asks the viewer, "What could cinema do then if it doesn't just say 'one down, three running'?" 
It could be argued that the focus of this film is to re-sensitize the viewer, to make death rational and real and not just another excuse for a cutaway shot. The camera refuses to move on and follow the action. Instead, the camera hovers over the dying soldier while a voice-over explains what is 
happening inside his body. Connelly says, "We had to do a lot of work getting the medical knowledge -and 


finding medical language that people could follow." The next step was to search campus for the perfect narrator. "We defi­nitely didn't want to fall into the trap of the older man," Connelly explains. "We didn't want it to sound like National Geographic." They ended up using a mature female voice with a European accent. 
The speaker is meant to come across as an observer, maybe as a doctor, but not as a mother. Jill says, "The voice is not worried 
. 

about him because he was someone's son ­it's a voice that wouldn't mourn." This film does not attempt to draw on the viewers' emotional sympathy, like Saving Private Ryan does in its focus on a mother's last living son. Instead of asking the viewers to cry, it urges them to think rationally about the casualties of war and at the same time, think about the ways many movies tend to represent death. 
Jocelyn Szczepaniak-Gillece is currently editing a solo project, a film based on one of her poems. Godrnilow warned Szczepaniak­Gillece from the start that making a film out of a poem is "a very difficult [task]. It's very tricky to use cinema the way words can work. Cinema's almost too easy for poetry. It's almost impossible for a film to leave the spaces that poetry leaves." 
Szczepaniak-Gillece explains the layered meaning of her poem, "It's about a mother who tries to bum down her house, but then, that's not what it's about." Szczepaniak­Gillece says that it's about heritage, or what she calls "hair-itage." She continues to say, "It involves red hair as a marker, something makes you different but linked to your fam­ily." It's about separation and understanding the past and, ofcourse, about other things that can only be expressed through the poem itself. 
The poem is read in voice-over through the 
Entertainment Scholastic 27 


film, 
but the chal­
lenge was figuring out 
"exactly how notto illustrate the 

poem," Godmilow says, "and how to leave productive spaces." 
Szczepaniak-Gillece adds that the film asks the viewer to "make connections through sen­suality." She is attempting to create a tangible type of cinema. 
JOCELYN [tucking a loose strand of red hair behind her ear]: You watch Titanic and it makes you cry even though you hate it the whole time. I want to take the film into a realm where you have that emotion without being manipulated by the people who made it. Hal Hartley makes great films that really address your intellect, without manipulating you, by leaving holes to let you figure things out for yourself. But that's not done enough with emotional type of cinema, where you try to make this little clay movie so you can run your hands over it. 
JILL: So what you're saying is that you want to make tangible something that is ­wh_at's the word I'm looking for? Not ethe­real, but ... you know, something slippery, something you can't -[sweeps her hand through the air, as ifto reach for an imaginary rope that is just out of her grasp] 
JOCELYN: Like an eel? 
JILL: See? She's doing it again [laughs] -thinking in terms of things you can touch. But no, that's not it. ... Ineffable. Ineffable. Time and sound make the ineffable present for a second. . .. Present and, yet, still mysterious. 
Szczepaniak-Gillece goes on to say that sometime she would like to make a "visual chapbook of poetry." A chap­book is a book published through a small press. "You might only get 20 copies," Szczepaniak-Gillece explains, "but it feels 
28 Scholastic Entertainment 
....-·.;. .¥, .. , 
.;,;~~,..· . muchmoreyourown, and there's not a publisher standing over your head." She also hopes to continue to make poetic films after graduation, if only to show them to a small audience. Godmilow, who clearly shares in her feel­ings about the importance of the small-scale, artistic film, adds, "It's almost bizarre to say, 'I just want to make my films and show them to my friends."' The idea of the film industry as a big money-making industry hides the idea that film can also be used as an mt form. Claire Connelly chimes in, "I just feel like these little films we're making are more af­fecting, and I'd rather affect a small group of people than make a big film that a million people would see but that wasn't important. I'd rather make something that 200 people would be affected by, rather than producing something that has no meaning." 


This semester, Sam Dobie and Connelly are working on a film based on an idea they found in their tremendous course packet, a staple ofa_Godmilow 
The film depicts events that never hap­pened, such as President Reagan signing an anti-discrimination bill for people with AIDS and the adoption of a national holiday for people who died of AIDS. Since much of the film is based on national television news, Connelly visited the television news ar­chives at Vanderbilt University, a record of everything that happened on the news since the 1960s. Approximately half of Connelly and Dobie's project uses archived footage with recreated sound. The new audio track dictates history as they believe it should have been. 
Godmilow explains, "The idea is to think about what should have happened." "And think about why it didn't," adds Connelly. , 
Connelly and Dobie shot the remaining footage themselves and attempted to make it look as much like television news footage 
as possible. · 
CLAIRE: We'd be shooting and we'd get ready to set up and say to each other, "OK, what would be the TV shot?" 
SAM: The news can exemplify the his­
··­

.. . .
film course. The idea . ··. !.:; .,. -I
that sparked their 
.~ \_, : . :i
project was a chro­
·t ... ·:: i
nology, or list of events, that Godmi­low wrote to illus­trate how AIDS could have been 



............................................ death. Just as [ Mick Sw_iney discuss how to improve 
tory of AIDS in Africa by ­CLAIRE: -A bunch of African people walking ­SAM:-Andamonkey­JILL: -Wearing no shoes. They never wear any shoes, right? Or they wear rubber shoes. 
Godmilow notes, "It's fair to say that all these films are about cinema. It's the postmodern con­dition." This film cri­tiques not only the way AIDS was handled by the government but also how the news presented the situation to the public. 
Connelly and l: !~e~r r?-~~ormance. 

. . . . Meat and more -c 
,,I',. I • .,.,., ••••••• I ••••• I.,-.· I I I I.-••• I •• I I ••••• I Dobie' s film forces the viewer to think 
The films to be shown at this -year's Student Film Festival address a wide range of issues: from the sweatshops to violence in the media to homelessness to sexuality to, well, meat. 
SEAN: To describe i_t in a word or two, I'd say it's about meat. What we're basi­cally trying to do is look at the meat we eat and take the steps back to where it comes from. 
Partners Sean Daily and Meredith Watt made a film that dealt with the world, older couples have sex ... even though we would never con­sider thinking about that." The film works to demystify sexual­ity, and take away the glamour Hollywood allots to sex scenes in 
:s!;il~~=~~~;toa!~ 
Dobie's "The Dying Solider" takes away 
the glamour of the Ho 11 Y wood 
rationally about death, Daily and O'Keefe's project asks the viewer to so­berly address sexuality through a series of squeamish sex scenes. "No, you don't nor­mally talk about it," Daily says, "but there's no reason why this shouldn't be talked about. The scenes in our film are stylized after Hollywood cinema, as ifto say, 'Look how normal this is.'" 
Also this semester, Matt King and Meredith Watt made· another film that is meant, as Godmilow puts it, to "undo the way sex is written in our culture." 
"It' s about looking at what we're not supposed to look at," says King, "or not allowed to look at." 
JILL: The idea here is that full exposure and time would produce a demystification. MATT: And de-terrorization. . . . [adds ironically] This is a terrorist film. 
JILL: What do you mean by that? 

MA TT: I was just kidding, playing with language. De-terrorization .... Terrorist. 
JILL: But in some ways it is a terrorist film. It's a way of saying, 'We are serious.' It makes a public announcement so that people will negotiate. 
MATT: Yeah. [Nods and pauses.] It's like bringing the enemy to your backyard, letting him sit out there by the pool and have a lemonade. Eventually, people will have to talk to him because they're so curious about why he's there. 
The "enemy" in this film, the thing we're not supposed to look at, is purposefully 
PHOTO COURTESY OF JOCELYN SZCZEPANIAK-GILLECE 
-~·-,i,.t.ciy J\.\\ tt{,",~ 

PILLOWT~~~~­Co~director s1an , , . . ::. • 
operates the camera and """"'°'..,'.· · · ,, -, Diego Ros holds the boom~,__'::,~:.\ while actors Louise Edwards and'\ ''; 
-

being left in shrouds to avoid interfering with the surprise fac­torofthefilm, but King and Szczepaniak-Gillece hint at the subject of the film by listing some work­ing titles -"Phallo-cen­tric," "Phalicity" (a take­off Felicity) and "Happy Phallentine's Day." 
All this talk about generat­ing ideas for the films is, of course, only the tip of the ice­berg in the sea of film-making. Shooting the scenes and then edit­ing the footage involves a galaxy of complications. Daily admits, "You get the camera and you realize how something so simple in a Holly­wood film is so hard to make." But he continues to say, "We do a lot ofwork, but we have a great time." He comments on . the passion of the students in production with him and mentions how much they all really care about the program. The end result of a film course that involves sev­eral groups making films is always exciting because, according to Daily, "It's not like you have one film -it's like you have 
five, because you're working  on all of  
them at the same time."  
Szczepaniak-Gillece says,  "I know  

they're just student films, but it feels like so much more than that." It depends on how you look at it. Something that is ''just a student film" is not necessarily such a small ~~~~~-D 
Entertainment Scholastic 29 




Revenge of the Prom 
An enticing night calls for primping, tweaking, planning and finding the pe,fect shoes 
Formals," and by accepting admission, you pens to match every article of clothing and BY AMY SCHILL 
agreed to pay homage to these two institu-accessory ever created. You are gorgeous, emember your senior prom? Rather, tions. Not attending a formal is a mortal sin, you are prepared, you are confident, you are 
R

do you remember all the anxiety sur right up there with murder and being a dateless. 
rounding your senior prom? The Boston College fan. Tell people you are not Forget clothing, forget money, the most 
search for the perfect dress that goes with going, and you will undoubtedly be locked stressful part about formal is finding a date. 
the shoes, that goes with the purse, that goes in a room with your friends (who suddenly With so many formals at the same time, the 
with the nail polish, that goes with your look strikingly like cops from a bad movie) date search becomes a campus-wide phe­
date's cummerbund. Oh, of course, you and be interrogated and coerced until you nomenon. You could go with one of the 
have to find a date first. Do you wait for finally break down and either agree to go or guys from your group of friends ... or is he 
someone to ask you or do you make the confess that you are in fact solely respon­going with another girl from your group? 
first move? Do you go with your best sible for the sorry football season. Your friend can set you up, but that's too 
friend or the guy you've longed for since Okay,soyou'vedecided the formal might risky. There's that guy from your PE class 
freshman year? You worry about your be fun. You had to take the bus to the -you wonder what he looks like when he's 
hair and nails. Up or down? Pins, baby's "a._ ,_j;~ mall but you managed to get not sweating. There's your dreain date, your 
breath, tiara? Do I have time for a , ' ~ , -, that dress that fits you best bud or that guy you met once last 
manicure?Pedicure?Whereare ,: ..,,..,..,_,.. oh-so-right weekend and had so much in common with, 
and after this trinity of possibilities lies a 
we eating D.oJ·./ 
~.·--,':?,/, hap­
beforeha~d? .. and
they take reservations? ~ ·~ · · whole network of backup dates. You have 
Who's getting the limo? /' . to move quickly or your options start to 
What are we doing after-~> _.,,'f.,r-;;:::::-dwindle exponentially. The guy in your ice­
skating class is hot, but that hussy from a w~rds? Can I afford ~H,)·,·.·····.· ®'Y ~ 
this? Oh, God, Joe 1s · \ rival dorm is Tonya Harding-ing her way to passed out on the floor; \ i , him first, leaving you the Nancy how much did he have? 15' Kerrigan of the ice rink of love. · Where did the limo go? As I write, I still have n,o date
i·r 

If you're like me, prom / to my formal, and my possibili­
was a very stressful time ., : ::,.. .--. • ties are getting snatched up. 
and, frankly, I was relieved ~ ,, . ~ ..,,. My friend actually offered to 
when that "something to re-:1 give me h_er date and find her­
member" prom that I had { self another one. Looks like 
I'll be going as Princess Pa­dreaded for four years was ;J ,·--,,,·.·.
finally over. .·P · ~' thetic to this fairy-tale themed 
Well, welcome to Notre f event. But hey, my dress is 
Dame, where prom is every se-fabulous. 
mester. . Maybe you' re not like 
Ah, formals. That inevitable time me. Maybe you have a 
when all of those anxieties you thought boyfriend and a huge 
were relics of your high school days return. wardrobe and think 
Now, admittedly, some of the pressures are formals are "super fun." I 
gone. Tickets are cheaper and· I'm pretty .,i\ wish you all the best and really 
sure I won't be taking a limo to South .'",-..,.,•. \ hope you enjoy the next episode 
• 1 

Dining Hall ( oops, Imean the magical castle ,fy ~.. of Dawson's Creek. For the offormal festivities). That said, stress is still ,,.. rest of us, the bitter victims of a prerequisite for attending your hall's for-. Prom: The College Years, let me assure you 
I'

mal. of some things. Think back to prom again. 
" 

Don't want to go to the formal? Oh, my You did find a date, you did find those cute na'ive little friend, you have no choice. You shoes, and you even might have had fun. So go to the University of Notre Dame, which relax and enjoy your formal. I think there
•

in Latin means "Our Lady of Football and might be dancing irlvolved or something. 0 
30 Scholastic Week In Distortion 

, • :Men's Swimming iµid··Diviµg: Noti:e Dame :: Invitational, 10:00 :AA1°8:00 fM; Rolfs '. •Speaker: Urbari Space/Urban :culture: City, . ;. Sovereigh, Poit: The Wedding Pageanfof Mar­.garet of Anjou, 3;30 PM, Library :•Spe!lker: "Nihilism· "ip.' ·Popular C~lture: .. Seinfeld, The Simps01zrand-Ally McBeal," · · ·. Tom Hibbs, 7:30 PM,j)eBartolo . 
•BigDaddy, 10:30 PM, Cushing. 
THURSDAY 

. ~~edtal: StudentChrunoer·Music; 2:0() PM,. 
.-:S~H~> '.<:'>-'/.~.::0 \ :: :·.::. . . 
:.•Banquet::80th Annual FQ_otb~ll Banquet; 5:45 PM,Joyce Center · L <, · 
. ·. . . : •. "· '•
•Boqksigning: Rev. Hesburgh, G,S.C.; 3:30 PM, 
. •. ,--I I . 

.Bookstore ·.. . · · \ \. · ; / .·. 
•,• . .'-·~ -.;._r' , ..... 
•!JigDadd)1, 8:00 &>J0:3.0.PM; Cushing. 
FRIDAY.

~~--------~~·--··_.• __________ 
•Basketball: ND .Men vs. Vanderbilt, 2:00 : PM, Joyce Center . . /i 
. . I • 
•Spanish Mass: _1:3p P;.M, Keenan-Stanford Chapel :.//, -., ' \ •· •Mass: Rejoice! Black Catli9li~ Mass,.4:00 PM, Sorin ,. 
·SUNDAY 

... -.:.·.. •.. ·>. > ..·· ..__./)•.. · ..._ . 
' 
, • 
•Workshop: "Resume,writing," 4:00PM, Career Center .. -·. ·.•·.·
/ J-,,,_ ·· 1 
•Basilica Com1nµrity'Choir]~~earsal, . . 
1 

1·· 7:00 PM, EarthScfence.Bu~tdi~g .:_··: ·. 
l· .·. ··• · ·\,~___.,/ . · 
·• · · · ·. :_ · >.-;--.·--·. ·. · · •. · · I: 
'11 . 
!..._. MO.NDAY ·.•· 
. 

I, 
' . l : / . 
•Bible Study: 7:00 PM;·Gam.pus Ministry 
•Concert: Shenanigans Sho~v Choir, 7:30 
PM Washington Hall / · / ' · 

•Penance Service: 10:00,PM, Basilica of > the Sacred Heart / 
TUESDAY
!' 
'1'. 
j
l 
i
\ 
1 
.J 

i... -------­
,. ---~l 
! 1 
/ •Feast Day: Immaculate Conce tion . i •Concert: Handbell-Clicik, . p .. 
•Hockey:NDvs.Michigan1Sta~e; 
7:00PM,Joyce /' LaFortune . · //·7"'"\ ~r4sPM, Center _· . . ._ / . : · . i •Basketball: ND ¾eh·vs. v! I . ; 

•Theatre:SecretLove!_8:9ot~,MoreauCenter, 
/ PM,Joyce Center.> ~=--~parruso, 7.30 


SMC / / i i I •PrayerService:,intei:faitll'Cj\.-. . . •FashionShow:~fanAllure, 7':30PM, Washing-Prayer, 10:00 p~ \V 1'1 : rstian Night ton Hall ·-----------· --, " ·' • : ~. ~-!__!,Jfalj 
·. i ! .. .......... /'. . 
. •BigDaddy, 8:00 & 10:30 PM, Cushing . .__.,,. 
SATURDAY 
I 
1 
. I 
j 
1 1 
... :-"NO'fttSHOWING 
_·Decernber.2.~8 ..· 

.. · ....._Sh~~pl~ce:i(i:{. • 
.cz99.6063 -·•·. .. ·· .·. ..:.. , ·.... ·•·· 
Ali Shows in Stereo · ·· ··. •· · ·. ·•· · -,The.Phantom Menace iiio •1:50 4;~07:10 rn:oo ,toy'sfory2•.·· · . 1~:00 1:30 '4:oo 6:30 s:50 
••. H:30 2;QO 4:35):069:20 J2:00 2:30 5:00 ):30 9:50 En4of Days ll:20 2:15 5:10.7:45 IQ:20 
.•. . . .· , , . . ):40 4:15 7:15 9:55 
. 
Jhe\VorldisNotlliiougli ·12:40 3:40'6:40 9:.4ir· 

·•the:Sixt11Seilse (2:10.4:55):25 10:05. , ·Sleepy Hollow · U:40 2:05 4:40:'7:05 9:30 ·· · · .12:30. 3:oo 5:30 s:oo 10:30 
fokenH>n . 1:20 3:50 6:20 . ··. ·... Dogma .. ·. . ·1:55 _4:45 7:3510:25 ...
Anm~ere_but Here ''''i-1:45 2:20.5:0$ 7:.4010:15 
'Ote)Jone Collector,; · 2:40 5:15 1:50. 10:35 . DoubieJeopardy 12:10 2:50 5:35 8:io 10:35 Th_e Omega Code · ·.· · 8:45 · 


.Movies 14 · 
C254-9685 •· :. • • 
Ali $hows in Stereo · · · 
Ail}'\vhere butHere :_ °I:20 3:55 . ·. . . . · 
EndofD:ws" · 1:05 4:00 7:10 9:55 
End of Days .. . 2:00 4:50 7:45., 10:25 
House on Haitrited Hill 2:05 4:45 . . 
Messenger · · ··. 9:30. · · . • . . , ·. 
.SfeepyHollow"'. Tz:00 2:204:40,7:00 9:io 
Sleepy Hollow .1:00 3:20 5:40 8:00 10:20 
·The.Bachelor .· 7:30 9:55 ·.· . . • . . · 

The Bone Collector .. 1:10 3:50 7:20 10:10 ·'.fl1elnsider . .. . . 7:55 . . . ·. .. .. . ...· . 
11i¢WorldisNotEnough* 2:10 5:00 7:50 )0:35 
Tiie)VorldisNotEnough 12:15 3:05 $:55 9:15 
. ·. . 1:15 4:05 7:00 9:50 Toy Story 2* 1:30 4:15 7:20 9:45 . Toy s,!~iY 2 . 12:10_ 2:35 5:05 7:40 10:00 

.*Stadiu11: SeatirigAvaiit1ble: 
Calendar Scholastic 31 



Protest in Remembrance 
You are paying for an institution in south­ern Georgia. Some say it is a school that is working to establish democracy in Latin America. Ten of their graduates went on to become presidents in their Latin American countries. How­ever, all IO took power either by force-often after overthrowing an elected civilian government-or by being put in place by the country's military rulers. None was democratically elected. The School of the Americas is an establishment that trains Latin American army officers for a few months before sending them back to their own countries. Many have been known to commit fla­grant human rights violations against their own people. Let me begin by saying that not every graduate has been involved in these violations, and there is no "Torture 10 I" class taught at the School of the Americas. In fact, it is a mere one percent of the school's graduates who are known human rights violators. How­Showing that the life and witness ever, if 20 students from every single class 
of these people was not in vain, 
that graduated from thousands of people walked onto Notre Dame were later found out to be respon­
the base at Fort Benning carrying 
sible for the murder, 

crosses and coffins. 

Junior Sheila McCarthy was one of27 Notre Dame students who traveled to Georgia to protest the School ofthe Americas. 
32 Scholastic Final Word 

rape, torture and kid­napping of thousands of people, many would want to know what is being taught at Notre Dame that might lead to such atrocities. If it was discov­ered, upon further investigation, that classes on psychological operations, sniper fire, commando tactics, counterinsurgency operations and military intelligence were among the most popular, with less than one class period spent discussing human rights in any course, many would call for Notre Dame to close. Merely changing the school's name or having instructors reform their curricu­lum (both of which have been proposed) would be appalling to those thousands·of people whose family members have disappeared, been raped, tortured or murdered by our graduates. It was in this spirit that 27 ofus from Notre Dame traveled to Fort Benning, Georgia, on November 19th to say the School ofthe Americas should be shut down. 
by Sheila McCarthy 

The protest and vigil was a solemn occasion, held to honor the 10th anniversary of the murder of six Jesuit priests, their housekeeper and her daughter in 1989 by graduates ofthe School ofthe Americas. Showing that the life and witness of these people and others was not in vain, thousands of people walked onto the base at Fort Benning carrying crosses and coffins, each bear­ing the name of a person killed by a graduate of the school. The crosses were a sign of the enduring presence of those slain, and a promise that their work will be carried on. Oscar Romero, the archbishop ofEl Salvador from 1977 until his death in 1980 (also murdered by graduates ofthe School ofthe Americas, while saying Mass), once proclaimed, "Ifthey kill me I will rise up again in the Salvadoran people." Those killed in Latin America have now risen up again in the North American people -in college kids, nuns, Veterans for Peace, Catholic Workers, socialists, gay men in drag, couples with small children, priests, Grandmothers for Peace, white haired old men and punk kids with safety pin nose rings. 
This eclectic mix of people stand for those in Latin America who have been labeled subversive and disap­peared-the poor and those who work with the poor: teachers~ labor organizers; priests, nuns and lay people. They are targeted because they speak out against the disparity between the rich and the poor, because they call for social change. Many Latin American coun­tries thrive on the exploitation and oppression of poor and indigenous peoples while a small number of people control all the wealth and power. The wealthy have many business partnerships with companies in the United States (including our military), companies that therefore have a vested interest in keeping the School of the Americas open. In traveling to Fort Benning, we are notjustsaying that this school should be shut down; we went repentant of our own indirect participation in the death ofso many in Latin America due to our paying taxes and supporting corporations with investments in Latin America that perpetuate the oppression. We came to open our minds and hearts so that we might learn from and be inspired by the witness of the person whose name we held up high, written on a white cross, a victim of this school, ofour country, of our lifestyle. D 




. . ,,... 
., 
. . ... ' 
. . ., .,,. 


I 
It~ the perfect holiday side dish. 
«~1®". 
·' Try.so~e today! wvfi>nil.~du 



