uc noira otic
SCHOLASTIC
umv mmpus nous mfifflinc
FATHERS HOPE AND CAVANAUGH MEET PAT O'BRIEN
As Star Toastmaster Arrives
IN THIS ISSUE . . .
1200 AT FOOTBALL DINNER HONOR FR. NIEUWLAND'S MEMORY J. EDGAR HOOVER SCORES POLITICS
ANNOUNCE BENGAL BOUTS ZWERS MADE FOOTBALL CAPTAIN BASKETEERS MEET SYRACUSE
THE WEEK COLLEGE PARADE ON DOWN THE LINE
JANUARY 15. 1937
2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
OF
RE
than a dollar per revenue car.
President
1
REMINDER . . . Safety, like charity, must begin at home if patrons are to be protected in their lives and property. I am especially proud of the fact that thousands of Illinois Central supervisory employes hold cards testifying to years of clear safety records for the men under their direction.
Emblem
UNCEASINGC
"Long life and prosperity!" That is the toast of the New Year., And it is the toast of our American railroads, for—factors other than transportation being equal—their travelers live the longest and their shippers suffer the least from loss and damage. • That well-known motto "Safety First!"is derived from the opening rule in the book of railway operation: "Safety is of the first importance in the discharge of duty." e Railway safety is enhanced by strong track, automatic train control, electric block signals, improved braking, special safeguards on trains, constant inspection and repair of equipment, constant schooling of the men at work. • As a result, on the travel side alone, 99 of the 142 principal American railroads recently completed 15 years with not a passenger fatality in a train accident—this despite the movement annually of hundreds of millions of passengers billions of
miles. The Illinois Central is now in its ninth consecutive year of similar safety to passengers. • Protection of freight, as measured by claim payments, is likewise at a high standard, the loss declining in
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SYSTEM
- AN INDIANA RAILROAD----
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana, for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
January 15, 1937
No. 12
LAW TOMES DROPPED FOR TOPPERS AT BALL TONIGHT
TWELVE HUNDRED HONOR FOOTBALL SQUAD AT ANNUAL TESTIMONIAL DINNER;
O'BRIEN. WARD. BROWN TALK
Tonight at 9 o’clock the 1937 edition of the Law Ball will swing into action at the Columbia Club in South Bend.
This annual affair, presented by the Notre Dame Law School, has for its general chairman, James Osgood, senior lawyer from Chicago.
The largest affair of the social year for the lawyers, this dance is always one of the most colorful of the year, and Chairman Osgood promises this one to be as good if not better than those preceding.
The music for swinging and dancing will be that of Keith Beecher and his orchestra. Beecher has long been associated with the Hotel Stevens in Chicago, and has one of the greatest assortment of swingmen in the middle west. The grand march will begin promptly at nine, and will be led by Chairman Osgood, who is escorting Miss Mary Lou Furbershaw, and Pat Fisher, president of the Notre Dame Law club, who is taking Miss Eugenia Cass.
The committee in charge of decorations, under Chairman Francis Dunn, senior lawyer from Joliet, Ill., has outdone itself this year. A canopy has been erected over the entrance to the hall and the entire ball room has been' covered with blankets, flowers and drapes. Another innovation has been introduced in the style of the programs. They have been bound in thin steel covers and an etching of
(Continued on Page 8)
Stuhldreher, O’Brien and Elmer Layden Board of Football Banquet Strategy.
By Harold A. Williams
The 17th annual civic testimonial banquet given by the St. Joseph Valley Club to the University’s coaches and players of 1936, Monday night in the University dining hall, according to officials in charge, was one of the largest and most successful in recent years. A capacity crowd of 1,200 attended.
DiHon and Sorin Fight For Debate Crown
•
The champion of the junior-senior division of the interhall debating tournament will be decided tonight as the Dillon squad tries to convince the Sorin team that “the extension of consumers’ cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.”
These are the only two teams left in the junior-senior division, as Howard was eliminated by Dillon on December 15. The Rev. William J. Cunningham, C.S.C., professor of education, was the judge.
The Morrissey team, composed of Thomas P. Mulligan, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio; Maurice J. Murpry, of Sumner, Iowa; and John J. Winter-meyer, of Kitchener, Ont.; was the victor in the freshman-sophomore division.
Badin, negative, was defeated by Morrissey on Dec. 15. The judge was the Rev. John A. Molter, C.S.C.
The movie actor, Pat O’Brien, a Marquette University halfback who played against Notre Dame in 1921, acted as toastmaster. Judging from the applause that was given O’Brien his 2,000-mile journey for the banquet was well worth while. He was introduced by Louis F. Buckley, president of the club and associate professor of economics.
Speakers on the program included the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, who spoke in behalf of the University, Police Chief Laurence J. Lane, who represented South Bend, Harry Stuhldre-her, former Four Horseman, director of athletics at Wisconsin, Elmer Layden, director of athletics at Notre Dame, Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune.
Others were Kenneth “Tug” Wilson, athletic director at Northwestern, who returned the shillelagh to Notre Dame, Louis J. Salmon, famous Notre Dame athlete during 1901-2-3-4, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. vicepresident of the University and chairman of the board of athletic control. At the end of his speech Father O’Donnell read a poem written by the Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C. The last speaker on the program was Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner.
The biggest surprise and hit of the banquet was the interruption caused by Luke Barnett, professional heckler from Pittsburgh, Pa. A short, well-dressed man of middle age, Mr. Barnett, the father of Vince Barnett, screen comedian, has been heckling at banquets for 25 years. Besides “Tug” Wilson of Northwestern, Mr. Barnett has embarrassed such men as President Roosevelt, a supreme court justice, several cabinet members, “Hunk” Anderson, and Elmer Layden.
Following the awarding of monograms to the football players, Elmer
(Continued on Page 23)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
FAMOUS SCIENTISTS CONVENE TO HONOR MEMORY OF REV. JULIUS NIEUWLAND WITH IMPRESSIVE PROGRAM
DINNER, LECTURE TO HIGHLIGHT A. S. M. MEET TONIGHT
Scientists, educators, prominent churchmen, and more than a thousand guests gathered to pay tribute to the memory of one of Notre Dame’s most famous priests last Sunday at the Julius Arthur Nieuwland Memorial Exercises.
From every segment of life came friends of the late Father Nieuwland to
pay respects to his sterling work as a scientist and his singular piety as a priest. Coming nearly seven months after his death, the Memorial Exercises were arranged by the University especially with those in mind who were unable to attend Father Nieuw-land’s funeral.
The Most Reverend Joseph Schrembs, D.D., bishop of Cleveland, for many years a close friend of Father Nieuwland, made the trip from Cleveland to pontificate at the Solemn
The Rev. F. J. Wenninger, C.S.C.
Preached at Memorial Mass.
High Mass which started the memorial program on Sunday morning.
Among the ministers of the Mass was the Very Rev. Edward V. Stanford, O.S.A., M.S., LL.D., president of Villanova College, who acted as assistant priest to Bishop Schrembs. The other ministers, chosen from the Notre Dame faculty, were: Deacons of honor, Rev. Dr. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., and the Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C.; deacon of the Mass, Rev. Dr. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.; sub-deacon of the Mass, Rev. Dr. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C.; master of ceremonies, Rev. Dr. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C.
Fittingly, the sermon on this occasion was preached by the Rev. Dr. F. J. Wenninger, C.S.C.. himself a scientist and dean of the College of Science, who spoke on “Science and Religion.”
The afternoon program presented to the audience six of the leading men of science in North America. Dr. Marcus Ward Lyon, former curator
In Memoriam
nV.
of the U. S. National Museum at Washington, paid tribute to Father Nieuwland as “Father Nieuwland the Botanist.” He was followed by William Stansfield Caccott, intimate friend of Father Nieuwland and director of the Jackson Laboratories of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., who talked on “Father Nieuwland the Chemist.”
The second half of the program -was purely scientific, covering the fields of physics, botany, mathematics and chemistry. Dr. Arthur Haas, who joined the University faculty less than a year ago from the University of Vienna, read a paper on “The Energy Balance of Star Systems.”
The Rev. Brother Marie Victorin, F.S.C., Sc.D., head of the department of botany at the University of Montreal, gave an illustrated talk on “The Vanishing Flora of Northeastern America.”
Prominent on the program also were two members of the Pontifical Academy of Science recently brought into being by His Holiness, Pope Pius XI, these being Dr. George David Birkhoff, dean of Harvard College and Perkins Professor of Mathematics at Harvard, and Dr. Hugh Scott Taylor, David B. Jones, Professor of Chemistry in Princton University. Dr. Birkhoff talked on “A Relativistic Theory of Atomic Structure,” and Dr.. Taylor’s paper was concerned with “Large Molecules in Science and I ife.”
In honor of Dr. Edgar C. Bain, president of the American Society for Metals, the Notre Dame unit of the Society this evening observes National President’s Night with a dinner in the Lay Faculty dining room at 6:30 o’clock and a technical session in the Engineering auditorium at 8:00 o’clock.
Mr. Bain, who is also vice president in charge of research for the United States Steel Corporation, will deliver the main address at the technical session with a discussion of “Some Apparent Anomalies in the Heat Treatment of Steel.”
Well-known to everyone whose interests lie in the field of metallurgy, Dr. Bain’s best known research has been in connection with the study of the allotropy of iron by X-ray diffraction methods, and of the constitution of the iron-chromium-nickel-carbon alloys, popularly known as stainless steels and irons.
The Society is also honored this evening with the presence of another well-known figure in the industry, Mr. W. H. Eisenman of Cleveland, national secretary of the American Society for Metals.
Dr. Bain and Mr. Eisenman will be introduced to the guests and members of the Society by Mr. E. G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy here and sponsor of the Notre Dame unit.
Radigan Outlines Dome Photograph Schedule
•
Thomas J. Radigan, Dome editor, announces that the seniors who have not as yet been photographed for the annual will have that opportunity beginning Monday, Jan. 18, and continuing on through to Wednesday afternoon, Jan. 27.
Since no pictures will be taken after the final date, seniors are urged to report to the Walsh basement as soon as possible for their pictures. A charge of one dollar is made for each of the pictures and proofs are to be returned as soon as selection has been made.
Club and group pictures will be taken during the week of Feb. 8, and club presidents will be notified as to the time of their organizations sitting.
The Dome staff again repeats its offer to reprint snapshots on any campus subject which the student might wish to see in the publication.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
PROCTOR. SCHMELZLE REPRESENT N. D. IN AIR DEBATE
JUSTICE IS HANDCUFFED BY PETTY POLITICS HEAD G-MAN J. EDGAR HOOVER TELLS AUDIENCE IN GYMNASIUM TALK
In a radio debate over Station WLS in Chicago Notre Dame met Kent College of Law of Chicago on Sunday night, Jan. 10. The question debated was, “Resolved that the extension of consumer cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.” Notre Dame was represented by her veteran debaters, Robert Schmelzle and Thomas Proctor, both junior lawyers, who upheld the affirmative side of the question. Mr. Rule and Mr. Hebei argued the negative for Chicago’s Kent College of Law.
This was the first of a series of debates during which Kent College debaters will meet many of the debating teams of other large mid-
Debater Thomas Proctor Wants more co-operatives.
western colleges and universities. The decisions are announced on the Sunday evening following the debate, and the results are tabulated from the votes of the radio listeners.
Further try-outs for varsity debating took place on Thursday evening of this week, in the Law Building.
January 20 Deadline For Dance Reports
Gene F. Ling, of Lakewood, Ohio, president of the Presidents’ Council, announced this week that the University clubs, either literary or geographical, who held their Christmas dance with or irrespective of their alumni, must turn in a financial report of their dance before Wednesday, January 20th.
Ling stated that the report must either be filed with him oi’ in the office of Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline. All the clubs should attend to the matter immediately, urged Ling, to facilitate. matters before the end of the semester.
“There can be no higher ideal for the student of Notre Dame or any other university in America than he should consecrate his life to the virtue of justice.”
In these words John Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of
Flays Politics
Downstaters View N. D.
Art This Week
Notre Dame’s traveling art exhibit, which has been receiving favorable reception both in comment and attendance, is currently on display at the St. Francis School of Art in Lafayette, Ind.
From the Culver Military Academy at Culver, Ind., the exhibit was taken to Fowler, Ind. where, under the auspices of the Fowler Women’s Club, it was displayed in the high school. While there, the club reported many interested and enthusiastic visitors enjoyed the collection.
The paintings and oil works of the students of the art school are being displayed in schools throughout Indiana. Before the collection returns to the University, it will have been seen in the states of Ohio, Illinois, and Wisconsin.
On Jan. 18, the paintings will be moved from Lafayette for exhibition at St. Mary-of-the-Woods in Terre Haute, Ind.
Washington University has five sets of coed twins—half as many as Louisiana State University.
Investigation, called on the youth of the country to find a solution to the menace of crime ridden municipalities.
Addressing the student body in the Notre Dame field house last Monday, Mr. Hoover, the leader of the famed G-men of fact and fiction, soundly denounced the system of politics that permits the lack of proper law enforcement in our cities. He declared that the answer to the problem can be uncovered by the young men of America if they work toward the goal with justice foremost in their minds.
Juvenile Crime Alarming
Admitting that the fault with the unprecedented juvenile delinquency that reveals ®ne out of six criminals are not yet of voting age lies with the lack of proper training in youth, Mr. Hoover went on to say that it is unfair of parents to allow children to run free in the period of character formation to pick up ideas of law evasion and disrespect for authority. He proposed that the young -men just out of college should take an active hand in the affairs of the law enforcement in their respective cities with the fervent hope that “I. will find the Federal Bureau of Investigation faced with active competition from the cities of the United States in a race to see which of us can give the best law enforcement.”
The stocky G-man leader sternly reprimanded the present American system of justice which enables thousands of law evaders to go unpunished, and if punished, to lead lives far better than that of thousands of honest men during the depression. He proposed that the college man should investigate conditions in his own vicinity and endeavor to correct them, for it will be solely through the effort of these men that present conditions are eliminated. “And,” Hoover declared, “today is the day which calls for the enthusiasm of youth. Today is the day which demands that youth arise and defeat the pernicious influences which conspire to make every sixth criminal a person of less than voting age.”
One hundred per cent of the engineers who graduated from the University of Detroit last June are now employed, according .to Ralph R. Johnson, industrial co-ordinator.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
AUSTRIAN PROFESSOR TO JOIN FACULTY
IN FEBRUARY
•
Another figure well-known in international educational circles will join the teaching staff here for the second semester was revealed in an announcement made this week by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.,president of the University, that Dr. Karl Menger, internationally renowned mathematician and professor at the University of Vienna, will serve on the permanent staff of the department of mathematics.
Dr. Menger has earned world-wide recognition during the last decade through his work in the fields of mathematical axiomatics, theory of curves and geometry of points. American scholars who have studied under him in Vienna as fellows of the Rockefeller Foundation now hold prominent educational posts.
The department of mathematites under the guidance of Edward J. Maurus, professor of mathematics, is making plans to hold mathematics symposia at Notre Dame of these former students and others interested in Karl Menger’s researches.
This will be Dr. Menger’s second visit to America as a visiting professor of mathematics having taught at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., and at Rice Institute, Houston, Texas, during the academic year of 1930-31. For the last seven years, however, he has held a chair of professor of mathematics at the University of Vienna.
Here, the eminent Viennese professor will offer courses in axiomatics of geometry, geometry of distances, theory of curves, and an introduction to modem calculus as well as cooperating with the staff in directing research work.
The son of the late Professor Karl Menger, one of the great economists of the Austrian school of the 19th century, Dr. Menger received his formal education at the Universities of Vienna and Amsterdam.
The 34-year old professor is expected to arrive in South Bend the last week of January. Accompanying him are his wife and his five months old son.
Meet Tuesday To Plan Italian Club Dinner
Principal topic for discussion at the Italian Club meeting to be held Tues-. day, January 19, in Carroll “Rec,” will be the annual Spaghetti Banquet to be held in the near future,, ' probably at a well-known South Bend restaurant.
Two Ranking G-Men Laud Alumni Efforts
Against Communism; National Meets Set
J. Edgar Hoover, head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Clyde Tolson, his assistant, endorsed the Alumni Association’s communism campaign most heartily when they were on the campus Monday, January 11, declaring the red peril to be a definite and imminent problem, which must be faced by the opposition of every agency interested in the preservation of Christian and American principles.
Notre Dame alumni are launching the first definite move of their campaign against subservive forces with nation-wide Club meetings on Monday, January 25.
This campaign is the result of the trip made last summer by Arthur J. Hughes, ’ll, president of the Alumni Association, to the Vatican, where the project was endorsed by His Holiness, Pope Pius XI.
• The objective of the program of the Association is the crystallization
Villagers Foster Plans For Alumni Meeting
Preliminary plans for a joint meeting in March with the St. Joe Valley alumni were discussed at the regular
President Ted Prekowitz
Gets Old and New Toff ether.
meeting of the Notre Dame Villagers held in the Columbia Athletic Club, Monday evening, January 11th.
Ted Prekowitz, president of the town-boys, also brought before the club the consideration of formal plans for the Basketball Banquet in March, an affair given annually by the Villagers.
A report was given on the Christmas dance held on Dec. 26th at the Palais Royale. The dance, both from a social and financial viewpoint, was decreed a success.
As yet, no definite plans have been
of alumni opinion, along the lines of the sound principles of Catholic teaching, applied to the various subversive doctrines in circulation, most tangible of which is communism. Following this naturally is the spread of this sound Catholic opinion among the economic, political and social circles in which the alumni move.
Information in the Alumni Office indicate a series of excellent meetings in the various club centers on the night of January 25. Communism will be the theme. Outside organizations will be guests. It is the hope of the officers of the Association that a key meeting of students of the University and the alumni of the St. Joseph Valley can be held on that night as a part of the nation-wide observance.
Since the student today will be the alumnus and the leader in this struggle which is looming, student participation in the alumni program, whenever feasible, is desired.
Renew Chemistry Radio Series Monday Night
On Monday evening, Jar 18 at 7:30 o’clock, Jack Powers, l senior in the College of Science, will give a radio talk entitled “Chemistry in Medicine” from the Campus studio. This will be the sixth in the Chemistry Forum series of 13 talks the purpose of which is to give to the layman a knowledge of Chemistry in an understandable form.
Each of these 15 minute talks treats of a different phase in the science of Chemistry. These talks, usually given every Monday evening at 7:30, are sponsored by the Chemistry Club and given by members of that organization.
The next meeting of the Chemistry Club will be held Tuesday evening, Jan. 19, at 8:00 o’clock, in the Chemistry building. At this meeting Win Schulte will give a treatise on Insulin, while Frank Frascati and Paul Fortino will give a demonstration entertainment with the use of vapor balloons.
Officers for the last semester of this year and the first semester of next year will be elected at the first February meeting.
formulated for the joint-meeting with the alumni; these are to be drawn at the next meeting of the club. The organization holds its dinner-meetings the first Monday of each month.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
7
VINCENTIANS THANK DONORS FOR HELP
IN CAMPAIGN
•
Joe Drolla, president of the Society of St. Vincent de Paul, today extended thanks to all students who contributed to the society’s clothing and literature drive, held before the Christmas holidays. Through the cooperation of hall representatives anil
President Joe Drolla Searched for old clothes.
students, more than 500 articles of clothing and 665 magazines were corailed and distributed to needy families.
These articles were assorted into individual boxes which supplied needy families in South Bend, and, also, needy persons at Healthwih sanitarium.
The initial meeting of the new year was held last Sunday, and plans for the second semester were discussed.
Issue Regulations For Registration
Registration for the second semester will take place Tuesday, Feb. 2, and classes will begin at 8:00 o’clock the following day according to a bulletin recently released from the office of the secretary.
Class cards will be issued only upon presentation of tuition certifications. The University has arranged to mail certifications to the residence halls of students whose accounts have been settled in advance.
Students are reminded that there is a late registration fee of $5.00 for all students who have not completed their registration by 4:00 p.m., on Feb. 2.
Registration for graduate students will be at 3:45 p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 3, in the General Offices.
Students who do not expect to attend the University for the second semester should report that fact to the office of the secretary at the earliest possible moment, in any event, not later than Jan. 25.
Nearly Half A Million Fans Watched 1936 Irish Gridders
•
There were 479,500 gridiron fans who watched the University of Notre Dame’s 1936 football eleven according to figures recently released by the department of sport publicity. This set a new record for attendance.
Over 38,000 people, largest crowd ever to witness an opening game here, saw the Fighting Irish defeat the Plaid of Carnegie Tech.
Crowds of 25,000 were drawn to the Washington University and Wisconsin games. The comparatively low attendance was attributed to rains which fell on the Saturdays of both games.
Four of the nine games played were sell-outs. The games against Ohio State and Northwestern were attended by crowds of more than 55,000. 74,000 people watched Notre Dame sustain its most terrific loss at Pittsburgh while over 80,000 saw the Irish trim the Army in the Yankee Stadium.
The Navy game played at Baltimore drew 57,500 and the season’s finale against Southern California at Los Angeles was witnessed by 70,000.
Over 198,000 fans saw the Irish play at the Stadium. This is the largest total of persons in the school’s history to see the Varsity squad in action on the home grounds.
Texans Meet
Thomas F. Durkin, of Wichita Falls, Texas, was unanimously elected president of the recently reorganized Texas Club, which boasts a membership of 25.
Other officers elected were Edmund R. Haggar, vice-president; Edward J. Solon, secretary; and John F. Greene, treasurer.
William Branigan Named by Pres. Reardon As General Chairman of 1937 Junior Prom
William Branigan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been announced by Scott Reardon, president of the Junior class, as chairman of the Junior Prom, which is to be held on Friday night, Feb. 5, at the Palais Royale.
Jack Wilson, Dillon Hall, has also been announced chairman of a Tea Dance which is to be held Saturday afternoon, Feb. 6, at the Oliver hotel. Dancing will start at 4:00 o’clock and will continue until seven. The orchestra will be announced next week.
The following orchestras have been contacted by the committee: “Red” Nichols, Joe Sanders, “Little Jack”
INALIENABLE RIGHTS WORTH PRESERVING SAYS MR. MANION
•
Professor Clarence Manion, of the Notre Dame Law School, addresses the Notre Dame Club of Detroit tonight, in the second of a series of lectures to be delivered by University professors before this group. “Inalienable Rights—Are They Worth Preserving” will be the topic of Professor Manion’s address.
“The United States is the only country in the world whose government is built upon the express declaration that God plants certain natural and inalienable rights into each human soul at the moment of its crea-
Professor Clarence Manion Enters the strike area.
tion.” Professor Manion explained that the reason for the difference between rights in this country and elsewhere is the procedure known as “Judicial Revue.”
Despite the fact that much criticism has been directed against this procedure, Professor Manion expressed the belief that it should continue. For, he points out, that since “these rights come from God, no majority of our fellow citizens should be given the right to take them away.” “The procedure of the judicial revue has frequently been used unfortunately by overzealous judges attempting to cany out the veiy letter of the law.”
Little and Barney Rapp. In all probability one of these will be selected and will be announced in the next issue.
The Junior Prom song, which is written each year by a member of the Junior class especially for this occasion, has been written for 1937 by George Sautar.	•
The price of the ticket for the Prom will be $5.00 and for the Tea Dance $2.50.
Plans are being made for those going to the Tea Dance to attend the University of Illinois - Notre Dame basketball game that night with their guests.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
PLANTATION SINGERS1 FIRST CONCERT
SCORES HIT
•
Scoring a decided hit the Plantation Singers, a colored quartet composed of Albert Cobb, tenor; Richard Smith, tenor and pianist; Howard Hall, baritone; and Charles Younger, bass, presented their program before an enthusiastic audience in Washington Hall Tuesday night. Their repe-toire featured a selection of mixed humorous, spiritual, and p o p u 1 ar songs, several piano solos and a recitation.
Members of the quartet are from the Elsworth Conservatory of Music, Iowa City, Iowa. While a young organization, they showed much promise and had some very clever arrangements. The audience was so well pleased that the singers were called for encores several times during the evening. Their humorous interpretation of the spiritual numbers was very well liked.
The quartet sang the Negro spirituals “You’d Better Mind”; “My Lord is so High,” “Heaven,” “Do You Call That Religion?” “Swing Low Sweet Chariot,” “When You Sit Down,” “Wheel in a Wheel,” “The Train is Bound for Glory.” The humorous numbers, “The Pie Song,” “Ain’t it a Shame,” “Song of the States,” and the popular selections; “Home on the Range,” “Honey,” and “When Did You Leave Heaven.”
Mr. Hall, baritone, sang a solo, “Twilight on the Trail,” and the bass, Mr. Younger, sang a number of selections including, “Ole’ Man River,” and “Asleep in the Deep.” Proving very popular, the pianist, Mr. Smith, played his own arrangements of “The Rosary; and was called back to play, “When Day is Done,” and Massinet’s “Elegy.” Mr. Cobb’s reading of the poem, “Turning of the Children in the Bed,” completed the program.
Lawyers* Dance
(Continued from Page 3) the Law School has been printed on the face of the cover.
The patrons of the Ball are as follows: Dean Thomas F. Konop, head of the Notre Dame Law School, Mr. William M. Cain, Mr. Homer Q. Earl, Mr. Clarence E. Manion, Mr. Elton E. Richter, Mr. William D. Rollison, Mr. John H. A. Whitman and Mr. William F. Roemer.
Three of the main rooms of the new Biology building at the University of Notre Dame will be air-conditioned to afford an even temperature the year around.
Fulfilling a desire winch he knew and a prophecy which he did not know, he came “East” to school— from out of the West. “Richard Meier, from Faulkton, South Dakota, will arrive,” his superintendent said, 6 feet 2, a cowhide suitcase, and an intellect, “to become a leader in whatever he undertakes.” To date the prophecy unwinds, as four years in retrospect reveal his fulfilment. President of the Wranglers, Director of the Round Table (Professor Down-'
ey’s prodigious Monday Knights), and leader scholastically of the school with an average of 97.6. (Figures show that the probable error in college grading is 2.4).
The prophecy rode in on past achievements, a block of straight A’s, an eagle scout, president of his class for two years, a regional championship in oratory, an epithet, “The best platform speaker for his age in South Dakota.”
He made the debating squad his freshman year, made his keys the • last two; will be the fulcrum on which the squad will swing this year, having teamed with veteran Schmelzle to ■win all debates last year in which they participated.
He keeps the keys on his watch chain, having forced them in between a medal for interhall basketball championship his sophomore year, an Aberdeen Relay medal for running and enough others to obscure the chain. These would not have stooped his • shoulders, however, if he discarded the watch, manufactured—his grandfather couldn’t remember.
Bookworm—impossible. He can’t
U. THEATRE GROOMS FOR YEAR'S FIRST PRODUCTION
The cast for “Whistling in the Dark” the first play to be presented by the University theatrical group has been chosen and rehearsals are in progress each evening in Washington Hall.
Professor A. L. Doyle, in charge of the direction of the play, announced early this week that the major roles were definitely taken but that there was still some doubt as to who would play some of the less important parts. It was expected that these difficulties would be taken care of within the next few days in order that the entire cast might begin work as a unit as soon as possible.
Although the rehearsals have been moving along very rapidly and the early indications point to an excellent performance, Prof. Doyle expressed the doubt that the production could be presented before the semester examinations. However, the date will be set as soon as possible following registration.
The play, a light humorous story of gangster life, is very adaptable to amateur production. Particular care was exercised in the selection of the cast to insure the students an excellent evening’s entertainment.
Virginians Do Minuets, To 'Victory March'
High spotting the holidays for members of the Old Dominion club of Virginia was the dinner-dance held in the Hotel Rueger in Richmond, Tuesday evening, Dec. 29. Johnnie Long and his popular band played for the party.
A large number of alumni and prospective students attended the affair which was in charge of Frank Kelley. This is in line with the policy of the Old Dominion club to promote the interests of the school, Paul Morrison, president, said.
find the time. Heckled by arguers he has become the arbitrator of Sorin-sub altercations—he settles it by convincing the right party that he is wrong, and he can prove it.
He represented Notre Dame in a recent Rosary College Peace Conference. Wrote a speech on Wednesday, memorized it on Thursday, orated on Friday, first created a clamor among his prevalently female audience, then hushed the feminine twitter with the only .blood-and-thunder speech of the day; came out number one emotionalist. Aftermath: invitation by peace lover, President M. Madaleva, C.S.C., to talk at St. Mary’s.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
9
THE WEEK
Before. ...	.
Let’s start at the beginning. On Thursday, Dec. 17, at 5 o’clock in the afternoon, some 200 men boarded the New York special train chartered by the Met Club and the Jersey Club. A special rate had been obtained and there were no berths. Everybody had to stay in the day coaches. Students were the only passengers, so informality reigned. Off with the coats and collars; on with T-shirts, sweatshirts and sweaters. Frantic arrangements were made to convert the seats into makeshift beds. And then, along toward ten o’clock, the minutes dragged and limped. We tried to sleep, but it was useless. Either we froze from window draughts or sweltered from dry heat. The only lighted spot being the diner, we repaired to it, reconciled to the unhappy fact that we would get no sleep that night. We smoked and talked; then, for a change, we talked and smoked. We tried to sleep on a table, but that'didn’t work because our legs blocked the aisle. We borrowed a deck of cards and cheated at solitaire for another hour. We did cross word puzzles, cleaned our nails, tried to guess the names of the waiters, read two newspapers and a magazine. It was only four o’clock. Four or five eons later, the sun rose, but we just slumped lower. Somebody shouted “There’s the Hudson River,” and we know that not even Hendrik Hudson was as glad to see it as we were. Harmon, West Point, Yonkers, Baker Bowl, 125th Street, and at long last, Grand Central Station. Bearded, pale, dirty, tired — if that’s college life, you can have it.
* * ❖
During
A vacation is supposed to be a period for forgetting school and its regulations, for reveling in the privileges and luxuries of home. On our first morning in the old manse we went hog wild, determining to do everything as it couldn’t have been done at school. We arose slowly at eleven, with the delicious knowledge that, if we chose, we needn’t get up at all. Then to eat in pyjamas and a bathrobe. Breakfast was served (a lovely phrase) a treat for the eye and tongue; orange juice, bacon, toast, cocoa. Thirty-five minutes later, full and cheerful, we turned to the morning paper, wondering what the poor folks were doing. Suddenly our little world of comfort blew up. A
By John A. Gillespie
headline on page five stood up and screamed:
MODEL,TROOPER SLATED AS GUARD TO ROOSEVELT
Qualters, Ex-Notre Dame Halfback, Reported As Taking Gennerich’s Post
Instantly we thought of Notre Dame meals and consequent formalities. We fumbled in vain for a necktie. Quickly we dropped our cigarette in a half-emptied cup of cocoa. In the kitchen an alarm clock spoke. We stood up, mumbled grace and walked away—crushed.
* * *
After
Compared with the trip home or any other trip, our journey back to the hinterland was quiet. We left on a Saturday, five days late, and beginning to squirm with the realization of missed classes. There were no friends on the train. Instead, it was full of convention-goers. It seems that there was a convention in Chicago of pin-ball machine salesmen. Four of them sat directly in front of us, talking shop. According to Harry, a young fellow in a grey, chalk-stripe suit, Buffalo is a good territory for a bagatelle machine called Kentucky Derby. Then Clyde, an old man with thick-lensed glasses, but in a boost for Amsterdam. We abandoned the thought of sleeping. The men began, at ten o’clock at night, to play cards, and we kibitzed, passively. They played a little of everything — draw poker, seven card stud, red dog, banker and broker. When we left them at eight-thirty the next morning, there were two winners; Ben, he of the mimicing ability, had gained 35 cents, and Johnny, young and metropolitan, had won $2.25. We heard enough about slot machines and bagatelle games to tell you that you’re licked before you start.
$
Casual Thought
Perhaps you didn’t like the impromptu speech given at the football banquet by the Polish representative, alias Luke Barnett, but we did. There are usually no surprises in the shows, so his contribution was welcome to us.
* * *
Top of the Week
“No, I don’t play football. I make my living honestly.”
MYSTERY RITES MARK MONOGRAM CLUB'S INITIATION
•
The initiation of Monogram Club men, that began last Sunday, will be concluded during this week-end, but the whole situation has been shrouded in deepest mystery except to the privileged members and the dubiously privileged prospective members.
Charles “Bucky” Jordan, the fastest man on the campus by way of picking up his heels and laying his toes into the cinders, released a newsscoop concerning the initiation, but Johnny Lautar, retiring captain of football, spiked it.
It seems that Monogram men have not only to earn the possession of the varsity sweater on the athletic field, but also they must earn the right to wear their property. Veteran Monogram men admit that the license to wear the “N.D.” is tougher to acquire than is the winning of the monogram itself.
Lautar' and Jordan are president and secretary - treasurer respectively of the club, while Joe O’Neill, varsity end, is vice-president.
West Virginian Smoker Successful, Plan More
The West Virginia Club suspended activities before Christmas so successfully with a smoker that the same means will be used to resume activities in the near future. The PreChristmas Smoker was held on Monday, December 14.	■
During the holidays, the club met at Fairmont, West Virginia on Monday, December 30. Nearly 150 members enjoyed to the fullest extent the banquet and dance given in that city under the auspices of the club. Walt Shrader, president of the club, was in charge of the arrangements.
Next Friday Deadline For "Scrip" Writers
Editor Phil Welsh has set Friday, Jan. 22 as the deadline for material to be published in the second edition of Scrip, University literary quarterly. Scrip then will make its appearance for the second time on Jan. 29.
Featured by the editorial staff will be a group of critical essays by Gilbert Keith Chesterton, late British author and eminent Catholic writer; and several literary sketches composed by members of the freshman class.
Increased attention to literary reviews of literature and drama will be featured in Editor Welsh’s second publication.	•
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
CALENDAR
Friday, January 15
Scholastic meeting, editorial staff, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m.; Dinner, American Society of Metals, 6:30 pan., Lay Faculty Dining Room, meeting, Engineers auditorium, 8:00 p.m., address by Dr. Edgar C. Bain; Lawyers’ Ball, Palais Royale, Keith Beecher and his orchestra, 9:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m.
Saturday, January 16
Movies, Washington hall, first show for Freshman begins at 6:40 p.m.
Sunday, January 17
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m., St. Vincent de Paul meeting, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall.
Monday, January IS
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; S. A. C. meeting, north basement of Library, 6:30 p.m.; Basketball game, Varsity vs. Syracuse, University Gym, 8:00 p.m.; Band concert at game begins 7:30 p.m.; Chemistry Forum Radio series, 7:30 p.m., Station WSBT.
Tuesday, January 19
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Italian club meeting, Carroll “Rec,” 7:45 p.m.
Wednesday, January 20
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Bookmen meeting, Hurley Hall of Commerce, 7:45 p.m.
Thursday, January 21
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.
SAC Scholarship Prizes Awarded Freshmen
Tom Mulligan, appointed by S.A.C. President Philip Bondi to distribute the annual S.A.C. prizes for scholarship, announced this week that $25.00 was forwarded during the Christmas vacation to each of the following:
Donald K. Duffey, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, for the highest scholastic average of the freshmen in the College of Engineering last year, 95.15%.
Lyle W. Russel, of Tiskilwa, Hl., for the highest average of the freshmen.in Science last year, 93.66%.
Aurelius J. Rizzi, of Lead, S. Dak., for the highest in freshman Commerce last year, 93.50%.
Frederick J. Digby, of New Orleans, La., for the grade of 95.08% —the highest for freshmen in Arts and Letters.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
The Typical American Rut
If you spend most of your leisure time in listening to the radio, playing cards, reading the newspapers, and going to the movies you have, according to a professor at Northwestern University, fallen into the typical American rut of leisure time activity. These pastimes, along with party going and motoring, are the favorite pleasures of adult America today. The Northwestern professor bases his assertion on the results of an eight-year survey of American recreational activities.
Installment Plan Dances
Dances on the installment plan are the latest craze at Oregon State University. Men are admitted to each sorority house on that school’s campus for five cents every evening that there is a dance and for this amount they are entitled to 15 minutes of shuffling. Each house dance lasts about three hours and since there are 12 sororities an Oregon State man can, if he wishes to do so, dance all evening for 60 cents and the waste of a bit of shoe leather.
Of Interest to Engineers
A calculator designed to solve the most difficult of engineering problems has recntly been completed by Dr. . John B. Wilbur of M.I.T. This little gadget (pardon the A.B. disparagement) weighs one ton and has more than 13,000 parts. Complete production of this calculator took nearly three years, and it is capable of solving an equation in nine unknowns.
In Passing—
Through various educational and clinical agencies associated with it Northwestern University rendered direct service to more than 500,000 Illinois citizens in 1936 . . . More than 1,000 of America’s most prominent historians assembled in Providence Rhode Island recently for the 51st annual meeting of the American Historical Society. Brown University acted as general host to the assembled historians . . . From the St. Norbert Times “Never flash your money before a girl. More than one guy has been taken for a fish because he showed a fin”. . . . Congratulations sincere to The Tattler staff of the College of New Rochelle for the make-up of their Christmas issue. . . And to all best wishes for a Happy New | Year. May 1937 be “As You Like It.” I
BOOKMEN START NEW YEAR; TALK PLANS WEDNESDAY
•
The campus Bookmen, under President Robert A. McGrath, Dillon Hall, and Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, adviser, have arranged a business meeting as •the semester finale to take place on Wednesday evening, January 19. To be called in the former commerce library, Hurley Hall of Commerce, the meeting will be ■ the last act of the Bookmen until the second semester.
The pre-holiday social of the Bookmen at the Campbell residence in South Bend was enlivened by literary discourses on the part of William Thomas Mahoney and John Schem-mer.
Mahoney dealt with “Bad Parents Garden of Verse,” by Ogden Nash, treating it in much the humorous and light vein in which the author wrote it. Schemmer analyzed the “Need of Higher Learning,” by Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago. Schemmer delivered a minute analysis, during which he introduced the contemporary criticism of Mr. Hutchins’ work, and then went oh to explain his opinion of the critics’ collective opinions.
In conclusion Mr. Campbell extemporized upon the morality of books, giving a set of standards binding moral literature.
Wranglers Again Seek Prep School Orators
The Notre Dame Wranglers voted again to sponsor the Indiana Catholic Oratorical Contest this year.
President Richard H. Meier stated that invitations will be extended to all Catholic high schools in the state. The orations, ten minutes in length, may be on any subject. In the past, Joseph P. McNamara has awarded medals for the three best orations.
Meier said that the contest is held “to encourge forensics in Catholic high schools of the state.” Last year there were six entrants.
This is the third year for the contest, which will be held some time in April or May.
Prepare Debate
“Is there a God?” is the question which will be debated next by the 28 members of Notre Dame’s Chesterton Society, organized debaters of Apologetics. All members of the group are preparing on either side of the question; speakers to lead the discussion will be announced soon. The debate will be held early in February.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
Before formally introducing 1937 let us briefly review 1936 and see if we cannot announce a few notations that will cause a chuckle here and there—if you don’t like them see your Congressman, at least it will take his mind off the Social Security Act.
Some Superlatives of 1936.
Most Exciting Athletic Events— Notre Dame - Ohio State football game. The year was fittingly closed when but with a few hours left of the old year, Notre Dame’s five defeated Northwestern 24 to 23.
Best Sports Writers—Gene Vaslett of the Scholastic and Damon Runyon.
Biggest Mystery — Bob Alberts (Alumni).
Best Monday Morning Quarterbacks— Shakespeare (Alumni) Red White (Walsh).
Best Politician — Bill McNally (Alumni) but like Hamilton he is the forgotten man.
Boy Most Likely to Succeed—Bill Tunney (Walsh).
Best All Around Commentator— Phil Hoene (Dillon).
Best Dressed Man—Ed “Punchy” Huisking (Walsh).
Loudest Thing on the Campus— Notre Dame Band, beg pardon—Arnold Lunn’s radio.
Most Missed Mortal—Miller Mallett.
Most Unfortunate Event — Exaggerated cab fare.
Likeliest Screen Discovery — Joe Beinor. (Badin).	.
Now for some chatter by that vexatious man who returns to again gladden a few hearts and redden a few faces. Round and round he goes where he will stop nobody knows, not even himself. Here come a few more > of those—
THUMBNAILS: Joe Casasanta, Il Duchin. . . Morrie Daughton (Alumni) lost in his shuffle. . . . Tony Serge. (Alumni) a soft-nosed bullet... Harry Baldwin (Sorin) glasses, teeth, and checkered clothes. . . Justin McCann (Alumin) a pipe-smoking pelican. . . Bill Whalen (Alumni) “How they gawin’?”. ... J. Edgar Hoover (Washington) G-whiz. . . . Chick Levicki (Sorin) Papa Treetop Tall ....
Cookie Moss (Cavanaugh) should go out for water polo—what a splash he made coming back, not knowing of
course that he was observed. . . Hats off to that genial gentleman who took his aunt to the Met Club dance, none other than Bill Arnold (Lyons). . . Jimmie Myers (Alumni) has made it known that he is buying a new suit, many of us have been wondering when he was going to do this—the next thing is how will he pay for it— with that Masonic Membership Card? . . .H. Schmidt (Dillon) somehow or other spent $125 New Year’s Eve, we think maybe he’s bragging, what do you think?. . . Bill Quirk and Butch Bruno (Sorin) were co-chairmen of the New Jersey dance and it was a financial success—we’d like to read the report when it’s turned in.
Parker Sullivan (Walsh.) has always thought a lot of Lexington, Ky., he thinks enough of it now to be seriously considering moving there, and he doesn’t like horses. . . E. J. Peter (Walsh) visited Bernie Niezer in Ft. Wayne over the holidays and found that Bernie’s cousin was as popular-as Bernie. ... Ed Manley (Cavanaugh) after months of boasting finally got that desk inspiration—we’ll bet it was a Xmas gift. . . To the rascal that stuffed Jim Shiely (Cavanaugh) keyhole with matches we send scallions—a poor joke but what
“Imagine . . . Crepe Suzette on two!”
can one expect from Cavanaugh hall? . . .John Metcalf (Alumni) is running around paying off q-aite a few bets—won’t some one tell us why? ... Bill McNally, (Alumni) that’s twice in this edition, but this is good. . . Bill was gently reminded in Child’s Chow Inn (New York) to settle up before he settled down. . .
Not given to finding fault with the students this colxmn does not criticize or find fault with anyone, but a trifle of admonition in this case we feel won’t be amiss—Chivalry is not a thing of the past we hope, but after witnessing a few incidents we wonder. It seems only right to remind a certain few would be scholars and strong men that when an aged lady boards a street car, the only gentlemanly thing to do and that will be tolerated is to relinquish a seat in her favor. Nuff sed. . .
A few resolutions that should have been made—Mr. Howard (Cafeteria) to get a new toaster. . . Joe Druecker (Walsh), Bill Quirk (Alumni) to take the Thomas treatment for hair. . . So as one guy said to another some people cause happiness wherever they go, others whenever they go we leave you until the next issue. . .
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during- the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.
PAUL FOLEY.............
CYRIL F. STROKER.......
.....Faculty Adviser .Editor-in-Chief .Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie_________________________________The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle____________________________CoHege Parade
John Hurley Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan_________________________“Scholastic of the Air"
Netos Staff
Louis DaPra_____________________________________Netos Editor
Harold A. Williams____________________Assistant	Netos Editor
Michael Mongoven____________________________Frank Reilly
Richard Riley_____________________________Robert McClain
George Haithcock________________________Vincent	de Coursey
Frederick Sisk_____________________________John	Callaghan
Thomas Marker_____________________________James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes______________________________Graham Starr
Vincent W. Hartnett]________________________Literary Editors
Harold A. Williams j
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett____________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe__________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride  ----------------------------Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby_______________________________John Clifford
Charles Callahan_________________________William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott-----------------------------------James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger___________________________________Art Editor
William R. Dooley, ’26----------------------Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
in some cases very young people, are being given positions of considerable trust, particularly in governmental agencies. These educators seem to feel this speaks well for youth and for the nation.
Youth has always been the period of gathering experience, it should remain such. It is useless and wasteful to expect the youth of a nation, meagerly equipped with the necessary experience to step into responsible positions and carry them off for the eventual good of everyone concerned. It is true that the bubbling optimism of a young person, the almost inexhaustible physical and mental energy which he possesses can often lend him enough assistance to make a fine record. But what of the load such a youth is carrying? Is it reasonable to suppose that he will be as full, as well rounded in later life—ready to give sound, mature judgments for many years? It seems wasteful and ignorant to pour youth’s energies away so lavishly simply to get a job done quickly.
It can be truly said that the blossoms of today will be the savior of next year’s apple crop—but no one would suggest pressing cider from the blossoms simply because they are lusty, robust and youthful. It is common sense to let the fruit ripen naturally, to allow its youth to contribute soundly and valuably to the matured fruit so that it will have the mellow fullness it might have lost through haste.
Youth has a definite job. Youth’s proper job is to prepare itself for a useful and happy life; to prepare itself in such a way that by careful, unhurried development, the individual can be useful and valuable to himself and society. This job is not easy. Education, careful thought, healthy recreation, systematic formation of good habits of mind and body—these are some of the blocks that must be carefully hewed and fitted into a solid foundation for youth’s later life.
It would be a sorrowful day when a nation forgot its youth—but it will also be a sorrowful one when a nation hopes to harness its youths too quickly to burdens they are yet unable to bear.
Vol. 70	January 15, 1937	No. 12
ON YOUTH MOVEMENTS ...
FROM every side orators, writers, editors, and amateur lookers after the public welfare having been dinning home the message that “Youth must save the nation.” This, in some manner or other, has been preached for many years, but in the past five years the so - called “youth movements” have gathered terrific momentum.
In one sense nobody can deny that youth is the eventual savior of the nation. It is after all, the age old bromide that the “youth of today must bear the burdens of tomorrow”— in this sense it is ridiculous to deny youth its role as savior. But many of the modem blowers of youth’s trumpet seem to be of a very different mind.
There has been a growing tendency on the part of clubs, organizations, schools, and especially parents, to jump to the conclusion that youth should do its saving today. Nothing could be further from the truth—nothing could be more injurious to youth.
At a recent New York session of public school board members much was made of the fact that young people,
A NEW PACKAGE ...
THE NEW year is just over two weeks old. . . something of a critical period for resolutions and recuperation from holiday festivities. Whatever resolutions are still left will probably be able to ease along at least until Saint Patrick’s Day, and whatever recuperation has not yet been performed will have to be skipped.
The new year at Notre Dame will see new progress physically and intellectually, yet it has been the signal for closing of one of our most successful and eventful years. 1936 brought many blessings and much toil—it was a fruitful year in every sense—but for many, 1937 looks even brighter.	.
Belatedly, but secure in the knowledge of sincerity, The Scholastic wishes and prays that every Notre Dame man of past and present enjoys a year full of peace, happiness and prosperity. During this year many present Notre Dame men will become “grads,” many new faces will appear here and many alumni 'will step up to a higher institution. ... in the transition Notre Dame usually gains from the experience of years. 1937 should bring a bright new stanza to our epic poem of progress.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
13
Down the River Rhine »	»	» By Robert Mullen
Editor’s Note: This is the third in a series of European sketches to be written for THE SCHOLASTIC from Heidelberg, Germany, by Robert Mullen. Mullen was a sophomore here last year and was awarded a scholarship to study in Germany. In this article he tells of the last stage of his journey to Heidelberg, down the famous scenic Rhine river.
Two majestic needles of lacy architecture piercing the sky. A magnificent and almost unbelievable creation of man, I feasted my eyes on that majestic spectacle—the Cathedral of Cologne. Silhouetted against the evening sky it was to me one of the most awe inspiring of man’s creations I have ever seen. Only divine inspiration and fervor could have led man to mould and fashion this glorious tribute to his Creator. I was sorry then that I had not come earlier in the day, for a more thorough inspection of the Cathedral had to be delayed until the following morning.
Cologne itself is a very modern city. It was not at all like I had expected it to be. Because of its extremely modem atmosphere it seemed somewhat out of place with the medieval setting. Nevertheless my short stay here was very pleasant. That evening — September 13 to be exact — I decided to have a look at the "town by night.” I was very eager to see the Cathedral, but since my hotel was quite a distance from it, I took a street car. When I thought I must be quite near my destination I got off and blithely started walking. After a half hour of this I was convinced that somebody—perhaps myself—had made a mistake. No cathedral was in sight, I had no idea where I was— and so I was forced to make inquiries, My good Samaritan finally managed to understand me—I was to keep walking straight ahead. Fifteen minutes later I was standing in front of the Dome. It was too late and dark now to get a good view of the Cathedral. After this I was quite puzzled about this seeming “mystery of distance.” When I returned to my hotel I secured a good map of the town and made up my mind to solve this puzzle. It didn’t take long. The particular street car I took, instead of going in one direction, makes a complete circle of the town. I had gotten off the tram on the other side of the circle — the wrong side of
course! At least the exercise did me good.
Early the next morning (Sept. 14) I was on my way to really “see” the Cathedral. To try to describe this masterpiece of Gothic art is far beyond my power. Even to try to describe my reaction is by no means an easy task. But this much I can say— the moment I stepped into that House of God and looked slowly upwards to the ceiling—ever so far away—I felt as if I were being lifted bodily off the floor. The whole structure blends into a perfect harmony of gracefully wrought pillars, all soaring heavenward. Everything flows upwards, upwards—and one’s thoughts are ir-resistably carried along in that same beautiful stream. The whole effect is such that one is almost forced to “lift one’s heart and soul to God.” To add to all this glory the soft morning light filtered through the stained-glass windows and flooded the interior with prismatic colors. So serene, so quiet, so divinely awe inspiring! I knew I could never comprehend all this glory, but I was humbly thankful that to me was given this never-to-be-forgotten privilege. And that which adds to its impressiveness is the fact that the Cathedral, as it stands today, is essentially the same as planned in the fourteenth century. The foundation stone was laid in 1248 and 632 years later—in 1880—the completion of the Cathedral was solemnly celebrated! I made up my mind then that before I sailed for home I would return here and again partake of this feast of beauty and perfection.
£ V £
There was no necessity of my rushing on to Heidelberg, so I decided to take the trip to Mainz, down the Rhine instead of by train. That was one of the best decisions I have ever made. I had had my trunk shipped directly from Bremen to Heidelberg and with only two suitcases to bother about, I was travelling quite comfortably. The river boat left Cologne about 11:00 a.m. and did not reach Coblenz until 5:00 p.m. Travelling in this direction the boat is going against the current, and consequently slower. The two spires of the Cathedral riveted my attention. They dominated the entire scene, and I sat gazing at them until the passed out of view.
But now there were many more interesting things to come. With the help of my “Baedeker”—an invaluable guide to travellers—I began to study the surroundings. Passing un
der a handsome bridge we came to Bonn, the birthplace of Beethoven. From the boat the lofty tower of the Muensteer, the beautiful residences, the University buildings and their well kept grounds formed a very attractive picture. We then entered a very picturesque portion of the river. Above Koenigswinter the ruins of the Drachenfels rise. Erected in the 12th century the old castle is famous for its legend of Siegfried and the dragon. It is said that Siegfried killed the dragon here and after bathing himself in its blood became invulnerable. Many times as a child I had read of castles, knights, drawbridges and moats, but those were things only to be imagined—they belonged to the realm of fancy. Call it romantic or whatever you will, but I actually “got a thrill” when I saw those imposing, eerie old ruins. With a little imagination, supplemented by my “Baedeker,” I enjoyed a “show” the like of which I had never as yet experienced.
Approximately half way to Coblenz is the picturesque town of Remagen dominated by the Gothic four-towered Apollinaris Church. This spot is also the setting of an interesting legend. In 1164 Frederich Barbarossa is said to have presented tthe head of the highly revered St. Apollinaris, Bishop of Ravenna, to Archbishop Reinaid von Dasseel of Cologne, who was in the act of conveying it to Cologne, when by some miraculous agency the vessel stopped in the middle of the river at this point. It was impossible to proceed until the head of the holy man had been safely deposited in a chapel on the Apollinarisberg.
It is not to be thought that these were the only interesting “sights” of the trip. Everywhere were mountains crowned with picturesque old ruins, colorful villages dotted the landscape, and the mountain sides were literally blanketed with vineyards. One might have been disappointed by the rain, but to my mind it gave the whole scene a ghost-like appearance which fitted in perfectly with the colorful and romantic setting.
About 4:45 I had my first glimpse of Coblenz. On the left was the imposing fortress of Ehrenbreitstein, opposite which was the influx of the Moselle, with the entire scene being dominated by the imposing Emperor William Monument. If this'day was so extremely fascinating what would the morrow be like when I would pass through the most picturesque and interesting part of the Rhine Valley— Coblenz to Mainz?
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
7 ATHLETICS
SCHOLASTIC SOON TO SPONSOR THE SIXTH ANNUAL AMATEUR BOXING TOURNEY; PROCEEDS TO BENGAL MISSIONS
Promoter Jim Waldron announced this week that the sixth annual Bengal Boxing Show, sponsored by The Scholastic, will be held early this March as a climax to the Notre Dame Dame winter sports program.
As in other years the Bengal Bouts are expected to bring out the finest boxing talent in the University. Last year eight champions were crowned from the fifty-odd aspirants to the title, and as rewards they received the heavy sweaters emblematic of their titles. The runners-up received light sweaters in recognition of their participation in the final bouts.
Four of the eight champions of last year have left school, and their
Promoter Jim Waldron “The Greatest Srow on Earth”
titles remain open to anyone good enough to win them. The other four champions will be on hand once more to defend their laurels and possibly retain the University championship they won last year.'
Entry in the bouts is open to everyone. Freshmen have always been prominent in Bengal competition, and this year* is expected to be no exception. Every final bout but one had a freshman competing in it last year, and six of the titles were won by first-year men.
The Bouts last year were a huge success, and Waldron plans to make this year’s bouts better than ever. A famous personality of the boxing world will appear at the fights as honorary referee, and there will also be a comedy act on the order of the hilarious Connor - Tancredi wrestling match of last year. .
Previous experience is unnecessary. Unknowns have appeared every year to win a title without any boxing experience except that gained in the Bengal Bouts to aid them. A com-
(Continued on Page 22)
IRISH ADD MINNESOTA DRAKE AND ILLINOIS TO GRID LINEUP
•
1937 SCHEDULE
Oct. 2—Drake at Notre Dame. Oct. 9—Illinois at Champaign. Oct. 16—Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh.' Oct. 23—Navy at Notre Dame.
Oct. 30—Minnesota at Minneapolis. Nov. 6—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame. Nov. 13—Army at New York.
Nov. 20—Northwestern at Evanston.
Nov. 27—Southern California at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame apparently has a tradition for arranging “suicide schedules,” and Captain-elect Joe Zwers and his mates will find the 1937 program no exception. A total of nine game are listed for next fall with four contests being played at home and five on opponents’ gridiron.
Three newcomers are added to the Irish card for the coming season ineluding: a resumption of athletic relations with Drake, after a lapse of five years, in the opening encounter on Oct. 2; Illinois at Champaign, on Oct. 9; and Minnesota’s national champions at Minneapolis, on Oct. 20.
Navy will journey to Notre Dame for the first time since the stadium’s dedication, in 1930. The meeting with Pitt will mark the last battle with the Smoky City aggregation since the recent series was inaugurated six years ago.
The most difficult part of the campaign for Coach Elmer Layden’s proteges will start with the Navy game, and for five consecutive week ends Notre Dame will play the nation’s outstanding elevens. The scene of the Northwestern fracas shifts to Evanston after having been enacted here on the local grid for two straight years. Southern California’s Trojans will close one of the toughest schedules that has ever been attempted by a Notre Dame squad, here on Nov. 27.
IRISH FENCING TEAM PREPARES TO MEET NORTHWESTERN
By John F. Clifford
The Notre Dame fencing team, under the tutelage of Professor Pedro de Landero, travels to- Evanston tomorrow to meet the swordsmen of Northwestern, and at the same time to usher in what is hoped to be the third consecutive season of undefeated fencing at Notre Dame. Since
Coach Pedro de Landero His Men Are Rarely Foiled.
this will be the first test for both teams much of what will be shown on Saturday will serve as the criterion in estimating the success of the squads in ensuing matches.
The Wildcats’ chances of victory will depend upon the ability of the four returning veterans. Captain Jim Neal, epee star of the ’Cats, promises to keep the Big Ten Championship in that event in Evanston. Harry Gilhes, who graduated last year, won the title previously. Friedman will be the mainstay in the foils. He placed third in the Big Ten Conference meet last year. Several Northwestern sophomores are expected to see action tomorrow, and though they have not had much experience their coach hopes that they will give a creditable performance.
There still remains over the Irish team a great question mark, which, tomorrow Coach de Landero hopes will straighten out to an exclamation point that will startle future opponents. Only three veterans from last year’s team have returned this season. They are Captain Telmo de Landero, Jack McAuliffe, and Bob Seco. These veterans will make up a strong foils team and will have Gene Kiefer or Joe Leising ready to
(Continued on Page 17)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
15
ELECT ZWERS LEADER OF 1937 EDITION OF GRID TEAM
KEOGANITES TO PLAY STRONG SYRACUSE TEAM IN NOTRE DAME GYM MONDAY NIGHT IRISH SEEK SECOND WIN IN SERIES
Coach Elmer Layden counted the last vote and turned around to announce to an eager squad that Joe Zwers had been elected football cap-' tain for the 1937 season. After the applause had quieted down Joe managed to stammer forth with a speech of acceptance and then began to re-
Joe Zwers O’Brien’s First Captain.
ceive the handshakes of his teammates. This event took place last Monday noon in order that the new captain could be introduced at the banquet held that night.
The Joe who is Zwers (apologies to Costin) is a fellow that everyone likes to know. To the outsider he is quiet and unassuming but to his friends he is an ardent funmaker as any of the lads on the fourth floor of Walsh will testify. He shares a huge triple room with yodeler Tom Cassidy and his eminent manager Ray McGrath.
The recently honored Mr. Zwers is a proud native of Grand Rapids, Mich, where he was bom 21 years ago. Now he stands six feet tall and weighs 180 which is a far cry from his infancy when he was an incubator baby. Joe entered Catholic Central High School in Grand Rapids where he played the first football of his life. For three years he was a member of the varsity, earning All-City and AllState honors in his last two years. It was only in his last season that he changed from a tackle into an end. He proved to be no slouch on the basketball court carrying on as center for two years and as captain in his final season. Joe will always be proud of the football season through which his team played when he was a senior. Catholic Central was scored on only once all season while they themselves pushed over close to 250 points.
.About ten years ago Joe made his (Continued on Page 23)
NETMEN BEAT BUTLER AND KENTUCKY BY
CLOSE SCORES
•
By John F. Clifford
Having fully recovered from a preChristmas vacation slump, the Notre Dame basketball five carried on in the New Year victory column once again by thumping the Kentucky Colonels, 41-28, on their own court on Jan. 5th, and by nosing out a fine Butler team, 25-24, on Jan. 9th in the field house. From these two victories Coach George Keogan feels that he has actualized all the power that had been previously potential and dormant in the squad.
Before a capacity crowd of over 10,000 fans in the Kentucky gym the Irish continued where they left off defeating Northwestern a few nights previous. The Colonels were undefeated up to this game, but the No-wak-Moir combination soon demonstrated how Kentucky was to be beaten. The lanky center dropped the ball into the hoop seven times from all parts of the court and scored four free throws to lead the scoring for the evening with 18 points. Johnny Moir, sporting his head-gear which was something new in basketball wear* for the Kentucky fans, tallied three times from the floor and four times from the foul line. His ten points made him second highest scorer.	y
At half-time the Irish were leading ' 28-9, an indication as to the ease with which the Keoganites romped through the game. The team really clicked on the fifth of January and showed the Kentuckians how an All-American team can pass, shoot and cover. Captain Ray Meyer and Earle Brown, a sophomore guard, figured prominently in this initial defeat of Kentucky.
The next Saturday night the team did not win as handily as was anticipated. It was a scrappy, spirited Butler outfit that put a scare into the local club throughout the game, and walked off the court at the final gun regretting the loss of such a close game, but confident that they put up a good battle—perhaps one of the toughest the Irish shall have encountered all season.
Johnny Moir, discarding his helmet (Continued on Page 21)
By Mark J. Mitchell
On Monday night Coach Lew Andreas will bring his undefeated Syracuse University five to the Notre Dame fieldhouse, to see what can be done about that embarrassing occurrence last year when the Irish whipped another undefeated Syracuse team 46 to 43 on their home floor.
Notre Dame, after a disastrous slump occasioned by sickness and injury, seems to be returning gradually to the form shown in the first few games. Moir played the last half of the Butler game sans headguard, and thereby benefitted his shooting immensely. Ray Meyer’s leg has improved, but Eddie Sadowski, by his great floor work, has all but supplanted the captain.
Paul Nowak’s recent performances have been little short of beautiful. Tom Jordan and Earl Brown have
John Mom
Broken Jaws Can’t Stop Him.
\ handled the guard posts capably, the ' latter having risen rapidly since the ciose of the football season. Wukovits is also a smooth, steady defense man, although his shooting has not been up to that of Brown and Jordan.
The “S-men” are so-called, because every man in the starting lineup carries a monicker beginning with the letter “S.” Bob Stewart and Wilmeth Sidat-Singh, both sophomores, have won the forward posts by their steady play and accurate shooting. The latter is only 18 years old, and is said to be the only Hindu playing intercollegiate basketball.
At center, our Mr. Nowak will have something very large to take care of. His name is Ed Sonderman. He is a senior, standing six feet six inches, and weighs a measly 210 pounds.. He was high scorer on last (Continued on Page 21)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
INTRODUCING ^^y^
IRISH DIVIDE HONORS
WITH NOR'WESTERN
IN TWO CONTESTS
The history of Notre Dame basketball is replete with many extraordinary events and personalities. Such events as tie games, great one point victories, and nationally famous teams coupled with such personalities as the Crowe clan, “Moose” Krause, Voegele, DeCook, Ford and others have made basketball
at Notre Dame as famous as her football teams.
you that Ray possesses everything a Notre Dame
at all for Notre Dame because of his knee injury.
This year we have an extraordinary event and a a personality combined to give us a basketball captain who is not a senior, as has always been the custom, but a junior in the person of Ray Meyer of Chicago, Ill.
It was contrary to all tradition and custom at Notre Dame when Ray was elected captain of this year’s great team. Likewise it was mystifying to outsiders that a Sophomore, who had played only in the early part of the season and had been rather seriously injured in the game with Pittsburgh should be elected captain of the team. But those on the inside will tell you readily why Ray was chosen to lead Moir, Nowak, Jordan, Wukovitz and Co. They tell captain should have. He’s
a fighter and a leader. That’s why his teammates elected him at a time when there was some doubt as to whether or not he would be able to play basketball
Now that we have seen Ray in action all doubts have been removed from our mind whether his knee would handicap him and all doubts have left everybody’s mind concerning his leadership ability.
Bom and reared in Chicago, Ray started playing basketball at Quigley Preparatory Seminary. He played one year there then transferred to St. Patrick’s where he finished his high school career. Ray was a regular on the St. Pat team that won the National Catholic Championship of 1932 in the Loyola tournament. He played against many of the boys who were later to join him at Notre Dame in this tournament. Marty Peters, John Ford, George Ireland, and Don Allen were all on opposing teams that St. Pat’s conquered.
Ray was high score man of the entire tournament and put the final game “in the bag” for his school by an exhibition of really great basketball. The other finalist was St. Mel’s a team which had Don Allen playing with it. With but four minutes to go St. Mel’s was leading St. Pat’s by five points when our Meyer boy went on a spree and sunk three hook shots in rapid succession to put St. Pat’s in the lead and hand them the National Championship.
Fulfilling a life ambition Ray entered Notre Dame, in 1934 and started playing with what is now the first string team of Nowak, Moir, Jordan, Wukovitz and Meyer. He started sensationally in his Sophomore year along with his four mates but was stopped by the unfortunate knee injury in the Pittsburgh game. He tried hard to play in a few, of the following games but it was no use and Ray had to retire for the rest of the season.
This year with his knee still encased in bandages he has been playing a bang up game at forward. It was Ray in early days of this season who held a tottering first string together as he sparked them through to the first victories of the year and convinced all skeptics that his injury wasn’t going to (Continued on Page 18)
Notre Dame and Northwestern this season broke even in their annual basketball series. Northwestern won the first game, 38 to 19; and Notre Dame took the second, 24 to 23.
Northwestern led by Mike McMichael, high scoring forward, won the first encounter by a 38 to 19 score in a game played before a capacity crowd in the local fieldhouse on Dec. 16. The Irish were not at their full strength because of injuries and illness and succumbed to a fast-passing, quick-breaking band of Wildcats.
Northwestern went into the lead early in the game and held it throughout despite the heroic efforts of Captain Meyers and his cohorts. The game threatened to turn into a rout until Coach Dutch Lonborg began inserting substitutes in the late stages of the game.
The game at Northwestern’s Patten gymnasium on New Year’s Eve was a different story. Before a gala holiday crowd of 6,000 fans, the Irish unleashed a furious last half attack that overcame an 11 point lead and tamed the tottering Wildcats 24 to 23.
The Irish played lethargically in the first half and were on the short end of a 16 to 9 score at half time. For five minutes of the second half Northwestern dominated the play and ran the score up to an impressive 22 to 11. Then the Irish, sparked by the reappearance of Moir in the lineup, suddenly came to life with a sparkling offensive drive.
With Moir, Nowak, and Sadowski popping them in from all angles the Irish came within striking distance and forged ahead when Jordan intercepted a Northwestern pass and dribbled downcourt to score the winning goal from 15 feet out. Sadowski with five baskets to his credit led the scorers. Defensive honors went to Earl Browne, sophomore guard, who held the touted McMichaels to three free throws and two baskets.
Marylanders Postpone Club Activities
The Maryland-District Club gathered together in the Wardman-Park Hotel in Washington, D.C. on Monday, December 28, for their annual Christmas celebration. Tables were reserved and the club members enjoyed an evening of dancing and entertainment.
Activities of the club will be suspended until after the examination period.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
17
THINLIES PRACTICE UNDER NICHOLSON
FOR MEETS
•
The Irish thinlies returned to the fold well rested and in good condition after the vacation, and are now engaging in strenuous daily practice sessions.
The track schedule, pending official sanction from the University Athletic Board, has not yet been released by Director Elmer Layden. In all probability the first meet will be early in February against Indiana.
Although the loss of such stars as last year’s Captain Meagher, Bernard, McFarlane, Rubly, Elser, and Frawley will be seriously felt by Coach Nicholson, remaining vetefans and promising newcomers give evidence that the Irish will have a strong aggregation.
Captain Jordan and Boyle can be counted upon for points in the dashes. In the hurdles the sophomore sensation of last season, Mahoney, will be assisted by several newcomers. Cavanagh, Sheehan, and Parsons will have to be at top form to hold their posts in the middle distances against competition from last year’s freshman and other squad men who did not earn strating positions last season. Nick seems to be well fortified in the distances with such men as Francis, Gott, McKenna, Kenyon, Hennessy, and the sophomores Szu-machowski and Rice.
Lill and Levicki will take over the major burden in the shot put while Gibbs and Langton will be back at their old posts in the pole vault. The high jump seems to be an open affair with only English returning.
Fencing Team
(Continued from Page U) step in for them if anything should go wrong.
All these men from last year’s team will see double duty tomorrow because of the lack of experience among the other members of the squad. However, as has happened before, there will probably be quite a few men from the newcomers that will step into first string jobs before the season is over. The new men who will see action this year are Jack Zerbst, Sal Scarlata, Pierre de la Vergne, and Charles Colgan.
On the eve of their match with the Wildcats Captain Telmo de Landero is reported to have said that the Irish will “need all the luck in the world to come out ahead.”
PITT PANTHER TEAM CONQUERS NOTRE DAME IN LAST HALF RALLY BY 34-31 SCORE IRISH LEAD MELTS UNDER SCORING
By John Cackley
The Panthers jinx reasserted itself again Thursday night, when Pitt eked out a 34-31 victory over Notre Dame in the Smoky City, before 4,000 spectators, in the first of a home-and-home series between the two schools.
Pepper Garcia was the main difficulty encountered by the Irish, as the
ON DOWN THE UNE
By Mike Crowe
LES SCARSELLA, Cincinnati first basemen, is spending the off season working in a dynamite factory at Pinole, California. He is expected to be one of the leading sluggers in the National league this year.
NAT HOLMAN, C.C.N.Y. basketball mentor who has had fine success with shifting zone defense, says that the man-to-man defense has helped the games’ color and, in his opinion, is “the only defense.”
Ninety-nine per cent of college grid teams now wear satin sink pants.
HANK GREENBERG, Detroit first sacker, has been ordered not to play handball. Physicians fear that he might crash into a wall and refracture one of the two wrist bones previously broken.
JAMES KEARNS of the Chicago Daily News felt sorry for Washingtons’ All American left guard in the Rose Bowl game against Pittsburgh. According to Kearns, MAX STAR-CEVICH was pushed all over the field by Averill Daniel, Pitt’s great tackle.
AL SCHACHT has been appointed Pacific Coast League clown for 1937. He has been connected -with the American League for a long time. Schacht will be employed by the eight clubs, working a week in each city.
Many fans wondered why AUGIE GALAN didn’t play his best ball last year. There is a rumor that some of the Cubs were playing the horses, and Galan was supposed to be one of the offenders.
How about this record! CHICK DAVIES has been coaching basketball for 13 years and in no season has his team lost more than three games. His Duquesne team takes particular delight in the upsetting of COACH CARLSON’S Pittsburgh netters.
INWOOD SMITH, Ohio State’s star guard of the last two years is after a West Point appointment. With Smith playing guard, future Cadet opponents better start sweeping the ends.
lanky center rolled up six field goals and two free throws for a total of 14 points. Notre Dame had no trouble in scoring during the initial half, having led at the intermission by a count of 25 to 14. The Panthers were unable to register until eleven minutes of the game had progressed.
In the second half, Pitt completely outplayed the Irish from all angles and succeeded in scoi-ing 20 points to 6 for Keogan’s proteges. From this stage of the contest the Panthers pulled into the lead and were never* headed throughout the remaining part of the fracas.
Johnny Moir was the outstanding man of the Irish offense as he looped in four double-deckers and three tosses from the charity stripe. The game marked the 11th win for Pitt against 7 losses in the current series with Notre Dame, and it also was the Panthers’ fifth consecutive triumph.
While the Notre Dame offense functioned properly the Keoganmen had great difficulty in stopping the lightning-like thrusts of the Pitt offense. Time and time again in the second half, the Panther team passed through Notre Dame in a series of fast breaking plays that eventually turned the tide in favor of Pittsburgh.
Because of the fact that Notre Dame had possession of the ball for only short periods of time, Pittsburgh was able to concentrate on the all-important matter of making points rather than in stopping Irish charges. While the Panthers were forced to shoot innumerable times in order to get their score in the second half, yet the accuracy of the Panther eye is evidenced by the final score, 34-31.
FRED PERRY has taken out United States citizenship papers.
Boxing has been added to Michigan State’s varsity sports program.
During the half of the Notre Dame-Kentucky game, photographers got GOVERNOR A. B. “HAPPY” CHANDLER to pose while shooting at the basket. The photographers got ready, Governor Chandler held the ball, and then the shot. The capacity crowd howled as the ball zipped through the net. Incidentally, the proud governor walked off the floor with the best shooting percentage of the evening.
18s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
KEOGANMEN IMPROVE DURING HOLIDAYS; WIN THREE GAMES
The spirit of the New Year is everywhere around us. The Freshmen, after their first vacation, are back with a fresh case of homesickness. Students in general, realizing that exam time is actually upon them, are preparing themselves as best they can for the slaughter. Professors are wearing their best Now-it’s-our-turn smirks. But most of all the spirit of the New Year is manifested in the renewed activity of sports on the campus. Basketball is in full swing with the varsity season fast approaching the half way mark and interhall starting with a bang. (Flash: Walsh Hall loses b«,th heavy and lightweight games last Sunday.)
▼
This is the time of year, too, when Coach deLandero after some three months of secret training, brings his fencing team out into the open so that all may see. This is the first year that fencing has a minor sport rating and the team is anxious to show that, by continuing its unbroken winning series of last year; it is qualified to carry the banners of Notre Dame. Now, also, is the time when the world’s most unconvincing but persevering pessimist, track Coach, John Nicholson, puts on his perennial Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde act (crying on your shoulder about prospects one minute and whipping his team into championship shape the next.) .
V	-
Now, too, hockey enthusiasts start their annual whispering campaign with rumors about future games with prominent eastern college teams, while St. Mary’s lake freezes and thaws with disconcerting regularity. Basball is still a long way off but already Coach Jake Kline is wearing that fixed smile which means that he won’t talk. Football is definitely out of season, yet gridiron fans are still thinking of next year’s prospects and anxiously awaiting the start of football practice some two months hence.
▼
One of the most important of the sports events that occurs at this time of year is the annual Boxing Show put on by The Scholastic early in March. Last year the bouts were more or less monopolized by former stars of Chicago’s C.Y.O. tournaments. But in their absence this year the bouts will have more of an amateur aspect with the average man on the campus standing a good chance to win the championship of his respective weight. The proceeds from the sale of Boxing Tournament tickets goes to help out the Bengal Missions, hence the name, Bengal Boxing Bouts.
V
Coach Keogan, feeling keenly the loss of his stellar guards of last year, has been having troubles of his own over the holidays. Largely through the efforts of Nowak and Moir the team succeeded in beating Northwestern in one of the season’s best games and also in downing Chicago, Kentucky, and Butler. Monday night’s games with Syracuse should prove to be a thriller with both teams at top form. Notre Dame’s playing in the Butler game last Saturday left much to be desired but it introduced to us two new faces that looked quite pleasing, those of Sadowski and Brown. Captain Meyer’s knee injury has given the former a chance to show his worth, and he is making the most of it. The best combination we saw all night consisted of Moir, Sadowski, Nowak, Wukovits, and Brown.
Introducing (Continued from Page 16) bother him.
He demonstrated his leadership and real fighting ability in the Western Illinois State Teachers game as, broken up by his mother’s death that occurred the night before, he carried out a promise made to her and played one of the greatest games of basketball ever witnessed on the local court.
Summertimes Ray works the concessions at Soldier’s Field in Chicago. He’s a student in the Arts and Letters school doing all right by himself, thank you. He has no definite plans concerning his work after graduation but that’s a year and a half away so he has plenty of time to think it over.
While their 3,000 student supporters were relaxing in various sections of the country, the Notre Dame basketball team kept the Fighting Irish in the public sporting eye. Four games were played during vacation and altogether six contests—excluding last Wednesday night at Pittsburgh—have been played since the last appearance of The Scholastic.
In four of the six battles the colors of gold and blue emerged victorious.
The first two games, Northwestern and Illinois, may be sketched over briefly because in both the Keogan-ites were unquestionably outplayed. Northwestern doubled the Irish total, 38-19 on the eve of the vacation period. McMichael, forward and captain of the visitors, had a great night; furthermore the rest of the Northwestern team, right down to the substitutes, conveyed to the audience that they had a pretty fair notion of how the hardwood game should be played.
Dec. 19 was the date of the Illinois encounter. After Boudreau and Nesbit, the Illini sophomore “field-goal twins” had put on their little show Illinois had a lead never to be relinquished. The final count read 4429 in their favor. Paul Nowak tallied nine points for the Irish for the one bright spot in the Irish play.
Then on New Year’s Eve at about the time that most of the United States was engaged in drinking in the New Year, a tired bunch of Notre Dame boys were busily engaged in holding a one-point lead against Northwestern for a full four minutes. When the final gun popped and inventory was taken the scorers discovered that Sadowski and Nowak with their ten and seven points apiece respectively had led an uphill fight to win 24-23, and almost secure revenge for the lacing of the first game.
John Moir took a prominent part in the proceedings against Chicago on Jan. 2 and a good thing that he did too. The final score was 30-27 Notre Dame, and the Scot had 13 of those points; however Earl Brown also chipped in with nine points and scattered baskets from here and there contributed the rest of the points. But Chicago had almost come through with an upset due partly to the great defensive work of Amundsen and more in particular to the raggedness of the Irish play.
Whatever it was that Coach Keogan did to the boys before the Kentucky game, Jan. 5, it would be a
(Continued on Page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
19
CHANCES OF HOCKEY TEAM FADE AS ICE STARTS THAWING
•
By Fred Digby
With the coming of winter, hockey enthusiasts among the student body are once again trying to revive the winter sport here at the University.
In 1934 hockey, which had been lying dormant for some seven years, took its first breath in a movement for its revival when Frank Gaul organized a team to play local clubs. * Last year the movement progressed, and a rink was constructed - on St. Mary’s lake. This year the rink walls lie on the banks of the lake ready to be put up at the first freeze. The pucksters are hopeful that they will be able to don the blue and gold and arrange a regular schedule.
Hockey is not a new sport at Notre Dame. The first hockey team representing the University took to the ice in 1920 when “Canuck” Gorman and Paul Castner took it upon themselves to organize a squad. “Canuck” was a Canadian and a natural hockey player. They found a supporter in Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., who took up the coaching duties. Norm Feltes, “Slim” Gentles, Perce Wilcox, Ojay Larson, “Spike” Flinn, and ‘‘Hunk” Anderson responded to the call for hockey candidates. Castner was appointed captain and the team began practice.
Unfortunately the weather that winter was very mild and the team was only able to play two games. They met Culver twice and won both games easily.
The next year, 1921, the team succeeded in persuading the athletic .council to build a rink between Walsh and Badin Halls. Castner was again elected captain and Father Cunningham resumed his position as coach.
The weather again failed the hockey hopefuls, but they invaded the North and East for games. They won eight of eleven contests played. Their defeats, however, were suffered at the hands of the Pittsburgh Athletic club and the St. Nicholas club, neither of which were college teams. Since the team had defeated all collegiate competition, they claimed the Western Intercollegiate Title.
It seemed that after this season hockey would be a firmly established' sport. but in 1922-23 another mild winter set in and the Irish were only able to play three games, losing two and tying one. Castner and Gorman finished their college days and left with the honor of having established the sport at Notre Dame.
. In 1925 Tom Leib began coaching (Continued on Page 21)
INTERHALL BASKETBALL LEAGUE PLAY STARTS AS HALLS ENTER REPRESENTATIVES IN LIGHT. HEAVY DIVISIONS
Those wild and woolly interhall eagers opened hostilities last Sunday in their annual competition and the results seem to foretell some mighty fine games coming up as the season progresses.	.
The games were unusually well played for an opening day. Most of the
IRISH BEAT CHICAGO LOSE TO ILLINOIS
IN HARD BATTLES
•
Showing neither Christmas spirit nor good taste as hosts, the University of Illinois basketball team routed a visibly off-form Notre Dame quintet last December 19 by a 44-29 score.-
A capacity crowd of 7,000 Illinois rooters watched the flawless timing and uncanny accuracy that bewildered the Irish. The Ulini moved immediately into a sizeable lead and then held it; the half-time score was 23-10.
The Irish starting lineup had Moir and Meyer at forwards, Nowak at center, and Wukovits and Jordan at guards. Nowak was high scorer for Notre Dame, while Captain Bob Riegal and the two sophomore forwards, Louie Boudreau and Tom Nisbet, led the Illinois attack. Notre Dame has opportunity to avenge the defeat here in the fieldhouse on February 6.
The Irish five successfully started the new year by squeezing through a 30-27 victory over Chicago on January 2. After they had started fast to an 8-0 lead, the Notre Dame attack bogged down; however, they still held a seven-point margin with a 16-9 score at the half.
Chicago began to click in the second half and, after they had reduced the Irish lead to 21-17, they tied the score at 21-21. Notre Dame dropped in four points in a row, but the Maroons retaliated with five to lead, 2625. Then Brown popped one for Notre Dame and Moir sunk a basket and a foul shot to bring the score to 30-26. Chicago scored one more point before the game ended.
With the exception of Brown for Wukovits and Sadowski for Captain Ray Meyer, the line-up was the same as that which started the Illinois game. Moir scored thirteen and Brown nine for the Irish; Eggemeyer slipped in fourteen for Chicago.
teams ran true to form although a new darkhorse in the form of the Old Infirmary upset Badin in both the light and heavyweight divisions. The boys from behind the campus were a very last minute entry in Group I, and it looks as though the other teams will have to watch out or they’ll be taken to the hospital for sure.
Carroll, Brownson, Howard, and Morrissey shape up, at present, as the class of the heavyweight division. The lightweight contenders have Cavanaugh, Carroll, and Old Infirmary pacing them. However we can draw nothing from last Sunday’s play, and anything is likely to happen as it always does in interhall basketball games.
Brownson turned in the most decisive victory of the day as it turned back Cavanaugh in the heavyweight division of Group I. The dormitory boys tallied 22 points while holding Cavanaugh to a scant 9. Carroll Carrollites soundly trounced St. Ed’s in the same division, 18-3.
The best game of the day took place in the heavyweight division of Group H as Alumni and Lyons went at each other in great fashion in a nip-and-tuck battle that found the seniors on a long end of a 16-14 score. The battle was so close that not more than four points separated the two teams at all times.
All the teams performed last week with the exception of Freshman and Off-Campus heavies, and Sorin and Morrissey lights. Off-Campus forfeited to Freshman, and Sorin forfeited to the Morrissey team. Dillon’s two teams drew, a bye and will not start playing until this Sunday.
Results:
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Group I— Freshman 2, Off-Campus 0; Cavanaugh 9, Brownson 22; Carroll 18, St. Ed’s 3; Badin 16, Old Infirmary 20.
Group II—Sorin 18, Morrissey 21; Walsh 18, Howard 27; Alumni 16, Lyons 14; Dillon, bye.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Group I—Freshman 7, Off-Campus 12; Cavanaugh 19, Brownson 4; Carroll, 24, St. Ed’s 15; Badin 19, Old Infirmary 23.
Group II—Sorin O> Morrissey 2; Walsh 19, Howard 23; Alumni 8, Lyons 10; Dillon, bye.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15,1937.
CAMPUS OPINION
We present here several snap-shot interviews with students about topics of campus interest. This week's question was: “What type of drama would you like to see produced by the University Theater?
Phil Maloney, Morrissey:
“There should be sufficient talent on the campus for almost any kind of dramatic production. An attempt at semi-comedy or satire might be attempted. A light comedy would be best received by the majority, I believe.”
Norman Jandoli, Badin:
“I would like to see a Shakespearean production attempted. There are any number of Shakespeare’s plays which I think would be well received by the entire student body. Our modern drama tends toward psuedo-realism which in itself is nothing but triteness and an attempt at sophistication.”
Matthew Bruccoli, Sorin:
“A musical to end all musicals. Something filled with tin-foil and tissue that would make us realize that we are men and not members of a Southern girl’s school. Or, if we must have something fresh, I’ll vote for Wilde’s “Lady Windemere’s Fan.”
Juli Bercik, Badin:
“I would like to see a Gilbert and Sullivan opera on the campus. I think this could be done with great credit by the U. Theater, Band, and Glee club.”
John Wade, Morrissey:
“The campus needs a musical comedy. The one play a year of the Monogram club does not fill the need completely.”
John Shaw, Alumni:
“There should be a variation; one or two comedies and .a serious play. They should be chosen with care, however, as it is horrible for the students to have to help the actors to groan through their parts.”
Engineers Hear Coflins On Energy Problems
Dr. G. B. Collins, instructor in physics at the University, spoke on the subject of “New Physical Problems Concerning Energy Problems” at the Engineers’ Club meeting held Tuesday night in the Engineering auditorium.
Inaugurating the first engineers’ radio broadcast of the year, Walter Troy, a senior from Pittsburgh, Pa., presented a short discussion of “New Applications of Metallurgy” last Wednesday evening.
Thomas P. Carney, club president, declared that arrangements for the engineers’ social events, particularly the Engineers’ Formal, will be dis-cussed at forthcoming meetings.
Chicago U. Girls Call Notre Dame Views On Co-eds Facetious
“Oh, yeah? They don’t know anything about co-eds.”
This is what Miss Margaret Fair-man, a junior of the University of Chicago said, according to the Associated Press; when she heard that the majority of Notre Dame students declared that they could get along without co-eds.
After the publication of the Religious Survey of the Undergraduates in the University Bulletin for December, several co-eds of the University of Chicago decided to defend their status as best they could.
Mary Jo Emerson declared that “the Notre Dame verdict doesn’t mean a thing because the boys simply haven’t been around.”
Another, Betty Chase, put in her word: “Co-eds are too high class for those boys.” The Associated Press dispatch quoted others :
Adele Sandman: “Probably if they got some women down there they’d have some real intellectual competition and have to study.”
Rosemary Presi: “Notre Dame boys haven’t been to a co-educational school so they • don’t realize the advantage. Men are always laying themselves open to wisecracks.”
Ruth Wolkow: “They’re kidding when they say they can get along without women.”
Poor girls! Some people never read the papers. Notre Dame is overenrolled this year. We suggest applying for admission in 1945.
Chicago Club Dance
The Christmas dance held by the Chicago club at the magnificent Lake Shore Athletic club was even more of a success than anticipated. The decorations of the huge ball room were enhanced by a huge ND formed of ice and colored by artificial light.
Approximately 250 couples danced to the swing strains of Emil Flindt’s orchestra. Flindt’s band excelled in the art of imitation.
Plan Banquet
A banquet on Feb. 14 is being planned by the Rochester club at the Oldenberg Inn. Thirty-eight members are expected to attend the first activity of the club for the second semester. Donald Sconfietti will be master of ceremonies.
An autographed football was awarded at the Christmas dance. Probably that is the reason for the brilliant success of this venture. Mark Finnochiaro, chairman of the dance, reported it a financial and social success; Four hundred couples attended.
From the Files of "The Scholastic"
Oct. 17, 1903—Gentlemen do not wear their hats in a refectory.
Oct. 19, 1907—Jack Frost paid us a vigorous visit last Monday morning just to show us what he could do.
Oct. 16, 1909—The new problem play entitled “Diana and the Rat,” went through a very successful rehearsal a few mornings ago.
Oct. 14, 1911—Sorin hall is the proud possessor of a two-hundred dollar piano.
Oct. 14, 1916—The new bleachers on Cartier Field were used to-day for the first time. Further improvements will be made before the Wabash game.
Nov. 13, 1886 — Iron steps for St. Edward’s Hall are among the other improvements for which we shall soon begin to agitate.
Nov. 12, 1887 — Advice given to the musical students: “see sharp or you will be flat.”
Nov. 10, 1888 — The incandescent light has been placed in the store.
December 16, 1876—If the sleighing at present is not good it is not the fault of the weather, which has been lavish in sending us snow.
Football Squad of 1936 Receives Monograms
Coach Elmer Layden presented monogram sweaters to 32 members of the 1936 football squad, last Monday night at the annual civic testimonial dinner in the University dining hall. Thirteen seniors received their final award for participation on the Irish grid team, and included in this group were Captain Johnny Lauter, Joe O’Neill, Bill Steinkemper, Frank Kop-czak, Art Cronin, Bill Smith, Jim Martin, Joe McMahon, Fred Mundee, Bob Wilke, Vic Wojcihovski, Larry Danbom, and Steve Miller.
Three men from the above list won special honors, in that Lauter was selected on several All - American squads, while Wilke and Steinkemper eaach achieved a place on the AllWestern eleven. Paul Kell, Ed Sim-onich, Alec Shellogg, and Ed Beinor were the only first year men to receive monograms.
The entire group of 32 men is as follows: O’Neill, Captain-elect Joe Zwers, Len Skoglund, Chuck Sweeney, John Murphy, Steinkemper, Kop-czak, Cronin, Beinor, Shellogg, Kell, Lauter, Smith, Joe Kuharich, Martin, Walt Marshall, McMahon, Elmer Zenner, Mundee, Pat McCarty, Andy Puplis, Joe Ruetz, Chuck O’Reilly, Wilke, Jack McCarthy, Wojcihovski, Nevin McCormick, Joe Gleason, Jake Kovalcik, Danbom, Miller, and Sim-onich.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.	21
Revue of Games
(Continued from Page 18) good thing if he held on to that formula; for against the Kentuckians the Notre Dame team clicked properly for the first time this season and the final score reveals that fact. Nowak and Moir teamed to score 28 points between them, with Nowak bagging 18 of those (incidently the Kentucky team collected the same 28 points as these two). All in all Notre Dame proved that it had the stuff for a great team, easily winning 41-28.
Vacation over, students straggled to the gym on Saturday, the ninth of January, to see a fighting Butler, team almost nip the blue and gold in the last few minutes of play. The score recorded in the books was 25-24, and except for a time in the third period, and late in the fourth when the Butler rally started, the score remained as close as that for the entire game. Moir discarded his headgear in the second half of this game and bagged 12 points without it—which might mean something or might not. .
Buffalo Club Gives $20 To Bengal Mission
Members of the Buffalo Club contributed $20 to the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., for the Bengal Mission, so successful was their Christmas dance.
According to Allen Brooks, who was in charge of the affair, 150 couples were present at the Hotel Statler.
No new activities are planned before the examinations, in accordance to the wishes of the members.
W. Va. Club Smoker
The recently organized West Virginia Club will hold its first dinner and smoker of the year at the Morningside Hotel in South Bend at 7:15 Monday evening. President Walter Schrader announced early this week that at least 25 members of the mountain state club are expected to attend this function.
Definite arrangements for speakers had not been completed when this article went to press. An attempt is being made to obtain the movies of one of the recent football games for the entertainment of the assembled group. The details for the smoker were taken care of by a committee consisting of Chairman Robert McDonough, and his assistants, Harold Tomaschko and Joseph DeFranco.
Other officers of the club include John Collins, of Fairmont, West Vir, ginia, vice-president; and John (Zeke) Cackley, Ronceverte, West Virginia, secretary and treasurer.
Syracuse Prewrite
(Continued from Page 15) year’s team, accumulating 165 points in the course of the season.
Two Johns, Simonaitis and Schroeder, hold down the guard positions. The former is a senior, and was second high in scoring last year; the latter is another sophomore.
So the Celts and the “S-men” struggle again, and the result will be something to sing about.
Hockey Team
(Continued from Page 19) the hockeyists. He had played goalie on the ’24 team and was serving as assistant football coach under Rockne. Seven games were scheduled for the season. The Irish won two. and lost two to Minnesota, tied St. Thomas, and called off the other games because of unfavorable weather.
The sport was dropped in 1926 but was resumed again in 1927. The team played eleven games and was only able to win three. Among the opponents met were Yale, Harvard, Minnesota, McGill, Michigan, and the St. Nicholas club.
The sport was dropped again in 1928. Since that time there hasn’t been a really organized team to represent the University. There have been numerous efforts to revive the sport, but most of them have failed. This year another group of enthusiasts is working to organize a team which will engage in intercollegiate competition wearing the gold and blue. It ■will be the first team since the last season of 1927.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
Butler-Kentucky
(Continued from Page 15)
in the last half, went on a brief scoring spree that approached somewhat his last year’s form and kept the Notre Dame five ahead. The outcome of the game was never certain until the gun, as the lead fluctuated several times. Sadowski, another sophomore, was one point behind Moir with nine points.
RESOLVE to always be on time in 1937. . . .
’ the South Shore line will guarantee your resolution
Speed up your 1937 traveling SAFELY . . . with fast, dependable South Shore Line service. -There is always a train convenient for your plans, ready to hurry you to your destination on time. South Shore Line travel is Safe,. fast and dependable—and cheaper than ever on the new low rates.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

AS small boys, many fathers now living knew the 21. telephone only as a little used curiosity. It grew into today’s constantly used necessity largely because the Bell System never ceased looking for the new and \ better way. It stayed young in its thinking.	—
Young ideas developed "conference service”, ena-' bling several nearby or widely separated persons to talk on one telephone connection. Young ideas steadily made long distance service better, quicker, yet cheaper.
Young ideas are at work day and night to make sure America continues to get more and better service for its telephone dollar.
Bengal Bouts
(Continued from Page 14)
petent instructor in the person of Frank Schiavone will be on hand every day in the equipment room of the gymnasium at 4 o’clock to give pointers to newcomers and help the veterans round into form.
Boxing equipment will be furnished for all in the equipment room, and there will be ample space for training. The bouts are a little less than two months away, and it is expected that all who plan to enter the fights will probably start training in the near future.
A greater competition between the residence halls is expected this year and although no official hall teams will be entered Waldron hopes that the interhall spirit that has pervaded in football and basketball will continue in the Bengal Bouts.
The bouts are run for charity. All proceeds go to the Bengal Missions of the Congregation of Holy Cross for use in the missionary work carried on in the Orient by priests of the order.
Communion Breakfast On Boston Program
Successful! both financially and socially was the Boston club Christmas dance held in the Hotel Kehnore, Boston, on Dec. 28. Harold Kiley and his orchestra, a popular New England organization, provided the music.
President James McLaughlin attributed the success of the dance to cooperation between the alumni and the campus groups. A larger number of alumni attended the dance than in previous years.
At the next meeting of the club, to be held shortly after the mid-year examinations, plans will be made for a Communion breakfast.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
Why not call Mother or Dad tonight?
Rates to most points are lowest after 7 P. M.
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 15, 1937.
23
Zwers Elected
(Continued from Page 15)
first trip to Notre Dame with his family to see the Fighting Irish whip Northwestern and the carrot-topped lad began to feel the urge to attend the greatest school in the world. More persuasion was provided by another Notre Dame player of a few seasons back, Tom Roach, who also hailed from Grand Rapids. Joe entered school and proceeded to land a top berth on the freshman team where he was shifted from left to right end, his present position.
Like all others who saw action in the game, his most thrilling football was his participation for two quarters of the historic 1935 Ohio State game. This past season he played a great game on the right side of the line and was a mighty factor in the success of the team. Unfortunately an injured shoulder kept him from playing in the Southern California game but this has healed satisfactorily.
Even a football captain has his embarrassing moments and Joe had his at the Army game this last fall. Just before the game the team left the locker room to run out onto the field. Zwers forgot his helmet so he went back alone to the locker room to get it. Then he made a mistake in directions and discovered himself running onto the field with the Army players from the Army dugout.
If he is properly coaxed, Joe will condescend to strum out a few tunes on his banjo. He is a Business Administration major in the Commerce school and hopes to be one of the tycoons of Grand Rapids before long. Can be seen serving Mass every morning in Walsh Chapel. Admits that he has never been inside a building at St. Mary’s but he can easily be persuaded. Enjoys tinkering with little gadgets such as the pesky electric razors, yo-yos, balloons, cowboy hats, and Dick Tracy handcuffs. Popular and capable Joe Zwers will make a great leader for the Fighting Irish of next year. 
Football Banquet
(Continued from Page 3
Layden announced that Joseph Zwers, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, had been chosen captain of the 1937 team.
Judge Walter Steffen, Carnegie Tech football coach, and Noble Kizer, director of athletics at Purdue, were unable to attend the banquet because of illness.	.
A concert unit of the Notre Dame band, under the baton of Joseph Cas-asanta, presented the music.
QUICK PICK-UP FOR EYES
Want to give your eyes a lift? Use Murine. Soothing, refreshing to hot, tired, reddened eyes. Great for eyes irritated by reading, dust, wind, smoke, or light glare. Use it daily.
EVes
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college work, including the subjects specified for Grade A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.

£
WHAT's EATING YOU,FROSH 2
If'
&CRAMMINGS
MILD DOWN S TO THE HEEL s
S
"Cellophane” Wrapped
YOU GOTTA LEARN HOW TO STUD
GET YOUR PIPE, RELAX WITH A LOAD OF EDGEWORTHJR./ j
SAY, THAT'S ONE SMOOTH SMOKE!
YOU BET! THAIS WHY IT’S CALLED THE COLLEGE MAN'S SMOKE • * -

15^
GLASSES Properly FITTED
WRAPPER AND 10* GET THIS sl°» POUCH
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
IN YOUR COLLEGE COLORS
We make this amazing offer of a §1.00 English Type Folding Pouch in Rep Cloth with Rubberized Liner for only 10^ and one wrapper to persuade you to try Edgeworth Jr. Send the inside white paraffin wrapper and your dime together with this coupon (or print your name, college and address on the wrapper)—and we will send your pouch immediately. Only one to a customer.
SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER
Larus & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.	m
■ Enclosed find 10c and one inside white | " paraffin wrapper from a tin of Edgeworth*Jr., _ ■ for which send me $1.00 value silk tobacco H pouch in my college colors. (Please print.)
| Name____________________________________|
tA^ tA/n^.
Aromatic tobaccos from the districts of Xanthi, Cavalla, Smyrna and Samsoun in Turkey and Greece, the tobaccos of richest aroma

blended with
Mild ripe home-grown tobaccos —Bright tobacco from the Carolinas, Georgia and Virginia; Burley tobacco from Kentucky and Tennessee; and tobacco from southern Maryland
. and rolled in
Champagne Cigarette paper of the finest quality. This paper, specially made for Chesterfield cigarettes, is pure and burns without taste or odor.
For the good things smoking can give you..
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Co.