0
Vol. XXIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 20, 1890.
No. 16.
To Rev. President Walsh.*
There are no blossoms in this cold December, There are no roses or no violets sweet,—
The days of summer we can but remember,— The dry grass frosted dies beneath our feet;
Persephone has fled to realms of night-shade. And Ceres desolate laments her loss,
But in our hearts there is a constant light made By love’s sweet fire that comes from Holy Cross.
Yes, in our hearts a constant love is glowing— A love that fills these dreary winter days With perfumes,—as if summer buds were blowing And filling with their scent our college ways;
With love for you our hearts are ever filling, Like summer streams up-filled by summer rains, With gratitude our hearts are always thrilling. As if song-bird thrilled them with its strains.
Beneath the care of Holy Cross you flourished, A young bay tree,—a Minim, like us here,—
By Holy Cross your early days were nourished, And this to Minims makes your words more dear;
You grew a man, to fairest France repairing, (Our dearest France, the France of Sorin, too,) And, bravely all the heights of knowledge daring, Came back to lead us to the Good and True.
What better life than yours can be our banner?— Excelsius written on its central gold,—
Beneath the cross, to lead us to that manor Where Christ has many mansions for His fold. -There are no blossoms in this cold December, There are no roses and no violets sweet,—
But in this winter, Father, you’ll remember The flowers of love we plant beneath your feet!
Spectrum Analysis.
We’re grateful for your care, O kindly Father, We re grateful for your love, O watchful Friend, And when the waves of life may bear us farther
Into life’s sea, we'll love you to the end;
Your life to us will ever be a beacon
Of flaming love for all that’s good and right;
Your memory will lead us all to seek on Until we reach great God’s eternal Light,—
To seek, to find the highest mode of living, To seek the Best, to do the Right in all, To give to God what He is always giving, To answer, like a soldier, to His call;
To blot out self, to think alone of others,
To love Our Lord, obeying His dear will, To lead us from the frowning cloud that smothers The good in us,—the cloud of Self and Ill:
To teach us day by day that all is worthless, Unless it answers to the smile of God;
To teach us that the joys of earth are mirthless;
Unless His smile illumine our poor sod: This is your work: this is the task you show us
By your example, living, day by day, To climb by all the snares we cast below us, Until upon our. souls shines God’s own ray.
♦ Address from the Minims of St. Edward’s Hall on the occasion of the Patronal Festival of Rev. President Walsh.
Among all the new and improved instruments of modern science none has found greater favor with or been of more real use to the chemist, physicist or astronomer than the spectroscope. Since the year 1675, when Sir Isaac Newton presented to the Royal Society his treatise on optics, the spectroscope has been used in the discovery of facts which before were never even dreamed of, and its usefulness is constantly increasing.
Newton discovered that it was possible to decompose white light by passing it through a prism. He found that it consisted of rays of different degrees of refrangibility and that the degree depended upon the color of the ray; and so he obtained what is called the solar spectrum to consist of a colored band which showed all colors passing from red through all shades of orange, yellow, green and blue to violet; he also discovered that these rays brought together produced white light, and thus we have the beginning of spectrum analysis.
242
NOTUS DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Light is due to the undulations of the elastic medium pervading all space, and which isxcalled luminiferous ether, just as undulations of particles of water produce waves, and just as undulations of-’the particles of water differ in length and intensity; so do undulations from light differ in amplitude and intensity, giving rise to the different effects of color. A self-luminous body, such as a red-hot poker or a flame, is in a state of vibration; this vibration is communicated to the surrounding ether, and. is thus, brought to the eye, enabling us to see the object. In many cases, however, we do not see bodies by their own but by reflected light; and we are enabled to recognize the various kinds of bodies by the different modifications which light undergoes by the reflection; this was beneficial particularly to the astronomer, as will be shown further on.
The-vibrations of the ether produce other effects besides illumination: they produce chemical effects, of special use to the photographer and also constitute radiant heat. Vibrations of short period produce chemical effects, while those of long period have the most powerful heating effects, and those which affect the eye with light are of. moderate period. By methods of exact measurement the wave-lengths of different rays have been determined. For instance, it has been found that the red ray which is just visible to the eye has a length of .0000271 part of an inch, while the length of . the violet ray, just visible to the1 eye, is .0000155 part of an inch.	-
Then, if we observe the effects produced by the different rays in the visible portion of the solar spectrum, we find that those rays which mainly produce heating effects are situated at red end of spectrum, though the maximum heating effect is' produced' at a point beyond the visible portion; the maximum of luminous rays affecting the eye is in yellow, while in the blue aird violet we notice the chemical-rays; and yet theie is no real difference between heat rays, light rays and chemical rays, as they differ only in wave-length and intensity.
Dr:' Wollaston was the first to observe the dark Bands or lines across the solar spectrum, which are now called Fraunhofer’s lines. These lines are always found whether observations are made with direct, diffused or reflected sun-light, and the correct mapping of these lines is of as much, importance in astronomy and physical science as is the mapping of the stars, because by kriovvirig their exact position in the solar . spectrum we can" ascertain for a certainty that such well-known terrestrial-substances as iron, copper, sodium, hydrogen and many others,
really exist ufa gaseous state in the atmosphere . of the sun.	-
The lines were first mapped put by Fraunhofer who-ascertained the correct-position of no less than 576 in-the' year 1814; 'he used the. letters of the alphabet to designate some of the-principal lines, beginning with “A” in the red and passing, down through “D” in.the yellow to “H” in the violet; since then, however, many thousands of these lines have been mapped out, and some even, photographed;.as? indicated in the map by Dr Rowland, which is probably the best at the present time. -	------------
-Fraunhofer determined the relative positions of the lines in the solar spectrum, and foundjthat the relative distance was alwaysthesame, whether he took direct sunlight or light reflected from the moon or planets. He also discovered that the light from fixed stars, which , are self-luminous, contains dark bands,-though- different from those in sun-light, and he concluded—as early as 1815—that the cause of the dark lines was something not in the atmosphere of the earth, but in the body giving off the light.
To obtain a continuous spectrum it is only necessary to heat any solid particle to a state of incandescence—for instance, the carbon points of an ordinary electric arc. Flames not containing solid particles, but merely emitting the light of incandescent gas, give a discontinuous spectrum, usually consisting of a large number of fine bright lines; for. instance, hydrogen gives a red, a green and a blue line corresponding with “C,” “F” and “G,”. respectively, in the dark bands of solar spectrum.
It had long been known to chemists that certain substances, when put in a colorless flame, ‘give it some color; for instance, sodium gives ’yellow flame; lithium, crimson; barium, green, •and so on. Now, the methods by which substances maybe obtained in-a state of luminous gas varies with the nature of the substance; but if we can by'any means get the vapor- of a chemical element so hot as to be luminous — and what substance is proof against the heating effect of the electric- arc—we find-that the light given off by it is peculiar t'o itself; and by this means it is-possible to detect the presence of - any elementary substances -when they can be obtained in'an incandescent state; and as this method is so exact, it has led'to the discovery of many new elements both in terrestrial and heavenly matter.- .	......	’
Prof. Bunsen, in i860, discovered. two new elements—Caesium and Rubidium—in the min- -eral springs of Durkheim:by examining the' water; afterwards, to obtain two hundred grains
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
243
of these two elements, he had to evaporate forty-four tons of water; this serves to show what a small amount was contained in the water; and the delicacy of the operation discovering such a small quantity on an entirely unknown substance may be imagined. By using spark spectrum chemists are enabled to distinguish with ease between the rarest metals which resemble one another so closely in their properties that it is almost impossible to separate and distinguish them by the ordinary chemical means. The positions of the metallic bright lines have been mapped by Kirchhoff, Aug-strbm and Huggins, who thought several bright lines of different metals seemed to coincide; but it has been shown that there is a real, though very small difference of refrangibility.
In 1859, Kirchhoff, wishing- to test the statement of Augstrom and others—that certain of the metallic lines coincided with dark bands of solar spectrum—made a series of observations proving-this to be the case, and also showing what is called reversion of sodium line, or rather lines, by passing light giving a continuous spectrum through sodium vapor giving a dark band in the spectrum instead of the yellow sodium line, which is also the exact position of the band known as “D” in the solar spectrum. The explanation of this is that when an incandescent vapor giving only rays of certain definite refrangibilities—that is having a spectrum of bright lines—is put between the spectroscope and a very bright light, giving a continuous spectrum, the vapor allows no rays of its own kind to pass; so that the light reaching the spectroscope consists of -transmitted rays in which these particular rays are wanting, together with the rays given by the vapor itself, these being of exactly the same kind as those it absorbs; this is applied to solar -spectrum, and leads to the conclusion that the dark lines in the solar spectrum would be accounted for by supposing that the sun’s light comes from a solid interior raised to an incandescent state, therefore giving a 'continuous spectrum, and that this light passes through an atmosphere of vapors which absorbs1 particular rays producing the dark bands.
In order to map out and determine the position of bright lines found in spark spectra of various * metals, Kirchhoff used the dark lines of solar spectrum as guide, and found, that dark solar lines, occur in coincident positions with those of, bright metal lines; and he concluded that dark lines in solar spectrum were produced as given, above, and that the coincidence of bright metallic lines with the dark bands was a proof that these metals existed in the sun as vapors. :
Among the metals known to be in the sun are: hydrogen, sodium, iron, copper, magnesium, zinc, nickel and others; among those not supposed to be in the sun, at least as vapors, we have gold, silver, arsenic mercury, antimony and several others.	’
Although the moon and planets, shining as they do by reflected sun-light, do not show in the spectroscope anything of the nature of their composition, yet somethinghas been determined by the examination of their spectra in regard to their atmosphere, if they have any, and if they have none the absence is plainly shown. In the early part of 1865, Huggins observed the spectrum of a star at the moment the dark-edge of the moon passed over it. Now, if the moon had an atmosphere the observer would have seen the starlight by refraction—after the occultation had occurred—just as we see .the setting sun after it has really gone below the horizon; and as this was not seen he came to the conclusion that the moon had no appreciable atmosphere. This has also been proved by showing that solar light suffers no absorption when reflected from the moon, and it surely would if the moon had an atmosphere like that surrounding Jupiter.
In spectrum of light from Jupiter, lines are seen • that indicate an atmosphere somewhat similar to our own, though it has one dark band indicating some gas or vapor which is not in the atmosphere of our globe; Saturn is supposed to have an atmosphere like the earth’s, while Venus has none. .	-
The first result of the application of thespectro7 scope to the stars was, as has already been stated, the knowledge that the spectra of the various stars differed from one another, though similar, inasmuch as the light of a star gives a continuous spectrum crossed by dark lines, thus showing that the stars consist of an intensely hot interior, composed of solid particles surrounded by an atmosphere like the sun; and it is now. generally believed that the stars are really suns of different systems.	:
Observers next gave their attention to ascertaining the cause of different colored stars,-for instance, why Sirius shines with a bright white light and Pollux with a yellow tinge. They found that while the spectrum of Sirius gave a continuous spectrum with dark bands pretty generally interspersed, much like solar spectrum, the spectrum of Pollux is crossed by a great many bands in the red, green and blue, leaving the yellow the prevailing color.	.
Huggins next turned his attention to the nebulae; and found, to his surprise, that instead of a bright band crossed by dark lines he found
244	frOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the spectrum to consist of three bright bars, thus showing that these particular bodies did not consist of a solid nucleus with an atmosphere, but were in a state of luminous gas. Of seventy nebulae, examined by him, one-third consists of nebulae giving one, two or three bright bands, the light of the others spreading out into a spectrum apparently continuous. Huggins found that in case of bright lines the brightest corresponds to nitrogen, the faintest to hydrogen, whilst the other does not correspond to any known element.
The light of comets, at least of some, has been found to differ from the light of nebulae, inasmuch as lines of the comet spectrum are not in the same position as lines given by nebulae, nor are they identical with any known substance; so that we do not know of what some of the comets are composed.
Doppler first called attention to the change of refrangibility, which must be expected to ensue from the approach or recess of the observer or source of light. Doppler tried to explain the colors of the fixed stars by this principle; and though he failed in this, he discovered a principle which has given very satisfactory service in connection with the spectroscope. Displacement of a line toward the more refrangible end of spectrum indicates approach; displacement in other directions indicates recess, and so delicate is the process that it is possible to calculate the velocity of approach or recess from observations made. When the slit of the spectroscope crosses a spot on the sun’s disc, the dark lines lose their straightness in this part and are bent: these appearances indicate the up or down rush of gases in the sun’s * atmosphere around the spot.
Thus we see with what rapid strides the spectroscope has attained its place among the principal instruments of the laboratory, and how it has been used in the sciences until we are not only able to know the nature and constitution of our own globe, but also the constituent parts of the sun and stars.
L. Scherrer.
A Thought for Christmas.
The Shepherds who watched on the starlit slopes That night in the long ago,
Were but simple men, of whose fears or hopes The world cared not to know.
But only the Shepherds heard the song.
That rolled through the purple skies,
And only the lowly may join the throng ’Round the Crib where the Man-God lies.
—Ave Maria.
Hawthorne’s Peculiarity.
The “Scarlet Letter” is strictly an American novel. The plot is laid in one of our New England states when rigid Puritanism held undisputed sway over the colony of Massachusetts. The descriptions are American, and the characters—if at that time there were any—are American. For these reasons we feel rather a home-like interest in reading it.
We have heard it said.of Hawthorne that one of his peculiarities was that he saw nothing in a plot, nor deemed a story worthy of the name, unless there was a sin connected with it. This we know, from the brief acquaintance we have had with his works, to be true. Upon a sin and its consequences is laid the foundation of the “Scarlet Letter.” But it is not the sin that attracts us in reading Hawthorne; many times we find ourselves in doubt whether a sin has been committed or not. Sin has not, in his hands, the glowing tints that flatter the eye, nor does it emit the sensuous breath that enslaves the mind. It is pictured in an entirely different garb. The “Scarlet Letter” is told in such a moral, healthful tone that we lose sight of the sin in our pity for those who committed it. And we can unhesitatingly say that the reading of this work will bear more good fruit than the perusal of a volume of sermons.
The style of Hawthorne is simple, elegant and wonderfully perspicuous. Without the wealth of scenery and the treasures of Old World art, that supplied him with so many magnificent descriptions in the “ Marble Faun,” he finds himself equally at home in portraying the beauties of America. The marvellous consistency in the whole volume constitutes one of its chief charms. None of the characters are endowed with those supernatural traits of mind and body which enable them to accomplish deeds of prodigious valor, that distinguish the heroes of too many of our novelists, but are true both to nature and to art.
We detect in the “Scarlet Letter,” too, certain resemblances to the “Marble Faun.” In the child Pearl we see the Faun-like Donatelle, though in a less marked degree, and expressions and thoughts, met with frequently, also serve to remind us of his masterpiece.
We cannot say that the “Scarlet Letter’’, is in any way equal to the “ Marble Faun.” The all-absorbing interest we come in contact wifh in that work is wanting, as are also the descriptions; still it is not an unworthy successor to that truly wonderful novel. . .
J.R. Fitzgibbon.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	245
A Protest
ADDRESSED TO A RECENT SONNETEER.
Which I wish to observe, And what I say goes, That for absence of verve And for likeness to prose, Your sonnet on “Thistles” is woeful— Which the same I proceed to expose.
Getturegunn is the name
That you sign at the end;
In regard to the same, I have one I will lend To the man who to drop you will use it, And the same I’ll regard as a friend.
Which you say the first thorn From a woman’s lips grew, , ’Tis a statement I scorn And a slander untrue, And the skeleton dude who could make it Is mendacious, the same being you.
But apart from your thought, Which is far, far from terse, Of “good form” there is naught In the scheme of your verse; And besides, your technique is defective. Quite as bad as Walt Whitman’s, or worse.
Which if verse you must write,— Though the need is not plain— In no subsequent flight
Try the sonnet again;
But e’en stick to ballades or to rondeaus And so ease us of some of our pain.
Ann E. Rhuney.
to watch with them on the following night. They meet at the appointed time and place; presently the ghost appears and beckons Hamlet to follow him. Through an ancient superstition that evil spirits sometimes assumed the guise of deceased persons to lure men into madness and suicide, his comrades try by persuasion and by force to prevent Hamlet from following, but he breaks away and goes after the shade of his father. The ghost speaks to him, saying: “I am your father’s spirit,” and asks Hamlet to revenge the foul and unnatural murder. “Murder?” says Hamlet. He had suspected foul play, and now his suspicion seems prophetic. The ghost then relates the story of the murder. He says that while sleeping in his orchard, as was his custom in the afternoon, his brother stole up and poured a poisonous liquid into his ear, the effect of which coursed through his blood and produced instant death. But the ghost also cautions him not to taint his mind in revenging this deed. Time and manner are left to Hamlet, only he is to keep himself free from crime and dishonor.
Horatio says that the ghost is an evil spirit in a pleasing form; but Hamlet assures him that it-is an honest ghost, and although this request—to revenge the murder of his father— causes Hamlet untold misery, it is clear to him that the ghost is an upright and honorable spirit, seeking to rid the kingdom of a most wicked usurper and base murderer.
,	C. B. Dechant.
The Ghost in Hamlet.
Shakspeare displayed his greatest powers of imagination when he created such a character as the Ghost,—a form which surrounds the hu-. man mind with fear and superstition. The Ghost in the play of Hamlet is very perfect, indeed. Its grave and earnest, yet calm and composed speech, its stately walk and its actions are all ghost-like.
It first appears to two officers and Horatio, casting a feeling of the utmost horror and dread over them. They mark its resemblance to the recent king, and Horatio, after recovering his courage, accosts it thus:
“ What art thou that usurp’st this time of night Together with that fair and warlike form In which the Majesty of buried Denmark
Did sometimes march ? By Heaven! I charge thee, speak."
But the apparition stalks silently away. On the advice of Horatio, they acquaint Hamlet with their strange vision, and he eagerly promises
The Church and. Civil Authority.
We wish to say a few words concerning the teachings of the Church with regard to the obedience due to the civil power. Catholics are constantly accused of being so bound by their allegiance to Rome that they cannot but be unfaithful to their country.
It is passing strange if a man himself should not have correct knowledge of what he believes. In these our days, however, it seems that the generality of non-Catholics set up certain articles of faith for Catholics, insist that such is their belief, and then endeavorto demolish these dogmas by arguments. We defy anyone to take up a book of controversy and not find that the Catholic writer is forced to prove that such and such are not the belief of the Church, while the non-Catholic writer occupies his time in endeavoring to prove that the Church does believe these things to be true. Now who is the better judge in the case? Surely the Church and the
246	NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
teachers in the Church are the better judges for these should know what they believe.
It is said that Catholics must be false to their country if they follow the teachings of Rome. We who are in communion with the See of St. Peter know this assertion to be false. We feel that, we have just as strong a love for our country as ever a non-Catholic has had, and we certainly have the same right to be believed as our dissenting friends when they assert that such and such is their belief.
But the truth is that there is no religious body which insists so strongly on the people of a nation showing reverence and obedience to the civil powers as does the Roman Catholic Church. It is laid down in her works on theology that we are held to obey and revere our rulers, both by natural law and by divine. Quoting from the Epistle to the Romans, “Let every soul be subject to higher powers,” etc., and from the . Epistle of St. Peter, “ Be ye subject, therefore, to every human creature for God’s sake,” etc., she teaches us that we are to be subject to our rulers according to the constitution (whether written or unwritten) of the state, under all circumstances. So strongly does the Church insist upon this doctrine of obedience to the civil powers, that she holds that it is not lawful to rebel . against our rulers even when they abuse the authority with which they are invested; for she holds that all authority comes from God. Is there any church not in communion with the Holy Catholic Church, not subject to the See of Peter,, that holds such doctrine? Not one. Doesthisdoctrineshowthat the Catholic Church would make us traitors to our country when it insists upon our obeying the rulers of that country? We cannot see how it should. Wherever: the Church sees legitimate civil authority, there she insists upon the people obeying that authority. Rome, seeing that a republic is formed’ legitimately in the United States, commands us to obey the laws and the rulers of our country, and she forbids any citizen, under pain of sin, to rebel against the authorities of the nation.
" Only in one case does the Church allow man’ to oppose human civil authority, and that is in case the civil authority opposes that of God. Now, we care not what may be the belief of any sect, no sooner does the state interfere with what it believes to be contrary to the law of God than it falls back on this principle affirmed by the Catholic Church, and proclaims that the law of God is superior to the law of the land, that “it is better to obey God than man.” If they did not believe this to be true, whence could have arisen the many cruel civil wars on
.account of religion? If they did not believe this principle how could they have ever dared oppose civil legislators when they formed a religion for the state?	B.
(Selected.)
Christmas Bells.
I heard the bells on Christmas day Their old familiar carols play, And wild and sweet The words repeat
Of “Peace on earth, good-will to men.”
And thought how, as the day had come, ’ The belfries of all Christendom
. Now roll along
The unbroken song
Of “ Peace on earth, good-will to men.”
Till ringing, singing, on its way,
The world revolved from night to day, A voice, a chime, A chant sublime,
Of “Peace on earth, good-will to men.”
But in despair I bowed my head,— “There is no peace on earth,” I said;
For hate is strong, .	.
And mocks the song .
Of “ Peace on earth, good-will to men.”
Then pealed the bells more loud and deep: “ God is not dead, nor doth he sleep!
The Wrong shall fail, .
The Right prevail,
With peace on earth, good-will to men.”
■ • -	Longfellow.
Christmas.
Old Santa Claus comes once more, displaying all the pomp of royalty, robed as usual in brilliant ermine. His is a pageant which we can scarcely ever mistake, because he always comes clothed in the same brilliant attire, and his advent is always hailed with greetings of welcome. For eighteen centuries he has renewed his annual visits, and on every occasion has been received with Christian affection. The reason that he is so universally hailed is because of his impartiality. Unlike other princes,- he has no regard for rank or position; he visits the poor as well as the' rich; indeed, it is among the poor he prefers to abide, and it is to them he desires to administer consolation. It is the poof man who is foremost in sounding his praises, and in order to'do so more effectually he gathers his family around him that they may unite with him in chanting canticles of joy and thanksgiving. 7	'	. -
But we should not say that the wealthy and
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	.... 247
- powerful are backward in celebrating this solemn, festival.’ Not at all; for all are actuated by one; ah'd the-same motive. This is the day of all{ - days in the year on.which every household sees, the members of the family gather together. ■What a source of joy this festival is to those who have been preserved from sorrow and death since they last met on a similar occasion! How ' happy are the parents who can appreciate those blessings! •'	-
• A parent calling his family together thus re-• sembles very much a shepherd who gathers his flocks into the fold to have them counted. A week ago and the members of the family were scattered, perhaps hundreds of miles separating them;, to-day they are together, under the roof: of the same happy home. What a source of happiness .it must be to parents to see their children thus collected together! How interesting to hear each one relating his experience in the world! The countenance of the narrator seems to light up as he _relates some of the touching scenes which he has witnessed. Surely he must have'attentive’listeners, even though1 he graces his narrative with a small share of exaggeration., The next in his turn takes for his subject those events which occurred within. .his own sphere—the political. No doubt, they' are more interesting from such a narrator, especially as there is always something entertaining; in the success of a political party. Another having returned from college to spend his few. weeks of vacation, claims no less attention, al-’ though his experience may not have reached be-: yond the college walls. He relates with alLthei logical precision and the clearness of rhetorical:
, language his success during the session. But’ that is not all; he descends to particulars. He lays great "emphasis on the result of his com-i petition; the prominent part he may have taken, in the exhibitions, in base-ball, in society meetings, and in boating. . Surely the parents must; be.delighted with so joyful a feast! .	j
. How different with the family which has ex-: perienced some trials and afflictions! What sad: recpllections.fo.r those parents who think on the happiness they enjoyed on former occasions!. How pleasant was that festival when the family, circle was unbroken! But now there is a vacancy. One of those loving children has passed away, from the-noise and bustle of this world. But it-is much sweeter to look upon the chair which: becomes vacant by death rather-than by any: worse circumstance. The sting of death passes: away, when we feel that the poor soul has passed ito: a -happy abode. It is miich more.painful for a parent to behold a vacancy caused-by an .un
grateful -son. He who. was the^idpHof.. their lives, he whom they loved more than themselves, led away by the-delusions-of a-deceitful-world, .has abandoned them and his own better interests. Such a circumstance is truly melancholy; but there is hope. He may yet be inspired to return and gladden the home o£-his_broken-hearted parents, to bring joy to his a brothers and sisters. Perhaps at the dawn of" Christmas Day he may reflect on his folly and misfortune. Even as the prodigal son, he may return; it is not yet too late. If he tramples under foot all fear of shame and ignominy, he will arrive in time to pay homage to the most benign of princes or rulers. No matter what his excesses may have been, his crimes-’will be forgiven him; even though they were black as night,'he will be pardoned if he returns and joins his parents, brothers and sisters in the-celebration of this grand old festival. He will enter upon a new life here, to lead him to the great hereafter.
Everybody .thus endeavors to entertain a Monarch who comes alike to the poor .and the wealthy; for no party spirit.pervades His Kingdom. His mission is to bring peace and love and joy to the whole earth. .	. P. M.
Books and Periodicals. - ' ■
—By far the most valuable business calendar for 1891, and entirely unique in design;Hs the Columbia Cycle Calendar and Stand, issued by the Pope Mfg. Co., of-Boston, Mass. The Calendar is in the’ form of a pad containing 366 leaves, each 5%x2^( inches, each leaf containing blank for memoranda; and as the leaves are only fastened at the upper end, any leaf can be exposed, no stub being left when the leaves are torn off. The pad rests upon a stand, containing pen rack and pencil holder, and made of • stained wood, mounted with? raised Tetters in brass, thus forming an ornamental paper weight.	..
O -	. _
—A high order of stories, poems, articles and pictures fill the Christmas Wide. Awake from cover to cover, while brilliant new type and the discardment of columns, give the pages a very-fresh and attractive look, and we learn that the magazine is permanently enlarged to one hundred pages. Leading attractions include a new Peppers serial by Margaret Sidney, the promised railroad serial; “Cab and Caboose,” by Kirk Munroe; “Drawing the Child-Figure,” the first of twelve pictorial drawing-lesson papers (with monthly prizes), by Miss Caroline Rimmer, daughter of Dr: Rimmer the aft-anatomist and sculptor,and “Marietta’s Good Times,” an Italian serial by a well-known-Italian .woman in Boston.
24$	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
PubltabeD rbtrg 45aturDaj During Strut Stmt at N. O. Snibtrzits.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind Notre Dame, December 20, 1890.
—We extend to all our readers our sincere wishes for
A Merry Christmas and a Most Happy New Year.
—The second session will , begin January 3, 1891. As classes will begin immediately, it is desired that all be on time for the opening of the session.
Presentation to Bev. President Walsh.
On Thursday, immediately after dinner, the Faculty of the University entered the parlor and invited the Reverend President to meet them. This was such an unusual proceeding, and there was such an air of mystery about it, that the President complied at once, in spite of another engagement. The gracious and smiling face of the Rt. Rev. Bishop Richter, who was evidently in the secret, assured Father Walsh that the Faculty had something pleasant to communicate. At one end of the crescent formed by the members of the Faculty stood Prof. John G. Ewing. He addressed Father Walsh in a few cordial and well-chosen words, telling him that, as the representative of those present, he desired to present to him a set of vestments; he knew, he said,that FatherWalsh disliked compliments in words; bethought that the best compliment he could pay him was to offer him something that could be used for the honor and glory of God. Father Walsh replied in a voice which showed that he deeply felt the emotion called forth by this expression of the Faculty’s regard. He said that he had not needed any proof of their devotion and loyalty to their President,— they had shown it particularly during the last few months, in their strenuous support of order and good discipline at a crisis in which weaker men might have faltered.
The vestments are examples of perfect good taste and elegance. They are of gros grain silk, embroidered in the heaviest gold thread in a design of lilies. The design, especially drawn for these vestments—which were made by some of the most skilful embroiderers of this country— is remarkable for the care expended on.it. The flowers and leaves are not conventional, but
have been copied from nature. As an example of the best American ^artistic needlework, the vestments are particularly remarkable; the ladies who designed and embroidered them are pupils of the South Kensington Museum and of the Belgian Sisters of Notre Dame.. An examination of the exquisite tendril-like combinations, in which, however, nature has not been sacrificed to effect, resulted in the general opinion that it is no longer necessary to go abroad in order to find the most excellent specimens of embroid ery for the sacred vestments of the altar.
Ordinations-
The past week has been especially eventful at Notre Dame by reason of the elevation of four young Levites to the dignity of the sacred priesthood and the conferring of the preparatory sacred orders on four others—all members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. In the absence of the Ordinary of the diocese, the Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, who, we regret to say, is seriously ill, the ceremonies were performed in the Church of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame, by the Rt. Rev. H. J. Richter, D. D., Bishop of Grand Rapids, Mich.
On Wednesday morning, Tonsure and Minor Orders were conferred on Messrs. J. Boland and E. Murphy ; the Order of Subdeacon on Messrs. F. Reuter and C. Sztuczko and the Order of Deacon on the Rev. Messrs. Joseph Kirsch, Patrick O’Connell, Anthony Zubowitcz and William Connor.
On Friday morning the Rev. C. Sztuczko was raised to the diaconate and the Revs. Joseph Kirsch, Patrick O’Connell, Anthony Zubowitcz-and William Connor amid the most imposing ceremonies of Mother Church and attended by a large number of the reverend clergy were ordained priests. These reverend gentlemen are all connected with the Faculty of the University, and honored and esteemed by the students, all of whom unite in extending to them their congratulations on the happy realization of their aspirations in the dignity to which they have been raised, and cordially wish for them many years of successful labor in the sacred ministry.
The St. Cecilians.
If there is one society in the University more than another that preserves unbroken the chain of tradition running into the early days of Alma Mater, it is the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association of Carroll Hall/ -There are, indeed;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	249
in whose honor the entertainment hsd bfefen5pre-pared.
Mr. C. T. Cavanagh represented the students of Sorin and Brownson Halls with dignity and feeling. He spoke as follows:
On this happy occasion, when our little college world pauses in its pursuit of knowledge to pay a tribute of respect to the one who has directed its course,' the students of Sorin and of Brownson Halls wish to join with the others in congratulating you. This return of your feast day marks the close of another year of your administration as President of this University; and in taking a retrospect of your career in that important office it becomes evident that there are many reasons why you should be not only congratulated, but also thanked by every one interested in Notre Dame. Her whole history is but a succession of triumphs and improvements, and during your administration her progress has continued unchecked.
At the present time such a university as this is most useful. Jealous bigotry has again attacked the Church, and is trying"in every way to overthrow and destroy the educational institutions which the great . Teacher has erected. By falsehood and misrepresentation, they are vainly endeavoring to gain their end. But the Church needs but to point to such institutions as this, and she brands their charges as lies. Notre Dame is the pride of Catholic America. She is the living exponent of the principles of true education. She has proved most conclusively that religion and science can and must be cultivated together, and her influence is recognised throughout the country.
But while she has been successful in her undertakings-, we know that she has had many and serious obstacles . to overcome. They came from both within and without the college walls; but in every case they have been unable to interrupt her onward march. It is but a short time since you, as President and representative of the University, showed how firmly loyal you are to the prin-ciples you uphold. Your firm stand then won the admi^-ration and unbounded respect of every believer in law and order. You met the trouble with undaunted courage, and what was at first looked upon as a calamity you turned into a glorious victory.	- •
Instances such as this make us appreciate your value as President, and it is on account of such decisions that you have gained for Notre Dame the reputation of being a seat of both learning and morality. You have insured her a brilliant future by making her present bright. ‘
The-pleasures which attend the consciousness of duty well performed are surely yours. You have.always been more than attentive to the interests of the University, and by so doing you are building “a monument more enduring than brass.” Your administration has been the golden epoch in the history of our Alma Mater. To you we ?re indebted for a great portion of her success, and now, when the opportunity presents itself, we hasten to congratulate you on the past and wish you-every success for the future.
The address from the students of Carroll Hall was well delivered by Mr. Pierce A. Murphy, and read as follows:
Reverend and dear Father:—The sentiment that inspires Affectionate children to set apart some special day as an occasion on which they may give full expression to the love and reverence entertained for
other societies -notably the Thespian and Phil-odemic—that may successfully dispute the palm of antiquity; but a glance over the records of the past reveals gaps, or years of vacancy, here and there in their history. TheSt.Cecilians, however, from the time of their establishment in 1856 by the late lamented Prof. Lyons, have year by year steadily preserved their organization, and may now justly claim the title of the ‘‘banner society” of the University.
Since the accession of Rev. President Walsh, a decade ago, the Cecilians have claimed for themselves the honor of celebrating his patronal Festival—St. Thomas—which occurs Dec. 21, and right worthily have they fulfilled the duties which this privilege has involved. Coming as it does oftentimes within the Christmas vacation, the celebration of the festival by anticipation has now become an established custom. And thus, this year, the Cecilians gave their entertainment in honor of our esteemed President on the 17th inst., the eve of the opening of the semi-annual examinations.
ON WEDNESDAY afternoon, at three o’clock, the College Band, under the leadership of Rev. Father Mohun, serenaded Rev. President Walsh, and afterwards discoursed most delightful and inspiriting music from the College balcony, until the hour arrived for the opening of the exercises in Washington Hall, the programme of which is given entire in our local columns.
Promptly at four o’clock the doors of the Hall were thrown open, and a large audience of students, Faculty and visitors assembled. The Rt. Rev. Bishop Richter, of Grand Rapids, was an honored guest, to whom before beginning the exercises a cordial address of welcome was delivered by Mr. M. A. Quinlan. The Orchestra then rendered an “overture” from I Puritani, and in this, as well as in the other numbers, they played with exquisite taste and feeling, and manifested the good direction of their worthy leader, Prof. Paul, and their own individual artistic skill: The University Glee Club, trained by Prof. Liscombe, sang with excellent effect the various numbers assigned them. Indeed, nothing but words of praise can be spoken of the music, vocal and instrumental, presented on the occasion. It reflected the greatest credit on the Professors in charge, and upon the ability and good-will of the members of the musical organizations. As will be seen .from the programme, the music formed a pleasing interlude between the addresses delivered by representatives of the-students to.Rev. President Walsh
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
4
cherished parents is one which commends itself to every generous heart that has known or knows the sweet delights of a happy home. A kindred sentiment, dear Father, prompts your children of Carroll Hall to gather - around you this evening, and offer you the humble but genuine tribute of their esteem and love. .
It is needless for us to dwell on your many titles to the . deepest respect and sincerest gratitude of which we are' capable. Others of your sons, older in years and more mature in judgment than we, may better express, though they cannot more earnestly feel, the obligations that bind - every inmate of our college home to your gracious personality. You will permit us, however, to 'assure you that we deem ourselves peculiarly blessed in that Providence has not only guided our footsteps to an institution . so deservedly renowned as is Notre Dame, but has led us hither at a time when the destinies of the University are being shaped by one who is so perfectly equipped for the r6le of President.' Your recognized ability, keen discernment, and progressive zeal are ample guarantees - . of the thoroughness of the training that is to transform ' us from immature and thoughtless boys into efficient . scholars and .Christian gentlemen. Allow us also to assure you that, notwithstanding our youth, we appreciate . the justness of the means employed to render your training effective; and if we occasionally violate regulations laid down for our observance, we beg you to believe that . the transgression springs rather from irreflective minds than from insubordinate hearts.
In behalf of the St. Cecilians in particular, dear Father, suffer us very gratefully to express our appreciation of . the. honor accorded our Society in being privileged to celebrate your patronal festival. It is a privilege that . .. we value highly, and one that we trust will be continued .	• to ourselves and our successors for many years to come.
. For, that St. Thomas’day may still be the feast of Notre Dame’s honored President long after the youngest inmate of St. Edward’s shall have become the most digni-. . fied Senior of Sorin Hall is the cordial wish, not of the St. Cecilians alone, but of all your affectionate children, The Carrollites'.
. The “ Princes” of St. Edward’s Hall were well represented by Masters J. O’Neill, G. Scherrer and R. Ball. -Master O’Neill’s address was a ... beautiful tribute in verse, and delivered with ,	' faultless elocution. We take pleasure in repro-
-- ducing it: on our first page. .	. .	’
-	■ Then came the great feature of the evening,
the drama entitled	'	'
,	. “The Malediction,” , ‘
. which was translated and sadapted from the, - -.French especially for the St.-Cecilians. The plot of the play is laid in Spain; during the
* ’ Mahometan wars.' Don Alonzo, son of Don . Vasco de Gomez, a princely nobleman, is per-j . - suaded.by ambition and the, evil counsel of his confidant, Don Lopez, to abandon his father, ”his country and his God. He becomes a prince ...among .the Mahometans, and in the progress of the war, his father, and all-his soldiers fall
.	,into..the.hands of Tarik, the.Mahometan coni-
. mander, Tarik, commands .Don. Alonzo to visit ; .' .- v his father, and endeavor to win him to the faith.
-- --,r of the Prophet, assuring him that if he fails,
his father shall die. Alonzo obeys; his father, with righteous indignation, repels him, and pronounces upon him a terrible malediction, beneath which he withers and loses his reason. Don Vasco and his vassals escape from the Turks and return to the Christian camp, where they find Don Alonzo, who, under his father’s care, returns to reason; and is afterwards killed in battle with the Mahometans. Pedrillo, the peasant, is a man of many words but few actions. He excites a great deal of merriment, and in the last scene shows his skill as a swordsman by killing Tarik in a scientific manner.
The play is intensely dramatic, abounding in thrilling incidents and presenting situations which call forth great power of voice and force of action. It is high praise, and well deserved, to say that on this occasion it met with a very creditable presentation at the hands of the youthful performers.
J. S. Hummer, as “Don Vasco de Gomez,” displayed a fine conception of his role, and interpreted it in a manner to excite the critical admiration of the audience. He portrayed the grand character of the Spanish nobleman, who, though advanced in years, marched firm and erect, and bore himself like a true knight, unswerving in his loyalty to his God and his king; and who, though all his affections and hopes were centred in his son, could disown and curse him because of his perfidy. The strong, orotund tone of voice which Mr. Hummer is fortunately able to command, heightened the brilliant effect of his presentation. This was notable in the scenic situations between “Don Vasco” and his son “Alonzo,” and especially when the climax of the play was reached in the curse pronounced by the aged father upon his unworthy son. J. E. Berry, as “Don'Alonzo,” son of De Gomez, sustained the principal, as well as the most difficult, rble in the play. The impersonation demands the expression of a variety of feelings that agitate the human breast: such as those caused by the influence of filial reverence and religious sentiment which survive, though counteracted by the baneful influence of crafty friendship, which leads to the abandonment of religion and country. So powerful is this filial love that a father’s curse causes the total loss of reason. - Mr. Berry entered into the spirit of his part, and did it ample justice. His gestures and movements harmonized well with his expressions. The impersonation of insanify is extremely difficult, but Mr. Berry’s rendition, though slightly overdone, was very creditable; he was especially effective in the dying scene, which was simply without a flaw. M. A. Quin-
i
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	251
lan, as “Don Lopez,” was the villain of the play, and with good voice and facial movement, represented, the designing confidant of “Don Alonzo.” Ernest F. Du Brul took the part of “Pedrillo,” “the man.of many words and much boasting,” and contributed to the humor of the evening; as far as the rendition of the part was concerned, it was all that could be desired. J. J. Fitzgerald as “Tarik” was faithful in his representation of the Christian-hating Mahometan; J. R. Boyd as “Pedro” gave a good portrayal of the truthful and charitable peasant; C. S. Fleming as “Fabricio” and F. L. Carney as “Ibrahim,” added greatly to the interest of the play. The other roles were also well taken. Indeed, the whole performance was a complete success, and reflected the greatest credit upon the St. Cecilians and well repaid the painstaking care of their worthy Director, Rev._ Father Morrissey.. .
On the conclusion, Rev. President Walsh briefly expressed his thanks and complimented all who took part in the .exercises of the evening. And thus concluded the Cecilian celebration of the Patronal Festival of the Rev. President Walsh, whom may Heaven long preserve to continue his successful and glorious direction of Alma Mater.	C.
Notre Dame in Winter.
Those who have been at Notre Dame only on Commencement Day in June, when the summer sun pours down his brilliant rays, can form but a vague idea of Notre Dame in winter. Even-those who come at the opening of classes in September can have no'conception of the capacity Notre Dame has of receiving the cold impression of a hard winter time. • That much maligned season of the year, winter, sets in here about the latter end of November, and, except during several days of bright weathe'r in January, the sun obstinately refuses to-give countenance to the proceedings of the season, and only begins to show his beaming face when the spring time comes—and even then by fits and starts. Nevertheless, winter is by no means a gloomy . season here. Indoors everything is more lively than at.any other time. Studies are pursued with greater zest.. The societies, literary and dramatic, owe their best days to winter. The literary societies, especially, have advantages in the long winter evenings that neither spring nor autumn afford them. Instead of spending the evening hours on the playgrounds, practising “catch,” and indulging in long promenades arid conversations, as Js the case after Easter,
the members prefer to congregate in the debating room, and amuse themselves by “going for” each other. It is during winter that the Juniors spread themselves most extensively, and the St. Cecilians and Philopatrians arrive at the top rung of the ladder—speeches, orations, personations and declamations being as plenty as blackberries. In winter, the Seniors pay more attention to their duties as members of literary societies, wherefore the Philodemics and Columbians are more prolific in grave essays and well-sustained debates. Winter is a time when men are better ableTo keep cool; and hence the advantage of that season over all others for the decorous carrying on of a debate on some burning question.
You may imagine that out of doors things look desolate. Not at all. It is true the rich foliage of the trees is lacking. Nature’s winter fashion is not so gay nor so variegated as she indulges in at other seasons. Still when she puts on her white mantle of snow, the grounds around Notre Dame look as beautiful as they do in summer—provided you view them from the window of a room, in which there is a good fire or plenty of steam.. As for enjoyment— why, who is there that doesn’t know how much more boys can enjoy themselves in winter than in any other season? Do not talk of your sweltering games of base-ball with the thermometer go° in the shade. It is true that it is great fun to have your finger knocked out of joint, or to have your head caressed by a flying bat, and provided you are not killed outright, what a luxury there is in having a ball strike you in -the pit of the stomach! But notwithstanding this agreeable and exciting game, which winter very properly frowns upon, the bracing air, the healthy draughts, the biting breezes, the invigorating frosts, the nipping mornings of old winter, afford such an amount of stimulus to the physical system that the outdoor amusement is a thousand per cent, better than at any other time of the year.	,	.
“Taking it all around,” we have reason to hope for a pretty lively winter. Christmas is now upon us, and the festivities of this time are an excellent recreation after the examination at the end of the first term. There is' the memory of an old song humming through our head at this moment, the words of which advise boys to -go it while they are young. We hope that those who remain at college, or go to their homes during the holidays, will have a good time, and that they will resume their classes at the beginning of January with renewed vigor.
252
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Examination Averages.
[2Vo Average under 60 is published^
SORIN HALL.
A. Ahlrichs, 97; H. Allen, 84; C. Burger, go; J. Berry, 87; W. Blackman, 96; J. Brady. 94; B. Bachrach, 84; H. Brelsford, 90; J. Bovett, 57; C. Cavanagh, 94; J. Clayton, 90; L. Chute, 95; F. Chute. 83; E. DuBrul, 95; J. Fitzgibbon. 98; W. Hackett, 70; S. Hummer, 95; E. Hoover, 86; P. Hempier, 80; P. Murphy, 97; J. McGrath, 86; F. Neef, 98; H. O’Neill, 97; F. Prichard, 78; C. Paquette, 73; O. Rothert, 93; E. Schaack, 75; O. Sullivan, 95; N. Sinnott, 95; E. Scherrer, 88; F. Vurpillat, 98; J. Wright, 89J
BROWNSON HALL.
H. Aarons, 85; E. Ahlrichs, 86; S. Bundy, 83; E. Blameuser, 89; W. Bell, 78; J. Barclay, 79; G. Benz, 79; N. Burch, 70; R. Byrnes, 77; M. Cassidy, 83; D. Crall, 92; W. Castanado, 65; W. Correll, 60; J. Combe, 85; H. Carroll, 67; T. Coady, 75; P. Coady, 94; H. Cottey, 60; R. Colton, 77; J. Cahill, 92; C. Dechant, 90; S. Dela Pena, 76; C. Dahler, 70; A. Dacy, 84; L. Davis. 80; J. Devanny, 77; W. Dunlap, 68; R. Frizzelle, 89; -E. Field, 73; J. Flannigan. 74; P. Fleming, 74; J. Guertin, 86; L. Gillon, 66; T. Gaffey, 83; R. Hawthorn, 83; H. Heinemann. 75; W. Hennessy, 60; C. Heard, 77; W. Hauske, 88; P. Houlihan, 92; L. Hubbard, 84; C. Henry, 68; E. Hagan. 81; J. Johnson. 86; M. Joslvn, 92; P. Jacobs, 83; J. Kearns, 95; J. King, 85; T. M. King, 85; A. Karasynski, 70; F. Keenan, 76; M. Kyle, 65; M. Kelly, 88; F. Krembs, 84; J. Lesner, 80; R. Layton, 68; P. Lorie, 78; R. Langan, 84; W. Lindeke, 75; M. Mozier, 61; J. Manly, 85; E. Mock, 70; J. Mug.'Sy; I. Mitchell, 85; L. Monarch, 75; E. Maurus, 90; F. Mahaney, 61; A. Magnus, 70; H. Murphy, gr; E. Miller, 75; J. McAuliff, 81; G. McDonnell.85; F. McKee, 77; J. McKee, go; T. McConlogue. 88; J. McGonigle, 80; J. McWilliams, 87; E. McErlain, 63; J. Newman, gr; H. Oide, 60; J. O'Shea, 84; G. O'Brien, 88; S. O'Brien, 63; F. Powers, g4; D. Phillips, 8g; D. Parker, 84; L. Richardson, gi; C. Roper, 71: J. Rebillot, gr; C. Rudd, 76; W, Roberts, 80; A. Robinson. 71; W. Stanton, 82; J. F. Sullivan. 8g; F. J. Sullivan. 89; S.Scholfield, 77; J. Sanchez, 62; L. Sanford, 87; H. Steiger. 76; J. Sinnott, 84; J. Smith, 82; R. Spalding, 78; V. Vurpillat, 82; E. Vidal, 80; G. Vital, 60; B. White, 76; H. Wall. 76; F. Walsh, 62; H. Wood, 77; J. Weakland, 90; F. Youngermann, 75; W. Venn,92; V. Zimmerman, 75; C. Zeitler, 79.
CARROLL HALL.
G. Anson, 78; J. Ayer, 77; O. Bergland, 83; T. Boland, 79; W. Burns, 87; E. Ball, 84; W. Bates. 71; T. Brady, 85; W. Bachrach, 67; R. Browning, 67; R. Boyd, 91; B. Bates, 80; A. Boyle, 70; H. Coe, 60; D. Casey, 71; F. Carney, 83; C. Cregier, 70; H. Connolly, 70; J. Coll, 73; H. Cheney, 68; E. Connors, 81; J. Cudahy, 64; F. Cummings, 79; E. Chassaing, 61; P. Dion, 70; W. Dierkes, 76; T. DuBois, 65; E. Dorsey, 70; J. Dempsey, 68; D. Davidson, 71; J. Delany, 87; A. De Lormier, 70; W. Ellwanger, 84; P. Foley, 78; J. Fitzgerald, 84; C. Falk, 61; J. Flannigan, 65; Alfred Funke, 78; Arthur Funke, 65; C. Fleming, 75; R. Fox, 69; J. Farrell, 65; E. Falvey, 71; O. Grund, 63; P.Gibert, 62; W. Gerlach, 83; P. Gillon, 63; J. Greene, 84; H. de Garennes, 84; H. Gibson, 63; G. Gilbert, 79; H. Gilbert, 75; H. Gifford, 72; J. Girsch, 72; A. Greene, 65; H. Glass, 66; F. Hill, 73; M. Hannin, 77; ]. Hack, 73; G. Hahn, 83; P. Healy, 64; L. Hoerr, 70; J. Hagus, 79; P. Hake, 64; J. Haddican, 61; L. Jackson, 66; E. Jewett, 78; W. Kennedy, 63; C. Kanmeyer, 71; R. Keith, 63; L. Longevin, 80; W. Lorie, 61; A. Leonard, 72; N. Luther, 61; S. Mitchell, 70; H. Mitchell, 71; W. Mattox, 6i; A.Mattes, 60; G. Mott, 60; W. Marr, 81; H. Martin,70; D. Monarch,. 65; E. McCartney, 92; J. McPhillips, 74; F. McDonnell, 61; A. Neef, 71; H. Nichols, 62; W. Nichols, 76; A. Nester, 69; W. O'Neill .60; F. O’Rourke, 75; J. O'Mara, 72; S. Payne, 67; W. Pomeroy, 65; K. Palmer, 78; M. Prichard, 76; C. Pope, 66; M. Quinlan, 96; D. Quill, 60; A. Renesh, 67; F. Roper, 79; F. Roberts, 71; P. Reilly, 60; A. Regan, 72; J. Scallan, 60; E. Spurgeon, 60; A. Sugars. 61; A. Stokes. 62; B. Stapleton, 72; E. Smith, 66; F. Schillp, 77; L.-Sutter, 71; H. Treff, 83; J.Tong, 79; F. Thorn, 75; C.
Teeter, 65; D. Thornton. 62; G. Vandercook, 67; Geo. Weinmann, 74; E. Wolff, 87; A. Welch,81; P. Wellington, 61; Yingst, 69; Zoerhlant, 60; W. Zinn.
ST. Edward’s hall.—(Minims.)
J. Ayers, 75; W. Allen, 80; R. Ball, 80; O. Brown, 92; F. Brown, 90; G. Bixby. 89; W. Blumenthal, go; T. Burns, go; S. Blake, 75; W. Crawford go; A. Crawford, go; A. Coquillard, 75; J. Coquillard, 67; F. Cornell, g3; B. Coon, 8g; J. Currv, 65; W. Crandall, 75; E. Chapoton. 65; F. Cross, 65; E. Christ, 67; F. Croke, 70; L. Donnell, 67; S. Donnell, 66; C. Drant, 70; E. Ezekiel, g2; A. Everest, 72; E. Furthmann,8o; C. Furthmann, go; W. Furthmann, 8g; W. Fuller. 87; A. Fischer, 75; L. Fossick, 70: G. Funke, 70; T. Finnerty, 80; W. Finnerty, 60; J. Freeman, 72; W. Girardin, 8g; C. Girsch, 75; F. Griesheimer, 78; W. Hoffman, 82; H. Hathaway, go; J. Haddican, 81; W. Hamilton, g2; F. Higginson, 80; M. Henneberry, 7g; M. Howell. 80; E. Jonquet, go; E. King, 87; C. Krollman, 88; C. Kern, 87; S. Keeler. 85; B. Loomis, 8g; E. Longevin, 75; M. Levi. 80; C. Langley, 82; J. Lounsbery, 65; G. Lowrey, 87; T. Lowrey, 89; A. Lonergan, 80; C. McPhee, 90; H. Mvers. go; J. Maternes, 8r; S. McGuire, 8g; K. McLeod, 60; R. Mclntvre.go; F. McPhillips, 82; E. Mest-ling. go; H. Mestling, 87; J. Marre, g2; C. Nichols, 7g; J. O’Neill, g6; D. Oatman, 8g; E. O’Connor, go; M. Otero, 85; M. Priestly, 88; J. Pieser, 87; C. Paul, 89; J. Pellenz, g5; F. Ransome, g2; A. Ronning, go; W. Rose, 85; P. Stephens, go; G. Scherrer, go; W.Scherrer, gi; L. Stone, 8g; F. Steele, 72; P. Trujillo, 8g; L. Trankle, g2; H.Vorhang, 85; T. Wolf, 8g; D. Wilcox, gi; T. Warburton, 80; B. White, 7g; V. Washburne, go; A. Windmuller, 78; L. Young, 71; N. Zoehrlaut, 87.
Local Items.
—Merry Christmas!
—And a Happy New Year!
—Pierce is little, but 0 my!
—How about the “Jewel?”
—Those peasants were gorgeous.
—The St. Cecilians are out of sight.
—Juanino is a dandy and no mistake.
—“De twilight puts de daylight out.”
—What kind of a bulletin will you get?
—There was a new addition to the Greek class.
—Funny, isn’t it? Some people dwell on the ocean. .
—After I’d killed about two hundred and— seventy—seven.
—The next number of the Scholastic will appear next year.
—That wooden arm is a great invention. We advise you to get one.
—What is the matter with Jim? He wasn’t scared, only a little bit.
—Practice makes perfect. Is that why the battle act was so good?	.
—The St. Cecilians return thanks to Messrs. Hummer and Berry for favors received.
— Our friend John says: Six (6) Minims can make.more noise than fifty-five (55) Juniors or twenty-seven and a half (27^ ) Seniors.
—The board of examiners from Sorin Hall speak in the highest terms of the papers handed in by the greater number of the Minims.
—The ice is in splendid condition, and the boys have not been slow to profit thereby dur

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
253
ing the week. The prospects are most encouraging for a thorough enjoyment of all the winter’s sports.
—J. E. Fishburn, ’75, is now one of the directors of the San Diego Saving Bank, also director and assistant cashier of the first National Bank, San Diego, Cal. His brother George is similarly situated in Kansas City.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic of Dec. 6 devotes nearly half its space to articles in commemoration of the late John Boyle O’Reilly. Most of these articles were read or delivered before the Class of ’91 at the memorial meeting of Dec. 4, and they do great credit both to the ability and the appreciativeness of the young authors.—Boston Pilot.
—The Ave Maria received twelve new subscriptions one day last week from Rosario de Santa Fe, Argentine Republic. There is, perhaps, no Catholic periodical so cosmopolitan as the Ave Maria. It now has readers in almost every corner of Christendom. We hope that our contemporary’s circulation will be further increased during the new year.
—To the great delight of the Minims Very Rev. Father General honored them by his gracious presence at their examination. Rev. President Walsh also gave some of his time examining the grammar class; but the examination was principally conducted by Messrs. G. Blackman, C. Paquette, J. B. Sullivan, E. C. Prudhomme, and M. L. Reynolds, of Sorin Hall. The examination was a written one.
—One of the most pleasing features of the entertainment in honor of Rev. President Walsh was the address from the Minims. It was greatly admired by the audience, not only on account of the intrinsic merit of the address itself, but particularly because of the faultless elocution with which it was delivered. Master James O’Neill proved himself on the occasion a worthy son of a worthy father, whose genius and histrionic abilities he seems to have inherited, and gave the most convincing proofs of the thorough and systematic trainingwhich from hisA, B, C’s he has received from the Sisters’ instructresses of St. Edward’s Hall.
—The sixth regular meeting of the Leonine Society was held on the 3d inst., the Rev. J. J. French presiding. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and adopted. Next came the debate on the question: “Should snow-balling be prohibited by the law?” in which Messrs. J. McDonnell and P. Morris sustained the affirmative, and Messrs. J. Boone and A. Kehoe the negative. Messrs. J. Gallagher, M. Donahue and ,T. Crumley were named judges, and returned a vote in favor of the affirmative. Messrs. J. Maguire and T. Crumley then gave a reading, and were followed by Messrs. F. J. Sullivan and J. Gallagher. The former gave a paraphrase of a story entitled “ Life among the Himalayas,” the latter a reszime concerning the cost of running an American vessel. The Rev. President then read
the Parliamentary rules, and after a few remarks the meeting adjourned.
—The old printing office is no more! That venerable structure which for many a long, long year formed the storehouse and treasury of all that was brightest and best amid the strife and turmoil of literary minds, but which of late years had been ruthlessly relegated to the uses of a tin-shop (!), has been mercifully laid low, and no longer will painfully greet the eye and conjure up sorrowful memories of the past. The old familiar site, north of the Infirmary building, now appears to the visitor a beautiful lawn, and naught remains to indicate the spot which erstwhile formed the shrine whither the sage and the poet, the amateur and the professional, all eager for honors, new or additional, in the literary field, directed their steps and lingered long to enjoy, serene and undisturbed, the atmosphere of “dens” and sanctums. Sic transit gloria mundi!	'
—On Thursday last Very Rev. Father General gave the Minims some golden words of advice on the manner in which they should spend the holidays. He said he was delighted to see them all looking so healthy and happy, and he hoped they would be so when he met them again after vacation; their examination was the best proof he could have that they had spent their time well since September, and therefore they deserved a vacation. He hoped they would be ’ able to show their parents the advantages they have reaped from their stay at Notre Dame. He advised them to attend faithfully to their religious duties; not to fail to assist at Mass on Sundays; to say their morning and night prayers, and to be models of politeness. They are called “ princes,” and he hoped they would show themselves such by gentlemanly behavior. Very Reverend Father General’s beautiful words were listened to with the most respectful attention, and the applause at the close of his remarks told him, as no words could, how dearly the Minims love him.
—The Columbians:—The special meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Society, given in honor of the Rev. Father Walsh, last Monday evening, was a success; each participator performing his work excellently. The fact that nearly all of the Faculty, and several officers of other societies were present, gave to the gentlemen who participated in the exercise a fresh impulse to do their best for the reputation of themselves and of the Society. Mr. J. McKee opened the exercises of the evening by an admirable address, followed by R. Langan who read a biographical sketch of the life of “Dr. Lingard.” A declamation by Mr. Wood was delivered in a true elocutionary style, and was a prominent feature of the evening’s programme. The debate was next in order, the subject of which was, “Resolved, that Jefferson was a greater man than Hamilton.” Messrs. O’Neill and McConlogue were ardent supporters of the affirmative side, while the negative was sustained
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
with ability by Messrs. Manly and Ahlrichs. Mr. Lamar Monarch delivered a declamation in which his clear voice and graceful gestures were displayed to a good advantage. After the programme was concluded, Father Walsh, in pleasant and encouraging words, congratulated Prof. Gallagher on his successful direction of the Columbians, and the members of the Society on the good work they are accomplishing.
' ■ A
The tenth regular meeting of the Society was held Thursday evening, December 11. The subject for debate was, “Resolved, that Arnold was a brave man.” Messrs. Walsh and Cassidy spoke on the affirmative side and Messrs. Les-ner and Allen on the negative. The arguments advanced by the affirmative side, being superior to those brought forth by the negative speakers, the President decided the debate accordingly. Mr. Gorrell read an excellent essay, followed by Mr. H. Carroll, with a humorous selection. An essay on “Law” by P. Coady was very interesting. We predict a bright future for Mr. Coady in the pursuit of the profession which was the subject of his essay. The question discussed at the general debate was, “Which are the more beneficial to mankind, lawyers or doctors?” Both these professions had many ardent supporters present, therefore the debate was hotly contested.
—At the annual entertainment given on Wednesday evening by the St. Cecilia Philo-mathean Association in honor of the patronal festival of Rev. President Walsh, the exercises were conducted according to the following
Programme:
•	Part i.
Overture—Selection from “Il Puritani”.....Bellini
University Orchestra.
Solo and Chorus—“Inflammatus”.............Rossini
B. Gifford and Carroll Glee Club.
Greetings from the Senior Students, Mr. C. T. Cavanagh Potpourri—“ Il Trovatore ”— Verdi......Orchestra
Quartette—“ Comrades, Farewell!”—Messrs. J. E. Berry
F. B. Chute, E. j. Howard, J. S. Hummer.
Greetings from Carroll Hall.........P.	A. Murphy
Grand Chorus—“ The Heavens Proclaim Him,” Beethoven
.	. University Glee Club,
Greetings from the Minims, J. O’Neill, G. Scherrer and ’	R. Ball. '
Grand Selection—“ La Traviata”—Verdi...Orchestra
Part ii.
“THE MALEDICTION.”
(A Drama in Three Acts.) Dramatis Personce.	•
Don Vasco de Gomez (a Spanish Nobleman), J. Hummer
Don Alonzo (Son of Don Vasco).... Don Lopez (Confidant of Alonzo).. Tarik (Lieutenant of the Caliph)... Pedro (a Peasant)................... Pedrillo ( Sons of Pedro. Fabricio )
Ibrahim (a Rich Mahometan).......... Juanino (Slave of Ibrahim).......... Abdallah (a Mahometan Officer)...
.....J- E. Berry .....M. Quinlan • • - J- J- Fitzgerald .....J. R. Boyd (....E. F. DuBrul
j	C. S. Fleming
Mendoza ] Marietto | Basilio )• Sancho |
... P. A. Murphy ..W. B. Hennessy f D. J. Schillo | M. P. Hannin J A.M. Prichard
P.A.McPhillips J. A. Delaney
Spanish Officers.
Jirmibechlick (a Mahometan Slave).. Gensaro J
Ruisco I
Madrido ' Jose Leon । Leandro I Philippo )■ Tomazo j
Juan J Melgig J Kelat Tabriz * Tchad
Peasants.
Spanish Soldiers.
Mahometan Soldiers.
.. E. A. Scherrer 'D. V. Casey’ E. H. Jewett
] J. Dempsey C. Scherrer f E. W. Wolff j G. Anson ■( A. T. Nester
I A.M.Funke W. Burns ' J. T. Greene F. Cummings J J. V. Ayer
_ J. McPhillips
Roll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Allen, Burger, Berry, Blackman, Brady, Bachrach, Brelsford, Bovett, Cavanagh, Cartier, Clayton, L. Chute, F. Chute, Daniels, DuBrul, Fitzgibbon, Gillon, Hackett, Hummer, Hoover, Hempier, Murphy, McGrath, Neef, O’Neill, O’Brien, Prichard, Prudhomme, Paquette, Reynolds, Rothert, Schaack, C. Scherrer, O. Sullivan, N. Sinnott, R. Sinnott, E. Scherrer, J. B. Sullivan, Vurpillat, Wright..
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Aarons, Ahlrichs, Blameuser, Barclay, Burch, Byrnes, Correll, Castanado, Combe, Carroll, T. Coady, P. Coady, Cottey, Colton, P. Crowley, J. Crowley, Cahill, Dechant, Dela Pena, Dahler, Dacy, Devanny, Dunlap, Guertin, Gillon, Gruber, Gaffey, Hawthorn, Heinemann, Hennessy, Heard, Hauske, Houlihan, Hubbard, Henry, Jacobs, Kearns, J. King, Karasynski, Klyle, Krembs, M. Kelly, T. King, Lesner, Layton, Langan, Lindeke, Manly, Mug, Mitchell, Mahaney, Maurus, Magnus, Murphy, F. McKee, J. McKee, McConlogue, McErlain, Oide, Otero, O’Shea, G. O’Brien, S. O’Brien, Powers, Phillips, Parker, ' Richardson, Roper, Rebillot, Rudd, Robinson, Stanton, J. F. Sullivan, Scholfield, Sanford, Spalding, Vurpillat, Vidal, Vital, White, Wall, W alsh, W ood, Weakland, Venn, Zimmerman, Zeitler.
CARROLL HALL.	’
Messrs. Anson, Bergland, Booher, Burns, Boland, Ball, E. Bates, Brady, Blumenthal; Boyd, B. Bates, Boyle, Casey, Cole, Carney, Coe, Connolly, Connell, Collins, Coll, Cudahy Cummings, Chassaing, Dierkes, DuBois, Drumm, Delany, Dempsey, Dorsey, De Lormier, Ellwan-ger, Foley, Fitzgerald, Flannigan, Arthur Funke, Fox, Fleming, Gibert, Gerlach, Gillon, J. Greene, Garennes De, G. Gilbert, Girsch, A. Greene, Glass, Hannin, Hack, Hagus, Healy, Hoerr, Hake, Hahn, Howard, Jackson, Jewett, Kearney, Kennedy, Langevin, Lorie, Luther, H. Mitchell, Mattox, Mott, H. Martin, McCartney, A. McPhillips, J. McPhillips, McDonnell, Monarch, S. Mitchell, H. Nichols, W. Nichols, Neef, Nester, O’Rourke, Orton, O’Mara, Pope, Pena Dela, Payne, Pomeroy, Prichard, Palmer, Quill, Quinlan, Renesh, Roper, Roberts, Reilly, ’ A. Regan, Scallan, Sugars, Schillo, Stapleton, E. Smith, Slevin, Treff, Tong, Tucker, Thorn, Teeter, Thornton, Vandercook, Weinmann, Wolff,Welch, Zinn.
ST. EDWARD’S hall.—(Minims.)
Masters Allen, Ayers, Ball, F. Brown, O. Brown, Bixby, Blumenthal, Burns, Blake, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, A. Coquilard, J. Coquillard, Cornell, Curry, Crandall, Cross, Chapoton, Christ, L. Donnell, SI Donnell, Everest, Grant, Ezekiel, C. Furthmann, W. Furthmann, E. Furthmann, Fuller, Fischer, Fossick, Funke, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, Freeman, Girardin, Girsch, Griesheimer, Hoffman, Hathaway, Haddican, Hamilton, Higginson, Henneberry, Howell, Jonquet, King, Krollman, Kuehl, Kern, Keeler, Loomis, Lonergan, Levi, Lounsbery, T. Lowrey, G; Low’ rey, Longevin, McPhee, McCloud, Maternes, McGuire, McIntyre, McPhillips, H. Mestling, E. Mestling; Marre, Nichols, J. O’Neill, Oatman, O’Connor, Otero, Priestly, Pellenz, Pieser, Paul, Ransome, Rose, Russell, Stephens, Stone, G. Scherrer, W. Scherrer, Steele, Trujillo, Trankle, Vorhang, Wolf, Wilcox, Warburton, White, Washbune,-Windmuller, Zoehrlaut. .	. .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
255
St. Mail's fleademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University..
—Very Rev. Father General’s absence from the academic meeting on last Sunday caused general regret, his words of advice and commendation being fully appreciated by those to whom they are addressed. The Rev. Chaplain kindly presided in his stead, and after the calling of the notes Miss Marie Scherrer read a selection entitled “Young America,” the telling points of which the reader brought out in a very pleasing manner.
—“Francis d’Assisi, Saint and Poet” was the subject of Prof. Egan’s lecture of Tuesday evening. In glowing words was traced the checkered career of this most charming of saints, the speaker investing the theme with all the graces of his style, until there arose before the mental vision a picture of the Seraphic Francis, touching in its beautiful simplicity. His claim to the above' titles was well established, and, in the words of the lecturer, he was another precursor, making ready the way for Dante and Petrarch by the earliest Italian verse-making.-His life itself, with all its sublime heroism, was characterized as an Epic, and so graphically described as to win new admiration for Italy’s saint and poet.
Obituary.
Again has the Angel of Death visited St. Mary’s and borne from us one whom to know was to respect and love—Mother Mary of St. Colette. For months she lay upon a weary couch of pain, while anxious religious watched by her bedside eager to alleviate her sufferings; but all was of no avail, for on the afternoon of the 11 th inst., her soul took its flight to God. Holding the responsible position of stewardess, she bravely bore its heavy burdens, leading a truly self-sacrificing life; and, though of great value to her community, she always shrank into the background, doing her arduous work in quiet retirement. In her the poor have lost a staunch friend, and many a barefoot lad and ill-clad child left her presence their wants relieved; for to be sorrowladen and distressed was ah appeal not to be resisted by her generous -heart. In counsel prudent and wise, in disposition modest and unassuming, in character integrity itself, her loss is no ordinary one, and not soon shall the Community look upon her like. Her funeral took place at 8 o’clock on Saturday, December 13. Solemn High Mass of requiem was sung by Very Rev. Provincial Corby, assisted by the Rev. Father Fitte as deacon and the Rev. Father Spillard as subdeacon. In the sanctuary and assisting at the burial services were the Rev. Fathers Walsh, Morrissey, Scherer and French.
*
On Monday-morning; December 15, from the Chapel of Our Lady of Loreto,-took place the-
funeral services of the late Mother Mary of St. Charles. A solemn Mass of requiem .was sung by the Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau, assisted by the Rev. D. J. Spillard and the Rev. J. A. O’Connell as deacon and subdeacon, respectively. A tribute to the unquestioned worth of the deceased, and the high esteem in which she was held, was the large number of the Rev.
; clergy in attendance; for besides Very Rev. Father General, and those officiating at the Mass, were Very Rev. Fathers Granger, Corby and Walsh, and the Rev. Fathers Scherer and Morrissey.	'
The Spirit of Bethlehem.
“This holiday business is all a piece of nonsense!” and John Greyson, with much vigor, struck the pencil he held in his hand against the edge of his desk, breaking its point, adding thereby not a little to his irritation. “It is bad enough,” he went on, “ for you to go on the 25th, but I cannot let you go on the 23d, as you must be here when those English agents arrive.”
“I am sorry, Mr. Greyson,” said Mr. Barton Williams, the confidential clerk of Greyson, Bryant & Co., who had been asking leave of absence, “for I had counted on being with my mother on Christmas Day, and unless I start the. evening of the 23d, I cannot reach home in time. It will be a sad disappointment for her; how--ever, I suppose it cannot be helped.”
No response coming from Mr. Greyson, the young man went to his desk and continued his work. The senior member of the firm felt singularly ill at ease after his abrupt refusal, and, ■ giving a few brief directions, left the office. In the vestibule he was accosted by Tom, the errand boy, who, touching his cap respectfully, said, not without much hesitation: “ Please, Mr. Greyson, Christmas is the 25th, and —”	'
“Well,” broke in the gentleman addressed,, “and I suppose you want to begin your holidays now, and it is the 21st. Is that it?”
“No, Mr. Greyson; but I was going to ask you—as pay day don’t come till the 28th—if you’d pay me before Christmas, and I’d be very. grateful to you.”. .
“More Christmas nonsense! You’ll get your, pay the regular time;” and without a word more Mr. Greyson stepped into the street bearing with him an uncomfortable feeling for which he blamed everybody but himself.
He went straight to the hotel where he boarded, for he was an old bachelor, and he had just seated himself at the dinner table when a telegram was handed him. The news it brought, disturbed him still more, for it was to the effect that he was needed immediately.at B------- on-
256	> NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
important business connected with the firm; so, ascertaining that he had just time to catch the night train, he dispatched orders to Barton Williams, and hurried to the depot. Securing a chair in the parlor car—he could not endure a sleeper—he prepared to spend the few hours before him in the perusal of one of Carlyle’s essays, and had just settled himself when the train came to a stop. After a few minutes’ delay the occupants of the parlor car were informed that an accident made it necessary for them to seek accommodations in the ordinary coach. The very fact of having to change was annoying; but when Mr. Greyson found that a crying baby was one of the travellers in the coach his irritability found expression in sundry kicks at his satchel and muttered exclamations. The poor child, the cause of everyone’s discomfort, was a pale, puny creature borne in the arms of a haggard, care-worn looking man, who vainly endeavored to quiet the little one. All the passengers were men, and the poor father meekly bore the invectives poured out upon him until, when the train stopped at a way station and the infant moaned and cried louder than ever, one of the gentlemen suggested that the passengers petition the conductor to have the man and child put off. The poor man could stand it no longer; but, rising and still holding the little one close to his breast, he said: “Gentlemen, I am sorry to cause you so much annoyance, but my little one’s mother is in her coffin in the baggage car; I am taking her home to be buried, and I had no money to get anyone to take care of my child, and I have not even money to purchase food for her.”
For a moment not a word was spoken, and then John Greyson—the cold-hearted John Greyson—put a bank-note in his hat, and passed it around the car, and not a man but added to the sum. Silently he handed it to the grief-stricken man, who wept tears of gratitude, as well as of sorrow at the sight. The next move was to find the porter, and to give him instructions to procure some food for the poor, famished child; and before Mr. Greyson well understood how it all happened, the little one lay cuddled up asleep, on the seat opposite him, her curly head resting on his great-coat as a pillow.
With this vision before his eyes, John Greyson fell asleep to dream that he knelt at the Crib of Bethlehem, and as he stooped to the lowly manger, he felt the Saviour’s tiny fingers in blessing on his head.
Two o’clock in the morning found him at his destination, where he transacted his business at as early an hour as possible, and before noon he was on his way home which he reached just as Barton Williams was preparing to leave the office for the night. His surprise at seeing
his employer was heightened by a summons to his private room, when Mr. Greyson said: “Barton, I have changed my mind; you may go to-morrow to visit your mother, and give her this with my compliments,” and he handed him a check. “Send Tom to me, please,” he interrupted, when Barton tried to thank him. Tom entered with a very timid air, but his expression underwent a change when Mr. Greyson said: “Here, Tom, is your pay, and a little Christmas gift. You need not come to the office until the 26th, for I have sent Barton away for the week, and I start in the morning for a day or so at my mother’s. There, there, that will do; never mind the thanks,” as Tom began to say something that seemed to indicate a sob. “Merry Christmas'.” and Mr. Greyson left Tom wondering what it all meant.
Christmas eve found John Greyson sitting beside his aged mother, holding her hand and looking into her eyes with the love that had been dormant for years.
“You see, mother,” he said, “I thought you didn’t care. ,1 sent you money, and supposed that was all you wanted; but somehow the Christmas seemed different this year, and so I came.”
“ My boy, my boy,” she said, as she caressed his gray head, golden as ever to her, “Christ comes to Bethlehem and to hearts, and His spirit was born in your soul this blessed Christmas-tide.”
Then they sat long into the night, mother and son, and their hearts sang with the angels “Glory to God in the highest!”
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Allen, Bassett, Bunbury, E. Burns, R. Butler,A.Butler, Beach, Breen, Bradford, Black, Bonebrake, Coleman, Charles. Chase, Churchill, Clayton, Cohoon, Cochrane, Campbell, Cowan, Crilly, Call, Dority, Deutsch, Dennison, L. Du Bois, B. Du Bois, D. Davis, Dempsey, M. Donehue, Mary Donehue, Daley, Eyoy, Fehr, Fitzsimmons, Griffith, Gibbons, Green, Galvin, Good, Hamilton, Horner, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hughes, Haitz, A. Howe, Maude Hess, Mollie Hess, Minnie Hess, Hanson, Hunt, Hopkins. Johnson, T. Kimmell, Kirley, Kieffer, Kingsbaker, Kasper, Kinney,Lynch, Lauth.Lewis, Ludwig, F. Moore, McFarland, N. Morse, K. Morse, M. Moore, Murphy, McCormack, McCune, N. Moore, S. McGuire, McPhillips, McCarthy, Nacey, Nester, Nickel, L. Norris, Niemann, Naughton, O. O’Brien, C. O’Brien, O’Leary, M. Patier, Pengemann, Quirk, Quinn, A. Ryan, M. Roberts, G. Roberts, Rentfrow, Rizer, Ruger, Rose, Spurgeon. Stokes, M. Smyth, Sanford, M. Schermerhorn, N. Schermerhorn, Sena, Thirds, Tipton, Tod, R. Van Mourick, Wile, Witkowski, G. Winstandley.B. Winstand-ley, Wagner, Whitmore, Wolff, Waldron, Young, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Augustin, M. H. Bachrach, Boos,.Bartholomew, Cowan, Coady, Crandall, Cooper, M. Davis,' Dennison, Fossick, Gilmore, Girsch; Hickey, Holmes, Hammond, Kasper, Kellner, M. Kelly, McGuire, Mabbs, Scherrer, J. Smyth, N. Smyth, Schaefer, Tormey, Van Liew, .Wurzburg, White, Young.	.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.	- '
Misses Eldred, Egan,-Finnerty, Girsch, M. Ham'I ton, Henry, A. McPhillips, McCarthy, McKenna, Otero,' L. Smith, V. Smith, Windsor, Young.
