LJet a load of don juan. He killed two months’ allowance and a hefty bite off Dad for a sartorial display which he figures will swoon every girl from Vassar to Southern California. In our opinion—and more important, in the girls’ opinion—he’s about as ready as the
barefoot boy.
Why? No hat, pal, no hat.
Spend $6 for a pair of plaid underpants and $3 for some argyle socks and then go butting your poor bare head into respectable society— bro ther!
Look. Take it from a guy who trampled the campus not long ago himself and who now wanders around the big city talking to pretty models and TV actresses (it’s a tough life, Jim). You don’t look good without a hat. Girls think you look darned ungood without a hat. Don Juan without a hat is an ape.
Here’s some other stuff I picked up: A hat is for protection just as much as appearance. The hot sun beats down on your hair and dries it all up. Dirt and soot make a mess out of it, too. And rain and snow and wind not only damage your hair but give your sinuses trouble and team up with every little virus in the neighborhood.
Trade in your plaid shorts and start putting your appearance where it will show. And where it will do your health some good, too.
Wear a Hat-Its as Healthy as Its Handsome!"
These fine hat labels have published this advertisement in the interests of good grooming and good health of American men.
DOBBS
CAVANAGH j
BERG# BYRON® C&Kg
KNOX^
DUNLAP ate
Divisions of ike Hat Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats for Men and Women
LETTERS
From the Red Cross
Editor:
Thank you again for the wonderful work you and your students put into the Mobile Unit last week. It was a pleasure to find such cooperation with the end result exceeding our expectations. I understand that we still have plenty of donors left at the school which we were unable to take care of last week. We hope to collect those 1500 pints next fall. The total number of pints collected was 1630. You
are to be congratulated.
Youi* rejections were quite low in comparison with the other colleges we have visited. The usual number’ is over 20 per cent. Notre Dame was below ten per cent. Is this due to the wonderful diet prepared in your kitchens?
It was a distinct pleasure to meet and work with you and your committee. My nurses join me in this note of thanks for such a wonderful experience at Notre .Dame.
Most sincerely yours,
(Mrs.) Georgiana K. Adduci, R.N. Chief Nurse
Chicago Defense Blood Program American Red Cross
PRESIDENT’S SPIRITUAL BOUQUET
For off-campus students and those who might have missed out on recently distributed slips for the President’s Spiritual Bouquet, additional forms indicating number of Masses, Communions, etc., may be completed and deposited in the mailbox on the first floor of Alumni Hall. Deadline is May 8.
—The Blue Circle
)
"Dm 't tAit oiifwituiutif !
Please check your placement office for exact dates.
May 2, 1952
ENGINEERS
REPUBLIC AVIATION
. . . creators of the mighty Thunderjet, will visit this campus shortly . . . offering unusual job opportunities!
Make your mark in the Jet Age by joining one of the leaders in the outstanding field of today ... and tomorrow—JfT AVIATION!
College Parade
He: “They had to shoot poor old Fido today.”
Housemother: “Was he mad?”
He: “He wasn’t any too pleased.”
Bookstore Agent: “Why, this machine will do half your homework.” Lazy Senior: “Fine. I’ll take two of them.”
ROTC Recruit (moaning on the Ground): “I think I’ve broken my leg.”
Sgt.: “Well, don’t just lie there and waste time. Start doing pushups.”
Woman—Generally speaking is generally speaking.
The average woman isn’t much interested in what her husband is saying unless he is talking to some other woman.
Lit;le Willie in the best of sashes Fell in the fire and was burned to ashes.
By and by the room grew chilly, But no one likes to poke up Willie.
Politics—A simple matter of passing the buck or passing the doe.
He: “Say something soft and sweet.”
She: “Custard pie.”
COUNCIL FEE VOTE
A referendum vote is scheduled for Moy 12 and 13, to coincide with class elections, for the purpose of determining a one dollar self-assessment addition to the yearly student tuition.
This addition has been proposed in order to increase Student Council revenue for the 1952-53 school year.
by Van Heusen
as welcome as a check from home
SPORTCHECKS
PH I LL J PS-J 0 N ES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Welcome addition to your wardrobe: the sprightly air of Van Hensen’s sport shirts in cheerful checks. Big checks...little checks ... bright checks ... soft checks. All cotton ginghams, and tailored with plenty of shoulder and chest room. Definitely, a checkered career on the campus has much to recommend it .. . when Van Heusen does the checking.
$4.50 to $5.95
Van Hensen
REG. T. M.
>,$#$’;«*****
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET	®
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
Benny Strong plays tonight for Freshman Frolic . . .
■
Weekend Inertia
Last weekend could probably be called the official opening of the Spring social season around here. Although there might be some question about it being official, there is certainly no doubt that it was social, anyway.
The cloudless sky and the balmy air, typical of this region, crowded the golf course, where the Commerce men, who have had undisputed sway over the links since the sun first broke out in
By Jack Hynes
doors as they pulled in this weekend. He looks forward with some apprehension to the football weekends of next season when the alumni and their subway associates will sterm in and keep him opening doors around the clock.
Randy Returns
That yellow and black rocket ship stationed in front of the Engineering Building last Friday and Saturday elicited no little wonder and speculation from observers and passers-by.
But now it can be told (it was formerly an interplanetary secret). The
rocket ship belonged to none other than Randy Cornball, Space Cadet, who traveled some five million light-years from the planet Gazortz to earth in order to attend the Junior Prom and be guest of honor at the Engineers’ “Open House.”
Randy, whose date was a St. Mary’s sophomore—she won him on a quiz program—granted the Scholastic a special, spatial-type interview Saturday-afternoon in his four-room suite in the Morris Inn.
The clean - shaven, All - Universal Space Cadet was somewhat disturbed that the mock political convention held in the Drill Hall hadn’t put up for nomination his close political and spatial associate, Cadet Brocky.
“If we are to have genuinely firm interplanetary relations', we must elect a man who knows the cosmic scheme of things,” Cornball said.
■ -
Bottom of the Week
. . . Who is Benny Strong?
March, gave way a bit to the workaday masses. The lakes were fringed with sprawling, inert forms soaking up their quota of solar rays, the whole scene reminding us of the Left Bank of the Seine on a June day . . . though I can’t for the world suppose why it should, never having visited the Left Bank of the Seine, but it was picturesque at any rate.
■
T-Formation and Ben Hur
Saturday afternoon some relatives whom we didn’t want to see were coming down from Chicago, so we left our cubicle in Sorin House and wandered over by the Stadium. Leahy’s Lads were working out and the grandstand quarterbacks were already giving odds. We whiled away an hour or so, made a five-dollar bet (that the Old-Timers will take the Varsity) and meandered over to where the Engineers were carrying on their chariot races as part of their “Open House” celebration. We watched the performance — it was like a sequence from “Quo Vadis’’—made another bet (on the Metallurgical Engineers) and lost. I was informed they work out better on a muddy track.
■
Shades of Chauncey Depew
We also took the opportunity to make an inspection tour of the Morris Inn, that large, square edifice over by the circle that resembles a cross betwe.n a Greyhound bus terminal and a Hollywood mausoleum.
The uniformed doorman, formerly with the Hotel Metropole in Cairo, showed us his over-developed left wrist acquired from opening so many car
the thoroughbred of pipe tobaccos
DO IT TODAY! SWITCH TO
KENTUCKY CLUB
Notice how much better your pipe tastes—how much fresher your mouth feels when you switch to Kentucky Club. Send for free catalog showing fine pipes and how to get them at big savings. Mail Pouch Tobacco Co., Wheeling, West Va. Depl. 39
May 2, 1952
SPECIAL
STUDENT RATES
by
Logan’s Formal Wear Rental
MAY 2
ROCKNE MEMORIAL—Tonight the Freshman class holds the first social function of their collegiate lives. Dancing will be from 9 to 1 to the music of Benny Strong and his ork. Permissions extend to 2 a.m.
PALACE (to May 8)—Adventure in Rome during the 1950 Holy Year of two Americans, one a priest and the other a criminal masquerading as a priest, is the theme of When in Rome (Legion of Decency Rating A-l), with Van Johnson as the genuine article and Paul Douglas as the fraud. It has both humor and drama, and contains many fine background shots of Rome during the Holy Year. A pretty good picture. Fella named Stanley Clements stars in co-feature, Jet Job.
MAY 3
WASHINGTON HALL—Ethel Barrymore in Kind Lady. Real good.
MAY 4
WASHINGTON HALL (to May 8)—Student musical Stay Tuned for Addleman opens for a five-day run. It’s student through and through, from writing to acting (females excepted) to directing, and promises to be a fine show.
STATE—In case there are any Abbott and Costello fans around, their heroes will be at the State for three days in two jim-dandies—Keep ’Em Flying and Ride ’Em Coioboy.
MAY 8
GRANADA (to May 14)—All the kiddies will be glad to hear this. Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is back for a re-run and will be in town for a whole week. May there be peace in Washington Hall. Co-feature (they’ll like this one, too) will be Oklahoma Annie with Judy Canova and John Russell.
in the OLIVER Hotel
Over 500 Suits to choose from in all sizes and styles.
Alterations made for personal satisfaction.
LOGAN'S
FORMAL WEAR RENTAL
107 N. Main St., So. Bend Phone 3-9658
Seniors
Now it’s your turn to show off that pretty gal of yours. You’ll certainly want her to look her best on that biggest night of the year — the Senior Ball.
9
A handful of posies from South Bend Floral will add the perfect touch to that vision of loveliness — your date.
A 20% DISCOUNT ON ALL CLEANING AND PRESSING FOR NOTRE DAME MEN.
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson	On the Bus Line
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jawi Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
CANOE TRIPS
in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. At a price a student can afford. For free colored booklet and map. write:
Bill Rom, Mgr., Canoe Country Outfitters Box 717 C, Ely. Minnesota.
South Bend Floral Company
114 S. Michigan Ph. 3-8227

6
The Scholastic
Vol. 93 May 2, 1952 No. 25
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing -Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE ..............News
PATRICK CARRICO ......Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY.......Features
JACK R. VARLEY ...............Sports
THOMAS FOOTE .........Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER .........Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER...........Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN ..............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
Conventions and Motives
Reflections on the success of last week’s mock convention lead us to wonder j’ust how close to the real thing it was. We don’t mean the outward trappings or the organization. As we said in the last issue, both were great.
What occupied some of us was the question of sincerity. With the exception of a few maverick Democrats who somehow turned up at the affair. ND’s mock convention was certainly sincere enough. In fact we were rather surprised at the vehemence the lads displayed in campaigning for their favorite candidates. No lack of sincerity there.
But what about the situation on a national level? We are not naive enough to believe that there aren’t other considerations at the real convention. The sheer entertainment of running a convention, for instance, doesn’t mean anything to the “pros” and it did mean something to all the troops in the Drill Hall last week. Granted.
What struck us. though, was the way the lads campaigned for the man they thought obviously best. When General Eisenhower finally won, the disappointment of the Taft people on campus convinced us of the fact that they were in dead earnest about their candidate. We can’t back either man—and we aren’t—but we are certainly backing the way in which all camps went after that nomination.
So even considering the fact that this was all in fun. you have our point. The major candidates in both parties are in dead earnest. The essence of Democracy demands, however, that their backers be also convinced that their candidate is the best available. Some of the news lately makes one wonder. Are the men who are promoting the next president as sincere in their motives as the lads on the convention floor here? We hope so.
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl, Vai Chun, Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberger, Paul Fullmer. Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore, Gorman Redding, Bob Rust, Al Suwalsky, Mike Ward, Irv Carrig, Frank Donlon, Jerry Burns.
FEATURES: Sal Asselta, Jay Conlon, Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
SPORTS: Mickey Carroll, Roger Fernandes, Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Bob Huddleston, Jack Quetsch, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, cr.cept during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per year.
COVER: This issue’s front is a good example of the enthusiasm that marked ND’s mock convention last week. For Scholastic’s photo coverage of the occasion see the feature starting on page 15.
—Photo by Bob Huddleston
Tune In for ’Addleman'
This Sunday evening one of the biggest events of the spring takes its opening bow at Notre Dame when the all-student musical comedy. Stay Tuned for Addleman, is unveiled in Washington Hall. We’ve had the opportunity to read the script, hear all the music and see a rehearsal and, gentlemen, this one is really a “must.”
From the opening curtain until the final one “Addleman” has manv of the earmarks of a professional production. When you consider the fact that the production is completely a student job, you can conclude only that there’s an awful lot of talent wrapped up in this show.
The gags, dialogue, and situations are genuinely funny. The dancing is tops and the leads and chorus are, too. Messrs. Hynes, Schubert and Costello did a wonderful job with “Addleman.” In addition to collaborating on the script, Jerry Costello wrote all music and lyrics and arranged same for production. Hear them for yourself and we think you’ll agree that they’re really great musical comedy stuff, student written or otherwise.
“Addleman” opens, as we said, on Sunday night and runs through Thursday. The advance sale is heavy, so don’t be left out. Student productions come and go, but this one will be remembered. In fact, we think it’s the year’s high-water mark in entertainment. Don’t miss it.	.
May 2, 1952
7
I am hiMw-iqsz
i

Whatever their national origin!
I shall forever do my part to keep America great!
I am America’s life-blood!
I am America’s strength!
I am the bulwark of the World’s freedom!
Cwnrt. 1931 GENERAL CABLE CORPORATION
Ushered into a new world,
I had a bustling, brawling, bruising youth.
I was a potential giant awakening in a world of giants.
People were hurt when I first stirred in life;
Then 1 grew and learned;
Then I matured and knew that
Though I work with water and metal and chemicals and fire, I am more than these things.
I am the people’s work!
I am the people’s dream!
I am the people!
With maturity, 1 have grown, too, in social responsibility To the people, To America!
And even to those beyond our shores.
My efforts are not in selfish interest;
Rather, all my brain and brawn strives for the good of the many.
Z am rhe American way!
Now, I have sworn that these things shall be:
I shall deliver ever-better products to those who use my fruits!
I shall offer equal opportunity to those who work at my side Whatever their race!
Whatever their creed!
Whatever their color!
And why?
Because only in this way can I remain a healthy force in our free world. For when I am healthy, America prospers And tyrants tremble before my might.
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 25
MAY 2, 1952
Addleman Opens 5-Night Run Sunday
Sellout Show Lists
Eleven Original Tunes
By MICKEY CARROLL
Stay Tuned for Addleman. an original musical comedy in three acts by Jerry Costello, Jack Hynes, and Chaz Schubert, will take over the Washington Hall stage this Sunday evening to start off a run of five nightly, performances.
CHARLEY SCHUBERT
As Addleman
The second annual student musical is expected—like its predecessor—to be a sell-out.
Eleven original melodies by tunesmith Costello, elaborate and colorful sets by Dick Byrnes, a chorus of twenty, and a cast including Charley Schubert, Nancy Driscoll, and Bill Toohey, are all expected to make Stay Tuned for Addleman. one of the big events of the year on the Notre Dame campus.
The story of a New York disc jockey with big ideas, Stay Tuned for Addleman features a book which is packed
with laughs and music of every sort, from fast brassy show tunes to slow dreamy ballads.
Charley Schubert plays the leading role of disc jockey Irving Addleman, who feels that he is too good for his all night record show. So — against the best advice of his secretary, Janice, played by Nancy Driscoll, and his manager George, portrayed by Bill Toohey, Addleman makes arrangements to be starred on a program of classical music.
These arrangements he makes by playing up to sponsor Hamilton P. Granby, who is played by Walt Swift, and to Granby’s daughter, Pamela, a role filled by Jean Artessani.
The complications of arranging this classical show with the definitely un-classical personality of Addleman, and the results of his venture into the high brow field furnish the story of the musical.
The show will enjoy a run of five nights starting this Sunday and running through Thursday evening. But, (Continued on Page 32)
MISS NANCY DRISCOLL
As His Secretary
Irish Bleed 1,899 Pints For 4 New Records
Setting four collegiate blood drive records, students of Notre Dame, in cooperation with the American Red Cross, totalled a 62 per cent pledging of blood during a seven-day blood-collection program. The record 3,018 men who promised donations set a new mark for the highest student pledge percentage at any U. S. college or university.
Operating from the Northeim Indiana Children’s Hospital, the mobile blood units, from Chicago and Fort Wayne collected 1,899 pints of Irish blood for a donation percentage and unofficial collegiate record of almost 40 per cent of the total student enrollment.
A record for the greatest number of pints of blood to be taken by any one unit during one day was set on last Friday, the drive’s final day, when 330 students contributed.
Blair Bronstad, executive director of St. Joseph County’s chapter of the American Red Cross, announced that the quality of .the blood taken was excellent, and approximately only four per cent of those pledging were rejected for medical reasons. The average rejection portion for national universities is about 20 per cent.
Because of the short time remaining during this school year, it is improbable that another drive will be held, but the chairmen announce that a bigger and better drive will be conducted in September of this year. All those who failed to donate last week are urged to give theii- strong support to this next drive and help to push the University over the proposed 3,000 donors.
May 2, 1952
Revolving Student Loan Fund, Art Collection Among Late Mrs. Fisher's Gifts to Notre Dame
By LARRY BREHL
With the recent death of Mrs. Fred Fisher, Notre Dame lost one of its finest friends and greatest benefactors. Following her death, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, issued a statement in which he told of her friendship for the University and its students through both her financial contributions and personal contact.
Mrs. Fisher was the widow of Fred J. Fisher, owner of Fisher Body Corporation. For 16 years, from 1925 to 1940, Mr. Fisher served as a trustee of the University. During these years and the ones following her husband’s death, Mrs. Fisher kept close contact with Notre Dame through frequent visits to the campus.
Before her death, the University administration had planned to present Mr. Fisher’s widow with an honorary degree as Doctor of Laws (LL.D.) at the June graduation exercises, as a symbol of recognition and gratitude for her benefaction to the school.
Most notable of her contributions are the Mr. and Mrs. Fred J. Fisher Revolving Student Loan Fund, and her art collection of 19 paintings and three tapestries, valued at $1,200,000.
In setting up the Loan Fund in 1949 Mrs. Fisher said that she firmly believed in “presenting an opportunity to the young man who is willing to work.” Of the million dollars she donated, $250,000 was allotted for this fund, while the remaining $750,000 was spent for construction of the Fisher Residence Hall.
Among the works of art, there are four originals. These are the Madonna and Child and St. John by del Garbo; Portrait of St. Catherine by Bernardino Luini; Madonna and Child by Di Sandro; and Marquis de Torcy by Louis Tocque. The tapestries are all concerned with the life of Mark Anthony in Egypt.
The art collection was given to the University several months ago, while the Loan Fund was set up in 1949. Though the art pieces were given earlier, they were mentioned in Mrs. Fisher’s will as going to Notre Dame. This was inserted in a codicil of December, 1949.
University officials who attended Mrs. Fisher’s funeral were Father Cavanaugh; Rev. Thomas A. Steiner,
C.S.C., former provincial of the Holy Cross Order; Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president; and J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations.
The funeral Mass was held at the Church of the Little Flower, Royal Oak, Mich. Father Cavanaugh was celebrant of the Solemn Requiem High Mass, and Rev. Charles E. Coughlin, pastor of the church, gave the eulogy.
’Call to Post’ by Hull At 'Barristers' Derby'
Over 150 future lawyers will desert Blackstone and Cicero tonight and don their racing silks for the big “Barristers’ Derby” at the South Bend Country Club.
GENE HULL
rection of Toby Barry, will dress up the country club, located on Chain-O-Lakes Road, in the shape of a racing surface, with the dancing area enclosed by the track. Authenticity will be heightened by the utilization of scratch sheets as programs.
Dancing will be from 9 to 1 with 2 o’clock and car permissions for those attending.
John Connelly, ticket chairman, states that although ducat sales have been moving well, there will still be some left at the door tonight.
Programs and publicity are being handled by Bob McCoy and Ollie Ce-lusta, respectively. John Laughlin has taken care of the arrangements for this annual Spring law formal, and Dave Matthews is in charge of the transportation angle.—Paul Fullmer -----------------■ — « - -- ■
ND Signed as 11 Oth Chapter : In Sigma Xi Science Society
•?
Notre Dame was formally accepted j for membership in the Sigma Xi So- | ciety yesterday. Beginning with an organizational meeting in the morning, and registration of	visiting delegates	‘1
from other member	universities, the	|
ceremonies lasted throughout the day and evening.	j
Acceptance of Notre Dame’s petition	ia
took place in Washington Hall, after	|
an academic procession of the faculty	|
at 2 p.m. ND is the 110th chapter of the scientific research society in the United States.	:
Dr. Hugh S. Taylor, dean of the Graduate School at Princeton University, gave the installation address in	;
the concluding ceremony held last	i
night at 8:15 in Washington Hall.	‘
This is the culmination of four years’ efforts which were started in 1948 by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C.,
dean of the Graduate School.	j
Contrary to opinion, this acceptance of the Sigma Xi. is not a divergent step with the policy of no fraternities	i
on campus. The Greek letter fraterni-	j
ties have been condemned, in general, for being secret societies with closed I membership. However, this scientific research society is not in this category. Any undergraduate or graduate student can become a member of the Sigma Xi if he is actively engaged in research, and has had an article published on some phase of his research.
The purpose of the Sigma Xi is to present the National Lectures that are held in the Spring and other concurrent lectures. Secondly, through this society on campus, the composite in- . j formation on specific research projects . ’ will be available to Notre Dame.
susHa
Lawyers Race to Jazz Jockeys
Gene Hull’s jazz jockeys will provide the musical accompaniment for the dancing pleasure of the students, their fair companions, and honored guests from the law school faculty.
Kaye Fena and Ariis Enburg, respective spouses of the two co-chairmen, Jack Fena and Bob Enburg, will preside as co-queens over the semi-formal affair. These two couples will lead the grand march which will open the evening’s activities.
Since tomorrow is the annual running of the famed Kentucky Derby, the decoration committee, under the di-
10
The Scholastic
g ND Grad Conducting Vetville's Institute
Ryan Named WND Head Third Straight Year; WSBT's Mort Linder Speaks at Banquet
Last Tuesday night the first of a series of three talks was given at the Vetville Marriage Institute in the Vet Rec Hall. The Institute, sponsored by the Christian Family Movement and the Vetville Council, is being given by Rev. Charles Marhoefer.
Father Marhoefer, a Notre Dame graduate, is assistant pastor at St. Sabina Church in Chicago. He is a pioneer in Cana work, having started activities with the society in 1942. He also aids in a suburban youth center in the Chicago area.
The Institute’s discussions cover various problems which might arise in married life. Tuesday’s lecture was concerned with “Husband and Wife Relationship.” The other two talks, scheduled for May 6 and 13, will deal with “Problems Encountered in Raising Children” and “Family Economic Problems” respectively.
The lectures, held in the Vet Rec Hall, begin at 8 p.m. A charge of 25 cents is being made for the entire series.
Elections, Housing
Nomination ballots for Vetville Councilmen appeared in the last issue of the Vet Gazette. Election ballots for the Councilmen, as well as mayoralty nomination ballots, will be printed in the next issue, to be distributed May 7. Elections are scheduled for May 8 and 9, and the election of mayor also will be held in several weeks.
Applications for admission to the Vetville Housing Project are being examined by the Council. All applicants are to be interviewed in the next few weeks.
Vetville Cleanup Week is scheduled for the week beginning either May 8 or 15. This annual job is done for the benefit of Spring and Summervisitors, as well as for the residents themselves.
Fishing Contest Nears Close As 6-Pound Catch Sets Pace
With the annual student angler contest well past the halfway mark, reports from Father George Baldwin, C.S.C., indicate that exceptional student interest has resulted in the greatest turnout for this affair that has been seen in past years.
The contest, which began on March 17 and which will end on May 15, of-
New appointments to the station staff were announced at the annual banquet of radio station WND at the Ramble Inn last night.
Continuing to serve as station manager will be Bill Ryan, who will enter his third year as leader of the campus station. A junior speech major from Flushing, New York, Ryan has been the chief factor in the forward strides made by the student voice over the past two years, including the acquisition of the Thesaurus transcription service and the United Press radio news wire.
BILL RYAN Chief of the Student Voice
Also continuing in the posts they have filled this year will be technical director Ted Byrne, business manager Jim Murphy, and program director Tom Knott.
Byrne is a sophomore engineering major from Buffalo, New York, Murphy, from Cleveland, Ohio, is a junior in Commerce, while Knott is a Sophomore music major from Ridgewood, New Jersey.
Among the new appointments are three sophomores and one junior: Jim Gannon, a junior journalism major from Dixon, Illinois, has been named to serve as head of the station’s sports staff, replacing graduating Bob Dough-
fers $20 in fishing equipment to the winning Isaak Waltons.
Freshman Joe Egan of Farley Hall, with a 23-inch, six-pound bass, has caught the biggest fish to date.
erty. Gannon has sei-ved as play-byplay announcer on all spoiling events at the station for the past two years.
Named to serve as head of the public relations department is Bryan Coughlin, a sophomore from Chicago. A former staff engineer, he joined the station this year as an assistant publicity man, and his outstanding work is being recognized by naming him to head the department next year.
Another of the new appointments is the naming of John Kelsch to direct • the continuity staff, which is responsible for every commercial and script show which goes over the air. Kelsch has been serving as temporary head of that department for the past month.
The final new appointment is that of Leighton Johnson to replace Gerry Burlage as the director of the Special Events staff. Johnson has served as a member of the continuity and engineering staffs at WND. He is a sophomore from Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Linder Speaks, Demonstrates
At the dinner yesterday evening, the members of the station staff heard Mort Linder, new-s director of station WSBT, “young man of the year” in South Bend for 1951 and a former -journalism teacher at Notre Dame, speak on some of the famous “fluffs” that have occurred in radio broadcasting.
Not content with merely speaking about them, Linder brought along some samples via a record collection which he has made of the more embarrassing blunders on the local stations.
Director of radio at Notre Dame, Jerome A. Fallon, also spoke to the banquet gathering.
Among the special guests at the WND banquet were basketball coach John Jordan, the program director' of station WSBT, Robert Drain, Scholastic Editor Jack Powers and managing editor Bob Finney.
Unable to attend, but honored nevertheless by the WND staffers were several seniors who were absent because of rehearsals for Stay Tuned for Ad-dleman. These included: the show’s co-authors and WND staff members Jerry Costello, Jack Hynes, and Chaz Schubert; and Bill Toohey and Tom Driscoll, both WND announcers who have parts in the show.
May 2, 1952
11
Ray Anthony, Variety Acts, 'Addleman' Tunes Slated for Next Friday Night's Senior Ball
The “Young Man with the Horn,” Ray Anthony, and his nationally famous dance band will serenade seniors and their dates at the forthcoming Senior Ball, to be held in Drill Hall, Friday evening, May 9.
Anthony started his career in Cleveland, and after brief sojourns with Al Donohue and Jimmy Dorsey, became a featured trumpet soloist with the renowned Glenn Miller, Upon emerging from service in 1946, he ■ formed his own aggregation and has „ grown steadily in popularity since that time, until last year his orchestra was ' named the top dance band of 1951.
The Capitol recording star stresses
RAY ANTHONY
To Serenade Seniors
versatility in his music, his orchestral presentations running the gamut from jazz and swing to novelties and sweet ballads, for a well-balanced musical program designed to please almost every taste. Among Anthony’s many successful record hits are Nevertheless, Tenderly, and Darktown Strutters Ball.
Hull to Spell Anthony
Featured vocalists with the Anthony orchestra are Tommy Mercer, Gloria Craig and the Skyliners quintet. Novelty and comedy are provided by trombonist Kenny Trimble, and the outfit also boasts such outstanding instrumental soloists as tenor saxman Buddy Wise.
Ray’s annual itinerary now includes prom dates at the leading colleges and universities throughout the country. He is currently on a tour of the mid
west, and, after playing for the Senior Ball here at Notre Dame, will proceed to Hollywood to fulfill engagements there.
In addition to the tunes of Anthony, Band Committee Chairman Bob Cos-saboon has secured Gene Hull and his band of local fame to supply music during the intermission periods of the dance. Still a third attraction will be offered the ball goers when a group of performers from the Notre Dame student musical. Stay Tuned for Addle-man, will stage several skits from the production during the course of the evening’s entertainment.
Tickets for the Communion Breakfast, which will take place Sunday, May 11, are still available to those interested, and may be purchased from senior hall representatives, or from Harry Buch in 329 Walsh.
Four Lawyers Hurdle Moot Court Prelims
Four advanced law students, Orlando Prosperi, William Roche, Ralph Schulz, and John Burke, have successfully hurdled three preliminary court sessions and will enter the finals of the Notre Dame Moot Court of the annual meeting of the Law Alumni Association some time in June.
The Moot Court is held by students of law for practicing the conduct of hypothetical law cases. The experience gained is’ helpful to the prospective lawyers and constructive criticism is given afterwards by the judges.
The Dean’s Award is given annually to the two best lawyers, in the eyes of the judges, and is worth a cash prize of $50, a gold key, and their names inscribed on a plaque in the law library to the winning pair.
A senior, one faculty member, and a practicing attorney from South Bend have formed the three-man judging board for the first courts. Three federal district court judges will be present for the finals in June.
Contestants are graded on three basic points: Writing of appellate brief, oral presentation, and ability to answer legal questions.
A pair of two-man teams clashes in each court and the winning duo may either be a team or one man from each side.
Winners of this junior competition will qualify for the national Moot Court to be held in Chicago next De-
MOVIE CANCELLED
The regular Saturday after-i noon showing of the campus | movie has been cancelled this ' week to allow for the dress re->
hearsal of the Student Musical
which opens on Sunday evening.
The two evening showings of the movie will take place as usual on Saturday evening.
cember. Further awards and recognition may be garnered in this annual gathering.
Freshman Moot Court
Freshman law students held their Moot Court contest on April 17 and came up with the following ten winners: Samuel Adelo, Don Bebenek, Jim Bleyer, Ed Burke, Carl Eiberger, John Malik, Tom Murray, Ed Reardon, Jim Roemer, and Len Valko.
Don Travis, Moot Court director, has announced next year’s officers. David Thornton will replace Travis as director and Hugh Henry Jr. will become executive director. Both will serve for one year, beginning- in June.
William Nesbitt, Ed Burke and Samuel Adelo have been appointed junior chancellor, freshman chancellor, and director of public relations, respectively. Their terms of office will end in February of 1953.
NRO Men to Weigh Anchor | For Europe and Caribbean
Next summer will not be a period of complete rest and relaxation for 1 many of Notre Dame’s NROTC stu- * dents. Fifty freshmen and junior regular students will leave Norfolk, Va., i June 9 for Europe.	s
The A cruise squadron will contain	1
26 ships, including two battleships, two	;
cruisers, 10 destroyers, one light car-	5
rier, and 11 auxiliaries. Ports of call	]
have riot been definitely announced as	•’
yet, but they will be in northern	‘
Europe, the British Isles and Scan-	■
dinavia.	1
After returning to American	waters,	i
the squadron will visit Guantanamo	j
Bay, Cuba, and then end its	voyage	1
at Norfolk Aug. 5.	I
Oil Aug. 10 contract students will	<
sail from Norfolk with the C cruise	I
squadron, which will contain a cruiser, four minesweepers, and a fast trans- ‘ port. After maneuvers and gunnery exercises in Caribbean waters, the I squadron will return to Norfolk on^ Sept. 5.	~
12
The Scholastic
t Catholic Picture Mag Scheduled for Fall '52
Jiibilee, the first national monthly picture magazine for a Catholic audience and the first magazine to be owned by its subscribers, has been announced by its managing editor, Edward Rice. The first issue of the new monthly is scheduled for the fall of ’52.
The magazine is designed to help Catholics and ' non-Catholics alike to better understand the Church and her people through modern pictorial journalism. Current events, history, the liturgy, and the arts and sciences will be among the many subjects of Jubilee’s text and picture coverage.
Edited by Catholic laymen who will have the assistance of an advisory board of men and women, both lay and religious, the magazine will average about 64 pages per issue, and will be owned largely by a basic group of 50,000 charter subscribers who will re-. ceive one share of Class A common stock with each one-year subscription. A limited number of Preferred shares ’ will also be issued.
Subscription-stock packages will sell for §5, and may be obtained only through Jubilee’s offices at 150 Waverly Place, New York, N. Y. Only the first 50,000 charter subscribers will receive stock.
Methods of circulation will include news stand sales from coast to coast, church-door and parish sales. Additional subscriptions will be obtained through advertisements in Catholic media and in metropolitan dailies.
Monthly sales are expected to reach a total of 100,000 by the end of the
ACP Awards 'Scholastic' First Class in Annual Rating
Once again Scholastic has received a high rating from the Associated Collegiate Press, which analyzes and criticizes college publications yearly. This year’s rating falls short of last year’s Superior rating by only one division, being a First Class award.
In the critical remarks made about the Scholastic, the judges were on a whole highly complimentary. They considered the total coverage as being-excellent, while editorials, and sports received the same praise. Other comments spoke of the features as having a professional approach and presentation. Overall the judges considered the University’s weekly news magazine as being excellent.
When judging publications, the crit-
Misses Rogers, Benish Reign Over Rockne For Freshman 'Nocturne Parisienne' Tonight
By MIKE DUCEY
In the wake of “Sophistication” and in the path of “Dancing in the Clouds,” the freshman class of Notre Dame brings “Nocturne Parisienne” to the Rockne Memorial tonight. From nine to the wee-est hour of the morning Benny Strong and his orchestra will play for nearly 400 Freshmen and their dates.
Reigning over the first social gathering of the Class of ’55 will be the dates of Co-chairmen Joe O’Donnell and Jim Barry. Miss Janice Rogers of Chicago will be O’Donnell’s date and Jeanne Benish will be escorted by Barry.
JEANNE BENISH
Reign at First Dance . .
ics survey the general appeal of the magazine or newspaper and then move on to the individual characteristics of the diverse sections.	.
Both constructive and laudatory criticisms are made on the basis of the style, content, and overall appearance of any publication.
This is not a competition between colleges or universities, but a means of improving their respective publications. As criticisms a.e supposed to make each successive year’s submitted publications better, this year the standards were raised slightly. A magazine must become better, or its rating will be lower.
Miss Rogers is a Senior at Mary-wood Academy for Girls in suburban Chicago and plans to attend Mundelein College in the same city next year. Miss Benish is a freshman at St. Mary’s College and a graduate of Whitefish Bay High School, Whitefish Bay, Wis.	•
Transformation of the “Rock” from the pink and white atmosphere of the Juniors’ Sophistication to the deep purple of nocturnal Paris was no small job for the first-year production line.
With the main body of the gymnasium devoted wholly to dancing space, the couples will be seated and served refreshments in the light and heavy apparatus rooms, and on the south terrace.
In the front courtway will be the photography booth, which will take care of the couples’ favors. Pictures of the couples will be taken tonight and mailed to the Notre Dame student within three days.
JANICE ROGERS . . . of Class of '55
The weekend’s entertainment won’t end with the last wave of Benny Strong’s baton, since the committee has prepared both an “After the Parade” social in the Palais on Saturday afternoon from 4:30 to 5:30 and a Communion breakfast in the Morris Inn on Sunday morning. The breakfast will be held at 10:15 after the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
May 2, 1952
15
Students Nominate Eisenhower-Warren Slate To End Hectic Balloting at Mock Convention
By PETE CONNOLLY
Climaxing a harried two-night balloting in the Notre Dame Drill Hall, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower won the student nomination for the presidential office of the United States at the student mock Republican convention held last week. The convention named Gov. Earl Warren of California for the vice-presidency on the first ballot.
Eisenhower received a total of 730 votes, which far exceeded the necessary 603 for nomination, to win on the seventh ballot over Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, who received 455 of the 1,205 votes cast.
After gaining the lead at the close of the third ballot on Wednesday night with 437 votes, Eisenhower retained his top position throughout the remaining balloting.
The final ballot of that evening had marked a- split of Taft forces, when one of his campaign managers, Leo Brennan, attempted to swing the Ohio senator’s backers over to the Warren side, in an effort to halt the rise of voting for General Eisenhower. The majority of the Taft supporters remained with his other manager, Glenn
‘IKE’ BACKERS CHEER CONFIDENTLY
After the Seventh Ballot, Victory
Yatuni, however, in backing Taft. A subsequent committee caucus witnessed the resignation of Brennan.
The madcap demonstration of Wednesday’s session was finally terminated however, when Convention Chairman William Lewis called a halt to the evening activities because of lateness and indecision of delegation support.
The fourth, fifth, and sixth ballots on Thursday night created a deadlock between Taft and Eisenhower, while two minority candidates, Warren and Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon, controlled enough student votes to prevent either Taft or Eisenhower from winning.
A necessary majority of votes was switched, however, when after the sixth ballot Frank Giambroni, chairman of the Warren campaign committee, released pledged delegates in order to support General Eisenhower, bringing convention action to a dramatic end on the seventh ballot.
In return for support by the Warren forces, Eisenhower backers aided in sweeping the California governoi’ into nomination for the vice-presidency on
the first ballot with a majority 599	2
votes. (Because some state delegations	*
had walked out after Eisenhower’s selection, the majority necessary for election was reduced from the original 603).
Yatuni, leader of the Taft forces, had this to say on the convention results: “It is obvious that the Republican party platform, as adopted, has been betrayed. Therefore, the delegates pledged to Senator Robert A. Taft will not go on record as favoring such a compromise as this convention demanded. It was evident from the final tallies that Senator Taft proved himself second only to an Eisenhower-Warren coalition.”
On the other side, Brian Kelly, leader of the victorious Eisenhower forces, expressed his confidence in his group’s candidate foi" the presidential office: “Eisenhower, in winning the Notre * Dame campus election, proved beyond all doubt that he can win, both on a campus and national level.
“The so-called coalition of Eisenhower-Warren forces was effected only when Warren supporters, realizing that they had no direction in which to turn, and recognizing the time element involved, decided to join with Ike for the strongest possible ballot.”
Kelly praised the Warren delegates for their sacrifice, and gave his recognition to the strength of an Eisenhower-Warren combination.
Speaking on the convention’s opening night, Mr. Paul Harvey of the Chicago ABC Network complimented the student body and faculty for the interest in national affairs which they demonstrated in conducting the mock rally.
An air of political realism was lent _ to the convention when Mr. Walter -i Trohan, head of the Chicago Tribune Washington Bureau, interrupted the last night’s activities to briefly compliment the University once more.
The student delegation committees who participated in the convention were ’ indebted to the St. Mary’s College girls for the votes which they cast as state delegates and all those from west of the Dixie who gave their avid three-night support to the affair.
For the record, this was Notre Dame’s third political mock rally since 1940. Of these rallies, there have been two Republican and one Democratic nominations. Because of the war, there was no convention held in 1944.
Area reports confirmed the huge success which this third Notre Dame political mock convention was, while applauding the great interest on the parts of both University students and administration.
14
The Scholastic
rhe General
ground by on hopefuls drop-
of idealist and they held the
the last favorite corner of some reserved for- po-i-eal business of
vancing broom, when son retreated to the hazy, faraway limbo litical also-rans, the
a 1 T lasted for four- nights. Four long, hot, smoky nights of invocation, platform, and nomination. But when the last, tired “WE LIKE IKE” banner flew for the last time before an ad-
the 1952 Mock Republican Convention was wrapped up in one short hour.
For almost three nights it had gone as anticipated. The platforms were righteous, the denunciations ringing, the nominations foreseen, and the balloting perfunctory. Three nights of dealing and maneuvering and give-and-take, from which only four forces emerged out of the score which had entered—• The Eisenhower men, confident, yet nervous under- the pressure bearing down on any favorite. The Taft people, determined to guide the party down the well-worn path of traditional, conservative Republicanism. The Senator Wayne Morse group, small, demonstrative, persistent. And
the Warrens, a mixture opportunist, who knew balance of power.
Three ballots slowly the third night, as the
ped out one by one and the Ikemen picked up all but a hundred or so of the needed votes. Finally the break came, but from an unexpected direction. From the Taft quarters, where one party leader directed his followers to sacrifice everything in order to stop Eisenhower, to cast their votes for Earl Warren. Five minutes later the proceedings were adjourned ’til the next night, but it was time enough, time for the other Taft leaders to snap their wandering fold back into line, time for the Ike forces to plan strategy for the following night, but mostly, time for- the Warren leader to dream the dream of every hopeful third candidate, and then to see the so-close victory slip away for want of ten more minutes to complete the landslide.
After two more ballots on the last night, Thursday, the inevitable happened. The Warren people recognized the hopelessness of theii- cause, and
switched to Ike in return for the promise of support for the vice-presidential nomination. But they came very close, and when they left that night, they must have left satisfied, not only with having won the second nomination, but with giving the convention its real drama, of coming within minutes of winning the whole show. And so Ike took it. Eisenhower and Warren, a pretty strong ticket. A pretty good time. A pretty realistic convention.
In Particular
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
Text by Dick Cody
May 2, 1952
15
ABOVE: As was expected, the action of the first three nights consisted mainly in tabulating the delegation votes and in demonstrations by favorite-son groups, such as the Stassen people, who later switched to more important candidates.
ABOVE: The peak in drama was reached late Wednesday night, when the Taft co-chairman was persuaded to back Earl Warren. Adjournment to the following evening prevented the Warren people from pushing through the vote with their increased strength, however, and they protested the ruling vehemently. BELOW: Taft Chairman Glen Yatuni put Taft back into the race on the following night, while convention officials tangled with the knotty problem and with the sparring that followed.
the Earl
Warren people
agreed to back Eisenhower in return

ballots, and in the back-room haggling which followed, for his support of Warren for vice-presidential nomination.
ABOVE: The news passed quickly through the crowded house. Warren was backing Eisenhower, and again the “WE LIKE IKE" banners waved, again the processions tromped up the littered center aisle. The inevitable had happened; from then on it was only a matter of time. BELOW: And so it was, with both Eisenhower and Warren pulling well over the number of votes required to walk off with the nominations. Soon all that remained were overturned chairs, weary posters, and a four-year wait.
Junior Prom Friday was a day set apart from any other. Meeting the train, bus, or car differentiated it right from the start, as did the lobster dinner in place of the usual sewer trout. Walking to the Rock that night was another pleasant change, for the Rock had its face lifted. That floodlighted building just wasn’t a gym any more.
Gone were the high bars and low bars and parallel bars. Over were the swimming and boxing and education classes. It was a night of crepe paper, white clouds and blue cakes, of dinner jackets, formats, and waxed floors. And over all Hal McIntyre furnished the sophisticated serenade — the sophisticated swing as well. Beautiful queens.
18
The Scholastic
After the queens were crowned there was dancing again, with frequent breaks for cokes and conversation. The cool Indiana evening lured many
Sophisticated Serenade
to the starlit terrace; roving trouba-dors entertained those who stayed inside.
Photos by BOB HUDDLESTON
They start arriving Friday afternoon — dates from Kalamazoo and Memphis and across the Dixie highway. There’s the rush of dinner, dressing, and up the spotlighted steps into a sophisticated world of clouds, soft music and the swish of formals. Then suddenly it’s the last dance. But there’s
more the next day—chariot races, an afternoon at the dunes under a bright Indiana sun and another dance at the “Rock.” Then Sunday Mass and whistles from the porch of Sorin, the communion breakfast, a stroll around the lake and it’s all over. The campus belongs to the men again.
May 2, 1952
19
The
Lush
The first impression of the outside of the Morris Inn is one of clean modern lines and unlimited window space. The uniformed doorman at the brick-and-glass entrance is the first sign of the modern luxury which keynotes the entire Inn, while the large paved parking lot shows that utility has been considered as well as beauty.
The spacious lobby, with its comfortable chairs arranged in small groups, is designed for conversation and relaxation. The west wall, which is constructed entirely of glass, provides a spectacular view of the University golf course. Even the magazine counter with its pleasant clerk carries out the modern theme.

Morris Inn
And Plush
’A

,v K'	»




Colorful pointings decorate the walls o>: the individual rooms, which feature practical modern furniture. The guest who tires of his own room can take advantage of the two-level dining room, the three-section meeting room, or—Indiana weather permitting — the terrace which opens off the lobby and overlooks the golf course.
~...........
li’
Announce Extra Draft Exam for ND May 22
An additional Selective Service College Qualification Test will be held May 22 at Notre Dame for the benefit of those students who were prevented for some reason from taking the test on Dec. 13 or April 24.
Officers at National Headquarters emphasized strongly that students who have an admission ticket for either the Dec. 13 or April 24 test which they failed to use on the assigned date must submit a new application if they wish to take the May 22 test.
Application blanks for the May 22 test may be obtained by students at the Office of Military Information, first floor Main Building. Applications should be mailed as soon as possible to the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J. Those postmarked later than midnight May 10 will not be accepted.
To be eligible to take the Selective Service College Qualification Test, an applicant 1) must be a selective service registrant who intends to request deferment as a student; 2) must be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time college course — undergraduate or graduate — leading to a degree; 3) must not previously have taken the test.
Consideration for deferment as a student will be given those having a score of 70 or better on the test, or a class standing in the upper half of the freshman class, upper* two-thirds of the sophomore class, or upper three-fourths of the junior class. Seniors accepted for admission to a graduate school satisfy the criteria if they are among the upper half of their senior class, or if they make a score of 75 or better.
Adoration, Novena Highlight University May Devotions
Along with the Spring blossoms and warm air in May, the month of Mary, come various devotions to pay tribute to the Patroness of the University. There will be daily adoration of the Blessed Sacrament in the Main Church Monday through Friday throughout the entire month. Adoration will be from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., with Benediction at 1.
Starting tomorrow and continuing until May 11 will be the Mother’s Day Novena. Novena services will consist of Masses, Communions, rosaries, visits to the Blessed Sacrament and the Grotto, and periods of adoration.
The perpetual Sorrowful Mother Novena, which was • recently inaugurated at Notre Dame, will be continued
throughout the remainder of the semester. Seiwices are held every Friday evening at 6:45 in the Main Church. Conducted for the Conversion of Russia and World Peace, the novena has been extremely successful at the University, and according to Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., “the student chaplains are edified by the consistently excellent turnout for the Novena services.”
A final call for all those wishing to be confirmed has also been made. All Catholics who have not as yet been confirmed are asked to report immediately to Rev. Joseph A. Barry, C.S.C., in Cavanaugh Hall.
Confirmation services have been set for Sunday, May 25, at Christ the King parish in Roseland, on the Dixie Highway.
Placement News
There will be two interviewing firms at Notre Dame Monday. U. S. Gypsum Co., Chicago, will interview accounting majors for the Chicago office, A.B. or Commerce graduates for selling building materials, and mechanical, chemical, and civil engineers for production and technical sales.
W. R. Grace & Co., New York, N. Y., (Steamship lines, etc. — Central American and South American operations) will talk to A.B. and Commerce graduates for the Managerial Training Program in these departments: statistical, industrial, foreign trade, treasury, steamships. All trainees must be willing to work in the company’s foreign service if so assigned.
On Tuesday, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell. & Co., Certified Public Accountants, will interview Accounting majors.
On this same day, General Motors Corp., Detroit, wants junior accounting majors and engineers who are completing their junior year, for summer work in a GM plant in Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, or New York.
Three companies will be here Thursday. Stix, Baer & Fuller, St. Louis department store, will interview A.B. and Commerce graduates for Training Programs in varied fields, especially merchandising.
The Kroger Co., Cincinnati (retail food chain), wants A.B. and Commerce graduates for special training programs in merchandising, manufacturing, real estate, warehousing, accounting, etc.
Republic Aviation Corp., Farmingdale, Long Island, N. Y., will. interview B.S. aeronautical, mechanical, electrical, and civil engineers interested in Air Craft engineering, production supervision or methods analysis.
Fr. Cavanaugh Fund Grows; y I 18 Alumni Clubs Push Drives
Response of alumni and friends to the. Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund has been very encouraging since its inauguration last July, according to officials of the Notre Dame Foundation.
Approximately 118 Notre Dame alumni clubs throughout the nation are ' staging local drives in order to reach the Fund’s objective of $3,000,000.
Even though alumni participation in the drive has not been 100 per cent, results so far have been favorable, and the Foundation is seeking to increase Alumni participation in order to reach the quota for this year.
The Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund has been initiated to bring the University’s fund-raising program—	.
$25,000,000 within a ten-year period—	3
abreast of its schedule. The $3,000,000 sought this year will equal 40 per cent of the total still needed, while two-fifths of the time will have elapsed since the program began in 1948.
Contributions so far this year have already been put to use, especially in improving facilities of the power plant.
Immediate needs for which the Fund will be allocated are new and augmented heat, power, and water facilities; equipment and increased construction cost for the new Science Building; equipment for buildings made possible by generous benefactions; and added sewage-disposal facilities.
Exhibition Ends Debate Year; Frosh Vie for Title Wednesday
Last Tuesday Al DeCrane, Don ® Dowden, and Chuck Doherty gave an exhibition debate before the Mishawaka Kiwanis Club. This debate, on American foreign policy, was the final performance of the year for Notre Dame. It pitted DeCrane, defending the negative side of the question, against Dowden, who took the affirmative.
Doherty acted as moderator and questioned both DeCrane and Dowden in the questioning period that followed the debate.
Mr. Len Sommer of the Department of Speech announced that the preliminaries of the annual Freshman oratory contest were held last week. The finalists are Ray Kennedy, Tom Neville, Tom Hartzell, Carl Gundersen and Chuck Doherty. They will compete for the Frosh oratory title next Wednesday at .7:30 p.m. in the Law. Auditorium. The public is invited to attend.
22
The Scholastic
% Laetare Winner of '18 Speaks Here Tonight
Engineers Provide Share of Thrills and Spills With Chariot Derby for Junior Weekenders

Mr. Joseph Scott, perennially a favorite lecturer at Notre Dame and one of the foremost Catholic educators and scholars in this country, will give another of his educational talks at 7:45 in Washington Hall tonight.
Enthusiastically acclaimed as one of the finest speakers ever to appear at Notre Dame, Mr. Scott has delivered lectures in Washington Hall for the past 40 years.
Born at Penrith in Cumberland, England, Mr. Scott was educated at Ushaw College, Durham, England, and at London University. He came to America in 1889 and continued his education at St. Bonaventure College in New York.
In 1894 he was admitted to the California Bar and has practiced Law in Los Angeles ever since. Since the beginning of his Law career in this country, Mr. Scott has distinguished himself not only as an able attorney but as an active participant in Catholic Action as well as a civic-minded citizen.
Recognition for his many achievements came in 1918 when he was presented by the University of Notre Dame with the Laetare Medal for “conspicuous work in the cause of education, public service, and nation-wide platform campaigns to eliminate religious prejudice.”
In 1931 he was acclaimed the most useful citizen of Los Angeles. St. Bonaventure College awarded him the Graduate Medal in 1936 for being the outstanding layman for that year in
By PAT CARRICO
Notre Dame engineers practically stole the limelight from Hal McIntyre’s featured musical ensemble last weekend in putting on a wild, hilarious show for the Junior Prom-goers and prospective engineers with its chariot race of seven entrants.
The chemical engineering group emerged victoriously after two highly-touted teams of charioteers met disaster on the gruelling track in front of the Stadium before an estimated crowd of 150 Junior weekend spectators.
First to bite the dust was the metallurgists’ team when its chariot col-
the field of Catholic Action in the United States.
In 1937, Mr. Scott was singled out for further distinction in the field of Catholic Action when he was invited to speak before the International Eucharistic Congress in Manila. He was the only English speaking layman to address that body.
He was named as the recipient of the American Irish Historical Medal in 1948 for his scholarly contribution to the work of that society.
Among the many organizations and societies of which he is a member are the Knights of Malta and the Knights of Saint Gregory the Great, of which he is a Knight Commander.
lapsed. The civil engineers followed suit shortly thereafter when their vehicle threw a wheel.
Dean of Engineering Carl Schoen-herr presented a trophy to the winners after acting as judge with Mr. Schub-mehl.
Conducting its first open house since the war, the Department of Engineering also offered several other attractions as part of its program for the weekend. A gigantic replica of the V-2 rocket was constructed and put on display in front of the Engineering Building.
Following Dean Schoenherr’s opening t address in the Auditorium Friday afternoon, tours were conducted through the various departments of the Engineering college where the public inspected scientific experiments being conducted by students. The tours were also resumed Saturday morning until noon.
The American Telephone and Telegraph Co. presented a scientific novelty show in the Auditorium Friday afternoon, wherein television demonstrations and scale models of sound amplifying systems were displayed.
Purpose of the Open House was to acquaint the public and the student body with the intricacies of the engineering profession and to expose the facilities engineering students have on the Notre Dame campus.
CHEM ENGINEERS RECEIVE TROPHY After Two Teams Bite Dust
CHARIOTEERS AT STARTING LINE
Hilarious Show for Prom-Goers
May 2, 1952
23
Capsule Comer
Council Hop Tomorrow
The third in a series of post-Easter dances sponsored by the Student Council will be held at the Palais Royale tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30.
Arrival and departure is optional with chartered buses to transfer St. Mary’s students and their dates to and from the dance. Car permissions are granted only under the regulations stipulated by the special bulletin.
Tickets for the affair are priced at S1.50 per couple.
Free Smokes
Campus Chesterfield representatives are running a “Chester-Fact” contest in which a campus personality will be appointed as “Mr. Chesterfield” each week. The interviewer will ask students the “Chester-Fact” of the week and a free pack of Chesterfield cigarettes will be awarded to students who give the correct phrase.
Information concerning contest details and the latest “Chester-Fact” phrase will be posted on campus bulletin boards.
■
Marine Summer
Major Zimmer, USMC, has announced that summer training for members of the Marine Officer Candidate Corps here on campus will be held at Quantico from July 10 to Sept. 20, with the enrollment deadline set for June 1.
Two other locations have also been designated: San Diego, from June 19 to-Aug. 1 with enrollment deadline set for May 7; and Parris Island, from July 26 to Sept. 8 with the enrollment deadline June 1.
■
Scholarship for Haendler
Frank J. Haendler, Notre Dame senior history student from Chicago, is one of 14 students from U. S. colleges to be awarded scholarships for the 1952-53 school year by the American Council of Learned Societies.
Haendler, who will use the scholarship for graduate study in one of the humanities at Harvard University, will receive a bachelor of arts degree, maxima cum laude, in June.
■
AAarriage Counseling for Religious
A two-week program, designed as a step toward the development of an expert marriage counseling service under Catholic auspices, will be offered priests and seminarians during a Mar
riage Counseling Institute July 7-19 at Notre Dame.
■
Metallurgy Lectures
Dr. J. Fisher of the General Electric Research Laboratory will deliver two lectures next week in Room 5, Engi
neering Building. He will speak on “Dislocations” at 3:30 p.m. Thursday i and on “Theory of Martensitic Transformations” Friday at the same time.
Sponsored by the Department of Metallurgy, the lectures are open to the public.
24
The Scholastic

Old Timers Game Set (or May 10
Irish Gridders in High Gear for Contest As Practice Sessions Conclude Next Week
By JACK SAND
ND Nine Nips Purdue; Loses Three Others
Notre Dame’s hard-working gridders, preparing for the forthcoming annual Varsity-Old Timers game which will take place in the stadium on May 10, placed the accent on offensive football last Saturday afternoon as they went through their daily spring scrimmage drills before a few hundred interested spectators.
At the start of the workout it looked as if the Irish defense had turned into a stone wall, but once it was penetrated the hole grew wider as a total of ten touchdowns rolled through on an assortment of quick line plays and deadly passes.
Shannon Scores First
The first score was engineered by quarterback Tom Carey, with Dan Shannon, defensive backer-up last season, driving through the left side of
the line from about ten yards out. Shannon had replaced offensive star Neil Worden at the fullback slot and looked right at home in doing so.
With Ralph Guglielmi back in directing his team the first play following Shannon’s TD saw halfback John Lattner sweep wide around left end, and behind some fine blocking on the part of end Joe Katchik, ramble 50 yards for the score. Lattner definitely looks and runs with the same style and grace that made him a sensation last year, and with Guglielmi, Worden, and Joe Heap in the backfield it looks as if the Irish should produce many a six-point marker come next Fall.
Guglielmi Sparkles Attack
As for Guglielmi, the young freshman signal caller, there seems to be (Continued on Page 31)
By KEN MURPHY
The Notre Dame baseball squad took it on the chin in • three of its four contests last week and consequently did little toward improving the season record, which now stands at 3-8.
After snapping a five-game losing skein at the outset of the season with a double win over Ohio State the preceding weekend, the Klinemen appeared about ready to roll. But Monday, April 21, the Irish ran into some shutout pitching at Ann Arbor, Michigan and suffered their sixth loss. The next day ND came home to beat Purdue, and then on the weekend of April 25-26 dropped a. tough two-game series to the undefeated Quantico Marines.
Today and tomorrow the Irish seek
ACTION IN LAST SATURDAY’S SCRIMMAGE IN THE STADIUM
The offense opened a hole that grew wider and wider all afternoon
May 2, 1952
25
to straighten themselves out here at home in a two-game set with the Pitt Panthers.
Irish Shut Out at Michigan
Jack Corbett was the Michigan twirler who put the stops to the Kline-men at Ann Arbor as he pitched his third consecutive shutout, this one a 3-0 five-hit job. Soph Jack Reynolds made his first start for the Irish and matched Corbett practically pitch for pitch, but his mates blew bases-loaded scoring chances in the fifth and ninth while the Wolverines managed to sneak across a run in the first and two in the seventh for the verdict.
The following day Notre Dame returned to Cartier Field and bounced right back to take a close one from Purdue, 3-2. The Klinemen took an early lead when they scored two u~i-earned runs in the second inning, but the Boilermakers tied the game with single runs in the fourth and sixth off freshman hurler Ron Mottl. Then the Irish clinched the contest in the bottom of the sixth as leftfielder Jim Mutschel-ler led off with an infield hit and came around on rightfielder Jerry Ledwidge’s three-base blast into left center. Frosh hurler Tom Bujnowski then came in and hurled the last three frames to preserve Mottl’s first win. Ledwidge led both teams at the plate with a double and triple in three appearances, also scoring the first run.
Marines Take Two
The following Friday the Irish played host to a fast collection of Quantico Marines and stayed with Quantico until the eighth when the leathernecks exploded for seven runs and pulled away to a 17-7 victory. Four Notre Dame hurlers were raked for 16 hits with senior Bob Stefko-vitch taking the loss. Centerfielder Joe Ridge and shortstop Harry Durkin paced the Irish stickers with three safeties apiece, including a two-run homer in the seventh by Durkin, who drove in three runs altogether.
The next day the marines made a clean sweep of the series by coasting home 8-1 on a 15-hit attack against Bujnowski. The Irish chucker, however, was hooked up in a fairly tight pitcher’s battle with Langley and Knight of the Marines until the service team pounded across four insurance runs in the ninth. First sacker Dick Rosenthal doubled home the lone Irish tally in the sixth and collected two of the four hits the Klinemen managed to muster.
Basketball Team Completes Spring Practice @
Tomorrow marks the conclusion of spring practice sessions for next winter’s edition of Notre Dame’s basketball forces. Since returning from
LEROY LESLIE
Mainstay for three seasons
Tracksters Capture Drake Relays' Shuttle Hurdle Event
Not2e Dame’s 17-man delegation to the Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa, last weekend picked up only one first place but garnered several points in other events as three new American College records and three new Drake marks were set in the two-day running.
The Irish first place came in the 480-yard shuttle hurdle event as the Notre Dame quartet of John Campag-none, Jim Baker, Ed Powell, and Harvey Newquist topped Illinois and third-place Michigan State in the time of 1:01.2.
The Notre Dame four-mile relay team finished third to Kansas’ recordbreaking time of 17:15.9. The Irish were fourth in the mile relay as Kansas set another new mark of 3:13.1. In the pole vault, Joe Springer climbed 13 feet, 5/a inches to gain a
Easter vacation, Coach Johnny Jordan has been running the club through its paces in the fieldhouse in order to gain some idea of what he’ll have on hand to combat another rugged schedule in 1952-53. The past season the Irish won 16 and dropped 10.
Missing from the scene is Leroy Leslie, an Irish mainstay for three seasons and the highest scorer in Notre Dame history. There is no doubt that his absence will be sorely felt.
The task of taking up the slack caused- by the vacancy of Leslie’s deadly left hand will be a difficult one to accomplish. However, with a year of experience under their belts, juniors Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand, John Reynolds, Bill Sullivan, Ed McGinn, John Lattner, Dick Honingford and sophomore Tom Sullivan, together with senior veterans “Gootch” Lewinski, Jerry McCloskey and Jim Gibbons should prove a hard crew to beat.
The fortunes of the Irish will also depend greatly on whether those men declared ineligible this semester will be able to perform. Such operatives as Entee Shine, Don Strasser, Jack Stephens, and 6’9” Dick Wise are slated for important roles if they can play. Members of last year’s freshman squad have also been vying for varsity berths and the competition is keen for all positions.
tie for second place. Teammate Jim Harrington tied for fifth with 12 feet. Il/- inches. Tom Hassengei- placed fifth in the hop, step and jump with 44 feet, one-eighth inch.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
May 2—BASEBALL—Pitt here 3—BASEBALL—Pitt here 3—TRACK—at Pittsburgh 3—TENNIS—at Detroit 3—GOLF—Louisville here 3-4—SAILING—Michigan at Ann Arbor
5—TENNIS at W. Michigan 5—GOLF at Wisconsin 6—BASEBALL at Western Michigan
7—BASEBALL at Michigan State
8—GOLF—Valparaiso at LaPorte
9—TENNIS—Pitt here
26
The Scholastic
Notre Dame’s Mr. Baseball
It was only about 12:30 on Cartier Field and the game against Quantico didn’t start until 2, so the Notre Dame squad was taking its time coming out of the dressing room.
The scene was a typical baseball one. Players stood around easily throwing balls back and forth or taking part in pepper games, a manager walked across the grass dragging a couple of bat bags behind him, another manager threw some chewing gum to a couple of players as they came on the field, the grounds keepers ® lazily checked their equipment.
And surveying the whole scene from a spot in front of the home dugout along first base stood a stocky, greying man in a baseball uniform with the number “10” on his back. He watched through squinting eyes as the Marines took their turns at bat and every now and then nodded his head as if confirming some unspoken idea.
He only took his attention from the field now and then, to bark a quick command at one of the Irish ballplayers.
At Home on the Diamond
And when he spoke the man he spoke to jumped—because Jake Kline was the coach of the Notre Dame baseball team and Jake Kline was in his element on a baseball field.
Meet him in his mathematics class-room—Mr. Kline originally returned to Notre Dame in 1930 as a math teacher after graduating from here during the first World War—and you will see an affable, easy-going, easy-to-meet man, looking not quite comfortable in a business suit with chalk dust on the sleeves.
He’ll be very friendly, say yes, he’s Coach Kline, and yes, he’ll • be very glad to answer a few questions—and you’ll be impressed by what a pleasant guy this stocky, pug-nosed math teacher is.
But he won’t strike you as anyone out of the ordinary. Just another affable but inconspicuous faculty member.
The next day stop in at the coaches’ dressing room in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, a couple of hours before Coach Klines’ charges are to play a O game of baseball—and you’ll know immediately that you’re speaking to a baseball man.
By MICKEY CARROLL
COACH JAKE KLINE Peanuts at a Circus
Jake is just finished dressing as you entei- the locker room, a sort of unfinished-looking large closet with a few battered metal lockers on the west wall, three boxes of “American League Official Balls” in red boxes in the corner, a pair of cleat-marked wooden benches, and four sunburned men sitting on the benches who fit into that sort of room as much as the bats stacked in the corner and the baseball cap on the bench.
Two of them are umpires, one is just hanging around for the conversation, and the other one is Coach Jake Kline.
“Sure, I remember Solly,” says Jake as he bends down to pull on his cleats. “He was fancy enough at shortstop but he threw the ball away out there. Looked swell digging out
the grounders but you never could tell what he’d do with the ball once he got his mitts on it.”
“Made an outfielder out of him,, didn’t you, Jake?” asks one of the umpires.
“Yeah—he turned out to be a pretty good one. Got up to double A ball, but then the war caught him.”
Kline notices you and says, “Wait till I get these shoes on. We can go outside and talk.”
So you wait a minute while he laces his shoes and pulls on his cap and then walk outside with him, through the long locker room where the team is dressing, out of the Fieldhouse, and through the gate in the fence on to-Cartier Field.
More Businesslike Today
Jake is still the pleasant man you met the day before in the math class but he’s shorter, quicker, more businesslike with you today.
He - answers your questions crisply.
“Yes' he likes a game with a lot of hitting.”
“No, you have to coach according to your material. If you have a team that can run in there, you play the game that way no matter what kind of a ball game you prefer to watch.”
“No, the infield this year isn’t too fast, but they will come around. They are young yet.”
A quick shout at one of the players—“Come on, Jim, get out there and loosen up that arm.”
“No, the team isn’t in the shape it should be. That sports show cleared us out of the Fieldhouse for a week. We haven’t had near enough practice out there.”
He answers your questions but all the time he watches the field, squinting against the sun as he watches a fielder circling under a fly ball, or nodding quickly as he makes a mental note of the habits of a particular batter.
Jake is very businesslike on the field. But—though he lives baseball and loves baseball—he always gives you the idea that he’s a little too mature to take any of this too seriously.
There was the time last year when Notre Dame was absorbing the worst lacing they’ve ever been handed, a 21-0 rout by Illinois. Jake didn’t blow
May 2. 1952
9SSSB&.

By Jack Varley
There was, for some time, quite a bit of doubt as to whether the Old Timers game was going to be held this year. Shorter practice, the weather, etc., all made the annual affair a large question mark until last week when Athletic Director Ed Krause announced that it would definitely be held Saturday, May 10. It was good news. Be-of the following year’s varsity, the
sides providing the first real te game always adds a lot of color to the spring sports calendar.
Stars of Last Year
The game, sponsored again this year by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, should be as good as ever. The Old Timers will be composed for the most part of graduating seniors from the 1951 team, a scattering of stars from other years, and a certain number of varsity reserves. Heading their lineup will be All-Americans Bob Toneff and Jim Mutscheller. Mutscheller, 1951 captain, is currently a regular on the baseball team, but since the diamond team has an open date on May 10 he will be able to join
Backfield Should Have Class
Chet Ostrowski, who will be
JERRY GROOM
Back from Previous Years
his old football mates.
playing for the Washington Redskins in the fall, will be another Old Timer along with first stringers Bill Barrett, John Mazur and John Petitbon. The probable Old Timer backfield should have plenty of class with Mazur at quarterback, Petitbon and Barrett at the halfback spots and Del Gander at full. Other graduating seniors who will probably see quite a bit of action are halfback Jack Bush, Fullback Joe Caprara, linebacker Byron Boji, center Jim Hamby, tackle Tony Zambroski and end Bob Kapish.
From teams of previous years, All-American end and tackle Jim Martin, All-American end Leon Hart and center Jerry Groom are among those expected to return for the annual tilt.
Irish Cogers in Spartan Classic
The fourth annual Michigan State Basketball Classic next December will feature Notre Dame, Kansas State, U.C.L.A. and host Michigan State in two nights of doubleheader attractions.
The slate of teams in the classic was announced by Spartan coach Pete Newell with the comment that “this is easily the strongest line-up of teams we’ve yet had in the Classic. Kansas State is a top flight team nationally and always a power in the Big Seven conference. U.C.L.A. is the defending Pacific Coast Conference champion. Notre Dame is heading back to the top under new coach Johnny Jordan.”
up. Watching his infielders boot easy ® I grounders and his outfielders catch flies with their heads, Jake merely took a quiet look up and down the bench and then called to the manager, “Could you go out and get me a bag of peanuts?” he said. “I’ve never watched a circus without one.”
You ask Jake a few more questions, but by this time it is almost Notre Dame’s turn to bat, and he’ll be wanting to direct the practice, so you tell him thanks and take your leave.
But, before you leave the field, you lean against the backstop and watch practice for a bit. You see that affable gentleman you were speaking to bark at a player—who immediately jumps to attention. A motion from him and another player rushes to switch to a new position.
You see him snapping directions at the infielders, lofting flies to the outfield, keeping his eye on the batters, directing the practice, enjoying every minute of it. And you realize how he belongs on that diamond.
Everyone seems to be at home some place. For- one person, it might be trimming the lawn of his own house. For another it might be watching the dials and gadgets of a complicated machine. For another it might be sittingin a noisy newspaper office.
But the breed of men to whom the locker rooms and the diamonds and the dugouts of baseball stadiums are home, is a very unique kind.
And when you look at Jake Kline, completely immersed as he bats out fungoes and shouts directions at the Notre Dame team, you realize that Jake is definitely one of them.
Baseball and Softball Lead Interhall Action
By BILL NOONAN
The Department of Physical Education opened its spring interhall season last week with baseball and soft ball dominating the scene. A volley ball league and other possible activities are still in the indefinite stage.
The baseball league, under the guidance of Mr. Szekely, has been divided into three sections of five teams each, the Gold, the Blue and the White leagues. This first week was marked principally by the double success of Cavanaugh in the Gold bracket and the double setback of St. Edward’s in the same division. St. Ed’s seemed to have both of their five inning contests well under control when suddenly fourthinning barrages by their opponents turned the tables. On Monday, Mor-
28
The Scholastic
rissey’s Gold outfit, trailing the frosh hall 6-2 going into the bottom of the fourth, pushed across six big markers to garner an 8-6 victory.
A similar fate befell the St. Ed’s crew on Thursday when they blew a six-run lead to league-leading Cavanaugh. The sophs came through with a nine-run fourth to edge the hard luck freshmen, 9-8.
Two played games and one forfeit was the extent of action in the Blue circuit in which another St. Ed’s nine is having its difficulties. On Monday Farley romped over that club, 12-0, while on Thursday, St. Ed’s forfeited a game to Morrissey’s Blue aggregation. Morrissey also suffered defeat duiing the week, dropping a 6-2 decision to Cavanaugh’s Blue forces on Thursday.
Maxwell Directs Softball Loop
The softball league, directed by Mr. Maxwell, contains four divisions, A, B, C, and D with six games played each afternoon. Rain limited action a bit, but the majority of the contests were gotten in. In the A league, made up of city teams, Indianapolis jumped into the lead by way of two victories, the first over Buffalo on Monday by a 10-5 count, the second over the Metropolitan Club on Thursday, 18 to 12. The St. Louis club split its two engagements, losing to Milwaukee’s representatives on Monday, 17-10, and nipping Kansas City, 15-14, on Friday. In the only other A encounter, Pittsburgh rolled over Rochester, 17-12.
Forfeits Hinder B League
The B league’s activity was hindered by forfeits, and only two actual games were played. In these, the Generation club blasted Central New York, 16-0, and Minnesota whipped Hawaii, 16-10. The Central Illinois club forfeited two contests, one to Central New York and the other to the Chemists.
The action was heavy in the C and I) leagues composed of both hall and club teams. The C division saw Badin split even in two contests, outslugging the Chemical Engineers, 15-12, and falling before Howard Blue, 12-4. The Chern. Engineers lost their second of the week when they were once again edged in a slugfest, 16-13, this time by Lyons Hall. The Knights of Columbus won a forfeit victory over Morrissey while Off-Campus gained a similar verdict over Sorin Blue. The Howard Blue-K. of C. game will be played at a later date. The K. of C., led by ace hurler, Bob Savage, were last year's softball champions.
May 2. 1952
Farley, by virtue of scoring 36 runs in two contests, vaulted into an early lead in the D circuit. The frosh scored 20 tallies to overcome Sorin Gold, 20-15, on Monday and racked up 16 to Off-Campus’ 3 on Thursday. Equaling Farley’s double win and sharing first place honors were the Electrical Engineers with a 13-9 victory over Alumni Hall and a 13-8 decision over Zahm. Alumni evened up its record on Friday by topping the Old College, 14-8.
The spring season will be shorter than usual due to a late Easter and early exams, but it is hoped that the weather will permit playoff rounds to obtain an overall title-holder from -the winners of each bracket.
Tennis Team Downs Badgers, Wildcats
By JACK HEALY
KEN ANGYAL
Off on the right foot
Notre Dame’s racquet eers filed two in the win column last week, knocking off Wisconsin without too much trouble, 6-3, Wednesday and then traveling to Evanston Saturday to just sneak past Northwestern, 5-4.
Wednesday’s match with Wisconsin raised the curtain on the Irish season, and it was a very impressive opening performance. The Notre Dame doubles pairings made a clean sweep of their matches, while the singles presented a larger slice of trouble, forcing the Irish to split with the Badger netmen.
In the singles Ken Angyal started Notre Dame off on the right foot, win
ning 6-1, 6-2. The next two matches were scenes of woe and misfortune as the Irish dropped them both to the seemingly rejuvenated men from Wisconsin. Captain Tom Overholser evened it up with a 6-2, 6-4 victory. Then the Badgers started to come alive again and copped the next match, 6-1, 6-3. Notre Dame’s Maurice Reidy, in the final singles match of the afternoon, tied it up, coming out on top with scores of 7-5, 6-0, and everybody was. right back where he started.
Doubles Give Irish Victory
It was the doubles matches that clinched the triumph, the Irish rolling through without so much as a single mishap. Notre Dame’s doubles teams made up of Ken Angyal and Capt. Tom Overholser, Matt Tuite and Maurice Reidy, and Ray Smith and Don Crowley, won their respective contests, 6-1, 6-2; 6-4, 6-2; 8-6, default, in that . order.
Three days later, Saturday to be exact, it was something of a different story for Coach Walter Langford’s boys. It started off harmlessly enough with the Irish building up a fairly respectable lead in the singles matches, 4-2. At least it appeared safe enough at the time.
The Wildcats then came back swinging in the doubles matches. They played as though they were determined • to change matters and for awhile, things looked bad for the Irish. The Northwestern netmen overpowered the Irish in the first two of the doubles matches, and the score was knotted at four apiece. With but one match left, inklings of another 5-4 defeat, which would prove a repeat of last year’s performance, could be visualized.
Final Point Settles Issue
Notre Dame’s number three doubles team of Ray Smith and Don Crowley apparently unaffected by the pressure of the situation, carried away the first set, 6-2. However, Northwestern continued their habit of being difficult and forced the outcome of the match into the last set by winning the second set, 6-3. Smith and Crowley finally grabbed the deciding point, winning the third set, 6-0, and giving the Irish a hard fought 5-4 victory.
Irish Bowlers Place Second In Post Season Tournament
Notre Dame’s intercollegiate bowling squad traveled to Chicago last Saturday to engage in the Midwestern Bowling Conference post-season tourney playoffs in which they gained second place in all the combined events. Be
29
(
sides placing second the Irish also garnered two individual third-place trophies as Jerry Sheehan’s first game of '209, and Jim Shannon’s five-game total of 841 were good enough to cop honors.
Rolling on very slick alleys, the Irish keglers took second with single game totals of 868, 837, 741, 847, and 804. Closely following Shannon’s five-game series of 841, was Jim Shapiro with 837, followed in turn by Paul Pfohl with 809, Sheehan with 804, and Neal Murphy with 786.
During the regular- season, in which ND pulled in third behind Valparaiso and first place DePaul, three Irish pin smashers each were awarded trophies for recording the league’s highest five-game totals. Placing one, two, and three in that order were Pfohl, Dick Ryal, and Shapiro, with leading strings of 1057, 1045, and 1019.
In the individual high seasonal averages, Pfohl wound up fourth in the circuit as he compiled a neat 177 average, with Sheehan coming in right behind with 175. Shapiro finished up with 171, with Shannon and Jerry Ledwidge registering 169 averages each.
Golfers Tie Louisville Then Lose to Purdue
Last Monday afternoon the University of Notre Dame’s golf team matched pars with the visiting University of Louisville four and the best that the Irish could achieve was a 9-9 tie with the Kentuckians. That plus their loss by 17-19 to the Boilermakers down at Purdue last Saturday gives the N.D. linksmen a season’s record of one victory, one defeat, and one tie to date.
In that weekend triangular match the Irish also met the University of Wisconsin at Purdue and whipped the Badgers 20% to 15%. That meeting was an unscheduled preliminary to the regular ’52 tussle between the two schools this coming Monday up on the Badgers’ home course. Also on the golf card for N.D. during the coming week is an engagement with Valparaiso at Laporte.
The past Monday’s fine showing by the Louisville team was even more remarkable when one realizes that the visiting golfers played the course “cold” and did not even have so much as a practice nine on the N.D. links before going up against the Irish and tieing them. Tom Matey of the Irish and Louisville’s Brown Cullen also tied for the low scoring honors with 74’s after making identical 37’s over each of the nine hole routes.
Notre Dame won the singles from the Kentuckians 6% to 5% but lost the best ball competition 2% to 3%. In the singles Matey outscored his opponent, Jack Humphreys, 2 to 1 and N.D.’s Frank Marzolf took care of the Louisville No. 2 man, Jack Carpenter, 3 to 0. But the other two Irish, William Fisher and Joe Moresco were both beaten by the opposition. Cullen topped Fisher 2% to % and Bob Eubanks stopped Moresco 2 to 1.
Against the fine Purdue outfit, who were good enough to conquer one of the top-ranking collegiate golf teams in the nation (Wake Forest), the Irish club swingers turned in an excellent morning and afternoon’s work. The morning round went 8% to 9% to the Boilermakers, and the same was true of the afternoon swing around the Purdue U. course, which will be the scene of the National Intercolle-giates this June.
The match was close and hard fought all the way, and a point here or there might have been enough for an Irish upset victory. Don Alberts, the sensational Frosh golfer of the Purdue team, scored a 69 and a 73 in the morning and afternoon rounds respectively to make 142, the low score for the day.
Tom Matey once more was the low man for the Irish as he carded a 77 and 73 for an average of 75 and a total of 150. In the unscheduled play against the Wisconsin Badgers, the Irish outscored them 10% to 7% in the morning and 10 to 8 in the afternoon for a clean triumph.
Rookie Fencers Show Class In Annual Novice Tourney
Twenty-five first year fencers traded thrusts last week in the annual novice tournament held in the fencing room of the fieldhouse. Though hampered by a number of forfeited matches, the overall outlook gathered from the competition was a bright one. The majority of participants showed surprising promise, and with eight lettermen graduating from this year’s varsity squad, they should have ample opportunity to enlarge on this promise next year.
The matches were of course divided into the usual three weapons, epee, sabre, and foil. John Malfa, sporting an unblemished record in four matches, copped the epee title. Al Preve, losing only to Malfa, took second place with three wins followed by Dick Smith, Dick Lofgren and Dick Wrate in that order. The epee matches scoring was judged by what is called an electrical epee.
In the sabre Tom Dorwin was the victor with seven victories to his credit. Bob Noonan with five wins and Tom McMahon with four rounded out the top three. Five men tied for fourth with three triumphs apiece.
NEW LOW AIR TOURIST RATES
Effective May 1st.
ROUND TR/P NEW YORK TO SHANNON om> $433.80 LONDON* Only 486.00 PARIS Only 522.00 FRANKFORT Only 563.60
•Via Prestwick or Shannon IFares subject to government approval. Good low-cost meals available on planed
■ KLM Royal Dutch Airlines	I
| 572 Fifth Avenue. New York 19, N. Y. | | Please send full information on new ■
e
j NAME..............„... I
■ ADDRESS .............  ।
L----” “ " J
GREATEST BLOW
ON EARTH
OR-BUFFALO BILL'S SQUARE DEAL In the days when it took a real Composer to know a Grace Note from a seventh inverted minor chord, there was a Freshman named Orgatroyd whoso Aunt had told him the Piano was the Fast Track
io popularity on Campus and thereafter. He believed her and took lessons.
Being tone Deaf, Orgy kicked the Dashboard out of the family Steinway over missing a Coeducational Picnic in order to practice “Forest Echoes”. In college, some other Student with the ivory touch was always making Orgy’s Schubert sound like hydraulic Brakes. This frustrated our Boy. Next, he met a Brunette. She was cold to Cacophony but a Set-up for Sonnets. He took to writing her Sequences, for which he had a gift. But she was getting Mail by the bushel. His vaporings were tossed out with the Bills.
Desperate. Orgy got. Then he saw a sign that said “Just Call Western Union”. His next Sonnet hit the Brunette on a Yellow Blank that even She could scan. Her mother invited Orgy Home for a Meeting. Today he is a Foreman in his Mate’s Father’s Cold Rolled Mill.
From Matriculation to Old Age, there’s Magic in a Telegram. For whipping a Sawbuck from the Skipper, grabbing a Deathless Date from the Jaws of the Basketball Captain, or beating a Business Rival to the Draw, a Telegram does any Job quicker and better.
30
The Scholastic
The foil champion is yet to be ® crowned. Tom Beelei’ and Dick Uhl, tied for the top slot in the ten man field with 7-2 records, will have to fence-off to produce an undisputed winner. Don Dixon edged John Ryan by one point for the third spot. Both had six wins against three losses.
The members of the varsity fencing team directed the series of matches, each watching over the individual class in which he fences competitively. Numerals will be awarded to the top five in each weapon.
Spring Practice
(Continued from Page 25)
little doubt in anyone’s mind that he will follow along in the footsteps of
that famous line of Irish quarterbacks. In Saturday’s practice contest, the Co- . lumbus lad tossed a couple of 45-yard beauties to Joe Heap, both resulting in scores. Later on in the day he caught the defense unawares as he flipped a ten-yard jump pass to end Art Hunter for another tally. Gugli-elmi had previously displayed his running ability as he uncorked a 37-yard off-tackle sneak for paydirt. On still another play he reminded one of the former ND ace Bob Williams, as he
Irish Sailing Team Beaten;
Purdue Wins Michigan Meet
Notre Dame’s young Sailing Team finished sixth in a field of ten at the annual University of Michigan Invita
tional Regatta held at the Wolverine’s Whitmore Lake April 26 and 27.
Purdue University made it two straight in the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association’s spring season by taking the meet with 156 points. The host club placed second with 142 markers and Michigan State, Wayne and Ohio State led the Irish in the standings. Washington, Bowling Green, IIT and Oberlin trailed in that order.
Freshman Bob Fisher, out for his first real try with the Irish sailors, paced them with a total of 550 points. He captured the only first for Notre Dame in the series of 18 races, run off in a light and tricky wind.
The team revisits Michigan this weekend to try and regain the “Whale Tail Pail” trophy the Wolverines have held for the last two seasons.
Thomson & McKinnon
BROKERS
COMMODITIES
SECURITIES
NEW YORK CHICAGO
Stocks and bonds are a form of private property.
The right of private property carries with •t the right of acquisition and disposal.
The New York Stock Exchange, through its member firms, supplies the means of acquiring and disposing of stocks and bonds
. INDIANAPOLIS TORONTO
WANTED
Trainees with salary, to become REGISTERED REPRESENTATIVES of the NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE in our employ.
We want men between the ages of 23 and 35 with a Liberal Arts education. If you are interested in the SECURITIES and COMMODITY brokerage business, and if you desire an interview with us, write immediately for an appointment.
You will be considered together with seniors graduated this year from other colleges throughout the United States and Canada and selection will be made on a competitive basis.
Address: DIRECTOR OF TRAINING, THOMSON & McKINNON, 203 Citizens Bank Building, Anderson, Indiana
ucmhrc NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE AND OTHER LEADING EXCHANGES
May 2. 1952
31
bootlegged through center on which he picked up 15 yards.
Providing the most obstinate competition for the quarterback post is Tom Carey, who directed the offensive unit to three of its ten markers. Twice fullback Shannon took handoffs from Carey for touchdowns, with a third coming on a neat 15-yard peg to Paul Reynolds. Reynolds along with Gugli-elmi, Carey, and Heap are part of a bumper crop of freshmen who should provide the Irish with many a mighty team in the future.
MAXIMUM DISTANCE
COMBINED WITH THAT SW££T DOT FEEL AND CLICK
Addleman
(Continued from Page 9)
in spite of the fact that 4000 will thus be able to see Stay Tuned for Addle-man, the necessity of purchasing tickets early has been emphasized.
The Notre Dame student body alone numbers about 5000 and tickets are being sold at St. Mary’s and downtown, as well as on campus.
Stay Tuned for Addleman will be the first show ever put on in this area using a number of the scenic tricks out of the pocket of set designer Dick
OTHER FAMOUS SPALDING GOLF BALLS.
THE FAST
AIQ-FLITE
("tru -tension wound
and
THE TOUGH
KRO-FUTE
AND
TOP-FL ITE*
•AT PROFESSIONAL SHOPS only
SPALDING
sets the pace in sports
NW SPORTS SHOW MOK
°f Mullin Cartoons published in this book only, ttmtfr' <r/m i v f/t cnarnikm nrnr z*
WRITE TODAY TO SPALDING—DEPT. C-52
Chicopee, Mass.
Byrnes. Scrim curtains and a varied assortment of travelers are just a few of the things which Byrnes expects to reveal to the local audience.
The show will also mark the first featured stage performance of a number of the local thespians. Charley Schubert, a Newark, New Jersey senior of radio fame, will be at home portraying the role of disc jockey Addleman, while Nancy Driscoll, a junior at St. Mary’s, will be seen for the first time on the Washington Hall stage in the role of Janice.
Bill Toohey, as George, is well known as Mardi Gras chairman and chairman of last year’s Junior Prom, while Walt Swift, who plays Granby, enjoyed considerable acclaim as the Fortune Teller in Skin of Our Teeth.
Jean Artessani, the other featured player in the role of Pam, has been in a number of South Bend theatre productions.
The authors of the show, who have been working on Stay Tuned for .4d-dleman since last June, are well known to the campus audience. Jerry Costello, who is the author of the music and lyrics to all eleven original tunes, has played with the Gene Hull orchestra for four years, and has arranged tunes for the Tony Papa orchestra and for Ralph Martiere.
Jack Hynes and Chaz Schubert, who are responsible for the book for Stay Tuned for Addleman, are known as a team, having appeared together on “Date at Eight” and “Out of the Sack with Chaz and Jack” over Station WND.
Members of the large dramatic cast include Fred Poehler, Tom Driscoll, Tom Cassidy, Jack Kissell, Bill Delaney, Bill Bleakley, John Burke, Paul Corcoran, Tom Craig, Irv Carrig, Jack Corcoran, Fred Esser, Bill Gorman, Don Fagar, Jean Dossman, Joe Huebner, Hildegarde Vargyas, Tony Critelli, Tom Foley, and Joe Gargan.
The members of the production crew, headed by stage manager Dan Flanagan, include Paul Coutlee, Paul Raymond, Gerry Godwin, and Don Rath-greb.
For the first time in the history of the University Theatre, a souvenir program will be distributed free to the audience. It is the work of senior Ron Zier who also serves as advertising manager of the Scholastic.
Curtain time for all five evening performances is 8:15 p.m., while the traditional Sunday matinee for the clergy will get underway at 2 p.m.
Stay Tuned for Addleman is jointly
32
The Scholastic
sponsored by the University Theatre and the Student Council of Notre Dame. Tickets are priced at $1, 80 cents and 50 cents.
Boland, Fay, ND President To Speak at Senior Dinner
Station WSBT sports announcer Joe Boland and Colliers sports editor Bill Fay have been chosen as the principal guests for the first annual Senior Dinner to be held Thursday, May 15, in the East Dining Hall at 7 p.m.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., retiring president of the University, will give the main address. Members of the class will receive several special awards and then participate in a humorous review of the senior year.
Price for the complete meal, with roast rib of beef for the entree, will be borne in part by the University and also in part by those attending. Tickets priced at $1 will be on sale through the various hall councils.
The banquet is being established this year in hopes that it will become an annual affair with the Senior class at Notre Dame.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St
J. M. S. Bldg.
MICROTOMIC
—the Absolutely Uniform
DRAWIHG PENCIL
•Absolute uniformity means drawings without "weak spots"—clean, legible detail. Famous for smooth, long-wearing leads. Easily distinguished by bull's-eye degree stamping on 3 sides of pencil. At your campus store!	A
EBERHAROj FABER
TRACK HARKS RTS. U.S. TAT. OFT.
Lowest air fares ever
wto inifwmoiyi
LOOK!
only $610 from Miami I
HOUSTON;
SUATAOUIl
Two with
Ideal for students. After 12 days you can bring in $500 worth of purchases duty free.
takes you ’round South America in 30 days with stops at Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Panama.
MEXIC CITY
GUATEMALA Off.
PANAMA
*3OO from Miami to Lima, Peru on a 17-day, round-trip excursion ticket.
*555 from Miami
to Rio de Janeiro on a 30-day, round-trip excursion ticket.
CHICAGO ».:• mn HtANCisco • :♦.♦ ••••• -«
DAiiAS

SANTIAGO
NEW YOM
FORT OR STAIN
M<mo«
MONTFVWRO
Yes—from May through October — all of lovely, lively South America is within your vacation reach, both in travel time and travel cost.
ways to go. 1. Fly the west coast Pan American-Grace Airways to
Panama (over the route of Pan American World Airways) then on south to Quito, Lima, Santiago and-Buenos Aires.
2. Fly the east coast with Pan American World Airways. Stop at Puerto Rico, Trinidad—fly on to Rio, Sao Paulo, Montevideo, “B.A.” Go one way—return the other1.
These special fares apply to Tourist Service with giant 4-engine planes.
Pan American is U. S. Sales Agent for Panagra
PANAGRA and PAN AMERICAN
PAN AMERICAN-GRACE AIRWAYS PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS
...........free! send for details----------------------------------
Pan-American-Grace Airways, Dept. 38
Chrysler Building, New York 17, N. Y. Please mail me complete information about these new excursion fares.
Name............................................................
Address.........................................................
City......................................... State.------------
May 2. 1952
3J
By Bill Riley
Sliding rather casually if uneasily down-hill towards June 1, one, if he is at all susceptible to nostalgia, has an almost irresistible desire to turn around and take a quick look at the bumpy terrain behind him. In a casual, off-hand sort of way, that’s what I’d like to do now. And, if I can’t get it done this week, it will be continued on into the next issue. So be fore-advised — or forewarned, as the case may be.
The first thing that comes to mind, of course, is an attempt to make an estimate of value received, for the time, labor (there was some) and several thousand dollars involved in spending four years in this particular citadel of learning.
And, in any estimate of that kind, there is bound to be some dissatisfaction, however small.
Academically, the major conclusion is: How much better it could have been. How much better if instead of a gentleman who carried his intellect undei- his right arm in a calf-skin briefcase, there had been one who had just a little bit of an inspirational quality. How much better if, for one of those who seemed to merely tolerate the presence of the student as a necessary evil involved in keeping a place in line for the monthly check, there had been substituted somebody who seemed to care when the students snored in his face.
How much better if just this one thing had been done: If before beginning teaching his course, the teacher had tried to show the students why it was in the curriculum, why a young man going on his majority should be interested in it, what it should mean to him. If nothing else, this would make the professor himself look for the justification of his course. And, it seems to me that the four years are so crowded that every course should be justified, as in some way contributing to the intellectual development of the student. Not necessarily teaching him how to dissect a frog, or how to manipulate a slide rule—not that kind of justification at all. But why this course instead of any other at this particular time? Why this course at all?
I suppose that what I’m looking for here is some sort of unification of knowledge. I suppose you might call it
integration. In most cases, I think, it isn’t achieved until well into senior year, if at all.
It is easy, and nonetheless true, to say that the average student is not ready for college when he unpacks his trunk in Farley Hall. This, I’m pretty sure, is true. But, here we are, faced with the fact: he’s here. What’s going to be done to try to enable him to get the most possible out of his four years? I don’t think the answer lies — at least the full answer—in showing him a Knute Rockne movie in Washington Hall, telling him that he is a leader of the future, and advising him of the minimum study time necessary to remain draft-deferred. Of course, this is an exaggeration. More than this is done. But it is not, I feel, an unfair exaggeration. Little account of the student as an individual, is taken, and no amount of orientation gatherings, dean’s meetings, or noble words is going to take him into account in- just that way. Which is, after all, the only way in which there is any hope of reaching him, of showing him just what he can expect, what he should look for, what he himself must give if his four years are to be spent fruitfully.
The freshman is presented with a curriculum, told that he must choose between this foreign language and that, between this science and that one, that he must retain this certain average to stay in school, that one to keep from being campused, and this one here to get an asterisk or two or three after his name on the graduation sheets. He is given a map showing him the locations of the buildings, an I.B.M. sheet (or a series of I.B.M. cards, now) telling him where he should report and when, a friendly pat on the back by a Blue Circle guy (who should be commended for giving up part of his vacation to come back and do a little bit for him) and he is on his way.
Three and one-half years later, if he is perceptive, he is sitting in his room in his customary semi-conscious apathy when all of a sudden he realizes that when he’s taking a course, he should know why he’s taking it. So, if the apathy doesn’t creep back into the room and re-overwhelm him, he starts asking questions. Usually he’s surprised at the answers he gets. He finds
out that instead of being the dead, cut-and-dried affair he thought it was, V ■. the university is a living place intellectually. That there are important things being said, and important questions being asked. He’ll begin to wonder why he didn’t find out about it three years earlier. And, it’s my hunch, ten years from then he’ll wonder even more.
As always, the question resounds: What can be done about it? Well, here are a few ideas. First of all,	i
when a teacher walks into the class-	|
room on the first day of the semester,	1
he shouldn’t take out his text-book and	I
say, “Read the first fifty pages for	*
Wednesday. We’ll have quizzes on al-	।
ternate Fridays, papers on every third	’
Wednesday, and four times this semester I’ll sleep in, or my wife will want to go downtown and there won’t be a a • baby-sitter available so I won’t show.
If you don’t show on those days, and three more, you’ll get along all right; however, if you don’t show on those days, and four more, you will flunk. Mr. Abercrombie, will you begin reading on page one?”
He should say, I think, something like this: “I have some questions to ask you gentlemen. Why are you taking this course, why is it being taught to you in your freshman year instead of your senior year, and what part does it play in the life of the educated man?” And he should keep asking these questions, and similar ones, not until they’ve been answered, neces-	)
sarily, but at least until everyone, or	*•
almost everyone, present is convinced that as questions they have some im- । portance.
He should also make himself avail- 0 able, almost to the point of forcing himself on them, to his students. I have heard many a professor say that he would love to do this if only the class were smaller. And I have seen him, in classes with six students in them, conduct the semester’s business ! —and I use the term consciously—in exactly the same manner.
I suppose that in a way it all boils down to this: There isn’t enough concern upon the part of the teachers for the,students as individuals. No plan, no formal mechanistic apparatus can be established to achieve that concern. A whole building full of I.B.M. machines all running at full speed twenty-four hours a day can’t do it. It calls for something which could be called, for want of a better name, a . re-awakening. It may be pessimistic, K but I have my doubts that it’s going to happen. At least I’m not going to ' wait up for it.
34
The Scholastic
) •
When good fellows get together they wear Sportshirts
Indoors or out, when you see a crowd of campus biggies relaxing, you’re sure to notice that the really smart boys are wearing Manhattan Sportshirts. The reason is as simple as a snap course. Manhattan Sportshirts are styleright, handsomely tailored, and so darned comfortable you just hate to take ’em off. Manhattan has them in long and short sleeves ... in a wide variety of colors and patterns all in the finest fabrics. All are the sportiest you could put on your back when you want to take it easy!
I HEALTH SPOT I

FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Whalen, Mgr.
Notre Dame STUDENTS
Welcome to
128 W. Washington St.
SRT-TV SRT-TV
uevisioii BROADCASTING
Special SUMMER COURSES
6-week intensive professional training to prepare you for a job in Caanra Opmatieo • OirtttiM • he-traa Mat • Pretetiee • no Techsines • VWae Edicts • CapjwritWg* Salts, etc.
instruction by outstanding network prafessieaato.
Complete TV station egolpmeat Teething coder actual broadcast cen-Jtiens.
Course* start
JUNE 23 and JULY 21
limited Enrollment — Write or call for illustrated brochure ^fow Future In Ttlniiiai"
DEPARTMENT 21
K	IScfiool of
■ / Radio Technique!
TELEVISION STUBIOS
America's Oldest Broadcostcng Schoo* 316 West 57 St., New York 19, N.Y.
Plaza 7-321J

0
8
hk costly msnms
a
Chesterfield Cigarette to All its

pie-tcbieu uy wuuiaujiy instruments for
the most desirable
smoking qualities.

V
ARTTTE^
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO
AGENTS proved by over
40years of continuous
use m U.S.A. tobacco
products as entirety safe
foruseinthemouth-
chemically pure, far more
costly glycerol and
pure sugars which are
natural to tobacco
--nothing else.
disufsr pumiy cisAHtTit
PAPER-the best that
money can buy.