
Distorted . . Christmas . WVFI Update 
* 
December 11, 1986 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine Vol.128, No.11 .. 



Contents 
Scholastic 
Volume 128, No. 11
December 11, 1986 

Cover Stories 


A Distorted Christmas 
4 By John Coyle and Mike Keegan 
6 What Do You Want For Christmas? Compiled by Paula Abowd 
8 
This Year's Hottest Gifts 
By Sara Harty A talkative baby doll and a hi-tech version of tag 
are among this year's fastest-selling Christmas presents 

Departments 

2/Editorial 11/On Other Campuses: Men's Room Mayhem 12/Calendar 16/Interview: 'Sex' At Stepan Center 1.8/Interview: Kansas City Rockers 22/Music: Live Music: The Best Of '86 24/Final Word: A Time For A Courageous Stand 

News· 
14/Wired Up 

By Peggy Prosser 
Sports 

20/Will The Real Irish Please Stand Up? 
By Phil Wolf 
23 /Scoreboard 
Cover by Maria Murphy 

Edrtorial 



Edi tor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouasher Managing Editor Keith Harrison Jr. 
Design Editor 
Alex Peltzer Production Manager Matthew Bradley 
General Manager Phil Coghlan Editoria I Larry Burke/Sports Catherine Coffey/Departments Frank Lipo/Ncws Greg Miller/Student Life Lucian Niemeyer/Photography Aimee Storin/Copy Chief Bob Winn/Student Life 
Administration Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Julie Gschwind/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 
Layout 
Jim Doerfler Kathleen McKernan 
Art & Photography Maria Murphy Joe Vitacco Joe Ray 
-The opinions expre&1ed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and• do not neceBBarily represent the opinions of the ~ntire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­
torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46642. The subscription rate is $18.76 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please addreH all manuscript¦ to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46666. All unsolicited material become¦ the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All right¦ reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 
December 11, 1986 
-
\__ 
ACE IS THE PLACE­WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
• GAlllJLN 
llll'l'LltS 
• 
HC" 11SfWAR[S 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SP<,RUHG C.0011S 



-,ou¦s-­
.. J 

c,•.,.., ,........., 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
Tl"OLS 

• 
Pl ''MIIHG & [II CTRICAL <:•11·l'llf S 




11££ l'AltllHG 
IIIOIIT& 1t1.Aa 
219 DIii£ WAY 
NO. 1M IIC:."ft41fD 
272-7535 


Lynda Barry 'n Matt Groening's  "Life In Hell" T-Shirts!  
Funky World Fun Calendar 1987!  $10.00  
(collector's edition)  Work Is Hell  
$7.95  Love Is Hell  

Mugs From Hell! (Pantheon Books) $6.95 $~.95 (Plus $2.00 shipping and handling for each item. CA res. add 6-1/2% sales tax) Check or M.O. to: Life In Hell Cartoon Co., P.O. S6E64, Los Angele¦, CA 90036 
Watch for our spring '87 Melrose Catalog for more bizarre stuff we don't have room to tell you about here. 
--~
-

. ----~-'-"--~­


A Distorted Christmas 
A Christmas Catalogue with something for everyone 
Laurel a.'ld Hardy, Abbott and Costello, Cheech and Chong and now Coyle anl, Keegan. Yes, boys and girls, we have the hottest new comedy duo right here in our humble magazine. For this week's distortion, Scho­lastic is proud to present "A Down-home Christmas with Johnny and Mikey." 
SEVEN THINGS GUARANTEED TO ANNOY YOUR PARENTS ON CHRISTMAS MORNING 

By John Coyle and Mike Keegan 

I. Saying any one or a combination of the 3. Coming down hungover and blowing following: chunks all over your new angora 
a) 
"Is that it on the gifts?" sweater. 

b) 
"He got more than I did." 4. Stepping on your new Vuarnets while 

c) 
"I'm not walking the dog." grabbing for another gift. 

d) 
"I can't believe you bought this." 5. Saying you like it and then giving the 


2. Burning half the house down trying to ugly face. see how much wrapping paper you can 6. Opening everyone else's gifts. stuff in one fireplace. 7. Announcing that you have found 
yourself in a Hare Krishna way. 
WHO GETS WHAT 

The Business Major: The Pre-med Major: 
I. "Business Ethics" by Ivan Boesky I. Living With Heart Disease, a study by 
2. 
Monopoly the Surgeon General 

3. 
Polo shirt Operation by Milton Bradley 

4. 
money clip ~: 

oxford shirt 

5. 
Lee Iacocca lifesize poster 4.\ \ sutures 


5. \ eye chart -lifesize 
\ 

The Chemical Engineering Major: The Arts and Letters Major: 
I. A subscription to Science Times 1. "Jim Morrison is Alive," by Jim 
2. 
Dungeons and Dragons Morrison 

3. 
Plaid shirt complete with clip-on tie 2. Passout and pocket protector 3. tie-dye tee shirt 

4. 
slide rule 4. bong . 

5. 
E=mc2 lifesize poster 5. Hendrix lifesize poster 


But wait! Believe it or not, there's more ... 



Tired of lists? How about this: an old-fashioned, hee-hawing, get-funky, get-crazy, get-naked Christmas story. 
A 1986 DOMER CHRISTMAS CAROL Time: Christmas Eve Place: A cold, dark, dank room -no, it's not a prison cell -it's the Office of Student Affairs. Characters: Ebenezer Goldrockand Father David Scrooge, a couple of ghosts, Switek And Montanaro, a few 
troublemakers, and whatever else we feel like throwing in · SCENE 1: It's J1:59 p.m. on Christmas Eve, but there is no joy in Domerville. The administration is count­ing the scalps of student ideas. Let's listen in. 
Scrooge: "Hey Eb, remember that campus campout idea back in August? .What a laugher, ha-ha-ha. We bah­
humbugged that baby into the next county. Yuk, Yuk, Yuk." Ebeneze.r (with tears of joy pouring from his eyes : "Yeah, what a joke, but that's nothing. How about that parieta1s 'issue? . I'm still laughing about that one. Hardy-har-har. Couldn't bah-humbug that one quick enough: Chuckle, chuckle, chuckle." 
Scrooge: "Hey, Big E, how about throwing me another Moussey?" Ebenezer: "Sure, why not, we're legal. Tcc-hee-hee." Scrooge: "We're legal, that's a good one. Guffaw, guffaw, guffaw. Ebenezer: "I think the funniest idea was that 24-hour study lounge in LaFortune. It's not like we built that 
place for the students. Bah-Humbug!" SCENE 2: Four empty Moussey bottles and two passed-out jokers cover the floor. Enter Ghost of Christmas 
Past alias Frosty The Snowman. "What a jolly happy soul with a corncob pipe, a button nose ... " -oops -sorry, wrong story. Frosty: "Wake up, you loafheads, let's move it We're going back to your childhood." 
Frosty takes Ebenezer and Scrooge back to their boyhood days where it is revealed that the.v were two of the biggest squids to walk the face of the earth. Beaten constantly by the neighborhood girls, forced to sleep outside with their dogs by their parents, they were always the object of scorn and ridicule. 
Frosty: "Golly gee, you guys were losers. No wonder you don't allow a social life at Notre Dame. Go home and 
write a million-jillion-trillion times 'I will be nice to ND students."' SCENE 3: The Ghost of Christmas Present is holding 0111 for more money, so we axed him. Moving right along ... 
SCENE 4: Enter Switek and Montanaro taking Ebenezer and Scrooge to the Graveyard. Swltek and Montanaro: "See what wiU happen if you don't ease up on the students? Read the epitaph: 'These 
guys died. Who really cares. We didn't like them because they were mean administrators.' See what will happen to you guys if you don't shape up. Huey Lewis is wrong, it's not hip to be square." SCENE 5: Christmas Morning, the Grand Finale. Eb: "Gee, Scrooge, maybe we've been a little tough on the students." Scrooge: "Come on Eb, it's only a story. How dumb can you be? It's just another one of their tricks, don't fall 
for it" 

Eb: "Whew, I almost lost it. Lucky the force is with us (Dam,t, wrong story again). Let's get back to bah­h um bugging." Together: "Ha-ha-ha, yuk, yuk,yuk, hardy-har-har, chuckle, chuckle, chuckle, tee-hee-hce, guffaw, guffaw, 
guffaw. 

The laughter fades away and the stage gc,es dark. The End. 

Student Life 

What Do You Want For Christmas? 
Compiled By Paula Abowd 


Although it may seem like a trite question,it is only as boring as ~ the response it gets. And when, in the interest of holiday spir-t its and good cheer, Scholastic asked some of the well-known ~ (and some of the less well-known) figures on campus what ., 
they were hoping to see under their Christmas trees on the 25th, we got ~ some very interesting answers. .,
.. 
0

Notre Dame football player Mike Kovaleski : "I want a Kovaleski z Sandwich -me in bed with Vanna White on one side and Christie Brinkley .,..>, 
... 

on the other." ~ 
0 

Saint _Mary's President William Hickey: "I want to announce the name for 0 the new science hall. This, of course, can be achieved only if we receive a $3 million contribution." 
Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh: "Peace for all the world." 
Notre Dame Student Body President Mike Switek: "I want a summit meet­ing with Father Hesburgh and George Bush, cooking oil, and a new ear­ring." 
Notre Dame basketball player Scott Paddock: "A thirty-inch vertical jump." 
Notre Dame Associate Provost and President-Elect Father Edward Malloy: "A sweater to keep me warm in the South Bend cold." 
Notre Dame Dean of Freshman Year of Studies Emil T. Hofman: "I want to have all the famiiy together to enjoy a restful, peaceful Christmas." 
Saint Mary's Student Body President Jeanne Heller: "I want a job and a date. Or I could win the lottery which means that I wouldn't need either of these." 
University Food Services Director William J. Hickey Jr.: "A burgundyLincoln Town Car." 
Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps: "To enjoy the full spirit of 0 
u

the Christmas season." /; ~ 
Saint Mary's_ Dean of Student Affairs Sister Karol Jackowski: "New ., 
..,0

dishes, Marilyn Monroe's biography by Gloria Steinem -it's $24.95 at Pandora's if any students would like to buy it for me. I'd also like a round trip ticket to New York. These are things I wouldn't buy for myself." 
Zahm Hall resident Tom Cooper: "A passing grade for Calculus." 
Notre Dame Assistant to the President and Vice President-Elect Father William Beauchamp: "That is the same question I hear from my family and for which I have no answer. I really have no material needs. My 



Student Life 

prayer is that I will have continued good health and vigor to assume the new challenges and responsibilities that face me. l also ask for the Lord's continued blessings on the Notre Dame family." 
Saint Mary's Athletic Director Jo-Ann Nester: "A ski trip to Austria or a condominium on a beach." 
Sorin Hall resident Tim Laboe: "Vanna White." 
University Counseling Center Director Dr. Patrick Utz: "I need some clothes." 
Notre Dame hockey player Mike McNeill: "A lot of real cool clothes." 
St. Ed's Hall Rector Father Ga_ry, Sabourin: '.'I want Bruce Springsteen;s album on compact disc, luggi}ge and clothes. I'd love to have a lot more 
Father Gary Sabourin

than that, perhaps a new car -a BMW. .... Saint Mary's Associate Professor of Business/Economics Robert Drevs:
0 

"' "Lots of toys, at least one gadget of some kind that's different."
s
... 

~ n Notre Dame (ootball player Troy Wilson: "A Porsche and a girlfriend." 
. ·1i
0 

Alumni'°Hall Rector Father George Rozum: "The New Testament on tape and some gloves with fur inside." 
Notre Dame basketball player Donald Royal: "Money, a lot of money. It's as simple as that. I don't want to be greedy, though." · 
St. Ed's Hall resident Kevin Flynn: "An '82 DeLorean and an A fo Engineering." · ' 
Notre Dame basketball player Gary Voce: "I don't want anything at all. I just want to be home with my family." 
Holy Cross Hall resident Mary Shine: "A 914 Porsche, an ankle-length sable coat, a trip to France, and stuffed animals." 
Notre Dame Assistant Dean for Computing Terrence J. Akai: "Ask my wife. I haven't the slightest idea." 
Notre Dame Assistant Professor of Mathematics Robert Lockhart: "A box Emil T. Hofman 
of Cuban cigars and some Iranian missile money." Notre Dame He~d of Math Library Jennnifer Helman: "A big diamond. 
~ 

Send this response to my husband -maybe it will work if I make it public. i:i:: Last year I got an umbrella." ~ 
.... Alumni Hall resident Jim McDonald: "I want some gloves. I also want my parents to let me go on the ski trip when I get back here." LeMans Hall resident Maureen Ryan: "I really want clothes and jewelry." Sorin Hall resident Mark Avallone: "Money." Lewis Hall resident Therese Diflorio: "A pet crocodile." Fisher Hall resident Stephen Desidero: "A car would be really nice to drive to and from school." Lewis Hall resident Megan Scheckler: "A flash for my camera and clothes." Morrissey Hall resident Jay Degroft: "I want a hamburger, no, make that a cheeseburger, some french fries, potato chips and a large diet coke to go. · 
Mary Shine 
If I get all that, I'll be content." 



December 11, 1986 
Student Life 

This Year's Hottest Gifts 
By Sara Harty 

A talkative baby doll and a hi-tech version of tag ·· :3:re among this year's fastest-selling Christmas presents 

As the lights and tinsel go up in dorm rooms and students all over campus. decide to 
watch "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" instead of catching up on a semester's worth of reading, it is time once again for Christmas shopping. What follow are some helpful hints and suggestions for the Christmas shopper. 
One of biggest sellers this year is Lazer Tag, a sophisticated ver­sion of tag. In the game, players wearing photosensitive sensors shoot infrared light beams at each other. The game, which retails for $65, is popular with both children and adults and is designed as a form of tag rather than a combat­type game, according to Betsy Nugent, store manager at F AO Schwartz in Chicago. 

c.. 0 
ID 
~ 
... 
~ 
0 
0 
"Our biggest seller last year was Teddy Ruxpin, a talking teddy bear. That was manufactured by Worlds of Wonder, which also created Lazer Tag," Nugent said. Lazer Tag is "in very high demand and very hard to get -I sold out 120 pieces in four days and have none in stock right now," she said. 
For little girls, Baby Talk is the newest variation on the traditional doll. "Baby Talk is an animated battery-powered baby doll that talks to the child. She_ has a reper­toire of about 12 phrases that are spoken in correspondence to the way she is held. She is capable of making a sucking sound when she wants her bottle and her phrases include such things as 'I love you, Mommy'," said Nugent. The doll costs $70. 
Shopping for young boys could be relatively easy this year, according to Nugent. Anything combat-related -especially items from the GI Joe line -are in high demand. 
Nugent said the board game Scruples is one of her biggest sell­ers this year. "It's not a children's game. The game offers different questions on morality that the 

Scholastic 

Student Life 
players answer "yes"· "no" or 
"maybe" to. Lying is allowed but the other players can call you if they think you are lying. It has been selling big for some time," she said. The game costs $20. 
Budgetary concerns are al\\·ays a big part of shopping. For the money-conscious, Lisa Cocoza, assistant public relations manager at Marshall Fields in Chicago, said that there are a variety of gifts that are priced within the $25 range. 
· Marshall Fields is offering a twist on the traditional present for Dad -the tie. The store is selling designer ties that look like real fish. "This is a fad gift by Ralph Marlin, which is a take-off on Ralph Lauren as well as a pun on the fish marlin. The ties sell for around $20," said Cocoza. Cocoza added that suspenders are :mother hot-selling novelty accessory for those on a tight budget. 
'Metallic' is the key word for fashionable gifts for women this year. Both dresses and blouses are being made with metal-like fabric in all colors. "Glitzy rhinestone­type jewelry is big this year also. We carry a line by Butler and Wil­son, which is an English manufac­turing firm. So far this year it has been very popular while_ still affordable," Cocoza said. 
Oversized sweaters are still in demand, especially those with major brand names like Esprit. This year sweatshirts with mes­sages or designs that light up are selling well, according to Cocoza. 
FAQ Schwartz and Marshall Fields are also more than willing to accommodate those with more expensive tastes. 
What youngster wouldn't love to have his very own mini­Mercedes? It comes complete with a gas or electric two-horsepower motor, which is the equivalent of a lawnmower engine. The two-seat 
December 11, 1986 
0, 
~•·. 

~ 
., 
0

,.., 
convertible includes trunk space and a working hood. The car costs $2,500 and comes in a variety of colors. 
FAQ Schwartz offers a $1,200 four-stc,ry doll house complete with furniture and accessories -a dog on the front porch, a garden hose attached to the outside wall, a chimney and a shingled roof. The house is three-feet tall and comes assembled. 
"Bears in all shapes and sizes are also big this year." said Cocoza. Steif bears, imported from Germany, sell for up to $800, depending on the model. "He is very popular with children," said Cocoza. 
"For women, furs are always a popular gift item. We have a Dona Caron mink for $12,500 and a long sable coat for $25,000. And of course, diamonds never go out of style," Nugent said. 

For  the  busy  shopper  who  
prefers  not  to  leave  the  dorm  
room, there is always the option of  
catalogue shopping. Although the  
Sears  "Wishbook"  is  always  a  
faithful standby, the 1986 Christ­ 
mas Book for Neiman-Marcus offers a wide array of slightly  :i '  
more exotic and expensive goods.  

If you know someone who has trouble getting to classes on time, for example, a new watch could make the perfect gift. Neiman­Marcus offers several styles of accurate waterproof his and hers watches. The Romulus, in 18­karat gold with a reptile band for him, and a gold band and diamond time markers for her, retails at $2,99,0 and $7,900 respectively. Or you may prefer the 18-karat gold Dancer style with a square face for him at $8,500 and a round face for her at $6,500. 
Perhaps Christmas break holds exciting travel possibilities. A set 


Student Life 



of khaki and black striped canvas bags could be useful. Neiman-Marcus' The complete set of doctor's bag, binocular case, belted feedbag, cosmetic bag, "toast" bag and double handled satchel costs $1,080. 
After purchasing the proper baggage, why not choose a Neiman-Marcus trip as well? One possibility might be "Around the World # 17." With three weeks "down under" you should be able to see all the sights. Neiman­Marcus promises a taste of "the 
· cosmopolitan life in Sydney, the rugged and wondrous outback, and the playground of the Great Barrier Reef. So pack your silks, your safari wear, and your swim­suit." The trip, excluding airfare, costs $4,539. 
If gold strikes the fancy of someone on your list, the catalogue has a grab bag of gifts that might help. The "Gold Box Puzzle" is a $50 jigsaw puzzle with 500 mys­tery pieces. There is no picture on any piece, just solid gold. If it's a cycler that you are shopping for, a custom-built, 12-speed, 24 karat gold plated bike could be the solu­tion. The bike costs $5,000. 
A $34 set of six gold-rimmed Dow Jones glasses are sure to please the business-minded person on your list. The glasses include bar graphs, various levels of the discount rate and important events of the last 10 years through June 1986. For the chocolate lover, try a giftbox of milk chocolate cigars wrapped in gold paper. The 10 cigars cost $32. And finally, for $150, an engraved 14 karat gold­plated hard hat could be your gift to the mal'l with everything. 
" 

If a gift for Mom is what has you worried, why not let Neiman-Marcus cook the main course of your Christmas Eve buf­fet. For $123 you can have a 2­pound boneless pork loin, a 2­pound boneless leg of lamb, and a 
10 
o
l 
>r 
., 
~ 

2-pound beef tenderloin. Or for $72.50 a fully cooked honey glazed ham could grace your table. A 
· honey-cured smoked turkey is available for $46 if that is the family preference. 
And for that special science fiction fan on your list, the catalo­gue has "an out of this world gift." The Bubble Boat is the second such vehicle created by · Eric Staller. The boat seats four under a Plexiglas dome. A moving red, white and blue light display, 
created with the aid of 600 light bulbs, claims to be better than a fireworks display. "The Bubble Boat is all about space, light and motion ... a floating carnival ride anticipating the colonization of space." The vehicle runs on two 10-horsepower engines and costs $80,000. 
Obviously shopping at Neiman-Marcus isn't for those who earn their money in the din­ing hall, but at the least catalogue offers a fun way to get ideas for gifts. And even if you still find yourself scurrying through the crowded malls on December 24, desperately searching for that last gift -or those last 10 gifts -maybe that is part of Christmas as well. 



Men's Room Mayhem 
Some activities, usually reserved for bathrooms, are causing quite a stink on some college campuses 
Bathroom activities are 
making a big stink and topping the newswire of the College Press Ser­vice. To register their disgust with mandatory drug testing, Cal-Santa Barbara students· last week held a protest called "Ur-ine." The stu­dent government provided speci­men bottles for students to use, and then sent the samples to the White House. 
Elsewhere, at least 500 Iowa State students last week signed a petition asking for "softer toilet paper" in the dorms. The petition noted some ISU men offer softer Charmin as an effective way to lure women to their rooms. Finally, Stanford marching band members, famous for dropping their pants, urinating on the field, and forming four-letter words as part of their scripts this season, were banned from marching in two games this past November. 
Anti-gay jokesters · are 
under fire across the nation, reports the College Press Service. Baylor University President Her­bert Reynolds, who during a recent welcome week declared that there was absolutely no homosex­uality at Baylor, last week told two dorm representatives to stop mak­ing and selling "Herb Says No Homos" t-shirts. Proceeds from the t-shirt sale were to help fund their group, Zoo Against Queers. 
December 11, 1986 
In New Jersey, a Drew University judicial board ruled that editors of "Anything But Monday," a campus satirical magazine, had violated the campus human rights policy by making fun of gays, . blacks, women and various reli­gious groups. 


Aliens, Big Foot and the 
lost city of Atlantis all exist, according to one third of the 1,000 students who were polled in Texas, California, and Connecticut. University of Arlington Professor Francis Harrold, who conducted the survey, also noted that stu­dents who believe in creationism, the theory that God created the universe in seven days, tended to · read less and had lower grade point averages than other students, reported the Chronicle of Higher Education. 
Raising Moonie suspi­
cions, a group called CAUSA USA has begun circulating petitions on campuses across . the nation in recent weeks. The Confederation of the Associations for the Unity of the Societies of the Americas has been asking signers of · the petition on some campuses to "agree" there should be a God­centered morality in the US., that all people should be free and that communism is dangerous. At other colleges, students are asked to sign to "promote" the bicentennial of the U. S. Constitution. 
Students at the schools involved, which include Utah, Ohio State, Minnesota and Queens College, have complained that CA USA members belatedly inform them they're followers of Rev. Sun Myung Moon. CAUSA officials deny any ties to Moon or the Unification Church, but Ronald Hilton, professor emeritus at Stanford and editor of World Affairs Report, contends CAUSA is a Moon organization. 
Edited by Mike Farnan 




~hicago__
Anti_·mesa_reChi_cagoti_me.-----­

. icONCERTS: 
;.;,,_; 
t] Soul Asylum f iCabaret Metro \13730 N..Clark 
!Dec. 12 at 8 p.m. 
l.Joe "King" Carrasco & the Crowns 
>!'Fitzgerald's • 6615 Roosevelt ,Dec. 12 at 8 p.m. 
i:/ Love Tractor 
ffilPark West /322 W. Armitage lDec. 12 at 12 a.m. 
JNDion Payton's 43rd Street Blues Band !!J Kingston Mines k12548 N. Halsted rn Dec. 11 at 9:30 p.m. 
'.i/ Junior Wells ji;jKingston Mines . ;;2548 N. Halsted Jj:Dec. 12, 13 at 9:30 p.m. 
,;;J Lonnie Brooks !Wise Fools Pub f221o·N. Lincoln ]Dec. 12, 13 at 9:30 p.m. 
NRBQ Biddy Mulligan's 7644 N. Sheridan Dec. 13 at 8 p.m. 
THEATER: 
"A ... My Name Is Alice" Ivanhoe Theater 750 W. Wellingt~n Dec. 12-14 at 8 p.m. $19.50-23.50 
"Bards, Broads, And The Sacrifice" Cross Currents 3204 N. Wilson Dec. 12-14 at 7:30 p.m. $8 
"Corpse" Body Politic Theater 2261 N. Lincoln Dec. 12-14 at 7:30 p.m. $14-17 
"Forbidden Broadway!' 
· Gaslight Cabaret 17 E. Monroe Dec. 15-17 at 8 p.m. $17.50-19.50 
"Pump Boys And Dinettes" Apollo Theater Center 2540 N. Lincoln Dec. 12-14 at 8 p.m. $19.50-24 
"Zoo Thousand" Goodman Theatre Studio 200 S. Columbus Dec. 12-15 at 8 p.m. $12.50-14.50 
OPERA AND DANCE: 
"Katya Kabanova" Civic Opera House 20 N. Wacker Dec. 12 at 7:30 p.m. $10-66.50 
"The Merry Widow" Civic Opera House 20 N. Wacker Dec. 15 at 7:30 p.m. $10-66.50 
"The Nutcracker" Aire Crci'l/{n Theatre McCormick Place Dec. 11-17 at 2, 7 p.m. $4-16 

SPORTS: 
Hockey: Blackhawk1 Chicago St 1800 W.M Dec. 14 at· $7-25 
Blackhawk: Chicago~~ 
1800 W.M Dec. 17 atl $7-25 
Basketball! Bulls vs. M 
Chicago St 1800 W. M Dec. 13 at $7-16 
Bulls vs. N 
Chicago St 1800 W.M Dec. 16 at $7-16 



Compiled By Ace Corsetto and Charlie Buckley 

Michiana 
FILM: 

"Something Wild" s vs. Vancouver Canucks 
Scottsdale Theater adiurr:i 
Dec. 11 at 7:15 and 9:40 p.m. adison 
$4.50 

7:30 p.m. "The Color of Money" 
Scottsdale Theater s vs. Winnipeg Jets 
Dec. 11 at 7 and 9:30 p.m.adium 
$4.50 ladison ,7:30p.m. 
"Hoosiers" Forum I and II 52709 U.S. 31 Dec. 11 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. 
:ilwaukee Bucks 
$4.50 

adium adison "Song of the South" 
7:30 p.m. Forum I and II 
52709 U.S. 31 

Dec. 11 at 7:15 and 9:15 p.m. ew Jersey Nets 
$4.50 

adium adison "Firewalker" 
7:30 p.m. Forum I and II 52709 U.S. 31 Dec. 11 at 7:45 and 9:45 p.m. 
$4.50 

"Modern Girls" River Park Theater 2929 Mishawaka Dec. 11 at 5:30, 7:30, and 9:30 p.m. $4.50 
"Heartbreak Ridge" University Park Mall Dec. 11-16 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $4.50 
"Children of a Lesser God" University Park Mall Dec. 11-16 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $4.50 
"The Nutcracker" University Park Mall Dec. 11-16 at 1:30 p.m. $4.50 
"The Race" University Park Mall Dec. 11-16 at 1:30 p.m. $4.50 
CONCERTS: 
Chester String Quartet Northside Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Dec. 13 at 8:15 p.m. 
Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert Century Center 120 S. St. Joseph Dec. 13 at 8 p.m. 
News 



By Peggy Prosser 
Repairs should be completed on WVFI's transmission equipment early next semester, which will give the station new life 
When junior Bill Herzog returns next fall from his semester in the London pro­gram, he should be able to hear more than static at AM 640. Her­zog is leaving his job as news director for both student-run campus radio stations, WVFI-AM and WSND-FM. Currently, WVFI cannot be heard in many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dorms because of ineffective broadcast­ing equipment. 
But a two-pronged change is on the way at WVFI. WVFI is scheduled to move to LaFortune Student Center and is scheduled to renovate its broadcasting system. This change will allow WVFI to receive more attention from stu­dents. It also will affect the histor­ical relationship between the two stations. They no longer will share a location in the O'Shaughnessy Hall tower and in some cases no longer will share staffs. 

"They are fixing the transmitters and also the big move to LaFortune (will affect the sta­tions). That's going to affect us in one of several ways. One, I sup­pose that each station will have its own identity now, and the news staff will have to be split up," said Herzog. 
WVFI's move to LaFortune is scheduled to occur during the first week of classes in January. The bids for the transmitter renovation work are scheduled to be awarded 
by tomorrow, according to Adele Lanan, assistant director of Stu­dent Activities. The work should 


be completed by mid-January, she added. Lanan said the work on the equipment is on schedule. One of the criteria which will be used to decide which construction com­pany will be chosen is the comple­tion date of the project, she said. 
Christmas break will be the perfect time for the work on the equipment to be done, according to Lanan. The station will be shut down beginning tomorrow and should broadcast again January 15 or 17, she said. 
While the station is shut down, rewiring work will be done i_n the dorms and transmitters will be placed in LaFortune. 
"The big news isn't that we're moving into LaFortune, the big news is when the system will be fixed," said Sheila McDaniel, sta­tion manager of WVFI. She said that even the small degree of reception now received by stu­dents is a credit to the station's student engineers, who have attempted to improve the capabili­ties of the transmission equipment. 
The problems with the transmitter equipment have resulted .from "use and abuse" over the years, McDaniel said. Also the station didn't have the money to make repairs on the sys­tem at the end of each school year. The equipment renovation·is being subsidized by an increase in the Notre Dame student activity fee. 
The activity fee was increased . by $20 this year, with part of the 
money earmarked for the renova­
tions. WVFI was allocated $35,000 
this year to rebuild the transmis­
sion system, with equal install­
ments each of the next two years. 
14 


The reason some dorms are not picking up WVFI may be because they have not been wired yet, McDaniel said. The station operates on a carrier current sys­tem, which allows WVFI to transmit over the electrical system of each dorm, not through the air. In this system, each dorm is indi­vidually wired. Some dorms receive more power than others, and the system must be adjusted according to the size of the dorm. 
Also, a large transmitter for Grace and Flanner. might be necessary because of the larger size of the two dorms. Because of their location, Holy Cross and Carroll halls at Notre Dame might need their own transmitters, Lanan said. Saint Mary's dorms will not need new wiring, accord­ing to McDaniel. Instead, only transmitter renovation or replace­ment will occur. 
McDaniel expects the station to be able to run at full operation when the system renovation work added McDaniel. Too many stu­dents have been confused about WVFI, simply because they did not know where the station was located, nor could they hear the station in their dorms, she said. "I think they wanted to make us more visible, and they wanted to put us where the students are." 
WSND station manager Jesse Pesta, a junior, said he is looking forward to the WVFI systems renovation. "I think that since WVFI is moving, it's really going to give us a chance to both go in our own directions." WSND is a fine arts station which broadcasts on the FM band. It has a range of 30-35 miles. 
Currently, WVFI and WSND share staffs in areas including news and sports. The change of facilities will eliminate some of the overlap between the two sta­tions. For instance, although next semester one person will still be the news director for both stations, there will be a separate, distinct news staff for each station. 


is completed. "Full operation 
. ,would be for everybody on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses to hear us. All dorms, the dining halls and LaFortune," she said. According to McDaniel, faculty and administrators had no interest in receiving WVFI in academic and administrative buildings. 
The relocation of WVFI in LaFortune will be beneficial to the station by increasing its visibility, 
WVFI's regl,llar programming includes two 'oldies' music shows; call-in request shows; Campus Per­spectives, a call-in news show; Radio Free Notre Dame, a call-in show; and Speaking of Sports, a call-in sports talk show. A regular staff of DJs fills the shifts at the station. 
WVFI carries play-by-play of football, men's and women's basketball, hockey, baseball, certain interhall games, bookstor~ basketball and Bengal Bouts. According to Frank Mastro, sports director at both WVFI and WSND, the sports staff is small and WVFI will work to increase it next semester. 
WVFI runs commercials during Speaking of Sports, according to Sean Pieri. He is one of the hosts of the show and also is responsible for the scheduling of the sportscasters for the station. Currently, Wendy's restaurant and the Chicago Tribune advertise with WVFI. 
McDaniel said they are not actively soliciting paid commer­cials, ·and the station is very selec­tive about commercials it does put on the air. The money ,gen­erated from the commercials pays for the sportscasters to travel to away games, Pieri said. 
According to FCC regulations, WVFI must have newscasts seven times a day. The station has an Associated Press news wire. It also receives information from the Notre Dame Department of Public Relations and Information and from student groups on campus. 
"We're an entertainment medium," said McDaniel. "More so than a news medium, though we do have a unique responsibility (in that respect). We're able to do things more immediately, for example. As soon as anything comes over the AP wire, we have news often enough that within two hours it will be on the air. 
"You can hear sports scores on WVFI way before you can read them in any paper in the morning. For people on campus, we do serve an informational purpose. We do announce campus events, when movies are, where they're show­ing, really anything that's going on campus, said McDaniel. "We try to help anybody on campus, any campus group that wants an announceip.ent done, we'll make it for them." 
December 11, 1986 


'Sex' At Stepan Center 
· Interview by Catherine Coffey 
As "Top Gun" helps Berlin top the charts, the band discusses its new style and its plans for the future 
Berlin, a band which made the charts several years ago with hits such as "The Metro," "No More Words," and "Sex ( I'm a . . .)" is now back on top with "Take My Breath Away" from the soundtrack of the movie "Top Gun." Berlin is Terry Nunn, vocals, John Craw ford, bass, and Rob Brill, drums. With three additional touring members, the band played last Thursday night at Stepan Center. 
The show was fast-paced and lively, and apparently well received. "I enjoyed their per for­mance," said SAB Musical Entertainment Commis­sioner J.A. Lacy, coordinator of the show. "/ thought the band was really friendly." Band members spent some time with Scholastic after the concert to discuss the past, present and future of 
Berlin. · · 

Pleasure Victim and Lovelifc are very sexual albums. Why does Berlin place such an emphasis on sex? 
Rob Brill: It's just that those sexually-oriented songs happen to be the most notorious songs. Sure, it's an aspect of Berlin, but certainly not the major one. "Sex" happens to be the most controversial song. 
Who came up with the idea for "Sex?" 
John Crawford: I basically came up with the music and the group came up with the lyrics. 
Brill: The lyrics are from a woman's point of view. Everyone knows how guys talk, it's refreshing to hear it from a woman's point of view. All the dif­ferent moods she goes through when her boyfriend or husband screws her over. 
Berlin hasn't cut a new album in two years. What's been happening? 
Brill: People didn't see us for two years, but that doesn't mean we were sitting on our asses. We wrote sixty songs for the album. We went over to England and recorded basically the whole album with a pro­ducer that we ultimately fired, Andy Richards. We basically started over again with producer Bob Ezrin. 
During those two years, Berlin reorganized, cutting its size in half ... 
Terry Nunn: We went over to England with the specific purpose of doing this whole new approach to 

Berlin. The three of us argued, we fought a lot. We went through months and months of reorganizing our whole relationship, amongst the three of us. 
Brill: One band member decided to leave to pursue a solo career, David Diamond, and the other two members were asked to leave because we thought the band was becoming complacent. Usually bands break up because of too many sparks flying or too many ego problems, but that wasn't the problem with Ber­lin at all. Everything was so calm and collected that we thought it was getting boring. 
Scholastic 

---------~ 
;. )~,----••~~ -~ _ --• ,•• •~ .>,' •n::)•~•-~er,:-•-•,-= • ...-,•-.-,. ••~.:.~--r-=-• •~.'-~ < •'J, '~-,;-::-;.t~•~-'•.~-:,,,,:,,t',r,½;-~-..,~-,:.::: .,:.._";.,!.I
• 


And what made Berlin decide to use more of a heavy guitar sound? 
Brill: Well, keyboards are more of an in-studio thing nowadays. We can't just spontaneously plan anymore, there's so much involved. What happened as a result of this was that we ended up putting keyboards on­last, rather than as in the previous album, you know, where keyboards went on first an.ct then guitar. That's why guitar is more dominant in this one. 
What would you say your biggest musical influences have been? 
Brill: I grew up overseas, so I was mainly inspired by sixties music. All the Motown stuff, all the English stuff, all the American stuff, whatever I heard on the radio at the time. I'd say Terry was mainly inspired by strong female and male vocalists, Janice Joplin, Bessie Smith, Robert Plant, and Joe Cocker. John was heavily inspired by the English synth-pop thing in the beginning ... Ultravox, that kind of thing. 
How did your working on "Take My Breath Away" from the soundtrack of "Top Gun" come about? 
Brill: Well, we'd worked with Georgio Moroder on our last album -he did "No More Words." He asked us if we'd be interested in doing "Take My Breath Away." We thought it was a good song, so we did it; I never even saw the film. It was done pretty much on the spur of the moment ... we didn't know it was for the love scene. 

What is Berlin working on right now? 
Brill: On the new album we decided to get back to spirit of the Pleasure Victim. When we approached this album we wanted to do it on our own -to be responsible if it bombed. There's so i:nuch money 
. involved nowdays and so much tight control from record companies. 
Do you think that with Lovelife you were starting to get more commercial, more concerned with what people wanted from you than with what you wanted to play? 
Brill: Oh, yeah. With Pleasure Victim, it was made for under $3000, and it sold over 500,000 copies. So when the tidie came to do Lovelife, suddenly we had a record company behind us and all this money. We thought, 'hey, we'll do the same thing but much better because we have so much more money,' but it doesn't work like that. We started getting nit-picky, worrying about little things, because we knew we had so much time to work on it. 
So, what are Berlin's plans after the tour? 
Brill: We're finishing up this tour -we have four more gigs in the U.S. -and then the three of us have some promotional stuff to do in Europe. And then we're opening up for Frankie Goes to Hollywood all over Europe for eight weeks, then we'll go to Japan 
for two, and then hopefully come back to the States and do some more touring. 
You seem to like the touring aspect of being a musi­cian ... 
Brill: I think it's the whole musician's lifestyle I like. It's like a roller-coaster of life. When vou're riding up there and the money's coming in, great, when it's not coming in it's tough. We're our own employers. And it's pretty difficult. 
Does performing give you a special high? 
Brill: Yes, I think so. I think when we come off stage it's like going through the equivalent of a lovemaking session. It's very physical emotional feeling, the energy off the crowd. That's why every show is dif­ferent. 
And how would you describe the Notre Dame audi­ence? 
Brill: Very energetic, unfortunately all I could see were boys. 

.... 


Kansas City Rockers 
Interview by Tim Adams 
The Rainmakers rap about religion, writing, record companies and 'really good intentions' 
The Rainmakers, whose first album on PolyGram Records has been touted by Newsweek as "the year's most exciting debut," are a band out of Missouri who play a wholesome-sounding, socially aware brand of rock and roll. They have been touring the country, head­lining in small clubs and opening for acts like Big Country and Berlin. 
Consisting of lead singer and guitarist Bob Walkenhorst, lead guitarist Steve Phillips, bassist Rich Ruth and drummer Pat Tomek, the band recently stopped off at Stepan Center and wowed the audience with a crisp, loud set. While Berlin belted out an even louder set, Scholastic discussed the band with Walkenhorst over the din. 
Could you give a little background information on your signing with PolyGram? 
We've been together for three years, and it had always· been the goal of the band to start playing arounl:i Kansas City, because that's where we're ' J: from. We. kept playing all over the bigger circles like I Chicago and Minneapolis, and we went out to New l York a few times. We knew what we wanted to do; 
we wanted to make a record and some original music. A lot of bands know that's what they want to do, but they don't know how to get there, and we were one of those bands. Ba~ically, we tried to be really organ­ized about it, just make some logical decisions and write good songs. 
How have you guys changed since your days as Steve, Bob and Rich?· 
The .band started out playing a lot of '60s covers, so many of the earlier songs we wrote were very '60s sounding. And now, we've focused more on issues and tried to write songs that were about things that mattered in people's lives, that had some political 
18 


and social importance. There's a certain power of rock and roll to communicate ideas and to inspire people to think, change or to feel more in touch with what's going on. When you start feeling that power 
.and you're tapped into that, and you're a part of this big thing, it makes you take a little bit of responsi­bility, a little seriousness. You say, "Hey, let's talk about something that's worth talking about." 
Do you think music is able to change people? Should it change people? 
Yeah, I'm sure it does. Sometimes it's really strong, sometimes it's really subtle. There's certainly a power about music. I know that in our song, "Let My People Go-Go,'' there's religion and there's. music. Those were the two big powers. in my life when I was growing up, and they were always kind of fighting with each other. I never really knew which one was the right one, but they were always equally powerful. Music has changed life drastically since rock and roll came to life in the '50s. It's changed the world. 
Scholastic 

---------~--·.----------~------­
' T ---' ' ' 
' ' ' ,, . ' . 


How about you? 

Yeah. I'm sure it's affected all of us.. I mean, it's changed people that didn't want to be changed. It changed people's sexual attitudes and their attitudes as far as how much political power people have. Music can be so many different things. It can be an anthem of people's anger, or it can be a celebration of how good you feel about life, or it can be a song like "Born in the U.S.A." 
I saw Springsteen in concert, and on the first song the whole damn auditorium was in tears because everybody knows that feeling of "We've been kicked like a dog, but we're still here." I get all worked up about it, because I really believe in it. 
Do you think your current sound is more influenced by the groups you grew up with in the '60s or the current wave of American groups like the Long Ryders and R.E.M.? 
Every time someone groups us with R.E.M., I don't hear that. I think we're influenced by U2 a hell of a lot more than we're influenced by R.E.M. and the Long Ryders. 
In spirit? 

Yeah, in spirit and in power. Coming out there 
trying to knock the wall down. I mean, we don't have 
much subtlety; we're whipping it up and getting 
loud, like the Who or something. I feel that Creedence, the Stones, the Who, U2, Dead Kennedys -we've got more in common with those bands, bands that busted it through and made a point. 
In "Government Cheese," what do you mean when you say the President is "passing out drugs to the American people"? Do you mean he's using welfare han­douts as a pacifier f01: the poor? 
I think sometimes the government and the churches have really good intentions, but if you're the President or a sena­tor, you really don't know very much about what it's _like to be poor. You have to be a mil­lionaire or very rich to be President or a politician, and most churches are financially well off, too. Sometimes their intention is, "Well, the only 
December 11, 1986 

thing to do for poor people is to feed them." I mean, it makes sense, but sometimes it's not really accom­plishing anything constructive. 
Sometimes when you get people dependent on free 
handouts, it's just like a drug addiction. You're the 
pusher and they're the junkies. The welfare program 
is not an evil program, and I don't think you can just 
cut poor people off and say, "Well, sink or swim. It's 
your own fault you're poor." That's not true, either, 
but the intentions of the welfare program are not 
what's being achieved. Money gets misguided and 
channelled off. There's just evil in the world, and you've got to keep fighting it. 
Did you write "The One That Got Away" because you think that's the way human nature is, that we'll never be satisfied with what we've done and we'll always think about something we could have done? 
Yeah, I think one of the strongest and worst emo­tions is regret. When I wrote that song, I was pictur­ing myself down the road somewhere. There'll be things you'll regret that you did, but the worst things will be the things that you didn't do. These are the things that seem to really eat people up. That's what music is to me. Several times in my life, I've tried to quit, saying I'm never going to make it, but then I would think that if I didn't stick with it, it was going to haunt me my whole life. I was just going to have to hang in there and stick with it. 


Sports 

Will The Real Irish Please Stand Up? 
By Phil Wolf 

Digger Phelps has put a different team on the floor in each of Notre Dame's first four games this season 
Last weekend, after Notre ~ Dame had beaten Brigham e Young, 62-46, Irish coach i Digger Phelps told reporters, 
i:: 

"You've seen about four dif-·;:;;:s ~ ferent teams so far." Everyone ...:i there knew what he was talking about. 
The team that rolled over the Cougars last Saturday at the ACC did not look much like the three "other teams" which Notre D_ame put on the court in its first three games against Western Kentucky, Indiana and Cornell. 
Phelps, who said repeatedly in the preseason that the Irish are searching for an identity this sea­son, now must be wondering who will take the court for Notre Dame in its next few contests. 
The Irish will face Eastern Michigan on Thursday night and

I 
Valparaiso on December 20, both

I
,j 
in the ACC. After Christmas, the Irish will play host to Central Michigan on December 29 before taking to the road to play Mary­land, Pennsylvania, Yale, DePaul and Creighton before classes resume for the second semester. 
There will be trouble for the Irish if the team on the court is the one that lost to Western Ken­tucky in the Coca-Cola NIT Classic on November 21. That Irish team never had a chance, as the Hilltoppers jumped out to the lead and never looked back, win­ning 80-63. The Irish were outre­
20 


in turnovers and a 1-0 edge in the NIT. 
"Even when we pressed them," Phelps admitted, "they were able to get the shots on the press." The big men did not produce for the Irish; centers Gary Voce and Scott Paddock each had only three rebounds, and shooting forward Sean Con­nor played 13 minutes and did not score a point. 
There were a few solid indivi­dual performances for the Irish, but certainly not enough team play to beat Western Kentucky. Donald Royal did his part, scor­ing 17 points and grabbing seven rebounds, and David Rivers came off the bench for his first appearance for Notre Dame since his August 24 automobile accident. 
Rivers had eight points and an equal number of assists. Mark Stevenson, who started in Rivers' place, hit five of his eight shots and finished with 13 points. 
The Irish had 11 days to recover from their embarrassing home loss to the Hilltoppers, but it was the same sl,oppy team that took to the ACC floor against Indiana on December 2. The Hoosiers owned a 36-24 lead at halftime, with the aid of a slight edge "in rebounding, a few favor­able calls from the officials and 17 points from Steve Alford. 
Scholastic 
Sports 
A different squad came out of the Notre Dame locker room (and, it seemed, out of the referees' locker room) after half­time and the Irish gave the third-ranked Hoosiers a game for the final 20 minutes. Notre Dame shut down much of the Indiana offense with a 1-3-1 defense and pulled within one point, but never managed to tie the game or take the lead. Connor missed a three-point attempt which would have tied the score with about five seconds left, and Indiana escaped with a 67-62 victory. 
Voce was ineffective in the early going of that game, but freshman Paddock came off the bench to score 10 points and grab seven rebounds. Scott Hicks scored 18 points and Royal had 14, but Notre Dame lost the game largely because it hit only IO of 22 free throws. The _Irish also lost the services of Royal, who tore a calf muscle with 5:33 remaining. He is expected to be out of the lineup until the Cen­tral Michigan contest. 
On December 4, just two days after the Indiana game, the Irish were expected to roll over the Big Red of Cornell. Instead, the sloppy Notre Dame squad returned to hand the visitors a 33-26 halftime advantage, the result in part of an 18-8 rebounding margin for the Big Red. The Irish were shooting well (12-of-23), but again the front line, especially the centers, failed to do the job on the boards. 
Phelps decided to try quick­ness as an alternative to size in the second half. With 11:52 left in the game, he went to a lineup of five · guards: Rivers, Hicks, Stevenson, Jamere Jackson and Michael Smith. Cornell could not handle the pace and committed eight turnovers in the next five minutes. 


Stevenson hit 5 of 7 shots against BYU. 
After the game, Phelps expressed his frustration with the front line. "It's just a lack of concentration, especially on post defense, and that's what really 
disturbs me," he said. "The lack of concentration on rebounding ­if I see Jam ere Jackson go in and get rebounds, that to me means that it can get done. And that's the thing that disturbs me because of Voce and (Tony) Jackson not doing that." 
Jamere Jackson and the rest of that short lineup may have been able to shut down Cornell, but Phelps knew the same strategy would not work against the Cougars on Saturday night. It was time for Notre Dame's fourth "team" to take the floor. 
The squad that started against BYU was not the run-and-gun . team that beat Cornell but rather a team with an even-tempo, cal­culating offense. Paddock, Voce and Stevenson started with guards Rivers and Hicks to give the Irish some bulk to go up · against the Cougars, whose start­ing lineup averaged 6-7: 
Notre Dame kept the ball on the periphery of the key almost . 
every time down the court, and Phelps had instructed Rivers not to start the offense until less than 20 seconds remained on the 45­second shot clock. The Irish stra­tegy was designed to keep the ball away from BYU, which had averaged more than 100 points in its first two games this year. 
The Cougars abandoned their man-to-man defense at the midpoint of the first half in favor of a matchup zone, hoping to pressure Notre Dame into making some mistakes. But the Irish stayed calm, and -most important for the victory -hit their outside shots. Connor was 3-for-3 from the field, Stevenson was 5-for-7, Hicks (who also drove the lane for some easy lay­ups) was 7-for-10, and Rivers was 9-for-16. BYU never came out of the zone defense, and Notre Dame rolled to its 16-point margin of victory. 
Paddock and Voce, who hardly got mention in the team's box score, got credit from Phelps for winning the game for Notre Dame by playing -for the first time this season -good post defense. The Irish big men denied the ball well and boxed out well enough for a 26-16 Irish rebounding advantage. "Coach just told me I sould concentrate on two things tonight, defense and rebounding," Voce said. "It didn't matter if I scored or not." 
It didn't matter if Voce scored last Saturday because he was playing on a team that shot 66 percent for the game. If he plays for that same team in the next few games, the 2-2 Irish could come away with as many as eight victories before they return to school in January. On the other hand, there may be other Irish teams which haven't shown their talents yet. Which one will take the court next is anybody's guess. 
December 11, 1986 


Live Music -The Best Of '86 

Live shows provided a great stage for some of the brightest bands of the year to show their stuff 


boxed set, which will undoubtedly be a hot Christmas gift among Notre Dame students this year, I thought it would be interesting, entertaining and, of course, self-indulgent to rank my favorite live shows of 1986. Keep in mind that most of these con­certs took place in bars or tiny clubs, where audience/performer interaction is an intimate affair, and where there's no room for "rock star" posing and hero wor­ship. 
1. Sonic Youth at Cabaret Metro, 
Chicago, July 17 -During this quartet's 50-minute set, hardly anyone moved. No one said much either, but the swelling tide of applause after each song indicated that the audience was awestruck by Sonic Youth's ability to transfix and hypnotize the crowd with its peculiarly attractive wall of sound. It was beautiful, it was ugly and it was great. 
2. The Feelies at the West End, Chicago, September 26 -No band made a prettier record this year than the Feelies' The Good Earth, and no live performance could match the clever mix of acoustic and electric music that these New 
·. 22 
Jersey artists displayed in concert. 
3. 
The Red Hot Chiii Peppers at the Cubby Bear, Chicago, November 28 -At a Chili Peppers show, everybody dances -they pogo, they slam and they break­dance. This band's brand of rau­cous funk/punk transformed this cold Chicago bar into a sweat­house. Man, can these boys play. 

4. 
The Replacements at Cabaret Metro, January 11 -Looking back on all that's happened to the Replacements in 1986, both good and bad, it seems odd to recall that they put on an incredibly ener­getic and convincing performance way back 'in January, when they were still on the verge of becom­ing big. No one aspect of this show particularly stands out in my memory, except that the 'Mats delivered the goods to a very fired-up, pushy audience. 

5. 
The Ramones at Cabaret Metro, July 25 -Geez, the Ramones are almost getting professional with their concerts. Thirty songs in one hour? Sure, it's almost absurd for men in their mid-to-late 30s to be playing hyperactive songs like "Eat That Rat" and "Teenage Lobotomy," but the rush of a Ramones concert cannot be equalled. See ·one and be con­verted. 

6. 
Naked Raygun at Cabaret Metro, January 18 -Chicago's finest aggresso-rockers showed everybody what all the fuss is 


about with a sweaty, fun show that featured all the hits, including "Surf Combat" and "Home of the Brave." 
7. 
The Butthole Surfers at Cabaret Metro, August 30 -Strobe lights, voice phasers, insane gui­tarists and a loose-limbed brother/sister duo on drums characterized this show. It was off-the-wall though not the best this group could be in concert. 

8. 
Big Black at Cafe Voltaire, Milwaukee, October 25 -Even though the band's equipment kept fouling up, and even though the group's bassist· was intoxicated, Big Black's lethal combination of screeching guitar noise and power­ful_ drumming -from a machine, of all things -connected fairly often and confronted the audience head-on. Good stuff. 

9. 
Run-DMC, LL Cool J, Whodini and the Beastie Boys at the UIC Pavilion, Chicago, July 6 -A cool rap show with several great moments: the Beastie Boys stagger­ing around while singing "Slow and Low," LL Cool J smoking through his hit "Rock the Bells," and Run-DMC getting ill during "Peter Piper." 

10. 
The Descendents at Cabaret Metro, August 3 -Coffee-induced speed rock is what the Descen­dents play, and they pick up the pace even more in concert. Watch for their 15--seco:nd hit single, "Weinerschnitzel.~' 


Scholastic 


Scoreboard 


Irish To Face Alabama-Huntsville 
HOCKEY -The Irish split their weekend series with Michigan-Dearborn, defeating the Wolves 6-1 on Friday night, but drop­ping Saturday's game 4-3 in overtime. 
Junior captain MIKE McNEILL paced the Irish with three goals and one assist. McNcill leads the team with 12 points (seven goals, five assists). Senior goalie TIM LUK ENDA earned his first win of the season, allowing only one goal out of 30 shots. 
The Irish will return to action Friday night to open a weekend series with Alabama-Huntsville. Lefty Smith's crew faces off Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. 
WRESTLING -The Irish finished 12th out of 38 teams in the Las Vegas Invitational over the weekend. 
Sophomore CHRIS GENESER placed 
highest, turning in a fourth-place perfor­mance in the 167-lb. class. JERRY DURSO, at 134 lbs., took fifth place. PAT BOYD finished seventh at 142 !1:>s. 
team's only senior when LAVETTA WILLIS quit the team for personal reasons before the start of the tourney. 
The Lady' Longhorns, defending NCAA 
champions, coasted to an 84-59 victory in 
their first home game of the season. Clarissa 
Davis, a pre-season all-America selection, 
hit I0-of-23 shots from the field and fin­
ished with 23 points and a team-high 11 
rebounds. 
Sophomore HEIDI BUNEK led the Irish :ig:iinst Tcx:is with 14 points; DIONDRA TONEY contributed 12 points to the losing effort. In the Colorado game, which the Irish lost 75-53, Bunck and Toney again finished as the one-two scorers with 13 and 12 points respectively. 
Bunck leads the North Star Conference in field goal percentage, shooting at a .583 (14-of-24) clip over three games. 
Junior MARY GAVIN, who scored IO points against Colorado, also became Notre Dame's all-time assist leader with the weekend's action. Her eight assists in the two games raised her team-record total to 332. 


McNelll, the team's leading scorer, had three goals and an assist to beat Michigan-Dearborn. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL -Losses to top­ranked Texas and a talented Colorado squad dropped Notre Dame's record to 0-3 after this weekend's action in the Texas Classic. 
The Irish also lost their captain and the 
December 11, 1986 
MEN'S SWIMMING -Friday, the Irish defeated Mankato State, 134-78, to raise their record to 2-I. 
On Saturday,_Notre Dame played host to the first annual Fighting Irish Invitational. The Irish dominated their own meet, defeating second-place Wayne State, 257­
95. Ferris State followed with 81, while 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee tallied 80 points in a last-place finish. 
CHRIS PETRILLO, a sophomore out of Greenville, Del., turned in a key perfor­mance on Friday with his first-place time of 1:48.50 in the 200-yard freestyle. Another sophomore, Scholastic athlete of the week, BRIAN VOGEL, paced the Irish on Saturday with first-place finishes in two events. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING -The Notre Dame women defeated Mankato State on· Friday, 118-93, to even their record at 2-2. In Saturday's Fighting Irish Invite, the team registered 293.5 points to Milwaukee­Wisconsin's 184. Saint Mary's finished with 20.5. 
Irish co-captain SUZANNE DEVINE re-set her school record in the 1,650-yard freestyle with a time of 18:01.17. Scholastic athlete of the week, AMY DARLINGTON also lowered her personal best and school record time by two-thirds of a second, fin­ishing in 4:46.64 in the 400-yard individual medley. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
AMY DARLINGTON 
A frccstyler on 
the women's swim 
team, Darlington 
finished first in the 
500-yard freestyle 
with a 5:21.62 mark 
in addition to her 
new record in the 

400-yard individual medley. The junior from Fairfield, Ohio also placed second in the 200-yard individual medley and the 
1,650-yard freestyle in the Irish Invite. 
BRIAN VOGEL 
The versatile sophomore swimmer took two first• and two second-place finishes in this weekend's Irish Invite. He placed first in the 400-yard individual medley with a time of 4:26.68; his 2:19.29 performai:ice in the 200-yard breastroke also won the event. In the 200­yard individual medley and the JOO-yard· brcastroke, Vogel placed a strong second. 






A Time For ACourageous Stand 
By Father Isaac McDaniel OSB 
According to Fr. Isaac McDaniel, pursuit of justice for homosexuals should be a goal of American Catholic universities 
Is Notre Dame still Catholic? Does the University reach out to address the needs, interests and sympathies of all its members? How accurately can one · describe this school as broad­minded and all-inclusive? Let us perform a timely litmus test. 
Last spring Notre Dame banned a public service announcement on the two campus radio stations. Despite its repeated requests through the years, Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College has never managed to win official recognition as a legitimate student organization. 
One wonders what sort of moral leadership this represents from a school that claims to have blazed the trail in the toleration of, and respect towards, minorities. Does anyone find it hard to imagine the problems of blacks if they were so solemnly informed by the Univer­sity that the very existence of a black students' union would somehow contradict principles for which a Catholic university ought to stand? 
It is obvious that the administration's refusal to even acknowledge the existence of 
GLND/SMC -and, in a larger sense, the presence of homosexuals on campus -is only one lament­able symptom of a much deeper and more pervasive problem. 
For there is a deplorable amount of homophobia on this campus, and one can only guess at the sources of the hostility toward homosexuals which turns up so incessantly here: the dorm rector who describes homosexuals as "fags" and "fornicators;" the teacher who half-seriously informs 
· his class that he "can detect 'fags' by the way they dress;" the priest who confides to friends that "one 'homo' is one too many." 
Is ·it not at least plausible that the appalling timidity and reti­cence of this administration have done much to convince the already prejudiced that homosexuals 
remain the last miniority on whom it is still safe to declare open sea­son? 
Despite my frustration and disappointment with Notre Dame on this issue, I remain an optimist at heart. I am convinced that the most effective way to dispel the rampant homophobia that infects this campus -and perhaps society at large -is for people-to learn firsthand that gays and lesbians do, indeed, have human faces. Unlike some, I do not believe that toleration ever comes about by default, or that conditions for any aggrieved . minority· progress and improve ineluctably, as though in response to the inevitable rhythms of history. 
In fact, conditions only improve when decent individuals and institutions are willing to put themselves on the line to advance those values in which they profess to believe. Progress toward equal­ity is never costless, and bigotry never dies without a struggle; Father Hesburgh's many years on the Civil Rights Commission should have long since taught us 
. this. 
American Catholic universities "carry a particular responsibility to nurture biblical values and to explore issues of justice that dom­inant elites would rather ignore." It is not too late to revive the for­gotten vision of the American Catholic university as a sponsor of justice and toleration, but the effort will require some courage on the part of the institutions as well as the individuals. 

The Final Word gives members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community a forum in which to express their opinions. The ideas presented here are not necessarily the opinions of Scholastic. Topics are subject to editors' approval,· submissions may be edited, Contact Cathy Coffey at the Scholastic of/ice. 
24 
Scholastic 

,. 
Life In Hell 
u.s.. our
Or
He.LL 
LOVE. 15 HELL  
PASTE NUDE PHOTO  ~  dowr,  
OF  SELF  
1-lERE  7 -togo  

,... 
13 chapters 
HoW MAI.JI::) TIME.S HAVE. 1 ioL.0 ~OU !JoT To CQ.1~C,E. °? 
/ AOV~S: S':,MS\OTIC; PL.VS MA':lBE: S~E'I..L. C:,E.T L.AR".:>1'l(:)IT15 A~D SHI.IT UP. 
DRAwo"'"l<':i" PER~AoJE_,JT 1..AR".)>JGIT•S
0"4'-• VoJLll<H'?. 
©l~B6R~ :::, .,~: 
MATr ~ ;: 
Q. 
a'
Gl()oSNING:, ... n 
> 


CH~PiEP. vr: 
,ff£ 9 ~~1)£., oF ·1(£LATIONJHt~ 
ApVAtJi'A6ES: W~'T !..AST. 
OAAwSA~S: NEXT RELA­TlO'-lSHtr' W\1...L. BE:. JUST ,~E SAi-\£. 
n 
3
LOVE.Qulll(:,LER0S TEX'TBOOK n0 ADVA"'1TAC:,E5 0 i:' HEART8/2EAS::: 
>rj 
.,n
© P,,C>QE ROOM 1>J 
c
.,
BED. 
"' 
@Tit.\£ 51.CW' TO 
"' 
Ul
A C.Rt\uJ&... 
... 
= 
0 @Of'f'oQ.TUoJlT":l Q.
;;·
TO &E, 1oJ "!OVCH WITH 'X>vli?. W HPuJ(;. 
!!?. 
n 


A'l'>YJ:V,tTP.&E.~: Srv.v& C.HE:.E"1-ESS1JES°>. DRAWiAC.~S: CI-IEE.12L.E:5S' Sr-<.VC,NESS. 
\\ I'M wIi~ STU l j 
.. 
00 
At>VA~(::,ES: "Tl-IE"./ klllow COOL.ts 01= Joiccf. 0AAW8Atl::~: THE'1 Wll..L-7"€~ 'il-11:M. 
' 1 MR. Atilt) MS. BoREPoM" 
HOtJE'i&/oJC,, Do '10\J E.VE~ V.,0..,0\;Q. 1F MA'l6E. 'll1ElE'S lo/lOQE ,O Ul=E -rttA.J-nlE TWO OF ll~ JUST Stm.ic, 1-!E~ ,JtC,tCT AFTE~ 
~l(,HT°? 

Al1'1A..rTA6ES: WAQM, C.OMP1, StJo0'2.',. t)aAWSAC.l<S: l11JS1PtD rJtCl::"1AME ~­

At>VA"1T#).b£5: SMlL...E:S C::.Ai..oQ.e:. 

JO~, SATISl=AC..TIO~, FVL.Fll-1..Wif~.
DAAWSA,"S: TME A6o~'1 OF= A 

PRAW8ACll:S: C.Q.I.IE.1..-IJIC.\C.NAME.S. TOASTER. HiJlcl.eC? AT '1Oul2 FACE. DRAW&Acic:s: SIC!.:S.NtN(;, IStJ'i Ii ? 





