matt
Chis book is not to taken from the Library
NOVEMBER 15, 1935
lllll IShe NOTRE DAME
Scholastic
Volume Sixty-Nine
)
*
VKflCflDO DtUr SPSS
«
I
K
t
5
S
Number Seven


3
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. ' South Bend, Indiana
Established 30 Years lemdntre|s OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
CONVERTS BEGINNERS—
CONVINCES VETERANS!
1
IDEAL GIFT!
RECOMMENDED BY
FILTER-COOLED
LATEST
SHAPES
aFINEST V ■ BRIAR
■ MONEY
CAN BUY UNHEARD OF VALUE
MILLIONS
OFUSERS

(PATENTS))
This simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interior keepsiuices and flakes in Filter and outof mouth.
Prevents tongue bite,raw mouth, . wet heel, bad ^kodor, frequent expectoration. No breaking in. Improves thetasteand aromaofany tobacco.
Filter in th*
FOR RECREATION, SWIM AT THE
Natatorium
1044 West Washington Ave.
For Ladies and Gentlemen
❖
One of the finest Swimming Pools in the country.
Week days, 12 to 9 p. m.
Sundays, 2 to 6 p. m.
AUTO SHOW IN
CHICAGO Nov. 16 to 23
See the sleek, shiny beauties of plush and steel! Try out the new cigarette lighters . . . lend your ear to the tuneful horns . . . count cylinders . . . and test the springy new cushions! Seriously . . . see the 1936 auto show in the Stock Yards Amphitheater, Chicago.
GO VIA SOUTH SHORE LINE
Go via fast South Shore electric train to 63rd St., Chicago, thence via Chicago Elevated Lines to the Amphitheater.
50UTHSEH0R£
Notice to Students:
All statements for glasses will be mailed home on request. .
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
r\rx Admission Fee includes x L JC suit, towel, locker, sunlamps and plunge.
One Low, One High Springboard.
Private Parties can be arranged.
Phone 3-8611
Patronize SCHOLASTIC Advertisers
*
They patronize us I
❖
Two
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert L. Grogan
Perhaps we aren’t missing so much. A professor at the University of Iowa made the following statement concerning fraternities: “Their luxury, political maneuvering, caste spirit, moral flabbiness, unwholesome alumni relationships, and the false scale of social values which they impress upon the student body make them a demoralizing element in college and university life.”
—o—
One hundred men and women college students will sail from New York on February 6 for a ’round the world cruise on the famous yacht Hiron-delle, formerly owned by the late Prince Albert of Monaco. . The tour will proceed through the Panama Canal and up the West coast of the United States, then to the Orient, and through the Mediterranean to New York. Courses conducted between .ports will count as credit in American universities. The yacht is famous for its seaworthiness, having been built after extensive experiment with boats of this size.
—o—
Emily Post a failure among her own kind. A reporter on the Ohio State University campus made a personal investigation of the relative politeness of co-eds and men on the campus. He stood inside a frequently used door and opened it for everyone who passed through. The results were rather surprising. Only two out of every 15 co-eds said “Thank you,” while only one out of every 15 men . neglected this courtesy. — Minnesota Daily
—o—
We columnists may dig and toil Until our fingers are sore.
But some poor fish will surely say— I’ve heard that one before.—
—Purdue Exponent —o—
We have heard the policies of William Randolph Hearst attacked from many angles of approach, but the Associated College Press tries a new one. It seems that a copy-boy used a ten-minute rest period to purchase a candy bar. Returning to his office, he dropped the candy and stopped to pick it up. At that moment, Hearst and Arthur Brisbane entered the building and were delayed slightly as the3 boy retrieved his candy. Hearst iimmediately went to the editor and ordered the boy fired. We do not attempt to justify this action of Hearst, nor do we sanction his editorial policy, but we do believe that the Associated Collegiate Press might have found a more reasonable basis for its attack.
November 15, 1935
On the Ball with
Chatham Checks
• Even though you’ve got a budget to consider this semester, you’ll break down when you see the Arrow Chatham. Here’s a shirt that clicked in all the leading universities and promises to outsmart all other shirt styles. Chatham is Arrow’s popular button-down shirt in white, stripes, checks, and figures. Made of durable cloth—Sanforized Shrunk, and tailored in the Arrow manner. §2 and up
ABBOW^i
----------------->
FOLLOW ARROW AND YOU FOLLOW THE STYLE
Largest and most varied assortment—always---
ARROW SHIRTS
ARROW TIES
ARROW UNDERWEAR
MAX ADLER
Three
DILLON COURT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter- at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
November 15, 1935
No. 7
S. A. C. ANNOUNCES HALL DECORATION PLAN
Students Involved In
Fatal Auto Accident
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GAME IS CHOSEN
AS OCCASION FOR ANNUAL "DRESS-UP"
By Harold A. Williams
Gilbert A. Elliott and Terrill Austin, both freshmen in the Notre Dame College of Law, are dead as the result of an automobile accident in Mishawaka early Sunday morning, Nov. 10. Elliott died a few minutes after admission to St. Joseph hospital in Mishawaka, and Austin died at
Terrill Austin R. I. P.
6:50 p.m. Tuesday in Epworth hospital, South Bend, as the result of internal injuries suffered in the crash.
Elliott, after being graduated from DePauw University at Greencastle, Ind., in 1934, worked in South Bend a year before he entered law school t*’ here. Austin received his Bachelor of I Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1934 i and returned to the campus this fall ! to begin his law course.
While an undergraduate Austin f was active in musical organizations, on the campus, serving as vice-president of the University Band, and being a member of the Glee Club. Though not a Catholic when he first came to Notre Dame, Austin was received into the Church as he lay dying in Epworth hospital.
Fred Weidner, Norman Duke, John Singler, and Jack Reed, all former Notre Dame men were also injured in the crash which involved three cars.
November 15, 1935
The S.A.C. has announced that the annual decoration of University residence halls will take place next Friday, Nov. 22, the eve of the Notre Dame-Southern California game.
Gene Tobin, chairman of arrangements, said that since this year Notre Dame is honoring the old-time Monogram men, the decorations of the various halls will feature special tributes to these men.
The hall having the best decorations in the opinion of the judges will be awarded a silver loving cup donated by the S.A. C. The loving cup, which will be put on display in the Book store window, will be presented to the rector of the winning hall on Nov. 25, by Gene Tobin. Winner of last year’s S.A.C. cup .was Freshman Hall. Rev. James A. Fogarty, C.S.C., was rector of Freshman last year.
Judges for the contest will be Mr. James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary; John S. Moran, editor of the Scholastic; Delancey Davis, editor of the 1936 Dome; Maurice Tombrag-el, editor of Scrip; and Edward Donoghue, S.A.C. representative.
According to the S.A.C. regulations, the rector of each hall will appoint a committee of five to solicit donations and to super-vise the decorating. Each hall committee will be assisted by a special S.A.C. representative. The S.A.C. committee is sending to each rector a letter containing information, suggestions and rules governing the contest. Edward Donoghue is chairman of all hall decorations.
Although there will be no competition of the halls for the largest wood pile for a bonfire as in previous years, the S.A.C. has made arrangements for a gigantic pep meeting and pyrotechnic display next Friday, Nov. 22, immediately after supper.
Martin T. Burns, chairman of arrangements for the pep meeting, has not yet released the program for the rally, but it is understood that plans are being made to have some of the famed Monogram men of the past as speakers in addition to other sports celebrities. The pep meeting will be proceeded by the fireworks display which will be held on Brownson field.
LYONS HALL
First place winner in a previous competition.
Five
BAND LEAVES FOR ARMY CONTEST;
LAST NEW YORK TRIP WAS IN 1929
Trustees Discuss Plans For Campus Expansion
By Lindsay B. Phoebus
At midnight tonight, the University Band ■will be passing the Suspension Bridge crossing the gorge just below Niagara Falls, on the train bound for New York City where the unit will entertain and encourage at the Army game. Under the supervision of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, Director of the Band, members of the organization left South Bend at 12:45 .o’clock, eighty-eight strong. The band will travel to New York on the Grand Trunk line via Canada and Niagara Falls. It will arrive at the Pennsylvania station in New York City Saturday morning at 8:20 a.m., Eastern standard time. Members will stay at the Hotel McAlpin, just across the street from the railroad station, until Sunday afternoon when they will leave Manhattan to arrive in South Bend some time Monday morning.
Robert V. Trousdale, president of the band; John F. McNeill, publicity manager; Edward F. Theis and Vernon A. Tetrault, librarians; Joseph J. MacDonald, junior officers; and Louis G. Alaman, head drum major are all looking forward to a repetition of the reception the Notre Dame band was accorded in New York in 1929, the first and only time previous to this year that the band was sent on this trip. It was at that time that our (Continued on Page 10)
FOOTBALL DANCE . . .
The football dance following the Southern California game this year will be under the auspices of the University Chapter of the Knights of Columbus. The proceeds of the affair will be turned over by the local Knights as their contribution to the maintenance of the Gibault Home for delinquent Catholic boys. This institution, conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross, is located on the outskirts of Terre Haute.
Tickets will be a dollar a couple and the usual scholastic regulations on dancing will be enforced. While the orchestra selection has not yet been made public those in charge are positive that the music will be satisfactory to all attending. The dance will be held at the Jefferson Plaza.
Paul Schrenker is general chairman and the following committees and committeemen have been appointed: Tickets—Francis Deery, Thomas Foy, Edmond Hammer, John Henry, and Edward Donahue. Publicity—Robert Grogan and Paul Foley. Reception— Joseph Wade, Francis Layden, Arthur Cronin, August Church.
Expansion of graduate and scientific research, and the construction of new buildings on the campus were the principal points in the program of development of the University outlined to the board of lay trustees by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., at their semi-annual meeting held last Friday.
The expenditure of more than half a million dollars in the construction of two new residence halls, a biology building, and .a faculty house, was included in the expansion plans. This is in addition to the amount already spent in the construction of the new infirmary.
Father O’Hara stressed particularly the need of additional facilities for research work in scientific fields, where Notre Dame has received national recognition during the past few years. Among the accomplishments which have focused attention on Notre Dame scientists were the development of synthetic rubber by Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., and the more recent experiments by Professor J. A. Reyniers with germ free guinea pigs.
The first new residence hall to be added to the campus will replace the present Freshman hall and will probably be built on the same site. Plans for the Biology building and faculty house will be announced as soon as completed.
The Notre Dame Band Which Left Today For New York.
S i x
The Scholastic
T. A. Daly To Address Students Next Monday
TRY-OUTS HELD BY UNIVERSITY
THEATRE FOR FIRST PRODUCTION
By Louis Da Pra
Another in a long line of illustrious visitors to the University will appear here when Thomas Augustine Daly, LL.D., noted poet, journalist, and lecturer from Germantown, Pennsylvania, will speak in Washington hall, Monday evening, November 18, on a subject which as yet has not been selected.
Affectionately known by the American reading public as the “Dago Poet,” Mr. Daly has, by use of sentimental dialect pbems, bared the simple hearts of the Italian immigrants and their love for the beautiful.
In 1917, Mr. Daly, a native of Philadelphia was honored by the University when he was the recipient of an honorary degree of Doctor of Law. It was awarded to “A journalist of distinction, a subtle and charming humorist, a poet who has interpreted with sympathy the life of Italian immigrants to America.”
He was a one-time student at Villanova, but graduated from Fordham, receiving his Master’s Degree and a honorary Doctor of Letters degree there. Boston College also has bestowed the degree of Doctor of Law upon him.
Since 1905, this prominent poet and former editorial writer for the Philadelphia Record, special writer for the Philadelphia Ledger, and onetime managing editor of the Catholic Standard and Times, has toured the country reciting his dialectic poems, humorous anecdotes, and literary criticisms. Mr. Daly has come out strongly against the verse-librists who followed Amy Lowell.
He is the author of several collections of poems, the outstanding among which are: McAroni Ballads, Herself and the Houseful, Little Polly’s Pomes, Carmina, Madrigali, and Canzoni.
CAPITOL DISTRICT CLUB
The Capitol District Club of New York held its second meeting of the year in Brownson Rec on Wednesday, November 6. The completed plans for the annual Christmas dance revealed that this important formal affair will take place on the evening of Friday, December 27 at the Ballroom of the Hotel Ten Eych in Albany.
Johnny Murdoch’s orchestra has been engaged to furnish the music for the occasion. Additional plans were made for a joint smoker, the date of which will be announced soon by President Sherbonne Herrick.
Bulletin. . .
As we go to press we are informed that President Franklin D. Roosevelt will visit the campus Dec. 9 to participate in the observance of Philippine Day. In addition to numerous other nationally known persons, His Excellency George Cardinal Mundelein of Chicago has accepted an invitation to attend the ceremonies.
The program was originally planned for Nov. 15 but events made the postponements necessary. In connection with the ceremonies the University will bestow the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws on Carlos P. Romulo, Philippine publisher.
OHIO STATE CASUALTY
Another casualty of the recent Irish-Buckeye contest has just been forwarded to The Scholastic by the Rev. Eugene Medved, O.S.B., of St. Thomas Grand Seminary at Mt. Angel, Oregon. The item follows:
“The tense excitement of the Notre Dame-Ohio game cost one student here the loss of his front tooth. E. J. Spear, theologian of St. Thomas’ Grand Seminary, in the fever of excitement of the fourth quarter swung his elbow enthusiastically into the face of a fellow student, knocking out his front tooth.”
Southern Cal. Ticket Distribution
< Student tickets for the Notre DameSouthern California game, of Nov. 23, will be distributed from the Athletic Office beginning Monday, Nov. 18,
and continuing through Thursday, the 21st.
The Seniors will be given their tickets on Monday afternoon, the Juniors on Tuesday, the Sophomores on Wednesday, and the Freshmen on Thursday.
The Athletic Office reports general sales for -the Southern California game far in advance of expectations.
By John Hurley
The play, “The World Waits,” to be presented by the University theater early in December, is fast being molded into shape under the super-viion of Professor Albert Doyle, director of the theater.
Over sixty candidates appeared at the first tryouts for parts. Professor
Hugo Melchione Can he cook?
Doyle stated that he was impressed by the large number of students who evidenced interest in the theater. “So much talent was shown,” he declared, “that it ig difficult to definitely assign parts to the students. In fact, I have invited all who wish to do so, to attend the rehearsals because of the ability they exhibited." In addition, it will give them experience and knowledge of what the actor who steps in- front of the footlights must know.”
Among those who have tentatively been assigned parts are Joe Mansfield as Captain Hartley; Thomas Kelley as Howard Mckenzie; Francis Carroll as Dick Collins, the newspaper man with the expedition; Dick Baker as Brice; John Brassell as Royce; and Hugo Melchione as Jenks, the cook.
“The World Waits” is the story of a scientific expedition lost in the Antarctic. Captain Hartley, leader of the party, does not wish to let the outside world know of his plight. The ship coming to bring the expedition out of the frozen zone is delayed. In the meantime the food gives out and the men have to eat the dogs. The conclusion is an interesting one. The appearance of such veteran troupers as Joe Mansfield, Dick Baker, and Hugo Melchione assure the success of the play.
NOTICE
The Cleveland Club will hold a meeting tonight at 8:00 o’clock in the Carroll Rec. All members are urged to be present.
November 15, 1935
Seven
Glee Club Entertains
On National Hook-Up
Yesterday morning, in the studios of Radio Station WMAQ in Chicago, the Notre Dame Glee Club made its initial broadcast for the present school year. The club broadcasted on the Climaline program from 10:30 to 11:00 o’clock, Central Standard Time, over a coast-to-coast hookup of the National Broadcasting Company. Selections rendered were the “Victory March” by Shea, “When The Irish Backs Go Marching By,” by Casa-santa, “There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea,” arranged by Lake, “Ave Maria, by Vittoria, and “The Night March, by Kountz.
On November 23, the day of the Southern California game, the Glee Club will broadcast from the campus radio studio on a coast-to-coast hookup of the Columbia Broadcasting System from 11:00 to 11:15 o’clock, Central Standard Time. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will start the broadcast with a brief talk.
COMMERCE FORUM
Last Monday 1000 questionnaires were issued by the Commerce Forum in accordance with instructions issued by Robert W. Cavanaugh, president of the club. The results of this commercial activity will be known in a very short while, according to President Cavanaugh.
At a meeting of the Forum, Wednesday, Professor James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, introduced Mr. R. A. Smith, manager of Wilson Brothers Manufacturing Company, a nation-wide organization. Mr. Smith spoke to members of the Forum about different phases of his business, his experiences, and about methods of sales and production.
SPANISH CLUB
The Spanish Club met in the Commerce Library Thursday, November 7, to discuss further plans for the coming year.
The Communion breakfast honoring Carlos P. Romulo, Philippine diplomat, has been tentatively set for Sunday, December 8.	-
Salvador Ducasa, president of the La Raza club, was guest speaker at the last meeting. Interesting papers were read by Messrs. Allen, Smith, and Schoenfeldt. At the next meeting to be held Thursday, Nov. 21, other talks will be given and further plans for the future will be taken into consideration.	-
Dan T. O’Brien of the Cleveland O’B’S is senior class vice-president and polled the largest vote in last spring’s class election ... Is a good man for this political grave-yard since . he aspires to running a funeral parlor . . . Sighs when passing cemeteries thinking of the business he lost . . . Majoring in Economics and reasons that people will always die and by the law of supply and demand undertaking will be profitable . . .
His room is a veritable gym and he
labors long and hard with dumb-bells, etc. . . . Admires physical specimens and especially Geo. O’Brien, (no relation) . . .
Knew intimately one of the “Eight Girls In A Boat” ... Was a lifeguard last summer but lasted only a week.
Knows the best places in Cleveland, his father being a police captain . ... Gave tips on Ohio State game to bartenders and was feted royally after the contest ...	-	.
Shocked the rector by painting his own room on Howard’s fourth floor and has Fr. Keller worried . . . Efficiently handles a straight razor and practices on affable Big Geo. Thomas, his roomie ...	-
Likes Italian, taking six hrs. on the side . . . Wants to go to Italy and study Roman burial methods . . . Dan will make a big hit in black gloves and tails ...
ATTENTION
Sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters, who intend to major in Journalism in their junior year, are warned that “Journalism 2” is a prerequisite. At the time of preregistration for the second semester of this year such sophomores must definitely inform the Dean’s office of their intention.
"Old Timers" Will Be Feted Next Week-End
Former Notre Dame athletes will be honored by the University on November 23, when the Notre Dame football team meets the University of Southern California squad at Notre Dame. This “Old Timers’ ” week-end is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Monogram Club, under the supervision of. President Francis L. (Mike) Layden.
Plans have been made to bring a certain group of former monogram men together at a Notre Dame football game each year. Invitations have been extended to all who were awarded monograms in all branches of sport from 1887 to 1900. The Honorable John W. Eggeman, monogram man, ’96, • of Fort Wayne, Indiana, will be chairman of the group at this year’s gathering.
The program for the event has been announced by Edward J. Meehan, president of the Notre Dame Monogram club in South Bend, and will be as follows:
Friday, November 22, afternoon: Registration of Old Timers in the Alumni Office; Old Timers’ dinner in the dining hall, as guests of the University. Evening: Attendance at the student rally in the gymnasium, or in a place designated; attendance at the smoker of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley in South Bend, as guests of the club.	.
Saturday, November 23. Old Timers’ luncheon in the dining hall, as guests of the University; introduction of Old Timers before the game at the stadium; witness the Notre DameSouthern California game from a special section reserved for Old Timers.
The highlight of the Old Timers’ week-end will be the presentation of a Notre Dame monogram to the Rev. Michael Shea, composer of the music of the “Victory March,” the official song of the University. Fathei' Shea, a member of the class of 1904, collaborated with his brother, Mr. John Shea, in the composition of the University anthem. Father Shea is a professor at St. Joseph’s Seminary, Dunwoodie, Yonkers, New York.
It is expected that four hundred one-time wearers of the Blue and Gold will return to the campus for this celebration.
DID you KNOW?
In comparison with other countries the. United States ranks tenth in the educational scale, according to a statement made at the last national convention of the Parent-Teachers’ convention.	.
Eight
The Sc ho I a s t i c
From Files Of
The Scholastic
Oct. 7, 1882—Local Items.
' An iron roof is being put on the gymnasium.
Wasn’t that league reception a little too-too?
There are great preparations for the boat-race on the 13th.
WANTED: — Three mule - drivers and one sign-painter.
Oct. 7, 1882-St. Mary’s Academy.
Owing to the increase of piano players, the harp and guitar' players were obliged to move, and now lodge in the Art Department, temporarily only, until the grand Rotunda is built.
Oct. 21, 1882—St. Mary’s Academy. Our vigilant watchman is a very considerate person: he carries a light even on bright, moonlight nights, that intruders may see their way outside the gates ere that ferocious animal of nondescript color, but of a sharp-toothed species, gives them a bad impression, as he never mistakes the shadow for the substance.
Nov. 11, 1882—Local Items.
A CONVERSATION AT THE POLLS:—“Are you twenty-one?”
“No, not quite.”	'
“Well, you cawn’t quite vote.”
After sampling the Campaign cigars of both parties, he decided not to vote.
Have you joined the Temperance Society?
Nov. 18, 1882
The Seniors have purchased a carpet for their reading-room.
The Crescent Club rejoices in the acquisition of an excellent clarinet player.
An exciting game of football was played last Thursday afternoon, between 17 Juniors and 85 Minims. The Juniors were the winners in two straight heats. S. Roper was umpire. . A very interesting episode during the match was occasioned by a little five-year old seizing the ball and kicking it all around the field. After some time, he was induced to desist, and the game proceeded, with the result ab ove-recorded.
GLOVE LOST
Valuable glove lost in the stadium at the Northwestern game. The owner would greatly appreciate its return to the Publications Office, Main Building.
November 15, 1935
Varsity Debate Trials
To Be Started Monday
Initial tryouts for the varsity debating team are scheduled to be held on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of next week, November 18, 19, and 20 in the basement of the Law building. Contestants will deliver a five minute main speech and a three minute rebuttal.
In this first preliminary contest the judges will particularly emphasize and consider the delivery of the candidates. Those surviving the first tryouts will speak on the opposite side of the question on either November 25 or 26.
With such veteran debaters as Robert Schmelzle, John Heywood, Eugene Malloy, and Richard Meir returning, the Notre Dame debating team should enjoy another successful year under the coaching of Professor William J. Coyne.
The schedule of trials, giving the hour and day the candidates are to speak, has been posted on the various campus bulletin boards. Professor Coyne stated that, “Anyone desiring to try out for the varsity debating team whose name is not on the published list should get in touch with me immediately.”
In the field of interhall debating three debates have been held. Dillon, by virtue of its victories over Lyons and Freshman, is at present leading the Interhall Debate league. In the only other clash held as yet Robert Weaver’s St. Edward’s team defeated Brownson. Both winners were defending the negative side of the question, “Resolved, that Congress should have the power to override, by a two-thirds vote, a decision of the Supreme Court holding an act of Congress to be unconstitutional.”
The result of the debates between Alumni and Corby, and Carroll and Badin, held on Wednesday evening, Nov. 13, have not yet been announced.
This week’s interhall debating schedule is as follows: Friday, Nov. 15, Sorin vs. Walsh and Lyons vs. St. Edward’s; Monday, Nov. 18, Brownson vs. Morrissey, Walsh vs. Alumni, and Corby vs. Badin; Wednesday, Nov. 20, Sorin vs. Carroll and Morrissey vs. Freshman.
DANCE PROGRAM
The colorful Army-Notre Dame game in New York tomorrow will receive musical tribute from Hal Kemp and his orchestra, playing in the Manhattan Room of the Hotel Pennsylvania. Saturday night will be special Collegiate Night and Kemp will play a program especially dedicated to the schools whose football teams play in the New York area over the week-end.
Welfare Committees Plan
Centralization of Work
Plans for the centralization of activity on the part of campus and South Bend relief agencies, are being formulated by the advisory committee of the Notre Dame conference of the St. Vincent de Paul society.
The organization, which has been very active in the actual work of relief among the needy of South Bend, hopes in the future to establish a single office in town which will serve as the base of operation for both the University and the local societies.
The advisorv committee consists of Rev. John C. Kelley, C.S.C., Professor Frank T. Flynn, Pi'ofessor Thomas Madden, Mr. Eli Abraham, Mr. Edward Cleary, Vincent McAloon, Jr., Professor Francis McMahon, and Professor James Corbett. President Joseph Drolla serves on the board by virtue of his office.
The regular meetings of the body of the St. Vincent de Paul society have been devoted to reviews of the cases now under consideration, and an analysis of methods successfully used by other relief and social organizations.
ARMY TRIP
Eighty-five students left this noon on a Grand Trunk special train, under the auspices of the Notre Dame New Jersey Club, to attend the annual Notre Dame-Army game in New York City tomorrow. Arrangements for the trip were made by Julius P. Rocca, president of the New Jersey club.	•
A special section at Yankee Stadium has been set aside for the Notre Dame students so as to have a small concentrated group for organized
cheering. The New Jersey club will have no special function tomorrow night, but many club members are planning to attend the annual dinnerdance to be held after the game on the roof of the Hotel Pennsylvania, according to President Rocca.
The football special, which left this noon from the Union Station, will arrive in New York tomorrow morning at 8:00 a. m. The return train will leave New York city Sunday afternoon at 2:30 p. m., arriving in South Bend at 7:30 a. m., Monday.
On the same train with the New Jersey club was the University’s 85-piece band under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta, who will entertain between halves.
N in e
FRESHMEN HOLD THEIR BREATH FOR DAILY PINK NOTES WHEN MAILMAN ARRIVES
By John A. Gillespie
“Anything for 135?”
“Not a thing.”
“Gee, lookit, Butch got three letters and a package slip!”
The mailman, hearer of good, bad, or no news, is a person of power at Notre Dame. Throngs of anxious students hail his approach; the grapevine system spreads the word throughout the hall from the sub to the tower rooms. He is obliged to worm past the mob that can’t wait for an orderly delivery. Then begins
The Notre Dame Post Office
the march of glory—at least, for the mail-carrier.
He is usually accompanied by a bodyguard of about three dozen who expect him to thumb through the pile of correspondence to get to a few particular envelopes. He has become hardened to the groans, reproaches and threats of the ignored. There are a minority who feign an indifferent attitude by sitting quietly in their rooms, but their disinterest is belied by the crash of upset chairs if a letter is slipped under a door, or by insults, if they are passed by.
His task is especially arduous dur- -ing the first few days of the month; allowances are due, and every letter is immediately held up to light in a search for a money order, or a check, or bills. Here is a situation that offers opportunities to the mailman, but we place no trust in the story about the young hopeful who tried a little persuasive chiseling by refusing to deliver money unless he got five per cent; or the tale about a fellow-racketeer who wouldn’t hand over package slips unless he was guaranteed ten per cent of the food. Imagine dividing a jar of jelly!
On a recent trip to Freshman hall with the mailman we obtained firsthand proof of his importance. As we neared the hall, a group of first-year men were playing a hotly-contested game. When the familiar figure of the postman was spotted, the wild group changed into a still-life picture; a long pass fell to the ground unnoticed; the intended receiver ran towards us. Nobody believed that
there were only three letters for the second floor. While we walked fifty yards at least fifty men asked if they were lucky that night. Once inside the hall we were met by a fresh crowd of aspirants. Hope gleamed and died—the mailman marched on! We jumped when a mountaineer backed by a murderous-looking Winchester rifle poked his head out of his room. Farther on, a violinist cut short a sobbing note to pick up a pink missive. We couldn’t help thinking of some forlorn music lover at Saint Mary’s waiting with equal hope for a masculine reply to her lavendar scented note.
We were informed that the playful frosh frequently appropriate a batch of religious bulletins from the newspaper rack where they are placed before distribution; they make excellent scratch paper.
The girls write distinctly; often a recipient was seen sniffing a letter for the delicate scent of the one-and-only.
On our way out, we met a mournful fellow who stopped us with “Are you sure you haven’t anything for me? If I don’t get something soon, I’ll go crazy!” We stalled: “When did you last get a letter?” The sad one pondered a while and answered “Friday.” All this took place, on a Monday. Here was a man who had suffered through three long, dreary • days, with no epistolary contacts. What despotic power a postman knows!
Although he may be czar-like on his thrice-daily rounds, there are
What! No Mail Today.
times when he is just another working man, stripped of his glamour. Have you ever attempted to deliver mail after breakfast with sufficient speed to complete the route before an eight o’clock class? How would you like to get up every morning of the school year? A hall can assume hateful proportions when it is traversed three times a day in an unvarying routine. Kings sometimes . lose their regality, and the sleep-
BAND TRIP TO NEW YORK (Continued from Page 6)
band strutted up Fifth Avenue to the strains of “Killarney” and to flying ticker tape. It is reported that the Notre Dame band was the only college band in the country at the time which had marched up or down that great thoroughfare.
While the teams rest between the halves tomorrow the band will play the following selections for the entertainment of the colorful crowd of Gothamites expected to be in attendance: “On! Brave Old Army Team,” while the unit spells out “Army”; “Killarney” and “My Wild
Drum Major Alaman
No, he’s, not an Army man.
Irish Rose,” as it forms the word “Irish”; “Ave Maria” to the formation of a Notre Dame monogram; and the “Victory March.” “Ave Maria” is to be dedicated to Joe Sullivan, Notre Dame’s deceased football captain.
numbed mailman is not to be envied on a cold, misty morning when he trudges to the rear of the post-office for his allotment of messages. Sunday means rest for most of us, but the mail must go through. His vacation is necessarily limited; his cuts are as useless as an application in November for a box-seat at a Notre Dame-Army game.
“Will you mail this for me?”
The. fulfillment of this request is only one of the many toils wished on the letter-carrier. Some students, perhaps angry because they have been slighted, persistently pile outgoing mail on the already busy representative of Uncle Sam. One justified complainant was asked to post a letter addressed merely to a number on State Street. What city? He didn’t know either.
Yes, carrying the mail has its drawbacks. With these in mind you might substitute a smile for a curse when the check doesn’t come, or when Nellie writes on Wednesday instead, of Monday. You might even write a letter to the letterman, and then watch his reaction.
■	' The Scholastic
Ten
CALENDAR
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Friday, November 15
New jersey Club special train leaves for Army game in New York 12:00, noon, from Union Station, South Bend; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff 6:30, general staff 7:00, Editorial offices; Cleveland club meeting, 8:00 p.m., Carroll Rec.
Saturday, November 16
Football, Notre Dame versus Army, Yankee Stadium, New York, broadcast over WSBT 12:45; Notre Dame “B” team versus Illinois “B”, 2:00 p.m., Notre Dame stadium; Cross Country, Notre Dame versus Wisconsin at Madison.
Szinday, November 17
Student Masses 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m.; Meeting of the officers Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall clubrooms, 10:30 a.m.; Interhall football games 9:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m.
Monday, November 18
University Broadcast from campus radio station over WSBT, 3:15 p.m.; Lecture by Mr. T. A. Daly, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Senior football ticket distribution, 2:00 p.m., Varsity debating team try-outs, Basement of Law Building.
Tuesday, November 19
Junior football tickets distributed from Athletic Offices, 2:00 p.m.; Campus broadcast over WSBT, 7:30 p.m. Try-outs for Varsity debating team, * Law Building basement.
Wednesday, November 20
'	Meeting, Charles Phillips Cracow
!	Club, Law Bldg., 6:30 p.m.; Meeting
!	of Campus Radio Group, 6:30, radio
station, Engineering building; Meeting, German Club, 7:45 p.m., Carroll J.	hall	Rec.; Sophomore ticket distribu-
|i	tion	Athletic offices, 2:00 p.m.,	Var-
>	sity	Debate trials, basement of	Law
'	Bldg.
Thursday, November 21
Radio Broadcast by sports commen-, tator Jack Robinson from campus station over WSBT 3:15 p.m.; Lecture k by Mr. Christopher Hollis, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.; Spanish Club meeting; Freshman Tickets distributed from Athletic Offices, 2:00 p.m.
The brotherly love evinced by the members of our junioi- class is certainly very touching. This is especially true of those residents of Alumni Hall, Dan Finn, Ned Wilson, and Tom McCarthy. As there is a strong bond of friendship among these three, they have a habit of performing such odd, little favors for one another as airing each other’s bed clothes in Alumni court. After they had performed this act of love one day last week, a drenching, sopping rain did fall. Result: that night they slept on bare bed springs.
•
Oh, for the oral persuasiveness of such lawyers as Bob Albert. Last Saturday morning the Walsh Hall contingent decided that he hadn’t been supporting the team in a manner that quite suited themselves. So they roused him out of bed and bore him off to the lake. But Bob must have kissed the Blarney Stone at one time in his life, because he finally convinced the boys that it wasn’t quite ethical to duck a fellow so early in the morning. Well, he escaped all right, but the frustrated gang turned its wrath upon Marty Bayer and Howy Cusack; and, first thing they knew, these two worthies found themselves shoved into the drink.
We'll let you fellows in on a little secret. In true Sherlock Holmes fashion we’ve made a most stupendous discovery. There’s a blond working in the University kitchen. Of that we’re positive. We found one of her hairs in our soup.
DAVIS TO SPEAK
Professor A. E. Davis, of the Commerce Department, will speak to the * Benton Harbor Chapter of the National Association of Credit Men in | their monthly meeting at the Whit-i comb Hotel, in St. Joseph, Michigan, * next Tuesday, Nov. 19. Members of the Berrien County Bankers’ Association have been invited to this meeting L to hear Mr. Davis’ discussion of the impending problem of credit control and bank holdings of Government bonds.
November 15, 1935
The University is conducting among the members of the freshman class a little survey for the purpose of ascertaining just what the background of most students has been prior to their entrance of Notre Dame. All of the questions asked of the first year men summoned to the office are very simple and unembarrassing, and they require only simple answers. For instance, all the students are asked if they’ve ever helped contribute to their own support. But a fidgeting, uncertain freshman entered the Alumni office the other day, and, with a nervous and querulous voice, wanted to know if he wasn’t to be given a chance to study and prepare for the quiz.
• '
Is it any wonder that our campus clubs are not receiving the support
that they should? That is, if what we’ve heard is true. Very reliable sources have it that habitual readers of the mystery and western thrillers offered for sale on the pulp rack in the cafe have been recruited to a man as members of the Tom Mix, Dan Dunn, and Little Orphan Annie radio clubs.
•
The pei-formance of Blackstone, the magician, in Washington Hall was a revelation to us. Not only were we anazed at the facility and ease with which he performed his tricks, but also stunned, not to say dismayed, at the suaveness and the self-composure of the freshmen whom he summoned to stooge for him on the platform. And has anyone ever had the good fortune to see such a remarkable display of brain, brawn, and beauty, or rather the lack of it, on one stage? We were waiting with impatient expectancy for Blackstone to obligingly effect the complete disappearance of those Adonises, Joe Wagner and A. Beneditti, but we never seem to have any luck.
e
After the Ohio game our own William Shakespeare received, without delay, a letter- addressed only with a picture of a football player in the act of throwing a ball and the following words inscribed beneath: “Hurls pass in final minute, South Bend, Indiana.” And let it also be known, now and forever, that Bill did not fail in sophomore English. Shakespeare, who always receives good grades, earned a mark of eighty-three per cent in that course.
•
SCRAPS:
We liked the efforts of the band between halves of the Northwestern game. Why, the boys did every thing but spell Wojcihovski.
Those who did not see the Ohio State game not only missed the greatest gridiron contest in Notre Dame football history, biit also lost the chance to meet some really fine people. So grand was the spirit of those Ohio Staters that two of them accompanied us to the railroad station.
The spirit of our freshmen, though, is unsurpassed. They provided a very stirring sight when they rushed en masse to the chapel after the Fighting Irish, Inc. had beaten the Bucks.
Marty Peters and Harpo Marx shared the same berth on the train that left Columbus. We’ll bet they laughed each other to sleep.
Eleven
IN H I JI < < LER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
“SCRIP” kinds got in our way last week (as did Northwestern). Anyway, CONNIE BYRNE, Howard’s pride, having had his self snapped by one of those photo-men-on-the-street immediately sent in the coupon and was surprised about a week later to receive a picture of DEAN MCCARTHY . . . JOE MACKIN deposited a huge Ohio State banner with a pretty theatre usherette in Columbus. . . . GUS CRIS CI displayed some of that Philadelphia polluted philanthropy by charging a Buckeye city waitress a meal and a two bit piece for an N.D. banner.
GEORGE CECALA has finally
is not engaged or nothin’ . . . GEORGE IRELAND is the foster papa of an alligator, born in Florida, but named “MacFarlane” (incidentally it is giving Daddy George considerable discomfort and he is willing to have it adopted by anyone of good character and infinite patience). . . .
Francis Daley possesses the title “Longest Telephone Talker.” . . . Footballers PETERS and MORIAR-ITY are veteran ticktacktoe indulgers (making the classroom their field of battle) . . . That Joe Penner act which FRANCIS CROWLEY, exfreshman secretary, put on for the saddened Columbus townsfolk was a wow; he released his pedigreed duck, METHUSALEH by name, onto the greensward at the precise moment
Women Are Funny
Women are funny
They say men
Can’t understand them, And their actions
Can’t be predicted. Of course they can’t That’s why they’re funny. If women weren’t funny It would be terrible Because
Man’s greatest alibi is: Women are funny.
Four years of pulling the wool, and there’s your sheepskin.
One thing the graduate never takes home with him is his South Bend girl friend.
“Go West, young man, go west.” . . . Don’t be chicken and stop at Indiana.
For Washington Hall Moviegoers
If all those who applaud New York news reel and hissed Chicago news reels were inversely proportionate to those who boo New York news reel and cheer those of Chicago, and they all were barred from the Hall, it would be a happier campus.
College graduates don’t have to attend homecoming celebrations to see their old classmates. They hold reunions in front of employment agencies every few weeks.
The FUNNY FELLOWS, after a thorough investigation have found out that it is just as cheap to support a son-in-law as it is to keep a girl in college.
’ Remember the lecturer who addressed his audience as: “Gentlemen, and college students.”
opened his heart and announced his love for Mickey Mouse in preference to Garbo. . . . JACK KING of Corby has gone into hiding after a splurge of week-ending (we took Ohio State but Columbus took King.) . . . SONNY CHURCH is of the opinion that “Most Women’s Clubs Are Centered About Men.” . . .
JOE WEHRLE is making considerable money lending his fine Chesterfield to them that hasn’t . . . Rumors to the contrary, CHICK “BOSTON” GALLAGHER is not married,
that the score board showed 18-13. . .
VINCE HARTNETT fortifies his room with a vicious looking machete (a machete is a “heavy knife or cut-las used both as an implement and a weapon by. the natives of tropical America,” and also the natives of Notre Dame) . . . DON’T ALLOW THE WILDCAT GAME TO GET YOU DOWN FELLAS . . . JUST FIND HAPPINESS IN THE THOUGHT THAT THEY MAY BEAT US AGAIN IN 34 YEARS. ... —The Funny Fellows.
Ready?
“Have you got your notes written on your handkerchief?”
“Yes.”
“And have you the textbook concealed in your hat?”
“Yes.”	'
“And did you make arrangements to sit behind Fred where you could see his paper?”
“Yes.”
“All right—let’s go on to the ethics final.”
Twelve
The -Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus ■ FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C..........Faculty	Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN ..................... Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST ............. Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei________________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman__________________________In the Juggler Vein
William V. Ellis__________________________________A rl Editor
News Staff
Paul Foley_____________________________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan__________________________Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown_________________________’________________________Anthony O’Boyle Lindsay Phoebus___________________________Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan_________________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie___________________________Bertram Smith
Harold A. Williams_____________________________John Hurley
Robert F. Ervin
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker____________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron____________________________Co-Sports Editor
John Cackley___________________________James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett______________________________Michael Crowe
Allen Bride_______________________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
William R. Dooley. '26.
.Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
November 15, 1935
THE OLYMPIC GAMES
'1'HE New York Times, September 21, 1935, alleges that during a football game between Polish and German teams at Ratibor Silesia, a demonstration was started on the appearance of a Polish Jew, Edmund Baumgartner, 21 years old, with the Polish team. He was so savagely stoned, it is said, that the referee was compelled to suspend play. Thereupon the German crowd rushed onto the field and stoned and beat Mr. Baumgartner with sticks so severely that he died.
The New York Post, September 24, 1935, carried the following bit of news relative to the German Olympic situation: “Werner Schottman, Germany’s best meter man and almost a sure winner for the Germans, has been scratched. Marta Jakob, the women champion javelin thrower, is out of competition. Harry Stein, certain to place in. the flyweight boxing events, has been blackballed.”
They are Jews.	’
Here is a list of others who will not be permitted to wear the swastika in track or field.
Frau Friedleben, German women tennis champion, ruled off the courts. Jacob Levy, the Hamburg dash man, ruled ineligible. Benj'amin Stadtlaender, amateur welterweight champion, stripped of his title. Dr. Preen, twice on Germany’s Davis Cup team barred from competition.
Then Theodore LeWald, president of the German Olympic Association made this naive statement. From
the New York Herald-Tribune, September 26, 1935: “ . . . Believe me, we wish more than anybody in America that we had some Jewish Athletes of Olympic caliber. But we have none, and I believe no one in America would want us to put a second-rate athlete on our team j'ust because he is Jewish. That certainly isn’t the Olympic spirit.”
Life, liberty and pursuit of happiness against Hitler, Nazi and Germany.
Thirty leaders of national organizations and institutions with more than 20,000,00 adherents and such leaders as Alfred Smith, William Green, James Gerard, Gen. Hugh S. Johnson, George Shuster of the Commonweal against Brig. Gen. Charles H. Sherrill, member of the International Olympic committee, President Avery Brundage. of the Amateur Athletic Union, and the Swastika legions.	'
• There are no alternatives. No American athlete can participate in the games without compromising with the highest principles of sportsmanship—J. P. P.
. AFTERMATH OF THE STUDENT TRIP
y\.S far as newspapers were concerned, the Ohio State game was the shot heard ’round the world and the Northwestern contest was its echo. The former was front page news all over the United State, temporarily pushing political propaganda back among the comic strips where most of it should be anyway. The latter was hardly interesting reading as far as the campus was concerned.
The contest at Columbus had one very definite result. It showed that despite the old timers’ oft repeated assertions to the contrary, the modern Notre Dame man has as much, and very likely a great deal more spirit than did the “he-men” of the past. Andy Pitney and the squad of 1935 definitely settled that question.
In passing we pause to say a word on the student trip and the courtesy of the residents of Columbus. Before the game the players were quartered, through the kindness of'the authorities, at the Seminary of Saint Charles Borromeo, where eveiything possible was done to insure their comfort. Arrangements in the capital city were handled very creditably by Ray Eichenlaub and Jack Cannon, football immortals of the Rockne era, who represented the Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio. Local details were handled by the S. A. C., which, despite scurrilous and destructive criticism from many sources, has shown that it can work for the good of the student body if given the opportunity and the necessary cooperation.
—J. S. M.
REWARD FOR EFFORT
I T IS very commendable on the part of the University to send the Band to New York for the Army game. That this year’s organization was assembled in five days for the Kansas game has much significance. Members of the group must have recognized Professor Casasanta’s efficiency, for had he been lacking in that characteristic, certainly he would never have received the cooperation necessary for the splendid performances given this year.
The band has always been hailed as one of the foremost collegiate musical organizations. This trip is a reward for the fine work of the individual players, both during the present semester and the past few seasons. It is with the greatest of pleasure that we see the University sending this excellent group to represent Notre Dame and to encourage the team in New York.—L. B. P.
Th i rteen
November 15, 1935
ATHLETICS
ARMY GUNS ARE TRAINED ON TOTTERING IRISH
KAYDETS PRIMED FOR GOTHAM CLASSIC
AS INJURIES CRIPPLE NOTRE DAME
Pilney May Be Able To Play
HUBTZ

By Al Bride
New York’s gay White Way will glisten against a sparkling background of blue ■ and gold as Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish move into New York to meet the West Point cadets in the biggest traditional, intersectional game of the year.
Thousands will pour into America’s largest city to witness what is always a hard fought, colorful encounter between two ancient rivals. The Notre Dame vs. Army contest has always been the highlight of New York’s autumn sport parade, and this year over 80,000 are expected to jam their way into the “House that Ruth Built.”
Army will be all primed and ready to shoot the whole battery against the Irish in an effort to ■win the game which can turn the so-far dismal season into a successful one. The Army mule has been set back twice by Mississippi State, and Pittsburgh. A victory over Notre Dame will erase the past two defeats and give the entire Army a topic for converastion for the coming winter. The cadets have dropped the last two games and will be doubly dangerous in a game that always finds them at their best. Last week the future soldiers were trampled 29-6 by a strong Pittsburgh eleven that played on even terms with the Irish until the last few minutes. The week before Mississippi State upset the Army in a closely contested meeting. The cadets feel it is about time to return to winning ways, and a victory over the Mid-westerners would be just the tiling.
Notre Dame also goes into the game with a defeat the week before, but with a more impressive record. Last week the Irish were tripped up by Northwestern after winning from Kansas, Carnegie Tech, Wisconsin, Pittsburgh, Navy, and Ohio State. The hopes for a national championship have been blasted, but Layden’s boys are anxious to wind up the season with two more victories.
The representatives of West Point will put a strong aggregation on the field. The Army tradition for strong ends is being capably held up by Regner and Stromberg, with several competent reserves. The tackles that will probably line up against the Irish ends are Ericksen and Wolf. Two fast and aggressive guards will be encountered in Ohman and Necason, while the center will be held down by the steary snapper, Clifford. The cadets have several backfield combinations that can be deservedly feared. In all probability Underwood will start at quarterback, with Nazzaro and the hard hitting Irishman Ryan at the halves, and Kopcsak at full.
Notre Dame’s starting line-up will probably be about the same as it has been all season, but before the final sixty minutes are up the two teams are expected to see plenty of service. Ohio State’s bad news, Andy Pilney, is expected to again be on the sidelines as a result of the injury received against the Buckeyes. However Carideo and Pfefferle will be back in the line-up, and this will add to the worries of the boys from the U. S. Military Academy.
To some of the Notre Dame players the Army will be an added incentive to play a brand of ball that will keep Broadway talking for weeks. To all of the boys the Army game is a traditional meeting, but to some it is the last time New York will see them perform.
Shakespeare, Carideo and Millner are three boys whom the Kaydets do not forget. This will be the last time these three eastern youths will show before the home folks and the West Pointers are preparing accordingly.
Notre Dame’s supply of tickets for the game was gone two weeks ago, and the New York supply has been exhausted. A good day will bring out over 80,000 rabid fans who are assured before hand of sixty minutes of hard, bang-up football, of an afternoon of thrills added upon thrills, and the Army’s usual colorful display.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
ARMY EDITOR LOOKS FOR CLOSE GAME AS INJURIES HAMPER BOTH SQUADS
Irish Cripples Work Out Sparingly For Army
By John Caclcley
By Cadet John M. Bartella
(Special to The Notre Dame Scholastic)
WEST POINT, N. Y. Nov. 15.— With the Irish of Notre Dame blasted from their national champion aspirations by Northwestern, Army this Saturday faces them on the rebound, and every expectation indicates that it will be the cadets’ toughest game of the season. Handicapped by bruising injuries from successive struggles with Harvard, Yale, Mississippi State, and Pitt, the Army can neither expect to be represented by their first string lineup, nor show their entire strength for the game. But, Army-Notre Dame games are not of the ordinary run of college games. Either team, whether it has enjoyed a poor season or a good season, whether the breaks have been for it or against it, whether in good physical condition or in poor, is bound to put up a grand struggle.
Notre Dame is always a highlight, and most of the time, the highlight on all of Army’s grid.schedules each year. The trip to the Yankee Sta-(Continued on Page 16)
“The kick’s the thing” says Shakespeare to Army mule.
November 15, 1935
RESERVE FOOTBALL...
Tomorrow the “B” team edition of the 1935 Fighting Irish will take the field at Champaign, Illinois, against the “Illini.” This will be the last fray of the year for the Notre Dame squad and if victory is theirs they will have a season’s record of four wins to one loss. Along with the varsity the Cer-neyites were handed their first defeat of the season last Saturday and now “Vengeance!”.seems to be the Notre Dame battle-cry.
Purdue’s reserves were responsible for the skids put under the Blue and Gold “B” squad last week to the tune of 19-12 and the boys are eager to get back into the win column. It will be recalled that on November 2, Bill Cerney’s boys met Illinois here and defeated them 12-7 so it appears as if the teams are quite evenly matched. All season the Notre Dame “B” squad has been out there day by day working faithfully.
Undaunted by their upset defeat at the hands of Northwestern Wildcats last Saturday, the Irish resumed practice Tuesday afternoon with much enthusiasm contemplating tomorrow’s battle with Army.
“Chet” Grant “4000 miles to see Jones’ ”
Coach Layden excused the regulars from the usual Monday drill. As the squad left Thursday noon, they had but two days of w’ork on Cartier field. The Gold and Blue mentor stressed the fundamentals of blocking and tackling, and a method of halting the Cadets’ Monk Meyer, the triple threat ace.
Tom Conley gave his attention to polishing up the minor defects shown by the terminal men against the Purple, while Joe Boland sent his charges through rehearsals to get the jump on West Pointers heavy line.
The reserves using Army formations scrimmaged Wednesday against the first three teams. Pass defense was given considerable importance by Coach Layden and his staff as they laid down a system for breaking up the Academy’s aerial attack. It was through the ozone that Northwestern garnered their initial touchdown, and the coaches are guarding the possibility of repetition.
Although Army has had a none too successful season, losing to Mississippi State and Pitt, they nevertheless will have their full strength on deck to repel the Greens’ offensive thrusts. The game, as in the past, will be a sell-out before 80,000 spectators in Yankee Stadium.
Notre Dame will stage a light workout Friday at their headquarters in the Westchester Country Club, and proceed to the stadium Saturday, morning just before the opening whistle.
• Fifteen
INTRODUCING
ARMY EDITOR
(Continued from Page 15)
By Cy Stroker
To say anything new about Andy Pilney is impossible—the newspapers have left nothing untold about the hero of the Ohio State game. They call him “the hunch,” the “one-man scourge,” the “minute man” and praise him to the skies. But no amount of publicity could raise the
jiftccnoN With one step vZmek Most 0ACK5 Require TWo.
A TRIP LAST YEAR EXCLUSIVE. Of -Several leas retorks of ■Punts- And Kickoffs-.
high regard vith which he is held by Notre Dame men, it is already at its peak. Andy was a highlight on the Irish team long before the country discovered him at Columbus. If his playing in previous games was less spectacular than his drive against the Buckeyes, it was none the less steady and fruitful, as the Northwestern teams of 1933 and 1934 well know.
Andy’s early life may have put
ideas into his head about traveling around the gridiron. Born in Frontenac, Kansas twenty-three years ago, he moved to Dillonville, O., and finally landed in Chicago. There he attended Harrison Tech and began to show his athletic ability by becoming all-state halfback and captain of his
football team and by winning all-city honors in baseball. It was at Harrison Tech that he was elected president of the poetry society, but he defiantly claims that the position was purely honorary.
The showing that Pilney made on the Notre Dame freshman squad gave him a chance to open with the varsity next year in the Kansas game.
(Continued on Page 22)
dium is looked forward to weeks in advance by the team and corps alike because they know it means participating in and witnessing a game that brings out the best there is to see in
football, both in the technique and execution of the game, and in good sportsmanship and clean playing. There may be spectacular plays and thrills galore on the nation’s gridiron during the year but always in the Yankee Stadium around the middle of November there will be enough to make any fan stand up in his seat and cheer when the cadets clash with the Irish.
As to individual stars the Army team is decidedly lacking. In Captain Bill Shuler, however, they boast one of the finest ends in the East. A rugged 180 pounder, opponents have found his end a hard one to get around and do not hesitate to place him on the rolls of prospective AllAmericans. His injury two weeks ago may prove most unfortunate to Army. At center- is a man whose name hasn’t been mentioned very frequently in the sports writer’s columns —Jock Clifford. Jock is one of the rare centers who can be depended upon to shoot back a good true pass when his team is coasting with a large lead or fighting with its back to the goal posts. On the defense he plays in the backfield and does his share of the work in excellent fashion. In the backfield, Army’s new star — Monk Meyer — cavorts in true Vidal and Buckler fashion. At 159 pounds he is among the lightest of backs in the country, and one of the best.
But, individual stars do not make a football team, and that fact the Army realizes in its eleven-man unit. Cooperation, and ability to work together in perfect team work has made the Army team one to be reckoned with in spite of its two defeats, and when the Fighting Irish run into it they will know that the team bears the trademark of all West Point teams — courage and unsurpassed fight.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
N. U. SIDELIGHTS . . .
BASKETBALL HAS SHOWN TREMENDOUS GROWTH SINCE RECENT INTRODUCTION
By Don Elser
Although Pilney was dressed in uniform for his one play entrance into the ball game, there was never a time when he could be inserted. Too bad because the boy from Chicago was itching to get a crack at the Evanston lads.
—o—
It was evident that an Irish victory was detoured by the red flag of referee Gardner. Several times throughout the game, the flag halted what were, or were to be, certain scores for Notre Dame.
—o—
Nevertheless, no one can say that the Irish didn’t go down fighting. Their futile attempt to score in the closing minutes will be carried on to
New York, where they will carry the fight for sixty minutes against the Army, who has been saving its regulars for this game. This was evident, when they played a third string team most of the game against Pittsburgh.
—o—
Northwestern went home with a successful season. They pointed for the N. D. game all year. Every team the Irish play is primed for them. We must expect defeat once in a while. The boys learned more from that game than the six victories.
—o—
After Northwestern has scored their second touchdown the fans anxiously awaited for the repetition of the Ohio State rally to pull the Irish out of the hole. The same old fight and determination was there, but old Lady Luck seemed to cling to the Wildcats’ claws.
—o—
Local supporters were a dejected lot after the game. All thinking that the Irish were certain National Champions and headed to the Rose Bowl, before the game, only to have their hopes blotted out by an under-rated Northwestern eleven who had been coming along better every game.
—o—
John Michuta, who was declared out of competition because of a head injury, was in the game up to his neck on the bench, and when Kopc-zak was injured, he had his sweat shirt off, and was ready to go into the game to play his heart out, forgetting the impossibility that he couldn’t get in.	-
November 15, 1935
By Al Bride
Recent controveries over the 1936 Olympic games scheduled to be held in Germany have aroused public interest, although the world wide event
Edward “Moose” Krause Lead Quintet to Lithuania.
is still some months in the future. These games originated from the Greeks, who used to gathei* athletes from all parts of the country and have them compete on an occasion that was a gala holiday to the sport minded Grecians. From this beginning the Olympic games of today have revived embracing all popular sports of every country and race. In the Olympic games to be held next year there is to be introduced a truly typical American game, basketball.
Because of the diligent work on the part of the Basketball Coaches Association basketball, which from a small New England beginning has grown to one of the outstanding sports in the United States, will become a part of the universal sport program to be held next year in Berlin. Basketball was suggested as a part of the last Olympics, but was turned own in favor of football, which was more of an exhibition rather than a competitive event. After the first refusal the Coaches Association again took up the plea for basketball and after a year of consideration it was finally admitted.
Basketball was at first purely an American game. Its merits were soon recognized by other countries and now it is played in at least twenty-five countries throughout the world. While its development in the United States has been much more rapid and sicentific, still other natives of other countries have shown a natural adaptation to the game as has been evidenced by various teams that
have toured the United States. Teams from Mexico, China, and other countries in Central and South America have inaded the United States and have given some of our best quintets a run for their money.
On the other hand we have sent teams abroad with the idea of spreading knowledge of the hardwood game. Ed Krause, former Notre Dame captain and star center, took a team composed of Americans over to Lithuania to acquaint the natives with the fine points of the game. The American aggregation quite handily won the three exhibition contests staged, but give the Lithuanians a chance for revenge by engaging in swimming and track meets.
The wide popularity and the development of basketball in foreign countries is because of promotion by such organizations as the Y.M.C.A., Catholic groups, and Boys’ Clubs. For the most part basketball is strictly an amateur sport. It has not yet been adopted wholly by the schools and colleges, but is played by clubs, groups, and the different organizations.
The manner in which the American team will be selected and just who will represent the United States is still undecided. The Irish mentor, Coach Keogan, sees two possibilities. First a unit as a whole may be picked. This would necessitate district tournaments with the winners meeting at some chosen point and competing for the honor of representing the United States. Secondly an appointed board could select the stars of the various teams and collect them for practice and final weeding out. This question will probably be left open until the basketball season is over, and then a survey of the ’outstanding teams as well as the players
can be utilized to determine the method of selection.
Basketball games at the Olympics will afford a splendid opportunity to study the different types of play used in various parts of the world. Basketball is America’s own sport, it originated here, it has developed here, and we hope to prove our domination in our own sport.
Seventeen
"B" TEAM MIMICKED VARSITY LAST SATURDAY WITH SEASON'S FIRST LOSS AT LAFAYETTE
Howard and St. Edward's Lead Interhall Races
By Arch Gott
After winning their first three games this season the Notre Dame “B” team discovered that they too had a Waterloo in the shape of Purdue. Last Saturday Bill Cerney’s boys took a whipping 19-12 at the hands of the Lafayette reserve eleven. Throughout the game the Irish squad fought bitterly against a
William Cerney “He and Elmer caught in downpour.” much heavier team and both teams were hampered by the wet grounds.
Neither outfit scored in the first quarter but early in the second period Bud McShane tossed a long pass to Mangus for a 24-yard gain and a touchdown for Purdue. Later in the same quarter, McShane, Purdue’s outstanding back of the afternoon, threw another nine-yard pass to Zachary who went over for the second Purdue touchdown. Then in the third quarter Vaughan-Catt of the opposition sneaked through a hole at right end and galloped his way along for the third Purdue touchdown, an 80-yard jaunt.
It was not until the fourth quarter that the Notre Dame team began to function properly but in the last ten minutes of play the Dish nearly pulled a victory out of the bag. The first Notre Dame score came when Dan Gibbs blocked Zachary’s punt and scampered across the goal line 15 yards away. Just a few minutes later the revived Notre Dame team tore open a gaping hole in the right side of the Purdue line through which Saffa darted into an open field and twisted his way by clever running 50 yards for another score. At this stage of the game, behind only one touchdown, the Cerneyites tried all their tricks but were unable to push over another tally in the few remaining minutes left to play.
For Notre Dame, “Dizzy” Dean
Eighteen
played a whale of a game at halfback and he, along with Gibbs and Saffa, almost upset the Purdue applecart. The game further demonstrated that a Notre Dame is never beaten till the sound of the gun and Bill Cerney’s reserves deserve plenty of credit for their last minute brilliant rally.
On November 2 Notre Dame turned loose a wild “B” team on an unsuspecting Illinois reserve squad and after the afternoon was over it was discovered that the Blue and Gold had triumphed over the Blue and Orange to the tune of 12-7. For the first time in four years the “B” team played a home game and the boys evidently had resolved to, make their homecoming a real success. Unlike the Notre Dame varsity who won their game that day in Ohio State in the last quarter the “B” team went out in the opening period and won their game.
Saffa early in the initial frame found a nice hole and skirted through it for a long run resulting in the first Notre Dame touchdown. Good, sound blocking made possible this fine run and Saffa outsprinted his rivals when he reached open field. Then before Illinois could catch their breath again Dan Gibbs raced out for a long pass from Bill Saffa and straight - armed his way 60 yards for a touchdown. In the second quarter Illinois “B” boys must have been stung by the scoring bug because they put on a swell 80-yard drive which netted them their one and only score. Joe Carson was the fair-haired boy in this goalward jaunt.
At the start of the second half many of the student body crowded over to see the remainder of the tilt the Ohio broadcast, being over. This seemed to affect both teams to the extent that they put away their scoring weapons' and were not seen to score the rest of the afternoon.
The game saw the return to action of that steady guard Paul “Smitty” Smith who had been missing from the game for almost two weeks due to a leg injury sustained in a scrimmage against the varsity. Also in the line big Ed Crotty and Macaluso were big factors in the successful Irish defense against their Illinois oponpents.
NOTRE DAME MEN
After the Irish had been announced the winners over Ohio State the students who had been unable to make the student trip with the team were overjoyed at the rapid turn of events and the majority of them immediately went to the various hall chapels and offered thanks for the Notre Dame victory.
The various aspirants for the Interhall football crown battled in the mud last Sunday as the race thundered into the home stretch. The two leaders remained undefeated and strengthened their grip on first place. Both St. Edwards and Howard practically assured themselves of a place in the finals.
John Thomas Sheehan “Headed for Interhall honors.”
The seniors from Howard faced their classmates from Sorin in the top-billed game of the. day and Howard emerged from the contest the victor, 8-0. Sorin had the supreme confidence to face the Howardmen with only nine men in their starting line-up. Their confidence was quickly knocked out of them when Howard took the kick off and ran for a touchdown before the game was ten seconds old. However the Sorinites turned in a fine game after the disastrous kick-off and held Howard to an 8-0 score. In the last quarter, Sorin, in an effort to stage a rally inserted a tenth man into their battered lineup but the reinforcement was too late and the game was lost.
Freshman clashed with their archrivals, Dillon, and came out the winners by an 18-0 score. The Freshman-Dillon games are getting to be a tradition in the Interhall Football league and a large group was present to see the enemies battle for the first time this year.
The inevitable tie games were present as usual in last Sunday’s games Lyons played Walsh to a 0-0 tie and Carroll held Off-Campus by the same score. Walsh experienced its third tie and Lyons its second of the season.
As a result of the student trip there was but one game played Sunday, Nov. 3. St. Edwards, Group II leaders, were able to meet Brownson in the afternoon and defeat them 7-0.
With only one more Sunday of scheduled play remaining it appears that Howard and St. Edwards will meet in the finals a week from this Sunday. Howard is not scheduled to play this Sunday and St. Eds will be favored over Freshman. However if Freshman, in second place with only one defeat against it, can vanquish St. Eds a tie will result between the two teams and in all probability there will be a play-off before the finals can be completed.
The Scholastic
ENTERS
FROM THE
^RRESS BOX
By Joe Prendergast
ARMY—PILNEY?
Much, will depend tomorrow on Andy Pilney. This fine looking lad from Harrison Tech of Chicago is one of the shiftiest ball carriers that ever* graced a Notre Dame squad, hut his injury in the Ohio State game although mending rapidly is still very troublesome. Eighty-odd thousand fans will be grouped in that football arena on upper Manhattan tomorrow afternoon to see just what the Irish have that spelled victory over Ohio State. Army, defeated twice in their last two engagements, will be booming away with all their shrapnel to down Elmer Layden’s brigade and eastern opinion on the worth of this year’s Notre Dame eleven will be formed on the outcome of the Cadet embroglio. This has been the case in the past years and the contest tomorrow is no exception.
All praise to Northwestern for their well-timed victory over Notre Dame. Lynn Waldorf has a scrappy, hard-charging band of Wildcats under his guidance this season and they deserved the victory. The only unfortunate thing about the loss from the Irish viewpoint was that during all the 34 years the two schools met-on the gridiron the winners would pick an undefeated record to marr.
' •
LAYDEN’S PEP TALK?
Pep talks between the halves of football games are as hard to get truthfully as are international secret treaties. What Elmer Layden said to his boys between the halves of the recent Columbus joust is now as famous as what Pershing said at the tomb of Lafayette, i. e., no one seems to know what or how. One version of what Coach Layden is supposed to have said is given by Al Clark of the Harrisburgh “Morning Telegraph.” We do not vouch its authenticity but it makes fine reading.
Columnist Al Clark of the Harrisburg “Morning Telegraph” has this to say: “Elmer Layden is smart . . . Between halves of the Ohio State thriller he told the tired Notre Dame team just this . . . ‘What have they got you haven’t? Remember Knute Rockne is watching you . . . He’s watching you every minute and he’s rooting for you . . . Remember your Notre Dame . . . Remember your Rockne’ ... It was a swell pep talk
(Continued on Page 21)
November 15, 1935
WILDCATS TRIM NOTRE DAME FOR FIRST
TIME IN THIRTY-FOUR LONG YEARS, 14 TO 7
CROSS COUNTRY
Coach John Nicholson’s cross-country team was handed its second defeat of the season last Saturday at Illinois. The score was 41 to 18. The rainy weather* didn’t seem to handicap the Illinois runners as they traveled the long course. Coach Nicholson said that lack of ability and not bad weather contributed to the downfall of his team.
Francis was the first Irish representative to finish. He came in fourth, finishing after three Illinois harriers. When interviewed regarding the Illinois meet, Coach Nicholson said, “Illinois had a good team. However, they weren’t as strong as Michigan State or Indiana.” A few minutes later, Nick made the following statement, “We aren’t any good.” We are inclined to believe though that Nick is expecting his team to show rapid improvement before the season closes.
In the afternoon, Coach Nicholson and the members of the team watched Illinois defeat Michigan on the gridiron 3-0. This means that they had a much more enjoyable afternoon than morning.
This Saturday while Coach Layden’s football team battles the Army and Bill Cerney’s “B” squad tackles the Illinois “B,” the cross-country team will entertain Wisconsin here. The cross-country squad realizes that Wisconsin will provide more competition than this year’s Wisconsin football team did against Notre Dame. However, the Irish runners are determined to defeat the Badgers.
In reply to our question concerning the strength of Wisconsin, Coach Nicholson replied, “Illinois whipped Wisconsin nearly as bad as they trounced us.” With a more cheerful note, he added, “That makes this Saturday’s meet a toss-up.” From this last statement, we predict an Irish triumph Saturday morning.
Those students who can are urged to come out and watch the finish Saturday. Be there to give our crosscountry men a big hand when they complete the course.
FENCING
Fencing practice will be resumed Monday afternoon in the apparatus room of the gymnasium, Prof. Pedro de Landero announced today. The floor has recently been painted and refinished.
By Cy Stroker
The thing that couldn’t happen did happen last Saturday when Northwestern cut short Notre Dame’s scoring spree 14-7. Undefeated season, national championship, the Rose Bowl? They were happy dreams before that Purple stone wall came on
Richard “Pepper” Martin “It’s the Irish in- me"
the scene. Now those things are only dreams. But because the Irish cannot be expected to do the impossible, and because beating Northwestern was impossible under the circumstances, the defeat last Saturday was not as heart-breaking as it would seem on the surface.
When the big purple team marched out onto the field, soaked with rain, things looked bad for Notre Dame. But when Layden and Elser marched right through the Wildcat defense in the opening plays of the game it seemed as though nothing could stop the lirsh drive. Elser made a beautiful run around right end for a touchdown but the play was called back on a holding- penalty. Then Northwestern began to tighten up. Gaining possession of the ball on a fumble, the Evanston team started an exchange of punts. But Notre Dame was not yet • defeated. Layden and Elser again took turns in bringing the ball down to the enemy goal line where Wally Fromhart took it over for the first score. The try for point after touchdown was good.
Then it was, that Northwestern, led by Swisher, Heap, and Duvall, started on the drive that evened up the score and left the Irish gasping for breath. “Iron man” Duvall, pounding the Notre Dame line,' finished the job that Pittsburgh and (Continued on Page 21)
■	Nineteen
BUCKEYES WITHER UNDER IRISHERS' LATE
PASSING ATTACK TO LOSE THRILLER
Show-window
By Gene Vaslett
’ Eighty-one thousand people sat in the huge Ohio Stadium at Columbus two weeks ago and watched an inspired, fighting Notre Dame football team overcome seemingly impossible odds and defeat the highly touted
Frank Kopczak “Bearskin’s my uncle.”
Ohio State juggernaut, 18-13. Few people who saw the game will ever forget the unbelievable last quarter finish when Andy Pilney ran wild and paved the way for all three of the touchdowns that spelled victory for the Irish team that had been hopelessly outclassed in the first half.
Some sort of magic must have entered the Notre Dame locker room between the halves and something surely went out of the Ohio -State dressing room at the same time because when the two teams met in the second half Notre Dame had found itself and Ohio State was floundering. It seemed only a matter of time before the Irish would triumph. No one will ever know what happened to Ohio State while their band was waving green handkerchiefs at the Irish stands between the halves but one can contemplate what took place in the Irish locker room at the same time. The Spirit of Notre Dame was born anew and the team took the field with new hope and fight born in them.
As a result of this game there will be one name that will go down in Irish history as one of the greatest football players that ever wore a Notre Dame uniform on a gridiron. That name is Andy Pilney. It was Pilney who returned an Ohio State punt 27 yards~to the Buckeye 12 yard line as the third quarter ended and a few plays later, in the fourth quarter, tossed a pass to Frank Gaul on the one yard line. Then Steve Miller plunged over for .the first Irish touchdown. Then it was Pilney again who
looped a pass to Mike Layden from the Ohio State 15 yard line for the second touchdown. But when From-hard missed the extra point and the score stood 13-12 with but one minute to play Irish supporters thought the game was gone. But hope revived when Hank Pojman fell on an Ohio State fumble on the Irish 49 after the kickoff. Andy Pilney was called upon again to pass but this time with all his receivers covered Andy decided to run. He sprinted, slipped and scrambled to the Ohio State 19 yard line where he was tackled so viciously that he had to retire from the game. But Andy had set the stage for the last Irish touchdown. Bill Shakespeare replaced him and two plays later dropped back to the 30 yard line and looped a pass to Wayne Millner in the end zone who caught it for the winning touchdown over the heads of two Ohio State defensive backs. Jubilant teammates swarmed over Wayne as he lay in the end zone with the ball in his arms.
Although Notre Dame dominated the second half the Ohio State team was plainly the superior in the first two periods. The lateral offensive employed by the Bucks completely confused the Irish and it looked as though it would be an Ohio State rout. The first quarter was not five minutes old when Antenucci intercepted a pass from Layden and immediately lateralled it to Boucher who
raced 70 yards the west side line for the first touchdown of the game. The place kick was good and the Scarlet Scourge led 7-0. Later in the same quarter Pincura intercepted an Irish pass on the 50 yard line and started a drive for the second touchdown. Six plays later the Bucks had the ball on the Irish 15 yard line and the quarter ended. With the resumption of play the Bucks sustained their drive and Jumping Joe Williams slid across, the goal line for the second touchdown from the four yard line. The kick was bad and Ohio State led the Irish 13-0. The remainder of the quarter saw no scoring and the half ended with the Irish trailing 13-0 and seemingly headed for certain defeat.
The miracle of the locker rooms happened and the third quarter found a rejuvenated Irish team on the field and although neither team scored dur-( Continued on Page 23)
style tSTl 1. enough/
A window-dummy isn’t hard on shoes. He doesn’t walk. He doesn’t dance. But you need mileage along with styleage. So—if your last pair of shoes couldn’t take it, get mad and get leather. Get Douglas.
You can see the smart style of Douglas shoes in the window of our South Bend store — but how that style stands up when you give it the works! The prices look good to a lean allowance, too. Come in and see the new wing-tips, the rich Autumn browns, the new high-style note or reverse calf in brown or gray.
sj.5©
DouglasMen’sShoes $3.50,54.50,55.50
Lady Douglas Shoes - - $3.50,54.85
W. L. DOUGLAS STORE in South Bend
• 210 South Michigan Street (Open Saturday evenings) ■ VICTOR C. ASTONE, N. D. Representative
Twenty
■ The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
’ (Continued from Page 19
WILDCATS TRIM NOTRE DAME
■ (Continued from Page 19
Ohio State had begun, — breaking down the Irish defense. At the beginning of the second quarter, Northwestern brought the ball down to the Irish 13-yard line. On the fourth down a pass from Cruice to Longfellow was good for the first Wildcat score. Duvall made good the point after touchdown.
In the middle of the last quarter Northwestern gained possession of the ball on the Notre Dame 30-yard line from a fumble. Again Duvall, Swisher, and Heap plunged through the line for substantial gains, until Heap took the ball over for a second Purple score. Duvall kicked the extra point.
The second score seemed to spur the Irish on. Mustering all of their energy, the men made a final attempt to even the score. In three plays the Irish advanced the ball from their own 21-yard line to the Wildcat six. But there Duvall intercepted a pass and regained the ball for Northwestern, shattering hopes for an Irish score.
Notre Dame (7)	Northwestern (14)
Millner ____________LE____________ Kovatch
Stilley ...........  LT-------------- Wray
Lauter _____________LG____________ Tangora
Pojman --------------C_____________ Wagner
Martin _____________RG--------------- Reid
Kopczak ____________.RT----------- Burnett
Peters _____________RE_________ Longfellow
Fromhart ___________QB--------------- Toth
Shakespeare ________ LH----------- Swisher
Layden _____________RH_____________ Cruice
Elser ______________FB______________Duvall
Referee, Gardner, Umpire, Hedges.
and was uttered at a whisper ... It worked.”
TIMELY POETRY
A poem some readers sent in merits printing. The bit of poetry is unsigned and was received shortly after Notre Dame defeated Ohio State. It is all the more timely at this moment because of the Wildcat victory last Saturday.
JOE SULLIVAN SPEAKS
“This one was dedicated to my name!
Take anyone but this!” O Mother fair!
“How should I tell the boys at Notre Dame
You did not listen to their pleading prayer'.”"
“Some other time, perhaps, when they forget To trust in you let heaven’s clouds hang gray. And fill their hearts with sorrow and regret—
Some other time. Sweet Queen, but not today.”
©
is made of the renewal of arrangements which have obtained for the past two years through the .
L. G. BALFOUR CO.
Attleboro, Mass.
for the display and sale of Official Notre Dame Rings and Badges, and a high class line of college jewelry and insignia.
This year the assortment introduces several exceptional novelties which, because of their fine quality and attractive prices, should appeal to every student.
The complete 1935-1936 line will be presented for your inspection by the following competent and worthy Notre Dame men. Your full support is solicited.
JOSEPH MANSFIELD
205 Howard Hail
THOMAS P. MULLIGAN 251 Morrisey Hall
J. R. CALLAHAN 123 Lyons Hall
PAUL H. ANDERSON 331 Badin Hall
CHARLES M. CALLAHAN 326 Morrissey Hall
LEONARD J. FEENEY 103 Freshman Hall
JOHN D. HEYWOOD 106 Sorin Hall
SLIVERS FROM PRESS COOP
The press box during the course of last Saturday’s fall of the Irish resembled a police morgue at Fourth of July parade time. The only time it perked up whatsoever was during that long run of Shakespeare’s in the last quarter. There were, I would say offhand, three Northwestern supporters in the press quarters. One was the man who manned the telegraph instrument for Harvey Woodruff of the Chicago “Tribune” and the other' two were writers for the Northwestern University “Daily.” The sport commentators, obviously, seem to be just as strong Notre Dame rooters as are the students. This may be caused by the fact that Notre Dame elevens are always trying, win or lose. They provide plenty of material for the scribes as witnessed in the famous Columbus discovery of the modern way to get to a distant point, the forward pass.
SCORECASTS
Prognosticating is an adventure. For tomorrow we sail away again (our feet are on the ground nevertheless) and the itinerary for this journey with its twenty-five stopping places follow:
NOTRE DAME 20; ARMY 7.
Dartmouth 31; Cornell 13.
Manhattan -4; Georgetown 6.	.
New York University 19; Rutgers 0.
Pennsylvania 13; Penn State 0.
Pittsburgh 21; Nebraska 0.	.
Princeton 26: Lehigh 0.
Colgate 14 ; Syracuse 13.
Temple 10; Marquette 0.
Navy 13; Columbia 0.
Indiana 13: Chicago 7.
Minnesota 7: Michigan 0.
Northwestern 13; Wisconsin '6.
Ohio State 21 : Illinois 7.
Iowa 19; Purdue 7.
Alabama 7: Georgia Tech 0.
Duke 13; North Carolina 6.
Tulane 14 : Kentucky 0.
Rice 21; Texas A. and M. 0.
Florida 7; Sewanee 0.
Louisiana 20 ; Georgia 6.
Texas 13: Texas Christian 7.
Southern California 14 ; Washington 0.
Stanford 21; Montana 0.
Oregon State 10 ; Idaho 7.
November 15, 1935
Twenty-one
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 15)
You haven’t stood still since 1925
. . . neither have we
YOU have made great progress in the past 10 years.
Let’s see some of the things the Bell System has heen doing in that time.
Since 1925, we’ve cut the average time for completing Long Distance connections from 7% to 1% minutes. We’ve made the service more immune to weather— 94% of
our wires are now in cable. We’ve increased the telephone’s scope about 80%—you can now reach nearly 31,000,000 telephones, in every quarter of the globe.
The next 10 year period may bring equally important advances. That is one of the ever-present thrills in telephone work!
BEU. TELEPHONE
Twenty-two
SYSTEM
phone. Bargain
Throughout that season he played alternately with Nick Lukats at the left half position and earned a steady berth on the Irish squad. It was in that year, too, that he showed that Northwestern was his favorite opposing team. Running 13 yards through a big, tough, Wildcat eleven. Andy scored the otuchdown that won the game for Notre Dame—the second of its three victories in 1933.
Last year he gained more than his share to help put the Irish back in the football limelight. And his old enemies, the Wildcats were again the object of his attack when he scored on the big surprise play of the Notre Dame season. Without checking signals, quarterback Bud Bonar came back to argue with Steve Miller and the Northwestern team relaxed. In the meantime, the ball was snapped to Pilney who pranced through a bewildered Purple defense for a touchdown.
At the beginning of the season this year, things looked bad for Andy. He often fumbled the pass from center and thus couldn’t get started. On running plays he frequently overran his interference and was stopped at the line of scrimmage. It took the Navy game to put him back on his feet again. His two passes to Gaul and Layden were the scoring plays of the day. His runs were inspiring. He punted coolly and accurately. In the Ohio States game his last quarter stand is so well known that it needs no repetition here.
Greatest of Pilney’s qualities is accuracy. His punts are usually shorter than those of Shakespeare but they all head directly for the coffin comer. His bullet-like passes shoot straight for the designated position, and his runs, now that he has changed his pacing, are consistently through the hole called for by the play. After the football season is over, and all football talk is exhausted, Andy reports to Jake Kline for his regular position in the outfield of Notre Dame’s baseball team. In this sport, too, his accuracy helps him along, for he tied with Frank Gaul for high batting average last year with .450.
We cannot account for this accuracy that Andy shows in his sports. We were going to say that he smokes a certain brand of cigarettes but they would pay for the space and besides Andy doesn’t smoke. Aside from his activitiies on the gridiron and diamond, Andy works assidiously (Maz-ziotti’s word) in Physical Ed. He rooms on the top floor of St. Ed’s with Wally Fromhart and Chris Matthews. Takes time out for an occasional game of handball. Some day he will be a football coach and in this he will be highly successful if he can teach his players how he beat the “Scarlet Scourge.”
The Scholastic
OHIO STATE GAME (Continued from Page 20)
ing this period it was evident that the Irish were gaining power with every play. Midway in this period Miller raced 30 yards from the Ohio State 40 yard line and Notre Dame was in scoring position for the first time. But the Bucks were successful in holding the Irish on downs and prevented a score.
Notre Dame couldn’t be denied in
the fourth quarter and Pilney’s great playing behind the second team line won for the Irish the game that will go down in football history as the greatest contest evei- played.
A factor that was of prime importance to the victory of the Irish was the excellent treatment received by the squad from the seminarians of the Seminary of St. Charles Borromeo. Columbus was football mad on the eve of the game and the seminary was a sanctuary to the Notre Dame
players who wished to be removed from the contagious football fever that swept the Ohio town the night before the Ohio game. The team stayed at the seminary prior to the game and returned to it immediately following.
It mattered not that Marty Peters’ attempted conversion was wide, the game had but a few seconds to go and the greatest Irish victory was assured.
November 15, ) 9 3 5
Twenty-three
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
-LEMMONIER LI3RARY-
N3TKE DAME, LOCAL
Well, to start with, we take tobacco from our own Southland—mild ripe tobacco with lots of natural flavor but no harshness or bitterness.
© 1935, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
In a single day people from ten different states visited our Chesterfield factories.
8,200 visitors during the past year saw Chesterfields made.
THEN AS A SECOND STEP—
We blend this home-grown tobacco with spicy, aromatic Turkish tobaccos from across the seas-TheseTurkish tobaccos, you may know, have a flavor and fragrance entirely different from our own.
AS A THIRD STEP—
These tobaccos are cross-blended —welded together—the best way we’ve found to get a more pleasing flavor and a better taste in a cigarette.
THA I ’S WHY CHESTERFIELDS
ARE MILD AND YET
THEY SATISFY