mrrnifrmMi
Notre Dame, Indiana
April 13,1945
Volume 84, No. 5
WgS
t'
I-
J. e.
I r S'
V-12 To Continue Through Summer Semester
San Carlo Opera Wednesday
K
Bengal” Tickets On Sale Next Week
$
r
£
&



Pictured here are the members of the newly created Executive Council of the Student Council. Standing around Student Council President Frank Linehan are Joe Brady, junior member; John Power, vice-president; President Linehan, Bob Mulcahy, sophomore member; John Allen, secretary and treasurer; Robert Brown, senior member.
—Photo by Guido
Home of Famous Names in Quality Clothing
"“J'' °A« you *
AL^AysA you
GUEST
A customer
OUTSTANDING IN COLLEGIATE POPULARITY FOR SPRING!
Society Brand Suits - - $50
Others $55 and $75
Sport Coats by Eagle - $25
Others $15 to $40
Style Art Doeskin Suits $50
Others $55 to $75
These names are outstanding in Gilbert’s full line of nationally famous clothing—famous for quality that means years of wearing pleasure. Clothes that bespeak fine and distinctive taste, look better, last longer, and give you added confidence in your appearance.
It’s Taxi Free in South Bend — to Gilbert’s
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
On Saturdays see the N. D. Representative
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
VOL. 84
APRIL 13. 1945
NO. 5
"Rigoletto" To Be Presented Wednesday
BY JOHN DEFANT
Mrs. K. Burton Presents
Collection to Library
A recent presentation of note to the University archives was made by Mrs. Katherine Burton in her gift of a collection of letters and photographs sent by Brother Joseph Dutton to the late Walter George Smith of Philadelphia, Laetare Medalist and noted Catholic layman.
The correspondence was carried on while Brother Dutton was a companion of “The Leper Priest,” Father Damien, at Molokai in the Hawaiian Islands and extends from 1886 to 1928. Mrs. Burton presented the letters in the name of Miss Helen Grace Smith, sistei' of Walter George.
The archives at Notre Dame have one of the finest collections of Brother Dutton letters because Brother Dutton was sent in 1886 to the leper-infested Molokai through the instrumentality of Father Daniel Hudson, C.S.C., then editor of The Ave Maria. Letter writing between Father Hudson and Brother Dutton was very extensive.
Part of the famed Father Damien’s script is catalogued in the archives in the University library.
STUDENT ADMISSION TO OPERA
Civilian students will be admitted on presentation of their Dinin? Hall Book at the door. Uniform will admit students of the Naval Training Program.
Civilian students not possessing a Dining Hall Book please see Mr. John Donnelly at the Athletic Offices in Breen-Phillips Hall before April 18.
Students are to be in their places in their reserved section before 8 o'clock. The opera will start at 8:00 sharp!
Only students who are properly dressed will be admitted.
These regulations will be strictly observed.
“Rigoletto,” Verdi’s opera of the tragic hunchback jester and his gay and unprincipled master, will be presented by the San Carlo Opera Company in the Navy Drill Hall at eight o’clock, Wednesday, April 18.
New York-born Grace Panvini, pretty coloratura soprano of the San Carlo, will sing the role of Gilda, Rigoletto’s daughter. Aside from grand opera engagements, she has been featured in the stage shows of the Radio City Music Hall, and was a star of “Evening with Romberg,” directed by the operetta composer Romberg. Miss Panvini’s brilliant high notes easily reach the four Fs above high C.
The tragic role of Rigoletto, who unwittingly causes the death of his daughter, is sung by Mostyn Thomas. Born in the poverty of a Welsh mining village, Mr. Thomas went to work in the coal
The Cast of the San Carlo Opera in a Scene From "Rigoletto"
mines as a boy to earn enough money to start his musical education. He had sung widely in European opera houses before he came to this country, but never had been heard in grand opera outside New York City until he was engaged by Fortune Gallo, director of the San Carlo.
Mario Palermo, also New York-born, plays the gay and unprincipled Duke of Mantua. His tenor voice was heard in the opera houses of Italy for two-and-a-half years before he returned to New York during Germany’s invasion of Poland. Mr. Gallo presented him with his San Carlo company about a year after nis return.
Nicholas Rescigno, the conductor of the San Carlo’s orchestra, although only 27 years old, has been acclaimed by some of the nation’s leading critics. A noted
(Continued on Page 20)

^he &fotre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
... By E. F. Gillespie
itHiiitnnitiiiniimiiiimiHniitiftiiititiiiiiiiniuiititiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiittinntiiiitmiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN, Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	- Navy Associate Editor
GEORGE DESPOT -	.	_ Managing Editor
JAMES REGAN -	Sports Editor
JAMES F. McCarthy -	-	- Feature Editor
AL KUENZLI -	Advertising Manager
RALPH HAYMAN -	- Circulation Manager
BOB O'TOOLE -	Promotion
COLUMNISTS
POWER-WALTERS -	- The Green Banner
E. F. GILLESPIE -	The College Parade
ART WAGNER ...	- Swabbie's Log
FRANK GUIDO -	Photography
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Adviser
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JACK FREESE GERARD HEKKER JOHN DEFANT
JOHN FEENEY J. J. TENGE DAN DANISZEWICZ TOM RYAN
JOHN MILES OCTAVE EMOND ROBERT J. SHAW
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
V-E DAY
The alumni association of Ohio State University is planning a special edition of their magazine when the war in Europe ends. Milton Caniff, author of “Terry and the Pirates” and an Ohio State alumnus, will draw the cover for this issue. The publication will feature sketches and pictures of all of the more than 400 Buckeyes who have died in this war. On the campus the observance of the day will be a thanksgiving service and a rededication of effort to end the war in the Pacific.
RECENT HEADLINES
Purdue Hall Collapses Amid Universal Grief.
Lafayette Scoops State With New Horsecars.
Educated Hens Lay Colored Easter Eggs.
No, the Boilermakers haven’t gone crazy; it was just the April fool’s day issue of the Exponent..
THE "IT SHOULDN'T HAPPEN TO A DOG DEPT."
This little ode is dedicated to all the girls whom a fellow always fixes up his best friend with.
If that face in the glass Really looks like me, God grant that I may Have personality.
—The Plainsman
HERE AND THERE
Discharged veterans comprise 21 percent of the current male enrollment at Indiana University. The veterans average scholastically seven per cent higher than their non-sertice classmates.
For the first time in its history the University Choral Art society of Boston University will broadcast coast-to-coast over CBS under the sponsorship of the Columbia Church of the Air. The broadcasts commence April 15 and continue every Sunday for six weeks.
Bellowing barkers, whirling wheels, hula girls, fortune tellers, dancing, and a water show will all highlight the annual Penny Carnival Arcade to be held at Purdue tomorrow night.
OVERHEARD IN THE CAF
I’m done with all dames, They cheat and they lie. They prey on us males Till the day that we die. They tease us, torment us, And drive us to sin— Say! Did you see That Blonde That just came in?
HERE AND THERE
University of Kansas students are hoping for the return of a Dandelion Day such as that held in 1941 when 3,400 students together with faculty members swarmed over the campus and dug 15 tons of dandelion weeds. After- the eradication of the “yellow menace” in 1941 an impromptu carnival (Continued on page twenty)
"Scholastic" Editor Offers Solution To Problem of Security Without Militarism
By ROBERT RIORDAN
In last week’s Scholastic this problem of compulsory training in peacetime was discussed from the point of view of man-power’s part in the four major factors of modern warfare, manpower, production, technology, and food. It was pointed out that a trained manpower did not alone make a prepared nation.
Let us now look at this problem of compulsory training from another point of view. Historically, the continent of
Europe has long been the scene of compulsory military training for youth. As a result, the European powers have always been capable of waging war on short notice. The result? They often started hostilities on the slightest provocation, mostly because they were ready to do so.
Why did it take the United States so long to enter both this and the last war? We weren’t ready! We were almost forced into the first, and were attacked during the second. If all the nations of the world had been in similar condition we would have no war. It is the job of the leaders of our and other nations to make peace more desirable than war to all nations of the world. Steps have been taken in this direction.
A trained youth is not the answer to the problem of security. Look what happened to France, the nation which in 1938 had the best trained army in the world. The record shows that France was overrun in a matter of days. Hei’ well-trained army was not equipped properly and there was no chance for production to provide adequate material. Also the technology of existing equipment was antiquated when compared to the fast German tanks and their screaming dive-bombers. Here we see the effect of a trained reserve— France had only one of the three or four factors she needed. The real solution to the problem would have been in preventing German rearmament and youth
training instead of trying to build up a force to combat the German Wehrmacht.
What would a year of compulsory military training give the American people? If we want to maintain peace by preparing for war we must also mobilize our industry to provide equipment for men in training, and already trained— but on reserve. We would have to devote part of our technologists to the field of military development. Then what have we accomplished—we have made ours a militaristic nation. The eventual and inevitable result—war.
Why have compulsory military training? To make our youth stronger in body? Is it that the athletic and physical development departments of our educational institutions are unable to provide such a program? What of the competitive sports which every military leader hails as a great factor in developing leaders? Is it that the American way of life is no longer the best way, but that a rotten, corrupt, European type of militaristic nation is better?
What of the souls and minds of these youth who are to receive the training? No one with any knowledge of the true
facts can deny that regimentation and rigorous discipline such as would be imposed on the drafted youth tends to increase immorality among them. These youth would be taken into the army at a time in life when their minds are most easily influenced. If they follow the inevitable path, we would have a nation of militaristically-minded men of low moral fibre. Where is there a place to
teach these men religion, honesty, justice, faith, hope, charity — the very things for which we fight today? Not in the army, for in the army men are taught militarism; they are taught to follow the “pragmatic ideologies” of the army.
What is the alternative? Without becoming either completely pacifist, nor losing faith in the probability of success of the peace settlement, we might still maintain a reasonable national guard or standing army. Not the gigantic organization we have today, but one of minimum size needed to protect and defend the United States.
Our youth could be drilled in the general way of military life in our educational system, and at the same time be put through a broad program of physical education. In this way they would continue to live the American way and if the need arises, God forbid, then they could go through training and into battle with the traditional spirit, guided by justice and charity, and defend their ideals with that individual initiative and leadership which have always marked the American in every field of endeavor.
Lieut. Lamson Detached
From N. D. V-12 Staff
Word has been received by the commanding officer as to the detachment of Lieut, (jg) Bradford Lamson from the staff of the V-12 unit at Notre Dame. The detachment of Lieutenant Lamson is in line with the reduction of the officer personnel concurrent with the great reduction in the size of the V-12 unit.
Mr. Lamson came to the Notre Dame unit eleven months ago and since then has served as assistant course officer for the program, assisting Lieut. Beatty and Lieut. Bowman. His duties also included, at different times, War Bond and Insur-
• ance Officer, barracks officer for Alumni hall, drill officer, and disciplinary officer.
Lt. (jg) Lamson entered the Navy in August, 1942 and for a time served at Norfolk and Navy Pier as a chief specialist. He has a B.S. degree from Mercer University and a M.S. from Boston University. In civilian life, he was dean of boys at Cushing Academy in Massachusetts. His immediate destination on reassignment is, as yet, uncertain.
Simultaneous with the announcement of the detachment of Lieut, (jg) Lamson, came notice of the promotion in rank of another officer of the V-12 unit. Lieut, (jg) Byron E. Hummon was advanced to his present rank from his former rank as ensign, as of April 9. Lieut, (jg) Hummon is the drill officer for the unit as well as Barracks Officer for Dillon hall.
5
Fr. O'Donnell Talks
at Aquin Guild Forum
Postwar education was discussed by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame on Sunday afternoon in Chicago before the Aquin Guild Forum, consisting of Catholic teachers in the Chicago schools who are members of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. The meeting was held in the LaSalle Hotel’s Illinois Room.
Father O’Donnell scored the “pedagogical joy-ride” of pre-war education, with its “corners on two wheels” as it -“ignored all danger signals along the road.”
He also warned the teachers of many present plans for the postwar era which he said can be described in four words, “They just won’t work.” He likened some of the sponsors of these plans to the man “who didn’t know the gun was loaded.”
The Christian heritage of American education was the major theme of Father O’Donnell’s address as he traced the roots of early American schools back to the religious beliefs of the founding fathers. “Much of the destruction,” Father O’Donnell said, “has been carried on in the name of progress.”
“The entire structure of American education,” Father O’Donnell concluded, “needs to be rebuilt, not on a new foundation, but upon the old one. In the post war planning there is no need for education to look far afield for any program. It already has one buried in the past.”
THE WEATHER MAN WINS AGAIN
Glomerulus McDanbom, longtime resident of the pole-vault pit on Cartier Field, wishes it announced that he has resigned his post as weather man for Notre Dame, Indiana and the province • of Ontario, as of Shrove Tuesday, to accept a position as Chancellor of Uruguay.
Glomerulus is the only living Irishman who claims relation to all four Horsemen and six of the seven mules and while attending the University was a nine letter man in handball and lacrosse. His resignation caused much perturbation in the barbecue pits of New Carlisle and is believed to be an outgrowth of the recent epidemic of windstorms.
It is said that he awoke, last Thursday, to find the wind whistling through the trees and soon found that he was whistling through the trees, also. After disengaging himself from the ivy trellis on Corby hall Glomerulus was sore distressed with the discovery of his only son wedged in the crotch of a butternut
Hold Rockne Services
Memorial services for Knute K. Rockne, tragically killed in an airplane crash in 1931, were held recently by the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame club.
The club held its annual memorial services in the Sorin hall chapel, followed by breakfast in the campus cafeteria. The annual meeting of the club, always
Knute Rockne
held in conjunction with the Rockne anniversary observance, was then held in the Rockne Memorial building.
Each year, on the anniversary of his death, members of the Alumni and Monogram clubs journey to Highland cemetery to place a wreath on the famed coach’s grave.	'
The speaker at the meeting, D. C. (Chet) Grant, was varsity quarterback on the Notre Dame team of 1916. Grant also played on the 1921 eleven when Rockne was head coach.
tree. Primary paternal instincts led McDanbom to the rescue but, in his anxiety, he failed to notice that his left ankle was such that it would take six weeks in a plaster of Paris puttee to cure it. Therefore, he was forced to sit idly by while his son’s personal effects tumbled into th’e St. Joe River basin. An expensive operation was needed to remove the young sapling from his son’s transverse colon and, to this day, the lad carries his liver in an old newspaper. ‘
Although fearless and energetic in his dealings with men, McDanbom had long been known for an unnatural distaste toward having an Indiana hurricane grasp him by the seat of his threadbare knickerbockers and toss him into the lower Michigan fruit belt. When asked his opinion of the breezes in this vicinity, he replied, “All right, what there is of them.” There was a note of bitter irony in his voice, not unlike a man giving a negative opinion on the 14 day Palmolive plan.—Gene Diamond
Wranglers Hear Devine;
Elect Riordan Secretary
The Wranglers held their weekly meeting last week in the library of the Architecture Building to hear Tom Devine, of the NROTC unit, deliver a paper on the part music should play in man’s education.
In pointing out that education should include education of the whole man, including an appreciation of music, Cadet Devine emphasized that music is the most universally expressive and understandable of the arts. He also stated that too many of the people in the world today have no appreciation for the real, universal music of the masters. For the most part music has grown out of a restricted regional environment but the truly great music of the world has a catholicity which makes it appeal to men of all nations.
At the meeting Robert Riordan was elected to serve as secretary of the organization for the semester. The membership drive was discussed,' and it was decided that the new members would be officially admitted to the club at a banquet on April 26.
Economic Roundtable
The Economic Roundtable admitted two new members at their last meeting. Redmond Toner, Stamford, Conn., majoring in Economics and John Dee, economic major from Chicago were the additions to the society.
Harry J. Walters, Commerce senior from the Bronx, New York, addressed the members at the meeting. The subject of his speech was “Reparations from Germany in World War II.”
“Any consideration of peace will entail consideration of the problem of reparations, a problem entwined with many economic and political aspects and with the demands of many outraged people, one which if handled unwisely may undermine the success of the peace,” said Mr. Walters.
He maintained that there should be a conference of all the United Nations devoted entirely to the consideration of reparations before the nations sit down at the actual peace table. “Reparations in manpower,” he concluded, “ will be the form which most of the payments will take, for payment in cash is impossible, payment of land inadequate and payment in goods doubtful.” .
Mike Garry, Roundtable president, presided at the discussion.
"News and Views of Notre Dame";
Radio Club Broadcast Every Saturday
By DAN DANISZEWICZ
No! No! Don’t touch that dial. Listen to News and Views of Notre Dame over WSBT every Saturday at 2:30. This is Notre Dame’s own radio program broadcast from her own studio in Washington Hall, familiarizing students on campus and residents of neighboring communities with various activities of the University.
Although the greater portion of the material used is furnished by the editors of The Scholastic, actual broadcasting is handled by students in the Radio Club. This organization, which has been in existence for about 10 years, is headed by President Frank Venner, with Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., as moderator.
The club serves a twofold purpose. Not only does the organization familiarize listeners with the University, but it also gives salutary experience to all members. Members not' only see the working nucleus of a radio program, but actually participate in all its activities. Engineers, writers, announcers and actors are behind the scenes.
For the past two semesters Frank Venner and Donald Stoiber were the only two announcers on the 15 minute program. But now, besides News and Views, another new and bigger half hour variety show with interviews, comedy, and a singing quartet is beginning to unfold. This novel program is to be written by the Radio club’s staff of writers and will be brought to listeners by the club’s student actors. The exact time that this slam-bang show will penetrate
the ether is not yet known, but it is expected within two weeks.
The future for the Radio Club looks encouraging. Station WHOT has promised the unweary club members broadcasting time over their station. Even now writers are busily moulding together a radio script on Rehabilitation and on the G. I. Bill for station WO WO in Fort Wayne, Ind., to be broadcast from the Washington hall studio. All student dances, civilian or navy, and concerts held in Washington hall will be sent over the club’s excellent equipment with the students in control.
Heading the list of script writers is Al Kuenzli, advertising manager of the Scholastic, author of a recently published article in Colliers, and writer of the Rehabilitation script for the broadcast over WOWO. The actors that will soon be sending entertainment from the campus are: Dave Warner, Edward Reardon, and Rey Chemberlind.
New members are always welcome at the Radio Club’s weekly meetings on Friday at 4:15 in Washington Hall. The call is out for actors and writers, so anyone interested should attend.
Middies Indoctrination Completed; Plan Dance
The Midshipmen stationed at the Notre Dame naval reserve midshipman school last week completed their period of indoctrination and were given tests on Thursday and Friday to determine their qualifications. These examinations mark the end of the indoctrination and
all exams must be reviewed by the school’s academic board. Those men sue- . cessfully completing this work will be sworn in as midshipmen late this week. There will be no public formal ceremony in connection with the administering of -this oath.
On next Friday night, April 20, the midshipmen will hold their mid-term dance at the Service Men’s Center in South Bend. Both the ninth and tenth classes will attend the dance and all officers and ship’s company of the entire program at Notre Dame. There will be no admission charge.
Knights Outline Activities Fr. Goodall is Chaplain
The “new regime” of the Notre-Dame council of the Knights of Columbus held its first meeting since the recent turnover in officership and made definite steps toward setting the club on a lively new basis.
Prime interest was placed on the coming spring picnic. The members voted to hold the annual outing as late as possible in the semester and agreed to confine it to recognized members and prospective members who have submitted their application before the date of the picnic.
The names of ten applicants for membership were read and approved unanimously by the council.
Father Charles Carey, C.S.C., proposed to the council members that the Rev. Francis Goodall, C.S.C., be voted as council chaplain. The proposal was approved unanimously. Fr. Goodall who was grand knight of the council while a student at Notre Dame recently returned from mission work, and is now connected with the University personnel office.
Tuesday night was set as the regular meeting night, alternating with the Notre Dame Town Meeting night. The group voted to resume the practice of a corporate communion and set the first Monday of each month as the date.
Bob Benes was appointed to the office of lecturer- which entails the procurement of speakers, movies and other entertainment at the council meetings. Plans were forwarded concerning the holding of meetings jointly with South Bend and other neighboring Knights of Columbus councils.
The next meeting of the K. of C. will be Tuesday, April 17 at-7:30 in the basement of the Law buliding.
—Frank Grimaldi
7
Fr. T. McAvoy to Give Final Radio Talk Monday
Monday afternoon, April 16, Father Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., will deliver his concluding speech over radio station. WHOT on “Pope Pius and the Coming Peace.” His talk will be a follow-up of his first two addresses and will be based on the 1944 Christmas message of the Holy Father.
In his initial address, Father McAvoy, head of the Department of History, enumerated the two basic errors as defined by Pope Pius XII which are the chief causes of war: 1) the forgetfulness of that human law of solidarity and charity; 2) those ideas which do not hesitate to divorce civil authority from every kind of dependence upon the Supreme Being. Monday of this week Father McAvoy’s talks presented five points for correction of each of these errors. The Pope has been outspoken on a good many more than five points as correctives for each of the war-mongering errors, but Father McAvoy’s radio time permitted him to dwell on a limited number.
At 4:00 p.m. next Monday Father McAvoy will point out how the Pontiff forwarded his principles for a just and lasting peace in his Christmas message entitled “Christian Democracy.”
The nearness of the San Francisco conference is spotlighting any public utterances on proposals for the peace of nations, and Father McAvoy’s addresses are proving to be clear and understandable explanations of the proposals of Pope Pius XII, spokesman for the peace hopes of millions of Catholics the world over.—F. V. G.
Commerce Forum Hears McCaughey on Taxation
On Wednesday evening, April 11, at 7:15 the third regular meeting of the Commerce Forum got under way. Frank Linehan, Forum president, disposed the business at hand, then introduced Thomas McCaughey, senior member from Chicago, the principal speaker for the evening.
Mr. McCaughey, in his talk entitled “Postwar Taxation” outlined various budgets and tax plans proposed for our postwar economy. He definitely favored the one offered by the U. S. Committee for Economic Development, “For,” he stated, “the objectives of this plan are to have the least possible restrictions on production and employment and fair but adequate distribution of the taxes we must have.”
The guest for the evening was Professor Stanley R. Price, head of the accounting department.
I
Hope to Appoint Photographer for Band
By OCTAVE EMOND
A new opening for students interested in photography has been established. Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of the Notre Dame Band, has announced the creation of a new band office—that of Official Photographer with the Notre Dame Band— which is open to students with experience in photography. The individual appointed to this office will enjoy all the
privileges of a regular band member; those interested should contact Mr. Hope in his office (room eight in Music Hall —second floor of Washington Hall). As Mr. Hope’s duties frequently require him to leave his office, it may be necessary to call more than once.
Mr. Hope also announced that he would like to add a well balanced string section to the concert band. This move would necessitate, however, the transcription of a considerable amount of music, and for that reason, it is not known as yet whether or not the addition will be made. Nevertheless, any students who have had experience on harp, violin, viola, violoncello, or double bass are invited to contact Mr. Hope.
Over 100 civilian, V-12, and V-7 (Midshipmen) musicians rehearsed together last Friday evening in preparation for a special public concert to be presented, later in the semester. This “combined operation” of the three units produced a very full and powerful group which should develop into a highly polished musical organization.
Prof. Nims Delivers
Lecture in Canada
Prof. John Nims of the Department of English delivered a lecture on poetry at St. Michael’s College of Toronto, Can., last Saturday, April 7.
Mr. Nims was one of the group of young modern poets to give one of the series of readings by prominent poets in New York City. Among other poets were Robert Penn Warren and Thomas Auden. Mr. Nims work has appeared in a book entitled, Five Young American Poets.
Flying Club Active
Organized last November, the Notre Dame Flying club has grown to an active student organization that will attempt to keep the club as a campus activity after the war. In peace time there was Civilian Pilot’s Training but not until last semester was there a real flying-club.
The aims of the club are to keep the fellows interested in flying, and to pass on helpful tips to them by means of movies. Eventually, the members will be able to pass the student solo test, and possibly the test for a private pilot’s license. The latter test covers meteorology, navigation, civil air regulations, and aircraft maintenance and the theory of flight.
The club holds its meetings every other Wednesday evening, and movies are shown at every meeting. The dues are 50 cents a semester. Everyone who has an interest in aeronautics is invited. Talks are given frequently at these meetings by the members on various subjects pertaining to flying.
The president is Eldon Korres, a V-12 student; the vice-president is civilian Warren Fronrath, a veteran who has had experience as an Army Link instructor. Other officers are Harold Wismann, secretary-treasurer; William Ray, social chairman; and Otto Shander, director of publicity and organizer of the club.
It is an organization like this that keeps the student body interested. It is an opportunity for any fellow who has had a longing for flying but who has never had a chance to learn.
—Robert Share
One More Semester
For V-12 Program
Plans for the Navy to discontinue its V12 program at the end of the present semester have been modified to continue through the July-November term, according to an article appearing in the South Bend Tribune, some days ago.
Schools conducting V-12 programs have been given an option to discontinue training, this summer. The V-7 programs governing middies will also terminate this November. It is believed that the ROTC program will continue indefinitely, and will in time absorb.the V-12. .
Approximately 450 V-12 students are enrolled at the University for the present semester. An additional 340 are in the NROTC which has one of its largest memberships since the unit was established on the campus in the fall of 1941.
THIS POEM MAY SCUTTLE “U.S.S SWABBIES' LOG AND SCRIBE
We picked up the following poem the other day, but as we did so we were emphatically warned that it was written by a girl friend of a Notre Dame V-12, for that particular V-12 and none other. Of course, this was all the more reason why we were set upon printing it, but don’t be surprised if oui- favorite ghost writer—Gene Diamond—takes over this column permanently. If such a thing should happen you’ll know that the details of the finish of the present scribe were too gruesome to be told. Just to get in shape, the ghost wrote last week’s driwel for Swabbies’ Log while we spent a very pleasant week-end elsewhere with other thoughts. (Thanks for the swell job, Gene!)
THE V-12’s
The V-12’s are the boys
Who are at Notre Dame;
•Who do lots of studying, But get little fame.
Yes, they really work hard, And have what it takes;
Because if they didn’t,
They’d move to Great Lakes.
For they relish their studies
Far into the night;
And really develop A good appetite.
They have the pause that refreshes, And then hit the sack;
And dream of the knowledge That they still lack.
Some girls feel
That V-12’s aren’t bad;
Providing, of course,
A middie can’t be had.
❖
DON'T SAY IT!
A few of the clean-living pre-meds on the third deck have taken to their own little war on vice in general and cussing in particular. Ray Voet, Cece Burkett,
Doug Brodie, Gene Diamond, Fred Diek-man, Bob Cochran, Tom Smersh, and Harry Sturtevant have formed their own division of the Lily-White League. Anyone expressing himself with anything stronger than “0 Gnats!” must contribute to the tune of a nickle to a common fund. At last report, the boys had collected almost enough to re-gild the Dome. The fund, the boys declare, will eventually be used for “something platonic.” Chief contributions come immediately after biology tests, after the posting of demerit lists, and after someone misses another two-foot putt.
❖
A CONDITIONAL, BUT SINCERE, THANKS FOR THE BARREL OF BAD APPLES!
“Women! Bah! Ya can’t figure ’em. They lie awake nights thinkin’ up things.” We think George Abbott’s Broadway production of Best Foot Forward had something in these words.
Yes, we’ve finally “come aboard,” IF anyone could figuratively consider the Saint Mary's Static some kind of unsea-worthy craft—more like a leaky boat than a sturdy ship.
Apparently the “proprietresses” of “Tower Notes,” “Postage Free” and “The Blue Banner” have run short of thoughts for copy for their columns in the Static lately, and have in desperation stooped again to slinging of the mud
in the general direction of the Notre Dame Scholastic and the “Swabbies’ Log,” and directly at the keeper of the log. We sure do hope that they don’t get their pretty little dresses smudged. Also apparent is that they are so unaccustomed to getting mail that they consider a simple request for a subscription to the “circular” (with apologies to all circulars) a compliment and a “fan letter.”
Fortunately, we are rather good-natured and thoroughly enjoy seeing little creatures with happy hearts; so if that barrel-ful of bad apples so daintily fumbled our way recently, gave the writers some sort of morbid pleasure, or any of their credulous readers satisfaction— then we extend a sincere, “Thanks for the bad apples.”
♦
THE WEEKLY FANFARE
While we are about it, we may just as well turn the tables on the 60-odd trainees who make every meal formation a regimental jam-session. At first, the trumpets and the trombones had a tough time coming to an agreement but, by now, the band has the marches down to a point where J. P. Sousa no longer turns over in his grave. In fact, they have responded so well to the tutelage of Mr. Hope and Specialist Pomianek that we can almost half-excuse them for getting out of watches. The fanfare, however, does not apply to the bugler who blows reveille. Even Harry James would sound bad in his job.
V-12 Band on the March
The V-12 swing band for the new semester made its first appearance in the chow hall, last Friday, to impress the unit and the new midshipman class with a good stock of fast-tempo numbers to help "take away the taste of the mystery balls.
The band, this semester, is under the direction of the “Old Maestro” John Samson, the unit’s most reasonable facsimile of Henry Busse. Backing up Jazzy John is a band comprised mainly of last semester’s seasoned performers. Jerry Frost is a new addition on the guitar and Jim Butler wrestles with the base fiddle. The brass section is highlighted by Ray Kopituk and Specialist Pomianek on the trumpets and Stonebarger on the trombone. Fred Diekman is again behind the traps.
The band will play intermittently in the chow hall and will also hold forth at the various Wednesday night dances to be given on the station.
9
Alumni Clubs Observe
Universal N. D. Night
Throughout the country Notre Dame alumni clubs observed the 22nd annual Universal Notre Dame Night with local meetings on April 9. However, the Chicago club, because of previous commitments, will hold its observance at the Palmer House on April 17 with Archbishop Stritch and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, among the guests of honor.
Even though the club’s activities have been curtailed by the war with more than 6,500 Notre Dame men in the service, preparations were made for the vital post-war period. The 1945 observance of the traditional occasion, inaugurated in 1924, was devoted to a program of revitalization of the clubs proposed by the Alumni Association’s board of directors.
The clubs have four major projects for the preparation of the post-war period. The first is the stimulation of trained leadership by Notre Dame men in church and civic affairs to contribute a moral approach to the solution of the post-war problems. Second is the setting up of the club’s machinery to aid Notre Dame veterans. The third is the cooperation of the club in the selection of students and the final project is the joining of the clubs in the Alumni Association’s program of annual giving, which contributed more than $100,000 to the Centenary Fund and another $100,000 to the Second Annual Fund.
Dr. Gurion Addresses
Second Town Meeting
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of The Review of Politics, discussed in his speech at the N. D. Town Meeting last Tuesday evening, the Soviet Union in world affairs. First he pointed out how Lenin’s and Trotsky’s world revolutionary successes were replaced by a Soviet nationalism. This Soviet nationalism of Stalin is, on the one hand, full of distrust against the world outside, and resumes, on the other hand, many traditions of Russian imperialism. The Soviet Union is also full of distrust against any international organization, having been expelled as an aggressor from the League of Nations, whereas no similar action was taken against Japan and Italy.
Dr. Gurian believes that just through the often cynical realism of the Soviet leaders who are influenced exclusively by power considerations, a lasting cooperation with Russia will be possible.
FRANK LINEHAN
Comes from Easthampton, • Mass., but lived 18 years of his life in Schenectady, N. Y. . . . Claims he’s all Irish . . . and nobody disagrees. . . . Known as “Head” to the boys in Sorin. . . . Recently he was elected president of the Student Council and has already made plans for a lively semester. . . . Majoring in Business Administration in Commerce, “Head” has received the honor of being president of the Commerce Forum, one of the most active groups on campus. . . .
“Head’s” favorite sports are basketball and baseball, and lately has taken up the game of golf. ... As manager of the Commerce Forum’s baseball team last season, he succeeded in bringing his boys to the finals in the campus leagues. ... Was also a member of the freshmen basketball team. . . .
Spends his off-nights (how many nights a week, Head?) in either Rosie’s or George’s. . . . Goes for Rosie’s spaghetti in a big way. . . .
The boys in Sorin admire that large picture that stands on his desk. . . .
.Could it be your sister, Head?
Head has led an active St. Mary’s life while at Notre Dame. . . . Formerly he thought as most other N.D. men do of St. Mary’s, but things took an about-face after a certain V-12 Ball. . . . What’s the idea of deserting the boys, Head?
He consistently defends St. Mary’s against the “evil thrusts and outrageous attacks” of Messrs. Walters and Power.
One of Head’s biggest lifetime thrills
was winning the Catholic sectional basketball championship during his junior year in high school. . . .
Likes to play pinochle, but doesn’t do too bad in gin rummy. ...
Went the hard way through Notre Dame . . . namely, Brownson, St. Ed’s Annex, and Sorin. . . .
Head graduates in June, and hopes to take up personnel work.
Open House for Engineers
The Chemical Engineers inaugurated the semester with an Open House meeting in the Unit Operations laboratory which was attended by students from all colleges.
The equipment was in full operation and all questions were answered by the operators and the instructors, Mr. Rich and Mr. Wilhelm. Upon the completion of the meeting, refreshments were served.
Prior to the Open House, a business meeting of the Student Chapter of the Chemical Engineers was called to order by Chairman Charles L. Madden, Jr. Plans for a dance to be sponsored by the organization were disposed of due to numerous difficulties.
The members decided to hold a picnic toward the end of the semester instead of the annual banquet. Further plans include a brewery inspection trip.
The final business of the meeting dealt with suggestions for technical and nontechnical speakers for meetings in the future.—Jim Retter
Council to Sponsor
Relief Drive on Monday
“A Notre Dame T-shirt in a news photo from Italy?” Could be! Many Italians may now be wearing clothing contributed to the Student Council drive for old clothes conducted last spring.
This year another drive is being conducted for the relief of the suffering Italians—this time for food. The University is giving a check for $100, and the Student Council has set as its goal from the students an equal amount. The drive will take the form of a room to room canvas on next Monday night under the direction of the Student Council.
At its meeting last Monday night the Council also outlined tentative plans for a War Bond drive on the campus and decided to attempt a revival of the informal dances which were so popular last semester. In compliance with a change in the new constitution of the council the names of three priests were submitted to the president who will select one of them as moderator for the Council.
10
Qteett ^anne/1
. . . By Harry Walters and John Power
TOP OF THE WEEK:
St. Mary’s Soph Cotillion— ❖
CARTIER CATASTROPHE	.
Eleven old men put aside their steins and trotted out to Cartier Field to engage “Devore’s Dragons” last Sunday. It had been advertised to the general public as the “Old Timers Game” but it turned into a revival of Blood and Sand, as the youngsters went down to defeat.
Coaches Bob Kelly and Frank Szymanski had their charges in rare shape after a two-day training at the Indiana Cafe. Boly Dancewicz deserted his drill press at Studebakers to call signals while Mike Manzo left the newspaper stand in the Cafe long enough to play.a terrific game at tackle. Walter “Jelly Belly” McDermott, the K. of C.’s new Grand Knight, added the royal touch to the game. Father Downey came out on the field between the halves to administer spiritual consolation to John Bresnahan.
The thrill of the day came as “Tree” Adams tried for the extra point and flied out to Gilhooly in short left field on the adjoining diamond.
❖
IS IT TRUE???
Bob Schlissler is going to be the Cover Boy on the Review of Politics?
UNDERSTANDABLE MISTAKE
Two hundred eager beavers checked out with their rectors last Saturday night, passed up Rita Hayworth who was appearing at Washington Hall and headed for the Co-Hop. Tom Bergin said the stampede was worse than the noon hour rush at Brother Meinrad’s “Bargain Basement.”—But there’s one story we want to tell you. Across the street from the Progress Club, scene of the Brawl, is a mortuary. One of the lads from Cavanaugh, eager for a live evening at the Co-Hop, made a grand entrance into the wrong building and ended up at a wake. It was 15 minutes before he discovered his mistake. Co-Hops are like that.	’ '
❖
FROM RITA TO RIGOLETTO!!!
In two week’s time from the “Sublime” to the “Sublimer”: that’s the course of entertainment at Sorin City during the spring season. .
The Orpheus Club, campus music admirers led by Vincent Herbert Meli, will go wild at the prospect of an evening of Verdi. They will, more than likely, storm the Drill Hall, dash past two midshipmen guarding that edifice, and park their gear in the front row as the opera begins. As the last note of the soprano’s aria echoes across the campus, Ralph Hayman, trying to study, will be heard to exclaim, “First it was Dick Ames; now it’s the San Carlo Opera Company!”
❖
FLASH FROM ACROSS THE DIXIE
The Green Banner presents the secret recipe for the punch to be served at tomorrow night’s Sophomore Cotillion at St. Mary’s:
Take the juice of one grape, two lemons and three watermelons. Blend carefully in a used Mobiloil can. Throw in orange pulp, wood pulp, and three bales of old St. Mary’s Static’s for flavor. Sprinkle with slices of vulcanized inner tubes. Dissolve ten bus slugs in the bubbling mixture and heat over a low flame. Then add three quarts of St. Mary’s most popular perfume, “Kearney Chloroform” and store in metal vats; for this
Have you been asked to the St. Mary's Sophomore Cotillion, Too? Ugh!.
stuff corodes wood. Serve in small jugs with large wafers.
Take care of your health after drinking; don’t engage in strenuous exercise —see a doctor every three months, and you might live out the year.
❖
WOE IS "US"
Difficulties in literature grow by the day. Here we have found a nice easy way to take up space each week by writing about various characters in “Youth on the Campus,” and our bosom buddy, Tom McCaughey, pulls a Jap on us and starts writing “Man About the Campus.” Not only does he steal our ideas, but then proceeds to interview Frank Linehan, our mortal enemy, who in turn slanders our beloved column unmercifully on another page of this issue. May all the wrath of the demons descend upon you Mr. Linehan, and be careful of green banana peels in the dining halls as we will dog your steps till revenge is had. . . . Next to St. Mary’s we love these two best of all! . . .
❖
BACK OF THE "SCHOLASTIC"
Have you noticed the Chesterfield ad lately? If not, do so as “it satisfies.” ’Tis a picture of Joan McCracken and goes on to say “Good Taste from every Angle, Anyway you look at it.” Yes, Chesterfield’s sweet music and Joan. . . . Huba-Huba-Huba-Huba!
❖
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
We weren’t invited!
11

Irish Baseball Squad to Face Indiana U. in Double Header Tomorrow Afternoon
By JIM REGAN
n 11,1
When the Notre Dame baseball team trots out on the diamond tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 to face Indiana University in a double-header, it will mark the 53rd year that this school has competed in intercollegiate baseball. For Coach Kline, it will be the 12th team that he has sent into action.
Indiana University with two games under its belt should furnish the Irish with some tough competition for the opening day. Last week end, Indiana took the measure of Michigan State in two games. On Saturday, the Hoosiers routed the Michigan nine 15 to 4. The boys from Bloomington had to go all out to win the Sunday game as Ted Kluszewski, hard-hitting outfielder, banged a home run out of the park with one man on
“. .. the 54th Year..
base in the ninth inning to down the Spartans 7 to 5. Last season Notre Dame defeated Indiana in two games, 10 to 5 and 4 to 0.
Coach Kline has gradually rounded his squad into shape and he feels confident that Notre Dame will again be represented by a representative team. Only three monogram men greeted Kline when he issued his call for candidates this spring, but he was fortunate in having several men as candidates for the team with high school and amateur experience. Since that time one monogram man, Frank Ciszczon, has left school to enter the Army Air Corps, so that only two veterans will be in the Notre Dame lineup tomorrow. They are Frank Gilhooley and Jack Barrett.
Coach Kline was reticent early in the week to name his starting batting order but he did name the men most likely to start in the twin-bill. Jack Barrett and
Jack Stewart, both right-handers, are scheduled to be the starting pitchers for Notre Dame. In case the starting twirl-ers tire or need relief, Johnny LeBrou and Bill Albert, both southpaws, and Joe Gehring will most likely be the Irish “firemen.”
Bill Tracey will undoubtedly handle the slants of the Notre Dame pitcher in one game. Leo Murphy -will probably don the mask and pads in the second game. Also likely to see action behind the plate is Emil Koluch.
The Notre Dame starting infield will be comprised of Jim McGurk at first base, George Schneider at the keystone sack, Bill Hassett at shortstop, and Tom Martin at the “hot corner.” Reserve infielders most likely to see action include John Dee, Jack Suty, Bill Oatis and John “Dutch” Harm. The last-named is also available for utility outfield duty.
Notre Dame seems set in its outer defenses with Neil Kelly in left field, Frank Gilhooley in center and Al Wittingham in right field. These three form a strong defensive nucleus and are also expected to furnish considerable punch at the plate.
Baseball Schedule
The Notre Dame baseball team will engage in a 22-game schedule this spring, with one-half of these tilts listed for Cartier Field. The schedule was announced this week after having been approved by the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics.
Notre Dame opens its schedule tomorrow facing Indiana University in a double-header and curtain will be drawn down on the schedule June 16 against Purdue. Among the features of the schedule are two home and home series with Michigan teams, Michigan University and Western Michigan. Another highlight of the schedule is the meeting of four service teams in a total of seven games. .
The schedule:
April 14—Indiana (2), home 21—Camp Atterbury, away 22—Wakeman Hospital, away 27-28—Michigan Uniersity, home May 1—Northwestern, away 4-5—Western Michigan, away 6—Bunker Hill Navy, home 11-12—Michigan University, away 18-19—Western Michigan, home 20—Bunker Hill Navy, away 25-26—Ohio State University, away
June 1-2—Iowa Preflight, away
8—Northwestern, home 9—Purdue, away
10—Iowa Preflight, home 16—Purdue, home.
Handy Uncertain Over , Outdoor Track Prospects
By JOHN FEENEY
“It’s too early to make any predictions about the squad but in another week f prospects should be shaping up quite definitely, one way or the other.”	--
Thus spoke Coach “Dock” Handy earlier this week in respect to his 1945 Notre Dame outdoor track team. The thinclads have been practicing only a very short , time—actually they started less than a 1 week ago although the official opening . date was April 5—and, consequently, ' their tutor hasn’t seen too much of them.
“Give me a few more looks at the boys !, and I’ll designate the ones who show up best,” ventured Handy. He continued to say that the aspirants look acceptable individually but in the same breath he bemoaned the lack of any reserve strength in many events. The cinder group isn’t overly large this spring and inexperienced men must, of necessity, man some posts.	/
I
The track mentor went on to explain ! the system used in the awarding of track , monograms at N.D. A trackman must f garner a total of 12 points during the two seasons—the indoor and the outdoor n —to merit a letter. These points may be ; had in various ways. First place in any event in a dual meet is worth five as is first in triangular or quadrangular competition. Seconds in the duals and tri-angulars net three points and, in a four-team meet, four. Third place is good for one, two, and three points, respectively. In addition, fourth place in a triangular is rewarded with one point and, in a quadrangular, with two. Fifth in the lat- * ter type of meet pays off a single point. In more inclusive competition—any performer is awarded double the number of points with which he is credited according to regular scoring.	!
As announced in last week’s Scholas- . TIC, DePauw University of Greencastle, I Ind., requested cancellation of their scheduled meet with the Irish. Since that ’ time, Coach Handy has been trying to arrange another duel for April 21, but nothing definite in this regard has been released as yet. If no opponent be available for that date, the Drake Relays, ' carded for April 27 and 28, will provide the first taste of competition for the Handymen.
12
err t T
< Nine Game Tennis Season is Planned
By ROBERT J. SHAW
Walter Langford, tennis coach, this fr week announced a nine-match schedule for the coming season, opening Saturday, April 28, against Northwestern on the i Notre Dame courts. One week later, Coach Langford guides his charges to Ann Arbor to meet Michigan University’s crack squad. This match seems to j be the toughest on the schedule, as in past years, and if the Langfordmen ; prove themselves superior to the Wolverines, there is a good chance they will have their second successive undefeated
I season.
However, the schedule also offers other interesting contests, including a round-' robin at Evanston against Northwestern i and Wisconsin. Two new teams, added to the schedule to replace Chicago University and DePauw, are Wayne University of Detroit and Lawrence College of Appleton, Wisconsin. The closing । match promises to be the second most j difficult for the Irish netmen. This tilt ; will pit Purdue against Notre Dame on । the local courts on June 2.
i- As last year, Coach Langford has entered his team in the N.C.A.A. tennis b championship matches to be held on the i Northwestern courts from June 25 to 30.
Last year Notre Dame finished in a three-way tie for the championship with Miami University of Miami, Florida, with Francisco “Pancho” Segura as number one man, and Texas university.
The Notre Dame “B” team will play their annual foe, Culver Military Academy, on May 5, in the only match listed j for this team.
The schedule:
May 12—Indiana, Notre Dame
May 18—Northwestern, Notre Dame May 19—Lawrence, Evanston May 21—Wayne. Detroit
• April 28—Western Michigan, Notre Dame May 5—Michigan, Ann Arbor
, May 11—Northwestern, Wisconsin, Evanston June 2—Purdue, Notre Dame
25-30—N.C.A.A. Tournament, Evanston
WARNING ON TICKETS
। No student or serviceman's ticket can be sold at reduced rates at the gate for the BENGAL FINALS. Buy
1 these tickets in advance from campus representatives. The 50c student ticket will revert to $1.00 on the night of the FINALS.
Fighters Intensify Training as Fight Dates Near;
Awards Announced for Champs and Finalists
By BOB O'TOOLE
Heavy work for the 1945 Bengal aspirants continued this week as candidates entered the final stages of training for the annual show, tops in intramural activities at Notre Dame. Added incentive for success in the bouts was provided the boys by announcement this week of the type of award to be given the champions and finalists, an innovation in the history of the show. An N.D. emblem with a boxing glove worked across the interlocking letters in the traditional blue and gold will be handed the men who reach the finals, the word “Champion” emblazoned across the awards presented to the campus’ best in each weight.
A glance at the men in the heavier classes this week shows their numbers smaller than in the lighter divisions, but there are enough to insure a good battle at each weight. At 155 pounds Paul Hamill, of the V-12 program, leads the entries. Hamill came off best at this weight in the recent Novice Championships, and has demonstrated that he is earnest in his efforts to annex the University Championship as well. A hard worker, he has seen plenty of action in the ring at the daily drills and has given the punching bags a lot of punishment as well. J. A. Burke, another V-12 entry, leads the other in stamina.
Tom Burns, Sorinite who returns to the show with plenty of experience behind him, has been troubled shaking off sufficient weight to qualify in this class, but he intends to get lots of road work done before weighing time rolls around next Monday.
George McDonald, a civilian newcomer at Notre Dame, and Bill Swanson, V-12 student, complete the list in this division.
165 Pound Class Wide Open
Moving up a class, the 165 pound championship is far from being decided at this point, with several men doubtful as to their entry at this weight. Bill Bevington, senior V-12 student, and E.O.T.C. men DeVries and Dechellis, are the outstanding candidates in this division. DeVries, who has never appeared before in a show here on the campus, is a hard hitter who has trained well and will bear close watching when this class goes into action on April 25.
In the light-heavyweight division Navy trainee Deam, a finalist in the Novice show, heads the entry list, with plenty
of competition barring an easy way to the championship. He and fellow V-12er C. D. Marks, with RO representative Coggins comprise the uniformed talent at 175 pounds.
Civilians Joe Owen, George Albert and Harp Dougherty make up the bloc opposed to Navy domination, with little known of their abilities, for all are fighting their first fistic adventure at Notre Dame. Dougherty is a leading candidate for the 1945 varsity team, hence has been unable to report regularly for workouts. Recently discharged from the army, he expects to be in good shape for the elimination bouts next week, and Sorin cronies are looking to him to uphold the reputation of the “Queen of Them All.”
The heavyweight division, traditionally a small class, has but two entries in the 1945 bouts, both of the boys big and rangy. John Trave has not checked up on his measurements lately but he stands well over six feet, four inches, and he weighed in at 212. His opponent, likewise a civilian, is Tony Cash, a returned veteran. Cash, crowned champion of the New Orleans area in a Golden Gloves tournament a few years ago, will enter the ring at 192 pound, thus giving Trave the advantage in weight as well as height, but he expects to make up for that by pushing every punch into a vital spot.
These comprise the entries in the 1945 University Championships, and next week will see their number decreased sufficiently to provide four fighters in all classes, excepting the heavyweights, for the semi-finals, to be held on Wednesday evening, April 25, in the Fieldhouse. Heavyweights Trave and Cash will save their efforts for the finals, set for May 4.
13
Golf Pairings Announced
Golf coach, Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., announced the pairings to be played from April 8 through April 14. With only a few scores posted, Jim Clynes and Tom Kennedy lead with below 80 marks.
The pairings:
Kennedy, Truschel, Jack Clynes, Scully. Jim Clynes, Flood, Jaeschke, Dore.
Sadowski, Porter, Mosher, Frailey. Despot, Kelly, Welch, Fisher.
Betts, Reynolds, Bacon, Armstrong. Marrow, O’Donnell, Doran, Funk. Natkemper, Goodman, Falk, Tansey. Walters, Falk, Graul, O’Connor.
The pairings which have not yet been completed are expected to be finished this week-end. The eight or ten starters will be chosen from the men who post the lowest scores in these early rounds. This is the second in a series of practice rounds which will be held until Father Holderith chooses his starters for the April 29th opener against Detroit.
George Mikan of DePaul was named by the Helms Foundation of Los Angeles as the player of the year in college basketball for the second straight year. Mikan was also named to the basketball hall of fame by the foundation as was Henry Iba, coach of Oklahoma A. & M.’s national champions.
FLOWERS
are the
Perfect Gift
for
Mother's Day
If you place out-of-town orders early, you save telegraph expenses.
Corsages Cut Flowers
WILLIAMS
West of the Oliver Hotel PHONE 3-5149
This lightweight glen plaid suit is the summer counterpart of our popular winter worsteds. Only the weight of the heavier fabric is missing from this excellent version of the classic glen.
$40
Others $35 to $75
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . .. MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
14
Veterans Beat Varsity
To The Tune of 19 to 6
Hugh Devore’s 1945 Notre Dame pigskin squad unwillingly took a 19-6 lesson in gridiron tactics from the N.D. “Veterans” on Cartier Field, Sunday afternoon. A large crowd, mostly students, looked on with interest as the experience of the “Vets” proved too much for the young Varsity. More than once the polished performers of the “Alumni” were denied by the present Irish eleven, but on three occasions the former’s versatility prevailed.
Seasoned performers were numerous
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
Open Monday Evenings until 8:30
INVEST IN VICTORY — BUY BONDS
in the “Vet” line-up—Bob Kelly, Frank Dancewicz, Steve Nemeth, and Marty Wendell, all monogram men, saw action in the backfield—and their superiority showed up as they pierced the Varsity’s defense on the ground and in the air for T.D.’s in the first, third, and fourth periods. Only in the third did the Varsity find the promised land.
Burleigh Leaves V-7 Staff
Lieut. Comm. H. Porter Burleigh, USNR, head of the academic department of the naval reserve midshipman school at the University, left this week to assume his new duties in Louisiana.
For
Notre Dame Men!
The
New Notre Dame
Scapular Medal
$1.95
with chain
Beautifully manufactured in every detail by expert workmanship. You'll want one for yourself or as an attractive gift for a friend.
While they last!
Although the supply is limited, we have a very attractive line of
Mother's Day Cards
Also you won't want to miss our fine selection of gifts — just the right thing to send home for Mother's Day. Come in today!
NOTRE DAME
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
Hours: •
Week Days—8 a. m. till 4:15 p. m.
Saturdays —8 a. m. till 1:00 p. m.
15
Bengal Bouts Tickets for Finals To Go On Sale Next Week; Special Rate for Students
The Scholastic’s annual charity project ■will swing into full action, next week, when tickets for the “Finals” in the University Championships, the Bengal Bouts, will be placed on sale throughout the campus, and at leading downtown centers.
In keeping with the campus policy of giving reduced rates and prior advantages to students and to servicemen, tickets for the Bengal Bouts will be stamped “Student Ticket,” and will be sold at a reduced rate, provided they are secured before the time of the bouts. In other words, no “Student Ticket” at student rates, will be sold at the box office on the night of the Finals.
In order to make it possible for all students and servicemen to secure these tickets, they will be placed on sale at the Huddle, Bookstore, Publications’ Office, and in all the halls. A committee headed by John Power and Dick Biller will canvass the student halls, both those of the Chilians and those of the navy program. Since the contestants will comprise groups from civilian, V-12 and NROTC programs ,a campus-wide interest in the bouts is assured.
Because of the nature of the Bengal Bouts, no complimentary tickets will be issued to the students or the public. The Scholastic’s decision on this matter is based on the fact that a charity venture should be so conducted as to admit of no exceptions at a time and for a purpose
where charity should predominate. The Bengal Bouts provide an opportunity for the campus to help those less fortunate than the student body. For the service men at Notre Dame, it will be an oppor
tunity to show appreciation for the work of the Service Center in South Bend, which will be a recipient of the money raised.
The Scholastic ticket committee also announced, this week, that all those servicemen and students who wish to make the Bengal Bouts a social affair, may utilize the reduced student ticket to escort dates, provided the tickets are bought in ‘advance. The Bengal Bouts should not be considered as a stag affair, but rather an evening of exciting entertainment for all. Mr. H. Lee Hope and his band will be present to play throughout the evening. At the present time, the committee is working on entertainment during the intermission period.
Tickets for the public will be placed on sale at leading downtown stores, and at the athletic office on campus. The off-campus sale will be in charge of Tom Bremer, again this year.
navy M ▲ MEN!
Here’s where you can get
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED.
Make Sunny Italy a first stop on your liberty night!
ooo
Gilhooley Captains Nine
Frank Gilhooley, veteran outfielder, will captain the 1945 Notre Dame baseball team, it was announced this week. Gilhooley is one of the two returning monogram winners from last year’s squad. Besides being a member of the baseball team, Gilhooley has participated in varsity basketball for the past two seasons. He is the president of the recently reorganized Monogram Club.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
PERSONAL STATIONERY for MEN
Highest grade rag content bond. 50 sheets and envelopes to the box. Monarch size, 714 x 10%, with large envelopes.
Price including printing $3.00 Unprinted $1.50
We will pay postage.
DON MERRILL, Printer 60 Hollywood Avenue East Orange, N. J.
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St, Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGAHDUS E. C. BEEBY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
IB
Noted Author to Tolk on Catholic Current Events
Reverend John W. Lynch of Manlius, N. Y., author and editor of The Catholic Sun of Syracuse, will address the faculty and student body of the University next Tuesday evening, April 17 at 8 o’clock in the Law Auditorium.
According to John J. O’Connor, literary critic for a syndicate of Catholic newspapers, Father Lynch’s book, A Woman Wrapped in Silence, is the finest poetical tribute to Our Lady that has come out of the Catholic Church in the last 100 years.
“Total Speech” will be the subject of his talk at Notre Dame. It will deal with current events as a Catholic editor looks at them.
During his stay at Notre Dame, Fath-
er Lynch will also address the South Bend Catholic Forum and the faculty and students of St. Mary’s College.
Beltranena Elected to
La Raza Club Presidency
The La Raza Club recently elected Luis Beltranena of Guatemala to the presidency of the club for the current semester. Also elected to serve with Mr. Beltranena as officers were Carlos Colon, vice-president; Alfredo Nieto, secretary; Miguel Vila, treasurer; and Stuart Prentice, sub-secretary.
Following the election of these officers the group outlined an ambitious program for the semester, including the continued publication of the organization’s paper, Amistad under the editorship of Enrique Lulli.
* Greeting Cards
• .Artists’ Supplies
* Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
DECORATORS 128 North Michigan Street
BOOKS
Flowers for Mother’s Day . . .
You'll want to send flowers — just the right gift for Mother's Day. Always a wide selection of cut flowers, corsages, and potted plants at
South Bend
Phone 3-8227
114 South Michigan Street
For Your
Reading Enjoyment
THESE NAMES ARE
FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW
Shirts and Neckwear
VAN HEUSEN
Shirts and Sportswear
B. V. D.
Underwear and Sportswear
McGregor
Sportswear
COOPER
Underwear
BRENTWOOD
Sweaters
MARLBORO
Sportswear
HICKOK
Belts and Braces
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
"THE ROBE"
Lloyd C. Douglas' all-time best seller.
"The Violent Friends" "Of Smiling Peace" "The Wide House" "You Can't Stop Living" "Young Bess" "Lower Than Angels" "Pipe Night" "Philadelphia Murder Story' "Yankee Rom Olympus" "At His Side" "Rolling Stone" "Party Line"
And'a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction, at .
you'll find them all at
ROBERTSONS
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
RU00NERS
NEWS CENTER * CIGAR STORE 127 W. Washington St.
"In the J. M. S. Building"
17
NTGDS
FROA TMC
CSS BOX
Cincinnati Reds captured three votes for first place in the senior circuit with the Pittsburgh Pirates named twice. The Chicago Cubs also received two votes.
The staff members voting and their choices were as follows: Bob Riordan, Detroit and St. Louis; George Despot,
New York Yankees and Cincinnati; Al Kuenzli, Detroit and Cincinnati; Ralph Hayman, Detroit and St. L’ouis; Bob O’Toole, Chicago Cubs and White Sox; Jim McCarthy, Detroit and St. Louis; Gene Diamond, St. Louis Browns and Pittsburgh; John Feeney, Detroit and
By JIM REGAN
With the 1945 major league baseball pennant races opening Monday much attention has been focused on the probable champions in each league in this fourth season during the present war. Considerable inroads have been made on the playing talent of teams in both circuits, but the 16 teams face the opening of the season with optimism that they will be able to give the fans their money’s worth.
A R Your Druggist Can’t Fill
This is the time when all sports experts, and those who think they are experts, bring out the charts, records, crystal ball, etc., and try to forecast who will be perched in first place when the season comes to an end. The editorial board of the Scholastic and the sports staff of the paper have been polled by this department for their choices of the major’ league winners. We feel free to print these choices, for we don’t think too many will check up on our “experts.”
Clashing in the 1945 World Series will be the Detroit Tigers and the St. Louis Cardinals, according to the consensus of the Scholastic men questioned. The Tigers were named by six out of 12 writers for the American League flag while the Cardinals were favored by five to capture the National League pennant. St. Louis Browns were named by two to repeat their surprise 1944 win while the New York Yankees were also the first choice of two writers. The Boston Red Sox received one first-place ballot as did the Chicago Sox. The
Dear J. M.:
Your symptoms are unmistakably those of a man suffering from subcicula strangulatio, or what we call quite untech-nically “shrunk collar.”
We prescribe a switch to Arrow shirts—they’re Sanforized-labeled (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). They’ll not only relieve the pressure on your gullet, but also bolster your spirit immeasurably with their good looks. $2.24 up.
Complete the prescription with some swell-looking Arrow ties, and you’ll be a new man! $1 and $1.50.
The
DIAMOND is the Birthstone for April
ooo
YARROW-
k SHIKTS and TIES
18
Chicago; Bob Shaw, Detroit and Cincinnati; and Jack Miles, St. Louis Browns and Cardinals. Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty adviser, nominated the Boston Red Sox and St. Louis Cardinals as World Series opponents, while this columnist chose the Yankees
<------------------—(«
Yes Sir, We’ve Got
ARROWS!
Loads of Arrow Shirts in many different collar styles to make all necks look handsome. Step in to Gilbert’s and we'll pick out the Arrow Shirt with the type collar designed especially for you.
Another neck perker-upper is the Arrow
Tie in smart, new patterns.
ARROW SHIRTS #2.24 up
ARROW TIES #1, #1.50
You’ll find selection at Gilbert's—the largest possible stock in popular items of men’s clothing. We think you'll find what you like here at South Bend’s largest store for men!
THE. MODERN GILBERT'S Oxe HJU4
813-817 S. Michigan St.
»» rot ARROW■sum rs ■	■ ■ >
Notre Dame Jackets Sweat Shirts Pennants
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax
and Reds to collide in baseball’s annual classic.
* * *
The sports department may seek a consensus of other sports questions throughout the year. If this policy is carried out, representative students will be queried rather than staff members. Thus, any member of the student body will be able to express his opinion of sports questions of the day.
* * *
Tommy Sheehan, catcher for Notre Dame’s baseball teams of the last two seasons, seems likely to be one of two catchers on this season’s Great Lakes’ nine. Sheehan batted almost .450 two seasons ago and was above the .300 mark last year in over 20 games.
£ *
Lieut. Joseph E. Beinor, All-American tackle at Notre Dame in 1937 and 1938, has returned to this country from the South Pacific. Beinor recently spent a leave with his family in Hartley, Ill.
* * *
Johnny McHale, former Notre Dame baseball and football player, now with the Detroit Tigers, has been moved from his usual first base position to left field where he is competing "with several other men for a starting berth. At present, it seems that he will be relegated to a substitute role.
* * *
Byron Nelson broke the existing 72-hole tournament record score of 264 held by Craig Wood when he shot a 13 under par score for 72 holes when competing in the Augusta Iron Lung tournament last week. He had rounds of 64-67-65-67 for a 263 score.
* * *
Frank Szymanski, who will possibly return to Notre Dame next semester and play with the football team, was the first choice of the Detroit Lions in the annual draft of the National Professional Football League.
Three Notre Dame men of former years were defeated by the Chicago Cardinals. These were Corwin Clatt, a back, Bill Huber, an end, and Ziggy Czarob-ski, a tackle.
Golf Clubs Hand Balls and Gloves
Phone 3-3702
19
"RIGOLETTO" WEDNESDAY NIGHT (Continued from page 3)
Boston critic said that “he exhibited many of the better characteristics of the born Verdi conductor, even to holding his left hand on his hip in the manner made famous by the dean of Italian conductors, Toscanini.”
The San Carlo’s energetic director, Mr. Gallo, has noted the trend to more dramatic emphasis in opera. Although tradition is an important part of opera, he has seen that the days of the heroic stance, the pompous pawing of air, the heaven-storming gesture, and the ferocious scowl are about over. Mario Valle, his stage director, tries to stage it purely as a dramatic composition.
When Verdi was commissioned to write a new serious opera in 1851, he chose the plot of Victor Hugo’s “Le Roi s’Amuse” for- his libretto. The play’s melodramatic quality appealed to Verdi’s imagination, although historically it was not even a plausible story. The scene and period of “Rigoletto” is in the vicinity of Mantua in the 16th century. It deals with the adventures of the Duke of Mantua and his hunchback jester.
Rigoletto has a daughter whom he keeps in seclusion, but the Duke, unknown to him, has fallen in love with her. The father of one of the Duke’s victims, Count Monterone, has demanded the restoration of his daughter, only to meet with laughter and derision from Rigoletto. Count Ceprano, who has already suffered under Rigoletto’s biting tongue, arranges to abduct Gilda, his daughter, with Rigoletto’s assistance, concealing her identity.
When Rigoletto discovers that it is his own daughter whom he has placed in the Duke’s power, he determines to murder his master, and enlists the services of Sparafucile, an assassin. Sparafucile has a sister, Maddalena, whom he delegates to entice the Duke to a lonely inn.
However, she herself becomes fascinated with him, and begs her brother to spare his life. This Sparafucile consents to do provided that before midnight anyone shall arrive at the inn whom he can kill and pass off as the murdered Duke.
In order to cure Gilda of her unhappy love for the Duke, Rigoletto brings her to the inn that she may be a witness to the Duke’s inconstancy. She overhears the plot to murder her lover and Spara-fucile’s promise to his sister. Determined to save the Duke, she knocks for admittance, and is stabbed upon entering.
Rigoletto comes at the appointed time for the body; Sparafucile brings her out in a sack, and the jester is about to throw the body into the water, when he hears the Duke singing. He tears open the sack, only to find his own daughter at the point of death.
“Rigoletto” is an opera that provides a field day for artists.'Its abundance of arias and duets, culminating in the quartet in the last act, delights and charms the ear. “La Donna e mobile” (Woman Is Fickle), sung by the Duke, is one of the best loved of all operatic arias.
COLLEGE PARADE
’ (Continued from page 4) was held, followed in the evening with a “Dandelion Dance.”
Northwestern students, in an effort to combat the effects of the new midnight curfew, are campaigning for a juke box and some dancing space. Through this measure they hope to enjoy good entertainment on the Evanston campus and prevent students from adding to the al-
SANDWICHES
SOFT DRINKS
ICE CREAM
FINE PIPES
TOBACCO
(Monogram and Plain)
THE HUDDLE
ready overcrowded Chicago Loop.
The Carnegie Tech Tartans outdid themselves in their latest campus war stamp drive. They oversubscribed their $3,430 goal by $2,916, bought one ambulance and almost paid for another.
When you’re down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
Appropriate GIFTS for MOTHER'S DAY May 13th
STATIONERY
GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
T" SHIRTS
20
Frank Cusick, 1942 End, Missing in Action
Lieut. Fi-ancis Cusick, an end of the J 943 Notre Dame football team, has been missing in action over Germany since Jan. 23, according to a telegram received by his parents, James J. Cusick, chief of police of Providence, R. I., and Mrs. Cusick. The telegram was received Jan. 23 but because of the serious illness of the lieutenant’s mother, the news was not announced by the family.
Cusick left the University in 1943 to become an air cadet. He received his training first at Rockhurst College, Kansas City, and was commissioned at Ellington Field, Texas, in April, 1944. He was sent overseas several months later.
Monogram Club Elects
By Jack Miles
The Monogram Club is in the process of reorganization. Thus far the steps taken have been the election of officers and plans for a weekly meeting. The officers are: Frank Gilhooley, president; Bob Kelly, vice-president; Bill Hassett, secretary; and John Dee, treasurer.
Until this year, the Monogram Club was the only campus organization with the permission of the University to hold initiations, which were indeed rigorous. However, no such initiation will be held this year. The other activities of the club have been two in number: the Monogram Club dance, which has not been held since the war, and the Monogram Absurdities, in which the bulky boys of the club display their ballet tendencies. This, too, has been discontinued. Whether they will be held in the future depends upon the decisions of the club and the University authorities.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Dr. Baldinger to
Represent University
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science, will represent the University at the pre-medical conference at Union College in Schenectady, N. Y., on April 20 and 21.
This conference of the American premedical colleges is being held in an effort to discuss the problems of the students in order to fit the physician for his place in modern society.
One of the principal figures at the conference will be Dr. Arlie Bock of the Harvard Medical School. He will conduct discussions on the various personnel procedures and the various tests being given by the colleges to their students. The tests are those independent of marks which try to seek out his emotional-and social adjustments and personality defects.
During the two-day conference every feature of pre-medical education will be ' discussed. The object in view is both the scientific and humanistic education of the student. Some of the other topics for debate will be the war veterans and their problems in entering pre-medical train
COLLEGE FADS AND FANCIES,
CLASS OF 1850
Fads and fancies in college costumes are by no means modern phenomena. Here is a gay undergraduate of the Gass of 1850. Observe his flowing collar and tie, his super expanse of Panama brim, and his studied air of nonchalance.
This was in 1850, when America was basking in peace. The Golden West was opening up, and Express Service was keeping pace. Today, there are few fads and fancies on the college campus. They have given place to the uniformity and efficiencies of war time. Thousands of students are concentrated on the needs of the nation in arms.
Railway Express is devoting its nationwide services, both rail and air, primarily to speeding war materiel. To help all concerned, you can do three simple things with your 1945 home packages and baggage: Pack securely — address clearly and adequately—avoid abbreviating state names
ing; aptitude and other psychological tests for the selection of pre-medical students, and personnel guidance for pre-medical students.
While Dr. Baldinger is in Schenectady he will speak before a science group of the General Electric Company on the subject of the “Peppermint Oil Industry.”—Gerard Hekker
First it was goldfish—but recently a couple of Alabama Polytechnic students tried something new. In order to win bets of 11 and 40 bucks respectively, Bob Sharman and Donald Goodwin existed on nothing but buttermilk for one week.—(Asso. Collegiate Press)
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
ftnfnew and soda!
ces depend on youthM, vigorous appearance. Lei our trained graduates ex* amine your hair and scalp ...treat the real cause of receding hairline. Free examination. Treatments
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
21
"Fighting Lady" Bandman Leads New Middie Group
By OCTAVE EMOND
Chief Musician Lloyd H. Andermann lias replaced Lt. (jg) Richard Tainter, who has been transferred to Great Lakes, as bandmaster of the Midshipman Band here at the University. Lt. Tainter has developed a rich musical background with 44 years of service, 23 being active service in Navy bands. He served at Great Lakes during the last war as an aide to the executive officer, John Philip Sousa.
Mr. Andermann was recently bandmaster aboard the gallant United States aircraft carrier about which the current motion picture, The Fighting Lady, has been made. A veteran of 21% years of service, he has served in both the Army and in the Navy.
The 28 piece band which Mr. Andermann directed aboard the Fighting Lady was regarded by many as one of the best in the fleet. His regular assignment was that of assistant to the damage control officer, and the other members of the band were also assigned to that group.
One of his most exciting experiences during this war occurred while he was assigned to the U. S. S. Erie. It involved the sinking of a Japanese submarine which inadvertently surfaced before the onrushing Erie. The submarine crash dived as the American ship bore down upon it. The Erie knifed through the swirling water directly above the diving submarine, but failed to contact it. Its depth charges, however, added another unit to the growing Japanese scrap pile which is mounting so rapidly that it almost scrapes the bottoms of the American men-of-war which steam peacefully over the liberated waters of the gently rolling Pacific.
Plans are being made for a special concert by the combined forces of the Midshipman band, under the direction of Chief Musician Andermann, and the Notre Dame band, under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope, which will be presented in the Navy Drill Hall sometime during the latter part of this semester. This cooperation among the various musical groups on the campus is indicative of the enviable ability of Americans to maintain and further their interests in the fine arts, even while pursuing one of the most destructive wars in the history of the world to preserve their way of life.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE.4-5661	'
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.s.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D. D. S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3-2374
La moda Americana... Have a Coca-Cola
...an American custom as seen in Italy People overseas are impressed by the American fighting man’s friendliness among his fellows. They see his home-ways and customs—his good humor. Have a Coke they hear him say to his buddies, and they begin to understand America. Yes, the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola speaks of the friendliness of Main Street and the family fireside.
BOTTIS) UNDBt AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
u 6

22
If you have true fisherman's blood—you don't want to see that big one get away. And that's just another reason why you should invest your money wisely in war bonds—the biggest catch of all. For every three dollars put away now. you'll get four back in 10 years.
Buying war bonds is an easy way to sock every cent into security. By purchasing every last bond possible you can help yourself and at the same time help your country. .
Turn your money into a wise investment—and lay the foundation for many good years to come.
BUY WAR BONDS FOR KEEPSI
Indiana Engraving Co.	Rose & Katz
118 St. James Ct.	"The Men's Corner"
Office Engineers, Inc.	Schillings, Inc.
116 S. Michigan St.	329 S. Lafayette St.
23
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.