College-trained engineers revisit the athletic field
Night photograph of Teapie Stadinat, Philadelphia, Peanayhraiiia, floodlighted with G-E peojeetora
ON more than a hundred floodlighted fields, football is being played and practiced in the evening hours, before larger audiences than ever before — with fewer injuries and in better conformity with classroom duties.
This constructive revolution in athletics is largely the work of college-trained engineers —
young men personally familiar with the needs of college and school. They are dedicating the technical experience gained in the General Electric Test Department to the practical service of undergraduate athletics—designing and installing floodlighting equipment for virtually every sport—football, baseball, hockey, tennis, and track.
Other college men in the General Electric organization have specialized in street-
lighting and floodlighting projects, or in the electrical equipment of industries and
mines or of immense power stations,- some are designing and applying electric apparatus to propel ocean liners and locomotives. All are engaged in the planning, production, or distribution of G-E products and so are performing a work of national betterment and creating for themselves recognized spheres of personal influence.
Y«m will be interested in Bulletin GEA-1206, “The Light that Started Sports at Night.” Write for it to the' nearest G-E office or to lighting Division, General Electric Company, Schenectady, New York
'	.	95-884H
GENERAL ^ELECTRIC
October 16, 1931
One
Autobiography of
Knute K. Rockne
The fascinating narrative of his life from Rockne’s t own vigorous pen . . . additional chapters by Mrs.
Rockne and the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. . . . profusely illustrated . . . much exclusive material . . . handsomely printed and bound ... an intimate, personal remembrance of the great coach. Facsimile signature and autographs. As the edition is strictly limited
To Avoid Disappointment Order Your Copy Now
THE BOOK SHOP, Exclusive Distributors, 130 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Indiana.
Please send me...............copies	of
Knute K. Rockne (Limited Edtiion) at mittance enclosed ( ) ; send C. O. D. (
the Autobiography of $5.00 the copy. Re).
Name ....................................................
Address..................................................
City ....................................................
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
It's Style—
that Counts
Buy clothing with a style reputation behind it. Buy from a store that for the past 75 years could be safely depended upon for honest values.
For this fall and winter we offer clothing made to the highest quality standard in popular University styles that will be an almost unbelievable money’s worth.
Kuppenheimer
New Value
Suits -- Topcoats $35 to $42.50
Others $22.50 to $65
Ask to see these ivhile making your guess on the next Notre Dame football game.
$25.00 in merchandise free to the one guessing the correct score.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
Downtown and on the Campus
The Scholastic
Two
Mecca For 25,000 Fans Tomorrow
October 16, 19-31
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	Bk I -	'	|	- I ’ g ■ Entered as second-class
lished weekly at the Vnivers- I B^^^ .	I J	matter at Notre, Dame, In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- B llw I 1 Vwl w m^fCIIBBIw wl I Vlwwwl w diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to — .	„	Tr.	_	,,	.	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus section nos, October 3.2917.
cations Office, Main Building.	_ TT kt -c.	, o _ _	authorized June 25, 1918.
*	r U U M U h 1) 1 o b I
NEIL C. HURLEY
HENRY B. ASWAN.
.. .Editor-in-Chief .Managing Editor
Associate Editors
WILLIAM W. CORR
MYRON CRAWFORD JOSEPH LOPKER
JAMES CARMODY
LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM BLIND
News Staff
EDMUND STEPHAN.................News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL.. .Assistant Netos Editor WALTER KENNEDY JOSEPH DEGNAN P. J. V. CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA MITCHELL TACKLEY
Department Editors PAUL J. HALLINAN..............The Week
JOHN PICK................College Parade
LOUIS E. BRENNAN..........Book Reviews
JOHN CONLEY...............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON...........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN..............Music	and Drama
Sports Staff JAMES KEARNS..............Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JAMES McFEELEY. Jr. JOSEPH KURTH EDMUND MORIARTY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN	WILLIAM FLYNN
Business Staff ANDREW McGUAN..........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER. JR.....Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, .-Iss’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.......JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY MCGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY-—Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
OCTOBER 16, 1931.
Number 4.
SUMMARY
NEWS	PAGE
University foundei" honored in sermon by Father ।	Haggerty at special services in Sacred Heart
Church __________________________________ 5
■ Sophomore Cotillion to have Herbie Kay______ 5
Fall number of Juggler makes appearance on cam.	pus; new style and drawings praised______ 6
Four Notre Dame men honored in E. J. O’Brien’s “The Best Short Stories of 1931”; six Scrip stories mentioned________________________ 9
Dillon hall to open this week, with Wednesday the probable date____________________________10
"	FEATURES	•
• Bob Gorman has a racket; its the Juggler--------12
John Ryan looks over prospects of the civic Shakespeare company___________________________13
Blue Circle once the Boosters’ club, by Tighe Woods— 14
“There’s Only One Fifty Yard Line,” says Haley_15
’	EDITORIALS
Ballyhooed Bouquets; The Memory of Rockne______19
SPORTS
Notre Dame opens home grid season against Drake tomorrow ________________________________ 5
Blue and Gold play 0-0 tie with Northwestern last >	week in rain and mud_____________________20
Joe Switzer wins Burke fall golf tournament_22
Tom Conley is having successful first year as coach at LaSalle college_______________________24
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Oct. 16—Scholastic staff meetings, editorial board, Publications office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., 222 Main building.—Scholarship club dance, 8:30 p. m., Palais Royale ballroom.
SATURDAY, Oct. 17—Football, Drake vs. Notre Dame, 2:00 p. m., Stadium.—Football, Notre Dame “B” team vs. Northwestern “B” team at Dyche stadium, Evanston.—Cross-country, Quadrangular meet at "Evanston. —Movies, “Trader Horn,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.
SUNDAY, Oct. 18—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.—Presidents’ Council meeting, 10:30 a. m., North basement, Library.
MONDAY, Oct. 19—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 2, Main building.—Northern New York club meeting, 7:30 p. m., East Room,.Walsh hall.—Bookmen meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law building.
TUESDAY, Oct. 20—Press club meeting, 7:00 p. m., journalism room of the Library.
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 21—Spanish club meeting, 7:00 p. m., East Room, Walsh hall.
THURSDAY, Oct. 22—Wranglers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law building.—Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Howard hall “rec.”	■
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
Tone-poem
HE torrent of tributes to Rockne which the first gridiron clashes of this fall released includes the significant tone-poem of Ferdie Grofe, “The Life of Knute Rockne.” As played by Whiteman’s symphonic band on the eve of the Northwestern battle, it expressed to many, as pages and monuments have not, the real Rockne.
It opens with the elemental three-note refrain that reminds you of the eighteen generations of Rockne’s ancestors that his family tree reveals. Back to Filippus Erlendsen in the 14th century this music takes you. A romantic theme follows, until the Victory March is triumphantly introduced in stirring tempo.
Knute Rockne playing a cornet in the Notre Dame band is a picture that is not familiar to many. Mr. Grofe’s composition symbolizes to some that side of his career as well as the many others that made him an international figure.
Book of destinies
ANDITRY, gigolo-ing, and professional gambling are not included in the huge collection of career-pamphlets at the desk of the University Library. Hotel management, pharmacy and the diplomatic service are among those that are.
That the compilation is used considerably by the students is indicated by the fact that all the pamphlets are out of place. In searching for No. 9, the one on publishing, you may be sufficiently intrigued by the photograph on the cover of, say, Animal Husbandry, that you will immediately change your galley-proofs for a milk-can.
That the books probably will be responsible for many a destiny of present Notre Dame men is almost as apparent as the disorderly arrangement. Freshmen will find there a common-sense statement of the requirements of this or that profession. The authors are evidently men who know because they are near the top of their own professional pyramid.
Five funny fellows
RESH from the imaginative minds of Edmondson, Moynihan, Cook, Fagan and O’Brien came the first Juggler of Notre Dame. That was in December, 1919, after five feverish days of preparation.
Almost twelve now, La Jongleur last night again danced into the rooms of the campus. Besides wearing the traditional green of the frosh and blue-and-gold of football, the magazine had a soft autumnal shade that was Bob Gorman’s own idea. In as merry a mood as ever, it snatched first-year quarters out of first-year pockets while it mocked first-year antics.
The Juggler has grown since that five-men, five-day start. Its staff now numbers 14; its contributors run to hundreds. The “five” tradition comes down, however, in a most practical, 1931 manner. Each month, the best written copy, the best art work merits five dollars. Staff members sigh; the contest is for outside contributors only.
The last midland
HERE is little roar or hum to the printing of The Midland. An unostentatious magazine of the high aim, it fits quietly into the middle-western literary fabric. Some 1,200 read its bimonthly compilation of fiction and poetry that Mencken has called “the most important in America.”
Notre Dame shares somewhat in the praise that comes Midland. An unostentatious magazine of high aim, ber of our faculty after a professorship at Iowa, Minnesota Normal, Pittsburgh and Northwestern. A frequent contributor is the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., also a member of the department of English. ‘
Because of these affiliations and because of the genuine worth of the modest magazine, it will be a disappointment to many to know that in December The Midland will cease, unless subscriptions or gifts are pledged for next year.	'
ILCLOTH OVER CHICAGO
NE counter in each of Chicago’s small-change emporia was jammed with customers Saturday in the pre-game downpour. Oilcloth was sold by the yard, and in the case of a certain lanky sophomore, by the bolt. At the game it covered a multitude of shins.
It wasn’t the only pall over what promised, at eight o’clock in the morning, to be a gala football holiday for Notre Dame. The desperate 0-0 battle staged by the rain-soaked men on the field was a keen disappointment.
Of course, the team hasn’t been beaten in 21 starts. And the oilcloth and gloom lifted soon after the game. One synthetic alumnus who crooned the “Hike Song” in an alcoholic falsetto, and had evidently never seen the campus, bellowed in a hotel soon after the game, “What’s the use of gettin’ so mournful?” Hundreds heard him and acted.
CHESS LIKE THAT?
HARTARUNGA was what the Chinese played when they pushed little figures around a board. Now it’s called chess. More Notre Dame men play bridge than the complicated board-game, but some know their rooks, pawns, bishops, and check-mates.
Unlike Steinitz, the chess wizard who, blindfolded, played 14 games simultaneously, an indoor sportsman now wants to play chess by mail with some Notre Dame student. His invitation appeared in last week’s Scholas-. tic, and by now several have picked up the glove of challenge. The outsider’s selection of a Notre Dame man for an opponent must .have evolved from a consideration of the technique with which a certain other sport is played here.
The proposed joust may become of national significance if the band can be talked into accompanying the postman each time he delivers the latest move. The logical man to represent the University would be one of these “ten-year plan” freshmen who might finish a chess rubber before getting his diploma.
(. -
October 16, 1931
Five
DRAKE HERE TOMORROW
UNIVERSITY FOUNDER HONORED IN SERVICES
Fighting Irish Face Scrappy Bulldogs In Initial Game of Home Season
Father Haggerty Tells Of Life Of Father Sorin.
The Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University left a rich heritage for Notre Dame men for all time, Reverend Patrick J. Haggerty, C.S.C., declared in a sermon Tuesday morning during special services in Sacred Heart church in honor of the founder. Telling how Father Sorin, when at the age of 26 arrived in New York on Sept. 13, 1841, Father Haggerty declared that Father Sorin’s first act was to kneel and kiss the soil of his adopted country. “For there and then,” said Father Haggerty, “Father Sorin resolved that the United States, which was to be the field of his future labors, was also to be his permanent abode. In spirit he became at that moment an American citizen, and his loyalty to his adopted country increased, with the years.”
A solemn high Mass was celebrated by the Reverend Leo Gorman, C.S.C., assisted by the Reverend Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., as deacon, and the Reverend William McNamara, C.S.C., as' subdeacon.
Father Haggerty traced Father Sorin’s steps through the wilderness from New York to Vincennes, Ind., and then told how he took over the missionary work of Father Badin on Nov. 27, 1842 and immediately began to lay the foundation of what is now the University of Notre Dame.
“There is one big fact in Father Sorin’s life that I wish to call to your attention, and that was his faith, the indomitable faith of our founder, his absolute confidence in God and Notre Dame, Our Lady,” said Father Haggerty. “It was this power, this drive, that overcame all obstacles. Without money, without credit, without endowment, without state help, this wonderful man inspired by his love of the Blessed Mother—Notre Dame, and confident of her intercession undertook a work that even the modem capitalist would shrink from.”
Herbie Kay to Play For Sophs At the Cotillion
Herbie Kay and his orchestra will provide the music for the Sophomore Cotillion at the Palais Royale on November 6, it was announced today by Thomas Dwyer, chairman of the Orchestra committee.
Kay is now playing at the Radio Show in Milwaukee and broadcasting over WTMJ, but November will find him back in Chicago. He last broadcasted over a hook-up of fifty-nine stations. For the past two years Kay has held sway at the Aragon and Trianon Ballrooms in Chicago where he was featured over WGN.
Concurrently comes the annuonce-ment that the invitations will be available by October 21. They will be unique in design bearing the coat of arms of the University. Hall representatives in charge of the distribution of invitations are: Duester, Desnoyers, Griffin, in Morrissey; Miller and Kotte in Lyons; Mulvihill and Venables in St. Edward’s.
J. Albert Smith, chairman of the committee on tickets, has announced that tickets for the cotillion are now on sale. The representatives in the respective halls are: R. Michael Fox, H. McGowan, W. J. Higgins, and E. Hallower in St. Edward’s; G. Blish, E. Sherman, D. Brennan, and R. Van Lahr in Lyons; J. Shine, D. Brick, J. Quirk, and G. Belting in Morrissey. R. Kelley and R. Forest are the off-campus representatives.
The committee on arrangements will gladly serve any class member preparing for the cotillion. This organization will provide information regarding reduced rates for hotel reservations, transportation, and various other conveniences.
James Dunnigan, chairman of decorations committee in union with Mr. Reden, manager of the Palais Royale, is now devising a scheme for decorating the ballroom fittingly for the event.
Solem Adopts N. D. Style For lowans; Past Games Point To Hard-fought Battle.
By James S. Kearns
Notre Dame’s annual “breather”— that sometimes isn’t one — comes again tomorrow. Drake University of Des Moines, Iowa, will open the home season of the Fighting Irish in Notre Dame Stadium at two o’clock.
This aggregation of Bulldogs may be an easy game. On the other hand they may be a very worthy opponent. They have been both in past years. Notre Dame’s National Champs of 1929 went into the fourth quarter of their Drake game on the short end of a 7-6 score. Last year the well coached charges of Ossie Solem made the longest successful march of the year against the Blue and Gold regulars when they drove from their own twenty yard line to a score without a hesitation.
This year, however, many of the names that made Drake dangerous are missing from the lineup. Lynn King, Chuck VanKoten and Waldo Don Carlos are all gone. Such a loss as that must hurt the efficiency of any football team.
Captain Johnny Briley is back at left end and should be much in evidence tomorrow afternoon with the bare-headed high speed recklessness that has always marked his defensive play. Blanck, Bowers, Kokjohn and Glass are other veterans in the forward wall. Only Lansrud at fullback remains of the backfield that pounded the Blue and Gold line so hard a year ago.
New men have showed up well in Drakes two early season victories. Lindstron, Weiland, and Goodwin have teamed with Lansrud in the ball toting department as the Bulldogs rolled over Simpson college 2 to 0 and Creighton 26 to 0. The line of the Des Moines eleven to date has been practically puncture-proof.
Another feature of tomorrow’s bat-
(Continued on Page 29)
Six
The Scholastic
COMMERCE FORUM MEETS
McCarthy Urges Cynicism Toward Traditionalism.
The first meeting of the Commerce Forum was held Wednesday evening. The purpose and qualifications for membership were discussed by President Lane before one hundred and fifty students.
Dean McCarthy, the principal speaker of the evening, urged the members to continue their regular attendance by predicting a great year for the Forum. During this present economic period the most serious problems ever to face business men have arisen, he stated, and since the Forum’s purpose is to disucss the present day problems the meetings should be instructive.
Grid Dance Permissions
The Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, announced in an official bulletin early this week that extension of permissions until 12:30 a. m. in places of residence will be extended to all those attending the football dance this fall. Extensions will be granted by the rectors upon presentation of tickets before the dance.
The dances this fall will be held on the night of all home games at the Knights of Columbus hall under auspices approved by the S. A. C.
Lost and Found
Books belonging to the following have been turned in at the Lost and Found Office in the Main building: Clifford Lennon, John Sageman, Otto Smalk, G. Brant Little, Charles Leb-ert, Charles Sheedy, Neil Farrell, Vincent Donoghue, Timothy Murphy, Joseph Levok, Bernard Gonug, Richard Fitzgerald, John Penote, William Fitzgerald, Jerry Lynn Arthur C. Smith, Philip Hexler, J. Devers, Rob Sullivan, Leo Newman.
Note books bearing these names have also been found:
George O’Brien, James O’Mara, Bill Slater, Lloyd Morgan, William Walsh, Jerome Meseruey, Joseph Kaley, Neil Farrell, Eugene O’Brien, Cyril Theissen, John Davis, Molten ■ Hayden, Robert Sullivan, Donald Harrick.	•
ENGINEERS WILL HOLD INITIATION IN GYM; FACULTY INVITED
Plans for the Engineers club initiation, to be held in the Notre Dame gym Wednesday evening, October 21 have been completed. Final arrangements were made at a meeting held in the auditorium of the Law building Wednesday night, October 15. Raymond Pfeiffer, president of the organization, announced that new apparatus and schemes will be used this year. In accordance with past traditions a King and Queen were chosen to rule over the festivities. John Perone will be “King Ungala” and Regis McNamara will portray the lithe “Queen Orifice.”
Members of the Engineering faculty are invited to attend. Refreshments will be provided for the 400 members .expected to be present Nearly all freshmen engineers have signified their intention of joining and those who have not should make haste to do so, for initiation night is the deadline for new members.
All frosh are advised to wear track suits and to use the north door of the gym. Upper class engineers must present their membership cards at the front entrance for admission.
PROFESSOR DUBOIS NEW FRENCH CLUB ADVISOR
The French club, temporarily abandoned because of the loss of its faculty director, Father Hoffman, has taken a new lease of life and will function again this year under the leadership of Professor Benjamin G. Dubois, of the department of French. No academic credit will be given this year for membership and attendance in the French club, and only those students having had at least two years of French will be admitted to the club.
The aims of the organization will be to promote conversation in French among the club members, and to discuss various phases of French culture. The first meeting will be held Monday, October 19, at 6:30 p. m. in Room 3 of the Main building.
Do you know that according to scientific calculations, the human body is worth seventy-three cents, chemically speaking?
OSTEOPATHS SPEAK
Academy of Science Is Host To Noted Physicians.
The Notre Dame Academy of Science and the students of the College of Science heard two nationally known osteopathic physicians Thursday night at an open meeting of the Academy in the Law building. Dr. Russel C. McCaughn, of Kokomo, Indiana, executive secretary of the American Osteopathic Association, and Dr. Wallace M. Pearson, of Chicago, who is an instructor in practice courses at the Chicago College of Osteopathy, were the speakers of the evening.
President John F. Werner, of the Academy, opened the meeting by introducing the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., who, in turn, presented Dr. Rauch, well known South Bend osteopath. Dr. Rauch, a former student at the University, gave a few interesting recollections of classes under Father Wenninger before introducing Dr. McCaughn.
Dr. McCaughn, a native-born Hoosier and graduate of the University of Indiana, told his listeners of the foundation of the science of osteopathy in 1874. Andrew Still, at the age of 46 and after practicing medicine for a number of years, announced two theories upon which this type of therapy is based. The first of these theories was that the human body has within it all the vital forces necessary for immunity; and the second, that if the body is mechanically perfect, it will function properly.
Dr. Pearson continued with a most interesting and highly instructive talk, the most pertinent point of which was, perhaps, to the effect that 75 per cent of all children between the ages of twelve and twenty have poor body mechanics. He concluded the evening’s program with a short outline of the training and curriculum of the schools of osteopathy, which are now six in number in this country.
Chemists* Club Convenes
The opening meeting of the Chemists’ club was held in Chemistry hall Wednesday, Oct. 14. President Toussaint outlined the program for the year.
Ed Donahue and John Fitzpatrick gave an interesting demonstration of the Frasch process of mining sulphur. Mr. Fitzpatrick gave a talk on the history, development and practical applications of the process.
October 16, 1931
Seven
PRE-LAW CLUB MEETS; WILL AIM TO PROVIDE WEEKLY SPEAKERS
N.	D. JUGGLER MAKES 1931 DEBUT;
LOPKER’S “ROCKNE” FEATURE ISSUE
The Pre-Law club will hold its second meeting of the year next Tuesday night, October 20, in the Law building. The club is sponsored by the Law club and is open to any of the members of the various colleges.
Its purpose is to help future lawyers to become acquainted with the law before they enter the law school, and to facilitate acquaintanceship between the members.
It is the aim of the club officers to have a prominent speaker address the members at each meeting. At the last meeting, held Tuesday evening, October 6, Edward J. England, president of the Law club, was the principal speaker.
Sophomores and Juniors are encouraged to take a full share in the activities of the organization. To date, the club has suffered from a dearth of upperclassmen. Of the total number of sixty members, the great majority are freshmen.
This year’s officers are: Francis Fallon, president; George Meyers, vice-president; George Riley, secretary, and Don Martin, treasurer.
EXPERIMENT PERFORMED AT CHEMISTS* MEETING
The first meeting of the Chemists’ club was held on Wednesday evening October 14, at 7:30 in Chemistry hall. Important business was discussed by the members.
Messrs. Fitzpartick and Donohue instructed and entertained the members and students interested in chemistry, who were invited to attend the meeting, by performing an interesting experiment. They showed that water can be frozen by the effects of its own evaporation. A vacuum produced by chemical means gave the water a liberal opportunity to vaporize, while through the agency of sulfuric acid the vapors thus liberated were quickly absorbed. They succeeded in obtaining a considerable quantity of ice.
New Staff Members
The editorial board of the Scholastic this week announced the addition to the news staff of Mitchell Tackley, and P. J. V. Corcoran.
The Thirteenth Annual Juggler, Edited by Bob Gorman, Receives Critic’s Praise
By John E. Ryan
Editor Robert E. Gorman, having donned the cap and bells of the Funny Fellow, last evening stepped before the curtain for his initial bow. In the crook of his elbow he carried the Autumn Numbei- of the Juggler. Rumor had circulated about the stage door to the effect that the Funny Fellow would have a good act, but the estimate was a conservative one, first-nighters agreed. The Funny Fellow, in fact, has “wowed” his patrons.
In this, his thirteenth annual appearance, he has outdone the expectations of those who knew him best. Every act of the Autumn Number carries something genuinely new, from the Freshman Heroes to the ad for Whitman candies. A greater portion of the material in the book is of local origin than ever before, yet it is not provincial in that people outside the University would not understand the gags. Editor Gorman has achieved in his first performance the ambition of every college editor, to publish at least one issue of original material which will be appreciated by those unacquainted with campus life. For this achievement his audience
SPEECH STUDENTS AND CONTEST ORATORS MEET
Students interested in public speaking or in entering speaking contests are asked to meet in room 406 of the Main building, Monday, October 19, at 12:30 o’clock.
Contestants for the Breen Oratorical medal are especially urged to attend this meeting. The Breen contest is held annually by the Public Speaking department of the University and is open to students of all classes. Speeches for this contest must be original, and are not to exceed ten minutes duration.
The preliminary meeting for the contest will be held in the latter part of November.
applauds freely, wishing him continued success.
The opening act, as we are accustomed to have it, is by the Old Maestro of the art staff and Alumni hall, Joe Lopker, whose work in the season past was instrumental in bringing national recognition to the Juggler’s art work. The Lopker signature appears time and again in this issue, with other artists working in here and there. The portrait of the late Mr. Rockne is not only the best thing that Lopker has done, but is possibly the best portrait of the bereaved coach that has appeared in the press.
Coach Otto Umph, B. R. T., writes a feature article on football which every student of the game, as the advertisers would say, should look into. The story is replete with hints as to how one should attend a game, and marks Coach Otto as a keen observer of human nature. The drawings foi* the story also indicate that Dick Prezebel is a comer.
The opener for this season, at any event, is an excellent contribution to the career of the Juggler, which, with F. F. Gorman as editor, should reach greater heights than ever before.
A. B LECTURES TO BE INAUGURATED SOON
Freshmen from the College of Arts and Letters are requested to note that a series of lectures to be given in Washington hall will be inaugurated in the near future.
Father Miltner, Dean of the College, announced this week-end the complete list of the lecturers, their subjects, and the dates of the speeches will be made out shortly and will appear in the next issue of the Scholastic.
Each year a series of similar addresses are given to the freshmen in the College. The lectures are compulsory for the freshmen and are open to any other students in the University.
The Scholastic
Eight
65,000 SPECTATORS SOAK IN DRIVING
RAIN SATURDAY AS TEAMS BATHE
Notables of Nation Present; Even Al Capone Stops Over to Soldier’s Field
By Henry B. Asman
Special dispatch from a Staff Correspondent.
Soldiers’ Field, Chicago, Oct. 10.— Two-bands blared out at Soldier field last Saturday to herald the meeting of Notre Dame and Northwestern. From all the mid-west came throngs of spectators, slushing in mud, and to be drenched in the rain. All walks of life were represented in that waterlogged mob that roared and cursed at the antics of old Jupiter Pluvius. Judges, senators, lawyers, doctors, prominent clerics, leading executives, politicians and gangsters were here to swell the drab, yet colorful crowd, to 65,000.
Sports writers from all points of the compass were present. Prominent men of the nation’s business drowned in their box seats. This latter group included Samuel Insull, well known in the utilities field. Likewise the members of the South Park Board were here and saw their gridiron torn up by muddy cleats.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., braved the rain and wind of the day to see the team battle to a 0-0 tie. Father O’Donnell had been confined to the Infirmary throughout the week and it was an exhibition of Notre Dame loyalty that he was there. Among his guests were several notable bishops of the Church in America, and at least two prominent business men swelled his fifty-yard line box.
South Bend provided its share of notables at the stadium. Mayor W. Riley Hinkle, of this city; Frank Mayr, Jr., Secretary of State for Indiana; George M. Studebaker, Joseph D. Oliver, Jacob Hoffman, A. R. Erskine, Vincent Bendix, G. A. Fara-baugh, George L. O’Brien, and Samuel Pettengill, Representative from this district, were present.
Among the faces glimpsed through the murk was that of Senator James E. Watson of Indiana who is mentioned as a probable choice for the
Republican candidacy for vice-president. With him in his box were several of the leading business men of Chicago, who attend most of the Notre Dame games.
Al Capone managed to get a day off from the Federal court to witness the game rather than look at his own earnings for the past few years. The only missiles he saw Saturday afternoon were the footballs that flew from the educated toes of Ollie Olson and Marchy Schwartz.
Prominent among those in the press box were the announcers, Quin Ryan of WGN and Pat Flanagan of WBBM, while the remaining six booths were occupied with other stations that carried the news of the battle throughout the nation. Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, and Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, filed stories on the game for the morning papers. Ralph Cannon, college sports editor of the Chicago Daily News, wrote the story that appeared in that paper’s Blue Streak edition. Indeed, sport writers from nearly every large paper in America were present at this touted big game of the year. Damon Runyan, Mark Kelly, Grantland Rice, Eddie Gieger, Jimmy Corcoran, Frank Wallace, and others of national importance fairly bulged the press coop. Harry Sylvester, former Scholastic sports editor, filed the running account for the New York Evening Post.
The entire scene was a gatheringplace for men and women prominent in every field. From Hollywood came Joe E. Brown, Ricardo Cortez, Ronald Colman, Lionel Barrymore, Ruth Chatterton, Barbara Stanwyck, and Mary Brian.
It was a day where the famous and infamous, the rich and the poor, the beggar and the banker, the jurist and the criminal rubbed shoulders as they attempted to dodge the. downpour of falling rain-drops.
MET. CLUB PLANS ARMY GAME EXCURSION FOR FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS
The Metropolitan club held its first j meeting Monday night, October 5, in Brownson “Rec.” President Kosky	£
commended the large number of	|
members who had turned out for the meeting, and urged that this spirit | be continued throughout the year.	g
The club has made tentative ar-rangements to run a special train to | the Army game in November. The i round-trip price has been set at	g
forty-five dollars,	and includes the	£
price of a berth.	This excursion is	|
to be made in conjunction with the New Jersey club.	r.
It was decided,	after a majority	|
vote had been taken, that part of the I proceeds from the summer dance	|
should be given to charity.	|
Father Reynolds, club chaplain,	|
urged the new members to take part | in campus activities and to distin- 1 guish themselves. He pointed proudly | to the fact that the men from the metropolitan district have left an i enviable record after them.
Before the meeting closed, each freshman was introduced in order to facilitate his making of acquaintance with the other members.
Lost and Found Notes
Articles belonging to the following students have been found and turned in at the office for lost and found in the old book store in the Main building.
Otto J. Marek; T. G. Sweeney; Charles Woods; G. Brant Little; Leo Charles Ledet; Philip Trexler; Arthur C. Smith, Jr.; Jerry A. Lynn; Robert B. Jaynes; William J. Fitzgerald; Bob Morrisey; John Penote; Clifford Lennon; Cyril Theissen; John Dairs; Walter Layden; and Paul Hyme.
Two watches have also been found and are available at the office to the owners upon describing them.
Hoyer Addresses Scouts
Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department, spoke to several hundred Boy Scouts and their parents at the Court of Honor Tuesday night. The affair was held in the South Bend Court. House. The Scouts not only represented the troops in the city but also those located in St.- Joseph and Marshall Counties. Professor Hoyer took as his topic “A Scout’s Opportunities.”
October 16, 1931
Nine
CASASANTA ANNOUNCES COMPLETE PERSONNEL OF N. D. ORCHESTRA
SCRIP WRITERS HONORED RY O'BRIEN IN HIS LATEST SHORT STORY REVIEW
Students who have made permanent parts as members of the “Jugglers,” the popular orchestra of Notre Dame, were announced by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music.
The complete personnel follows: Al Brasseur, 1st trumpet; Paul Guar-neiri, 2nd trumpet; W. A. Stewart, trombone; Al Scharbach, 2nd B flat tenor saxophone; Robert Filson, 1st E flat' Alto saxophone; Robert J. Demer, 3rd E flat Alto saxophone; Leonard Kenkel, piano; Gerald A. Barry, drums; George Bryan, sousa-phone and Harold H. Dolister, banjo.
The student director of the orchestra is W. A. Stewart. The organization is opening its fifth season at the University and already has several appointments. The orchestra will furnish music for the S.A.C. dance at the K. of C. home, October 17, this being their first engagement of the year.
'	Prof. Casasanta also announced that
। the names of the rest of the men who I tried out will be placed on the re-I serve list awaiting call.
Father Ward, Brennan, Clemens and McCabe Acclaimed by Outstanding Critic
WALKER PRIZE CONTEST FOR 1932 IS IN GEOLOGY
Two prizes, founded by the late Dr. William Johnson Walker, are annually offered by the Boston Society of Natural History for the best memoirs written in the English language, on subjects proposed by the Board of Trustees.
For the best memoirs presented, a prize of sixty dollars may be awarded; if, however, the memoir be one of marked merit, the amount may be increased to one hundred dollars, at the discretion of the Walker Prize Committee.
For the next best memoir, a prize not exceeding fifty dollars may be awarded. Prizes will not be awarded unless the memoirs presented are of adequate merit.
The competition for these prizes is not restricted, but is open to all. It is nevertheless the tradition of the Society that the founder of these prizes intended them more in the nature of encouragement to young naturalists than as rewards for the work of mature investigators.
By William W. Corr
The Best Short Stories of 1931 has recently been issued carrying with it a note of prime significance for all Notre Dame men. This scholarly publication edited by Edward J. O’Brien is the recognized authority on the short story in our modern world. Careful study and planning is necessary to maintain the high standard which is the distinctive mark of this book.
Seven stories by Notre Dame men were considered worthy of recognition by the leading critic of the short story art. “The Threshing Ring,” by the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., which appeared in the Midland in the summer of 1930, was reprinted in the body of the book. This story which receives three asterisks is a masterful character portrayal which accurately depicts the lives of people at harvest time in any small rural community in the undeveloped regions of the western plains.
Scrip was signally honored by Mr. O’Brien. Six stories which appeared in that periodical were considered worthy of mention. “The Way Home” by Louis E. Brennan was given three asterisks and placed on the honor roll. Space limitations were the sole cause for this story being left out of the body of the book in its entirety.
Another story by Louis Brennan, “A Realist Looks At Christmas,” was given two asterisks as was “Sulky” by Joseph McCabe. “Last Night” by Joseph Clemens (the pseudonym of a prominent student author) was also considered worthy of two asterisks.
“Hill Clearing” and “What She Wanted To Do” by George Mattingly Spalding each received one star in the index of stories for the year. Spalding, who was graduated last year, was the winner of the Ladies’ Home Journal short story contest. This contest, held last spring, offered a prize of $500 for the best short story by an undergraduate.
According to Mr. O’Brien the two
asterisks denote stories which “lay convincing claim to a second reading, because each of them has survived the test of substance and the test of form.” The Honor Roll stories are listed with three asterisks and are those considered worthy of republication. Mr. O’Brien says of these stories: “I have recorded the names of a small group of stories which possess, I believe, the even finer distinction of uniting genuine substance and artistic form in a closely woven pattern with such sincerity that these stories may fairly claim a position in American literature.”
That a Notre Dame student was the author of such a story reflects the literary ability of this campus. This recognition by a noteworthy commentator brings to the minds of the campus the excellence of the matter contained in the student literary quarterly, Scrip.
Mr. O’Brien lists for his readers his principles of selection in these words: “I have set myself the task of disengaging the essential human qualities in our contemporary fiction, which, when chronicled conscientiously by our literary artists, may fairly be called a criticism of life.” It is a mark of honor and distinction that seven stories by Notre Dame men should meet this rigid test of literary quality which Mr. O’Brien has pledged himself to observe.
Bookmen Hold Meeting
The Bookmen held their regular meeting last Monday night in the west seminar room of the Law building. Many of the books have arrived and the members who were present received these copies.
The next meeting will be held next Monday at the same time and place. Mr. Camille McCole of the English department will address the members. By that time the remaining books will be on hand and all the rest of the members will be supplied-.
Ten
The Scholastic
ST. THOMAS COLLEGE IS CONTRIBUTOR TO DRIVE
To Solicit Funds at Game With Scranton Sunday.
Football fans who attend the game in Scranton, Pa., between St. Thomas College of Scranton and St. Bonaventure College of Allegany, N. Y. next Sunday, October 18, will be given opportunity to contribute to the Rockne Memorial Field House Fund between the halves by placing donations in envelopes.
A. R. Erskine, general chairman of the Rockne Memorial Campaign, was notified of the plan by John M. Cuff, Athletic Director of St. Thomas College in Scranton. The method of collecting free-will contributions is similar to that originated at the Southern California-St. Mary’s game in Los Angeles, Saturday, September 26, when 81785.45 was contributed.
In advising Mr. Erskine of the proposed plan for taking up the collection, Mr. Cuff wired: “It is the sincere desire of St. Thomas College to do its part in assisting your committee in its noble work of erecting a suitable memorial to the memory of that great gentleman and coach Knute K. Rockne. It is our understanding that Saturday, November 14, will be observed by leading colleges as ‘Rockne Day’ in tribute to the great genius who was so suddenly taken from us. We feel that Knute was closer to us than most colleges because of the fact that he was our guest speaker at our annual alumni banquet three years ago at which time thousands of Scran-tonians were privileged to enjoy his keen sense of humor and his word of counsel and advice.
“Not having a game scheduled for November 14, Scranton will be invited to join with St. Thomas in paying its tribute on Sunday, October 18 at Scranton.”
On behalf of the National Coaches Association of which he is president, John T. “Chick” Meehan, head football coach at New York University, is requesting college and high school coaches and authorities throughout the country to arrange for collections of contributions at all games played Saturday, November 14, which is to be observed at “Rockne Day.”
Campus Opinions
Campus Opinions
DILLON OPENS THIS WEEK
Question: “Are yon in favor of Notre Dame playing a post-season game?”
John V. Ryan, Jr., Dillon hall, freshman: “In the event that Notre Dame goes through its schedule undefeated and some other team of prominence does likewise, the idea would be a good one. But the schedule of games lined up for Notre Dame is a tough one, so why risk a reputation when there is little to gain and much to lose?”
R. J. Donahue, Dillon hall, freshman: “I do not believe that Notre Dame should play any post-season football games. To be sure of weather conditions suitable for the game, the setting would have to be either in the south or the far west and it is my opinion that a game in these parts would not draw a very large attendance. Notre Dame has a long enough schedule as it is; why subject the team to the strain of extra games?”
Ray Gilger, Morrissey hall, sophomore: “I do not believe that Notre Dame should play a post-season game. As it is, the team carries a very heavy schedule, so why burden it with more? If it goes undefeated this season, why give some other team a chance to spoil this record?”
Rolly Schefter, Howard hall, junior: “Personally I do not think Notre Dame should play any post-season games on account of the team having such a hard schedule and because it requires so much work on the players’ part. Then, too, that much more time is taken from their studies. The season is long enough as it is now.”
Melvin R. Ellis, Badin hall, junior: "We believe in and preach the principle of moderation in all things. All well and good. Let’s have a little moderation in our football program! Not only the team but everyone else is thrown into a maelstrom of excitement which lasts nine weeks. Let’s bring football back to earth! Nine games are too many; why make it ten?”
300 Students To Move Into New Dormitory.
Three hundred freshmen, at present living off-campus, will be housed in Dillon hall by next Wednesday. Approximately eighty-five per cent of the students will then be living on the ground.
The chapel in Dillon, a student memorial to Knute Rockne, called the Shrine of St. Olaf, will not be completed for some time. The altar and tablet in the chapel is furnished by the donations of students. A statue of St. Olaf will be the gift of Mrs. Rockne and family.
Most of the work remaining in Dillon is of an interior sort. Windows must be inserted, furniture moved in, and the floors completely finished before it will be ready for occupancy.
PROMINENT PROFESSOR LECTURES HERE TONITE
The lecture in Washington hall last evening given by Professor Etienne Gilson of Paris, France drew an unusually large audience. Professor Gilson spoke on the “Concept of Christian Philosophy.” The address will be given again this evening at eight o’clock.
In his talk the professor expounded on the subject in which he is so well versed. He is at present, the Director at the Institute of Medieval Studies at St. Michael’s College, Toronto, Ontario.
Mr. Gilson is also Director of Studies at the School of Applied Higher Religious Studies of Paris.
The professor is an author as well as an orator. He has written many splendid treatises on the philosophy of the middle ages among which are “The Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas” and “Moral Values and the Moral Life.” The latter work was translated into English from the French by Reverend Leo Richard Ward, C.S.C., of the University.
Student Directory Printed
The official Student Directory is now in the hands of the printer and will be ready for distribution in a short ( time according to an announcement ^ ^ made this week by Robert B, Ridr>^^ dan, Registrar.	'
October 16, 1931
Eleven
DOME PHOTOS POSTPONED
Work Beginning Today Will Continue Three Weeks.
The photographic work for the Dome of 1932 was under way today, having been delayed from last Tuesday. Work will continue for at least three weeks until the pictures of all seniors, juniors, and campus clubs have been taken. All of the photography is to be done in the south room of the Walsh hall basement.
According to Paul J. Hallinan, who is directing the work, appointment assignment lists were completed for all of today, tomorrow morning, and all of Monday and Tuesday. He urges all those to whom appointment cards have been sent to return them to him as soon as possible in order that the rest of the lists may be completed, and further reminds those who are to be photographed to wear a coat, a white shirt, and a necktie.
GLEE CLUB PERSONNEL TO BE REDUCED SOON
Eliminations in the personnel of the Notre Dame Glee club will begin next Monday according to an announcement made this week by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music. The final list of members will be selected by Nov. 1.
One hundred and fifty students from the various classes at the University are at present rehearsing each noon. The Glee club personnel will consist of seventy-five members.
This year’s Glee club promises to be one of the best in the history of the school. Comment on the results of the broadcast last Friday evening at Chicago for the Armour Company over the N. B. C. system, have been most complimentary. The company’s officials reported that the program was the best given to date by the Glee club, it being the fourth annual broadcast given by the students for Armour.
Philosophy Profs Meet
Professors and instructors in the Department of Philosophy at Notre Dame will begin their regular meetings next Monday, October 19.
The first meeting will be held in the conference room of the general offices at 7:45 o’clock in the evening. All members of the faculty of the department are urged to attend.
65,000 Fans Pay $270,000 To See Irish Tie Purple
Gross receipts from the North-western-Notre Dame charity football game at Soldier’s field on Saturday amounted to approximately §270,000, according to figures made public last night by K. ’ L. Wilson, athletic director of Northwestern university. The attendance was in the neighborhood of 65,000, about 63,000 seats being sold at four dollars each and about 2,300 box seats at seven dollars.
Although exact figures were not available, Wilson said Notre Dame’s share was estimated at §105,000 representing the amount that Notre Dame would have realized had the game been played at its stadium, as originally scheduled. Expenses were approximately §13,000. Northwestern was reimbursed for the §100,000 which it advanced to the governor’s unemployment fund when the game was agreed upon last winter and the interest of approximately §5,000 paid on the money borrowed to make the advance to charity.
The balance of §47,000 will go into Northwestern’s athletic fund.
Hayward At Purdue Meeting
Professof J. W. Hayward, director of the department of agriculture at Notre Dame, is attending the convention of the Indiana State Poultry association being held at Purdue university, Lafayette, Ind., Thursday and Friday, October 15 and 16. .
It is of interest to note the cosmopolitan character of the students enrolled in the department of agriculture this year. The enrollment includes a full-bdooded Indian from Oklahoma, a Mexican, a Filipino and a Chilean.
Dr. Miller To Speak Here
Dr. G. R. Miller, head of the department of chemistry at Goshen college, Goshen, Ind., and who received his degree of Ph.D. in organic chemistry from the University of Iowa, will be the speaker at the first meeting of the American Chemical Society, to be held next Wednesday veening, October 21, at 7:30 p. m. in Chemistry hall. The public and all students interested in chemistry are invited to attend.
SPECTATORS ADDRESSED BY PRESIDENT OF CLUB
Stephan Gives Talk On British Financial Difficulties.
The Spectators held their first formal meeting of the year last Thursday evening in the journalism room of the library. The speaker of the evening was Edmund A. Stephan, president of the club, who chose as his topic “England, after its economic crisis.”
After tracing the economic history of England from the industrial to the period of the World War, a span of time during which Great Britain achieved unequalled prestige in .the commercial world, Stephan went on to show that from about 1920 on that country has been on a financial decline. The causes of England’s present crisis, the speaker claimed, can be attributed in part to Churchill’s Gold Act of 1925, and to the enormous burden that the English populace has been forced to carry in raising sufficient money each year for payments on the §35,000,000,000 war debt and for the upkeep of the dole fund.
Stephan concluded his talk by expressing the opinion that many years will not have passed before New York has replaced London as the financial center of the world.
The talk and particularly the closing statement regarding London’s future gave rise to considerable discussion among the members. Some were of the opinion that England’s undying confidence in her own ability will tide her over the present difficulties, which the suspension of the gold standard has made so acute. England, it was argued, because of her past activity and geographical position is the natural leader in the world of finance, and when economic conditions as a whole return to normalcy the world will again find her out in front.
Pettit Heads Probation Society
Professor Maurice L. Pettit, of the department of sociology of the University, was elected president of the Indiana Probation association at a meeting in Indianapolis on October 12, 1931. Mr. Pettit has long been active in probation work in South Bend and in the East.
Twelve
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus»»Bob Gorman
EDITOR OF FOOTBALL REVIEW ADDS TO STAFF
By Edward J. O’Brien
Sorin must have its celebrities. Within the hall are campus racketeers, “schemers,” electioneers, club presidents and perhaps an athletic manager or two. Down in 117 is a fellow who has a racket. He belongs to only one club, the Iowa Club, doesn’t sell anything, seeks no votes for a potential candidate and manages no athletic team. Bob Gorman’s the name; humor is his racket. He edits the Notre Dame Juggler. I said he lives in 117; I should have said he sleeps there and perhaps does a little work in the pursuit of his Bachelor of Arts course. To establish a permanent residence for him would be a rather hard thing to do. Bob is never in any one place very long. Maybe he’ll be found in the press-box at athletic contests, in the Publications office punching a typewriter or perhaps chasing around to the rooms of the contributors to the magazine. Anyhow, it is unusual to find him in his room.
Being editor of a nationally-read college humorous magazine is a mansized job. To hold that position, one must be well prepared. Gorman has that necessary preparation. Three years ago he applied at the Juggler office for a position on the business staff little thinking that he would ever be doing editorial work. Not being exactly overwhelmed with encouragement by Harley McDevitt, then business manager, Bob deserted the ranks of the ad-men and began to contribute quips and stories to John Nanovic’s editorial staff. From that time to the present he has contributed steadily to the mag. Now he’s thanking McDevitt for not spurring him onward in his quest for ads, and considers his change of occupation the “break” of his college career.
Then there is another side to Bob Gorman’s fitness for holding the position he does. His familiarity with the works of the outstanding humorists of the day provides him with a desirable background. Ring Lardner is one of his favorites. Lardner, so Bob believes, is greatly underrated, Hus being partly due to the inferior quality of his Sunday supplement material in contrast with the excellence of “Roundup”, to name but one of his
better works. Don Marquis and Stephen Leacock also stand high in Editor Gorman’s estimation. He admires Corey Ford as a parodist. “Walter
Bob Gorman
Who Edits the “Juggler”
Winchell has a rather original style,” he says. However, I think we need have no fears that that style will soil the pages of the Juggler.
With his humor racket so perfectly under control, Bob should inject into the Juggler this year a very high type of humor. The Juggler appears on the campus tonight; notice the excellence of it. Take a look at the neat manner in which it has been set up, the new, highly-enameled paper and the splendid art work. There are many other features of which you’ll be aware, but let’s hear what the Editor has to say for it himself: “We promise variety in the magazine this year in that for one thing, the traditional order of numbers has been abandoned. For example, the first issue is the “Autumn” number and the second will poke fun at Hollywood. Then too, it will be our aim to use a different type of humor in the Juggler this year. I prefer to say but little about this and let the readers, if any, judge for themselves.”
Gorman lives in the same room in Sorin (with its celebrities) that Joe McNamara occupied when he edited the Juggler in ’28 and ’29. The Juggler was a success under Mac and we feel sure the same will hold true under Bob Gorman’s supervision. Lots o’luck, Bob old boy.
Murray, Laufer, and Lopker To Feature In Annual.
Two nationally known sports cartoonists and one of the country’s first-ranking collegiate artists have been added to the list of those who will contribute to the Rockne Memorial edition of the Official Football Review, according to Editor Joseph S. Petritz.
Feg Murray and Werner Laufer are the sport page artists referred to, who this week signified that they wish to be represented in this 1931 edition of the book.
Joseph Lopker, well known to all readers of the Juggler as perhaps the outsanding artist in college circles, will also contribute to the 1931 Re-vieiv.	.
Feg Murray drew a special cartoon for the publication last year which drew wide comment. It depicted a head of Rockne and the statue of winged victory, with the caption: “Rockne Means Victory!” His work with the Metropolitan Newspaper Syndicate has made him nationally famous.
Werner Laufer is known to all devotees of the sports page for his interesting cartoons under the caption, “Brushing Up On Sports.” One of his current releases concerns the high school rivalry of Mike Koken, of Notre Dame, and Paul Reider, of Pittsburgh, both of whom meet here October 24 and both of whom scored in last year’s game.
Last year the Juggler, largely on the merit of Joe Lopker’s work, ranked ahead of all other college humorous publications in the country for drawings. His head of Rockne appearing in the current Juggler is adjudged by many to be the best drawing made of Notre Dame’s late friend and leader.
“Inasmuch as the 1931 Review is in the form of a memorial to Knute Rockne,” said Petritz this week, “the Review staff is doing everything possible to make this the best issue in history. Our galaxy of nationally known sports writers is unexcelled in the history of Notre Dame publications and I wish to express in the columns of the Scholastic my appreciation of the fine spirit of co-operation these men are showing.”
October 16, 1931
Thirteen
COMMERCE BUILDING IS NEAR COMPLETION
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
Work On Illuminated Globe Enters Final Stages.
The insertion of the new glazed aluminum globe in the lobby of the Commerce building is now well under way with the globe itself being set Monday. A hydraulic lift which will raise and lower the globe has been adjusted and the intricate machinery within the globe pit is now well constructed.
This globe, measuring eight feet in diameter and projected on its hydraulic lift, will be the cynosure of the new Commerce building. Surrounding it will be seven aluminum plaques sheathing the oak panels now observed in the lobby. The plaques as well as the globe will be fittingly designed with maps of various commercial centers. The artist will arrive next week and all the painting will be done in the lobby. An iron rail surrounding the pit will protect the globe.
A lighting system will brighten the lobby after the completion of the artist’s work on the terraqueous globe and the encasing panels with a terraza reflecting light from the floor to the globe and back again from the ceiling. In this way the globe is completely suffused in light. The aluminum plaques inserted in the walls will also be flooded. Stenciled beams will color the ceiling.
Work on the edifice including the completion of the entrance will be wholly finished by the first of next month according to Ralph Sollitt, contractor of the building proper.
Law Club Meets
The Notre Dame Law club held its first meeting of the year on October 15th. The purpose of this meeting was to acquaint the freshmen with the laws and functions of the club.
Arrangements are now being made by President Edward England for a dinner to be held on the 18th or 19th of November. The meeting will be featured by discussions and addresses by prominent lawyers of South Bend.
Preparations are also under way for the presentation of an address on Abstracts and Conveyances to be given on either December 9th or 10th by the distinguished Judge M. M. Oshe, one of the most prominent lawyers of the Mid-West.
With the opening of several new shows in Chicago during the past week, the critics are kept busy reviewing them. Randolph Street is well lighted again, and the columns are filled with the customary proportion of diatribe and applause.
All in all, it would seem that though the season is well under way, the time for climactic ecstasy has not arrived; such a state of affairs is only to be expected, however, for the things opened at this time are scarcely to be compared with what is to follow. Those of you who care will undoubtedly find, for instance, that in a single performance of the Civic Shakespeare Company more art, not to say more wholesale entertainment, will be discovered than in a year of attendance at such farces as “You Said It.”
The opening of the Civic Shakespeare Company, long awaited by those who saw the company last year, is near at hand. Monday is the opening night, and “Julius Caesar” has been chosen to begin the season. Fritz Leiber William Faversham, Tyrone Powers, and Helen Menken are the leaders of the cast.
Some changes have been made in the order of presentation for this season by Mr. Leiber’s company. Rather than play the entire repertoire each week, as has been the custom, the company this year will devote the first week to “The Merchant of Venice,” the second to “Julius Caesar,” and the third to “Hamlet.”
The advertising manager has not over-estimated the ability of his company in his modest assertion that Fritz Leiber and “a distinguishable company” will play. The cast is a seasoned one, many of last year’s company having been invited to return.
In connection with Shakespearean productions, it is reported that Commodore Bryant, of show-boat fame along the Ohio, will sail into Chica
go before winter freezes the Chicago River. Reports from Cincinnati, where the Commodore was moored this summer, are favorable. He has some good singers, and plays good Shakespeare, if not under ideal Elizabethan circumstances.
Not to be outdone by the Majestic, where Leiber and company will open next Monday, the Grand Opera House will be lighted on the same night to welcome Ethel Barrymore to Chicago once again. Her revival of “The School for Scandal,” Richard Brinsley Sheridan’s old favorite, has toured the Pacific Coast, and has now taken the turn east. The engagement in Chicago is scheduled for two weeks, after which the show will be taken on to New York.
“The School for Scandal,” you know, is an old vehicle for the Barrymores and Drews. Miss Barrymore is the third member of her family in direct line to appear in this show. Her father, Maurice Barrymore, played at least six roles in it, and her uncle, John Drew, made his first hit in the character of Charles Surface.
The Chicago Civic Opera may be heard over WGN and the NBC chain each Saturday evening at eight o’clock, beginning November 7. The program, which will last thirty minutes, will include the overture and first act. Thirteen operas will be presented in the course of the broadcasts. This will be the third successive year in which the Chicago Civic Opera has given this opportunity to those who are unable to attend.
The football team, following a few hours scouring the dirt of Soldier field from their bodies, journeyed over to the Garrick theatre for the evening, where “Girl Crazy” was in progress. Benny Rubin, star of the popular little musical comedy, passed out a few impromptu remarks on this football situation for the benefit of Mr. Anderson’s Fighting Irish.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
The Blue Circle Have Their Traditions—-And a History
By Tighe Woods
It was one of those early November nights in 1923. The moon, like a great orange saucer on a blue velvet table cloth, sent fantastic shadows dancing across the campus. Near the gym a great pit had been dug and a carpet of live coals glowed and crackled at its bottom. A spit made of four iron bars supported a whole steer and two or three sheep. From time to time a giant negro w’ould dip a ladle into a pot of simmering barbecue sauce and lovingly sprinkle the roasting beef. Four students, traditionally dressed in “cords” and hobnailed shoes, stood at each corner of the pit to keep freshmen from falling in.
If an observer should happen to take his eyes off the sight of the lusciously dripping meat long enough to notice one of the guards, he would see the reason for their pose of nonchalant authority. On the right arm of each an armband of blue felt, which bore the golden inscription, “Booster” and if the observer should be a stranger he would not know that the was looking at some campus personality for that armband encased one of the guiding hands of some two thousand students.
The Boosters were an offshoot of the Student Activity Council. The organization was formed for two reasons: the S.A.C. was not large enough to handle events in which the entire student body took part, and victorious office holders had to find something to do for their loyal supportrs. The Boosters nicely solved the problem. Various activities connected with the home football games were conducted with some semblance of order and campaign managers had something to fight for besides Chairman of the Ball.
The organization started in 1922 and during the football season of 1923 the Boosters showed the student body and the faculty that they were going to take their boosting seriously. They undertook the herculean task of directing cars to Cartier Field for the football games. Before the Boosters stepped in, traffic looked like the freshmen running for seats in Washington Hall on Saturday night, but the boys in the gold armbands at least kept the cars from parking in front
of Father Sorin’s statue and off the postoffice steps.
It was the Boosters that conducted the monster barbecue before the Purdue game. Classes were dismissed that Saturday morning in honor of Homecoming and at ten o’clock a line of hungry students stretched from the side door of the gym back to Science Hall. Barbecued beef and pork and coffee were served to twenty-five hun-w
I P
I (">■ s zVL. Sy
dred people that morning and the line never stopped moving until everybody was satisfied. A barbecue like that would certainly be appreciated before the Pennsylvania or the Southern California game!
In 1924 the Boosters went “Vanity Fair’ and changed their name to the Blue Circle and in that year was committed that heinous crime against tradition, ‘Hello Week’! A tradition is something that grows out of long years of unconscious custom. It is like a bit of picturesque scenery, it loses its charm when it is exploited and commercialized. Notre Dame men always have preserved a feeling of comradeship among themselves but when they were told to remember it by an S.A.C. bulletin and a little yellow tag it became grotesque and stilted and artificial.
Feeling a need for more concentrated action against offenders of Notre Dame traditions, the Blue Circle organized the Vigilance Committee. The members of this committee are not generally known and their work is done in secrecy. This had proved to be a step in the wrong direction. There is about the same use for it as the United States Postoffice Department would have for the Pony Express, and it is just about as antiquated in its methods. By the time men - reach college we should expect that they will listen to reason. Physical force, and more specifically, throwing a boy in the lake will not make him learn to love and understand Notre Dame traditions, it will make him rather a target for redicule.
NOTRE DANE BRANCH HEI HOLDS MEETING
New Members Welcomed By Ball; Committees Named.
The Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its first meeting of the current school year last Monday evening. The officers of the club are: Hugh Ball, president and general chairman; Jerry Andres, vice-president; Al Consolati and Louis Rohlof, secretaries.
Mr. Ball welcomed the sophomores and gave the purpose and work of the Notre Dame branch. The club members and faculty were introduced.
Dr. Caparo gave a very interesting talk on the local and national aspects of the A. I. E. E.
The various committees appointed were:
National Membership: James Trotter, chairman; Henry Cluver, William Mitsch, Louis Brieger, and Ed Cunningham.
Finance: Jack Lambert, chairman; Francis Lennzfgz, Francis Martin, Harold Denoyes, and William Walsh.
Progressive: Dennison Mohler, chairman; John Barry, Walter Du-pray, and William Hawkes.
Publicity: Ray Boyce, chairman; and Bill Dea.
Entertainment: John Perone, chairman; Francis Joseph, and Julian Quinn.
Refreshments: Larry Fischer, chairman; Noble Harbaugh, Don Ryan,
Trip: William Cass, chairman; Joseph Strebinger, Nathan Altman, and Hugh McNarney.
Current Review: Jack Scanlon.
The main speaker of the evening was Mr. Moyer, of the General Electric Company in Schenectady, N. Y., who gave an outline of his work as an engineer since being graduated from Notre Dame in 1928. Mr. Conroy, who was president of the club in 1929-1930, presented an interesting paper concerning the different types of engineers in the business world.
Refreshments were served to the fifty-five members who were present.
Do you know that there are five thousand, eight hundred and forty-four squares of glass in the East and West dining halls?
October 16, 1931
Fifteen
RASKOB GETS ROCKNE DRIVE APPOINTMENT
To Head Eastern Committee In Raising Memorial Fund.
John J. Raskob, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, has accepted the honorary chairmanship of the division comprising Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware and the District of Columbia in the Rockne Memorial campaign, A. R. Erskine, general chairman ' of the campaign committee recently announced.
Several other citizens prominent in national political and public life have become identified in honorary capacities with the campaign to secure a million dollar fund to build the Rockne Memorial Field House at the University of Notre Dame, Mr. Erskine announced. Alfred E. Smith, Owen D. Young and Admiral Richard E. Byrd are sponsors of the campaign, James M. Cox, former governor of Ohio and presidential candidate, is honorary chairman of one of the districts in the Ohio divisions, while Will Rogers is a member of the executive committee directing plans for the campaign.
John H. Neeson, city engineer of Philadelphia, and an alumnus of Notre Dame, is chairman of the division of which Mr. Raskob has accepted the honorary sponsorship. District chairmen who have been appointed to assume charge of fund-raising activities in this division include Clarence E. Overend, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh; Louis A. Young, former athletic director at Pennsylvania University, Philadelphia; Dr. A. W. O’Malley, Wilkes Barre, Pa.; Congressman Norton Lichtenwalter, Allentown, Pa.; and Dr. James A. Flynn, Washington, D. C. District chairmen will be assisted by committees in the principal cities and towns of their respective districts.
The intensive period for the Rockne Memorial campaign, Erskine announced, will begin November 5. Popular subscriptions in large and small amounts from all admirers of Rockne will be sought during that time throughout the country.
Do you know that it is against a -4aw to repeat anything the President of the United States tells you?
“There’s Only One Fifty
Yard Line** Sighs Haley
We venture the opinion that if all the money spent in telegram applications for football tickets were contributed to Mr. Hoover’s relief fund, the Middle West wouldnt have to worry about being subordinated to Eastern interests. That Western Union boy tipped his hat to a girl in the athletic office at least five times during those fifteen minutes
we awaited the leisure of J. Arthur Haley.
That was but incidental. The following represent the highlights, the “creme de creme” as it were, of a rather statistical interview with Notre Dame’s Business Manager of Athletics.
Fifty per cent of the total number of people attending home games come from Chicago. Thus last year 250,000 Chicagoans contributed their bits to the phenomenal total of over half a million attendance at Notre Dame contests, a record unequalled by any other university.
Northwestern, Southern California, Army, Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania games were sell-outs. The remaining 250,000 fans came from varying distances from thirty of the fortyeight states to fill stadiums in almost every section of the country.
So much for large figures. Energetic Mr. Haley reacts violently upon hearing the terms “fifty-yard line.” It would seem that, in the minds of applicants for tickets, there is but one utopia and that, the center section, the f.y.l.. Now, he warns us, a stadium which could fill this order
Downey Gives Talk on Causes of Depression
“Some Causes of the Present Depression” was the subject of a paper read by Professor William H. Downey at the last meeting of the lay faculty of the College of Arts and Letters. Professor Downey is a member of the staff of the Department of Economics and Politics.
is as yet a physical impossibility; still only a little over one per cent of those applying for pasteboards fail to put in an appearance at the game. They take what is available and try to like it.
The scalper is well known at any public event involving tickets and reserved seats. He seems to render a service, but actually his racket is illegal and often disgusting. The system of distribution inaugurated by Mr. Haley partially eliminates this irritant. The individual applicant is allowed to purchase for bigger games only a limited number of tickets, compelling the usurer to buy through numerous channels if he wishes to continue scalping. And woe be to the student having dealings with him; forfeiture of Athletic Book privileges is but the least of his penalties. The scalper’s patrons consist of people who believe that good seats are to be secured through him alone.
The ticket office made its debut in 1921 when Al Ryan was appointed first manager. Previous to that “Rock” had handled what business there was at this end. The activities of the office has increased proportionately with the growing crowds and the personelle now numbers twelve. But this season, prior to the Rockne Memorial game, an office was established in the Oliver hotel to facilitate the purchasing of tickets for South Bend residents.
Haley paused. “There is a humorous side to this business of peddling, too,” he said, and grinned. “One lady, obviously unacquainted with the game, applied to the office by letter for a ticket, indicating her preference for something near the middle of the field, rather than on that fiftyyard line. That one stumped us.” This case is exemplary of hundreds. Even up to game time people expect to find choice tickets waiting for them. “What fools these mortals be!”
This meeting, the initial assembly of the present year for the lay faculty, was organized last fall for the purpose of reading and discussing papers on current topics of social and cultural nature. Regular meetings are held each month.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
CCEEEDE PARADE
PRINCIPLE
Professor Shaw of New York University recently stated that persons who whistle are morons.
APPLICATION
“Singing-on-the-steps/’ known to the University of Montana as “S. O. S.,” is the most cherished tradition of that university. Founded in 1905, its main purpose is to furnish an outlet for the stored-up enthusiasm of the “Varsity-ites” who wish to instill the true Montana spirit into newcomers.
We hesitate to comment.
WHY NOT EXPERIMENT?
One of the most popular members of the Colgate university faculty is a psychology professor who compels his students to sleep in class as a means of determining the most efficient tone for an alarm clock bell.
REACTION
Two men at the University of Missouri have refused to shave until the coeds modify their Eugenie styles. Little do they know of the ways of women I
EMILY POST
New York university presents a course in “personal development.” Temple university offers college credits to students who take a course in “social etiquette” which the Boston Transcript classifies as “College Degeneration or Deintellectualization.”
RETRIBUTION
Students at the University of Kansas are privileged by the student council to petition for the removal or change of any textbook they dislike. The student or students petitioning must “state reasons for their opinions.” If it were not for the last statement, no doubt the college would be a “textless” one before long.
ONE QUART PLEASE
An economic revolution is in progress at Rhode Island State college, where for nearly 40 years professors have been obliged to serve as their own milkmen.
Hereafter milk from the college herd of 40 cows will be bottled and delivered to faculty members at 12 cents a quart.
A LITTLE ADHESIVE?
An avalanche of stubbed toes, bruised feet, and cracked bones will be expected at Creighton university this fall. The reason will be two shoeless players on the freshman squad. The two players come from the Hawaiian Islands where players refuse to wear shoes in football contests. Besides being capable grid players the two young men are adept track and swimming participants.
FORCEFUL METHODS!
Several students at the University of Denver were recently held as suspects in the bombing of a near-by mountain. It seems the mountain contained the sacred “M” of the Colorado School of Mines, and the Denver boys were just getting the jump on their closest rivals.
VELCOME
The Columbia Spectator, daily student publication of Columbia University published in its first issue this year a welcome to new students in Yiddish, Italian, Latin, Spanish, German, French and English.
CHICAGO DOES IT AGAIN
Former pickpockets, forgers and safe-crackers will lecture at the recently established University of Chicago School of Police Administration.
AND ATHLETE’S FOOT?
A course in cold prevention is given at Columbia.
October 16, 1931
Seventeen
♦ THE WINE ♦
Depression
The line stretched along down the street.
A faded line of shabby men
Moving at times on shuffling feet
Toward a sign, “Free Food,” and then, “Republican Meals for Republican Men.”
Behind the man in the once-good tweeds
Slouched up a vagrant, rank, unclean.
“Isn’t it terrible,” said the tweeds.
“The depression, the panic you know, old bean.”
“Huh ? Depression ? Don’t get whatcha mean.”

Quick Winks
The twelve o’clock train on Saturday night . . . Benny Rubin’s impromptu crack about a pigskin ... It is rumored that Bernie Heitz poses for bulletins . . . did you see the fellow on the N. U. side trying to tackle a cheerleader? . . . Dick Hanley’s endless joke on NBC Friday night—not a laugh in a wave-length . . . John, Scanlon’s qualified flight for a glider’s license in the Gold Room . . . those who saw the flight say it was he, anyway . . . Jerry Reidy swears he saw one of our trap-drummers trying to function and thumb his nose westward at the same time.
Racket’s End
No more will the lad With an A. A. book Have to sit and Get his picture took.
And incidentally, if the Secret Six functioned in New Haven, Dan Halpin would shove Capone right off the front page. He’s the one, you know, who gave Freshman Annex it’s last name, and you don’t need a dictionary to figure that one out.
Quick Kicks
Somebody hollers that this calumy is run for the delectation of seniors only and we retort that it’s not our fault. The under-underclassmen have but to make themselves known to the old mysterio, and he’ll do a bit of the good old printing. There are so many ways of letting him know—telegram, phone, special messenger, yelling in his window, sending notes to him by his favorite waiter (but no perfume, mind you)—oh, there are so many ways.
Look Your Best
Cleve Carey postcards from his oak-panelled room in Howard that he has the latest news on the men’s wear situation. Says that safety pins are being worn increasingly in the East, South and Southeast portions, due to particularly parlous times.
Birdie Whispers
Read ’em and sleep
The Sophs are scouting about for a name for the Cotillion . . . From the number of seniors who are planning to attend they might ask Jim Collins if they can use “Cotillion of Charm” . . .
Ed Kelly still insists that his week-end was a success . . . but he had to spend all Monday afternoon denying rumors that he made a parachute jump from the top of the Stevens to Michigan boulevard . . .
Jim McQuaid says he didn’t see much of the game . . . sezhe ... “I spent all of my time trying to teach Joe E. Brown the Drum yell” . . .
Len (Philanthropist) Condon begs us (yeah! yeah!) to tell the boys (you and you and you) that the Wednesday afternoon Social circle will indefinitely postpone its weekly meeting . . . rumor says it’s deflated capital . . . however, recording secretary John J. McNeil will be at his office to take all applications for membership . ..
The Stool Pigeon is honored no less at the deep thinking Sorinites who informed him that authorship of this column was attributed to Joe (you know what) McCabe. Thanks, gentlemen, but Joe is a writer, not a scandal monger . . . Tighe Woods has also come in for some mention . . . but nobody’s guessed us yet . . .
The Howard halier who grabbed a Stevens hotel blanket to cover himself at the game . . . and was charged ten dollars for the same . . . The senior who was registered on the books at two hotels for a total of seven rooms . . . and then stayed with a friend . . . The conductor of this column picking up lots of things in Chicago . . . but not mentioning them because Neil Hurley would cut ’em anyway.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
CAMIir CLUB J
HORRORS
Posters depicting the horrors of initiation into the ENGINEER’S club have been distributed around the campus to remind the frosh that the date for that memorable but painful occasion has been set for October 21. There will be no canoes but pl-enty of paddles.
MEETING
President Conway of the Minnesota club announces that there will be a meeting on Sunday morning, October 18 at 10:30 a. m. in the basement of Walsh hall.
CLEVELAND
At a meeting of the CLEVELAND club held last week John Venables was elected treasurer to fill the vacancy left by the failure of Ted Collins to return to school. Committees were appointed for the Christmas dance, and also, though no definite plans were made, the why, where, when, and orchestra were discussed. A banquet will be held next week.
BIG BUSINESS MEN
The COMMERCE FORUM met last week for the first time this year and were addressed by Dean McCarthy. Qualifications for membership and the purpose of the organization were outlined to the prospective members.
DANCE
The main ballroom of the Hotel Statler was selected by the BUFFALO club at the last meeting as the scene of the annual Christmas dance. A suggestion that the club have advertised programs, as the Big Three does, was promptly suppressed by the zealous opposition.
FRENCH
Under the leadership of Professor Benjamin DuBois the lately abandoned FRENCH club will be reorganized. The first meeting will take place in room three of the Main building on October 19. All prospective members must have had at least two years of French. There will be no academic credit given this year. The aims of the club are to promote French conversation among the members and to discuss French culture.
YOUNGSTOWN
The YOUNGSTOWN club met last week for the first time; gathered new members into the fold; discussed plans for the coming year; adopted various resolutions.
AUBURN
Another organization made its initial appearance this week in the person of the AUBURN dub with the usual first meeting procedure a matter of form. Further developments will be made known later.
NEW
A bunch of the boys . from southern New York got together last Wednesday evening and organized a BINGHAMTON club. Joseph Carey was elected president.
SOUTHERNERS, SUH!
The first banquet of the year was held last week by the LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI club at the South Bend Inn. A delightful meal was served. Joe McKean was one of the speakers.
BOSTON
The BOSTON club convened again last Thursday evening and conducted themselves like a staid Bostonian should. The usual meeting procedure was repeated.
PILLIES
No word has been heard as to the success or failure of the boys to organize a PHILADELPHIA club. Advertised as the city of “Brotherly Love,” it is logical that no trouble should be encountered in banding together the Quakers.
ROCHESTER
The ROCHESTER club held a meeting Wednesday night at which plans for the Yuletide jigs were debated. Other matters such as welcoming the new members, proposed banquets and smokers were also attended to.
DRUGGISTS
The PHARMACY club met last Wednesday evening in Chemistry hall, and announced a banquet to be held on or about November 14. Joseph Gonciary read a paper.
FURNITURE
The GRAND RAPIDS club held its first meeting last week. Next week a junior secretary from the freshman members will be elected, and the chairman for the Christmas dance announced.
I
LAWYERS
The PRE-LAW club will meet in the Law building next Tuesday evening. Students planning to study law are eligible.
INTELLECTUALS
There will be a meeting of the BOOKMEN on Monday evening at the same time and place. Professor McCole of the English department will address the members, and the remaining books will be distributed.
CZARS
The PRESIDENTS’ club will meet Sunday morning at 1:30 in the north basement of the Library.
October 16, 1931
Nineteen
i
The Memory of Rockne
To the Editor of the Scholastic :
Sir: When the late Knute Rockne died, strong men wept, and blase7 critics gasped at the recognition accorded the man. It would have been unthinkable to believe that he could become anything less than Notre Dame’s greatest tradition.
A sorry but perhaps not a strange thing is happening. The memory of this man is becoming commercialized. There is probably little that could be done about having his portrait adorning books of football tactics, or about having bas-reliefs and busts of him sold by men who knew little of him and cared less, or displayed by tradesmen for solely mercenary reasons.
But besides these things, there seems to have been a general attitude on the campus that the name will be a majic cure-all, the Sesame which will open the door of unending victory. The football season is barely under way, and his name has been invoked repeatedly, his memory appealed to. He has been written and spoken of often.
I do not attempt to pose as a prophet, but I think that if this continues the memory will become meaningless, the name lose its connotation and become perhaps something to be spoken of in a sort of burlesque melodramatic way. It was eight long years before George Gipp’s name was invoked. A tradition that has to be spoken of and flaunted as it were in headlines, is not a true nor yet a lasting one.
The memory of this man must not die, but repeated and public usage of it will not preserve it.
Very sincerely,
Harry A. Sylvester, ’30.
Ballyhooed Bouquets . .
Three weeks from this evening the sophomores will hold their annual class dance. In a short while, as is the custom, several individuals will canvass the residence halls in an effort to promote deposits on corsages for cotillion guests.
The wares of these racketeers of sentiment appear to be very much out of tone with the general trend of the times. Corsages often embarrass a student to the extent of five dollars—a price greater than that of a ticket for the dance itself. Some will not be able to afford this rather inane luxury. Out of consideration for these men and their guests everyone might refrain this year from purchasing a thing so unnecessary.
Holders of the concession will tell unin-formed sophomores that it is the custom for everyone to purchase the bally-hooed bouquet ; that those who fail to do so will be out of place. And the sophomore, wishing to keep up with the man across the hall, will contribute his five dollars, which in most cases will mean a sacrifice sometime in the future.
The cost of a dance, with the legitimate incidental expenses, is often too high. The added corsage expenditure is, particularly in this year, too much for the average Notre Dame student. This is no new idea. Many universities have long since abolished the corsage as an essential bit of dance equipment.
Several of our campus clubs, feeling as everyone else does, the effects of the present depression, are refraining from giving favors at their Christmas dances. The sophomores of this year might well make their dance memorable by establishing the precedent that it should be traditional not to give corsages at Notre Dame dances.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Wildcats Hold N. D.
Punting of Olson, Schwartz Feature Contest Marred by Rain and Fumbles
to 0-0 Tie
X-COUNTRY SEASON TO OPEN AT NORTHWESTERN
Fans Drenched By Cloudburst Before Game; Charity Profits By More Than $100,000.
By T. Edward Carey
Rain and mud, thunder and lightning, and two great football elevens in a battle of recovered fumbles,— that is all that 65,000 spectators saw at Soldier field, Chicago, last Saturday when the elements were successful in spoiling the greatest natural football clash of many seasons, and causing the gallant elevens of Notre Dame and Northwestern to battle to a scoreless tie. Only the fact that the enormous gate receipts enabled the universities to turn over $100,000 to Illinois and Indiana charities saves the game from being set down as the most dismal failure in midwestern football annals.
The powerful offensives of both teams were minimized, and both played for the breaks in a sensational punting duel between Ollie Olson, the tow-headed successor of Reb Russell, and Marchy Schwartz, Notre Dame’s great All-American.
Playing two years as the star of a national championship team Schwartz has accomplished many notable feats, but none can ever equal his punting against the Wildcats. He kicked the muddy, rain-soaked pigskin eleven times, five times from behind his own goal line, and made the remarkable average of 46 yards. Olson averaged 35 yards.
/ Seventeen fumbles gave both teams many scoring chances, but neither team gave ground within its own 20-yard line. Notre Dame’s line was superb, stopping the giant Purple backs time after time without gain, and opening huge holes when the Fighting Irish were on the offensive. Failure of the interference to take out
the Northwestern secondary ruined the Notre Dame attack, for the backs were seldom piled up at the line of scrimmage. Despite the fact that Schwartz was slowed up he averaged nearly five yards for the twelve times he carried the ball, as compared to less than two yards for Rentner in the same number of attempts.
North western’s greatest threat came in the second quarter when a fumble gave them the ball deep in Notre Dame territory and they penetrated ot Notre Dame’s 4-yard line only to lose the ball on downs. On another occasion in the same quarter Schwartz knocked down a pass in the end zone. Notre Dame’s big threats came in the fourth quarter, once when Yarr intercepted a pass, and again when Hoffman blocked Olson’s punt which was recovered by Krause on the 20-yard line. Notre Dame fumbled away both chances.
The tie gave Northwestern their first even break with Notre Dame in thirty years, and halted the victory march of the Fighting Irish, who have won twenty consecutive games during the past two seasons. But Anderson’s Ramblers were not defeated; neither did they win. What-
(Continued on Page 25)
Tomorrow’s Lineups		
NOTRE DAME		DRAKE
Kosky	L. E.	Briley (C)
Culver	L.T.	Blanck
Harriss	L. G.	Bowers
Yarr (C)	C.	Robertson
Hoffman	R. G.	Olson
Kurth	R.T.	Kokjohn
Mahony	R. E.	Cless
Murphy	Q. B.	Sneenan
Schwartz	L. H.	Lindstrom
Sheeketski	R.H.	Weiland
Banas	F.B.	Lansrud
Referee:	Cochrane	(Kansas)
Umpire:	Lambert	(Ohio State)
Field Judge: Ghee		(Dartmouth)
Head Linesman: Ray (Illinois)		
Annual Quadrangular Meet on Card; N. D. Team Stronger.
Racing over a three and one-half mile course through the woods of Evanston tomorrow afternoon is the first item on the bill of fare for the Notre Dame cross country team. The opposition in this meet will come from Illinois, Wisconsin, and the home harriers of Northwestern.
Nine men will compose the squad that Coach John P. Nicholson will send to the starting line. Gene How-ery, Alex Wilson, and Eddie King seem to be the biggest threats of the Blue and Gold contingent. Ewing, Bowers, Young, LaFrambois, Rudd, and Hoyt complete the list of Notre Dame entrants.
This quadrangular meet has been an annual affair for the past two seasons. In the first meet, Alex Wilson copped the individual honors while Illinois was taking the team prize. Last year Gene Howery led the field to the finish tape in the record time of 17:12. The Notre Dame squad finished third behind Wisconsin and Illinois.
Coach Nicholson is a bit pessimistic about the chances of his harriers to win the meet. He admits, however, that his chances of placing men among the first few are quite bright. He characterizes his team of this fall as "some stronger” than that of a year ago.
The battle for the individual honor that goes with first place seems to be a rather open affair. Howery of Notre Dame and Wright of Wisconsin appear on paper to be the class of the field. Several others, including Wilson, King, and Courtwright of Illinois, should be among the first few under the wire.
The battle between Howery and
/
October 16, 1931
Tzventy-one
Drake Bulldogs Test These Gridders Tomorrow
THE 1931 SQUAD
Coach Heartley “Hzink” Anderson and Line Coach John Frederick on the left; End Coach John “Ike” Voedisch and and Junior Coach Jack Chevigny on the right, zuith Manager John Grams.
Wright looms important on their comparative showings in the two-mile grind last spring. The Badger’s mark of 9:21 in the two-mile distance marks him as easily the outstanding man of the Cardinal team.
Wisconsin seems to be the most logical winner of the four-way meet. Boasting one of the best teams in their history and one of the outstanding harrier squads of the country, they have a wealth of reserve ma-eterial. At this stage of the crosscountry season when stitches and cramps usually account for about one-third of the field before the jaunt is finished, reserve strength is the all important factor in compiling a low score for the first five men.
After the meet tomorrow, Coach Nicholson’s round-the-lake crew will settle down to more training for the only home run of the year, with Iowa, on October 31.
Michigan State will be host to the Blue and Gold runners at East Lansing on November 7. A fourth meet is under consideration but nothing definite has been decided.
Do you know that there are one hundred and four steps from the basement of the Main building to the landing on the fourth floor?
Do you know that it takes three and one-half minutes to run from the Library to St. Mary’s campus?
Rain, Raincoats, Mud, Features at N. U. Game By James E. McFeely
Special dispatch from a Staff Correspondent.
Soldier Field, Chicago, Oct. 10.— The rain here this afternoon is simply terrible. Out in front of the press box here we see a collection of oilcloths, much-too-old slickers, and a bevy of people that make the stadium look like an Old Clothes convention.
The radio announcers are having a tough time identifying the players, what with the rain beating against the windows continually and soiling all of their nicely written notes.
The messenger boy in the Auditorium just couldn’t figure it all out when he was given a wire to deliver to “Kitty” Gorman of Notre Dame. “I never ‘tot’ Notre ‘Damm’ was a co-ed school anyways,” he said.
Following the singing of the “Victory March,” in which the gods were implored to shake down the thunder from the sky, Schwartz stood back on his own goal line and with an accompaniment of thunder sent the pigskin zooming down the field. The crash reached its peak just as the ball was coming back to Schwartz, but the Mississippian booted the oval with precision.
The Northwestern cheer leaders took a brave dive during the half. Six of them, ever loyal, tumbled into as many puddles of water in order to carry on with a certain Wildcat yell.
The beaming face of one Dan Hanley, the lad who was termed the “Butte Beauty” after his dashing exhibitions as a member of the varsity last fall, was seen just before game time in the high-priced seats which surround the cinder track.
A world of credit is due Krause for his work in the line. He received the praise too — even getting publicity on the kick which Hoffman blocked. Krause recovered the ball to put the “Fighting Irish” within driving distance.
Approximately 75,000 people at some time or other during the contest wished that they had taken to sports writing when they were young. The little coops which house the scribes while' they are at work in Soldier field served as splendid protection against the driving rains.
Tivehty-tzvo
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING— a MARCHY SCHWARTZ
SWITZER IS WINNER IN BURKE GOLF TOURNEY
Following an interview with the genial Southern gentleman, March-mont Schwartz, that All-American football playing young man whose manners and speech mark him off as a carry-over from the Dixie of old, the writer found himself lolling about in a lazy world, panting for a mint julep.
“Marchy,” as he is affectionately called even by those who would like to know such an outstanding athlete, was chosen last fall as a member of 11 of the 14 All-American teams named by famous coaches, sports writers, and magazines throughout the nation. Returning to Notre Dame for his last and perhaps most
spectacular season of Schwartz is all primed successful campaign.
Marchy prepped at
competition, for another
St. Stanis-
laus college in his home town of Bay St. Louis, Miss., before he came to Notre Dame. He is one of a few outstanding athletes who as yet hasn’t acknowledged his intention to take
A junior lawyer at
up coaching.
present, he expects to return to Notre Dame next year to complete his schooling.
Already the fan mail has begun to pour in for Schwartz at his room in Corby hall. Running the gamut from letters of small boys who idolize him to “mash notes” from the nation’s young ladies, his correspondence reaches a staggering fig-ure by mid-season. At present, the bulk of the mail contains requests for tickets—and “Marchy” must tactfully tell his friends that the game is a sellout as most of the requests are for games for which the general
ticket demands are greatest.
One of the most memorable events in Schwartz’s career took place in -his first season of competition two years ago when, as a substitute for Jack Elder in the Navy game at Baltimore and his parents in the stands to watch him, Marchy slipped and was downed with an open field ahead of him. A most pleasing player to watch in action, Schwartz electrifies the fans when he successfully breaks away on the so-called “touchdown” play, the manoeuver which spelled defeat for Army in Chicago, last Thanksgiving when the Southerner slipped through the line to score Notre Dame’s lone touchdown.
Directly opposed to most youthful readers who find it difficult to read the works of Dickens, Schwartz finds great enjoyment in that novelist’s
writing of Oliver Gold-
works. The
Marchmont Schwartz
Who is primed for another successful season.
smith also attracts the All-American half back in his spare moments.
Keeping in trim, he works out at handball and indulges in other branches of sports, but does not engage in any varsity competition other than football. Hard work throughout the summer seems to put the Mississippian in shape for the strenuous fall season. As in 1930, he was employed in a power plant in Waukegan, Illinois, during the past summer.
Schwartz doesn’t make any predictions concerning the current grid season. He is merely “going out there to play football for Notre Dame . . .” and how he does play football!
Cards 317 For First Honors; Fehlig Second With 322.
Playing under adverse weather conditions, the nineteen qualifiers for the Burke Golf Tournament got under way Tuesday to decide the Fall championship. With a cold drizzling rain throughout the day the conditions for demonstrating any high-class golf were almost impossible.
Despite these obstacles, Joe Switzer, playing a brand of golf that was not in accord with the elements, shot a 75 in the afternoon round and this coupled with an 80 in the morning gave him a total for the day of 155 and 317 for the tournament, the low net of the meet. Switzer, in winning the meet, shot the low score of the day with a 75 for the afternoon play. For the out nine of the round he was two under par. Fehlig, the runner-up in the tournament, was three strokes up on Switzer in the morning round, but the champion came back in the afternoon with a display of superb golfing to win by a five stroke margin. Fehlig, who was also second in the qualifying round, had a 77 for the morning round and an 81 in the afternoon. His card of 322 for the 72 holes took second-place.
Many of the entrants were off their games due to the weather and a fair indication of their ability could not be determined by the scores which were turned in. However, these scores will determine the temporary places on the golf team for next spring.
Switzer will have his name engraved on the William J. Burke Memorial Trophy, which signifies that he is the Fall champion. He also received a set of Spalding Kro-flite matched irons. Fehlig, the runner-up, received a set of matched woods.
The score summary of the tournament leaders:
Switzer_______80-75—155-162—317
Fehlig________77-81—158-164—322
Gostisha _____79-82—161-166—327
Cole----------77-82—159-174—333
Slader________77-85—162-172—334
Veeneman______89-83—172-167—339
Culver________90-81—171-169—340
O’Malley______88-86—174-167—341
Moore ________84-91—175-167—342
Burke ________90-86—176-169—345
October 16, 1931
'Twenty-three
N.D. RESERVES LOSE TO KALAMAZOO, 19-7
INTERHALL SPORTS
Michigan Champs Score Twice In Second Quarter To Win.
By Irving B. Halper
A squad of Notre Dame reserve players dropped the second game of their schedule to Kalamazoo College last Friday night. The Kazoo grid-ders, defending champions in the M. I. A. A., finished on top by a 19 to 7 score.
Receiving the opening kickoff near-his own goal line, Hoeschler, outstanding Reserve back, raced back forty-five yards before being downed. From that point Notre Dame opened up with an attack that carried them deep into the home team’s territory before penalties and a stubborn Kalamazoo defense forced them to lose the ball. After several exchanges of punts had given the Reserves the ball near mid-field, a sustained attack through the line brough the first score of the game. McCabe, made the touchdown on a quarterback sneak from the one-yard line. Schrenker kicked the point.
Trailing 7 to 0, the Kalamazoo eleven turned on the power late in the first quarter to knot the score just before the period ended. A ball toter named Deere was the big gun in the Kazoo firing line.
The second quarter saw the winners end their scoring thrusts for the day. An intercepted Norte Dame pass led to one touchdown that gave them a 13 to 7 lead. Near the close of the half, Burke, Notre Dame quarter, was tackled on his own two-yard line while attempting to kick out of danger. Taking the ball at that point, the Kalamazoo eleven had no difficulty in punching over another score. The half-time gun s ounded with the score, 19 to 7.
The third and fourth quarters settled down into a defensive duel with the only Notre Dame threat coming as the result of a long run. Heavy penalties slowed up the Reserve attack considerably. Fifty-five yards in the first half and eighty-five in the second were stepped off by the referee towards the Notre Dame goal.
Hoeschler at half-back and Schrenker at guard were the outstanding performers for the Reserve squad.
Tuesday’s games, postponed from Sunday due to the many interhall football men, not to mention the officials and coaches, being away for the week-end, brought out a wealth of new stars.
First, there was O’Brien, stellar left halfback foi’ Brownson hall, who was the bright spot in a weak offense. Then there was Huisking, a big lazy-appearing tackle from Lyons, who seemed bored with what was happening in the game, but every time the Corby team tried to gain over him they were stopped dead. Among the others, Carney, Lyons; Perone, Corby back, and Kieple, Morrissey fullback, were also outstanding.
At the conclusion of the second week of interhall football we find Badin leading in Group I and Off-Campus in Group II. Undoubtedly St. Edwards and Walsh, who have powerful teams, and Walsh having practically the same lineup that won the championship last year, would have been among the leaders had they not drawn byes. Off-Campus didn’t have to play for their win, as Howard failed to bring more than six men to the game and lost by forfeit.
Next Sunday should see some interesting games. In Group I, Badin faces a tartar in Lyons, the game to be played at Cartier No. 2. St. Edwards should defeat Morrissey, but an interesting game is expected. In the other Group I games Sophomore plays Dillon, while Corby was fortunate enough to draw a bye.
Walsh and Carroll, both undefeated, although Carroll was tied, head the card in Group II. They tangle in what should be the best game of the day on Brownson field in the afternoon. Walsh, last year’s champ, is the favorite and should win. Howard battles Freshman hall, while Brownson is stacked up against Alumni in the other Group II games. Off-Campus drew a bye.
Results of Tuesday’s games:
Group I—Morrissey 13, Dillon 0; Badin 7, Sophomore 0; Lyons 7, Corby 0; St. Edward’s, bye.
Group II—Off-Campus 7, Howard 0 (forfeit); Alumni 0, Carroll 0; Brownson 0, Freshman 0; Walsh, bye.
Schedule for October 18:
Group I—Lyons vs. Badin at Car-tier field No. 1, 9:00 a. m.; Sophomore vs. Dillon at Brownson field, 9:00 a. m.; Morrissey vs. St. Edward’s at Minims field, 9:00 a. m.
Group II—Brownson vs. Alumni at Cartier field No. 2, 9:00 a. m.; Howard vs. Freshman at Cartier field No. 1, 2:30 p. m.; Carroll vs. Walsh at Brownson field, 2:30 p. m.; Off-Campus, bye.
Standings in Group I:
w L T PCT.
Badin _______________2	0	0	1.000
St. Edward’s________1	0	0	1.000
Corby_______________1	1	0	.500
Lyons_______________1	1	0	.500
Morrissey___________1	1	0	.500
Dillon ______________0	1	0	.000
Sophomore___________0	2	0	.000
Standings in Group II:
w L T PCT. Off-Campus __________2	0	0	1.000
Walsh ______________1	0	0	1.000
Carroll ____________0	0	1	.000
Alumni ______________0	0	1	.000
Brownson____________0	1	1	.000
Freshman____________0	1	1	.000
Howard______________0	2	0	.000
Morrissey 13, Dillon 0
Scoring in both the first and last periods Morrissey’s interhall contenders easily defeated Dillon, 13 to 0, in an unexciting contest Tuesday morning on Minims field. In defeating the gold-coast frosh, who had had little time for practice and were thus in poor condition, Morrissey showed little in the way of offense other than a good line-plunging attack.
Late in the first quarter Art Conley, Morrissey left half, went over the goal on a drive off his own left tackle from the seven yard line. Kieple, fullback, failed to kick the point after touchdown and the half ended with the score 6 to 0.
Kieple scored the last touchdown in the last quarter on a three-yard lunge over the center of the line. He then proceeded to kick the goal.- Morrissey almost tallied again but the whistle blew, ending the game.
Dillon’s freshmen lacked everything (Continued on Page 30)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Moller Makes Hole-in-One
Larry Moller, Quincy, Illinois, reported the first ace of the fall season on the Burke Memorial golf course late last week. Moller, a star member of the Notre Dame golf teams of the past two years, holed out his tee shot on the fifteenth hole. In addition to the hole-in-one, the former captain had a deuce on the seventeenth and a brilliant total of 32 for the second nine.
0.	A. Clark
Restaurant
104-106 N. Michigan St.
V
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
V
Catering to NotreDameMen for over thirty years
V
For a real man’s meal drop in any time
V
We Have No Key
Tom Conley Popular In New Job As Coach At La Salle
By J. J. Dugan
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Philadelphia, Pa., Oct. 16.—Here at La Salle College, conducted by the Christian Brothers, another Notre Dame grad, Captain Tom Conley of the 1930 wizard team, is moving smoothly along the path that leads to glory as a football coach.
La Salle is a grouping of three academic institutions, Benilde Acad-
Tom Conley Head Coach at LaSalle
emy, a Country Day and Boarding School for students of elementary school age; then the high school, and lastly college. La Salle, with an A-l scholastic rating, has been in existence since 1662 but never until the acquisition of "Ox” Conley has it had a collegiate football team.
And the interest among the alumni, student body, and people of Philadelphia has grown tremendously with
the installation of Conley as Professor of Physical Education. The student enrollment has leaped 150 percent over 1930, the college gaining the greatest number of students.
Conley at one time had 77 candidates for the college football team. Many of them failed to make the grade, but at the present time the head coach is working with a squad of 44 varsity players.
Furthermore La Salle is going somewhere in the football world. On the Blue and Gold clad varsity contingent there is one junior, Captain Lou Burgoyne, 195 pound fullback, half a dozen sophomores, and all the remainder are freshmen.
The foundation for La Salle’s football team, which opened its season with a 26-0 victory over Brooklyn college and then lost to St. John’s 13-6 on a pair of fumbles, is made up of Philadelphia high school boys. There are but eight out of town players on the squad, one coming from Pittsburgh, one from Cumberland, Md., three from Bethlehem, Pa., two from the Coal Regions, and one from Providence, R. I.
Roman Catholic High, Conley’s alma mater, and Northeast Catholic H. S. waged a merry battle to see how many of their graduates could make the squad. Catholic High sent ten, and Northeast, eight. The remainder were graduates from various other high schools in the city and suburbs.
The question mark that hovered over the squad during the pre-season training has been erased. Everyone who has watched the Conley-machine perform is perfectly satisfied that Tom knows his football thoroughly and can impart that knowledge to a rugged band of athletes willing and anxious to learn.
Conley makes headway by the cool, confident, and friendly manner in which he goes about his tasks. He has plenty of patience. Instilling the Notre Dame system into the players he has no easy task. Almost the entire squad—all but two in fact— came to Conley with nothing more than high school football coaching.
There was plenty to be discouraged over at first, but in the last three
October 16, 1931
Twenty-five
weeks the team has come along amazingly well. Not one member of the squad will be graduated this year. Going on the assumption that all return to college next year, Conley’s club should make far greater headway, and before the third year of Tom’s contract expires, La Salle should be represented with a team capable of holding its own with the best in the east.
Prior to the opening of the season, Conley was somewhat nervous, and wondering what would happen. There must have been many thought about the future whirling through his head, but on the morning of the battle there came to him a telegram from his old pals back at Notre Dame wishing him luck. It was signed “Marchie.”
Worry and care and wonderment banished from the brow of the handsome Philadelphian. He went to the boys in their dressing room and told them he had the utmost faith and confidence in them, told them what was expected of them and, with a slap on the back of each player as he passed by the dressing room to the field, Tom Conley started a career which all Philadelphia hopes will grow greater and more successful as the years roll by.
WILDCATS TIE N. D.» 0-0
(Continued from Page 20)
ever the outcome of the game might have been on a dry field will never be known. It is sufficient to say that the meeting of these two powerful teams would have been a struggle well worth watching.
The lineup:
NOTRE DAME	NORTHWESTERN
Kosky_________L. E------- Eylar
Culver________L. T-------J. Riley
Harriss ______L. G__ Engebretsen Yarr C______________Weldin
Hoffman_______R. G_________Evans
Kurth_________R. T------- Marvil
Mahony________R. E_________Fencl
Murphy________Q. B________Potter
Schwartz______L. H________Meenan
Sheeketski__________R. H_ Rentner Banas______________F. B--Olson
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
Any intelligent person may earn money corresponding for newspapers; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Hea-cock, 548 Dun Building, Buffalo, N. Y.
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Host for Kosky; Krause for Culver; Gree-ney for Harriss; Gorman for Yarr; Pierce for Hoffman; Kozak for Kurth; Barstow for Kozak; Devore for Mahony; Jaskwhich for Murphy; Foley for Jaskwhich; Vejar for Foley; Koken for Schwartz; Brancheau for Sheeketski; Cronin for Brancheau; Melinkovich for Banas; Leahy for Melinkovich.
Northwestern—Manske for Eylar; Dilley for Engebretsen; McDonald for Weldin; Crizevsky for Evans; Hall for Fencl; Lewis for Potter;
Th« ink supply in the pen h always viable.
yosHloruavty th* N«sac by HMfvlytamiastbe knwled end ol Iha bonl—Hke youwiadavMlch.
The Pen That Winds Tike A Watch
I FORGOT to wind my Conklin Nozac" will positively not be required as an alibi by those who choose this new Conklin with the visible ink section. The visible ink section in this wonderful ultra-modern fountain pen always reminds you. You can see at a glanceatall times how much ink is in the pen. The Nozac is also available with all-opaque barrel if so desired. And because there is no rubber sac within the barrel, the ink capacity of the Nozac is 35% greater than other pens of the same size. Gash the nearest up-to-date supply depot and get acquainted with "the pen that winds like a watch." The price is timely—$6 and $10; pencils to match $3.50and $5.00. Other Conklins—new shapes— new colors. Sensibly priced at $2.75 to $8 for the pens and $1 to $4.50 for the pencils.
THE CONKLIN PEN COMPANY TOLEDO. OHIO
Chicayo_________Swifaudsco
DEALERS, stock and show the pens that sdL Write for catalog.
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED
Sullivan for Lewis; Moore for Rentner.
Referee—Gardner (Cornell). Umpire— Schommer (Chicago). Field judge — Hedges (Dartmouth). Head linesman—Graves (Illinois).
Coaches — Dick Hanley, Northwestern; Heartley Anderson, Notre Dame.
Do you know that Mickey Cochrane once kicked a fifty-three yard field goal for Boston University ?
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
HARPER SPIES RUMORS ON POST-SEASON GAMES
Says Proposals Are Newspaper Talk; No Official Action.
Rumors that have been rampant in the nation’s sport pages concerning Notre Dame and post-season charity games have been definitely spiked for the present by Jesse C. Harper, Director of Athletics.
Late Thursday morning, Mr. Harper characterized the furor that has gone on in print for the last week or more as “merely newspaper talk.” He stated that as yet there has been no official school action on either side of the proposed games.
The stories involving games with Northwestern, Ohio State and Yale are alike in their lack of foundation. The proposals on all of them have not thus far gone beyond the newspaper stage.
Regarding Notre Dame’s attitude toward such games in the event that official negotiations should be opened, Mr. Harper declined to make a state-
THE SCHEDULE
Oct. 3—
N. D. 25; Indiana 0.
Oct. 10—
N. D. 0; Northwestern 0.
Oct. 17—
Drake here.
Oct. 24—
Pittsburgh here.
Oct. 31—
Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh.
Nov. 7—
Pennsylvania here.
Nov. 14—
Navy at Annapolis.
Nov. 21—
Southern California here.
Nov. 28—
Army at New York.
ment. Holding that any post-season encounters would involve matters of school policy, he placed the authority for any statements in the province of the President of the University.
FINALS IN NET MEET SCHEDULED FOR SUNDAY
Inclement Weather Cause of Delays During Past Week.
By Joseph Borda
The Scholastic tennis tournament which was to have been completed this past week, was postponed several days due to the unfavorable weather. Although a few matches were played the opportunities for playing were limited and only the semi-final round could be reached. An excellent brand of tennis was displayed in these matches, and the succeeding rounds promise to be filled with exciting contests. The final round will be played at 2:30 Sunday afternoon on the Leeper Park tennis courts. Those who enjoy watching a well played tennis match should make every attempt to be present at this time. The two men who will meet for the championship will do so afterdefeating players who provided stiff opposition for them throughout the whole tournament. An effort will be made to stage the doubles final im
THEY LIVE A LIFE TIME IN A DAY!
Thrills of love hate and danger crowded into
. Fate brings these two together for only a moment!
KAY FRANCIS K<
/ MIRIAM HOPKINS REGIS TOOMEY
Paramount’s stirring dramatization of the novel of the same name and the Cosmopolitan magazine serial “Shattered Glass,” by Louis Bromfield
Colfax
A Public Theatre
A




A
1



October 16, 1931
Tiventy-seven
mediately following the completion of the singles matches.
With the conclusion of this tournament, tennis for this year will be over. Those students who participated in this fall event should not forget that they will be looked upon as probable candidates for the team next spring. Only a limited number of men will be able to make the squad, but it must be remembered that everyone will have an equal chance of gaining a varsity berth.
Once more those who are responsible for tennis at Notre Dame wish to thank the Scholastic for the much needed assistance that it rendered, and which will help them in selecting a strong team to represent the University next spring. It is hoped that the campus spirit, as shown by the newspaper which speaks for it, will be reflected in the record of nineteen hundred thirty-two tennis.
Summaries:
Quarter-Final Round
Louis Chreist defeated Robert Shank, 6-1, 6-4; Louis Stein defeated William Schrader, 6-0, 6-1; Richard Kelly defeated Robert O’Henlon, 2-6, 6-2, 6-1; Carl Meyer vs. William Pfeil, postponed.
RESERVES PLAY THREE STIFF OUT-OF-TOWN GAMES TOMORROW
The biggest day of the year in Notre Dame Reserve football is on tap for tomorrow. The “B” teams of the Blue and Gold squad will become “C” and “D” as well, in order to fill engagements on three foreign fields.
Northwestern university’s reserves will be met at Evanston in the feature game of the three. It is probable that the pick of the Notre Dame ham-bergers will be sent to this game. .
Second on the list of tilts is the one with Michigan State Teachers’ college at Ypsilanti, Michigan. The Yysilanti school is not a newcomer to the ranks of Notre Dame opponents. They have been a fixture on reserve schedules for several falls.
The third and last of the week-end encounters will take a band of Fighting Irish to Kalamazoo, Michigan. Western State Normal of that city will furnish the opposition for the • second Notre Dame invasion into the Kazoo stronghold in a week. Last Friday the Kalamazoo college grid-ders took the measure of one of Coach
Anderson’s detachments.
Tomorrow’s games will bring the total of starts this season to five for the local Reserves. In the two games already played the sub-varsities have gained an even break. Indiana fell, 25 to 2, but the game last week saw the Blue and Gold on the short end of a 19 to 7 score.
After tomorrow two games will remain on the “B” team schedule. Buffalo university’s .varsity will be met in the New York City on November 7. Northwestern will come to Notre Dame for a return engagement a week later, the 14th.
Smith Joins Giants
The latest reports from the pro football world bring the news of an-othei- Notre Dame recruit in the crash-for-cash business. “Red” Smith, husky line star of the 1926 Blue and Gold varsity, has signed to play with the New York Giants.
Smith will make his first appearance in the Giant line as a guard next Sunday.	t
Did you know that the Northwestern game marked the first time in twenty-seven starts that the Notre Dame team was held scoreless?
HURRYI Last Two Days
in
LEW AYRES < SPIRIT „/ NOTRE DAME 'ALLY BLANE
Starts SUNDAY
WILLIAM
Doris Kenyon --
His name was erased from the social register—But was written indelibly in the best diaries!
POWELL
Marian Marsh
The Road to Singapore
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By Edmund L. Moriarty
The game at Soldier Field last Saturday decided nothing. It only increased the current chatter regarding the relative merits of Notre Dame and Northwestern. Both played fine football under the adverse conditions that were caused by the steady downpour. It would be hard to say just which eleven outshone the other. Both teams received their share of the “breaks” but neither one was able to turn them into touchdowns. This was not due to any poor generalship or bad playing, but to the determination shown by both teams when they were pressed. Notre Dame’s line made a heroic stand in the first half when the Wildcats were in possession of the
something that only Clicquot has. Blends delightfully be> is a perfect blend
CLICQUOT has it!
Zestful and tingling, this fine old American ginger ale is a mellower, smoother blend. Drink it for that EXTRA
that\EXTRA\somet h i ng
cause it Hself.
ball deep in the shadows of the Blue and Gold’s goal line. The secondary were equally as brilliant in knocking down a Purple pass that would have resulted in a score had it found its mark. Northwestern also proved invulnerable when a dangerous situation presented itself. At least twice did the mem of Hanley dig their toes into the mud to ward off the Notre Dame landslide.
Fumbles provided the “breaks” of the game on more than one occasion, and a few of the grandstand coaches were bitter in their attacks on certain players for committing such a grievous fault. They are the ones who should have been playing the game.
We wonder how well they could have handled that ball that was as elusive as a greased pig. The wiser ones were strong in their praises of both teams, and wondered because there were not more fumbles. Certainly all credit is due to both our “Fighting Irish” and the equally determined Wildcats.
With both teams playing football that was excellent, considering the conditions, the game ended as it should have—a scoreless tie.
V
FOR SWEET CHARITY AGAIN
The game, ending as it did, only increased the arguments regarding which really had the superior team. Notre Dame supporters insist that their team would have been two touchdowns better than Northwestern on a dry field, but the Purple followers are of this same opinion, so the field still remains open for comment.
Immediately after the game, rumors were circulated regarding a post-season contest which would be played on December fifth. This would probably settle every current dispute, but it might not display the teams at their best. At that time both Northwestern and Notre Dame will have completed a terrible schedule, and would probably be stale; both teams might suffer injuries during the season which would deprive them of their full strength; and the weather on December fifth might be just as bad as it was on October the tenth, maybe worse, and another game would be left in the hands of the gods to decide the victor.
There are certain technicalities which might also stand in the way of such a game. The Big Ten commissioners recently published an edict legalizing post-season games but with the stipulation that these games be played within the pale of the Western Conference. There will undoubtedly be a game played between two con
Optometrists	Opticians
Clicquot Club GINGER ALES (Stale Qhy	~ dec
^Jkree favorite ^flavors on any Campus
ROGERS
Db. E. S. Cain Dr. H. H. Rogers
212 South Michigan Street
October 16, 1931
Twenty-nine
ference teams in case of a tie for the championship. Northwestern should sift through her schedule undefeated, and in case there is another contender for the title, will have to play a pos-season game. Thus it would he almost an impossibility for the Wildcats to play two post-season games, and this would probably be the only outlet if another game with Notre Dame was to be scheduled.
V
ONCE MORE PREDICTIONS
Eleven wins, four losses and one tie were recorded in our scoring column for this week, bringing the total to thirty-six wins, five losses and one tie for the year. Not to be discouraged, we’re back again this week with another list for your approval, and may they all be winners.
The Drake Bulldogs play here tomorrow with two straight wins to their credit. Notre Dame should check this and run up at least four touchdowns in doing so. The Michigan-Ohio State game should feature the play in the Big Ten this week, with Michigan favored to win over the Buckeyes. Northwestern should win over her coast rival, while in the east Army should have little trouble with Harvard.
DRAKE HERE TOMORROW
(Continued from Page 5)
tie will be the clashing of two branches of the Notre Dame style of football. Coach Solem of Drake has finally adopted, with minor modifications, the offense of his most successful opponent. How the Notre Dame team will react when faced with their own brand of attack is an interesting question. A Blue and Gold squad has
THE FORECASTS
NOTRE DAME 26. DRAKE 0
Yale 21, Chicago 0
Michigan 14, Ohio State 0
Northwestern 20, U. C. L. A. 0
Indiana 14. Iowa 0
Michigan State 35. Illinois Wesleyan 7
Purdue 19, Wisconsin 6
Illinois 24, Bradley 0
Army 20, Harvard 0
Navy 13, Delaware 0
Pittsburgh 33, Western Reserve 0
Pennsylvania 24, Lehigh 0
Southern California 20, Oregon 6
St. Mary’s 21. San Francisco 0
Georgia 21, North Carolina 0
Stanford 20. Oregon State 7
Syracuse 13, Florida 7
Vanderbilt 13, Tulane 0
Dartmouth 21, Columbia 0
Cornell 13. Princeton 0
never met an opponent featuring the Rockne-developed technique.
Just what eleven Coach Anderson will send against the visitors for the opening kickoff is not definite. However, should the going develop to be tough, the regulars will undoubtedly be hurried into the fray. If, for a change, the Drake team does not make a stubborn stand against the Fighting Irish it is probable that many of the Notre Dame second and third string troops will see action.
With the Pittsburgh game only a week away it would be a break if the Blue and Gold could take the game tomorrow in their stride or even with a little relaxation. Drake, though, probably has some ideas of their own about being taken in stride. They will hardly put up with it. Objecting to that sort of treatment has become almost a habit with them.
Scores of previous Drake-Notre Dame games show that the colorful little band of lowans have dropped five consecutive decisions to the local eleven. Results of the games:
1926________Notre	Dame	21,	Drake 0
1927________Notre	Dame	32,	Drake 0
1928________Notre	Dame	32,	Drake 6
1929________Notre	Dame	19,	Drake 7
1930________Notre	Dame	28,	Drake 7
Hello Men!
Smith's Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd. Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
‘‘Al Sizes, AH Colors and All Styles”
High Quality Corduroys $2.85
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Amy Store 330 South Michigan Street
Thirty
The Scholastic
CALL FOR BASKETBALL MEN GIVEN BY KEOGAN
Coach Expects Strong Team To Represent N. D. On Court.
Coach George E. Keogan’s basketball squad started practice last Wednesday to prepare for a stiff schedule which includes such teams as Army, Pittsburgh, Syracuse, Northwestern and Purdue.
Returning letter men include Captain Norb Crowe, Bill Newbold and Al Schumaker at forward, Jack Baldwin, Clay Johnson and Tom Bums at guard, and Ray DeCook at center. Besides these men Coach Keogan has some valuable men who were on the varsity squad last year and the stars of last year’s freshman squad. Mike Koken and Charley Jaskwich will join the squad when the football season is over.
Much promising material from the freshman squad of last year reported at the initial workout. Davis, Ang-sten, Fehlig, and Alberts showed up well as forwards for the Freshmen.
Among the centers are Voegle and Ed Krause, huge tackle on the football squad. Boland, McGuff, J. Newbold and Weidner, guards, will join the varsity ranks this year after performing well with the Freshmen.
The only two men lost to the varsity by graduation are Butorac and Joe Gavin who was elected honorary captain of last year’s team at the close of the season. Gavin’s loss is a real one; he was fast, shifty, and caused the opposing guards considerable trouble.
The outlook for a good season is bright. The squad will be composed of the veterans from last year and the stars of the Freshmen squad and competition for regular positions will be keen. The thing which Coach Keogan fears the most now is the loss of some good men because of ineligibility. Barring this he should produce a good team.
Notre Dame will oppose some of the best teams of the East and Middle West on the basketball court this season. Syracuse and Army are both on the schedule. The former was one of the leading Eastern teams last year and triumphed over Keogan’s men 28 to 23. Army was defeated by one point in one of the best games
of the season. Northwestern will be met this year and Notre Dame will seek revenge for the defeats handed them by Joe Reiff and his mates. With Pittsburgh on the schedule again this year, fans seeing this game are assured of a great battle. Pittsburgh beat the Blue and Gold eagers in overtime periods twice last year. Purdue and Butler will furnish plenty of opposition of the Indiana variety. .
INTERHALL SPORTS (Continued from Page 23) but fight and there were no outstanding performers among the first year men. John Kieple, hard plunging fullback; Conley, Morrissey’s “March-mont Schwartz,” and Jim Morrow, fast end, were the luminaries in the Morrissey lineup.
Lyons 7, Corby 0
Presenting the biggest line in interhall football, capable of thwarting every attack of their opponents, and good enough offensively to make holes so that the backs could push over a touchdown, Lyons defeated Corby by a tune of 7 to 0 Tuesday morning on Brownson field.
'eet and cat
at
lA^LGREEN'S
TT’S a healthy and enjoyable habit— and a thrifty one, too— to meet and eat at Walgreeri’s.
There is an atmosphere about the Walgreen Fountain that is different— an atmosphere that makes good food taste even better. Then, too, you know that the things you get at a
Walgreen Fountain are the very finest that money can buy.
For a quick bite—or a leisurely one— no matter what the hour, turn to your Walgreen Drugstore. It’s convenient, desirable, economical.
Special 2Sc lunch served at all hours.
October 16, 1931
Thirty-one
Stopped in the closing moments of the first period by the officials who penalized them, Lyons put the ball across the goal on a plunge from the one yard line by Bud Carney, left halfback. Carney then proceeded to kick goal. Previous to the scoring play Pahlman, Lyons fullback scampered through the Corby eleven for 20 yards before he was downed by Corby’s backfield ace, Johnny Perone.
The game from then on was a contest between Corby’s backs and Lyons’ strong line which stopped their opponents continually. Frank San-dera, all-interhall end for 1930, was especially outstanding in the Lyons line as was Charlie Huisking, giant tackle. Bromert, Corby center, and Perone were the bright spots in an otherwise dim Corby lineup.
Freshman 0, Brownson 0
Battling for forty minutes amid a steady down pour of rain, Freshman and Brownson halls played to a scoreless tie on Minims field, Tuesday afternoon. The rain so hindered the players that they were unable to bring forward any scoring punch, although once O’Brien, Brownson half, broke away on his own 15 yard line and had reached the 40-yard line of
his opponents before he was brought down from behind.
Freshman for the most part outplayed their fellow first year men but lacked the punch to put the ball over. During the entire first half except for the time when O’Brien made his long run, the ball was in Brownson territory. Barney English, backfield ace, shone for the Freshman eleven.
Alumni 0, Carroll 0
Alumni fared better than did their new neighbors when they held the strong Carroll team to a scoreless tie Tuesday afternoon on Brownson field. Lacking experience, the Alumni men fought hard and were fortunate to keep the Carrolites from their goal since the ball was several times within the shadows of the juniors’ goal line.
The game was played in a fine rain that kept the players from displaying their best brand of ball. In the last quarter, however, Carroll was in possession of the ball on their opponents’ five-yard line with fourth down and but one to go when Coach Luckett sent in a substitute. In his anxiety the substitute forgot to report to the officials and his team was penalized and their scoring chance was gone.
The whistle blew immediately after, ending the game.	.
Shaughnessy, Alumni back, and Beaudin at tackle for the same eleven starred for a fighting Alumni team who were playing their first game. Rog, fullback, and Kristel, halfback, were the outstanding Carroll men.
Badin 7, Sophomore 0
Led by the hard hitting halfback Seidle, who last week showed was one of the best back in interhall football, Badin won their second straight victory in Group I of the interhall league from Sophomore, 7 to 0.
The game throughout was just a question of how many points Badin would score and the Sophomore haliers were fortunate in holding the hardhitting Badin backs from scoring more than once.
• Seidle scored the lone touchdown on a line plunge late in the third quarter. Conti, Seidie’s running mate at halfback, went over on a buck for the point after touchdown.
Reilly, fullback, and Seidle were the Badin stars for the game while Sophomore lacked any one star though the entire line was composed of men who knew how to fight when the going was tough.
The Fastest Way
There is a necessity, at this particular time of year, for considerable hurried travel to and from Chicago. The hourly service of America’s fastest electric railway meets the demands of the busiest student; the appointments and service of its dining car and club car trains answer the needs of the most meticulous.
ON EXHIBITION AT
Expressed preferences of representative university men have been correctly interpreted in the early fall offerings of Friendly Five Shoes, especially manufactured for campus wear.
Size 5-15 — AAAA to E
Join the Friendly Five $500.00 slogan contest
Trains every hour on the hour to downtown Chicago.
Baldwin Shoe Company
Home of Friendly Five Shoes
110 W. Wayne St.
South Bend, Ind.

Thirty-two
The Scholastic
GIRLS Do Not Smoke Pipes
THE GIRLS haven’t left us many of our masculine rights. They fly our airplanes, drive our cars, smoke
our cigarettes — but they don’t smoke our pipes! They’ve left us this one manly right, anyway.
A man almost has to smoke a pipe nowadays. A pleasant necessity! For a pipe filled with good tobacco is just about the I
You’ll never see her smoking a pipe*
t smoke a man
of acme.
could want.
And if you’re troubled about selecting a tobacco, । remember that r Edgeworth is the popular favorite in 42 out of 54 colleges. It somehow seems to fit die college man’s taste. Edgeworth
is cut especially for pipes, it bums slowly, it gives a cool smoke. You can buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold. Or, for a special sample packet, write to Lams & Bro. Co., 100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
On Down the Line
. . . Stanford University’s Cardinal football team played its first game of the 1931 season with West Coast Army after only four days practice . . . the team had not been scrimmaged once . . . The 1930 University of California football team used 54 miles of adhesive tape to bind bruises, breaks, cuts and scratches, but only two pairs of crutches . . .
V
. . . “REB RUSSELL was not the only loss Northwestern suffered prior to the game Saturday . . . BILL STEWART, head cheerleader, wrenched his back while practicing new formations with the rest of the staff . . . Twelve record performances marked the 1931 world series, including the displacement of seven former records and the equaling of five others ... A lad by the name of EDGAR DAVY of Girard, Ohio, won letters in track, football, baseball, basketball and tennis . ..
V
. . . ACK MAHAN, Texas Aggie football star of a decade ago, is training with the javelin for a place on the 1932 Olympic team'. . . Basketball practice at the University of Kansas got under way last night with 17 candidates reporting . . . Jockey MELVIN LEWIS recently rode three winners in the first four races of a
OmcE 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Kewpee Hotel Hamburg 328 N. Michigan
SSWJW3R
We are always open and ready to serve our specialties—
Excellent Hamburgers and Rich Creamy Malted Milks
SMOKING TOBACCO
Fairmount card . . .
□
Edgeworth any-
worth’s distinctive and exclusive dev-
worth Plug Slice. All
. . . There’ll be no No. 13 on any Louisiana State football players jersey this season ... Head Coach RUSS COEN is’nt superstitious, but doesn’t . believe any good will come from slap- - . ping “13” on Tiger gridders .... DARNA OSTOPAVICH, giant Lithu-v anian mat artist, suffered a brain . concussion in a recent match with ED LEWIS but recovered . .. .	‘ .	-
Drop in after the games :	or shows.
PHONE 3-0405
Yard Service
The Notre Dame
JUGGLER
University Humorous Monthly
T	>	Presents its
Autumn Number
featuring
The Laughing Low-Down on Football
*	By Coach Otto Umph
Priceless Lopker Portrait of
ROGKNE
On sale at University Cafeteria
. and on Leading Newstands
Buy An Extra Copy For Your Football Guest!
•05i.UGGKn*MYmT<)MXoCo. >
and better to me!”
No matter how many you smoke! It’s a fact. The last.Chesterfield.of the day is just as mild and sweet — as cool and comfortable — as the first For every Chesterfield is like every other Chesterfield!
You couldn^t ask for a better test of uniform mild-nets. And it’s the -tobaccos themselves that give the ynswrrt Only mild, ripe, sweet tobaccos—the smoothest and ripest grown—go into Chesterfield.
- And the paper . .'. that’s mighty importent, too! -	■
ZZZ. .Notice.hdwjfine and;white it is.’;The .purest that
—money can buy! Burns without taste dr odor.	-
All this care.. .to make Chesterfields taste better
—rn make themsmoke milder. No purer, better cigarette than Chesterfield can be made. And millions of . ■ smokers—menand women both—sayit in their own
way: ‘TTiey Satisfy!” -
GOOD... they’vegot tobe good!
«S



$&
