This book is not to o© XfibT&TF
1


The Notre Dame Scholastic
Sept. 22 1933
15 CTS. A COPY
$3.00 THE YEAR
Believe Zt er Nd/
There is one brand of FOUNTAIN PEN-NO THICKER OR LONGER THAN OTHER PENS
MADE 50 it HOLDS 102% MORE INK/
l
£
This same brand of fountain pen -
HAS A POINT THAT WRITES TWO WAYS-In Normal Position tt Writes
FINE or MEDIUM or BROAD —
Turned Over it Writes a
FINE or EXTRA FINE HAIR LINE
SB® S* n'*'*
MR. ROBERT L. RIPLEY
SHLED FOR THE SMARTEST PEOPLE
til ELD TO THE LIGHT
THE TRANSPARENT RINGS SHOW THE INK WITHIN-SHOW WHEN TO REFILL This Ends Running Dry at Some
Critical Moment

—The
BARREL is LAMINATED-BUILT UP RING UPON.RING OF SHIMMERING PEARL And JET, OR PEARL AND TRANSPARENT AMBER, -Which Looks Like Pearl and Jet when Filled with Ink.
^Parker’s Utterly New Vacumatic Filler
REVOLUTIONIZES FOUNTAIN PENS
The Sacless, Ultra-Smart, Laminated Pearl Beauty that holds 102% more ink. Tells you when to refill, hence ends running dry.
Geo. S. Parker now announces a marvelous new Pen development in tire Parker Vacumatic Filler — a development that forever ends the nuisance of having your pen run dry at some critical moment.
Invented by a scientist at the University of Wisconsin, and developed by Parker, the Vacumatic Filler is the first sacless pen containing no piston pump or valves,— nothing to render it useless later. And it holds 102% more ink irith Ro
increase in size. Go right now and see this new-day writer. See how it fills by vacuum—see the ink within through the dear-vision rings—see
VACUMATIC
er
FILLER
Laminated Pearl or Plain Jet Pencil to Mtlck, 13.50; Jet or Plain Transparent Pen-.li; PenuLTiM
the double quantity—try writing two ways with tnis one Reversible Point. All good pen counters are demonstrat-ing.TheParkerPen Co., Janesville,Wis.
Yhis is AN INK THAT MAKES A PEN A CONTAINS A SECRET SOLVENT THAT DISSOLVES SENMENI Dries SIX Fader than Average onftper bvt-Htrt Shuman
-Its Name-
NARNER QU/NK 9e
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS
116 South Michigan ;St^-<next door to “Hollies”
PARKERFOUNTAIN pens
Student Supplies at “Downtown Prices”
Keuffel and Esser Drawing Instruments and Supplies
1G0354
South. Shore Line...your
most convenient to the WORLDS
way FAIR
MICHIGAN CITY
Direct to the fair gates/
SOUTH BEND TO CHICAGO
LOW COST ROUND TRIP
with
9 day return limit
(or further uptown if you wish)
No Notre Dame student’s education will be complete without a few visits to the World’s Fair. And what better way to go than via South Shore Line. . . speedy, convenient, direct to the Fair gates. . . and low in cost! No
waits, no confusion, fore the Fair closes!
Hurry! Be-
60
For more information Veach, City Passenger
call Mr. C. W. Agent, phone
3-3111, or write Mr. R. E. Jamieson, General Passenger Agent, 140 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago.
Chicago South Shore and South 3end Railroad
50UTHNSHORr
See These Neu)
Designed by him, for University Men . .
Style plus comfort, that’s the idea behind Duncan Paige, and you’ll find it to aij^extraordinary degree.
Kuppenheimer’s handcrafting assures satisfaction. :	:	:
SOME MODERN STYLE FEATURES OF THESE SUITS
I.
• Talon Zipper Fly Fasteners .	•' Tab Waistband Trousers
9 Shirt Clasps at the Trouser Band
• Jetted Pockets
•' Cash Flap on Coat
• Tapering Sleeves and Trousers
See these Suits at our downtown Store.
Corduroy Slacks Suede Jackets N. D. Jewelry
Laundry Cases - Bags
Pennants - Banners Rain Coats Gym Supplies Majestic Radio
COMPLETE STOCKS SHOES - FURNISHINGS - CLOTHING
TWO STORES FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE DOWNTOWN AND ON THE CAMPUS PFe wish you a cordial welcome!
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
....Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors JOHN D. PORTERFIELD...................JOHN CONLEY
EDWARD O’BRIEN.................JAMES	T. FITZPATRICK
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH........................The.	Week
RICHARD PREZEBEL_________________________Staff Artist
Sports Staff • JOHN CARBINE......................HOWARD WALDRON
JAMES F. McKEON...................NICHOLAS CONNOR
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
News Staff
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD--------------------------News Editor
THOMAS PROCTOR-----------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH BUCCI.—-----------------------Assistant News Editor
JAMES BYRNE..............................FRANK KELLY
RICHARD TOBIN____________________________ROBERT ERVIN
MICHAEL WIEDL............................JOHN WALKER
WILLIAM KENNEDY__________________________PAUL DOYLE
GEORGE LEYES.............................LOUIS HRUBY
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY__________________
Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
SEPTEMBER 22, 1933
No. 1
A FULL ENROLLMENT
Notre Dame opened its ninety-second scholastic year last week with an enrollment of 2,545. That total represents what is known in the theatre business as a full house. Campus accommodations are filled to capacity: the ideal situation at this university.
To those who have labored for the advancement of Notre Dame, the full enrollment can be a source of justifiable pride. It bespeaks a task well done. Even to the casual observer there is an obvious tribute to the University in the fact that it has drawn a normal enrollment in these subnormal times.
Finally, to those scoffers and sneerers who have been shouting “football school” these many years, there is an equally obvious moral. It is not reasonable to attribute to the magnetism of football such a drawing power as has been demonstrated this year. Gridiron enthusiasm, even the life and death type that supporters of the Fighting Irish have, is not a proportionate cause for an enrollment that fills a school in the midst of universal hard times.
The real explanation of the phenomenon goes well beyond the football stadium. Notre Dame’s attractiveness, now that people have returned to bed-rock notions of values and of living, is traceable to Notre Dame’s particular approach to the business of educating men—successfully demonstrated in ninety-one previous years.
A CHOICE FOR FRESHMEN
It is not probable that many college freshmen in this era have reached registration day without being told that the contacts of college life are the things that count. They have heard paens of praise for extra-curricular activities as the sources of real development. To a certain extent that opinion is reasonably tenable.
It fails, however, to be a wise philosophy of college life when it reaches the stage not uncommon in many cases: over-emphasis. The freshmen are legion who have
Sept. 2 2, 1 93 3
failed to become sophomores because they' mistook success in class politics or in headgear carrying for their goal in school and overlooked the business of earning a grade of at least 70 in their several classes.
This is not meant in any way to be a deprecation of the values of extra-class activities. Many excellent students have found time to profit extensively from worth ‘ while interests in other lines. But those men had the foresight to prepare a balanced- career: they put class work ahead of everything else, they chose their activities with caution—selecting those which offered a proportionate return in valuable experience for the time they expended.
To the crop of ’37ers who are now weighing the questions of publications work, managerships, class politics, and allied fields, free advice is offered: Be active in school life and affairs if you are sure that it will do your scholastic standing no harm. Be critical in your choice of an activity: be sure that the work offers room for your advancement within yourself as well as in the political organization of the group. Notre Dame offers many types of activity to you; regard them with a critical eye.
THE VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
The Scholastic, in the manner of a year ago, is pleased to offer its columns to the student body as a medium of expression. “The Voice of the Campus,” the letter column inaugurated last year, will be continued.
By way of explanation, it may be pointed out that practically anything, from niblick shots to Hitlerism, is fit subject matter for letters to the column. Especially welcome are comments, adverse or otherwise, on The Scholastic itself. All that the editors require is that the expression of the letter be in good taste. The point of view adopted by the writer of the letter in no way impairs its chance of publication. Obviously, petty fault-finding is not in good taste.
Letters should be addressed to the “Voice of the Campus,” in care of the editor, 119 Sorin Hall.
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
A long, black-robed figure, cheek on limp fist, exhaled a grey stream of smoke; then his eyes rose wearily to survey the chubby pink face and shoulders framed in the window before him. “Well?” The face bobbed and came up completely inside the window, well over the expanse of tan blotter, as if to edge confidentially on the fringe of the Dean’s impersonality and strike a tete-a-tete note. “You see, Father, I have three afternoon classes a week, and as I have promises of a job down town afternoons I would like to get it changed to a morning class..” “Have you got the job yet?” “No, but a friend of my father’s knows a man who passes through here selling, and he thought he could speak to one of his customers, and so” the voice trailed off into vague sounds and mumblings. “Well, when you get the job and make your first sale,” said the Dean with a note of finality in his voice, “come around and we’ll see about changing that class.” “But anyhow I want my afternoons for work in the Library,” persisted the pink face in half-retreat. “We have arranged to keep the Library opened mornings also, for your especial convenience,” replied the Dean acidly. “Good afternoon.”
The line moved up one. Voices rose. The persistent monotone of the Dean won out after a few moments, and a neat form departed with quick rapid steps. The Dean swayed on his stool, sighting along the straggly line. “If there’s anyone else who wants to change from Latin to a modem language, he may as well leave now,” he announced, looking at them steadily. “We have the rule, and we are going to keep it.” The line wavered and broke in more than one place; a murmur of consultation drifted up; then was lost with the hesitant withdrawal of the consultors. The reformed line surged up again to the oak ledge. A new applicant fell before the Dean’s freshly lighted cigarette.
“Didja get fixed up?”
“Naw, darn it. He wouldn’t let me change. And I had a swell alibi.”
•
Gosh, I hope that advertising contract went through. That’ll give us
Two
two hundred to waste on some artist’s sketches, and then we won’t have to depend so much on Phil’s imagination. Wish Phil could think as well as he can write. Hope I can make the cafeteria on the strength of these publications jobs. Well, the old place hasn’t changed much. Naw, I’ll get the trunk later on. Wanta run up to the Publications Office and see the boss. Say, look at the Dome 1 Re-gilding it, eh. Oughta get a gag outa that for something. . . wonder how the thing would look with a blue eagle on it for the Juggler cover. Not bad, son, not bad. On the job already. Have to tell that one to Phil. I oughta get some recognition around here this year after that summer on the Falcon. Gosh, the Freshmen are a dumb-looking lot—hey, no, those guys are seniors. Good gag, eh? Must tell that one to Bob for his column. Freshmen getting so they look like seniors—ha, rissey will be like this year. Not that’s a laugh. Wonder what Morrissey will be like this year. Not much character to that Hall. I s’pose the food will be as bad as ever. And save me from so much Church! I mean to have some fun. H’m. Now why do you suppose they fixed up the Main Building with those awful pictures? “Hello, there, Bill! How’s the old editor, huh? Good summer?”
“Say, will you run over to the bookstore and bring me a couple of blotters?”
Eight o’clock in the morning. Eight o’clock. Eight, eight, eight. How will I ever do it? How? How? Like sneaking up on education in the dark. Wonder what they’ll be like this year. But at eight o’clock nothing can happen. You just stand and talk, a long steady susurration of sound, a multitudinous drip of words, eyes of hate on the carpenter’s shop three floors below where they’re fashioning roofing, must be. English 374rsb. Indeed. Raise me a dais of silk and down for English 374rsb. There’s a strange new dignity come upon me, empurpling me with awful majesty. I shall spray them with lavender; they will be tossed to the stars. Not late, no. “I arrived while it was yet dark, and proceeded to the tavern to await the Lady Gwendolyn—” Hark, oh hark, the breakers roar!—they come! Tim-
Friday, Sept. 22
Freshman Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.; Sermon, “Parents,” by Father Maher; Scholastic staff meetings, Ave Maria building; editorial board, 6:30 p. m., news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m.; Dome meeting, Room 222, Main Building, 7:45 p. m.
Saturday, Sept. 23
Freshman Mission closes, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a. m.; Movie, “Cross Fires,” Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.
Sunday, Sept. 24
Masses: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Upperclass Mission begins, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m., Sermon, “Salavation.”
Monday, Sept. 25
Upperclass Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a. m. and 7:30 p. m.; Morning instruction, “Confession,” Father O’Hara; evening sermon, “Sin.”
Tuesday, Sept. 26
Upperclass Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a. m. and 7:30 p. m.; Morning instruction, “Temptation,” by Father Flynn; evening sermon, “Death.”
Wednesday, Sept. 27
Upperclass Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a. m. and 7:30 p. m.; Morning instruction, “Prayer,” by Father Flynn; evening sermon, “Judgment.”
Thursday, Sept. 28
Upperclass Mission, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 a. m. and 7:30 p. m.; Morning instruction, “Study,” by Father Flynn; evening sermon, “Passion of Our Lord.”
id dears, nuzzling a nose around the door. Cards. Gosh, a Smith. Well, well, well. Girolamo Riario. Welcome to the manor-house. His lordship is in the gun-room. Girolamo Riario. Life does have some little compensations. Ah, thank you. Just 30. A nice, cozy little group. Why, oh why did they all elect this course? They look awful. We shall ascend the heights of learning together— give me your little paddy now . . . there! Up you go! I, Timothy Graeme, holding thirty paddies. Get that smile. Ready, go! “Gentlemen. The text for this class is ... ”
The Scholastic
Over 100,000 Visit N.D. During Summer
By William A. Kennedy
The University worked in thousands this summer. Estimates of the number of visitors to the campus range from 13b,000 to 200,000.
Tourists came from every state in the union, from Alaska, France, Germany, England, Ireland, Scotland, Italy, and the various countries of South America. They were escorted about the campus by a staff of well-trained student guides, who were equipped beforehand with a standardized sight-seeing lecture.
Celebrities Visit
Teachers, professors, and students from practically every college in the country took advantage of the free guide service. Ten Yale men and a group of Boy Scouts roughed it overnight in Dillon. The Knights of Pythias, convening in South Bend, and the Knights of Columbus, doing the same in Chicago, both paid visits, as did the Irish boxing champions, who were accorded a great reception upon their arrival. Travelling schools made Notre Dame a special stop on their itinerary. In a single day, 6,500 persons and 1500 cars entered the University grounds.
All these are in addition to the uncounted thousands who merely drove through the campus without stopping, or who went only to see the stadium. Still other thousands registered in a book which is now on display in the Art Gallery.
Souvenirs Exhausted
A souvenir shop, run by the Brothers of Holy Cross for the Bengal Missions, and situated across from - the Post Office in the old Off-Campus Office, was forced to close down toward the end of the season because the stock was exhausted. The pamphlet rack of Dillon Hall was continually being emptied, and upwards of 40,000 complimentary booklets were given away. There are still some of the latter on hand, and may be procured from the rectors of the halls.
The visitors, according to Mr. Ed. Cleary of the Library Staff, and head of the guides, were, . in turn, interested, astonished, amused, and charmed by the campus. Itemized, they were
Interested: In the Library:	The
Wightman memorial art galleries, the Vincent Bendix collection of rare tapestries. In’ the Church: Stained (Continued on Page 7)
2545 STUDENTS ENROLLED HERE FOR FIRST SEMESTER
“The Scholastic” Reduced In Size; “Scrip” To Have General Campus Circulation
With this first appearance of the 1933-34 Scholastic a new policy for student publications at Notre Dame adopted last spring, is put into effect.
The principal change in The Scholastic is in size. This year’s weekly will be just half the size of last year’s 32-page publication. The reduction in the number of pages was necessitated by economic conditions and by a desire to maintain Scrip, campus literary quarterly, as an individual publication.
This year Scrip will appear on four Fridays during the year, Nov. 17, Jan. 26, March 16, and May 18. On those days publication of The Scholastic will be suspended and Scrip will be distributed to every student in the University.
This manner of distributing the literary quarterly is a complete change from the procedure of proceeding years. Formerly Scrip’s circulation depended entirely on its buying public. Under the new arrangement it is hoped that campus interest in literary writing will be greatly stimulated.
Band Organizes Monday;
10 0 Students Report
One hundred students turned out for the initial tryouts of the University Band Monday afternoon. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the group, announced that from this number the regular personnel of 80 members will be selected.
The band, one of the most active organizations on the campus during the fall season, will play for all the home football games as well as pep meetings. Whether or not the band will make any trips this year is as yet unknown. Last year the group traveled to Pittsburgh for the Pitt game as well as to Cleveland for the Navy game.
Louis Alaman, drum major of last year’s band, will again swing the baton this season. The first public appearance of the musicians will be made at the initial pep meeting of the season. -
IS SLIGHT DECREASE
By Thomas Proctor
A total of 2,545 students are registered in the various colleges of the University of Notre Dame for this first semester of the school year 193334, it was reported this week by the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies. This figure is a slight decrease from both semester registration totals of last year.
In September of 1932 the University registered 2,780 students; in February the figure fell off to 2,659. For the entire year, registration stood at 2,838. The Colleges of Science, Commerce, and Law showed no great decrease from one semester to the next. This fact holds true with the release of the new registration total, especially in' the College of Commerce where the decrease is but one student.
A.B. College Leads
Registration in the various Colleges of the University for this semester, is as follows: Arts and Letters, 1059; Science, 238; Engineering, 368; Law, 118; Commerce, 711; Graduate Students, 53. Though class figures are not compiled as yet, the Director of Studies estimates that the combined Freshman class and Graduate Student group totals 900.
Father Carrico says, “The new registration figure is very satisfactory. We had expected perhaps a much larger decrease, because students would be financially unable to attend college this Fall.”
CONTENTS
Editorials .................... 1
“The Week” .................... 2
Calendar ...................... 2
Enrollment Figures ...........   3
Faculty Changes ............... 3
1933 Commencement ------------  5
Father Nieuwland to be Honored.. 5
Wiley Post Visits Notre Dame.... 6 “Man About The Campus” ........8
“Nezus Of The Week” .......... 10
Football Prospects ........... 11
Golf Team Third in Nationals .... 12
“Introducing” ...............   14
Sept. 2 2, 1933
Three
MANY CHANGES MADE IN FACULTY;	Father O’Donnell Is
FATHER O’HARA IS VICE-PRESIDENT Steadily Recovering
FORMER TEACHERS BACK
By Joseph Bucci
Topping the list of faculty changes made here during the summer vacation is the appointment of the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., as vice-
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. Vice-President of the University
president of the University. Father O’Hara succeeds the Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice president since 1928, assistant superior, and chairman of the athletic board of control, who has been granted a years’ leave of absence to visit his aged mother in Limerick, Ireland. The change was made by the Very Reverend James A. Burns, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Continues Former Work
In addition, Father O’Hara will continue his former work as prefect of religion. He will be assisted in this capacity by the Reverend Francis Prelan, C.S.C., and the Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Father O’Hara’s brilliant background warrants the popular acclaim that has greeted his appointment. He was a member of the diplomatic and consular service from 1905-08. Later he founded the College of Commerce, being dean of it until 1924. During this time, Father O’Hara won national recognition as an educator.
Not a man has been cut from the university’s teaching staff because of economic conditions. Four lay teachers, however, are leaving the university staff for reasons of their own.
Four
Junior Manager Drives Shrewd Bargain: Pays
Dollar For $.75 Book
Inflation is on at Notre Dame! Into the Sorin quarters of Tom “Kitty” Gorman last week walked the spirit of the NRA incarnate: a price raiser.
“Kitty” had a book to sell. A junior football manager had need of the same book. He wanted to do business. Said he to salesman Gorman, “What’s the price?”
“Six-bits’ll do,” offered “Kitty.”
“Make it a dollar,” countered the junior, “and I’ll take it.”
Gorman strangled a bit but offered the book. The junior produced a dollar, clutched the volume, and vanished just as Gorman collapsed on his bed next to the already prostrate Jim Leonard.
Four laymen and 17 priests have been added to the faculty. Only three religious teachers of last year will not be here this fall.
The four additions to the lay faculty are Dr. George Paff, Ph.D., who will teach in the college of science after spending five years as an instructor at Western Reserve university; Dr. George Collins, Ph.D., of Johns Hopkins university,, a researcher of note, and Francis O’Malley, M.A., a graduate assistant here last year. Mr. O’Malley, who will teach English, was valedictorian and class poet of the class of ’32.
Dr. Robert L. Greene, former head of the department of pharmacy, has been succeeded by Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Ph.D.; Dr. Greene will continue to teach in this department.
Among the priests returning to carry on their work of instruction is the Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., Ph.D., former president of St. Thomas college, St. Paul, Minn., who will teach in the philosophy department. The Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., ’24, has returned from four year’s study in Paris, and will also teach philosophy. The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., an outstanding Catholic economist, will head the department of economics, to which will be added the Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C.
The new men who will teach in the department of religion are: the (Continued on Page 7)
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., Ph.D., president of the University, is now conducting the business of the University from Iris bedside in the St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend. He is doing this with the consent of his physicians who find that the mental exertion involved in this brings no deteriorating effect in the physical processes involved in his recovery.
Father O’Donnell has been at St. Joseph’s since the middle of August. After commencement last June, he went to a lake in northern Michigan as the guest of Mr. Fred J. Fisher, a trustee of the University. There his general condition improved until the early part of July when new symptoms indicated further activity of his streptococcus infection.
Treatments Continued
He entered .the Medical Center in New York for a thorough examination. The doctors there diagnosed his trouble as toxic labyrinthitis induced by an internal infection. Vaccine was prepared to combat the infection.
At the advice of these doctors he returned to South Bend to continue treatments under home surroundings. Father O’Donnell has made good progress since that time, but as the process of treatment is long, it will be some time before he is able to return to his desk.
Class Absences Reduced;
Triple Cuts Abolished
The following rules are to be observed in connection with the new regulations concerning absences:
a)	A fourth unexcused absence within a semester from a class taught three times a week’ will prevent credit for the course; a third unexcused absence within . a semester from a class taught twice a week will prevent credit for the course.
b)	Any absence from a class at any time counts as a single absence only.
This second rule means that there are no more triple cuts; nor does a student lose credit for a course if he absents himself from a class either before or after holidays.
The Scholastic
Six Thousand Attend 1933 Commencement
FATHER NIEUWLAND TO RECEIVE AWARD FOR ACETYLENE RESEARCH
By James Byrne
John McCormack, Al Smith, Margaret Anglin, Dr. James J. Walsh, Governor Paul V. McNutt, and Reverend Charles E. Coughlin together with the attendance of the six thousand guests of the graduating class of 1933 did well to make the Eightyninth Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame the greatest in the history of the University and one of the most celebrated commencements of its kind in the country.
Father Coughlin opened the Commencement Exercises Sunday morning, June 4th, with a forceful delivery of the baccalaureate address which thrilled a capacity crowd in the gymnasium. The Most Reverend John Francis Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., was celebrant of the Pontifical Mass at which the address was delivered.
Al Smith Honored
Amid the thunderous applause of the thousands gathered in the gymnasium Sunday afternoon to witness the conferring of the degrees upon the 565 members of the graduating class, and the strains of “The Sidewalks of New York,” which was played by the University band, Al Smith made his entrance at four o’clock to attend the Commencement proper.
The Honorable Paul V. McNutt, Governor of the State of Indiana', gave a brief, eloquent address to the graduates after they had been presented their diplomas by Father Mulcaire. The honorary degrees of doctor of laws were conferred upon Father Coughlin and Governor McNutt.
Former Governor Alfred E. Smith, chairman of the Golden Jubilee Program featuring the presentation of the Laetare Medal to John McCormack, in his inimitable way, opened the evening ceremony with a brief, humorous story of the accidental way in which “The Sidewalks of New York” came to be his political theme song. Margaret Anglin and Dr. Walsh reviewed the history of the Laetare Medal and commented upon the lives "and accomplishments of its recipients.
As John McCormick was introduced and presented with the Laetare Medal, he was heartily applauded by the
Newcomers, Old Students Reminded That N. D. Has A Set of Traditions
For the information of those who are newcomers to Notre Dame and as a reminder to those others who have returned for another year here, The Scholastic presents the following summary of Notre Dame traditions, developed through continued observance by many generations of Notre Dame men:
1.	The fostering of a special devotion to the Blessed Sacrament.
2.	Daily visits to the Grotto.
3.	Undergraduates never use the front stairway to the Main Building.
4.	Students refrain from smoking on the main quadrangle.
5.	Notre Dame men support their athletic teams spiritually as well as vocally.
6.	No Notre Dame man leaves a varsity football game before the singing of the Victory March at the close of the fourth quarter.
7.	Students stand and uncover their heads during the playing or singing of the Victory March.
8.	Students refrain from smoking on street cars when there are women passengers.
9.	Community singing- at the student movies in Washington Hall.
10.	Notre Dame Athletic teams are known as the “Fighting Irish.”
assemblage. After a touching address in which he thanked the University for honoring him by singling him out for the Medal, the singer reminded the audience that song came to him much more easily than oratory. Scarcely had he mentioned the word “song” than tremendous applause rocked the gymnasium.
Mr. McCormack responded with two beautiful renditions: “The Prayer Perfect” and “Believe Me If All Those Endearing Young Charms.”
Tuesday, June 6th, the Frederick H. Wickett Memorial art collection was presented to the University by Mrs. Frederick Wickett, of Chicago, in memory of her husband. The collection includes works of Veroneses, Dossi and Mariano, a drawing by Titian and a self-portrait by Rubens, together with other pictures, woodcuts, engravings and ivory carvings.
PRESENTATION SEPT. 27TH
By Edward Mansfield
Already the recipient of outstanding honors in the field of science, the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C,, Ph.D., Sc.D., professor of organic chemistry in the University, is to receive the 1932 Morehead medal next
week for having done ’the most for advancement of the industry and art of calcium carbide production and utilization. The
award is made annually by the In
ternational Acetylene Association.
Presentation of the medal to Father Nieuwland is to be made by its donor, the Honorable John Motley Morehead, of New York and North Carolina, on the evening of Sept. 27, at the Goodman theatre in Chicago, where a feature session of the thirtyfourth annual convention of the International Acetylene Association will be held.
Will Present Report
At the morning session of the Association on Sept. 28, in the Congress Hotel, Father Nieuwland will present a report on “Basic Research Possibilities in Acetylene and Calcium Carbide.”
A treatise entitled “Some Reactions of Acetylene” was published by the Notre Dame scientist concerning his research in 1904, only nine years after the inception of commercial manufacture of calcium carbide. To quote a publication of the Association:
“This scholarly and pioneer volume, which attracted immediate interest at the time of its publication, has remained throughout the years as an authoritative reference, serving as a guide and inspiration to many of those responsible for the subsequent development of the derivatives of acetylene.”
Since the publication of the treatise, Father Nieuwland has continued his research in the chemistry of acetylene, being responsible for numerous advancements of inestimable scientific and commercial value.
His invention of processes for the
(Continued on Page 6)
Sept. 2 2, 1 9 3 3
Five
Post Pays Visit To Notre Dame Campus
By Louis Hruby
A squat, stockily built young man who had flown around the world alone was resting on the bed in the room of a South Bend hotel. He had ridden his plane tail-high to South Bend, beating a storm to a safe landing. After having been given the key to the city by officials of civic prominence, he was escorted from the airport to the Notre Dame campus to be greeted by the acting president of the University. While most of the students were unaware or were busy with registrations and classes, Wiley Post, noted aviator and circumnavigator of the earth, visited the University.
Inspects Campus
Post, interviewed in his hotel room by The Scholastic, expressed enthusiasm over his stop at Notre Dame. He regretted his inability to remain on the campus long enough to meet the student body.
Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., met Post in the University parlors and extended to him the welcome of Notre Dame. For an hour Post was conducted on a tour of inspection to various points of interest on the campus. He displayed keen interest in the Engineering College where he spent most of his time.
When questioned about his round-the-world flight, the flyer assumed an air of humility. He maintained that he “took the Winnie Mae off the ground in New York, set the robot pilot to work and then woke up every time the gas supply got low! They told me if I flew long enough in the same direction, I’d eventually hit New York again!” He added, “b’gosh if I didn’t!”
Post said that although he had never been on the Notre Dame campus before, he believed he had been over it enough times “to make me feel like an alumnus.”
150 Students Turn Out For Notre Dame Glee Club
First tryouts for the Notre Dame Glee Club were held Monday in Music Hall under the direction of Prof. Casasanta. One hundred and fifty students turned out.
Eliminations will be made by an extensive system of tryouts which will begin in the near future.
Six
FATHER DOLAN ISSUES WARNING BULLETIN ON AUTOMOBILES
The following bulletin concerning the use of automobiles by students was issued September 15, by the Prefect of Discipline. In addition, the Prefect of Discipline stated positively that there will be no second warning in regard to violations of the rules outlined below.
“Your attention is hereby directed to the disciplinary regulation regarding the use of automobiles. No registered student of the University, except those whose permanent residence is in South Bend or Mishawaka shall be permitted to oivn or operate an automobile while attending the University during its regular sessions. Students whose permanent residence is in either of the above mentioned cities may use an automobile with the approval of the Prefect of Discipline.
“Those who have brought cars to the University must place these cars in dead storage and deposit storage tickets with the Prefect of Discipline.
“Automobile excursions of whatever nature are strictly prohibited. Failure to observe these rules shall result in dismissal from the University.
“ ‘Hitch-hiking,’ even between the University and South Bend^ is strictly forbidden. Serious accidents have taken place through this practice.
“Your attention is also directed to the matter of over-crowding taxicabs. State law requires the driver of a taxicab to carry only the number of passengers that the car will accommodate.”
FR. NIEUWLAND HONORED
(Continued from Page 5)
production of synthetic rubber and synthetic drying oil are perhaps his most popularly known achievements.
Father Nieuwland is the eleventh recipient of the medal since its first presentation in 1922. Besides his work in organic chemistry, he was for 17 years a professor of botanyf in the University, and is the founder and editor of the American Midland Naturalist. In addition, he is a member of the Deutches Chemischen Gesellschaft, the London Chemical Society, Phi Sigma, the American Chemical Society, and- is a fellow of the British Chemical Society and the Indiana Academy of Science.
Sacred Heart Church Is Being Redecorated
At the close of school last June, contracts were let to the Conrad Schmitt Studios of Milwaukee for the renovation of the Sacred Heart Church. The work was begun primarily to restore the frescoes of Luigi Gregori. These paintings, which were badly in need of repair, have been cleaned and retouched. The walls and columns of the church, formerly in imitation marble, have been re-painted to harmonize with the Gregorian work.
Another major feature of the improvements being carried on is the replacement of the old lighting system with Gothic fixtures of special design. Many of these are already installed.
Repairing Bernini Altar
Those who have missed the Bernini altar will be interested in knowing that the loss is only temporary. The years have loosened some of the parts of this ornate altar, and these are now being reset.
Although a great deal of progress has been made, a considerable amount of work still remains to be done. Next week the scaffolding will be removed from the transept. The work on the sanctuary and apse will follow together with that of the side chapels. The refurnishing of these chapels will be effected when the necessary contributions are received.
Becvar Receives Year’s Fellowship at Prague
Arthur N. Becvar, a graduate last June of the department of fine arts, has been awarded a year’s fellowship at the Arts Academy at Prague. Becvar was one of the five students named for the United States fellowships which are sponsored by the American Czechoslovak Student exchange.
Becvar was art editor of the Dome in his junior year, and of the Juggler in his senior year. Scrip and the Official Football Review also bore evidence of his fine work.
Becvar’s thesis, “A Modern Interpretation of Shakespeare’s Seven Ages of Man,” was painted under the guidance of Professor Emil Jacques, . head of the University department of Fine Arts.
The Scholastic
Many Faculty Changes Made During Summer
(Continued from Page 4)
Rev. Joseph Brannigan, C.S.C., former assistant pastor of St. Joseph’s parish, South Bend; the Rev. Joseph H. Burke, C.S.C., who will be rector of Dillon Hall; the Rev. John McGinn, C.S.C.; the Rev. John Scheberle, C.S.C., and the Rev. George Dum, C.S.C.
Two Join History Staff
The Rev. Edouard Laurin, C.S.C. will teach in the department of French. A new member of the department of the classics is the Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C. The Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C. and the Rev. Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C. have been added to the department of education. The Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., university archivist, and the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. have joined the department of history.
The religious teachers who are not at Notre Dame this year are the Rev. Thomas F. Butler, C.S.C. who will teach at Holy Cross college, Washington, D.C., the Rev. Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., who will study at the Catholic University, and the Rev. John Woods.
Rectorships Change
William F. Wall, formerly of the department of education, will teach at Nazareth college, Kalamazoo, Mich. Bernard Kohlbrenner, of the same department, is now at the University of St. Louis, Mo. Mr. Joseph Ryan, assistant professor of English, left for Arizona because of ill health. John A. Staunton, former professor of philosophy, will sail shortly for Rome to study for the secular priesthood. Mr. Staunton, a convert, will return to the campus after his ordination, two years hence. Six graduate assistants have left the faculty, but their places have been filled.
The change in rectorships are as follows: In Walsh hall, the Rev. Leo Heiser, C.S.C. succeeds the Rev. William H. Molony, C.S.C.; in St. Edward’s hall, the Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C. takes the place of the Rev. Alan Heiser, C.S.C.; in Morrissey hall, the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. replaces the Rev. Leo Heiser, C.S.C., and in Alumni hall, the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C. is successor to the Rev. Raymond Clancy, C.S.C.
Sept. 2 2, 1933
GEORGE SHIELDS, S. A. C. HEAD, IS RECOVERING FROM PNEUMONIA
George Shields, Grand Rapids, Michigan, president of the Student Activities Council of Notre Dame, was unable to return to school last week on account of illness. Shields suffered an attack of pneumonia several weeks ago and is just recovering.
Joseph E. Condon, president of last year’s junior class, and a member of the S. A. C. has been acting as president in Shields’ absence. Condon was in charge of the information booths established about the campus during registration as an aid to new students.
President Shields is expected to return to the Notre Dame campus within a few days.
SUMMER VISITORS
(Continued from Page 3)
glass windows, relics, paintings. In the Main Building: The Columbus pictures, the interior of the Dome. The Globe in the Commerce Building. The practice courtroom in the Law Building. The sun-dials on Alumni and Dillon Halls. The hand-carved Stations of the Cross. The Shrine of St. Olaf. The Log Chapel and the students* custom of returning there to be married. (This summer marriages were performed almost at the rate of one a day. One day there were five).
Astonished: At the general size of the campus and the University as a whole. At the vastness and beauty of the Dining halls and the fact that they could accommodate three thousand students at one time. At the chapels in every hall.
Amused: At the domesticated ducks which followed them around the lakes. At the architectural decorations on Howard and Dillon.
Charmed: By the lakes, the Grotto, and the view through Lyons’ Arch.
Another event of interest that took place on the campus this summer was the annual laymen’s retreat, attended by 700 men. All the services were held at the Grotto where an altar had been erected.
Notice!
Members of the staff of The Scholastic will attend the regular staff meeting this evening. Editorial Board at 6:30; general staffs at 7:00.
Bro. Cyprian Observes His 50th Anniversary
Brother Cyprian, C.S.C., professor in accounting at Notre Dame for 36 years, celebrated the golden jubilee of his religious profession in the brotherhood of the Congregation of Holy Cross on the feast of Saint Mary Magdalen, July 22.
Bom in Covington, Kentucky, on Nov. 2, 1857, Brother Cyprian was graduated from the Hollingworth Business College there in 1876. He came to Notre Dame in 1895 after having taught for 16 years in various parts of the country. He received the habit of a Brother of Holy Cross in 1879, and on July 22, 1883 he made his perpetual vows.
Beloved By Students
For the many years that he has been associated with Notre Dame Brother Cyprian has been one of the most beloved figures of the University. His oft repeated advice, “Work and Pray” has been the motto of thousands of Notre Dame men.
A long illness culminated by three heart attacks necessitated his retirement from his professorial duties in 1931. From 1895 until this time he was also in charge of activities in Washington Hall where he lived, and served both as director and chairman of the Philopatrians for many years.
Wide Circle Of Friends
His acquaintances with the many notable personages of the theatrical and scholastic worlds who visited Notre Dame during these years are numerous and outstanding.
Church dignitaraies, political leaders, prominent artists, lecturers and other famous celebrities are numbered among the friends whom Brother Cyprian has made during these years.
The Scholastic happily joins the numerous friends in greeting the venerable Jubilarian.
R. E. Kelly Wins $50 Beaux
Arts Architecture Award
Richard E. Kelly, Neenah, Wis., at present a senior in the Department of Architectural designing, at the close of school last June was awarded a prize of fifty dollars by the Beaux Arts association.
Kelly’s prize winning design of a public market in a small city was entered in the Class B esquisse competition.
Seven
Prof. Mahin Invents
New Steel Process
During the latter part of August, the United States patent office announced that a patent for a metallurgical process had been granted to Prof. E. G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy at Notre Dame.
This terse report from Washington rewards ten years of labor devoted to the perfection of a new process for the carburizing, or case hardening of steel. The old process of infusing carbon into steel, for the purpose of developing greater strength and wearing qualities required thirteen hours. Professor Ma-hin’s modifications of this process enable it to be completed in five hours, a reduction of 70 per cent in the time required.
Author Of Text
The scientist received his training _n Chemistry at Purdue and John Hopkins Universities. Before his addition to the faculty at Notre Dame, eight years ago, he had been for many years head of the department of analytical Chemistry at Purdue. Prof. Mahin is also the author of a text, Quantitative Analysis, which is used in the Chemistry course here at Notre Dame.
Commerce and Law Schools Offer Combination Course
A new combination course leading to two degrees has been initiated here this year by the College of Commerce and the College of Law. In six years, the student taking the combination course may receive a degree of bachelor of philosophy in commerce and bachelor of laws, or bachelor of commercial science and bachelor of laws.
The first three years are devoted solely to work in the College of Commerce. In the fourth year, the candidate takes 24 hours of law and 12 or 14 hours of commerce, depending upon which commerce course he prefers.
Twenty-six semester hours of commerce and 9 or 12 semester hours of law constitute the fifth year of the combination course. The sixth year is limited strictly to the College of Law during which the student takes 30 semester hours and receives his bachelor of laws degree at the end of the sixth year.
Eight
'about the camPys
This is the saga of Dave and Bob, of Ben and Gus — of Froehlich and J a y n e s. They’re back again, though they didn’t make a natural entrance: having been seen coming out of the front door of Corby. But they explained that, said they
weren’t living in Corby and that’s right. They aren’t.
Of course they didn’t want to live in Corby anyway. It is too close to the lake for Bob and too far from
the gym for Dave. So they moved to St. Ed’s.	.
That really is the highest sort of flattery for St. Ed’s because Dave and Bob know their halls. They should, this is their seventh: Old Freshman, Morrissey, Howard, Carroll, Alumni, Corby (almost), and St. Edward. They know how to get around in them too.
“I’m Dave”
That knack is instinctive with Dave. Three years ago he walked into Freshman, room 204, dropped his bag on the floor and opened fire on his sleepy roommate-to-be.
“I’m Dave Froehlich,” he said, shaking hands, “could you lend me. . .”
The campus too is a special field for them. They’ve spent a deal of time in intensive study of it. Froehlich devoted six months to it his first year. Jaynes has taken off shorter periods for readjustment during that year and the succeeding ones.
But their sphere isn’t limited. They are annual pilgrims to the Army game. It is going home for them. Bob lives in Jamaica, N. Y. and Dave in Glen Ridge, N. J. Dave even took a summer, the last one, to brush up on his South Bend. (Bob was studying Fordham.) He had to hurry a (Continued on Page 9)
First Student Mission Being Held This Week
The Student Missions, which are held annually at the opening of the Notre Dame school year, were begun last Sunday night, September 17. Despite the scaffolding which has been erected in the Church the services were held there. An improvised pulpit was placed in the sanctuary.
The first mission, September 17 to 23, is being conducted by Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. This mission is for all freshmen and for the sophomores of Lyons and St. Edward’s halls. The second mission for all other students begins Sunday night, September 24, at 7:30. It is to be conducted by Reverend Charles Flynn, C.S.C. of the Holy Cross Mission band.
Sermon Topics
Every evening there is a sermon followed by Benediction. The topics of these sermons for each mission are: Sunday night, “Salvation”; Monday night, “Sin”; Tuesday night, “Death”; Wednesday night, “Judgment”; Thursday night, “Passion of Our Lord”; Friday night, “Perseverance.”
In the mornings there is Mass and instructions in the church at 6:30. The first mission ends tomorrow morning with the Papal Blessing, as does the second mission the following Saturday morning.
The following is a list of the morning instructions and the instructors for the first week of the student missions:
Mon.—Confession—Father O’Hara. Tues.—Temptation—Father Lahey. Wed.—Prayer—Father E. Burke. Thurs.—Study—Father Irving.
Fri.—Parents—Father Maher.
The instructions for the second week of the student missions will be on the same subjects and will all be given by Father Flynn.
Tommy Mills Visits Campus
A familiar figure returned to the Notre Dame campus for a brief visit Monday in the person of Tommy Mills, former baseball mentor and assistant football coach under the late Knute Rockne.
Mills came to the Irish from Beloit College where he served as Director of Athletics and football coach. From here he went to Georgetown University where he remained until last year.	.
The Scholastic
Glee Club Returns
From 14 Week Tour
After fourteen weeks of vaudeville touring, the Notre Dame Glee Club returned to the University last week. The traveling personnel of the or-organization performed to packed houses throughout the country. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the Glee Club, was in charge of the summer tour.
The singers presented their first program at the Capitol Theatre in New York city. All New York newspapers, including the Times;, HeraldTribune, and American, commended highly the performances. Group pictures of the singers were also published. Celebrities appearing on the same program with the Gleesters in New York were Roscoe Ates, Sid Gary, and Phil Spitalny’s orchestra.
Columnist Praises Club
From New York, the club traveled to other large Eastern cities. Each audience acclaimed the singers. One columnist described the club as one “presenting an act of excellent concert caliber that will please both music lovers and collegiates.”
John Ryan, soloist, and Thomas Flynn, Justin Tompkins, John Henry and William Fromm, members of the - quartet, received much publicity. Pictures of the singers appeared in several newspapers. Howard Fitzpatrick, noted cartoonist, included a drawing of Professor Casasanta in a group in which Franklin D. Roosevelt, Morton Downey, and Jane Froman were named as the highlights of the week on the radio.
Movie Short Made Of Club
Warner Brothers Vitaphone Corporation made a short of the Glee Club for a group of releases called “Hot Pepper Novelties.” Other famous people appearing in similar shorts are Rubinoff, Lopez, Denny, Lyman, Easy Aces and Dr. Rockwell.
In Chicago thousands of World’s Fair visitors thronged the theatre to hear them. Professor Casasanta and his traveling personnel arrived on the campus last "Friday after final appearances in Cleveland.
Notice
There will be a meeting of candidates for the staff of the Dome;., the Notre Dame yearbook, this evening in Room 222 of the Main Building at 7:45. Students desiring positions on the staff should be there. All underclassmen please take notice.
MAIN BUILDING DOME IS REGILDED; FIRST TIME IN TEN YEARS
Regilding of the Main Building dome with 23% carat gold leaf, at a cost of approximately $5,000, has been under way for several weeks, with ten days or two weeks work yet to be finished by the contracting concern, the R. R. Rowan Company, of Otterbein, Indiana.
Operations have been suspended for the past two weeks because of recent rains and generally unsettled weather. The delicate texture of the material used necessitates splendid weather conditions as well as painstaking care in its application. A decade has passed since the last refinishing of Notre Dame’s best known architectural feature.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Page 8)
little because appendicitis cut in on his time. But he rushed that off pretty well.
The nurse told him the operation would take about thirty-five or forty minutes. “OK, Jack,” he called over his shoulder, to Johnny Brennan, “be back in an hour.” The next morning he tried walking in the corridor.
Likes To Run Elevators
Jaynes’ accomplishments are varied. He likes cars but dotes on elevators—he is an experienced operator. Perfectly at home on a golf course, he has added fence climbing to his arts. That is the penalty for being out of bounds.
Bob and Dave are always together. Even when taking their regular exercise developing their arms and knees.
They’re not hard to recognize. They greet one with a “How’re yuh fulling?” call him Gus, and laugh a lot. Practically nothing is out of their line. Damon and Pythias —Dave Froehlich and Bob Jaynes.
Science Group Honors Rev. F. J. Wenninger
The American Association for Advancement of Science this month admitted as a Fellow the Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Ph.D., dean of the College of Science at Notre Dame. Father Wenninger, teacher of physiology, bacteriology, and all branches of zoology, is highly interested in the study of biology and evolution.
The first of many degrees conferred upon Father Wenninger was that of Bachelor of Letters, from this University in 1911. The next honor, that of Bachelor of Sacred Theology, was bestowed upon him by Catholic University of Washington, in 1916.
The following year. Fr. Wenninger was the recipient of a Master’s degree in Science at Notre Dame. In 1926, he traveled to the University of Vienna, in Austria, to study for his Doctorate. After a two year course, in which he distinguished himself by his brilliant work, a Ph.D. was added to his already numerous honors.
New Road East of Stadium
Opened to Motor Traffic
The new road encircling the stadium from the intersection of Eddy street and Angela Boulevard has been completed and is open to traffic. The direction of the road is directly east of the stadium and Cartier field.
Congestion about the stadium and the crossing at the entrance of Cartier field has’ been eliminated by the new road. This new system will facilitate the parking of cars at the football games as vrell as eliminate the danger of automobiles traveling back and forth.
Campus Movie Schedule For Three Weeks Announced
Movies to be presented during the next few weeks in Washington Hall are:
September 23—“Cross Fires.”
September 30 — “The Man Who Dared.”
October 7—“Her First Mate.”
An effort is being made this fall to secure newer films than have been shown in previous years. There will be two shows beginning at approximately 6:35 and 8:15 p. m. each recreation night.
Sept. 2 2, 193 3
Nine
Notre Dame Honored In Radio Broadcast
A radio program about Notre Dame of a pleasingly different type was broadcast by Station WSM, Nashville, Tennessee, last Monday night, September 18, in a half-hour dramatic presentation of the story of Notre Dame, past and present.
Opening with the “Victory March,” the program moved to a portrayal of the founding of the University near St. Mary’s lake in the dead of winter, nearly a. century ago, by Father Sorin and his zealous associates. The hardships they endured, and the ceaseless struggle which the University waged during its earlier years, were portrayed by the radio actors. Then the scene shifted to the present Notre Dame, with its excellent faculty, beautiful campus and complete equipment.
Emphasize N. D. Spirit
The fervor of the students’ religious life, the cosmopolitan, democratic student body, the hall system, the splendid fellowship between Catholic and non-Catholic students and professors—all these factors of Notre Dame life so little known by the public were emphasized dramatically, clearly.
The religious spirit behind Fighting Irish football, including the dedication of each game to a saint, was another angle explained which is all too little known by outsiders.
The naming of a number of prominent Notre Dame graduates in all fiellds, and a greeting to the students brought this unique program, replete with songs and stories, to a close.
Notre Dame Graduate of *09 Heads Peace Time Council
Frank C. Walker, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1909, was appointed chairman of President Roosevelt’s Peace Time Council of W'ar to direct the widening governmental recovery activities, July 15. Mr. Walker is a member of the board of lay trustees of the University.
Mr. Walker is a native of Plymouth, Pa., and was raised in Montana. After receiving his degree from Notre Dame, he returned to Butte, Montana where he practiced law for several years. Later he moved to New York city where he now resides.
Ten
News of the Week
Ry George T^yes
Our government is fast becoming a maze of abbreviations, what with the R. F. C., C. C. C., A. B. A., N. R. A., the farm credit administration and the three billion three hundred million public works program. These and other seemingly meaningless terms convey new deal legislation which is supposed to establish a planned economy under government supervision — one that will bring a new era of freedom for the common man.
Now that all the fanfare and publicity accompanying the N. R. A. has cooled down, and most of the major industries have signed the various codes, Washington is settling back to a period of watchful waiting to see how successfully industry is absorbing men, which is after all the primary purpose of the bill. The latest whispering is that General Johnson is planning a gigantic census about Oct. 15, to get a check on the number of people still unemployed. Johnson may find it necessary to shorten hours still more by another blanket code to absorb the men still unemployed, since only about 2,000,000 of the 6,000,000 men he intended to have back to work by October have found employment. The census should also give an indication as to how rapidly the government will have to proceed with the huge public works program.
Inflationary agitation is steadily gaining impetus in Washington, especially among congressmen and party leaders wTho are being harassed by their constituents back home in considerable numbers. They say that if Mr. Roosevelt does not express himself soon on a definite inflation policy, Congress will do it when it convenes in January. Many financial authorities say that inflation is already here, and that the dollar is worth around sixty-five cents.
Gold mining is the latest industry to be given a stimulus by the government. Last week the President told gold miners that they might sell their gold on the world market, not at the old' price of $20.60 an ounce, but at the world price of around $30.
Frosh Convocation Held Today In Gym
Notre Dame’s annual freshman convocation w’as held today at 12:30 in the University field house, featuring short talks by the Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, S. A. C. President George Shields, Hugh Devore, varsity end, and James V. Moscow, president of the senior class.
University songs and cheers were practiced by the assembled class of ’37 after the completion of the talks.
All freshmen are to meet twice a week to practice Notre Dame’s famous songs and traditional cheers until the opening of the football season on October 7. Unless changes in present plans are made, these song-and-cheer sessions will be held in the field house, under supervision of varsity cheer leaders and the Student Activities Committee.
Knights of Columbus Meet, Make Plans for Columbus Day
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus held their initial meeting Monday night in the club rooms. The first news of the evening was the announcement of the completion of the golf tournament, which was won by Vince Donoghue. Donoghue beat McNally, 4 to 3 in the finals. The winner will receive a loving cup in a few days which is, at present, being suitably engraved.
Plans for a bowling tournament were formulated. It is intended for the tourney to begin next month and continue through the winter months.
Grand Knight Larry Sexton appointed Brother Wenz as chairman of a committee to draw up plans for a fitting Columbus Day celebration. Wenz was appointed McLaughlin, Coyle and Frasier to assist him in the matter. The inaugural monthly Communion breakfast will be held some time next month, the date depending upon arrangements made for Columbus Day.
Since this is about a 45 per cent rise, gold miners will work at full speed to gather in the profits. The export of gold will add to the depleted gold stock of the world and tend to raise the world price level.
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Four Captains Named To Lead Spring Teams
ANDERSON SEEKS PILOT
FOR IRISH GRID MACHINE
By Edward Van Huisseling
The task of leading the Notre Danie’s spring sports squads in 1934 has fallen on the shoulders of Vince Fehlig, “Butch” O’Neil, Joe Young, and Jack O’Hanlon. These men were elected captains of the golf, baseball, track, and tennis teams at the conclusion of play last June.
O’Hanlon Heads Tennis
Jack O’Hanlon will head a crew of new comers and the remnants of last year’s tennis squad. The ’33 edition of net men piled up no enviable record but its occasional bright spots were very noticeable. These outbursts of flashy tennis invariably found the captain-elect at their head. O’Hanlon’s excellent play in the singles matches ultimately landed him the captaincy.
No one is more suited for the honor of leading Coach George Keogan’s baseball nine than Larry O’Neil. “Butch” has been handling the slants of the varsity twirlers during the past two years and has done remarkably well. Behind the bat he has been a pepper box and a leader in his own right. At the plate he is a dangerous man with the willow when mates are waiting to score.
Young Leads Trackmen
The Atlantic Coast region has sent Notre Dame one of its best middle distance stars to lead the track crew next spring. Joe Young, who hails from those parts, will be working with the Irish mentor to better the accomplishments of last year’s aggregation. This should not be so hard to accomplish, but when Joe tries to improve upon the showing he made on the cinder paths he will find trouble. His performances this spring were of such high caliber that exceeding them seems to border on the impossible.
Vince Fehlig, who helped the Irish in their showing in the National Inter-collegiates in June, will lead the golf team. Vince has been knocking on the door of fame with brilliant play on the local course for two years and should, be ah able leader.
Notre Dame Football Schedule — 1933
Oct. 7—Kansas, here.
Oct. 14—Indiana, at Bloomington.
Oct. 21—Carnegie Tech, at Pittsburgh.
Oct. 28—Pittsburgh, here.
Nov. 4—Navy at Baltimore.
Nov. 11—Purdue, here.
Nov. 18—Northwestern, at Evanston.
Nov. 25—Southern Calif., here.
Dec. 2—Army, at New York.
IRISH FIGHTERS PAY A VISIT TO THE CAMPUS DURING SUMMER
The Irish Fighters, eight in number, were visitors at Notre Dame Saturday, July 29. Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, accompanied the team to the campus. The squad of boxers from Erin were in America to meet the Chicagoland Golden Gloves champions on a special international card, August 2.
While at Notre Dame, the Irish Fighters were entertained at a dinner at which the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., acting president of the University, and the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., were the main speakers.
A reception was tendered the group in front of the Administration Building, after which the youths were conducted around the campus. The men from Ireland prayed at the Shrine of St. Olaf, patron of Norway, which was erected in memory of Knute Rockne.
Discontinue Practice Passes
Among the noticeable changes at varsity football practices this fall is the scarcity of spectators. The practice of. issuing passes to the secret sessions has been discontinued and only a small group of sports writers and photographers are granted admission.
LINE LOOKS STRONG
By Howard Waldron
Shakespeare quotes King Richard III, as offering to exchange his kingdom for a horse. Coach Hunk Anderson, while not interested in horses,
Coach H. W. Anderson
In spite of everything, a good team.
would almost duplicate that offer for an experienced quarterback. With ten veterans to fill in the vacated posts on his first team, the key position—quarterback—has no really experienced candidates.
Quarterback, A Problem
Coach Anderson is facing a dilemma. Either he must use an untried sophomore candidate, Tony Mazziotti, who has shown up well in practice; or he must pin his hopes on two reserve quarters, Rey Bonar or Ed Caldwell, with some varsity experience. Present indications point in favor of the sophomore.
Coupled with this quarterback situation, which was caused by the graduation of regulars Charlie Jask-which, Emmett Murphy and Laurie Vejar, Notre Dame is scheduled for (Continued on Page 12)
Sept. 2 2, 1 9 3 3
Eleven
Irish Golfers Third In National Tourney
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
The grand old game of golf, sometimes referred to as a game for old men with young blood, drew a colorful field to the Buffalo Country Club on June 26th. The occasion of the gathering was the National Intercollegiate Golf Tournament.
The Notre Dame swingers, led by Captain Johnny Montedonico, brought a successful season to a close with a fine showing on the Buffalo links. When the last golfer had holed out on the eighteenth green, the score for the team trophy found Yale in front with 610, Michigan second with 622, and Notre third with 624, only two swings behind the Wolverines.
Banks Ties Kowal
During the play for the team trophy, which also constituted the qualifying rounds, Johnny Banks put the Irish on the map when he. tied Henry Kowal of Colgate for medalist honors. The La Grange ace went the thirty-six in 145. The Buffalo papers favored Johnny to win the individual title but the next day, Walter Emery of Oklahoma eliminated him, 3 and 1. It was a fight all the way, with Emery, the eventual champion, being forced to shoot one under par to defeat the co-medalist.
Captain Johnny Montedonico drew the flashy Henry Kowal as his rival in the first round. After a close match, the Irish leader three putted the eighteenth green and was eliminated.
Fehlig Surprises Field
Vince Fehlig, who failed to qualify for the match play, was allowed to play when Johnny Fischer of Michigan withdrew. Vince reversed his game of the previous day and went a long way in the festivities before being erased from the fight by Charles Yates of Georgia Tech in the quarter finals, 6 and 5. Previously, the Blue and Gold captain-elect defeated Neil White of Southern California, 5 and 4, and Dixie Gray of Yale, 1 up in 19 holes.
The qualifying scores:
Banks .............73-72—145
Montedonico .......83-75—158
Fehlig ............80-79—159
Cole ..............80-82—162
Veeneman ......:..84-83—167
Donahue ...........89-(withdrew)
QUARTER-FINALIST
Vince Fehlig
Notre Dame golf captain-elect who defeated Neil White of U. S. C. and Dixie Gray of Yale before losing to Charley Yates in the National Intercollegiate tournament late in June.
FOOTBALL
(Continued from Page 11)
the toughest season of any team in the country. Nine major opponents will face the Irish on successive Saturdays. Pitt, Navy, Purdue, Northwestern, Southern California and Army will be met in order.
Graduation took, besides his first three quarterbacks, Coach Anderson’s first string wing-men, Captain Paul Host and Ed Kosky. Joe Kurth, All-American tackle, and first string guards, Norman Greeney and Jim Harris, also received diplomas. Along with graduation, sickness took three more regulars. George Melinkovich, first team fullback, won’t play at all, and it’s very unlikely that Jack Robinson, first string center, will appear in uniform when he returns to school. Dick Pfefferle, left tackle, is out with an old shoulder injury, while Al McGuff, a quarterback, failed to return to school.
But, notwithstanding these losses to his personnel, Coach Anderson promises that he will present a powerful varsity club. Tom Roach, with his 225 pounds of brawn, will fill Kurth’s post at right tackle, and paired with Ed Krause, who weighs
Harriers Begin Work; Nick Seeks Fair Year
A large battery of new men and veterans greeted Coach John P. Nicholson last week when he sent out the call for cross country candidates. “Nick” then proceeded to upset a tradition by striking a note of optimism regarding the chances of the squad. “It will be fair — better than last year” was the statement given by him.
Unfortunately, the captain of the team, Red Grimes, will not be on hand to lead his team, having to withdraw because of an afternoon job. Other dependables, however, will be on hand to shoulder the burden. Stace Van Petten, Eddie King, Joe Young, Clyde Roberts, Norman Duke, McFarland, and O’Reilly will compose the squad.
The schedule has not been officially released as yet, pending the fixing of a few dates. Tentatively, the card calls for a quadrangular meet with Northwestern, Illinois, and Wisconsin in the middle of October. Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, and Michigan State will appear in dual meets with “Nick’s” crew. State is the strongest of the three and will provide plenty of trouble for the Irish. The season will be concluded with the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet to be held in Milwaukee.
220 pounds, will give a pair of behemoths at the tackle positions. Joe Pivarnik, a short but powerful guard, will pair with the once roly-poly Harry Wunsch at the guard berths. These men are showing up very well in blocking drills and should make a formidable center of the line with Tom Gorman, who will be first team center. At the end berths, Dominic Vairo, the only junior on the first team, will take over Ed Kosky’s place at left end while Hugh Devore one of the greatest blocking ends ever to play for Notre Dame, will play the right end.
This forward wall will average about 200 pounds. Behind the strong line, Nick Lukats and Ray Bran-cheau, veteran halfbacks, will team with Mazziotti and either Steve Banas, or the giant sophomore fullback Don Elser.
While the varsity team will be strong and powerful, Anderson has no tried and true replacements. Most of the “shock” troops are sophomores of varying promise.	•
Twelve
The Scholastic.
IRISH FOOTBALL PLAYERS FIND SUMMER WORK IN MANY FIELDS
By John D. Carbine
Carting ice, driving trucks, repairing roads, and handling freight. There you will have the favorite summer occupations of Notre Dame football, men. But far were these from being the only jobs. Anything from a high tension wire repairer to a server of delinquent tax return papers might be found among the likely candidates for the first three Irish grid teams.
lar jobs as driving trucks or loading freight, Ray turned to the more masculine and more precarious occupation of repairing and stringing high tension wires.
Various fields claimed the remaining men. Between moments of imi
tating Groucho Marx, Nick Lukats loaded trucks for a New York warehouse concern. Red Tobin labored as a fireman in the General Motors Building at the World’s Fair. Harry Becker worked in a Kentucky camp.
The only salesman on the squad is Kitty Gorman, of Chicago, who sold Chevrolets to World Fair crowds. Frankie Gaul worked in a Maine textile mill. And to complete the list we offer Johnnie Young, the lone Texas cowboy.
“Road Under Repairs”
If one took an automobile tour of the Middle West, one would be likely to find any one of six Notre Dame men working behind “Road under Repair” signs. Somewhere in Lake County, Illinois, one might have discovered Norb Rascher swinging a pick. A little further south in Aurora, Illinois, Butch Esser was pushing a shovel. After Esser and Hanley had put the road in shape, Dominic Vairo might arrive with an asphalt gang to finish the job. Also working on the highways were Carl Fulnecky and Dick Shamla.
Don Elser possibly had the most unique job. Don served delinquent tax papers on startled and probably thoroughly frightened Gary, Indiana citizens.
Trucking Favors Irish
The National Carloading Company employed two Irish football men, Eddie Caldwell and Wayne Millner. Art Cronin handled freight for the D. and C. Transportation Company of Detroit. Transferring trunks in a New York Central Railroad station was the task of Andy Pilney.
Trucking hardened three linemen for a strenuous schedule. Hughie Devore worked for his father in Devore’s Express of Newark, New Jersey; the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company employed Ed Krause in~ Chicago to unload their trucks, while Rocky Schiralli drove a beer truck in Gary, Indiana.
Since Red Grange, another good football player, was an iceman during the summer, Red Hagen thought he would try it this summer in Munroe, Missouri. Jim Leonard spent his summer as an iceman in DuPont’s New Jersey powder plant. Steve Banas was an iceman in Kankakee, Illinois.
, The prize for the most dangerous job of the summer goes to Ray Bonar. Not content with such white col-
S ept. 2 2, 1 9 3 3
WELCOME
Men of
NOTRE DAME
We’re sure glad to have you back with us again. Make yourself at home here. When downtown
—just say meet me at
SPIRO’S
Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx New Fall Suits and Topcoats
Thirteen
Illness Forces “Mink” Off Varsity Roster
By Nick Connor
How often have you wished for something more than anything else in the world, and then when you had it within reach it seemed to slip through your fingers? Well this hap-peed to George Melinkovich, our star fullback for the past two seasons. Just when he had this year’s AllAmerican fullback position in the palm of his hand he became suddenly ill and now he will have to spend this year in trying to regain his health.
So far this year the main topic of conversation on the campus seems to be, “Where’s Mink?”: so to answer all those anxious queries we state that Mink is at his home in Tooele, Utah, building up his body and getting into condition, so that next fall when the grid season again gets under way he will be able to be back here at school and garner for himself and Notre Dame that coveted position as fullback on the mythical All-American team.
Infection Causes Trouble
Last summer, the day before he was scheduled to leave Notre Dame for his summer home, Mink was taken down with what was apparently nothing more than an attack of grippe. But the next day when he felt worse instead of better he was rushed to the St. Joseph hospital in South Bend.
For a few days his condition rapidly grew worse, and Dr. Powers called in several doctors for consultation. They all had difficulty in finding the real cause of the trouble. It was not until Dr. Charles B. Alexander, a diagnotsistician from Chicago came by plane, at the request of Reverend James Fogarty, C.S.C.,_that the real cause of Mink’s condition was discovered. It was traced to a liver and kidney infection suffered from some unknown cause.
After about a month in the hospital Melinkovich went- to Paw Paw Lake in Michigan as the guest of Dennis A. Horan in order that he might recuperate enough to go home. While at the Lake he aided in the rescue of two children stalled in a motor boat in the middle of the lake during a terrific storm. After the rescue Mink nearly collapsed.
This year Steve Banas and Don Elser are fighting it out for Mink’s vacated position. Banas is a senior from Hammond, Ind., and Elser is a
Fourteen
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
From Saint Benedict’s School in Newark, New Jersey three great ends have come to Notre Dame. First came Tommy Farrell, then Johnny Colrick and now Hughie Devore.
Immediately after coming to Notre
Hugh J. Devore
Three at a time.
Dame in 1930, Hughie reported along with three hundred candidates for freshman football. The brilliant play of Devore attracted, even in that maze of material, the attention of Manny Vezie, the freshman coach. Vezie assigned him to the right end position on the first frosh team and ■Hugh was never demoted. The only days on which he failed to play were those he spent in Saint Joseph’s Hospital with a badly swollen and discolored eye.
Shines In Army Game
Coach Anderson sent Hughie into the 1930 Indiana game, the very first game in which he was eligible to compete. Devore gained his spurs in that battle and during the course of his first varsity season, broke into the lineup very frequently. One of the features of the season was his blocking of three men at one time in the Pittsburgh game while running interference for the punt-returning Charlie Jaskwhich.
Last year Hughie alternated at right end with Captain Paul Host. When the smoke of the frenzied Army game in the Yankee Stadium last year had drifted away, Devore
promising sophomore from Gary, Ind. George will probably return to school in February, if not then, he will be with us again next September.
Over 50 Report For Tryouts as Managers
More than fifty members of the freshman class have reported to the athletic managers association for tryouts for frosh managerships. Freshmen desiring to join the group may still apply at the managers’ office in the gym.
The process of elimination in the organization is made by a series of cuts in the group on the basis of accomplishment. At the end of the year a select number of freshmen are awarded numerals and are carried over in the organization until their sophomore year.
Only Quota Is Left
Similarly in the second year the number is reduced until only the quota of managers required for the junior group is left. At the end of each year the appointments of the managerships for the following year are announced.
Clyde A. Lewis, senior manager of football, is head of the managers’ organization. Other senior managers include Ed Fisher and Ed Mulvihill, associate football managers; Charles Quinn, basketball; John Hanley, track; Robert Kelly, baseball; and Fred Sullivan, minor sports.
had definitely established himself not only as a good end but as a great end. Late in the game, he made his first Notre Dame touchdown when, standing in the end zone, he snared a forty-five yard pass from Steve Banas.
The splendid blocking of Devore made possible, to a large extent, the runs of Melinkovich, Banas, Lukats, and Koken. Many times during the game it was only Devore’s clean, hard tackling and unerring judgment of plays which prevented Felix Vidal, the Army ace, from getting into the open.
Football has not been Hughie’s only sport at Notre Dame. In his sophomore year he played left field on Coach George Keogan’s Irish baseball nine.
While at Saint Benedict’s School, Devore played both baseball and football for three years. He was captain of football in his senior year and was named right end on the New Jersey interscholastic team. The other end on that same team was Ted Dailey, who played opposite Devore in last year’s Pittsburgh game.
The Scholastic
On Down The Line
Do you know that TOM MAHAFFEY, a reserve on last seasons Notre Dame grid squad, is now playing football with the Indianapolis Indians a professional team. . . FREDDIE FITZSIMMONS, pitcher for the New York Giants of the National League is a former Mishawaka boy. . . The San Francisco Mission ball club of the coast league averaged over 10 hits a game up to mid-August. . . There’ll be an opening for a cornet player in the U. of ALABAMA band this year, because BILL FRANCIS the cornetist will be at the pivot position on the grid squad. . . By equalling the competitive course record of 69, JOHNNY FISCHER won the medal in the qualifying round in the National amateur championship with a 36 hole total of 141 . . .
•
Twenty-four year old JOHNNY MARCUM, who came to the Philadelphia Athletics from Louisville of the American Association, pitched 18 successive shutout innings in his first two major league starts. . . DIZZY DEAN is the first holdout of baseball for the 1934 season. . . JOCK , SUTHERLAND, football coach at the University of Pittsburgh, will devote full time to the Panthers this fall instead of dividing it as an instructor in dentistry. . . W. L. HOPE, former British Walker Cup player, won the amateur championship of Australia, defeating A. JACKSON by a 6 to 5 score in the 36 hole final. . . GEORGIA TECH plays a long home schedule this fall as only three of its ten games will be played abroad.
An N. D. Blanket
FREE!
Stop in and fill out a ticket like the one below—
ALL STEAK 10c
HAMBURG
Sign ------------
For chance on N. D. Blanket with each 10c purchase.
510 N. Michigan Street
Visit— The All Steak Hamburg Hut Owned and operated by
Notre Dame men.
510 N. MICHIGAN ST.
(Next to the Packard Agency)
CLAUDE EARL (TINY) THORNHILL, successor to GLEN (Pop) WARNER at Stanford, is going to try to coach Stanford out of the football doldrums this season with a daring style of offensive play that he has cherished during the eleven years he served as assistant to “Pop”. . . Mrs. John Hay Whitney’s SINGING WOOD beat off the challenge of SIR THOMAS by a head to win the §103, 300 Futurity at Belmont Park last week. This is the richest race in the world. . . MEL OTT, New York Giant flychaser is only 24 years old yet he has been with the Giants for nine years. Both TOM YARR and TIM MOYNIHAN, former players and coaches at Notre Danie will be on the roster of the Chicago Cardinals football team this fall. . . KEN STRONG, an All-american back with New York U. a few’ years ago, will play pro ball with the New York Giants this season. . . Jockey MARIO
MEN OF NOTRE DAME...
Youll be interested in our special offer of
3 Pairs of Hosiery FREE with each purchase of the famous Thom McAn Shoes.
Saturday, Sept. 23rd, only.
(For further details see bur advertisement in Friday's “Tribune”)
"THE MOST ECONOMICAL SHOE IN THE WORLD"
307 S. MICHIGAN ST.
near W. Wayne
OLIVA died during a race—his horse went on to win the race by a length with the dead jockey in the saddle.
ATTENTION!
Free Examination ' ❖
Is Your Hair Falling?
Bothered With Dandruff? Itching Scalp. Etc.?
Try Us For Satisfactory Results.
Let Us Restore Your Natural Growth Of Hair
RELIANCE HAIR GROWING SHOPPE
230 W. Washington Men Only Private Entrance Phone 4-6771
Sept. 2 2, 19 3 3
Fifteen
Raleigh W. Lee, 57 years old, of Columbus Ohio, winner of the international senior golf title in Canada, led competitors for the U. S. senior honors with a score for two rounds of 156. . . JOE DIENHART a member of the Four Horsemen squad and captain-elect of the 1925 basketball team at Notre Dame, is now coach of the newly formed professional team at Indianapolis. . . Dienhart also coached the Cathedral high school basketball team to a National Catholic championship in Chicago last spring^ ELLSWORTH VINES, recently dethroned National singles
Hi, Men!
You’ll find South Bend’s largest selection of Fine Apparel for Men at the BIG STORE on the Corner
FASHION PARK, CHARTER HOUSE and MIDDISHADE SUITS, O’COATS and TOPCOATS
tennis champion has announced that he has no intention of turning professional until the United States recaptures the Davis Cup. . . GAR WOOD a veteran of over a quarter of a century of motor racing successfully defended the Harmsworth trophy for the eighth time. . . HAZEL HOTCHKISS beat Miss Huiskamp 6-0, 6-0, in the semi-finals of the Washington State tennis tourney without losing a single point. . . GEORGE DUNCAN shot a 62 at Axenfels, Switzerland, and followed it with a 56 (two 18 hole scores).
STETSON
likes making hats for College Men
NOTRE DAME JEWELRY
CORDUROY SLACKS
LEATHER COATS and JACKETS
FLORSHEIM SHOES
STETSON HATS
MANHATTAN and WILSON BROS. Shirts and Pajamas
Where Well Dressed Men Select Their Clothes
MAX ADLER
On the Comer of Michigan and Washington
COLLEGE MEN have a way of bringing out the best that’s in a hat. If it has true style, the jaunty informality with which it’s worn emphasizes its smartness.
You’ll like the new Fall Stetsons. Correct in trim lines with a bit of. a swing, whether worn as in the illustration or with brim snapped down.
And the colors are unusually handsome. Be sure to see the new mixtures and the exclusive Stetson Suede Finish.
at Ike letter stores
Jell* B. Stetson
Company

Fountain Pens
and Pencils
Made by the Parker Pen Co.
The latest sensation in Fountain Pens!
Parkette
Pens
Vacuum Pen
Regular $2.50 Value
$1.25
Made by the same precision process as the rest of the Parker line. 14 kt. gold points — “writing tested.” Handsome barrels in latest color effects, including the popular pearl finishes; all mounted in fine golld-filled trimmings. A most outstanding value!
98c
Newest vacuum-fill pen-holds 3 times as much ink and will not leak; has no rubber sac to spoil. Writes evenly — fine 14 kt. solid gold iridium-tipped pen. Unbreakable transparent barrel shows constant ink supply. Newest shape barrels in choice of colors.
VARSITY AUTOMATIC PENCILS
“Three-action” automatic pencil—pro-pels, repels, expels. Beautiful non-break-able barrels in choice of colors............... fcwV
Meet and
Eat at
Walgreen’s
^alareen.
DRUG (J STORES
You’re always welcome at
Walgreen’s
208 N. Michigan
South Bend
L. Newman, Mgr
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
This Hunk Anderson is a cheerful sort. Not cocky, not overconfident, just quietly cheerful, shouldering a terrific job without a iword of complaint.
Take a look at the five distinct hard breaks he has been handed and then try to figure out why he isn’t bending low over the wailing wall:
1.	Graduation took all his quarterbacks, Jaskwhich, Murphy and Ve-jar; also his two ends, Host and Kosky; his two guards, Harris and Greeney; his left regular halfback Mike Koken; his steady right halfback, Joe Sheeketski.
2.	Sickness removed George Mel-inkovich first team fullback from the squad.
3.	Al McGuff, one of the two leading quarterback candidates, withdrew from school.
Mrs. Rockne Presents Kurth’s
Trophy At Opening Drill
The all-American captain’s trophy, won last year by Joseph Kurth of Notre Dame, was presented to Coach’ Heartley Anderson at the first var
Established 30 Years
LEMONTR^S
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana
.	Patients all over the world.
NOW IF YOUR EYES REQUIRE GLASSES
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always pains-taking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
sity practice last Friday by Mrs. K. K. Rockne, donor of the cup.
The award will be made annually to the school of the player named captain of the all-America Board of Football honor eleven. The captaincy is decided by secret vote of the team.
4.	Dick Pfefferle, brilliant understudy to Ed Krause, has been forced out for the year by an old injury to his shoulder.
5.	Jack Robinson has not yet reported, being kept at home and out of shape by an infection in his eye.
And still Hunk can smile — it’s pretty grim much of the time, we’ll admit—and go about his work of rebuilding without any frenzy at all; just a calm determination that the boys shall be a mighty good football team.
And when he works, he WORKS. Every afternoon at practice he is probably busier than any two other men on the field. Running from one group to another—he seldom walks— shouting instructions, seeing- flaws, giving praise, driving his backs and urging his linemen.
It is apparent at those .practice sessions that Hunk’s spirit has taken hold of the squad. There are no complexes, no flashes of temperament on the players’ part. They’re just working harder than ever to lick a job that looks almost impossible.
Out of the spirit something great must grow.	. .. _
Fine for a late snack
ALONG about bedtime when you begin to feel a little hungry, enjoy a bowl of Kellogg’s Corn Flakes and milk or cream.
It’s just the treat. Easy to digesL Invites restful sleep. How much better than heavy, hard-to-digest foods. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.
WHO can join the Juggler Club?
All undergraduates, alumni and friends of Notre Dame are eligible for membership.
WHAT i. the Juggler Club?
It is a subscription-readers' club. Membership insures you eight issues of The Juggler delivered to your door or mailed to your home anywhere.
WHY should you join the Juggler Club?
You save twenty cents in cash — and you help inject life-blood into a Notre Dame institution that will help keep you happy for the next eight months.
WHEN can you join the Juggler Club?
Now, until the first issue of The Juggler appears. Only a few weeks left. Hurry!
WHERE can you registeryour name and hall?
Call at the Publications Office on the second floor of the Main Building — anytime from dawn till dusk.
PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME, IND,
©1933. Liggett 4 Mters Tobacco Co.
J MILDER
t/tea^afeffe tiat
IMal TASTES BETTER
V>licstcrlicld
SO FAR as I can tell...
and I’ve smoked a lot of them . . . CHESTERFIELDS are always the same. They have a pleasing taste and aroma.
I smoke ’em before breakfast and after dinner. I smoke ’em when I’m working. I smoke ’em when I’m resting. And always they satisfy. They suit me right down to the ground.