THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
....Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN____________________JOHN E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH__________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK----------------------College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.-------------------------Staff Artist
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE............ )
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING J NICHOLAS J. CONNOR.-----------
___Sports Editors
.HOWARD T. WALDRON
Neios Staff EDWARD F. MANSFIELD--------------------~~~~News Editor
THOMAS G. PROCTOR--------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI---------------------—Assistant News Editor
ROY O. SCHOLZ------------------------ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL---------------------JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY-------------------PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES______________________LOUIS R. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY —:-------------Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
December 8, 1933
No. 11
MEASURING-STICK
The night before the opening football game against Kansas, The Scholastic expressed its pre-season opinion of football at Notre Dame in this way: “Naturally it hopes for a long succession of victories, but it is sure that Notre Dame will not measure the success of the season merely on the record of games won and lost. Notre Dame football is too big for so limited a standard.”
Now, a week after the closing game against Army, we must record that our confidence was well placed. Regardless of the outcome of the Army game, Notre Dame itself would not have judged its season merely on the won-lost basis. At no time during the year did the University ask the legion of sack cloth and ashes wearers to move over and make room at the wailing wall for official mourners.
The significant thing about the final victory was that the team quality that made Notre Dame proud of its football squad all season, in the end was able to make even the most despondent of our outside cheerers see why the 1933 Fighting Irish were worthy guardians of a fine athletic heritage. That quality was Notre Dame courage.
Our editorial as well as our personal hat is off to the members of this year’s football team. They had known the real sting of defeat, but on it they were able to rise to greater heights than have many teams whose constant lot was victory. It is because of demonstrations of that sort that American collegiate sport can always be a valuable sideline to American collegiate life.
Also in that earlier Scholastic editorial was this statement: “For Coach Heartly Anderson and his squad, we have the highest possible regard and a full measure of confidence and support.” The confidence and support have been justified, and the high regard is still unshaken.
MR. HURLEY’S PEACE PLAN
We are indebted to a letter writer in a recent issue of the New York Times for recalling to us an apparently universally forgotten plan for peace proposed by the late Edward N. Hurley, University benefactor and lay trustee.
Mr. Hurley’s plan, as pointed out in the Times letter, was proposed in November, 1929, in a letter to Georges Theunis, president of the International Chamber of Com-
December 8, 19 3 3
merce. Briefly, the plan, as quoted in the letter, was that “the leaders of the great industries which own, control, transport, refine, and fabricate the ‘key commodities’ would not sell them to any actual or prospective belligerent.” Mr. Hurley also wrote: “There are two or three dozen men in the world today who could meet and form a gentlemen’s agreement to control the essential raw materials of the world in the interest of business stability and peace, and there is no force in the world today which could effectively forbid their exercising that control.”
This is one phase of Mr. Hurley’s humane activity which we, together with almost everyone else, overlooked as we recalled his various greatnesses at the time of his death. It is a particularly significant commentary on his unusual character as a leading industrialist. How many other individuals of similarly high industrial and commercial position sincerely and openly advocated a plan that would gain so much for the world at a cost to themselves in the form of lost profits?
The writer to the Times, in conclusion, reasoned that this plan, coming from an industrialist, “definitely proved that peace can be attained, and that war can be curtailed —if and when industry so wills.” One further, logical step that may be added is that industry’s willingness •will come when industry produces a full quota of leaders whose ideals are high; whose public statements of sympathy for their fellow men are sincere and in good faith; ' in short, when industry is generally captained by a generation of Edward N. Hurleys. With such leadership, an effective crystallization of such a peace plan will be a definite possibility.
“THANKS FOR THE BLOW”
Next Sunday night the Linnets, campus musical entertainment group, under the direction of the Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C., and Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, will present the first performance of its second campus stage production.
Last spring the Linnets presented “The Vagabonds” as their initital offering. Campus reaction was favorable: the organization was continued. Sunday’s production, “Thanks For The Blow,” is completely a local show —in setting, in humor, in continuity. It should have a singular appeal.
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Reverberations
“I look for them (the Army) to make two more touchdowns this half,” said Lou Little.
“Army scored on two lucky breaks . . . ferocious Lukats . . . nothing can stop them now . . . brilliant drive,” said Ted Husing.
“Why do you fellows always have to take it out on us?” asked Lieutenant Gar Davidson.
“Look,” said the girl in the subway, exhibiting a thin sliver of wood, “it’s from the goal-posts. Isn’t it wonderful?”
“I’m proud of those kids,” said Hunk Anderson.
The students zig-zagged up the sacred steps of the Main Building, shocking the austerity of Columbus and the Indians. Silent leges inter arma. They were a trifle proud of Hunk and those kids.
And the whole complexion of the Christmas vacation is completely changed. We were pointing for the Army.
Lyons Burglar
Everybody in Lyons Hall had gone to bed. Peace and holy quiet reigned; youth was knitting up the ravelled sleeve of care in the approved fashion. In a room on the fourth floor a man stirred uneasily in bed; he awoke with a start. What was that? Absurd! It couldn’t be anything. There was that flash of light again!
“Bill,” he called softly to his roommate. “Wake up. There’s somebody on the roof.” Goof. Sure. Look at that light flash. There he is again! Do you suppose he’s heard us? . . . I’ll go out and get some of the others.
Three more pajamaed sophomores. “On the roof. With a flash-light. I • don’t know what he wants. Maybe he’s an escaped convict.” “ . . . you guys are nuts. I’m going to bed.” “Look at that!”
“You get the golf-club. I’ve got this bat that’ll freeze him in his tracks. He’ll find out what’s it like to run into football men around here. Hey, Joe, get on that side of the window.”
Whisperings, shufflings. Little shivers of contact with furniture. Rufflings of the curtains. And that flash of light again, at interminable intervals. The roof is a black vapor, peopled.
“Well, you guys win the prizes.”
“Shut up, you!” “Of all the fatheads . . . yeah. That light is the Bendix beacon, and if you don’t believe me stand up here and take a look.”
Three six-footers are abashed, and the Lyons roof is still virgin.
Touche
Simultaneously with the departure of varsity football the touch-tackle season is coming to a close. The origin of touch-football is rather doubtful, though we have heard it said it started here some twenty years ago. We can’t tie it down, however; it is in the opinion of most that it was spontaneous in origin, growing out of the student passion for football which arose in the early 20’s. Before that, football was for most part just another sport.
At all events the current touch season here has been most successful. There has been a growing tendency on the part of the boys to dress for the game, and the Badin common has become quite a hangout. The game has been taken more and more seriously, what with complicated lateral passes brought into play,and numerous rule-interpretations quite local and entirely arbitrary. The attendance, while sporadic and passing, has been more than gratifying.
To Messrs. Craine, Lord, Krause (not Moose), English, “Brownie,” “Moe,” and others is due a large part of the credit for a booming season. The boys have been out there every afternoon, fighting hard and playing their hearts out. They deserve a big hand from all the students. ' Oh, it isn’t all fun, this touch-football, it has its serious side as well.
Watch for The Week’s all-touch team, picked aftei' serious consultation with prominent leaders in the sport, in an early issue.
Apologia
Because of serious misapprehensions on the part of some of our most trusted scouts we were in error twice last week. The gentleman in the law school with no oil in his lamp isn’t a professor at all; he is a bit elderly and named like one, is all. And the Corby “heir” did not propagate the story: friends did.
We are very sorry; sorrier if anyone has suffered through our blundering efforts to be amusing.
Sorin Victorious In ’ Group I Of Debates
Three seniors from Sorin met three juniors from Alumni last Monday -night and settled their differences verbally, at least in the opinion of Reverend Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., who gave Sorin a victory. It was the final debate in Group I of the Lemmer Trophy League, and was given before the Young People’s club of St. Casimir’s Parish, South Bend, sponsored by the pastor, Father Lisewski.
By virtue of this decision, Sorin becomes the champion of Group I and earns the right to aruge against the winner of Group II, either Morrissey or Lyons, in the final debate at St. Mary’s College soon. In the Alumni debate, as throughout the season Sorin, coached by John Hayes, Wrangler member, argued the negative of the question, “Resolved: that an amendment making permanent the powers of the President as of July 1st, should be adopted.” Alumni, coached by Louis Hruby, maintained the affirmative.
The three affirmative speakers, William Burkhardt, George Krug, and John Donovan chose not to defend the specific powers of the President but rather to argue for the permanency of the President’s power to act, showing the evils of the capitalistic system and the need for economic security. The negative also drew a “hair-line” distinction and admitted the evils of laissez-faire, advocated New Deal legislation, but maintained that the acts have not proved theinselves sufficiently to justify their permanency. Both sides wrangled much ovei’ the possibility of a weak President getting into office. The negative team, John Hess, John Locher, and John O’Connor, gained a lead in rebuttal by remaining firm in their convictions and by showing that the affirmative case was an evasion of the question. According to the judge, Burkhardt and Locher were best in delivery.
W. J. Coyne, and several varsity debaters, attended this debate. A. L. Korzeneski, Lemmer Trophy debate chairman, was chairman for the evening.
r Irish Club
At the final meeting of the year 1933, held last night, James Reilly addressed the Irish Club on the period of Irish history from the year 800 to 1000 A.D. The paper was. followed by a discussion.
The date of the next meeting which will be held shortly after the Christmas holidavs will be announced later.
T iv o
The Scholastic
Calendar
“THANKS FOR THE BLOW9 TO HAVE PREMIER SUNDAY NIGHT
Thursday, December 7
Academy of Science, Science hall, 8:00; Spanish club meeting, 7:45, Carroll rec.; Lecture, Etienne Gilson, Engineering auditorium, 8:00; Movie, “One Sunday Afternoon,” Washington hall, 6:35, 8:15.
Friday, December S
Scholastic staff meetings, 6:30 and 7:00 p.m., editorial offices; Feast of the Immaculate Conception; holiday, no classes; Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00; Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Music hall, 6:30 p.m.; lecture, Etienne Gilson, Washington hall, 8:00.
Saturday, December 9
Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, University Gym 8:00.
Sunday, December 10
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 8:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p. m., for freshman and students in Lyons and St. Edward’s halls, 7:30; “Thanks for the Blow,” Washington hall, 8:00.
Monday, December 11
Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.; “Thanks for the Blow,” Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.
Tuesday, December 12
Symphony orchestra practice, 4:00 p. m., Music hall; Educational Seminar, Law building, 6:30 p. m.; “Thanks for the Blow,” Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.; debate, Notre'Dame vs. Michigan, 8:00 p. m.
Wednesday, December 13
Collegians rehearsal, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Ball State Teachers, University gym, 8:00 p. m.; Irish club meeting, 7:45; debate, Notre Dame vs. Minnesota.
Thursday, December H
Movie: “Army Medical Service in Action,” Engineering Building., 8:00 p. m.; Press club smoker, Faculty dining hall, 8:00 p. m.
New Seminar Planned
Reverend Thomas F. McAvoy, C.S.C. announces a seminar in American Catholic history which will be held every Tuesday evening in the Green Room of the Library next semester. This seminar will be open to advanced and graduate students. It will stress the conflict between Catholic and Puritan cultures.
U. Theater---
“The Taming of the Shrew,” Shakespeare’s finest comedy, and described by Mr. Frank Kelly, Director of the University Theater, as being “most attractive to the men,” will be presented in Washington Hall on Dec. 17 and 18.
Those having feature parts in the production are: Miss Theresa Chisholm, Eugene Blish, James Boyle, Thomas Stritch, and Joseph McCabe.
Two Weeks Remain For AB Students’ Preregistration
The attention of students in the especially Seniors and Juniors, should to the urgency of registering immediately for second semester classes. But two weeks remain in which to do this. It will not be possible to register all at the last minute.
Every student in Arts and Letters, especially Seniors and Juniors should attend to this duty promptly. Failure to do so within the prescribed time will make necessary the application of the rule of fines for late registration.
German Club Meets
“Der Deutsche Verein” held their meeting Wednesday night, Dec. 6, in the Law building.
Professor William E. Farrell of the History department, spoke on the “Background of Modern Germany.” In his speech, Professor Farrell revealed the past history of the country, contrasted with, and throwing light on the political events of the nation of the present.
During the evenings entertainment, refreshments were served.
CONTENTS
Editorials ..................... 1
“The Week” ..................... 2
Linnets Premier ................ 3
Chemists Chib .................. 4
Varsity Debate.................. 5
Welcome For Irish............... 6
Jeivelry Concession ............ 7
“News of The Week”-------------- 7
“Man About The Campus”.......... 8
“College Parade” ............................ 9
Army Game ..................... 10
All-American .................. 10
Track Prospects ............... 11
Basketball Foes ............... 11
“Introducing” ................. 12
Kalamazoo Game ................ 13
“So They Say”.................. 14
“Splinters from the Press Box”.... 15
“On Down the Line” ............ 16
100 LINNETS IN THE CAST
Notre Dame goes big time Sunday night when the Linnets present the premier showing of “Thanks For The Blow,” the “show of shows” to hit the campus. A galaxy of University
Father “Pop” Farley
Linnets dedicate shoic to him.
singers, dancers, and artists have been rehearsing for more than a month and all is in readiness for Sunday night’s- show. Performances will also be given on Monday and Tuesday evenings.
The show meant to depict the spir-. of of the campus is dedicated to the Reverend John Farley, C.S.C., beloved rector and traditional “pop” of Sorin Hall. The feature song hit named from the title of the show is a take-off on Father Farley. John Henry will act as Master of Ceremonies throughout the show.
The opening number of the musical and dancing revue will be a rendition of Professor Casasanta’s original composition, “Thanks For The Blow,” with Justin Tompkins as soloist accompanied by the chorus of Linnet voices.
Other featured numbers in the show are “I Wanna Ring Bells” done in true campus style with a clever modernistic setting in which Ned Quinn will sing a solo; “Swingy Little Thingey,” with Frank Reidy as soloist, and Walter Neinaber doing some versatile dance steps; “Marching Along Together,” the grand finale of the presentation with the entire chorus headed by Tenor Soloist John Ryan.
(Continued on Patre 5)
December 8, 19 3 3
Three
Chemistry Students Hear Two Speakers
On Wednesday evening, December 6, the Chemist’s Club held their regular- monthly meeting in Chemistry Hall. This was the last meeting before the Christmas vacation.
Two papers were presented at the meeting. Jack Kroger, senior in Chemical Engineering, gave a talk on “The Licensing of Chemical Engineers by the Industries.” This was very favorably received by the members, particularly by the senior members, who will soon be entering the commerical and industrial field.
The second paper rvas given by Melvin See, Junior Chemical Engineer. His subject was “Safety Glass.” This product has become quite important in recent years, due to its adoption by the automotive industry, as well as its many other uses.
The Doctors X and Y then gave an exhibition of black magic. After a full demonstration of their magic powers with the vials and test tubes they were revealed as the Sophomore Chemical Engineers, Sworde and Stine. This comedy stunt was received with great acclaim by even the most serious - minded faculty member and research worker.
The meeting was an open one, an invitation to attend being extended to all interested in chemistry. Approximately sixty were present.
Robert Hughes, president of the local *branch of the American Society of Steel Treaters, announced tonight that Dr. Mahin, faculty sponsor of the club, has succeeded in having Dr. Grossman of Inland Steel Corporation speak at their meeting Monday night, December 11. His subject will be. “Stainless Steels.”
Cracow Club Broadcasts Over South Bend Station
Last Tuesday evening at 8:30 the Cracow club was on the air. A fifteen minute program was given by them over the South Bend Tribune station. The announcer presented Art Korzeneski, president of the Cracow club, who extended his greetings to his radio audience and in turn presented Albert Orzechowski, vice-president of the club.
Mr. Orzechowski gave a dramatization of the “Concert of Concerts” taken from the poem “Pan Tadeusz” by the immortal Polish poet Mickiewicz. He was accompanied on the piano. Orzechowski gave this dramatization of the “Concert of Concerts” at the King Sobieski celebration held in South Bend recently and it was requested that he give it again.
Four
Two Speakers Address Educational Seminar
With nationalism as the theme of the evenings discussion, Victor As-tone reported to the Educational seminar last Tuesday on “Nationalism as a Philosophy of Life and Education.” Father Julian Patrick Sigmar then reported on “Nationalism as Existant in Europe Today.” This was followed by a heated discussion.
At the next meeting, to be held Dec. 12, William Le Golden will report on the “Philosophy and Educational Theories of Friedrich Wilhelm Foerster.” Following this report the seminar will take up the contemporary schools of psychology and their implications for education.
Phy. Ed. School Leads
Volley Ball League
Play in the faculty volley ball league has been progressing so rapidly that at the present it appears that the schedule will be completed before the Christmas holidays.
Last Friday night the Science-Engineering team won three straight games from the Commerce team. Tonight the Science-Engineering team will oppose the A. B. school.
The standings of the league follow:
w L Pct.
Physical Ed................ 2	0	1.000
Commerce .................. 1	1	.500
■, Science-English ........ 1	1	.500
_A. B...................... 0	2	=00-
Villagers Meeting
On Monday, Dec. 4, at 6:30 the Notre Dame Villagers held a meeting at the Oldenberg Inn, South Bend. Professor T. B. Campbell and Mr. H. Nye, were guests of the club.
Professor Campbell gave a very interesting talk on his European travels and told of the facilities in England, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and China for the comfort or discomfort of foreign travelers. Mr. Nye, the manager of the Palace Theater, thanked the club for their hospitality to him and the patronage of his theater. He closed with an invitation to attend the theater, as his guests after the meeting.
President John DeWilde announced that the Thanksgiving dance was a complete success. Treasurer Eugene O’Brien read a very favorable financial report of the affair.
Jack Mullen, general dance chairman announced the Villagers’ Christmas Formal which is to take place on the evening of Dec. 26 at the Palais Royale. The music for the dance will be furnished by Art Kassel and his Castles in the Air orchestra. Loren Hess was appointed chairman of the ticket committee. Jerry Claeys as chairman of the decorations committee and George Vesey as chairman of the publicity committee.
Aptitude Tests In Medicine Given Here
The science students in premedical work at the University of Notre ■ Dame advanced a step nearer the degree of their chosen profession when on Wednesday afternoon, December 6, the Aptitude Test given by the American Association of Medical Schools was held in Room 208 of Science Hall. Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, had charge of the examination.
This aptitude test is a national affair. It is' given each year at every reputable premedical school throughout the country upon the same day. The examination is made up by a committee of the A.A.M.S. in Washington, and this same committee corrects all papers. Its real purpose is to determine not so much the scholastic ranking of a student, as the extent of his native ability and intelligence.
Ninety-five percent of the medical schools in the United States require the results of this examination in the admittance of an applicant. The test is part of the large program designed to restrict the medical profession to those men most capable of carrying on the work necessary to their profession.
Twenty-seven premedical students in the Senior and Junior year took the examination.
Mrs. Jolly, LL.D., ’18 Wires Her Sentiments
Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, LL.D., ’18, author of “The Nuns of the Battlefield,” in a telegram wires her sentiments on the outcome of the Army game.
Pawtucket, R. I.
December 2, 1933.
Lift up the Blue and Gold of peerless Notre Dame Du Lac and beside it place the Green and Gold banner of the fighting Irish of Father Corby and of Meagher of the Sword. No surrender still remains the slogan of the Gael. Up Notre Dame! Up Sinn Fein!
Ellen Ryan Jolly.
Father Deady Visits
Rev. Charles F. Deady of Detroit was a guest of Dr. Leo Kuntz on the campus last Friday and Saturday. Father Deady -taught here two years ago in regular session and in summer school. He is now a teacher at Detroit University and has charge of the Teachers Training Institution at Adrian, Michigan. At present Father Deady is a candidate for a Dr. of Philosophy degree in Education.
The Scholastic
First Performance of Linnet Show Sunday
(Continued from Page 3)
George Menard will be seen in one of the catchiest numbers to be presented. “I’m A Lover of Paree,” a French ditty sung in an atmosphere of a “Cafe Parisienne” with a chorus of French waiters, will be remembered by all who see it as an act far above the average to be found in campus productions.
Glee Club To Sing
The surprise act of the revue is one entitled “Rolling On Your Roller Skates.”- The chorus and Soloist John Egan are featured with Tom Byrne doing an amazing tap dance on roller skates. “Lonesome Levee” by the Glee Club, colorful in atmosphere and setting, is one of the show’s most impressive acts. “Stormy Weather,” popular last summer, will be presented in an original manner with the Glee Club singing.
The Rhythm Club consisting of Tom Bott, Charlie Morris, Paul Guanieri, and Frank Barbush, will give their interpretations of several popular selections. “Love Songs of the Nile,” a romantic love song of the land of pyramids, will be sung by the Linnet trio, Justin Tompkins, Bill Fromm, and Tom Flynn. This trio will also be heard with Jim Hamilton and Frank McGuire, comedfans, in a hodge-podge skit named “Crazv Town.”
John Ryan In Solo
A quartet act in which Bill Lewis, Lindsay Phoebus, John Kirsh, and Charles Schwartz appear is also included in the program. A Harlem “Cab Calloway” number featuring Frank Barbush will also be given. “Song of the Bayou” with the Linnet Glee Club, “One Alone,” featuring John Ryan and the Glee Club, a piano specialty done with novel lighting effects featuring Tom Bott and Jim Keough are sure to win the hearty approval of the audience.
Much credit for the training of the students for their parts in the show is due to John Dasso and Charlie Mahar. Dasso is in charge of all the tap dancing acts, and Mahar, the militaristic dances. Dasso will appear in a tap dancing specialty with Bob Jassey.
Although under the direction of the Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C., and Professor Joseph J. Cas-asanta, the show as a whole is the product of student training, talent, and planning. Vince Gorman, Michael Weidl, and a host of electricians and stage hands have labored tirelessly to make the show a success.
December 8, 1933
Plan Special Program For Commerce Smoker Thursday
The Commerce Forum is sponsoring a smoker to be held in the Faculty Dining Room, at 8:00 p. m., Thursday, December 14.
The program will include talks by Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce. Arrangements have been made for musical entertainment by campus talent. Refreshments will be served.
The smoker will be open to all Commerce men. It is planned to have as many of the Commerce faculty present as possible.
Tickets are now on sale at 25 cents each, and may be secured from Robert Ward or Robert Rainey oi’ any member of the Commerce Forum.
N. D. Club of New York Presents Watch to “Hunk”
The Notre Dame Club of New York presented “Hunk” Anderson with a watch at a banquet given in honor of the team, at the Motel McAlpin last Saturday night.
Several prominent coaches were present at the dinner, which was broadcast over a nationwide network of the N.B.C. Among the alumni were members of the Club, which includes William A. Walsh, Hugh A. O’Donnell, and others. .
Speeches were given by Coach Fritz Crisler, whose Princeton eleven finished the season unbeaten and untied; Jimmy Crowley, Fordham; Elmer Layden, Duquesne; and Eddie Dowling, the famous stage and screen star. Numerous others, stars of former years, players, and coaches throughout the country, were listed among the guests.
La Raza Club
At the meeting of the La Raza club, held last Tuesday, Nestor Gutierrez, a sophomore in Chemical Engineering, was elected sub-secretary to assist the regular secretary Miguel J. Yriberry. Gutierrez’s home is in Manizales, Colombia.
The yearly football banquet in honor of the soccer football team will be held tonight. Sebastian Bonet, sophomore Pre-Law student is the chairman in charge of the arrangements for the banquet.
Capitol Club Tribute
Members of the Capitol District club attended a Mass in Dillon Hall chapel Tuesday morning at 7:15 for the repose of the soul of President Frank Mahar’s father.
Michigan, Minnesota Will Debate At N.D.
As an old passage goes, “Out of the North came the enemy with fire and sword.” Brought up to date, “Out of the north come the enemies,” but they come with glib tongues, and plenty of books and papers to out-argue and out-prove both Notre Dame affirmative debate teams. On Tuesday, Dec. 12, Michigan University debates here, and the following night Minnesota University will meet the Coynemen on the question: “Resolved: that an amendment making permanent the powers of the president as of July 1, 1933, should be adopted.”
Men to debate against both Michigan and Minnesota have not been definitely selected by Coach W. J. Coyne, but it is probable that William Kirby will be third speaker in the Michigan contest, and Franklyn Hochreiter, William Miller, and Gene Maloy will argue -with the Minnesota negative. Both debates will be held in Washington Hall, or in the Auditorium of the Engineering Building.
Prof Sandford, head of the Illinois University speech department will act as critic judge for the Michigan debate. No decision will be given on the Minnesota contest.
An affirmative team, Tom Proctor, Robert Schmelzle, and John Heywood, traveled to Evanston last Wednesday to meet Northwestern in a non-decision debate.
Father O’Donnell To Return From Rochester Saturday
One of the most welcome items of Notre Dame news to reach the campus this week was the information that the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, has gained sufficiently in health to enable him to return to Notre Dame.
Father O’Donnell will return to South Bend Saturday from Rochester, Minn., where he has been receiving treatment at the Mayo Brothers clinic the past few weeks.
He has shown satisfactory improvement during his stay in Rochester and will enter St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend, to continue treatment of the throat infection contracted last spring.
Fr. Mulcaire Visits
The Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Ph.D., who was vice-president of the University last year, returned from Ireland, where he visited his mother, and stopped off at Notre Dame last week on his way to Portland, Ore. In Portland he will teach at Columbia University.
Five
Band Gets First Cut;
Personnel Is Now 63
The University band, which completed its activities for the fall season at the Southern California game two weeks ago, was subjected to its first cut this week by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of music, in preparation for the winter concert season. The personnel of 90 members was reduced to 63, and is subject to still further change.
The band’s first concert will be given Saturday evening, December 9, in the gym, prior to and during the halves of the N. D.-Northwestem basketball game. During the rest of the season Prof. Casasanta’s musicians will provide entertainment at eleven of the remaining home games.
Last year’s concert band, whose personnel numbered 75, was immensely popular with the students and basketball fans. Whether or not a Glee Club soloist will be presented Saturday night, as was the practice last year, is undecided.
Commerce School Displays Fine Map Collection
In addition to the regular line of maps, the geography department of the Commerce School, in its attempt to get as complete a system as possible, has to date assembled a collection of imported maps which compare favorably with those of other universities.
The maps, which are required primarily for foreign commerce work, came from Germany. Leading the series which includes works of Kuhn-ert, Colin and Gabler, are those of Dr. Herman Haack, considered to be the finest cartographer in the world because of his unusual clarity and color schemes.
The largest map obtained is a 65x-107 inch representation of the Mediterranean area, while the smallest is that of France, 44x40 inches.
Bookmen News
Eugene Healey read a paper to the Bookmen at their regular meeting last Monday evening in which he defined and explained classicism, romanticism, and realism as applicable to writing. In the discussion that followed it was shown that it is not a simple task to place a book or author into one or two definite classes.
Two new books; One More River, by John Galsworthy and The Travelers Library edited by W. Somerset Maughm, were added to the clubs’ library bringing it to a total of 15 books. A guest speaker will be present at the next meeting to be held in the law building at 7:45 next Monday evening.
Six
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
Next Sunday afternoon, Dec. 10, the second and third degrees will be exemplified for some 35 candidates from this council in the council rooms at South Bend. There is no need to urge anyone to be present at this initiation, for the impressiveness and solenmity of the degree initiation is itself assurance of unanimous attendance. There will follow as usual the banquet for the new and old members, at which Mr. Tim Galvin will be the principal speaker. Mr. Clarence Manion, of the University Law' school, will also speak, probably from the toastmaster’s chair.
The council bowling league has been very successful to date in every respect. Especially are the team members to be congratulated on their fine attendance records, -which necessitated rearranging the teams to their present composition, in order that the bowling might be accomplished with more ease and in a shorter time than at first. Brother Phaneuf, with magnificent eclat, has things running with dispatch. The teams have been hitting the pins rather well for early in the season, and on these indications, it is expected that some rather fancy bowling will be displayed soon.
The team records: Lannons, total, 2804, average, 701; Lovelys, 2496, and 624; McGahrens, 2244, and 561; Churches, 2148, and 537; Hollangs, 2033, and 508.2; Naber, 993, and 494.2. The leading individual scores, on an average for four games, are: Lannon, 167; Lovely, 152; Martin, 149; Zinn, 139.7; Naber, 139.5; Sexton, 131; Howard, 128; Quinlan, 127; Sullivan, 125; Church, 123.
While there is plenty of improvement needed, especially in the individual averages, there is certainly plenty of room for it, and it should not be very long before the boys begin hitting the pins in fine fashion. There are too many good bowlers in the council to permit the present averages to remain on the top, and in all probability there will be a considerable change take place in the averages and leaders before the Christmas vacation. Meanwhile, make every effort to improve your standing, and that of your team, and try to make the team to be sent to Milwaukee. It will be a worthwhile trip.
Sunday afternoon; South Bend Council.
Notice
The regular meetings of The Scholastic staffs will be held Friday at 6:30 and 7:00 p. m., in the editorial offices.
Team Met By 2,500 Students At Station
By W. A. Kennedy
Exactly one week ago, on Thanksgiving Day, the Notre Dame football team entrained for New York and the Army game. They didn’t say much, these thirty-three boys who made the trip, but what they did say amounted to this: “We’re going to take Army.”
Saturday, scoring thirteen points in the last ten minutes of play, and climaxing a losing season with one of the most sensational comebacks in the history of football, they “took • Army.”
And Monday morning they came back. Came back to be greeted at the station by a frenzied mob of five thousand wildly cheering students and townspeople, that overflowed the adjacent parking space and filled it with speeches, and cheers, and a myriad of flying scraps of paper.
Twenty-five hundred students marched downtown behind the band immediately after breakfast, and were joined at the station by thousands more of townspeople. The streets for blocks around were lined with parked automobiles. Newsreel cameras ground away as the cheerleaders put the crowd through its paces. Speeches were made over the loudspeaker system erected on the platform overlooking the street.
Frank E. Coughlin, captain of the team of ’20, acted as master-of-cere-monies, introducing first Mike Cal-non, local Notre Dame supporter, and then, as they piled from the train, the members of the squad.
Ray Bonar, Wayne Millner, Ed Krause, Fred Carideo, Harry Wunsch —all spoke into the microphone and all voiced their enthusiasm at getting back. Lukats, Devore, and Anderson were cheered in their absence. The students even got big-hearted and gave a cheer foi’ the defeated West Pointers. The bany played at intervals, and the crowd applauded a woman with a cowbell in one of the station windows.
The march back to the campus was triumphant. The players rode in cabs, which were weighted down with swarms of yelling, wildly gesticulating students. Led by the band, the procession wound its way through the main artery of the town, and despite the threat of rain, still other thousands lined the streets and filled the windows of the buildings. Motorists blew their horns in salute to the returning gridders.
All the way back to the campus it was the same story. Cheers, songs, arms waving, hands clapping; “The Fighting Irish” were back. It was another Thanksgiving. They “took Army.”
The Scholastic
Undergrads Will Sell Official N.D. Jewelry
News of the Week By George Leyes
Fr. Nieuwland Writes
For “Catalyzer” Issue
Monogram jewelry so popular- in the past has now come under the direct supervision of the University authorities. Arrangements have just been completed with L. G. Balfour Company to handle their line exclusively
The new arrangement as conceived by Comptroller F. W. Lloyd provides for a group of six men to act as concessionaries. In the past jewelry has just been distributed by one student from his room. This year, however, there will be three large display cases located in the cafeteria, the candy store, and the book store. The case in the cafeteria will be strictly for display purposes, while sales will be made from the cases in the candy and book stores. Pi-ices for the pins will be lower this year.
The official University ring will be featured this year. Any student is eligible to purchase this ring. The rings will come at a number of prices depending on the quality of the ring. The same scale of prices will also apply to pins. Other items included in the line are: compacts, bill folds, key rings, pendants, bracelets, cigarette holders, lighters, and all sorts of novelty jewelry.
The concessionaires who have been appointed so far are: Arthur- Sandusky, Jim Moscow, Leo Brugger, Tom Roach, and Joe Pivarnik.
Panella Explains NRA Code
For Druggists At Meeting
Alfred Panella explained the NRA code for retail druggists at the Tuesday night meeting of the Pharmacy club in Chemistry Hall. He defined the terms used in the code, and outlined the wage scale and minimum working hours for each employe. An unusual element in the selling price clause states that the article of merchandise must be sold for not less than 10 per cent more than the cost price.
After Panella’s talk, an open discussion was held concerning the advantages and limitations of the code. Business of the meeting was engaged with the formulation of plans for several club projects to be undertaken during the coming months.
Sympathy
The Scholastic extends the sincere sympathy of the student body to Joseph Mason, ’37, and to Mr. Thomas Mason, of the composing room staff of the Ave Maria press, on the death of Mrs. Thomas Mason.
The administration is going ahead with its recovery plans in spite of all “Tory” resistance. Indications are that there will be quick action on moves to force down the value of the dollar as soon as possible so that international stabilization may soon be realized. The struggle between inflationists and the hard money advocates offers history a chance to repeat itself, with the old line-up reappearing — the Eastern conservatism, high finance, and creditor class against the West and South, farmers, radicals, and debtor class.
By far the majority of people although supporting the President are in a fog as to just what the issue is all about and are wholly incompe- . tent to judge. This is increasingly evident when even the presumed experts are hopelessly divided.
Mr. Roosevelt does not seem particularly disturbed by the rumblings of his opponents and critics. The 4,000 letters he receives daily are sufficient reason for him to believe that the majority of the country has faith in him and that the opposition cannot buck such a cohesive force.
The drys last effort to stop prohibition repeal in the District of Columbia Supreme Coui-t this week was unsuccessful and the noble experiment ended Tuesday afternoon when the repeal convention made theii- formal ratification over a nationwide hook-up. The occasion was significant in that for the first time the whole country was able to listen in on the actual repeal of an amendment and to- hear the President’s proclamation shortly afterwards.
Rt. Rev. John Ryan, professor of economics and a lecturer at Notre Dame last year, came to the support of Father Coughlin, the radio priest, and praised him for his work in enlisting the masses for their own betterment. “The recovery program opposed by the moneyed interests,” Father Ryan said, “cannot be carried through on an intellectual plane. The masses must be enlisted to fight for it before you can put it over.” In discussing the New Deal, Father Ryan said that, “although the NRA is truly revolutionary, it is not as radical as the occupational group organization recommended by Pope Pius XI in the encyclical ‘Quadra-gesimo Anno’.”
The second Catalyzer of the year, edited by C. J. Schwartz, has the distinct privilege to present an article by the Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., Ph.D., Sc.D., entitled “Basic Research Possibilities in Acetylene And Calcium Carbide.” This November issue of the Chemist’s Club also contains editorials, Club News, and Personals.
The article by Father Nieuwland is a reprint, by permission of the president of the International Acetylene Association, of the formal text of the scientist’s talk before that . group on the occasion of the presentation of the Morehead medal to him last summer. In this article Father Nieuwland shows how thousands of commerical organic chemicals in use today were obtained, emphasizing the fact that before the inception of chemistry, man had to depend on natural substances. “These natural products may only have to be collected and perhaps refined,” he says, “or the organic compounds may result from partial synthesis in which natural products are converted by chemical methods into new materials, or these organic chemicals may be produced by total synthesis from an elemental form of carbon such as charcoal or coke.”
Duprene Important Product
Father Nieuwland then points out that the simplest and easiest way to make all organic substances directly from carbon would be “to pass through calcium carbide and acetylene as intermediates. In the field of organic chemistry acetylene occupies the unique position of being the only simple carbon chemical from which the great variety of car-• bon compounds can be obtained by fairly direct methods. The number - of chemical products which it is possible to obtain directly from acetylene is enormous.” And then the author lists these products, including his own scientific discovery of the derived or synthetic rubber — Duprene. “At present only a comparatively small number of chemicals are actually being manufactured from acetylene,” he continues. “Duprene cannot at present compete with natural rubber in price, but its superior properties should give it a wide market. In the event of any military or economic crisis this nation has at its command an unlimited supply of rubber.”
In conclusion the author points out that acetylene is a promising material for the future trend toward replacement of natural products by cheaper or better synthetic ones.
December S, 19 3 3
S e ven
Railroads Discussed At Economic Seminar
Will Show Medical Corps Film Thursday
“High Speed Railroads” was the topic of the paper read by Leo Brugger at a meeting of the Economic Seminar held Tuesday night in the Lay Faculty Dining Rooim He pointed out that from 1869 until the present day little progress has been made toward accelerating the speed of railroad transportation, but that new developments are expected in 1934.
Foremost among these improvements is the new Union Pacific stream rail-plane for passenger service. This train will be powered by a Diesel engine and will be capable of 110 miles per hour maximum speed and 90 miles per hour cruising rate. The operating cost will be three to four cents per mile.
In the discussion which followed Brugger’s talk, some attention was given to the truck competition, and the conclusion was that this phase of railroad business is not as serious as is generally believed. At the next meeting of the Seminar, January 9, Mr. Buckley of the Economics Department will address the club on the subject “Background and Objectives of the N.R.A.”
MILITARY NOTES
The Rifle club formed last year has undergone a complete reorganization. It has obtained a section of the boat house as an indoor shooting range. Students interested in joining this club should see John McGrath in Alumni Hall. The University organization has been challenged by the South Bend Rifle and Pistol club to a rifle meet but the date has not as yet been set. The members of the various rifle teams representing the university shall be chosen at a competitive meet to be held in the near future. All students are welcome to participate in the try-outs.
The Reserve Officers club has arranged to show the Army medical movies on Dec. 14. These pictures were taken under simulated war-time conditions and show how the Army Medical Service works under fire. The are to be held in the Engineering building at 8 p.m. The following committee was in charge of arrangements: Harry Gilday and Salvatore Costo.
NOTICE
The regular bi-weekly meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers which was scheduled for Monday night, Dec. 11 has been postponed until the following Monday, Dec. 18.
Eight
’C? 'about the camPus
From down in the district that his hecklers tell him is the ‘hook worm region’ of the south, came Minnie to Notre Dame. That is no mistake in nomenclature, the “Minnie” name. His full signature reads Harry D. Sporl, and for the present he can give 239 Sorin as his address, although the odds are in favor of your finding him in 115. But in four
years we’ve never heard him called Harry. He’s Minnie, and the Sporl of 237 Sorin is Ed.
Minnie is having himself a pretty swell senior year. Barring a mysterious rip in a suit just out of the showcase, his haberdashery is one of Sorin’s prides. And his Southern “y’all” takes in just about everybody in the county as a friend.
Settles Down For Winter •
He’s had a time or two, like most of the boys, but right now he’s content with 239 and the prospect of much sleep and a righted budget. He did miss a step last week when he failed to make the Army trip, but like a few other persons, Minnie decided that once was enough. That should have been a sound judgment, for a year ago he was in at the 21-0 death of the cadets. At least he made the trip.
When he tells of the trip he has more hearers in the aisles than Durante and Pearl. Probably the best maker of gestures in the class, he waves out exclamations and asides with either hand. He can be funny and he can be fiery. His temper seldom rises—but never mention Huey Long.
One of Minnie’s favorite gesturing seasons is just opening up. He used to be a basketball player of some pretensions, and he still talks a great game. But most of his athletic experience since he reached the campus has been vicarious in nature. Another Louisiana product had started a varsity career at halfback when Minnie came along, so our Harry D. joined the ranks at the shrine of Schwartz.
All in all’he’s a great lad. One of the best the gulf coast has sent along in quite a while, and there have been some good ones.
Through the courtesy of Colonel P. C. Traver, M.D., of South Bend, the motion picture “The Armv Medical Service in Action” will be shown at 8:00 p. m., Thursday, December 14, in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. The pictures are being shown under the auspices of the Reserve Officers Club of Notre Dame, and all students are invited to attend without charge.
While of general interst, the demonstration will be a special attraction for pre-medical students and those interested in the military sciences. The pictures were taken at Carlise Barracks, one of the Army’s chief medical centers, with the cooperation of the combat arms so that actual wartime conditions could be simulated.
The collection and care of sick and wounded from the front line back to the general hospitals equipped with the latest surgical and laboratory instruments is shown in sequence. Much of the advancement in the science of medicine and surgery has come from the Army Medical Corps. The discovery and control of the yellow fever source by Major Walter Reed, a martyr to his profession, is only one example of the achievements of military medical men.
French Club To Entertain Professor Etienne Gilson
Etienne Gilson, member of the faculty at the Sorbonne university in Paris and an outstanding Catholic philosopher, who is lecturing here Thursday and Friday night, will be the special guest of the French club at a smoker given in the Lay Faculty lounge Friday morning at 10:45.
Professor Gilson is the first guest entertained by the French club from a foreign university for several years. President Menard says that the members consider it a privilege to- have him as a special guest.
Invitations have been sent to certain members of the faculty and to all French club members. The members are to bring guests with them. There wiil be singing in French by the entire group.
The French club soon hopes to have a surprise entertainment for all the students of the University.
Academy of Science
The Notre Dame Academy of Science will meet next Monday evening at 8:00 p. m.	■
The Scholastic •
Paulist Choir Sings
In WGN Broadcast
WGN’s musical broadcasts at 8:30 Sunday evenings are getting a steady increase of tuners-in hereabouts. The Paulist choir—not unknown at Notre Dame—under the direction of Father Eugene O’Malley, C.S.P., is the chief attraction.
Last Sunday’s concert began with Palestrina’s “Panis Angelicus.” In it, and in the Casciolini “Sanctus” immediately following, the choir had everything church music demands—a hushed dignity, a nobility of expression, a feeling for the text. Then came a very expert rendering of “Believe Me If All Those Endearing Young Charms,” in which the peculiar white quality of the boy soprani floated magnificently over the underlying sonorities of the alto and bass.
In place of the customary bumblebee or mosquito number, the ensemble jogged along merrily with the very stacatto “I Saw Three Ships.” The piano background of this folk tune was one of distinction. After that, there Gretchaninoff’s “Cherubic Hymn.” This Russian piece contains some expert imitation; and it received handsome treatment from these gentlemen who did it with rare contrapuntal soundness and mastery of organ point. Before signing off, the tenors and boys dallied entertainingly with “A Celtic Lullaby.” A request, “Old Black Joe,” was answered, and this very competent program closed.
Committee For The Nation
Reports In N. D. Library
All reports of the Committee for the Nation are available in the Commerce library. These reports deal with the function of the Committee to rebuild prices and purchasing power.
The Committee for the Nation consists of a group of business men, who studying current economic problems by research and discussion, submit their information to the public via the press and radio. Among the leaders of the group are: Vincent Bendix, president, Bendix aviation corporation; J. H. Rand, Jr., president, Remington Rand, Inc.; Lessing J. Rosenwald, chairman, Sears, Roebuck and Co.
The latest report of the Committee entitled, “Why Deflation Must Be Stopped,” is a survey of the devastating effects of the drop in price level analyzed in a typical American community, namely, South Bend.
Exactly 39 freshmen at the UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA were promised the freshman class presidency during the active campaigning of rush week.
December 8, 19 3 3
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
The Southern California Daily Trojan lists several dubious “don’ts” in a recent editorial; among them are the following: Don’t make any better than a “C” average. There’s no need, and to do it is w’asted energy and efficiency. Collegians are always cautioned against inefficiency.
Don’t take any hard courses. Take all snaps and don’t study over 10 minutes a day. If possible don’t study at all. Take professors out to dinner and get your grades that way.
Don’t neglect your social education. Don’t miss digs or decent dances, for at these you may meet the only girl. If you meet one with' money and a car, don’t fail to take advantage of the opportunity. Start going steady.
Don’t miss football games. Be the rawest of all rah-rah boys.
Don’t fail to pledge a fraternity and live at the house. The professors won’t educate you but the boys will.
Don’t lose too much sleep. If your social life requires that you stay out late make it up in class. The instructors won’t mind, unless you snore.
Don’t fail to get into politics. Be the student body president if you can.
If you follow the above don’ts, it is guaranteed that you’ll have the same chance at getting a position when you graduate as anyone else, and you will have had a much more enjoyable time at college. Naturally, there’s an easier way still. To be a real success, pick your parents. Have them with lots of money and spend all you can get your hands on. You’ll have nothing to worry about for if you’ll remember all things come to he who has, and if it doesn’t, he who has can get.
Via The Ohio State Lantern: If NEW YORK UNIVERSITY answered the wrong signals in Saturday’s game against RUTGERS, it was because Lou Hemerda, an expert ventriloquist on the RUTGERS team, did not hesitate to make use of his gift while playing. — Columbus Dispatch.
A choice gem from The Plainsman (AUBURN) :
“Doctors bury their mistakes; I make mine into sausage,” stated Prof. Brancioni after he discovered that LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY’S prize-winning Poland China sow by mistake was butchered by the meat-cutting class.
We quote this bit of inforamtion from the Xaverian Neivs: A college catalogue published 200 years ago at one of the schools for the daughters of the nobility at St. Cyr, France, has the following provisions: Pupils
Library Is Replete With Recent Works
The following books have been added recently to the University Library:
Encyclopedia: Der Grosse Herder; reference room.
Religion: Rust, George, A Letter of Resolution Concerning Origen and the Chief of His Opinions; Bernardin, Joseph, The Intercession of Our Lord; Homan, Mrs. Helen, By Past to the Apostles; Pfatteicher, Ernest Phillip, Christian Social Science.
Anthropology: Burkitt, Miles Crawford, The Old Stone Age; Cole, Fay Cooper, The Long Road From Savagery to Civilization.
Vocational and Professional Education: Sparling, Edward James, Do College Students Choose Vocations Wisely?
Education: Schlotter, Bertha, An Experiment in Recreation with the Mentally Retarded; Seyfried, John Edward, Youth and His College Career.
Fiction: Clarke, Isabel, Decree Nisi; Galsworthy, John, One More River; Queen, Ellery, The American Gun Mystery.
Medicine: Gregg, Fred, Health Studies; Stevens, Marvin, The Control of Football Injuries; Ullman, Egan Victor, Diet in Sinus Infections and Colds.
Engineering: Tafel, Wilhelm, The Theory, and Practice of Rolling Steel.
Biblography; Daley, Charles Marie, O.P., Dominican, Incunabula in the Library of Congress, Newberry Library, Chicago, A Check List of Fifteen Century Books in the Newberry Library.
Psychology: Pitkin, Walter, Life Begins at Forty. .
History and Description: Hulbert, Archer Butler, Southwest on the Turquoise Trail; Petrie, Sir Charles, The Smart Pretenders; Stauton, Robert Brewster, Colorado River Controversies.
Economics: Mitchell, Brvadus, A Preface to Economics.
Finance: Carter, Mrs. Mary, The Story of Money; Woodward, Donald, Inflation.
Criminology: Hutzell, Elanore, The Policeman's Handbook; Planisheck, Frances, Behind Prison Walls.
Literary Criticism and Interpretation: Stoll, Elmer Edgar, Art and Artifice in Shakespeare.
are entitled to have one pair of stockings and two handkerchiefs a month. Foot baths, once a month. Complete baths, three a year. Pupils unable to take their baths on the appointed day must wait until the following month. Civilization marches on.—The Web, (WEBSTER COLLEGE).
Nine
ATHLETICS
IRISH TOPPLE CADETS IN GREAT GRID UPSET; 13-12
College Papers Pick All-American Team
LUKATS LEADSRALLY
By John. D. Carbine
Notre Dame came back Saturday.
Notre Dame came back from the oblivion of a record marred with five defeats and from the depths of a score which stood 12 to 0 against
Nick Lukats
Army was amazed!
them at the end of the third quarter to overwhelm a previously undefeated Army team, 13-12. Came back with an attack which for pure fury and force has never been surpassed. Came back to score more points in five dramatic minutes of the last quarter than they had in any previous game.
All the pent-up and undelivered power of the Irish was released in that hectic final quarter. Notre Dame’s line, which just a week before had been ripped to shreds by Southern California’s forwards, shoved aside and completely out-maneuvered the vaunted Army linesmen. The backs knifed through holes and refused to be downed until three and four Army men had piled up on them.
Notre Dame’s team of Saturday was not the same team which was lucky to tie Kansas, barely squeezed by Indiana, and was then defeated by Carnegie, Pittsburgh, Navy, Purdue, and Southern California. No, it was a different team. The players’ names were the same; their
Reactions- --
By Mitchell C. Tackley
Two of the nation’s most prominent sports writers, both of whom are connected with all phases of sportdom as well as other activities, made exclusive statements for the Notre Dame Scholastic following the Army-Notre Dame game in Yankee Stadium, New York City, last Saturday.
Grantland Rice and Damon Runyon, authorities on football and perhaps two of the most widely read columnists in the country, witnessed the tilt and were greatly impressed by the Notre Dame team.
“Notre Dame outplayed Army by a very decisive margin and should have Avon by at least two or three touchdowns” stated Mr. Rice immediately following the close of the game, to The Scholastic representative. “They looked ragged for a while,” he said, “but those boys back at South Bend today can well be proud of a great team.”
“Notre Dame should have won by three touchdowns at least,” Mr. Runyon asserted. “They have the stuff that makes a great team.” Runyon then jokingly said, “I picked Notre Dame to win. How could they fail me? Did you read my column this morning?”
When asked who they considered the most outstanding player on Notre Dame’s team Saturday, both Rice and Runyon declared that Lukats held that position. Rice added that Lukats was “one of the smoothest players I have seen this fall. He made Buckler look quite useless.”
faces were the same. But their play was different, their spirit was different, and, needless to say, their results were different.
At the end of the third quarter, no one in the crowd of 80,000 which jammed the Yankee Stadium would have given the Irish a chance. But then the impossible happened. It couldn’t be done and Notre Dame did it. Notre Dame, downtrodden all season, arose in its might, scored two touchdowns in five minutes and turned the crowd, which a few minutes before had taken an Army vic-(Continued on Page 12)
In a poll conducted recently by the Chicago Daily Maroon, news publication at the University of Chicago, a 1933 All-American football team was chosen with the co-operation of 19 leading college periodicals.
“Moose” Krause
Makes first team.
Among the papers that submitted teams were: The Scholastic, Chicago Daily Maroon, Southern California Daily Trojan, Carnegie Tech Tartan, Daily Illini, Duke Chronicle, Yale News, Daily Princetonian, University Daily Kansan, the Michigan Daily and the Vermont Cynic.
Schools from every section of the country are represented on this, the collegiate press honor team. Ed “Moose” Krause was given a berth on the first team, and Don Elser was awarded honorable mention at the fullback- post. Michigan placed two men on the first team, Bernard and Petoskey, and Minnesota completed the lot of Big Ten men by placing Pug Lund at halfback.
Southern California also placed two men on the first- string, Rosie Rosenberg and Cotton Warburton were given positions at guard and quarterback respectively. Muggsy Skladany and Jack Buckler, other Notre Dame opponents, found places on the first team.	.
The teams were selected on a mathematical basis, two points being awarded for inclusion on the first team and one for selection on the
(Continued on Page 15)
Ten
The Scholastic
Trackmen Practice;
Nicholson Optimistic
KEOGANITES TO OPPOSE WILDCATS AND BALL STATE TEACHERS HERE
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
“We’re optimistic this year.” That’s what Coach John P. Nicholson had to say when a large squad of candidates answered his call for track practice on Monday.
Joe Young
Captains Irish track team.
The typical “tough” schedule will be in evidence again this year to test the skill of a team which Nick feels sure will be a great improvement over last year’s troupe. In addition to the seasoned veterans several outstanding sophomores will grace the squad that is ticketed for much success before the coming indoor and outdoor schedules have been completed.
The Irish will have a well balanced team with at least one good man in every event with the exception of the dashes. At present Huller is the only returning veteran in that field. In the past, however, Coach Nicholson has developed sprinters with amazing regularity. Last year he took Francis Murphy, an ordinary dash man and made a sensation of him in a short time. The dashes provide a great opportunity to men gifted with speed for Nick has thrown the event open to anyone who can accelerate himself to any extent.
The indoor card, which will be arranged Friday and Saturday at the Big Ten meeting in Chicago, will undoubtedly include meets with the outstanding teams in the Western Conference as well as Marquette and an eastern school. The annual get together featuring Illinois and Notre Dame will be held in the local gym this year as will the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet. Nick promises a hard schedule because he believes that there is nothing to be gained by meeting a bunch of setups,
Fencers to Give Exhibition Bouts Daily in Gymnasium
Students will be given an opportunity to see the fencing team in action next week in a series of exhibition bouts. Each day the fencers will demonstrate their ability with foils, duelling swords, and sabers. This schedule has been arranged in order to accustom the men to regul-lar play and to working before spectators.
In practice this week, the team has shown amazing skill and dexterity, and Mr. deLandero is confident that his men will have a successful season. Several new members have been placed on the team and an invitation has again been sent out for all interested students to attend the instruction in the gym.
while losing to a good team or two has never hurt any track man to the extent that he folds up. On the contrary, it inspires him for the next race.
The outdoor schedule is fairly well fixed. The Irish are sure to make an appearance in the Drake Relays and the state meet. Michigan State’s powerful crew will tangle with Notre Dame in what will undoubtedly prove to be the outstanding meet of the year.
Optimism was truly the keynote of Nick’s statement. Every team his charges meet will have to fight all the way to beat them. The relay teams will be a hard bunch to surpass. The four mile team has possibilities of being a championship foursome while the two and one mile sets will be far from push-overs.
The returning veterans will be led by Captain Joe Young, dependable two miler, whose performances in the past have been little short of sensational. Jim Bowdren, Paul La Fram-bois, Clyde Roberts, Eddie King, Norman Duke, John Moran, Vince Fagan, Charlie Finkel, Vince Murphy, Jack Edwards, Beanie Cavendar and Maxwell are other dependables returning.
A group of promising sophomores conclude the roster. The quarter-mile will be fortified by the presence of Ducasa, Rubly and Bernard. Leo MacFarlane, who showed up well in the recent cross country campaign, will be a valuable addition to the one and two mile corps. Mike Layden and Mahar will team with Fagan and Link in the hurdles. Maher is also an excellent broad jumper. Don Elser will combine with Sullivan and Finkel to present a bold front in the weight throwing department.
WILDCATS MISS VETERANS
By John D. Carbine
Notre Dame’s eagers, having run their string of consecutive victories to twelve, will find plenty of trouble adding numbers thirteen and fourteen to their long string. Saturday night the Fighting Irish meet Northwestern in the Notre Dame gym, and on Wednesday Ball State Teachers College of Muncie, Indiana invades the Irish court.	'
Northwestern has always had good basketball teams, but this year’s prospects are none too promising. Coach Dutch Londborg is faced with the task of virtually rebuilding his quintet from the ground up. Five lettermen were lost by graduation. Two . of these were those brilliant basket shooters, Joe Reiff and Elmer Johnson who finished first and second in the Big Ten scoring last year.
These players led the Purple eagers to a Big Ten title in 1930 and a tie for the championship last year. Last season Reiff set a new Western Conference scoring record with 168 points while Johnson was in second place with 109 points.
Another valuable man who will be lost to the Wildcats is Al Kawai who dislocated his shoulder in the Notre Dame - Northwestern football game. Kawai was a regular last year until he became ineligible at the second semester’s inception.
Four Lettermen Will Be Available
Four lettermen will be available for the coming campaign. Co-cap-tains, Don Brewer, forward, and Nelson Culver, guard; Ed Manske, guard, and Milton Rosenfeld, forward, have all reported to Coach Lonborg. Brewer, Culver, and Manske were regulars last year while Rosenfeld saw enough action as a reserve to win his monogram.
Coach Lonborg must develop a center to take the place of Johnson and a forward to replace Reiff. Lyle Fischer who was a reserve last winter will probably start at center. Irwin Kopecky, a sophomore football man, may get the call for Reiff’s vacated forward post.
Co-captain Brewer, who will hold donw one of the forward positions, has been a regular for two years. He is a fine floor-man and a fair shot. Last year he scored 72 points to place eighteenth in the Big Ten scoring list.
Nelson Culver, the other co-cap-tain, will pair with Ed Manske at the guard position. This is Culver’s second year as a regular. He is an (Continued on Page 19)
December S, 19 3 3
Eleven
Reserves Beaten By St. Bonaventure, 12-0
Playing a stubborn, courageous defensive football game, the Notre Dame “B” team dropped a 12-0 contest to St. Bonaventure college of Olean, N. Y. on Thanksgiving Day before a crowd of 5,000. ,This game, which was a charity contest was held in the Rochester International League baseball park. The slippery, wet infield slowed up both teams.
The Brown Indians, who assembled one of the best small college teams in the East, socred twice and both touchdowns came from long passes. The first tally was made in the first quarter and the second came with only two minutes to play in the last quarter with the Irish subs playing for Notre Dame. Fryer and Zayachek did the passing, and Faust and Petrucelli the receiving on both touchdown plays.
Irish Lack Blocking
Sadly lacking a polished blocking offense the Irish couldn’t get their attack to function past the Bonas’ 25 yard line. The failure of the offense can be easily explained by the fact that the Reserves had not scrimmaged or had blocking practice in over three weeks. Then, too, although Ed Caldwell played fine football, the backfield "lacked a dependable fullback. They played a good, steady game, but their offense was too rough to cope with the smooth attack of the Bonas,- who had been drilled well in the Notre Dame system my Coach Mike Reilly.
While the offense lacked finesse, the defense was very rugged. Through the valiant efforts of Fred Weidner, a rough and ready man at guard, and Ed Dunn, ‘ center, the “B’s” held the Indian twice for four downs within their own five yard line. Time after time the Bonas were hurled back by the linemen and forced to take to the air for a win. If the “B’s” had had a few good practice scrimmages under their belt before the St. Bonaventure fraqas, the Irish might have emerged with another win for their three game season—a win, a tie, and a loss.
The lineups:
St. Bonaventure (12) Notre Dame “B” Fron ------------LE________ O’Neill
Mullenhoff ------LT---------- Esser
Yankovich -------LG----------Shamla
Alexin------------C____________Dunn
Galvin-----------RG---------Weidner
Schwartza ____RT Jehle
Nichols-----RE McIntosh
Werner-----------QB_______ Caldwell
Fryer -----------LH-----------Clark
Faust------------RH___________Beach
Pilla------------FB------;___O’Brien
St. Bonaventure  6 0 0 6—12 Notre Dame “B”  0 0 0 0— 0 Touchdowns—Faust, Petrucelli.
Twelve
Introducing.,.
By John D. Carbine
When you are about to select “the greatest basketball coach in America,” you would do well if you named George E. Keogan of Notre
Coach George Keogan
His percentage is .76^.
Dame and stopped right there. Keogan, who has been coaching the Irish court teams for ten years, has a record which clearly entitles him to serious consideration for that honor.
His record to date is 158 victories and 49 defeats. In percentage figures this represents .764. This mark is far beyond the reach of any major college coach in the game today.
When Coach Keogan came to Notre Dame the basketball teams of the Fighting Irish, were at their best, mediocre. They won occasionally but seldom had a winning season. Today Notre Dame court teams win regularly, have not had a losing season since the coming of Coach Keogan and have, several times, forwarded strong claims for the national championship.
The 1925-*26 and 1926-’27 seasons were the first great basketball years for Notre Dame. In those years the Irish quintet won 38 games while losing but two. For two consecutive seasons they gained the title of Western Champions.
In 1928 Notre Dame ranked along (Continued on Page 17)
Lukats And Millner Score In 4th Frame
(Continued from Page 10)
tory for granted, into a bedlam of confusion.
The first touchdown came as the result of a 52 yard march in which Nick Lukats, the man that they just couldn’t stop, carried the ball 39 yards in five attempts. The march started when Kitty Gorman partially blocked one of Buckler’s punts and deflected it so that it went out of bounds on Notre Dame’s 48. On the first attempt Carideo, whose first game plunging was a sensation all afternoon, gained thre yards. Lukats started fading to the right, faked a pass and then dashed around right end for 15 yards and a first down. Banas and Lukats picked up only two yards on two plays, but with third down and eight to go, Bonar crossed up the Army by calling an end around play on which Millner weaved his way to the 24. Brancheau and Carideo made but five yards on the next two plays and here Bonar called for a pass. But the Army was expecting this one. Back and back Lukats faded. Not a receiver was clear; Army players were charging in on him. Rather than risk a large loss, Lukats stopped fading and started to dodge through the onrushing Army players. Beall had his hands on Lukats five yards behind the scrimmage line but Nick got away. Others had their hands on him but he still slipped away. When four Army men finally brought him down on the eleven yard line, he had turned an apparent ten yard loss into a first down.
Notre Dame Couldn’t Be Stopped
Notre Dame wouldn’t, couldn’t be stopped then. The backs shifted perfectly, the ball was snapped. Lukats tore through center for nine yards. Two more to go now. A whisper crept through the stands, “Watch them fold up. They’ll never score.” Lukats smashed center for a touchdown.
A crucial moment now. The conversion might tell the story. Bonar calmly placed his backfield men in the exact positions he wanted them, thre off his helmet, and went back to dropkick. “They can’t stand up under the strain,” said a cynic. The kick was perfect. Score: Army 12, Notre Dame 7.
The Army was yet far from beaten. After receiving the kickoff, they failed to make a first down, but Simons kicked to Notre Dame’s 27 yard line where the grey line smothered three Irish running plays and forced Notre Dame to punt. Standing on his own 20 yard line, Lukats lifted a prodigious 72 yard punt (Continued on Paste 18)
The Scholastic
Net Men Inaugurate Year With 30-22 Win
La Raza Wins Final Game of Season, 1-0
Boxers Learn Ropes Of Ring Art In Gym
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Led by Joe Voegele in the role of acting captain and leading scorer, Notre Dame opened its basketball season in the local gym Monday night with a 30 to 22 victory over Kalamazoo College. It was the twelfth consecutive win for Coach Keogan’s team, an eleven game streak having been established last year.
Voegele took the scoring lead by tallying 16 points, more than half of the Blue and Gold total. Joe sunk four shots from various positions during the first ten minutes of play to give the Irish an 8 to 7 lead.
Garrison Smoothest Player
Interspersed with Voegele’s field goals were a free shot by Selmacy, a basket by Weiss, and two by Garrison, the smoothest player on the floor. He was a consistent threat and kept the Notre Dame defense on the alert throughout the game. With the count 8 to 7 in favor of the Keo-ganites, Red Allen fouled him and his two free throws sent the Kazoos into a temporary one point lead.
Vic Mettler’s bucket put the Irish out in front once again and they were not headed thereafter. Voegele inaugurated the rout with two free throws and a pair of baskets. George Ireland dropped in a long shot to send Notre Dame away at the half with a 16 to 9 advantage.
Play in the second half was a bit closer with the visitors registering 13 points to 14 for Notre Dame. In the opening minute after the intermission the Teachers threatened seriously when Garrison and Weiss hit the mark in rapid order to pull up to within three points of Notre Dame. Voegele, who had considerable trouble counting from the free throw line all evening, dropped in a charity shot.
Irish Scurry Ahead
Johnny Hopkins followed this with two goals to give the Irish a 21 to 13 lead. Selmacy arched a long shot from mid court and Weiss tallied from the free throw line to put the Teachers in the ball game again. Baskets by O’Kane and Ireland, and a free throw by Voegele sent the Irish scurrying ahead, 26 tol6.
Selmacy connected from the center of the court for the second time and Weiss followed with a rapid recovery of a loose ball and a tricky short shot. Chapman scored a free throw and once more Kalamazoo was only five points behind. O’Kane and Voegele swished the net immediately following to conclude the scoring and make victory secure.
Making a triumphant come-back after its defeat by the Joliet AllStars, the La Raza soccer team booted its way to victory with a 1 to 0 score against the Northern Baptist Seminarians last Thursday.
The muddy Notre Dame field made playing difficult and it seemed as though a scoreless tie was inevitable, when during the last few minutes of the second half, Elias Hoyos, Notre Dame right forward, kicked a field goal to give the La Raza club ascendancy over its opponents.
Although both teams were almost evenly matched, the La Raza team was nevei' really in danger of being scored against, but it seemed unable to get the ball by the Baptist goalie.
This victory brings the La Raza team to the end of a satisfactory season. In spite of the fact that the number of its victories is small the team deserves a great deal of credit because its opponents have all been much more experienced.
The line-up for Thursday’s game
was:
La. Raza (1)	Baptists (0)
Benavides ...........G............ Swenson
Busqueta ...........RFB............. Jenks
Valdes .............LFB------------- Smith
Bonet ..............RH............  Spence
Yriberry ...........CH............... Rice
De Landero _________RW.__________ Saunders
Sarinana ...........RW........... Cummings
Hoyos ..............RF........ Southerland
Gomez ..............CF.............. Moung
Brias —.............LF............ Maxwell
Singson ............LW............ Barrsyn
Garrison, Weiss, and Selmacy stood out for the visitors in a game that was marked by decidedly early season form. The passing was a bit ragged, and shots were fired at the hoop with little or no aim. Outstanding for the Irish were Voegele, Ireland, Hopkins, and Mettler.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (30)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Jordan, If 			 0	0	0	1	0
Mettler, rf 			 1	0	0	1	2
Voegele, e 			 6	4	12	1	16
Allen, 1g 			 0	0	0	1	0
Crowe, rg 			 0	0	0	2	0
Hopkins, If 			 2	0	1	0	4
O’Kane, If 		2	0	0	1	4
Ford, rf 			 0	0	1	2	0
Ireland, 1g 		2	0	0	1	4
Newbold, rg 			 0	0	0	0	0
	—.	—■	—	——.	—
Totals 			13	4	14	10	30
Kalamazoo (22)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Weiss, If 				2	3	1	8
Garrison, rf 			 3	2	4	1	8
Thompson, c 			 0	0	0	1	0
Selmacy, 1g (c) .	2	1	1	2	5
Survilla, rg 			 0	0	1	2	0
Chapman, c 			 0	1	2	n	1
Neifert, c 			....... 0	0	0	0	0
	—	—	—	—	—
Totals 				 8	6	11	10	22
By Howard T. Waldron
Around the ringside at every prizefight, some envious individual always remarks: “Gee, I wish I could fight like that fellow.” When the annual Scholastic tourney for the benefit of the Bengal Mission fund is held each year about the first of March, this same statement is often heard, especially from the men who would come in the lighter weight divisions.
In the past students desiring to learn something of boxing for purposes of self-defense or just for the fun. of knowing how to fight had no chance to pick up this knowledge. This year they cannot offer the excuse that they nevei’ had an opportunity to learn anything about boxing because competent instructors are at their disposal daily in the boxing room of the gymnasium.
Experience Not Necessary
It is a great chance for a fellow to learn something about a valuable weapon besides the physical advantages that accrue from such training. Experience is not a necessary factor, in fact, the instructors would prefer to handle men without any experience at all. They want to take the plastic material that has been undeveloped and teach it the proper way from the start.
Only the fundamentals are being taught for the first few weeks and no live boxing will take place. If men are afraid of being injured in sparring bouts, they may lay aside such thoughts because these classes are for instruction and not actual boxing. At the present time the candidates are being developed in the use of the left hand, the prime factor in boxing, and the position of the feet. It’s not too late for entering and there is no compulsion for attendance but the opportunity is there and many are taking advantage of it.
Class Hours Convenient
The pulleys and weights have been attached and anothei’ heavy bag will be installed within the next week to aid the conditioning of the body. Many good prospects have been uncovered and are rapidly assimilating the fundamental technique that must act as the basis for a good boxer. Despite the large turnout, there are too few men of the lighter divisions, especially in the 112 and 118 pound classes reporting. These classes are held on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 4:00 to 5:00 o’clock, and on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 2:00 to 3:00 p. m.
December 8, 19 3 3
Thirteen
So They Say
"‘With just 15 minutes of her football season left Notre Dame finally found her soul.
“Trailing 12 to 0, facing defeat once more with more than 80,000 people looking on at the Yankee Stadium, the South Bend Simoon finally struck, came on from behind and beat the Army 13 to 12 in the most dramatic and thrilling of all the Notre Dame Army series.
“The savage counter sweep of the South Bend Simoon, lifting Notre Dame from the dismal swamp and the valley of despair, was led by Nick Lukats, the big Western back, who literally ran over a fine Army team in a final stampede that Army could not stop.
“Nick Lukats was the wild horse of the plains today. He struck with such terrific speed and force that on play after play the Army defense was completely riddled in the final quarter as the Green Shirts of Notre Dame swept to one of the most dramatic victories ever known on a football field.
“. . . It was a game that Notre Dame should have won by three touchdowns—a game that Notre Dame tried to throw away—and then came back to win.”—Grantland Rice in the Milwaukee Jozmial of Dec. 3.
“In the smoldering ashes of the most disastrous season in Notre Dame history was kindled the spark of a great football team at the Yankee Stadium yesterday to end Army’s dream of national gridiron dominion, fifteen minutes short of the end of the campaign.
“. . . To one and all Notre Dame’s plight was irreparable. The mystery team of the year, the team that potentially was rated the equal of any7 in the land at the start of the season, was doomed to suffer its sixth defeat in nine starts.
“. . . . The team that had so incomprehensibly lost its unsurpassed winning formula, that was an enigma to itself and its coaches no less than to its army of followers, suddenly was transformed. It rose phoenixlike from the ashes of defeat to turn the stadium into a bedlam with a 13 to 12 victory” — Allison Danzig in the New York Times of Dec. 3.
“There is nothing more thrilling in sport than to see a guy get up off the floor, shake himself to clear his brain and let one go. . .
“The football team from the University of Notre Dame had been on the floor twice at the Yankee Stadium tliis afternoon. It was done for, beaten, cooked, in the bag, a well-whipped
football team winding up a disastrous season where everybody expected it would—assimilating a beating from the Army, taking the short end of the score, running dazedly to the wrong places.
“And more, they were 11 discouraged young men who gave in to a bad break and came close to quitting. When, late in the third quarter, Notre Dame, rocking on its collective heels, was punted back to its 12 yard line, losing 12 to 0, it was no better than a 1 to 100 shot to score, much less to win the ball game. Seventeen minutes later they ran ecstatically off the field. The football was their prize.
“. . . How those Notre Dame youngsters changed roles! They charged hard, low and like the seven scythes of time. They blocked and bumped and tackled. The ball carriers drove at the line of scrimmage as though Beelzebub himself was on their tails with a hot pitchfork. No matter that with half of the final period played the score was Notre Dame 7, Army 12. Everybody up in the stands knew that Notre Dame would win, that they could not be kept from another touchdown, that the Sisters were sitting at their wheels nodding their heads with approval.”—Paul Gallico in the New York News of Dec. 3.
“Turning an apparent rout into an astounding victory, Notre Dame’s hitherto battered and baffled green shirts pulled themselves back from the depths of a disastrous campaign today to overcome Army’s two touchdown lead in a dazzling fourth period rally and smash the winning streak of the Cadets in the biggest upset of the 1933 college football season.
“. . . The final score was 13 to 12 as the Fighting Irish, in the space of less than five minutes, wiped out West Point’s big lead and pulled the game out of the fire with a comeback that was as swift as it was startling to a near capacity crowd. . . .
“It was a marvelous triumph for a team that had tasted little previously this season except football bitterness, especially as it came in the last period of the last game against their most cherished rival. . . .”—Associated Press Dispatch in the Aurora (Illinois) Beacon News of Dec. 3.
“Like a surprise attack in the dead of night Notre Dame struck Army a paralyzing blow today.
“Outplayed, outscored, outranked in what had gone all autumn before, the Madmen of Notre Dame plunged from the murky shroud of defeat and laid the unbeaten Cadets low in the last minutes of a topsy-turvy game.”
“The score was 13 to 12, Notre Dame scoring two touchdowns as twi
light settled over the Yankee Stadium, and Army, with its All-American backfield ace, on the bench gasped and gurgled under the impact of the blow.”—Cy Peterman in the Philadelphia Bulletin of Dec. 2.
“On through the third period the Westerners struck to their dazed, discouraged attitude—at one time kicking in Army territory on third down with only a foot to go for a first-down thrust.
“This last astonishing move seemed to be the concluding tipoff. Here was a team, apparently, that refused to win, that looked to the gridiron gods for nothing but disaster and defeat.
“And then—with just 16 minutes of a mournful and mangled season left—the dying ember from South Bend suddenly flared into a shining flame.
“Just what happened on the mental side, no one can say. But as Buckler’s quick kick was blocked by big Krause on Notre Dame’s 48-yard line, here was suddenly the team that might have been all year—a devastating, destructive surf of green— surf born of the storm — surf that struck and shattered.
“This final countercharge from the shadows of a black autumn needed a leader and his name was Nick Lukats, a fast, powerfully built back who within less than five seconds turned into a blazing force that Army couldn’t stop”—Grantland Rice in the Sportlight of Dec. 4.
“The answer to that oft-repeated question—‘what’s wrong with Notre Dame?’—seems to be that the season of 1933 was entirely too short for the fightin’ Irish, coached by ‘Hunk’ Anderson.
“If the game had lasted much longer, the Irish might have doubled their margin over the Cadets. If the season only could be extended, Notre Dame, having finally made its strength manifest in the score-board, might reverse most of those earlier decisions against them.”—Alan Gould, Associated Press Sports Editor, in a syndicated article on Dec. 4.
“Notre Dame clicked, presented a unified front on Saturday and played the sort of football everyone knew she had it in her to play. That this appearance of Notre Dame’s real self was reserved for the last game of the season is not important.
“The important thing is that the Irish justified themselves and their coach. Her role was that of the sleeping giant who finally arouses and shows all his innate physical power and drive and versatility in assault.” —Lawrence Perry in the'South Bend Tribune of Dec. 4.
F o u r t e e n
The Scholastic
I
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
NONESUCH
We’ve been talking to ourselves since last Saturday so we may as well go right on talking out loud. Was there ever such a fifteen minutes?
Greatest, greatest, greatest, was all we could say or hear for hours after the game. We do not think that any other team has ever put football’s dramatic history so completely in shadow as did the Fighting Irish last week when the blinding brilliance of their rally made all recorded comebacks fade in comparison.
As we see it, it was justice. Justice to Nick Lukats, Ray Brancheau, Hughie Devore, Kitty Gorman, Ed Krause, Red Tobin, Tom Roach, Jimmy Leonard, Harry Wunsch, Joe Pi-varnik, and all the other seniors who have had the Notre Dame type of courage in all their playing for three years. And to the underclassmen who acquired that courage rapidly this season.
There isn’t anything that can be said to add to the superlatives applied to the Irish. Only this: they earned them all.
ROSE BOWL
So Columbia is the east’s representative’ for the New Year’s Day game! Seems rather fitting that the west coast should be the ones to name the eastern team. Why not an auxiliary Rose Bowl committee in the east to name the outstanding team?
. But as to this year’s selection. What happened to Pittsburgh? Their record: Defeated W and J., West Virginia, Navy, Notre Dame, Center, Duquesne, Nebraska, and Carnegie Tech. Lost 7-3 to unbeaten Minnesota.
And Columbia: now they’re probably swell fellows, and Cliff Montgomery is a great back, but their record: Beat Lehigh, Virginia, Penn State, Cornell, Navy, Lafayette, and Syracuse. Lost 20-0 to unbeaten Princeton.
They beat Navy 14-7, Pitt licked the sailors 34-6. And the rest of Columbia’s victims were all laced by other teams, several of them regularly.
Harvard beat Lehigh 27-0; Ohio State beat Virginia 75-0; Muhlenberg beat Penn State 3-0; Michigan beat Cornell 40-0; Bucknell beat Lafayette 21-0; and Michigan State beat Syracuse 27-0.
No, Columbia didn’t meet the best
teams in the world. But then, Stanford is some three thousand miles away from Gotham, and seven victories in eight starts looks pretty good from that distance.
SCORECASTS
The season in retrospect: 153 winners, 48 losers, and 21 ties. Counting ties as losses, the average is .689; discounting the ties, the figure stands at .761.
ALL-AMERICAN
(Continued from Page 10)
second team. The man with the highest number of votes was award-de the berth on the first team. Jack Buckler, Army sensation, received the greatest number of votes. He received 31 ballots of a possible 40. Skladany received 28, Crawford 18, Rosenberg 25, Bernard 27, Corbus 26, Krause 19, Petoskey 24, Warburton 26, Lund 23, and Sauer 20.
The following is the college press All-American, first and second teams and honorable mention:
FIRST TEAM END —Skladany, Pittsburgh. END—Petoskey, Michigan. TACKLE—Crawford, Duke. TACKLE—Krause, Notre Dame. GUARD—Rosenberg, Southern California. GUARD—Corbus, Stanford. CENTER—Bernard, Michigan. QUARTERBACK—Warburton, So. California. HALFBACK—Buckler, Army. HALFBACK—Lund, Minnesota. FULLBACK—Sauer, Nebraska.
SECOND TEAM END—Geisler, Centenary. END—Smith, Washington. TACKLE—Ceppi. Princeton. TACKLE—Schwammel, Oregon State. GUARD—Jablonsky, Army. GUARD—Hupke, Alabama.
Give Notre Dame Jewelry This Christmas
Now you can choose from a complete line of practical gifts, especially made for the Notre Dame man, Mother, Dad and Her—tastefully embellished with the Notre Dame erest or monogram.
We can’t tell you here about the variety we have to show you—novelty compacts, pendants, bracelets, rings, pins, billfolds, key-chains, lighters—to mention but a few.
See our displays in the Cafeteria, Book Store, and Candy Store. We’ll call at your room. too. Better stop one of us on the campus—now—while our selection is still complete.
Prices Lower Than Ever Before
ART SANDUSKY, Alumni Hall
LEO BRUGGER, Walsh Hall
JOE PIVARNIK, Sorin Hall
JIM MOSCOW, Walsh Hall
TOM ROACH, Walsh Hall
Our Quality Gifts Are Made By
L. G. BALFOUR CO.
Of Attleboro, Mass.
CENTER—Del Isola. Fordham. QUARTERBACK—Montgomery. Columbia. HALFBACK—Feathers, Tennessee. HALFBACK—Franklin. Oregon State. FULLBACK—Danowski, Fordham.
HONORABLE MENTION
ENDS: Fairman. Princeton; Ward. Michigan ; Batchellor, Georgia; Palmer, So. California. TACKLES: Mehringer, Kansas : Rose-quist, Ohio State; Fehring, Purdue. GUARDS: Torrence, Louisiana State. CENTERS: Krueger, Marquette; Oen Minnesota. QUARTERBACKS—Beynon. Illinois ; Williams. Auburn : Pardonner, Purdue. HALFBACKS: Howell, Alabama; Laws, Iowa; LeVan, Princeton: Nott. Detroit; Berwanger, Chicago; Roberts. Tulane; Purvis, Purdue. FULLBACKS: Miku-lak. Oregon; Griffith, So. California; Elser. Notre Dame.
The Christmas Gift
Everybody Appreciates!
Parkette
Pen
Made by the Parker Pen Co
Here’s the ideal gift for your college friends, for friends back home ... or even for yourself! These fine pens are precision-made, like all Parker pens. The 14 kt. gold points are “writing tested” for complete satisfaction. Handsome barrels in the latest color effects, including the popular pearl finishes. Fine gold-filled mountings. A remarkable value at this price!
Walgreen DRUG STORE 208 N. MICHIGAN ST.
L. Newman, Mgr.
December 8, 19 3 3
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
GLEN HARMESON, one of Purdue’s greatest backs, has signed to coach Lehigh U. next year . . . JOE SKLADANY, Pittsburgh’s great end, claims that ANDY PILNEY was the hardest halfback to pull down that he faced all season • . . 5 9-y ear-old TOD SLOAN, one-time hero of the race tracks, is in Los Angeles hospi
1
Stetson Hats Intertvoven Hose Manhattan Shirts
I c t 1
I
I t
I c ii
n I o k d fi c.
P tt t< ii w ir.
C( w tc tc W fl st II N
si th bi
VC th th er
F
N Christmas Tip to Notre Dame Men
Fellows, before you leave on your Merry Christmas trip back home . . . take a look through our store. You’ll see just the gift for dad or brother .. . then, too, you’ll enjoy selecting your own holiday fixings here.
The home of
Hart Schaffner & Marx
SUITS and OVERCOATS
for University Men
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
South Rend, Indiana
t c
tal penniless and near death . . . LEN MACALUSCO, Colgate’s 1930 all-American fullback, is making rapid strides toward the top of the wrestling world . . . When CHUCK KLEIN went from the PHILLIES to the CUBS it was the most striking shift in baseball since the Yankees got BABE RUTH from the Red Sox . . . BOB FITZSIMMONS fought 34 years and won three world’s titles— Middleweight, lightweight, and heavyweight ... A new organization —THE TOUCHDOWN CLUB—was recently formed to promote closer
contacts and sportsmanship among former football players . . . BILL CUNNINGHAM believes that MAX BAER is a natural for the movies and that he would be an awful sap if he continued in the prize ring.
•
CHARLEY RUGGLES, film actor, is an exceptionally good hand ball player as he has competed in several national championships ... In the seven games only four forward passes have been completed against the OREGON STATE grid team . . . ADMIRAL BYRD was a prominent gymnast while an undergraduate at Annapolis . . . One of PRINCETON’S best scholars is BILL BON-THRON, the great miler . . . The real name of STELLA WALSH, the noted girl athlete, is Stanislawa Wal-asiewicz . . . E. A. FERGUSON of Detroit played golf continuously for 158 hours ... In eight games played this year OHIO STATE has drawn 287,024 cash customers or 112,806 more than last year . . . NORMAN HILL, generally rated as the allround all-American bike rider, trains for six day races on a tandem but changes to a one seater in the races . . . Pitcher DICK COFFMAN, of the St. Louis Browns, was the first to return his signed contract for the 1934 season . . . Several DETROIT U. players are working their way through school by being nursemaids.
•
Rumor has it that HARRY KIP-KE, sensational coach at Michigan, may succeed JACKSON CANNELL as head football coach at DARTMOUTH . . . MANAGER BILL TERRY spent less than $20,000 to turn the Giants into a world championship team . . . ARTHUR DUFFY of the Boston Post claims that the Princeton-Yale, the NOTRE DAMEARMY and the Boston-Holy Cross games were the outstanding games of the year . . . TOM AUSTIN, right tackle for two years, will be the 1934 football captain at the U. of Michigan . . . “SLIP” MADIGAN will lose 14 lettermen from this year’s St. Mary’s grid team by graduation . . . NEW YORK grid fans claimed that' the Army-Notre Dame game was the last big Prohibition event, so nearly all took advantage of the situation. . . So I have been told ... A slightly tipsy gentleman reached the YANKEE STADIUM just at the moment the cadets were breaking ranks and heading for the stands. “Stay there until I can help you,” he screamed, “nobody’s going to chase any of Uncle Sam’s boys if I can help it.” A policeman gently persuaded the gentleman to topple over in his seat . . . Do you know that JOE CRONIN of the SENATORS spends Sunday afternoons visiting the playgrounds on the watch for young players.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 12)
side of Indiana and Purdue as the best teams in the Middle West. Pittsburgh, generally recognized as national champions, barely eked out a 24-22 victory over the Fighting Irish.
Notre Dame’s next great hoop season was 1932. The Irish squad handicapped by the absence of Johnny Baldwin through illness and Ed Krause who slowly rounded into shape after a strenuous football season, dropped two early season games to Indiana and Purdue. These two defeats were the only ones to mar the Irish record and Notre Dame, playing the strongest teams in the country, ran up the remarkable record of 16 straight victories.
Versatility is the keynote of Notre Dame’s attack. Coach Keogan uses no less than four distinct types of offense to match the various defenses his team meets. And he uses two defenses to stop the attacks of opponents.
His greatest offensive weapon is a combination of the pivotal and cross court systems. This is the offense which made the New York Celtics unbeatable in professional circles and requires a tall, rangy center like Ed Krause, Joe Voegele, or Ray DeCook who can flip one hand shot into the basket from awkward positions.
Keogan’s second offense is a revolving back court game taken from the system used by the old Buffalo Germans. The ball is passed back and forth in front of the opponents’ defense until a man breaks loose to take a shot. Following in all shots is a vital part. Many baskets are tipped in after taking rebounds.
The cross court game calling for long, accurate passes is employed by Keogan when a man to man defense is encountered. Finally the Irish ’ use the delayed offense to pull opponents into the back half of the floor and then break quickly towajd the basket.
Keogan’s favorite defense is the shifting man-for-man type of play which he has developed to its highest peak at Notre Dame. Against certain teams, however, he resorts to the semi-zone defense in which his men do not shift as much as they do in the man-for-man system.
Notre Dame basketball under Coach Keogan has contributed some fine individual stars to the game. Noble Kizer, Purdue football coach, made All-Western for three consecutive years. Lou Conroy did the same. Johnny Nyikos of South Bend made the All-Western for two years, Frank Crowe, brother of Leo Crowe, now playing for the Irish, and Ed Smith of South Bend were on the All-Western for two years each.
December 1, 1933
Make Livingston’s
& Your Christmas Gift Headquarters!
TWO STORES: Downtown and on the Campus
if if
C omplete S elections
N. D. Jewelry Ladies’ Compacts N o velties Pennants-Banners Colorful Neckwear Hosiery	‘
Fancy Shirts Pajamas
Your Purchase FREE!
at our campus shop INQUIRE THERE for DETAILS

Retail, Surplus and Cancellation Stocks
MEN’S $5-$6 OXFORDS
Cannot Advertise Brands
All sizes in the lot but not in each make or style. You’ll recognize the names on every pair. Light and heavy fall models in the lot. Blacks—	<
Styles for men, young men, college students...
2.99
GILBRO’S
330 South Michigan St.
Seventeen.


TULLY PACKED
Copyright, 1933, The American Tobacco Co.
WHY LUCKIES ARE SO Mil
it’s toasted
Open a pack of Luckies and lay the 20 cigarettes side by side. You can’t tell one from another. Every Lucky is round, firm and fully packed—with choice Turkish and domestic tobaccos. And
every I loose ei the tob why Lr —and :
ALWAYS the finest tobaccos
ALWAYS the finest worhmanship
ALWAYS Luchiesplease!
FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOI
Vo Loose Ends
Eighteen
LD, SO SMOOTH
Lucky is free from annoying ends. The tips are clean-cut— obacco doesn’t spill out. That’s Luckies draw easily, burn evenly 1 are always mild and smooth.
1”
OR BETTER TASTE
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 11)
excellent guard and a good shot. He scored 60 points last season.
Ball State Teachers College is one of those small Indiana schools which year in and year out produce excellent basketball teams.
Coach Branch McCracken, former All-American center from Indiana, has eight lettermen of last year’s strong team available for his current Cardinal quintet.
For the forward posts, Coach McCracken not only has last year’s reg
F
Come to the
BIG STORE
for Xmas Gifts
Complete, line of
Notre Dame Jewelry
Silk and Flannel .
Lounge Robes
Silk Lounge Suits
Manhattan and JFilson
Bros. Shirts and Pajamas
Dress Accessories for Holiday Formals
MONOGRAMMED SHIRTS
“Fruit of the Loom” Broad- ^7 r cloth in White and Colors. ^1/3 Luxuriously tailored with I monogram tastefully em-	Eac
broidered on the sleeve. No
orders accepted after Dec. 16.	3 for $5
M*X ADLER
On the Comer of Michigan and IVashington
ulars, Todd and Anson, but also two very promising sophomores, Shuck and Henry, who may dislodge the lettermen from their varsity’ positions.
Melvin Wilson, a veteran of two seasons, will take care of the center post. Norman Cole and Herschel King will start at the guard positions.
Robert Hesher and Mark Mercer, two of last season’s stars, will be ineligible for competition until December 12, the day before the Cardinals play Notre Dame. Mercer is behind in his academic work, and Hesher will not start school until that date.
Nineteen
MAKE A MEAL a day of Shredded Wheat, and you’ll put new speed into everything you do.
This forty-year favorite is packed with natural energy elements. Yes sir, all the vitamins, proteins, minerals, carbohydrates and bran that make
whole wheat man’s great energy food . . ,all of them come to you in Shredded Wheat. It’s 100% whole wheat with nothing added, nothing taken away.
And here’s something that will please your pocketbook. Just a few pennies buy a satisfying bowlful of this natural energy food. It’s ready cooked, ready to eat with milk or cream ... with your favorite fruit. Try it for ten days in a row...
and watch your energy you KNOW you have ,	. . « • .
Shredded Wheat. Chart hit high.
THE
VITALLY DIFFERENT FOOD
SHREDDED WHEAT
A product off NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “Uneeda Bakers”
ARMY GAME
(Continued from Pasre 12)
down to Army’s eight where Millner, who sped down to cover the kick, grounded the ball.
Johnson, the Cadet quarterback, lost a yard and then decided to kick before the Army was forced back for a safety. As events turned out a safety wouldn’t have been too bad a play for the Cadets. Simons dropped back to his own one yard line to punt, and the Army line concentrated on keeping Moose Krause who had played like a demon all afternoon, from blocking the kick. Krause not only played ball with these greyclad linesmen but even accommodated them by shifting further to the right. This was a setup for the Army forwards. They blocked out Krause but in doing so they forgot all about Millner who rushed in almost unmolested, leaped high into the air and blocked the punt with his chest. The ball bounced in the end zone. Millner was after it like a scared rabbit. He fell on it. The referee lifted his hands. The crowd went wild. It was a touchdown, and Notre Dame was ahead 13 to 12.
Army’s two touchdowns came as a result of their alert capitalization of breaks. The first came early in the second quarter when Stillman recovered Lukats’ fumble on Notre Dame’s 33. Johnson picked up three yards at center and then a long pass put the ball on Notre Dame’s 11. Here Buckler made one yard and then smashed the line for five more. Johnson made one, and on the fourth down Buckler took a lateral from Johnson to score.
The second came only a few moments later when Bucknam, Army center, intercepted Pilney’s pass on Notre Dame’s 24. After an incompleted pass, Buckler and Johnson smashed through center for a first dovm on the Irish 14. After Notre Dame had held for three downs, they were penalized five yards for an offside and from there Stancook and Johnson carried the ball over.
Buckler missed both his attempted points from placekicks after the touchdowns but that seemed unimportant at the time. His first attempt was low and Krause rushed in to block the second.
Notre Dame (13)	Amy (12)
Millner ----------L.E.-------- Kopcsak
Krause -----------L.T.------- Hutchinson
Leonard ----------L.G----- (0) Jablonsky
Gorman ------------C.---------- Bucknam
Wunsch -----------R.G____________ Gooch
Roach ------------R.T	Beall
Devore (G) ------R.E.-------- Burlingame Bonar -----------------------Q.B- Johnson
Lukats -----------L.H__________ Buckler
Brancheau --------R.H________ Sebastian
Carideo ---------_F.B--------- Stancook
Touchdowns: Buckler, Johnson, Lukats, Millner.
Point after touchdown: Bonar.
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354 Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
America’s favorite SHORT GUT,
LONG DISTANCE
Miles shrink when you turn to Long Distance telephone service. You can get “there and back” in record time.
Improvements are constantly fitting the service more and more closely to the public’s needs. Faster connections, higher quality transmission, “bargain hours” after 8:30 P. M.
Business today finds Long Distance a reliable and economical short cut to sales. You’ll find it a pleasant short cut back home.
BELL SYSTEM
Established 30 Years
Lemontrees
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street
South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
9
Now If Your Eyes
Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
WHY NOT SAY “HELLO” TO MOTHER AND DAD? - RATES ARE LOWEST AFTER 8:30 P.M.
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
MR. PAUL SYRL'E,
LIBRARY, NOTRE LAME, I?W.
//
$
. alouf Cigarette s
Not so long ago practically all
cigarettes were
n
ade by hand
Now, Chesterfields are made by high-speed machines that turn out 750 cigarettes a minute, and the cigarettes are practically not touched by hand.
BY the use of long steel ovens
—drying machines of the most modern type—and by ageing the leaf tobacco for 30 months —like wine is aged—Chesterfield tobacco is milder and tastes better.
Only pure cigarette paper— the best made—is used for Chesterfield.
Expert chemists test all materials that are used in any way in the manufacture of Chesterfields.
Chesterfields are made and packed in dean, up-to-date factories, where the air is changed every 4% minutes. The moisture-proof package, wrapped in Du Pont’s No. 300 Cellophane— the best made—reaches you just as if you went by the factory door.
(Jhesterfield cigarettes are just as pure as tne water you drink”
•© 1933. Liggett & Myeks Tobacco Co.